 of doing business right…
15 years
Abcam plc 
Annual report and accounts 2013
Abcam plc Annual report and accounts 2013 ...15 reasons 
our future is 
looking bright. 
Our vision is to be the world’s leading 
supplier of life science research tools.
 
We live in a golden age of biology where, almost daily, enormous breakthroughs 
are being made in mankind’ s understanding of how cells operate in health 
and disease. These breakthroughs are possible owing to the rapid growth in 
understanding at a molecular level of the role of proteins expressed by genes.
Over the last 15 years, Abcam has remained committed to supporting scientists 
on their quest for discovery. We’ve focused on continually improving our 
high-quality products and services by improving our global delivery times, 
enhancing our customer service offering and increasing the validation information 
of our products. We’ve also expanded our product range beyond primary 
antibodies to include secondaries, proteins and peptides, lysates, biochemicals, 
immunoassays and other kits as well as expanding our capabilities and services.
Throughout 2013, we worked hard to prioritise growth opportunities to 
ensure that our success continues. We will focus on our core business, 
as well as looking to extend our product offerings, capabilities and services, 
helping scientists to discover more.
Access this report online: 
www.abcamplc.com/reports With our 2013 Annual Report 
we celebrate 15 years of Abcam’s 
continual drive for discovery
Abcam’s success over the past 15 years 
reflects the strength of our vision to become 
the leading supplier of life science research 
tools. Our people and our drive to succeed 
support our mission of enabling scientists 
to discover more. Our global team always 
strives to offer the best products and services 
to our customers. 
With three acquisitions over the previous 
two years, Abcam has worked hard on M&A 
integration as well as delivering business 
as usual. This ensures our customers benefit 
from both existing and new product additions 
as well as extended capabilities and 
service offerings.
Despite continued pressure on research 
budgets, Abcam has continued to produce 
strong growth. I am excited about the future 
and what Abcam can achieve.
Mike Redmond
Chairman
Overview
 2 Abcam in brief 
 4 Our business
 6 Our people
 8 Our history
 10 Chairman's statement
Strategic review
 11  Chief executive officer’s 
review
 12 The strategic plan 
Performance review 
 20 Financial review 
 25  Principal risks and 
uncertainties
 28  Corporate social 
responsibility
Corporate governance
 31 Message from the Chairman
 32 Board of directors
 34 Executive management team
 36 General managers
 37  Corporate gover nance 
statement
 40 Audit committee
 41 Nomination committee
 42  Dir ectors’ r emuneration 
report
 50 Other disclosures
 52  Statement of directors’ 
responsibilities
Financial statements
 54 Independent auditor’s report
 55  Consolidated income 
statement 
 56  Reconciliation of adjusted 
financial measures
   Consolidated statement 
of comprehensive income
 57 Balance sheets
 58  Consolidated statement 
of changes in equity
 59  Company statement 
of changes in equity
 60  Cash flow statements
 61  Notes to the 
financial statements
IBC Corporate directory
  Shareholder information
Throughout this report we have 
highlighted 15 areas we believe 
set us apart from the rest and are 
crucial to the ongoing success of 
our business.
Start turning the pages 
to discover more 
Overview Strategic review Performance review Financial statements Corporate governance
1 Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Abcam in brief
Revenue
£122.2m
Adjusted operating profit
£46.5m
Adjusted diluted earnings per share
17.57p
Cash and term deposits
£38.3m
a performance that demonstrates 
continued progress
1—
Abcam is a supplier of life science research tools, 
with an unrivalled range of products and expert 
technical support, enabling scientists to analyse 
living cells at the molecular level and improving 
the understanding of health and disease.
In 2012/13:
>  Revenue increased by 24.9% to £122.2m 
(2012: £97.8m)
>  Adjusted diluted earnings per share 
increased by 12.7% to 17.57p 
(2012: 15.59p)
>  Adjusted operating profit increased 
by 20.6% to £46.5m (2012: £38.6m)
>  Closing cash and term deposits increased 
by 119% to £38.3m (2012: £17.5m)
Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 2 our ongoing commitment 
to discover more
‘Discover more’ is the promise at the core 
of our business. It reflects researchers’ 
quest for knowledge as well as our 
ongoing commitment to supporting 
their search in the fullest way possible.
2—
a leading web presence and 
innovation in digital channels
We achieved 99.99% uptime on the 
website during 2012/13, and customer 
satisfaction was consistently rated over 
85% for new website functionality, 
via the website exit survey.
3—
Our global sites
> abcam.com
> abcam.co.jp
> abcam.cn
What this means for us
>  We have a catalogue of over 
120,000 high-quality products 
to meet scientists’ needs
>  We have added more than 21,500 product 
data features, including references, 
images, applications and species 
reactivity during 2012/13
Growth in number of products  
in the past five years
+276%
Year-on-year increase in organic search 
traffic to the www.abcam.com website
+20%
Catalogue size over 15 years
Overview Strategic review Performance review Financial statements Corporate governance
Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 3 Our business
We develop and manufacture our own 
products as well as externally sourcing 
high-quality products. Combining this 
model with in-house testing, as well as 
supporting products with information-rich 
datasheets, enables scientists and 
researchers to discover more.
expert technical support
We promise guaranteed product quality and provide 
customer support in six languages. Investment 
in call-sharing phone systems enables us to extend 
customer service times in our main markets.
the best catalogue 
of products and services
By November 2012, we reached an important milestone 
of 100,000 products on our catalogue; by the end of 
June 2013 we reached more than 120,000.
the most up-to-date 
and honest data
We continually strive to improve our information-rich 
product datasheets by adding helpful and relevant 
scientific data to help scientists make informed 
product decisions.
rapid global delivery
We are always working to improve our global 
distribution network and meet local customer 
needs. We deliver to more than 100 countries, 
with next-day delivery in most regions.
5—
4—
6—
7—
a business model shaped by 
three main areas of focus
8—
Our customers are predominantly research 
scientists requiring high performance products 
with detailed technical specifications, within 
the academic community. We continue to 
improve our information-rich datasheets, with 
scientifically relevant and helpful content, 
making it easily accessible for our customers.
Customer feedback
Friendly and helpful customer service and technical 
scientific support is always our top priority. We believe 
that honesty is the best policy, and we encourage our 
customers to share their experiences through satisfaction 
surveys. This feedback is used to improve products, 
update product datasheets, improve service levels and 
help other customers make informed product decisions.
Fast delivery
Through our bonded warehouse in Beijing, partnering 
with a local distributor in Brazil, and establishing a 
unified distribution network following our acquisitions, 
we have improved delivery times to ensure we meet 
the needs of our customers worldwide.
 Customers
93.5%
of customers rate the quality of ordering, support 
and speed of delivery as good or excellent
Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 4 Our people are our biggest asset and the 
success of Abcam to date has been down 
to exceptional teamwork and a shared 
passion for providing the best products 
and services to our customers.
We have over 100 in-house PhDs and our people 
offer both scientific knowledge and key business 
skills to ensure the global business runs efficiently, 
with customer needs at the heart of what we do. 
We also work closely with a network of local 
distributors in order to service local needs. 
Scientific expertise
In addition to our own team, we collaborate with a large 
number of industry leading scientists. This enables us 
to be at the cutting edge of science and to provide the 
necessary tools for our customers. We have an established 
series of global scientific events and webinars and our 
chairs and invited speakers are leaders in their field. 
We provide forums for scientists to network and present 
their work and our events provide an environment for 
us to speak to our customers and understand their 
challenges and requirements in the laboratory.
 Worldwide service Products
We are committed to providing scientists 
access to the right reagents and services 
for their research. Our catalogue evolves 
with industry trends and has expanded 
year-on-year. 
We manufacture our own products in five specialist facilities 
around the globe, as well as sourcing from over 400 OEM 
partners. Our diverse supplier base enables us to source 
the highest quality research tools for customers.
Our products
 > Primary antibodies, 
including RabMAbs
®
 
(rabbit monoclonal 
antibodies)
 > Secondary antibodies
 > Functional assays, ELISA 
and other kits
 > Biochemicals
 > Proteins and peptides
 > L ysates
Every Abcam product is supported with detailed, 
up to date and unbiased data.
Our capabilities and services
 > Custom antibody development and manufacture
 > Custom bulk, custom formulation, assay development, 
packaging, labelling and applications testing
 > ISO Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP)
700+
employees across eight 
offices worldwide
120,000+
high-quality products
Overview Strategic review Performance review Financial statements Corporate governance
Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 5 94%
Staff participation 
from the last global 
staff survey.
Top 5
Friendly, fun, driven, 
open, ambitious.
Words used in our 
staff survey to 
describe Abcam. 
Did you 
know?
Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 6
9—
passionate 
people across 
the globe…
Our expanding team work closely 
together across the globe, making 
Abcam what it is today. The mix 
of different cultures, personalities, 
backgrounds, experiences and skills 
at Abcam enables us to achieve great 
things. Our people always strive to 
make improvements in order to be 
the best and help Abcam achieve 
continued growth.
Our global presence
Our team works together across 
eight offices globally to deliver the 
best customer service and the 
highest quality products.
Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Our people Overview
25+
Our employees 
come from over 
25 countries, 
making up a 
strong team of 
700+ people.
250+
Employees helped 
raise money for 
charities in 2012/13 
and we donated to 
64 charities nominated 
by staff members.
2,400+
Mollies drawn 
by our in-house 
design team 
to date.
7 Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Financial statements
…who bring our 
business to life
Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
25+
Our employees 
come from over 
25 countries, 
making up a 
strong team of 
700+ people.
Financial statements Corporate governance Performance review Strategic review Our history
2000
Tenth 
employee 
hired
1998
Founded on 
a vision:
The largest 
catalogue of the 
best antibodies 
in the world
2003
Boston office opened
2009
Hong Kong office opened
2010
300th employee hired
a rich history of 
successful growth
10—
2005
Abcam listed 
on the London 
Stock Exchange’s 
AIM Market
Revenue growth
100
80
60
40
20
98/99 00/01 07/08 02/03 09/10 04/05 11/12 99/00 06/07 01/02 08/09 03/04 10/11 05/06 12/13
120
140
0
Year
Revenue (£m)
Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 8 2013
RabMAbs
®
 available 
in most territories 
worldwide 
and we’ve been 
doing business 
right for more than 
15 years.
2006
Japan office opened and 
Abcam reaches a catalogue 
of more than 20,000 products
2008
Abcam’s tenth anniversary, 
celebrating its 200th employee 
and more than 45,000 products
2011
Acquired Ascent Scientific 
and MitoSciences
2012
Acquired Epitomics and 
Abcam reaches 100,000+ 
products on the catalogue
what’s next?
In this golden age of biology, we are well positioned to 
drive growth and we aspire to be the researcher’s most 
recommended source for products. We aim to focus on 
growing our core business within protein research, as well 
as expanding into geographies with good growth potential.
Overview Strategic review Performance review Financial statements Corporate governance
9 Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Chairman’s statement
We have a strong business model 
which has been bolstered by the 
addition of the RabMAb
®
 technology. 
I am pleased to report on another 
successful year for Abcam.
The year to 30 June 2013 was a 
transformational one for Abcam in that 
it included the first full year contributions 
from our acquisitions in the 2012 financial 
year of Epitomics and Ascent Scientific, 
which contributed to our 24.9% reported 
revenue growth to £122.2m.
We have frequently cautioned that we 
expected western markets to remain 
challenging during the year as governments 
address fiscal deficits. That was certainly the 
case, particularly in the US which represents 
our largest market. Despite this, we achieved 
underlying constant currency revenue growth 
(as defined in the CEO review) of an estimated 
11.8% and adjusted operating profit of 
£46.5m, before costs incurred during the 
year of £3.3m relating to the amortisation 
of the intangible assets arising on acquisitions 
and £0.4m of one-off integration costs.
The breadth and depth of our online 
catalogue are important business drivers 
and the enhancement of our product ranges 
has continued apace. We added a record 
29,102 products to our catalogue during 
the year, which at 30 June 2013 comprised 
121,558 products. By volume the main 
contributor to this growth has been our 
OEM supplier base but we have also 
exceeded our targets on new product 
additions, including RabMAbs
®
, from 
our own production facilities.
Our geographical expansion has also 
continued and we have achieved deeper 
penetration in Europe, for example through 
the successful switch to in-house channels 
of revenues that were previously generated 
by Epitomics through third party distributors. 
In China we have seen the full year effect 
of the benefits from having our bonded 
warehouse facility in Beijing.
With such an extensive catalogue and 
diverse customer base our website and 
e-commerce capabilities become ever 
more important tools for our business 
and we have continued our ongoing 
programme of investment in these areas.
Dividends
Whilst we continue to look for opportunities 
to increase shareholder value through external 
investments, we are committed to sharing 
the benefits of our strong cash flow directly 
with shareholders through the distribution 
of annual dividends. Our policy is to distribute 
an annual dividend of 40% of adjusted post-tax 
profit, after adding back costs of acquisition 
and amortisation of acquisition-related 
intangibles and one off integration costs. 
Consequently, after an interim dividend 
of 1.94 pence per share which was paid 
in April 2013, the Directors are recommending 
a 17.0% increase in the final dividend to 
5.10 pence per share. This would make 
an annual total of 7.04 pence, which is 
an increase of 16.4% on that paid last year. 
Subject to shareholder approval at the Annual 
General Meeting (AGM) in November 2013, the 
final dividend will be paid on 29 November 2013 
to shareholders on the register on 
8 November 2013.
Governance and the Board
The composition of our Board is kept under 
regular review since it is important that its 
members bring the appropriate skills required 
to improve the Company’ s effectiveness and 
performance. The Board also needs to 
provide clear leadership and demonstrate 
the values for which the Company stands.
I am pleased to report that the Board 
has functioned well in all respects during 
the year. It has provided knowledgeable 
and robust challenge and support to the 
Executive Directors, which has helped 
ensure that the Company’s business 
strategy is appropriately developed 
and well delivered.
There was one change to the Board 
early in the financial year when Professor 
Tony Kouzarides, a co-founder of the 
Company, retired at the AGM in October 2012. 
This was after 14 years of tremendous service 
during which he played a vital contribution 
to Abcam’ s success and for which we again 
offer him our sincerest thanks.
Looking ahead
We have cautioned for several years 
that pressures on research funding levels, 
particularly in our western markets, are a 
concern and could impact on our growth. 
We have also pointed out the strengths 
of our business which help mitigate this 
challenge. The success we have achieved 
in our 2012/13 results demonstrates the 
importance of our commitment to listening 
and responding to our customers’ needs, 
and builds on the excellent work done in 
the business since it started 15 years ago. 
Looking ahead we expect market conditions 
to remain challenging but we remain confident 
that we have the capabilities and plans in 
place for continued success. Trading since 
the year end has been in line with the 
Board’s expectations.
Abcam’s staff command widespread 
recognition for their knowledge and 
commitment. It is a privilege to be part 
of such a team and our thanks go to 
them once again for another great year.
Mike Redmond
Chairman
9 September 2013
Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 10 Chief executive officer’s review
 In this golden age of 
biology, our role in the 
centre of this quest for 
knowledge is stronger 
than ever and the 
opportunities for us 
more abundant than 
at any time previously.
Jonathan Milner
Chief Executive Officer
Key points in Jonathan’s review:
1
  RabMAb
®
 growth in full swing with over 5,000 in the portfolio by the end 
of June 2013. More on page 16 
2
  Robust growth despite pressures on funding for research.  
More on page 14 
3
  Focus on customers – introduced feedback loops to make the customer 
service even better. More on page 16 
4
  Massive increase in the number of products in the catalogue – 
over 29,000 added during the year in antibodies, kits, biochemicals, 
proteins and peptides. More on page 18 
5
  Identified growth opportunities from our core. More on page 19 
In 2012/13, Abcam has again performed 
well in a tough environment, with 
impressive growth in sales and profits. 
Our success is a reflection of our 
continued commitment to provide 
an outstanding value-added service 
to our customers.
The original idea for Abcam came to me 
when as a research scientist I began to 
appreciate how much the effectiveness 
and productivity of the work I was doing 
could be improved if I could access highly 
validated, relevant antibodies, with top 
quality customer support. In the early days 
we experimented with a number of business 
models but relatively quickly the strategy 
we are still pursuing 15 years later began 
to take shape. It continues to evolve but key 
to our success has been the single minded 
pursuit of its core features which are to:
 > drive hard the addition of relevant 
information on our products from 
as many sources as possible so that 
customers can validate them against 
their requirements; 
 > build strong relationships with the 
best OEM suppliers of the most 
relevant products;
 > ensure we are supplying high-quality 
products with world-class service and 
scientific support to help customers 
be more successful in their research;
 > complement the addition of products 
to the catalogue with our own in-house 
manufacturing capabilities;
 > build the industry leading website through 
which researchers have easy access to 
relevant products and associated data 
which is gathered and presented in the 
most innovative and creative ways;
 > Identify scientific areas which are of 
particular interest to our customer base 
and through the dedicated gathering 
and presentation of information and 
the hosting of conferences, seminars 
and webinars, to provide access to an 
unparalleled depth of data and the work 
of key opinion leaders in these areas;
 > add new product ranges which are 
attractive to our existing customer base, 
either in the same or adjacent segments 
in which we operate;
 > focus on understanding customer 
needs to help guide our product 
selection and presentation; and
 > extend geographic penetration where 
possible so that more users have 
access to our products.
This approach and the continued 
development of new and innovative 
ways to improve in each of these areas 
has served us well and has created a 
world-class business. The 2012/13 year 
was no different in that regard and it is 
very pleasing to see how well our team 
has executed on our plans and the positive 
customer reaction we have received.
Overview Strategic review Performance review Financial statements Corporate governance
11 Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 f
Strategic priorities
The strategic plan
Continuing to build on our success
a strategic plan designed to drive strong performance, 
while also strengthening our business model
11—
 > Continue to invest in consumer insight about our products and 
services and provide opportunities for customers to give instant 
feedback of their experience
 > Invest in our inventory holding and logistical capabilities worldwide
 > Continue to develop our website to provide a best in class experience 
for our customers across the world
 > Explore territories with good growth potential
We are focusing on service 
by improving our current levels 
of geographic market support 
as well as implementing new 
and improved distribution 
channels to further support 
rapidly growing markets.
 > Invest in IT infrastructure and processes to provide high-quality, 
easily accessible content for customers, in order to continue 
to improve customer experience and interactions with Abcam
 > Continue to better understand the needs of our academic and 
commercial customers in order to provide the right products for 
the different customers we serve
 > Continue to expand our capabilities to serve commercial entities 
across their entire development process in the life sciences sector
 > Invest resource into markets with good growth potential
We aim to listen to the needs 
of the scientific community 
we serve, win new customers 
in our traditional markets 
and those showing growth 
potential and broaden our 
customer base through our 
extended product range, 
capabilities and services.
 > Remain in close contact with customers to enable us to understand 
and match their needs
 > Introduce new products to existing product ranges
 > Continue to build upon our in-house production capabilities globally
 > Continue to focus on providing relevant and accessible scientific 
data to help customers choose the right products for their research
We strive to broaden 
and enhance our catalogue 
of products, supporting data 
and service offerings, through 
selective in-house production, 
the addition of high-quality 
OEM products and offering 
custom services.
Objectives
Improve worldwide service levels
 Win new customers
 Enhance product range
Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 12 f
2012/13 update Case studies
Taking the ‘Agile’ approach 
for a robust IT future
Turn to page 18 
Understanding and investing 
in our customers
Turn to page 14 
RabMAb
®
 integration 
and product launch
Turn to page 16 
 > Hosted 21 scientific events and 16 scientific 
webinars enabling us to communicate 
with over 5,500 customers and build 
awareness of Abcam and its expanding 
high-quality range of products and services
 > Invested resource into global customer 
focus groups and rolled out 69 customer 
surveys to better understand our 
customers and make improvements 
to our product and service offerings
 > Launched improved search functionality 
on the website to enable customers to 
filter and narrow down search results 
 > Customer satisfaction with new search 
functionality has been consistently 
rated over 85% in 2012/13 via the 
website exit survey
 > Invested in both local and international 
public relations to raise awareness of 
Abcam and its expanding product range
 > Developed our Abreview
TM
 system, 
in addition to primary antibody customer 
reviews, so customers can now submit, 
share and read product reviews for 
non-antibody products, including kits 
and reagents
 > Launched a global marketing campaign 
for RabMAbs
® 
focusing on raising 
awareness of the product features 
and benefits for the researcher
 > Our Abcam Eugene production facility 
has continued its focus on products 
that support critical research areas as 
well as updating protocols and revising 
content for ELISA kits
 > With increased focus on OEM 
partnerships, Abcam Bristol has built 
a critical mass of over 2,000 products 
in the biochemicals catalogue
 > Over 29,000 new products added 
to the catalogue from both in-house 
and OEM suppliers in 2012/13
 > Our in-house laboratory continued 
its internal testing strategy to add 
application data and images to a wide 
range of in-house and OEM products, 
adding more than 3,500 new product 
features in 2012/13
 > Expanded our in-house production 
capabilities to enable us to offer a range 
of conjugated secondary antibodies
 > Opened the Canadian virtual office 
enabling us to offer French speaking 
support to customers in Canada 
 > Introduced a series of language-specific 
scientific webinars in French, Spanish, 
German, Portuguese and Japanese 
to enhance the technical understanding 
of our products to non-native 
English speakers 
 > Stocked a greater number of in-house 
products at our stock-holding hubs 
in Cambridge, UK, Cambridge, US, 
Tokyo and Beijing, enabling us to offer  
same day despatch of customer orders
 > By switching all RabMAb
®
 sales to our 
own distribution platform we reduced 
delivery times in Germany and Japan, 
which reduced order fulfilment times 
from over one week to the next 
working day
 > Since February 2013 we have received 
over 1,500 responses to our customer 
transactional survey which we will 
use to improve our product and 
service offerings
Strategic review Performance review 
Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 13
Corporate governance Financial statements area of focus:
Chief executive officer’s review continued
Geographic market review
The table below outlines our revenues 
in each geographic region, along with 
estimated underlying growth rates.
The Americas
The US is our largest market and has 
been our most challenging during the year. 
After a succession of budget extensions 
and much political debate, sequestration 
was finally passed into law on 1 March 2013, 
to take effect for the period through 
to 30 September 2013. Under these 
arrangements the budget for the National 
Institutes of Health (“NIH”), which is the 
largest funding body for our US customers, 
was reduced by 5.5% to $29.2 billion.
In reality the uncertainty caused by the 
political discussions about potential cuts 
has slowed down our growth for some 
time and the NIH had begun cutting 
grants earlier in the year. At this point 
however it is too soon to say what impact 
sequestration will have over the longer term, 
nor whether the current discussions about 
the 2013/14 budget which will be effective 
from 1 October 2013 will lead to more 
uncertainty or indeed further cuts. Taken 
together, we think this means funding 
uncertainties look like being a feature 
of the US market for some time to come. 
Elsewhere within The Americas region, 
the introduction of French language support, 
dedicated telephone lines and local currency 
invoicing for Canadian customers has been 
very successful, as has our change of 
distribution arrangements in Brazil. 
Europe, Middle East 
& Africa (EMEA)
The German, UK and French markets 
are the largest within our EMEA region. 
In each of these markets, and several 
smaller ones, relationships with former 
Epitomics distributors were terminated 
during the year or not renewed and 
additional marketing successfully helped 
drive revenue and margin growth as 
customers began to order directly 
from Abcam.
Growth in our main markets was pleasing, 
whilst we saw the impact of funding 
pressures in some of the smaller Southern 
Europe markets, with low or no growth 
in Italy and Spain. Elsewhere growth 
was good overall, with notably strong 
performances in The Netherlands, 
following the change in distributor 
we mentioned last year. 
We invested 
in understanding 
what our customers 
think about our 
products and 
services and 
actively encouraged 
customer feedback 
so that we can 
improve our 
offerings.
In February 2013, we 
launched our transactional 
survey which encourages 
customers to feed back on 
products and services after 
every interaction with our 
customer service and 
technical support teams. 
We introduced a simple 
satisfaction scale on all 
support emails, which 
asks customers to rate 
their experience.
Customers
The introduction of French language 
support, dedicated telephone lines 
and local currency invoicing for 
Canadian customers has been 
very successful.
Revenue
2012/13
£000
Revenue
2011/12
£000
Increase in
reported
revenue 
Estimated
underlying
growth rate*
The Americas 48,711 42,346 15.0% 4.8%
Europe, Middle East & Africa 38,287 33,615 13.9% 12.5%
Japan 12,035 11,229 7.2% 14.2%
Asia Pacific 12,279 8,893 38.1% 27.4%
Reagent product revenue 111,312 96,083 15.8% 10.6%
Non product revenue** 10,894 1,756 520.5% 25.1%
Total reported revenue 122,206 97,839 24.9% 11.8%
*  Calculated by taking into account the unaudited, pre-acquisition revenues of businesses acquired during 
the 2012 financial year and comparing 2012/13 revenues to 2011/12 revenues, in both periods using the 
exchange rates from 2011/12 for the currencies in which the Group sells.
** Includes custom service, IVD/IHC, royalties and licence income.
Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 Japan
The estimated underlying growth rate 
(as defined in the table on page 14) for our 
Japanese business was 14.2% in the year. 
This was a good performance particularly 
considering that the comparators were 
challenging after a very strong performance 
in the previous year. The Japanese government 
announced a significant stimulus package 
in January 2013 that will invest $11 billion 
into science and technology, including 
$240 million specifically for stem cell 
research, although the timescale for this 
additional expenditure is not yet clear.
The switch from the former Epitomics 
distributor was also very successfully 
implemented in Japan. 
Asia Pacific
Given the strong funding in the region, 
particularly in China, Asia Pacific continues 
to be a market of significant potential for us. 
We saw strong growth in China which was 
driven in part by the improvements in delivery 
times from having our bonded warehouse 
in Beijing. Looking forward we plan further 
improvements in customer service and to 
combine the Abcam and the ex-Epitomics 
distribution arrangements in China, which 
are currently operating separately.
Elsewhere in the region growth was 
also good, notably in Singapore and 
South Korea.
Other lines of revenue
Our custom services business leverages 
our proprietary RabMAb
®
 technology to 
provide custom antibody solutions to meet 
customers’ specific requirements. Revenue 
growth over the period was driven by 
demand from our established customers 
and an increasing international presence.
The royalties and licence income comes 
from certain royalty payments and licence 
deals with life science tools companies 
that use aspects of Epitomics’s patented 
RabMAb
®
 technology in the development 
and manufacture of their own antibodies. 
These arrangements, which generated 
revenue of £3.2m in the year, were put in 
place prior to the acquisition of Epitomics and 
are not core to our strategy. Consequently 
growth has been modest in the year and 
we expect revenue levels from these 
activities to reduce over time.
We receive over 400 responses from our transactional 
survey every month and over 82% of customers rate our 
service as good or excellent. For dissatisfied customers, 
our support teams follow up with a personal call to see 
how we can improve their experience.
In addition, our in-house market research team has 
conducted 69 unique customer surveys, which have 
resulted in nearly 23,000 responses globally. The results 
of the surveys are analysed and help us with strategic 
business decisions by understanding our customers’ 
needs, perceptions and interactions with Abcam.
Survey areas include:
 > customer satisfaction;
 > pr oduct awar eness  
and satisfaction;
 > website user  
experience; 
 > brand awar eness  
and perception;
 > post event and webinar  
follow up; and
 > post complaint follow up.
We have also carried out focus groups to better 
understand our customers through a more 
qualitative method.
We will continue to invest our efforts in understanding 
our customers’ thoughts and requirements going into 
2013/14 in order to help us shape the future of Abcam’ s 
products, processes and services.
Understanding and investing 
in our customers
“ Fi ve s tar 
technical 
support. ”
“ Prompt response, clear 
suggestions and advice that 
suggests understanding 
of customer needs. ”
“ Thank you for 
the fast reply and 
the clear protocol. ”
Overview Strategic review Performance review Financial statements Corporate governance
Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 15 area of focus:
Chief executive officer’s review continued
Products
Expand our 
product range 
with high-quality 
RabMAbs
®
The acquisition of Epitomics 
has enabled us to grow our 
RabMAb
®
 portfolio to offer 
over 5,000 RabMAbs
®
 
to our customers by 
the end of June 2013.
Our team has also enriched 
RabMAb
®
 datasheets 
by adding over 1,000 
images from additional 
testing for tissue specificity 
and an additional 350+ 
scientific citations to provide 
our customers with the best 
available information. 
We continually strive to improve 
the service we offer customers. 
The best way to do this is through 
regular contact and creating as many 
opportunities as possible to receive 
feedback on our performance. 
Other lines of revenue continued
The small in vitro diagnostics 
immunohistochemistry (IVD IHC) arm 
of the business showed good growth. 
It uses the RabMAb
®
 technology to 
generate high-quality antibodies for 
anatomical pathology. During the year our 
facility in Burlingame, California, received 
GMP certification which enables us to 
manufacture products directly for sale and 
take full control of the process. The end user 
market for these products is dominated by 
the suppliers of the analytical machines 
several of whom are now customers and are 
a focus for our business development efforts.
Acquisition integration
A major focus for us during the year has 
been the integration of the two companies 
acquired during the 2011/12 financial year.
Ascent Scientific Limited (Ascent, 
now known as Abcam Bristol) supplies 
biochemicals to our existing customer 
base which are complementary to Abcam’s 
catalogue of other protein research tools. 
During the year the integration initiatives 
saw further IT development on the website 
to make biochemical products more 
accessible for customers and to facilitate 
the extension of Abcam’s OEM strategy to 
this product range. In the past few months 
the range has expanded significantly and 
at 30 June 2013 there was a total of 2,766 
biochemical products on the catalogue, 
which represents growth of over 300% 
on the figure at the start of the year.
The focus for the integration of the Epitomics 
business has been initially around the transfer 
of revenues to the Abcam platform, which 
involved the transfer of orders previously 
fulfilled directly by Epitomics and also 
products previously sold via distributors 
within Europe. Other initiatives have seen 
the successful increase in production to 
1,450 RabMAbs
®
 in the year, coordination 
between the teams on new target selection 
and some exciting work on the new product 
development, such as working with Abcam 
Eugene to introduce new kits incorporating 
RabMAbs
®
. The commercialisation of 
the RabMAb
®
 technology is still at an 
early stage and we have many initiatives 
planned, targeted on revenue growth, 
which have the  technology at their core.
Running what is now a truly global business 
brings exciting new challenges and I am 
delighted with the way in which our teams 
across the organisation are working together. 
We work hard on cross-communication, 
with regular visits from senior staff and 
global video-conferencing linking each office. 
This will remain a key priority going forward.
Improvements in 
our customer service
We continually strive to improve the service 
we offer customers. The best way to do 
this is through regular contact and creating 
as many opportunities as possible to 
receive feedback on our performance.
In addition to our quarterly customer 
satisfaction surveys, which give us a 
broad view of customer experience, 
in February this year we introduced an 
online “transactional” feedback facility. 
This is a way of getting very quick feedback 
at every interaction point with the customer 
– taking only a couple of seconds or just 
one click to do so. This allows us to build 
a much more granular and immediate 
feedback mechanism which, in turn, 
allows us to respond faster and with 
greater flexibility to customer experiences.
Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 16 RabMAb
®
 integration and product launch 
A unified distribution network 
for our customers
From September 2012 our customers could identify 
and buy the same products through both the Abcam 
and Epitomics websites. Direct links were offered at 
product level between both websites to enable ease of 
ordering and ensure a smooth transition for customers.
The successful switch from the distributor arrangements 
in place pre-acquisition has helped to grow revenues 
and margins. With the exception of revenues from the 
former Epitomics business in China, we have completed 
our plans to move catalogue sales to the Abcam 
platform in early 2013 and have since provided 
a single channel for customers to buy RabMAbs
®
 
and other Abcam products.
Marketing the benefits of RabMAbs
®
A global marketing campaign was launched in 
November 2012, positioned around the benefits 
of RabMAbs
®
 over traditional antibodies and focused 
on the end user benefits. RabMAbs
®
 demonstrates a 
higher affinity and specificity than traditional monoclonals, 
which means they bind 10 to 100 times more powerfully 
on average.
Adoption was driven through free RabMAb
®
 trials and 
local language campaigns were run in Europe and Japan 
to match local needs.
We also won Transaction of the Year Award at the 
2013 European Mediscience Awards for the acquisition 
of Epitomics.
For the transactional feedback, users are 
invited to rate a particular interaction on 
a five-point ranking with the option to add 
some explanatory text. We are receiving 
over 400 responses a month through this 
system with around 82% of our customers 
rating their experience as good or excellent. 
This method also allows us to give 
immediate follow up where a customer 
has had a problem, as well as to give 
our support staff individual feedback 
on how they are performing.
Our IT team has also been involved in 
a number of projects during the year to 
enable our systems to scale up for growth 
and improve our visitor experience on 
the website. Our customers have seen a 
significant improvement in the search facility 
on the site which has been redeveloped to 
enable products to be located more easily 
and quickly, and our product datasheets 
have been redesigned for easy access 
to key information.
Market intelligence input into the RabMAb
®
 production pipeline since 
June 2012 enables us to prioritise the most valuable RabMAbs
®
. 
There are also ongoing collaborations between all our product 
manufacturing sites to ensure we are meeting the needs of our customers.
Overview Strategic review Performance review Financial statements Corporate governance
Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 17 Chief executive officer’s review continued
Improvements in 
our customer service continued
With improved customer feedback facilities 
and more initiatives in the pipeline, we are 
confident we can build on our already 
strong position and improve further 
the levels of service we offer.
Enhancements to 
our product range
We added over 29,000 products to 
our on-line catalogue in the year as 
we broadened our product offering and 
deepened our coverage in existing areas. 
Of these products 10,748 were non-RabMAb
®
 
primary antibodies as we continue to drive 
the extension of what is still by far our 
largest revenue contributing range. 
In addition the number of RabMAb
®
 
branded products passed through the 
5,000 product mark, some of which are 
sourced from our OEM suppliers. We also 
continued the strategy of significantly 
increasing our range of protein, peptides 
and kits, which grew by 87% in number, 
and through the introduction of our OEM 
strategy to the biochemical field, hugely 
increased the range of products on offer.
Worldwide 
service
The ‘Agile’ approach for 
a robust IT future
Over the last year, Abcam’s development team has 
been working with an external software consultancy, 
practising and bedding in ‘Agile’ project management 
methodologies and best practice modern software 
engineering principles. Instead of traditional ‘waterfall’ 
project management, where all the requirements are 
gathered up front and vast effort is spent before any 
development starts, the Agile approach encourages 
more incremental development in a lean way with 
requirements identified in a more ‘just in time’ fashion.
The biggest impact for our developers is that they now 
work in tightly knit multifunctional teams and adhere to 
practices such as test automation, pair programming 
and daily ‘standups’ where the team members share 
their progress and raise any challenges they face. 
The benefits for the business include the delivery 
of robust, easy-to-use systems that are flexible and 
easy to change when our rapid growth requires 
them to adapt in the future. 
Additional benefits include 
more efficient use of resources, 
as well as motivating, retaining 
and recruiting talent due 
to the implementation and 
best practice approach now 
in place. It also enables us 
to release business critical 
functional enhancements to 
our IT platform on a quicker 
and more efficient basis.
IT systems are critical to Abcam 
and investment in our software 
development capability is vitally 
important for continuing to develop 
innovative business enhancing systems.
Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 18 We manufacture many of our own products 
at our various production facilities. Each of 
our facilities has met or exceeded its launch 
targets for the year and together our own 
produced products now account for 33% 
of our product revenue (2011/12: 23%). 
The remainder come from our OEM 
suppliers and it is through their efforts 
and our own investment in new IT systems 
to improve our speed and efficiency in 
uploading products that we have been 
able to set new records for the rate of 
product additions. 
We have broken records in the amount 
of data added to the website and have 
also made enhancements to our Abreview
TM
 
system so that researchers can leave 
reviews of our non-antibody products 
alongside customer Q&A; all displayed 
with filter and sort functionality on each 
product datasheet.
Investment for growth
In my review last year I said that our 
strategic priorities are to build on our core 
business, to capitalise on the opportunities 
from the acquisitions already made, identify 
new areas to expand into and, if appropriate, 
pursue further M&A activities. I’m pleased 
to say these priorities are serving us well.
During the year we have undertaken a great 
deal of analysis to identify where we see the 
opportunities for our core business, which 
we now regard as including the acquisitions 
we have made. This has identified new 
areas for organic growth which, for a 
modest level of investment, have the 
potential to boost our revenues in the 
medium and longer term. In particular 
we see the opportunity to:
 > enhance the way in which we select protein 
targets on which to source products;
 > improve customer engagement with 
a focus on both current and potential 
new customers; and
 > improve our marketing by making it more 
targeted and relevant.
These organic growth initiatives may be 
supplemented by our M&A and in-licensing 
strategy where they can create the 
opportunity to accelerate growth further.
So as to fully capitalise on these opportunities, 
it is our intention to step up our annual 
expenditure in areas such as marketing, 
e-commerce and operational infrastructure, 
by £3m to £4m per annum. We believe 
that the returns and higher growth will 
more than justify the investment made.
Board changes
One of my fellow co-founders of the 
Company, Professor Tony Kouzarides, 
retired from the Board at the AGM 
in October 2012. Everyone at Abcam 
is enormously grateful to Tony for the 
tremendous contribution he made during 
14 years as a director and we greatly value 
the support he continues to provide from 
his laboratory in Cambridge. Without him 
Abcam would not be the successful 
company it is today. Thank you Tony.
Summing up
The pace of scientific discovery in protein 
interactions and their role in health and 
disease is accelerating. Since Abcam was 
founded in 1998 and the decoding of the 
human genome in 2000, there has been 
a huge increase in scientific knowledge 
in this area. Abcam has played a central 
role in contributing to this tremendous gift 
to humanity and to the health of future 
generations. In this golden age of biology 
our role at the centre of this quest for 
knowledge is stronger and more important 
than ever. We are therefore in the fortunate 
position of having an abundance of growth 
opportunities to pursue.
Our success would not be possible without 
the continued and loyal support of all our 
stakeholders, including investors, suppliers, 
customers and scientific collaborators. 
Especially I would like to thank our staff 
whose dedication, through the provision 
of high-quality tools and support, 
is unparalleled. Thank you for your 
contribution to our common purpose 
and to another successful Abcam year.
Jonathan Milner
Chief Executive Officer
9 September 2013
During the year we have undertaken 
a great deal of analysis to identify where 
we see the opportunities for our core 
business, which we now regard as 
including the acquisitions we have 
made. This has identified new areas 
for organic growth which, for a modest 
level of investment, have the potential 
to boost our revenues in the medium 
and longer term. 
Revenue
+24.9%
(since 2012)
Adjusted diluted earnings per share
+12.7%
(since 2012)
Overview Strategic review Performance review Financial statements Corporate governance
Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 19 Revenues of £122.2m were 24.9% ahead 
of last year and adjusted profit before 
tax was £46.6m, an increase of 19.4%. 
Adjusted diluted earnings per share 
were up by 12.7% to 17.57p.
A focus for the year has been the further 
integration of the two acquisitions made 
in 2011/12 and positioning them for 
future growth.
The acquisitions of Epitomics and Ascent 
were of different magnitudes with net 
consideration paid of US$150.0m and 
£9.8m respectively, but our approach to the 
integration of each has been similar. In both 
cases this involves the transitioning of their 
catalogue sales to the Abcam platform, 
using Abcam’s extensive market data to 
select attractive products for their in-house 
production, scaling up the output of their 
production facilities and adding relevant 
data to their products.
Elsewhere in the Group we have continued 
the programme of investment in our core IT 
systems, which has made them more robust 
and has helped drive efficiencies. We have 
also undertaken a product and market 
review which has identified many areas 
which we believe are attractive for further 
revenue growth.
Strong growth in profitability and cash 
generation continues to underpin our policy 
to distribute dividends amounting to 40% 
of adjusted post tax profits. Consequently 
the Directors have recommended payment 
of a total dividend of 7.04 pence per share 
in respect of 2012/13, representing a 16.4% 
year-on-year increase. 
The following table overleaf shows revenues, 
costs and expenses for the year, which 
have been adjusted to aid comparison by 
separately identifying the amortisation of 
acquisition related intangible assets other 
than goodwill, other related charges arising 
from the recent acquisitions and the one-off 
costs incurred in their integration.
Revenue
Reported revenue for the year was 
£122.2m, representing growth of 24.9% 
over the prior year, which is 25.8% growth 
on a constant currency basis (assuming 
exchange rates for the currencies in which 
the Group sells had remained unchanged 
from 2011/12). This includes a full year 
contribution from Epitomics and Abcam 
Bristol. Taking into account the unaudited 
revenues of these businesses for the same
period last year, we estimate that this 
represents underlying constant currency 
growth of approximately 11.8%.
Gross margin
Gross margin increased to 71.0%, compared 
with 69.0% in the prior year. 1.8% of the 
uplift came from the reagents business due 
to a combination of higher selling prices, 
product mix and effective cost control. 
A further 0.5% arose in the Epitomics 
business and a negative 0.3% from the 
impact of less favourable exchange 
rates compared to the prior year. 
Administration and 
management expenses
The acquisition of Abcam Bristol was 
completed on 12 September 2011 
and that of Epitomics on 19 April 2012. 
For comparison purposes the table 
opposite shows the like-for-like analysis 
of costs excluding the direct expenses 
from these businesses in both years and 
separately identifies the impact of foreign 
exchange gains and losses, the amortisation 
of acquisition-related intangibles and one-off 
integration costs incurred in the year. 
This shows that like-for-like costs grew 
by 17.9%, the main movements being:
 > an increase in staff and related 
expenditure of 10% (£1.4m);
 > a market and product review was 
undertaken in support of Abcam’s 
growth strategy (£1.3m); and
 > marketing costs increased 
by 18.4% (£0.3m).
There was also an increase of £0.5m in the 
amount credited back to profit and loss 
from production related activities.
Research and 
development expenditure
Research and development (R&D) 
expenditure relates to the development 
of new products, as well as costs incurred 
in searching for and developing production 
process improvements. These costs do not 
meet the requirements to be capitalised as 
an intangible asset and are therefore expensed 
through the income statement as incurred. 
Overall R&D expenditure increased by 88.6% 
in the year to £7.9m (2011/12: £4.2m) 
reflecting the first full year of ownership 
of Abcam Bristol and Epitomics. £4.8m 
was incurred in our acquired entities, 
Financial review
It is pleasing that the 
Group reported good 
growth in 2012/13 whilst 
going through a period of 
significant change as we 
worked on the integration 
of the former Epitomics 
and Ascent businesses.
Jeff Iliffe
Chief Financial Officer
Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 20 2012/13 2011/12
Adjusted
income
statement
£000
Acquisition-
related
intangible
amortisation
£000
Integration
costs
£000
Reported
IFRS
income
statement
£000
Adjusted
income
statement
£000
Acquisition-
related
intangible
amortisation
£000
Other
acquisition
related
charges
£000
Reported
IFRS
income
statement
£000
Revenue 122,206 122,206 97,839 97,839
Cost of sales (35,500) (35,500) (30,282) (30,282)
Gross profit 86,706 86,706 67,557 67,557
Gross margin 71.0% 71.0% 69.0% 69.0%
Administration and management expenses (33,987) (1,525) (400) (35,912) (25,275) (436) (3,397) (29,108)
R&D expenses (6,189) (1,757) — (7,946) (3,686) (528) (4,214)
Operating profit 46,530 (3,282) (400) 42,848 38,596 (964) (3,397) 34,235
Operating margin 38.1% 35.1% 39.4% 35.0%
Investment income 129 129 500 500
Finance costs (83) (83) (73) (73)
Profit before tax 46,576 (3,282) (400) 42,894 39,023 (964) (3,397) 34,662
Tax (11,452) 1,258 (42) (10,236) (9,630) 374 — (9,256)
Profit after tax 35,124 (2,024) (442) 32,658 29,393 (590) (3,397) 25,406
Basic EPS 17.76p (1.02)p (0.22)p 16.52p 15.88p (0.32)p (1.84)p 13.72p
Diluted EPS 17.57p (1.01)p (0.22)p 16.34p 15.59p (0.31)p (1.80)p 13.48p
2012/13
£000
2011/12
£000
Reported
increase
Like-for-like
increase*
Total administration and management expenses 34,934 25,155 38.9% 17.9%
As % of revenue 28.6% 25.7% 
Foreign exchange (gain)/loss (947) 120 
Integration costs 400 — 
Acquisition-related intangible amortisation 1,525 436 
Other acquisition-related charges — 3,397 
Total reported administration and management expenses 35,912 29,108 23.4% 4.5%
* Excluding costs directly from Abcam Bristol and Epitomics.
Abcam Eugene, Abcam Bristol and Epitomics, 
reflecting our strategy to invest in these 
businesses and in particular in new product 
development. In Cambridge UK, R&D costs 
were £1.3m. The amortisation of the 
acquisition-related intangibles attributed 
to patents and technological know-how are 
also classified as R&D expenditure, amounting 
to £1.8m in the year (2011/12 £0.5m).
The output of this investment is reflected in 
the number of new product launches which 
saw a 14% increase from own manufactured 
products from Abcam Bristol and a 62% 
increase in new RabMAbs
®
 from Epitomics in 
China. The work in Cambridge UK contributed 
to the first new conjugated secondary 
antibody product range, whilst a significant 
portion of the output of Abcam Eugene was 
dedicated to the development of a new Elisa 
kit range due for launch later this year.
Operating profit and expenses
As a consequence of the additional 
investment made in the year the adjusted 
operating margin reduced slightly to 38.1% 
(2011/12: 39.4%).
Earnings and tax
The adjusted profit before tax in 2012/13 
was £46.6m, the effective tax rate on which 
was 24.6% (2011/12: 24.7%), reflecting the 
benefit of announced changes to the UK 
corporation tax rate and tax efficiencies 
arising from a Group reorganisation, which 
were offset by the impact of higher foreign 
tax rates and a reduction in R&D tax credits 
due to the Company now being treated by 
the UK tax authorities as a large company 
rather than an SME. After taking into account 
the deferred tax impact of acquisition-related 
intangible amortisation and one-off integration 
costs of £0.4m, the reported effective tax 
rate was 23.9% (2011/12: 26.7%).
Adjusted basic earnings per share (EPS) 
increased by 11.8% to 17.76 pence per 
share and adjusted diluted EPS by 12.7% 
to 17.57 pence. The basic weighted average 
number of shares in issue during the period 
was 197.7m (2011/12: 185.1m), reflecting 
the full year effect of shares issued on the 
acquisitions made during 2011/12 and shares 
issued on the exercise of share options.
Balance sheet and cash flow
Goodwill and other intangibles
Goodwill at 30 June 2013 was £82.0m 
compared with £82.4m at 30 June 2012. 
The decrease in goodwill is due to a credit 
of £1.4m resulting from fair value adjustments 
made to the assets acquired in the Epitomics 
and Ascent acquisitions, which was offset 
by a foreign exchange adjustment of £1.0m. 
Overview Strategic review Performance review Financial statements Corporate governance
Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 21 Balance sheet and cash flow 
continued
Goodwill and other intangibles 
continued
Following the acquisitions of MitoSciences, 
Ascent and Epitomics there has been 
considerable change in the way these 
entities are structured and integrated within 
the Group. These changes have resulted 
in discrete information available for an 
individual entity not reflecting the true 
substance of the performance of that entity 
and the value being added. Therefore it is 
not possible to accurately assess the fair 
value in use of the acquired entities as 
separate identifiable cash-generating units 
(CGUs) as such the goodwill has been 
reallocated to a single CGU, being the 
Abcam Group. Goodwill is not amortised 
under IFRS but is subject to impairment 
review on at least an annual basis. During 
the year the Directors performed the review 
which involved making various assumptions 
regarding the future performance of the 
business. After considering various scenarios 
that could reasonably occur, the Directors 
concluded that no impairment was required. 
For more details, please see note 12 to the 
financial statements.
Other intangible assets at 30 June 2013 
were £33.1m, compared with £34.3m at 
30 June 2012. The movement primarily 
reflects amortisation of the intangible assets 
and the additions to capitalised software 
costs from the project to invest in our core 
IT systems which is described in more detail 
below. Fair value adjustments totalling £1.0m 
were also made during the year in respect 
of intangible assets from the Epitomics 
acquisition. Further analysis can be found 
in note 13 to the financial statements. 
Other intangible assets are amortised 
through the income statement over their 
estimated useful lives, and the amortisation 
of acquisition-related intangible assets has 
been added back in arriving at adjusted 
profit, as outlined above.
Capital expenditure
Additions of tangible and intangible assets 
amounted to £7.3m (2011/12: £3.0m) 
reflecting major items as follows:
 > further stages of an investment in our 
core IT systems and website (£3.2m). 
This investment supports the delivery 
of Abcam’s next stage of growth and 
includes the capitalisation of internal 
salary costs of £0.4m;
 > during the year £3.8m was transferred 
from assets under construction to 
software costs reflecting the roll out 
of completed phases of the project;
 > development of new hybridomas by 
Epitomics (£1.3m), with a further £0.4m 
having been incurred on hybridomas 
under construction; and
 > investment in laboratory equipment (£1.3m).
Cash flow
We maintained strong cash generation 
in the year. Cash generated by operations 
was £51.8m, or 42.4% of Group revenue 
(2011/12: £37.7m, 38.5% of revenue). 
Following high working capital outflow in the 
previous year, the inflow in 2012/13 mainly 
reflects payables increasing by £3.6m due 
to an unusually high level of creditors and 
accruals at the year-end, offset by an increase 
in inventories of £1.3m and receivable balances 
increasing by 9% reflecting increased sales 
activity and a marginal increase in debtor 
days to 34.5 (2011/12: 34.0).
2012/13
£000
2011/12
£000
EBITDA 48,676 36,953
Integration costs 400 —
Acquisition costs — 3,397
Adjusted EBITDA 49,076 40,350
Add back non-cash movements 1,292 1,351
Changes in working capital 1,420 (3,998)
Cash generated by operations 51,788 37,703
As a percentage of revenue 42.4% 38.5%
Pre-acquisition non-trading liabilities — (2,094)
Acquisition-related costs — (3,055)
Integration costs (400) —
Capital expenditure and disposals (7,215) (2,831)
Interest and taxation (11,839) (7,506)
Dividends and share issues (11,790) (9,528)
Purchase of investments 42 (50,961)
Net cash inflow/(outflow) 20,586 (38,272)
Opening cash and term deposits 17,480 55,569
Foreign exchange movements 245 183
Closing cash and term deposits 38,311 17,480
Cash flow
Financial review continued
Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 22 Overall, including foreign exchange 
movements, the Group reported a net 
cash inflow of £20.8m (2011/12: outflow 
of £38.1m). The main reason for the change 
is due to there being no cash outflows on 
acquisitions in 2012/13 compared with the 
£51m net outflow on acquisitions in 2011/12. 
Higher outflows on capital expenditure, 
taxation and dividends reflect the increase 
in the size of the business. 
Net cash and term deposits at the year-end 
totalled £38.3m compared with £17.5m at 
the end of 2011/12 and there is no bank 
debt on the balance sheet.
Looking ahead
It is pleasing that the Group reported good 
growth in 2012/13 whilst going through a 
period of significant change as we worked 
on the integration of the former Epitomics 
and Ascent businesses.
The review of our business which we 
undertook this year has identified several 
new opportunities to boost our growth. 
These organic initiatives require investment 
in areas such as marketing, e-commerce 
and operational infrastructure which will 
begin this year. We expect to see the 
benefits from this investment in increases 
in revenues in the medium to longer term 
and believe that the returns will more 
than justify the investment made.
We will of course continue to manage the 
Group on a prudent basis, control our costs 
tightly, maintain sound financial controls 
and ensure we have scalable systems 
to support our growth.
Jeff Iliffe
Chief Financial Officer  
and Company Secretary
9 September 2013
Strong KPIs to highlight our continued success
Number of products in catalogue
121,558 products
+31.5%
140,500
120,000
100,000
80,000
60,000
0
2012/13 2011/12 2010/11 2009/10
40,000
20,000
We constantly add new products from a variety of suppliers as well as 
those developed in-house, to bring our customers the best products 
available, regardless of source.
2,500
2,000
1,500
1,000
500
0
2012/13 2011/12 2010/11 2009/10
Number of images added from in-house testing
2,041 images
We aim to make our product range as meaningful as possible to assist 
researchers to discover more. A key component is our continued drive to 
source more information on our products, including work by our in-house 
characterisation team.
12.0%
8.0%
0%
2012/13 2011/12 2010/11 2009/10
4.0%
16.0%
Revenue from non-primary antibody products 
as a % of total product revenue
13.5% 
We continue to work on enhancing the breadth of our product catalogue 
by identifying new product ranges, in particular non-primary antibody 
products, such as secondary antibodies, kits, proteins, peptides, 
lysates and biochemicals.
Overview Strategic review Performance review Financial statements Corporate governance
Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 23 Financial review continued
KPIs continued
0.5
1
0
2012/13 2011/12 2010/11 2009/10
1.5
2
2.5
Website response time (seconds)
1.88 seconds
We aim to achieve a website response time to www.abcam.com globally 
of less than two seconds.
34.5
34
33.5
33
32.5
32
2012/13 2011/12 2010/11 2009/10
35
35.5
Number of debtor days at year end
34.5 days
Effective credit control procedures have allowed us to maintain our 
debtor days at acceptable levels despite a marginal increase in 2012/13. 
We continue to expect some increase in debtor days over time in line 
with practice in local markets as the geographical spread of sales widens. 
Website uptime
99.99%
99.92%
99.90%
99.88%
2012/13 2011/12 2010/11 2009/10
100.00%
99.94%
99.96%
99.98%
We continue to take action to improve our uptime measure. All online 
systems experience some level of outage from time to time and there 
were no outages in the year that were material to our operations.
60
50
40
30
20
10
2012/13 2011/12 2010/11 2009/10
70
80
Orders fulfilled directly from stock (average for year)
78.7%
Having units in stock available for immediate shipment is a key component 
in our objectives to improve our delivery times to customers.
Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 24 Principal risks and uncertainties
The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the establishment and oversight of the 
Group’s risk management framework.
Risk management policies are constantly reviewed, taking into account market conditions 
and the Group’s activities. The Board formally reviews the Group’s risk register twice a year. 
Like every business, the Group faces risks in the undertaking of its day to day operations 
and in pursuit of its longer-term objectives. Further information on those risks and how they 
are managed by the Group is set out on the following pages. It is recognised that the Group 
is exposed to a number of risks, wider than those listed. However, we have chosen to disclose 
those of most concern to the business at this moment in time and those that have been the 
subject of debate at recent Board or Audit Committee meetings.
Further additional information on the Group’s financial risk management strategy can 
be found in note 27 to the financial statements.
Competition
There are several hundred antibody 
and related product suppliers around the 
world. These include companies ranging 
from dedicated antibody suppliers to large 
multi-national companies selling broad ranges 
of other products in addition to antibodies. 
Abcam’s rapid growth may attract new 
competitors and/or stimulate existing 
competitors, some of which have greater 
financial, marketing and technological 
resources than Abcam, to invest further 
in their offerings to the market.
Abcam already sources products from many of the 
world’s leading suppliers and, in response to this risk, 
continues to build its supplier and product base, invest 
in the functionality of its website and its operational 
capability. The challenges for a competitor would include 
establishing a suitably large catalogue of products with 
proven validation in research, sold under an established 
and successful brand and if they were to follow Abcam’s 
supply model, building relationships with a broad range 
of high-quality suppliers.
Abcam has also established a team that monitors and 
evaluates companies developing technologies or market 
approaches that are relevant to our strategy with a view 
to potential partnership or acquisition.
Changing 
market 
conditions
Whilst it is difficult to ascertain a precise figure, 
a large proportion (over 80%) of Abcam’s sales 
are funded by public money, mainly through 
research grants. Any reduction in grant funding 
by central governments to address fiscal deficits 
is likely to have some impact on the level of 
demand for Abcam’s products.
Separate from sources of funding, there is 
also a long term trend of shifting market power 
and influence to the faster growing economies, 
particularly in China and the Far East.
One of Abcam’s key long term strategic objectives is to 
continue to expand its geographic diversity, particularly 
in markets which are growing and where funding, 
whether from public or private sources, is increasing, 
such as China.
In addition, Abcam’s products are used as research tool 
consumables within laboratories, so its sales are likely 
to be more resilient when budgets are cut than equipment 
manufacturers, for example, whose customers may 
be more unlikely to obtain approval for large capital 
investment projects.
 Strategic
Mitigation
Supplier  
relationships
Abcam may lose a supplier if, for example, 
that supplier’s business strategy changed 
or it was no longer willing or able to continue 
to provide products.
Abcam has over 400 suppliers, many of whom it has 
had relationships with for several years. This makes 
losing a supplier less likely but if this were to occur 
Abcam often has several antibodies to the same target 
whilst each is unique, and in the event of a particular 
product no longer being available, Abcam would look 
to offer customers alternative products from within 
the catalogue.
In the 2013 financial year no third party supplier 
accounted for more than 3% of Group revenue.
Abcam has its own production capabilities which 
could also be utilised to generate alternative products. 
Revenues from our own manufactured products, services 
and licences currently contribute approximately 39% 
of total Group revenue.
 Commercial
Risk
Performance review Financial statements Corporate governance
Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 25
Strategic review Overview Principal risks and uncertainties continued
Health & safety (H&S) 
and regulatory
As our product range expands, the number 
of different potential H&S/regulatory risks is 
growing. An example is with Abcam Bristol, 
where we are exposed to chemical substances.
We are comfortable that our internal H&S processes 
are robust in handling these products and have worked 
to ensure that we have the appropriate classification of 
products on the catalogue.
We use an external consultancy to perform an annual 
H&S audit across the Group, and perform an internal 
audit on any new entities as they are acquired.
International  
trade regulation
The Group’s activities involve importing and 
exporting its products across many international 
borders. Any changes to the regulations 
covering such movements might have 
an effect on the Group’s trading activities. 
Increasing geographical reach and continual 
expansion of our portfolio also exposes us 
to a wider set of regulatory restrictions.
Abcam closely monitors any changes to international 
import and export regulations and seeks to adapt 
its procedures wherever possible to ensure that 
the movement of products is not affected, whilst 
maintaining compliance with such regulations.
Distributor  
relationships
In certain areas of the world Abcam works 
through third party distributors who undertake 
marketing support activities and provide local 
logistical support. Consequently Abcam is 
dependent on them fulfilling these roles in an 
effective and efficient manner so as to enable 
sales to continue to grow in these regions. 
The distributors act as customers and 
therefore represent a financial risk for 
uncollected account balances.
Distributors typically work on annual contracts and there 
is a detailed qualification process which they are required 
to go through before being appointed. Outside of Japan, 
where we sell directly to sub-dealers, distributor sales 
amounted to around 15% of total sales in the 2013 
financial year. We have a team dedicated to maintaining 
close relationships with our distributors and continuing 
to deliver revenue growth.
Product  
defensibility
It is possible that new technologies may 
emerge in the future as viable alternatives 
to the use of antibodies in protein detection.
Abcam has many contacts in the industry and 
dedicates resource, particularly within our M&A 
team, to research emerging technologies within 
our sector. In this way, Abcam looks to stay abreast 
of technological developments in the field as far 
as is practicable, with the aim of positioning the 
Group to exploit the commercialisation of such 
technologies if they appear.
 Commercial
Mitigation Risk
Intellectual  
property (IP)
Research antibodies are not typically 
protected by intellectual property rights and 
the market can be characterised as having 
relatively low barriers to entry in this regard. 
However, where such rights are claimed 
to be the subject of third party patents or 
other proprietary rights, Abcam may be the 
subject of infringement actions or proceedings.
Abcam has registered IP over the underlying 
RabMAb
®
 technology, rather than particular 
antibodies. The risk here is of work-arounds 
to this IP .
Abcam believes that its principal protection in the 
market lies with its business model rather than through 
intellectual property rights. The breadth of highly 
specified products in its catalogue, its ability to add 
products quickly and cheaply, its extensive supplier 
base and its own production capability and brand, 
each act as significant barriers to entry for competitors.
In addition, Abcam has no single product dependency; 
for example, its biggest selling product accounts for 
less than 0.6% of Group revenues, meaning that any 
infringement actions are likely to have a minimal impact 
on sales.
It is also our strategy to quickly commercialise our 
RabMAb
®
 technology. Having products already in 
market provides defensibility and limits the potential 
impact of any work-arounds.
Our RabMAb
®
 technology is defended by a number of 
patents, and we take steps to enhance this protection 
through further IP registrations as well as working to 
improve the underlying technology to remain differentiated 
from competing work-arounds.
 Legal/regulatory/financial
Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 26 Staff recruitment  
and retention
The contribution made by Abcam’s highly 
skilled and dedicated staff has been, and will 
continue to be, important to Abcam’s future 
success. As the Group’s profile grows it is 
important that it is able to continue to recruit 
and retain high calibre staff. 
Abcam places great emphasis on open communication 
with employees, including quarterly Group-wide meetings, 
weekly office meetings and regular staff committee 
meetings. There are also share ownership schemes 
with rewards based on seniority within the business.
Abcam also looks to create a supportive working 
environment: employees are provided with significant 
opportunities for learning and development and are 
encouraged to provide feedback on this via an annual 
staff survey.
Integration
To support the Group’s growth strategy 
of expanding into new markets and 
diversifying its product range, a number 
of acquisitions have been made. In order 
for these acquisitions to perform in line with 
management’s expectations and to minimise 
disruption to other areas of the business, 
they need to be integrated into the Group’s 
existing operations as appropriate in an 
efficient and timely manner.
Integration steps are planned in outline prior to 
acquisition and Abcam has dedicated resource to lead 
the integration of acquired entities. Any issues identified 
are highlighted and responded to in an appropriate 
manner. There are open channels of communication 
across all levels of the Group which includes regular 
meetings with key management of the acquired entities 
and members of the Executive Management Team.
Furthermore, the continued investment in the integration 
and adaptability of the systems operated across the 
Group are planned to also contribute to the successful 
integration of new businesses and products.
Foreign  
currency  
exposure
The Group has significant operations 
outside the UK and as such is exposed to 
exchange rate fluctuation, in particular the 
strength of sterling relative to the US dollar, 
euro and Japanese yen. Although there are 
natural hedges in place due to the fact that 
the Group is able to utilise a proportion of 
its income in foreign currencies to pay for 
outgoings in those currencies, in particular 
the US dollar, the Group generates surpluses 
of each currency.
The Board’s policy is to sell forward some of the 
expected surplus in order to reduce the short-term 
exposure. However, longer-term movements in the 
relative strength of sterling will impact the Group’ s profits.
Complexity
The size of our operation and the number of 
employees has grown rapidly both organically 
and by acquisition. This brings with it the 
challenges of managing over large geographic 
distances and implementing appropriate 
systems, policies and compliance procedures 
in different jurisdictions.
Abcam has grown quickly for several years and is 
familiar with many of the issues this presents. The 
Group continues to invest in its infrastructure and apply 
the resources necessary to support the business and 
ensure that appropriate controls are in place.
Mitigation Risk
 Legal/regulatory/financial
Infrastructure
Abcam operates in a market which it 
has been able to exploit through the use 
of online and e-Commerce-based systems. 
These systems need to be robust, efficient 
and scalable in order for the Group to 
continue to manage its growth. The risks 
here are both from the infrastructure and 
organisation of the IT systems, as well as 
the ability of Abcam’s products to be found 
by online users through popular internet 
search engines.
The Group invests extensively in its IT systems both 
from scalability and security points of view, as well as 
from usability aspects. Abcam uses a global content 
delivery partner to increase both the reliability and 
access speed for viewing the majority of its static site 
content. Dynamic content is served from an external, 
fully supported data centre. The Group outsources 
regular security penetration testing on its website from 
a third party and pays considerable attention internally 
to the search engine optimisation and usability of the 
website through user testing, feedback and surveys.
All e-Commerce systems experience some level of 
outage from time to time so we continue to take action 
to improve our disaster recovery responses, as well as 
to work on redesigning our application architecture to 
minimise the single points of failure within our systems. 
The overall aim is to minimise the risk of any material 
impact on the business and indeed there were no 
outages during the year that caused a material impact.
 Operational
Overview Strategic review Performance review Financial statements Corporate governance
Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 27 Corporate Social Responsibility
Our approach to sustainability
People and the workplace
The recruitment of excellent people 
has driven our success. Our culture is one 
that empowers individuals. The working 
environment is fun and intense, with 
everybody working together as a team 
to deliver great service and the best 
products to our customers. We recruit using 
an online system which gives openness and 
transparency, and seek to work to best 
practice in all our recruitment activities.
We value our employees and listen to our 
staff, understanding their views on Abcam 
as an employer. We undertake a range of 
surveys, including global staff surveys which 
consider regional offices and departments, 
giving us a clear picture about the health of 
the organisation from an employee perspective.
As the Group becomes more complex 
and global, we ensure we communicate 
regularly on both business performance 
and employee matters, through formal 
and informal meetings.
Building on our success
Over the past 15 years, our staff have driven 
Abcam forward and made us the company 
we are today. To continue our success we 
have identified key Abcam behaviours that 
define our global culture:
 > being customer-centric;
 > focussing on success; and
 > being bold.
Giving back to the community
Abcam is committed to ongoing support 
of the community of entrepreneurial 
businesses clustered around Cambridge, 
UK. We support the Cambridge Network, 
the University of Cambridge and the 
Far left: Jacob Gray from Abcam’ s Charity 
Committee presents a £15,000 cheque to 
Dr Carrie Herbert, Chief Executive of Red Balloon. 
Left: Encouraging health and wellbeing at our 
Cambridge, UK office with daytime yoga classes.
“ Supporting our community 
is really important to Abcam. 
We’ve been incredibly 
fortunate over the years 
and are now really pleased 
to be able to now give 
something back, providing 
support at what is a critical 
point for some of these 
charities. We look forward 
to helping other good 
causes in the future.”
we aspire to carry out business 
to the highest of ethical standards
12—
Judge Business School by giving talks 
and presentations and host students 
from a range of academic institutions.
Abcam regularly donates to a range of local, 
national and international causes through its 
Charity Committee. The Committee, which 
consists of Abcam employees, has been 
administrating funding to charities since 2004.
We give a maximum of 0.1% of the previous 
year’ s pre-tax profits to charity. In 2012/13 we 
have decided to increase this by the amount 
we have saved from two of the executive 
directors waiving their pension entitlements. 
Donations are allocated by a committee of 
staff volunteers in each of our offices working 
within guidelines set by the Board.
The Group made no political donations 
during 2012/13 and made charitable 
donations of £91,960 (2012: £51,230).
Health, safety and the environment
Supporting health, safety and the environment 
are essential elements of our ongoing success. 
Our approach is to promote ownership at 
every level and we have a highly enthusiastic 
and professional network of individuals 
and committees who form our Global Safety 
Network. This encompasses employees from 
all areas of the business. Health and safety 
in the Group is ultimately the responsibility 
of the Chief Executive Officer.
It is acknowledged that compliance with 
legislation is the minimum standard and 
Abcam will endeavour to follow best practice 
wherever reasonably practical. Resources 
are allocated to ensure that safety standards 
are maintained and that open communication 
and employee involvement is encouraged.
Jonathan Milner
Chief Executive Officer
What our employees say about Abcam:
Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 28 “ With Abcam’s help we shall be able to grow  
and deliver our recovery programme for 
severely bullied and traumatised children. ”
  Dr Carrie Herbert  
Founder and Chief Executive of Red Balloon 
“ We are delighted to welcome Abcam as the latest 
member of our Community Foundation 100 initiative, 
supporting local voluntary and community groups 
that are working hard to improve the quality of 
life across the communities of Cambridgeshire. ”
  Jane Darlington  
CEO of Cambridge  
Community Foundation 
“ We would like to thank Abcam for their donation 
as we look to develop new initiatives that will give 
those that are homeless or vulnerably housed the 
skills to help them get back into employment. ”
  Rachel Newell  
Social Enterprise and Business Development Manager, Wintercomfort
The Group continues to be committed to 
an annual audit process by external safety 
advisors in order to understand and maximise 
our performance, demonstrate best practice 
to all stakeholders and identify areas for 
targeted improvements. We have added 
to our capabilities by appointing an external 
health and safety consultant in China.
From a commercial perspective, the health 
and safety function supports the fast efficient 
flow of products to the catalogue.
The environment is very important to us and 
we have a range of initiatives from recycling 
to encouraging staff to cycle to work, and 
wherever possible using bicycle couriers 
to deliver and collect unwanted packaging.
Wellbeing
Abcam believes that wellbeing directly 
affects how engaged people are in their 
work and together, engagement and 
wellbeing enable outstanding performance. 
Wellbeing is dependent on both physical 
and psychological health and by supporting 
these Abcam creates and promotes 
a healthy working environment.
Ensured the scalability of the health 
and safety function through a global 
safety network covering all Abcam offices
 > Strengthening our global safety network to enable future growth 
and complexity of product types
Created a global health and safety 
auditing system 
 > Building on our global safety standards across all offices
Introduced wellbeing events across all sites > Building on our wellbeing initiatives to ensure a healthy 
working environment
By working with government initiatives 
and hosting travel and cycle events we 
have encouraged environmentally friendly 
ways to travel to work
 > Making further recommendations on reducing the environmental 
impact of our staff travelling to work
2013 achievements Future activities
Abcam in the community
Overview Strategic review Performance review Financial statements Corporate governance
Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 29 Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 30 Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 30
Corporate governance
In this 
section
31 Message from the Chairman
32 Board of directors
34 Executive management team
36 General managers
37 Corporate governance statement
40 Audit committee
41 Nomination committee
42 Directors’ remuneration report
50 Other disclosures
52 Statement of directors’ responsibilities
Nurturing employee 
excellence is key 
to our success
Abcam plc is a public limited company 
which is listed on the Alternative 
Investment Market (AIM) of the London 
Stock Exchange. This section contains 
the primary financial statements, and 
the accounting policies applied, for the 
financial year ended 30 June 2013. Overview Strategic review Performance review Financial statements Corporate governance
Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 31
Introduction
At Abcam we value corporate governance 
highly and this is reflected in our governance 
principles, policies and practices. We believe 
that effective governance, not only in the 
boardroom but right across the business, 
ultimately produces a better business and 
supports long-term performance. Therefore, 
notwithstanding the fact that Abcam is an 
AIM-listed company, we are committed 
to ensuring that the Group is managed 
in accordance with the principles set out 
in the UK Corporate Governance Code 
2010 (the Code).
The core activities of the Board include:
 > providing entrepreneurial leadership 
within a framework of prudent and 
effective controls for risk assessment 
and management;
 > setting the strategic aims of the Group, 
ensuring that resources are in place for the 
Group to meet its objectives and reviewing 
management performance; and
 > setting the values and standards of the 
Group and ensuring that its obligations 
to shareholders and others are 
understood and met.
This year, activities have focussed on 
the integration of and investment in the 
two companies acquired during 2011/12. 
Abcam’ s success is built on good governance 
and sound management and the Board has 
continued to play an active role in ensuring 
that these principles are core to the way 
we do business, with particular emphasis 
on new activities and geographies in which 
the Company operates. Commitment 
to these principles extends through the 
business and I have been encouraged by 
the extent of the wide-ranging discussions 
and the constructive and positive approach 
to issues that has taken place between the 
Board and the members of the Executive 
Management Team during the year.
Compliance with the Code
The Code is the standard against which 
we have chosen to measure ourselves 
in 2012/13 and we are pleased to confirm 
that we complied with the Code throughout 
the period under review.
Message from the Chairman
a rich history of 
successful growth
13—
Mike Redmond
Chairman
9 September 2013
The Corporate Governance Statement 
and Directors’ Remuneration Report set 
out on pages 37 to 49 detail how the Group 
has applied the principles of good governance 
contained within the Code.
Board skills and experience
Following the appointment of three new 
Non-Executive Directors in the 2011/12 
financial year, which increased the 
knowledge base and experience of 
the Board specifically in the life science 
reagents sector and e-Commerce trading, 
I feel we have a good balance of the skills 
required to take the Group forward through 
its next stage of development.
We recognise that none of the current 
members of the Board are women but 
remain open to the prospect of appointing 
women to the Board in the future. Women 
represent 52% of Abcam’s workforce as 
a whole and we have two female members 
of the Executive Management Team.
The mix of experience on our Board and 
more detailed biographies are provided 
on the following pages. 
Appointments and succession
We have made no appointments to the Board 
this year which reflects a balance between 
financial, sector specific and general 
business skills, with a highly experienced 
Executive and Non-Executive team.
As previously mentioned, following 
the completion of 14 years’ service as 
a Non-Executive Director, Professor 
Tony Kouzarides retired from the 
Board at last year’s AGM.
Monitoring risk
Monitoring the level of risk and ensuring 
appropriate governance to support this 
remains a key objective, involving the support 
of the Audit Committee. It is important that 
we continue to drive the level of challenge 
and debate around risk as well as monitor 
and test our understanding of risk and 
our tolerance as our business evolves.
I continue to be pleased with the performance 
of the Group and believe that we have a 
strong and very able Board in place which 
has demonstrated its commitment to drive 
and support future growth. Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 32
Board of directors
an experienced and 
enthusiastic group of leaders 
14—
Abcam’s Board has the breadth and depth necessary 
to guide the Group as it seeks to take full advantage 
of new opportunities and contend with new challenges.
1 Mike Redmond
MA (Cantab)
Chairman
Appointment: March 2009
Experience: Mike has substantial 
international experience in the pharmaceutical 
industry gained in both executive and 
non-executive capacities at businesses 
ranging from multinational organisations 
to start-up companies.
External appointments: He is currently
chairman of Dechra Pharmaceuticals plc
and his recent chairmanships include
Synexus Clinical Research plc, Arakis
Limited and Microscience Limited. His
executive career began at Glaxo Group plc
in 1967 and he has held senior executive
positions in marketing and management
at companies including Schering Plough
Corporation and Fisons plc.
Fact: Mike is never happier than when 
crashing around in a windy North Sea in 
his boat.
3 Jim Warwick
MA (Cantab)
Chief Operating Officer
Appointment: November 2000
Experience: Jim has an MA in Computer 
Science from the University of Cambridge. 
He joined Abcam originally as Technical Director, 
and took over operational management of the UK 
office as Managing Director in June 2004, working 
on both cost saving and efficiency improvement 
projects. In 2009, Jim became Chief Operating 
Officer, with responsibility for overseeing the 
operational strategy of the Group as a whole. 
External appointments: From 1986 to 2003, Jim 
worked for Analysys Limited, a Cambridge-based 
telecommunications consultancy, heading up its IT, 
software and web development initiatives.
Fact: Jim wrote two commercial programs
with friends for the BBC Microcomputer which
were published by Acornsoft.
2 Jonathan Milner
PhD
Chief Executive Officer
Appointment: April 1998
Experience: Jonathan is an experienced 
entrepreneur and business leader. He gained 
his doctorate in Molecular Genetics at Leicester 
University after graduating in Applied Biology 
at Bath University. From 1992 to 1995, he was 
a post-doctoral researcher at Bath University, 
following which he worked at the University 
of Cambridge in the laboratory of Professor 
T ony Kouzarides studying cancer, specifically 
the BRCA2 gene associated with hereditary 
breast cancer. He identified the market 
opportunity for supplying high-quality antibodies 
to support protein interaction studies, and 
in 1998, Jonathan founded Abcam with 
David Cleevely and Professor T ony Kouzarides.
External appointments: Jonathan is an active 
supporter of the Cambridge, UK business 
community. He is a non-executive director of 
Horizon Discovery, and also a non-executive 
director of Frontier Developments. He is also 
Chairman of Axol Bioscience Ltd.
Fact: Jonathan is a fanatic RUSH fan, 
going to their gigs whenever possible.
4 Jeff Iliffe
ACA
Chief Financial Officer 
and Company Secretary
Appointment: November 2007 
Experience: Jeff is a chartered accountant 
who was appointed as Abcam’s Chief 
Financial Officer after previously working 
for the Company as a financial consultant. 
He has extensive experience of the City, 
industry and internet-based business. 
External appointments: Jeff was a corporate 
financier in life sciences at Panmure Gordon 
& Co. between 1989 and 1996. He then 
moved into industry, holding a number of 
financial positions at companies including 
the environmental consultancy Enviros Group 
Limited and Plethora Solutions plc. Prior to 
joining Abcam, he was chief financial officer 
at the e-Commerce company St Minver Ltd. 
Jeff is also a non-executive director of 
Treatt plc and a trustee of the Cambridge 
Arts Theatre.
Fact: Jeff has a passion for live music, 
particularly jazz.
1 2 3 4 Overview Strategic review Performance review Financial statements Corporate governance
Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 33
5 Peter Keen
ACA
Non-Executive and Senior 
Independent Director
Appointment: October 2005 
Experience: Peter joined Abcam’s Board 
prior to the Company’s IPO and is a chartered 
accountant with experience in the financing 
and management of biotechnology companies. 
External appointments: Peter is the recently 
appointed chief executive of the technology 
investment firm Cambridge Innovation Capital plc 
and is currently a non-executive director of a 
number of life science companies including the 
Biotech Growth Trust plc, MRC T echnology Ltd 
and Oval Medical Technologies Ltd. Peter 
was chief financial officer of Arakis Limited 
until its successful trade sale in 2005 and 
was also co-founder and finance director 
of Chiroscience Group plc, after which he 
helped establish and was UK managing 
director of the venture firm Merlin Biosciences.
Fact: Peter plans to complete the 
630 mile South West Coast Path.
6 Michael Ross
MA (Cantab)
Non-Executive Director
Appointment: November 2011
Experience: Michael is an e-Commerce 
executive and advisor with a high level 
of technical expertise.
External appointments: He co-founded 
eCommera in 2006, an e-Commerce 
technology and advisory business where 
he is an executive director. He is currently a 
non-executive director of warehouseexpress.com. 
He is also an e-Commerce advisor to a number 
of other businesses. After working at McKinsey 
& Company from 1994 to 1999, Michael 
co-founded the online retailer figleaves.com 
in 1999, where he was chief executive officer 
until 2006.
Fact: Michael played chess for 
England (once).
7 Murray Hennessy
MBA
Non-Executive Director
Appointment: November 2011
Experience: Murray has an impressive 
track record of working internationally 
in customer-facing industries, as well as 
significant experience of online businesses.
External appointments: He is currently
chief executive of thetrainline.com, the
online train ticket retailer, which he joined in
2008, prior to which he was chief executive
of Avis Europe plc, the car rental company.
Between 2001 and 2004, Murray was 
the commercial director of John Lewis
Department Stores where he pioneered
the store’s online presence, johnlewis.com.
After an early career as a management
consultant in the London, Tokyo and Boston
offices of Bain & Company, Murray held a
number of senior positions in the restaurant
industry and also led an internet start-up.
Fact: Murray grew up in both the
US and Ireland.
8 Anthony Martin
PhD
Non-Executive Director
Appointment: September 2011
Experience: Anthony has more than 25 years’ 
experience in the life science industry within 
the UK and USA, in both executive 
and non-executive roles.
External appointments: He is currently 
non-executive chairman of Immunodiagnostics 
Systems Holdings plc, Sphere Medical Holding 
plc and PhicoTherapeutics Ltd. Anthony has 
a Doctorate in Immunology from the University 
of Manchester Medical School. He has been 
chief executive officer of British Bio-Technology 
Products, AZUR Environmental, the molecular 
biology division of Invitrogen Corporation, 
and Molecular Probes Inc. Anthony’s 
previous non-executive appointments 
include PreludeTrust plc and chairman of 
NeuTec Pharma plc. and Molecular Insight 
Pharmaceuticals Inc. He has also served 
on the boards of Invitrogen Corporation 
and Agilent Technologies.
Fact: Anthony runs to keep fit and sings 
in a local choir.
For information on the Board’s 
operation and responsibilities
Turn to page 37 
Length of tenure
M Redmond
J Milner
J Warwick
J Iliffe
P Keen
M Ross
M Hennessy
A Martin
98 02 06 10 14
5 6
7
8 Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 34
Executive management team
From left to right: 
1 Jonathan Milner
Chief Executive Officer
2 Jeff Iliffe
Chief Financial Officer 
and Company Secretary
3 Jim Warwick
Chief Operating Officer
(Biographies on page 32)
The EMT meets on a weekly basis and is responsible 
for developing and implementing the strategy approved 
by the Board. In particular, the EMT is responsible for 
ensuring that the Group’s budget and forecasts are 
properly prepared and that targets are met and for 
generally managing and developing the business within 
the overall budget. Significant variations from the budget 
and changes in strategy require approval from the main 
Board of the Group. Michael Hadjisavas joined the EMT 
in April 2013 and Danielle Miller in early June 2013. 
Alan Hirzel joined Abcam as CMO on 5 August 2013.
1 2 3 4 5
4 Mark Bushfield
PhD
Scientific Director
Experience: Mark joined Abcam in 2008 
as Scientific Director, responsible for product 
development, manufacturing and scientific 
business development. 
Mark is a biologist with over 20 years’ research 
and management experience in academia, 
pharma and biotechnology. Prior to joining 
Abcam, Mark trained in cellular signalling and 
then worked for Pfizer before co-founding 
Cambridge Drug Discovery Ltd (CDD). After 
successfully integrating CDD into BioFocus, 
Mark joined Celltech as research director 
at Celltech-UCB. Mark has co-authored over 
30 peer reviewed scientific papers and given 
over 40 presentations to scientific meetings 
and societies.
Fact: Mark has just re-embarked on a 
challenge to climb all 282 of Scotland’s Munros.
5 Philippe Cotrel 
PhD
Commercial Director
Experience: Philippe joined Abcam 
in 2008 as Commercial Director. He has 
over 20 years’ experience in sales and 
marketing in the life science industry. Before 
joining Abcam, Philippe worked for Affymetrix 
where he was responsible for their European 
operations. Prior to that, he held several 
commercial positions at Amersham Pharmacia 
(now part of GE Healthcare) and Oxford 
Glycosciences. He holds a post-graduate 
degree from Institut Pasteur (Paris) and 
obtained a PhD in Biotechnologies from 
Institut des Sciences Appliquees (Toulouse, 
France). As Commercial Director, Philippe 
has responsibility for the Group’s sales and 
marketing activities and the management 
and development of its OEM supplier base.
Fact: Philippe enjoys cycling challenges
involving either long distances or high climbs. Overview Strategic review Performance review Financial statements Corporate governance
Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 35
10 Jane Cooke 
Corporate Services Director
Experience: Jane is an HR professional with 
over 25 years’ experience in a range of sectors 
including learned and professional; publishing 
and engineering. Her initial academic 
background was social policy with a particular 
interest in international comparisons. Jane 
joined Abcam in 2005 and has supported the 
growth of the Group from a human resources 
and health and safety perspective. She has 
considerable international experience working 
across the UK, US, China, Hong Kong and 
Japan. Jane has focused on building scalable 
human resources and health and safety 
functions which are flexible and adaptable to 
Abcam’s commercial needs, and is passionate 
about Abcam and its creative and talented 
staff around the world.
Fact: Jane is an enthusiastic yachtswoman
sailing the family’ s Westerly Falcon and in addition
to her sailing qualifications she also completed
a course on marine engine maintenance.
7 Ed Ralph 
PhD
Chief Information Officer
Experience: Ed’s academic background 
is in molecular biology and he started 
developing websites in 1996. Joining 
Abcam in 2000, he was instrumental in 
growing the technology capabilities that 
have supported Abcam’s rapid growth 
and is responsible for the software 
development team, the IT operations 
team and the e-Commerce department. 
Ed also serves on the Council of Advisors 
for Red Gate Software, a company of over 
250 people that innovate, produce and 
sell software tools to developers and 
database administrators.
Fact: Ed has cycled to Abcam’s offices 
approximately 2,500 times, compared to 
driving 1,100.
6 Michael Hadjisavas 
PhD
General Manager and VP Corporate 
Strategy and Development
Experience: Michael joined Abcam in January 2013 
as an executive with over 20 years’ experience in 
life sciences, genomics, translational medicine 
and diagnostics. He leads the Strategic Portfolio 
Management Committee to drive M&A and other 
external investment strategies and oversees the 
integration of acquired entities. He has held numerous 
leadership positions at: Gen-Probe; Life Technologies; 
Applied Biosystems; Sigma-Aldrich; Genosys 
Biotechnologies, and holds advisory roles with 
two start-up genomics companies. He holds BSc., 
Honours and PhD degrees in molecular and cellular 
biology from the University of Adelaide, South Australia 
and post-doctoral training at Texas A&M University.
Fact: Michael lives with his family in the Bay
Area, San Francisco, enjoys travel, food, wine and 
volunteers as an executive mentor to managers 
in the life sciences research sector.
8 Danielle Miller 
PhD
Operations Director
Experience: Danielle joined Abcam in 2001 
and over the last 12 years has overseen the 
growth in customer support and logistics 
capabilities, championing investment in 
automated stock storage solutions and the 
importance of scientific support in our service 
offering. She works closely with the regional 
general managers to drive consistency and 
efficiency of operational processes, and to 
ensure that customers can expect similar 
high levels of service across the world. 
Prior to joining Abcam, Danielle worked 
as a strategic management consultant and 
holds a PhD and degree in Natural Sciences, 
both from the University of Cambridge. 
Fact: Danielle plays tennis for her 
local club, enjoys skiing and has recently 
re-learned how to do a handstand in the 
Abcam yoga class!
9 Alan Hirzel
Chief Marketing Officer
Experience: Alan has over 20 years of 
global business and leadership experience. 
Prior to joining Abcam, he spent 14 years 
with leading management consultant Bain 
& Company, most recently serving as head 
of the UK healthcare practice and head 
of its London office operations. Earlier 
in his career, he led product innovation 
efforts for several brands at Kraft Foods. 
Alan has a BS in Plant Molecular Biology, 
an MS from Cornell University, and an 
MBA from the Johnson Graduate School 
of Business at Cornell.
Fact: Alan fulfils his passion for social 
enterprise as a Trustee at The Social 
Business Trust and as a non-executive 
director of UK National Citizen Service Trust.
6 7 8
9
10 Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 36
General managers
1 Nick Lines 
BA (Hons)
General Manager, Abcam KK
Experience: Nick is an expert in establishing 
and developing businesses in Japan. He has 
worked in international relations for the Japanese 
government and has advised companies seeking 
to establish representative offices in Japan 
through UKTI at the British Embassy in T okyo. 
On joining Abcam in 2006, Nick’ s first role was 
to establish the T okyo office and manage the 
expansion of a distribution model to a network 
of local sub-dealers. Nick is responsible for sales, 
distribution and operations (customer service, 
scientific support, and logistics) in the Japanese 
market. Nick holds a degree in Japanese and 
East Asian Studies from the University of Leeds, 
and has lived and worked in Japan since 1999. 
Nick also acted as interpreter for the Football 
Association and several England players during 
the 2002 World Cup in Japan.
Fact: Nick is a fully qualified JFA Level 4 
football referee and regularly referees local 
Japanese league football matches at weekends.
3 Steve Roome 
PhD
General Manager, Abcam Bristol
Experience: Steve has considerable experience 
within the life science reagents industry. He 
obtained his degree in biochemistry and his 
PhD in organic chemistry at the University of 
Nottingham, followed by a post-doctoral position 
at Sussex University. He then spent ten years 
with T ocris before leaving the senior management 
team to join the commercial unit at GE Healthcare. 
Steve co-founded Ascent Scientific in 2005 and 
took it through to acquisition by Abcam in 2011, 
subsequently running the business unit in Bristol 
with responsibility for the development of the 
Abcam Biochemicals range of products. 
On 31 August 2013, Steve left his position as 
General Manager at Abcam Bristol. We thank him 
for all his hard work and dedication over the last 
year and wish him well in his future endeavours.
Fact: Steve has a keen interest in rocketry
and astrophysics and his ideal dinner date (except
his wife, of course) would be Professor Brian Cox.
2 Bill Campbell 
PhD
Director and General Manager 
of Abcam, Inc.
Experience: Bill joined Abcam in April 2005 
in the Scientific Support department, became 
responsible for US Operations in 2007 and 
General Manager in February 2012. He is 
currently responsible for sales, customer 
support, distribution and operations in the 
Americas as well as the day to day running 
of the Cambridge, US office. Prior to joining 
Abcam, Bill received his PhD in Biology from 
Brown University where he studied proteins 
involved in cancer. He also completed a 
four year post doctorate at Harvard Medical 
School studying proteins involved in 
Alzheimer’s Disease and has authored 
or co-authored 16 scientific publications.
Fact: Bill is the only General Manager 
who started in an entry level role at Abcam.
4 James Murray 
PhD 
General Manager and R&D 
Manager, Abcam Eugene 
Experience: James is responsible for 
the day-to-day management of the team in 
Eugene and leads their R&D group by guiding 
new product development strategy and 
project management. He holds a PhD in 
Biochemistry from the University of Leeds. 
After graduation he moved to the United 
States to perform post-doctoral research 
studies in the area of mitochondrial biology 
at the University of Oregon’s Institute of 
Molecular Biology. He joined MitoSciences 
in 2004 as one of the first employees 
and was the R&D manager at the time 
of acquisition by Abcam in 2011.
Fact: James is a keen marathon 
runner – his next goal is to qualify for 
the Boston Marathon.
5 Peter Lee 
MBA 
General Manager,  
Abcam (Hong Kong) Ltd 
Experience: Peter joined Abcam in 2009 
to establish an office in Hong Kong to serve 
our Asia Pacific market. He has a degree 
in Applied Biology, an MPhil in Biochemistry 
and holds an MBA. Peter has over 18 years’ 
experience in the life sciences market in both 
direct and channel sales within the Asia Pacific 
region. In particular, he has spent 15 years 
focusing on the China market, specifically in the 
consumables and capital equipment markets. 
His previous experience was gained through 
senior roles at Amersham, Amersham 
Biosciences, GE Healthcare and Biacore. 
Peter is responsible for sales, distribution and 
operations (customer service, scientific support 
and logistics) for the Asia Pacific region.
Fact: Peter enjoys sightseeing and taking 
photos, as well as cooking and eating.
Each General Manager of Abcam’s 
subsidiary companies reports directly 
to a member of the EMT. They are 
responsible for the daily operational 
management of their respective entities, 
ensuring a consistent implementation 
of Abcam’s strategy across the 
whole Group.
1 2 3 4 5 Overview Strategic review Performance review Financial statements Corporate governance
Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 37
Corporate governance statement
This section and the Remuneration 
Report detail how the Group has 
applied the principles of good 
governance contained in the UK 
Corporate Governance Code 2010.
Leadership
Operation of our Board
The Board holds full meetings every month, 
with attendance required in person one 
month and via conference call the next 
month. In addition ad hoc meetings may 
be called to discuss urgent pertinent issues 
arising during the course of the year or to 
approve the annual and interim accounts 
or dividends.
The Board has a policy, reviewed at least 
annually, to set out which matters are reserved 
for the decision of the Board and those to 
which the Executive Directors need not refer 
for approval. This policy also identifies those 
matters regarding which full delegation to a 
Board Committee is not normally permitted 
because a final decision is required to be taken 
by the whole Board. Matters which the Board 
considers are suitable for delegation to a 
Board Committee are contained within each 
Committee’s terms of reference which are 
available on the Company’ s investor relations 
website, www.abcamplc.com.
The Board delegates day to day 
responsibility for managing the Group to 
the Executive Management Team (EMT) 
and to its Committees, details of which 
are set out on the following pages.
The EMT is responsible for developing 
and implementing the strategy approved 
by the Board. In particular, it is responsible 
for ensuring that the Group’s budget and 
forecasts are properly prepared, that targets 
are met and for generally managing and 
developing the business within the overall 
budget. Variations from the budget and 
changes in strategy require approval 
from the main Board of the Group.
The EMT, which meets on a weekly basis, 
comprises the Chief Executive Officer, the 
Chief Financial Officer, the Chief Operating 
Officer, the Chief Information Officer, the 
Scientific Director, the Commercial Director, 
the Corporate Services Director, the 
General Manager and Vice President 
Corporate Strategy and Development, the 
Operations Director and the Chief Marketing 
Officer. Brief biographies and responsibilities 
of these key members of staff are set 
out on pages 34 and 35. EMT meetings 
are attended by other senior operational 
personnel, as appropriate.
The General Managers of each of our 
regional offices are responsible for the daily 
operational management of their respective 
entities and each report into a member of 
the EMT, providing a key role in ensuring 
a consistent implementation of Abcam’s 
strategy across the business, along with 
other senior departmental managers. 
Brief biographies and responsibilities of the 
General Managers are set out on page 36.
The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive 
Officer are vested in separate individuals, 
each with clear allocation of accountability 
and responsibility. 
The main responsibilities of the 
Chairman include:
 > leadership of the Board and creating 
the conditions for overall Board and 
individual Director effectiveness 
and a constructive relationship with 
good communications between the 
Executive and Non-Executive Directors;
 > ensuring that the Board as a whole 
plays a full and constructive part in the 
development of strategy and overall 
commercial objectives;
 > ensuring that there is effective 
communication with shareholders;
 > promoting the highest standards 
of integrity, probity and corporate 
governance throughout the Company, 
particularly at Board level; and
 > ensuring that the performance of 
the Board as a whole, its Committees 
and individual Directors is formally and 
rigorously evaluated at least once a year.
The main responsibilities of the Chief Executive 
Officer include:
 > proposing and developing the Company’s 
long-term strategy and overall commercial 
objectives to ensure the Company’ s position 
remains differentiated, in conjunction with 
the EMT;
 > ensuring initiatives for long-term 
growth are appropriately championed 
and resourced within the Company in 
the short term;
 > managing the EMT; 
 > leading the communication programme 
with shareholders and analysts; and
 > fostering good relationships with 
key stakeholders.
Peter Keen has been identified as the 
Senior Independent Director, who provides 
a communication channel between the 
Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors 
and is available to discuss matters with 
shareholders when required.
The Directors have the benefit of directors’ 
and officers’ liability insurance and have 
access to the advice of the Company 
Secretary, who acts as secretary to 
all of the Board Committees.
The Board agenda
The Board agenda focuses on the themes 
of driving our strategy, monitoring risk and 
monitoring execution against the strategy 
via regular business, financial and 
departmental updates.
The Chairman meets with the Executive 
Directors prior to scheduled and ad hoc 
meetings to discuss and set each 
Board agenda.
The culture of our Board meetings is to 
encourage rigorous debate. The Non-Executive 
Directors regularly constructively challenge 
the performance of management in meeting 
agreed goals and objectives and help develop 
proposals on strategy. There is an opportunity 
for more informal and extended discussions 
on strategy during bi-monthly offsite 
Board dinners.
Effectiveness
How do we make sure our Board 
is effective?
We have considered the overall balance 
between Executive and Non-Executive 
Directors and believe that the structure 
of the Board and the integrity of each 
Director ensure that there is no one 
individual or group dominating the decision 
making process The Board reflects a good 
balance between financial, sector specific 
and general business skills, with a highly 
experienced team leading the business 
in both Executive and Non-Executive roles.
Before each meeting the Board is 
provided with information concerning the 
state of the business and its performance 
in a timely manner, in a form and of a quality 
appropriate to enable it to discharge its 
duties. Non-Executive Directors have the 
opportunity to influence agendas for Board 
discussions and to ensure the amount of 
time spent reviewing strategic and operational 
issues is appropriately balanced. Scheduled Board meetings Ad hoc meetings
Meetings
attended
Total
available
meetings
Meetings
attended
Total
available
meetings
Chairman Mike Redmond 12 12 2 2
Chief Executive Jonathan Milner 12 12 2 2
Executive Directors Jeff Iliffe 12 12 2 2
Jim Warwick 11 12 2 2
Non-Executive Directors Murray Hennessy 11 12 2 2
Peter Keen 12 12 2 2
Tony Kouzarides
1
2 4 — —
Anthony Martin 12 12 2 2
Michael Ross 10 12 1 2
1 Retired 22 October 2012.
Board meeting attendance
Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 38
Effectiveness continued
How do we make sure our Board 
is effective? continued
In the event that Directors are unable to 
attend a meeting or a conference call, they 
receive and read the papers for consideration 
at that meeting and have the opportunity 
to relay their comments and, if necessary, 
to follow up with the Chairman or the 
Chief Executive Officer after the meeting. 
Director induction programme 
and ongoing training
On joining, Abcam Directors receive 
a comprehensive and tailored induction 
programme, the aim of which is to introduce 
them to key executives across the business 
and to enhance their knowledge and 
understanding of the Group and its 
activities. This includes time with each 
of the Executive Directors, members 
of the EMT and a wide range of senior 
management from across the business.
The Group has a commitment to training and 
all Directors, Executive or Non-Executive, 
are encouraged to attend suitable training 
courses at the Group’s expense. Regular 
updates on corporate governance are also 
provided to the Board by the Group’ s advisors.
Director independence
In order to assist in securing the recruitment 
and retention of high calibre Non-Executive 
Directors, prior to the flotation of the Company 
in 2005, the Company granted options to 
Non-Executive Directors to acquire shares 
in the Company in addition to fees. In the 
period since listing on AIM, no equity-based 
incentives have been granted to Non-Executive 
Directors and there are no plans for any 
Corporate governance statement continued
such grants in the future. The Board 
considers Mike Redmond, Murray Hennessy, 
Peter Keen, Anthony Martin and Michael Ross 
to be independent within the meaning of 
the Code. All Directors maintain conflicts 
of interest declarations and any planned 
changes in their interests including 
directorships outside the Group are notified 
to the Board. None of the relationships 
declared are considered to be of a material 
nature to Abcam’s business and none 
are therefore deemed to impact on the 
independence of the Directors. Whilst 
the obligation to notify the Company is 
immediate, the updated conflicts register 
is formally reviewed at Board meetings 
on alternate months.
The beneficial interests of the Directors in 
the share capital of the Company are set 
out on page 51. In the opinion of the Board, 
these shareholdings do not detract from the 
Non-Executive Directors’ independent status.
Performance evaluation
The Board undertakes a regular evaluation of 
its own performance and the last review was 
undertaken during the year. This concluded 
that the Board and its individual members 
continues to perform effectively in an 
environment where there is constructive 
challenge from the Non-Executive Directors 
and operates within a framework of sound 
governance and practices which are consistent 
with the principles set out in the Code.
Subjects covered during the review include 
a general overview as to the operation of the 
Board, opinions on shareholder relationships, 
views on the Board’s input into strategy 
discussions, governance and compliance, 
risk management and succession planning, 
the Board culture and relationships with 
senior management, as well as how new 
members are selected and inducted.
The Chairman holds meetings with 
the Non-Executive Directors without 
the Executive Directors present and 
the Non-Executive Directors, led by the 
Senior Independent Director, meet without 
the Chairman present at least annually 
to appraise the Chairman’s performance, 
with no issues arising from the review 
performed this year. 
Accountability
What is our approach 
to risk management?
The Board acknowledges its responsibility 
for safeguarding the shareholders’ investment 
and the Group’s assets and has established 
a continuous process for identifying, evaluating 
and managing the significant risks the 
Group faces. 
The Board has overall responsibility 
for ensuring the Group maintains an 
adequate system of internal control 
and risk management, whilst the Audit 
Committee reviews its effectiveness on 
behalf of the Board. The implementation 
of internal control systems is the 
responsibility of management. 
We have implemented an internal control 
system designed to help ensure:
 > the effective and efficient operation of 
the Group by enabling management to 
respond appropriately to significant risks 
to achieving the Group’ s business objectives; Overview Strategic review Performance review Financial statements Corporate governance
Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 39
 > the safeguarding of assets from 
inappropriate use or from loss and fraud 
and ensuring that liabilities are identified 
and managed;
 > the quality of internal and external reporting;
 > compliance with applicable laws and 
regulations and with internal policies on 
the conduct of the Group’s business; and
 > the ability to recover in a timely manner 
from the effects of disasters or major 
accidents which originate outside the 
Group’s direct control.
Our risk management process involves 
the following steps:
 > risk identification: risks are highlighted 
and documented in a centrally managed 
risk register;
 > risk assessment: risks are assessed 
in terms of likelihood of occurrence 
and potential impact on the Group; and
 > risk mitigation: required actions are agreed 
and assigned, with target deadlines.
The risk register and mitigating actions are 
reviewed by the Board on a bi-annual basis 
and by the EMT as matters arise. 
Such a system is designed to manage 
rather than eliminate the risks inherent in 
a fast-moving business and can, therefore, 
provide only reasonable and not absolute 
assurance against material misstatement 
or loss.
The principal risks and uncertainties we have 
identified are set out on pages 25 to 27. 
It is recognised that the Group is exposed 
to a number of risks, wider than those 
listed. However, we have chosen to disclose 
those of most concern to the business at 
this moment in time and those that have 
been the subject of debate at recent 
Board or Audit Committee meetings. 
During the course of its reviews of the system 
of internal control during the year, the Board 
has not identified nor been advised of 
any failings or weaknesses which it has 
determined to be significant.
Whilst the Group does not currently have a 
separate internal audit function, an Internal 
Controls Committee, consisting of key 
members of the finance and IT teams, 
meets on a regular basis, with other 
operational managers attending where 
necessary. A rolling internal audit of key 
processes has been implemented and 
is carried out by members of the finance 
team. The results are reviewed by the 
Internal Controls Committee and reported 
to the Audit Committee and the necessary 
actions taken to rectify any control 
deficiencies identified.
The Audit Committee reviews the need 
for a separate internal audit function on 
an annual basis and has concluded that, 
despite the rate of growth in recent years, 
the structure of the Group and the level of 
control exercised by the management team 
are currently sufficient, such that an internal 
audit function continues to be neither 
necessary nor cost effective at this time. 
The Directors have taken steps to ensure 
that the Group has an appropriate control 
environment for its size and complexity. 
The management team will ensure that 
the internal control environment develops 
with the size of the Company, with respect 
to the identification, evaluation and 
monitoring of risk.
Financial reporting
The Board is responsible for reviewing 
and approving the Annual Report and 
Accounts, the interim financial information 
and for ensuring they present a balanced 
assessment of the Group’s position. Drafts 
of these reports are provided to the Board 
in a timely manner and Directors’ feedback 
is discussed and incorporated where 
appropriate, prior to publication.
Whistleblowing procedures
The Group operates a whistleblowing 
policy which provides for all employees 
to raise concerns to senior management 
in strict confidence about any unethical 
business practices, fraud, misconduct or 
wrongdoing. They can do so without fear 
of recrimination and the Audit Committee 
receives any such confidential reports. 
There were no whistleblowing reports 
throughout 2012/13 and none up to 
the date of this report.
Relations with shareholders
Dialogue with 
institutional shareholders
The Board believes it is important to have 
open communications with shareholders. 
To this end, the Chief Executive Officer 
and Chief Financial Officer, working in 
consultation with the Company’s corporate 
and public relations advisors, make 
themselves available and expect to meet 
with shareholders at least twice a year. 
Where appropriate the Company consults 
with major shareholders on significant issues.
Members of the Board develop an 
understanding of the views of major 
shareholders through any direct contact 
that may be initiated by shareholders, 
shareholder feedback presented by the 
Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial 
Officer following each analyst and investor 
roadshow, or through analysts’ and brokers’ 
briefings. We also regularly host investor 
days at our Cambridge, UK office. 
The Board also receives feedback from 
the Group’s brokers and financial public 
relations advisor who, in turn, obtain 
feedback from analysts and brokers 
following investor roadshows. 
Numis Securities Limited remains as the 
Company’s nominated advisor, financial 
advisor and joint broker. Peel Hunt LLP 
remains as joint broker with Numis 
Securities Limited.
Constructive use of the AGM
The Board actively encourages the 
participation of all Directors in the AGM, 
which is the principal forum for dialogue 
with private shareholders. A presentation is 
made outlining recent developments in the 
business and an open question and answer 
session follows to enable shareholders to 
ask questions about the business in general. Committee members Date of appointment
Meetings 
attended
in the year
Available 
meetings
Peter Keen (Chairman) October 2005 2 2
Murray Hennessy January 2012 2 2
Anthony Martin January 2012 2 2
Michael Ross January 2012 1 2
Audit committee
The Board relies on the Audit 
Committee to provide effective 
governance over risk management 
and external financial reporting to 
monitor the integrity of the financial 
statements, to review the internal 
controls and risk management 
systems and to report its findings 
and conclusions to the Board. 
I am pleased to present my report 
on the work and operation of 
the Committee for the year, 
with particular emphasis 
on the specific matters 
we have examined.
Peter Keen
Audit Committee Chairman
Who is on our Committee?
 > A review of the Group’s policy on the 
engagement of the external auditor to 
supply non-audit services was undertaken, 
together with an assessment of its 
implementation during the year.
 > A report was received from the Internal 
Controls Committee following a review 
of the application of the Group’s internal 
control policies across each of the newly 
acquired entities.
 > The Committee recommended to the 
Board that at the end of the 2012/13 
financial year the contract to provide 
external audit and taxation advisory and 
compliance services for the Group should 
be put out to tender for the purposes 
of good corporate governance.
 > The requirement for a formal internal 
audit function was considered. 
What is the action plan 
for 2013/14?
The Committee continues to remain focused 
on the audit, assurance and risk process 
within the business. We intend to continue 
the debate around risk tolerance and 
appetite to ensure the Board maintains 
sound risk management and internal controls. 
We will also continue to keep under review 
the need for a separate internal audit function 
and will consider the findings of internal 
reviews of the operations in Burlingame, 
Hong Kong and Tokyo which are planned 
for 2013/14.
External auditor
In accordance with the principles of 
good governance contained in the Code, 
the Audit Committee seeks to ensure the 
continued independence and objectivity of 
the Group’s external auditor. The Committee 
also recognises that it needs to ensure that the 
Group observes due process from a corporate 
governance standpoint in their appointment. 
Consequently, as noted above, the Committee 
decided during the year to recommend that 
a tender process be undertaken in respect 
of the Group’s audit and taxation advisory 
and compliance services for the year ending 
30 June 2014. Whilst the engagement 
partner has been rotated in line with 
Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 40
The Audit Committee is required to include 
one financially qualified member (as recognised 
by the Consultative Committee of Accountancy 
Bodies). Currently the Audit Committee 
Chairman, Peter Keen, fulfils this requirement. 
Peter is deemed by the Board to have recent 
and relevant financial experience as he is a 
qualified chartered accountant with more than 
28 years’ experience in the financing and 
management of biotechnology companies.
Other members of the Board, the Group 
Financial Controller and senior representatives 
of the external auditor attend Audit Committee 
meetings by invitation in order to ensure that 
all the information required by the Audit 
Committee for it to operate effectively is 
available. Representatives of the Group’s 
external auditor meet with the Audit Committee 
at least twice a year without any Executive 
Directors or other Company management 
being present.
During the period under review the Committee 
has met twice on a formal basis and a number 
of times informally. 
What has the Committee done 
since the last report?
 > The composition of the Committee was 
reviewed to ensure that it contains the 
appropriate balance of knowledge, skills 
and experience to support the business.
 > A review of the performance of the 
Committee was undertaken which 
confirmed that it is operating effectively.
 > Any formal announcements relating to 
the Group’s financial performance and 
any significant financial reporting judgements 
were reviewed. This included consideration 
of a report from the external auditor on their 
audit and review of the June 2012 Annual 
Report and financial statements and the 
December 2012 half-yearly financial report.
 > The scope of the audit work to be 
undertaken by the auditor was reviewed 
and agreed, along with the audit fee.
 > A review of the performance of the 
auditor was undertaken, assessing their 
independence and objectivity, and the 
effectiveness of the audit process. Overview Strategic review Performance review Financial statements Corporate governance
Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 41
Nomination committee
I am pleased to report below on 
the main areas of focus for the 
Nomination Committee during 
the year. The Committee’s 
principal role is to keep under 
review and make recommendations 
on the composition of the Board 
to ensure that it has the full 
range of competencies, 
knowledge and experience 
required for the direction and 
oversight of the business. The 
Committee also oversees senior 
management development and 
succession plans to ensure that 
there is continuity of appropriate 
executive resource immediately 
below Board level.
Mike Redmond
Nomination Committee Chairman
guidelines from the Auditing Practices 
Board, the current firms have been 
the auditors of the Company since its 
formation in 1998.The tender process 
will enable the Group to benchmark the 
current level of service, fees and value 
being delivered by our existing auditor and 
provide a range of insight and advice from 
other advisors.
Internal audit
Abcam does not currently have a 
formal internal audit function. An Internal 
Controls Committee consisting of key 
members of the finance and IT teams, 
meets on a regular basis, with other 
operational managers attending 
where necessary. In addition a rolling 
programme of auditing key processes 
has been implemented and is carried 
out by members of the finance team, 
involving visits to all worldwide locations 
across the Group. The results are 
reviewed by the Internal Controls 
Committee and reported to the 
Audit Committee and where necessary 
actions are taken to rectify any control 
deficiencies identified.
Having reviewed these arrangements the 
Committee has concluded that despite 
the rate of growth in recent years, the 
structure of the Group and the level of 
control exercised by the management 
team means that the establishment 
of a formal internal audit function is 
not necessary at present. The need 
for such a formal function will however 
continue to be kept under review.
Other services
Our policy is to ensure we appoint 
the advisor who we believe is in the 
position to best advise the Company 
on the particular matter in question. 
As a consequence of the geographic 
expansion of the Group, other non-audit 
fees were paid to Deloitte during the year, 
mainly in respect of tax and corporate 
finance advice. In addition we have 
commissioned considerable work, 
including tax advisory and executive 
remuneration advice, from other 
professional service firms including 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP and 
Ernst & Young LLP .
Committee members Date of appointment/resignation
Meetings 
attended
Available 
meetings
Mike Redmond (Chairman) November 2009 1 1
Peter Keen October 2005 1 1
Tony Kouzarides Retired October 2012 — —
Michael Ross January 2012 — 1
In addition a number of ad hoc meetings were held during the year.
Who is on our Committee?
What has the Committee done 
during the year?
 > Conducted a thorough review and 
debated Board skills and diversity to 
ensure the Board has the right balance 
of skills and experience to support the 
future development of the business 
into the world’s leading provider 
of life science reagents tools.
 > Reviewed the Board and Committee 
composition following the recent 
Non-Executive Director appointments 
and retirement of existing Directors.
 > Overseen the recruitment process for 
the Group’s Chief Marketing Officer, 
which is a new position on the EMT.
What is the action plan 
for 2013/14?
 > Continue to support succession plans 
and development of the Executive 
Director team.
 > Continue to drive the understanding 
of talent across the organisation and 
support our development programme 
for senior managers.
 > Continue to review ongoing knowledge 
and training for all Directors.
 > Continue to ensure that we plan for 
the evolution of Non Executive Directors 
over the medium term to maintain the 
appropriate mix of skills.
Re-election of Directors
All Directors are subject to election by 
shareholders at the first AGM after their 
appointment and to re-election thereafter 
at intervals of no more than three years. 
Non-Executive Directors who have served 
longer than nine years are subject to annual 
re-election. Notwithstanding the above rules, 
a minimum of one-third of the Directors 
must retire by rotation each year.
The names of Directors submitted for 
election or re-election at this year’s AGM 
are provided in the other disclosures on 
page 51 and their biographical details 
are shown on pages 32 and 33.
The Company’s detailed policies with 
regards to re-election of Directors are 
set out within its Articles of Association 
which are available for download from 
the Company’s investor relations website, 
www.abcamplc.com. Directors’ remuneration report
Our philosophy for remuneration 
is to attract and retain leaders 
who are focused and encouraged 
to deliver business priorities within 
a framework that is aligned with 
the long term interests of the 
Company’s shareholders. Against 
a background of the increasingly 
international footprint of our 
business, our aim is to ensure 
that our remuneration packages 
are appropriate to incentivise high 
levels of performance and attract 
professionals of the calibre 
required to develop a fast 
growing, internationally 
competitive business.
Who is on our Committee?
Committee members Date of appointment
Meetings
attended
Total
available
meetings
Peter Keen (Chairman) October 2005 3 3
Murray Hennessy January 2012 3 3
Anthony Martin January 2012 3 3
In addition a number of ad hoc meetings were held during the year.
This report has been prepared in accordance 
with Schedule 8 to the Accounting Regulations 
under the Companies Act 2006. Although not 
required by the AIM listing rules to provide 
all the information detailed below, the Directors 
have chosen to apply the principles relating 
to Directors’ remuneration disclosures in the 
Code. As required by the Act, a resolution 
to approve the report will be proposed at the 
AGM of the Company at which the financial 
statements will be approved.
The Act requires the auditor to report to 
the Company’s members on certain parts 
of the Directors’ Remuneration Report and 
to state whether in their opinion those parts 
of the report have been properly prepared 
in accordance with the Accounting Regulations. 
The report has therefore been divided 
into separate sections for unaudited 
and audited information.
Unaudited information
Remuneration Committee
What has the Committee done since 
the last report?
In line with its remit, the following key matters 
were considered by the Committee:
 > agreement of 2012/13 bonuses;
 > review and agreement of Executive 
Director salary and cash bonus 
for 2013/14;
 > review and agreement of the Chairman’s 
remuneration for 2013/14;
 > review of Non-Executive Director fees 
for 2013/14;
 > agreement to and finalisation of the vesting 
level for the 2009 award under the LTIP 
which matured in November 2012;
 > agreement to and finalisation of the 
vesting level of the earnings per share 
component of the 2010 awards under the 
LTIPs which mature in December 2013;
 > consideration of the future operation 
of the staff profit sharing scheme;
 > review of pension entitlements for those 
Executive Directors who have elected 
to preserve their life time allowances 
for pension contributions;
 > approval of the 2012/13 Directors’ 
Remuneration Report; and
 > review of the proposal for which shareholder 
approval will be sought at the 2013 AGM 
for the operation of the LTIP for a further 
period of five years.
What is the action plan for 2013/14?
 > the latest benchmarking of Executive 
Directors’ salary levels took place in 2010 
and the Committee intends to carry out 
a new comparative study to support the 
2014/15 salary review;
 > continue to review the operation 
of the Executive bonus scheme; and 
 > review remuneration structures where 
appropriate across all Group companies.
Remuneration policy for the 
Executive Directors
The Committee aims to set levels of 
remuneration for Executive Directors that 
are sufficient to attract, retain and motivate 
Executive Directors of the calibre required 
to deliver the business strategy. Individual 
remuneration packages are structured to 
align rewards with the performance of the 
Company and the interests of the shareholders 
and to be appropriate for the size and 
complexity of the Group. No Director is 
involved in deciding his own remuneration. 
The main principles are to:
 > ensure that salaries are set at a 
market competitive level relative 
to external comparators;
 > support a high performance culture with 
commensurate rewards appropriately 
linked to performance;
 > maintain an appropriate balance 
of fixed and performance-related pay 
which delivers over the short, medium 
and longer term, with the balance 
becoming more long term and more 
highly performance related with seniority;
 > align long-term rewards with shareholders 
by taking account of measures that reflect 
shareholder interests; and
 > ensure that the overall package reflects 
market practice and takes account of levels 
of remuneration elsewhere in the Group.
The policy is that a substantial proportion of 
the package should be performance related. 
The chart on page 43 illustrates the proportion 
of the remuneration package provided in 
2012/13 comprising fixed and variable 
elements of remuneration.
Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 42
Peter Keen
Remuneration Committee Chairman Overview Strategic review Performance review Financial statements Corporate governance
*  Being the total of the Cash Award and the Deferred Share Award which was introduced for the first time in 2012/13. The percentage of salary for on-target 
performance for the Cash Award was 57.5% (2011/12: 57.5%), and for the Deferred Share Award 20% (2011/12: £nil).
**  The stretch value of the LTIP is based on the full value of the award when it was made in 2012/13 and assumes that the market value of the shares will be equal on 
the date of release to the value on the date of award. The on-target calculation assumes that 50% of the LTIPs will be released based on satisfaction of the relevant 
performance conditions. On this basis the value of shares vesting for on-target performance would be 25% of salary (2011/12: 50%).
The following table provides a summary of the key elements of the remuneration package:
Element Purpose Operation
Salary To provide competitive fixed remuneration 
that will attract and retain key employees 
and reflect their experience and position 
in the Company.
Reviewed every twelve months.
Set against appropriate market comparators.
Linked to individual performance contribution 
and current market conditions.
Annual bonus To incentivise achievement of annual 
objectives which support both the short 
and long-term strategy of the Company.
Maximum bonus potential is set having considered  
market levels.
Majority of the bonus is based on key elements of the 
Company’s financial performance, the balance being 
based on individual performance targets which are 
closely aligned to the Company’s strategy.
Equity-based incentives To incentivise Executives to achieve 
superior returns to shareholders over  
a three-year period. 
Share awards are made annually to senior executives 
and other senior management and are based on 
appropriate performance measures.
To retain key individuals and align 
interests with shareholders.
Benefits To provide competitive benefits that will 
attract and retain key employees and 
reflect their experience and position 
in the Company.
A flexible benefits/salary sacrifice scheme is in place, 
allowing all employees, including Executive Directors, 
to choose a variety of benefits to suit individual needs, 
including pension contributions and various insurances.
The Company recognises that Executive Directors may be invited to become non-executive directors of other companies and that this can 
help broaden the skills and experience of a director. Subject to confirmation that such appointments will not impair the Directors’ ability to 
perform their duties, Executive Directors are normally permitted to accept external appointments with the prior approval of the Board and 
may retain the fees for such appointments.
Committee members Date of appointment
Meetings
attended
Total
available
meetings
Peter Keen (Chairman) October 2005 3 3
Murray Hennessy January 2012 3 3
Anthony Martin January 2012 3 3
In addition a number of ad hoc meetings were held during the year.
2013/14
£000
2012/13
£000 
Jonathan Milner 360 319*
Jeff Iliffe 260 227
Jim Warwick 260 239
* For 2012/13 Jonathan Milner waived an increase of £103,000. His bonus arrangements and other benefits were based on the pre-waived figure of £319,000.
Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 43
Amendments to base salaries for 2013/14 (see page 44) Directors’ remuneration report continued
Basic salary
The Executive Directors’ basic salaries 
are normally reviewed annually by the 
Committee, with any revisions becoming 
effective on 1 July each year, taking into 
account individual performance, market 
conditions and the level of increases 
applicable to other employees in the Company.
Salaries were set relative to comparable 
roles in companies of a similar market 
capitalisation and against similar roles 
in companies within the industry sector. 
The most recent independent consultants’ 
report was commissioned in May 2010 
and concluded that the salaries of the 
Executive Directors had fallen below those 
of a comparator group of companies. 
After consultation with the Company’s 
major shareholders, the Committee 
approved salary increases to take effect 
from 1 July 2010 to the lower quartile 
level of the comparator group.
The Committee has previously stated its 
intention to realign salaries to the median 
of the comparator group but since that time 
little progress has been made to bridge the 
gap with no salary increase being provided in 
2011/12 and 3% in 2012/13. The Committee 
has agreed that Executive Directors’ salaries 
should be increased for 2013/14 to their 
respective median levels from the 2010 review, 
notwithstanding that the Group is now much 
larger and complex than was the case three 
years ago. A new study will be commissioned 
to support the 2014/15 salary review.
The amendments to base salaries for 2013/14 
are shown in the table on page 43.
Executive Directors’ service contracts, 
which include details of remuneration, 
will be available for inspection at the 
forthcoming AGM in November 2013.
Annual bonus payments
The bonus payable to Executive Directors 
is based on the financial performance of the 
Group and the achievement of individual 
performance targets related to the strategic 
objectives for each individual. The Committee 
establishes the objectives that must be 
met for each financial year. The maximum 
bonus and the proportion paid for on-target 
performance are considered in the light of 
market practice for companies of a similar 
size and industry sector.
During 2012/13 and after consultation with 
shareholders, a revised Annual Bonus Plan 
was introduced which included an opportunity 
to earn Cash Awards and Deferred Share 
Awards subject to performance conditions. 
Having reduced the LTIP award by at least 
50%, the Committee increased the maximum 
annual bonus from 110% to 150% of salary 
for the Executive Directors. The maximum 
bonus potential in relation to a Cash Award 
is 110% of salary, in addition to which an 
amount of up to 40% of salary can be paid 
in shares, subject to a two year deferral.
The Cash Awards for 2012/13 provided 
a maximum bonus of 110% of salary, 
with 77.3% of the maximum award (85% 
of salary) payable on the achievement 
of stretching EPS targets, and 22.7% 
of the maximum award (25% of salary) 
on achievement of personal targets, 
which included the successful execution 
of strategic initiatives. No payment was due 
under the EPS-based bonus if EPS was 
less than 95% of target and the maximum 
payment was due at 110% of target.
The Deferred Share Award was a new 
component in 2012/13, with a maximum 
award equal to 40% of salary, dependent 
on one-year EPS performance against a 
range set by the Committee. The Deferred 
Share Awards will normally become 
exercisable at the end of a two year holding 
period subject to continued employment.
As a percentage of salary the bonus 
payable to each Executive Director for 
2012/13 amounted to 78.3% for the 
Cash Awards (53.3% based on EPS 
performance and 25% for the achievement 
of personal targets) and 25.1% for the 
Deferred Share Awards.
Equity-based incentives
Equity-based incentives are issued 
to the Executive Directors on a regular 
basis. In the period since listing on AIM, 
no equity-based incentives have been 
granted to Non-Executive Directors 
and there are no plans for any such 
grants in the future.
The Abcam plc 2005 Plan
The Abcam plc 2005 Plan (the Plan) 
was adopted prior to flotation in 2005 
and amended in 2008 to make it more 
tax efficient for US-based employees. 
All options granted under the Plan since 
flotation have been based on outperformance 
of the FTSE AIM All-share index measured 
on the third anniversary of the date of grant. 
If the target is achieved, then options will 
be exercisable during the next seven years, 
subject to the rules of the scheme. If the 
target is not met at the third anniversary, 
then performance will be monitored on 
certain dates over the next twelve months. 
If the target is met on any of those dates, 
then the options become exercisable. If the 
target is not met on any of those dates, the 
options will lapse on the fourth anniversary.
Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 44 Overview Strategic review Performance review Financial statements Corporate governance
In the year under review no options 
were granted under the Plan to the 
Executive Directors.
The graph on page 44 shows the 
performance against the FTSE AIM All-share 
index for the options issued since flotation 
which have yet to vest and which have not 
been forfeited subsequently. If all the options 
had crystallised at 31 August 2013 then all 
performance conditions in relation to the 
options would have been met. Details of 
these options are set out in note 28 to the 
financial statements.
Following the acquisition of Epitomics, 
we have assessed the applicability of our 
current share schemes to our staff based in 
the US. Independent advice has confirmed 
that typical market practice in the US is 
to operate a scheme with vesting after two, 
three and four years, rather than our current 
arrangements which vest after three years. 
Permission from shareholders was granted 
at the AGM held in October 2012 to amend 
the terms of the Plan to allow the granting 
of such options and the Plan has been 
rolled out to all eligible staff within Abcam’s 
US-based offices.
SAYE scheme
The Company has previously established 
a non-discretionary HMRC approved 
SAYE scheme in which all UK employees, 
including the Executive Directors, can 
participate. As at 30 June 2013, no options 
were outstanding under the SAYE scheme.
Long Term Incentive Plan 
The LTIP includes performance conditions 
which comply with guidelines and best 
practice governing the grant of share based 
incentives in a listed company, to the extent 
to which the Committee considers such 
practice to be appropriate to the Group. 
The maximum level of award (being the 
aggregate market value of shares subject 
to the award at the date of grant) that can 
be granted to an eligible employee under 
the LTIP in any financial year is limited 
to 150% of that employee’s salary.
Year of award
TSR awards EPS awards
No. of
companies
in
comparator
group
Position
of 75th
percentile
Abcam
position
Median
position
TSR award
 vesting
% 
EPS growth
per annum
EPS award
 vesting
2010 16 4.75 14 8.50% nil 15.9% 17.3%
2011 250 63.25 158 125.5% nil 12.2% nil
2012 n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a 21.2% 100%
Following a review of the operation of 
the LTIP , the Committee concluded that 
earnings growth is the key financial measure 
for the Company and should therefore be 
the core performance measure for both the 
short-term and long-term incentive plans. 
It is transparent to shareholders and it 
underpins strong dividend distribution 
to shareholders and capital growth.
Therefore, after consultation with our major 
shareholders, the Committee decided that 
LTIP awards for 2012/13 would have no 
Total Shareholder Return (TSR) element with 
100% of the award being based on EPS 
targets. These awards have proportional 
vesting between 10% and 20% EPS growth 
per annum, equating to 33.1% to 72.8% 
growth over the three year vesting period.
The Committee plan to make LTIP 
awards on the same basis subject to EPS 
performance conditions to be determined 
at the time of the award.
The LTIP was approved by shareholders in 
November 2008, with the authority to grant 
awards under it for the following five years. 
The plan has worked well in meeting its 
objectives and consequently a resolution 
will be put to the AGM in November to 
renew the authority to make awards under 
the plan for a further five year period.
The EPS condition
In respect of the 2012/13 awards (the EPS 
awards), the number of shares that vest will 
depend on the EPS growth of the Company 
over the vesting period:
 > at an average of less than 10% growth 
per annum, equating to 33.1% growth 
over the period, none of the EPS awards 
will vest;
 > at average growth per annum of 20%, 
equating to total growth of 72.8%, 
the EPS awards will vest in full; and
 > at growth rates between these 
two figures, the EPS awards will 
vest proportionately.
The Company regularly monitors its 
performance against these conditions.
The 2009 TSR awards and EPS awards 
vested at 96.3% in November 2012, having 
achieved a TSR ranking within the median 
quartile and an EPS growth per annum 
of 31.6%.
The table below illustrates the percentage 
of TSR and EPS awards which would have 
vested if the awards had crystallised as at 
30 June 2013.
Share Incentive Plan (SIP)
Abcam operates an HMRC approved 
SIP for all UK employees. Under the SIP , 
awards are made as follows:
Free share awards
Annual awards are made to UK-based 
staff, with a market value of up to £3,000 
each. Awards take the form of a conditional 
entitlement to shares and will vest after 
three years’ continuous employment with 
the Company.
Partnership and matching 
share awards
All UK-based employees are given the 
opportunity to invest up to £1,500 per 
annum to acquire new shares in the 
Company at market value. If these shares 
are held for three years and the employee 
remains employed by the Company during 
that time then they will also receive an 
additional share for each share acquired.
The Abcam 2009 Company Share 
Option Plan (CSOP)
The Group operates an HMRC approved 
CSOP for UK-based employees of the 
Company, with a maximum of £30,000 of 
market value options granted per employee. 
No CSOP options were granted to Executive 
Directors in the year, since they have all 
reached the aforementioned £30,000 limit.
Share options granted under the CSOP 
to other employees of the Group (excluding 
Executive Directors) vest either on the 
samebasis as those under the Plan, 
being outperformance of the FTSE 
AIM All-share index.
Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 45 Directors’ remuneration report continued
Pension contributions 
and other benefits
The Company operates a flexible benefits 
scheme which the Executive Directors are 
entitled to contributions to be made by the 
Company on their behalf equivalent to 12% 
of basic salary. The Executive Director can 
choose how to spend this contribution 
amongst the specific benefits available and 
also has the option to sacrifice an element 
of basic pay to make additional pension 
contributions into the Company’s money 
purchase pension scheme or to purchase 
other benefits. As a result of the salary 
sacrificed and used to purchase additional 
pension contributions, the Company’s 
national insurance liability is reduced and 
the benefit of this reduction is added as 
a contribution to each Executive Director’s 
pension fund. This amount is included 
within the employer’s pension contribution 
figures disclosed in the table of remuneration 
details on page 47.
Where Executive Directors have elected 
to preserve their current lifetime allowance 
for pension contributions, meaning that no 
further pension contributions can be made 
into their pension schemes, then they are 
entitled to draw an amount in salary or 
other benefits equivalent to the cost to 
the Company of their pension entitlement, 
as adjusted for employer’s national 
insurance contributions.
Directors’ contracts
It is the Company’s policy that Executive 
Directors should have contracts with an 
indefinite term providing for a maximum 
of six months’ notice. However, it may be 
necessary occasionally to offer longer notice 
periods to new Directors. All Executive 
Directors currently have contracts which are 
subject to six months’ notice by either party.
The details of Executive Directors’ 
contracts are summarised below.
In the event of early termination, 
the Directors’ contracts provide for 
statutory compensation payments. 
All Non-Executive Directors, including the 
Chairman, serve under letters of appointment 
and either party can terminate on one month’ s 
written notice. The details of Non-Executives’ 
contracts are summarised below.
The remuneration of the Non-Executive 
Directors is determined by the Board within 
the limits set by the Articles of Association 
and is based on information on fees paid in 
similar companies and the skills and expected 
time commitment of the individual concerned.
Neither the Chairman nor the Non-Executive 
Directors have any right to compensation on 
the early termination of their appointment.
In addition to the basic fees, additional fees 
for committee duties are paid to reflect the 
extra responsibilities attached to these roles. 
Since the Company’ s listing on the AIM market 
in 2005, the Non-Executive Directors do not 
participate in any of the Group’s incentive 
or share schemes and are not eligible to join 
the pension scheme, nor do they receive 
any other benefits. The fees are reviewed 
in July of each year and fees for 2012/13 
and 2011/12 are shown in the table below.
Basic and committee fees for the Chairman 
and Non-Executive Directors for 2013/14 
will increase by approximately 4%, effective 
from 1 July 2013.
Audited information
The following information has been audited 
by the Company’s auditor, Deloitte LLP , 
as required by the Companies Act 2006.
Aggregate Directors’ remuneration
The total amounts for Directors’ remuneration 
are summarised below.
Date of contract
Notice
period
(months)
Executive
Jonathan Milner June 2000 6
Jeff Iliffe November 2007 6
Jim Warwick September 2001 6
Date of contract
Notice
period
(months)
Non-Executive
Mike Redmond March 2009 1
Murray Hennessy November 2011 1
Peter Keen October 2005 1
Anthony Martin September 2011 1
Michael Ross November 2011 1
2013
£000
2012
£000
Directors’ remuneration
Emoluments 1,506 1,357
Gains on exercise of share options 1,833 —
Money purchase pension contributions 50 124
3,389 1,481
Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 46 Overview Strategic review Performance review Financial statements Corporate governance
2012/13
£000
2011/12
£000
Chairman 68 66
Non-Executive Director basic fee 32 32
Additional fee per annum:
– Chairman of Audit Committee 6 6
– Chairman of Remuneration Committee 5 5
– Chairman of Nomination Committee 2 4
– Member of Audit or Remuneration Committee 3 3
– Member of Nomination Committee 1 2
Remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors
Directors’ emoluments
Fee/basic 
salary
1
 
£000 
Benefits 
in kind 
£000 
Performance
payments 
£000
Pension
contributions
12
£000
Total 
2013
£000 
Total
2012
£000
Executive
Jonathan Milner 206 2 250 — 458 433
Jeff Iliffe 207 2 177 50 436 395
Jim Warwick 239 2 187 — 428 408
Non-Executive
Mike Redmond 70 — — — 70 70
Tim Dye
3
— — — — — 13
Murray Hennessy 37 — — — 37 24
Peter Keen 44 — — — 44 44
Tony Kouzarides
4
10 — — — 10 33
Anthony Martin 37 — — — 37 27
Michael Ross 36 — — — 36 23
Mark Webster
3
— — — — — 11
886 6 614 50 1,556 1,481
1  As previously described, the Executive Directors are remunerated through the Company’s flexible benefits scheme under which they can elect to switch basic 
salary into pension contributions and other benefits. The basic salary entitlement of each Executive Director during the year was: Jonathan Milner £216,000, 
Jeff Iliffe £227,000 and Jim Warwick £239,000. For 2012/13 Jonathan Milner waived an increase in salary of £103,000 (2012: £100,000) which would have 
taken his salary up to £319,000. For 2012/13 and 2011/12 his bonus and benefits were based on his salary prior to the waiver.
2  From 6 April 2012, Jonathan Milner and Jim Warwick have both elected to preserve their current lifetime allowances for pension contributions, meaning that no further 
pension contributions have been made since this date. In 2012/13, the Company has made contributions to charities of its choosing, equivalent to the amount saved.
3 Resigned from the Board, 21 October 2011.
4 Resigned from the Board, 22 October 2012.
Gain on LTIP
exercise
2013
£000
Gain on other
scheme exercise*
2013
£000
Total gain
on exercise
2013
£000
Gain on
exercise
2012
£000
Jeff Iliffe 433 81 514 —
Jim Warwick 71 551 622 —
Tony Kouzarides — 697 697 —
504 1,329 1,833 —
*  A number of the share options exercised were unapproved options. Under the terms of these awards, the employee was liable for payment of the associated 
employer’s National Insurance (NI) charge. These gains are therefore shown net of any employer’s NI and represent the taxable gains.
Directors’ share options
Aggregate emoluments disclosed above do not include any amounts for the value of options to acquire ordinary shares in the Company 
granted to or held by the Directors. The gains on options exercised during the year are as follows:
Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 47 Directors’ remuneration report continued
Directors’ share options continued
Details of options over 0.2 pence ordinary shares in the Company for Directors who served during the year, all of which had vested before 
the start of the year are detailed in the table below.
The market price of the ordinary shares at 30 June 2013 was 453 pence and the range during the year was 355 pence to 474 pence.
Vested options over 0.2 pence ordinary shares for Directors
Name of Director
Number of
options
at 30 June
2012 Granted Exercised
Number of
options
at 30 June
2013
Exercise 
price 
pence 
Date
from
which
exercisable 
Expiry
date
Tony Kouzarides 200,000 — (200,000) — 25.0 31 Jan 06 29 Sep 15
Jeff Iliffe 232,715 — (22,255) 210,460 62.4 8 Nov 10 7 Nov 17
Jonathan Milner 230,020 — — 230,020 82.6 8 May 11 7 May 18
Jim Warwick 175,010 — (175,010) — 62.4 8 Nov 10 7 Nov 17
837,745 — (397,265) 440,480 
Name of Director
Value of 
Deferred Share 
Award 100% 
target 
£000
Percent vesting
based on 
EPS achieved
Value of
 Deferred Share
Award vested
£000
Number
of awards*
Jonathan Milner 128 62.7 80 17,278
Jeff Iliffe 91 62.7 57 12,262
Jim Warwick 96 62.7 60 12,931
315 197 42,471
*  The number awarded is based on the 30-day average share price up to the deemed grant date, being the date these financial statements were approved.
Name of Director
Number of
awards
at 30 June
2012 Awarded* Exercised Lapsed
Number of
awards
at 30 June
2013
Number of
vested
awards
at 30 June
2013**
Jonathan Milner 535,501 39,326 — (5,103) 569,724 359,162
Jeff Iliffe 429,215 28,495 (105,000) (4,361) 348,349 174,384
Jim Warwick 440,656 30,100 (16,590) (4,609) 449,557 291,911
1,405,372 97,921 (121,590) (14,073) 1,367,630 825,457
* The market price at the date of award for all awards made during the year was 385 pence.
** These relate to the 2008 and 2009 awards and are included in the number of awards at 30 June 2013 in the table above.
Annual bonus plan deferred share award
An Annual Bonus Plan was introduced in 2012/13 under which the Executive Directors are eligible to receive up to a maximum of 40% 
salary as a Deferred Share Award, tested against stretching one-year EPS targets. The table below summarises the resulting vesting of 
the 2012/13 award based on the EPS performance at 30 June 2013. These will be exercisable at the end of a further two-year holding 
period subject to continued employment.
Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 48
LTIP awards
Details of LTIP awards for Directors who served during the year are detailed below.
Full details of the operation of the LTIP , including performance conditions, are set out on page 45 in the unaudited information contained 
within the Directors’ Remuneration Report.
LTIP awards for Directors Overview Strategic review Performance review Financial statements Corporate governance
49 Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
SIP
The following table sets out the shares purchased and awarded under the SIP in respect of each of the Executive Directors who have all purchased or been awarded shares on the 
same dates and at the same prices throughout the operation of the scheme. Full details of the operation of the SIP are set out on page 45 in the unaudited information contained 
within the Directors’ Remuneration Report.
Date of award Date of release 
Share
price at
date of
purchase of
partnership
shares and
award of
matching
Shares
pence* 
Number
conditionally
awarded
shares
as at
30 June
2012*
Free shares
conditionally
awarded
during the
period
Matching
shares
conditionally
awarded
during the
period
Conditionally
awarded
shares
transferred
to beneficial
ownership
during the
period
Number
conditionally
awarded
shares
as at
30 June
2013*
Number
beneficially
owned
shares
as at
30 June
2012*
Partnership
shares
purchased
during the
period
Dividend
shares
acquired
during the
period 
Conditionally
awarded
shares
transferred
to beneficial
ownership
during the
period
Number
beneficially
owned
shares
as at
30 June
2013*
Total
shares
held in SIP
as at
30 June
2012*
Total
shares
held in SIP
as at
30 June
2013*
7 Nov 08 8 Nov 11 92.4 — — — — — 3,245 — — — 3,245 3,245 3,245
27 Nov 08 28 Nov 11 97.0 — — — — — 3,090 — — — 3,090 3,090 3,090
8 Dec 08 8 Dec 08 95.0 — — — — — 30 — — — 30 30 30
29 Apr 09 29 Apr 09 132.0 — — — — — 25 — — — 25 25 25
5 Nov 09 6 Nov 12 187.0 800 — — (800) — 800 — — 800 1,600 1,600 1,600
9 Nov 09 9 Nov 12 180.8 1,655 — — (1,655) — — — — 1,655 1,655 1,655 1,655
15 Dec 09 15 Dec 09 199.8 — — — — — 60 — — — 60 60 60
26 Apr 10 26 Apr 10 243.2 — — — — — 40 — — — 40 40 40
3 Dec 10 3 Dec 13 390.0 385 — — — 385 385 — — — 385 770 770
2 Dec 10 2 Dec 13 345.0 869 — — — 869 — — — — — 869 869
2 Dec 10 2 Dec 10 345.0 — — — — — 75 — — — 75 75 75
19 May 11 19 May 11 401.8 — — — — — 42 — — — 42 42 42
26 Oct 11 26 Oct 14 344.8 1,306 — — — 1,306 436 — — — 436 1,742 1,742
15 Dec 11 15 Dec 14 333.8 — — — — — 150 — — — 150 150 150
26 Apr 12 26 Apr 15 364.8 — — — — — 61 — — — 61 61 61
26 Oct 12 26 Oct 15 381.1 — 787 393 — 1,180 — 393 — — 393 — 1,573
29 Nov 12 29 Nov 12 359.3 — — — — — — — 182 — 182 — 182
8 May 13 8 May 13 450.7 — — — — — — — 66 — 66 — 66
5,015 787 393 (2,455) 3,740 8,439 393 248 2,455 11,535 13,454 15,275
* All share prices and numbers of shares awarded or purchased prior to November 2010 have been restated for the impact of the five for one share sub-division. Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Other disclosures
The following additional disclosures are 
required by the Companies Act 2006 or have 
been included voluntarily in compliance with 
the UK Corporate Governance Code 2010 
or the Disclosure and Transparency Rules. 
These disclosures are not required by the 
AIM listing rules.
Principal activities 
and Business Review
Abcam is a producer and distributor of 
high-quality research-grade antibodies and 
associated protein research products which 
are essential tools for life scientists, enabling 
them to analyse components of living cells 
at the molecular level.
The Group sells principally through the internet 
to customers across the world and now has 
an online catalogue of products sourced from 
over 400 of the world’ s leading manufacturers, 
academic laboratories and institutes. Following 
its recent acquisitions, a growing proportion 
of revenues come from its own production 
facilities. It also offers a custom production 
service to meet customers’ specific 
requirements, providing solutions for research 
and diagnostic applications. The catalogue 
includes a growing range of non-primary 
antibody products such as proteins, peptides, 
lysates, immunoassays and other kits. Products 
are available for life science research and are 
distributed to academic and commercial users. 
A highly developed e-Commerce platform, 
which includes regional websites for the 
Chinese and Japanese markets, allows 
customers to access up-to-date and 
detailed technical product data sheets.
The subsidiary undertakings of the Group 
in the year are listed in note 15 to the 
financial statements. 
The Companies Act 2006 requires the 
Company to set out in this report a fair 
view of the business of the Group during 
the financial year ended 30 June 2013 
including an analysis of the position of the Group 
at the end of the financial year and a description 
of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the 
Group (known as a Business Review).
The information that fulfils the Business Review 
requirements is incorporated by reference 
and can be found in the following sections:
 > Chairman’s Statement on page 10;
 > Chief Executive Officer’s review 
on pages 11 to 19;
 > Financial Review on pages 20 to 24;
 > Principal risks and uncertainties 
on pages 25 to 27; and
 > Financial risk management in note 27 
to the financial statements.
Pages 1 to 52 inclusive (together with the 
sections of the Annual Report incorporated 
by reference) consist of a Directors’ Report 
that has been drawn up and presented 
in accordance with and in reliance upon 
applicable English company law and the 
liabilities of the Directors in connection with 
that report shall be subject to the limitations 
and restrictions provided by such law.
Other information to be disclosed in the 
Directors’ Report is given in this section.
Dividends
As detailed in the Chairman’s Statement, 
the Directors recommend a final dividend 
of 5.10 pence (2012: 4.36 pence) per ordinary 
share to be paid on 29 November 2013 
to shareholders on the register on 
8 November 2013. T ogether with the interim 
dividend of 1.94 pence per share paid on 
19 April 2013, this makes a combined dividend 
for the year of 7.04 pence (2012: 6.05 pence). 
Capital structure
Details of the authorised and issued 
share capital, together with details of the 
movements in the Company’s issued share 
capital during the year, are shown in note 24. 
The Company has one class of ordinary 
share which carries no right to fixed income. 
Each share carries the right to one vote at 
general meetings of the Company.
Other than specific lock-ins and orderly 
marketing provisions negotiated with vendors 
in connection with acquisitions made by the 
Company, there are no specific restrictions 
on the size of a holding nor on the transfer 
of shares, which are both governed by the 
general provisions of the Articles of Association 
and prevailing legislation. The Directors are 
not aware of any agreements between holders 
of the Company’s shares that may result in 
restrictions on the transfer of securities or 
on voting rights.
Details of employee share schemes are set out 
in note 28. Shares held by the Abcam Employee 
Share Benefit Trust abstain from voting.
No person has any special rights of control 
over the Company’s share capital and all 
issued shares are fully paid.
Acquisition of the Company’s 
own shares
At the end of the year, the Directors had 
authority, under the shareholders’ resolutions 
of 22 October 2012, to purchase through the 
market 19,820,000 of the Company’ s ordinary 
shares, provided that:
(i)  the amount paid for each share (exclusive 
of expenses) shall not be more than the 
higher of: (1) 5% above the average market 
value for the five business days before the 
date on which the contract for the purchase 
is made; and (2) an amount equal to the 
higher of the price of the last independent 
trade and current independent bid as 
derived from the AIM Appendix to the Daily 
Official List of the London Stock Exchange 
or less than 0.2 pence per share; and
(ii)  the authority expires at the conclusion 
of the AGM of the Company to be held 
on 8 November 2013. 
No shares were purchased under the above 
authority during the year under review. 
Substantial shareholdings
On 30 August 2013, the Company had been 
notified, in accordance with Chapter 5 of the 
Disclosure and Transparency Rules, of the 
voting rights as a shareholder of the Company 
as set out below (excluding Directors’ 
interests which are set out opposite).
Change of control
All of Abcam’s equity-based plans contain 
provisions relating to a change of control. 
Under the LTIP , outstanding awards would 
normally be released on a change of control, 
subject to satisfaction of any performance 
conditions at that time. In addition, depending 
on the achievement of performance conditions, 
other share-based payment arrangements 
may vest on change of control but this is 
subject to the approval and exercise of the 
discretion of the Remuneration Committee.
Other than some OEM supplier agreements 
which have an option to be terminated, the 
Company is not party to any agreements which 
take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of 
control of the Company following a takeover 
bid. There are no agreements between the 
Company and its Directors or employees 
providing for compensation for loss of office 
or employment (whether through resignation, 
purported redundancy or otherwise) that 
occurs because of a takeover bid.
Appointment and authority 
of Directors
With regard to the appointment and replacement 
of Directors, the Company is governed by its 
Articles of Association, the Companies Act and 
related legislation and, although not obliged to 
do so as an AIM listed company, has chosen 
to follow the principles set out in the Code 
Substantial shareholdings
Number of ordinary 
shares held 
Percentage of issued
share capital
Baillie Gifford 17,348,852 8.70%
BlackRock Investment Management 15,020,171 7.53%
Standard Life Investments 12,120,638 6.08%
T.Rowe Price Global Investments 9,745,684 4.89%
William Blair & Company 8,154,603 4.09%
Wasatch Advisors 7,059,867 3.54%
50 Overview Strategic review Performance review Financial statements Corporate governance
51
wherever possible. The Articles themselves 
may be amended by special resolution of the 
shareholders. The powers of Directors are 
described in the main Board terms of reference, 
copies of which are available on request.
Directors
The Directors who served throughout the 
year except as noted were as follows:
 > Mike Redmond
 > Jonathan Milner
 > Jeff Iliffe
 > Jim Warwick
 > Murray Hennessy 
 > Peter Keen
 > Tony Kouzarides (retired 22 October 2012)
 > Anthony Martin 
 > Michael Ross 
Brief biographical descriptions of the 
Directors are set out on pages 32 and 33.
The Company’s Articles of Association 
require that a minimum of one-third of the 
Directors must retire by rotation each year. 
At the AGM to be held on 8 November 2013 
Jonathan Milner, and Jeff Iliffe who last stood 
for re-election in 2010 will retire by rotation as 
required under the Articles and Anthony Martin 
who last stood for election in 2011 will also 
retire and stand for re-election in order to 
meet the minimum requirement.
Following performance evaluation, the Chairman 
has determined that each individual continues 
to demonstrate commitment to his role and to 
display effective performance; he is therefore 
recommending election of all Directors offering 
themselves for re-election at this year’ s AGM.
Directors’ share options
Details of Directors’ share-based options 
and awards and shares conditionally 
0.2 pence ordinary shares  
on 30 June 2013
0.2 pence ordinary shares  
on 30 June 2012
Name of Director
Beneficial 
interest
Non-
beneficial 
interest
Beneficial 
interest
Non- 
beneficial 
interest
Mike Redmond 75,000 — 75,000 —
Jonathan Milner 26,494,885 300,155 27,432,784 496,655
Jeff Iliffe 274,185 — 21,439 —
Jim Warwick 2,942,335 — 2,939,239 —
Murray Hennessy — — — —
Peter Keen 169,125 — 169,125 —
Anthony Martin — — — —
Michael Ross — — — —
Total 29,955,530 300,155 30,637,587 496,655
awarded through the Share Incentive Plan 
are provided in the Directors’ Remuneration 
Report on pages 42 to 49.
Directors’ indemnities
The Company has made qualifying third 
party indemnity provisions for the benefit 
of its Directors which were made during the 
reporting period and these remain in force 
at the date of this report.
Supplier payment policy
The Group’ s policy is to settle terms of 
payment with suppliers when agreeing the 
terms of each transaction, ensure that suppliers 
are made aware of those terms and to abide 
by them, provided that the goods or services 
have been supplied in accordance with the 
agreed terms and conditions. Trade creditors of 
the Group at 30 June 2013 were equivalent to 
32 days purchases (2012: 34 days), based on 
the average daily amount invoiced by suppliers 
during the year.
Corporate, social 
and ethical policies
The Group aspires to carry out business to the 
highest of ethical standards, treating employees, 
suppliers and customers in a professional, 
courteous and honest manner. The Group has 
an ethical policy which is reviewed by the Board 
and which is applied to our products. This 
includes reviewing and, where appropriate, 
visiting our suppliers to check the standards 
they follow in their products and services. 
As the Group continues to grow and mature 
we have maintained an approach to corporate 
responsibility which reflects our culture and 
sense of fun. We take a holistic approach to 
the safety, health and wellbeing of our staff, 
support a wide range of charities within our 
local communities and actively work to minimise 
our impact on the wider environment. 
Going concern
In adopting the going concern basis 
for preparing the financial statements, 
the Directors have considered the business 
activities as set out on pages 1 to 24, 
reviewed the Group forecasts and budgets 
as well as the Group’s principal risks and 
uncertainties as set out on pages 25 and 27.
The Directors are satisfied that the Group has 
adequate resources to continue in operational 
existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, the Group continues to 
adopt the going concern basis in preparing 
its financial statements.
AGM
The AGM of Abcam plc will be held at 
its registered office, 330 Science Park, 
Cambridge, UK on 8 November 2013 
at 11am. The Notice of Meeting is given, 
along with explanatory notes, in the 
booklet which accompanies this report.
Auditor
Each of the Directors of the Company at 
the date on which this report was approved 
confirms that: 
 > so far as the Director is aware, there 
is no relevant audit information of which 
the Company’s auditor is unaware; and
 > the Director has taken all the steps 
that he ought to have taken as a Director 
to make himself aware of any relevant 
audit information and to establish that 
the Company’s auditor is aware of 
that information.
This confirmation is given and should be 
interpreted in accordance with the provisions 
of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
Following a recommendation from the 
Audit Committee, it was decided that at the 
end of the audit for 2012/13 financial year the 
contract to provide external audit and taxation 
advisory and compliance services for the Group 
would be put out to tender. This will be the 
first such tender process since the Company 
floated in 2005 and will enable the Committee 
to compare the quality and effectiveness of 
the services provided by our current auditor 
Deloitte LLP , with those of other firms.
The Notice of Meeting for the forthcoming 
AGM will contain a resolution to appoint 
the firm whose tender is successful as 
auditors for the 2013/14 financial year.
By order of the Board
Jeff Iliffe
Chief Financial Officer
9 September 2013
Directors’ interests
The Directors who held office at 30 June 2013 had the following interests in the ordinary 
shares of the Company. There have been no changes in the Directors’ interests in shares 
of the Company between 30 June 2013 and 9 September 2013.
Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 52
Statement of directors’ responsibilities
The Directors are responsible for 
preparing the Annual Report and the 
financial statements in accordance 
with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to 
prepare financial statements for each financial 
year. Under that law the Directors are required 
to prepare Group financial statements in 
accordance with International Financial 
Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by 
the European Union and Article 4 of the IAS 
Regulation and have also chosen to prepare 
the parent company financial statements 
under IFRS as adopted by the European 
Union. Under Company law the Directors 
must not approve the accounts unless they 
are satisfied that they give a true and fair 
view of the state of affairs of the Company 
and of the profit or loss of the Company 
for that period. In preparing these financial 
statements, the Directors are required to:
 > properly select and apply 
accounting policies;
 > present information, including 
accounting policies, in a manner that 
provides relevant, reliable, comparable 
and understandable information;
 > provide additional disclosures when 
compliance with the specific requirements 
in IFRS is insufficient to enable users 
to understand the impact of particular 
transactions, other events and conditions 
on the entity’s financial position and 
financial performance; and
 > make an assessment of the Company’s 
ability to continue as a going concern.
The Directors are responsible for keeping 
proper accounting records that are sufficient 
to show and explain the Company’s 
transactions and disclose with reasonable 
accuracy at any time the financial position 
of the Company and enable them to ensure 
that the financial statements comply with 
the Companies Act 2006. They are also 
responsible for safeguarding the assets 
of the Company and hence for taking 
reasonable steps for the prevention and 
detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the 
maintenance and integrity of the corporate 
and financial information included on the 
Company’s website. Legislation in the UK 
governing the preparation and dissemination 
of financial statements differs from legislation 
in other jurisdictions.
Directors’ responsibility statement
We confirm to the best of our knowledge:
 > the financial statements, prepared in 
accordance with IFRS as adopted by the 
EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, 
liabilities, financial position and profit or 
loss of the Company and the undertakings 
included in the consolidation taken as a 
whole; and
 > the Directors’ Report includes a fair review 
of the development and performance 
of the business and the position of the 
Company and the undertakings included 
in the consolidation taken as a whole, 
together with a description of the principal 
risks and uncertainties that they face.
By order of the Board
Mike Redmond
Chairman
Jeff Iliffe
Chief Financial Officer
9 September 2013 Financial statements
54 Independent auditor’s report
55 Consolidated income statement
56  Reconciliation of adjusted 
financial measures
  Consolidated statement 
of comprehensive income
57 Balance sheets
58  Consolidated statement of changes 
in equity
59  Company statement of changes 
in equity
60 Cash flow statements
61 Notes to the financial statements
IBC Corporate directory
 Shareholder information
Abcam plc is a public limited company 
which is listed on the Alternative 
Investment Market (AIM) of the London 
Stock Exchange. This section contains 
the primary financial statements, and 
the accounting policies applied, for the 
financial year ended 30 June 2013.
In this 
section
another year of 
successful results 
for Abcam
53 Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
15— Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 54
Independent auditor’s report
We have audited the financial statements of Abcam plc for the year ended 30 June 2013 which comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, 
the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated and parent company Balance Sheets, the Consolidated and parent 
company Statements of Changes in Equity, the Consolidated and parent company Cash Flow Statements and the related notes 1 to 31. 
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards 
(IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union.
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. 
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company’s members those matters we are required to state to them 
in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone 
other than the Company and the Company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditor
As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial 
statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial 
statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards require us to 
comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance 
that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an assessment of: whether 
the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s and the parent company’s circumstances and have been consistently applied and 
adequately disclosed; the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors; and the overall presentation of the 
financial statements. In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies 
with the audited financial statements. If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the 
implications for our report.
Opinion on financial statements
In our opinion:
 > the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s and of the parent company’s affairs as at 30 June 2013 
and of the Group’s profit for the year then ended;
 > the financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union; and
 > the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
Opinion on other matter prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion the information given in the Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared 
is consistent with the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion:
 > adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received 
from branches not visited by us; or
 > the parent company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns; or
 > certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or
 > we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
David Halstead (Senior statutory auditor)
for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor
Cambridge, UK
9 September 2013 Overview Strategic review Performance review Financial statements Corporate governance
Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 55
Consolidated income statement
For the year ended 30 June 2013
 Notes 
Year
ended
30 June
2013
£000 
Year
ended
30 June
2012
£000 
Continuing operations
Revenue 5 122,206 97,839
Cost of sales (35,500) (30,282)
Gross profit 86,706 67,557
Administration and management expenses excluding share-based payments charge (34,701) (27,738)
Share-based payments charge 28 (1,211) (1,370)
Total administration and management expenses (35,912) (29,108)
R&D expenses excluding share-based payments charge (7,766) (4,028)
Share-based payments charge 28 (180) (186)
Total R&D expenses (7,946) (4,214)
Operating profit 42,848 34,235
Investment revenue 9 129 500
Finance costs 9 (83) (73)
Profit before tax 42,894 34,662
Taxation 10 (10,236) (9,256)
Profit for the year attributable to shareholders 6 32,658 25,406
Earnings per share from continuing operations
Basic 11 16.52p 13.72p
Diluted 11 16.34p 13.48p
Adjusted diluted 11 17.57p 15.59p Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 56
Reconciliation of adjusted financial measures
For the year ended 30 June 2013
Year ended
30 June
2013
£000
Year ended
30 June
2012
£000
Operating profit 42,848 34,235
Integration costs 400 —
Acquisition costs — 3,397
Amortisation of acquisition-related intangible assets 3,282 964
Operating profit (adjusted) 46,530 38,596
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 
For the year ended 30 June 2013
Year ended
30 June
2013
£000 
Year ended
30 June
2012
£000 
Profit for the year 32,658 25,406
Reserve movements on cash flow hedges (2,244) 1,528
Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 1,510 507
Tax relating to components of other comprehensive income 539 (611)
Other comprehensive income for the year (195) 1,424
Total comprehensive income for the year 32,463 26,830 Overview Strategic review Performance review Financial statements Corporate governance
Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 57
Balance sheets
At 30 June 2013
Notes
Consolidated Parent company
30 June
2013
£000
30 June
2012
£000
30 June
2013
£000
30 June
2012
£000
Non-current assets
Goodwill 12 81,954 82,356 — —
Intangible assets 13 33,107 34,297 4,361 1,284
Property, plant and equipment 14 7,501 5,763 1,565 1,571
Investments 15 — — 95,840 123,112
Deferred tax asset 16 5,011 4,401 2,395 2,413
Loan receivable 19 — — 44,175 —
Derivative financial instruments 21 29 204 29 204
127,602 127,021 148,365 128,584
Current assets
Inventories 17 15,330 15,414 15,630 13,539
Trade and other receivables 18 17,440 14,286 15,062 11,204
Cash and cash equivalents 35,388 14,037 25,295 8,005
Term deposits 2,923 3,443 1,000 1,000
Available-for-sale asset 20 703 679 — —
Derivative financial instruments 21 531 883 531 883
72,315 48,742 57,518 34,631
Total assets 199,917 175,763 205,883 163,215
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 22 (14,317) (10,726) (13,314) (13,074)
Current tax liabilities (2,325) (3,791) (4,716) (3,850)
Derivative financial instruments 21 (1,339) (86) (1,339) (86)
(17,981) (14,603) (19,369) (17,010)
Net current assets 54,334 34,139 38,149 17,621
Non-current liabilities
Deferred tax liability 16 (11,284) (12,937) — —
Derivative financial instruments 21 (375) (10) (375) (10)
(11,659) (12,947) (375) (10)
Total liabilities (29,640) (27,550) (19,744) (17,020)
Net assets 170,277 148,213 186,139 146,195
Equity
Share capital 24 399 397 399 397
Share premium account 24 72,908 71,813 72,908 71,813
Own shares 24 (1,872) (1,586) (1,872) (1,586)
Translation reserve 24 2,203 746 — —
Share-based payments reserve 24 5,893 4,449 5,370 4,386
Hedging reserve 24 (1,048) 671 (1,048) 671
Deferred tax reserve 24 1,252 2,017 1,022 1,787
Retained earnings 90,542 69,706 109,360 68,727
Total equity attributable to shareholders 170,277 148,213 186,139 146,195
The financial statements of Abcam plc, registered number 3509322, were approved by the Board of Directors and authorised for issue on 
9 September 2013.
They were signed on its behalf by:
Jeff Iliffe
Director Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 58
Consolidated statement of changes in equity
For the year ended 30 June 2013
Share
capital
£000
Share
premium
£000
Own
shares
£000
Translation
reserve
1
£000
Share-based
payments
reserve
2
£000
Hedging
reserve
3
£000
Deferred
tax
reserve
4
£000
Retained
earnings
£000
Total
equity
£000
Balance as at 1 July 2012 397 71,813 (1,586) 746 4,449 671 2,017 69,706 148,213
Profit for the year — — — — — — — 32,658 32,658 
Exchange differences on 
translation of foreign operations — — — 1,457 53 — — — 1,510 
Movements on cash 
flow hedges — — — — — (2,244) — — (2,244) 
Tax relating to components of 
other comprehensive income — — — — — 525 (765) 779 539 
Total comprehensive income 
for the year — — — 1,457 53 (1,719) (765) 33,437 32,463 
Issue of share capital 2 1,095 (381) — — — — — 716 
Own shares disposed 
of on release of shares — — 95 — — — — (95) —
Credit to equity for  
share-based payments — — — — 1,391 — — — 1,391
Payment of dividends — — — — — — — (12,506) (12,506) 
Balance as at 30 June 2013 399 72,908 (1,872) 2,203 5,893 (1,048) 1,252 90,542 170,277
Share
capital
£000
Share
premium
£000
Own
shares
£000
Translation
reserve
1
£000
Share-based
payments
reserve
2
£000
Hedging
reserve
3
£000
Deferred 
tax 
reserve
4
£000
Retained
earnings
£000
Total
equity
£000
Balance as at 1 July 2011 364 15,400 (1,165) 251 2,881 (477) 2,636 54,030 73,920
Profit for the year — — — — — — — 25,406 25,406
Exchange differences on 
translation of foreign operations — — — 495 12 — — — 507
Movements on cash 
flow hedges — — — — — 1,528 — — 1,528
Tax relating to components of 
other comprehensive income — — — — — (380) (619) 388 (611)
Total comprehensive income 
for the year — — — 495 12 1,148 (619) 25,794 26,830
Issue of share capital 33 56,413 (478) — — — — — 55,968
Own shares disposed 
of on release of shares — — 57 — — — — (57) —
Credit to equity for  
share-based payments — — — — 1,556 — — — 1,556
Payment of dividends — — — — — — — (10,061) (10,061)
Balance as at 30 June 2012 397 71,813 (1,586) 746 4,449 671 2,017 69,706 148,213
1 Exchange differences on translation of overseas operations. 
2 IFRS 2 charge for fair value of share-based options and awards. 
3 Gains and losses recognised on cash flow hedges. 
4 Portion of deferred tax asset arising on outstanding share options and share options exercised and not taken to profit and loss in accordance with IAS 12. Overview Strategic review Performance review Financial statements Corporate governance
Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 59
Company statement of changes in equity
For the year ended 30 June 2013
Share
capital
£000
Share
premium
£000
Own
shares
£000
Share-based
payments
reserve
1
£000
Hedging
reserve
2
£000
Deferred
tax
reserve
3
£000
Retained
earnings
£000
Total
equity
£000
Balance as at 1 July 2012 397 71,813 (1,586) 4,386 671 1,787 68,727 146,195
Profit for the year* — — — — — — 52,524 52,524
Movements on cash flow hedges — — — — (2,244) — — (2,244)
Tax relating to components of other 
comprehensive income — — — — 525 (765) 710 470
Total comprehensive income  
for the year — — — — (1,719) (765) 53,234 50,750
Issue of share capital 2 1,095 (381) — — — — 716
Own shares disposed of on exercise of 
share options — — 95 — — — (95) —
Credit to equity for  
share-based payments — — — 984 — — — 984
Payment of dividends — — — — — — (12,506) (12,506)
Balance as at 30 June 2013 399 72,908 (1,872) 5,370 (1,048) 1,022 109,360 186,139
*  Profit for the year includes £13,973,000 of non-distributable earnings relating to the gain on disposal resulting from an intra-group transfer of a subsidiary 
undertaking (see note 15 for further details).
Share
capital
£000
Share
premium
£000
Own
shares
£000
Share-based
payments
reserve
1
£000
Hedging
reserve
2
£000
Deferred
tax
reserve
3
£000
Retained
earnings
£000
Total
equity
£000
Balance as at 1 July 2011 364 15,400 (1,165) 2,877 (477) 2,089 53,987 73,075
Profit for the year — — — — — — 24,501 24,501
Share-based payments charge recognised  
on behalf of subsidiaries — — — 129 — — — 129
Movements on cash flow hedges — — — — 1,528 — — 1,528
Tax relating to components of  
other comprehensive income — — — — (380) (302) 357 (325)
Total comprehensive income  
for the year — — — 129 1,148 (302) 24,858 25,833
Issue of share capital 33 56,413 (478) — — — — 55,968
Own shares disposed of on  
exercise of share options — — 57 — — — (57) —
Credit to equity for  
share-based payments — — — 1,380 — — — 1,380
Payment of dividends — — — — — — (10,061) (10,061)
Balance as at 30 June 2012 397 71,813 (1,586) 4,386 671 1,787 68,727 146,195
1 IFRS 2 charge for fair value of share-based options and awards. 
2 Gains and losses recognised on cash flow hedges. 
3  Portion of deferred tax asset arising on outstanding share options and share options exercised and not taken to profit and loss in accordance with IAS 12. Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 60
Cash flow statements
For the year ended 30 June 2013
Notes 
Consolidated Parent company
30 June 
2013
£000
30 June
2012
£000
30 June
2013
£000
30 June
2012
£000 
Operating profit for the year 42,848 34,235 40,221 29,275
Adjustments for:
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 14 1,990 1,474 871 1,064
Amortisation of intangible assets 13 3,838 1,244 774 312
Decrease in provisions — 5 — 5
Change in fair value of derivatives outstanding at year end (99) (210) (99) (210)
Share-based payments charge 28 1,391 1,556 984 1,381
Operating cash flows before movements in working capital 49,968 38,304 42,751 31,827
Decrease/(increase) in inventories 1,288 (2,048) (2,091) (3,066)
Increase in receivables (4,493) (736) (4,718) (413)
Increase/(decrease) in payables 4,625 (2,966) 280 5,389
Cash generated by operations 51,388 32,554 35,662 33,737
Income taxes paid (11,872) (8,017) (8,574) (6,577)
Finance costs paid (82) (73) (200) (117)
Net cash inflow from operating activities 39,434 24,464 26,888 27,043
Investing activities
Investment income 115 584 68 570
Proceeds on disposal of property, plant and equipment 8 — — —
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (3,675) (1,890) (963) (554)
Purchase of intangible assets (3,548) (941) (3,513) (921)
Acquisition of subsidiaries, net of cash and term deposits acquired 26 42 (50,961) 42 (63,507)
Dividends received — — 6,558 2,323
Net cash used in investing activities (7,058) (53,208) 2,192 (62,089) 
Financing activities
Dividends paid 25 (12,506) (10,061) (12,506) (10,061)
Proceeds on issue of shares 716 533 716 533
Decrease in term deposits 520 20,194 — 22,637
Net cash (used in)/arising from financing activities (11,270) 10,666 (11,790) 13,109
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 21,106 (18,078) 17,290 (21,937)
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 14,037 31,932 8,005 29,942
Effect of foreign exchange rates 245 183 — —
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 35,388 14,037 25,295 8,005 Overview Strategic review Performance review Financial statements Corporate governance
Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 61
Notes to the financial statements
For the year ended 30 June 2013
1. General information
Abcam plc (the Company) is incorporated in the UK under the Companies Act 2006. The address of the registered office 
is 330 Cambridge Science Park, Milton Road, Cambridge CB4 0FL, UK.
The Group is a producer and distributor of high-quality research-grade antibodies and associated protein research tools. The Group 
operates through its ultimate parent company Abcam plc and through its wholly owned subsidiaries Abcam Inc, Abcam KK, Abcam 
(Hong Kong) Limited, Ascent Scientific Limited, Epitomics Inc, Epitomics (Hangzhou) Biotechnology Co. Limited and MitoSciences Inc, 
allowing it to serve a global customer base of over 100 countries.
2. Adoption of new and revised standards
In the current year, the following new and revised Standards and Interpretations have been adopted and have affected the amounts 
reported in these financial statements:
Standards affecting the financial statements
Amendments to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements
The amendment increases the required level of disclosure within the statement of comprehensive income.
Standards not affecting the reported results nor the financial position
At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following Standards and Interpretations which have not been applied 
in these financial statements were in issue but not yet effective (and in some cases had not yet been adopted by the EU):
IFRS 1 (amended) Severe Hyperinflation and Removal of Fixed Dates for First-time Adopters
IFRS 7 (amended) Disclosures – Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments
IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements
IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements
IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities
IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement
IAS 12 (amended) Deferred Tax: Recovery of Underlying Assets
IAS 19 (revised) Employee Benefits
IAS 27 (revised) Separate Financial Statements
IAS 28 (revised) Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures
IAS 32 (amended) Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities
The Directors do not expect that the adoption of these Standards and Interpretations in future periods will have a material impact on the 
financial statements of the Group.
3. Significant accounting policies
Basis of accounting
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs adopted by the European Union and therefore the Group financial 
statements comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation.
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational 
existence for the foreseeable future. For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of certain financial instruments. 
The Group financial statements are presented in sterling and all values are rounded to the nearest thousand pounds (£000) except 
when otherwise indicated. The principal accounting policies adopted are set out in the next few pages.
Basis of consolidation
The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and entities controlled by the Company made 
up to 30 June each year. Control is achieved where the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an investee 
entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group. They are deconsolidated from the date that 
control ceases. Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies in line 
with those used by the Group. All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.  Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 62
Notes to the financial statements continued
For the year ended 30 June 2013
3. Significant accounting policies continued
Business combinations
Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method. The consideration transferred for the acquisition of a subsidiary 
is the fair values at the date of exchange of the assets transferred, the liabilities incurred and the equity interests issued by the Group. 
Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred.
Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination that meet the recognition criteria 
under IFRS 3 (2008) are measured at their fair values at the date of acquisition, except that:
 > deferred tax assets or liabilities and liabilities or assets related to employee benefit arrangements are recognised and measured 
in accordance with IAS 12 Income Taxes and IAS 19 Employee Benefits respectively;
 > liabilities or equity instruments relating to the replacement by the Group of an acquiree’s share-based payment awards are measured 
in accordance with IFRS 2 Share-based Payment; and
 > assets (or disposal groups) that are classified as held for sale in accordance with IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and 
Discontinued Operations are measured as per that Standard.
Investments in subsidiaries are accounted for at cost less impairment. Where applicable, cost is adjusted to reflect changes in consideration 
arising from contingent consideration amendments. Cost also includes direct attributable costs of investment.
Goodwill
Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair value of the Group’s share of the net identifiable assets of the 
acquired subsidiary at the date of acquisition. Goodwill is reviewed and tested annually for impairment and carried at cost less accumulated 
impairment losses. Impairment losses on goodwill are not reversed in subsequent periods. Gains and losses on the disposal of an entity 
include the carrying amount of goodwill relating to the entity sold.
Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units for the purpose of impairment testing. The allocation is made to those cash-generating units 
or groups of cash-generating units that are expected to benefit from the business combination in which the goodwill arose. Cash-generating 
units to which goodwill has been allocated are tested for impairment annually, or more frequently when there is an indication that the unit 
may be impaired. If the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is less than the carrying amount of the unit, the impairment loss 
is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the other assets of the unit pro-rata on 
the basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the unit.
In accordance with IAS 21 goodwill arising on the acquisition of a foreign operation and any fair value adjustments to the carrying amounts 
of assets and liabilities arising on the acquisition of that foreign operation are treated as assets and liabilities of that foreign operation and as 
such are translated at the relevant foreign exchange rate at the balance sheet date.
Revenue recognition
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable and represents amounts receivable for goods and services 
provided in the normal course of business, net of discounts, VAT and other sales-related taxes.
Sales of goods are recognised when goods are despatched and title has passed.
Custom service revenue is recognised proportionately when the outcome of each discreet stage of the contract can be estimated reliably 
and is then based on the stage of completion of the contract activity at the balance sheet date. Where the outcome cannot be estimated 
reliably, revenue is recognised to the extent of costs incurred where it is probable these will be recovered. In instances where it is probable 
that the costs will be in excess of the contract revenue, the expected loss is recognised as an expense immediately.
Licence fee income is recognised on delivery of the licensed technology where the Group’s continued performance or future research 
and development services are not required. Payments received prior to this are recorded as deferred revenue.
Royalty revenue is recognised based on the contractual terms and the substance of the agreements with the counterparty.
Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and the effective interest rate applicable, which is the 
rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial asset to that asset’s net carrying amount.
Dividend income from investments is recognised when the shareholders’ rights to receive payment have been established.
Revenue derived from the Company’s conferences is recognised when the conference is held; however, it is not material.
Leasing
Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership 
to the lessee. All other leases are classified as operating leases.
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to income on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease. Benefits received 
and receivable as an incentive to enter into an operating lease are also spread on a straight-line basis over the lease term. Overview Strategic review Performance review Financial statements Corporate governance
Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 63
3. Significant accounting policies continued
Foreign currencies
The individual financial statements of each Group company are presented in the currency of the primary economic environment in which it operates 
(its functional currency). For the purposes of the consolidated financial statements, the results and financial position of each Group company are 
expressed in sterling, which is the functional currency of the Company and the presentation currency for the consolidated financial statements.
In preparing the financial statements of the individual companies, transactions in currencies other than the entity’ s functional currency (foreign 
currencies) are recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing at the dates of the transactions. At each balance sheet date, monetary assets 
and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated to the rates prevailing at the balance sheet date. Non-monetary 
items carried at fair value that are denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rates prevailing at the date when the fair value 
was determined. Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are not retranslated.
Exchange differences are recognised in profit or loss in the period in which they arise except for:
 > exchange differences on transactions entered into to hedge certain foreign currency risks (see below under financial instruments/hedge 
accounting); and
 > exchange differences on monetary items receivable from or payable to a foreign operation for which settlement is neither planned nor 
likely to occur, which form part of the net investment in a foreign operation, and which are recognised in the foreign currency translation 
reserve and recognised in profit or loss on disposal of the net investment.
For the purpose of presenting consolidated financial statements, the results of the operations of the Company’s overseas subsidiaries 
are translated at the monthly exchange rates during the period and their balance sheets at the rates prevailing at the balance sheet date. 
Exchange differences arising on the translation of the opening net assets and results of operations are classified as equity and recognised 
in the Group’s foreign currency translation reserve.
Retirement benefit costs
Payments to defined contribution retirement benefit schemes are charged as an expense as they fall due. Payments made to state-managed 
retirement benefit schemes are dealt with as payments to defined contribution schemes where the nature of the Group’s obligations under 
the schemes is equivalent to those arising in a defined contribution retirement benefit scheme.
Taxation
The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax.
The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year. Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the income statement 
because it excludes some items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are 
never taxable or deductible. The Group’s liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively 
enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amount of assets and liabilities in the 
financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance 
sheet liability method. Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are 
recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be 
utilised. Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or from 
the initial recognition of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the taxable profit nor the accounting profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, and interests 
in joint ventures, except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary 
difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable 
that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised. 
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income statement, except where it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, 
in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when 
they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis. Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 64
Notes to the financial statements continued
For the year ended 30 June 2013
3. Significant accounting policies continued
Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any recognised impairment loss.
Depreciation is charged so as to write off the cost or valuation of assets over their estimated useful lives, using the straight-line method, 
on the following bases:
Office equipment, fixtures and fittings 20% per annum
Laboratory equipment 20% per annum
Computer equipment 33% per annum
Hybridomas 12.5% per annum
Motor vehicles 20% per annum
The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an asset is determined as the difference between the sales proceeds and the 
carrying amount of the asset and is recognised in income.
Intangible assets
Expenditure on research activities is recognised as an expense in the period in which it is incurred.
Expenditure on development activities including internally generated intangible assets is recognised as an asset if and only if it meets 
the recognition criteria set out in IAS 38 Intangible Assets.
Payments made to acquire software, distribution rights, capitalised development work and contract based intangibles from third parties 
are capitalised at cost and amortised on a straight line basis over their estimated minimum useful lives. The minimum useful life is determined 
to be between three years and five years for software, the term of the deal in the case of distribution rights and the length of the contract 
for contract based intangibles.
Impairment of tangible and intangible assets excluding goodwill
At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its tangible and intangible assets to determine whether there 
is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss. If such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is 
estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss (if any). An intangible asset with an indefinite useful life is tested for 
impairment annually and whenever there is an indication that the asset may be impaired.
Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use. In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash 
flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value 
of money and the risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted.
If the recoverable amount of an asset is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset is reduced 
to its recoverable amount. An impairment loss is recognised as an expense immediately.
Investments
Investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost less, where appropriate, provisions for impairment.
Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost comprises direct materials and, where applicable, direct labour costs 
and an attributable portion of production overheads that have been incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition. 
Cost is calculated using the standard cost method. Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price less all estimated costs of 
completion and costs to be incurred in marketing, selling and distribution. Provision is made for obsolete, slow moving or defective items 
where appropriate.
Financial instruments
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Group’s balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual 
provisions of the instrument.
Available-for-sale financial assets
The Group has an investment in unlisted shares which is not traded in an active market but is classified as an available-for-sale financial 
asset and stated at cost less any provision for impairment.
Trade and other receivables
Trade receivables are measured at initial recognition at fair value. Appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts are recognised 
in the income statement when there is objective evidence that the asset is impaired. When a trade receivable is considered uncollectable, 
it is written off against the allowance account. Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited against the allowance 
account. Changes in the carrying amount of the allowance account are recognised in the income statement.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand and demand deposits and other short-term highly liquid investments that are readily 
convertible to a known amount of cash and are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
Term deposits
Term deposits represent bank deposits and a charitable bond all with an original maturity of over three months. Overview Strategic review Performance review Financial statements Corporate governance
Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 65
3. Significant accounting policies continued
Financial liabilities and equity
Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into. 
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Group after deducting all of its liabilities. 
The accounting policies adopted for specific financial liabilities and equity instruments are set out below.
Trade payables
Trade payables are measured at amortised cost.
Equity instruments
Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Derivative financial instruments
Forward contracts are used by the Group to manage its exposure to the risk associated with the variability in cash flows in relation to both 
recognised assets or liabilities and forecast transactions.
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value at the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured to their 
fair value at each balance sheet date. A derivative with a positive fair value is recognised as a financial asset whereas a derivative with a 
negative fair value is recognised as a financial liability. The resulting gain or loss is recognised in the income statement immediately unless 
the derivative is designated and effective as a hedging instrument, in which event the timing of the recognition in the income statement 
depends on the nature of the hedge relationship.
A derivative is presented as a non-current asset or non-current liability if the remaining maturity of the instrument is more than twelve months 
and it is not expected to be realised or settled within twelve months. Other derivatives are presented as current assets or current liabilities.
Hedge accounting
The Group designates certain derivatives as either hedges of highly probable forecast transactions or hedges of foreign currency risk 
of firm commitments (cash flow hedges).
At the inception of the hedge relationship, the Group documents the relationship between the hedging instrument and the hedged item, 
along with its risk management objectives and its strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions. Furthermore, at the inception of the 
hedge and on an ongoing basis, the Group documents whether the hedging instrument that is used in a hedging relationship is effective 
in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of the hedged item.
Cash flow hedges
The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges are deferred in equity. 
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in profit or loss and is included in the ‘administration and 
management expenses’ line of the income statement.
Amounts deferred in equity are recycled in the income statement in the periods when the hedged item is recognised in profit or loss, 
in the same line of the income statement as the recognised hedged item.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the Group revokes the hedging relationship, the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated 
or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting. Any cumulative gain or loss deferred in equity at that time remains in equity and is 
recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in profit or loss. When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to 
occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was deferred in equity is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
Share-based payments
The Group has applied the requirements of IFRS 2 Share-based Payment. In accordance with IFRS 1, IFRS 2 has been applied to all 
grants of equity instruments after 7 November 2002 that were unvested at 1 July 2006.
Incentives in the form of shares are provided to employees under share option, SIP and LTIP . Equity-settled share-based payments are 
measured at fair value (excluding the effect of non market-based vesting conditions) at the date of grant. The fair value determined at the 
grant date of the equity-settled share-based payments is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Group’s 
estimate of the number of shares that will eventually vest. Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 66
Notes to the financial statements continued
For the year ended 30 June 2013
3. Significant accounting policies continued
Share-based payments continued
Fair value of options issued under the Group’s share option schemes is measured by the use of the Monte Carlo Simulation.
Fair value of the awards under the Group’s LTIP is measured by the use of the Monte Carlo Simulation for the TSR portion and the 
Black Scholes Model for the EPS portion.
Fair value of an equity-settled payment under the SIP is measured as the face value of the award on the date of grant.
The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based on management’s best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, 
exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations. Charges made to the income statement in respect of share-based payments 
are credited to the share-based payments reserve.
The Group operates an employee share benefit trust as part of its incentive plans for UK-based employees. All assets and liabilities 
of the trust are recorded in the balance sheet as assets and liabilities of the Company until such time as the assets are awarded to 
the beneficiaries. All income and expenditure of the trust is similarly brought into the results of the Company.
Own shares
Own equity instruments which are acquired are recognised at cost and deducted from equity. No gain or loss is recognised in the income 
statement on the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of the Group’s own equity instruments. Any difference between the carrying amount 
and the consideration is recognised in reserves.
4. Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty
In the application of the Group’s accounting policies, which are described in note 3, the Directors are required to make judgements, estimates 
and assumptions about the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities as at the date of reporting the financial statements, and the reported 
amounts of revenues and expenditure during the year. In preparation of the consolidated financial statements, estimates and assumptions 
have been made by the Directors concerning the fair value of share options, the estimated useful lives of fixed assets, accruals and provisions 
required, the carrying value of investments, the recoverability of deferred tax assets, the carrying value of goodwill and other intangible assets 
and other similar evaluations. Actual amounts may differ from those estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the 
period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period, or in the period of the revision and future periods if the revision 
affects both current and future periods.
Key sources of estimation uncertainty
The key assumptions concerning the future, and other sources of estimation uncertainty at the balance sheet date that have a significant 
risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are discussed below.
Impairment of intangibles
As part of the business combinations the Group acquired the following intangible assets: licence fees, customer relationships, patents, 
trade names, technology and know-how. Further to this the Group capitalises IT development costs relating to the rebuilding of the Group’s 
IT core systems, since these costs meet the recognition criteria of IAS 38. The Group reviews the carrying amount of all intangible assets 
held at each balance sheet date and no impairment was considered necessary for these assets. 
Impairment of goodwill
The Group determines whether goodwill is impaired on at least an annual basis or more frequently when there are indications of possible 
impairment. The impairment review requires a value in use calculation of the cash-generating units to which the goodwill is allocated. 
In estimating the value in use, management is required to make an estimate of the expected future cash flows attributable to the  
cash-generating unit and to choose an appropriate discount rate to calculate the present value of those cash flows. The carrying 
amount of goodwill at 30 June 2013 was £81,954,000 (2012: £82,356,000). Further details are given in note 12.
Fair value of derivatives and other financial instruments
As described in note 27, the Directors use their judgement in selecting an appropriate valuation technique for financial instruments not 
quoted in an active market. Valuation techniques commonly used by market practitioners are applied. For derivative financial instruments, 
assumptions are made based on quoted market rates adjusted for specific features of the instrument. Other financial instruments are 
valued using a discounted cash flow analysis based on assumptions supported, where possible, by observable market prices or rates.
Valuation of own manufactured inventory
The standard costs used for the valuation of own manufactured inventory require a number of assumptions concerning the allocation of 
overheads. These assumptions are based primarily on management’s estimates of time spent in each relevant area of activity and normal 
levels of activity.
Provision for slow moving or defective inventory
The provision for slow moving or defective inventory is based on management’s estimation of the commercial life and shelf life of inventory 
lines. In assessing this, management takes into consideration the sales history of products and the length of time that they have been 
available for resale. Overview Strategic review Performance review Financial statements Corporate governance
Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 67
5. Operating segments
Products and services from which reportable segments derive their revenues 
The Directors consider that there are no identifiable business segments that are engaged in providing individual products or services or a 
group of related products and services that are subject to risks and returns that are different to the core business. The information reported 
to the Group’s Chief Executive Officer, who is considered the chief operating decision maker, for the purposes of resource allocation and 
assessment of performance is based wholly on the overall activities of the Group. The Group has therefore determined that it has only 
one reportable segment under IFRS 8, which is ‘sales of antibodies and related products’. The Group’s revenue and results and assets 
for this one reportable segment can be determined by reference to the Group’s income statement and balance sheet.
The Group has no individual product or customer which comprises more than 10% of its revenues.
Geographical information
The Group’s revenue from external customers and information about its non-current segment assets (excluding deferred tax 
and derivative financial instruments) by geographical location is detailed below:
Revenue Non-current assets
Year ended
30 June
2013
£000
Year ended
30 June
2012
£000
As at
30 June
2013
£000
As at
30 June
2012
£000
US 53,399 40,750 32,937 34,901
Japan 12,594 11,304 109 159
Germany 8,393 7,368 — —
UK 8,314 7,098 88,483 86,587
China 6,544 4,623 1,010 736
Other countries 32,962 26,696 23 33
122,206 97,839 122,562 122,416
Revenues are attributed to countries on the basis of the customer’s location. No country included within ‘Other countries’ contributes 
more than 5% of the Group’s total revenue.
6. Profit for the year
Profit for the year has been arrived at after charging/(crediting):
Notes 
Year ended 
30 June
2013
£000 
Year ended 
30 June
2012
£000 
Foreign exchange differences arising on financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss (99) (210)
Other net foreign exchange losses 1,046 335
R&D expenditure (including amortisation as detailed below) 7,946 4,214
Operating lease rentals – land and buildings 23 2,180 1,362
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 14 1,990 1,474
Amortisation of intangible assets included within administration and management expenses 13 556 280
Amortisation of acquisition-related intangible assets included within administration and 
management expenses 13 1,525 436
Amortisation of acquisition-related intangible assets included within R&D expenditure 13 1,757 528
Cost of inventories recognised as an expense 33,411 29,381
Write down of inventories recognised as an expense 2,088 882
Staff costs 8 24,864 18,105
Impairment loss recognised on trade receivables 18 20 4
Auditor’s remuneration 7 293 586 Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 68
Notes to the financial statements continued
For the year ended 30 June 2013
7. Auditor’s remuneration
A detailed analysis of the auditor’s remuneration on a worldwide basis is provided below:
Year ended 
30 June
2013
£000 
Year ended 
30 June
2012
£000 
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor for the audit of the Company’s annual accounts 96 93
Fees payable in relation to acquisition-related audit services 10 17
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor for other services to the Group:
– the audit of the Company’s subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 4 3
Total audit fees 110 113
– Audit-related assurance services* 20 20
– Taxation compliance services 65 23
– Corporate finance services — 374
– Other taxation advisory services 98 56
Total non-audit fees 183 473
Total auditor’s remuneration 293 586
* This relates to the interim review.
Details on the Company’s policy on the use of the auditor for non-audit services are set out in the Audit Committee Report. During the 
prior year, the auditor was used for due diligence work as this was considered most beneficial to the Group due to the auditor’s established 
knowledge and experience of the Group’s activities. The auditor’s independence and objectivity was safeguarded through the use of separate 
engagement teams. No services were provided pursuant to contingent fee arrangements.
The Company purchased services to the value of £35,000 (2012: £26,000) provided by Cambridge Network Limited and its subsidiaries, 
a not-for-profit organisation. This is disclosed due to the audit partner also being a director of Cambridge Network Limited. Consistent with 
the not-for-profit status, neither the audit partner nor Deloitte receives any remuneration in relation to this arrangement.
8. Employees and remuneration
The average monthly number of employees (including Executive Directors) was:
Group Company
Year ended
30 June
2013
Number 
Year ended
30 June
2012
Number 
Year ended
30 June
2013
Number 
Year ended
30 June
2012
Number 
Management, administrative, marketing and distribution 400 309 187 171
Laboratory 290 96 42 41
690 405 229 212
Their aggregate remuneration comprised:
Group Company
Year ended
30 June
2013
£000 
Year ended
30 June
2012
£000 
Year ended
30 June
2013
£000 
Year ended
30 June
2012
£000 
Wages and salaries 20,007 14,157 9,504 8,402
Social security costs 2,431 1,443 803 625
Pension costs 1,035 949 819 769
Charge in respect of share options and awards granted 1,391 1,556 983 1,381
Total staff costs 24,864 18,105 12,109 11,177
Staff costs capitalised* (434) (65) (394) (65)
Net staff costs 24,430 18,040 11,715 11,112
*  £434,000 (2012: £65,000) relates to Group staff costs directly attributable to the rebuild of the IT core systems being capitalised as part of an internally generated 
intangible asset under IAS 38 (see note 13). Overview Strategic review Performance review Financial statements Corporate governance
Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 69
9. Net finance income
Year ended 
30 June
2013
£000 
Year ended 
30 June
2012
£000 
Interest on cash and term deposits 129 500
Facility fees (83) (37)
Interest on borrowings — (36)
Net finance income 46 427
10. Taxation
Note
Year ended 
30 June
2013
£000 
Year ended 
30 June
2012
£000 
Current tax 10,084 9,741
Deferred tax 16 152 (485)
10,236 9,256
UK corporation tax is calculated at 23.75% (2012: 25.5%) of the estimated assessable profit for the year. Taxation for other jurisdictions 
is calculated at the rates prevailing in the respective jurisdictions.
The Finance Act 2012 which provided for a reduction in the main rate of UK corporation tax to 23% effective from 1 April 2013 was 
substantively enacted in July 2012. This rate reduction has been reflected in the calculation of deferred tax at the balance sheet date.
The UK Government also announced a further reduction in the main rate of corporation tax to 21% effective 1 April 2014 and has proposed 
a further reduction of 1% by 1 April 2015. These further tax rate reductions had not been substantively enacted at the balance sheet date 
and therefore have not been reflected in these financial statements.
The effect of these tax rate reductions on the deferred tax balance will be accounted for in the period in which the tax rate reductions 
are substantively enacted.
The impact of the rate reduction to 21%, which will be reflected in the next reporting period, is estimated to reduce the UK deferred tax 
asset and liability provided at 30 June 2013 by £232,000 and £29,000 respectively.
The charge for the year can be reconciled to the profit per the income statement as follows:
Year ended 
30 June
2013
£000 
Year ended 
30 June
2013
% 
Year ended 
30 June
2012
£000 
Year ended 
30 June
2012
% 
Profit before tax 42,894 34,662 
Tax at the UK corporation tax rate of 23.75% (2012: 25.5%) 10,188 23.8 8,839 25.5
Effect of different tax rates of subsidiaries operating in different jurisdictions 502 1.2 423 1.2
Tax effect of expenses that are not deductible in determining taxable profit 254 0.6 904 2.6
Additional relief in relation to overseas entities (442) (1.0) — —
R&D tax credit uplift (369) (0.9) (713) (2.1)
Prior year adjustments 93 0.2 (219) (0.6)
Effect of difference between closing deferred tax rate and current tax rate 10 — 22 0.1
Tax expense and effective rate for the year 10,236 23.9 9,256 26.7 Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 70
Notes to the financial statements continued
For the year ended 30 June 2013
11. Earnings per share
The calculation of the basic and diluted EPS is based on the following data:
Year ended
30 June
2013
£000 
Year ended
30 June
2012
£000 
Earnings
Earnings for the purposes of basic and diluted EPS being net profit attributable  
to equity holders of the parent company 32,658 25,406
Number Number
Number of shares
Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purposes of basic EPS 197,743,410 185,131,455
Effect of dilutive potential ordinary shares:
– Share options 2,176,531 3,383,068
Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purposes of diluted EPS 199,919,941 188,514,523
Basic EPS is calculated by dividing the earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders by the weighted average number of shares outstanding 
during the year. Diluted EPS is calculated on the same basis as basic EPS but with a further adjustment for the weighted average shares in 
issue to reflect the effect of all dilutive potential ordinary shares. The number of dilutive potential ordinary shares is derived from the number 
of share-based options and awards granted to employees where the exercise price is less than the average market price of the Company’ s 
ordinary shares during the year or where it is considered non-market performance conditions will not be met resulting in the options not vesting.
Adjusted earnings per share
The calculation of adjusted EPS excluding acquisition costs and amortisation of associated intangible assets is based on earnings of:
Year ended 
30 June
2013
£000 
Year ended 
30 June
2012
£000 
Earnings for the purposes of basic and diluted EPS being net profit attributable to equity holders of the 
parent company 32,658 25,406
Integration costs 400 —
Acquisition costs — 3,397
Amortisation of associated intangible assets 3,282 964
Tax effect of adjusting items (1,216) (374)
Profit after tax excluding acquisition costs and amortisation of associated intangible assets 35,124 29,393
The denominators used are the same as those detailed above for both basic and diluted earnings per share. 
Adjusted EPS after adding back acquisition costs and amortisation of associated intangible assets:
Year ended
30 June
2013 
Year ended
30 June
2012 
Adjusted basic EPS 17.76p 15.88p
Adjusted diluted EPS 17.57p 15.59p
The adjusted EPS information is considered to provide a fairer representation of the Group’s trading performance.  Overview Strategic review Performance review Financial statements Corporate governance
Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 71
12. Goodwill
£000
Cost
At 1 July 2011 2,062
Recognised on acquisition of subsidiaries 80,067
Fair value adjustments during measurement period 227
At 1 July 2012 82,356
Fair value adjustments during measurement period (1,367)
Exchange differences 965
At 30 June 2013 81,954
Accumulated impairment losses
At 1 July 2011, 1 July 2012 and 30 June 2013 —
Carrying amount
At 30 June 2012 82,356
At 30 June 2013 81,954
Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated, at acquisition, to the cash-generating units (CGUs) that are expected to benefit 
from that business combination. The carrying amount of goodwill has been allocated as follows:
Cash-generating unit
Carrying value 
1 July 2012
 £000
Fair value
 adjustments
 £000
Exchange
 differences*
£000
Transfer 
to single 
CGU 
£000
Year ended 
30 June
2013 
£000 
Year ended
30 June
2012
£000
Goodwill relating to the MitoSciences CGU 2,289 — 151 (2,440) — 2,289
Goodwill relating to the Ascent Scientific CGU (note 26) 7,589 69 — (7,658) — 7,589
Goodwill relating to the Epitomics CGU (note 26) 72,478 (1,436) 814 (71,856) — 72,478
Goodwill relating to the Abcam group CGU — — — 81,954 81,954 —
82,356 (1,367) 965 — 81,954 82,356
* Goodwill is converted at the exchange rate on the date of acquisition and retranslated to the balance sheet rate.
Following the acquisitions of Mitosciences, Ascent and Epitomics there has been considerable change in the way these entities are 
structured and integrated within the Abcam group. These changes include redirecting sales through the Abcam platform and the 
centralisation of the marketing, technical and operational support. Consequently the discrete financial information which is available 
for an individual entity does not reflect the true substance of the performance of that entity and the value being added. This means it 
is not possible to accurately assess the fair value in use of the acquired entities which formerly constituted the separately identifiable 
CGUs to determine whether or not there is an indication of goodwill impairment.
IAS 36 requires that following a reorganisation in the business which results in a change in the composition of CGUs, goodwill should 
be reallocated to the units affected. Considering the changes above, it is appropriate to reallocate the goodwill arising from the acquisitions 
to a single CGU, which would reflect the reorganised business structure. This CGU is tested for impairment on a group-wide basis using the 
future forecast cash flows arising from the Abcam business as a whole.
The Group performs an annual test for goodwill impairment or more frequently if there are any indications that goodwill might be impaired.
The recoverable amount of the CGU is determined from value in use calculations. The key assumptions considered most sensitive for the value in 
use calculations are those regarding the discount rates, growth rates and anticipated movements in selling prices and direct costs during the period.
Management has projected cash flows based on financial forecasts over a period of four years. No growth rate has been used in the 
extrapolation of cash flows beyond the four years. A discount rate of 11% has been estimated using pre-tax rates that reflect current 
market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the CGU.
Management has performed sensitivity analysis on the key assumptions mentioned above. Based on the results of this analysis, 
management is satisfied that the carrying amount of goodwill exceeds its recoverable amount. As such, no impairment of goodwill 
has been recognised at the balance sheet date.
Due to the headroom which exists between the recoverable amount and the carrying value there is currently no reasonable possible 
change in any of these key assumptions which would cause the CGU’s carrying amount to exceed its recoverable amount. Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 72
Notes to the financial statements continued
For the year ended 30 June 2013
13. Intangible assets
Group
Up front
licence 
fees 
£000 
Distribution
rights 
£000 
Software 
£000 
Contract
 based
£000
Assets
under
construction
£000
Customer
relationships
£000
Patents,
technology 
and 
know-how
£000
Trade
names
£000
Total
£000
Cost 
At 1 July 2011 387 1,393 250 1,666 — — — — 3,696
Additions 47 81 117 — 773 — — — 1,018
Acquisition of subsidiaries 9 — 13 1,901 — 5,455 22,812 2,236 32,426
At 1 July 2012 443 1,474 380 3,567 773 5,455 22,812 2,236 37,140
Fair value adjustments — — — (115) — (665) 8 (214) (986)
Additions 59 258 73 — 3,248 — — — 3,638
Transfer to asset in use — — 3,803 — (3,803) — — — —
Disposals (5) — (15) — — — — — (20)
Exchange differences — — 3 — — — — — 3
At 30 June 2013 497 1,732 4,244 3,452 218 4,790 22,820 2,022 39,775
Amortisation and impairment
At 1 July 2011 293 1,127 168 11 — — — — 1,599
Charge for the year 64 147 69 255 — 134 528 47 1,244
At 1 July 2012 357 1,274 237 266 — 134 528 47 2,843
Charge for the year 63 66 427 775 — 497 1,757 253 3,838
Disposals — — (15) — — — — — (15)
Exchange differences — — 2 — — — — — 2
At 30 June 2013 420 1,340 651 1,041 — 631 2,285 300 6,668
Carrying amount
At 30 June 2012 86 200 143 3,301 773 5,321 22,284 2,189 34,297
At 30 June 2013 77 392 3,593 2,411 218 4,159 20,535 1,722 33,107
Company
Up front 
licence fees 
£000 
Distribution
rights 
£000 
Software 
£000 
Assets
under
construction
£000
Total
£000
Cost 
At 1 July 2011 387 1,393 240 — 2,020
Additions 47 244 98 773 1,162
At 1 July 2012 434 1,637 338 773 3,182
Additions 59 490 54 3,248 3,851
Transfer to asset in use — — 3,803 (3,803) —
At 30 June 2013 493 2,127 4,195 218 7,033
Amortisation and impairment
At 1 July 2011 293 1,127 166 — 1,586
Charge for the year 63 187 62 — 312
At 1 July 2012 356 1,314 228 — 1,898
Charge for the year 63 303 408 — 774
At 30 June 2013 419 1,617 636 — 2,672
Carrying amount
At 30 June 2012 78 323 110 773 1,284
At 30 June 2013 74 510 3,559 218 4,361 Overview Strategic review Performance review Financial statements Corporate governance
Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 73
13. Intangible assets continued
Company continued
The amortisation period for the up front licence fees and software is between three and five years. The amortisation period for the 
distribution rights is the term of the agreement. 
Contract based intangibles predominately relates to two agreements: an agreement with the University of Oregon, under which the 
university supplies monoclonal antibodies to MitoSciences, who has full rights and entitlement to commercially exploit these materials 
in exchange for an ongoing fee. The remaining amortisation period is 12 years, being the remaining term of the agreement; and 
an agreement between Epitomics and Loyola University Chicago for access to a patent. The remaining amortisation period is to 
February 2015, being the expiry date of the agreement.
Assets under construction relate to the development of the core IT systems architecture. These are not amortised until being available for 
use in the business.
Customer relationships relates to access to new customers as part of the Epitomics acquisition, namely in the reagents and services 
business. The remaining amortisation period is nine years in line with the history of the business.
Patents, technology and know-how relates to the acquired RabMAb
®
 technology as part of the Epitomics business. The remaining 
amortisation period is 14 years, being the remaining term of the primary patent.
Trade names relate to RabMAb
®
 and Epitomics. The remaining amortisation period is seven years.
14. Property, plant and equipment
Group
Computer
equipment 
£000 
Laboratory
equipment 
£000 
Office
equipment,
fixtures
and fittings 
£000 
Hybridomas 
£000 
Hybridomas
under
construction
£000
Motor 
vehicles
£000
Total
£000
Cost 
At 1 July 2011 1,201 6,207 1,600 184 — — 9,192
Additions 307 962 423 211 115 — 2,018
Acquisition of subsidiary 46 732 208 984 604 94 2,668
Exchange differences 7 22 20 25 16 2 92
Disposals (2) (9) (14) — — — (25)
At 1 July 2012 1,559 7,914 2,237 1,404 735 96 13,945
Additions 329 1,274 238 1,343 437 52 3,673
Exchange differences — 113 28 40 25 8 214
Disposals (122) (36) (7) — (35) — (200)
At 30 June 2013 1,766 9,265 2,496 2,787 1,162 156 17,632
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 July 2011 892 4,809 925 85 — — 6,711
Charge for the year 231 817 341 83 — 2 1,474
Exchange differences 4 2 16 — — — 22
Eliminated on disposals (2) (9) (14) — — — (25)
At 1 July 2012 1,125 5,619 1,268 168 — 2 8,182
Charge for the year 277 933 456 305 — 19 1,990
Exchange differences 1 71 35 10 — 3 120
Eliminated on disposals (119) (36) (6) — — — (161)
At 30 June 2013 1,284 6,587 1,753 483 — 24 10,131
Carrying amount
At 30 June 2012 434 2,295 969 1,236 735 94 5,763
At 30 June 2013 482 2,678 743 2,304 1,162 132 7,501 Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 74
Notes to the financial statements continued
For the year ended 30 June 2013
14. Property, plant and equipment continued
Company
Computer
equipment 
£000 
Laboratory
equipment 
£000 
Office
equipment,
fixtures
and fittings 
£000 
Hybridomas 
£000 
Total
£000
Cost
At 1 July 2011 893 5,665 952 184 7,694
Additions 211 328 50 39 628
Disposals — (3) (9) — (12)
At 1 July 2012 1,104 5,990 993 223 8,310
Additions 234 491 81 61 867
Disposals (47) (1) — — (48)
At 30 June 2013 1,291 6,480 1,074 284 9,129
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 July 2011 658 4,472 472 85 5,687
Charge for the year 166 633 211 54 1,064
Eliminated on disposals — (3) (9) — (12)
At 1 July 2012 824 5,102 674 139 6,739
Charge for the year 189 400 216 66 871
Eliminated on disposals (45) (1) — — (46)
At 30 June 2013 968 5,501 890 205 7,564
Carrying amount
At 30 June 2012 280 888 319 84 1,571
At 30 June 2013 323 979 184 79 1,565
15. Investments in subsidiaries
The Company’s subsidiaries at 30 June 2013 are:
Country of 
incorporation 
Proportion
of shares 
held 
Proportion 
of voting
power held
Abcam Inc US 100% 100%
Abcam KK Japan 100% 100%
Abcam (Hong Kong) Limited Hong Kong 100% 100%
Abcam Employee Share Benefit Trust Limited UK 100% 100%
Abcam Epitomics Holdings, Inc US 100% 100%
Abcam LLC US 100% 100%
Abcam (US) Limited UK 100% 100%
Abcam US Group Holdings Inc US 100% 100%
Ascent Scientific Limited UK 100% 100%
Ascent Scientific LLC US 100% 100%
Camgene Limited (dormant) UK 100% 100%
Epitomics Inc US 100% 100%
Epitomics (Hangzhou) Biotechnology Co., Limited China 100% 100%
Epitomics (Hong Kong) Limited Hong Kong 100% 100%
MitoSciences Inc US 100% 100%
  Overview Strategic review Performance review Financial statements Corporate governance
Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 75
15. Investments in subsidiaries continued
Analysis of changes in investments
Note £000
At 1 July 2011 4,041
Additions 129
Addition relating to acquisition of subsidiaries 26 118,942
At 1 July 2012 123,112
Transfer of shares in subsidiary undertakings (113,102)
Purchase of shares in subsidiary undertaking 85,872
Fair value adjustment to acquired subsidiary 26 (42)
At 30 June 2013 95,840
Following the acquisition of Epitomics Inc in April 2012, the Group undertook a restructuring to consolidate the ownership of its US subsidiaries. 
On 20 December 2012, Abcam plc transferred its shareholding in Epitomics Inc, MitoSciences Inc and Abcam Inc to Abcam (US) Limited, 
an indirect subsidiary of the Company. 
In consideration for the shares of US subsidiaries, Abcam plc received total consideration of £127.1m made up of shares in Group 
companies of £85.9m and intra-group receivables of $67m (see note 19). 
Investments are held at cost less provision for impairment.
16. Deferred tax assets and liabilities
The following are the major deferred tax liabilities and assets recognised by the Group and Company and movements thereon during 
the current and prior reporting periods.
Group
Accelerated 
tax 
depreciation
£000 
Cash
flow 
hedges 
£000 
Share-based 
payment 
£000 
Other
timing
differences 
£000 
Total
£000
At 30 June 2011 (117) 167 3,164 (135) 3,079
Acquisition of subsidiaries (601) — — (10,341) (10,942)
(Charge)/credit to income (120) — 229 376 485
Fair value adjustments (note 26) — — — (233) (233)
Charge to equity — (380) (619) — (999)
Exchange differences (20) — 2 92 74
At 30 June 2012 (858) (213) 2,776 (10,241) (8,536)
(Charge)/credit to income (520) — 227 141 (152)
Fair value adjustments (note 26) 26 — — 2,624 2,650
Credit/(charge) to equity — 525 (841) — (316)
Exchange differences (44) — — 125 81
At 30 June 2013 (1,396) 312 2,162 (7,351) (6,273)
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset where the Group has a legally enforceable right to do so. The following is the analysis of the 
deferred tax balances (after offset) for financial reporting purposes:
30 June
2013
£000
30 June
2012
£000
30 June 
2011
£000
Deferred tax assets 5,011 4,401 3,509
Deferred tax liabilities (11,284) (12,937) (430)
(6,273) (8,536) 3,079
The deferred tax liability of £11,284,000 (2012: £12,937,000) has been recognised in relation to the acquired intangible assets as a result 
of the acquisitions. Amounts released from this liability during the period were £1,259,000 (2012: £374,000), representing the decrease 
of the deferred tax liability in line with amortisation charged against the carrying value of the associated intangible assets. A further 
£394,000 relates to the deferred tax movement arising from a fair value adjustment to acquired intangible assets (see note 26). Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 76
Notes to the financial statements continued
For the year ended 30 June 2013
16. Deferred tax assets and liabilities continued
Company
Accelerated 
tax 
depreciation
£000 
Cash
flow 
hedges 
£000 
 
Share-based 
payment 
£000 
Other
timing
differences 
£000 
Total
£000
At 30 June 2011 (62) 167 2,516 35 2,656
Credit/(charge) 113 — 331 (5) 439
Charge to equity — (380) (302) — (682)
At 30 June 2012 51 (213) 2,545 30 2,413
Charge/(credit) to income (9) — 226 5 222
Credit/(charge) to equity — 525 (765) — (240)
At 30 June 2013 42 312 2,006 35 2,395
At the balance sheet date, there are no aggregate temporary differences associated with undistributed earnings of subsidiaries for which 
a deferred tax liability has not been recognised (2012: £nil). No temporary differences exist in the current year as a result of a change to 
the UK tax legislation which largely exempts dividends from UK tax if received on or after 1 July 2009. The Directors believe that all 
dividends to be paid by the Company’s subsidiaries will meet the criteria for exemption from UK tax.
17. Inventories
Group Company
30 June
2013
£000 
30 June
2012
£000 
30 June
2013
£000 
30 June
2012
£000
Raw materials 1,113 497 — —
Work in progress 739 621 — —
Finished goods 13,478 14,296 15,630 13,539
15,330 15,414 15,630 13,539
18. Financial assets
Trade and other receivables
Group Company
30 June
2013
£000 
30 June
2012
£000 
30 June
2013
£000 
30 June
2012
£000
Amounts receivable for the sale of goods 11,886 10,478 3,900 3,051
Allowance for doubtful debts (411) (433) (140) (101)
11,475 10,045 3,760 2,950
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings — — 9,413 6,278
Other debtors 4,578 2,701 1,139 1,198
Prepayments 1,387 1,540 750 778
17,440 14,286 15,062 11,204
Trade receivables
The average credit period taken for sales is 34.5 days (2012: 34.0 days). No interest has been charged on the receivables. Trade 
receivables are provided for based on estimated irrecoverable amounts determined by reference to past default experience. The Group 
and Company have provided fully for all receivables over 90 days past due because historical experience is such that receivables that 
are past due beyond 90 days are generally not recoverable. Trade receivables between 30 days and 90 days are provided for based 
on estimated irrecoverable amounts from the sale of goods determined by reference to past default experience.
Credit limits for each customer are reviewed on a monthly basis. No customer represents more than 5% of the total balance of trade receivables.
The analysis below shows the balances included in debtors which are past due at the reporting date for which the Group or Company 
has not provided as there has not been a significant change in credit quality and the amounts are still considered recoverable. Neither 
the Group nor Company holds any collateral or other credit enhancements over these balances, nor do they have a legal right to offset 
against any amounts owed to the counterparty.  Overview Strategic review Performance review Financial statements Corporate governance
Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 77
18. Financial assets continued
Trade receivables continued
Ageing of past due but not impaired receivables
Group Company
30 June
2013
£000 
30 June
2012
£000 
30 June
2013
£000 
30 June
2012
£000
0 to 30 days overdue 2,532 1,721 877 454
30 to 60 days overdue 277 467 31 41
2,809 2,188 908 495
Movement in the allowance for doubtful debts
Group Company
30 June
2013
£000 
30 June
2012
£000 
30 June
2013
£000 
30 June
2012
£000
Balance at the beginning of the year (433) (323) (101) (124)
Acquisition of subsidiaries — (106) — —
Impairment (losses)/gains recognised through income statement (20) (4) (44) 17
Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 4 (3) — —
Amounts written off as uncollectable 66 25 5 10
Amounts recovered during the year (28) (22) — (4)
Balance at the end of the year (411) (433) (140) (101)
In determining the recoverability of a trade receivable the Group and Company consider any change in the credit quality of the receivable from 
the date credit was initially granted up to the reporting date. The concentration of credit risk is limited due to the customer base being large and 
unrelated. Accordingly, the Directors believe that there is no further credit provision required in excess of the allowance for doubtful debts.
Ageing of impaired receivables
Group Company
30 June
2013
£000 
30 June
2012
£000 
30 June
2013
£000 
30 June
2012
£000
0 to 30 days overdue 81 94 23 16
30 to 60 days overdue 201 178 77 51
60 to 90 days overdue 78 89 20 21
More than 90 days overdue 51 72 20 13
411 433 140 101
The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other receivables approximates their fair value.
19. Loan receivable
Group Company
30 June
2013
£000 
30 June
2012
£000 
30 June
2013
£000 
30 June
2012
£000
Amount owed by subsidiary undertaking — — 44,175 —
The amount owed to the Company represents two interest bearing loans due from Abcam US Group Holdings Inc of $33m and $34m; 
interest being incurred at rates of 7.34% and 8.69% respectively. The loans are repayable on 20 December 2017 and 2019 respectively 
and are unsecured. See note 15 for further details. Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 78
Notes to the financial statements continued
For the year ended 30 June 2013
20. Available-for-sale financial asset
30 June
2013
£000 
30 June
2012
£000
Shares 703 679
As part of the Epitomics acquisition (see note 26) the Group acquired a 13% interest in Plexbio Co., Limited (Plexbio), a privately owned 
biotechnology company headquartered in T aiwan. Plexbio was established to research, develop and manufacture in vitro diagnostic (IVD) kits.
21. Derivative financial instruments
Group and Company: 30 June 2013
Current Non-current
Asset
£000
Liability
£000
Asset
£000
Liability
£000 
Total
£000 
Derivatives that are designated and effective as hedging  
instruments carried at fair value
Forward exchange contracts 145 (1,160) 29 (375) (1,361)
Derivatives carried at fair value through profit and loss (FVTPL)
Forward exchange contracts that are not designated in hedge 
accounting relationships 386 (179) — — 207
531 (1,339) 29 (375) (1,154)
Group and Company: 30 June 2012
Current Non-current
Asset
£000
Liability
£000
Asset
£000
Liability
£000 
Total
£000 
Derivatives that are designated and effective as hedging 
instruments carried at fair value
Forward exchange contracts 708 (20) 204 (10) 882
Derivatives carried at fair value through profit and loss (FVTPL)
Forward exchange contracts that are not designated in hedge 
accounting relationships 175 (66) — — 109
883 (86) 204 (10) 991
Further details of derivative financial instruments are provided in note 27.
22. Other financial liabilities
Trade and other payables
Group Company
30 June
2013
£000 
30 June
2012
£000 
30 June
2013
£000 
30 June
2012
£000
Amounts falling due within one year
Trade payables 4,812 4,148 3,930 3,175
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings — — 4,579 1,373
Borrowings owed to subsidiary undertakings — — — 5,059
Accruals and deferred income 7,579 5,665 4,501 3,193
Other taxes and social security 1,239 333 295 274
Other creditors 687 580 9 —
14,317 10,726 13,314 13,074
Trade payables and accruals principally comprise amounts outstanding for trade purchases and ongoing costs. At 30 June 2013, 
the Group had an average of 32 days of purchases (2012: 34 days) outstanding in trade payables (excluding accruals and deferred 
income). Most suppliers do not charge interest for the first 60 days of the invoice. The Group has financial risk management policies 
in place to ensure that all payables are paid within the credit timetable. The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade 
and other payables approximates to their fair value. Overview Strategic review Performance review Financial statements Corporate governance
Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 79
23. Commitments
Year ended 
30 June
2013
£000 
Year ended
30 June
2012
£000
Minimum lease payments under operating leases recognised as an expense in the year:
– Land and buildings 2,180 1,362
At the balance sheet date, the Group and Company had outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under  
non-cancellable operating leases, all of which relate to land and buildings, which fall due as follows:
Group Company
30 June
2013
£000 
30 June
2012
£000 
30 June
2013
£000 
30 June
2012
£000
Within one year 2,251 2,208 833 833
In the second to fifth years inclusive 6,227 5,554 3,180 1,272
After five years 23 70 — —
8,501 7,832 4,013 2,105
The above table reflects the committed cash payments under operating leases, rather than the expected charge to the income statement in the 
relevant periods. The effect on the income statement will differ to the above figures to the extent of the amortisation of a £1.1m lease incentive 
received on signing of a new lease in 2008/09, and also the amortisation of the rent-free period included in the same lease agreement. 
The charge in 2013/14 on these operating leases is expected to be £2.3m for the Group and £0.8m for the Company. 
24. Capital and reserves
Share capital
Group and Company
30 June
2013
£000 
30 June
2012
£000
Issued and fully paid:
199,378,377 (2012: 198,211,177) ordinary shares of 0.2 pence each 399 397
The movement during the year on the Company’s issued and fully paid shares was as follows:
2013
Number
2013
£000 
2012
£000
Balance at beginning of year 198,211,177 397 364
Issue of share capital 1,167,200 2 33
Balance at end of year 199,378,377 399 397
The Company has one class of ordinary shares which carry no right to fixed income.
Share premium
Group and Company
£000
Balance at 1 July 2011 15,400
Premium arising on issue of equity shares 56,413
Balance at 1 July 2012 71,813
Premium arising on issue of equity shares 1,095
Balance at 30 June 2013 72,908
There were no costs of issue incurred during the year or the previous year. Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 80
Notes to the financial statements continued
For the year ended 30 June 2013
24. Capital and reserves continued
Own shares
Group and Company
£000
Balance at 1 July 2012 (1,586)
Acquired in the period (381)
Disposed of on exercise of options 95
Balance at 30 June 2013 (1,872)
This balance represents the cost of 786,145 shares with a nominal value of £1,572 in Abcam plc (2012: 866,435) which were issued 
by the Company at market value and held by the Abcam Employee Share Benefit Trust. These shares are held in order to satisfy 
the free shares and matching shares elements of the SIP . See note 28 for further details of this scheme.
Reserves
Translation reserve
The translation reserve comprises foreign currency differences from the translation of the financial statements of foreign operations.
Share-based payment reserve
The share-based payment reserve comprises the IFRS 2 charge for the fair value of share-based options and awards.
Hedging reserve
The hedging reserve comprises gains and losses recognised on cash flow hedges and the associated deferred tax assets and liabilities created.
Deferred tax reserve
The deferred tax reserve comprises the portion of the deferred tax arising on outstanding share options exercised and not taken to the 
profit and loss in accordance with IAS 12.
25. Dividends
Year ended 
30 June
2013 
£000 
Year ended
30 June
2012
£000
Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders in the year:
Final dividend for the year ended 30 June 2012 of 4.36 pence (2011: 3.80 pence) per share 8,650 6,958
Interim dividend for the year ended 30 June 2013 of 1.94 pence (2012: 1.69 pence) per share 3,856 3,103
Total distributions to equity holders in the period 12,506 10,061
Proposed final dividend for the year ended 30 June 2013 of 5.10 pence (2012: 4.36 pence) per share 10,168 8,642
The proposed final dividend is subject to approval of the shareholders at the AGM and has not been included as a liability in these 
financial statements. 
26. Acquisition of subsidiaries 
There were no acquisitions made during the year ended 30 June 2013. Details of prior year acquisitions and their final reported values 
at their respective acquisition dates are given below.
Details of prior year acquisitions
Epitomics Inc
On 19 April 2012, the Company acquired 100% of the issued share capital of Epitomics Inc (Epitomics) for total consideration of $170.0m 
(£108.9m). Total consideration comprised $92.5m (£57.5m) cash and 14,498,923 Abcam plc ordinary shares of 0.2 pence with a value 
of $77.5m based upon the average of the high and low trading prices of Abcam ordinary shares on the Alternative Investment Market of the 
London Stock Exchange for the five trading days ending on 2 March 2012, being the date of execution of the Merger Agreement and a fair 
value of £51.4m based on the closing share price on the date of acquisition in accordance with IFRS 3.
Epitomics, based in the USA, with operations in China, is focused on the development, production and distribution of monoclonal antibodies 
(RabMAbs
®
). It has three core business units: reagents (antibodies), custom antibodies and in vitro diagnostics immunohistochemistry (IVD IHC). 
The reagents (antibodies) business unit develops and distributes RabMAbs
®
 for academic and pharmaceutical research applications. The custom 
antibodies business unit develops RabMAbs
®
 to address customers’ specific needs where catalogue antibodies are not suitable and provides 
solutions for research and diagnostic applications. The IVD business unit provides RabMAbs
®
 primarily for clinical diagnosis and prognosis 
of certain cancers including colon, prostate, ovarian and lymphoma. Additionally, Epitomics generates income from certain royalty payments 
and licence deals that it has with life science tools companies that pay to utilise aspects of Epitomics’s patented RabMAb
®
 technology 
in the development and manufacture of their own antibodies. Overview Strategic review Performance review Financial statements Corporate governance
Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 81
26. Acquisition of subsidiaries continued
Details of prior year acquisitions continued
Epitomics Inc continued 
Epitomics represents a highly compelling strategic fit for the Group and supports the Company’s vision of becoming the world’s leading 
life science research tools company. The acquisition provides the Group with extensive know-how in RabMAb
®
 technology and will help 
to diversify the Group’s product offering and customer base. Epitomics also provides the Group with a custom antibody service offering 
and a high-quality entrypoint to the IVD IHC market. The Group intends to leverage its existing customer base and strong global marketing 
and distribution expertise with Epitomics’s RabMAb
®
 products, technology and product pipeline.
The table below summarises the consideration paid for Epitomics as well as the amounts recognised at the acquisition date of the assets 
acquired and liabilities assumed. In accordance with IFRS 3 (revised), the Company has considered all pertinent factors in relation to information 
obtained after the acquisition date which would affect the provisional values reported. During the permitted measurement period of one 
year from the acquisition date, adjustments have been made to the provisional values and these are summarised in the table below:
Provisional 
values 
reported 
£000
Fair value
 adjustments 
£000
Final 
values 
£000
Recognised amounts of identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed
Non-current assets
Intangible assets 30,184 (986) 29,198
Property, plant and equipment 2,532 — 2,532
Deferred tax asset 1,023 1,483 2,506
Current assets
Available-for-sale investment 662 — 662
Inventories 2,109 (507) 1,602
Trade and other receivables 3,230 — 3,230
Current tax prepaid 502 68 570
Cash and cash equivalents 7,800 — 7,800
Term deposits 4,647 — 4,647
Deferred tax asset 683 773 1,456
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables (4,843) 211 (4,632)
Non-current liabilities
Deferred tax liability (12,065) 394 (11,671)
Total identifiable net assets 36,464 1,436 37,900
Goodwill 72,478 (1,436) 71,042
Total consideration 108,942 — 108,942
Settled by:
Cash 57,507 — 57,507
Equity instruments (14,498,923 ordinary shares of Abcam plc) 51,435 — 51,435
Total consideration transferred 108,942 — 108,942
Net cash outflow arising on acquisition
Cash consideration 57,507 — 57,507
Less: cash, cash equivalent balances and term deposits acquired (12,447) — (12,447)
45,060 — 45,060
The goodwill of £71,042,000 arising from the acquisition represents the acquired product pipeline opportunities, a highly knowledgeable 
workforce and the going concern value to perpetuity relating to the identified intangible assets with assumed finite useful lives. None of the 
goodwill recognised is expected to be deductible for tax purposes.
Acquisition-related costs totalling £3,213,000 are included within administrative expenses in the consolidated income statement for the 
year ended 30 June 2012. No further acquisition-related costs have been incurred since the year ended 30 June 2012.
The fair value of trade and other receivables is £3,230,000 which includes trade receivables with a fair value of £2,176,000 and a gross 
contractual value of £2,245,000, of which £69,000 is expected to be uncollectable.
During the period from the date of acquisition to 30 June 2012, Epitomics contributed £3,246,000 to the Group’s revenue from sales 
to third parties and a profit of £496,000 to the Group’s profit before tax, after amortisation of intangibles of £476,000.
If Epitomics had been consolidated from 1 July 2011, unaudited Group revenues for the year ended 30 June 2012 would have been £110,468,000 
and unaudited Group profit before tax would have been £34,584,000, after amortisation of intangibles of £3,356,000. Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 82
Notes to the financial statements continued
For the year ended 30 June 2013
26. Acquisition of subsidiaries continued
Details of prior year acquisitions continued
Ascent Scientific Limited
On 12 September 2011, the Company acquired 100% of the issued share capital of Ascent Scientific Limited (Ascent) for total consideration 
of £10m. Total consideration comprised £6m cash and 1,157,481 Abcam plc ordinary shares of 0.2p each, with a total fair value of £4m 
being derived from the rolling 25 day average price of 345.58p per share terminating three trading days prior to completion. 
Ascent, a UK-based company, focuses on building a range of high-quality biochemicals for use by scientific researchers for modulating 
the function of proteins. The acquisition further extends the Group’s product portfolio and is in line with the strategy of becoming the 
world’s leading life science research tools company.
The table below summarises the consideration paid for Ascent as well as the amounts recognised at the acquisition date of the assets 
acquired and liabilities assumed. In accordance with IFRS 3 (revised), the Company has considered all pertinent factors in relation to 
information obtained after the acquisition date which would affect the provisional values reported. During the permitted measurement 
period of one year from the acquisition date, adjustments have been made to the provisional values and these are summarised in the 
table below:
Provisional
 values
 reported
£000
Fair value
 adjustments
£000
Final 
values
£000
Recognised amounts of identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed
Non-current assets
Intangible assets 2,241 — 2,241
Property, plant and equipment 136 — 136
Current assets
Inventories 511 (50) 461
Trade and other receivables 263 — 263
Cash and cash equivalents 199 — 199
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables (189) (83) (272)
Current tax liabilities (67) 22 (45)
Borrowings (14) — (14)
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings (86) — (86)
Deferred tax liability (583) — (583)
Total identifiable net assets 2,411 (111) 2,300
Goodwill 7,589 69 7,658
Total consideration 10,000 (42) 9,958
Settled by:
Cash 6,000 (42) 5,958
Equity instruments (1,157,481 ordinary shares of Abcam plc) 4,000 — 4,000
Total consideration transferred 10,000 (42) 9,958
Net cash outflow arising on acquisition
Cash consideration 6,000 (42) 5,958
Less: cash and cash equivalent balances acquired, net of borrowings (99) — (99)
5,901 (42) 5,859
The goodwill of £7,658,000 arising from the acquisition represents the acquired product pipeline opportunities, expanded customer base 
and a highly knowledgeable workforce. None of the goodwill recognised is expected to be deductible for tax purposes.
Acquisition-related costs totalling £146,000 are included within administrative expenses in the consolidated income statement for the year 
ended 30 June 2012. No further acquisition-related costs have been since the year ended 30 June 2012.
The fair value of trade and other receivables is £263,000 which includes trade receivables with a fair value of £131,000 and a gross 
contractual value of £168,000, of which £37,000 is expected to be uncollectable.
During the period from the date of acquisition to 30 June 2012, Ascent contributed £1,373,000 to the Group’s revenue from sales to third 
parties and a profit of £18,000 to the Group’s profit before tax, after amortisation of intangibles of £360,000.
If Ascent had been consolidated from 1 July 2011, unaudited Group revenues for the year ended 30 June 2012 would have been 
£98,127,000 and unaudited Group profit before tax would have been £34,573,000, after amortisation of intangibles of £1,047,000. Overview Strategic review Performance review Financial statements Corporate governance
Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 83
27. Financial instruments
Capital risk management
The Group manages its capital to ensure that entities in the Group will be able to continue as a going concern whilst maximising the 
return to stakeholders. The capital structure of the Group consists of cash and cash equivalents and equity attributable to the equity 
holders of the parent, comprising issued capital, reserves and retained earnings.
Significant accounting policies
Details of the significant accounting policies and methods adopted, including the criteria for recognition, the basis of measurement and 
the basis on which income and expenses are recognised in respect of each class of financial asset, financial liability and equity instrument 
are disclosed in note 3. Foreign exchange contracts are measured using quoted forward exchange rates and the yield curves derived 
from quoted interest rates matching maturities of these contracts.
Categories of financial instruments
Group
carrying value
Company
carrying value
30 June
2013
£000 
30 June
2012
£000 
30 June
2013
£000 
30 June
2012
£000
Financial assets
Loans and receivables
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings — — 53,588 6,278
Trade receivables 11,475 10,045 3,760 2,950
VAT recoverable (included in other debtors) 1,171 1,244 1,092 1,171
12,646 11,289 58,440 10,399
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents and term deposits 38,311 17,480 26,295 9,005
Loans and receivables (including cash and cash equivalents) 50,957 28,769 84,735 19,404
Financial liabilities
Other financial liabilities at amortised cost
Trade and other payables* (6,738) (5,061) (4,234) (3,449)
Current tax liabilities (2,325) (3,791) (4,716) (3,850)
Amortised cost (9,063) (8,852) (8,950) (7,299)
* Financial liabilities at amortised cost within trade and other payables consist of trade payables, intercompany payables, other taxes and other payables.
The Directors consider there to be no material difference between the book value and the fair value of the Group’s financial assets 
and liabilities at the balance sheet date. This is because most of the financial assets and liabilities are short term.
Fair value measurements recognised in the balance sheet
Financial instruments that are measured subsequent to initial recognition at fair value have been classified using a fair value hierarchy that 
reflects the significance of the inputs used in measuring the fair value of those instruments. The fair value hierarchy has the following levels:
 > Level 1 fair value measurements are those derived from quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities;
 > Level 2 fair value measurements are those derived from inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable 
for the asset or liability, either directly (i.e. as prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices); and
 > Level 3 fair value measurements are those derived from valuation techniques that include inputs for the asset or liability that are not 
based on observable market data (unobservable market inputs).
The Group’s derivatives meet the definition of Level 2, as outlined above. There were no transfers between Level 1 and 2 during the year.
Risk in relation to the use of financial instruments
Credit risk
Credit risk refers to the risk that a counterparty will default on its contractual obligations resulting in financial loss to the Group or the 
Company. Trade receivables consist of a large number of customers spread across diverse geographical areas. The Group does not have 
a significant credit risk exposure to any single counterparty. Ongoing credit evaluation is performed on the financial condition of accounts 
receivable and consideration is given as to whether there is any impairment in the value of any amounts owing.
The standard payment terms for receivables other than intra-group balances are 30 days. Any variation in these terms requires authorisation 
by senior management. Year-end debtor days are 34.5 days (2012: 34.0 days). All overdue debts are provided for where collectability 
is considered doubtful or the value of the debt is impaired. Objective evidence of impairment could include the Group’s past experience 
of collecting payments, an increase in the number of delayed payments in the portfolio past the average credit period of 34.5 days, 
as well as observable changes in international or local economic conditions. Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 84
Notes to the financial statements continued
For the year ended 30 June 2013
27. Financial instruments continued
Risk in relation to the use of financial instruments continued
Credit risk continued
The standard payment terms for intra-group receivables are 45 days. There is not considered to be any risk of impairment of these 
receivables unless the financial assets of the entity holding the corresponding liability are impaired. 
The credit risk on liquid funds and derivative financial instruments is limited because the counterparties are major financial institutions. 
Funds are split between at least two institutions. The carrying amount best represents the maximum exposure to credit risk.
Market risk
The Group’s activities expose it primarily to the financial risks of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. The Group 
enters into forward exchange contracts to hedge the exchange rate risk arising on the sales of goods and services denominated in 
US dollars, euros and Japanese yen.
Foreign currency risk management
The Group undertakes certain transactions denominated in foreign currencies. The Group’s policy is to maintain natural hedges where 
possible, by matching foreign currency revenue and expenditure. Exchange rate exposures are managed within approved policy 
parameters utilising forward exchange contracts.
The carrying amounts of the Group’s foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities at the reporting date, not denominated 
in the local functional currency, are as follows:
Liabilities Assets
30 June
2013
£000 
30 June
2012
£000 
30 June
2013
£000 
30 June
2012
£000
Euros (247) (243) 7,020 2,400
US dollars (5,758) (3,455) 11,813 13,114
Japanese yen (33) (77) 3,146 2,229
Hong Kong dollars — — 84 34
(6,038) (3,775) 22,063 17,777
Foreign currency sensitivity analysis
The Group’s principal functional currency is sterling. The Group is mainly exposed to US dollars, euros and Japanese yen. 
The following table details the Group’s sensitivity to an 8% increase and decrease in the sterling exchange rate against the relevant foreign 
currencies on the Group’s profit before tax and equity. 8% represents management’s assessment of the reasonable possible change in 
foreign exchange rates. The sensitivity analysis includes only outstanding foreign currency denominated monetary items and forward 
exchange contracts in the balance sheet at the end of the relevant accounting period and adjusts their translation at the period end for 
an 8% change in foreign currency rates. It does not represent the overall impact on Group profitability if the exchange rate sensitivity had 
been applied through the reporting period. A positive number indicates an increase in profit or equity.
Yen currency impact Euro currency impact US dollar currency impact
2013
£000 
2012
£000 
2013
£000 
2012
£000 
2013
£000 
2012
£000
Effect of an 8% strengthening in relevant 
exchange rate on:
Profit or loss 231 35 501 — 448 45
Other equity 631 535 1,840 1,289 2,182 1,266
Effect of an 8% weakening in relevant 
exchange rate on:
Profit or loss (271) (42) (589) — (685) (53)
Other equity (741) (628) (2,160) (1,513) (2,402) (1,486)
In management’s opinion, the sensitivity analysis is unrepresentative of the inherent foreign exchange risk since it is limited to the year-end 
exposure and does not reflect the exposure during the year. 
Forward exchange contracts
It is the policy of the Group to enter into forward exchange contracts to manage the risk associated with anticipated sales transactions 
out to 15 months within 30% to 95% of the exposure generated. Upon maturity of a forward exchange contract, the Group may enter 
into a new contract designated as a separate hedging relationship.
Foreign currency forward contracts are valued using quoted forward exchange rates and the yield curves derived from quoted interest 
rates matching maturities of the contracts. Overview Strategic review Performance review Financial statements Corporate governance
Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 85
27. Financial instruments continued
Forward exchange contracts continued
The following table details the forward exchange contracts outstanding as at the year end:
Outstanding contracts
Average 
rate 
30 June
2013
Foreign 
currency 
30 June
2013
000 
Contract 
value 
30 June
2013
£000 
Fair
value
30 June
2013
£000
Sell US dollars
Less than 3 months 1.57 $7,590 4,846 (151)
3 to 6 months 1.55 $10,290 6,620 (159)
7 to 12 months 1.55 $21,050 13,546 (331)
13 to 15 months 1.55 $10,800 6,951 (173)
1.56 $49,730 31,963 (814)
Sell euros
Less than 3 months 1.20 €5,725 4,786 (118)
3 to 6 months 1.19 €6,750 5,668 (121)
7 to 12 months 1.19 €13,500 11,328 (267)
13 to 15 months 1.19 €6,750 5,653 (154)
1.19 €32,725 27,435 (660)
Sell yen
Less than 3 months 126.21 ¥298,645 2,366 384
3 to 6 months 151.32 ¥306,890 2,028 (11)
7 to 12 months 151.29 ¥639,420 4,226 (34)
13 to 15 months 150.92 ¥333,000 2,207 (19)
145.74 ¥1,577,955 10,827 320
Total of outstanding forward contracts 70,225 (1,154)
Outstanding contracts
Average 
rate 
30 June
2012 
Foreign 
currency 
30 June
2012 
000 
Contract 
value 
30 June
2012 
£000 
Fair
value
30 June
2012 
£000
Sell US dollars
Less than 3 months 1.58 $5,977 3,780 (29)
3 to 6 months 1.56 $6,050 3,879 23
7 to 12 months 1.56 $12,400 7,951 43
13 to 15 months 1.56 $6,350 4,071 20
1.56 $30,777 19,681 57
Sell euros
Less than 3 months 1.16 €4,758 4,091 243
3 to 6 months 1.19 €4,825 4,050 143
7 to 12 months 1.19 €9,925 8,340 284
13 to 15 months 1.19 €5,075 4,258 129
1.19 €24,583 20,739 799
Sell yen
Less than 3 months 128.26 ¥209,486 1,633 (42)
3 to 6 months 121.79 ¥215,350 1,768 42
7 to 12 months 121.42 ¥448,700 3,696 89
13 to 15 months 121.03 ¥233,575 1,930 46
122.65 ¥1,107,111 9,027 135
Total of outstanding forward contracts 49,447 991
At 30 June 2013, the fair value of contracts held as cash flow hedges is an asset of £207,000 (2012: asset of £883,000). The remaining 
contracts are not held as cash flow hedges. Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 86
Notes to the financial statements continued
For the year ended 30 June 2013
27. Financial instruments continued
Liquidity risk management
Ultimate responsibility for liquidity risk management rests with the Board of Directors, which has built an appropriate liquidity risk management 
framework for the management of the Group’s short, medium and long-term funding and liquidity management requirements.
The Group manages liquidity risk by maintaining adequate reserves and banking facilities, continuously monitoring cash flows and 
matching the maturity profiles of financial assets and liabilities.
The Group and Company hold cash deposits at call or with a maturity of up to five years. At 30 June 2013, the average maturity of 
balances was 693 days (2012: 856 days) of fixed rate deposits not sensitive to changes in interest rates. Sufficient funds are readily 
available to the Company to meet operational requirements.
Trade payables are normally payable within 30 days of invoice and the standard payment terms for intra-group receivables are 45 days.
Liquidity and interest risk tables – financial liabilities
All balances are capital and do not include accrued interest.
Weighted
average
interest 
rate 
% 
On demand 
1 month 
£000 
1 to 3 
months 
£000 
3 months
to 1 year 
£000 
Total
£000
Group
2013
Trade payables — (4,562) (229) (20) (4,811)
Accruals and deferred income — (2,129) (3,934) (1,516) (7,579)
(6,691) (4,163) (1,536) (12,390)
Company
2013
Trade payables — (3,900) (30) — (3,930)
Accruals and deferred income — (1,296) (1,929) (1,275) (4,500)
(5,196) (1,959) (1,275) (8,430)
Weighted
average
interest 
rate 
% 
On demand 
1 month 
£000 
1 to 3 
months 
£000 
3 months
to 1 year 
£000 
Total
£000
Group
2012
Trade payables — (3,948) (180) (20) (4,148)
Accruals and deferred income — (2,057) (1,390) (2,218) (5,665)
(6,005) (1,570) (2,238) (9,813)
Company
2012
Trade payables — (3,073) (96) (6) (3,175)
Accruals and deferred income — (1,202) (1,185) (806) (3,193)
(4,275) (1,281) (812) (6,368)
Interest rate risk sensitivity analysis
An increase of 0.25% in the average interest rate during the year would have resulted in an increase in interest received by the Group 
of £70,000 (2012: £91,000) and by the Company of £44,000 (2012: £78,000). A decrease of 0.25% in the average interest rate during 
the year would have resulted in a reduction in interest received by the Group of £70,000 (2012: £91,000) and by the Company of 
£44,000 (2012: £78,000). There would have been no effect on equity reserves.
The average cash and term deposits balance throughout the year has been used as the basis for the calculations. A 0.25% increase 
or decrease in interest rates represents management’s assessment of the reasonable possible change in interest rates. Overview Strategic review Performance review Financial statements Corporate governance
Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 87
28. Share-based payments
Equity-settled share option scheme
The Company operates a number of share option schemes for certain employees of the Group. The share-based payments charge 
relates to option awards from the EMI scheme, Unapproved Share Option Plan, the Abcam Inc share scheme, the Abcam 2005 share 
option scheme, the SAYE scheme, the Abcam Company Share Option Plan (CSOP), the LTIP and the SIP . Option grants under each 
scheme have been aggregated.
The vesting period for grants under the SAYE scheme is either three years or five years, as selected by the employee at the date of grant. 
Those options with performance criteria vest when the criteria are met. The vesting period for all other options is from one to three years. 
If the options remain unexercised after a period of ten years from the date of grant the options expire. Options are forfeited if the employee 
leaves the Group before the options vest.
The volatility of the options is based on the average of standard deviations of daily continuous returns on Abcam plc shares. The dividend 
yield is based on Abcam’s actual dividend yield in the past.
The risk-free rate is the yield on UK government Gilts at each date of grant. The employee exercise multiple is based on published statistics for 
a portfolio of companies. The employee exit rate is based on management’ s expectations and, in accordance with IFRS 2, is applied after vesting.
The Group recorded a total share-based payments expense of £1,391,000 in the year (2012: £1,556,000), of which £1,211,000 (2012: £1,370,000) 
was included within administration and management expenses and £180,000 (2012: £186,000) was included within R&D expenses.
Summary of all schemes, excluding SIP and LTIP
Options outstanding as at 30 June 2013 had an exercise price of between 5 pence and 385 pence (2012: 5 pence and 370 pence). 
The weighted average remaining contractual life is 7.16 years (2012: 6.69 years). The weighted average fair value of the options 
outstanding at the end of the year was 78.02 pence (2012: 57.18 pence). The Group recorded a total share-based payments 
expense of £573,000 (2012: £310,000) in the year relating to all schemes excluding the SIP and LTIP .
2013 2012
Number of 
share 
options
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price pence 
Number of 
share 
options 
Weighted
average
exercise
price pence
Outstanding at beginning of year 2,618,082 173.35 3,019,754 126.16
Granted during year 796,060 385.00 467,400 370.00
Forfeited during year (198,625) 293.19 (194,019) 237.63
Exercised during year (843,917) 93.82 (675,053) 79.97
Outstanding at the end of year 2,371,600 260.95 2,618,082 173.35
Exercisable at end of year 956,369 95.51 1,323,857 63.09
Enterprise Management Incentive (EMI) scheme
2013 2012
Number of 
share 
options
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price pence 
Number of 
share 
options 
Weighted
average
exercise
price pence
Outstanding at beginning of year 359,987 57.29 489,425 56.33
Exercised during year (81,277) 46.04 (129,438) 53.66
Outstanding at the end of year 278,710 60.57 359,987 57.29
Exercisable at end of year 278,710 60.57 359,987 57.29
The size of the Group means that since 2009 it is no longer able to grant awards under the EMI scheme. Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 88
Notes to the financial statements continued
For the year ended 30 June 2013
28. Share-based payments continued
Unapproved Share Option Plan
2013 2012
Number of 
share 
options
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price pence 
Number of 
share 
options 
Weighted
average
exercise
price pence
Outstanding at beginning of year 746,150 57.95 758,705 58.02
Exercised during year (369,880) 42.18 (12,555) 62.40
Outstanding at the end of year 376,270 73.45 746,150 57.95
Exercisable at end of year 376,270 73.45 746,150 57.95
Further grants of unapproved options are now being made under the Abcam 2005 Share Option Scheme.
Abcam Inc share scheme
2013 2012
Number of 
share 
options
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price pence 
Number of 
share 
options 
Weighted
average
exercise
price pence
Outstanding at beginning of year — — 26,400 62.40
Exercised during year — — (26,400) 62.40
Outstanding at the end of year — — — —
Exercisable at end of year — — — —
Further grants of options to Abcam’s US employees are now being made under the Abcam 2005 Share Option Scheme.
SAYE scheme
2013 2012
Number of 
share 
options
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price pence 
Number of 
share 
options 
Weighted
average
exercise
price pence
Outstanding at beginning of year 10,795 49.80 58,640 46.87
Exercised during year (10,795) 49.80 (47,845) 46.21
Outstanding at the end of year — — 10,795 49.80
Exercisable at end of year — — 10,795 49.80
The Abcam 2005 Share Option scheme
2013 2012
Number of 
share 
options
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price pence 
Number of 
share 
options 
Weighted
average
exercise
price pence
Outstanding at beginning of year 842,673 254.88 1,150,248 155.59
Granted during year 652,183 385.00 319,345 370.00
Forfeited during year (119,661) 346.37 (168,105) 237.65
Exercised during year (260,288) 141.69 (458,815) 92.40
Outstanding at the end of year 1,114,907 302.18 842,673 254.88
Exercisable at end of year 122,750 118.33 206,925 92.40 Overview Strategic review Performance review Financial statements Corporate governance
Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 89
28. Share-based payments continued
The Abcam CSOP
2013 2012
Number of 
share 
options
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price pence 
Number of 
share 
options 
Weighted
average
exercise
price pence
Outstanding at beginning of year 658,477 265.24 536,336 234.98
Granted during year 143,877 385.00 148,055 370.00
Forfeited during year (78,964) 212.59 (25,914) 237.52
Exercised during year (121,677) 184.23 — —
Outstanding at the end of year 601,713 310.46 658,477 265.24
Exercisable at end of year 178,639 180.80 — —
Fair value calculation
The fair value of the option schemes, other than those options with market-based performance criteria, has been calculated using the 
trinomial method. The inputs into the model are as follows:
EMI scheme
Grant date
16 June
2003 
16 June
2003 
5 July
2004 
17 December
2004 
27 May
2005 
5 September
2005
Share price at grant (pence)* 2 2 5 6 12.5 12.5
Fair value at valuation date (pence)* 0.52 0.52 1.70 2.46 3.84 3.82
Exercise price (pence)* 5 7.5 5 5 12.5 12.5
Expected volatility 40% 40% 35% 35% 30% 30%
Expected life (years) 3 3.08 2 2.88 2 2
Expected dividend yield 1.1 1.1 1.1 1.1 1.1 1.1
Risk-free rate 3.97% 3.97% 5.08% 4.49% 4.31% 4.15%
Employee exercise multiple 2 2 2 2 2 2
Employee exit rate 10.00% 10.00% 10.00% 10.00% 10.00% 10.00%
* Rebased to reflect the five for one share subdivision which took place on 15 November 2010.
CSOP
Grant date
9 November 
2009 
2 December 
2010
1 November 
2011
1 November
2012 
Share price at grant (pence)* 182.4 390 370.75 389
Fair value at valuation date (pence)* 57.528 145 119 96
Exercise price (pence)* 180.8 345 370 385
Expected volatility 34% 37% 39% 33%
Expected life (years) 6 6 6 6
Expected dividend yield 1.24 0.62 1.42 1.56
Risk-free rate 3.21% 2.56% 1.50% 0.41%
Employee exercise multiple 2 2 2 2 
Employee exit rate 10.00% 10.00% 10.00% 0.00% 
* Rebased to reflect the five for one share subdivision which took place on 15 November 2010. Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 90
Notes to the financial statements continued
For the year ended 30 June 2013
28. Share-based payments continued
Unapproved Share Option Plan
Grant date
20 December
2004 
20 December
2004 
30 September
2005 
30 September
2005 
27 October
2005
Share price at grant (pence)* 6 6 12.5 12.5 33.4
Fair value at valuation date (pence)* 2.24 2.32 3.78 2.04 11.15
Exercise price (pence)* 5 5 12.5 25 30
Expected volatility 35% 35% 30% 30% 30%
Expected life (years) 1.54 2 1.82 1.82 1.635
Expected dividend yield 1.1 1.1 1.1 1.1 1.1
Risk-free rate 4.46% 4.46% 4.29% 4.29% 4.40%
Employee exercise multiple 2 2 2 2 2
Employee exit rate 10.00% 10.00% 10.00% 10.00% 10.00%
* Rebased to reflect the five for one share subdivision which took place on 15 November 2010.
SAYE scheme
Grant date
2 October
2006 
2 October
2006 
8 November
2007 
8 November
2007
Share price at grant (pence)* 56 56 62.4 62.4
Fair value at valuation date (pence)* 20.8 22.6 21.2 24.4
Exercise price (pence)* 44.8 44.8 49.8 49.8
Expected volatility 30% 30% 30% 30%
Expected life (years) 3 5 3 5
Expected dividend yield 1.1% 1.1% 1.5% 1.5%
Risk-free rate 4.54% 4.54% 4.80% 4.80%
Employee exercise multiple 2 2 2 2
Employee exit rate 10.00% 10.00% 12.00% 12.00%
* Rebased to reflect the five for one share subdivision which took place on 15 November 2010.
The Abcam 2005 Share Option Scheme
The fair value of options issued after September 2006 with market-based performance criteria is calculated using the Monte Carlo model. 
The inputs into the Monte Carlo model are as follows:
Grant date
7 September
2006 
8 November
2007 
7 May
2008 
6 November
2008
9 November 
2009
2 December
2010
1 November
2011
1 November
 2012
Share price at grant (pence)* 56 62.4 82.6 92.5 180.8 373 370 389
Fair value at valuation date (pence)* 16.8 17.8 24.6 23 57.6 138 119 96
Exercise price (pence)* 56 62.4 82.6 92.4 180.8 345 370 385
Expected volatility 30% 30% 30% 24% 34% 37% 39% 33%
Expected life (years) 3 3.01 3 3 6 6 6 6
Expected dividend yield 1.1% 1.5% 1.5% 0.87% 1.24% 0.62% 1.42% 1.56%
Risk-free rate 4.57% 4.80% 4.79% 3.90% 3.21% 2.56% 1.50% 0.41%
Employee exercise multiple 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2
Employee exit rate 9.53% 12.00% 12.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00%
* Rebased to reflect the five for one share subdivision which took place on 15 November 2010.
SIP
All UK based employees are eligible to participate in the SIP whereby employees buy shares in the Company. These shares are called 
partnership shares and are held in trust on behalf of the employee. For every partnership share bought by the employee the Company 
will give the employee one share free of charge (matching shares), provided the employee remains employed by the Company for a 
period of at least three years. The employees must take their shares out of the plan on leaving the Company and will not be entitled to the 
matching shares if they leave within three years of buying the partnership shares. In addition, the Company can also award employees 
up to a maximum of £3,000 of shares (free shares). There are no vesting conditions attached to the free shares, other than being 
continuously employed by the Company for three years from the date of grant. Overview Strategic review Performance review Financial statements Corporate governance
Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 91
28. Share-based payments continued
SIP continued
Number of
free shares
Number of
matching shares
2013 2012 2013 2012
Outstanding at beginning of year 540,330 486,923 130,749 102,696
Granted during year 138,607 133,837 37,374 38,514
Forfeited during year (32,645) (27,624) (5,631) (5,862)
Released during year (55,020) (52,806) (7,635) (4,599)
Outstanding at the end of year 591,272 540,330 154,857 130,749
Exercisable at end of year 251,325 163,930 58,450 30,650
For the purposes of IFRS 2 the fair value of these matching shares and free shares is determined as the market value of the shares at the 
date of grant. No valuation model is required to calculate the fair value of awards under the SIP . The fair value of an equity based payment 
under the SIP is the face value of the award on the date of grant because the participants are entitled to receive the full value of the shares 
and there are no market based performance conditions attached to the awards.
The Group recognised a total expense of £561,000 (2012: £404,000) in the year relating to matching and free share awards.
LTIP
The Company approved a new LTIP in 2008. To date, vesting of performance share awards made under this scheme to the executive 
management team have been conditional upon achievement of two separate performance conditions. Full details of these performance 
conditions are shown in the Directors’ Remuneration Report. In 2010, LTIP awards were also made to members of senior management, 
in addition to the executive management team. Vesting of awards made in 2010 to senior management were conditional on market-based 
performance criteria and calculated using the Monte Carlo model. Vesting criteria for awards made to senior management from 2011 
onwards are aligned with those awarded to the executive management team. The awards made on 9 February 2012 were to senior 
management and based on specific operating performance conditions over a vesting period of two years. All awards are nil cost options 
which vest, subject to achievement of the relevant performance conditions, after three years, and can be exercised over the following seven 
years. Save as permitted in the LTIP rules, awards lapse on an employee leaving the Company.
Details of performance share awards outstanding during the year are as follows:
LTIP awards
2013
LTIP awards
2012
Outstanding at beginning of year 1,887,156 1,612,737
Granted during year 161,044 342,688
Forfeited during year (58,700) (38,269)
Exercised during year (217,733) (30,000)
Outstanding at the end of year 1,771,767 1,887,156
Exercisable at end of year 966,929 739,747
Of the performance share awards granted during the year, 161,044 awards were made on 1 November 2012 (2012: 321,888 on 
1 November 2011 and 20,800 on 9 February 2012). The aggregate of the fair values of the awards made on 1 November 2012 
is £600,348 (2012: £1,025,000).
The estimated fair values of the awards are calculated using the Monte Carlo model, with the Black Scholes model used to calculate 
those with a performance condition based on EPS. The inputs into the models for awards granted are as follows:
Grant date
6 and 
17 November
2008
9 November
2009*
9 November
2009
2 December
2010
1 November 
2011
9 February
2012
1 November 
2012
Weighted average exercise price (pence) — — — — — — —
Expected volatility 24% 34% 34% 37% 39% 38% 33%
Expected life (years) 3 4 3 3 3 1.6 3
Expected dividend yield 0.87% 1.24% 1.24% 0.62% 1.42% 1.58% 1.56%
Risk-free rate 3.41% 2.52% 2.03% 1.36% 1.50% 0.39% 0.41%
* Awards made to senior management based on market-based performance criteria only.
The Group recognised a total expense of £257,000 (2012: £842,000) in the year related to performance share awards under the LTIP . Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 92
Notes to the financial statements continued
For the year ended 30 June 2013
29. Retirement benefit schemes
Defined contribution schemes
The UK-based employees of the Company have the option to be members of a defined contribution pension scheme managed by a third party 
pension provider. For each employee who is a member of the scheme the Company will contribute a fixed percentage of each employee’s 
salary to the scheme. The only obligation of the Group with respect to this scheme is to make the specified contributions.
Employees of the Group’s subsidiaries in the US, Japan, China and Hong Kong are members of state-managed retirement benefit schemes 
operated by the governments of the US, Japan, China and Hong Kong respectively. Depending on location, the subsidiaries are required to 
contribute a specified percentage of payroll costs to the retirement benefit schemes to fund the benefits. The only obligation of the Group 
with respect to the retirement benefit schemes is to make the specified contributions as required by law.
The total cost charged to the income statement in respect of these schemes during the year ended 30 June 2013 was £977,000 
(2012: £949,000). As at 30 June 2013 contributions of £84,000 (2012: £74,000) due in respect of the current reporting period had 
not been paid over to the schemes.
30. Related party transactions
Remuneration of key personnel
The remuneration of the EMT, who are the key management personnel of the Group, is set out below in aggregate for each of the 
categories specified in IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures. Further information about the remuneration of individual Directors is provided 
in the audited part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report.
Group and Company
30 June
2013
£000 
30 June
2012
£000
Short-term employee benefits and fees 2,056 1,842
Share-based payments charge 866 848
2,922 2,690
Directors’ transactions
Under a new product development agreement with a laboratory associated with Tony Kouzarides (a Non-Executive Director of the Company 
who retired 22 October 2012), Abcam provided products from its catalogue free of charge, with a resale value of £31,101 (2012: £30,363) 
and paid £81,411 in royalties (2012: £77,455). £21,466 relating to these royalties was outstanding at the year end (2012: £14,074).
Dividends totalling £1,939,512 were paid in the year in respect of ordinary shares held by the Company’ s Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
Company transactions with its subsidiaries
The Company provided goods for resale to, received dividends from, and was charged management fees by its subsidiaries in the current 
and prior years as summarised in the following table:
30 June
2013
£000 
30 June
2012
£000
Sales of goods 55,539 47,472
Purchase of goods (8,549) (3,326)
Dividends received 6,557 2,323
Management fees charged (1,705) (1,167)
51,842 45,302
Amounts remaining outstanding at the year end can be seen in the Company Balance Sheet.
31. Income statement for the Company
As permitted by section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 the Company has elected not to present its own income statement for the 
year. Abcam plc reported a profit for the year ended 30 June 2013 of £52,524,000 (2012: £24,501,000). Profit for the year includes 
£13,973,000 of non-distributable earnings relating to the gain on disposal resulting from an intra-group transfer of a subsidiary 
undertaking (see note 15 for further details). Corporate directory
Registered office
330 Cambridge Science Park
Milton Road
Cambridge CB4 0FL 
UK
Websites
www.abcam.com 
www.abcamplc.com
Registered number
3509322
Company Secretary
Jeff Iliffe
Nominated advisor and joint broker
Numis Securities Limited
The London Stock Exchange Building
10 Paternoster Square
London EC4M 7LT 
UK
Joint broker
Peel Hunt LLP
Moor House
120 London Wall
London EC2Y 5ET 
UK
Solicitor
Eversheds LLP
1 Wood Street
London EC2V 7WS 
UK
Auditor
Deloitte LLP
Chartered Accountants
Cambridge 
UK
Public relations advisor
Buchanan Communications Limited
107 Cheapside
London EC2V 6DN 
UK
Banker
National Westminster Bank plc
King’s Parade
Cambridge CB2 3PU 
UK
Registrar
Capita Registrars
Northern House
Woodsome Park
Fenay Bridge
Huddersfield HD8 0GA 
UK
Shareholder enquiries
Any shareholder with enquiries should, in the first instance, contact 
our Registrars, Capita Registrars, using the address provided in the 
Corporate Directory.
Share price information
London Stock Exchange Alternative Investment Market (AIM) 
symbol: ABC
Information on the Company’s share price is available on the 
Abcam Investor Relations website at www.abcamplc.com.
Investor relations
330 Cambridge Science Park
Milton Road
Cambridge CB4 0FL 
UK
Email: corporate@abcam.com
Tel: +44 (0)1223 696000
Website: www.abcamplc.com
Financial calendar
Financial year end 30 June 2013
Full year results announced 9 September 2013
Annual General Meeting 8 November 2013
Ex-dividend date for final dividend 6 November 2013
Record date for final dividend 8 November 2013
Final dividend payment 29 November 2013
Shareholder information Thank you!
Abcam plc
330 Cambridge Science Park
Cambridge CB4 0FL 
UK 
Email: corporate@abcam.com
Phone: +44 (0)1223 696000
Fax: +44 (0)1223 215215
www.abcamplc.com
Abcam plc is committed to achieving good environmental practice and this is reflected 
in this Annual Report which has been printed on Cocoon 100 Silk. This stock is 
comprised of 100% genuine de-inked post-consumer waste which is independently 
certified in accordance with the rules of the Forest Stewardship Council
®
 and 
produced at mills with ISO 14001 environmental management systems.
100%
Once again, we would like to thank our employees, 
who are essential to our continued success.
Their skill and dedication has been invaluable 
in making Abcam what it is today.
Abcam plc Annual report and accounts 2013
