 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 Tesco PLC
www.tesco.com/annualreport09
Tesco PLC
Tesco House
Delamare Road
Cheshunt
Hertfordshire EN8 9SL
Value
travels
Annual Report and 
Financial Statements 2009 Printed on Revive, a 100% recycled 
paper with FSC certification. 
Printed by CTD using an alcohol- 
free process. The printing inks  
are made with non-hazardous 
vegetable oil from renewable 
sources. Over 90% of solvents and 
developers are recycled for further 
use and recycling initiatives are in 
place for all other waste associated 
with this production. CTD are FSC 
and ISO 14001 certified with strict 
procedures in place to safeguard the 
environment through all processes. 
Designed and produced by  
35 Communications.
 Go online
Every year, more and more
information is available for 
our shareholders, staff and 
customers online.
 Go online
Every year, more and more
information is available for 
our shareholders, staff and 
customers online.
Introduction 
Financial highlights 2
Chairman’s statement 3
Tesco at a glance 4
Chief Executive’s Q&A 5
Report of the Directors  6
Business Review 6
Long-term strategy 6
Markets served and business model 7
International 8
Core UK 12
Non-food 16
Retailing Services 20
Community 24
People 28
Resources and relationships 30
Group performance 32
Key Performance Indicators 36
Risks and uncertainties 38
Financial review 40
General information 41
Our Board of Directors 42
Corporate governance 44
Directors’ remuneration report 50
Financial statements  65
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities 66
Independent auditors’ report to the
 members of Tesco PLC 67
Group income statement 68
Group statement of recognised income and expense 69
Group balance sheet 70
Group cash flow statement 71
Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in 
 net debt note 71
Notes to the Group financial statements 72
Five year record 124
Tesco PLC – Parent Company financial statements 126
Independent auditors’ report to the members 
 of Tesco PLC 136 1 Welcome to tesco plc
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
Value travels – Tesco is about 
creating value for customers  
to earn their lifetime loyalty.  
We understand that this is more 
important than ever as our 
customers around the world  
are looking to us to help them 
spend less. 
So whether they are looking for 
lighter meal options, clothing, 
mobile phone tariffs or savings 
accounts, they can trust Tesco  
to deliver great value.
More information is available online at  
www.tesco.com/annualreport09 2
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
Financial Hig Hlig Hts
15.1%
Group sales 
(including VAT)*
         2009 
      2009 52 weeks  
      53 weeks pro-forma 2008
Group sales (£m) (including value added tax)      59,426  58,588 51,773
Group revenue (£m) (excluding value added tax)      54,327  53,552 47,298
Underlying Group profit before tax (£m)
*†
      3,128  3,093 2,846
Group profit before tax (£m)      2,954  2,920 2,803
Underlying diluted earnings per share (p)
**
      28.92 – 27.02
Dividend per share (p)      11.96 – 10.90
Group enterprise value (£m) (market capitalisation plus net debt)      35,907 –  37,656
Return on capital employed      13.0%
‡
 –  12.9%
§
* Sales & profit growth reported on a consistent basis (12 months versus 12 months) for China. 
** Growth in underlying diluted EPS has been adjusted to reflect a constant tax rate year on year. Growth was 7.0% on a statutory basis.
†  Adjusted for IAS 32, IAS 39, the net difference between the IAS 19 Income Statement charge and ‘normal’ cash contributions for pensions, IAS 17 ‘Leases’ (impact of annual uplifts  
in rent and rent-free periods, and the IFRS 3 amortisation charge on intangible assets arising on the acquisition of Tesco Personal Finance (TPF).
‡ Excluding acquisitions of TPF and Homever, India start-up costs, and after adjusting for assets held for sale.
§  Using a ‘normalised’ tax rate before start-up costs in the US and Tesco Direct, and excludes the impact of foreign exchange in equity and our acquisition of a majority share of Dobbies.
10.0%
Underlying Group profit 
before tax*†
5.5%
Group profit before tax*
11.0%
Underlying diluted earnings
per share**
2.6%
Diluted earnings per share
9.7%
Dividend per share
Good financial management and leading market 
positions have served us well this year in the 
face of a challenging consumer environment. 
We will continue to pursue our long-term 
strategy which will put us in an even stronger 
position once our markets emerge from the 
economic downturn.
All growth figures reported on a 53-week basis. 3
Tesco PLC annual Report and Financial s tatements 2009
cH aiRman’s statement
I am pleased to report that despite the extraordinary economic 
environment we find ourselves in, Tesco has once again delivered 
a good set of results. This demonstrates that Tesco is coping well 
with the downturn. Despite the challenging conditions around 
the globe we have remained resilient and are growing as fast as 
any major international retailer.
We’ve made several new appointments to the t esco Board in the year, 
including l aurie mcilwee who takes on the role of g roup Finance 
Director, replacing andrew Higginson who has been appointed c hief 
executive of Retailing s ervices whilst retaining his responsibility for 
g roup s trategy. 
l aurie has been with t esco for nine years and has a very strong track-
record in both finance and operations. in his most recent role as 
Distribution Director l aurie was responsible for transforming our 
network – a tremendous achievement. His appointment shows once 
again how careful management succession planning works in t esco 
and i have every confidence he will do an outstanding job as our g roup 
Finance Director. 
We’ve also appointed three strong new n on-executive Directors in 
recent months – Jacqueline t ammenoms Bakker, a former Director 
g eneral at the ministry of t ransport in the n etherlands who has also 
held senior positions at mcKinsey & c o. and s hell, patrick c escau, 
former ceo of Unilever and Ken Hanna, c hairman of inchcape plc and 
former c Fo of c adbury. t hey bring with them a wealth of international, 
commercial and financial experience which will further strengthen our 
Board and support our plans for the long-term growth of the g roup.
Whilst the downturn has presented many challenges, it has also opened 
up some opportunities. We have made two very significant acquisitions 
this year.
We have acquired the remaining 50% of t esco personal Finance from 
Royal Bank of s cotland, a move which will enable us to develop an 
already very successful financial services offer towards our objective  
of becoming a full-service retail bank.
in s outh Korea we purchased 36 hypermarkets from e-land, mostly in 
s eoul, which has put us in a very strong position to challenge for market 
leadership in one of our most successful markets.
most of our growth has again been organic – we’ve opened nine  
million square feet of new space this year, excluding the acquisition in 
s outh Korea. in august we announced our entry into india, with plans 
to establish a cash & carry operation and a franchise agreement with 
t rent to support their s tar Bazaar hypermarkets. t his complements our 
entries into c hina and the United s tates, giving us access to another of 
the world’s most important economies.
Whilst many of our customers are focused on managing their shopping 
budgets, it is still important to them that we behave responsibly in the 
communities we serve. We now have a c ommunity plan for each 
country and earlier in the year we launched our c ommunity promises. 
t hese are: actively supporting local communities; buying and selling 
our products responsibly; caring for the environment; giving customers 
healthy choices; and creating good jobs and careers.
We’ve made some great progress this year – we’ve opened our 
greenest ever store at c heetham Hill in manchester, with a carbon 
footprint that is 70% smaller than a typical store – bringing our total 
number of green stores across the g roup to 37. t his will be a blueprint 
for how we build stores in the future.
o ur work to encourage customers to make greener decisions is going 
well. t hrough green c lubcard points we have reduced the number of 
single-use carrier bags in the UK by 50% and we are finding innovative 
ways to use green c lubcard elsewhere – for example by rewarding 
customers for cycling to our stores in s outh Korea.
i’m also pleased to announce that in the UK we have once again broken 
our ‘c harity of the Year’ record, raising a remarkable £6.2 million for 
marie c urie c ancer c are.
although it was impossible to predict the scale of the global economic 
slowdown, t esco has responded well by adjusting our business to this 
environment. o ur 470,000 strong team have done a fantastic job – 
staying close to customers and reacting quickly to their changing needs 
around the world.
i am confident that this hard work will continue as we press on with our 
long-term strategy which i believe will put us in an even stronger 
position once economies start to recover.
David Reid, Chairman 36%
33%
30%
UK 
EUROPE
ASIA 
US 
1%
2005 2006 2007 2008 2009
37.0
43.1
46.6
51.8
59 .4
India
South Korea
China
UK
Poland
Slovakia       
Japan
Malaysia
Czech Republic
Hungary
US
T urkey
Thailand
Republic 
of Ireland
4 t esco at a glance
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
£59.4bn
Group sales
No. 3
 Third largest grocery retailer in the world
470,000
People
4,331
Stores worldwide
14
Countries
Geographic locations
Market Staff numbers Store numbers
China 19,452 70
Czech Republic 12,677 113
Hungary 21,356 149
Japan 4,007 135
Malaysia 9,872 29
Poland 23,569 319
Rep. Ireland 13,764 116
Market Staff numbers Store numbers
Slovakia 8,286 70
South Korea 20,626 242
Thailand 38,166 571
Turkey 7,025 96
UK 286,394 2,306
US 2,583 115
Group sales (£bn) Group space by region
In 2008/9 there were an additional 731 people working in other global locations such as international buying hubs.
Store numbers exclude one store in Calais, France. India
South Korea
China
UK
Poland
Slovakia       
Japan
Malaysia
Czech Republic
Hungary
US
T urkey
Thailand
Republic 
of Ireland
5
Tesco PLC annual Report and Financial s tatements 2009
cH ieF exec Utive’s Q& a
These actions, combined with our core strengths – in selling  
food and everyday essentials, owning our own property and 
having a broad business base – are helping us to cope well with  
the effects of the downturn. We are also pleased with the early 
performance of Tesco Personal Finance under our ownership and 
with the converted Homever stores in South Korea. As a result,  
we have delivered a solid sales and profit performance, both in  
the UK and internationally, whilst continuing to invest in our long-
term strategy for growth. We have made a good start to the new 
financial year and I am confident Tesco will continue to make good 
progress even in the current global economic environment. 
Q: It has been a very tough time for the economy but the good 
news is it has been very sturdy growth for Tesco. How have you 
managed that?
A: it has been a very good year and mainly of course that is the dividend of 
having a long-term, consistent strategy. We’ve invested into this slowdown 
and that has given us good momentum through the recession. We are 
growing fast in our overseas countries, laying out networks of stores 
and we are still opening new space in the UK as well. in addition to that, 
of course, people have to eat – we’re blessed in that sense, so we don’t 
face the worst of the slowdown. We’ve also adjusted our business both in 
the UK and around the world to make sure that we offer better value 
and better ranges which keeps customers in the stores, and helps 
volume in the business. 
Q: You’re very much in the front line when it comes to knowing 
what customers are thinking, how they are behaving. Are there 
any signs that we have perhaps reached the bottom of the 
recession? What lies in store for the economy do you think?
A: it is very fluid at the moment – changes are happening over weeks,  
so i don’t think you can see any clear direction yet. What i would say is 
that it looks as if things are stabilising on the consumer front. in the UK 
the lower interest rates help, as do the lower fuel prices and energy  
prices, and coupled with the work that we have done in reducing food 
prices for customers – this helps rebuild confidence. in c entral europe  
the economies had a big decline early in the summer and the autumn  
of 2008 – that feels as if it has levelled out, which is encouraging. in asia  
it is too early to say. t heir decline came later with the destocking of the 
supply chain and so for them it really hit around December. t hese are 
strong economies and the destocking will end and we’ll start to get  
restocking in the pipeline which will help. 
Q: Priorities change during a recession – for business and 
customers alike. Is there a risk that the focus on green and 
corporate responsibility slips somewhat?
A: it is important that it doesn’t and it’s one of the reasons we lay  
such emphasis within t esco on our ‘s teering Wheel’ – our balanced 
scorecard – so that whatever is going on in the outside world, we  
keep focused on the things that matter long term. o f course price  
and trading is important at the moment, but there are big long-term 
objectives around community and the environment that we have got  
to stay committed to. t esco has to help customers change from mass 
consumption to green consumption. o n climate change, we’ve got to 
learn how to run this business on 80% less carbon. We have got great 
plans and we are making great progress. o f course it helps the business 
too – not wasting things is a very good habit at a time like this and one 
of the reasons our energy bills are down £100 million this year is because 
of all of the green initiatives we’ve been working on over several years. 
Q: Bearing in mind what you have seen in the US so far, are you 
pleased with the progress? 
A: i am, yes, because there’s lots to be pleased about. c learly nobody  
would have chosen to open into the scale of recession that we’ve seen 
there, which is particularly stiff in the Western United states, but the 
customers love the stores and they appeal right across the income range 
and the age range, and that bodes very well for their long-term appeal. 
Fresh & easy is more than just a niche retailer – it’s a new and different 
form of retailing. c ustomers obviously like the fresh foods and they  
like the own-brand products, but also are increasingly recognising the 
tremendous prices that are on offer and of course that is very important 
at the moment. t he operation is very good and it’s strong. We really 
have created the business that we set out to create in terms of the 
highest, freshest quality in the market at the best prices in the local 
neighbourhood. We are expanding the business at a good rate and 
morale is high. 
Q: What excites you most about the year ahead?
A: First of all we’re growing – and we’re serving more customers. t hey 
have needs; they are just different needs at a time like this. it’s what 
t esco is for – to stay close to customers and change as their needs 
change. t hat’s got to take a different form in different categories or in 
different parts of the world. it’s important you have strong, confident 
local leadership teams who take the responsibility to make those 
changes. i believe that is happening. if you look at our businesses – 
whether it’s non-food, financial services or in our international markets 
– we are growing strongly and we are growing market share. t here’s 
more that we have to do from place to place, but confidence is high. 
people know what they have to do and have the authority to do it. 
At a time when customers everywhere are 
feeling the economic strain, we are responding  
to their changing needs in all our markets by 
lowering prices, introducing more affordable 
products and offering even sharper promotions.
Sir Terry Leahy, Chief Executive
To see a full video interview go to
www.tesco.com/annualreport09/presentations COMMUNITY    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CUSTOMER
THE STAFF 
ARE GREAT
I DON’T QUEUE
THE PRICES
ARE GOOD
I CAN GET 
WHAT I WANT
THE AISLES 
ARE CLEAR
EARN LIFETIME
LOYAL TY
OPERATIONS
WE ALWAYS SAVE
TIME AND MONEY
WE KNOW
HOW VITAL OUR
JOBS ARE
WE MAKE OUR
JOBS EASIER
TO DO
WE DELIVER
CONSISTENTLY
 EVERY DAY
WE TRY TO
GET IT RIGHT
 FIRST TIME
CREATING
GOOD JOBS AND
CAREERS
GIVING CUSTOMERS
HEALTHY CHOICES
CARING FOR THE
ENVIRONMENT
BUYING AND SELLING OUR
 PRODUCTS RESPONSIBLY
ACTIVEL Y
SUPPORTING LOCAL
COMMUNITIES
PEOPLE
AN OPPORTUNITY
TO GET ON
AN INTERESTING 
JOB
A MANAGER WHO 
HELPS ME
TO BE TREATED 
WITH RESPECT
FINANCE
MANAGE OUR
INVESTMENT
MAXIMISE 
PROFIT
GROW SALES
TREAT PEOPLE HOW WE LIKE TO BE TREATED
NO-ONE TRIES HARDER FOR CUSTOMERS
6 Repo Rt o F t He DiRecto Rs
t he Directors present their annual Report to shareholders on the  
affairs of the g roup and c ompany, together with the audited financial 
statements of the c ompany for the 53 weeks ended 28 February 2009.
Long-term strategy
t esco has a well-established and consistent strategy for growth, which 
has allowed us to strengthen our core UK business and drive expansion 
into new markets. t he rationale for the strategy is to broaden the scope 
of the business to enable it to deliver strong, sustainable long-term 
growth by following the customer into large expanding markets at 
home – such as financial services, non-food and telecoms – and new 
markets abroad, initially in c entral europe and asia, and more recently 
in the United s tates.
t he strategy to diversify the business was laid down in 1997 and has been 
the foundation of t esco’s success in recent years. t he new businesses 
which have been created and developed over the last 12 years as part 
of this strategy now have scale, they are competitive and profitable – in 
fact we are now market leader in many of our markets outside the UK.
t he g roup has continued to make good progress with this strategy, which 
has five elements, reflecting our four established areas of focus, and  
also t esco’s long-term commitments on community and environment. 
importantly, the momentum which it has given the business has allowed 
the g roup to continue to grow well through the economic downturn.
t he objectives of the strategy are:
• 	 t o 	 b e 	 a 	 s u c c e ss f u l 	 in t e r n a t i o n a l 	 r e t a i le r ;
• 	 t o 	 g r o w 	 t he 	 c o r e 	 U K 	 b u s ine ss;
• 	 t o 	 b e 	 a s 	 st r o ng 	 in 	 no n - f o o d 	 a s 	 in 	 f o o d ;
• 	 	 t o 	 d e v e lo p 	 r e t a i ling 	 s e r v i c e s 	 – 	 s u c h 	 a s 	 T e s c o 	 P e r s o n a l 	 F in anc e ,	
t elecoms and tesco.com; and
•	 to 	 p ut 	 c ommunit y 	 at 	 t he 	 hear t 	 of 	 w hat 	 we 	 do .
in 2008/9, t esco has again delivered a good performance, with all  
parts of the strategy contributing. We have sustained solid growth in 
the UK and coped well with the challenges of recession and improving 
competitors. in our international operations we have made good 
progress, completing a large programme of new store openings and 
carefully adjusting our businesses locally to the effects of the global 
economic slowdown. We have also acquired 36 hypermarkets in  
s outh Korea, our largest market outside the UK, in a move which has 
significantly strengthened our market position there, and begun the 
groundwork for a wholesale cash & carry business in india. 
in non-food, we continue to grow sales and market share and maintain 
profitability, against a background of a declining general retail market, 
and we have seen excellent growth from t esco Direct, which extends 
our reach in selling a broad range of products on the internet and via  
This Business Review analyses 
the performance of the Tesco 
Group in the financial year  
ended 28 February 2009. It also 
explains other aspects of the 
Group’s markets, results and 
operations, including strategy 
and risk management.
Business review
We operate a balanced scorecard approach to managing the 
business that is known within the Group as our Steering Wheel. 
This unites the Group’s resources and in particular focuses the 
efforts of our staff around our customers, people, operations, 
finance and the community. Its purpose is to ensure Tesco puts 
appropriate balance into the trade-offs that need to be made  
all the time between the main levers of management – such as 
delivery of customer metrics, operations measures and financial 
measures. It enables the business to be operated and monitored 
on a balanced basis with due regard to the needs of all stakeholders. 
For the owners of the business, it is simply based around the 
philosophy that if we look after customers well and operate 
efficiently and effectively, shareholders’ interests will always be 
best served by the inevitable outputs of those – growth in sales, 
profits and returns.
Our long-term strategy
International
Tesco is an international retailer and wherever we operate we 
focus on giving local customers what they want. Page 8
Core UK
The UK is our biggest market and the core of our business.  
We aim to provide all our customers with excellent value and 
choice. Page 12
Non-food
Our aim is to be as strong in non-food as in food. This means 
offering the same great quality, range, price and service for  
our customers as we do in our food business. Page 16
Retailing Services
Tesco has followed its customers into the growing world of 
retailing services, aiming to bring simplicity and value to 
sometimes complex markets. Page 20
Community
Tesco is a responsible business. We aim to take a leadership role 
in tackling climate change and believe in playing a positive role  
in all the communities we serve. Page 24
Our Steering Wheel 47%
30%
21%
UK 
EUROPE
ASIA 
US
2%
£41.5bn
£10.1bn
£7 .6bn
UK 
EUROPE 
ASIA  
US 
£0.2bn
7 Repo Rt o F t He DiRecto Rs
Tesco PLC annual Report and Financial s tatements 2009
a catalogue. o ur retailing services have delivered another good year, 
with tesco.com growing strongly, t esco personal Finance making good 
progress and t elecoms continuing to build its customer base strongly 
and grow profits. Finally, our work on community and environment 
continues – we have recently opened our latest blueprint green store at 
c heetham Hill, manchester, which has a carbon footprint 70% lower 
than a normal store.
Markets served and business model
t esco’s growth, driven by this strategy, has been predominantly  
organic and we have used our skills and knowledge in understanding 
customers, property development, supply chain management, new 
product development, store formatting and adapting to local customer 
needs – to create strong business models in our chosen markets. Where 
we do not have all the required skills ourselves to be successful, we 
regularly partner with existing businesses – and these relationships 
have formed the basis of some of our most successful operations –  
for example with s amsung in s outh Korea.
t he UK grocery retail market remains our largest source of revenue, 
representing some 50% of last year’s £59.4 billion of sales. international 
retail sales – from our 12 markets in europe, asia and the United s tates, 
comprise a further 30% of g roup revenues and non-food (in a variety 
of categories from health and beauty to electronics) accounts for most 
of the remainder. o ur services businesses have comparatively small 
revenue streams, but they are increasingly material to our earnings base. 
We have given them a renewed focus this year – deploying more capital 
and management resources. a first key step in making these already 
successful businesses much larger and more significant to the g roup  
was the acquisition of Royal Bank of s cotland’s share of t esco personal 
Finance – and we expect these businesses, including our online shopping 
channels, t elecoms and dunnhumby (our consumer research business) 
to deliver £1 billion a year of profit for the g roup within the next few years.
at the core of t esco’s business model is a focus on trying to improve what 
we do for customers. We aim to make their shopping experience as easy 
as possible, lower prices where we can to help them spend less, give 
them more choice about how they shop – in small stores, large stores or 
online – and seek to bring simplicity and value to sometimes complicated 
markets. We aim to be a good neighbour in the communities we serve, 
be responsible, fair and honest in our dealings and give customers the 
information and products they need to make greener choices. We are 
also an inclusive business – everyone is welcome at t esco.
Underpinning this approach is a relentless attitude to being the lowest 
cost provider of goods and services in our chosen sectors – and this 
combination of qualities is the reason we have been successful in some 
of the world’s most competitive markets. We have recognised skills and 
proprietary systems in key areas which help us deliver a low cost model 
– particularly in customer relationship management, just-in-time supply 
chain and distribution, property development and store formatting.  
in some of our newer markets – such as telecoms or financial services, our 
willingness to partner with established businesses has given us access 
to their existing investment in systems and infrastructure and enabled 
t esco to develop competitive, profitable business models quickly and, 
at the same time, limit our own investment and risk in the early years.  
in the case of financial services, having successfully partnered with  
Royal Bank of s cotland for a decade we now have the experience to take 
sole ownership in order to pursue our aim of becoming a full-service retail 
bank and give t esco personal Finance the focus that this will require.
My main challenge is to maintain the balance between staying on 
strategy while living within our means. For a growth company like 
Tesco it is vital of course that we meet the challenges posed by the 
economic downturn – and the priorities there are the same as for 
any finance director in the current environment – in helping the 
business to find the resources to invest for customers, by keeping  
a good grip on costs and cash.
At the same time though, I need to do what I can to help sustain Tesco’s 
investment in future growth. By investing in the right opportunities, 
protecting ourselves from unpredictable capital markets and trading 
in a sustainable way we should exit this recession as an even stronger 
company. That’s how Tesco emerged as a winner from the last 
recession. Exciting opportunities are there to be grasped – for example, 
land and property are already significantly cheaper, our online 
businesses are not capital intensive and, given the loss of confidence in 
the banking sector, our very conservative, straightforward approach in 
Tesco Personal Finance may be exactly what customers are looking for.
Laurie Mcllwee Group Finance Director
Sales by region Sales growth contribution by region
As Group Finance Director, what are your 
priorities at the moment? 8 Repo Rt o F t He DiRecto Rs
We’ve long understood that retailing is 
local. Each team on the ground is able to 
adjust our offer to each market because 
customers in China, for example, aren’t the 
same as those in Poland or South Korea. 
So we’ve never tried to run the international 
business from our office in the UK. In fact, 
we have very few expats working outside 
the UK – in South Korea just six out of a 
team of over 20,000 people. As we face 
into some strong economic headwinds,  
it’s more important than ever to stay  
close to customers and be able to adapt 
quickly locally as their needs change. 
We have people in each of our markets 
who have a wealth of experience and  
are able to make the decisions that  
really matter. 
A big part of my job is about making sure 
we’ve got the right people in each country, 
sharing experience around the business 
and empowering people to do the right 
things for their customers. 
Philip Clarke International and IT Director
How do you run successful 
businesses in so many countries?
International 
sales up
31% 9 Repo Rt o F t He DiRecto Rs
Tesco PLC annual Report and Financial s tatements 2009
across our markets customers are changing their shopping habits as 
they are affected to varying degrees by the global economic downturn. 
in this kind of environment, it is more important than ever to listen to 
customers and adapt quickly to their changing needs.
each of our markets is different so it’s up to the individual businesses to 
adjust their offer locally. Using customer insight allows our experienced 
teams on the ground to make decisions based on real customer data. 
We have spent many years developing our customer insight skills, 
particularly through dunnhumby, the consumer research company 
behind our loyalty scheme, c lubcard. t hrough careful analysis of sales 
and loyalty card data we can better understand what is important to 
our customers. t his year we have been using this unique insight across 
most parts of our business so we don’t have to guess what our 
customers want, we know.
in all our markets it’s helping us select the most important items for 
price-sensitive or cost-conscious shoppers so we can invest in lowering 
prices on the most important items to help customers through tough 
economic times. For example, in malaysia, we have reviewed our  
range of staple foods and groceries and as a result we have introduced 
27 new products to the basket, which we know are among the most 
important for customers. We now make sure that we are not beaten  
on price for these products.
t his insight is also helping us to make things simpler for customers to 
shop in our stores. For example, in asia we have worked with our leading 
supplier of baby milk. By reviewing the sales data we discovered that 
displaying the products by brand rather than by age was important so 
we are changing the layout on the shelves to make it easier for customers 
to find the products they want. 
Whilst it is important to invest in the shopping trip we are also 
continuing to invest for future growth. t his is a strategy that has served 
us well in the past; for example we entered t hailand and s outh Korea 
during the asian economic crisis in the 1990s and emerged stronger 
once the economies started to recover. We are now market leader in 
t hailand and following our acquisition of 36 hypermarkets in s outh 
Korea we are now in a very strong position to challenge for market 
leadership there as well.
We also announced our entry into the indian market last year. We are 
establishing a cash & carry business that will offer a comprehensive range 
of great value fresh food, grocery and non-food products to small 
retailers, restaurants, kirana stores and other business owners. We will 
also provide farmers and other suppliers with a highly efficient route to 
market. in addition, we have signed an exclusive franchise agreement 
with t rent, the retail arm of the t ata g roup. t rent currently operates four 
s tar Bazaar hypermarkets, with plans to grow to 50 stores over the next 
five years. We will supply these hypermarkets with products, but also 
offer our retail expertise and technical capability to support the 
development of their business.
t he overall performance of our international businesses during the year 
has been strong, particularly against the background of increasingly 
challenging trading conditions in all of our markets as the effects of  
the economic downturn on consumers have grown and spread around 
the world. 
We have delivered very good sales and profit growth and our investment 
returns have held up well. importantly, we have grown share in all of our 
markets and in some countries we have made more rapid progress this 
year by sticking to our strategy as competitors falter. By continuing to focus 
on doing the right things for customers – lowering prices, introducing more 
affordable products, offering even stronger promotions – they have 
rewarded us with good sales and market share growth. By keeping our 
costs low and pushing on with expansion, we aim to take the opportunity 
to strengthen further our market positions during the recession. 
International
It’s been another good year for our international business which 
now spans 13 countries across Asia, Europe and the United States. 
As customers around the world are feeling the effects of the global 
economic slowdown we are successfully adjusting our offer in all 
our markets to help customers who are feeling the pinch.
Loyalty card schemes
We have national loyalty card schemes based on Clubcard in 
Ireland, Malaysia, South Korea and China and pilot schemes  
in Slovakia, Poland, Thailand and Turkey. 10 Repo Rt o F t He DiRecto Rs
Tesco PLC annual Report and Financial s tatements 2009
in most of our markets we are now amongst the largest, most profitable 
and fastest growing businesses – and this is a good platform from 
which to make further progress, even in tough times. o ur experience  
in Hungary of trading profitably and growing well during an already 
prolonged recession which began in 2006, also gives us confidence  
that by applying what we have learned there in our other markets, the 
business can perform well through the current environment. 
europe – including ireland, t urkey and the four c entral european 
countries – and the Western Us have seen the most marked effects  
of the economic downturn although more recently, as the export-led 
economies of asia – particularly s outh Korea and c hina – have also 
slowed, trading conditions there too have deteriorated.
in europe, these challenges have been joined by the consequences of 
substantial exchange rate movements between the euro or euro-linked 
currencies and other currencies within the european Union. t hese 
movements have encouraged very significant increases in cross-border 
shopping by consumers in several regions – the clearest examples 
being ireland into n orthern ireland, c zech Republic into g ermany and 
s lovakia into poland. o ur stores located close to these borders have 
seen material sales impacts as customers take advantage of devalued 
currencies and this has affected the rate of sales growth overall in  
these markets.
although in some markets we have moderated our rate of growth in space, 
overall we have chosen to sustain strong growth in selling area – and this 
will continue. With reductions in site, build and fitting costs for stores – 
these have fallen substantially since last year – we are able to use our 
capital more efficiently, and this should be helpful to long-term returns.
at the end of February, our operations in asia and europe were trading 
from 1,911 stores, including 608 hypermarkets, with a total of 55.0m sq ft 
of selling space. t his year, we plan to open 320 new stores with a total 
of 5.4m square feet of sales area in these markets and a further  
0.6m sq ft is planned to open in the Us .
Asia
We have delivered a strong performance in asia. t his has been achieved 
whilst absorbing planned integration costs and initial trading losses 
during conversion on the newly-acquired Homever stores in s outh Korea. 
With all the stores now converted to our Homeplus format, we expect 
this acquisition to provide a good underpinning to growth in asia as  
a whole in the current year and beyond as we realise the synergies  
and scale benefits from the deal. t he underlying business in s outh 
Korea delivered solid profit growth and elsewhere in asia we saw 
excellent progress in malaysia and t hailand, partly offset by a small 
trading loss in Japan. 
•	 	 I n 	China, having studied the market carefully and developed our 
long-term strategy, we have begun to accelerate store and 
infrastructure development in the economically important and 
populous coastal provinces, centred on the major cities. o ur first 
multi-level freehold shopping centre development will open in 
Foshun in a few months’ time, with a further three planned in the 
current year. s ites have been secured for a further 14. We saw  
strong sales, including good like-for-like growth in the year as a 
whole – although sales slowed in the final quarter, partly driven  
by food price deflation – and we made a modest profit, similar  
to last year.
•	 	 Japan’s already difficult retail market saw a further sharp 
deterioration towards the end of 2008. t he new team in Japan is 
building on last year’s introduction of the t esco operating model –  
a suite of systems and processes which is being rolled out across  
our markets – by strengthening distribution, range and pricing 
management. o ur strategic focus remains on building a strong  
offer for customers in the convenience sector based on express  
and on our t surukame small discount supermarket format and  
this work is making progress. 13 new stores including six of our  
new 24-hour express stores opened during the year.
•	 	 H omeplus 	 in 	South Korea – which celebrates its tenth anniversary 
this year – delivered another very good performance, coping well 
with the twin challenges of subdued consumer spending and the 
task of integrating the 36 Homever stores which were acquired in 
s eptember. including the acquired stores, 3.9m square feet of space 
– an increase of 63% – was opened during the year. s ome of last 
year’s organic development was deferred whilst we focused on 
integrating Homever and our programme of new space this year will 
reflect this. t he customer response to the conversion of the stores  
to Homeplus has been excellent, with sales uplifts on the converted 
stores averaging well over 50%. t he performance of our express 
stores, which saw sales growth of 64% in the year, has also been  
very encouraging.
•	 Malaysia has had an exceptional year – achieving rapid progress in 
sales, profits and returns as it delivers the full benefits of the makro 
acquisition in early 2007. t his success, combined with a fast rate of 
organic expansion, has enabled us to become market leader in a 
country which we entered only in 2001. although economic growth  
has slowed in recent months, our strong market position plus a good 
pipeline of seven planned new hypermarkets in the current year, 
mean we can extend our lead. c lubcard, which was launched at the  
end of 2007, is being very well-received by customers.
•	 	 T esc o 	 L o t us 	 in 	Thailand has delivered strong growth against the 
background of sustained political uncertainty and a weakening 
economy. c onsumer confidence levels are low but our continued 
investment in improving our offer for customers has served the 
business well and we are continuing to outperform our major 
competitors. o ur small format stores – particularly t alad 
(supermarkets) and express stores, which are very popular with 
customers in the larger cities – have seen very good growth in  
both sales and profit. 
International continued
Poland
In Poland we have launched the first phase of 
our new discount range designed to compete 
with local limited range discounters. 11 Repo Rt o F t He DiRecto Rs
Tesco PLC annual Report and Financial s tatements 2009
Europe
o ur european growth for the year as a whole has been strong, helped 
overall by favourable exchange rate movements. During the second 
half, the effects of the global economic slowdown have been felt in all 
of our markets – reflected in slowing g Dp growth and deteriorating 
consumer confidence and spending levels. 
inevitably, our businesses have been impacted, resulting in slower 
growth in sales and profit at constant exchange rates from last autumn 
onwards. Whilst our food and grocery categories have remained robust 
– and we have seen excellent market share performances across our 
markets – non-food sales, principally of hardlines, have been subdued 
and this has held back hypermarket growth in particular. o ur multi-
format approach has helped to mitigate this and we have seen very 
good growth in our smaller-format stores, particularly in c entral 
europe, and these remain a priority in our expansion plans.
t he work we have done on pan-european sourcing of t esco own-brand 
and general merchandise has further strengthened our competitive 
position in the region. We have fully launched the equivalent of our UK 
‘Discount Brands’ in several markets and customer feedback has been 
very encouraging. t he performance of c herokee and F+F clothing in 
europe has also been pleasing and we have taken significant market 
share. o verall clothing sales are up 11%, including 6% like-for-like 
growth – with children’s garment sales increasing by 43%.
•	 	 I n 	 t he 	Czech Republic, levels of consumer demand have been 
affected both by the slowdown in the economy and by the increasing 
scale of cross-border shopping into neighbouring g ermany, driven by 
the strength of the Koruna. Despite this, good cost control (offsetting 
investment in lower prices, better pay rates and improved service 
levels) and continued expansion delivered solid growth in profits  
in the year. o ur early express stores have been well-received by 
customers in central prague and we are continuing a programme  
of refits – and in some cases major redevelopments – of our 
department stores. t his included the complete remodelling of our 
large department store in l eberec, which was completed last month.
•	 Hungary has endured a serious economic recession for approaching 
three years. However, our strategy of cutting costs and investing in 
lowering prices and expanding our store network is continuing to 
yield good results and we have been able to sustain profit growth  
this year in very challenging circumstances. l ike-for-like sales growth 
(ex-petrol) was positive and we are outperforming most of our 
competitors, with our market share growing to 17%. o ur new store 
opening programme delivered a 13% increase in our space through 
14 large hypermarkets and 12 smaller format stores.
•	 	 I n 	Poland, our business has delivered a very strong performance, 
including robust growth in sales and profits. t his was achieved in  
the context of competitive trading conditions and significant wage 
investment and energy cost inflation during the year. Having 
successfully completed the integration of the former l eader price 
stores – where the cumulative sales uplift on conversion is now 
approaching 60% – we have resumed faster organic expansion,  
with six large new hypermarkets and 12 compact hypermarkets 
opened in the year. o verall like-for-like growth was solid, with  
small formats seeing stronger growth than hypermarkets. We have 
recently introduced a new range of 700 ‘Discount Brand’ products 
and these are proving very popular with customers.
•	 	 A 	 solid 	 per f or manc e 	 f r om 	 T esc o 	Ireland produced another year of 
growth despite the extremely difficult economic climate and trading 
conditions have worsened in recent months. a combination of very 
tight cost control and more international buying have helped us 
invest in lowering prices for customers. t hese investments have 
become even more necessary given the steep rise in cross-border 
shopping into n orthern ireland encouraged by the decline in s terling 
relative to the euro – which has seen an estimated 4% of the total 
market move over the border. t he benefits of our new distribution 
centre at Donabate have delivered substantial efficiencies and 
improved stock management, and we have also seen a strong 
performance from our new stores.
•	 	 I n 	Slovakia we saw excellent growth, although the adoption of the 
euro in January 2009 gave rise to conversion costs and, given the 
weakening currencies relative to the euro in bordering countries,  
we saw the emergence of cross-border shopping towards the end of 
the year. t his has impacted sales in recent months. From our strong 
market-leading position, and with an excellent and growing network 
of multi-format stores, we have coped well with the tougher market 
conditions and achieved good market share gains.
•	 	 I n 	Turkey, Kipa, which is one of our smallest but fastest-growing 
businesses, has seen strong sales, driven by the growth of new space, 
but pressure on margins resulting from the sharp contraction in the 
economy and consumer demand during recent months. We are 
continuing to see growth in share in a very fragmented market but 
given the severity of the downturn in t urkey, we have decided  
to slow our rate of expansion for the time being. t urkey remains  
an important strategic longer-term opportunity for us as a large, 
growing and relatively underdeveloped retail market.
United States
Fresh & easy has made good progress. We are now trading from  
115 stores and the early openings have moved strongly into like-for-like 
growth. Whilst it is still early days, and the economic environment into 
which we originally launched the business has markedly changed, 
customers’ very positive feedback on our offer has continued to surpass 
our expectations. Research confirms that they love the quality and 
freshness of our ranges, as well as the prices and the convenient 
locations of the stores.
t he normal process of adapting a new format to fully meet the needs 
of customers locally has resulted in some changes to the product 
ranges, the introduction of a limited number of promotions and special 
offers, as well as improvements to the ambience of the stores. t hese 
changes have been well-received and consequently we are seeing very 
strong growth in customer numbers per store. 
g iven the scale of the economic downturn, particularly in l as vegas, 
phoenix and the inland empire region of c alifornia, we are also  
seeing increased demand from customers looking to make stretched 
household budgets go further – through more affordable products, 
larger pack sizes and additional range in some categories, such as 
grocery and frozen food. We are looking to meet these needs by 
making further changes to the stores.
as previously announced, we are taking a more cautious approach to 
expansion by maintaining instead of accelerating the rate of new store 
opening, until economic conditions start to improve in the Western 
states in which we operate. We opened 62 new stores in the year with 
0.6m square feet of selling space and we expect to open a similar 
number during the current year, mostly in the second half. 
l ast april, with our preliminary Results, we said that initial Us trading 
losses would total around £100m in the 2008/9 financial year.  
Us trading losses in 2008/9 were higher than expected, at £142m, 
principally as a result of the adverse movement in the Dollar: s terling 
exchange rate during the second half and higher overhead costs linked 
to our more prudent rate of new store opening. We expect a similar loss 
in the current year.
To find out more go to 
www.tesco.com/annualreport09 12 Repo Rt o F t He DiRecto Rs
Making many small improvements in 
everything we do is what ‘Every Little 
Helps’ is about, because when we all work 
together on the little things, it amounts  
to a great deal. It’s more important today 
than it’s ever been – it keeps us focused  
on what matters most to customers.
They are shopping around more and price 
is clearly a priority for many – so we need 
to put the right effort and investment  
into price – but not sacrifice all the other 
things that are so important to customers, 
such as not having to queue and being 
able to get everything that they want.
So we’ve continued to make lots of  
small improvements and they’re making  
a big difference. For example, through  
a number of initiatives to achieve a  
better and more efficient service at our 
checkouts, many more customers didn’t 
have to queue last year and customers 
continue to rank us best for speed of 
service at the checkouts.
David Potts Retail and Logistics Director
Is ‘Every Little Helps’ still 
important?
 
£540m
in productivity savings 13 Repo Rt o F t He DiRecto Rs
Tesco PLC annual Report and Financial s tatements 2009
it’s been a tough year for many of our customers. c onsumer confidence 
has fallen as people worry about unemployment and are struggling to 
manage their household budgets. n ot surprisingly, there has been a 
shift in our customers’ priorities – our research has shown that price  
is ranked as the most important by a margin not seen in two decades. 
t herefore, we believe our job is to be on the side of customers, listening 
to them and doing what we can to help them spend less. 
at the time of the last recession we launched value lines – the  
famous blue and white stripes – so we’ve long been able to provide  
the cheapest grocery shop in the country, discounters included.
t his recession has provided a new challenge because although 
customers tend to shop around more for the best prices when times  
are hard – it doesn’t mean they want to compromise on quality of the 
shopping trip or on choice. t hat is why this year we made the biggest 
change to our range in a decade, launching around 500 new products 
as part of our ‘Discount Brands at t esco’ initiative. t he new range 
means that every customer can have a product to match their budget 
without compromising on choice or quality. it creates a completely  
new way to shop for customers who want to spend less.
as well as introducing more affordable products we have been working 
hard to cut prices across the store. t o help us do this we have been keeping 
very good control of costs and have put more focus on our efficiency 
saving programme we call s tep-c hange. t his programme has delivered 
£540 million of productivity and other savings in the year, most of which 
have been reinvested in improving our shopping trip for customers.
t his programme involves many projects right across the business  
which change the way we do things to drive efficiency. many of today’s 
savings were conceived and planned years ago and they are a result  
of productivity projects that span the whole business, from stores and 
depots to the office. t hey range from reducing the amount of energy 
we use in our stores to introducing better ways of working to improve 
our efficiency by making things better for customers, simpler for staff 
and cheaper for t esco. For example, in the last year we have saved 
52,000 deliveries to our stores by using larger-fill double-decked 
vehicles, which in turn have also saved 12 million road miles. 
We’ve also introduced innovative technology which allows us to 
electronically check-in bread and milk deliveries at our depots, 
eliminating substantial paperwork and administration.
We have picked up the pace on a number of these long-term  
cross-functional s tep-c hange projects and plan to deliver similar 
savings in the current year of around £550 million. t hese savings  
will continue to go back into improving our offer for customers. 
making things better, simpler and cheaper is part of our culture at  
t esco and all our people are encouraged to suggest new ideas on how  
we can achieve this. 
Core UK
Everyone in the business understands the way we work – to make 
things better for customers, simpler for staff and cheaper for Tesco. 
At a time when customers are feeling the pinch and our competitors 
have improved, this philosophy is more important than ever.
30%
Around 30% of our customers buy something from our  
‘Discount Brands at Tesco’ every time they shop.
12m 
road miles saved with 
double-decked trucks
One-in-front promise
Millions more customers didn’t have to queue at the checkout  
last year thanks to our one-in-front promise. 14 Repo Rt o F t He DiRecto Rs
s ome examples of these projects which have delivered substantial 
savings in the year include:
• 	 	 S a v ings 	 in 	 t he 	 s u p p l y 	 c h a in 	 – 	 f r o m 	 m o r e 	 s he l f - r ea d y 	 p ac k ag ing 	 an d	
reconfiguring of our depot network to increased vehicle utilisation and 
more productive work methods in depots and stores – mean that,  
for example, distribution costs have been held in cash terms and 
reduced in percentage of sales terms. t his has been achieved despite 
higher fuel costs.
• 	 	 W e 	 h a v e 	 s i g n i f i c an t l y 	 inc r ea s e d 	 t he 	 le v e l 	 o f 	 c ap i t a l 	 in v e st m e n t 	 in	
energy-saving projects across the business – in new refrigeration, 
store lobbies and lighting – delivering significant reductions in 
consumption and helping us to absorb rising utility costs. energy 
consumption in t esco fell by 8% last year despite business growth.
• 	 	 W e 	 no w 	 h a v e 	 3 , 1 0 0 	 e m p lo y e e s 	 a t 	 o u r 	 H in d u st an 	 G lo b a l 	 Su p p o r t	
c entre in Bangalore, india, which provides it and administrative 
support to our UK and international operations – from software 
development to management accounting and payroll.
• 	 	 T he 	 in t r o d u c t i o n 	 o f 	 ne w 	 c he c k o u t 	 t e c hno lo g y 	 f o r 	 st o r e s , 	 w h i c h 	 i s	
faster, more accurate and easier for staff, has continued to reduce 
costs and improve customer service. For example, around 25% of  
our UK customer transactions are through self-service checkouts.
UK performance
in the UK, t esco coped well with recovering competitors and a difficult 
non-food market, particularly in the second half, to deliver solid 
progress in the year. UK retail sales grew by 9.1%, including a like-for-
like increase, including petrol, of 4.3% (3.0% excluding petrol). Both 
customer numbers and spend per visit increased and we also delivered 
robust margin and profit improvement. 
Core UK continued
£400m
We have given our Clubcard customers over £400 million 
worth of vouchers in the year.
Tesco PLC annual Report and Financial s tatements 2009
70%
of our products are delivered to stores in retail-ready packaging, 
including all of our new ‘Discount Brands’ saving many hours  
of staff time re-filling shelves. ,000
Real 
Basket 
Results.
T e s co S ains bury’s
221,000
bask ets
cheaper
B ased on a sample of 10% of all Clubcard transactions in store 02/04/09 compared with prices at S ainsbury’s. Exact figures are T esco cheaper 168,317 baskets ,
S ainsbury’s would have been cheaper 22,048 baskets . Closest match applied. Includes promotions. Excludes multibuys, non matches, Express & selected Metro. S ainsbury’s
prices checked online 02/04/09. Clubcard points awarded quarterly . Minimum Clubcard spend £1. T o verify contact T esco Price EN8 9SL or see ww w .tesco . com
Newprice cuts andselected Discount Brand products available in +1500stores .
T es cosa ves
y oumone y
with Clubcard
At T esco, we compare prices on the things you actually put in your 
shopping basket – like bread, milk, meat and fruit and veg. And on 
Thursday 2nd April, we found that over 1 ,680,000 of your baskets 
were cheaper at T esco than they would have been at Sainbury ’ s.
1 ,683 ,000
ba sk ets
cheaper
15 Repo Rt o F t He DiRecto Rs
Tesco PLC annual Report and Financial s tatements 2009
in the current year we expect to trade the business harder to give what 
help we can to families whose budgets have become stretched and 
who are worried about their jobs. o ur competitive offer is strong and 
we are investing more in cutting prices, sharpening our promotions  
and putting even more affordable products on our shelves, particularly 
through the launch of more ‘Discount Brands’. Whilst price and value 
matter more to many customers at times like these, as always, we  
are improving all aspects of the shopping trip, including service and 
availability. as part of this, we are planning to relaunch and invest 
substantially more in c lubcard – our unique way of saying ‘thank you’ 
to our customers – in the coming weeks.
New space
We opened a total of 2.0m square feet of new sales area in 2008/9, of 
which 362,000 square feet was in store extensions, principally for extra. 
We opened another 11 extra hypermarkets – six from extensions to 
existing stores and five new stores, bringing the total to 177, with a 
further 15 planned this year. extra now represents 40% of our total 
sales area. We also opened 21 new superstores and 125 new express 
stores, bringing the overall total number of t esco stores to 2,282.
in the current year, we aim to open a similar amount of new space 
across our formats – equivalent to an additional 6.4% of sales area.
25% 
of our customer 
transactions are through 
self-service checkouts
To reflect our customers’ need to spend less, we have 
invested millions of pounds in cutting prices and 
introduced more promotions, as well as launching new 
ranges of affordable products in both our Value range  
and our new ‘Discount Brands’. 
Although there are many different conflicting claims on 
price in the marketplace, we have focused on comparing  
the prices of real customers’ baskets from Clubcard on  
the products people buy most often. These baskets clearly  
show that Tesco is cheaper on the real baskets people 
actually buy, and is the most comprehensive survey in  
the marketplace today. 
In order to continue to reduce our prices, our efficiency 
programme Step-Change generated £540m of savings in  
the last year which we have been reinvesting back in our 
offer and will be doing more of this in the year ahead.
Some of your competitors 
say that they are cheaper 
than T esco. Why aren’t you 
doing more to cut prices?
To find out more go to 
www.tesco.com/annualreport09 16 Repo Rt o F t He DiRecto Rs
Across the non-food market, customers 
have been cutting back on non-essential 
purchases. But they have been buying 
when they see real value and, as a 
consequence, we have increased our 
market share as customers appreciate  
the convenience of buying non-food from 
Tesco and the value that we offer. 
We’ve been adding new ranges with lower 
price-points and extending ranges that 
consumers see as essentials and we’ve 
seen real success on own-brand products 
such as Technika in electricals and 
Cherokee and F+F in our clothing offer.
Our online catalogue non-food offer, 
Tesco Direct, has been very popular and we 
have seen strong growth with our latest 
spring/summer range which included 
1,500 price cuts compared to our autumn/
winter catalogue. With the benefit of  
high footfall, great value ranges and the 
option to shop in store or online, we are 
well-placed to continue to grow both sales  
and market share in a difficult market.
Richard Brasher Commercial and Marketing Director
Lots of high street retailers have 
been cutting prices. Can I still get 
the best deals at Tesco?
 
£12.5bn
Group non-food sales 17 Repo Rt o F t He DiRecto Rs
Tesco PLC annual Report and Financial s tatements 2009
n on-food remains an important part of our strategy and we continue  
to grow both sales and market share. 
in our experience, customers will buy where they see value. t o help 
customers we have been making changes to our ranges and cutting 
prices. For example, in the UK sales of our t echnika own-brand 
televisions have been very strong as customers trade away from big 
brands and we now have a 10% share of the television market. We’ve 
also been promoting our slow cooking appliances as customers have 
been buying cheaper cuts of meat and cooking from scratch – half of  
all slow cookers bought in the run-up to c hristmas were sold in t esco.
o ur online non-food business, t esco Direct, continues to grow rapidly, 
increasing sales by more than 50% in the year. t he latest spring/
summer catalogue and website includes over 1,500 products that are 
cheaper than they were last year. in the current year we also plan to 
introduce an online clothing offer – making our fashionable, affordable 
clothes easier to buy for many more customers. 
t o ensure that we offer the best possible prices for customers we buy 
many products globally so that we benefit from our scale. We have an 
international sourcing office based in Hong Kong which is responsible 
for buying 100,000 non-food products for the g roup. t he international 
sourcing operation has seen rapid growth in the last few years and now 
sources 60% of our clothing in the UK and 40% of hardlines, including 
electricals, homewares, entertainment, toys and books. in europe it 
provides over 25% of our hardlines and 85% of our clothing and we 
have recently started to source products for asia. in the last year our 
international sourcing team shipped 72,000 containers from 54 ports.
We also have sourcing hubs in c hina, india, s ri l anka, Bangladesh  
and t urkey, with smaller offices in t hailand, c zech Republic and italy. 
We have invested in buying hubs where we have a critical mass of 
suppliers and shipment volumes. it helps to be close to our suppliers  
so that we can ensure great quality products, delivered from ethical 
sources, on time and at the best price.
Where possible we try to source products direct from factories rather 
than through agents or middlemen. t his way we can ensure the lowest 
possible cost price as well as making sure that our products are sourced 
safely and fairly. We also manage to strip out more costs by consolidating 
freight volumes. t his gives us the best shipping and transportation rates, 
which can be passed on to the customer in the form of lower prices.
Non-food
It’s been a challenging year for non-food as consumers around  
the globe have been hit by the economic downturn and are cutting 
back on non-essential purchases – but by keeping our prices low, 
improving our offer in key categories like electricals and clothing and 
giving customers more choice about how they shop, such as through 
Tesco Direct – we have outperformed the market. 
 No. 5
Technika is the fifth largest  
TV brand in the UK.
Gaming sales up
30%
Clothing sales in 
Central Europe up
11%  18 Repo Rt o F t He DiRecto Rs
Tesco PLC annual Report and Financial s tatements 2009
Market leader
We are market leader for clothing in 
Hungary and the Czech Republic.
53m
Last year our international buying office 
sourced over 53 million pairs of socks for 
the Group.
t esco’s large general merchandise business has been resilient despite 
the challenges posed by weakening demand as consumers cut back  
on discretionary spending. price reductions, stronger promotions – 
particularly of smaller ticket items – and a focus on particular categories 
such as electronics, plus an excellent performance from t esco Direct, 
have supported good market share growth. t he profitability of our 
non-food business has also been pleasing.
UK non-food sales rose by 5% in the year, compared with 9% in 
2007/8, with total non-food sales increasing to £8.7 billion (included in 
reported UK sales). s econd half like-for-like was encouraging, showing 
a small improvement versus Quarter 2, with a stable performance in 
Quarter 4 compared with Quarter 3. 
We saw growth in some hardlines categories – particularly in  
electrical goods, games and entertainment – and also in pharmacy. 
Home related categories reflecting the slowdown in the housing 
market, were more challenging – particularly furniture, DiY and 
cookware. o n a like-for-like basis, clothing sales reduced by 2%  
in the year, but outperformed the market – with good growth in 
menswear and an improving trend in childrenswear, with a stronger 
second half performance.
Non-food continued
Non-food is an important part of a long-term strategy for growth. 
It is a market which is similar in size to food and in which we only 
have a small share so we see it as a big opportunity for us in the 
future, irrespective of the economic climate. 
Last year we opened over 600,000 square feet of new space for 
non-food in the UK alone – including our latest non-food-only 
Homeplus stores in Edinburgh and Nottingham – which means 
more customers than ever have access to our offer in store. With 
Tesco Direct we have made our widest non-food range available  
to millions of customers who can’t get to one of our larger stores. 
In fact, we get around 1.5 million visits to the website each week 
and we’ve continued to roll-out Direct collection desks in store  
so customers have the convenience of collecting their purchases  
at the same time as doing their weekly shop, as well as having the 
opportunity to have them delivered directly to their homes. 
Have you cut back on the 
amount of new space you 
are adding for non-food? 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009
6.0
6.8
10.4
11.8
12. 5
19 Repo Rt o F t He DiRecto Rs
Tesco PLC annual Report and Financial s tatements 2009
t esco Direct, which is managed within tesco.com, is designed to extend 
the reach of our non-food offer by making it more available to customers 
via the internet and catalogues and is now established and thriving.  
it has delivered excellent sales growth and reduced losses as planned.  
We issued 11.5 million catalogues last year and now have 12,500 
products available online. t he popularity of our in-store Direct desks, 
which are now in 231 stores, continues to increase as more customers 
order and collect items from their local t esco. We plan to add clothing 
to our online offer later this year.
g roup non-food sales rose 6% to £12.5 billion, including £3.8 billion  
in international. 
15m 
energy-efficient
light bulbs sold 
in the UK
We want all of our products to be sourced responsibly and fairly, 
but it is more challenging to achieve for general merchandise 
because of the global nature of the supply base. We’re building 
stronger relationships with our global non-food suppliers by 
reducing the number we work with. 
We’ve improved the quality of supplier audits and now have  
730 authorised independent auditors around the world. To ensure 
that audits are representative, we have made a significant shift 
from announced to surprise audits (where suppliers are given  
a one month window when auditors may visit). 
In October we were highly commended for the Fashion Ethical 
Cotton Award – the only major retailer nominated in any category.
To find out more go to www.tesco.com/cr-report09
Non-food sales (£bn)
How do you ensure  
that your products are 
ethically sourced in  
places like Bangladesh?
Tesco Tech Support Teams
We have Tesco Tech Support Teams in our largest stores who are 
specially trained to help customers with technical queries about 
everything from TVs and digital switchover, to computing and 
wireless networking, to cameras and sat navs.
To find out more go to 
www.tesco.com/annualreport09 20 Repo Rt o F t He DiRecto Rs
We believe in creating value for all our 
customers because that is how we earn 
their loyalty. Over time customers have 
come to trust Tesco to deliver value 
whether they are buying their weekly shop 
or opening a savings account. Their trust 
is very important to us. So we take the 
same approach to financial services as  
we do to all other parts of our business 
and that means offering competitive, 
straightforward products with no 
confusing small print and hidden charges. 
Unlike many of the high street banks TPF 
is well funded – we never got involved in 
any of the complicated financial products 
and toxic debt that has caused so many 
problems for the banking sector. So while 
many banks now have to grow their margins 
and rebuild their balance sheets, we can 
concentrate on offering competitive rates 
across our savings, loans, credit cards and 
insurance products. 
We are aiming to add more value by 
rewarding our loyal customers with 
Clubcard points, which is of course  
unique to Tesco. Looking further ahead,  
it’s clear that customers want us to 
provide a real alternative to other banks 
and that means a broader product range, 
including a current account.
Andrew Higginson Chief Executive of Retailing Services 
and Group Strategy Director
Can Tesco really offer the same 
value as my bank?
6m
Tesco Personal Finance 
customer accounts 21 Repo Rt o F t He DiRecto Rs
Tesco PLC annual Report and Financial s tatements 2009
tesco.com
is the world’s most successful  
online grocery retailer.
Developing Retailing s ervices has been part of our strategy for over  
a decade – with the aim of bringing value and simplicity to customers 
through services such as telecoms and financial products. after ten 
years of success, we have given it a renewed focus and in July we 
announced that andrew Higginson would relinquish his role as g roup 
Finance Director to take on the role of c hief executive of Retailing 
s ervices. He has assembled an experienced team to really drive  
forward this part of the strategy, which we believe has the potential  
to deliver £1 billion of annual profit in the next few years.
t he aim is to develop our services business to offer customers the  
same convenience we have brought to food shopping, to all the other 
products and services we offer. o ur dotcom grocery business and now 
our online non-food offer, t esco Direct, have already added more 
convenient options for customers to shop – particularly those with  
very busy lives or limited access to transport. t he growing power of  
the internet means increasingly that people look to this channel to  
buy everyday services and goods.
However, many people still like the reassurance of being able to talk  
to someone knowledgeable about the products and services they buy. 
We believe in offering customers the choice – to shop in the way which 
most suits their needs whether that is online, in store or by phone.  
t hat is why we now have 40 phone shops in our stores, and we plan  
to have around 100 open by the end of this year. t his means more 
customers than ever can access our popular telecoms offer. We remain 
one of the fastest growing providers for pre-pay mobiles and we are 
now attracting more customers through our new contract mobile deals.
in December we completed the acquisition of the remaining 50%  
of tp F from Royal Bank of s cotland g roup plc (RBsg ). t his was an 
important move for t esco, allowing us to build on the success of tp F 
and eventually offer customers the products you would expect from  
a full-service retail bank. t his will mean growing our existing customer 
base across the 28 simple products we offer from home insurance to 
credit cards, but also attracting new customers at a time when many 
have lost trust in their high street bank.
all our current financial products are available to buy online and at 
present over 50% of our customers choose to buy this way. However,  
in the same way as customers value the service offered by our telecoms 
centres, we understand that many would like to discuss their financial 
needs with someone knowledgeable. We plan to increase our presence  
for tp F by extending the trial of our in-store branches which offer 
customers the opportunity to talk to our specially trained finance 
advisors in a convenient location.
Retailing Services
It has been a big year for Retailing Services, which includes our 
online shopping channels, tesco.com and Tesco Direct; Telecoms; 
Tesco Personal Finance (TPF) and dunnhumby – our consumer 
research business.
100,000
new savings account customers. 50%
25%
10%
15%
T esco Personal Finance
*
tesco.com
Telecoms
dunnhumby
22 Repo Rt o F t He DiRecto Rs
Retailing services – profit contribution
* a ssumes tp F is fully consolidated for the year.
t his year has seen an increased focus on our strategy for growth in 
retailing services – where we now have substantial, profitable businesses 
with long-term potential both in the UK and internationally. at the time 
of our announcement last July of our acquisition from RBsg of its  
50% shareholding in tp F, we set a target to grow the profitability of  
the services businesses from a little under £400 million in 2007/8 to  
£1 billion during the next few years. We are committing more capital, 
management and other resources to support this growth.
Tesco Personal Finance. We completed the acquisition of tp F on  
19 December 2008, for cash consideration of around £950m. t he 
business is profitable and well-capitalised, which is a strong platform 
from which to pursue our plans to develop tp F from a successful, 
popular collection of financial products to a full-service retail bank in 
the years ahead. t he new team, combining experienced management 
from t esco and from the banking industry, is coming together well. 
t heir focus for the time being is on migrating systems and customer 
support over to our own platforms, beginning the development of  
a branch network in t esco stores and growing the business, both 
through existing and new products.
o verall tp F has delivered a good performance, despite the challenging 
conditions in its markets and the protracted period between the 
announcement of the acquisition and its completion. t he following 
commentary on the performance of the business relates to the  
tp F pro-forma income statement and actual balance sheet, which  
can be found in our preliminary Results s tatement (appendix 1) at  
www.tesco.com/investorcentre, covering the year to 28 February 2009.
•	 	 Profit. Underlying profit before tax, which excludes the amortisation  
of intangible assets linked to the acquisition, was £244 million. t his 
performance was achieved against the background of an increase in 
bad debts, particularly during the second half of the year, although 
tp F’s bad debt experience remains significantly better than the 
banking industry average. profit before tax and minority interest was 
£212 million, which was also a pleasing performance in the context of 
the broader economic conditions. Under iFRs , we are required to 
amortise intangible assets arising on acquisition. t his non-cash 
charge for the period was £32 million and we expect this to increase 
to approximately £130 million in 2009/10 and reduce thereafter.
  t otal revenue was £949 million – generated by a combination of 
interest income and fees. t he key products generating interest income 
(savings, loans and credit cards) all held up well in the current climate. 
in fee income, there was good growth from both credit cards and the 
atm estate. Underlying costs included an increased investment in 
t esco c ompare and the planned rise in overhead cost as the business 
prepares for a faster rate of growth. impairment losses on the cards 
and loans portfolios increased in the second half against the 
background of deteriorating market conditions.
Retailing Services continued
Tesco PLC annual Report and Financial s tatements 2009
1.5m
Tesco Personal Finance has over 1.5 million  
car and home insurance customers. 23 Repo Rt o F t He DiRecto Rs
Tesco PLC annual Report and Financial s tatements 2009
•	 	 Capital and Liquidity. tp F’s core t ier 1 capital ratio is 12%. l ooking 
forward, tp F has strong earnings retention to support planned 
business growth and the funding and liquidity position of the business 
has also improved as a result of the successful re-launch of tp F as a 
savings brand. t his is demonstrated by the near-doubling of balances 
from £2.5 billion in mid-o ctober to in excess of £4.5 billion by the 
year-end. c ombined with securing long-term wholesale funding,  
this has transformed tp F’s liquidity position – providing high quality 
liquid assets and net short-term wholesale cash over £2 billion as  
at year-end.  
•	 	 Commercial. average lending balances grew slightly in the year, 
even after tightening lending criteria to reflect the deteriorating 
economic conditions. g ood growth has been maintained in the 
customer base with total accounts and policies increasing by 8%.  
t he atm network continues to grow with over 2,700 now located 
across the t esco store portfolio, which account for 12% of total 
market volumes. t he insurance business continues to be a significant 
contributor to the overall profits, accounting for over 65% of the 
underlying profit. n ew asset quality has remained stable over 2008 
and portfolio performance remains favourable to the industry.  
tp F continues to monitor closely portfolio and new business quality. 
However, the challenging economic conditions throughout the year 
have resulted in some increase in bad debt levels and fraud. t he 
reduction in bank rates in recent months has, however, helped 
lending margins, a trend which has continued into 2009/10.  
tp F uses a range of techniques to ensure that risk and reward is 
balanced and remains committed to responsible lending.
 tesco.com delivered another excellent performance, with our online 
businesses achieving a 20% increase in sales to £1.9bn, with profits 
after initial start-up losses on t esco Direct, rising to £109m. We are 
continuing to see robust growth in customer and order numbers and 
operationally the business made further progress, with improved 
product availability, and strong productivity. g rowth in the international 
businesses – in s outh Korea and ireland – was very strong.
Telecoms had a good year, with particularly robust growth in t esco 
mobile. mobile saw double-digit growth in customer numbers in a flat 
pre-pay phone market and an encouraging early performance from our 
new pay-monthly tariffs, which were launched during the year. t esco 
mobile retained its status as the best service in the market for overall 
customer satisfaction.
1.8m
Tesco Mobile customers.
To find out more go to 
www.tesco.com/annualreport09 24 Repo Rt o F t He DiRecto Rs
We understand that many of our 
customers are facing real financial 
pressures at the moment and they’re 
looking to us to help them spend less. 
However, when customers shop with  
us they don’t leave their ethics at the  
door and they’re telling us it is still really 
important to them that we behave 
responsibly and honestly. They want  
to see Tesco doing the right things  
on community and the environment  
at the same time as providing them  
with the value they expect from us.
We’ve made some great progress  
this year and one of the things I’m most  
proud of is the work we have done in 
getting unemployed people back to  
work which is especially important in  
light of rising unemployment in the UK  
and elsewhere. Last year we recruited  
over 3,000 long-term unemployed  
people and other disadvantaged  
job seekers, up on nearly 500 the  
previous year.
Lucy Neville-Rolfe Corporate & Legal Affairs Director
How much do customers really 
care about community when they 
are struggling with the recession?
250+
Community Champions 25 Repo Rt o F t He DiRecto Rs
Tesco PLC annual Report and Financial s tatements 2009
We understand the importance of behaving responsibly in all our 
operations. o ver the past year, we have worked even harder to be  
a good neighbour and have strengthened our contribution to the  
wider communities we serve.
all communities have their own individual concerns and priorities  
and so each of our countries has its own c ommunity plan. Whilst  
the goals and targets are tailored specifically to each country, each  
plan is underpinned by five core promises: actively supporting local 
communities; buying and selling our products responsibly; caring  
for the environment; giving customers healthy choices; and creating 
good jobs and careers. 
o ur success depends on listening to our customers, and responding  
to their feedback by giving them what they want. o ften the most 
significant contributions we can make to communities are at the  
truly local level and so over the past year we have appointed over  
250 c ommunity c hampions in stores and depots across six countries. 
t hese members of staff are dedicated to working with local schools, 
charities and services to support the causes that matter most to  
our customers. 
We have made a step-change in our work on climate change and 
environmental responsibility by taking clear leadership in these vital 
areas. in 2007, we set ambitious targets to reduce emissions in our  
own buildings and distribution networks and we continue to make 
good progress. o ver the past year we have continued to roll-out 
initiatives to save energy and lower our carbon footprint in all our 
operations and we now have environmental stores in every country  
in which we operate. s ince 2006/7 we have reduced our carbon 
intensity of new stores by 21%. 
o ur aim is to give customers choice by providing them with the 
information they need to make informed decisions when they shop 
through initiatives such as carbon and g uideline Daily amounts  
(g Da) labelling. 
in addition we have continued to work hard to help our customers to 
lead healthy lifestyles by providing information and services such as 
t esco Diets, our online dieting, weight loss and healthy eating service, 
and improving nutritional content in all our foods. We also continue  
to find innovative ways to help customers get active. in t hailand, for 
example, our g etting active with t esco l otus programme has inspired 
2.4 million people to get involved in activities such as aerobics.
t o provide the best quality, choice and value for money for our customers 
we need strong and constructive relationships with our suppliers. We 
continue to make good progress in building these long-term relationships 
as we recognise that our success is linked to theirs. t rading fairly is 
essential in all our operations and last year we met with the UKsi F (the 
sustainable investment and Finance association) to discuss our ethical 
trading approach. t hey benchmarked us against a number of peers and 
concluded that we were in a leadership position in terms of good 
factory labour standards.
Community
We recognise that running our business responsibly is important  
to our customers and increasingly crucial to our growth. We are 
working within communities to develop our own plans as well as 
involve customers in the journey.
500
We will measure the carbon footprint 
of 500 more products this year.
200
Our Greener Living brand helps our customers to make greener 
choices. The range comprises 200 products as diverse as energy 
saving light bulbs, paper goods and kitchenware. Tesco PLC annual Report and Financial s tatements 2009
26 Repo Rt o F t He DiRecto Rs
Actively supporting our local communities
We play a positive role in our local communities and work hard to be  
a good neighbour.
We now have c ommunity c hampions in 65 stores and five depots in the 
UK, each working with local schools, charities and services to support 
the causes that matter most to our customers, where they live. t he 
c hampions have a strong positive impact on our customers. in recent 
research over 60% of customers who are aware of these activities tell 
us they believe their community has benefited and they feel more 
favourable to t esco as a result. We are already rolling out c ommunity 
c hampions in the c zech Republic, s lovakia, c hina and malaysia.
o ur staff broke all records for our c harity of the Year, raising over  
£6 million for marie c urie c ancer c are to fund an additional  
300,000 hours of nursing care for over 5,000 terminally ill patients  
and their families.
o ur new t esco for s chools and c lubs scheme is now running in our UK 
stores. With a catalogue spanning five different areas of the curriculum, 
customers can collect vouchers for anything their local school needs, 
whether that is a laptop, a new set of skipping ropes or a composting 
bin. We have had successful schools programmes in ireland for 11 years 
now, in poland for eight, and this year is the first year of ‘s hop for 
s chools’ in the Us .
in recent months, we have also moved some £11 million worth of 
business back to UK suppliers, supporting domestic orderbooks and 
production, and safeguarding employment.
Caring for the environment
We opened our greenest store yet at c heetham Hill in manchester, with 
a carbon footprint 70% below that of a typical store in 2006. t his is the 
latest step in our quest for a zero-carbon store, with environmental 
stores opening in all countries.
We have significantly increased the level of capital investment in 
energy-saving projects across the business – in new refrigeration, store 
lobbies, and lighting – delivering significant reductions in consumption 
and helping us to absorb rising utility costs. energy consumption in 
t esco fell 8% last year despite business growth.
g reen c lubcard points have encouraged our customers to recycle,  
with recycling rates doubling where we have our automated recycling 
machines and over 9.5 million c lubcard customers now reusing their 
bags in the UK. o ur customers are now using 50% fewer plastic bags 
than they did in may 2006, saving three billion bags since we introduced 
our green c lubcard points in august 2006. t his July, t esco malaysia 
became the first country outside the UK to launch green c lubcard 
points to help customers use fewer carrier bags, issuing over 14,000 
points in the first week of the reward scheme.
We were the first retailer in the world to carbon label products, with  
100 products labelled in the UK already, and many more in the pipeline. 
ireland is following suit with 14 products, and s outh Korea is starting 
carbon labelling this year.
o ur leadership on climate change has been recognised through a 
number of awards internationally, including the prestigious Business  
in the c ommunity l eadership in the environment award, and the 
sustainable management award in s outh Korea.
Giving customers healthy choices
We have met our target of getting two million people active three  
years early, with 750,000 women running Race for l ife, half a million 
children signed up to the Fa s kills programme and 750,000 taking part 
in the t esco g reat s chool Run. o ur g etting active with t esco l otus 
programme has inspired 2.4 million people in t hailand to take part in 
activities such as aerobics, and we have charitable running and walking 
initiatives in the c zech Republic, s lovakia and malaysia as well as our 
soccer camps in the UK and c hina.
Buying and selling our products responsibly
We have continued to evolve our n urture scheme which was first 
launched in 1992. t he independently accredited quality standard 
assures our customers that t esco fruit and vegetables are grown  
in an environmentally and ethically responsible way. We now work  
with 15,000 growers in 70 countries across the world. 
Good jobs and careers
as part of our promise to our people to provide ‘an opportunity to get 
on’, during the year 65% of senior managers were appointed internally. 
We also appointed 3,741 new managers for stores and 149 for depots  
in the UK alone – with 86% coming from within t esco.
Community continued
2.4m
people in Thailand took part in activities including aerobics 
as part of our Getting Active with Tesco Lotus programme. Tesco PLC annual Report and Financial s tatements 2009
27 Repo Rt o F t He DiRecto Rs
Looking ahead
• 	 	 T h i s 	 y ear , 	 w e 	 p l an 	 t o 	 c r ea t e 	 1 1 , 0 0 0 	 ne w 	 j o b s 	 d ir e c t l y 	 in 	 t he 	 U K 	 a s	 
we continue to open new stores and expand our services businesses, 
particularly tp F. indirectly, our investment in new stores, refits and 
extensions will sustain more than 7,300 jobs in construction, 
maintenance and related areas. We also plan to create a further 
15,000 jobs in our international businesses.
• 	 	 T h i s 	 s u m m e r , 	 w e 	 w i ll 	 p i lo t 	 C o m m u n i t y 	 F a ir s 	 a t 	 st o r e s 	 ac r oss 	 t he	
country – fun days for the whole community to support local charities 
and featuring local suppliers.
3bn+
Since launching green Clubcard points in August 2006 
to reward customers who re-use their bags, they have 
helped us to save over three billion bags.
• 	 	 W e 	 w i ll 	 m a k e 	 C o m m u n i t y 	 C h am p i o n s 	 a 	 st r o ng e r 	 p ar t 	 o f 	 m o r e 	 st o r e s	
and in more communities.
• 	 	 W e 	 w i ll 	 a im 	 t o 	 g e t 	 5 . 3 	 mi lli o n 	 p e o p le 	 ac t i v e 	 w i t h 	 T e s c o 	 ac t i v i t y	
programmes around the world.
• 	 	 W e 	 w i ll 	 c o n t in u e 	 t o 	 he l p 	 c u st o m e r s 	 b e 	 g r e e n 	 an d 	 s a v e 	 m o ne y ,	
through more recycling facilities and by reducing plastic bag usage 
even further. We will also work with our suppliers to reduce carbon 
emissions in our supply chain.
• 	 	 W e 	 w i ll 	 m ea s u r e 	 t he 	 c ar b o n 	 f o o t p r in t 	 o f 	 5 0 0 	 m o r e 	 p r o d u c t s 	 an d	
communicate the findings to our customers. We will also continue  
to grow our range of green products, making it easy and affordable 
for our customers to make green choices.
• 	 	 W e 	 w i ll 	 r o ll 	 o u t 	 t he 	 f ir st 	 p h a s e 	 o f 	 o u r 	 T r a d ing 	 F a ir l y 	 p r o g r am m e ,	
ensuring our values live throughout our supply chain and improving 
labour standards at the farms and factories that supply us.
• 	 	 W e 	 w i ll 	 p r o v i d e 	 o p p o r t u n i t i e s 	 f o r 	 t he 	 lo ng- t e r m 	 u ne m p lo y e d 	 t hr o u g h	
three new Regeneration partnerships.
Sustainable Consumption Institute
in 2007, we committed £25 million to create a new sustainable 
c onsumption institute (sci ) at the University of manchester.  
t he sci aims to answer some of the fundamental questions  
about how to make a consumer society sustainable. 
2008, the first year of the sci , was devoted to building a team  
and establishing the initial research streams. a total of 12 academic 
appointments have now been made, including five at professorial 
level. 11 phD students from around the world have been recruited 
and £2.3 million committed to 24 projects so far. an extensive, 
multi-disciplinary, multi-faculty network of academics is being 
established and prestigious sci independent research fellowships 
are being awarded.
t he sci is committed to publishing its research findings on an 
open access basis. www.manchester.ac.uk/sci
We believe in encouraging customers to make greener 
decisions by providing clear information to help them make 
better choices. 
We’ve been working with the Carbon Trust as well as  
some of our main suppliers to develop a universal carbon 
footprint label which not only helps inform customers, but 
also helps our suppliers – by identifying opportunities to 
reduce emissions. We started trialling carbon labels in the 
UK and Ireland last year, on products such as orange juice, 
light bulbs, washing detergents and potatoes, and the 
results have been encouraging – more than half our 
customers say that wider application of the labels could 
change their purchasing decisions.
Does carbon labelling 
really make a difference?
To find out more go to 
www.tesco.com/cr-report09 28 Repo Rt o F t He DiRecto Rs
Having started a business from scratch  
in the US – one of the world’s largest 
markets – I know how important it  
is to have a strong team around you. 
Developing talent is crucial to any  
growing business, particularly retail  
which is a people-intensive industry. 
 As a Group, we’re still investing hard 
and growing through the downturn, with 
sales growing by 15% last year. To handle 
that growth well, we need to bring skilled, 
experienced people through all the time  
to fill the thousands of jobs it creates.  
Take Fresh & Easy where our team has 
grown from 65 to over 2,500 in less than 
two years. Hundreds more will join us this 
year, so we can’t rely on bringing people  
in from other parts of the business. We 
need to develop our own talent locally  
and equip our people with the skills  
they need to be able to do the job and  
lead others. That’s why we’re absolutely 
committed to putting the best training 
plans in place making sure that all of 
our people have the opportunity to get  
on in the business.
Tim Mason President and CEO of Fresh & Easy
Is training and developing staff 
still a priority?
470,000
people 29 Repo Rt o F t He DiRecto Rs
Tesco PLC annual Report and Financial s tatements 2009
t his year we brought together over 2,000 managers from across the 
whole business at our triennial conference. it was an opportunity to 
look back at the tremendous growth in the business in the last three 
years, but also to look ahead. it has been a challenging year for our 
people, but with a clear strategy, underpinned by our values, they have 
never been clearer on what we need to do.
t he theme of the conference was ‘l iving the values’. We first launched 
our values a decade ago and they have been the glue that has held us 
together as we have rapidly grown the business. t hey ensure that every 
person understands our culture and goals. in the last year we have 
spent a lot of time talking to our people across the business to make 
sure that they are still as relevant today as they were ten years ago and 
that they are universally understood. it was clear that not only do our 
values remain relevant, but that they have travelled because things like 
trust and respect, for example, are universal – they are as important to 
our people in t okyo as to those in t orquay. 
Our Values
No-one tries harder for customers 
• 	 U nd er st and 	 c u st o mer s 
• 	 B e 	 f ir st 	 t o 	 m e e t 	 t he ir 	 ne e d s 
•	 A c t 	 r es pons ibl y 	 f or 	 o ur 	 c ommunit ies
We treat people how we like to be treated 
•	 W or k 	 as 	 a 	 team 
• 	 T r u st 	 an d 	 r e s p e c t 	 eac h 	 o t he r 
•	 L isten , 	 suppor t 	 and 	 s ay 	 t hank 	 yo u 
• 	 S h ar e 	 k no w le d g e 	 an d 	 e x p e r i e nc e 
...so we can enjoy our work.
as the business continues to grow it is important that we build capability 
through training and development. o ver 3,500 new management 
appointments were made in the UK last year through o ptions, a 
tailored programme for our people who have been identified as having 
the potential to move to a bigger job, and our training academies.  
We also have our highest ever number of people on o ptions – 7,680 – 
which includes over 500 in our depots. o ur g raduate o ptions programme 
was externally recognised, winning a t imes g raduate Recruitment award 
in 2008 for g raduate employer of c hoice in g eneral management.
We’re also doing more to recruit graduates across our international 
business. We have plans to recruit 1,000 graduates in asia and 300  
in c entral europe to ensure that we have a great pool of talent to 
support our future growth.
People
Over 470,000 people now work for Tesco across 14 countries.  
It’s been a challenging year for our people and they have worked 
harder than ever to deliver an ‘Every Little Helps’ shopping trip.
80%
of our UK staff agree they have the 
opportunity to get on in Tesco.
137
In China, we have developed a leadership development 
programme to help us meet the needs of our rapid expansion.  
This year 137 people completed the programme which is  
tailored to meet the development needs of each person and 
prepare them for leadership roles. 30 Repo Rt o F t He DiRecto Rs
Tesco PLC annual Report and Financial s tatements 2009
Customers
t his year hundreds of thousands of customers have told us what they 
want from an ‘every l ittle Helps’ shopping trip. We’ve held over 200 
‘c ustomer Question t ime’ forums in our stores in addition to many 
other focus groups. We have also launched ‘s hopper t houghts’, a 
proprietary online panel of 64,000 customers who provide us with rapid 
and detailed feedback on everything from the range of products we sell 
to the friendliness of our staff. o ur latest trial feedback initiative is 
called Fizzback, which allows customers to tell us what they think via 
free text message, phone, email or comment card. c lubcard also helps 
us to understand what our customers want, whilst allowing us to thank 
them for shopping with us – this year we gave away over £400 million  
in c lubcard vouchers. We have national loyalty card schemes, based  
on c lubcard, in ireland, malaysia, s outh Korea and c hina and pilot 
schemes in s lovakia, poland, t hailand and t urkey.
We don’t always get it right but we try to make our customers’ shopping 
trip as easy as possible, reduce prices where we can to help them spend 
less and give them the convenience of shopping when and where they 
want – in small stores, large stores or online.
Employees
With 470,000 staff in 14 countries, we play an important role in creating 
employment, fostering skills and generating economic development. 
o ur people are our most important asset and never more so than in the 
current economic environment. l ooking after our staff so that they can 
look after our customers is one of the core values of the business. We 
are committed to providing market-leading working conditions for our 
staff and we encourage our suppliers to do the same.
Training and development
We are committed to developing our people to bring out the best in 
everyone and do what we can to enable all our people to reach their 
potential. all our staff have access to training programmes and personal 
development planning to ensure that they have the right skills to do 
their job.
Diversity and inclusivity
We strive to provide an inclusive environment where all difference is 
valued, people are able to be themselves, enjoy coming to work and 
realise their full potential, regardless of their gender, marital status, 
race, age, sexual orientation, creed, ethnic origin, religion or belief,  
or disability.
in the UK, we offer our staff a market-leading package of pay  
and benefits:
Employee share schemes
t hrough share ownership and share incentive schemes, over 170,000 
of our people have a personal stake in t esco. s taff were awarded shares 
worth a record £91 million last may under our s hares in s uccess scheme. 
52,000 staff were able to benefit when s ave as You earn schemes 
matured in February, giving them access to shares worth £126 million.
Resources and relationships 
Customer Question Time 
We have been holding forums in our stores in Europe to ask 
customers how the economic slowdown is affecting them.
170,000
Over 170,000 of our UK staff have a personal stake in Tesco 
through our share ownership and share incentive schemes. 31 Repo Rt o F t He DiRecto Rs
Tesco PLC annual Report and Financial s tatements 2009
Suppliers
t o be a successful, sustainable business we have to ensure that our 
drive to bring cheaper prices is achieved without compromising our 
standards, reducing quality, damaging the environment or harming  
the suppliers and workers who produce the goods we sell. s o we  
take a partnership approach to working with suppliers – sharing our 
knowledge and listening to suppliers’ feedback. t his includes providing 
technical expertise, advice and insight into customer trends, and  
making regular payments, on time.
We are one of four signatories to the UK g overnment’s statutory 
supermarkets c ode of practice. s ince the c ode’s introduction we have 
run tailored training for all t esco buyers to promote understanding and 
compliance. if problems do arise in supplier relationships we aim to air 
and resolve them through constructive discussion and when necessary 
with the support of our c ode c ompliance o fficer. We support the 
c ompetition c ommission on a number of changes that are planned  
to the c ode, including its wider application in the grocery retail sector.
We hope that our annual supplier v iewpoint survey encourages 
suppliers to give us more feedback on our relationships. We surveyed 
more than 6,000 suppliers during the year and more than 90% of them 
agreed that we pay on time, are committed to meeting customers’ 
requirements, are professional and that we treat them with respect.
90%
of our suppliers say that we pay on time, are committed 
to meeting customers’ requirements, are professional 
and that we treat them with respect.
We carry out ethical audits and target ourselves to cover 100% of our 
high risk own brand suppliers and ensure all commercial teams have 
received training on supply chain labour standards. t his year we carried 
out significantly more audits than the previous year – 1,233 compared to 
445. Whilst we risk assessed 100% of high risk sites, we fell short on our 
audit targets, with 87% of high-risk sites being audited (up on 73% in 
2007). We have put in place resources to improve performance in 2009.
t esco does not have any contractual or other arrangements which are 
essential to the business of the company.
We’re a growing business and because we know how 
important local jobs are to communities we advertise all  
our new jobs through the local JobCentre Plus. We let them 
know well in advance so that they have time to prepare 
candidates for interview. There is growing uncertainty 
about jobs at the moment and it’s even harder for people 
who have been out of work for a long time. That’s why we 
were one of the first companies to sign up for the 
Government’s Local Employment Partnership programme 
which offers roles to job seekers who have previously 
struggled to find work. 
In the last year we recruited over 3,000 long-term 
unemployed and other disadvantaged job seekers, 
compared with 434 in 2007. We want Tesco to be a great 
place to work for all our people, so our new staff members 
will be given all the support and training they need to 
harness the potential and talent they can bring to our 
diverse workforce. 
How exactly are you 
helping the unemployed 
get back to work?
To find out more go to 
www.tesco.com/annualreport09 32 Repo Rt o F t He DiRecto Rs
Tesco PLC annual Report and Financial s tatements 2009
t hese results are for the 53 weeks ended 28 February 2009 for the UK, ireland and the United s tates (Us ) and for the 52-weeks ended  
28 February 2009 for the rest of the g roup. t his compares with the 52-week period ending 23 February 2008. Where appropriate, growth  
rates are provided on a comparable 52-week basis.
g rowth in sales and profit growth is reported on a consistent basis (12 months versus 12 months) for c hina. l ast year’s numbers for g roup, 
international and for a sia have been restated to reflect this change.
g roup sales, including vat , increased by 15.1% to £59.4bn (last year £51.6bn). at constant exchange rates sales increased by 10.6%. o n a 52-week 
comparable basis, g roup sales growth was 13.5%.
in 2006, following our transition to iFRs , we introduced an underlying profit measure, which excludes the impact of the volatile non-cash 
elements of ias 19, ias 32, ias 39 and ias 17 (principally pension costs, the marking to market of financial instruments and the impact of annual 
uplifts in rents and rent-free periods) and now also excludes the amortisation charge on intangible assets arising on acquisition this year relating  
to t esco personal Finance. Underlying profit before tax rose to £3,128m in the year (last year £2,843m), an increase of 10.0%. o n a 52-week 
comparable basis, underlying profit before tax rose by 8.8%.
in the same year, we also began reporting segmental trading profit, which excludes property profits and, as our underlying profit measure does, 
also excludes the non-cash element of the ias 19 pension charge, the non-cash element of the ias 17 lease charge and the amortisation charge 
on intangible assets arising on acquisition. g roup trading profits were £3,090m (last year £2,748m), up 12.4% on last year and g roup trading 
margin, at 5.7%, reduced slightly on last year. excluding initial Us losses and the impact of the Homever acquisition (integration costs and  
pre-conversion losses), g roup trading margin rose by 11 basis points. o n a 52-week comparable basis, g roup trading profits increased by 10.9%.
g roup operating profit rose by 15.0% to £3,206m (last year £2,788m). Within this, total net g roup property profits were £236m in the year  
(last year £188m), comprising £263m in the UK and a loss of £27m in international. g roup profit before tax increased 5.5% to £2,954m (last year 
£2,800m) and growth was held back by an increase in non-cash ias 32 and 39 adjustments. Based on statutory numbers reported last year,  
g roup operating profit rose by 14.9% to £3,206m (last year £2,791m) and g roup profit before tax rose by 5.4% to £2,954m (last year £2,803m). 
Group performance 
Group results        actual rates constant
      % ch. 52-week % ch. % ch.
g roup sales (inc. vat )         £59,426m 15.1% 13.5% 10.6%
g roup profit before tax         £2,954m 5.5% 4.3% 2.8%
g roup operating profit         £3,206m 15.0% 13.5% 12.3%
g roup underlying profit before tax         £3,128m 10.0% 8.8% 7.4%
g roup trading profit         £3,090m 12.4% 10.9% 9.7%
t rading margin          5.7% – – –
International
o ur international business delivered a very strong performance, helped in part by favourable exchange rate movements during the year, and 
excluding the United s tates (Us ) contributed 51% of the growth in g roup sales and 45% of the growth in g roup trading profit. Underlying margins 
improved, excluding the impact of the Homever acquisition and excluding the Us . 
t otal international sales grew strongly – by 30.6% at actual exchange rates to £17.9bn (last year £13.7bn) and by 13.6% at constant exchange rates. 
o n a 52-week comparable basis, actual and constant exchange rate growth was 30.3% and 13.3% respectively. s ales growth slowed in europe 
during the second half, which reflected deteriorating economic conditions in a number of markets.
in contrast, sales growth in a sia accelerated, driven by the acquisition of the 36 Homever stores in s outh Korea at the start of the second half. t hese 
contributed some £350m to sales, including the strong uplifts achieved on the initial conversions to our Homeplus format, and this represented  
2.6 percentage points of the year’s total international growth at actual rates. 
Us segmental reporting of sales and trading results within international began with our interim Results in s eptember. For these preliminary Results, 
sales and initial trading losses in the United s tates are reported within international for the first time. l ast year’s numbers, both for international and 
for the UK, have been restated to reflect this change.
International results – Excluding US       actual rates constant
      % ch. 52-week % ch. % ch.
international sales (inc. vat )         £17,698m 29.3% 29.0% 12.4%
international trading profit         £851m 21.9% 21.5% 8.3%
t rading margin         5.3% – – –
international contributed £709m to trading profit in the year (last year £636m), up 11.5% after charging £33m of Homever integration costs and  
pre-conversion losses. Before these costs, trading profit grew by 16.7%. excluding initial Us trading losses, international trading profits grew by 21.9%, 
or by 21.5% on a 52-week comparable basis. at constant exchange rates, and excluding initial Us losses, international trading profits grew by 8.3%. 
international eBit Da* rose to £1,157m. excluding the Us , international eBit Da rose to £1,293m.
* eBit Da is calculated by adding depreciation and amortisation charges of £491m to international operating profit of £666m. Tesco PLC annual Report and Financial s tatements 2009
33 Repo Rt o F t He DiRecto Rs
To find out more go to 
www.tesco.com/annualreport09
in Asia, sales grew by 29.4% at actual exchange rates and by 19.9% at constant rates to £7.6bn (last year £5.9bn). t rading profit increased by 17.9% 
at actual rates and by 14.6% at constant rates to £355m (last year £301m), after £33m of integration costs and pre-conversion losses in s outh Korea. 
t he acquired Homever stores contributed 6.0 percentage points of sales growth in a sia at actual rates. excluding Homever, trading margins rose to 
5.8%, driven by strong performances in t hailand and malaysia. c hina made a small trading profit in the year after absorbing additional overhead 
costs linked to its regional expansion strategy.
Asia results       actual rates constant
      % ch. 52-week % ch. % ch.
a sia sales (inc. vat )         £7,578m 29.4% 29.4% 19.9%
a sia trading profit         £355m 17.9% 17.9% 14.6%
t rading margin          5.0% – – –
in Europe, sales rose by 29.1% at actual rates and by 6.9% at constant rates to £10.1bn (last year £7.8bn). o n a 52-week comparable basis, sales grew 
by 28.6%. t rading profit increased by 24.9% at actual rates to £496m (last year £397m) and by 3.5% at constant rates. t rading margins fell slightly. 
europe overall delivered solid growth, although we saw a weakening pattern of consumer demand, particularly in non-food, as the year progressed. 
Despite deteriorating trading conditions in several markets and the unhelpful effects of increased cross-border shopping being felt particularly in 
ireland and the c zech and s lovak Republics, our businesses delivered a pleasing increase in profit, helped by favourable movements in s terling 
exchange rates. 
Europe results       actual rates constant
      % ch. 52-week % ch. % ch.
europe sales (inc. vat )         £10,120m 29.1% 28.6% 6.9%
europe trading profit         £496m 24.9% 24.2% 3.5%
t rading margin         5.6% – – –
a segmental report on the United States is included in international in respect of the full year for the first time with these results. Us sales and 
initial trading losses were previously reported within the UK segment. 
Us sales were £208m in the year, including like-for-like growth of 30%, and trading losses were £142m (last year U s trading losses were £62m).  
at constant exchange rates, trading losses were £123m, higher than our guidance provided last year, reflecting the more challenging trading environment 
in the Western states and our decision not to open stores in n orthern c alifornia for the time being. s ales overall were lower than anticipated at the 
time of last year’s preliminary Results, as a consequence of our previously announced decision to maintain, rather than accelerate, our rate of new 
store expansion during the second half given the severity of the economic downturn in some geographic markets in the Western Us .
Us trading losses reflect the fact that the U s business – which has now been trading for 16 months – has been built with the necessary infrastructure 
in place from the beginning to support hundreds of stores. at this stage, it is therefore operating with high overhead and other costs in relation to 
the scale of the business, whilst also trading from immature stores.
United States results       actual rates constant
      % ch. 52-week % ch. % ch.
Us sales (inc. vat )         £208m n/m n/m n/m
Us trading profit/(loss)         £(142)m 129.0% 124.2% 98.4%
t rading margin         n/a – – – Tesco PLC annual Report and Financial s tatements 2009
Repo Rt o F t He DiRecto Rs 34
Group performance continued 
UK in competitive market conditions, our core business delivered a year of solid progress. UK sales increased by 9.5% to £41.5bn (last year £37.9bn), 
including like-for-like growth of 4.3%, 2.7% growth from net new stores, a contribution of 2.1% from the 53rd week and a first-time contribution 
from the consolidation of tp F. excluding petrol, like-for-like sales grew by 3.0%, with increases of 2.0% and 2.7% in the third and fourth quarters 
respectively. adjusting for the reduction in vat rates, which came into effect in early December, like-for-like growth excluding petrol was 3.7% in the 
fourth quarter.
t he pattern of our trading during the year was affected by a number of factors. inflation reduced during the second half and our rate of growth  
was also impacted by a sharp increase during the year in the level of downtrading by customers seeking to spend less on their weekly shop. t esco 
supported both of these trends by cutting prices and introducing more affordable products – including our successful new ‘Discount Brand’ ranges.  
a combination of recovering competitors and more subdued customer demand in some non-food product categories continued to hold back sales 
progress in the second half, although non-food sales growth remained positive in a subdued market and broadly stable in like-for-like terms.
increased productivity and good expense control enabled us to maintain solid margins and deliver good profit growth despite these challenges, 
whilst also absorbing initial trading losses totalling around £22m on t esco Direct. after these costs, UK trading profit rose 12.7% to £2,381m (last 
year £2,112m), with trading margins at 6.2% including tp F, slightly up on last year. o n a 52-week comparable basis, UK trading profit rose 10.7%.
in December, we completed as planned the acquisition of t he Royal Bank of s cotland g roup plc ’s 50% shareholding in t esco personal Finance 
(tp F) and on becoming a subsidiary, its results were consolidated into our UK business for the final ten weeks of the financial year. During this period 
it contributed £163m to UK sales and made a small contribution to trading profit. tp F’s results to the date of acquisition are reported as usual within 
Joint v entures and a ssociates. 
UK results        % ch. 52-week % ch.
UK sales (inc. vat )           £41,520m 9.5% 7.4%
UK trading profit           £2,381m 12.7% 10.7%
t rading margin           6.2% – –
Joint ventures and associates o ur share of profit (net of tax and interest) for the year was £110m, an increase of £35m compared with last year. 
t esco personal Finance delivered a good performance in a challenging financial services market and profit was reported within Joint v entures and 
a ssociates for 50 weeks (50% share). Underlying growth in the business was encouraging – with the number of customer accounts rising to six 
million – and the new management team demonstrating that there is significant growth potential for tp F within the financial services sector, 
particularly amongst loyal t esco customers, and as we build our portfolio of products. although we are seeing rises in credit card arrears and bad 
debts, tp F is well-provisioned. 
t esco mobile, our joint venture with o 2, saw strong growth, with a pleasing rise in profits during the year, reflecting excellent increases in customer 
numbers and revenues.
Finance costs and tax n et finance costs rose substantially to £362m (last year £63m), reflecting principally increased average net debt levels linked 
to acquisitions and foreign exchange movements, higher coupon rates on commercial paper and unfavourable changes in the non-cash iFRs 
elements of the interest charge. t he interest charge, excluding iFRs adjustments, rose by £150m.
t otal g roup tax has been charged at an effective rate of 26.7% (last year 24.0%). t his increase in tax rate is primarily due to last year’s one-off tax 
reimbursement, reflecting settlement of prior year tax items with HmRc . We also benefited in the prior year from an adjustment of deferred tax 
balances as a result of the lowering of the rate of UK corporation tax from 30% to 28% with effect from 1 april 2008. We expect the effective tax 
rate for the current year to be around 27%.
Underlying diluted earnings per share increased by 7.0% to 28.92p (last year 27.02p), despite the significantly lower than normal effective tax 
rate in the prior year. Using a constant tax rate, underlying diluted earnings per share rose by 11.0%, or by 9.7% on a 52-week comparable basis.
Dividend t he Board has proposed a final dividend of 8.39p per share (last year 7.70p). t his represents an increase of 9.0%, and takes the full year 
increase in dividend to 9.7%. t his rise in dividend is in line with the 52-week growth in underlying diluted earnings per share, which are inclusive of 
net property profits, using a constant tax rate. g oing forward, we intend to continue with our policy of growing annual dividends broadly in line with 
underlying diluted earnings per share growth.
t he final dividend will be paid on 10 July 2009 to shareholders on the Register of members at the close of business on 1 may 2009. 
Cash flow and balance sheet t esco has a strong, property-backed balance sheet, with sufficient funding in place to meet our needs, including no 
material bond maturities during the current financial year. We plan to fund the growth of the g roup predominantly from internal sources – recognising 
the current uncertainties in financial markets – and this will be achieved by reducing capital expenditure to below our operating cash flow.
g roup capital expenditure (excluding acquisitions) rose to £4.7bn (last year £3.9bn), slightly higher than the forecast made at our interim Results. 
t his increase compared with last year was attributable principally to the purchase of a small number of trading stores from a competitor and investment 
in new mixed-use development schemes in the UK, combined with higher international capital expenditure, including our initial investment in freehold 
shopping centre developments in c hina. Furthermore, international capital spending, and as a result total g roup expenditure, was impacted by the 
decline in s terling relative to most of our trading currencies.
UK capital expenditure was £2.6bn (last year £2.3bn). t otal international capital expenditure rose to £2.1bn (last year £1.6bn) comprising £0.9bn  
in a sia, £0.9bn in europe and £0.3bn in the Us . 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009
1.9
2.3
2.5
2.8
3.1
2005 2006 2007 2008 2009
2,334
2,672
3,263
3,751
4 , 33 2
Tesco PLC annual Report and Financial s tatements 2009
35 Repo Rt o F t He DiRecto Rs
Underlying profit before tax (£bn) Number of stores
To find out more go to 
www.tesco.com/annualreport09
We are now reducing UK capital spend on large mixed-use development schemes and we have purchased fewer existing trading stores from 
competitors, allowing UK capital expenditure to revert to the levels of four years ago. importantly this is being achieved whilst continuing to meet 
our objective of adding some 6 to 7% to our UK selling space annually. in some of our markets, such as the Us , we are taking a more cautious 
approach to expansion during the downturn and we are also seeing substantial falls in store site and build costs. t aken together, these changes 
mean that we are able to plan for g roup capital expenditure to reduce substantially this year to around £3.5bn, whilst still delivering strong organic 
growth in g roup selling space of around 9% in the current year. 
c ash flow from operating activities totalled £5.0bn (last year £4.1bn), including an improvement of £582m within working capital, driven in  
part by good control of stock. n et debt rose to £9.6bn at the year-end (last year £6.2bn). £1.9bn of this increase is attributable to the impact  
of acquiring tp F and Homever, and a further £1.0bn to the effect of unfavourable currency movements. 
We are targeting a reduction in net debt in the current year, driven by lower capital expenditure, property divestments, lower stock levels and other 
improvements in working capital.
Property in april 2006, we announced plans to release cash from property through a sequence of joint ventures and other sale and leaseback 
transactions, in the UK and internationally and return significant value to shareholders, both through enhanced dividends (through the growth in 
underlying earnings per share, which includes property profits) and share buy-backs. We have managed the pace of this programme in light of the 
current financial and property market conditions, and as a result we have divested the property at attractive yields. 
t he transactions completed so far – with pension funds, property companies and other investors – have delivered aggregate proceeds of £2.2bn. 
Whilst yields have increased modestly in recent months, we expect to be able to complete further transactions on attractive terms in the months ahead 
and we are currently in discussion with potential counterparties. proceeds for the remainder of this year will principally be used to pay down debt.
t he net book value of our fixed tangible assets is £24.7bn, most of it in our freehold store portfolio – even after recent property divestments linked 
to our £5bn programme. We estimate the current market value of these assets to be £30.4bn, representing a 23% premium to book value.
Pensions o ur award-winning defined-benefit pension scheme is an important part of our competitive benefits package, which helps t esco  
recruit and retain the best people. t he trustees manage and fund our scheme on an actuarial valuation basis and, at our triennial valuation dated 
31 march 2008, the scheme had a small deficit of £275m. 
Following the valuation, member and company contributions have increased and, to further improve the security of the scheme for members,  
the trustees will be granted contingent property assets worth £500m.
a s at February 2009, under the ias 19 methodology of pension liability valuation, the scheme had a deficit on a post-tax basis of £1.1bn (last year 
£0.6bn). t his change has been driven mainly by falls in capital markets and other asset classes, although the deficit is similar to the level reported 
at our interim results.
Return on capital employed in January 2004, we said that we had an aspiration to increase our post-tax return on capital employed (Roce )  
of 10.2% in the 2002/3 financial year by 200 basis points over five years on then current plans. in april 2006, we renewed our commitment to 
increasing our post-tax return on capital employed (Roce ) by a further 200 basis points, having exceeded our 2004 aspiration early. 
Roce rose slightly to 13.0% in the year before the effect of the two major acquisitions – tp F and Homever – which were completed in the  
second half. t his represents a good performance and we remain on track to deliver our targeted Roce improvement in the years ahead as these 
investments mature.  Tesco PLC annual Report and Financial s tatements 2009
36 Repo Rt o F t He DiRecto Rs
Key performance indicators
*
We operate a balanced scorecard approach to managing the business that is known internally within the g roup as our ‘s teering Wheel’. t his unites 
the g roup’s resources and in particular focuses the efforts of our staff around our customers, people, operations, finance and the community. its 
prime focus is as a management tool for the company so that there is appropriate balance in the trade-offs that need to be made all the time between 
the main levers of management – such as operations measures, financial measures or delivery of customer metrics.
it therefore enables the business to be operated and monitored on a balanced basis with due regard to the needs of all stakeholders. For the owners 
of the business, it is simply based around the philosophy that if we look after customers well and operate efficiently and effectively then 
shareholders’ interests will always be best served by the inevitable outputs of those – growth in sales, profits and returns.
        2009 2008
Sales growth  
c hange in g roup sales over the year (including value added tax)      15.1% 11.1%
UK sales growth       9.5% 6.7%
international sales growth        30.6% 25.3%
international sales growth (at constant exchange rates)       13.6% 22.5%
Retailing s ervices sales growth       11% –
profit before tax       £2,954m £2,803m
Underlying profit before tax       £3,128m £2,846m
Trading margin  
UK trading margin       6.2% 5.9%
international trading margin (excluding the United s tates)       5.3% 5.6%
†
 
t rading margin is calculated from the trading profit expressed as a percentage of g roup revenue (sales excluding value 
added tax). it is a measure of profit generation from sales and is a comparable performance measure with other companies. 
t his is how much we made from trade in our stores, taking account of the cost of the products sold, wages and salaries, 
expenses associated with running the stores, depots and head office, and the cost of depreciation of the assets used to 
generate the profits. t rading profit is stated after adjusting operating profit for the impact of ias 19, ias 32 and ias 39 
(principally pension costs and the marking to market of financial instruments). it also excludes the non-cash elements of 
ias 17 ‘ l eases’, relating to the impact of annual uplifts in rents and rent-free periods, and the iFRs 3 amortisation charge 
on intangible assets arising on the acquisition of t esco personal Finance (tp F).
Net cash inflow/(outflow)       £1,601m £801m
n et cash inflow is the cash received less cash spent during the financial period, after financing activities   
Capital expenditure       £4.7bn £3.9bn
t his is the amount invested in purchasing fixed assets       
UK       £2.6bn £2.3bn
international       £2.1bn £1.6bn
Net borrowings and gearing  
n et borrowings       £9.6bn £6.2bn
gearing       74% 52%
Return on capital employed (ROCE)       13.0%
‡
  12.9%
**
Roce is calculated as profit before interest less tax divided by the average of net assets plus net debt plus dividend creditor 
less net assets held for sale. Roce is a relative profit measurement that not only incorporates the funds shareholders have 
invested, but also funds invested by banks and other lenders, and therefore shows the productivity of the assets of the g roup. 
Underlying diluted earnings per share       28.92p
§
  27.02p
Underlying diluted earnings per share is the calculation of profit after tax and minority interest divided by the diluted 
weighted average number of shares in issue during the year. it is the amount which could be paid out on each share if the 
c ompany decided to distribute all its profits as dividends instead of retaining some for future expansion.
* all 2009 Kpis are for 53 weeks to 28 February 2009 unless otherwise stated.
† international trading margins rose by 15 basis points excluding the impact of consolidating the c hina business.
‡ excluding acquisitions of tp F and Homever, india start-up costs, and after adjusting for assets held for sale.
** Using a ‘normalised’ tax rate before start-up costs in the Us and t esco Direct, and excludes the impact of foreign exchange in equity and our acquisition of a majority share of Dobbies.
§ Underlying diluted earnings per share grew by 7% on a statutory basis. Tesco PLC annual Report and Financial s tatements 2009
37 Repo Rt o F t He DiRecto Rs
To find out more go to 
www.tesco.com/annualreport09
       2009 2008
Total shareholder return       8.0% 22.8%
t otal shareholder return is the notional return from a share and is measured as the percentage change in the share price, 
plus the dividend paid. t his is measured over the last five years.   
Full year dividend per share       11.96p 10.90p
t he growth of the dividend per share from one period to the next is important to shareholders since this represents their  
actual cash return, and is usually paid twice a year.  
We monitor a wide range of Kpis, both financial and non-financial. individual business units have their own versions of the s teering Wheel which 
incorporate their own priorities and Kpis. s ome of the g roup Kpis below are tracked through the s teering Wheel and those above are tracked as  
a monitor of investor return.
across the g roup, Kpis are set for local markets, with oversight from the executive Directors, to ensure they are tailored to drive the priorities  
of each business.  
t he following are some Kpis for the UK and g roup operations:
       2009 2008
UK market share  
g rocery market share
**
        22.2% 21.8%
n on-food market share       8.8% 8.5%
Employee retention       87% 84%
t his measure shows the percentage of employees who have stayed with the business for longer than one year.  
it is one measure that we use to monitor employee loyalty and satisfaction and we aim to exceed 80% retention  
of experienced staff.  
Reduction in CO2 emissions
† †
   
UK        13.3% 3.8%
the group       12.6% 3.8%
t his measure shows the overall reduction in emissions from energy use of existing stores and distribution centres, related 
to a fixed (2006/7) floor area. it excludes refrigerant gas emissions.  
Reduction in CO2 emissions intensity of new stores
† †
  
the group       20.9% 11.7%
intensity is measured as co 2 emissions/sq ft. t he measure indicates the average reduction in emissions  
intensity of all new stores built since 2006/7 (the base year). c arbon footprint reporting has been assured  
by environmental Resources management (eRm). 
** t his is measured as the share of all spend by all shoppers through t aylor n elson s ofres s uperpanel (t otal t ill Roll) data.
†† Figures adjusted for 52-week comparison. Tesco PLC annual Report and Financial s tatements 2009
Repo Rt o F t He DiRecto Rs 38
Risks and uncertainties
Introduction Risk is an accepted part of doing business. t he real 
challenge for any business is to identify the principal risks it faces and to 
develop and monitor appropriate controls. a successful risk management 
process balances risks and rewards and relies on a sound judgement of 
their likelihood and consequence.
t he Board has overall responsibility for risk management and internal 
control within the context of achieving the g roup’s objectives. our process 
for identifying and managing risks is set out in more detail from page 47  
of the c orporate g overnance section of this annual Report and Financial 
s tatements. t he key risks faced by the g roup and relevant mitigating 
factors are set out below.
Business strategy if our strategy follows the wrong direction or is not 
effectively communicated then the business may suffer. We need to 
understand and properly manage strategic risk in order to deliver long-
term growth for the benefit of all our stakeholders. our strategy is based 
on five elements: to become a successful international retailer, to grow the 
core UK business, be as strong in non-food as in food, develop retailing 
services and put the community at the heart of what we do. pursuit of this 
five-part strategy has allowed the business to diversify and, at a strategic 
level, diversification and pursuit of growth in emerging markets have the 
effect of reducing overall risk by avoiding reliance on a small number of 
business areas. However, by its very nature, diversification also introduces 
new risks to be managed in areas of the business that are less mature and  
less fully understood. 
t o ensure the g roup continues to pursue the right strategy, the Board 
discusses strategic issues at every Board meeting, and dedicates two full 
days a year to reviewing the g roup’s strategy. t he executive c ommittee  
also holds specific sessions to discuss strategy on a regular basis. We have 
structured programmes for engaging with all our stakeholders including 
customers, employees, investors, suppliers, government, media and  
non-governmental organisations. We also invest significant resources in 
ensuring our strategy is communicated well and understood by the parties 
who are key to delivering it. t he business operates a s teering Wheel –  
a balanced scorecard process whereby we set goals for different areas of  
the business and assess our overall progress on a quarterly basis – in all 
countries and significant business units such as Dotcom to help manage 
performance and deliver business strategy.
Financial strategy and Group treasury risk t he main financial risks  
of the g roup relate to the availability of funds to meet business needs,  
the risk of default by counterparties to financial transactions, and 
fluctuations in interest and foreign exchange rates. t he risks associated 
with operating t esco personal Finance are covered under Financial  
services risks below.
t he t reasury function is mandated by the Board to manage the financial 
risks that arise in relation to underlying business needs. t he function has 
clear policies and operating parameters, and its activities are routinely 
reviewed and audited. t he function does not operate as a profit centre 
and the undertaking of speculative transactions is not permitted.  
a description of the role of the Finance c ommittee and internal and 
external audit is set out in the c orporate g overnance section on page 48.
Financial services risks t hrough t esco personal Finance plc (formerly 
t esco personal Finance g roup l imited) (tp F), the g roup is subject to 
certain risks relating to the personal financial services industry in the UK.
tp F is subject to significant legislative and regulatory oversight. in 
particular, tp F is subject to supervision by the Financial s ervices authority 
(Fsa ), which has substantial powers of intervention, and is required to  
satisfy certain capital adequacy and liquidity ratios. if tp F is unable or fails  
to satisfy these ratios in the future, it could lose its licence and, consequently, 
its ability to transact business. 
tp F is subject to various risks associated with the provision of financial 
services. in relation to its insurance business, tp F may experience a 
concentration of risks from natural or man-made disasters. in addition, 
market conditions may not allow tp F to purchase the amount of 
re-insurance it considers necessary on terms it considers acceptable.  
actual claims may exceed the claims provisions that have been made  
on the basis of past experience. tp F’s credit card receivables and personal 
loan portfolio may be subject to changes in credit quality, due to a general 
deterioration in economic conditions or by failures in its credit assessment 
process, which could adversely impact its ability to recover amounts due. 
Furthermore, there is significant competition in the financial services 
industry, which could adversely affect tp F’s market share and profitability. 
l egal developments, changes in legal interpretation or precedent, and 
changes in public policy may result in new risks emerging in addition to 
those anticipated.
Because tp F is an Fsa -regulated entity, its treasury function is run 
independently from the rest of the g roup. tp F’s treasury risks include, in 
particular, liquidity risk and interest rate risk (in particular, in the interest rate 
margin realised between lending and borrowing costs). tp F is also subject  
to the risk of unexpected losses arising from operational failure, whether as  
a result of human error, systems failures, fraud or inadequate controls.
Operational threats and performance risk in the business t here is a 
risk that our business may not deliver the stated strategy in full, particularly 
since, like all retailers, the business is susceptible to economic downturn 
that could affect consumer spending. t he continuing acquisition and 
development of property sites also forms an intrinsic part of our strategy 
and this carries inherent risks.
We try to deliver what customers want better than our competitors by 
understanding and responding to their behaviour. all of our business units 
have stretching targets based on the s teering Wheel and the performance 
of business units is monitored continually and reported regularly to the 
Board. We manage the acquisition and development of our property 
assets carefully. We consider and assess in detail every site at each stage  
of acquisition and development and ensure that relevant action is taken  
to minimise any risks.
Competition and consolidation t he retail industry is highly competitive. 
t he g roup competes with a wide variety of retailers of varying sizes and 
faces increased competition from UK retailers as well as international 
operators in the UK and overseas.
Failure to compete with competitors on areas including price, product 
range, quality and service could have an adverse effect on the g roup’s 
financial results. 
We aim to have a broad appeal in price, range and store format in a way 
that allows us to compete in different markets. We track performance 
against a range of measures that customers tell us are critical to their 
shopping trip experience and we constantly monitor customer perceptions 
of ourselves and our competitors to ensure we can respond quickly if we 
need to.
People capabilities our greatest asset is our employees. i t is critical to  
our success to attract, retain, develop and motivate the best people with 
the right capabilities at all levels of operations. We review our people 
policies regularly and are committed to investing in training and 
development and incentives for our people. o ur ‘t alent planning’ process 
helps individuals achieve their full potential. We also carry out succession 
planning to ensure that the needs of the business going forward are 
considered and provided for. t here are clear processes for understanding 
and responding to employees’ needs through our people matters g roup, 
staff surveys, regular performance reviews, involvement of trade unions in 
relevant markets and regular communication of business developments.
Reputational risk as the largest retailer in the UK, expectations of the 
g roup are high. Failure to protect the g roup’s reputation and brand could 
lead to a loss of trust and confidence. t his could result in a decline in the 
customer base and affect the ability to recruit and retain good people. 
l ike other companies we must consider potential threats to our reputation 
and the consequences of reputational damage. emotional loyalty to the 
t esco brand has helped us diversify into new areas like retail services and 
non-food and we recognise the commercial imperative to do the right 
thing for all our stakeholders and avoid the loss of such loyalty. t he ‘t esco 
values’ are embedded in the way we do business at every level and our 
c ode of ethics guides our behaviour in our dealings with customers, 
employees and suppliers. Tesco PLC annual Report and Financial s tatements 2009
39 Repo Rt o F t He DiRecto Rs
To find out more go to 
www.tesco.com/annualreport09
We engage with stakeholders in every sphere to take into account their 
views and we try to ensure our strategy reflects them. t he launch of the 
c ommunity plan in 2006 has demonstrated our commitment to tackling  
a wide range of societal and environmental issues. We have high level 
committees, including the executive c ommittee, c orporate Responsibility 
c ommittee and c ompliance c ommittee, to help guide and monitor  
our policies.
Environmental risks o ur key environmental risks are related to 
minimising energy usage in stores and transportation, waste management 
and our ability to respond to consumer concerns in this area. We develop 
environmental policy through engaging with key stakeholders and experts 
in this field to achieve sustainable growth and minimise our environmental 
impacts. t he g roup’s approach is brought together in a consistent manner 
by the c orporate Responsibility c ommittee.
policy is reviewed regularly by the c ompliance c ommittee and c orporate 
Responsibility c ommittee. We recognise the opportunities for competitive 
advantage through energy efficiency and look for continuous 
improvement through innovations and better ways to help customers act 
responsibly towards the environment.
Product safety t he safety and quality of our products is of paramount 
importance to t esco as well as being essential for maintaining customer 
trust and confidence. a breach in confidence could affect the size of our 
customer base and hence financial results.
We have detailed and established procedures for ensuring product 
integrity at all times, especially for our own-label products. t here are  
strict product safety processes and regular management reports. We  
work in partnership with suppliers to ensure mutual understanding of  
the standards required. We also monitor developments in areas such as 
health, safety and nutrition in order to respond appropriately to changing 
customer trends and new legislation. We have clear processes for crisis 
management, pulling together expert teams should we need to respond 
quickly on issues.
Health and safety risks While the safety of our staff and customers is of 
the utmost importance to us, if we are unable to provide safe environments 
for our staff and customers this could lead to injuries or loss of life.
We operate stringent health and safety processes in line with best practice 
in our stores, distribution centres and offices, which are monitored and 
audited regularly. Kpis for preventing health and safety incidents form an 
intrinsic part of our s teering Wheels across the business, and performance 
against these Kpis is reported quarterly. our g roup c ompliance 
committee and the compliance committees in our international businesses 
monitor the level of compliance with health and safety laws and our 
internal policies on a regular basis.
Ethical risks in the supply chain millions of people around the world 
work for direct suppliers to t esco and the supply chain is made of complex 
relationships – from individual farmers and growers through to processors, 
manufacturers and distributors. at the heart of our v alues is our belief that 
we should treat people as we like to be treated and we have a responsibility 
to help workers in our supply chain enjoy fair labour standards. We 
therefore require our suppliers to meet strict criteria on labour standards, 
and as a founder member of the ethical t rading initiative (eti ) we expect 
all our suppliers to follow the eti base code and guarantee their workers 
the rights set out within it. t here is, however, a risk that any part of the 
supply chain might not adhere to these high standards. 
t o minimise this risk we only work with suppliers who can demonstrate 
that they are committed to the eti code and share our values. We use 
s upplier ethical Data exchange (se Dex ) to carry out risk assessment of all 
our direct suppliers and all medium and high-risk suppliers must undergo 
an extensive, independent ethical audit. We continue to operate a 
comprehensive programme of audit improvements, including more 
unannounced audits, a t rading Fairly strategy and an industry-leading 
auditor Recognition programme. We have also sought to involve more 
multi-stakeholder representatives on our audits to improve workforce 
engagement and enable activists to see and feedback on our approach. 
We work with suppliers to identify any problems and, where they exist, 
support them in taking action to improve standards for their workers. 
We have also invested heavily in building the labour standards capabilities 
of our suppliers and our own commercial teams in the last year, including 
rolling out extensive training, to help them identify and avoid issues before 
they arise. We also work with businesses, governments, non-governmental 
organisations (ngo s) and others to tackle complex and systemic problems 
that we cannot solve on our own. as well as having a key role in the eti we 
also work closely with the g lobal s ocial c ompliance programme and other 
groups in specific industries or regions. 
Fraud and compliance as the business grows in size and geographical 
spread, the risk of occurrence of fraudulent behaviour by our employees 
increases. Whilst the vast majority of our staff are completely honest, there 
remains the potential for fraud and other dishonest activity at all levels of 
the business from the shop floor to senior management. 
t he g roup takes extensive steps to reduce this risk. Relevant accounting 
and other procedures and controls at all levels are clearly set out and 
audited across the business to reduce the risk of fraud. t he g roup gives 
clear guidance on behaviour to employees through the t esco values and 
the c ode of ethics. internal audit undertakes detailed investigations into 
all areas of the business and highlights its findings to the audit c ommittee. 
t he compliance committee formulates and monitors the implementation 
of, and compliance with appropriate policies on key areas of ethical 
behaviour, including fraud.
Property We have stretching targets for delivering new space in the  
UK and overseas, and may face challenges in finding suitable sites and 
obtaining planning or other consents to enable sites to be acquired and 
developed. t he complexity of many of our property developments is 
increasing, especially the growing number of mixed-use schemes.  
We also have to comply with design and construction standards which  
vary significantly from country to country. 
our p roperty acquisition c ommittees and other related committees in  
the UK, europe, asia and the Us closely control all aspects of the property 
acquisition, planning and construction processes, to ensure that applicable 
standards are met and financial risks are minimised. o ur g roup and 
country compliance committees also monitor compliance with applicable 
legal and regulatory requirements in all aspects of our property activities.
Non-food risks as the proportion of our business represented by  
non-food products increases, there is a risk that a downturn in consumer 
confidence may affect the level of demand for products which consumers 
may regard as non-essential.
We make every effort to ensure that our non-food products are 
competitively priced to offer a broad range of products ranging from  
value to the luxury end of the market, in order to cater for the needs  
of as wide a range of customers as possible.
IT systems and infrastructure t he business is dependent on efficient 
information technology (it ) systems. any significant failure in the it 
processes of our retail operations (e.g. barcode scanning or supply chain 
logistics) would impact our ability to trade. We recognise the essential role 
that it plays across our operations in allowing us to trade efficiently and  
so that we can achieve commercial advantage through implementing  
it innovations that improve the shopping trip for customers and make life 
easier for employees. We have extensive controls in place to maintain the 
integrity and efficiency of our it infrastructure and we share systems from 
across our international operations to ensure consistency of delivery.  Tesco PLC annual Report and Financial s tatements 2009
Repo Rt o F t He DiRecto Rs 40
Risks and uncertainties continued
Regulatory and political environment We are subject to a wide variety 
of regulations in the different countries in which we operate because of  
the diverse nature of our business. t esco may be impacted by regulatory 
changes in key areas such as planning laws, trading hours, and tax rules as 
well as by scrutiny by the competition authorities, who have been carrying 
out enquiries in the UK, ireland and elsewhere. We may also be impacted 
by political developments in the countries in which we operate. We 
consider these uncertainties in the external environment when developing 
strategy and reviewing performance. We remain vigilant to future changes. 
as part of our day-to-day operations we engage with governmental and 
non-governmental organisations to ensure the views of our customers  
and employees are represented and try to anticipate and contribute to 
important changes in public policy wherever we operate. 
Activism and terrorism a major incident or terrorist event incapacitating 
management, systems or stores could impact on the g roup’s ability to 
trade. in addition to contingency plans, we have security systems and 
processes that reflect best practice.
Pension risks t he g roup’s pension arrangements are an important part  
of our employees’ overall benefits package especially in the UK. We see 
them as a strong contributor to our ability to attract and retain good 
people, our g roup’s greatest asset. s ince the implementation of ias 19 
there is a risk that the accounting valuation deficit (which is recorded as a 
liability on the g roup Balance s heet) could increase if returns on corporate 
bonds are higher than the investment return on the pension scheme’s 
assets. t he g roup has considered its pension risks and has taken action 
by reducing risk in its investment strategy.
Joint venture governance and partnerships as we continue to enter 
into new partnerships and joint ventures as well as developing existing 
arrangements, there remains an inherent risk in managing these partnerships 
and joint ventures. it is more difficult to guarantee the achievement of joint 
goals that affect our partners and we rely on partners to help achieve such 
goals. We may also be impacted by reputational issues which affect our 
partners. We choose partners with good reputations and set out joint goals 
and clear contractual arrangements from the outset. We monitor performance 
and governance of our joint ventures and partnerships.
Financial review
t he main financial risks faced by the g roup relate to the availability of 
funds to meet business needs, the risk of default by counterparties to 
financial transactions, fluctuations in interest and foreign exchange rates 
and credit rating risks. t hese risks are managed as described below. t he 
g roup Balance sheet position at 28 February 2009 is representative of  
the position throughout the year.
Funding and liquidity t he g roup finances its operations by a 
combination of retained profits, long and medium-term debt, capital 
market issues, commercial paper, bank borrowings and leases. t he 
objective is to ensure continuity of funding. t he policy is to smooth the 
debt maturity profile, to arrange funding ahead of requirements and  
to maintain sufficient undrawn committed bank facilities, and a strong 
credit rating so that maturing debt may be refinanced as it falls due.
t esco g roup has a long-term rating of a 3 by moody’s and a- by s tandard 
and poor’s with a stable outlook. n ew funding of £5.6bn was arranged 
during the year, including a net £0.7bn from property transactions and 
£4.9bn from medium-term notes (mtn s). at the year end, net debt was 
£9.6bn (last year £6.2bn).
Interest rate risk management t he objective is to limit our exposure to 
increases in interest rates while retaining the opportunity to benefit from 
interest rate reductions. Forward rate agreements, interest rate swaps, caps 
and collars are used to achieve the desired mix of fixed and floating rate debt.
t he policy is to fix or cap a minimum of 40% of actual and projected debt 
interest costs of the g roup excluding tp F. at the year end, £6.3bn of debt 
was in fixed rate form (last year £2.5bn) with a further £0.7bn of debt capped 
or collared, therefore 72% (2008 – 55%) of net debt is fixed, capped or 
collared. t he remaining balance of our debt is in floating rate form. t he 
average rate of interest paid on an historic cost basis excluding joint 
ventures and associates this year was 5.2% (last year 4.5%).
Foreign currency risk management our principal objective is to reduce 
the effect of exchange rate volatility on short-term profits. t ransactional 
currency exposures that could significantly impact the g roup income 
s tatement are hedged, typically using forward purchases or sales of 
foreign currencies and currency options. at the year end, forward foreign 
currency transactions, designated as cash flow hedges, equivalent to 
£2,110m were outstanding (2008 – £1,198m) as detailed in note 22. We 
hedge the majority of our investments in our international subsidiaries via 
foreign exchange transactions in matching currencies. our objective is to 
maintain a low cost of borrowing and hedge against material movements 
in our g roup Balance s heet value. During the year, currency movements 
increased the net value of the g roup’s overseas assets by £480m (last year 
increase of £284m). We translate overseas profits at average foreign 
exchange rates which we do not currently seek to hedge.
Credit risk t he objective is to reduce the risk of loss arising from  
default by parties to financial transactions across an approved list of 
counterparties of high credit quality. t he g roup’s positions with these 
counterparties and their credit ratings are routinely monitored.
Tesco Personal Finance (TPF) tp F became a wholly owned subsidiary 
of t esco g roup on 19 December 2008. in preparation for this change the 
risk management and treasury capabilities of tp F have been materially 
strengthened. all policies pertaining to risk within tp F are now subject  
to tp F governance procedures which are owned by the tp F Board.
tp F has a banking business, predominantly in the UK, with the three main 
products being credit cards, unsecured personal loans and savings. tp F 
has also developed a significant insurance business, with motor, home  
and pet insurance being the main products. 
c redit risk, arising from its unsecured lending, is managed using all the 
normal reporting and collections and recoveries systems. in terms of 
liquidity risk tp F has implemented a conservative approach to the 
minimum amount of liquid assets its holds and to its core funding ratio of 
customer assets/customer liabilities. tp F has at this stage in its development 
an increased element of operational risk as it currently outsources most of 
its operations to Royal Bank of s cotland g roup whilst at the same time it is 
in the process of building new banking and insurance systems. tp F retains 
profit and loss risk to its insurance activities of which a large weather 
related event would generate the largest adverse variance.
Insurance We purchased assets, earnings and c ombined l iability 
protection from the open insurance market at ‘catastrophe’ level only.  
t he risk not transferred to the insurance market is retained within the 
business by using our captive insurance companies, t esco insurance 
l imited in g uernsey and valiant insurance c ompany l imited in the 
Republic of ireland. t esco insurance l imited covers assets and earnings, 
while valiant insurance c ompany l imited covers c ombined l iability. 
Statement of compliance
t his Business Review has been prepared in accordance with the 
requirements for a business review under the c ompanies acts 1985  
and 2006. 
t he Business Review’s intent is to provide information to shareholders  
and should not be relied on by any other party or for any other purpose. 
Cautionary statement regarding  
forward-looking information
Where this review contains forward-looking statements, these are made  
by the Directors in good faith based on the information available to them  
at the time of their approval of this report. t hese statements should be 
treated with caution due to the inherent risks and uncertainties underlying 
any such forward-looking information.
t he g roup cautions investors that a number of important factors, 
including those in this document, could cause actual results to differ 
materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement. s uch 
factors include, but are not limited to, those discussed under ‘Risks and 
uncertainties’ on pages 38 to 40 of this document. To find out more go to 
www.tesco.com/annualreport09 Tesco PLC annual Report and Financial s tatements 2009
41 Repo Rt o F t He DiRecto Rs
General information
Principal activity, business review and future developments t he 
principal activity of the g roup is retailing and associated activities in the UK, 
the Republic of ireland, Hungary, poland, the c zech Republic, s lovakia, 
t urkey, t hailand, s outh Korea, malaysia, Japan, c hina and the Us. t he 
g roup also provides retail banking and insurance services through its 
subsidiary t esco personal Finance.
Group results g roup revenue rose by £7bn to £54.3bn, representing an 
increase of 15%. g roup profit before tax increased by £151m, to £2,954m. 
profit for the year was £2,166m, of which £2,161m was attributable to 
equity holders of the parent company.
Dividends t he Directors recommend the payment of a final dividend  
of 8.39p per ordinary share, to be paid on 10 July 2009 to members on the 
Register at the close of business on 1 may 2009. t ogether with the interim 
dividend of 3.57p per ordinary share paid in December 2008, the total 
dividend for the year will be 11.96p compared with 10.90p for the previous 
year, an increase of 9.7%.
Fixed assets c apital expenditure (excluding business combinations) 
amounted to £4.7bn compared with £3.9bn the previous year. in the 
Directors’ opinion, the properties of the g roup have a market value in 
excess of the carrying value of £7bn included in these financial statements. 
Share capital and control of the Company Details of the c ompany’s 
share capital including changes during the year in the issued share capital 
and details of the rights attaching to the c ompany’s ordinary shares are set 
out in note 29 on page 114. Details of treasury shares held by the c ompany  
are shown in note 30 on page 115. During the year 25,214,811 ordinary shares 
were repurchased for cancellation. n o shareholder holds securities carrying 
special rights with regards to control of the c ompany and there are no 
restrictions on voting rights. t he Board has power to purchase its own 
shares and is seeking renewal of that power at the forthcoming agm within 
the limits set out in the notice of that meeting.
s hares held by the c ompany’s employee s hare incentive plan t rust, 
international employee Benefit t rust and t esco ireland s hare Bonus 
s cheme t rust rank pari passu with the shares in issue and have no special 
rights, but voting rights and rights of acceptance of any offer relating to the 
shares rests with the t rustees, who may take account of any recommendation 
of the c ompany, and are not exercisable by the employees.
t he c ompany is not party to any significant agreements that would take 
effect, alter or terminate following a change of control of the c ompany.  
t he c ompany does not have agreements with any Director or o fficer that 
would provide compensation for loss of office or employment resulting 
from a takeover, except that provisions of the c ompany’s share plans may 
cause options and awards granted under such plans to vest on a takeover.
Company’s shareholders t he c ompany has been notified that as at the 
date of this report l egal & g eneral investment management l imited owns 
4.55% of the issued share capital of the c ompany. t he c ompany is not 
aware of any other ordinary shareholders with interests of 3% or more in 
the issued share capital of the c ompany.
Articles of Association t he c ompany’s articles of association may only 
be amended by special resolution at a g eneral meeting of the shareholders.
Directors and their interests t he Directors who served during the  
year were:
mr D e Reid; mr R F c hase c Be; s ir t erry l eahy; mr R Brasher; mr p a c larke; 
mr a t Higginson; mr t J R mason; mr l mcilwee; miss l n eville-Rolfe cmg; 
mr D t potts; mr c l allen c Be; ms J t ammenoms Bakker; mr p c escau; 
mrs K c ook; mr e m Davies c Be; Dr H einsmann; mr K J Hydon; and  
ms c mcc all.
ms c mcc all resigned from the Board on 10 april 2008 and mr e m Davies c Be 
resigned from the Board on 31 o ctober 2008. t he biographical details of the 
present Directors are set out on page 43 of this Report. ms t ammenoms Bakker, 
mr c escau, mr Hanna and mr mcilwee were appointed to the Board in the last 
12 months and, as required by the articles of association, offer themselves for 
election. mr allen, mr Brasher, mr c larke, Dr H einsmann and mr Higginson 
retire from the Board by rotation and, being eligible, offer themselves for 
re-election. t he interests of Directors and their immediate families in the 
shares of t esco plc , along with details of Directors’ share options, are 
contained in the Directors’ Remuneration Report set out on pages 50 to 64.
at no time during the year did any of the Directors have a material interest 
in any significant contract with the c ompany or any of its subsidiaries.  
a qualifying third-party indemnity provision as defined in s ection 234 of 
the c ompanies act 2006 is in force for the benefit of each of the Directors 
and the c ompany s ecretary (who is also a Director of certain subsidiaries 
of the c ompany) in respect of liabilities incurred as a result of their office, 
to the extent permitted by law. in respect of those liabilities for which 
Directors may not be indemnified, the c ompany maintained a Directors’ 
and officers’ liability insurance policy throughout the financial year. 
Employment policies t he g roup depends on the skills and commitment 
of its employees in order to achieve its objectives. o ngoing training 
programmes seek to ensure that employees understand the g roup’s 
customer service objectives and strive to achieve them. t he g roup’s 
selection, training, development and promotion policies ensure equal 
opportunities for all employees regardless of factors such as gender, marital 
status, race, age, sexual preference and orientation, colour, creed, ethnic 
origin, religion or belief, or disability. all decisions are based on merit. 
internal communications are designed to ensure that employees are well 
informed about the business of the g roup. employees are encouraged  
to become involved in the financial performance of the g roup through a 
variety of schemes, principally the t esco employee profit-sharing scheme 
(s hares in s uccess), the savings-related share option scheme (s ave as  
You earn) and the partnership share plan (Buy as You earn).
Political and charitable donations c ash donations to charities amounted 
to £28,278,867 (2008 – £22,655,173). c ontributions to community 
projects including cause-related marketing, gifts-in-kind, staff time and 
management costs amounted to £57,094,208 (2008 – £54,542,913). 
t here were no political donations (2008 – £nil). During the year, the g roup 
made contributions of £55,468 (2008 – £45,023) in the form of sponsorship 
for political events: l abour party £15,500; l iberal Democrat party £6,150; 
c onservative party £8,595; s cottish n ational party £7,343; plaid cymru 
£1,880; trade unions £16,000.
Supplier payment policy t esco plc is a signatory to the c Bi c ode of 
prompt payment. c opies of the c ode may be obtained from the c Bi, 
c entre point, 103 n ew oxford s treet, l ondon Wc1a 1DU. payment terms 
and conditions are agreed with suppliers in advance. t esco plc has no 
trade creditors on its Balance s heet. t he g roup pays its creditors on a pay 
on time basis which varies according to the type of product and territory  
in which the suppliers operate.
Going concern t he Directors consider that the g roup and the c ompany 
have adequate resources to remain in operation for the foreseeable  
future and have therefore continued to adopt the going concern basis  
in preparing the financial statements. as with all business forecasts, the 
Directors’ statement cannot guarantee that the going concern basis will 
remain appropriate given the inherent uncertainty about future events.
Events after the Balance Sheet date 
t here were no material events after the Balance s heet date.
Auditors a resolution to re-appoint pricewaterhousec oopers llp as 
auditors of the c ompany and the g roup will be proposed at the annual 
g eneral meeting.
Directors’ statement of dislosure of information to auditors
Having made the requisite enquiries, the Directors in office at the date of 
this annual Report and Financial s tatements have each confirmed that, so 
far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit information (as defined by 
s ection 418 of the c ompanies act 2006) of which the g roup’s auditors are 
unaware, and each of the Directors has taken all the steps he/she ought  
to have taken as a Director to make himself/herself aware of any relevant 
audit information and to establish that the g roup’s auditors are aware of 
that information. t his confirmation is given and should be interpreted in 
accordance with the provisions of s ection 418 of the c ompanies act 2006. Tesco PLC annual Report and Financial s tatements 2009
Repo Rt o F t He DiRecto Rs 42
Our Board of Directors
David Reid
Charles Allen
Ken Hanna
Philip Clarke
Rodney Chase
Patrick Cescau
Ken Hydon
Laurie Mcllwee
Andrew Higginson
Sir Terry Leahy
Karen Cook
Jacqueline Tammenoms Bakker
Lucy Neville-Rolfe
Tim Mason
Richard Brasher
Dr Harald Einsmann
Jonathan Lloyd
David Potts Tesco PLC annual Report and Financial s tatements 2009
43 Repo Rt o F t He DiRecto Rs
To find out more go to 
www.tesco.com/annualreport09
David Reid – 62•
n on-executive c hairman
David Reid became n on-executive c hairman on 2 april 2004. prior to his 
appointment he was Deputy c hairman of t esco plc and has served on the 
t esco Board since 1985. David is a n on-executive Director of Reed elsevier 
g roup plc and c hairman of Kwik-Fit g roup.
Rodney Chase CBE – 65• u n
Deputy c hairman and s enior n on-executive Director
Rodney c hase was appointed a n on-executive Director on 1 July 2002. 
He is n on-executive c hairman of petrofac l imited and a n on-executive 
Director of c omputer sciences c orporation in l os angeles, nalco 
c ompany in c hicago and t esoro c orporation in s an antonio.
Sir Terry Leahy – 53• 
c hief executive
t erry l eahy became c hief executive in 1997. Joining t esco in 1979, he 
held a number of marketing and commercial positions prior to being 
appointed to the Board of t esco plc on 5 o ctober 1992.
Richard Brasher – 47
c ommercial and marketing Director
Richard Brasher was appointed to the Board on 15 march 2004. He joined 
t esco in 1986. He has held a number of marketing, commercial and store 
operations positions, most recently n on-food c ommercial Director.
Philip Clarke – 48
international and it Director
philip c larke was appointed to the Board on 16 n ovember 1998. prior to 
his appointment he held a number of roles in store operations, commercial 
and marketing. He is a n on-executive Director of Whitbread plc .
Andrew Higginson – 51
c hief executive of Retailing s ervices and g roup s trategy Director
andrew Higginson was appointed to the Board on 17 n ovember 1997.  
He has recently taken up a new Board position as c hief executive of 
Retailing s ervices, retaining his responsibilities for t esco g roup strategy. 
He is c hairman of t esco personal Finance and a n on-executive Director  
of Bs kyB plc.
Tim Mason – 51
president and c hief executive o fficer, Fresh & easy
t im mason has been president and c hief executive o fficer, Fresh & easy 
n eighborhood market since January 2006. He was appointed to the Board 
on 16 February 1995. He joined t esco in 1982. 
Laurie McIlwee – 46
g roup Finance Director
l aurie mcilwee was appointed to the Board on 27 January 2009. He joined 
t esco in 2000 as UK Finance Director and Distribution Director in 2005.  
He is currently a member of the 100 g roup of Finance Directors.
Lucy Neville-Rolfe, CMG – 56
c orporate & l egal affairs Director
l ucy n eville-Rolfe was appointed to the Board on 14 December 2006.  
s he joined t esco in 1997 from the c abinet o ffice. s he is Deputy c hair  
of the British Retail c onsortium, a n on-executive Director of t he c arbon  
t rust, and a member of the c hina Britain Business c ouncil, the UK india 
Business c ouncil and the c orporate l eaders g roup on c limate c hange.
David Potts – 51
Retail and l ogistics Director
David potts was appointed to the Board on 16 n ovember 1998. He joined 
t esco in 1973. From 1997 he directed the integration of our businesses  
in n orthern ireland and the Republic of ireland before returning to the  
UK in 2000 as Director responsible for UK Retail o perations. From 2004 
David’s responsibilities have included the UK s upply c hain and the 
Republic of ireland.
Charles Allen CBE – 52• n
n on-executive Director
c harles allen was appointed a non-executive Director on 19 February 1999. 
He was c hief executive of itv plc from 2004 to 2007. He is c hairman of 
g lobal Radio and is a n on-executive Director of the l ondon o rganising 
c ommittee of the o lympics and paralympics.
Patrick Cescau – 60• u n
n on-executive Director
patrick c escau was appointed a non-executive Director on 1 February 2009. 
He was g roup c hief executive of Unilever from 2005 to 1 January 2009, 
and prior to this he was c hairman of Unilever plc and v ice c hairman of 
Unilever nv . He has also been a non-executive Director of pearson plc since 
2002. patrick was appointed a c hevalier de la l égion d’honneur in 2005.
Karen Cook – 55• n
n on-executive Director
Karen c ook was appointed a n on-executive Director on 1 o ctober 2004. 
s he is a managing Director of g oldman s achs international and president  
of g oldman s achs, europe. s he is also a member of the firm’s european 
management c ommittee and partnership c ommittee.
Dr Harald Einsmann – 75• n
n on-executive Director
Dr Harald einsmann was appointed a non-executive Director on 1 april 1999. 
He is on the Board of c arlson g roup of c ompanies, Harman international 
industries inc. and c heckpoint s ystems inc. in the United s tates. He is also 
on the Board of Rezidor aB in s weden.
Ken Hanna – 55• u n
n on-executive Director
Ken Hanna was appointed a n on-executive Director on 1 april 2009. He  
is c hairman of inchcape plc . He was previously c hief Financial o fficer of 
c adbury plc until January 2009 and prior to that an o perating partner  
of c ompass partners and c Fo and then ceo of Dalgety plc . He has also 
been c Fo of United Distillers and avis europe plc. 
Ken Hydon – 64• u 
n on-executive Director
Ken Hydon was appointed a n on-executive Director on 23 February 2004. 
He is also a n on-executive Director of Reckitt Benckiser plc, t he Royal 
Berkshire n Hs Foundation t rust and pearson plc .
Jacqueline Tammenoms Bakker – 55•
n on-executive Director
Jacqueline t ammenoms Bakker was appointed a n on-executive Director 
on 1 January 2009. s he was a Director g eneral at the ministry of t ransport 
in the n etherlands from 2001 to 2007 and has held senior positions at 
Quest international, mcKinsey & c o and shell. Jacqueline was appointed  
a c hevalier de la l égion d’honneur in 2006.
Jonathan Lloyd – 42
c ompany s ecretary
Jonathan l loyd was appointed c ompany s ecretary to the Board in 
December 2006. He joined t esco as Deputy c ompany s ecretary  
and c orporate s ecretariat Director in april 2005 from Freshfields  
Bruckhaus Deringer.
• = member of the n ominations c ommittee
u = member of the audit c ommittee
n = member of the Remuneration c ommittee 44 report of the directors
Tesco PLC Annual r eport and f inancial s tatements 2009
Corporate governance
Directors’ report on corporate governance
t esco pLc is committed to the highest standards of corporate governance 
as we recognise that good governance is crucial in helping the business to 
deliver its strategy, generating shareholder value and safeguarding our 
shareholders’ long-term interests.
Compliance with the Combined Code
t he c ombined c ode on c orporate Governance sets out guidance in the 
form of principles and provisions on how companies should be directed 
and controlled to follow good governance practice. t he f inancial s ervices 
Authority (fs A) requires companies listed in the UK to disclose, in relation 
to s ection 1 of the c ombined c ode, how they have applied the principles 
and whether they have complied with its provisions throughout the 
financial year. Where the provisions have not been complied with 
companies must provide an explanation for this.
t he Board considers that t esco pLc complied in full with the c ombined 
c ode principles of c orporate Governance and c ode of Best practice for the 
whole of the year ended 28 f ebruary 2009, with the exception of provision 
A.3.2, in respect of which the company was not in compliance for part of 
the year. 
provision A.3.2 requires that at least half the Board, excluding the 
c hairman, should comprise Non-executive d irectors determined by the 
Board to be independent. t he Board recognises the importance of a 
balanced board with an appropriate level of independence. t here were, 
however, two unexpected changes to the Board in the year, with the 
resignation of c arolyn Mcc all and e Mervyn d avies as Non-executive 
d irectors due to conflicts of interest, which resulted in the Board not  
being in balance.   
While the process of finding replacements for c arolyn Mcc all and  
e Mervyn d avies was started immediately, the Board places a priority  
on ensuring that the right candidates are selected and the process of 
recruiting individuals with the right experience, availability and skills to 
complement those of the existing Board can take a significant amount  
of time. t he c ompany announced the appointment of two new Non-
executive d irectors on 17 d ecember 2008 as replacements for the two 
Non-executive d irectors who had resigned, and the appointment of  
a further Non-executive d irector was announced on 12 January 2009,  
in order to ensure that the Board remained in balance once the new Group 
f inance d irector, Laurie Mcilwee, was appointed on 27 January 2009. 
Jacqueline t ammenoms Bakker and patrick c escau joined the Board with 
effect from 1 January and 1 f ebruary respectively, and Ken h anna joined 
the Board with effect from 1 April 2009, at which point the Board became 
once again fully compliant with provision A.3.2.
f urther information on the c ombined c ode provision be found at  
www.frc.org.uk. 
Board composition and independence 
As at 28 f ebruary 2009, the Board of t esco pLc comprised eight  
executive d irectors, seven independent Non-executive d irectors and  
d avid r eid, Non-executive c hairman. r odney c hase is d eputy c hairman 
and s enior independent Non-executive d irector. Ken h anna joined the 
Board on 1 April 2009.
t he structure of the Board and the integrity of the individual d irectors 
ensure that no single individual or group dominates the decision  
making process.
Biographies for the d irectors can be found on page 43 of this r eport. 
c hanges to the Board since 24 f ebruary 2008 are as follows:
c arolyn Mcc all Non-executive d irector r esigned 10 April 2008
e Mervyn d avies Non-executive d irector r esigned 31 o ctober 2008
Jacqueline  
t ammenoms Bakker Non-executive d irector Appointed 1 January 2009
Laurie Mcilwee executive d irector Appointed 27 January 2009
patrick c escau Non-executive d irector Appointed 1 f ebruary 2009
Ken h anna Non-executive d irector Appointed 1 April 2009
Election of Directors
All d irectors have to submit themselves for re-election at least every three 
years if they wish to continue serving and are considered by the Board to 
be eligible. t he c ompany’s Articles of Association require all new d irectors 
to be submitted for election by shareholders in their first year following 
appointment. 
The Chairman
c lear divisions of accountability and responsibility exist and operate 
effectively for the positions of c hairman and c hief executive. t he 
c hairman has primary responsibility for running the Board, while the  
c hief executive has executive responsibilities for the operations and  
results of the Group and making proposals to the Board for the strategic 
development of the Group.
Senior Independent Director
t he Board has appointed one Non-executive d irector, r odney c hase,  
to act as s enior independent d irector. t he s enior independent d irector  
is available to shareholders to assist in resolving concerns, should the 
alternative channels be inappropriate. t he senior independent d irector  
is also required to lead the discussion in relation to assessing the 
effectiveness of the c hairman’s performance.
Non-executive Directors
t he Non-executive d irectors bring a wide range of skills and experience,  
as well as independent judgement on strategy, risk and performance  
to the c ompany.
Both c harles Allen and h arald einsmann have served on the Board for ten 
years. t he c hairman has conducted a thorough review with each d irector 
to assess his independence and contributions to the Board and confirmed 
that they both continue to be effective independent Non-executive 
d irectors. c harles Allen brings extensive corporate operational experience  
and knowledge of the media industry and provides leadership for the 
r emuneration committee. t hrough his wealth of business experience  
h arald einsmann contributes a valued dimension to the Board in terms of 
international marketing, brand building and human resource development. 
Both c harles Allen and h arald einsmann will retire and offer themselves 
for re-election at this year’s Annual General Meeting. t hereafter they may 
submit themselves for re-election each year if the Board considers them  
to be eligible. 45 report of the directors
Tesco PLC Annual r eport and f inancial s tatements 2009
To find out more go to 
www.tesco.com/annualreport09
Board responsibilities
t he Board has set out a clear s chedule of Matters r eserved for Board 
d ecision in order to ensure its overall control of the Group’s affairs.  
t hese include the approval of:
the c ompany’s strategic and operating plans; •	
annual and interim financial statements; •	
major acquisitions and disposals; •	
authority levels for expenditure; •	
treasury policies; •	
risk management and internal control systems; •	
group governance policies; and •	
succession planning for senior executives. •	
All d irectors have access to the services of the c ompany s ecretary and 
may take independent professional advice at the c ompany’s expense in 
conducting their duties. t he c ompany provides insurance cover and 
indemnities for its d irectors and officers. 
Attendance at meetings
t he Board scheduled nine meetings in the year ended 28 f ebruary  
2009 including a two-day off-site meeting which considered the Group’s 
strategy. Ad hoc meetings were also convened to deal with matters 
between scheduled meetings as appropriate. it is expected that all 
d irectors attend scheduled Board and c ommittee meetings unless they 
are prevented from doing so by prior commitments and that all d irectors 
will attend the AGM. Where d irectors are unable to attend meetings due  
to conflicts in their schedules, they receive the papers scheduled for 
discussion in the relevant meetings, giving them the opportunity to relay 
any comments to the c hairman in advance of the meeting. d irectors leave 
the meeting where matters relating to them or which may constitute a 
conflict of interest are being discussed. 
t he table above shows the attendance of d irectors at scheduled Board 
meetings and at meetings of the Nominations, r emuneration and Audit 
c ommittees during the year. 
Board processes
t he Board governs through a number of statutory Board c ommittees – 
the Audit, r emuneration and Nominations c ommittees – to which certain 
responsibilities and duties are delegated. t hese c ommittees are properly 
authorised under the constitution of the c ompany to take decisions and 
act on behalf of the Board within the parameters laid down by the Board. 
t he Board is kept fully informed of the work of these c ommittees and any 
issues requiring resolution are referred to the full Board as appropriate.  
A summary of the operations of these c ommittees is set out below. 
t he effectiveness of the Audit, r emuneration and Nominations 
c ommittees is underpinned by their Non-executive director membership, 
which provides independent insight on governance matters. A copy  
of each c ommittee’s t erms of r eference is available on our website  
www.tesco.com/boardprocess. t he Board is serviced by the c ompany 
s ecretary, who reports to the c hairman in respect of his core duties  
to the Board. 
  f ull Board  Audit  r emuneration  Nominations
  meetings  c ommittee  c ommittee  c ommittee
Number of meetings Actual possible Actual possible Actual possible Actual possible
Non-executive Directors        
d avid r eid (c hairman) 9 9 – – – – 4 4
c harles Allen c Be 9 9 – – 10 10 4 4
patrick c escau (appointed 1.2.09) 1 1 1 1 1 1 0 0
r odney c hase c Be (s enior independent d irector) 9 9 5 5 10 10 4 4
Karen c ook 8 9 – – 9 10 4 4
e Mervyn d avies (resigned 31.10.08) 3 6 2 4 4 7 1 2
h arald einsmann 9 9 – – 9 10 4 4
Ken h ydon 9 9 5 5 – – 4 4
c arolyn Mcc all (resigned 10.4.08) 1 1 1 2 – – 0 1
Jacqueline t ammenoms Bakker (appointed 1.1.09) 2 2 – – – – 1 1
Executive Directors    
s ir t erry Leahy 8 9 – – – – 4 4
r ichard Brasher 9 9 – – – – – –
philip c larke 8 9 – – – – – –
Andrew h igginson 9 9 – – – – – –
t im Mason 8 9 – – – – – –
Laurie Mcilwee (appointed 27.01.09) 1 1 – – – – – –
Lucy Neville-r olfe c MG 9 9 – – – – – –
d avid potts 9 9 – – – – – – 46 report of the directors
Tesco PLC Annual r eport and f inancial s tatements 2009
Nominations Committee 
Members:
d avid r eid (c hairman) •	
c harles Allen •	
patrick c escau (from 1 f ebruary 2009) •	
r odney c hase •	
Karen c ook •	
e Mervyn d avies (until 31 o ctober 2008) •	
d r h arald einsmann •	
Ken h ydon •	
c arolyn Mcc all (until 10 April 2008) •	
Jacqueline t ammenoms Bakker (from 1 January 2009) •	
s ir t erry Leahy •	
f rom 1 April 2009:
Ken h anna •	
 
t he Nominations committee leads the process for Board appointments 
and the re-election and succession of d irectors, as well as making 
recommendations for the membership of statutory committees. t he 
c ommittee is chaired by d avid r eid and the c ompany s ecretary also 
attends meetings in his capacity as s ecretary of the c ommittee. Where 
matters discussed relate to the c hairman, the s enior independent Non-
executive d irector chairs the meeting. t he Nominations c ommittee met 
four times in the year to discuss the ongoing shape and capability of the 
Board. As well as reviewing the performance and development of the 
executive d irectors and the senior executive levels below the Board, the 
c ommittee also regularly reviews board structure, size, composition, 
working arrangements and capability, and considers succession plans  
for executive and Non-executive d irectors. 
d uring the year the c ommittee continued the effort of identifying  
suitable candidates for the position of Non-executive d irector, and a 
successor for the position of Group f inance d irector. external search 
consultants were engaged to identify candidates. t he c hairman and  
ceo then met candidates before recommending a shortlist to the 
c ommittee. t he c ommittee members interviewed the candidates  
before recommending three new appointments of Non-executive  
d irectors to the Board. A similar process was followed for the selection  
of the new Group f inance d irector except that, in addition to identifying 
potential external candidates, the external search consultants also  
carried out benchmarking of internal candidates.
Remuneration Committee
Members (all independent Non-executive d irectors):
c harles Allen (c hairman) •	
patrick c escau (from 1 f ebruary 2009) •	
r odney c hase •	
Karen c ook •	
e Mervyn d avies (until 31 o ctober 2008) •	
d r h arald einsmann •	
f rom 1 April 2009:
Ken h anna •	
t he r emuneration committee’s role is to determine and recommend  
to the Board the remuneration of the executive d irectors. it also monitors 
the levels and structure of remuneration for senior management and  
seeks to ensure that the remuneration arrangements are designed to 
attract, retain and motivate the executive d irectors needed to run the 
c ompany successfully. 
At the invitation of the c ommittee the c hairman of the Board normally 
attends meetings and the c hief executive attends as appropriate. 
r epresentatives of the Group’s personnel and f inance functions attend  
as appropriate to provide support and the c ompany s ecretary also attends 
in his capacity as s ecretary of the c ommittee.
t he c ommittee met ten times this year. each year it conducts a review  
of the c ommittee’s own effectiveness and its t erms of r eference. t he 
responsibilities of the r emuneration c ommittee and an explanation of 
how it applies the d irectors’ remuneration principles of the c ombined 
c ode, are set out in the d irectors’ r emuneration r eport on pages  
50 to 64. 
Audit Committee 
Members (all independent Non-executive d irectors):
Ken h ydon (c hairman) •	
patrick c escau (from 1 f ebruary 2009) •	
r odney c hase •	
e Mervyn d avies (until 31 o ctober 2008) •	
c arolyn Mcc all (until 10 April 2008) •	
f rom 1 April 2009:
Ken h anna •	
t he Audit c ommittee’s primary responsibilities are to review the financial 
statements, to review the Group’s internal control and risk assurance 
processes, to consider the appointment of the external auditors, their 
reports to the c ommittee and their independence, which includes an 
assessment of their appropriateness to conduct any non-audit work, as 
well as to review the programme of internal Audit. 
At the invitation of the c ommittee, the c hairman of the Board, the  
f inance d irector and his representatives, the h ead of internal Audit, the 
c orporate and Legal Affairs d irector, other relevant executive d irectors 
and representatives of the external auditors regularly attend meetings.  
t he c ompany s ecretary also attends in his capacity as s ecretary of  
the c ommittee. 
t he c ommittee met five times this year and took advantage of an 
overseas Board meeting to meet with local management and review risks 
and controls. t he c ommittee also had regular private meetings with the 
external auditors and h ead of internal Audit. d uring the year the 
c ommittee received presentations on whistleblowing, it security, fraud, 
bribery and corruption, business continuity and updates from business 
units. each year the c ommittee conducts a review of its own effectiveness 
and its t erms of r eference.
Corporate governance continued
Ken Hydon Audit committee  
c hairman
Charles Allen remuneration 
c ommittee c hairman
David Reid Nominations  
c ommittee c hairman 47 report of the directors
Tesco PLC Annual r eport and f inancial s tatements 2009
To find out more go to 
www.tesco.com/annualreport09
t he need for training is kept under review and the annual agenda ensures 
time is dedicated to technical updates which are generally provided by 
external experts. t his year training was provided on accounting and 
reporting developments under ifrs , ifric , iAs , and other relevant guidance 
and standards. t raining is also provided to meet specific individual needs of 
committee members.
Management of the Group – Executive Committee
t he Board delegates responsibility for formulating and implementing  
the Group’s strategic plan and for management of the Group to the 
executive c ommittee, which comprises the eight executive d irectors and  
is chaired by the c hief executive. t he c ommittee, which is not a statutory 
committee, has authority for decision-making in all areas except those  
set out in the s chedule of Matters r eserved for Board d ecision and  
meets formally every week. A number of senior executives also attend  
the committee and their valuable operational experience helps broaden 
the debate. t heir attendance facilitates the communication of the 
c ommittee’s decisions to the rest of the Group. t he c ompany s ecretary 
attends in his capacity as s ecretary of the c ommittee.
t he executive c ommittee is responsible for implementing Group strategy 
and policy and for monitoring the performance and compliance of the 
business, drawing on the work of relevant committees, and reporting on 
these matters in full to the Board.
t he executive c ommittee has set up further non-statutory committees – 
including the f inance, c ompliance and c orporate r esponsibility c ommittees 
(which are described in more detail below) – and operational groups which 
have responsibility for implementing the key elements of the Group’s 
strategic plan and managing its UK and international operations, joint 
ventures, property acquisitions, finance, funding and people matters. 
t hese committees and groups have as members an appropriate mixture  
of executive d irectors and senior management from relevant functions. 
Procedures to deal with Director’s conflicts of interest
t he c ompany has procedures in place to deal with the situation where  
a d irector has a conflict of interest. t he procedures have been revised  
in accordance with the new provisions set out in c ompanies Act 2006.  
As part of these procedures members of the Board are required to:
consider each conflict situation separately on its particular facts; •	
consider the conflict situation in conjunction with the rest of their  •	
duties under c ompanies Act 2006;
keep records and board minutes as to authorisation granted by d irectors •	
and the scope of any approvals given; and
regularly review conflict authorisation. •	
Training and development
All new d irectors receive a personalised induction programme, tailored  
to their experience, background and particular areas of focus, which is 
designed to develop their knowledge and understanding of the Group’s 
culture and operations. t he programme has evolved taking into account 
feedback from new d irectors, and will usually include an overview of the 
business model and Board processes, meetings with the executive team 
and senior managers, site visits across our international operations and 
briefings on key issues (including social, ethical and environmental (see ) 
issues). d irectors also receive an induction to those Board c ommittees  
he or she will serve on. 
t he need for d irector training is regularly assessed by the Board and 
regular training sessions are arranged to provide an opportunity for 
upskilling of the d irectors on a variety of areas relevant to the Group’s 
business, including see issues. in the coming year the Board proposes  
to hold training sessions focusing, inter alia, on the regulation and 
governance issues associated with operating a financial services business, 
following the acquisition of t esco personal f inance.
t he Board usually holds at least one meeting overseas each year to 
facilitate the d irectors’ understanding of the Group’s international 
operations. in March 2008, the Board convened in the Us A to enhance 
their understanding of the progress of the f resh & easy operation.
Board performance evaluation 
t he performance of the Board is a fundamental component of the Group’s 
success. t he Board regularly reviews its own performance. d uring the year 
ended 28 f ebruary 2009, the Board assessed its own performance. t his 
assessment was co-ordinated and directed by the c hairman with the 
support of the c ompany s ecretary. A questionnaire covering the main 
areas of evaluation was prepared by the c hairman and the c ompany 
s ecretary and formed the basis of in-depth interviews with each d irector. 
t he results of the evaluation were considered by the Board, and confirmed 
the strength of the strategic and entrepreneurial leadership of the 
c ompany, a sound governance framework and practices compliant with 
the combined code.
t he c hief executive reviews the performance of each executive d irector. 
t he c hairman reviews the performance of the c hief executive and each 
Non-executive d irector. d uring the year, the c hairman met with the  
Non-executive d irectors, without the executive d irectors present, to 
discuss Board issues and how to build the best possible team. t he s enior 
independent Non-executive d irector met with the Non-executive d irectors 
in the absence of the c hairman, to assess the c hairman’s performance.
Risk management and internal controls 
Accountabilities  
Accepting that risk is an inherent part of doing business, our risk 
management systems are designed both to encourage entrepreneurial 
spirit and also provide assurance that risk is fully understood and managed. 
t he Board has overall responsibility for risk management and internal 
control within the context of achieving the Group’s objectives. executive 
management is responsible for implementing and maintaining the 
necessary control systems. t he role of internal Audit is to monitor the 
overall internal control systems and report on their effectiveness to 
executive management, as well as to the Audit c ommittee, in order to 
facilitate its review of the systems. 
Background
t he Group has a five-year rolling business plan to support the delivery  
of its strategy of long-term growth and returns for shareholders. every 
business unit and support function derives its objectives from the  
five-year plan and these are cascaded to managers and staff by way  
of personal objectives. 
Key to delivering effective risk management is ensuring our people  
have a good understanding of the Group’s strategy and our policies, 
procedures, values and expected performance. We have a structured 
internal communications programme that provides employees with  
a clear definition of the Group’s purpose and goals, accountabilities  
and the scope of permitted activities for each business unit, as well as 
individual line managers and other employees. t his ensures that all our 
people understand what is expected of them and that decision-making 
takes place at the appropriate level. We recognise that our people may  
face ethical dilemmas in the normal course of business so we provide clear 
guidance based on the t esco Values. t he Values set out the standards  
that we wish to uphold in how we treat people. t hese are supported by  
the Group c ode of ethics which offers guidance on relationships between 
the Group and its employees, suppliers and contractors. t he c ompany  
is a signatory to the dti c ode of c onduct and met its obligations for 
implementing the c ode for the financial year ended 28 f ebruary 2009. 
We operate a balanced scorecard approach that is known within the  
Group as our s teering Wheel. t his unites the Group’s resources around  
our customers, people, operations, community and finance. t he scorecard 
operates at every level within the Group, from ground level business units, 
through to country level operations. it enables the business to be operated 
and monitored on a balanced basis with due regard for all stakeholders.  48 report of the directors
Tesco PLC Annual r eport and f inancial s tatements 2009
Risk management  
t he Group maintains a Key r isk r egister. t he r egister contains the key 
risks faced by the Group including their impact and likelihood as well as 
the controls and procedures implemented to mitigate these risks. t he 
content of the r egister is determined through regular discussions with 
senior management and review by the executive c ommittee and the full 
Board. A balanced approach allows the degree of controllability to be taken 
into account when we consider the effectiveness of mitigation recognising 
that some necessary activities carry inherent risk which may be outside  
the Group’s control. our risk management process recognises there are 
opportunities to improve the business to be built into our future plans.  
our key risks are summarised on pages 38 to 40 of the Business r eview. 
t he risk management process is cascaded through the Group with every 
international ceo and local Boards maintaining their own risk registers 
and assessing their control systems. t he same process also applies 
functionally in those parts of the Group requiring greater overview. f or 
example, the Audit c ommittee’s t erms of r eference require it to oversee 
the f inance r isk r egister. We also have a c orporate r esponsibility r isk 
r egister which specifically considers s ocial, ethical and environmental 
(see ) risks. o versight of these risks is the responsibility of the c orporate 
r esponsibility c ommittee. t he Board assesses the significant see risks to 
the Group’s short-term and long-term value, and incorporates see risks on 
the Key r isk r egister where they are considered material or appropriate.
We recognise the value of the ABi Guidelines on r esponsible investment 
d isclosure and confirm that, as part of its regular risk assessment 
procedures, the Board takes account of the significance of see matters  
to the business of the Group. We recognise that a number of investors  
and other stakeholders take a keen interest in how companies manage 
see matters and so we report more detail on our see policies and 
approach to managing material risks arising from see matters and the 
Kpis we use both on our website (www.tesco.com/cr-report09) and in  
our Annual c orporate r esponsibility r eview 2009. 
Internal controls  
t he Board is responsible for the c ompany’s system of internal control and 
for reviewing the effectiveness of such a system. We have a Group-wide 
process for clearly establishing the risks and responsibilities assigned to 
each level of management and the controls which are required to be 
operated and monitored. 
t he ceo s of subsidiary businesses are required to certify by way of annual 
statements of assurance that the Board’s governance policies have been 
adopted both in practice and in spirit. f or certain joint ventures, the Board 
places reliance upon the internal control systems operating within our 
partners’ infrastructure and the obligations upon partners’ Boards relating 
to the effectiveness of their own systems.  
s uch a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of 
failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable  
and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss. 
t he Board has conducted a review of the effectiveness of internal controls 
and is satisfied that the controls in place remain appropriate.
Monitoring  
t he Board oversees the monitoring system and has set specific 
responsibilities for itself and the various committees as set out below.  
Both internal Audit and our external auditors play key roles in the 
monitoring process, as do several non-statutory committees including the 
f inance c ommittee, c ompliance c ommittee and c orporate r esponsibility 
c ommittee. t he Minutes of the Audit c ommittee and the various non-
statutory committees (f inance, c ompliance and c orporate r esponsibility 
c ommittees) are distributed to the Board and each committee submits a 
report for formal discussion at least once a year. t hese processes provide 
assurance that the Group is operating legally, ethically and in accordance 
with approved financial and operational policies. 
Audit Committee  
t he Audit c ommittee reports to the Board each year on its review of  
the effectiveness of the internal control systems for the financial year  
and the period to the date of approval of the financial statements. 
t hroughout the year the c ommittee receives regular reports from the 
external auditors covering topics such as quality of earnings and technical 
accounting developments. t he c ommittee also receives updates from 
internal Audit and has dialogue with senior managers on their control 
responsibilities. it should be understood that such systems are designed  
to provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material 
misstatement or loss. 
Internal Audit  
t he internal Audit department is fully independent of business operations 
and has a Group-wide mandate. it undertakes a programme to address 
internal control and risk management processes with particular reference 
to the t urnbull Guidance. it operates a risk based methodology, ensuring 
that the Group’s key risks receive appropriate regular examination. its 
responsibilities include maintaining the Key r isk r egister, reviewing and 
reporting on the effectiveness of risk management systems and internal 
control with the executive c ommittee, the Audit c ommittee and ultimately 
to the Board. internal Audit facilitates oversight of risk and control systems 
across the Group through audit and compliance committees in each of our 
international businesses and our joint ventures. t he h ead of internal Audit 
also attends all Audit c ommittee meetings. 
External audit  
pricewaterhousec oopers LLp, the c ompany’s external auditor, contributes 
a further independent perspective on certain aspects of our internal 
financial control systems arising from its work, and reports to both the 
Board and the Audit c ommittee. t he engagement and independence of 
external auditors is considered annually by the Audit c ommittee before it 
recommends its selection to the Board. t he c ommittee has satisfied itself 
that pricewaterhousec oopers LLp is independent and there are adequate 
controls in place to safeguard its objectivity. o ne such measure is the non-
audit services policy that sets out criteria for employing external auditors and 
identifies areas where it is inappropriate for pricewaterhousec oopers LLp to 
work. Non-audit services work carried out by pricewaterhousec oopers LLp  
is predominantly the review of subsidiary undertakings’ statutory accounts, 
transaction work and corporate tax services, where pWc ’s services are 
considered to be the most appropriate. pricewaterhousec oopers LLp also 
follows its own ethical guidelines and continually reviews its audit team to 
ensure its independence is not compromised. 
Finance Committee  
t he f inance c ommittee, which is not a statutory committee, is chaired  
by the ceo , s ir t erry Leahy, and membership includes Non-executive 
d irectors with relevant financial expertise, executive d irectors and 
members of senior management. t he c ommittee usually meets twice  
a year and its role is to review and agree the f inance plan on an annual 
basis to review reports of the t reasury and t ax functions, and to review 
and approve t reasury limits and delegations. 
Compliance Committee  
t he c ompliance c ommittee, which is not a statutory committee, is chaired 
by the c orporate and Legal Affairs d irector, Lucy Neville-r olfe, and 
includes three executive d irectors and members of senior management. 
t he c ommittee normally meets six times a year and its remit is to ensure 
that the Group complies with all necessary laws and regulations in all of  
its operations world-wide. t he committee has established a schedule  
for the regular review of operational activities and legal exposure. each 
international business in the Group has a local compliance committee 
designed to ensure compliance with local laws and regulations as well  
as Group compliance policies, and each country compliance committee 
reports to the Group c ompliance c ommittee on a regular basis. 
Corporate governance continued 49 report of the directors
Tesco PLC Annual r eport and f inancial s tatements 2009
To find out more go to 
www.tesco.com/annualreport09
Corporate Responsibility Committee  
t he c orporate r esponsibility c ommittee, which is not a statutory 
committee, is chaired by the c orporate and Legal Affairs d irector, Lucy 
Neville-r olfe and membership is made up of senior executives from across 
the Group. it meets at least four times a year to support, develop and 
monitor policies on social, ethical and environmental issues, reviewing 
threats and opportunities for the Group. progress in developing 
c ommunity initiatives is monitored by the use of relevant Kpis in the  
UK and our international businesses. t he Board formally discusses the 
work of the c ommittee on a regular basis, including progress in 
implementing our c ommunity plan. 
t he c orporate and Legal Affairs department and the t rading Law and 
t echnical department provide assurance and advice on legal compliance, 
health and safety, and see matters. t hese functions report on their work 
on a regular basis and escalate matters as appropriate. 
Whistleblowing  
t he Group operates a whistleblowing policy and has a confidential 
‘protector Line’ service accessible to concerned employees where they  
can report, anonymously if necessary, on issues of malpractice within  
the business. t hese issues include unethical behaviour such as fraud, 
dishonesty and any practices that endanger our staff, customers or  
the environment. 
c omplaints made are treated as confidential and are investigated.  
Where appropriate, matters will be escalated to the d irector of Group 
s ecurity for further action.
Management  
in our fast moving business, trading is tracked on a daily and weekly basis, 
financial performance is reviewed weekly and monthly, and the s teering 
Wheel is reviewed quarterly. s teering Wheels are operated in business 
units across the Group, and reports are prepared of performance against 
target Kpis on a quarterly basis enabling management to measure 
performance. All major initiatives require business cases normally covering 
a minimum period of five years. post-investment appraisals, carried out by 
management, determine the reasons for any significant variance from 
expected performance. 
Relations with stakeholders
We are committed to having a constructive dialogue with stakeholders  
to ensure we understand what is important to them and allow ourselves 
the opportunity to present our position. engagement helps us identify  
new risks and opportunities to ensure that our long-term strategy is 
sustainable. in some instances we find that working with stakeholders in 
partnership can help deliver shared goals. We might not be able to satisfy 
all stakeholder concerns all the time but through engagement we can do 
our best to balance competing demands. We know that customers need  
to be able to trust our business and they will only trust us if we do the right 
thing by all our stakeholders. 
o ur programme of engaging with stakeholders including customers, staff, 
suppliers, investors, non-governmental organisations and others, is set out 
in more detail in our c orporate r esponsibility r eview 2009 and on our 
website (www.tesco.com/cr-report09). 
Shareholder engagement  
We are committed to maintaining a good dialogue with shareholders 
through proactively organising meetings and presentations as well as 
responding to a wide range of enquiries. We seek shareholder views on  
a range of issues from strategy to corporate governance and see issues. 
We recognise the importance of communicating appropriately any 
significant c ompany developments.
d uring the year, the c hairman, c hief executive and f inance d irector met 
with most of our leading shareholders to discuss issues relating to the 
board, strategy and governance matters, as well as new developments 
within the business. t he c hairman’s meetings with major shareholders 
took place independently from the executive team. in addition to this  
the c ompany s ecretary’s office, investor r elations and other teams within 
the business engage with shareholders on a regular basis, and on a wide 
range of issues. 
it is normal that institutional shareholders may be in more regular  
contact with the Group than others, but care is exercised to ensure that 
any price-sensitive information is released to all shareholders, institutions 
and private, at the same time in accordance with applicable legal and 
regulatory requirements.
every shareholder may choose to receive a full Annual r eport and  
f inancial s tatements or the Annual r eview and s ummary f inancial 
s tatements, either in paper or electronic form. t hese reports, together 
with publicly-made trading statements, are available on the Group’s 
website, www.tesco.com/corporate.
The Tesco PLC AGM  
t he Annual General Meeting offers the opportunity for the Board to 
communicate directly with shareholders. our last Annual General Meeting 
in June 2008 was held near Birmingham, a departure from its traditional 
location in c entral London. t his was in recognition of the diversity of our 
shareholder base.
t he 2009 AGM will be held in Glasgow at 10.30 am on f riday 3 July. t he 
choice of location is based on our policy of widening the opportunity for 
our shareholders to attend the AGM, by moving to different locations in 
the UK each year.
t he whole Board attends the meeting and is available to answer questions 
from shareholders present. t o encourage shareholder participation, we 
offer electronic proxy voting and voting through the crest electronic 
proxy appointment service. At our last Annual General Meeting, all 
resolutions were voted by way of electronic poll. t his follows best practice 
guidelines and allows the c ompany to count all votes, not just those of 
shareholders attending the meeting. 
By o rder of the Board 
Jonathan Lloyd
c ompany s ecretary
1 May 2009
tesco pLc
r egistered Number: 445790
r egistered in england and Wales
r egistered o ffice: t esco h ouse, d elamare r oad, c heshunt,
h ertfordshire eN8 9s L
VAt r egistration Number: GB 220 4302 3 50 directors’ remuneration report
Tesco PLC annual r eport and Financial s tatements 2009
Base salary
Short-term 
performance
Cash bonus
Deferred 
share bonus
Performance
Share Plan 
Group & 
International
Share 
options
US L TIP
Group New
Business
Incentive
Plan
Long-term 
performance
c.[••]%-[••]% depending on
individual incentive arrangements
and performance c.[••]%-[••]% depending on individual incentive arrangements and performance
Performance-related elements Fixed element
Base salary
Short-term 
performance
Cash bonus
Deferred 
share bonus
Performance
Share Plan 
Group & 
International
Share 
options
US L TIP
Group New
Business
Incentive
Plan
Long-term 
performance
c.12%-33% depending on
individual incentive arrangements
and performance c.67%-88% depending on individual incentive arrangements and performance
Performance-related elements Fixed element
t his report sets out the remuneration policy for the executive and  
n on-executive d irectors of t esco pLc and describes the individual 
remuneration of the d irectors for the year ended 28 February 2009.
Executive summary
t he primary goal of t esco is to deliver strong, sustainable and profitable 
long-term growth. d espite the global downturn t esco has delivered 
another strong performance against targets this year. t his has continued 
to build on the track record of recent years.
Sales, Profit and ROCE Performance over 5 Years 
2005 2006 2007 2008 2009
10,000
20,000
30,000
40,000
50,000
60,000
0
Sales (£m)
 
2005 2006 2007 2008 2009
500
1,000
1,500
2,000
2,500
3,000
3,500
0
Underlying profit before tax (£m)
 
2005 2006 2007 2008 2009
13.0%
10.0%
10.3%
R OCE
10.6%
10.9%
11.2%
11.5%
11.8%
12.7%
12.1%
12.4%
 
t esco is already a large and profitable company. a 10% increase in 
c ompany value equates to some £3bn in additional shareholder  
value, equivalent to a Ftse 50 organisation. c ontinuing to grow and 
expand profitability from such a high base is challenging but forms  
the core of t esco’s strategy, and its supporting processes including 
executive remuneration. 
t he result for 2008/9 included improvement on most of the underlying 
performance measures relating to productivity and growth. against this 
performance background, the main aspects of executive remuneration 
policy and practice for the year are as follows: 
executive d irector salaries were increased from 1 July 2008 by an •	
average of 5.4% after the normal review;
annual bonus payouts ranged from 60% to 90% of maximum.  •	
t he maximum potential bonus was 250% of salary for the Group  
ceo , 300% of salary for the us ceo and 200% of salary for other 
executive d irectors;
long-term incentive payout was 90% of a potential maximum of  •	
100% of salary;
no material changes to policy, remuneration mix or scale of incentives; •	
deferred awards, already earned from prior years, representing  •	
4.6 million shares became available to d irectors;
minor changes are being proposed to remuneration arrangements •	
relating to leaving conditions; and
continuing high level of share ownership by executive d irectors. •	
Executive Director remuneration strategy
t esco has a long-standing policy of rewarding talent and experience.  
We seek to provide incentives for delivering high, sustainable and 
profitable growth thus creating high additional value for shareholders. 
We operate in a keenly competitive and rapidly changing retail 
environment. Business success depends on the talents of the key team, 
but outstanding business performance comes from teamwork. t esco has  
a stable and successful management team, and motivating that team  
at senior levels to deliver yet higher levels of performance is vital to our 
ongoing success. We believe our incentives should support the continued 
progress within the existing business, the strengthening of our returns 
from the international business and new retail lines as well as the creation 
of significant new businesses. 
t he r emuneration c ommittee believes that the majority of total 
remuneration should be performance-related and delivered largely  
in shares to closely align the interests of shareholders and executive 
d irectors. in determining the balance between the fixed and variable 
elements of the executive d irectors’ remuneration packages, the 
c ommittee takes into account both policy and market practice. 
t otal remuneration levels of executive d irectors are reviewed annually  
by the c ommittee taking into account their value to the c ompany and 
competitive market practice. c onsideration is also given to pay levels across 
the Group in order to sustain a common sense of purpose and sharing  
of success. When setting the remuneration of executive d irectors, the 
c ommittee considers the Group’s performance on environmental, social 
and governance (esG) matters. specific esG performance targets are 
applied to certain elements of the remuneration structure, in order to 
reinforce positive and responsible behaviour by senior management.
Directors’ remuneration report
year ended 28 February 2009
Balance of fixed and performance related remuneration 51 directors’ remuneration report
Tesco PLC annual r eport and Financial s tatements 2009
To find out more go to 
www.tesco.com/annualreport09
Performance related remuneration
t he remuneration structures for executive d irectors and other key 
executives are tailored to emphasise the delivery of strong year-on-year 
earnings growth as well as sustained performance in the longer term.  
more than two-thirds of total remuneration (excluding pension) is linked  
to performance.  
Long-term performance is rewarded through delivery of shares and short-
term performance through a combination of cash and compulsory deferred 
shares. t his ensures continued emphasis on strong annual performance 
combined with long-term executive share ownership, providing a strong link 
between the incentives received and shareholder value. 
Performance measures
t he executive d irectors have a range of performance targets across the 
various incentive plans which reflect the objectives of the Group and their 
own responsibilities. t argets are generally set to reward performance 
improvement over prior periods.
t he measures are summarised in the table below and are based on:
delivery of improved bottom-line financial results, measured through •	
earnings, both in the present year and sustainably over time;
enhancement of profitability, measured through return on capital,  •	
whilst growing the business;
achievement of durable improvements in the underlying drivers  •	
of performance such as cost reduction, energy efficiency, reduced 
environmental impact and sales growth, captured through the  
corporate measures; and
laying foundations for future performance through measures such  •	
as developing new sales footage, developing people, implementing 
community programmes, also captured through the corporate measures.
Short-term Performance Measures
Measures Participation Incentivises Maximum potential 
% of salary
Performance period Delivered via
earnings per share all executive d irectors Year on year earnings 
growth
125% (us ceo 62.5%) o ne year annual cash and 
annual deferred  
share bonuses  
(3-year deferral)
c orporate objectives all executive d irectors d elivery of strategic 
business priorities, 
entrepreneurial  
spirit and building 
framework for  
future growth
55% (us ceo 27.5%) o ne year annual cash and 
annual deferred  
share bonuses  
(3-year deferral)
t otal shareholder 
return
all executive d irectors s hare price and 
dividend growth
20% (us ceo 10%) o ne year annual deferred  
share bonuses  
(3-year deferral)
s pecific us objectives us ceo d elivery against 
financial and strategic 
milestones for us 
business
200% o ne year annual cash and 
annual deferred  
share bonuses  
(3-year deferral)
s pecific us objectives Group ceo d elivery against 
financial and strategic 
milestones for us 
business
50% o ne year annual deferred  
share bonuses  
(3-year deferral)
Long-term Performance Measures
Measures Participation Incentivises Maximum potential 
% of salary (unless 
otherwise stated)
Performance period Delivered via
eps relative to rpi all executive d irectors Longer-term earnings 
growth
200%* t hree years executive share options
Group roce all executive d irectors Long-term business 
success and 
shareholder returns
100% t hree years performance share 
plan
international roce all executive d irectors 
except us ceo
Long-term business 
success and 
shareholder returns
50% t hree years performance share 
plan
us eBit and roce us ceo establishment of 
successful us business
2 million shares 2010/11 – 2013/14 us Long t erm 
incentive plan
us eBit and roce 
Group roce 
international roce
Group ceo entrepreneurial spirit 
and establishment of 
new businesses within 
whole Group 
performance
2.5 million shares 2010/11 – 2013/14 Group n ew Business 
incentive plan
*  t his is the amount on which the number of shares under option is calculated. t he actual realisable value of these options will depend on any growth in share price between the date of 
grant and the date of exercise. 52 directors’ remuneration report
Tesco PLC annual r eport and Financial s tatements 2009
Directors’ remuneration report continued
participation in the various elements is governed by the r emuneration 
c ommittee and individual executives are awarded incentives under the 
elements which are most relevant to their sphere of responsibility.
if performance is lower than the maximum targets, incentive payments will 
reduce accordingly and will be zero if threshold levels of performance are not 
attained. t he c ommittee has reviewed the performance conditions for each 
of the incentive arrangements against the Group’s business strategy, its 
growing global leadership, its position as one of the rising companies at the 
top of the Ftse 100 and the intensely competitive sector in which it operates, 
and has concluded that they provide a set of comprehensive and robust 
measures of management’s effort and success in creating shareholder value. 
Share ownership guidelines 
t he r emuneration c ommittee believes that executive d irectors holding 
shares aligns their interests with shareholders and demonstrates their 
ongoing commitment to the business. executive d irectors are required to 
build and maintain a shareholding with a value at least equal to their basic 
salary. n ew appointees will typically be allowed three years to establish this 
shareholding. Full participation in the long-term performance s hare plan is 
conditional upon this. all executive d irectors currently satisfy this requirement.
Shares held by Executive Directors
as at 28 February 2009
0 1,000,000 2,000,000 3,000,000 4,000,000 5,000,000 6,000,000 7,000,000 8,000,000
Ordinary shares SIP L TIP EIP PSP
Richard Brasher
Philip Clarke
Andrew Higginson
Tim Mason*
Laurie Mcllwee
Lucy Neville-Rolfe
David Potts
Sir Terry Leahy
* t im mason sold 631,384 ordinary shares on 22 april 2009.
includes ordinary shares and awards of shares and nil cost options made to d irectors  
which remain subject only to a holding period. excludes unexercised vested executive  
share options.
Funding of equity awards
executive incentive arrangements are funded by a mix of newly issued 
shares and shares purchased in the market. Where shares are newly issued 
the c ompany complies with aBi dilution guidelines on their issue. t he 
current dilution usage of executive plans is c.4% of shares in issue.
Fixed remuneration 
Basic pay
Basic pay is designed to attract and retain talented individuals. it needs to 
reflect individual capability and any changes in responsibilities as the Group 
faces new opportunities and challenges. as the Group continues to diversify 
into new product areas and services, as well as expanding internationally, 
it seeks to reflect this in the benchmarking that is used. We examine salary 
levels at the major retailers, the leading Ftse companies and ensure 
consideration is given to international competitors. We also take into account 
pay conditions throughout the Group in deciding executive annual salary 
increases. t he average increase for senior management below Board level 
last year was 5%, whereas for other staff the average increase was typically 
around 4%. Basic salaries are typically increased with effect from 1 July 
each year and the r emuneration c ommittee will be taking into account the 
current economic climate in setting salaries for the coming year.
  Basic salary 1 July 2008 
director £000
r ichard Brasher 792
philip c larke 792
andrew Higginson 792
s ir t erry Leahy 1,375
t im mason 792
Laurie mcilwee* 550
Lucy n eville-r olfe 554
d avid potts 792
* s alary on appointment 27 January 2009.
 
Pensions 
pension provision is central to our ability to foster loyalty and retain experience 
which is why t esco wants to ensure that the t esco pLc pension s cheme is a 
highly valued benefit. all executive d irectors are members of the t esco pLc 
pension s cheme which provides a pension of up to two-thirds of base salary 
on retirement, normally at age 60, dependent on service. t he Final salary 
s cheme is now closed to new entrants but has been replaced throughout 
the organisation by a different defined-benefit pension scheme based on 
career average earnings. s ince april 2006, following implementation of the 
regulations contained within the Finance act 2004, executive d irectors have 
been eligible to receive the maximum pension that can be provided from the 
registered pension scheme. t he balance of any pension entitlement for all 
executive d irectors is delivered through an unapproved retirement benefits 
scheme (sur Bs ). except for t im mason, the sur Bs is ‘secured’ by using a 
fixed charge over a cash deposit in a designated account. 
o ver the last few years pension contributions by our executive d irectors 
have been increasing progressively. in 2008/9 the level of contribution was 
7% of salary which is in line with senior management’s contribution levels. 
c ontributions will rise over the next three years to 10% by 2011/12. Further 
details of the pension benefits earned by the d irectors can be found on 
page 56.
All employee share schemes
t he executive d irectors are eligible to participate in the c ompany’s all 
employee share schemes on the same terms as u K employees.  
s hares in s uccess. s hares in the c ompany are allocated to participants •	
in the scheme up to Hmrc approved limits (currently £3,000 per annum). 
t he amount of profit allocated to the scheme is determined by the 
Board, taking account of c ompany performance. 
Buy as You earn. an Hmrc approved share purchase scheme under •	
which employees invest up to a limit of £110 on a four-weekly basis to 
buy shares at the market value in t esco pLc .
s ave as You earn. an Hmrc approved savings-related share option •	
scheme under which employees save up to a limit of £250 on a four-
weekly basis via a bank/building society with an option to buy shares in 
t esco pLc at the end of a three-year or five-year period at a discount of 
up to 20% of the market value. t here are no performance conditions 
attached to sa Ye options.
Other benefits
t he executive d irectors are eligible for car benefits, life assurance, 
disability and health insurance and staff discount. 
2008/9 Performance measurement
Short-term performance 2008/9
Earnings per share
t he reported underlying diluted Group eps for 2008/9 was 28.92p,  
an increase of 7% on last year. 
Corporate objectives
t he corporate objectives are based on our balanced scorecard, the 
s teering Wheel. c orporate objectives for the awards made in respect  
of the financial year 2008/9 included increasing sales from new space; 
specific profit targets for international businesses and for retailing services; 
like-for-like sales growth and the development of the non-food business; 
focus on developing trading models internationally; enhancing talent  53 directors’ remuneration report
Tesco PLC annual r eport and Financial s tatements 2009
To find out more go to 
www.tesco.com/annualreport09
management and capability; embedding the new international c ommunity 
plans; and reducing our environmental impact. most targets were met at 
the stretch level. 
Total shareholder return
t he graph below highlights the Group’s total shareholder return 
performance over the last five financial years, relative to the Ftse 100 
index of companies. t his index has been selected to provide an established 
and broad-based comparator group of retail and non-retail companies of 
similar scale to t esco.
Total shareholder return (TSR) 1 March 2004 to 28 February 2009
Tesco
FTSE 100
Feb 04 Feb 05 Feb 06 Feb 07 Feb 08 Feb 09
........................................................................
95
120
145
170
195
FTSE100
Tesco
 
tsr is the notional return from a share or index based on share price 
movements and declared dividends. 
t he c ommittee considers tsr performance against the Ftse 100 and a 
comparator group of international retailers that includes ahold, c arrefour, 
J s ainsbury, metro, morrisons, s afeway inc, t arget and Walmart. 
Following the r emuneration c ommittee’s consideration of the extent to 
which the various performance measures in respect of the 2008/9 award 
have been achieved, the executive d irectors have been awarded 90%  
of the potential maximum for the cash element and 90% of the potential 
maximum for the deferred shares element of that part of their annual 
bonus which is measured by reference to eps , corporate objectives and tsr . 
US objectives
t he additional awards to t im mason and s ir t erry Leahy were subject to 
performance conditions which measure the progress of the us business 
against a range of aggressive targets related to the development of  
this business.  
d uring 2008/9 advances were made on most measures including store 
development, sales growth, cost management and customer factors. 
However, the economic downturn did result in a constraint over the year 
on the pace of growth against the demanding development objectives. 
t he r emuneration c ommittee has assessed the bonus outturn for 2008/9 
and t im mason has been awarded 45% of the potential maximums for the 
cash and deferred shares elements of that part of his annual bonus which 
is measured by reference to us -specific targets, and s ir t erry Leahy has 
been awarded 45% of the potential maximum for the deferred shares 
element of that part of his annual bonus which is measured by reference  
to us -specific targets.
Long-term performance 2008/9
Earnings per share
t he three-year performance period for the 2006/7 executive o ption grant 
over shares with a value of 200% of salary at the date of grant ended at 
the financial year end 2008/9. Vesting of these options is conditional on 
the achievement of earnings per share performance conditions, with the 
first 100% subject to the achievement of underlying diluted eps growth of 
at least rpi plus 9% over three years with the balance vesting for achieving 
growth of at least rpi plus 15%. t here is no re-testing of performance. t he 
increase in underlying diluted eps relative to rpi over the three years from 
2006/7 to 2008/9 exceeded 15% and these options will therefore vest in 
full on the third anniversary of their grant. 
Return on capital employed
Following the completion of the three-year performance period for the 
2006/7 psp award, the c ommittee considered the level of performance 
against the target for the first 75% of the psp award of achieving post-tax 
Group roce of 13.4% by the end of FY 2008/9. post-tax roce (calculated  
on a like-for-like basis with the target originally set) at the end of FY 2008/9 
was 13.3%, so 70 of the first 75% of the award will vest. t he c ommittee also 
exercised its judgement as to the extent to which the remaining 25% of the 
psp award should vest as a result of superior roce performance, taking into 
account factors including the level of roce achieved, the expected roce for 
additional and existing capital investment, whether capital spend was in line 
with strategic objectives and balanced short-term and long-term investment 
needs, the level of sales and underlying profit growth and whether this 
reflected other developments in the marketplace. Having considered these 
factors in detail the c ommittee concluded that 20 of the remaining 25% of 
the award should vest.
Future performance targets
t he c ommittee has determined that no change is required for the coming 
year in the form of incentive arrangements, nor in the relative balance 
between them. t he maximum opportunity under incentive arrangements 
will remain the same for the forthcoming year (as set out on page 51). t he 
same principles as described earlier were also adopted in the determination 
of performance targets, i.e. emphasis on continuous improvement, and 
recognition of the need to deliver underlying improvements and continue 
to develop for the future whilst delivering current financial objectives.
Short-term performance 
We are not able to disclose specific future targets for reasons of 
commercial sensitivity, however it is intended that performance will 
continue to be measured against stretching eps , tsr and c orporate 
o bjective targets. For the Group ceo and us ceo a portion of the annual 
bonus will continue to relate to the performance of the us business.
Long-term performance 
Earnings per share
o ptions were granted in 2008/9 to executive d irectors over shares with  
a value of 200% of salary with an exercise price equal to the market value 
at the date of grant and any gain is therefore dependent on increasing  
the share price between the date of grant and exercise. Vesting of these 
options is conditional on the achievement of earnings per share performance 
conditions, with the first 100% subject to the achievement of underlying 
diluted eps growth of at least rpi plus 9% over three years and the balance 
vesting for achieving growth of at least rpi plus 15%. performance against 
this target will be measured at the end of 2010/11 to determine the level  
of vesting.
Return on capital employed – Group and international
t he rules of the performance s hare plan allow awards to be made over 
shares up to 150% of salary. in the year ended 28 February 2009 awards 
were made to all the executive d irectors except t im mason over t esco pLc 
shares equal to 150% of salary. an award was made to t im mason over 
t esco pLc shares equal to 100% of salary.
For all the executive d irectors, awards over up to 100% of salary will vest 
(together with reinvested dividends) subject to the achievement of Group 
roce targets. t he awards over the equivalent of a further 50% of salary 
made to the executive d irectors other than t im mason will vest (together 
with reinvested dividends) subject to the achievement of targets based  
on international roce to incentivise and reward delivery of higher returns 
from invested capital outside the u K (but excluding the us ). 
t he first 75% of the awards will vest on a straight-line basis at the end  
of the three-year performance period, with 25% vesting for baseline 
performance and the full 75% vesting for maximum performance against 
target. t he target in respect of the first 75% of the 2008/9 psp award is 
achievement of 14.2% Group roce and 9.0% international roce at the 
end of the three-year performance period in 2010/11. t he remaining  
25% of the award will vest for superior r eturn on c apital performance as 
judged by the r emuneration c ommittee taking into account the factors 
outlined above.  54 directors’ remuneration report
Tesco PLC annual r eport and Financial s tatements 2009
Directors’ remuneration report continued
if the r emuneration c ommittee exercises its judgement to allow some,  
or all, of the remaining 25% of the psp awards to vest, we will describe  
in the d irectors’ r emuneration r eport in the relevant year those factors 
taken into account in determining the level of the award which would vest. 
t here is no re-testing of performance in respect of any targets.
Return on capital employed – US
t he Group is seeking to build a substantial presence in the us which in time 
has the potential to become a significant source of value for our shareholders. 
t he t esco pLc us Long t erm incentive plan 2007 (the us Ltip) has been 
designed to deliver reward only if the us business realises this potential. 
t he us ceo was made an award of two million shares under the us Ltip  
in 2007. awards were also made to other senior members of the  
us management team. n o other executive d irectors will participate  
in the plan. awards under the plan vest based on the roce and eBit 
performance of the us business as set out on page 61. 
a key part of the Group’s long-term strategy is to consider new business 
ventures which have the potential for significant long-term value creation 
for our shareholders. t he Group n ew Business incentive plan (Group plan) 
supports this initiative. initially only the Group ceo will participate in the 
Group plan. However, awards may be made to other employees at the 
discretion of the r emuneration c ommittee in the future where this is 
appropriate to do so in order to support the Group’s new business ventures. 
an award of 2.5 million shares was made to the Group ceo in n ovember 
2007. t his award will vest based on the roce and eBit performance of the 
us business as set out on page 61, however the plan also requires Group 
and international roce targets to be met and any payouts under this plan 
will be scaled back on a pro rata basis to the extent they are not met.
as the c ompany’s us venture is currently the most developed new business 
initiative, the award made to the Group ceo under the Group plan is 
focused on the performance of the us venture, although the r emuneration 
c ommittee has the flexibility to consider and include other new business 
development opportunities within the proposed award. in addition, the 
r emuneration c ommittee will consider the findings of the Governance 
o versight c ommittee (described below) and opinions of the audit 
c ommittee as to whether the level of reported results achieved reflects  
the underlying financial performance of the c ompany when considering  
if, and the extent to which, the award made to the Group ceo will vest. 
Service agreements
t he executive d irectors all have rolling service agreements with no fixed 
expiry date. t hese contracts are terminated on notice of 12 months by  
the c ompany and six months’ notice by the executive. if an executive 
d irector’s employment is terminated (other than pursuant to the notice 
provisions in the service agreement or by reason of resignation or 
unacceptable performance or conduct) the c ompany will pay a sum 
calculated on the basis of basic salary and the average annual bonus paid 
for the last two years. n o account will be taken of pension. t ermination 
payments will be subject to mitigation. t his means that amounts will be 
paid in instalments to permit mitigation. if the termination occurs within one 
year of retirement, the termination payment will be reduced accordingly. t o 
reflect his length of service with t esco and the early age of his appointment 
as ceo , s ir t erry Leahy’s service agreement provides for his full pension 
entitlement to become available on retirement on or after his 57th birthday. 
t he r emuneration c ommittee has agreed that new appointments of 
executive d irectors will normally be on a notice period of 12 months.  
t he c ommittee reserves the right to vary this period to 24 months for the 
initial period of appointment and for the notice period to then revert to  
12 months. t he service agreements are available to shareholders to view 
on request from the c ompany s ecretary.
Outside appointments
t esco recognises that its executive d irectors may be invited to become 
n on-executive d irectors of other companies. s uch non-executive  
duties can broaden experience and knowledge which can benefit t esco. 
s ubject to approval by the Board, executive d irectors are allowed to 
accept non-executive appointments and retain the fees received, provided 
that these appointments are not likely to lead to conflicts of interest. 
executive d irectors’ biographies can be found on page 43 of this r eport. 
Fees retained for any non-executive directorships are set out below.
 c ompany in which Fee retained  
 non-executive in 2008/9 
 directorship held (£000)
philip c larke Whitbread pLc 55
andrew Higginson BskyB pLc 60
Lucy n eville-r olfe t he c arbon t rust 19
Non-executive Directors
n on-executive d irectors have letters of appointment setting out their 
duties and the time commitment expected. t he letters are available  
to shareholders to view from the c ompany s ecretary upon request.  
t he c hairman meets with each n on-executive d irector separately to 
review individual performance. all n on-executive d irectors are subject  
to re-election by shareholders every three years at the annual General 
meeting and their appointment can be terminated by either party without 
notice. c harles allen and Harald einsmann, each having served over ten 
years, will submit themselves for re-election every year subject to the 
c hairman having reviewed their performance and concluded that they 
remain independent and continue to add value.
t he remuneration of the n on-executive d irectors is determined by the 
c hairman and the executive c ommittee after considering external market 
research and individual contribution. n on-executive d irectors’ fees were 
reviewed during the year and the basic fee was increased to £65,000 per 
annum. t he c hairs of the audit and r emuneration c ommittees receive 
£30,000 (in addition to their basic non-executive fee) and n on-executive 
d irectors who are members of these c ommittees receive an additional 
£12,000 for each c ommittee. t he s enior independent n on-executive 
d irector, r odney c hase, who is also the d eputy c hairman, receives a total 
fee of £135,000 per annum. t he r emuneration c ommittee determines  
the c hairman’s remuneration, having regard to time commitment and 
packages awarded to c hairmen of other companies of a similar size and 
complexity. d avid r eid, n on-executive c hairman, receives an annual fee  
of £610,000 this year and has the benefit of a company car and chauffeur.
The Remuneration Committee
t he r emuneration c ommittee (the c ommittee) is governed by formal 
t erms of r eference. t hey are reviewed annually and this year they were 
updated to reflect an increased level of oversight of senior management 
packages. t he t erms of r eference are available from the c ompany 
s ecretary upon request or can be viewed at www.tesco.com/boardprocess.
Composition of the Committee
t he c ommittee consists entirely of independent n on-executive d irectors. 
t he members of the committee during the year were c harles allen 
(c hairman of the c ommittee), patrick c escau, r odney c hase, Karen c ook,  
e mervyn d avies and Harald einsmann. patrick c escau was appointed a 
member of the r emuneration c ommittee effective from 1 February 2009. 
e mervyn d avies resigned from the c ompany during the year due to a 
conflict of interest. Ken Hanna joined the c ommittee on 1 april 2009.  
t he directors’ biographies can be found on page 43 of this r eport.
n o member of the c ommittee has any personal financial interest in the 
matters being decided, other than as a shareholder, nor any day-to-day 
involvement in running the business of t esco. Jonathan Lloyd, the 
c ompany s ecretary, is s ecretary to the c ommittee. d avid r eid, n on-
executive c hairman, and s ir t erry Leahy, c hief executive of the Group, 
both attend meetings at the invitation of the c ommittee. t hey are not 
present when their own remuneration is being discussed. 
t he c ommittee is supported by the Group personnel and Finance 
functions and has continued to use the services of d eloitte LLp whom it 
appointed as an external, independent advisor. d eloitte LLp also provided 
advisory services in respect of corporate tax planning, share schemes, 
international taxation, corporate finance and treasury to the Group during 
the year. members’ attendance at c ommittee meetings is listed in the 
c orporate Governance section on page 45 of this r eport. 55 directors’ remuneration report
Tesco PLC annual r eport and Financial s tatements 2009
To find out more go to 
www.tesco.com/annualreport09
Role of the Committee
t he c ommittee’s purpose is to:
determine and recommend to the Board the remuneration policy for the •	
c hairman and executive d irectors;
ensure the level and structure of remuneration is designed to attract, •	
retain, and motivate the executive d irectors needed to run the 
c ompany; 
agree performance frameworks and targets, and review performance •	
against these;
monitor the level and structure of remuneration for senior management; •	
and
ensure the remuneration relationship between the executive d irectors •	
and senior executives of the c ompany below this level is appropriate.
t he c ommittee normally meets at least four times a year and has a  
rolling schedule of items within its remit. in the financial year ended  
28 February 2009 the c ommittee met ten times. d uring the year the 
c ommittee reviewed its own performance and agreed steps to enhance  
its effectiveness.
Governance Oversight Committee
t he Governance o versight committee (G oc ) has been established  
to review and report at the end of each financial year on the allocation  
of capital and other Group resources. t he Goc comprises the s enior 
independent d irector of the c ompany (who chairs the Goc ), the 
c hairman of the audit c ommittee and the c hairman of the r emuneration 
c ommittee. t he c hairman attends the Goc and the c ompany s ecretary 
serves as its secretary. t he Goc reports its findings to the r emuneration 
c ommittee each year. t he r emuneration c ommittee takes these into 
account along with the view of the audit c ommittee to ensure that financial 
performance against targets is indicative of strong and robust business 
performance. if appropriate, vesting under the plans may be adjusted by the 
r emuneration c ommittee (in respect of executive d irectors) or the Board (in 
respect of all other employees who are participants). in accordance with the 
c ombined c ode, any such adjustments to vesting for executive d irectors will 
be reported to shareholders in the r emuneration r eport at the relevant time. 
Compliance
in carrying out its duties, the r emuneration c ommittee gives full 
consideration to best practice. t he c ommittee was constituted and operated 
throughout the period in accordance with the principles outlined in the 
Listing r ules of the Financial s ervices authority derived from the c ombined 
c ode on c orporate Governance. t he auditors’ report, set out on page 67, 
covers the disclosures referred to in this report that are specified for audit by 
the Financial s ervices authority. t his report also complies with disclosures 
required by the d irector r emuneration r eport r egulations 2002. d etails  
of d irectors’ emoluments and interests are set out on pages 55 to 64 of  
this r eport.
Charles Allen 
c hairman of the r emuneration c ommittee
t ables 1-11 are audited information.
Table 1  Directors’ emoluments
  Fixed emoluments  performance-related emoluments
      short-term 
     short-term deferred  Total total
  s alary allowances Benefits
3
 cash shares Long-term
4
 2008/9 2007/8
  £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Executive Directors
r ichard Brasher  778   –   65   712 712 –   2,267   2,116 
philip c larke  778   –   38  712  712  480  2,720  2,749 
andrew Higginson  778   –   59  712  712   493  2,754   2,810 
s ir t erry Leahy  1,356   –   85  1,238 1,547  876  5,102   5,472 
 t im mason – base salary
1
  778   312   218  712 712   493  3,225   3,797 
 t im mason – supplement
1
  200   –   –   180 180  –  560  733 
t im mason – total  978   312   218  892  892  493  3,785   4,530 
Laurie mcilwee
2
  38   –   5  24  24  –  91   – 
Lucy n eville-r olfe  538   –   70   499  499  –  1,606   1,451 
d avid potts  778   –   37  712  712  480  2,719  2,718 
Non–executive Directors        
c harles allen  91   –  – –  –  –  91   85 
patrick c escau
2
  5    –     5  – 
r odney c hase  129   –   –   –   –   –  129   118 
Karen c ook  73   –   –   –   –   –  73   67 
e mervyn d avies  55   –   –   –   –   –  55   79 
Harald einsmann  73   –   –   –   –   –  73   67 
Ken Hydon  91   –   –   –   –   –  91   85 
c arolyn mcc all  10   –   –   –   –   –  10   67 
d avid r eid (c hairman)  601   –   56   –   –   –  657  675 
Jacqueline t ammenoms Bakker
2
  9   –   –   –   –   –  9  – 
t otal  7,159   312   633  5,501 5,810  2,822  22,237   23,089 
1  t im mason’s salary is made up of a base salary and a non-pensionable salary supplement (shown separately). allowances are made up of compensation payments for additional tax due on 
equity awards made prior to his move to the us . t im mason’s benefits are made up of car, travel, medical, tax related costs and services and free shares awarded under the all employee 
s hare incentive plan.
2 Laurie mcilwee, patrick c escau and Jacqueline t ammenoms Bakker were appointed during the year. Figures in table 1 are shown from their date of appointment.  
3   With the exception of t im mason, benefits are made up of car benefits, chauffeurs, disability and health insurance, staff discount, gym/leisure club membership and free shares awarded 
under the all employee s hare incentive plan.         
4  t he long-term bonus figures shown in table 1 relate to the additional 12.5% enhancements allocated in may 2008 on short-term and long-term awards under the old bonus scheme.  
t he long-term bonuses awarded on 8 July 2008 under the performance s hare plan were awarded in the form of nil cost options with the exception of t im mason who received an unfunded 
promise to deliver shares. d etails of these awards are shown in table 6.  56 directors’ remuneration report
Tesco PLC annual r eport and Financial s tatements 2009
Directors’ remuneration report continued
Table 2  Directors’ pension details
executive directors are members of the tesco pLc pension scheme which provides a pension of up to two-thirds of base salary on retirement, normally 
at the age of 60, dependent upon service. the scheme also provides for dependants’ pensions and lump sums on death in service. the scheme is a 
defined-benefit pension scheme, which is approved by Hmrc.
         
     (a) 
     increase in  transfer transfer  
     accrued t ransfer value of value of  Transfer  
   t otal increase pension value of (a) at total accrued total accrued value of increase
   accrued in accrued during 28 February pension at pension at total accrued in transfer 
   pension at pension the year  2009 (less 23 February 23 February pension at value (less 
 age at Years of 28 February  during (net of d irector’s 2008 2008 28 February director’s
 28 February c ompany 2009
1, 2
 the year inflation) contributions) (old basis)
3
 (new basis)
3
  2009 contributions)
 2009 service £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
 
r ichard Brasher 47 22 332 39 24 218 2,767 3,075 3,030 (45)
philip c larke 48 34 363 32 16 153 3,343 3,695 3,530 (165)
andrew Higginson 51 11 292 40 27 313 2,882 3,140 3,354 214
s ir t erry Leahy
4
 53 30 775 70 34 835 10,141 10,894 12,130 1,236
t im mason 51 27 395 34 17 188 4,123 4,490 4,493 3
Laurie mciiwee
5
 46 8 105 33 33 292 n/a 620 918 298
Lucy n eville-r olfe 56 11 205 39 30 468 2,444 2,597 3,216 619
d avid potts 51 36 399 35 17 196 4,285 4,664 4,705 41
1 t he accrued pension is that which would be paid annually on retirement at 60 based on service to 28 February 2009.
2 s ome of the executive d irectors’ benefits are payable from an unapproved pension arrangement. t his is secured by a fixed and floating charge on a cash deposit.
3  t he basis used for calculating transfer values was revised during the year because changes in financial conditions meant that the previous basis for calculating transfer values, used since 
2007, no longer produced reasonable values. t ransfer values at 23 February 2008 have been restated using the new method of comparative purposes.
4 s ir t erry Leahy is entitled to retire at any age from 57 to 60 inclusive with an immediate pension of two-thirds of base salary.
5  Laurie mciiwee was promoted to the Board on 27 January 2009. t he increase in accrued pension shown is based on the increase since his date of promotion. s imilarly, the transfer value  
as at 23 February 2008 is based on the value of his pension as at date of promotion.
Table 3  Gains made on executive share options
executive share option scheme and discretionary share option plan
       Value realisable
1
     n umber of  o ption  market   
  d ate  d ate  d ate of  options  price  price at  2008/9 2007/8 
  of grant exercisable  exercise exercised (pence) exercise t otal £000 £000
 
r ichard Brasher  –  – –   –  – –  –  – –
philip c larke  –  –   –   –   –  –  –  – 935
andrew Higginson  –  –   –   –  –   –   –  – –
s ir t erry Leahy 30.09.98 30.09.01 30.09.08 126,832 164.00 369.20 126,832 260 –
t im mason  –   –   –   –  – –  –  –  –
Laurie mcilwee 
2
  –  –  – –  –  –   –  –  –
Lucy n eville-r olfe   –   –  –  – –  –   –  – 274
d avid potts  –  –  –  –  –  –   – – 956 
total    126,832   126,832 260 2,165
1  t he value realisable from shares acquired on exercise is the difference between the market value at exercise and the exercise price of the option, although the shares may have been retained. 
2 Laurie mcilwee was appointed on 27 January 2009. Figures shown in this table are from the date of his appointment.
3 Gains made on s ave a s You earn share options are not included above. t hese are detailed in table 5.
4 Gains made on nil cost options awarded under the performance s hare plan and executive incentive plan are not included above. t hese are detailed in table 6 and table 9.
Table 4  Share options held by Directors and not exercised at 28 February 2009 
executive share option schemes (1994) and (1996) and discretionary share option plan (2004) 
  o ptions as at  o ptions  o ptions  Options as at  exercise d ate from  
  23 February  granted  exercised  28 February  price  which  expiry  
 d ate of grant 2008 in year
1
 in year
3
 2009 (pence) exercisable date
r ichard Brasher 26.06.2000 106,613 – – 106,613 205.00 26.06.2003 26.06.2010
 26.04.2001 101,215 – – 101,215 247.00 26.04.2004 26.04.2011
 15.04.2002 100,386 – – 100,386 259.00 15.04.2005 15.04.2012
 14.04.2003 151,900 – – 151,900 197.50 14.04.2006 14.04.2013
 30.04.2004 296,150 – – 296,150 253.25 30.04.2007 30.04.2014
 22.04.2005 255,795 – – 255,795 312.75 22.04.2008 22.04.2015
 08.05.2006 345,261 – – 345,261 318.60 08.05.2009 08.05.2016
 08.05.2007 278,627 – – 278,627 473.75 08.05.2010 08.05.2017
 12.05.2008 – 353,114 – 353,114 427.00 12.05.2011 12.05.2018
t otal  1,635,947 353,114 – 1,989,061    57 directors’ remuneration report
Tesco PLC annual r eport and Financial s tatements 2009
To find out more go to 
www.tesco.com/annualreport09
Table 4  Share options held by Directors and not exercised at 28 February 2009 continued
executive share option schemes (1994) and (1996) and discretionary share option plan (2004) 
  o ptions as at  o ptions  o ptions  Options as at  exercise d ate from  
  23 February  granted  exercised  28 February  price  which  expiry  
 d ate of grant 2008 in year
1
 in year
3
 2009 (pence) exercisable date
philip c larke 22.04.2005 379,856 – – 379,856 312.75 22.04.2008 22.04.2015
 08.05.2006 404,896 – – 404,896 318.60 08.05.2009 08.05.2016
 08.05.2007 298,844 – – 298,844 473.75 08.05.2010 08.05.2017
 12.05.2008 – 353,114 – 353,114 427.00 12.05.2011 12.05.2018
t otal  1,083,596 353,114 – 1,436,710   
andrew Higginson 30.04.2004 434,353 – – 434,353 253.25 30.04.2007 30.04.2014
 22.04.2005 379,856 – – 379,856 312.75 22.04.2008 22.04.2015
 08.05.2006 404,896 – – 404,896 318.60 08.05.2009 08.05.2016
 08.05.2007 298,844 – – 298,844 473.75 08.05.2010 08.05.2017
 12.05.2008 – 353,114 – 353,114 427.00 12.05.2011 12.05.2018
t otal  1,517,949 353,114 – 1,871,063   
s ir t erry Leahy 30.09.1998 126,832 – 126,832 – 164.00 30.09.2001 30.09.2008
 30.11.1999 228,901 – – 228,901 173.00 30.11.2002 30.11.2009
 20.04.2000 17,673 – – 17,673 209.50 20.04.2003 20.04.2010
 26.06.2000 780,487 – – 780,487 205.00 26.06.2003 26.06.2010
 26.04.2001 647,773 – – 647,773 247.00 26.04.2004 26.04.2011
 15.04.2002 642,471 – – 642,471 259.00 15.04.2005 15.04.2012
 14.04.2003 939,747 – – 939,747 197.50 14.04.2006 14.04.2013
 30.04.2004 766,041 – – 766,041 253.25 30.04.2007 30.04.2014
 22.04.2005 658,673 – – 658,673 312.75 22.04.2008 22.04.2015
 08.05.2006 709,353 – – 709,353 318.60 08.05.2009 08.05.2016
 08.05.2007 523,556 – – 523,556 473.75 08.07.2010 08.05.2017
 12.05.2008 – 618,548 – 618,548 427.00 12.05.2011 12.05.2018
t otal  6,041,507 618,548 126,832 6,533,223   
t im mason 15.04.2002 358,301 – – 358,301 259.00 15.04.2005 15.04.2012
 30.04.2004 434,353 – – 434,353 253.25 30.04.2007 30.04.2014
 22.04.2005 379,856 – – 379,856 312.75 22.04.2008 22.04.2015
 08.05.2006 404,896 – – 404,896 318.60 08.05.2009 08.05.2016
 10.08.2007 333,319 – – 333,319 424.75 10.08.2010 10.08.2017
 12.05.2008 – 353,114 – 353,114 427.00 12.05.2011 12.05.2018
t otal  1,910,725 353,114 – 2,263,839   
Laurie mcilwee 
2
 22.04.2005 105,500 – – 105,500 312.75 22.04.2008 22.04.2015
 08.05.2006 108,286 – – 108,286 318.60 08.05.2009 08.05.2016
 08.05.2007 77,192 – – 77,192 473.75 08.07.2010 08.05.2017
 12.05.2008 91,335 – – 91,335 427.00 12.05.2011 12.05.2018
t otal  382,313 – – 382,313   
Lucy n eville-r olfe  22.04.2005 108,050 – – 108,050 312.75 22.04.2008 22.04.2015
 08.05.2006 116,133 – – 116,133 318.60 08.05.2009 08.05.2016
 08.05.2007 189,973 – – 189,973 473.75 08.05.2010 08.05.2017
 12.05.2008 – 231,850 – 231,850 427.00 12.05.2011 12.05.2018
t otal  414,156 231,850 – 646,006   
d avid potts 22.04.2005 379,856 – – 379,856 312.75 22.04.2008 22.04.2015
 08.05.2006 404,896 – – 404,896 318.60 08.05.2009 08.05.2016
 08.05.2007 298,844 – – 298,844 473.75 08.05.2010 08.05.2017
 12.05.2008 – 353,114 – 353,114 427.00 12.05.2011 12.05.2018
t otal  1,083,596 353,114 – 1,436,710   
t otal  14,069,789 2,615,968 126,832 16,558,925   
1  executive share options are subject to performance conditions measured over three years as set out on page 53. eps growth for the period 2005/6 to 2007/8 exceeded rpi growth by 42%, 
therefore share options awarded on 22 april 2005 vested in full on 22 april 2008. executives have until the tenth anniversary of the date of grant to exercise their options.  
2  Laurie mcilwee was appointed on 27 January 2009. Figures shown in this table are from his date of appointment.
3  t he market price at exercise is shown in table 3. t he share price at 28 February 2009 was 333.20 pence. t he share price during the 53 weeks to 28 February 2009 ranged from  
285.90 pence to 437.00 pence. 58 directors’ remuneration report
Tesco PLC annual r eport and Financial s tatements 2009
Directors’ remuneration report continued
Table 5  Share options held by Directors and not exercised at 28 February 2009 
s avings-related share option scheme (1981)
        Value Value  
  a s at  o ptions  o ptions  As at exercise realisable realisable  
  23 February granted exercised 28 February price 2008/9 2007/8 
 d ate of grant 2008 in year in year
1
 2009 (pence) £000 £000
r ichard Brasher 06.11.2003 1,625 – 1,625 – 195.00 2 5
 04.11.2004 1,424 – – 1,424 232.00 – –
 02.11.2005 1,298 – – 1,298 248.00 – –
 08.11.2006 1,066 – – 1,066 307.00 – –
 07.11.2007 819 – – 819 410.00 – –
 05.11.2008 – 1,077 – 1,077 311.00 – –
  6,232 1,077 1,625 5,684  2 5
philip c larke 06.11.2003 1,625 – 1,625 – 195.00 2 5
 04.11.2004 1,424 – – 1,424 232.00 – –
 02.11.2005 1,298 – – 1,298 248.00 – –
 08.11.2006 1,066 – – 1,066 307.00 – –
 07.11.2007 819 – – 819 410.00 – –
 05.11.2008 – 1,077 – 1,077 311.00 – –
  6,232 1,077 1,625 5,684  2 5
andrew Higginson 06.11.2003 1,625 – 1,625 – 195.00 2 5
 04.11.2004 1,424 – – 1,424 232.00 – –
 02.11.2005 1,298 – – 1,298 248.00 – –
 08.11.2006 1,066 – – 1,066 307.00 – –
 07.11.2007 819 – – 819 410.00 – –
 05.11.2008 – 1,077 – 1,077 311.00 – –
  6,232 1,077 1,625 5,684  2 5
s ir t erry Leahy 06.11.2003 1,625 – 1,625 – 195.00 2 5
 04.11.2004 1,424 – – 1,424 232.00 – –
 02.11.2005 1,298 – – 1,298 248.00 – –
 08.11.2006 1,066 – – 1,066 307.00 – –
 07.11.2007 819 – – 819 410.00 – –
 05.11.2008 – 1,077 – 1,077 311.00 – –
  6,232 1,077 1,625 5,684  2 5
t im mason 06.11.2003 1,625 – 1,625 – 195.00 2 5
 04.11.2004 1,424 – – 1,424 232.00 – –
 02.11.2005 1,298 – – 1,298 248.00 – –
 08.11.2006 1,066 – – 1,066 307.00 – –
 07.11.2007 819 – – 819 410.00 – –
 05.11.2008 – 1,077 – 1,077 311.00 – –
  6,232 1,077 1,625 5,684  2 5 59 directors’ remuneration report
Tesco PLC annual r eport and Financial s tatements 2009
To find out more go to 
www.tesco.com/annualreport09
Table 5  Share options held by Directors and not exercised at 28 February 2009 continued
s avings-related share option scheme (1981)
        Value Value  
  a s at  o ptions  o ptions  As at exercise realisable realisable  
  23 February granted exercised 28 February price 2008/9 2007/8 
 d ate of grant 2008 in year in year
1
 2009 (pence) £000 £000
Laurie mcilwee
2
 06.11.2003 1,625 – 1,625 – 195.00 2 –
 02.11.2005 754 – 754 – 248.00 1 –
 08.11.2006 615 – – 615 307.00 – –
 07.11.2007 819 – – 819 410.00 – –
 05.11.2008 1,077 – – 1,077 311.00 – –
  4,890 – 2,379 2,511  3 –
Lucy n eville-r olfe  06.11.2003 1,625 – 1,625 – 195.00 2 5
 04.11.2004 1,424 – – 1,424 232.00 – –
 02.11.2005 1,298 – – 1,298 248.00 – –
 08.11.2006 1,066 – – 1,066 307.00 – –
 07.11.2007 819 – – 819 410.00 – –
 05.11.2008 – 1,077 – 1,077 311.00 – –
  6,232 1,077 1,625 5,684  2 5
d avid potts 06.11.2003 1,625 – 1,625 – 195.00 2 5
 04.11.2004 1,424 – – 1,424 232.00 – –
 02.11.2005 1,298 – – 1,298 248.00 – –
 08.11.2006 1,066 – – 1,066 307.00 – –
 07.11.2007 819 – – 819 410.00 – –
 05.11.2008 – 1,077 – 1,077 311.00 – –
  6,232 1,077 1,625 5,684  2 5
t otal  48,514 7,539 13,754 42,299   
1  s ave a s You earn is an all employee share scheme. o ptions are not subject to performance conditions. all options are exercisable from 1 February in the year which is six years from the year 
of grant. all options expire 6 months from their exercise date (i.e. on 1 august of the relevant year). all directors exercised their options granted on 6 n ovember 2003 on 2 February 2009 
when the market price was 347.40 pence. Laurie mcilwee exercised his option granted on 2 n ovember 2005 on 18 February 2009 when the market price was 342.30 pence. n o options 
lapsed in the year.
2 Laurie mcilwee was appointed on 27 January 2009. Figures shown in this table are from the date of his appointment. 60 directors’ remuneration report
Tesco PLC annual r eport and Financial s tatements 2009
Directors’ remuneration report continued
Table 6  Long-Term Performance Share Plan
     s hares released/   d ate of  
   s hare price a s at  s hares awarded/  options As at  release/date  
  d ate of award/ on award date  23 February  options granted exercised  28 February from which  expiry 
 grant (pence) 2008 in year
3
 in year 2009 exercisable date
4
r ichard Brasher 28.07.2004 253.45 118,367 – – 118,367 28.07.2008 28.07.2014
 12.10.2005 302.75 191,565 6,083 – 197,648 12.07.2009 12.10.2015
 20.07.2006 346.25 196,807 6,249 – 203,056 20.07.2010 20.07.2016
 14.11.2007 471.10 240,045 7,622 – 247,667 14.07.2010 14.11.2017
 08.07.2008 353.76 – 339,360 – 339,360 08.07.2011 08.07.2018
t otal   746,784 359,314 – 1,106,098  
philip c larke 28.07.2004 253.45 175,774 – – 175,774 28.07.2008 28.07.2014
 12.10.2005 302.75 224,654 7,133 – 231,787 12.07.2009 12.10.2015
 20.07.2006 346.25 211,086 6,703 – 217,789 20.07.2010 20.07.2016
 14.11.2007 471.10 240,045 7,622 – 247,667 14.07.2010 14.11.2017
 08.07.2008 353.76 – 339,360 – 339,360 08.07.2011 08.07.2018
t otal   851,559 360,818 – 1,212,377  
andrew Higginson 28.07.2004 253.45 175,774 – – 175,774 28.07.2008 28.07.2014
 12.10.2005 302.75 224,654 7,133 – 231,787 12.07.2009 12.10.2015
 20.07.2006 346.25 211,086 6,703 – 217,789 20.07.2010 20.07.2016
 14.11.2007 471.10 240,045 7,622 – 247,667 14.07.2010 14.11.2017
 08.07.2008 353.76 – 339,360 – 339,360 08.07.2011 08.07.2018
t otal   851,559 360,818 – 1,212,377  
s ir t erry Leahy 28.07.2004 253.45 304,794 – – 304,794 28.07.2008 28.07.2014
 12.10.2005 302.75 393,582 12,498 – 406,080 12.07.2009 12.10.2015
 20.07.2006 346.25 369,810 11,743 – 381,553 20.07.2010 20.07.2016
 14.11.2007 471.10 420,484 13,352 – 433,836 14.07.2010 14.11.2017
 08.07.2008 353.76 – 589,465 – 589,465 08.07.2011 08.07.2018
t otal   1,488,670 627,058 – 2,115,728  
t im mason
1
 28.07.2004 253.45 90,431 – – 90,431 28.07.2008 28.07.2014
 12.10.2005 302.75 224,654 5,957 106,385 124,226 12.07.2009 12.10.2015
 25.08.2006 346.25 211,086 6,703 – 217,789 20.07.2010 –
 14.11.2007 471.10 160,030 5,081 – 165,111 14.07.2010  –
 08.07.2008 353.76 – 226,240 – 226,240 08.07.2011  –
t otal   686,201 243,981 106,385 823,797  
Laurie mcilwee
2
 20.07.2006 346.25 52,808 – – 52,808 20.07.2009 –
 10.10.2007 465.50 41,890 – – 41,890 10.07.2010  –
 08.07.2008 353.76 62,141 – – 62,141 08.07.2011  –
t otal   156,839 – – 156,839  
Lucy n eville-r olfe
2
 18.01.2006 312.25 29,820 639 30,459 – 18.07.2008 –
 20.07.2006 346.25 57,417 1,818 – 59,235 20.07.2009 –
 14.11.2007 471.10 157,610 5,003 – 162,613 14.07.2010 14.11.2017
 08.07.2008 353.76 – 237,552 – 237,552 08.07.2011 08.07.2018
t otal   244,847 245,012 30,459 459,400  
d avid potts 28.07.2004 253.45 175,774 – – 175,774 28.07.2008 28.07.2014
 12.10.2005 302.75 224,654 7,133 – 231,787 12.07.2009 12.10.2015
 20.07.2006 346.25 211,086 6,703 – 217,789 20.07.2010 20.07.2016
 14.11.2007 471.10 240,045 7,622 – 247,667 14.07.2010 14.11.2017
 08.07.2008 353.76 – 339,360 – 339,360 08.07.2011 08.07.2018
t otal   851,559 360,818 – 1,212,377  
t otal   5,878,018 2,557,819 136,844 8,298,993  
1  t im mason’s awards since 2006 have been made in the form of unfunded promises. Following approval by the r emuneration c ommittee t im mason part exercised his 2005 award on  
12 July 2008 at a share price of 355.25 pence in order to fund a us tax liability.
2   Laurie mcilwee was appointed on 27 January 2009. His awards shown above were made in the form of restricted shares under the senior management performance s hare plan. Figures 
shown in this table are from his date of appointment. Lucy n eville-r olfe’s 2006 awards were also made in the form of restricted shares under the senior management performance s hare plan. 
o n 18 July 2008, 30,459 shares were released to Lucy n eville-r olfe at a share price of 375.75p.
3   t he performance s hare plan replaced the long-term executive incentive s cheme. t he first award under the new plan was made in 2004. all awards except those described in notes 1 and 2 
above have been made in the form of nil cost options. t he awards are subject to performance conditions based on r eturn on c apital employed targets. t he Group roce for 2007/8 was 
12.9%, therefore targets for psp awards granted on 12 o ctober 2005 were met in full and these awards vested. executives are required to retain these vested awards for a further  
12 months with the exception of t im mason (see note 1). s hareholder approval was obtained at the 2007 aGm for the removal of the requirement for any vested shares to be retained  
for a further 12 months. t his applies to awards made after July 2007. all awards are increased to reflect dividend equivalents as each dividend is paid with the exception of the 2004  
award on which no dividends accrue.
4 n o options lapsed in the year under this plan. 61 directors’ remuneration report
Tesco PLC annual r eport and Financial s tatements 2009
To find out more go to 
www.tesco.com/annualreport09
Table 7  Group New Business Incentive Plan
     options 
   s hare price on a s at  s hares awarded/ exercised/ As at date from 
 d ate of award date 23 February options granted shares released 28 February  which  expiry  
 award/grant (pence) 2008 in year in year 2009 exercisable date
s ir t erry Leahy 14.11.2007 482.00 2,500,000 79,393 – 2,579,393 Four  14.11.2017 
       tranches  
       2011-2014 
t otal    79,393 – 2,579,393  
1  t he Group n ew Business incentive plan (2007) was approved by shareholders on 29 June 2007. t he awards made under this plan will normally vest in four tranches, four, five, six and seven 
years after the date of award for nil consideration. t he award is in the form of nil cost options. awards may be adjusted to take account of any dividends paid or that are payable in respect of 
the number of shares earned.
2  t he vesting of the award made to the Group ceo under this plan will be conditional upon achievement against Group and international performance conditions. t he performance 
conditions under this award will be aligned with the targets set for awards made under the performance s hare plan (psp ) in each of the years 2007 to 2009, which will become capable of 
vesting between 2010 and 2012. if less than threshold performance is achieved for each of these psp awards then no portion of the Group plan award will become capable of vesting. if 
maximum Group and international performance is achieved for each of these psp awards (i.e. the 2007 – 2009 psp awards vest in full in 2010 – 2012), then the whole of the Group plan 
award will become eligible for vesting, subject to achievement of the appropriate new business performance targets referred to below. if Group and international performance for any of 
these psp awards is between threshold and maximum levels then the Group award will become eligible for vesting on a pro rata basis, subject always to the achievement of the appropriate 
new business targets referred to below.
3  o nce performance against the Group and international targets has been determined, the extent to which the award made to the Group ceo under this plan is capable of vesting will be 
conditional on the financial performance of the specified new business ventures, as determined by the r emuneration c ommittee.
Summary of US business performance conditions
roce hurdle     2010/11 2011/12 2012/13 2013/14
maximum performance    6% roce 9% roce 11% roce 12% roce
t arget performance    4% roce 6% roce 8% roce 10% roce
Vesting percentage (% of maximum award)
Vesting levels at maximum performance    u p to 25% u p to 50% u p to 75% u p to 100%
Vesting levels at target performance     u p to 6.25% u p to 10% u p to 12.5% u p to 18.75%
Table 8  US Long Term Incentive Plan
    s hare price on a s at  s hares s hares  As at  
  d ate of award date 23 February awarded released 28 February  date of 
  award/grant (pence) 2008 in year in year 2009 release
t im mason  14.11.2007 482.00 2,000,000 63,514 – 2,063,514 Four  
        tranches  
        2011-2014
t otal     63,514 – 2,063,514 
1  t he us Long t erm incentive plan (2007) was approved by shareholders on 29 June 2007. t he awards made under this plan will normally vest in four tranches, four, five, six and seven years 
after the date of award for nil consideration. Vesting will normally be conditional on the achievement of specified performance targets related to the return on capital employed in the us 
business over the seven-year plan. t he targets are set out under table 7.
2  t he maximum number of shares which may be awarded under the us L tip is two million shares to the us ceo and 1.5 million shares to any other participant. an award of two million shares 
was made to t im mason, us ceo , in n ovember 2007. awards may be adjusted to take account of any dividends paid or that are payable in respect of the number of shares earned. t he 
extent to which awards will vest under the us L tip is conditional on the financial performance of the c ompany’s us business, based on the achievement of stretching earnings Before 
interest and t ax (eBit ) and r eturn o n c apital employed (roce ) targets set by reference to the us long-term business plan.
3  a percentage of the eBit of the us business for the relevant years may be allocated to an eBit pool (the ‘profit pool’). t he profit pool will be capped at 10% in any one year and is expected 
to be approximately 5% of cumulative eBit over the four measurement years (2010/11 to 2013/14). t he portion of an award which may vest will be determined by reference to the value of 
the eBit pool as well as performance against the roce hurdles for the relevant year, as outlined in the table above. t o the extent that the roce hurdles for any one year are met (either in 
full or in part), but there is insufficient value in the profit pool to fund the vesting of awards, then the actual vesting in that year will be scaled back so that the profit pool is not exceeded. 
t hat portion of the award that has not paid out in that year due to the profit pool being restricted may vest in future years, provided that the profit pool in any later year permits this.
4  t he targets for the us L tip have been based on the business plan in respect of the initial phase of the us business. t he r emuneration c ommittee has the responsibility to review these 
targets in light of the scale and scope of the us business in order to ensure that they remain appropriate and challenging. in particular, the r emuneration c ommittee will seek the input of 
the audit c ommittee and the Governance o versight c ommittee in order to ensure that financial performance against the targets is indicative of strong and robust business performance. 
any material adjustments made in respect of the targets will be reviewed and approved by the audit c ommittee and will be disclosed in the c ompany’s r emuneration r eport.  62 directors’ remuneration report
Tesco PLC annual r eport and Financial s tatements 2009
Table 9  Executive Incentive Plan
1
       d ate of  
   s hare price a s at  s hares awarded/ s hares released/ As at  release/date  
  d ate of on award  23 February  options options 28 February from which  expiry 
  award/grant (pence) 2008 granted exercised 2009 exercisable date
3
r ichard Brasher 20.05.2005 311.00 102,636 3,229 – 105,865 20.05.2008 20.05.2015
 26.05.2006 318.50 172,945 5,491 – 178,436 26.05.2009 26.05.2016
 24.05.2007 456.75 145,594 4,622 – 150,216 24.05.2010 24.05.2017
 02.05.2008 424.05 – 149,192 – 149,192 02.05.2011 02.05.2018
t otal    421,175 162,534 – 583,709  
philip c larke 20.05.2005 311.00 152,415 4,795 – 157,210 20.05.2008 20.05.2015
 26.05.2006 318.50 202,817 6,440 – 209,257 26.05.2009 26.05.2016
 24.05.2007 456.75 156,159 4,959 – 161,118 24.05.2010 24.05.2017
 02.05.2008 424.05 – 149,192 – 149,192 02.05.2011 02.05.2018
t otal    511,391 165,386 – 676,777  
andrew Higginson 20.05.2005 311.00 152,415 4,795 – 157,210 20.05.2008 20.05.2015
 26.05.2006 318.50 202,817 6,440 – 209,257 26.05.2009 26.05.2016
 24.05.2007 456.75 156,159 4,959 – 161,118 24.05.2010 24.05.2017
 02.05.2008 424.05 – 149,192 – 149,192 02.05.2011 02.05.2018
t otal    511,391 165,386 – 676,777  
s ir t erry Leahy 20.05.2005 311.00 264,290 8,316 – 272,606 20.05.2008 20.05.2015
 26.05.2006 318.50 355,326 11,284 – 366,610 26.05.2009 26.05.2016
 24.05.2007 456.75 273,581 8,687 – 282,268 24.05.2010 24.05.2017
 02.05.2008 424.05 – 403,030 – 403,030 02.05.2011 02.05.2018
t otal    893,197 431,317 – 1,324,514  
t im mason
2
 20.05.2005 311.00 152,415 4,795 – 157,210 20.05.2008 20.05.2015
 24.05.2007 456.75 177,470 5,635 – 183,105 24.05.2010  –
 02.05.2008 424.05 – 299,078 – 299,078 02.05.2011  –
t otal    329,885 309,508 – 639,393  
Lucy n eville-r olfe 24.05.2007 456.75 74,452 2,363 – 76,815 24.05.2010 24.05.2017
 02.05.2008 424.05 – 97,957 – 97,957 02.05.2011 02.05.2018
t otal    74,452 100,320 – 174,772  
d avid potts 20.05.2005 311.00 152,415 4,795 – 157,210 20.05.2008 20.05.2015
 26.05.2006 318.50 202,817 6,440 – 209,257 26.05.2009 26.05.2016
 24.05.2007 456.75 156,159 4,959 – 161,118 24.05.2010 24.05.2017
 02.05.2008 424.05 – 149,192 – 149,192 02.05.2011 02.05.2018
t otal    511,391 165,386 – 676,777  
t otal   3,252,882 1,499,837 – 4,752,719  
         
1  t he executive incentive plan replaced the short-term executive incentive s cheme. t he first award under the new plan was made in 2005. t he awards are subject to performance conditions 
based on tsr , earnings per share and corporate objectives. t he awards are increased to reflect dividend equivalents as each dividend is paid. 
2 s ince 2007 t im mason’s awards have been made in the form of an unfunded promise. His 2005 award was made in the form of nil cost options.
3 n o options lapsed in the year under the executive incentive plan.
Directors’ remuneration report continued 63 directors’ remuneration report
Tesco PLC annual r eport and Financial s tatements 2009
To find out more go to 
www.tesco.com/annualreport09
Table 10  Directors’ interests in the Long-Term Incentive Plan 
   n umber of    Number of  Value of    
   shares as at    shares as at  shares   market price 
 Year of  award 23 February  s hares  s hares  28 February  released r elease  on release 
 release date 2008 awarded
3
 released 2009 £000s date (pence)
philip c larke 2009 10.04.02 164,538 25,983 190,521 – 668 19.02.09 350.70
 2009 04.05.04 340,886 53,831 394,717 – 1,384 19.02.09 350.70
 2010 09.04.03 218,410 34,491 – 252,901 – 09.04.10 –
 2011 04.05.04 179,884 28,407 – 208,291 – 04.05.11 –
t otal   903,718 142,712 585,238 461,192 2,052  
andrew Higginson 2009 10.04.02 179,639 28,368 208,007 – 729 19.02.09 350.70
 2009 04.05.04 340,886 53,831 394,717 – 1,384 19.02.09 350.70
 2010 09.04.03 228,119 36,024 – 264,143 – 09.04.10 –
 2011 04.05.04 179,884 28,407 – 208,291 – 04.05.11 –
t otal   928,528 146,630 602,724 472,434 2,113
s ir t erry Leahy 2009 10.04.02 322,117 50,869 372,986 – 1,308 19.02.09 350.70
 2009 04.05.04 601,210 94,943 696,153 – 2,441 19.02.09 350.70
 2010 09.04.03 409,471 64,664 – 474,135 – 09.04.10 –
 2011 04.05.04 317,250 50,100 – 367,350 – 04.05.11 –
t otal   1,650,048 260,576 1,069,139 841,485 3,749
t im mason 2009 10.04.02 179,639 28,368 208,007 – 729 19.02.09 350.70
 2009 04.05.04 340,886 53,831 394,717 – 1,384 19.02.09 350.70
 2010 09.04.03 228,119 36,024 – 264,143 – 09.04.10 –
 2011 04.05.04 179,884 28,407 – 208,291 – 04.05.11 –
t otal   928,528 146,630 602,724 472,434 2,113 
Laurie mcilwee
1 2
 2009 24.05.06 52,804 – 52,804 – 185 19.02.09 350.70
 2010 24.05.07 58,863 – – 58,863 – 24.05.10 –
 2011 21.05.08 62,383 – – 62,383 – 21.05.11 –
t otal   174,050 – 52,804 121,246 185
Lucy n eville-r olfe
1
 2009 24.05.06 57,935 1,834 59,769 – 210 19.02.09 350.70
t otal  57,935 1,834 59,769 – 210
d avid potts 2009 10.04.02 164,538 25,983 190,521 – 668 19.02.09 350.70
 2009 04.05.04 340,886 53,831 394,717 – 1,384 19.02.09 350.70
 2010 09.04.03 218,410 34,491 – 252,901 – 09.04.10 –
 2011 04.05.04 179,884 28,407 – 208,291 – 04.05.11 –
t otal   903,718 142,712 585,238 461,192 2,052
t otal   5,546,525 841,094 3,557,636 2,829,983 12,474 
1  Bonus shares shown for Laurie mcilwee and Lucy n eville-r olfe were awarded under the senior management bonus scheme before they joined the Board. t hese shares can not be retained 
for an additional three-year period and enhanced.  
2  Laurie mcilwee was appointed on 27 January 2009. Figures shown in this table are from the date of his appointment.
3  t his plan has been replaced by the performance s hare plan and executive incentive plan.
d ate of award  10.04.02 09.04.03 04.05.04 24.05.06 24.05.07 21.05.08
award price (pence)  248.00 197.25 248.75 316.88 456.63 415.45 64 directors’ remuneration report
Tesco PLC annual r eport and Financial s tatements 2009
Table 11  Disclosable interests of the Directors, including family interests
        23 February 2008 
       28 February 2009 (or on appointment if later)
      Options   o ptions 
      to acquire   to acquire 
     Ordinary  ordinary o rdinary ordinary  
     shares
1
 shares
2
 shares
1
 shares
2
Executive Directors
r ichard Brasher     189,825 3,684,552 184,221 2,810,138
philip c larke     1,344,598 3,331,548 1,438,835 2,452,778
andrew Higginson     1,287,438 3,765,901 1,384,926 2,887,131
s ir t erry Leahy     5,992,724 12,558,542 6,067,985 10,929,606
t im mason     4,365,664 2,641,390 3,882,995 2,384,457
Laurie mcilwee
3
     320,878 384,824 340,149 387,203
Lucy n eville-r olfe      197,903 1,226,627 227,650 652,450
d avid potts     1,737,555 3,331,548 1,803,574 2,452,778
Non-executive Directors      
c harles allen     – – – –
patrick c escau     – – – –
r odney c hase     – – – –
Karen c ook     – – – –
e mervyn d avies
4
     2,400 – 2,400 –
d r Harald einsmann     303,209 – 246,054 –
Ken Hydon     30,093 – 30,093 –
c arolyn mcc all
4
     6,556 – 6,556 –
d avid r eid (c hairman)     193,825 – 193,515 –
Jacqueline t ammenoms Bakker     – – – –
total     15,972,668 30,924,932 15,808,953 24,956,541
1  o rdinary shares shown in this table include restricted shares held by Laurie mcilwee and Lucy n eville-r olfe under the performance s hare plan shown in table 6 which are subject to future 
performance conditions, shares held under a promise by t im mason under the performance s hare plan shown in table 6 which are subject to future performance conditions, the us Long 
t erm incentive plan shown in table 8 which are subject to future performance conditions and the executive incentive plan shown in table 9 which are subject to a holding period, shares held 
under the Long t erm incentive plan shown in table 10 which are subject to a holding period and shares held under the all employee s hare incentive plan which are subject to a holding period. 
Between 28 February 2009 and 20 april 2009, 483 shares were purchased by executive d irectors as part of the Buy a s You earn scheme and t im mason sold 631,384 ordinary shares.
2  o ptions to acquire ordinary shares shown in this table comprise options held under the executive s hare o ption schemes and d iscretionary s hare o ption plan shown in table 4, s ave as You earn 
scheme shown in table 5, and nil cost options held under the performance s hare plan, Group n ew Business incentive plan and executive incentive plan shown in tables 6, 7 and 9 respectively. 
3  Laurie mcilwee was appointed on 27 January 2009. Figures for 2007/8 shown in this table are from the date of his appointment.
4  c arolyn mcc all and e mervyn d avies resigned from the Board on 10 april 2008 and 31 o ctober 2008 respectively. 
Directors’ remuneration report continued 65 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Financial statements  65
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities 66
Independent auditors’ report to the members  
 of Tesco PLC 67
Group income statement 68
Group statement of recognised income and expense 69
Group balance sheet 70
Group cash flow statement 71
Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in  
 net debt note 71
Notes to the Group financial statements 72
Five year record 124
Tesco PLC – Parent Company financial statements 126
Independent auditors’ report to the members  
 of Tesco PLC 136
Contents 
To find out more go to 
www.tesco.com/annualreport09 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 66 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities
The Directors are required by the Companies Acts 1985 and 2006 to prepare 
financial statements for each financial year which give a true and fair view 
of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group as at the end of the 
financial year and of the profit or loss of the Group for the financial year. 
Under that law the Directors are required to prepare the Group financial 
statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards 
(IFRS) as endorsed by the European Union (EU) and have elected to 
prepare the Company financial statements in accordance with UK 
Accounting Standards.
In preparing the Group and Company financial statements, the Directors 
are required to:
 select suitable accounting policies and apply them consistently; •	
 make reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates; •	
  for the Group financial statements, state whether they have been •	
prepared in accordance with IFRS as endorsed by the EU;
  for the Company financial statements state whether applicable UK •	
Accounting Standards have been followed; and
  prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis, unless  •	
it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the Company will 
continue in business.
The Directors confirm that they have complied with the above 
requirements in preparing the financial statements.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which 
disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time, the financial position of the 
Company and Group, and which enable them to ensure that the financial 
statements and the Directors’ Remuneration Report comply with the 
Companies Acts 1985 and 2006, and as regards the Group financial 
statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The Business Review includes a fair review of the business and important 
events impacting it, as well as a description of the principal risks and 
uncertainties of the business.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the 
Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement and Annual Report  
and Financial Statements published on the Group’s corporate website. 
Legislation in the UK concerning the preparation and dissemination of 
financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The Directors have general responsibility for taking such steps as are 
reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and  
of the Company and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities. 67
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
To find out more go to 
www.tesco.com/annualreport09
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
We have audited the Group financial statements of Tesco PLC for the  
53 weeks ended 28 February 2009 which comprise the Group Income 
Statement, the Group Balance Sheet, the Group Cash Flow Statement,  
the Group Statement of Recognised Income and Expense and the related 
notes. These Group financial statements have been prepared under the 
accounting policies set out therein.
We have reported separately on the Parent Company financial statements 
of Tesco PLC for the 53 weeks ended 28 February 2009 and on the 
information in the Directors’ Remuneration Report that is described as 
having been audited. 
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors
The Directors’ responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and the 
Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and 
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as endorsed by the 
European Union are set out in the Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial statements in accordance 
with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International 
Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). This report, including the opinion, 
has been prepared for and only for the Company’s members as a body in 
accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other 
purpose. We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility 
for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown 
or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior 
consent in writing.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the Group financial statements 
give a true and fair view and whether the Group financial statements have 
been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and 
Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. We also report to you whether in our 
opinion the information given in the Report of the Directors is consistent 
with the Group financial statements. 
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the 
information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information 
specified by law regarding Directors’ remuneration and other transactions 
is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects the 
Company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the Combined Code 
(2006) specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial 
Services Authority, and we report if it does not. We are not required to 
consider whether the Board’s statements on internal control cover all  
risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Group’s 
corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
Independent auditors’ report to the  
members of T esco PLC
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider 
whether it is consistent with the audited Group financial statements.  
The other information comprises only the Introduction, the Financial 
highlights, Chairman’s statement, Tesco at a glance, the Chief Executive’s 
Q&A, the Report of the Directors, the Corporate governance statement, 
the unaudited part of the Directors’ remuneration report and the Five year 
record. We consider the implications for our report if we become aware  
of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the  
Group financial statements. Our responsibilities do not extend to any  
other information.
Basis of audit opinion   
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on 
Auditing (UK and Ireland) issued by the Auditing Practices Board. An audit 
includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts 
and disclosures in the Group financial statements. It also includes an 
assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the 
Directors in the preparation of the Group financial statements, and  
of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s 
circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information 
and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us 
with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the Group 
financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused 
by fraud or other irregularity or error. In forming our opinion we also 
evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the 
Group financial statements.
Opinion
In our opinion:
 the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance •	
with IFRSs as endorsed by the European Union, of the state of the 
Group’s affairs as at 28 February 2009 and of its profit and cash flows 
for the 53 weeks then ended;
the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in •	
accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS 
Regulation; and
the information given in the Report of the Directors is consistent with •	
the Group financial statements.
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors 
London 1 May 2009 68 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
Group income statement 
    2009 2008* 
53 weeks ended 28 February 2009   notes £m £m
Continuing operations
Revenue (sales excluding VAT)           2 54,327 47,298
Cost of sales             (50,109) (43,668)
Gross profit             4,218 3,630
Administrative expenses             (1,248) (1,027)
Profit arising on property-related items           2/3 236 188
Operating profit            2 3,206 2,791
Share of post-tax profits of joint ventures and associates           13 110 75
Finance income           5 116 187
Finance costs           5 (478) (250)
Profit before tax           3 2,954 2,803
Taxation           6 (788) (673)
Profit for the year        2,166 2,130
  
Attributable to:
Equity holders of the parent           30 2,161 2,124
Minority interests           30 5 6
          2,166 2,130
  
Earnings per share
Basic           9 27.50p 26.95p
Diluted     9 27.31p 26.61p
Non-GAAP measure: underlying profit before tax
    2009 2008* 
   notes £m £m
Profit before tax              2,954 2,803
Adjustments for:
IAS 32 and IAS 39 ‘Financial Instruments’ – Fair value remeasurements         1/5 88 (49)
IAS 19 Income Statement charge for pensions           28 403 414
‘Normal’ cash contributions for pensions           28 (376) (340)
IAS 17 ‘Leases’ – impact of annual uplifts in rent and rent-free periods     1 27 18
IFRS 3 Amortisation charge from intangible assets arising on acquisition         1 32 –
Underlying profit before tax     1 3,128 2,846
* Results for the year ended 23 February 2008 include 52 weeks of operation.
The notes on pages 72 to 123 form part of these financial statements. 69 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
To find out more go to 
www.tesco.com/annualreport09
Group statement of recognised income  
and expense
    2009 2008* 
53 weeks ended 28 February 2009   notes £m £m
Change in fair value of available-for-sale investments            3 (4)
Foreign currency translation             (275) 38
Total (loss)/gain on defined benefit pension schemes           28 (629) 187
Gains/(losses) on cash flow hedges:              
  Net fair value gains             505 66
  Reclassified and reported in the Group Income Statement            (334) (29)
Tax on items taken directly to equity           6 435 123
Net (expense)/income recognised directly in equity             (295) 381
Profit for the year             2,166 2,130
Total recognised income and expense for the year      30 1,871 2,511
  
Attributable to:            
  Equity holders of the parent             1,872 2,500
  Minority interests             (1) 11
          1,871 2,511
* Results for the year ended 23 February 2008 include 52 weeks of operation. 70 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
Group balance sheet 
    2009 2008 
28 February 2009   notes  £m £m
Non-current assets
Goodwill and other intangible assets           10 4,027  2,336 
Property, plant and equipment           11 23,152 19,787
Investment property           12 1,539 1,112
Investments in joint ventures and associates           13 62 305
Other investments           14 259 4
Loans and advances to customers      17 1,470 –
Derivative financial instruments           22 1,478 216
Deferred tax assets           6 21 104
                32,008 23,864
Current assets
Inventories      15 2,669 2,430
Trade and other receivables      16 1,798 1,311
Loans and advances to customers      17 1,918 –
Loans and advances to banks and other financial assets           18 2,129 –
Derivative financial instruments           22 382 97
Current tax assets             9 6
Short-term investments             1,233 360
Cash and cash equivalents           19 3,509 1,788
                13,647 5,992
Non-current assets classified as held for sale            7 398 308
                14,045 6,300
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables           20 (8,522) (7,277)
Financial liabilities
  Borrowings           21 (4,059) (2,084)
  Derivative financial instruments and other liabilities           22 (525) (443)
Customer deposits      24 (4,538) –
Deposits by banks      25 (24)  –
Current tax liabilities             (362) (455)
Provisions           26 (10) (4)
                (18,040) (10,263)
Net current liabilities              (3,995) (3,963)
Non-current liabilities
Financial liabilities
  Borrowings           21 (12,391)  (5,972) 
  Derivative financial instruments and other liabilities           22 (302)  (322)
Post-employment benefit obligations           28 (1,494) (838)
Other non-current payables           20 (68) (42)
Deferred tax liabilities           6 (696)  (802) 
Provisions           26 (67) (23)
                (15,018) (7,999)
Net assets       12,995 11,902
  
Equity
Share capital           29/30 395 393
Share premium account           30 4,638 4,511
Other reserves           30 40 40
Retained earnings           30 7,865  6,871
Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent             12,938 11,815
Minority interests           30 57  87
Total equity        12,995 11,902
Sir Terry Leahy
Laurie McIlwee
Directors
The financial statements on pages 68 to 123 were authorised for issue by the Directors on 1 May 2009 and are subject to the approval of the shareholders 
at the Annual General Meeting on 3 July 2009. 71 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
To find out more go to 
www.tesco.com/annualreport09
Group cash flow statement 
    2009 2008* 
53 weeks ended 28 February 2009   notes £m £m
Cash flows from operating activities
Cash generated from operations            33 4,978 4,099
Interest paid             (562) (410)
Corporation tax paid             (456) (346)
Net cash from operating activities              3,960 3,343
Cash flows from investing activities               
Acquisition of subsidiaries, net of cash acquired              (1,275) (169)
Purchase of property, plant and equipment and investment property           (4,487) (3,442)
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment              994 1,056
Purchase of intangible assets             (220) (158)
Increase in loans to joint ventures             (242) (36)
Investments in joint ventures and associates             (30) (61)
Investments in short-term investments             (1,233) (360)
Proceeds from sale of short-term investments             360 –
Dividends received             69 88
Interest received              90 128
Net cash used in investing activities              (5,974) (2,954)
Cash flows from financing activities 
Proceeds from issue of ordinary share capital              130 138
Proceeds from sale of ordinary share capital to minority interests           – 16
Increase in borrowings             7,387 9,333
Repayment of borrowings             (2,733) (7,593)
New finance leases             – 119
Repayment of obligations under finance leases             (18) (32)
Dividends paid             (883) (792)
Dividends paid to minority interests             (3) (2)
Own shares purchased              (265) (775)
Net cash from financing activities              3,615 412
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents              1,601 801
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year             1,788 1,042
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes             120 (55)
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year      19 3,509 1,788
* Results for the year ended 23 February 2008 include 52 weeks of operation.
Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement  
in net debt note
     2009 2008* 
 53 weeks ended 28 February 2009   notes £m £m
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents             1,601 801
Elimination of net increase in TPF cash and cash equivalents             (37) –
Net cash inflow from debt and lease financing             (4,636) (1,827)
Short-term investments             873 360
Movement in joint venture loan receivables
 
            242 36
Debt acquired on acquisition of Homever             (611) –
Transfer of joint venture loan receivable on acquisition of TPF             (91) –
Other non-cash movements             (759) (691)
Increase in net debt in the year             (3,418) (1,321)
Opening net debt           34 (6,182) (4,861)
Closing net debt     34 (9,600) (6,182)
* Results for the year ended 23 February 2008 include 52 weeks of operation.
NB. The reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt note is not a primary statement and does not form part of the cash flow statement and forms part of the notes to the financial statements. 72 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
Notes to the Group financial statements
General information
Tesco PLC is a public limited company incorporated and domiciled in the 
United Kingdom under the Companies Act 1985 (Registration number 
445790). The address of the registered office is Tesco House, Delamare 
Road, Cheshunt, Hertfordshire, EN8 9SL, UK.
The financial year represents the 53 weeks to 28 February 2009 (prior 
financial year 52 weeks to 23 February 2008) and includes 53 weeks of 
trading for the UK, Republic of Ireland (ROI) and United States of America 
(US) businesses.
As described in the Report of the Directors, the main activity of the Group 
is that of retailing and financial services.
Statement of compliance
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance 
with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and International 
Financial Reporting Interpretation Committee (IFRIC) interpretations as 
endorsed by the European Union, and those parts of the Companies Acts 
1985 and 2006 as applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
Basis of preparation
The financial statements are presented in Pounds Sterling, rounded to the 
nearest million. They are prepared on the historical cost basis, except for 
certain financial instruments, share-based payments and pensions that 
have been measured at fair value.
The accounting policies set out below have been applied consistently to  
all periods presented in these consolidated financial statements.
Basis of consolidation
The Group financial statements consist of the financial statements of  
the ultimate Parent Company (Tesco PLC), all entities controlled by the 
Company (its subsidiaries) and the Group’s share of its interests in joint 
ventures and associates.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of 
subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates to bring the accounting policies 
used into line with those of the Group.
Subsidiaries
A subsidiary is an entity whose operating and financing policies are 
controlled, directly or indirectly, by Tesco PLC.
The accounts of the Parent Company’s subsidiary undertakings are 
prepared to dates around the Group year end.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated 
financial statements from the date that control commences until the date 
that control ceases.
Intragroup balances and any unrealised gains and losses or income and 
expenses arising from intragroup transactions, are eliminated in preparing 
the consolidated financial statements.
Joint ventures and associates
A joint venture is an entity in which the Group holds an interest on a long-
term basis and which is jointly controlled by the Group and one or more 
other venturers under a contractual agreement.
An associate is an undertaking, not being a subsidiary or joint venture,  
over which the Group has significant influence and can participate in the 
financial and operating policy decisions of the entity.
The Group’s share of the results of joint ventures and associates is included 
in the Group Income Statement using the equity method of accounting. 
Investments in joint ventures and associates are carried in the Group Balance 
Sheet at cost plus post-acquisition changes in the Group’s share of the net 
assets of the entity, less any impairment in value. The carrying values of 
investments in joint ventures and associates include acquired goodwill.
If the Group’s share of losses in a joint venture or associate equals or 
exceeds its investment in the joint venture or associate, the Group does 
not recognise further losses, unless it has incurred obligations to do so  
or made payments on behalf of the joint venture or associate.
Unrealised gains arising from transactions with joint ventures and 
associates are eliminated to the extent of the Group’s interest in the entity.
Use of assumptions and estimates
The preparation of the consolidated financial statements requires 
management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect 
the application of policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, 
income and expenses. The estimates and associated assumptions are 
based on historical experience and various other factors that are believed 
to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the 
basis of making judgements about carrying values of assets and liabilities 
that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ 
from these estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing 
basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in 
which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period, or  
in the period of the revision and future periods if the revision affects both 
current and future periods.
Critical estimates and assumptions are made in particular with regard to 
establishing uniform depreciation and amortisation periods for the Group, 
impairment testing (including loans), provisions for onerous leases and 
dilapidations, assumptions for measuring pension provisions and fair  
value of share-based payments, determination of the fair value of 
obligations to purchase minority interests and fair value of derivative 
financial instruments, classification of leases as operating leases versus 
finance leases (including on sale and leasebacks), the likelihood that tax 
assets can be realised and the classification of certain operations as held 
for sale.
Revenue
Retailing
Revenue consists of sales through retail outlets.
Revenue is recorded net of returns, relevant vouchers/offers and value-
added taxes, when the significant risks and rewards of ownership have 
been transferred to the buyer. Relevant vouchers/offers include: money-off 
coupons, conditional spend vouchers and offers such as buy one get one 
free (BOGOF) and 3 for 2.
Commission income is recorded based on the terms of the contracts and  
is recognised when the service is provided.
Financial Services
Revenue consists of interest, fees and commission receivable.
Interest income on financial assets that are classified as loans and 
receivables is determined using the effective interest rate method. This  
is the method of calculating the amortised cost of a financial asset or for  
a group of assets, and of allocating the interest income over the expected 
life of the asset. The effective interest rate is the rate that discounts the 
estimated future cash flows to the instrument’s initial carrying amount. 
Calculation of the effective interest rate takes into account fees receivable, 
that are an integral part of the instrument’s yield, premiums or discounts 
on acquisition or issue, early redemption fees and transaction costs. 
Note 1 Accounting policies 73 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
To find out more go to 
www.tesco.com/annualreport09
Fees in respect of services are recognised on an accruals basis as service  
is provided. The arrangements are generally contractual and the cost of 
providing the service is incurred as the service is rendered. The price is 
usually fixed and always determinable. Significant fee types include credit 
card related services fees such as interchange, late payment and balance 
transfer fees. 
Insurance commission received by the Group is accrued over the term  
of the policy.
Clubcard and loyalty initiatives
The cost of Clubcard is treated as a cost of sale, with an accrual equal to 
the estimated fair value of the points issued recognised when the original 
transaction occurs. On redemption, the cost of redemption is offset 
against the accrual.
The fair value of the points awarded is determined with reference to the 
cost of redemption and considers factors such as redemption via Clubcard 
deals versus money-off in-store and redemption rate.
Computers for Schools and Sport for Schools and Clubs vouchers are 
issued by Tesco for redemption by participating schools/clubs and are part 
of our overall Community Plan. The cost of the redemption (i.e. meeting 
the obligation attached to the vouchers) is treated as a cost rather than as 
a deduction from sales.
Other income
Finance income, excluding income arising from financial services is 
recognised in the period to which it relates on an accruals basis. Dividends 
are recognised when a legal entitlement to payment arises.
Operating profit
Operating profit is stated after profit arising on property-related items but 
before the share of results of joint ventures and associates, finance income 
and finance costs.
Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment assets are carried at cost less accumulated 
depreciation and any recognised impairment in value. 
Property, plant and equipment assets are depreciated on a straight-line 
basis to their residual value over their anticipated useful economic lives.
The following depreciation rates are applied for the Group:
 Freehold and leasehold buildings with greater than 40 years unexpired – •	
at 2.5% of cost;
 Leasehold properties with less than 40 years unexpired are depreciated •	
by equal annual instalments over the unexpired period of the lease; and
 Plant, equipment, fixtures and fittings and motor vehicles – at rates •	
varying from 9% to 50%.
Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over their expected useful 
lives on the same basis as owned assets or, when shorter, over the term of 
the relevant lease.
All tangible fixed assets are reviewed for impairment in accordance with 
IAS 36 ‘Impairment of Assets’ when there are indications that the carrying 
value may not be recoverable.
Borrowing costs
Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition or construction  
of qualifying assets are capitalised. Qualifying assets are those that 
necessarily take a substantial period of time to prepare for their intended 
use. All other borrowing costs are recognised in the Group Income 
Statement in finance costs, excluding those arising from financial services, 
in the period in which they occur.
For Tesco Personal Finance Group Limited interest expense on financial 
liabilities is determined using the effective interest rate method and is 
recognised in cost of sales. 
 
Investment property
Investment property is property held to earn rental income and/or for 
capital appreciation rather than for the purpose of Group operating 
activities. Investment property assets are carried at cost less accumulated 
depreciation and any recognised impairment in value. The depreciation 
policies for investment property are consistent with those described for 
owner-occupied property.
Leasing
Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease 
transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee. 
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
The Group as a lessor
Amounts due from lessees under finance leases are recorded as 
receivables at the amount of the Group’s net investment in the leases. 
Finance lease income is allocated to accounting periods so as to reflect a 
constant periodic rate of return on the Group’s net investment in the lease.
Rental income from operating leases is recognised on a straight-line basis 
over the term of the relevant lease.
The Group as a lessee
Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets of the Group  
at their fair value or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease 
payments, each determined at the inception of the lease. The corresponding 
liability is included in the Group Balance Sheet as a finance lease obligation. 
Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges and reduction 
of the lease obligations so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the 
remaining balance of the liability. Finance charges are charged to the 
Group Income Statement.
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to the Group Income 
Statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
Sale and leaseback
A sale and leaseback transaction is one where a vendor sells an asset and 
immediately reacquires the use of that asset by entering into a lease with 
the buyer. The accounting treatment of the sale and leaseback depends 
upon the substance of the transaction (by applying the lease classification 
principles described above) and whether or not the sale was made at the 
asset’s fair value.
For sale and finance leasebacks, any apparent profit or loss from the sale  
is deferred and amortised over the lease term. For sale and operating 
leasebacks, generally the assets are sold at fair value, and accordingly the 
profit or loss from the sale is recognised immediately.
Following initial recognition, the lease treatment is consistent with those 
principles described above.
Business combinations and goodwill
All business combinations are accounted for by applying the purchase method.
On acquisition, the assets (including intangible assets), liabilities and 
contingent liabilities of an acquired entity are measured at their fair value. 
The interest of minority shareholders is stated at the minority’s proportion 
of the fair values of the assets and liabilities recognised.
The Group recognises intangible assets as part of business combinations  
at fair value at the date of acquisition. The determination of these fair 
values is based upon management’s judgement and includes assumptions 
on the timing and amount of future incremental cash flows generated by 
the assets acquired and the selection of an appropriate cost of capital. The 
useful lives of intangible assets are estimated, and amortisation charged 
on a straight-line basis.
Note 1 Accounting policies continued 74 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the cost of an 
acquisition over the fair value of the Group’s share of the net assets/net 
liabilities of the acquired subsidiary, joint venture or associate at the date  
of acquisition. If the cost of acquisition is less than the fair value of the 
Group’s share of the net assets/net liabilities of the acquired entity  
(i.e. a discount on acquisition) then the difference is credited to the  
Group Income Statement in the period of acquisition. 
At the acquisition date of a subsidiary, goodwill acquired is recognised as 
an asset and is allocated to each of the cash-generating units expected to 
benefit from the business combination’s synergies and to the lowest level 
at which management monitors the goodwill. Goodwill arising on the 
acquisition of joint ventures and associates is included within the carrying 
value of the investment.
Goodwill is reviewed for impairment at least annually by assessing the 
recoverable amount of each cash-generating unit to which the goodwill 
relates. The recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell, 
and value in use. When the recoverable amount of the cash-generating 
unit is less than the carrying amount, an impairment loss is recognised.
Any impairment is recognised immediately in the Group Income Statement 
and is not subsequently reversed.
On disposal of a subsidiary, joint venture or associate, the attributable 
amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss  
on disposal.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before 29 February 2004 (the date of 
transition to IFRS) was retained at the previous UK GAAP amounts subject 
to being tested for impairment at that date. Goodwill written off to reserves 
under UK GAAP prior to 1998 has not been restated and will not be 
included in determining any subsequent profit or loss on disposal.
Intangible assets
Acquired intangible assets
Acquired intangible assets, such as software, pharmacy licences, customer 
relationships, contracts and brands, are measured initially at cost and are 
amortised on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives, at 
2%-100% of cost per annum.
Internally-generated intangible assets – Research and  
development expenditure
Research costs are expensed as incurred. 
Development expenditure incurred on an individual project is carried 
forward only if all the criteria set out in IAS 38 ‘Intangible Assets’ are  
met, namely:
 an asset is created that can be identified (such as software or new •	
processes);
 it is probable that the asset created will generate future economic •	
benefits; and
 the development cost of the asset can be measured reliably. •	
Following the initial recognition of development expenditure, the cost is 
amortised over the project’s estimated useful life, usually at 14%-25%  
of cost per annum.
Impairment of tangible and intangible assets excluding goodwill
At each Balance Sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its 
tangible and intangible assets to determine whether there is any indication 
that those assets have suffered an impairment loss. If such indication 
exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to 
determine the extent of the impairment loss (if any). Where the asset does 
not generate cash flows that are independent from other assets, the Group 
estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which the 
asset belongs. 
The recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell, and 
value in use. If the recoverable amount of an asset (or cash-generating 
unit) is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount 
of the asset (or cash-generating unit) is reduced to its recoverable amount. 
An impairment loss is recognised as an expense immediately.
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount  
of the asset (or cash-generating unit) is increased to the revised estimate 
of the recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying amount 
does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined if 
no impairment loss had been recognised for the asset (or cash-generating 
unit) in prior years. A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised as 
income immediately.
Other investments
Other investments in the Group Balance Sheet comprise equity 
investments and available-for-sale financial assets. Refer to the financial 
instruments accounting policy for further detail.
Equity investments are recognised at amortised cost and available-for-sale 
financial assets are recognised at fair value.
Inventories
Inventories comprise goods held for resale and properties held for, or in 
the course of, development and are valued at the lower of cost and fair 
value less costs to sell using the weighted average cost basis.
Short-term investments
Short-term investments in the Group Balance Sheet consist of deposits 
with money market funds. 
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents in the Group Balance Sheet consist of cash at 
bank, in hand and demand deposits with banks together with short-term 
deposits with an original maturity of three months or less.
Non-current assets held for sale
Non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as held for sale  
if their carrying amount will be recovered through sale rather than 
continuing use. This condition is regarded as met only when the sale is 
highly probable and the asset (or disposal group) is available for immediate 
sale in its present condition. Management must be committed to the sale 
and it should be expected to be completed within one year from the date 
of classification.
Non-current assets (and disposal groups) classified as held for sale are 
measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
Pensions and similar obligations
The Group accounts for pensions and other post-employment benefits 
(principally private healthcare) under IAS 19 ‘Employee Benefits’.
In respect of defined benefit plans, obligations are measured at discounted 
present value (using the projected unit credit method) whilst plan assets 
are recorded at fair value. The operating and financing costs of such plans 
are recognised separately in the Group Income Statement; service costs 
are spread systematically over the expected service lives of employees and 
financing costs are recognised in the periods in which they arise. Actuarial 
gains and losses are recognised immediately in the Group Statement of 
Recognised Income and Expense.
Payments to defined contribution schemes are recognised as an expense 
as they fall due.
Notes to the Group financial statements continued
Note 1 Accounting policies continued 75 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
To find out more go to 
www.tesco.com/annualreport09
Share-based payments
Employees of the Group receive part of their remuneration in the form of 
share-based payment transactions, whereby employees render services  
in exchange for shares or rights over shares (equity-settled transactions)  
or in exchange for entitlements to cash payments based on the value of 
the shares (cash-settled transactions).
The fair value of employee share option plans is calculated at the grant 
date using the Black-Scholes model. In accordance with IFRS 2 ‘Share-
based payment’, the resulting cost is charged to the Group Income 
Statement over the vesting period. The value of the charge is adjusted  
to reflect expected and actual levels of vesting.
Taxation
The tax expense included in the Group Income Statement consists of 
current and deferred tax. 
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, 
using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted by the Balance Sheet 
date. Tax is recognised in the Group Income Statement except to the 
extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case  
it is recognised in equity. 
Deferred tax is provided using the Balance Sheet liability method, 
providing for temporary differences between the carrying amounts of 
assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts  
used for taxation purposes. 
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that have been enacted or 
substantively enacted by the Balance Sheet date. Deferred tax is charged 
or credited in the Group Income Statement, except when it relates to items 
charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also 
recognised in equity.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that 
taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary 
differences can be utilised.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each Balance 
Sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that 
sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset  
to be recovered.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset against each other when  
there is a legally enforceable right to set-off current taxation assets  
against current taxation liabilities and it is the intention to settle these  
on a net basis.
Foreign currencies
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated at the exchange rate on 
the date of the transaction. At each Balance Sheet date, monetary assets 
and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated 
at the rates prevailing on the Balance Sheet date. All differences are taken 
to the Group Income Statement for the period.
The financial statements of foreign subsidiaries are translated into Pounds 
Sterling according to the functional currency concept of IAS 21 ‘The 
Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates’. Since the majority of 
consolidated companies operate as independent entities within their local 
economic environment, their respective local currency is the functional 
currency. Therefore, assets and liabilities of overseas subsidiaries 
denominated in foreign currencies are translated at exchange rates 
prevailing at the date of the Group Balance Sheet; profits and losses are 
translated into Pounds Sterling at average exchange rates for the relevant 
accounting periods. Exchange differences arising, if any, are classified as 
equity and transferred to the Group’s translation reserve. Such translation 
differences are recognised as income or expenses in the period in which 
the operation is disposed of.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign 
entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and 
translated at the closing rate.
Financial instruments
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Group’s 
Balance Sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual 
provisions of the instrument.
Trade receivables
Trade receivables are non interest-bearing and are recognised initially at 
fair value, and subsequently at amortised cost using the effective interest 
rate method, reduced by appropriate allowances for estimated 
irrecoverable amounts.
Investments
Investments are recognised at trade date. Investments are classified as 
either held for trading or available-for-sale, and are recognised at fair value.
There are no investments classified as held for trading.
For available-for-sale investments, gains and losses arising from changes  
in fair value are recognised directly in equity, until the security is disposed 
of or is determined to be impaired, at which time the cumulative gain or 
loss previously recognised in equity is included in the net result for the 
period. Interest calculated using the effective interest rate method is 
recognised in the Group Income Statement. Dividends on an available-for-
sale equity instrument are recognised in the Group Income Statement 
when the entity’s right to receive payment is established.
Loans and advances
Loans and advances are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or 
determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market and 
include amounts due from customers and amounts due from other  
banks. The Group has no intention of trading these loans and advances 
and consequently they are not classified as held for trading or designated  
as fair value through profit and loss. Loans and advances are initially 
recognised at fair value plus directly related transaction costs. Subsequent 
to initial recognition, these assets are carried at amortised cost using the 
effective interest method less any impairment losses. Income from these 
financial assets is calculated on an effective yield basis and is recognised  
in the Group Income Statement.
Impairment of loans and advances
At each Balance Sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of  
its loans and advances to determine whether there is any indication that 
those assets have suffered an impairment loss. An impairment loss has 
been incurred if there is objective evidence that an event or events since 
initial recognition of the asset have adversely affected the amount or 
timing of future cash flows from the asset.
If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss on a financial asset  
or group of financial assets classified as loans and advances has been 
incurred, the Group measures the amount of the loss as the difference 
between the carrying amount of the asset or group of assets and the 
present value of estimated future cash flows from the asset or group of 
assets discounted at the effective interest rate of the instrument at initial 
recognition. Impairment losses are assessed individually for financial assets 
that are individually significant and collectively for assets that are not 
individually significant. In making collective assessments of impairment, 
financial assets are grouped into portfolios on the basis of similar risk 
characteristics. Future cash flows from these portfolios are estimated on 
the basis of the contractual cash flows and historical loss experience for 
assets with similar credit risk characteristics. Historical loss experience is 
adjusted, on the basis of current observable data, to reflect the effects  
of current conditions not affecting the period of historical experience.
Note 1 Accounting policies continued 76 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
Impairment losses are recognised in the Group Income Statement and the 
carrying amount of the financial asset or group of financial assets reduced 
by establishing an allowance for impairment losses. If in a subsequent 
period the amount of the impairment loss reduces and the reduction  
can be ascribed to an event after the impairment was recognised, the 
previously recognised loss is reversed by adjusting the allowance. Once  
an impairment loss has been recognised on a financial asset or group of 
financial assets, interest income is recognised on the carrying amount 
using the rate of interest at which estimated future cash flows were 
discounted in measuring impairment.
Loan impairment provisions are established on a portfolio basis taking  
into account the level of arrears, security, past loss experience, credit  
scores and defaults based on portfolio trends. The most significant factors 
in establishing the provisions are the expected loss rates and the related 
average life. The portfolios include credit card receivables and other 
personal advances. The future credit quality of these portfolios is subject 
to uncertainties that could cause actual credit losses to differ materially 
from reported loan impairment provisions. These uncertainties include  
the economic environment, notably interest rates and their effect on 
customer spending, the unemployment level, payment behaviour and 
bankruptcy trends.
Financial liabilities and equity instruments
Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according to  
the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into. An equity 
instrument is any contract that gives a residual interest in the assets of  
the Group after deducting all of its liabilities.
Interest-bearing borrowings
Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are initially recorded at fair 
value, net of attributable transaction costs. Subsequent to initial 
recognition, interest-bearing borrowings are stated at amortised cost  
with any difference between cost and redemption value being recognised 
in the Group Income Statement over the period of the borrowings on an 
effective interest basis.
Trade payables
Trade payables are non interest-bearing and are stated at amortised cost.
Equity instruments
Equity instruments issued by the Group are recorded at the proceeds 
received, net of direct issue costs.
Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting
The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure to 
foreign exchange and interest rate risks arising from operating, financing 
and investing activities. The Group does not hold or issue derivative 
financial instruments for trading purposes, however if derivatives do not 
qualify for hedge accounting they are accounted for as such.
Derivative financial instruments are recognised and stated at fair value. 
The fair value of derivative financial instruments is determined by 
reference to market values for similar financial instruments, by discounted 
cash flows, or by the use of option valuation models. Where derivatives do 
not qualify for hedge accounting, any gains or losses on remeasurement 
are immediately recognised in the Group Income Statement. Where 
derivatives qualify for hedge accounting, recognition of any resultant  
gain or loss depends on the nature of the hedge relationship and the  
item being hedged.
In order to qualify for hedge accounting, the Group is required to document 
from inception the relationship between the item being hedged and the 
hedging instrument. The Group is also required to document and 
demonstrate an assessment of the relationship between the hedged item 
and the hedging instrument, which shows that the hedge will be highly 
effective on an ongoing basis. This effectiveness testing is performed at 
each period end to ensure that the hedge remains highly effective.
Derivative financial instruments with maturity dates of more than one year 
from the Balance Sheet date are disclosed as non-current.
Fair value hedging
Derivative financial instruments are classified as fair value hedges  
when they hedge the Group’s exposure to changes in the fair value of  
a recognised asset or liability. Changes in the fair value of derivatives that  
are designated and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in the Group 
Income Statement, together with any changes in the fair value of the 
hedged item that is attributable to the hedged risk.
Derivative financial instruments qualifying for fair value hedge accounting 
are principally interest rate swaps (including cross currency swaps).
Cash flow hedging
Derivative financial instruments are classified as cash flow hedges when 
they hedge the Group’s exposure to variability in cash flows that are either 
attributable to a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or 
liability, or a highly probable forecasted transaction.
The effective element of any gain or loss from remeasuring the derivative 
instrument is recognised directly in equity.
The associated cumulative gain or loss is removed from equity and 
recognised in the Group Income Statement in the same period or periods 
during which the hedged transaction affects the Group Income Statement. 
The classification of the effective portion when recognised in the Group 
Income Statement is the same as the classification of the hedged 
transaction. Any element of the remeasurement of the derivative 
instrument which does not meet the criteria for an effective hedge is 
recognised immediately in the Group Income Statement within finance 
income or costs.
Derivative instruments qualifying for cash flow hedging are principally 
forward foreign exchange transactions and currency options.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires  
or is sold, terminated or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge 
accounting. At that point in time, any cumulative gain or loss on the 
hedging instrument recognised in equity is retained in equity until the 
forecasted transaction occurs or the original hedged item affects the 
Group Income Statement. If a forecasted hedged transaction is no longer 
expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity  
is transferred to the Group Income Statement.
Net investment hedging
Derivative financial instruments are classified as net investment hedges 
when they hedge the Group’s net investment in an overseas operation. 
The effective element of any foreign exchange gain or loss from 
remeasuring the derivative instrument is recognised directly in equity.  
Any ineffective element is recognised immediately in the Group Income 
Statement. Gains and losses accumulated in equity are included in the 
Group Income Statement when the foreign operation is disposed of.
Derivative instruments qualifying for net investment hedging are 
principally forward foreign exchange transactions and currency options.
Notes to the Group financial statements continued
Note 1 Accounting policies continued 77 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
To find out more go to 
www.tesco.com/annualreport09
Treatment of agreements to acquire minority interests
The Group has entered into a number of agreements to purchase the 
remaining shares of subsidiaries with minority shareholdings.
Under IAS 32 ‘Financial Instruments: Presentation’, the net present value 
of the expected future payments are shown as a financial liability. At the 
end of each period, the valuation of the liability is reassessed with any 
changes recognised in the Group Income Statement within finance income 
or costs for the year. Where the liability is in a currency other than Pounds 
Sterling, the liability has been designated as a net investment hedge. Any 
change in the value of the liability resulting from changes in exchange 
rates is recognised directly in equity.
Securitisation transactions
During 2008/9 the Group has entered into a securitisation transaction  
and issued debt securities. The debt securities in issue and the loans and 
advances to customers are recorded on the Group’s Balance Sheet within 
current borrowings and loans and advances to customers.
Provisions 
Provisions are recognised when there is a present legal or constructive 
obligation as a result of a past event, for which it is probable that a transfer 
of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation, and where  
a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
Provisions for onerous leases are recognised when the Group believes  
that the unavoidable costs of meeting the lease obligations exceed the 
economic benefits expected to be received under the lease. Where 
material these leases are discounted to their present value. Provisions  
for dilapidation costs are recognised on a lease by lease basis.
Recent accounting developments
Standards, amendments and interpretations effective for 2008/9  
or issued and early adopted:
In preparing the Group financial statements for the current year, the Group 
has adopted the following new IFRS, amendments to IFRS and IFRIC 
Interpretations which have not had a significant impact on the results or 
net assets of the Group:
 Amendments to IAS 39 ‘Financial Instruments: Recognition and •	
Measurement’ and IFRS 7 ‘Financial Instruments: Disclosures’, effective 
from 1 July 2008. These amendments permit the reclassification of 
financial assets in particular circumstances. The adoption of the 
amendments to IAS 39 and IFRS 7 has had no impact on the results  
or net assets of the Group.
 IFRIC 11 ‘Group and Treasury Share Transactions’, effective for annual •	
periods beginning on or after 1 March 2007.
 IFRIC 12 ‘Service Concession Arrangements’, effective for annual periods •	
beginning on or after 1 January 2008. This interpretation applies to 
public sector service concession operators and explains how to account 
for the obligations undertaken and rights received in service concession 
arrangements. No member of the Group is an operator and hence the 
adoption of IFRIC 12 has had no impact on the results or net assets of 
the Group.
Standards, amendments and interpretations not yet effective,  
but not expected to have a significant impact on the Group:
 IFRS 8 ‘Operating Segments’, effective for annual periods beginning on •	
or after 1 January 2009. This new standard replaces IAS 14 ‘Segment 
Reporting’ and requires segmental information to be presented on the 
same basis that management uses to evaluate performance of its 
reporting segments in its management reporting. We do not expect the 
adoption of IFRS 8 to have a significant impact upon the results or net 
assets of the Group.
 Amendment to IAS 23 ‘Borrowing Costs’, effective for annual periods •	
beginning on or after 1 January 2009. The standard has been revised  
to require capitalisation of borrowing costs when such costs relate to  
a qualifying asset. We do not expect the adoption of the amendment  
to IAS 23 to have a significant impact upon the results or net assets of 
the Group.
 IFRIC 14 ‘The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding •	
Requirements and their Interaction’, effective for annual periods 
beginning on or after 1 January 2009 as endorsed by the EU. This 
interpretation provides guidance on how to assess the limit on the 
amount of surplus in a defined benefit scheme that can be recognised 
as an asset under IAS 19 ‘Employee Benefits’. We do not expect the 
adoption of IFRIC 14 to have a significant impact upon the results  
or net assets of the Group.
Standards, amendments and interpretations not yet effective  
and under review as to their impact on the Group:
 Amendment to IAS 1 ‘Presentation of Financial Statements’, effective •	
for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009. 
Amendment to IAS 27 ‘Consolidated and Separate Financial •	
Statements’, effective for annual periods beginning on or after  
1 July 2009.
Amendment to IAS 32 ‘Financial Instruments: Presentation’ and IAS 1 •	
‘Presentation of Financial Statements’– Puttable Instruments and 
Instruments with Obligations Arising on Liquidation, effective for  
annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009. 
Amendment to IAS 39 ‘Financial Instruments: Recognition and •	
Measurement’– Eligible hedged items, effective for annual periods 
beginning on or after 1 July 2009. 
Amendments to IFRS 1 ‘First-time Adoption of IFRSs’ and IAS 27 •	
‘Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements’– Cost of an 
Investment of a Subsidiary, Jointly Controlled Entity or Associate, 
effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after  
1 January 2009.
Amendment to IFRS 2 ‘Share-Based Payment’– Vesting Conditions  •	
and Cancellations, effective for annual periods beginning on or after  
1 January 2009.
Amendments to IFRS 3 ‘Business Combinations’, effective for business •	
combinations for which the acquisition date is on or after the beginning 
of the first annual reporting period beginning on or after 1 July 2009.
IFRIC 13 ‘Customer Loyalty Programmes’, effective for annual periods •	
beginning on or after 1 July 2008. This interpretation requires customer 
loyalty award credits to be accounted for as a separate component of 
the sales transaction in which they are granted and therefore part of the 
fair value of the consideration received is allocated to the award credits 
and deferred over the period that the award credits are fulfilled. 
IFRIC 15 ‘Agreements for the Construction of Real Estate’, effective for •	
annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
IFRIC 16 ‘Hedges of a Net Investment in a Foreign Operation’, effective •	
for annual periods beginning on or after 1 October 2008.
IFRIC 17 ‘Distributions of Non-Cash Assets to Owners’, effective for •	
annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009.
IFRIC 18 ‘Transfers of Assets from Customers’, effective for transfers  •	
of assets from customers received on or after 1 July 2009.
Note 1 Accounting policies continued 78 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
Notes to the Group financial statements continued
Note 1 Accounting policies continued
IFRS 3 Amortisation charge from intangible assets arising on acquisition •	
– Under IFRS 3 ‘Business Combinations’, intangible assets are separately 
identified and valued. The intangible assets are required to be amortised 
on a straight-line basis over their useful economic lives and as such is a 
non-cash charge that does not reflect the underlying performance of 
the business acquired.
 Exceptional items – Due to their significance and special nature, certain •	
other items which do not reflect the Group’s underlying performance 
have been excluded from underlying profit. These gains or losses can 
have a significant impact on both absolute profit and profit trends; 
consequently, they are excluded from the underlying profit of the 
Group. There are no exceptional items in 2008/9 and 2007/8. 
Segmental trading profit
Segmental trading profit is an adjusted measure of operating profit, which 
measures the performance of each geographical segment before profit/
(loss) arising on property-related items, impact on leases of annual uplifts 
in rent and rent-free periods, amortisation charge from intangible assets 
arising on acquisition and replaces the IAS 19 pension charge with the 
‘normal’ cash contributions for pensions.
Use of non-GAAP profit measures – underlying profit before tax
The Directors believe that underlying profit before tax and underlying 
diluted earnings per share measures provide additional useful information 
for shareholders on underlying trends and performance. These measures 
are used for internal performance analysis. Underlying profit is not  
defined by IFRS and therefore may not be directly comparable with other 
companies’ adjusted profit measures. It is not intended to be a substitute 
for, or superior to IFRS measurements of profit.
The adjustments made to reported profit before tax are:
 IAS 32 and IAS 39 ‘Financial Instruments’ – fair value remeasurements – •	
Under IAS 32 and IAS 39, the Group applies hedge accounting to its 
various hedge relationships when allowed under the rules of IAS 39  
and when practical to do so. Sometimes the Group is unable to apply 
hedge accounting to the arrangements, but continues to enter into 
these arrangements as they provide certainty or active management  
of the exchange rates and interest rates applicable to the Group.  
The Group believes these arrangements remain effective and 
economically and commercially viable hedges despite the inability  
to apply hedge accounting.
  Where hedge accounting is not applied to certain hedging arrangements, 
the reported results reflect the movement in fair value of related 
derivatives due to changes in foreign exchange and interest rates. In 
addition, at each period end, any gain or loss accruing on open contracts 
is recognised in the Group Income Statement for the period, regardless 
of the expected outcome of the hedging contract on termination. This 
may mean that the Group Income Statement charge is highly volatile, 
whilst the resulting cash flows may not be as volatile. The underlying 
profit measure removes this volatility to help better identify underlying 
business performance. During 2008/9, £10m (2007/8 – £nil) of the  
IAS 32/39 charge arose in the share of post-tax profit of joint ventures 
and associates, with the remainder in finance income/costs. 
 IAS 19 Income Statement charge for pensions – Under IAS 19 ‘Employee •	
Benefits’, the cost of providing pension benefits in the future is discounted 
to a present value at the corporate bond yield rates applicable on the 
last day of the previous financial year. Corporate bond yield rates vary 
over time which in turn creates volatility in the Group Income Statement 
and Group Balance Sheet. IAS 19 also increases the charge for young 
pension schemes, such as Tesco’s, by requiring the use of rates which do 
not take into account the future expected returns on the assets held in 
the pension scheme which will fund pension liabilities as they fall due. 
The sum of these two effects makes the IAS 19 charge disproportionately 
higher and more volatile than the cash contributions the Group is 
required to make in order to fund all future liabilities.
  Therefore, within underlying profit we have included the ‘normal’ cash 
contributions for pensions but excluded the volatile element of IAS 19  
to represent what the Group believes to be a fairer measure of the cost 
of providing post-employment benefits.
 IAS 17 ‘Leases’ – impact of annual uplifts in rent and rent-free periods –  •	
The amount charged to the Group Income Statement in respect of 
operating lease costs and incentives is expected to increase significantly 
as the Group expands its International business. The leases have been 
structured in a way to increase annual lease costs as the businesses 
expand. IAS 17 ‘Leases’ requires the total cost of a lease to be recognised 
on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease, irrespective of the 
actual timing of the cost. The impact of this treatment in 2008/9 was  
an adverse charge of £27m (2007/8 – £18m) to the Group Income 
Statement after deducting the impact of the straight-line treatment 
recognised as rental income within share of post-tax profits of joint 
ventures and associates. 79 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
To find out more go to 
www.tesco.com/annualreport09
  Note 2 Segmental reporting
The Board has determined that the primary segmental reporting format is geographical, based on the Group’s management and internal reporting 
structure. Secondary information is reported by business segments, which comprises retailing and financial services.
In 2007/8, the UK reporting segment included the start-up operations in the United States of America (US), which were not material. The results of the 
US business have been reported as a separate reporting segment within International in our results for 2008/9. The comparatives have been restated  
to reflect the US as a separate segment. The impact of this is to transfer sales of £16m and a loss of £67m from the UK segment to the US segment  
in 2007/8. In addition, the UK reporting segment includes the results for Tesco Personal Finance Group Limited (TPF) from the date of acquisition  
(see note 31).
The Rest of Europe reporting segment includes the Republic of Ireland, Hungary, Poland, the Czech Republic, Slovakia and Turkey.
The Asia reporting segment includes Thailand, South Korea, Malaysia, China, Japan and India. It also includes the results of Homever for 2008/9 from 
the date of acquisition (see note 31).
Segment results, assets and liabilities include items directly attributable to a segment as well as those that can be allocated on a reasonable basis. 
Unallocated items comprise mainly interest-bearing borrowings and taxation related assets/liabilities.
Inter-segment turnover between the geographical areas of business is not material.
Geographical segments
     Rest of  
    UK Europe Asia  US Total 
Year ended 28 February 2009    £m £m £m  £m £m
Continuing operations
Revenue
Sales (excluding VAT) to external customers        38,191 8,862 7,068 206 54,327
Result
Segment operating profit/(loss)        2,540 479 343 (156) 3,206
Share of post-tax profit/(loss) of joint ventures and associates       111 (2) 1 – 110
Net finance costs            (362)
Profit before tax            2,954
Taxation            (788)
Profi t for the year        2,166
Reconciliation of operating profit to trading profit
     Rest of  
    UK Europe Asia  US Total 
    £m £m £m  £m £m
Operating profit        2,540 479 343 (156) 3,206
Adjustments for:  
  (Profit)/loss arising on property-related items        (263) 14 8 5 (236)
  IAS 19 Income Statement charge for pensions        410 6 12 – 428
  ‘Normal’ cash contributions for pensions        (358) (3) (15) – (376)
  IAS 17 ‘Leases’ – impact of annual uplifts in rent and rent-free periods     20 – 7 9 36
 IFRS 3 Amortisation charge from intangible assets arising on acquisition  32 – – – 32
Trading profit/(loss)       2,381 496 355 (142) 3,090
Trading margin     6.2% 5.6% 5.0% n/a 5.7% 80 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
Note 2 Segmental reporting continued
    Rest of    Other/  
   UK Europe Asia  US unallocated  Total 
   £m £m £m  £m  £m £m
Assets and liabilities
Segment assets     29,913 6,953 6,242 768 2,115 45,991
Investments in joint ventures and associates     49 – 13 – – 62
Total assets     29,962 6,953 6,255 768 2,115 46,053
Segment liabilities     (13,032) (1,270) (1,966) (98) (16,692) (33,058)
Total net assets              12,995
Other segment information
Capital expenditure (including acquisitions through business combinations):
 Property, plant and equipment      2,417 852 1,404 305 – 4,978
 Investment property      – 48 152 – – 200
 Goodwill and other intangible assets      1,242 15 385 – – 1,642
Depreciation:
 Property, plant and equipment      566 249 176 20 – 1,011
 Investment property      – 9 16 – – 25
Amortisation of intangible assets      131 16 6 – – 153
Impairment losses recognised in the Group Income Statement     (21)  (41) (4) – – (66)
Reversal of prior period impairment losses through the  
 Group Income Statement   21 50 17 – – 88
Profit/(loss) arising on property-related items   263  (14) (8) (5) – 236
  
     Rest of  
    UK Europe Asia  US Total 
Year ended 23 February 2008    £m £m £m  £m £m
Continuing operations
Revenue
Sales (excluding VAT) to external customers        34,858 6,872 5,552 16 47,298
Result
Segment operating profit/(loss)        2,164 400 294 (67) 2,791
Share of post-tax profit of joint ventures and associates       75 – – – 75
Net finance costs            (63)
Profit before tax            2,803
Taxation            (673)
Profi t for the year        2,130
Reconciliation of operating profit to trading profit
     Rest of  
    UK Europe Asia  US Total 
    £m £m £m  £m £m
Operating profit        2,164 400 294 (67) 2,791
Adjustments for:  
  (Profit)/loss arising on property-related items        (188) (5) 3 2 (188)
  IAS 19 Income Statement charge for pensions        446 5 10 – 461
  ‘Normal’ cash contributions for pensions        (328) (3) (9) – (340)
  IAS 17 ‘Leases’ – impact of annual uplifts in rent and rent-free periods     18 – 6 3 27
Trading profit/(loss)       2,112 397 304 (62) 2,751
Trading margin     6.1% 5.8% 5.5% n/a 5.8%
Notes to the Group financial statements continued 81 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
To find out more go to 
www.tesco.com/annualreport09
Note 2 Segmental reporting continued
    Rest of    Other/  
   UK Europe Asia  US unallocated  Total 
   £m £m £m  £m  £m £m
Assets and liabilities
Segment assets     18,949 6,093 4,247 296 274 29,859
Investments in joint ventures and associates     293 1 11 – – 305
Total assets     19,242 6,094 4,258 296 274 30,164
Segment liabilities     (6,442) (1,229) (1,314) (72) (9,205) (18,262)
Total net assets              11,902
Other segment information
Capital expenditure (including acquisitions through business combinations):
 Property, plant and equipment      2,359 696 662 189 – 3,906
 Investment property      – 13 37 – – 50
 Goodwill and other intangible assets      219 18 22 – – 259
Depreciation:
 Property, plant and equipment      532 188 136 4 – 860
 Investment property      – 9 7 – – 16
Amortisation of intangible assets      99 12 5 – – 116
Impairment losses recognised in the Group Income Statement     (48)  (25) (4) – – (77)
Reversal of prior period impairment losses through the  
 Group Income Statement   48 36 3 – – 87
Profit/(loss) arising on property-related items   188  5 (3) (2) – 188
Business segments
The Group has two business segments, retailing and financial services.
       Financial  
      Retailing Services Total 
Year ended 28 February 2009       £m £m £m
Revenue        54,164 163 54,327
Segment assets      39,788 6,203 45,991
Segment liabilities        (27,557) (5,501) (33,058)
Capital expenditure (including acquisitions through business combinations)      6,537 283 6,820
       Financial  
      Retailing Services Total 
Year ended 23 February 2008        £m £m £m
Revenue        47,298 – 47,298
Segment assets      29,859 – 29,859
Segment liabilities        (18,262) – (18,262)
Capital expenditure (including acquisitions through business combinations)      4,215 – 4,215
Note 3 Income and expenses
        2009 2008 
From continuing operations       £m £m
Profit before tax is stated after charging/(crediting) the following:
Profit arising on property-related items             (236) (188)
Rental income, of which £304m (2008 – £211m) relates to investment properties         (349) (267)
Direct operating expenses arising on rental earning investment properties           91 54
Costs of inventories recognised as an expense             40,779 35,279
Stock losses             870 700
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment and investment property      1,036 876
Net reversal of impairment of property, plant and equipment and impairment of investment property     (22) (10)
Amortisation of internally-generated development intangible assets           88 87
Amortisation of other intangibles             65 29
Operating lease expenses
(a) 
            738 520
(a) Operating lease expenses include £81m (2008 – £88m) for hire of plant and machinery. 82 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
Note 3 Income and expenses continued
During the year, the Group (including its overseas subsidiaries) obtained the following services from the Group’s auditor, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, 
and network firms:
        2009 2008 
       £m £m
Audit services
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor for the audit of the Parent Company and Group financial statements     0.6 0.6
Non-audit services
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor and network firms for other services:
 the audit of the accounts of the Company’s subsidiaries pursuant to legislation         3.1 2.5
 other services pursuant to such legislation             0.1 0.1
 other services relating to taxation             0.8 1.2
 other services relating to corporate finance transactions             1.3 0.3
 all other services             0.6 0.3
Total auditor remuneration             6.5 5.0
In addition to the amounts shown above, the auditors received fees of £0.1m (2008 – £0.1m) for the audit of the main Group pension scheme.
A description of the work of the Audit Committee is set out in the Corporate Governance Report on page 46 and includes an explanation of how 
objectivity and independence is safeguarded when non-audit services are provided by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP. 
Note 4 Employment costs, including Directors’ remuneration
        2009 2008 
       £m £m
Wages and salaries             4,707 4,246
Social security costs             410 349
Post-employment benefits (note 28)             439 470
Share-based payments expense (note 27)             242 228
                5,798 5,293
The average number of employees by geographical segment during the  
year was:
    Average 
  Average  number 
  number of   of full-time 
  employees  equivalents 
  2009 2008* 2009 2008*
UK 286,392 282,199 194,419 193,187
Rest of Europe 86,760 83,705 78,914 77,267
Asia 92,773 77,554 88,099 74,570
US 2,583 669 2,583 730
Total 468,508 444,127 364,015 345,754
*  The comparatives have been restated to reflect the US as a separate segment. In 2007/8,  
the US employees were included in the UK reporting segment. 
Notes to the Group financial statements continued 83 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
To find out more go to 
www.tesco.com/annualreport09
Note 5 Finance income and costs
        2009 2008 
       £m £m
  
Finance income
Bank interest receivable and similar income on cash and cash equivalents          91 91
Net pension finance income (note 28)             25 47
Total finance income (on historical cost basis)             116 138
IAS 32 and IAS 39 ‘Financial Instruments’ – Fair value remeasurements           – 49
Total finance income             116 187
Finance costs
Interest payable on short-term bank loans and overdrafts repayable within five years         (152) (47)
Finance charges payable under finance leases and hire purchase contracts           (13) (13)
7.5% 258m GBP MTN 2007             – (8)
6% 125m GBP MTN 2008             (2) (7)
5.25% 500m EUR MTN 2008             (4) (18)
5.125% 192m GBP MTN 2009             (10) (10)
6.625% 150m GBP MTN 2010             (10) (10)
4.75% 750m EUR MTN 2010             (26) (25)
3.875% 500m EUR MTN 2011             (14) (13)
5.625% 1,500m EUR MTN 2012       (35) –
5% 600m GBP MTN 2014       (1) –
5.125% 600m EUR MTN 2015       (1) –
4% RPI GBP MTN 2016
(a) 
            (23) (20)
5.875% 1,500m EUR MTN 2016       (33) –
5.5% 850m USD Bond 2017             (23) (12)
5.5% 350m GBP MTN 2019             (20) (19)
6.125% 900m GBP MTN 2022       (1) –
5% 515m GBP MTN 2023             (21) (18)
3.322% LPI GBP MTN 2025
(b) 
            (20) (19)
6% 200m GBP MTN 2029             (12) (12)
5.5% 200m GBP MTN 2033             (11) (11)
1.982% RPI GBP MTN 2036
(c) 
            (14) (11)
6.15% 1,150m USD Bond 2037             (35) (18)
5% 300m GBP MTN 2042             (15) (15)
5.125% 600m EUR MTN 2047             (21) (21)
5.2% 500m GBP MTN 2057             (26) (13)
Other MTNs             (9) (13)
Capitalised interest             152 103
Total finance costs (on historical cost basis)             (400) (250)
IAS 32 and IAS 39 ‘Financial Instruments’ – Fair value remeasurements           (78) –
Total finance costs             (478) (250)
(a) Interest payable on the 4% RPI GBP MTN 2016 includes £13m (2008 – £10m) of Retail Price Index (RPI) related amortisation.
(b) Interest payable on the 3.322% LPI GBP MTN 2025 includes £11m (2008 – £11m) of RPI related amortisation.
(c) Interest payable on the 1.982% RPI GBP MTN 2036 includes £10m (2008 – £7m) of RPI related amortisation.
Finance costs of £30m (2008 – £nil) resulted from hedge ineffectiveness. 84 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
Note 6 Taxation
Recognised in the Group Income Statement
       2009 2008 
       £m £m
Current tax expense
UK corporation tax             673 853
Foreign tax             88 78
Adjustments in respect of prior years             (164) (278)
Benefit of tax losses recognised – adjustments in respect of prior years           – (56)
                597 597
Deferred tax expense
Origination and reversal of temporary differences             119 54
Benefit of tax losses recognised – adjustments in respect of prior years           – 28
Adjustments in respect of prior years             97 63
Change in tax rate             (25) (69)
                191 76
Total income tax expense             788 673
UK corporation tax is calculated at 28.2% (2008 – 30.0%) of the estimated assessable profit for the year. Taxation in other jurisdictions is calculated at 
the rates prevailing in the respective jurisdictions.
Reconciliation of effective tax charge
       2009 2008 
       £m £m
Profit before tax             2,954  2,803
Effective tax charge at 28.2% (2008 at 30.0%)             (833)  (841) 
Effect of:
  Non-deductible expenses             (189) (180)
  Differences in overseas taxation rates             111  41 
  Adjustments in respect of prior years             67  215 
  Share of results of joint ventures and associates             31  23 
  Change in tax rate             25  69 
Total income tax charge for the year            (788) (673)
 
Effective tax rate             26.7% 24.0%
Tax on items charged to equity
       2009 2008 
       £m £m
Current tax credit on: 
  Foreign exchange movements             199 250
  Share-based payments             46 5
                245 255
Deferred tax credit/(charge) on:
  Share-based payments             14 (57)
  Pensions             176 (75)
                190 (132) 
Total tax on items credited to equity (note 30)             435 123
Notes to the Group financial statements continued 85 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
To find out more go to 
www.tesco.com/annualreport09
Note 6 Taxation continued
Deferred tax
The following are the major deferred tax assets/(liabilities) recognised by the Group and movements thereon during the current and prior year:
       Other 
  Accelerated  Retirement  Short-term   pre/post 
  tax  benefit Share-based timing  IAS 32 and tax temporary 
  depreciation obligation payments differences Tax losses IAS 39 differences Total 
  £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
At 24 February 2007  (1,019) 284 136 51 24 21 – (503)
(Charge)/credit to the Group Income Statement   (83) 22 (3) (2) (13) (8) 11 (76)
Charge to equity  – (75) (57) – – – – (132)
Acquisition of subsidiaries  (18) – – – – – – (18)
Foreign exchange translation 52 2 – (24) 1 – – 31
At 23 February 2008  (1,068) 233 76 25 12 13 11 (698)
(Charge)/credit to the Group Income Statement (194) 7 (46) 61 1 (8) (12) (191)
Credit to equity  – 176 14  –  –  –  – 190
Acquisition of subsidiaries 12  –  – (42)  – 42  – 12
Foreign exchange translation 3  1  – (2) 3  – 7 12
At 28 February 2009 (1,247) 417 44 42 16 47 6 (675)
Certain deferred tax assets and liabilities have been offset. The following is the analysis of the deferred tax balances (after offset) for financial  
reporting purposes:
       2009 2008 
        £m £m
Deferred tax assets             21 104
Deferred tax liabilities             (696) (802)
                (675) (698)
No deferred tax is recognised on the unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries and joint ventures, because the earnings are continually reinvested by 
the Group and no tax is expected to be payable on them in the foreseeable future. The temporary difference unrecognised at the year end amounted to 
£1,726m (2008 – £1,053m).
Unrecognised deferred tax assets
Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of the following items, because it is not probable that future taxable profits will be available 
against which the Group can utilise the benefits.
       2009 2008 
        £m £m
Deductible temporary differences             12 2
Tax losses             192 38
                204 40
At the Balance Sheet date, the Group has unused trading tax losses of £744m (2008 – £146m) available for offset against future profits. A deferred tax 
asset has been recognised in respect of £58m (2008 – £9m) of such losses. No deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of the remaining 
£686m (2008 – £137m) due to the unpredictability of future profit streams. Included in unrecognised tax losses are losses of £32m (2008 – £39m in 
2012) that will expire in 2013 and £647m (2008 – £57m in 2028) that will expire between 2014 and 2029. Other losses will be carried forward indefinitely.
In addition, the Group has UK capital losses of £310m (2008 – £350m).  86 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
Note 7 Non-current assets classified as held for sale
       2009 2008 
        £m £m
Non-current assets classified as held for sale             398 308 
The non-current assets classified as held for sale consist mainly of properties held for sale.
Note 8 Dividends
      2009 2008 2009 2008 
      pence/share pence/share £m £m
Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders in the year:
Final dividend for the prior financial year         7.70 6.83 603 541
Interim dividend for the current financial year         3.57 3.20 280 251
            11.27 10.03 883 792
  
Proposed final dividend for the current financial year         8.39  7.70 662 605
The proposed final dividend was approved by the Board of Directors on 20 April 2009 and is subject to the approval of shareholders at the Annual 
General Meeting. The proposed dividend has not been included as a liability as at 28 February 2009, in accordance with IAS 10 ‘Events after the balance 
sheet date’. It will be paid on 10 July 2009 to shareholders who are on the register of members on 1 May 2009.
Note 9 Earnings per share and diluted earnings per share
Basic earnings per share amounts are calculated by dividing the profit attributable to equity holders of the parent by the weighted average number  
of ordinary shares in issue during the year.
Diluted earnings per share amounts are calculated by dividing the profit attributable to equity holders of the parent by the weighted average number  
of ordinary shares in issue during the year (adjusted for the effects of potentially dilutive options).
The dilution effect is calculated on the full exercise of all ordinary share options granted by the Group, including performance-based options which the 
Group considers to have been earned.
All operations are continuing for the years presented.
     2009   2008
    Potentially    Potentially 
     dilutive    dilutive 
    Basic share options Diluted Basic share options Diluted
Profit (£m)   2,161 – 2,161 2,124 – 2,124
Weighted average number of shares (millions)   7,859 53 7,912  7,881 102 7,983
Earnings per share (pence)   27.50 (0.19) 27.31  26.95 (0.34) 26.61
There have been no transactions involving ordinary shares between the reporting date and the date of approval of these financial statements which 
would significantly change the earnings per share calculations shown above.
Reconciliation of non-GAAP underlying diluted earnings per share
        2009  2008
      £m pence/share £m pence/share
 
Profit 
Earnings from operations         2,161 27.31 2,124 26.61
Adjustments for:
 IAS 32 and IAS 39 ‘Financial Instruments’ – Fair value remeasurements       88 1.11 (49) (0.61)
 Total IAS 19 Income Statement charge for pensions         403 5.09 414 5.19
 ‘Normal’ cash contributions for pensions         (376) (4.75) (340) (4.26)
 IAS 17 ‘Leases’ – impact of annual uplifts in rent and rent-free periods       27 0.34 18 0.22
 IFRS 3 Amortisation charge from intangible assets arising on acquisition   32 0.41 – –
 Tax effect of adjustments at the effective rate of tax (2009 – 26.7%; 2008 – 24.0%*)     (47) (0.59) (10) (0.13)
Underlying earnings from operations         2,288 28.92 2,157 27.02
*  In 2007/8, agreement was reached with HMRC on settling prior year tax items. Removing the one-off impact of settling prior year tax items with HMRC, the normalised tax rate was 28.9%.
Notes to the Group financial statements continued 87 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
To find out more go to 
www.tesco.com/annualreport09
Note 10 Goodwill and other intangible assets
     Internally  Pharmacy 
     generated and Other 
     development  software intangible 
     costs licences assets Goodwill Total 
     £m £m £m £m £m
Cost
At 23 February 2008       691 278 48 1,927 2,944
Foreign currency translation       6 7 (4) 205 214
Additions       192 26 2 – 220
Acquisitions through business combinations       – – 270 1,152 1,422
Reclassification across categories       (2) – 2 – –
Disposals       (8) (1) – (1) (10)
At 28 February 2009        879 310 318 3,283 4,790
Accumulated amortisation and impairment losses
At 23 February 2008       340 163 7 98 608
Foreign currency translation       – 4 – – 4
Amortisation for the year       88 31 34 – 153
Reclassification across categories       (1) – 1 – –
Disposals        (1) (1) – – (2)
At 28 February 2009       426 197 42 98 763
Net carrying value
At 28 February 2009        453  113  276 3,185  4,027
At 23 February 2008       351 115 41 1,829  2,336  
Cost
At 24 February 2007       583 233 39 1,684 2,539
Foreign currency translation       2 18 – 151 171
Additions       128 29 2 22 181
Acquisitions through business combinations       – – 8 70 78
Reclassification across categories       1 1 (1) – 1
Disposals       (23) (3) – – (26)
At 23 February 2008        691 278 48 1,927 2,944
Accumulated amortisation and impairment losses
At 24 February 2007       263 128 5 98 494
Foreign currency translation       – 9 – – 9
Amortisation for the year       87 27 2 – 116
Reclassification across categories    1 – – – 1
Disposals       (11) (1) – – (12)
At 23 February 2008       340 163 7 98 608
 
Net carrying value
At 23 February 2008       351 115 41 1,829 2,336
At 24 February 2007       320 105 34 1,586 2,045
There are no intangible assets, other than goodwill, with indefinite useful lives. 88 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
Note 10 Goodwill and other intangible assets continued
Impairment of goodwill
Goodwill arising on business combinations is not amortised but is reviewed for impairment on an annual basis or more frequently if there are indications 
that goodwill may be impaired. Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated to groups of cash-generating units according to the level at 
which management monitor that goodwill.
Recoverable amounts for cash-generating units are based on the higher of value in use and fair value less costs to sell. In 2008/9, recoverable amounts 
are based on value in use. Value in use is calculated from cash flow projections for five years using data from the Group’s latest internal forecasts, the 
results of which are reviewed by the Board. The key assumptions for the value in use calculations are those regarding discount rates, growth rates and 
expected changes in margins. Management estimate discount rates using pre-tax rates that reflect the current market assessment of the time value  
of money and the risks specific to the cash-generating units. Changes in selling prices and direct costs are based on past experience and expectations  
of future changes in the market. Given the current economic climate, a sensitivity analysis has been performed in assessing the recoverable amounts  
of goodwill. In the case of Japan, it is reasonably possible that a change in key assumptions would cause the goodwill to exceed its value in use. At  
28 February 2009, there was headroom of £8m, incorporating a long-term growth rate of 1.5% and a pre-tax discount rate of 7.3% as key assumptions.  
A 0.2% reduction in the long-term growth rate or a 0.2% increase in the discount rate would cause goodwill to exceed its value in use. EBITDA margin  
is also assumed to increase in 2009/10 from 2008/9, where a 2.9% decrease in the forecast margin for 2009/10 would also cause goodwill to exceed its 
value in use. For Poland, with headroom of £84m and assuming an 11.3% pre-tax discount rate, a 0.4% increase in the discount rate would cause 
goodwill to exceed its value in use.
The forecasts are extrapolated beyond five years based on estimated long-term average growth rates of generally 2%-10% (2008: 3%-4%).
The pre-tax discount rates used to calculate value in use range from 7%-24% (2008: 8%-24%). On a post-tax basis, the discount rates ranged from 
5%-19% (2008: 5%-20%). These discount rates are derived from the Group’s post-tax weighted average cost of capital as adjusted for the specific  
risks relating to each geographical region.
In February 2009 and 2008 impairment reviews were performed by comparing the carrying value of goodwill with the recoverable amount of the  
cash-generating units to which goodwill has been allocated. Management determined that there has been no impairment.
The components of goodwill are as follows:
       2009 2008 
       £m £m
UK             616 571
Tesco Personal Finance Group Limited             767 –
Thailand             153 124
South Korea             378 48
Japan             196 129
China             540 376
Malaysia             76 65
Poland             354 394
Czech Republic             47 44
Turkey             53 54
Other             5 24
                3,185 1,829
Notes to the Group financial statements continued 89 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
To find out more go to 
www.tesco.com/annualreport09
Note 11 Property, plant and equipment
       Land and 
       buildings Other
(a)
 Total 
       £m £m £m
Cost
At 23 February 2008           19,210 6,340 25,550
Foreign currency translation           434 191 625
Additions
(b) 
          3,345 1,013 4,358
Acquisitions through business combinations           586 34 620
Reclassification across categories           (305) 45 (260)
Classified as held for sale           (74) (8) (82)
Disposals           (847) (120) (967)
At 28 February 2009           22,349 7,495 29,844
Accumulated depreciation and impairment losses
At 23 February 2008           2,280 3,483 5,763
Foreign currency translation           55 103 158
Charge for the year           352 659 1,011
Reclassification across categories           (5) – (5) 
Classified as held for sale           18 (3) 15 
Disposals           (128) (90) (218)
Impairment losses           56 – 56
Reversal of impairment losses           (88) – (88) 
At 28 February 2009           2,540 4,152 6,692
Net carrying value
(c)(d)(e)
At 28 February 2009          19,809 3,343 23,152
At 23 February 2008           16,930 2,857 19,787
Capital work in progress included above
(f)
 
At 28 February 2009           1,375 159 1,534
(a)  Other assets consist of plant, equipment, fixtures and fittings and motor vehicles.
(b)  Includes £152m (2008 – £103m) in respect of interest capitalised, principally relating to land and building assets. The capitalisation rate used to determine the amount of finance costs 
capitalised during the year was 5.1% (2008 – 5.1%). Interest capitalised is deducted in determining taxable profit in the year in which it is incurred.
(c)  Net carrying value includes:
  (i) Capitalised interest at 28 February 2009 of £910m (2008 – £790m).
  (ii) Assets held under finance leases which are analysed below:
  2009  2008
  Land and  Land and 
  buildings Other
(a)
 buildings Other
(a)
 
  £m £m £m £m
Cost  121 578 96 723
Accumulated depreciation 
 and impairment losses (22) (390) (20) (441)
Net carrying value 99 188 76 282
These assets are pledged as security for the finance lease liabilities.
(d) The net carrying value of land and buildings comprises:
    2009 2008 
    £m £m
Freehold     17,332 15,209
Long leasehold – 50 years or more     1,450 892
Short leasehold – less than 50 years  1,027 829
Net carrying value     19,809 16,930
(e)  Carrying value of land and buildings includes £4m (2008 – £6m) relating to the  
prepayment of lease premiums.
(f) Capital work in progress does not include land. 90 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
Note 11 Property, plant and equipment continued
      Land and 
       buildings Other
(a)
 Total 
       £m £m £m
Cost
At 24 February 2007           16,540 5,389 21,929
Foreign currency translation           545 231 776
Additions
(b)
           2,802 925 3,727
Acquisitions through business combinations           153 26 179
Reclassification across categories           (50) (95) (145)
Classified as held for sale           (295) (5) (300)
Disposals           (485) (131) (616)
At 23 February 2008           19,210 6,340 25,550
Accumulated depreciation and impairment losses
At 24 February 2007           1,942 3,011 4,953
Foreign currency translation           52 117 169
Charge for the year           353 507 860
Reclassification across categories           34 (40) (6)
Classified as held for sale           (44) (1) (45)
Disposals           (47) (111) (158)
Impairment losses           77 – 77
Reversal of impairment losses           (87) – (87) 
At 23 February 2008           2,280 3,483 5,763
Net carrying value
(c)(d)(e)
At 23 February 2008           16,930 2,857 19,787
At 24 February 2007           14,598 2,378 16,976
Capital work in progress included above
(f)
At 23 February 2008           1,058 112 1,170
Impairment of property, plant and equipment
The Group has determined that for the purposes of impairment testing, each store is a cash-generating unit. Cash-generating units are tested for 
impairment if there are indications of impairment at the Balance Sheet date.
Recoverable amounts for cash-generating units are based on value in use, which is calculated from cash flow projections for five years using data from 
the Group’s latest internal forecasts, the results of which are reviewed by the Board. The key assumptions for the value in use calculations are those 
regarding discount rates, growth rates and expected changes in margins. Management estimate discount rates using pre-tax rates that reflect the 
current market assessment of the time value of money and the risks specific to the cash-generating units. Changes in selling prices and direct costs  
are based on past experience and expectations of future changes in the market.
The forecasts are extrapolated beyond five years based on estimated long-term growth rates of generally 2%-10% (2008: 3%-4%).
The pre-tax discount rates used to calculate value in use range from 7%-24% (2008: 8%-24%) depending on the specific conditions in which each store 
operates. These discount rates are derived from the Group’s post-tax weighted average cost of capital.
Notes to the Group financial statements continued 91 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
To find out more go to 
www.tesco.com/annualreport09
Note 11 Property, plant and equipment continued
The following amounts have been (charged)/credited to operating costs in the Group Income Statement during the current and prior year:
        2009 2008 
        £m £m
Impairment losses
UK            (21) (48)
Rest of Europe            (31) (25)
Asia            (4) (4)
               (56) (77)
Reversal of impairment losses
UK            21 48
Rest of Europe            50 36
Asia            17 3 
               88 87
Net reversal of impairment losses            32 10
The impairment losses relate to stores whose recoverable amounts (either value in use or fair value less costs to sell) do not exceed the asset carrying 
values. In all cases, impairment losses arose due to stores performing below forecasted trading levels.
The reversal of previous impairment losses arose principally due to improvements in stores’ performances over the last year which increased the net 
present value of future cash flows.
Note 12 Investment property 
        2009 2008 
        £m £m
 
Cost
At beginning of year             1,190 906
Foreign currency translation             24 93
Additions             114 50
Acquisitions through business combinations             86 –
Transfers             260 144
Classified as held for sale             (10) –
Disposals             (4) (3)
At end of year              1,660 1,190
Accumulated depreciation and impairment losses
At beginning of year             78 50
Foreign currency translation             3 7
Charge for the period             25 16
Transfers             5 5
Impairment losses       10 –
At end of year             121 78
Net carrying value             1,539 1,112
The net carrying value at 24 February 2007 was £856m.
The following amounts have been charged to operating costs in the Group Income Statement during the current and prior year:
       2009 2008 
        £m £m
 
Impairment losses
Rest of Europe            (10) –
Net impairment losses            (10) –
The impairment losses relate to malls whose recoverable amounts (either value in use or fair value less costs to sell) do not exceed the asset carrying 
values. In all cases, impairment losses arose due to the malls performing below forecasted trading levels.
The estimated fair value of the Group’s investment property is £3,196m (2008 – £2,265m). This fair value has been determined by applying an 
appropriate rental yield to the rentals earned by the investment property. A valuation has not been performed by an independent valuer. 92 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
  Note 13 Group entities 
Significant subsidiaries
The Group consolidates its subsidiary undertakings; the principal subsidiaries are: 
     Share of issued ordinary share   Country of  
   Business activity  capital, and voting rights  incorporation 
Tesco Stores Limited*   Retail   100%    England
One Stop Stores Limited   Retail     100%   England
Tesco Ireland Limited*   Retail     100%   Republic of Ireland
Tesco-Global Stores Privately Held Co. Limited*  Retail     99%   Hungary
Tesco Polska Sp. z o.o.* Retail     100%   Poland
Tesco Stores C
ˇ
 R a.s.* Retail     100%   Czech Republic
Tesco Stores S R a.s.*  Retail     100%   Slovakia
Tesco Kipa Kitle Paza rlama Ticaret ve Gide Sanai A.S ¸. Retail     93%   Turkey
Samsung Tesco Co. Limited* Retail     94%   South Korea
Homever Tesco Co. Limited* Retail   100%  South Korea
Ek-Chai Distribution System Co. Limited* Retail     86%
(a)
   Thailand
Tesco Stores Malaysia Sdn Bhd* Retail     70%   Malaysia
Tesco Japan Co. Limited* Retail     100%   Japan
Shanghai Kancheng Storage Co. Limited* Retail     90%   Republic of China
Dobbies Garden Centres PLC* Retail     100%   Scotland
Fresh & Easy Neighborhood Market Inc* Retail   100%  USA
Tesco Personal Finance Group Limited Financial Services   100%  Scotland
Tesco Distribution Limited* Distribution     100%   England
Tesco Property Holdings Limited* Property     100%   England
Tesco International Sourcing Limited* Purchasing     100%   Hong Kong
dunnhumby Limited* Data Analysis     84%   England
Tesco Insurance Limited* Self-insurance     100%   Guernsey
Valiant Insurance Company Limited* Self-insurance     100%   Republic of Ireland
* Held by an intermediate subsidiary.
(a) The Group has 86% of voting rights and 39% of issued ordinary share capital in Ek-Chai Distribution System Co. Limited.
All principal subsidiary undertakings operate in their country of incorporation.
The accounting period ends of the subsidiary undertakings consolidated in these financial statements are on or around 28 February 2009.
A full list of the Group’s subsidiary undertakings will be annexed to the next Annual Return filed at Companies House.
There are no significant restrictions on the ability of subsidiary undertakings to transfer funds to the parent, other than those imposed by the Companies 
Act 1985.
Interests in joint ventures and associates
The Group uses the equity method of accounting for joint ventures and associates. The following table shows the aggregate movement in the Group’s 
investment in joint ventures and associates: 
       Joint ventures Associates Total 
       £m £m £m
At 24 February 2007           304 10 314
Additions           8 – 8
Share of profit of joint ventures and associates           74 1 75
Income received from joint ventures and associates           (87) (1) (88)
Transferred to investment in subsidiary undertakings
 
          (4) – (4)
At 23 February 2008           295 10 305
Foreign currency translation           4 – 4
Share of profit of joint ventures and associates           106 4 110
Income received from joint ventures and associates           (68) (1) (69)
Transferred to amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings       (37) – (37)
Transferred to investment in subsidiary undertakings
  
          (251) – (251)
At 28 February 2009           49 13 62
 
Notes to the Group financial statements continued 93 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
To find out more go to 
www.tesco.com/annualreport09
Note 13 Group entities continued
Transferred to investment in subsidiary undertakings
During the year ended 28 February 2009, the Group acquired the remaining 50% of the share capital of Tesco Personal Finance Group Limited, 
previously a joint venture, making the company a wholly-owned subsidiary entity which has been consolidated within the Group results from the date  
of acquisition onwards (see note 31).
During the year ended 23 February 2008, the Group purchased additional share capital in Nutri Centres Limited, making the company a wholly-owned 
subsidiary entity which has been consolidated within the Group results from the date of acquisition onwards. 
Significant joint ventures  
The Group’s principal joint ventures are:
      Share of issued share   Country of incorporation  
      capital, loan capital and   and principal country  
    Business activity  debt securities  of operation
Tesco Mobile Limited
† 
Telecommunications     50%     England
Shopping Centres Limited Property Investment     50%     England
BLT Properties Limited Property Investment     50%     England
Tesco British Land Property Partnership
† 
Property Investment     50%     England
Tesco Red Limited Partnership
† 
Property Investment     50%     England
Tesco Aqua Limited Partnership
† 
Property Investment     50%     England
Tesco Jade Limited Partnership
† 
Property Investment     50%     England
Tesco Coral Limited Partnership
† 
Property Investment     50%     England
Arena (Jersey) Management Limited
† 
Property Investment     50%     Jersey
The Tesco Property (No. 2) Limited Partnership
† 
Property Investment     50%     Jersey
† Held by an intermediate subsidiary.
The accounting period ends of the joint ventures consolidated in these financial statements range from 31 December 2008 to 28 February 2009. 
Accounting period end dates different from those of the Group arise for commercial reasons and depend upon the requirements of the joint venture 
partner as well as those of the Group. 
The share of the assets, liabilities, revenue and profit of the joint ventures, which are included in the consolidated financial statements, are as follows:
        2009 2008 
        £m £m
Non-current assets             1,637 1,411
Current assets             281 4,277
Current liabilities             (426) (3,888)
Non-current liabilities             (1,458) (1,513)
Goodwill             1 1
Cumulative unrecognised losses             14 7
                49 295
Revenue             549 482
Expenses             (443) (408)
Profit for the year             106 74
The unrecognised share of losses made by joint ventures in the year to 28 February 2009 was £7m (2008 – £nil).  94 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
Note 13 Group entities continued
Associates  
At the Balance Sheet date, the Group’s principal associate is:
      Share of issued capital,   Country of incorporation  
      loan capital and debt   and principal country  
    Business activity  securities  of operation
Greenergy International Limited
†
   Fuel Supplier     21%     England
† Held by an intermediate subsidiary.
Although the Group only holds a 21.3% non-voting shareholding in Greenergy International Limited it is treated as an associate as the Board of 
Greenergy International Limited requires the consent of Tesco on certain reserve matters as specified in the company’s Articles of Association.
The share of the assets, liabilities, revenue and profit of the Group’s associates, which are included in the consolidated financial statements, are as follows:
        2009 2008 
        £m £m
Assets             163 115
Liabilities             (152) (107)
Goodwill             2 2
                13 10
Revenue             540 325
Profit for the year             4 1
The accounting period ends of the associates consolidated in these financial statements range from 31 December 2008 to 31 January 2009.  
The accounting period end dates of the associates are different from those of the Group as they also depend upon the requirements of the parent 
companies of those entities.
There are no significant restrictions on the ability of associated undertakings to transfer funds to the parent, other than those imposed by the 
Companies Act 1985.
Note 14 Other investments 
        2009 2008 
        £m £m
Equity investment         259 –
Available-for-sale financial assets         – 4
        259 4
The equity investment comprises an interest free subordinated loan made by Tesco Personal Finance Group Limited to Direct Line Group Limited.  
This loan has been classed as an equity investment as there is no interest receivable and no fixed repayment date. 
No impairment charges were recognised on the loan since the date of acquisition.
Available-for-sale financial assets consist of ordinary shares, and therefore have no fixed maturity date or coupon rate.
The fair value of the unlisted available-for-sale investments has been estimated using a valuation technique based on assumptions that are not 
supported by observable market prices or rates. The fair value of the listed available-for-sale investments is based on quoted market prices at the 
Balance Sheet date.
The following table shows the aggregate movement in the Group’s other investments during the year:
        2009 2008 
        £m £m
At beginning of year             4 8
Acquisitions through business combinations             259 –
Revaluation through equity             – (4)
IAS 32 and IAS 39 ‘Financial Instruments’ – Fair value remeasurements          (4) –
At end of year             259 4
Notes to the Group financial statements continued 95 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
To find out more go to 
www.tesco.com/annualreport09
Note 15 Inventories
        2009 2008 
        £m £m
Goods held for resale             2,656 2,420
Development properties             13 10
                2,669 2,430
Note 16 Trade and other receivables
        2009 2008 
        £m £m
 
Prepayments and accrued income             419 298
Finance lease receivables (note 37)             – 5
Other receivables             1,103 796
Amounts owed by joint ventures and associates (note 32)             276 212
                1,798 1,311
Included within trade and other receivables are the following amounts receivable after more than one year:
        2009 2008 
        £m £m
Prepayments and accrued income             14 12
Other receivables             275 160
Amounts owed by joint ventures and associates (note 32)             262 173
                551 345
Trade and other receivables are generally non-interest bearing. Credit terms vary by geography and the nature of the debt and can be from 7 to 60 days. 
Trade receivables are recorded at amortised cost, reduced by estimated allowances for doubtful debts.
Provision for impairment of receivables
         £m
At 24 February 2007               (34)
Foreign currency translation               (3)
Charge for the year               (15)
Uncollectible amounts written off               14
Recoveries of amounts previously written off               9
At 23 February 2008               (29)
Foreign currency translation               (2)
Charge for the year               (21)
Uncollectible amounts written off               3
Recoveries of amounts previously written off               5
At 28 February 2009               (44)
As at 28 February 2009, trade and other receivables of £45m (2008 – £31m) were past due and impaired. The amount of the provision was £44m  
(2008 – £29m). The ageing analysis of these receivables is as follows: 
        2009 2008 
        £m £m
Up to 3 months past due             3 3
3 to 6 months past due             3 3
Over 6 months past due             39 25
                45 31 96 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
Note 16 Trade and other receivables continued
As at 28 February 2009, trade and other receivables of £97m (2008 – £103m) were past due but not impaired. The ageing analysis of these receivables  
is as follows:
       2009 2008 
        £m £m
Up to 3 months past due             71 79
3 to 6 months past due             15 13
Over 6 months past due             11 11
                97 103
No receivables have been renegotiated in the current or prior year.
Note 17 Loans and advances to customers 
Tesco Personal Finance Group Limited has loans and advances to customers.  
       2009 2008 
       £m £m
Current           1,918 –
Non-current         1,470 –
            3,388 –
The maturity of these loans and advances is as follows:
        2009 2008 
        £m £m
Repayable on demand or at short notice          1 –
Within three months          2,021 –
Greater than three months but less than one year          38 –
Greater than one year but less than five years          1,061 –
After five years           517 –
        3,638 –
Provision for impairment of loans and advances       (250) –
           3,388 –
The securitised amount against loans and advances is £1,468m and the fair value of these are not materially different to the amortised cost value at 
which they are disclosed. 
Provision for impairment of loans and advances
            £m
Acquisition through business combination*           (229)
Charge for the period           (130)
Uncollectible amounts written off           109
Recoveries of amounts previously written off           (7)
Unwind of discount        7
At 28 February 2009           (250)
* Tesco Personal Finance Group Limited was acquired on 19 December 2008.
At 28 February 2009, Tesco Personal Finance Group Limited’s non-interest bearing loans were £291m. Loan impairment provisions of £250m were held 
against these loans. In the period between the date of acquisition and year end, the gross income not recognised but which would have been recognised 
under the original terms of non-interest bearing loans was £25m.
Notes to the Group financial statements continued 97 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
To find out more go to 
www.tesco.com/annualreport09
Note 17 Loans and advances to customers continued
At 28 February 2009, loans and advances to customers of £82m were past due but not impaired. The ageing analysis of these loans and advances  
is as follows:
        2009 2008 
        £m £m
Up to one month past due       58 –
One to three months past due          15 –
Over three months past due          9  –
        82 –
No loans have been renegotiated between the date of acquisition and the year end that would otherwise have been past due or impaired.
Note 18 Loans and advances to banks and other financial assets        
Tesco Personal Finance Group Limited has loans and advances to banks and other financial assets with the following maturity:   
        2009 2008 
        £m £m
Within three months          1,509 –
Greater than three months but less than one year 
(a)
          591 –
Greater than one year but less than five years          29 –
            2,129 –
(a) Included within loans and advances to banks and other financial assets are treasury bills of £588m in respect of collateral held with the Bank of England.
There are no loans and advances which are past due and impaired. 
Note 19 Cash and cash equivalents 
        2009 2008 
        £m £m
Cash at bank and in hand             2,112 1,542
Short-term deposits             1,397 246
                3,509 1,788
Note 20 Trade and other payables
Current
        2009 2008 
        £m £m
Trade payables             4,748 3,936
Other taxation and social security             334 324
Other payables              1,984 1,714
Amounts payable to joint ventures and associates (note 32)             162 116
Accruals and deferred income             1,294 1,187
                8,522 7,277
Non-current 
        2009 2008 
        £m £m
Other payables             68 42 98 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
Note 21 Borrowings
Current
       Maturity 2009 2008 
      Par value year £m £m
Bank loans and overdrafts           2009  3,014 1,458
Loan from joint ventures (note 32)           2009  20 10
6% MTN         £125m 2008 – 130
5.25% MTN         €500m 2008 – 392
5.125% MTN     £192m 2009 198 –
1.434% MTN – TPF     £295m 2009 295 –
1.684% MTN – TPF     £89m 2009 89 –
1.418% MTN – TPF     £204m 2009 204 –
Other MTNs         –  – 192 43
Finance leases (note 37)         –  –  47  51
                4,059  2,084 
The loan notes issued as part of the securitisation are secured on portfolios comprising variable rate personal credit cards. The maturity date of the notes 
matches the maturity date of the underlying assets and are repayable within one year from the balance sheet date. 
Non-current
       Maturity 2009 2008 
      Par value year £m £m
Finance leases (note 37)         – –  196  215
5.125% MTN         £192m 2009 – 191
6.625% MTN         £150m 2010 154 153
4.75% MTN         €750m 2010 689 592
3.875% MTN         €500m 2011 476 387
5.625% MTN     €1,500m 2012 1,362 –
LIBOR + 1.33% Bond – TPF     £225m 2012 225 –
5% MTN     £600m 2014 592 –
5.125% MTN     €600m 2015 522 –
4% RPI MTN
(a) 
        £263m 2016 268 254
5.875% MTN     €1,500m 2016 1,488 –
5.5% USD Bond         $850m 2017 678 455
5.5% MTN         £350m 2019 351 350
6.125% MTN     £900m 2022 901 –
5% MTN
(b) 
        £515m 2023 515 417
3.322% LPI MTN
(c) 
        £265m 2025 267 255
6% MTN         £200m 2029 216 194
5.5% MTN         £200m 2033 216 192
1.982% RPI MTN
(d) 
        £221m 2036 221 212
6.15% USD Bond         $1,150m 2037 977 604
5% MTN         £300m 2042 306 305
5.125% MTN         €600m 2047 628 451
5.2% MTN         £500m 2057 500 499
Other MTNs         – – 285 135
Other loans         – – 358 111
            12,391 5,972
(a) The 4% RPI MTN is redeemable at par, indexed for increases in the Retail Price Index (RPI) over the life of the MTN. 
(b) An additional bond issue increased the principal of this MTN from £415m to £515m in 2008/9. 
(c) The 3.322% LPI MTN is redeemable at par, indexed for increases in the RPI over the life of the MTN. The maximum indexation of the principal in any one year is 5%, with a minimum of 0%.
(d) The 1.982% RPI MTN is redeemable at par, indexed for increases in the RPI over the life of the MTN. 
Borrowing facilities
The Group has the following undrawn committed facilities available at 28 February 2009, in respect of which all conditions precedent had been met as 
at that date:
        2009 2008 
        £m £m
Expiring between one and two years             100 –
Expiring in more than two years             2,600 1,600
                2,700 1,600
All facilities incur commitment fees at market rates and would provide funding at floating rates. 
Notes to the Group financial statements continued 99 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
To find out more go to 
www.tesco.com/annualreport09
Note 22 Financial instruments 
Derivatives are used for hedging in the management of exposure to market risks. This enables the optimisation of the overall cost of accessing debt 
capital markets, and mitigates the market risk which would otherwise arise from the maturity and other profiles of assets and liabilities.
Hedging policies using derivative financial instruments are further explained below. Derivatives that are held as hedging instruments are formally 
designated as hedges as defined in IAS 39. Derivatives may qualify as hedges for accounting purposes as described below.
Finance costs of £30m (2008 – £nil) resulted from hedge ineffectiveness.
Fair value hedges  
The Group maintains interest rate and cross-currency swap contracts as fair value hedges of the interest rate and currency risk on fixed rate debt issued 
by the Group. Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in the Group Income Statement, 
together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability that are attributable to the hedged risk. The gain or loss on the hedging 
instrument and hedged item is recognised in the Group Income Statement within finance income or costs. If the hedge no longer meets the criteria for 
hedge accounting, the adjustment to the carrying value of the hedged item is amortised to the Group Income Statement under the effective interest 
rate method.
A gain of £1,197m on hedging instruments was recognised during the year, offset by a loss of £1,227m on hedged items (in 2008, a gain of £261m on 
hedging instruments was offset by a loss of £261m on hedged items).
Cash flow hedges
The Group uses forward foreign currency contracts to hedge the cost of future purchases of goods for resale, where those purchases are denominated  
in a currency other than the functional currency of the purchasing company. Where these contracts qualify for hedge accounting, mark-to-market gains 
and losses are deferred in equity.
The hedging instruments are primarily used to hedge purchases in Euros and US Dollars. The cash flows hedged will occur and will affect the Group 
Income Statement within one year of the Balance Sheet date. 
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss  
existing in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised when the forecast transaction is recognised in the Group Income Statement. When  
a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in equity is immediately transferred to the Group 
Income Statement.
Net investment hedges  
The Group uses forward foreign currency contracts, currency denominated borrowings and currency options to hedge the exposure of a proportion  
of its non-Sterling denominated assets against changes in value due to changes in foreign exchange rates.
The Group has a South Korean Won denominated liability relating to the future purchase of the minority shareholding of its subsidiary, Samsung Tesco 
Co. Limited. This liability has been designated as a net investment hedge of a proportion of the assets of Samsung Tesco Co. Limited.
The Group has a Chinese Yuan denominated liability relating to the future purchase of the minority shareholding of its subsidiary, Hymall. This liability 
has been designated as a net investment hedge of a proportion of the assets of Hymall.
Gains and losses accumulated in equity are included in the Group Income Statement on disposal of the overseas operation.
Financial instruments not qualifying for hedge accounting
The Group’s policy is not to use derivatives for trading purposes; however, some derivatives may not qualify for hedge accounting, or are specifically  
not designated as a hedge where natural offset is appropriate.
These instruments include caps, collars, interest rate swaps and forward foreign currency contracts. Changes in the fair value of any derivative 
instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised immediately in the Group Income Statement within finance income or costs.
The Group has a liability relating to the future purchase of the minority shareholding of its subsidiary, dunnhumby Limited. Changes in the value  
of the liability are recognised immediately in the Group Income Statement within finance income or costs.
The fair value of derivative financial instruments have been disclosed in the Group Balance Sheet as follows:
        2009  2008
      Asset Liability Asset Liability 
     £m £m £m £m
Current         382 (525) 97 (443)
Non-current       1,478 (302) 216 (322)
          1,860 (827) 313 (765) 100 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
Note 22 Financial instruments continued
The fair value and notional amounts of derivatives analysed by hedge type are as follows:
     2009    2008
   Asset  Liability  Asset  Liability
  Fair value Notional Fair value Notional Fair value Notional Fair value Notional 
  £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Fair value hedges
Interest rate swaps and similar instruments 6 307 (67) 2,123 2 125 (80) 657
Cross currency swaps 1,445 4,293 (40) 996 252 2,795 – –
Cash flow hedges
Interest rate swaps and similar instruments – 100 (66) 400 – – – –
Cross currency swaps 1 21 – – – – (1) 17
Forward foreign currency contracts 101 1,762 (24) 348 19 811 (9) 387
Net investment hedges
Forward foreign currency contracts 92 2,623 (194) 2,767 2 289 (218) 2,328
Future purchases of minority interests – – (167) – – – (197) –
Derivatives not in a formal hedge relationship
Interest rate swaps and similar instruments 1 774 (35) 3,740 6 3,668 (2) 189
Cross currency swaps 25 411 (47) 639 – – (16) 347
Forward foreign currency contracts 189 2,784 (154) 2,767 32 1,641 (207) 2,816
Future purchases of minority interests – – (33) – – – (35) –
Total  1,860 13,075 (827) 13,780 313 9,329 (765) 6,741
Carrying and fair value of financial assets and liabilities at financial year ending:
        2009  2008
     Carrying Fair Carrying Fair 
     value value value value  
     £m £m £m £m
Assets
Finance leases (Group as lessor – note 37)         – – 5 5
Cash and cash equivalents       3,509 3,509 1,788 1,788
Loans and advances to customers – TPF         3,388 3,388 – –
Loans and advances to banks and other financial assets – TPF      2,129 2,129 – –
Short-term investments         1,233 1,233 360 360
Other investments – TPF         259 259 – –
Joint venture loan receivables (note 32)         262 262 173 173
Derivative financial assets:            
 Interest rate swaps and similar instruments       7 7 8 8
 Cross currency swaps          1,471 1,471 252 252
 Forward foreign currency contracts         382 382 53 53
Total financial assets       12,640 12,640 2,639 2,639
Liabilities
Short-term borrowings:
 Amortised cost       (3,779) (3,778) (1,511) (1,516)
 Bonds in fair value hedge relationships         (233) (223) (522) (502)
Long-term borrowings:        
 Amortised cost         (5,248) (5,028) (2,269) (2,138)
 Bonds in fair value hedge relationships       (6,947) (6,147) (3,488) (3,261)
Finance leases (Group as lessee – note 37)         (243) (243) (266) (266)
Customer deposits – TPF       (4,538) (4,538) – –
Deposits by banks – TPF         (24) (24) – –
Derivative and other financial liabilities:        
 Interest rate swaps and similar instruments         (168) (168) (81) (81)
 Cross currency swaps       (87) (87) (18) (18)
 Forward foreign currency contracts         (372) (372) (434) (434)
 Future purchases of minority interests         (200) (200) (232) (232)
Total financial liabilities         (21,839) (20,808) (8,821) (8,448)
Total        (9,199) (8,168) (6,182) (5,809)
Notes to the Group financial statements continued 101 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
To find out more go to 
www.tesco.com/annualreport09
Note 22 Financial instruments continued
The fair values of financial instruments have been determined by reference to prices available from the markets on which the instruments are traded. 
The fair value of all other items have been calculated by discounting expected future cash flows at prevailing interest rates. The above table excludes 
other receivables/payables, which have fair values equal to their carrying values.
Financial assets and liabilities by category
The accounting classifications of each class of financial assets and liabilities as at 28 February 2009 and 23 February 2008 are as follows:
         
      Loans and    
      receivables/ Fair value 
      other financial through 
      liabilities profit or loss Total 
At 28 February 2009      £m £m £m
Cash and cash equivalents      3,509 – 3,509
Loans and advances to customers – TPF      3,388 – 3,388 
Loans and advances to banks and other financial assets – TPF     1,541 588 2,129
Short-term investments       1,233 – 1,233 
Other investments – TPF      259 – 259 
Joint venture loan receivables (note 32)      262 – 262
Customer deposits – TPF      (4,538) – (4,538)
Deposits by banks – TPF      (24) – (24) 
Short-term borrowings      (4,012) – (4,012) 
Long-term borrowings      (12,195) – (12,195)
Finance leases (Group as lessee – note 37)      (243) – (243) 
Derivative fi nancial instruments:        
 Interest rate swaps and similar instruments      – (161) (161)
 Cross currency swaps      – 1,384 1,384
 Forward foreign currency contracts      – 10 10
 Future purchases of minority interests      – (200) (200)
        (10,820) 1,621 (9,199)
           
      Loans and    
      receivables/ Fair value 
      other financial through 
      liabilities profit or loss Total 
At 23 February 2008      £m £m £m
Finance leases (Group as lessor – note 37)      5 – 5
Cash and cash equivalents      1,788 – 1,788
Short-term investments      360 – 360
Joint venture loan receivables (note 32)      173 – 173
Short-term borrowings      (2,033) – (2,033)
Long-term borrowings      (5,757) – (5,757)
Finance leases (Group as lessee – note 37)      (266) – (266)
Derivative fi nancial instruments:        
 Interest rate swaps and similar instruments      – (73) (73)
 Cross currency swaps      – 234 234
 Forward foreign currency contracts      – (381) (381)
 Future purchases of minority interests      – (232) (232)
        (5,730) (452) (6,182) 102 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
Note 23 Financial risk factors
The main financial risks faced by the Group relate to fluctuations in interest and foreign exchange rates, the risk of default by counterparties to financial 
transactions, and the availability of funds to meet business needs. These risks are managed as described below. The Group Balance Sheet position at  
28 February 2009 is representative of the position throughout the year, including the impact of acquisitions during the year.
Risk management is carried out by a central treasury department under policies approved by the Board of Directors. The Board provides written 
principles for risk management, as described in the Business Review on pages 38 to 40.
Interest rate risk
Interest rate risk arises from long-term borrowings. Debt issued at variable rates exposes the Group to cash flow interest rate risk. Debt issued at fixed 
rates exposes the Group to fair value risk. Our interest rate management policy is explained on page 40.
The Group has RPI debt where the principal is indexed to increases in the RPI index. RPI debt is treated as floating rate debt. The Group also has LPI 
debt, where the principal is indexed to RPI, with an annual maximum increase of 5% and a minimum of 0%. LPI debt is treated as fixed rate debt.
For interest rate risk relating to Tesco Personal Finance Group Limited (TPF) please refer to the separate section on TPF financial risk factors.
During 2009 and 2008, net debt including TPF was managed using derivative instruments to hedge interest rate risk as follows:
     2009   2008
   Fixed  Floating Total Fixed  Floating Total 
    £m £m  £m £m £m £m
Cash and cash equivalents    – 3,509 3,509 – 1,788 1,788
Loans and advances to customers – TPF     3,388 – 3,388 – – – 
Loans and advances to banks and other financial assets – TPF   – 2,129 2,129 – – –
Short-term investments     – 1,233 1,233 – 360 360 
Other investments – TPF     259 – 259 – – – 
Joint venture loan receivables     – 262 262 – 173 173
Finance leases    (84) (159) (243) (73) (188) (261)
Bank and other borrowings    (11,540) (4,667) (16,207) (5,745) (2,045) (7,790)
Customer deposits – TPF     – (4,538) (4,538) – – –
Deposits by banks – TPF    – (24) (24) – – –
Future purchases of minority interests     (200) – (200) (232) – (232)
Derivative effect:         
 Interest rate swaps     (415) 415 – 752 (752) –
 Cross currency swaps     4,524 (4,524) – 2,778 (2,778) –
 Caps and collars    774 (774) – (876) 876 –
Total     (3,294)  (7,138)  (10,432)  (3,396)  (2,566)  (5,962) 
Credit risk  
Credit risk arises from cash and cash equivalents, trade and other receivables, customer deposits, financial instruments and deposits with banks and 
financial institutions. The Group policy on credit risk is described on page 40.
The counterparty exposure under derivative contracts is £1,860m (2008 – £313m). The Group policy is to transact derivatives only with counterparties 
rated at least A1 by Moody’s.
For credit risk relating to TPF please refer to the separate section on TPF financial risk factors.
Liquidity risk  
Liquidity risk is managed by short-term and long-term cash flow forecasts. In addition, the Group has committed facility agreements for £2.7bn  
(2008 – £1.6bn), which mature between 2010 and 2014.
The Group has a European Medium Term Note programme of £15bn, of which £11bn was in issue at 28 February 2009 (2008 – £4.9bn), plus a Euro 
Commercial Paper programme of £2bn, of which £1.6bn was in issue at 28 February 2009 (2008 – £0.6bn), and a US Commercial Paper programme  
of $4bn, none of which was in issue at 28 February 2009 (2008 – £nil). 
For liquidity risk relating to TPF please refer to the separate section on TPF financial risk factors.
The following is an analysis of the undiscounted contractual cash flows payable under financial liabilities and derivatives.
The undiscounted cash flows will differ from both the carrying values and fair value. Floating rate interest is estimated using the prevailing rate at the 
Balance Sheet date. Cash flows in foreign currencies are translated using spot rates at the Balance Sheet date. For index linked liabilities, inflation is 
estimated at 3% for the life of the liability. 
Notes to the Group financial statements continued 103 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
To find out more go to 
www.tesco.com/annualreport09
Note 23 Financial risk factors continued
      Due  Due  Due Due  
     Due  between  between between between Due 
     within  1 and 2  2 and 3 3 and 4 4 and 5 beyond 
     1 year  years  years years years 5 years 
At 28 February 2009     £m  £m  £m £m £m £m
Non derivative financial liabilities
Bank and other borrowings      (3,616) (971) (873) (1,931) (225) (7,943)
Interest payments on borrowings      (560) (549) (514) (486) (411) (5,045)
Customer deposits – TPF   (4,538) – – – – –
Deposits by banks – TPF   (24) – – – – –
Finance leases       (55)  (51) (48) (32) (9) (172)
Trade and other payables     (8,522) (34) (5) (2) (4) (23)
Derivative and other financial liabilities          
Net settled derivative contracts – receipts     104 17 9 5 4 1
Net settled derivative contracts – payments     (245) (30) (19) (23) (13) (112)
Gross settled derivative contracts – receipts     4,657 1,186 1,247 404 708 5,707
Gross settled derivative contracts – payments     (4,577) (957) (1,053) (313) (671) (4,652)
Future purchases of minority interests      (93) – (87) (20) – –
Total     (17,469)  (1,389) (1,343) (2,398) (621) (12,239)
 
     Due  Due  Due Due  
    Due  between  between between between Due 
    within  1 and 2  2 and 3 3 and 4 4 and 5 beyond 
    1 year  years  years years years 5 years 
At 23 February 2008    £m  £m  £m £m £m £m
Non derivative financial liabilities
Bank and other borrowings      (2,018) (287) (795) (398) (47) (4,714)
Interest payments on borrowings      (298) (272) (229) (211) (198) (4,906)
Finance leases       (62)  (54) (50) (46) (30) (130)
Trade and other payables      (7,277) (14) (13) (2) (6) (7)
Derivative and other financial instruments          
Net settled derivative contracts – receipts     7 – – – – –
Net settled derivative contracts – payments     (230) (16) (9) (9) (9) (172)
Gross settled derivative contracts – receipts     2,968 255 705 484 297 3,207
Gross settled derivative contracts – payments     (2,827) (286) (677) (452) (304) (3,280)
Future purchases of minority interests      –  (70) – (166) (34) –
Total      (9,737)  (744)  (1,068) (800) (331) (10,002)
Sensitivity analysis at 28 February 2009
Financial instruments affected by market risk include borrowings, deposits and derivative financial instruments. The following analysis, required by  
IFRS 7 ‘Financial Instruments: Disclosures’, is intended to illustrate the sensitivity to changes in market variables, being UK interest rates, and foreign 
exchange risk. 104 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
Notes to the Group financial statements continued
Note 23 Financial risk factors continued
Foreign exchange risk
The Group is exposed to foreign exchange risk principally via:
(a)  Transactional exposure, from the cost of future purchases of goods for resale, where those purchases are denominated in a currency other than the 
functional currency of the purchasing company. Transactional exposures that could significantly impact the Group Income Statement are hedged. 
These exposures are hedged via forward foreign currency contracts which are designated as cash flow hedges. The notional and fair value of these 
contracts is shown in note 22.
(b)  Net investment exposure, from the value of net investments outside the UK. We hedge the majority of our investments in our international 
subsidiaries via foreign currency transactions and borrowings in matching currencies, which are formally designated as net investment hedges.
(c)  Loans to non-UK subsidiaries. These are hedged via foreign currency transactions and borrowings in matching currencies, which are not formally 
designated as hedges, as gains and losses on hedges and hedged loans will naturally offset.
The impact on Group financial instruments from foreign currency volatility is shown in the sensitivity analysis below.
The analysis excludes the impact of movements in market variables on the carrying value of pension and other post-employment obligations and on  
the retranslation of overseas net assets as required by IAS 21 ‘The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates’. However it does include the foreign 
exchange sensitivity resulting from all local entity non-functional currency financial instruments.
The sensitivity analysis has been prepared on the basis that the amount of net debt, the ratio of fixed to floating interest rates of the debt and 
derivatives portfolio, and the proportion of financial instruments in foreign currencies are all constant and on the basis of the hedge designations in 
place at 28 February 2009.
It should be noted that the sensitivity analysis reflects the impact on income and equity due to all financial instruments held at the Balance Sheet date. 
It does not reflect any change in sales or costs that may result from changing interest or exchange rates.
The following assumptions were made in calculating the sensitivity analysis:
 the sensitivity of interest payable to movements in interest rates is calculated on the post hedge floating rate net debt exposure with no sensitivity •	
assumed for LPI-linked debt;
  changes in the carrying value of derivative financial instruments designated as fair value hedges from movements in interest rates or foreign exchange •	
rates have an immaterial effect on the Group Income Statement and equity due to compensating adjustments in the carrying value of debt;
  changes in the carrying value of derivative financial instruments designated as net investment hedges from movements in foreign exchange rates are •	
recorded directly in equity;
  changes in the carrying value of derivative financial instruments not designated as hedging instruments only affect the Group Income Statement; •	
  all other changes in the carrying value of derivative financial instruments designated as hedging instruments are fully effective with no impact on  •	
the Group Income Statement;
  debt with a maturity below one year is floating rate for the interest payable part of the calculation; and •	
  the floating leg of any swap or any floating rate debt is treated as not having any interest rate already set, therefore a change in interest rates affects  •	
a full 12-month period for the interest payable portion of the sensitivity calculations.
Using the above assumptions, the following table shows the illustrative effect on the Group Income Statement and equity that would result from 
changes in UK interest rates, and in exchange rates:
        2009  2008
     Income Equity Income Equity 
     gain/(loss) gain/(loss) gain/(loss) gain/(loss) 
     £m £m £m £m
Assets
1% increase in GBP interest rates         (59) – (42) –
 
25% appreciation of the Euro (2008 – 5%)         (22) (22) (5) (32)
20% appreciation of the South Korean Won (2008 – 5%)         (1) (222) – –
25% appreciation of the US Dollar (2008 – 5%)         (11) 218 (2) 43
25% appreciation of the Thai Baht (2008 – 5%)         – (1) – (1)
25% appreciation of the Czech Koruna (2008 – 10%)         – (204) – (27)
15% appreciation of the Polish Zloty (2008 – 15%)         14 – 1  (102)
20% appreciation of the Slovak Koruna (2008 – 20%)         – – 2 (87)
The impact on equity from changing exchange rates results principally from foreign currency deals used as net investment hedges. The impact on equity 
will largely be offset by the revaluation in equity of the hedged assets. For changes in the USD/GBP exchange rate, the impact on equity results 
principally from forward purchases of USD as cash flow hedges. 105 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
To find out more go to 
www.tesco.com/annualreport09
Note 23 Financial risk factors continued
Capital risk
The Group’s objectives when managing capital (defined as net debt plus equity) are to safeguard the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern  
in order to provide returns to shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders, while maintaining a strong credit rating and headroom whilst optimising 
return to shareholders through an appropriate balance of debt and equity funding. The Group manages its capital structure and makes adjustments to 
it, in light of changes to economic conditions and the strategic objectives of the Company.
To maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the dividend payment to shareholders, buy back shares and cancel them or issue new 
shares. In April 2006, we outlined our plan to release cash from our property assets, via a sequence of property joint ventures and other transactions,  
and return significant value to shareholders, either through enhanced dividends or share buy-backs. The target for the value of share buy-backs was 
increased from £1.5bn to £3.0bn over a five-year period from April 2007. Whilst we continued with the policy at the beginning of 2008/9, we have 
subsequently used the proceeds from property divestment to pay down debt, following the two major acquisitions in the second half (Homever and 
Tesco Personal Finance Group Limited). Early in 2008/9 we purchased and cancelled £100m ordinary shares. In the financial year 2009/10 we expect  
to continue to use the proceeds from the sale of property to pay down debt. 
The policy for debt is to ensure a smooth debt maturity profile with the objective of ensuring continuity of funding. This policy continued during the 
current year with bonds redeemed of £524m and new bonds issued totalling £4,901m. The Group borrows centrally and locally, using a variety of capital 
market issues and borrowing facilities to meet the requirements of each local business.
Tesco Personal Finance Group Limited (TPF)
Interest rate risk
Interest rate risk arises where assets and liabilities in TPF’s banking activities have different repricing dates. TPF policy seeks to minimise the sensitivity 
of net interest income to changes in interest rates. Potential exposures to interest rate movements in the medium to long term are measured and 
controlled through position and sensitivity limits. Short-term exposures are measured and controlled in terms of net interest income sensitivity over  
12 months to a 1.5% parallel movement in interest rates. Risk is managed through arm’s length cash transactions.
Credit risk
Credit risk is the probability of customers and counterparties failing to meet their obligations to TPF and arises principally from TPF’s lending activities 
but also from other transactions involving on and off-balance sheet instruments. Limits have been established for all counterparties based on their 
respective credit ratings. The limits and proposed counterparties are reviewed and approved by the Risk Management Committee (RMC) and Board  
of TPF.
Internal reporting and oversight of risk assets is principally differentiated by credit ratings. Internal ratings are used to assess the credit quality of 
borrowers. Customers are assigned credit ratings, based on various credit grading models that reflect the probability of default.
Liquidity risk 
Liquidity risk is managed on a consolidated basis within TPF’s banking activities and adheres to the liquidity requirements set by the Financial Services 
Authority (FSA) from time to time. In the UK, the FSA requires TPF to be able to meet its sterling obligations without recourse to the wholesale markets 
for a period of at least five business days. To meet regulatory requirements a diversified portfolio of high quality liquid and marketable assets is 
maintained. Cash flow commitments and marketable asset holdings are measured and managed on a daily basis. TPF has credit facilities sufficient  
to meet all foreseeable outflow requirements as they fall due and its liquidity risk is further mitigated by its well diversified retail deposit base.
Expressed as an annual probability of default, the upper and lower boundaries and the midpoint for each of the asset quality grades are as follows:
         Annual probability of default
     Minimum Midpoint Maximum S&P 
Asset quality grade     % % % equivalent
AQ1     0.00 0.10 0.20 AAA to BBB-
AQ2     0.21 0.40 0.60 BB+ to BB
AQ3     0.61 1.05 1.50 BB- to B+
AQ4     1.51 3.25 5.00 B+ to B
AQ5     5.01 52.50 100.00 B and below
      Accruing  Non- Impairment  
 AQ1 AQ2 AQ3 AQ4 AQ5 past due accrual provision Total 
At 28 February 2009 £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Assets:        
Other investments 259   – – – – – – – 259 
Loans and advances to customers 352  652 828 870 563 82 291 (250) 3,388
Loans and advances to banks  
and other financial assets 2,129  – – – – – –  – 2,129
    2,740   652 828 870 563 82 291 (250) 5,776 
                    
Commitment 3,103   1,451 744 305 129 – –  – 5,732 
Total off balance sheet 3,103   1,451 744 305 129 – – – 5,732  106 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
Note 23 Financial risk factors continued
Insurance risk  
TPF is exposed to insurance risk indirectly through its profit sharing commission arrangement with The Royal Bank of Scotland Group PLC. Insurance 
risk is the risk of fluctuations in the timing, frequency or severity of insured events, relative to the expectations at the time of underwriting.
The frequency and severity of claims and the sources of uncertainty for the key classes that TPF is exposed to are as follows:
Motor insurance  
Claims experience is quite variable, due to a wide range of factors, but the principal ones are age, sex and driving experience, type and nature of vehicle, 
use of vehicle and area. There are many sources of uncertainty that will affect TPF’s experience under motor insurance including operational risk, 
reserving risk, premium rates not matching claims inflation rates, the weather, the social, economic and legislative environment and reinsurance failure risk.
Property insurance 
The major causes of claims for property insurance are theft, flood, escape of water, fire, storm, subsidence and various types of accidental damage.  
The major source of uncertainty is the volatility of weather.
Note 24 Customer deposits
        2009 2008 
            £m £m
Customer deposits          4,538 –
Customer deposits are recorded at amortised cost and are repayable on demand.
Note 25 Deposits by banks
The Group has deposits by banks with the following maturity: 
        2009 2008 
            £m £m
Within three months          24 –
            24 –
Deposits by banks are recorded at amortised cost.
Note 26 Provisions
        Property 
        provisions 
        £m
At 23 February 2008             27
Foreign currency translation             3
Acquisitions through business combinations        59
Amount utilised in the year             (12)
At 28 February 2009             77
Property provisions comprise future rents payable net of rents receivable on onerous and vacant property leases, provisions for terminal dilapidations 
and provisions for future rents above market value on unprofitable stores. The majority of the provision is expected to be utilised over the period to 2020. 
The balances are analysed as follows:
       2009 2008 
       £m £m
Current             10 4
Non-current             67 23
                77 27
Notes to the Group financial statements continued 107 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
To find out more go to 
www.tesco.com/annualreport09
Note 27 Share-based payments
The Group has not taken advantage of the transitional provisions of IFRS 2 ‘Share-based payment’ in respect of equity-settled awards but instead 
applied IFRS 2 retrospectively to all awards granted, but not vested, as at 28 February 2004.
The total Group Income Statement charge for the year recognised in respect of share-based payments is £242m (2008 – £228m), which is made up of 
share option schemes and share bonus payments. Of this amount £204m (2008 – £199m) will be equity-settled and £38m (2008 – £29m) cash-settled.
a) Share option schemes
The Company had nine share option schemes in operation during the year, all of which are equity-settled schemes:
i)  The Savings-related Share Option Scheme (1981) permits the grant to employees of options in respect of ordinary shares linked to a building 
society/bank save-as-you-earn contract for a term of three or five years with contributions from employees of an amount between £5 and £250  
per four-weekly period. Options are capable of being exercised at the end of the three or five-year period at a subscription price not less than  
80% of the average of the middle-market quotations of an ordinary share over the three dealing days immediately preceding the offer date.
ii)  The Irish Savings-related Share Option Scheme (2000) permits the grant to Irish employees of options in respect of ordinary shares linked to a 
building society/bank save-as-you-earn contract for a term of three or five years with contributions from employees of an amount between €12  
and €320 per four-weekly period. Options are capable of being exercised at the end of the three or five-year period at a subscription price not less 
than 80% of the average of the middle-market quotations of an ordinary share over the three dealing days immediately preceding the offer date. 
iii)  The Approved Executive Share Option Scheme (1994) was adopted on 17 October 1994. The exercise of options granted under this scheme will 
normally be conditional upon the achievement of a specified performance target related to the growth in earnings per share over a three-year 
period. No further options will be granted under this scheme and it has been replaced by the Discretionary Share Option Plan (2004). There were  
no discounted options granted under this scheme.
iv)  The Unapproved Executive Share Option Scheme (1996) was adopted on 7 June 1996. The exercise of options granted under this scheme will 
normally be conditional upon the achievement of a specified performance target related to the growth in earnings per share over a three-year period. 
No further options will be granted under this scheme and it has been replaced by the Discretionary Share Option Plan (2004). There were no 
discounted options granted under this scheme.
v)  The International Executive Share Option Scheme (1994) was adopted on 20 May 1994. This scheme permits the grant to selected non-UK 
executives of options to acquire ordinary shares on substantially the same basis as their UK counterparts. The exercise of options granted under  
this scheme will normally be conditional on the achievement of a specified performance target related to the growth in earnings per share over  
a three-year period. No further options will be granted under this scheme and it has been replaced by the Discretionary Share Option Plan (2004). 
There were no discounted options granted under this scheme. 
vi)  The Executive Incentive Plan (2004) was adopted on 5 July 2004. This scheme permits the grant of options in respect of ordinary shares to selected 
executives. Options are normally exercisable between three and ten years from the date of grant for nil consideration.
vii)  The Performance Share Plan (2004) was adopted on 5 July 2004 and amended on 29 June 2007. This scheme permits the grant of options in 
respect of ordinary shares to selected executives. Options granted before 29 June 2007 are normally exercisable between four and ten years from 
the date of grant for nil consideration. Options granted after 29 June 2007 are normally exercisable between three and ten years from the date of 
grant for nil consideration. The exercise of options will normally be conditional on the achievement of specified performance targets related to the 
return on capital employed over a three-year period.
viii)  The Discretionary Share Option Plan (2004) was adopted on 5 July 2004. This scheme permits the grant of approved, unapproved and international 
options in respect of ordinary shares to selected executives. Options are normally exercisable between three and ten years from the date of grant  
at a price not less than the middle-market quotation or average middle-market quotations of an ordinary share for the dealing day or three dealing 
days preceding the date of grant. The exercise of options will normally be conditional on the achievement of a specified performance target related 
to the annual percentage growth in earnings per share over a three-year period. There will be no discounted options granted under this scheme.
ix)  The Group New Business Incentive Plan (2007) was adopted on 29 June 2007. This scheme permits the grant of options in respect of ordinary 
shares to selected executives. Options will normally vest in four tranches: four, five, six and seven years after the date of grant and will be exercisable 
for up to two years from the vesting dates for nil consideration. The exercise of options will normally be conditional on the achievement of specified 
performance targets related to the return on capital employed over the seven-year plan. 108 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
Note 27 Share-based payments continued
The following tables reconcile the number of share options outstanding and the weighted average exercise price (WAEP):
For the year ended 28 February 2009
  Savings-related Irish savings-related Approved Unapproved International executive Nil cost 
  share option scheme share option scheme share option scheme share option scheme share option scheme share options
  Options WAEP Options WAEP Options WAEP Options WAEP Options WAEP Options WAEP
Outstanding at
  23 February 
  2008 153,361,820 281.40 5,083,009 300.71 16,229,846 324.45 77,043,605 307.00 36,970,259 333.22 10,838,238 0.00
Granted 38,531,375 311.00 1,642,089 311.00 3,308,213 426.79 18,297,370 426.82 13,664,591 422.88 3,591,855 0.00
Forfeited (10,351,962) 299.64 (485,512) 293.84 (901,163) 384.34 (2,768,871) 388.51 (3,268,614) 327.65 – –
Exercised (38,731,136) 214.48 (820,683) 226.80 (2,767,976) 277.55 (11,272,220) 243.72 (3,468,031) 269.07 (106,385) 0.00
Outstanding at 
  28 February 
  2009 142,810,097 306.21 5,418,903 315.67 15,868,920 350.56 81,299,884 339.97 43,898,205 366.61 14,323,708 0.00
 
Exercisable as at  
  28 February
  2009 6,553,484 220.72 398,093 233.61 5,574,827 259.54 36,205,357 260.09 12,340,929 268.72 2,048,225 – 
Exercise price   159.00 to   159.00 to   197.50 to   164.00 to   176.70 to 
  range (pence)   248.00   248.00   313.50   313.50   312.75   –
Weighted average  
  remaining 
  contractual 
  life (years)   0.18   0.15   3.99   4.63   4.76       5.83
For the year ended 23 February 2008
  Savings-related Irish savings-related Approved Unapproved International executive Nil cost 
  share option scheme share option scheme share option scheme share option scheme share option scheme share options
  Options WAEP Options WAEP Options WAEP Options WAEP Options WAEP Options WAEP
Outstanding at 
  24 February 
  2007 173,103,108 236.12 4,927,409 250.27 16,855,033 276.19 82,526,915 267.70 33,128,105 280.68 5,810,007 0.00
Granted 30,284,995 410.00 1,333,621 410.00 3,675,200 473.75 14,355,638 473.66 10,127,935 466.57 5,113,574 0.00
Forfeited (9,470,529) 253.96 (401,169) 241.75 (926,135) 336.21 (3,399,364) 355.17 (1,999,671) 310.13 –  – 
Exercised (40,555,754) 190.56 (776,852) 198.83 (3,374,252) 242.77 (16,439,584) 245.18 (4,286,110) 252.90 (85,343) 0.00
Outstanding at  
  23 February 
  2008 153,361,820 281.40 5,083,009 300.71 16,229,846 324.45 77,043,605 307.00 36,970,259 333.22 10,838,238 0.00
 
Exercisable as at 
  23 February
  2008 7,761,557 192.99 245,709 201.21 4,968,637 232.22 33,091,974 230.57 9,412,295 225.27 – – 
Exercise price   159.00 to   159.00 to   197.50 to   164.00 to   176.70 to 
  range (pence)   232.00   232.00   259.00   259.00   259.00   –
Weighted average  
  remaining
  contractual 
  life (years)   0.20   0.20   3.94   4.59   4.06   –
Notes to the Group financial statements continued 109 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
To find out more go to 
www.tesco.com/annualreport09
Note 27 Share-based payments continued
Share options were exercised on a regular basis throughout the year. The average share price during the year to 28 February 2009 was 372.06p  
(2008 – 443.59p).
The fair value of share options is estimated at the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option pricing model. The following table gives the assumptions 
applied to the options granted in the respective periods shown. No assumption has been made to incorporate the effects of expected early exercise.
     2009   2008
    Savings-   Savings-  
   related Executive  related Executive  
   share share Nil cost share share Nil cost 
   option option option option option option 
   schemes schemes schemes schemes schemes schemes
Expected dividend yield (%)     3.3% 3.3% 0.0% 2.4% 2.4% 0.0%
Expected volatility (%)     25-30% 25% 25% 20-21% 24% 24-27%
Risk-free interest rate (%)     3.2-3.8% 3.2-4.9% 4.6-4.9% 4.8% 5.0-5.3% 4.7-4.9%
Expected life of option (years)     3 or 5 6 6 3 or 5 6 6-9
Weighted average fair value of options granted (pence)     89.28 93.90 418.09 116.35 119.96 469.17
Probability of forfeiture (%)     20-25% 10% 0% 20-25% 10% 0%
Share price (pence)     361.00 425.20 418.09 470.00 471.12 469.17
Weighted average exercise price (pence)     311.00 425.20 0.00 410.00 471.12 0.00
Volatility is a measure of the amount by which a price is expected to fluctuate during a period. The measure of volatility used in Tesco PLC option  
pricing models is the annualised standard deviation of the continuously compounded rates of return on the share over a period of time. In estimating the 
future volatility of the Company’s share price, the Board consider the historical volatility of the share price over the most recent period that is generally 
commensurate with the expected term of the option, taking into account the remaining contractual life of the option.
b) Share bonus schemes
Eligible UK employees are able to participate in Shares in Success, an all-employee profit-sharing scheme. Each year, shares are awarded as a 
percentage of earnings up to a statutory maximum of £3,000.
Senior management also participate in performance-related bonus schemes. The amount paid to employees is based on a percentage of salary and is 
paid partly in cash and partly in shares. Bonuses are awarded to eligible employees who have completed a required service period and depend on the 
achievement of corporate targets. The accrued cash element of the bonus at the Balance Sheet date is £33m (2008 – £26m).
Selected senior management participate in the senior management Performance Share Plan. Awards made under this plan will normally vest three years 
after the date of the award for nil consideration. Vesting will normally be conditional on the achievement of specified performance targets related to the 
return on capital employed over a three year performance period.
Senior management in the US business also participate in the US Long-Term Incentive Plan (2007) which was adopted on 29 June 2007. The awards 
made under this Plan will normally vest in four tranches: four, five, six and seven years after the date of award, for nil consideration. Vesting will normally 
be conditional on the achievement of specified performance targets related to the return on capital employed in the US business over the seven-year plan.
Eligible ROI employees are able to participate in a Share Bonus Scheme, an all-employee profit sharing scheme. Each year, employees receive a 
percentage of their earnings as either cash or shares.
The Executive Directors participate in short-term and long-term bonus schemes designed to align their interests with those of shareholders. Full details 
of these schemes can be found in the Directors’ Remuneration Report. 
The fair value of shares awarded under these schemes is their market value on the date of award. Expected dividends are not incorporated into the fair 
value except for awards under the US Long-Term Incentive Plan.
The number and weighted average fair value (WAFV) of share bonuses awarded during the period were:
        2009  2008
     Shares WAFV Shares WAFV 
     number pence number pence
Shares in Success         21,295,232 431.05 18,019,768 470.45
Executive Incentive Scheme         10,996,677 415.68 10,012,950 456.11
Performance Share Plan         2,123,237 353.76 1,292,172 466.21
US Long-Term Incentive Plan         673,716 403.80 4,817,720 471.10 110 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
Notes to the Group financial statements continued
Note 28 Post-employment benefits
Pensions
The Group operates a variety of post-employment benefit arrangements, covering both funded defined contribution and funded and unfunded defined 
benefit schemes. The most significant of these are the funded defined benefit pension schemes for the Group’s employees in the UK and the Republic 
of Ireland.
Defined contribution plans
The contributions payable for defined contribution schemes of £11m (2008 – £8m) have been fully expensed against profits in the current year. 
Defined benefit plans
United Kingdom  
The principal plan within the Group is the Tesco PLC Pension Scheme, which is a funded defined benefit pension scheme in the UK, the assets of which 
are held as a segregated fund and administered by trustees. Watson Wyatt Limited, an independent actuary, carried out the latest triennial actuarial 
assessment of the scheme as at 31 March 2008, using the projected unit method. 
At the date of the last actuarial valuation the actuarial deficit was £275m. The market value of the schemes’ assets was £3,987m and these assets 
represented 94% of the benefits that had accrued to members, after allowing for expected increases in earnings and pensions in payment.
The One Stop Senior Executives Pension Scheme is a funded defined benefit scheme open to senior executives and certain other employees at the 
invitation of the Company. An independent actuary, using the projected unit method, carried out the latest actuarial assessment of the scheme as at  
5 April 2004. 
Overseas
The most significant overseas scheme is the funded defined benefit pension scheme which operates in the Republic of Ireland. An independent actuary, 
using the projected unit method, carried out the latest actuarial assessment of the scheme as at 1 April 2007. 
The valuations used for IAS 19 have been based on the most recent actuarial valuations and updated by Watson Wyatt Limited to take account of the 
requirements of IAS 19 in order to assess the liabilities of the schemes as at 28 February 2009. The schemes’ assets are stated at their market values  
as at 28 February 2009. Watson Wyatt Limited have updated the most recent Republic of Ireland valuation. The liabilities relating to retirement 
healthcare benefits have also been determined in accordance with IAS 19, and are incorporated in the following tables.
Principal assumptions  
The valuations used have been based on the most recent actuarial valuations and updated by Watson Wyatt Limited to take account of the requirements 
of IAS 19 in order to assess the liabilities of the schemes as at 28 February 2009. The major assumptions, on a weighted average basis, used by the 
actuaries were as follows:
      2009 2008 2007 
      % % %
 
Rate of increase in salaries           3.7 5.0 4.5
Rate of increase in pensions in payment*           3.1 3.5 3.0
Rate of increase in deferred pensions*           3.2 3.5 3.0
Rate of increase in career average benefits           3.2 3.5 3.0
Discount rate           6.5 6.4 5.2
Price inflation           3.2 3.5 3.0
* In excess of any Guaranteed Minimum Pension (GMP) element.
The main financial assumption is the real discount rate i.e. the excess of the discount rate over the rate of price inflation. If this assumption increased/ 
decreased by 0.1%, the UK defined benefit obligation would decrease/increase by approximately £110m and the annual UK current service cost would 
decrease/increase by approximately £11m. 
UK mortality assumptions  
The Company conducts analysis of mortality trends under the Tesco PLC Pension Scheme in the UK as part of the triennial actuarial valuation of the 
Scheme. At the latest triennial actuarial valuation as at 31 March 2008, the following assumptions were adopted for funding purposes:
Base tables:
 PMA92C00 for male members with cohort improvements to 2000 and members taken to be one year younger than actual age.
 PFA92C00 for female members with cohort improvements to 2000 and members taken to be half a year older than actual age.
This assumption was used for the calculation of the pension liability as at 28 February 2009 for the main UK scheme.
As at 28 February 2009, the mortality assumptions have been strengthened. The base tables have been updated in line with medium cohort projections 
with a minimum improvement of 1% per annum from 31 March 2008 to 28 February 2009. In addition, the allowance for future mortality improvements 
has been changed to incorporate medium cohort projections with a minimum improvement of 1% per annum. 111 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
To find out more go to 
www.tesco.com/annualreport09
Note 28 Post-employment benefits continued
The mortality assumptions used for the calculation of the pension liabilities as at 24 February 2007 and 23 February 2008 were based on the previous 
triennial actuarial valuation as at 31 March 2005, which included the following assumptions for funding purposes:
Base tables:
 PMA92C00 for male members with cohort improvements to 2000 and members taken to be two years older than actual age.  
 PFA92C00 for female members with cohort improvements to 2000 and members taken to be half a year older than actual age.
Additionally, at the 31 March 2005 valuation an allowance was built in for future mortality improvements via a 0.2% reduction to the discount rate.
The following table illustrates the expectation of life of an average member retiring at age 65 at the Balance Sheet date and a member reaching age 65 
at the same date +25 years: 
      2009 2008 2007 
      in years in years in years
Retiring at Reporting date at age 65: Male         21.5 19.0 17.5
    Female         23.3 23.3 21.9
Retiring at Reporting date +25 years at age 65: Male         23.9 20.6 18.4
    Female         25.8 24.7 23.0
Rates of return on scheme assets 
The assets in the defined benefit pension schemes and the expected nominal rates of return were:
      2009  2008  2007
   Long-term Market Long-term Market Long-term Market 
   rate of return value rate of return value rate of return value 
   % £m % £m % £m
 
Equities     8.9 1,482 8.9 2,205 8.1 2,420
Bonds     5.5 1,080 5.7 901 5.2 812
Property     7.3 342 7.3 351 6.7 343
Other (alternative assets)     8.9 383 8.9 512 8.1 384
Cash     3.7 133 4.5 120 4.0 48
Total market value of assets       3,420   4,089   4,007
The expected rate of return on assets is a weighted average based on the actual plan assets held and the respective returns expected on the separate 
asset classes. The expected rate of return on equities and cash have both been set having regard to expected returns over the medium term, as 
calculated by the Company’s independent actuary. The expected rate of return on bonds was measured directly from actual yields for gilts and 
corporate bond stocks. The above rate takes into account the actual mix of UK gilts, UK corporate bonds and overseas bonds held at the Balance  
Sheet date. 
Movement in pension deficit during the year  
Changes in the fair value of defined benefit pension plan assets are as follows:
      2009 2008 2007 
      £m £m £m
Opening fair value of plan assets           4,089 4,007 3,448
Expected return           338 301 255
Actuarial (losses)/gains           (1,270) (465) 82
Contributions by employer           376 340 321
Actual member contributions           8 7 7
Foreign currency translation           11 9 (2)
Benefits paid           (132) (112) (104)
Acquisitions through business combinations           – 2 –
Closing fair value of plan assets           3,420 4,089 4,007 112 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
Note 28 Post-employment benefits continued
Changes in the present value of defined benefit obligations are as follows:
      2009 2008 2007 
      £m £m £m
Opening defined benefit obligation           (4,927) (4,957) (4,659)
Current service cost           (428) (461) (466)
Interest cost           (313) (254) (221)
Gain on change of assumptions           760 672 71
Experience losses           (117) (21) (41)
Foreign currency translation           (13) (8) 4
Benefits paid           132 112 104
Actual member contributions           (8) (7) (7)
Past service gains           – – 258
Acquisitions through business combinations           – (3) –
Closing defined benefit obligation           (4,914) (4,927) (4,957)
The amounts that have been charged to the Group Income Statement and Group Statement of Recognised Income and Expense for the year ended  
28 February 2009 are set out below:
      2009 2008 2007 
      £m £m £m
Analysis of the amount (charged)/credited to operating profit:        
Current service cost           (428) (461) (466)
Past service gains           – – 258
Total charge to operating profit           (428) (461) (208)
Analysis of the amount credited/(charged) to finance income:        
Expected return on pension schemes’ assets           338 301 255
Interest on pension schemes’ liabilities           (313) (254) (221)
Net pension finance income (note 5)           25 47 34
Total charge to the Group Income Statement           (403) (414) (174)
In 2007, in line with changes to the Finance Act 2006, the scheme rules were amended from 6 April 2006 to allow employees to commute (convert)  
a larger proportion of their pension for a cash lump sum at retirement. Accordingly, the assumptions made in calculating the Group’s defined benefit 
pension liability have been revised, resulting in a gain of £250m being recognised in Group operating profit in 2006/7. Revisions to this assumption will 
be reflected in the Group Statement of Recognised Income and Expense. Changes to scheme rules in the Republic of Ireland affecting early retirement 
have reduced pension liabilities by a further £8m, which was also shown as a past service gain in the Group Income Statement in 2006/7.
      2009 2008 2007 
      £m £m £m
Analysis of the amount recognised in the Group Statement of Recognised Income and Expense:    
Actual return less expected return on pension schemes’ assets         (1,270) (465) 82
Experience losses arising on the schemes’ liabilities           (117) (21) (41)
Foreign currency translation           (2) 1 2
Changes in assumptions underlying the present value of the schemes’ liabilities       760 672 71
Total (loss)/gain recognised in the Group Statement of Recognised Income and Expense     (629) 187 114
The cumulative losses recognised through the Group Statement of Recognised Income and Expense since the date of transition to IFRS are £1,001m  
(2008 – £372m).
Notes to the Group financial statements continued 113 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
To find out more go to 
www.tesco.com/annualreport09
Note 28 Post-employment benefits continued
Summary of movements in deficit during the year
      2009 2008 2007 
      £m £m £m
Deficit in schemes at beginning of the year           (838) (950) (1,211)
Current service cost           (428) (461) (466)
Past service gains           – – 258
Other finance income           25 47 34
Contributions by employer           376 340 321
Foreign currency translation           (2) 1 2
Actuarial (loss)/gain           (627) 186 112
Acquisitions through business combinations           – (1) –
Deficit in schemes at end of the year           (1,494) (838) (950)
History of movements  
The historical movement in defined benefit pension schemes assets and liabilities and history of experience gains and losses are as follows:
     2009 2008 2007 2006 
     £m £m £m £m
Total market value of assets         3,420 4,089 4,007 3,448
Present value of liabilities relating to unfunded schemes         (39) (34) (27) (17)
Present value of liabilities relating to partially funded schemes        (4,875) (4,893) (4,930) (4,642)
Pension deficit         (1,494) (838) (950) (1,211)
 
Experience (losses)/gains on scheme assets         (1,270) (465) 82 309
Experience losses on plan liabilities          (117)  (20) (41) (24)
Post-employment benefits other than pensions   
The Company operates a scheme offering retirement healthcare benefits. The cost of providing these benefits has been accounted for on a similar basis 
to that used for defined benefit pension schemes.
The liability as at 28 February 2009 of £10m (2008 – £11m) was determined in accordance with the advice of independent actuaries. In 2008/9,  
£0.7m (2007/8 – £0.6m) has been charged to the Group Income Statement and £0.5m (2007/8 – £0.7m) of benefits were paid. 
A change of 1.0% in assumed healthcare cost trend rates would have the following effect:
      2009 2008 2007 
      £m £m £m
Effect of a 1% increase in assumed healthcare cost trend rate on:            
  Service and interest cost           0.1 0.1 0.1
  Defined benefit obligation           1.6 1.6 1.3
Effect of a 1% decrease in assumed healthcare cost trend rate on:            
  Service and interest cost           (0.1) (0.1) (0.1)
  Defined benefit obligation           (1.3) (1.3) (1.3)
Expected contributions  
A formal actuarial valuation is carried out triennially for the scheme trustees by a professionally qualified independent actuary. The purpose of the 
valuation is to agree a funding plan to ensure that present and future contributions should be sufficient to meet future liabilities. The actuarial valuation 
of approved schemes as at 31 March 2008 has been concluded and company contributions are increasing to 11.1% from 10.9%. On this basis the Group 
expects to make contributions of approximately £410m to defined benefit pension schemes in the year ending 27 February 2010. 114 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
Note 29 Called up share capital
     2009   2008
    Ordinary shares of 5p each Ordinary shares of 5p each
     Number £m Number £m
Authorised:
At beginning of year      10,858,000,000 543  10,858,000,000 543
Authorised during the year      – –  – –
At end of year       10,858,000,000 543 10,858,000,000 543
Allotted, called up and fully paid:
At beginning of year      7,863,498,783 393 7,947,349,558 397
Share options       57,060,046 3 65,432,552 3
Share buy-back      (25,214,811) (1) (149,283,327) (7)
At end of year      7,895,344,018 395 7,863,498,783 393
During the financial year, 57 million (2008 – 65 million) shares of 5p each were issued in relation to share options for aggregate consideration of  
£130m (2008 – £138m). 
During the year, the Company purchased and subsequently cancelled 25,214,811 (2008 – 149,283,327) shares of 5p each, representing 0%  
(2008 – 2%) of the called up share capital, at an average price of £3.98 (2008 – £4.38) per share. The total consideration, including expenses, was 
£100m (2008 – £657m). The excess of the consideration over the nominal value has been charged to retained earnings. 
Between 1 March 2009 and 17 April 2009, options over 3,120,922 ordinary shares have been exercised under the terms of the Savings-related  
Share Option Scheme (1981) and the Irish Savings-related Share Option Scheme (2000). Between 1 March 2009 and 17 April 2009, options over  
324,991 ordinary shares have been exercised under the terms of the Executive Share Option Schemes (1994 and 1996) and the Discretionary Share  
Option Plan (2004).
As at 28 February 2009, the Directors were authorised to purchase up to a maximum in aggregate of 784.8 million (2008 – 793.4 million) ordinary shares.
The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends as declared from time to time and are entitled to one vote per share at the meetings  
of the Company.
Notes to the Group financial statements continued 115 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
To find out more go to 
www.tesco.com/annualreport09
Note 30 Statement of changes in equity
         
Total
 
        Retained  
equity
 
        earnings 
attributable
    
 Issued   Capital     to equity 
 share Share Other redemption Hedging Translation Treasury Retained holders of Minority 
 capital premium reserves reserve reserve reserve shares earnings the parent interests Total 
 £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
At 23 February 2008 393 4,511 40 12 4 245 (204) 6,814 11,815 87 11,902
Foreign currency translation  
  differences – – – – – (269) – – (269) (6) (275)
Actuarial loss on defined  
  benefit schemes – – – – – (2) – (627) (629) – (629) 
Tax on items taken directly to  
  or transferred from equity – – – – – 199 – 236 435 – 435
Change in fair value of  
  available-for-sale financial assets – – – – – – – 3 3 – 3
Gains on cash flow hedges – – – – 171 – – – 171 – 171 
Purchase of treasury shares – – – – – – (165) – (165) – (165)
Share-based payments – – – – – – 137 67 204 – 204 
Issue of shares 3 127 – – – – – – 130 – 130 
Share buy-backs (1) – – 1 – – – – – – – 
Purchase of minority interest – – – – – – – – – (26) (26)
Dividends paid to minority interests – – – – – – – – – (3) (3)
Fair value reserve arising on   
 acquisition of TPF – – – – – – – (35) (35) – (35)
Profit for the year – – – – – – – 2,161 2,161 5 2,166
Equity dividends authorised    
  in the year – – – – – – – (883) (883) – (883) 
At 28 February 2009 395 4,638 40 13 175 173 (232) 7,736 12,938 57 12,995
         
Total
 
        Retained  
equity
 
        earnings 
attributable
    
 Issued   Capital     to equity 
 share Share Other redemption Hedging Translation Treasury Retained holders of Minority 
 capital premium reserves reserve reserve reserve shares earnings the parent interests Total 
 £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
At 24 February 2007 397 4,376 40 5 (33) (39) (154) 5,914 10,506 65 10,571
Foreign currency translation  
  differences – – – – – 33 – – 33 5 38
Actuarial gain on defined  
  benefit schemes – – – – – 1 – 186 187 – 187 
Tax on items taken directly to  
  or transferred from equity – – – – – 250 – (127) 123 – 123
Decrease in fair value of  
  available-for-sale financial assets – – – – – – – (4) (4) – (4)
Gains on cash flow hedges – – – – 37 – – – 37 – 37 
Purchase of treasury shares – – – – – – (118) – (118) – (118)
Share-based payments – – – – – – 68 131 199 – 199 
Issue of shares 3 135 – – – – – – 138 – 138 
Share buy-backs (7) – – 7 – – – (665) (665) – (665) 
Purchase of minority interest – – – – – – – 47 47 (27) 20
Minority interest on acquisitions 
 of subsidiaries – – – – – – – – – 38 38
Profit for the year – – – – – – – 2,124 2,124 6 2,130
Equity dividends authorised  
  in the year – – – – – – – (792) (792) – (792) 
At 23 February 2008 393 4,511 40 12 4 245 (204) 6,814 11,815 87 11,902 116 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
Note 30 Statement of changes in equity continued
Share premium account
The share premium account is used to record amounts received in excess of the nominal value of shares on issue of new shares.
Translation reserve
The translation reserve is used to record exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of foreign subsidiaries. It is also  
used to record the movements in net investment hedges. 
Treasury shares
The employee benefit trusts hold shares in Tesco PLC for the purpose of the various executive share incentive and profit share schemes. At 28 February 
2009, the trusts held 51.1 million shares (2008 – 47.4 million), which cost £203m (2008 – £184m) and had a market value of £170m (2008 – £190m).
The voting rights in relation to the shares are exercisable by the Trustee, however, in accordance with investor guidelines the Trustee abstains from voting.
At 28 February 2009, the Group’s Trustees also held 8.7 million (2008 – 7.8 million) unallocated shares in Tesco PLC which cost £29m (2008 – £20m).
Other reserves
The merger reserve arose on the acquisition of Hillards PLC in 1987. 
Share buy-back liability
Insider trading rules prevent the Group from buying back Tesco PLC shares in the market during specified close periods (including the period between  
the year end and the annual results announcement). However, if an irrevocable agreement is signed between the Company and a third party, they can 
continue to buy back shares on behalf of the Company. In 2008, three such arrangements were in place at the year end and in accordance with IAS 32, 
the Company recognised a financial liability equal to the estimated value of the shares purchasable under these agreements. A liability of £100m was 
recognised within other payables for this amount. There were no such agreements in place in 2009.
Capital redemption reserve
Upon cancellation of the shares purchased as part of the share buy-back, a capital redemption reserve is created representing the nominal value of the 
shares cancelled. This is a non-distributable reserve.
Other
The cumulative goodwill written off against the reserves of the Group as at 28 February 2009 amounted to £718m (2008 – £718m). 
Fair value reserve arising on acquisition of TPF
The share of fair value reserve has arisen on the acquisition of TPF and is made up of the reversal of previous profits recognised due to equity accounting 
of the joint venture and increase in fair value of the underlying identifiable assets since initial acquisition.
Notes to the Group financial statements continued 117 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
To find out more go to 
www.tesco.com/annualreport09
Note 31 Business combinations 
The Group has made a number of acquisitions in the year, of which the most significant acquisitions have been disclosed separately and the remainder 
shown in aggregate.
The net assets and results of the acquired businesses are included in the consolidated accounts of the Group from the date of acquisition. Acquisition 
accounting has been applied and the goodwill arising has been capitalised and is subject to annual impairment testing.
The goodwill acquired in the business combinations listed below has been allocated to the single group of cash-generating units represented by  
the acquired businesses, as this is the lowest level within the Group at which the goodwill is monitored internally. Goodwill arising on acquisitions  
in the year is attributable mainly to location, the assembled workforce and the synergies expected to be achieved.
The fair values currently established for acquisitions made in the year to 28 February 2009 are provisional. Fair values will be reviewed based on 
additional information up to one year from the date of acquisition. The Directors do not believe that any net adjustments resulting from such a review 
would have a material effect on the Group.
Had all the combinations listed below taken place at the beginning of the financial year, with the exception of Dobbies Garden Centre PLC which 
became a subsidiary in 2007/8, the operating profit of the Group would have been £3,391m and revenue would have been £55,750m. The pro-forma 
information is provided for comparative purposes only and does not necessarily reflect the actual results that would have occurred, nor is it necessarily 
indicative of future results of operations of the combined companies. 
Tesco Personal Finance Group Limited (TPF) 
On 19 December 2008, the Group acquired the remaining 50% of the share capital of its joint venture TPF, a provider of banking and other financial 
services in the United Kingdom, making it a wholly-owned subsidiary undertaking.
The fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities of TPF as at the date of acquisition were:
      Pre-acquisition  Recognised 
      carrying Fair value values on 
      amounts adjustments acquisition 
      £m £m £m
Property, plant and equipment       24  (3) 21 
Intangible assets       –  259  259 
Loans and advances to banks and other financial assets       3  –  3 
Loans and advances to customers       3,715  (347) 3,368 
Other investments       259  –  259 
Trade and other receivables       158  – 158 
Deferred tax asset       12  40  52 
Customer deposits        (3,175) – (3,175)
Bank overdraft       (92) – (92)
Borrowings       (226) – (226)
Trade and other payables      (177) (18) (195)
Net assets/(liabilities)       501 (69) 432
Fair value of acquired net assets of existing interest        (216)
Net assets acquired           216
Goodwill arising on acquisition           767
         983
Consideration: 
Cash consideration           955
Costs associated with the acquisition           28
Total consideration           983
From the date of acquisition, the acquired business has contributed £163m to revenue and £34m of operating profit to the Group.  118 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
Note 31 Business combinations continued
Homever
On 30 September 2008, the Group acquired 100% of the share capital of Homever, a retailer in South Korea.
The fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities of Homever as at the date of acquisition were:
      Adjustments   
     Pre-acquisition to align  Recognised 
     carrying accounting Fair value values on 
     amounts policies adjustments acquisition 
     £m £m £m £m
Property, plant and equipment      643  2 37  682 
Intangible assets      96  (2) (83)  11 
Other non-current assets          63  – (3)  60 
Deferred tax asset     1 – (1) –
Inventories      45  – (8)  37 
Trade and other receivables      32  – (5)  27 
Cash and cash equivalents      16  – –  16 
Trade and other payables      (204)  – (16)  (220) 
Provision for liabilities and charges      (5) (2) (52) (59)
Bank and other borrowings      (611) – – (611)
Deferred tax liability      (5) (35) – (40)
Net assets/(liabilities) acquired      71 (37) (131) (97)
Goodwill arising on acquisition           362
         265
Consideration: 
Cash consideration           259
Costs associated with the acquisition           6
Total consideration           265
From the date of acquisition, the acquired business has contributed £326m to revenue and £18m of operating loss to the Group.
Dobbies Garden Centres PLC
On 31 July 2008, the Group completed the acquisition of the remaining 34.5% (2007/8 – 65.5%) of the share capital of Dobbies Garden Centres PLC 
(Dobbies), a retailer in the United Kingdom, for total consideration of £43m.
This resulted in additional goodwill of £18m, arising on acquisition during the year, based on Dobbies net assets of £77m.
Other acquisitions
The other acquisitions in the year include the trade and assets of Sandyholm Garden Centre and some smaller businesses. The companies acquired 
undertake retail activities.
Fair value adjustments of £2m were identified in addition to the £3m pre-acquisition carrying amounts of net assets, resulting in the recognition of £5m 
as the fair value of net assets acquired. With cash consideration of £10m, this has resulted in the recognition of £5m of goodwill arising on acquisition.
The post-acquisition contribution of the other acquisitions to the Group was £5m to revenue and £1m to operating profit.
Note 32 Related party transactions
Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in this 
note. Transactions between the Group and its joint ventures and associates are disclosed below: 
i) Trading transactions
    Sales to  Purchases from Amounts owed Amounts owed  
    related parties  related parties by related parties to related parties
 2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008 
 £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
 
Joint ventures 183 164 290 238 14 39 6 34
Associates – – 1,175 771 – – 156 82
Sales to related parties consists of services/management fees and loan interest. 
Purchases from related parties include £174m (2008 – £157m) of rentals payable to the Group’s joint ventures, including those joint ventures formed as 
part of the sale and leaseback programme.
Notes to the Group financial statements continued 119 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
To find out more go to 
www.tesco.com/annualreport09
Note 32 Related party transactions continued
Purchases from associates include £1,171m (2008 – £766m) of fuel purchased from Greenergy International Limited.
ii) Non-trading transactions
    Sales to  Loans to Loans from Injection of   
    related parties  related parties  related parties equity funding
 2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008 
 £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
 
Joint ventures 465 652 262 173 20 10 – 8
Transactions between the Group and the Group’s pension plans are disclosed in note 28. 
A number of the Group’s subsidiaries are members of one or more partnerships to whom the provisions of the Partnerships and Unlimited Companies 
(Accounts) Regulations 1993 (‘Regulations’) apply. The accounts for those partnerships have been consolidated into these accounts pursuant to 
Regulation 7 of the Regulations.
On 19 December 2008, the Group formed a property joint venture with Tesco Pension Trustees. The limited partnership contains three superstores 
which have been sold from and leased back to Tesco. The Group sold assets for net proceeds of £199m to the joint venture which had a net book value 
of approximately £107m. The Group’s share of the profit realised from this transaction is included within profit arising on property-related items in 2008/9.
On 15 August 2008, the Group formed a property joint venture with the Universities Superannuation Scheme. The limited partnership contains four 
superstores which have been sold from and leased back to Tesco. The Group sold assets for net proceeds of £222m to the joint venture which had a net 
book value of £136m. The Group’s share of the profit realised from this transaction is included within profit arising on property-related items in 2008/9. 
Another smaller transaction with BP Pension Trustees was completed in June 2008 where £44m of assets were transferred.
On 20 March 2007, the Group formed a property joint venture with The British Land Company PLC. The limited partnership contains 21 superstores 
which have been sold from and leased back to Tesco. The Group sold assets for net proceeds of £652m to the joint venture which had a net book value  
of approximately £350m. The Group’s share of the profit realised from this transaction is included within profit arising on property-related items in 2007/8. 
iii) Transactions with key management personnel
Only members of the Board of Directors of Tesco PLC are deemed to be key management personnel. It is the Board who have responsibility for 
planning, directing and controlling the activities of the Group. Key management personnel compensation is disclosed in the audited part of the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report.
Transactions on an arm’s length basis with Tesco Personal Finance Group Limited which became a wholly-owned subsidiary on 19 December 2008  
were as follows:
      Credit cards and   
      personal loan balances Saving deposit accounts 
      Number    Number  
      of key   of key   
       management  management   
      personnel £k personnel £k
  
At 23 February 2008       2 39 2 19
At 19 December 2008       2 30 2 44
At 28 February 2009       2 30 2 77
During the year, there were no other material transactions or balances between the Group and its key management personnel or members of their  
close family. 120 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
Note 33 Reconciliation of profit before tax to net cash generated from operations
       2009 2008 
       £m £m
Profit before tax             2,954 2,803
Net finance costs             362 63
Share of post-tax profits of joint ventures and associates             (110) (75)
Operating profit             3,206 2,791
Depreciation and amortisation             1,189 992
Profit arising on property-related items             (236) (188)
Profit arising on sale of non property-related items       3 –
Net reversal of impairment of property, plant and equipment            (22) (10)
Adjustment for non-cash element of pensions charge             52 121
Share-based payments             204 199
Increase in inventories             (95) (376)
Decrease/(increase) in trade and other receivables             79 (71)
Increase in trade and other payables             691 641
Increase in TPF loans and advances to customers             (20) –
Increase in TPF loans and advances to banks and other financial assets            (2,126) –
Increase in TPF customer deposits and other financial liabilities            2,053 –
Increase in working capital             582 194
Cash generated from operations             4,978 4,099
The increase in working capital includes the impact of translating foreign currency working capital movements at average exchange rates rather than 
period end exchange rates.
Note 34 Analysis of changes in net debt 
    At   Other  At 
    23 February   non-cash Elimination 28 February  
    2008 Cash flow Acquisitions movements of TPF 2009 
    £m £m £m £m £m £m
Cash and cash equivalents     1,788 1,601 – 120 (37) 3,472
Short-term investments     360 873 – – – 1,233
Finance lease receivables     5 (5) – – – –
Joint venture loan receivables     173 242 (91) (62) – 262
Derivative financial instruments     313 (183) – 1,730 (2) 1,858
Cash and receivables     2,639 2,528 (91) 1,788 (39) 6,825
Bank and other borrowings     (2,033) (1,025) (611) (343) 588 (3,424)
Finance lease payables     (51) 23 – (19) – (47)
Derivative financial instruments and other liabilities     (443) 941 – (1,023) 42 (483)
Debt due within one year     (2,527) (61) (611) (1,385) 630 (3,954)
Bank and other borrowings     (5,757) (5,290) – (1,148) 222 (11,973)
Finance lease payables     (215) – – 19 – (196)
Derivative financial instruments and other liabilities     (322) 53 – (33) – (302)
Debt due after one year     (6,294) (5,237) – (1,162) 222 (12,471)
        (6,182) (2,770) (702) (759) 813 (9,600)
Notes to the Group financial statements continued 121 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
To find out more go to 
www.tesco.com/annualreport09
Note 35 Commitments and contingencies
Capital commitments
At 28 February 2009 there were commitments for capital expenditure contracted for, but not provided, of £1,551m (2008 – £1,309m), principally relating 
to the store development programme.
Contingent liabilities
The Company has irrevocably guaranteed the liabilities, as defined in Section 5(c) of the Republic of Ireland (Amendment Act) 1986, of various subsidiary 
undertakings incorporated in the Republic of Ireland.
For details of assets held under finance leases, which are pledged as security for the finance lease liabilities, see note 11.
There are a number of contingent liabilities that arise in the normal course of business which if realised are not expected to result in a material liability  
to the Group. The Group recognises provisions for liabilities when it is more likely than not a settlement will be required and the value of such a payment 
can be reliably estimated. 
In September 2007, the Office of Fair Trading issued its provisional findings in its Statement of Objections relating to the alleged collusion between  
certain large supermarkets and dairy processors. We continue to defend our case vigorously. No provision has been recognised in the Group’s results.
Tesco Personal Finance Group Limited
At 28 February 2009, Tesco Personal Finance Group Limited (TPF) has commitments of formal standby facilities, credit lines and other commitments  
to lend, totalling £5.7bn. The amount is intended to provide an indication of the volume of business transacted and not of the underlying credit or  
other risks.
The Financial Services Compensation Scheme (‘FSCS’) compensates customers of UK financial institutions when those institutions are unable to pay 
out. Firms are being levied only for interest costs and management expenses of the scheme (and not for the capital repayments which will ultimately 
need to be made), but the amounts have increased significantly compared to prior years. The levy is calculated based on deposit balances held as at  
31 December in each year and as such, this is seen as the ‘trigger event’ under accounting rules. TPF was a market participant at 31 December 2007  
and 31 December 2008 and has accrued for its share of the 2008/9 and 2009/10 levy which was not material to the Group. Going forward further 
provisions in respect of these costs are likely, the ultimate cost of which remains uncertain.
Note 36 Capital resources 
The following table shows the composition of regulatory capital resources of Tesco Personal Finance Group Limited at the Balance Sheet date:
       2009 2008 
           £m £m
Tier 1 capital:           
Shareholders funds and minority interests        566 –
Tier 2 capital:         
Qualifying subordinated debt        205 –
Other interests in tier 2 capital       19 –
Supervisory deductions        (259) –
Total regulatory capital        531 –
The movement of tier 1 capital from the date of acquisition to the Balance Sheet date is analysed as follows:
        2009 2008 
            £m £m
At 19 December 2008*        559 –
Profi t attributable to shareholders       7 –
At 28 February 2009        566 –
* Tesco Personal Finance Group Limited was acquired on 19 December 2008.
It is Tesco Personal Finance Group Limited’s (TPF) policy to maintain a strong capital base, to expand it as appropriate and to utilise it efficiently 
throughout its activities to optimise the return to shareholders while maintaining a prudent relationship between the capital base and the underlying 
risks of the business. In carrying out this policy, TPF has regard to the supervisory requirements of the Financial Services Authority (‘FSA’). The FSA  
uses Individual Capital Guidance (‘ICG’) as a measure of capital adequacy in the UK banking sector, comparing a bank’s capital resources with its risk-
weighted assets (the assets and off-balance sheet exposures are ‘weighted’ to reflect the inherent credit and other risks). TPF has complied with the 
FSA’s capital requirements throughout the period between the date of acquisition and the Balance Sheet date. 122 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
Note 37 Leasing commitments
Finance lease commitments – Group as lessee
The Group has finance leases for various items of plant, equipment, fixtures and fittings. There are also a small number of buildings which are held 
under finance leases. The fair value of the Group’s lease obligations approximate to their carrying value.
Future minimum lease payments under finance leases and hire purchase contracts, together with the present value of the net minimum lease payments 
are as follows:
        Present value of  
       Minimum lease payments minimum lease payments
     2009 2008 2009 2008 
     £m £m £m £m
Within one year         55 62 47 51
Greater than one year but less than five years         140 181 114 156
After five years         172 130 82 59
Total minimum lease payments         367 373 243 266
 
Less future finance charges         (124) (107)
Present value of minimum lease payments         243 266
  
Analysed as:
Current finance lease payables         47 51
Non-current finance lease payables         196 215
            243 266
Finance lease receivables – Group as lessor
In 2006, the Group entered into finance leasing arrangements with UK staff for certain of its electronic equipment as part of the Computers for Staff 
scheme. The average term of finance leases entered into was three years and these all expired in 2008. The interest rate inherent in the leases was fixed 
at the contract date for all of the lease term. The average effective interest rate contracted approximated to 2.6% per annum. The fair value of the 
Group’s finance lease receivables at 23 February 2008 was £5m. 
Future minimum lease receivables under finance leases together with the present value of the net minimum lease receivables are as follows:
        Present value of  
       Minimum lease payments minimum lease payments
     2009 2008 2009 2008 
     £m £m £m £m
Within one year         – 5 – 5
Net finance lease receivables         – 5 – 5
  
Notes to the Group financial statements continued 123 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
To find out more go to 
www.tesco.com/annualreport09
Note 37 Leasing commitments continued
Operating lease commitments – Group as lessee
Future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows:
       2009 2008 
       £m £m
Within one year            754 551
Greater than one year but less than five years             3,069 2,190
After five years             9,170 7,127
Total minimum lease payments             12,993 9,868
Operating lease payments represent rentals payable by the Group for certain of its retail, distribution and office properties and other assets such as 
motor vehicles. The leases have varying terms, purchase options, escalation clauses and renewal rights. 
Operating lease commitments with joint ventures  
Since 1988, the Group has entered into several joint ventures and sold and leased back properties to and from these joint ventures. The terms of these 
sale and leasebacks vary, however, common factors include: the sale of the properties to the joint venture at market value, options at the end of the 
lease for the Group to repurchase the properties at market value, market rent reviews and 20-25 year lease terms. The Group reviews the substance  
as well as the form of the arrangements when making the judgement as to whether these leases are operating or finance leases; all of the leases under 
these arrangements are operating leases.
Operating lease receivables – Group as lessor
The Group both rents out its investment properties and also sublets various leased buildings under operating leases. At the Balance Sheet date, the 
following future minimum lease payments are contractually receivable from tenants: 
       2009 2008 
       £m £m
Within one year             201 141
Greater than one year but less than five years             445 341
After five years             335 313
Total minimum lease payments             981 795 124 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
Five year record
        IFRS
     2005 2006
1
 2007 2008 2009 
         53 weeks
Financial statistics
Group sales (including VAT) (£m)      36,957 43,137 46,611 51,773 59,426
Revenue (excluding VAT) (£m)
UK      27,146 29,990 32,665 34,858
6
 38,191
Rest of Europe      3,818 5,095 5,559 6,872  8,862
Asia      2,902 4,369 4,417 5,552 7,068
US      – – – 16
6
 206
Total Group      33,866 39,454 42,641 47,298  54,327
  
Operating profit
2
 (£m)
UK      1,556 1,788 2,083 2,164
6
 2,540
Rest of Europe      243 263 324 400 479
Asia      153 229 241 294 343
US      – – – (67)
6
 (156)
Total Group      1,952 2,280 2,648 2,791 3,206
Operating profit margin
2
UK      5.7% 6.0% 6.4% 6.2%
6
 6.7%
Rest of Europe      6.4% 5.2% 5.8% 5.8% 5.4%
Asia      5.3% 5.2% 5.5% 5.3% 4.9%
US      – – – n/a
6
 n/a
Total Group      5.8% 5.8% 6.2% 5.9%  5.9%
Share of results of joint ventures and associates
3
 (£m)      74 82 106 75 110
Profit on sale of investment in associates      – – 25 – –
Net finance costs
3
 (£m)      (132) (127) (126) (63) (362)
Profit before tax (£m)      1,894 2,235 2,653 2,803 2,954
Taxation
3
 (£m)      (541) (649) (772) (673)  (788)
Minority interests (£m)      (3) (6) (7) (6) (5)
(Loss)/profit for the period from discontinued operation
4
 (£m)    (6) (10) 18 – –
Profit for the financial year attributable to  equity holders of the parent (£m)    1,344 1,570 1,892 2,124 2,161
Underlying profit before tax
5
 (£m)      1,925 2,277 2,545 2,846 3,128
1 Results for the year ended 25 February 2006 include 52 weeks for the UK and ROI and 14 months for the majority of the remaining International businesses.
2 Operating profit includes integration costs and profit/(loss) arising on sale of fixed assets. Operating margin is based upon revenue excluding VAT.
3  Share of results of joint ventures and associates is stated net of the interest and tax of the Group’s joint ventures and associates. The Group’s charges for interest and tax have been reduced 
by these amounts.
4 Consists of the net result of the Taiwanese business which was sold during 2006/7.
5  IFRS underlying profit excludes IAS 32 and IAS 39 ‘Financial Instruments’ – Fair value remeasurements, the IAS 19 Income Statement charge, which is replaced by the ‘normal’ cash 
contributions for pensions, IAS 17 ‘Leases’ – impact of annual uplifts in rent and rent-free periods and IFRS 3 Amortisation charge from intangible assets arising on acquisition. For further 
details of this measure, see page 78. 
6 Results have been restated to reflect the US as a separate segment. 125 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
To find out more go to 
www.tesco.com/annualreport09
        IFRS
     2005 2006
1
 2007 2008 2009 
         53 weeks
 
Enterprise value
7
 (£m)      27,910 30,841 40,469  37,656 35,907
Basic earnings per share
8 
     17.52p 20.20p 23.61p 26.95p 27.50p
Diluted earnings per share
8 
     17.30p 19.92p 23.31p 26.61p 27.31p
Dividend per share
9 
     7.56p 8.63p 9.64p  10.90p 11.96p
Return on shareholders’ funds
10 
     23.2% 24.9% 26.7% 25.1% 23.9%
Return on capital employed
11 
     11.8% 12.7% 12.6%
16
 12.9%
17 
13.0%
20
Group statistics
Number of stores      2,334 2,672 3,263 3,751 4,332
Total sales area – 000 sq ft
12 
     49,135 55,215 68,189 76,338  88,451
Average employees      335,750 368,213 413,061 444,127  468,508
Average full-time equivalent employees      242,980 273,024 318,283 345,737  364,015
UK retail statistics
Number of stores      1,780 1,898 1,988 2,115
18 
2,282
21
Total sales area – 000 sq ft
12 
     24,207 25,919 27,785 29,549
18
  31,285
21
Average store size (sales area – sq ft)
13 
     31,677 32,816 34,209 35,055
18
 35,215
21
Average full-time equivalent employees      163,006 175,459 184,461 193,917 194,420
UK retail productivity (£)
Revenue per employee
14 
     166,534 170,923 177,084 179,840  196,436
Profit per employee
14 
     9,564 10,190 11,292 10,814
19
  13,065
Weekly sales per sq ft
15 
     23.89 25.06 25.48 25.43  26.21
7 Market capitalisation plus net debt.
8 Basic and diluted earnings per share are on a continuing operations basis.
9 Dividend per share relating to the interim and proposed final dividend.
10 Profit before tax divided by average shareholders’ funds.
11 The numerator is profit before interest, less tax. The denominator is the calculated average of net assets plus net debt plus dividend creditor less net assets held for sale.
12 Store sizes exclude lobby and restaurant areas.
13 Average store size excludes Express and One Stop stores.
14 Based on average number of full-time equivalent employees in the UK, revenue exclusive of VAT and operating profit.
15 Based on weighted average sales area and sales excluding property development.
16 Excludes one-off gain from ‘Pensions A-Day’, with this one-off gain ROCE was 13.6%.
17 Using a ‘normalised’ tax rate before start-up costs in the US and Tesco Direct and excluding the impact of foreign exchange in equity and our acquisition of a majority share of Dobbies.
18 Excluding 53 US stores and 22 Dobbies stores.
19  Excluding start-up costs in the US and Tesco Direct and adjusting average number of full-time equivalent employees in the UK to exclude US and Tesco Direct employees – profit per 
employee would be £11,317.
20  Excluding acquisition of TPF and Homever, and India start-up costs, and after adjusting for assets held for sale. Calculated on a 52 week basis, ROCE for 2008/9 is 12.8%.
21 Excluding 24 Dobbies stores. 126 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
Tesco PLC – Parent Company balance sheet 
       2009 2008 
28 February 2009      notes £m £m
Non-current assets
Investments           5 10,975 9,551
Derivative financial instruments           10  1,473 216
               12,448 9,767
Current assets
Derivative financial instruments           10 291 76
Debtors           6 8,815 6,046
Current asset investments           7 2,970 491
                12,076 6,613
Creditors – amounts falling due within one year
Borrowings           9 (1,981) (1,114)
Derivative financial instruments           10 (373) (413) 
Other creditors           8 (2,569) (2,037) 
                (4,923) (3,564)
Net current assets             7,153 3,049
Total assets less current liabilities             19,601 12,816
Creditors – amounts falling due after more than one year
Borrowings           9 (11,750) (5,645)
Derivative financial instruments           10 (194) (86)
                (11,944) (5,731)
Net assets             7,657 7,085
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital           13 395 393
Share premium account           14 4,638 4,511
Profit and loss reserve           14 2,624 2,181
Total equity             7,657 7,085
Accounting policies and notes forming part of these financial statements are on pages 127 to 135.
Sir Terry Leahy 
Laurie McIlwee
 
Directors  
The Parent Company financial statements on pages 126 to 135 were authorised for issue by the Directors on 1 May 2009 and are subject to the approval 
of the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting on 3 July 2009. 127 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
To find out more go to 
www.tesco.com/annualreport09
Basis of preparation
These financial statements have been prepared under UK GAAP using the 
historical cost convention modified for the revaluation of certain financial 
instruments and in accordance with applicable accounting standards and 
the Companies Acts 1985 and 2006 as applicable.
The financial year represents the 53 weeks to 28 February 2009 (prior 
financial year 52 weeks to 23 February 2008).
A summary of the Company’s significant accounting policies are set  
out below.
Exemptions
The Directors have taken advantage of the exemption available under 
Section 230 of the Companies Act 1985 and not presented a Profit and 
Loss Account for the Company alone.
The Company has taken advantage of the FRS 29 ‘Financial Instruments: 
Disclosures,’ exemption and has not provided derivative financial 
instrument disclosures for the Company alone.
The Company has also taken advantage of the exemption from preparing 
a cash flow statement under the terms of FRS 1 ‘Cash Flow Statement’. 
The cash flows of the Company are included in the Tesco PLC Group 
financial statements.
The Company is also exempt under the terms of FRS 8 ‘Related Parties’ 
from disclosing related party transactions with entities that are part of the 
Tesco PLC Group. 
Recent accounting developments
Standards, amendments and interpretations adopted, following 
new amendments to FRS interpretations. These have not had a 
significant impact on the results or net assets of the Company:
 Amendment to FRS 26 ‘Financial Instruments: Recognition and •	
Measurement’ and FRS 29 ‘Financial Instruments: Disclosures’ – 
effective from 1 July 2008. These amendments permit the 
reclassification of financial assets in particular circumstances.  
The adoption of the amendments to FRS 26 and FRS 29 has had  
no impact on the results or net assets of the Company.
Standards, amendments and interpretations not yet effective  
but not expected to have a significant impact on the Company:
Amendment to FRS 25, ‘Financial Instruments: Presentation’ – Puttable •	
Financial Instruments and Obligations Arising on Liquidation, effective 
for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2010.
Amendment to FRS 8, ‘Related Party Transactions’ to reflect changes to •	
UK law, effective for annual periods beginning on or after 6 April 2008.
Standards, amendments and interpretations not yet effective but 
under review as to their effect on the Company:
Amendment to FRS 20, ‘Share Based Payment’ – Vesting Conditions •	
and Cancellations, effective for annual periods beginning on or after  
1 January 2009. 
Amendment to FRS 26, ‘Financial Instruments: Recognition and •	
Measurement’ – Eligible hedged items, effective for annual periods 
beginning on or after 1 July 2009. 
Current asset investments
These relate to money market deposits which are stated at cost. All income 
from these investments is included in the Profit and Loss Account as 
interest receivable and similar income.
Investments in subsidiaries and joint ventures
Investments in subsidiaries and joint ventures are stated at cost less,  
where appropriate, provisions for impairment.
Foreign currencies
Assets and liabilities in foreign currencies are translated into Pounds 
Sterling at the financial year end exchange rates.
Share-based payments
Employees of the Company receive part of their remuneration in the form 
of share-based payment transactions, whereby employees render services 
in exchange for shares or rights over shares (equity-settled transactions) or 
in exchange for entitlements to cash payments based on the value of the 
shares (cash-settled transactions).
The fair value of employee share option plans is calculated at the grant 
date using the Black-Scholes model. In accordance with FRS 20 ‘Share-
based payment’ the resulting cost is charged to the Profit and Loss 
Account over the vesting period. The value of the charge is adjusted to 
reflect expected and actual levels of vesting. 
Where the Company awards options to employees of subsidiary entities, 
this is treated as a capital contribution.
Financial instruments
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Company’s 
Balance Sheet when the Company becomes a party to the contractual 
provisions of the instrument.
Debtors  
Debtors are non interest-bearing and are recognised initially at fair 
value, and subsequently at amortised cost using the effective interest 
rate method, reduced by appropriate allowances for estimated 
irrecoverable amounts.
Investments  
Investments are classified as either held for trading or available-for-sale, 
and are measured at subsequent reporting dates at fair value. There are 
no investments classified as held for trading. Gains and losses arising 
from changes in fair value for available-for-sale investments are 
recognised directly in equity, until the security is disposed of or is 
determined to be impaired, at which time the cumulative gain or loss 
previously recognised in equity is included in the net result for the period. 
Financial liabilities and equity  
Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according to  
the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into. An equity 
instrument is any contract that gives a residual interest in the assets of 
the Company after deducting all of its liabilities.
Interest-bearing borrowings  
Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are initially recorded at the 
value of the amount received, net of attributable transaction costs. 
Subsequent to initial recognition, interest-bearing borrowings are stated 
at amortised cost with any difference between cost and redemption 
value being recognised in the Profit and Loss Account over the period  
of the borrowings on an effective interest basis.
Creditors  
Creditors are non interest-bearing and are stated at amortised cost.
Equity instruments  
Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the proceeds 
received, net of direct issue costs.
Notes to the Parent Company financial 
statements 
Note 1 Accounting policies  128 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
Notes to the Parent Company financial 
statements continued
Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting  
The Company uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its 
exposure to foreign exchange and interest rate risks arising from 
operating, financing and investing activities. The Company does not 
hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes, 
however if derivatives do not qualify for hedge accounting they are 
accounted for as such.
Derivative financial instruments are recognised and stated at fair value. 
The fair value of derivative financial instruments is determined by 
reference to market values for similar financial instruments, by discounted 
cash flows or by the use of option valuation models. Where derivatives do 
not qualify for hedge accounting, any gains or losses on remeasurement 
are immediately recognised in the Profit and Loss Account. Where 
derivatives qualify for hedge accounting, recognition of any resultant  
gain or loss depends on the nature of the hedge relationship and the  
item being hedged.
In order to qualify for hedge accounting, the Company is required  
to document from inception the relationship between the item being 
hedged and the hedging instrument. The Company is also required to 
document and demonstrate an assessment of the relationship between 
the hedged item and the hedging instrument, which shows that the  
hedge will be highly effective on an ongoing basis. This effectiveness 
testing is performed at each period end to ensure that the hedge remains 
highly effective.
Derivative financial instruments with maturity dates of more than one  
year from the Balance Sheet date are disclosed as falling due after more 
than one year.
Fair value hedging  
Derivative financial instruments are classified as fair value hedges when 
they hedge the Company’s exposure to changes in the fair value of a 
recognised asset or liability. Changes in the fair value of derivatives that 
are designated and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in the Profit 
and Loss Account, together with any changes in the fair value of the 
hedged item that is attributable to the hedged risk.
Derivative financial instruments qualifying for fair value hedge accounting 
are principally interest rate swaps (including cross currency swaps).
Cash flow hedging  
Derivative financial instruments are classified as cash flow hedges when 
they hedge the Company’s exposure to variability in cash flows that are 
either attributable to a particular risk associated with a recognised asset 
or liability, or a highly probable forecasted transaction.
The effective element of any gain or loss from remeasuring the derivative 
instrument is recognised directly in equity. 
The associated cumulative gain or loss is removed from equity and 
recognised in the Profit and Loss Account in the same period or  
periods during which the hedged transaction affects the Profit and  
Loss Account. The classification of the effective portion when recognised 
in the Profit and Loss Account is the same as the classification of the 
hedged transaction. Any element of the remeasurement of the derivative 
instrument which does not meet the criteria for an effective hedge  
is recognised immediately in the Profit and Loss Account.
Derivative instruments qualifying for cash flow hedging are principally 
forward foreign exchange transactions and currency options.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires  
or is sold, terminated or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting. 
At that point in time, any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging 
instrument recognised in equity is retained in equity until the forecasted 
transaction occurs or the original hedged item affects the Profit and Loss 
Account. If a forecasted hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, 
the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity is transferred to the 
Profit and Loss Account.
Net investment hedging  
Derivative financial instruments are classified as net investment hedges 
when they hedge the Company’s net investment in an overseas 
operation. The effective element of any foreign exchange gain or loss 
from remeasuring the derivative instrument is recognised directly in 
equity. Any ineffective element is recognised immediately in the Profit 
and Loss Account. Gains and losses accumulated in equity are included 
in the Profit and Loss Account when the foreign operation is disposed of.
Derivative instruments qualifying for net investment hedging are 
principally forward foreign exchange transactions and currency options.
Pensions  
The Company participates in the Tesco PLC Pension Scheme which is  
a multi-employer scheme within the Tesco Group and cannot identify its 
share of the underlying assets and liabilities of the scheme. Accordingly, 
as permitted by FRS 17 ‘Retirement Benefits’, the Company has 
accounted for the scheme as a defined contribution scheme, and the 
charge for the period is based upon the cash contributions payable. 
Taxation  
Corporation tax payable is provided on the taxable profit for the year, 
using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted by the Balance  
Sheet date.
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have 
originated but not reversed at the Balance Sheet date and would give  
rise to an obligation to pay more or less taxation in the future.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that they are recoverable. 
They are regarded as recoverable to the extent that on the basis of all 
available evidence, it is regarded as more likely than not that there will be 
suitable taxable profits from which the future reversal of the underlying 
timing differences can be deducted.
Deferred tax is measured on a non-discounted basis at the tax rates  
that are expected to apply in the periods in which the timing differences 
reverse, based on tax rates and laws that have been substantively enacted 
by the Balance Sheet date.
Note 1 Accounting policies continued 129 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
To find out more go to 
www.tesco.com/annualreport09
Note 2 Auditor remuneration 
       2009 2008 
       £m £m
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor for the audit of the Parent Company and Group financial statements     0. 6 0.6
Note 3 Employment costs, including Directors’ remuneration
       2009 2008 
       £m £m
Wages and salaries             15 12
Social security costs             1 6
Pension costs             1 1
Share-based payment expense             18 20
                35 39
The average number of employees (all Directors of the Company) during the year was: 14 (2008 – 15). 
The Schedule VI requirements for Directors’ Remuneration are included within the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 50 to 64.
Note 4 Dividends
For details of equity dividends see note 8 in the Group financial statements.
Note 5 Investments
      Shares in Group Shares in  
      undertakings joint ventures Total 
      £m £m £m
Cost            
As at 23 February 2008            9,612 162 9,774
Additions           1,434 – 1,434
Transferred to subsidiary undertaking      146 (146) –
Disposals      (6) – (6)
As at 28 February 2009           11,186 16 11,202
 
Impairment
As at 23 February 2008           223 – 223
Provision for impairment           4 – 4
As at 28 February 2009           227 – 227
 
Net carrying value
As at 28 February 2009           10,959 16 10,975
As at 23 February 2008           9,389 162 9,551
For a list of the Company’s principal operating subsidiary undertakings and joint ventures see note 13 in the Group financial statements.
The impairment charge for the year primarily relates to the revaluation of the Company’s listed fixed asset investments to fair value based on quoted 
market prices at the Balance Sheet date (note 14 of the Group financial statements). 130 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
Note 6 Debtors
       2009 2008 
       £m £m
Amounts owed by Group undertakings             8,587 5,803
Amounts owed by joint ventures and associates
(a) 
            106 171
Other debtors             112 60
Deferred tax asset
(b) 
            10 12
Total             8,815 6,046
(a) The amounts due from joint ventures and associates of £106m (2008 – £171m) are due after more than one year. 
(b) The deferred tax asset recognised by the Company, and the movements thereon, during the year are as follows:
      FRS 25 Other timing 
      and FRS 26 differences Total 
      £m £m £m
At 23 February 2008          13 (1) 12
Charge to profit and loss account for the year            (2)  – (2)
At 28 February 2009          11 (1) 10
Note 7 Current asset investments
       2009 2008 
       £m £m
Bonds and deposits             2,970 491
Note 8 Other creditors
       2009 2008 
       £m £m
 
Amounts falling due within one year:          
Other tax and social security             – 1
Amounts owed to Group undertakings             2,141 1,725
Other liabilities             421 304
Accruals and deferred income             7 7 
                2,569 2,037
Notes to the Parent Company financial 
statements continued 131 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
To find out more go to 
www.tesco.com/annualreport09
Note 9 Borrowings
      Maturity 2009 2008 
     Par value year £m £m
Bank loans and overdrafts         – 2009 1,494 538
Loan from joint venture         – 2009 9 10
6% MTN         £125m 2008 – 130
5.25% MTN         €500m 2008 – 392
5.125% MTN         £192m 2009 198 191
6.625% MTN         £150m 2010 154 153
4.75% MTN         €750m 2010 689 592
3.875% MTN         €500m 2011 476 387
5.625% MTN     €1,500m 2012 1,362 –
5% MTN     £600m 2014 592 –
5.125% MTN     €600m 2015 522 –
4% RPI MTN
(a) 
        £263m 2016 268 254
5.875% MTN     €1,500m 2016 1,488 –
5.5% USD Bond         $850m 2017 678 455
5.5% MTN         £350m 2019 351 350
6.125% MTN     £900m 2022 901 –
5% MTN
(b) 
        £515m 2023 515 417
3.322% LPI MTN
(c) 
        £265m 2025 267 255
6% MTN         £200m 2029 216 194
5.5% MTN         £200m 2033 216 192
1.982% RPI MTN
(d) 
        £221m 2036 221 212
6.15% USD Bond         $1,150m 2037 977 604
5% MTN         £300m 2042 306 305
5.125% MTN         €600m 2047 628 451
5.2% MTN         £500m 2057 500 499
Other MTNs         – – 477 178
Other loans     – – 226 –
                13,731 6,759
(a) The 4% RPI MTN is redeemable at par, indexed for increases in the Retail Price Index (RPI) over the life of the MTN.
(b) An additional bond issue increased the principal of this MTN from £415m to £515m during 2009. 
(c)  The 3.322% LPI MTN is redeemable at par, indexed for increases in the RPI over the life of the MTN. The maximum indexation of the principal in any one year is 5%, with a minimum of 0%.
(d) The 1.982% RPI MTN is redeemable at par, indexed for increases in the RPI over the life of the MTN.
       2009 2008 
       £m £m
Repayment analysis:
Amounts falling due within one year             1,981 1,114
                1,981 1,114
Amounts falling due after more than one year:            
Amounts falling due between one and two years             867 277
Amounts falling due between two and five years             2,784 1,166
Amounts falling due after more than five years             8,099 4,202
                11,750 5,645
                13,731 6   ,759
  132 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
Note 10 Derivative financial instruments
The fair value of derivative financial instruments has been disclosed in the Company’s Balance Sheet as:
        2009  2008
      Asset Liability Asset Liability
     £m £m £m £m
Current     291 (373) 76 (413)
Non-current     1,473 (194) 216 (86)
Total      1,764 (567) 292 (499)
     2009    2008
   Asset  Liability  Asset  Liability
  Fair value Notional Fair value Notional Fair value Notional Fair value Notional 
  £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Fair value hedges
Interest rate swaps and similar instruments 6 257 (31) 1,000 2 125 (80) 657
Cross currency swaps 1,444 4,293 (41) 996 252 2,788 – –
Cash flow hedges
Interest rate swaps and similar instruments – – (66) 400 – – – –
Forward foreign currency contracts 19 656 (23) 283 – – – –
Net investment hedges
Forward foreign currency contracts 92 2,623 (194) 2,767 2 289 (218) 2,328
Derivatives not in a formal hedge relationship
Interest rate swaps and similar instruments 1 774 (30) 3,280 5 3,638 (2) 189
Cross currency swaps 20 219 (47) 639  – – (2) 204
Forward foreign currency contracts 182 2,632 (135) 2,561 31 1,589 (197) 2,625
Total  1,764 11,454 (567) 11,926 292 8,429 (499) 6,003
Note 11 Share-based payments
Tesco PLC’s equity-settled share-based payment schemes comprise various share schemes designed to reward Executive Directors. For further 
information on these schemes, including the valuation models and assumptions used, see note 27 to the Group financial statements.
a) Share option schemes  
The number of options and weighted average exercise price (WAEP) of share option schemes relating to Tesco PLC employees are:
 Savings-related Approved Unapproved Nil cost 
 share option scheme share option scheme share option scheme share options 
For the year ended 28 February 2009 Options WAEP Options WAEP Options WAEP Options WAEP
Outstanding at
 23 February 2008 37,652 269.29 53,381 280.99 12,191,979 303.75 10,838,238 0.00
Granted  7,539 311.00 – – 2,615,968 427.00 3,591,855 0.00
Exercised  (8,125) 195.00 – – (126,832) 164.00 – –
Outstanding at
 28 February 2009 37,066 294.06 53,381 280.99 14,681,115 326.92 14,430,093 0.00
Exercisable as at 
  28 February 2009 – – 43,965 272.93 7,511,677 258.10 2,050,588 0.00
Exercise price range        197.50 to    173.00 to 
 (pence) – –  – 312.75 – 312.75 – 0.00
Weighted average remaining 
  contractual life (years) – – – 5.47 – 4.29 – 5.82
Notes to the Parent Company financial 
statements continued 133 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
To find out more go to 
www.tesco.com/annualreport09
Note 11 Share-based payments continued
 Savings-related Approved Unapproved Nil cost 
 share option scheme share option scheme share option scheme share options 
For the year ended 23 February 2008 Options WAEP Options WAEP Options WAEP Options WAEP
Outstanding at  
  24 February 2007 42,249 223.23 53,381 280.99 11,300,347 270.90 5,810,007 0.00
Granted  5,733 410.00 – – 1,888,688 473.75 5,113,574 0.00
Exercised  (10,330) 159.00 – – (997,056) 253.25 (85,343) 0.00
Outstanding at
 23 February 2008 37,652 269.29 53,381 280.99 12,191,979 303.75 10,838,238 0.00
Exercisable as at
  23 February 2008 – – 15,189 197.50 5,233,393 230.71 – –
Exercise price range            164.00 to
 (pence) – –  – 197.50 – 259.00 – –
Weighted average remaining 
  contractual life (years) – – – 5.16 – 4.33 – –
b) Share bonus schemes  
The number and weighted average fair value (WAFV) of share bonuses awarded during the period relating to Tesco PLC employees are:
        2009  2008
     Shares WAFV Shares WAFV 
     number pence number pence
Shares in Success         5,568 431.05 4,464 470.45
Executive Incentive Scheme         304,713 424.65 176,135 401.90
Performance Share Plan         238,024 356.05 160,030 471.10
US Long-term Incentive Plan         63,514 482.00 2,000,000 471.10
Note 12 Pensions
The total cost of the pension scheme to the Group was £403m (2008 – £414m). Further disclosure relating to the Tesco PLC Pension Scheme can be 
found in note 28 of the Group financial statements. 134 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
Note 13 Called up share capital
     2009   2008
    Ordinary shares of 5p each Ordinary shares of 5p each
     Number £m Number £m
Authorised:
At beginning of year     10,858,000,000 543 10,858,000,000 543
Authorised during the year     – – – –
At end of year     10,858,000,000 543 10,858,000,000 543
  
Allotted, called up and fully paid:
At beginning of year     7,863,498,783 393 7,947,349,558 397
Share options     57,060,046 3 65,432,552 3
Share buy-back      (25,214,811) (1) (149,283,327) (7)
At end of year     7,895,344,018 395 7,863,498,783 393
During the financial year, 57 million (2008 – 65 million) shares of 5p each were issued in relation to share options for aggregate consideration of £130m 
(2008 – £138m).
During the year, the Company purchased and subsequently cancelled 25,214,811 (2008 – 149,283,327) shares of 5p each, representing 0% (2008 – 2%)  
of the called up share capital, at an average price of £3.98 (2008 – £4.38) per share. The total consideration, including expenses, was £100m (2008 – 
£657m). The excess of the consideration over the nominal value has been charged to retained earnings. 
Between 1 March 2009 and 17 April 2009, options over 3,120,922 ordinary shares have been exercised under the terms of the Savings-related Share 
Option Scheme (1981) and the Irish Savings-related Option Scheme (2000). Between 1 March 2009 and 17 April 2009, options over 324,991 ordinary 
shares have been exercised under the terms of the Executive Share Option Schemes (1994 and 1996) and the Discretionary Share Option Plan (2004). 
As at 28 February 2009, the Directors were authorised to purchase up to a maximum in aggregate of 784.8 million (2008 – 793.4 million) ordinary shares. 
The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends as declared from time to time and are entitled to one vote per share at the meetings  
of the Company. 
Share buy-back liability
Insider trading rules prevent the Group from buying back the Company shares in the market during specified close periods (including the period 
between the year end and the annual results announcement). However, if an irrevocable agreement is signed between the Company and a third party, 
they can continue to buy back shares on behalf of the Company. In 2008, three such arrangements were in place at the year end and in accordance  
with FRS 25, the Company recognised a financial liability equal to the estimated value of the shares purchasable under these agreements. A liability  
of £100m was recognised within other payables for this amount. There were no such agreements in place in 2009.
Capital redemption reserve
Upon cancellation of the shares purchased as part of the share buy-back, a capital redemption reserve is created representing the nominal value of the 
shares cancelled. This is a non-distributable reserve.
Notes to the Parent Company financial 
statements continued 135 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
To find out more go to 
www.tesco.com/annualreport09
Note 14 Reserves
       2009 2008 
       £m £m
    
Share premium account
At beginning of year             4,511 4,376
Premium on issue of shares less costs             127 135
At end of year             4,638 4,511
  
Profit and loss reserve
At beginning of year             2,181 1,380
Share-based payment             204 199
Purchase of treasury shares             (165) (118)
Dividend             (883) (792)
Change in fair value of available-for-sale financial assets             3 (4)
Share buy-back             – (665)
Share buy-back – capital redemption             1 7
Gains on cash flow hedges             105 24
Profit after tax for the year             1,178 2,150
At end of year             2,624 2,181 136 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
Independent auditors’ report to the members  
of T esco PLC
We have audited the parent company financial statements of Tesco PLC 
for the 53 weeks ended 28 February 2009 which comprise the Balance 
Sheet and the related notes. These parent company financial statements 
have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein. We have 
also audited the information in the Directors’ Remuneration Report that is 
described as having been audited.
We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of  
Tesco PLC for the 53 weeks ended 28 February 2009. 
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors
The Directors’ responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report and the parent company financial 
statements in accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom 
Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting 
Practice) are set out in the Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the parent company financial statements  
and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited in 
accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and 
International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). This report, 
including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the parent 
company’s members as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the 
Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose. We do not, in giving this 
opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any 
other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may 
come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent company financial 
statements give a true and fair view and whether the parent company 
financial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report  
to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the 
Companies Act 1985. We also report to you whether in our opinion the 
information given in the Report of the Directors is consistent with the 
parent company financial statements.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the parent company has not 
kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information 
and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law 
regarding Directors’ remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider 
whether it is consistent with the audited parent company financial statements. 
The other information comprises only the Introduction, the Financial 
highlights, Chairman’s statement, Tesco at a glance, the Chief Executive’s 
Q&A, the Report of the Directors, the Corporate governance statement, 
the unaudited part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report and the Five 
year record. We consider the implications for our report if we become 
aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the 
parent company financial statements. Our responsibilities do not extend to 
any other information.
Basis of audit opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on 
Auditing (UK and Ireland) issued by the Auditing Practices Board. An audit 
includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts 
and disclosures in the parent company financial statements and the part  
of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited. It also includes an 
assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made by the 
Directors in the preparation of the parent company financial statements, 
and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the parent 
company’s circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information 
and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us 
with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the parent 
company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration 
Report to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused 
by fraud or other irregularity or error. In forming our opinion we also 
evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in  
the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report to be audited.
Opinion
In our opinion:
 the parent company financial statements give a true and fair  •	
view, in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted 
Accounting Practice, of the state of the parent company’s affairs  
as at 28 February 2009;
 the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ •	
Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in 
accordance with the Companies Act 1985; and
 the information given in the Report of the Directors is consistent with •	
the parent company financial statements.
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors 
London 1 May 2009 Printed on Revive, a 100% recycled 
paper with FSC certification. 
Printed by CTD using an alcohol- 
free process. The printing inks  
are made with non-hazardous 
vegetable oil from renewable 
sources. Over 90% of solvents and 
developers are recycled for further 
use and recycling initiatives are in 
place for all other waste associated 
with this production. CTD are FSC 
and ISO 14001 certified with strict 
procedures in place to safeguard the 
environment through all processes. 
Designed and produced by  
35 Communications.
 Go online
Every year, more and more
information is available for 
our shareholders, staff and 
customers online.
 Go online
Every year, more and more
information is available for 
our shareholders, staff and 
customers online.
Introduction 
Financial highlights 2
Chairman’s statement 3
Tesco at a glance 4
Chief Executive’s Q&A 5
Report of the Directors  6
Business Review 6
Long-term strategy 6
Markets served and business model 7
International 8
Core UK 12
Non-food 16
Retailing Services 20
Community 24
People 28
Resources and relationships 30
Group performance 32
Key Performance Indicators 36
Risks and uncertainties 38
Financial review 40
General information 41
Our Board of Directors 42
Corporate governance 44
Directors’ remuneration report 50
Financial statements  65
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities 66
Independent auditors’ report to the
 members of Tesco PLC 67
Group income statement 68
Group statement of recognised income and expense 69
Group balance sheet 70
Group cash flow statement 71
Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in 
 net debt note 71
Notes to the Group financial statements 72
Five year record 124
Tesco PLC – Parent Company financial statements 126
Independent auditors’ report to the members 
 of Tesco PLC 136 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 Tesco PLC
www.tesco.com/annualreport09
Tesco PLC
Tesco House
Delamare Road
Cheshunt
Hertfordshire EN8 9SL
Value
travels
Annual Report and 
Financial Statements 2009 Value
travels
Annual Review and Summary
Financial Statement 2009 Introduction 
Financial highlights 2 
Chairman’s statement 3 
Tesco at a glance 4
Chief Executive’s Q&A 6
The year in review 
International 8
Core UK 10
Non-food 12
Retailing Services 14
Community 16
People 18
Summary Financial Statement 
Summary Report of the Directors 20
Summary Financial Statement  
and Business Review  22
Our Board of Directors IBC
Go online
Every year, more and more
information is available for 
our shareholders, staff and 
customers online.
2009
Annual Review and Summary 
Financial Statement 
Contents 1
Tesco PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2009
WELCOME TO TESCO PLC
Value travels – Tesco is about 
creating value for customers  
to earn their lifetime loyalty.  
We understand that this is more 
important than ever as our 
customers around the world  
are looking to us to help them 
spend less.  
So whether they are looking for 
lighter meal options, clothing, 
mobile phone tariffs or savings 
accounts, they can trust Tesco  
to deliver great value.
A more detailed version can be found at
www.tesco.com/annualreview09 2 FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
Tesco PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2009
15.1%
Group sales 
(including VAT)*
10.0%
Underlying Group profit 
before tax*†
5.5%
Group profit before tax*
11.0%
Underlying diluted earnings
per share**
2.6%
Diluted earnings per share
 9 .7%
Dividend per share
Good financial management and leading market positions  
have served us well this year in the face of a challenging 
consumer environment. We will continue to pursue our long-
term strategy which will put us in an even stronger position 
once our markets emerge from the economic downturn.
        2009 
      2009 52 weeks  
      53 weeks pro-forma 2008  
Group sales (£m) (including value added tax)     59,426  58,588 51,773
Group revenue (£m) (excluding value added tax)     54,327  53,552 47,298
Underlying Group profit before tax (£m)
*†
      3,128  3,093 2,846
Group profit before tax (£m)      2,954  2,920 2,803
Underlying diluted earnings per share (p)
**
      28.92 – 27.02
Dividend per share (p)      11.96 – 10.90
Group enterprise value (£m) (market capitalisation plus net debt)     35,907 –  37,656
Return on capital employed      13.0%
‡
 – 12.9%
§
* Sales & profit growth reported on a consistent basis (12 months versus 12 months) for China. 
** Growth in underlying diluted EPS has been adjusted to reflect a constant tax rate year on year. Growth was 7.0% on a statutory basis.
†  Adjusted for IAS 32, IAS 39, the net difference between the IAS 19 Income Statement charge and ‘normal’ cash contributions for pensions, IAS 17 ‘Leases’ (impact of 
annual uplifts in rent and rent-free periods, and the IFRS 3 amortisation charge on intangible assets arising on the acquisition of Tesco Personal Finance (TPF).
‡ Excluding acquisitions of TPF and Homever, India start-up costs, and after adjusting for assets held for sale.
§  Using a ‘normalised’ tax rate before start-up costs in the US and Tesco Direct, and excludes the impact of foreign exchange in equity and our acquisition of a majority 
share of Dobbies.
All growth figures reported on a 53-week basis. Tesco PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2009
3 CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
We’ve made several new appointments to 
the Tesco Board in the year, including Laurie 
McIlwee who takes on the role of Group 
Finance Director, replacing Andrew Higginson 
who has been appointed Chief Executive  
of Retailing Services whilst retaining his 
responsibility for Group Strategy. 
Laurie has been with Tesco for nine years 
and has a very strong track-record in both 
finance and operations. In his most recent 
role as Distribution Director Laurie was 
responsible for transforming our network – a 
tremendous achievement. His appointment 
shows once again how careful management 
succession planning works in Tesco and I have 
every confidence he will do an outstanding 
job as our Group Finance Director. 
We’ve also appointed three strong new 
Non-executive Directors in recent months – 
Jacqueline Tammenoms Bakker, a former 
Director General at the Ministry of Transport 
in the Netherlands who has also held senior 
positions at McKinsey & Co. and Shell, 
Patrick Cescau, former CEO of Unilever and 
Ken Hanna, Chairman of Inchcape plc and 
former CFO of Cadbury. They bring with 
them a wealth of international, commercial 
and financial experience which will further 
strengthen our Board and support our plans 
for the long-term growth of the Group.
Whilst the downturn has presented many 
challenges, it has also opened up some 
opportunities. We have made two very 
significant acquisitions this year.
We have acquired the remaining 50% of 
Tesco Personal Finance from Royal Bank  
of Scotland, a move which will enable us to 
develop an already very successful financial 
services offer towards our objective of 
becoming a full-service retail bank.
In South Korea we purchased 36 
hypermarkets from E-land, mostly in  
Seoul, which has put us in a very strong 
position to challenge for market leadership 
in one of our most successful markets.
Most of our growth has again been organic – 
we’ve opened nine million square feet of new 
space this year, excluding the acquisition in 
South Korea, and in August we announced 
that we are establishing a wholesale cash & 
I am pleased to report that despite the 
extraordinary economic environment 
we find ourselves in, Tesco has once 
again delivered a good set of results. 
This demonstrates that Tesco is coping 
well with the downturn. Despite the 
challenging conditions around the 
globe we have remained resilient and 
are growing as fast as any major 
international retailer. 
carry operation in India. This complements 
our entries into China and the United States, 
giving us access to another of the world’s 
most important economies.
Whilst many of our customers are focused 
on managing their shopping budgets, it is 
still important to them that we behave 
responsibly in the communities we serve. 
We now have a Community Plan for each 
country and earlier in the year we launched 
our Community Promises. These are: 
actively supporting local communities; 
buying and selling our products responsibly; 
caring for the environment; giving 
customers healthy choices; and good  
jobs for local people.
We’ve made some great progress this year 
– we’ve opened our greenest ever store  
at Cheetham Hill in Manchester, with a 
carbon footprint that is 70% lower than  
a typical store – bringing our total number 
of green stores across the Group to 37. 
Our work to encourage customers to make 
greener decisions is going well. Through 
green Clubcard points we have reduced  
the number of single-use carrier bags in the 
UK by 50% and we are finding innovative 
ways to use green Clubcard elsewhere –  
for example by rewarding customers for 
cycling to our stores in South Korea.
I’m also pleased to announce that in the 
UK we have once again broken our ‘Charity 
of the Year’ record, raising a remarkable  
£6.2 million for Marie Curie Cancer Care.
Although it was impossible to predict the 
scale of the global economic slowdown, 
Tesco has responded well by adjusting our 
business to this environment. Our 470,000 
strong team have done a fantastic job – 
staying close to customers and reacting 
quickly to their changing needs around  
the world.
I am confident that this hard work will 
continue as we press on with our long-term 
strategy which I believe will put us in an 
even stronger position once economies 
start to recover.
David Reid, Chairman Tesco PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2009
India
South Korea
China
UK
Poland
Slovakia       
Japan
Malaysia
Czech Republic
Hungary
US
T urkey
Thailand
Republic 
of Ireland
4 TESCO AT A GLANCE
Tesco has coped well with the global economic downturn to 
deliver solid growth across the Group. We’ve faced into the 
challenges of subdued and competitive markets, adjusting our 
offer to deliver an even better shopping trip for customers.
Market Staff numbers Store numbers
China 19,452 70
Czech Republic 12,677 113
Hungary 21,356 149
Japan 4,007 135
Malaysia 9,872 29
Poland 23,569 319
Rep. Ireland 13,764 116
Market Staff numbers Store numbers
Slovakia 8,286 70
South Korea 20,626 242
Thailand 38,166 571
Turkey 7,025 96
UK 286,394 2,306
US 2,583 115
In 2008/9 there were an additional 731 people working in other global locations such as international buying hubs.
Store numbers exclude one store in Calais, France.
Geographic locations
470,000
People
4,331
Stores worldwide
14
Countries 36%
33%
30%
UK 
EUROPE
ASIA 
US 
1%
2005 2006 2007 2008 2009
37.0
43.1
46.6
51.8
59 .4
£41.5bn
£10. 1bn
£7 .6bn
UK 
EUROPE 
ASIA  
US 
£0.2bn
Group sales (£bn)
Tesco PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2009
5 TESCO AT A GLANCE
£59.4bn
Group sales 
 N o . 3
third largest grocery  
retailer in the world
 622 new stores
including 435 international
11.5m sq ft
of new space
Group space by region Group sales by region 6 CHIEF Ex ECUTIv E’S Q&A
International
Tesco is an international retailer and 
wherever we operate we focus on 
giving local customers what they 
want. Page 8
Core UK
The UK is our biggest market and 
the core of our business. We aim 
to provide all our customers with 
excellent value and choice. Page 10
Non-food
Our aim is to be as strong in non-food 
as in food. This means offering the 
same great quality, range, price and 
service for our customers as we do in 
our food business. Page 12
Retailing Services
Tesco has followed its customers 
into the growing world of retailing 
services, aiming to bring simplicity 
and value to complex markets. 
Page 14
Community
Tesco is a responsible business.  
We aim to take a leadership role in 
tackling climate change and believe 
in playing a positive role in all the 
communities we serve. Page 16
Our long-
term strategy
Sir Terry Leahy, Chief Executive Tesco PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2009
7 CHIEF Ex ECUTIv E’S Q&A
At a time when customers everywhere are 
feeling the economic strain, we are responding 
to their changing needs in all our markets by 
lowering prices, introducing more affordable 
products and offering even sharper promotions. 
Q: You’re very much in the front line 
when it comes to knowing what 
customers are thinking, how they are 
behaving. Are there any signs that we 
have perhaps reached the bottom of  
the recession? What lies in store for  
the economy do you think?
A: It is very fluid at the moment – changes 
are happening over weeks, so I don’t think 
you can see any clear direction yet. What  
I would say is that it looks as if things are 
stabilising on the consumer front. In the  
UK the lower interest rates help, as do the 
lower fuel prices and energy prices, and 
coupled with the work that we have done  
in reducing food prices for customers –  
this helps rebuild confidence. In Central 
Europe the economics had a big decline 
early in the summer and the autumn of 
2008 – that feels as if it has levelled out, 
which is encouraging. In Asia it is too early 
to say. Their decline came later with the  
destocking of the supply chain and so for 
them it really hit around December. These 
are strong economies and the destocking 
will end and we’ll start to get restocking in 
the pipeline which will help.
Q: Priorities change during a recession 
of course for business and customers 
alike, is there a risk that the focus on 
green and corporate responsibility slips 
somewhat?
A: It is important that it doesn’t and it’s  
one of the reasons we lay such emphasis 
within Tesco on our ‘Steering Wheel’ –  
our balanced scorecard – so that whatever 
is going on in the outside world, we keep 
focused on the things that matter long 
term. Of course price and trading is 
important at the moment, but there are  
big long-term objectives around community 
and the environment that we have got to 
stay committed to. Tesco has to help 
customers change from mass consumption 
to green consumption. On climate change, 
These actions, combined with our core 
strengths – in selling food and everyday 
essentials, owning our own property 
and having a broad business base – are 
helping us to cope well with the effects 
of the downturn. We are also pleased 
with the early performance of Tesco 
Personal Finance under our ownership 
and with the converted Homever stores 
in South Korea. 
 
As a result, we have delivered a solid 
sales and profit performance, both in 
the UK and internationally, whilst 
continuing to invest in our long-term 
strategy for growth. We have made  
a good start to the new financial year 
and I am confident Tesco will continue 
to make good progress even in the 
current global economic environment.
Q: It has been a very tough time for the 
economy but the good news is it has 
been very sturdy growth for Tesco.  
How have you managed that?
A: It has been a very good year and mainly 
of course that is the dividend of having  
a long-term, consistent strategy. We’ve 
invested into this slowdown and that has 
given us good momentum through the 
recession. We are growing fast in our 
overseas countries, laying out networks of 
stores and we are still opening new space in 
the UK as well. In addition to that, of course, 
people have to eat – we’re blessed in that 
sense, so we don’t face the worst of the 
slowdown. We’ve also adjusted our business 
both in the UK and around the world to 
make sure that we offer better value and 
better ranges which keeps customers in the 
stores, and helps volume in the business.
To see a full video interview go to 
www.tesco.com/annualreview09/presentations
we’ve got to learn how to run this business 
on 80% less carbon. We have got great 
plans and we are making great progress. 
Of course it helps the business too – not 
wasting things is a very good habit at a 
time like this and one of the reasons our 
energy bills are down £100 million this year 
is because of all of the green initiatives 
we’ve been working on over several years.
Q: Bearing in mind what you have seen 
in the US so far, are you pleased with 
the progress? 
A: I am, yes, because there’s lots to be 
pleased about. Clearly nobody would have 
chosen to open into the scale of recession 
that we’ve seen there, which is particularly 
stiff in the Western United States, but the 
customers love the stores and they appeal 
right across the income range and the age 
range and that bodes very well for their 
long-term appeal. Fresh & Easy is more 
than just a niche retailer – it’s a new and 
different form of retailing. Customers 
obviously like the fresh foods and they  
like the own-brand products,  but also are 
increasingly recognising the tremendous 
prices that are on offer and of course that  
is very important at the moment. The 
operation is very good and it’s strong.  
We really have created the business that  
we set out to create in terms of the highest, 
freshest quality in the market at the best 
prices in the local neighbourhood. We are 
expanding the business at a good rate and 
morale is high. 
Q: What excites you most about the 
year ahead?
A: First of all we’re growing – and we’re 
serving more customers. They have needs; 
they are just different needs at a time like 
this. It’s what Tesco is for – to stay close  
to customers and change as their needs 
change. That’s got to take a different form  
in different categories or in different parts  
of the world. It’s important you have strong, 
confident local leadership teams who take 
the responsibility to make those changes.  
I believe that is happening. If you look at our 
businesses – whether it’s non-food, financial 
services or in our international markets –  
we are growing strongly and we are growing 
market share. There’s more that we have  
to do from place to place, but confidence is 
high. People know what they have to do and 
have the authority to do it.  8
Tesco PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2009
THE YEAR IN REv IEW
Loyalty card schemes 
We have national loyalty card schemes based on 
Clubcard in Ireland, Malaysia, South Korea and 
China and pilot schemes in Slovakia, Poland, 
Thailand and Turkey.
Each of our markets is different so it’s up to 
the individual businesses to adjust their offer 
locally. Using customer insight allows our 
experienced teams on the ground to make 
decisions based on real customer data. 
We have spent many years developing our 
customer insight skills, particularly through 
dunnhumby, the consumer research 
company behind our loyalty scheme, 
Clubcard. Through careful analysis of  
sales and loyalty card data we can better 
understand what is important to our 
customers. This year we have been using 
this unique insight across most parts of  
our business so we don’t have to guess 
what our customers want, we know.
In all our markets it’s helping us select the 
most important items for price-sensitive or 
cost-conscious shoppers so we can invest  
in lowering prices on the most important 
items to help customers through tough 
economic times. For example, in Malaysia, 
we have reviewed our range of staple  
foods and groceries and as a result we have 
introduced 27 new products to the basket, 
which we know are among the most 
important for customers. We now make 
sure that we are not beaten on price for 
these products.
This insight is also helping us to make 
things simpler for customers to shop in  
our stores. For example, in Asia we have 
worked with our leading supplier of baby 
milk. By reviewing the sales data we 
discovered that displaying the products by 
brand rather than by age was important  
so we are changing the layout on the 
shelves to make it easier for customers  
to find the products they want. 
Across our markets customers are changing 
their shopping habits as they are affected 
to varying degrees by the global economic 
downturn. In this kind of environment,  
it is more important than ever to listen  
to customers and adapt quickly to their 
changing needs.
For example, in the US our customers tell 
us that they love the quality and freshness 
of our ranges, as well as the prices and  
the convenient locations of the stores. 
However, the economic environment into 
which we originally launched the business 
has markedly changed and we’ve had to 
adapt to that. We’ve made some changes 
to the product ranges, introduced a limited 
number of promotions and special offers, 
as well as made improvements to the 
ambience of the stores. These changes 
have been well-received and consequently 
customer numbers per store are up by 
more than a third.
International
It’s been another good year for our international business which  
now spans 13 countries across Asia, Europe and the United States.  
As customers around the world are feeling the effects of the global 
economic slowdown we are successfully adjusting our offer in all  
our markets to help customers who are feeling the pinch.
Whilst it is important to invest in the 
shopping trip we are also continuing to 
invest for future growth. This is a strategy 
that has served us well in the past; for 
example we entered Thailand and South 
Korea during the Asian economic crisis in 
the 1990s and emerged stronger once the 
economies started to recover. We are now 
market leader in Thailand and following  
our acquisition of 36 hypermarkets in 
South Korea we are now in a very strong 
position to challenge for market leadership 
there as well.
We also announced our entry into the 
Indian market last year. We are establishing 
a cash & carry business that will offer a 
comprehensive range of great value fresh 
food, grocery and non-food products to 
small retailers, restaurants, kirana stores 
and other business owners. We will also 
provide farmers and other suppliers with a 
highly efficient route to market. In addition, 
we have signed an exclusive franchise 
agreement with Trent, the retail arm of the 
Tata Group. Trent currently operates four 
Star Bazaar hypermarkets, with plans to 
grow to 50 stores over the next five years. 
We will supply these hypermarkets with 
products, but also offer our retail expertise 
and technical capability to support the 
development of their business.
To find out more go to 
www.tesco.com/annualreview09 9 THE YEAR IN REv IEW
International 
sales up
31%
Philip Clarke International and IT Director
We’ve long understood that retailing  
is local. Each team on the ground is  
able to adjust our offer to each market 
because customers in China, for example, 
aren’t the same as those in Poland or  
South Korea. 
So we’ve never tried to run the 
international business from our office in 
the UK. In fact, we have very few expats 
working outside the UK – in South Korea 
just six out of a team of 20,000 people.  
As we face into some strong economic 
headwinds, it’s more important than ever 
to stay close to customers and be able to 
adapt quickly locally as their needs change. 
We have people in each of our markets 
who have a wealth of experience and  
are able to make the decisions that  
really matter. 
A big part of my job is about making sure 
we’ve got the right people in each country, 
sharing experience around the business 
and empowering people to do the right 
things for their customers. 
How do you run successful 
businesses in so many 
countries? 10 THE YEAR IN REv IEW
Making many small improvements in 
everything we do is what ‘Every Little 
Helps’ is about, because when we all  
work together on the little things, it 
amounts to a great deal. It’s more 
important today than it’s ever been –  
it keeps us focused on what matters  
most to customers. 
They are shopping around more and  
price is clearly a priority for many –  
so we need to put the right effort and 
investment into price – but not sacrifice  
all the other things that are important  
to customers, such as not having to  
queue and being able to get everything 
that they want. 
So we’ve continued to make lots of  
small improvements and they’re making  
a big difference. For example, through  
a number of initiatives to achieve a  
better and more efficient service at our 
checkouts, many more customers didn’t 
have to queue last year and customers 
continue to rank us best for speed of 
service at the checkouts.
 
£540m
in productivity savings
David Potts Retail and Logistics Director
Is ‘Every Little Helps’  
still important? 11
Tesco PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2009
THE YEAR IN REv IEW
30% 
Around 30% of our customers 
buy something from our 
‘Discount Brands at Tesco’ 
every time they shop.
70%
of our products are delivered to stores in  
retail-ready packaging, including all of our  
new ‘Discount Brands’ saving many hours  
of staff time re-filling shelves.
500 new products as part of our ‘Discount 
Brands at Tesco’ initiative. The new range 
means that every customer can have a 
product to match their budget without 
compromising on choice or quality. It creates 
a completely new way to shop for customers 
who want to spend less.
As well as introducing more affordable 
products we have been working hard to  
cut prices across the store. To help us do 
this we have been keeping very good 
control of costs and have put more focus 
on our efficiency saving programme we  
call Step-Change. This programme has 
delivered £540 million of productivity and 
other savings in the year, most of which 
have been reinvested in improving our 
shopping trip for customers.
This programme involves many projects 
right across the business which change the 
way we do things to drive efficiency. Many 
of today’s savings were conceived and 
planned years ago and they are a result of 
productivity projects that span the whole 
business, from stores and depots to the 
office. They range from reducing the 
amount of energy we use in our stores  
It’s been a tough year for many of our 
customers. Consumer confidence has fallen 
as people worry about unemployment and 
are struggling to manage their household 
budgets. Not surprisingly, there has been  
a shift in our customers’ priorities – our 
research has shown that price is ranked as 
the most important by a margin not seen in 
two decades. Therefore we believe our job 
is to be on the side of customers, listening 
to them and doing what we can to help 
them spend less. 
At the time of the last recession we launched 
value lines – the famous blue and white 
stripes – so we’ve long been able to provide 
the cheapest grocery shop in the country, 
discounters included.
This recession has provided a new 
challenge because although customers 
tend to shop around more for the best 
prices when times are hard – it doesn’t 
mean they want to compromise on quality 
of the shopping trip or on choice. That is 
why this year we made the biggest change 
to our range in a decade, launching around 
Core UK
Everyone in the business understands the way we work – to make 
things better for customers, simpler for staff and cheaper for Tesco.  
At a time when customers are feeling the pinch and our competitors 
have improved, this philosophy is more important than ever.
to introducing better ways of working to 
improve our efficiency by making things 
better for customers, simpler for staff and 
cheaper for Tesco. For example, in the last 
year we have saved 52,000 deliveries to  
our stores by using larger-fill double-decked 
vehicles, which in turn have also saved  
12 million road miles. 
We’ve also introduced innovative 
technology which allows us to electronically 
check-in bread and milk deliveries at our 
depots, eliminating substantial paperwork 
and administration.
We have picked up the pace on a number 
of these long-term cross-functional Step-
Change projects and plan to deliver similar 
savings in the current year of around £550 
million. These savings will continue to go 
back into improving our offer for customers. 
Making things better, simpler and cheaper 
is part of our culture at Tesco and all our 
people are encouraged to suggest new 
ideas on how we can achieve this. 
To find out more go to 
www.tesco.com/annualreview09 Tesco PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2009
12
 No. 5
Technika is the fifth largest TV brand in the UK.
THE YEAR IN REv IEW
also been promoting our slow cooking 
appliances as customers have been buying 
cheaper cuts of meat and cooking from 
scratch – half of all slow cookers bought in 
the run-up to Christmas were sold in Tesco.
Our online non-food business, Tesco Direct, 
continues to grow rapidly, increasing sales 
by more than 50% in the year. The latest 
spring/summer catalogue and website 
includes over 1,500 products that are  
cheaper than they were last year. In the 
current year we also plan to introduce  
an online clothing offer – making our 
fashionable, affordable clothes easier to 
buy for many more customers. 
To ensure that we offer the best possible 
prices for customers we buy many products 
globally so that we benefit from our scale. 
We have an international sourcing office 
based in Hong Kong which is responsible 
for buying 100,000 non-food products  
for the Group. The international sourcing 
operation has seen rapid growth in the last 
few years and now sources 60% of our 
clothing in the UK and 40% of hardlines, 
including electricals, homewares, 
entertainment, toys and books. In Europe  
it provides over 25% of our hardlines and 
85% of our clothing and we have recently 
Non-food remains an important part of our 
strategy and we continue to grow both 
sales and market share. 
In our experience, customers will buy where 
they see value. To help customers we have 
been making changes to our ranges and 
cutting prices. For example, in the UK sales 
of our Technika own-brand televisions have 
been very strong as customers trade away 
from big brands and we now have a 10% 
share of the television market. We’ve  
Non-food
It has been a challenging year for non-food as consumers around the 
globe have been hit by the economic downturn and are cutting back  
on non-essential purchases – but by keeping our prices low, improving 
our offer in key categories like electricals and clothing and giving 
customers more choice about how they shop, such as through Tesco 
Direct – we have outperformed the market. 
Gaming sales up 
30%
53m
Last year our international buying office sourced 
over 53 million pairs of socks for the Group.
started to source products for Asia. In the 
last year our international sourcing team 
shipped 72,000 containers from 54 ports.
We also have sourcing hubs in China, India, 
Sri Lanka, Bangladesh and Turkey, with 
smaller offices in Thailand, Czech Republic 
and Italy. We have invested in buying hubs 
where we have a critical mass of suppliers 
and shipment volumes. It helps to be close 
to our suppliers so that we can ensure great 
quality products, delivered from ethical 
sources, on time and at the best price.
Where possible we try to source products 
direct from factories rather than through 
agents or middlemen. This way we can 
ensure the lowest possible cost price as  
well as making sure that our products are 
sourced safely and fairly. We also manage 
to strip out more costs by consolidating 
freight volumes. This gives us the best 
shipping and transportation rates, which 
can be passed on to the customer in the 
form of lower prices.
To find out more go to 
www.tesco.com/annualreview09 13 THE YEAR IN REv IEW
Across the non-food market, customers 
have been cutting back on non-essential 
purchases. But they have been buying 
when they see real value and, as  
a consequence, we have increased our 
market share as customers appreciate  
the convenience of buying non-food from 
Tesco and the value that we offer. 
We’ve been adding new ranges with lower 
price-points and extending ranges that 
consumers see as essentials and we’ve 
seen real success on own-brand products 
such as Technika in electricals and 
Cherokee and F+F in our clothing offer.
Our online catalogue non-food offer, 
Tesco Direct, has been very popular and we 
have seen strong growth with our latest 
spring/summer range which included 
1,500 price cuts compared to our autumn/
winter catalogue. With the benefit of high 
footfall, great value ranges and the option 
to shop in store or online, we are well 
placed to continue to grow both sales and 
market share in a difficult market.
 
£12.5bn
Group non-food sales
Richard Brasher Commercial and Marketing Director
Lots of high street retailers 
have been cutting prices.  
Can I still get the best deals 
at Tesco? Andrew Higginson Chief Executive of Retailing 
Services and Group Strategy Director
14 THE YEAR IN REv IEW
We believe in creating value for all our 
customers because that is how we earn 
their loyalty. Over time customers have 
come to trust Tesco to deliver value 
whether they are buying their weekly 
shop or opening a savings account. Their 
trust is very important to us. So we take 
the same approach to financial services  
as we do to all other parts of our business 
and that means offering competitive, 
straightforward products with no 
confusing small print and hidden charges. 
Unlike many of the high street banks TPF 
is well funded – we never got involved in 
any of the complicated financial products 
and toxic debt that has caused so many 
problems for the banking sector. So while 
many banks now have to grow their 
margins and rebuild their balance sheets, 
we can concentrate on offering competitive 
rates across our savings, loans, credit 
cards and insurance products. 
Looking further ahead, it’s clear that 
customers want us to provide a real 
alternative to other banks and that means  
a broader product range, including a 
current account.
6m
Tesco Personal Finance 
customer accounts
Can Tesco really offer  
the same value as my bank? Tesco PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2009
15 THE YEAR IN REv IEW
tesco.com
is the world’s most successful  
online grocery retailer.
Developing Retailing Services has been  
part of our strategy for over a decade –  
with the aim of bringing value and simplicity 
to customers through services such as 
telecoms and financial products. After ten 
years of success, we have given it a renewed 
focus and in July we announced that Andrew 
Higginson would relinquish his role as Group 
Finance Director to take on the role of  
Chief Executive of Retailing Services. He  
has assembled an experienced team to  
really drive forward this part of the strategy, 
which we believe has the potential to deliver  
£1 billion of annual profit in the next few years.
The aim is to develop our services business 
to offer customers the same convenience 
we have brought to food shopping, to all 
the other products and services we offer. 
Our dotcom grocery business and now our 
online non-food offer, Tesco Direct, have 
already added more convenient options for 
customers to shop – particularly those with  
very busy lives or limited access to transport. 
The growing power of the internet means 
increasingly that people look to this channel 
to buy everyday services and goods.
Retailing Services 
It’s been a big year for our Retailing Services, which includes our 
online shopping channels, tesco.com and Tesco Direct; Telecoms; 
Tesco Personal Finance (TPF) and dunnhumby – our consumer 
research business.
However, many people still like the 
reassurance of being able to talk to someone 
knowledgeable about the products and 
services they buy. We believe in offering 
customers the choice – to shop in the way 
which most suits their needs whether that is 
online, in store or by phone. That is why we 
now have 40 phone shops in our stores, and 
we plan to have around 100 open by the  
end of this year. This means more customers 
than ever can access our popular telecoms 
offer. We remain one of the fastest growing 
providers for pre-pay mobiles and we are 
now attracting more customers through our 
new contract mobile deals.
In December we completed the acquisition 
of the remaining 50% of TPF from Royal 
Bank of Scotland Group PLC (RBSG). This 
was an important move for Tesco, allowing 
us to build on the success of TPF and 
eventually offer customers the products 
you would expect from a full-service retail 
bank. This will mean growing our existing 
customer base across the 28 simple 
products we offer from home insurance  
to credit cards, but also attracting new 
customers at a time when many have lost 
trust in their high street bank.
All our current financial products are 
available to buy online and at present  
over 50% of our customers choose to buy 
this way. However, in the same way as 
customers value the service offered by  
our telecoms centres, we understand that 
many would like to discuss their financial 
needs with someone knowledgeable. We 
plan to increase our presence for TPF by 
extending the trial of our in-store branches 
which offer customers the opportunity to 
talk to our specially trained finance advisors  
in a convenient location.
1.8m
Tesco Mobile customers.
To find out more go to 
www.tesco.com/annualreview09 Tesco PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2009
16 THE YEAR IN REv IEW
truly local level and so over the past year  
we have appointed over 250 Community 
Champions in stores and depots across  
six countries. These members of staff are 
dedicated to working with local schools, 
charities and services to support the causes 
that matter most to our customers. 
We have made a step-change in our work 
on climate change and environmental 
responsibility by taking clear leadership in 
these vital areas. In 2007, we set ambitious 
targets to reduce emissions in our own 
buildings and distribution networks and we 
continue to make good progress. Over the 
past year we have continued to roll-out 
initiatives to save energy and lower our 
carbon footprint in all our operations and 
we now have environmental stores in every 
country in which we operate. Since 2006/7 
we have reduced our carbon intensity of 
new stores by 21%. 
Our aim is to give customers choice by 
providing them with the information they 
need to make informed decisions when they 
shop through initiatives such as carbon and 
Guideline Daily Amounts (GDA) labelling. 
In addition we have continued to work  
hard to help our customers to lead healthy 
lifestyles by providing information and 
services such as Tesco Diets, our online 
dieting, weight loss and healthy eating 
service, and improving nutritional content 
in all our foods. We also continue to find 
innovative ways to help customers get 
active. In Thailand, for example, our Getting 
We understand the importance of 
behaving responsibly in all our operations. 
Over the past year, we have worked even 
harder to be a good neighbour and have 
strengthened our contribution to the wider 
communities we serve.
All communities have their own individual 
concerns and priorities and so each of our 
countries has its own Community Plan. 
Whilst the goals and targets are tailored 
specifically to each country, each plan is 
underpinned by five core promises: actively 
supporting local communities; buying and 
selling our products responsibly; caring for 
the environment; giving customers healthy 
choices; and creating good jobs and careers. 
Our success depends on listening to our 
customers, and responding to their 
feedback by giving them what they want. 
Often the most significant contributions  
we can make to communities are at the 
Community
We recognise that running our business responsibly is important to  
our customers and increasingly crucial to our growth. We are working 
within communities to develop our own plans as well as involve 
customers in the journey.
500
We will measure the carbon footprint 
of 500 more products this year.
200
Our Greener Living brand helps our customers to 
make greener choices. The range comprises 200 
products as diverse as energy saving light bulbs, 
paper goods and kitchenware.
Active with Tesco Lotus programme has 
inspired 2.4 million people to get involved 
in activities such as aerobics.
To provide the best quality, choice and 
value for money for our customers we need 
strong and constructive relationships with 
our suppliers. We continue to make good 
progress in building these long-term 
relationships as we recognise that our success 
is linked to theirs. Trading fairly is essential in 
all our operations and last year we met with 
the UKSIF (the Sustainable Investment and 
Finance Association) to discuss our ethical 
trading approach. They benchmarked us 
against a number of peers and concluded 
that we were in a leadership position in 
terms of good factory labour standards.
To find out more go to 
www.tesco.com/cr-report09 17 THE YEAR IN REv IEW
We understand that many of our 
customers are facing real financial 
pressures at the moment and they’re 
looking to us to help them spend less. 
However, when customers shop with  
us they don’t leave their ethics at the 
door and they’re telling us it is still  
really important to them that we behave 
responsibly and honestly. They want  
to see Tesco doing the right things on 
community and the environment at  
the same time as providing them with  
the value they expect from us.
We’ve made some great progress this 
year and one of the things I’m most proud 
of is the work we have done in getting 
unemployed people back to work which  
is especially important in light of rising 
unemployment in the UK and elsewhere. 
Last year we recruited over 3,000 long-
term unemployed people and other 
disadvantaged job seekers, up on nearly 
500 the previous year.
250+
Community Champions
Lucy Neville-Rolfe Corporate & Legal Affairs Director
How much do customers  
really care about community 
when they are struggling 
with the recession? Tim Mason President and CEO of Fresh & Easy
18 THE YEAR IN REv IEW
Having started a business from scratch  
in the US – one of the world’s largest 
markets – I know how important it  
is to have a strong team around you. 
Developing talent is crucial to any  
growing business, particularly retail  
which is a people-intensive industry. 
 As a Group, we’re still investing hard 
and growing through the downturn, with 
sales growing by 15% last year. To handle 
that growth well, we need to bring skilled, 
experienced people through all the time  
to fill the thousands of jobs it creates.  
Take Fresh & Easy where our team has 
grown from 65 to over 2,500 in less than 
two years. Hundreds more will join us this 
year, so we can’t rely on bringing people  
in from other parts of the business. We 
need to develop our own talent locally 
and equip our people with the skills  
they need to be able to do the job and  
lead others. That’s why we’re absolutely 
committed to putting the best training 
plans in place making sure that all of 
our people have the opportunity to get  
on in the business.
470,000
people
Is training and developing 
staff still a priority? Tesco PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2009
19 THE YEAR IN REv IEW
As the business continues to grow it is 
important that we build capability through 
training and development. Over 3,500  
new management appointments were 
made in the UK last year through Options, 
a tailored programme for our people  
who have been identified as having the 
potential to move to a bigger job, and  
our training Academies. We also have  
our highest ever number of people on 
Options – 7,680 – which includes over  
500 in our depots. Our Graduate Options 
programme was externally recognised, 
winning a Times Graduate Recruitment 
award in 2008 for Graduate Employer of 
Choice in General Management.
We’re also doing more to recruit graduates 
across our international business. We have 
plans to recruit 1,000 graduates in Asia and 
300 in Central Europe to ensure that we 
have a great pool of talent to support our 
future growth.
This year we brought together over 2,000 
managers from across the whole business 
at our triennial conference. It was an 
opportunity to look back at the tremendous 
growth in the business in the last three 
years, but also to look ahead. It has been  
a challenging year for our people, but with 
a clear strategy, underpinned by our values, 
they have never been clearer on what we 
need to do.
The theme of the conference was ‘Living 
the values’. We first launched our values  
a decade ago and they have been the  
glue that has held us together as we have 
rapidly grown the business. They ensure 
that every person understands our culture 
and goals. In the last year we have spent  
a lot of time talking to our people across 
the business to make sure that they are still 
as relevant today as they were 10 years ago 
and that they are universally understood.  
It was clear that not only do our values 
remain relevant, but that they have 
travelled because things like trust and 
respect, for example, are universal – they 
are as important to our people in Tokyo  
as to those in Torquay. 
Our Values
No-one tries harder for customers
• 	 U nd er st and 	 c u st o mer s
• 	 B e 	 f ir st 	 t o 	 m e e t 	 t he ir 	 ne e d s
•	 A c t 	 r es pons ibl y 	 f or 	 o ur 	 c ommunit ies
We treat people how we like to  
be treated
•	 W or k 	 as 	 a 	 team
• 	 T r u st 	 an d 	 r e s p e c t 	 eac h 	 o t he r
•	 L isten , 	 suppor t 	 and 	 s ay 	 t hank 	 yo u
• 	 S h ar e 	 k no w le d g e 	 an d 	 e x p e r i e nc e
...so we can enjoy our work.
People 
Over 470,000 people now work for Tesco across 14 countries.  
It’s been a challenging year for our people and they have worked  
harder than ever to deliver an ‘Every Little Helps’ shopping trip.
170,000
Over 170,000 of our UK staff have a personal stake  
in Tesco through our share ownership and share 
incentive schemes.
137
In China, we have developed a leadership 
development programme to help us meet 
the needs of our rapid expansion. This  
year 137 people completed the programme 
which is tailored to meet the development 
needs of each person and prepare them  
for leadership roles.
To find out more go to 
www.tesco.com/annualreview09 20
was not in compliance for part of the year. 
The Board recognises the importance of  
a balanced board with an appropriate level 
of independence. There were, however, 
unexpected resignations of two Non-
executive Directors due to conflicts of 
interest, which resulted in the Board not 
being in balance. While the process of 
finding replacements was started 
immediately, the Board places a priority on 
ensuring the right candidates are selected 
and the process of recruiting individuals with 
the right experience, availability and skills  
to complement those of the existing Board 
can take a significant amount of time. The 
Company has appointed three new Non-
executive Directors, two as replacements  
for the two Directors that resigned and one 
in order to ensure that the Board remained 
in balance once the new Group Finance 
Director was appointed. From 1 April 2009 
the Board became once again fully compliant 
with provisions of the Combined Code.  
A full corporate governance statement is 
contained in the Annual Report and 
Financial Statements 2009.
Summary report of the Directors 
on remuneration
Directors’ remuneration policy
It is the role of the Remuneration 
Committee to determine and recommend 
to the Board the remuneration policy for  
the Chairman and Executive Directors. 
Tesco has a policy of rewarding talent and 
experience and seeks to provide incentives 
for delivering high growth and high returns 
for shareholders. The remuneration strategy 
is tailored to reward the delivery of strong 
year-on-year earnings growth as well as 
sustained performance in the longer term.
Compliance
In carrying out its duties, the Remuneration 
Committee gives full consideration to best 
practice. The Committee was constituted 
and operated throughout the year in 
accordance with the principles outlined in 
the Listing Rules of the Financial Services 
Authority derived from the Combined Code 
on Corporate Governance. 
The Remuneration Report complies with 
the disclosures required by the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report Regulations 2002.  
A summary of Directors’ emoluments  
and interests is set out on page 21. The  
full Remuneration Report is provided in  
the Annual Report and Financial 
Statements 2009.
Principal activity and business review
The principal activity of the Group is 
retailing and associated activities in the UK, 
the Czech Republic, Hungary, Poland, the 
Republic of Ireland, Slovakia, Turkey, China, 
Japan, Malaysia, South Korea, Thailand and 
the United States. The Group also provides 
retail banking and insurance services through 
its subsidiary, Tesco Personal Finance. The 
Summary Financial Statement and Business 
Review is on pages 22 to 24.
Dividends
The Directors recommend the payment  
of a final dividend of 8.39 pence per 
ordinary share to be paid on 10 July 2009 
to members on the Register at the close of 
business on 1 May 2009. Together with the 
interim dividend of 3.57 pence per ordinary 
share paid in December 2008, the total 
dividend for the year will be 11.96 pence, 
compared with 10.90 pence for the 
previous year, an increase of 9.7%.
Directors
Details of the current members of the 
Board are shown on the inside back cover. 
Mr R Brasher, Mr P Clarke, Mr A Higginson, 
Mr C Allen and Dr H Einsmann retire  
from the Board and, being eligible, offer 
themselves for re-election at the Annual 
General Meeting (AGM). Ms C McCall and 
Mr E Mervyn Davies resigned from the 
Board on 10 April 2008 and 31 October 
2008 respectively. Mr L McIlwee was 
appointed to the Board on 27 January 2009. 
Ms J Tammenoms Bakker and Mr P Cescau 
joined the Board with effect from  
1 January 2009 and 1 February 2009 
respectively, and Mr K Hanna joined the 
Board with effect from 1 April 2009.
Corporate governance
Tesco PLC is committed to the highest 
standards of corporate governance. The 
Board considers that Tesco PLC complied  
in all respects with the Combined Code 
Principles of Good Governance and Code of 
Best Practice for the year ended 28 February 
2009 with the exception of provision A.3.2, 
which requires that at least half the Board 
should comprise independent Non-executive 
Directors, in respect of which the company 
Independent auditors’ statement to the members  
of Tesco PLC
We have examined the summary financial statement 
which comprises the Summary Group Income 
Statement, Summary Group Balance Sheet, Summary 
Group Cash Flow Statement and the Summary Report  
of the Directors on Remuneration set out on pages  
20 to 24.
Respective responsibilities of Directors  
and auditors
The Directors are responsible for preparing the 
summarised Annual Review and Summary Financial 
Statement in accordance with United Kingdom law. 
Our responsibility is to report to you our opinion on the 
consistency of the summary financial statement within 
the Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 
with the full annual financial statements, the Directors’ 
Report and the Directors’ Remuneration Report, and  
its compliance with the relevant requirements of section 
251 of the Companies Act 1985 and the regulations  
made thereunder. 
We also read the other information contained in the 
Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement  
and consider the implications for our statement  
if we become aware of any apparent misstatements  
or material inconsistencies with the summary  
financial statement.
This statement, including the opinion, has been prepared 
for and only for the company’s members as a body in 
accordance with section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 
and for no other purpose. We do not, in giving this 
opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other 
purpose or to any other person to whom this statement  
is shown or into whose hands it may come save where 
expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Basis of opinion
We conducted our work in accordance with Bulletin 
1999/6, ‘The auditors’ statement on the summary 
financial statement’ issued by the Auditing Practices 
Board. Our reports on the company’s full annual  
financial statements describe the basis of our audit 
opinions on those financial statements and the  
Directors’ Remuneration Report. 
Opinion
In our opinion the summary financial statement is 
consistent with the full annual financial statements,  
the Directors’ Report and the Directors’ Remuneration 
Report of Tesco PLC for the 53 weeks ended  
28 February 2009 and complies with the applicable 
requirements of section 251 of the Companies  
Act 1985, and the regulations made thereunder. 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors 
London 29 April 2009 
Notes:
(a)  The maintenance and integrity of the Tesco PLC  
web site is the responsibility of the Directors; the  
work carried out by the auditors does not involve 
consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the 
auditors accept no responsibility for any changes  
that may have occurred to the full annual financial 
statements or the summary financial statement  
since they were initially presented on the web site.
(b)  Legislation in the United Kingdom governing  
the preparation and dissemination of financial 
statements may differ from legislation in other 
jurisdictions.
SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENT
Summary 
Report of the
Directors Tesco PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2009
21 SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENT
Directors’ emoluments
  Fixed emoluments Performance-related emoluments
      Short-term Short-term  Total Total 
   Salary Allowances Benefits
3
 cash deferred shares Long-term
4
 2008/9 2007/8 
   £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 
 
Executive Directors     
Richard Brasher  778   –   65  712 712 –  2,267   2,116 
Philip Clarke  778   –   38   712  712  480   2,720   2,749 
Andrew Higginson  778   –   59   712  712   493   2,754   2,810 
Sir Terry Leahy  1,356   –  85 1,238 1,547  876   5,102   5,472 
 Tim Mason – base salary
1
  778   312   218  712 712   493   3,225  3,797 
 Tim Mason – supplement
1
  200   –   –  180 180  –   560   733 
Tim Mason – total  978   312   218   892  892   493   3,785   4,530 
Laurie McIlwee
2
  38   –   5  24  24   –   91   – 
Lucy Neville-Rolfe  538   –   70   499   499  –   1,606  1,451 
David Potts  778   –   37  712   712   480   2,719   2,718 
Non-executive Directors       
Charles Allen  91   –  – –  –  –   91   85 
Patrick Cescau
2
  5    –     5  – 
Rodney Chase  129   –   –   –   –   –  129   118 
Karen Cook  73   –   –   –   –   –  73   67 
E Mervyn Davies  55   –   –   –   –   –   55  79 
Harald Einsmann  73   –   –   –   –   –   73   67 
Ken Hydon 91   –   –   –   –   –   91   85 
Carolyn McCall 10   –   –   –   –   –   10  67 
David Reid (Chairman)  601   –   56   –   –   –   657  675 
Jacqueline Tammenoms Bakker
2
  9   –   –   –   –   –   9   – 
Total 7,159 312 633 5,501 5,810 2,822 22,237 23,089 
1   Tim Mason’s salary is made up of a base salary and a non-pensionable salary supplement (shown separately). Allowances are made up of compensation payments for additional tax due 
on equity awards made prior to his move to the US. His benefits are made up of car, travel, medical, tax related costs and services and free shares awarded under the Share Incentive Plan.
2 Laurie McIlwee, Patrick Cescau and Jacqueline Tammenoms Bakker were appointed during the year. Figures in this table are shown from their date of appointment.
3   With the exception of Tim Mason, benefits are made up of car benefits, chauffeurs, disability and health insurance, staff discount, gym/leisure club membership and free shares awarded 
under the all employee Share Incentive Plan.
4  The long-term bonus figures include the 12.5% enhancements on awards under the old bonus scheme.
Disclosable interests of the Directors, including family interests
      Options held Exercise price  Value realisable Ordinary shares 
  Options held at 23 February 2008
1
    28 February of outstanding during 2008/9 at 28 February
  (or on appointment if later) Granted Exercised at 2009
1
 options (pence) £000 2009
2
Executive Directors
Mr R Brasher 2,810,138 876,039 1,625 3,684,552 0.00-473.75 2 189,825
Mr P A Clarke 2,452,778 880,395 1,625 3,331,548 0.00-473.75 2 1,344,598
Mr A T Higginson 2,887,131 880,395 1,625 3,765,901 0.00-473.75 2 1,287,438
Sir T Leahy 10,929,606 1,757,393 128,457 12,558,542 0.00-473.75 262 5,992,724
Mr T J R Mason 2,384,457 364,943 108,010 2,641,390 0.00-473.75 380 4,365,664
Mr L McIlwee
3
 387,203 – 2,379 384,824 0.00-473.75 3 320,878
Ms L Neville-Rolfe 652,450 575,802 1,625 1,226,627 0.00-473.75 2 197,903
Mr D T Potts 2,452,778 880,395 1,625 3,331,548 0.00-473.75 2 1,737,555
Non-executive Directors       
Mr C L Allen – – – – – – –
Mr P J Cescau – – – – – – –
Mr R F Chase – – – – – – –
Mrs K Cook – – – – – – –
Mr E M Davies
4
 – – – – – – 2,400
Dr H Einsmann – – – – – – 303,209
Mr K J Hydon – – – – – – 30,093
Ms C McCall
4
 – – – – – – 6,556
Mr D E Reid (Chairman) – – – – – – 193,825
Ms J Tammenoms Bakker – – – – – – –
Total 24,956,541 6,215,362 246,971 30,924,932   655 15,972,668
1  Options to acquire ordinary shares shown in this table comprise options held under the Executive Share Option schemes and Discretionary Share Option Plan, Save As You Earn and nil cost 
options held under the Performance Share Plan, Group New Business Incentive Plan and Executive Incentive Plan.
2  Ordinary shares shown in this table include restricted shares held by Laurie McIlwee and Lucy Neville-Rolfe under the PSP subject to future performance conditions, shares held by Tim Mason 
under the PSP, US Long Term Incentive Plan and EIP subject to peformance or holding conditions, shares held under the Long Term Incentive Plan subject to a holding period and shares 
held under the all employee Share Incentive Plan. 
3 Laurie McIlwee was appointed on 27 January 2009. Figures for 2007/08 shown in this table are from his date of appointment.
4 Carolyn McCall and E Mervyn Davies resigned from the Board on 10 April 2008 and 31 October 2008 respectively. Laurie Mcllwee Group Finance Director
22
Group sales, including vAT, increased by 
15.1% to £59.4bn (last year £51.6bn).  
At constant exchange rates, sales increased 
by 10.6%. On a 52-week comparable basis, 
sales growth was 13.5%.
Underlying profit before tax (excluding  
the impact of the volatile non-cash 
elements of IAS 19, IAS 32, IAS 39, IAS 17, 
IFRS 3 – principally pension costs, the 
marking to market of financial instruments, 
the impact of annual uplifts in rents and 
rent-free periods, and the amortisation 
charge on intangible assets arising on  
the acquisition, this year relating to Tesco 
Personal Finance) increased to £3,128 
million, up by 10.0%. On a 52-week 
comparable basis, underlying profit  
before tax rose by 8.8%.
Underlying diluted earnings per share  
increased by 7.0% to 28.92p, despite the 
significantly lower than normal effective 
tax rate in the prior year. Using a constant 
tax rate, underlying diluted earnings per 
share rose by 11.0% or by 9.7% on a  
52-week comparable basis. 
A final dividend of 8.39p per ordinary share 
(2008 – 7.70p) is proposed. Together with 
the interim dividend of 3.57p (2008 – 
3.20p) already paid, this brings the full-year 
dividend to 11.96p (2008 – 10.90p) an 
increase of 9.7% on last year.
UK sales increased by 9.5% to £41.5bn (last 
year £37.9bn), including like-for-like growth 
of 4.3%, 2.7% from net new stores and  
a contribution of 2.1% from the 53rd week 
and a first-time contribution from the 
consolidation of TPF. Excluding petrol, like-
for-like sales grew by 3.0%, with increases 
of 2.0% and 2.7% in the third and fourth 
quarters respectively. Adjusting for the 
reduction in vAT rates, which came into 
effect in early December, like-for-like 
growth excluding petrol was 3.7% in the 
fourth quarter.
Inflation reduced during the second half and 
our rate of growth was also impacted by a 
sharp increase during the year in the level of 
downtrading by customers seeking to spend 
less on their weekly shop. Tesco supported 
both of these trends by cutting prices and 
introducing more affordable products – 
including our successful new ‘Discounter’ 
ranges. A combination of recovering 
competitors and more subdued customer 
demand in some non-food product 
categories continued to hold back sales 
progress in the second half, although non-
food sales growth remained positive overall 
and broadly stable in like-for-like terms.
Increased productivity and good expense 
control enabled us to maintain solid 
margins and deliver good profit growth 
despite these challenges, whilst also 
absorbing initial trading losses totalling 
around £22m on Tesco Direct. After these 
costs, UK trading profit rose 12.7% to 
£2,381m (last year £2,112m), with trading 
margins at 6.2%, including TPF, slightly up 
on last year. On a 52-week comparable 
basis, UK trading profit rose 10.7%.
In December, we completed as planned the 
acquisition of The Royal Bank of Scotland 
Group PLC’s 50% shareholding in Tesco 
Personal Finance (TPF) and on becoming a 
subsidiary, its results were consolidated into 
our UK business for the final ten weeks of 
the financial year. During this period it 
contributed £163m to UK sales and made  
a small contribution to trading profit. 
Total International sales grew strongly – by 
30.6% at actual exchange rates to £17.9bn 
(last year £13.7bn) and by 13.6% at 
constant exchange rates. On a 52-week 
comparable basis, actual and constant 
exchange rate growth was 30.3% and 
13.3% respectively. Sales growth slowed in 
Europe during the second half, which 
reflected deteriorating economic conditions 
in a number of markets. In contrast, sales 
growth in Asia accelerated, driven by the 
acquisition of the 36 Homever stores in 
South Korea at the start of the second half. 
International contributed £709m to trading 
profit in the year (last year £636m), up 
11.5% after charging £33m of Homever 
integration costs and pre-conversion 
losses. Before these costs, trading profit 
grew by 16.7%. Excluding initial US trading 
losses, International trading profits grew  
by 21.9%, or by 21.5% on a 52-week 
comparable basis. At constant exchange 
rates, and excluding initial US losses, 
International trading profits grew by 8.3%.
Total profit (net of tax and interest) from joint 
ventures and associates for the year was 
£110 million, an increase of £35m compared 
with last year. Tesco Personal Finance profit 
was reported within Joint ventures and 
Associates for 50 weeks (50% share).
Net finance costs for the year were £362 
million (2008 – £63 million). The rise 
SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENT AND BUSINESS REv IEW
Income
statement
My main challenge is to maintain the 
balance between staying on strategy 
while living within our means. For a 
growth company like Tesco it is vital  
of course that we meet the challenges 
posed by the economic downturn – and 
the priorities there are the same as for 
any finance director in the current 
environment – in helping the business  
to find the resources to invest for 
customers, by keeping a good grip  
on costs and cash.
At the same time though, I need to  
do what I can to help sustain Tesco’s 
investment in future growth. By investing 
in the right opportunities, protecting 
ourselves from unpredictable capital 
markets and trading in a sustainable  
way we should exit this recession as an 
even stronger company. That’s how  
Tesco emerged as a winner from the last 
recession. Exciting opportunities are 
there to be grasped – for example, land 
and property are already significantly 
cheaper, our online businesses are not 
capital intensive and, given the loss of 
confidence in the banking sector, our very 
conservative, straightforward approach 
in Tesco Personal Finance may be exactly 
what customers are looking for.
As Group Finance Director, 
what are your priorities at 
the moment? Tesco PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2009
23
Summary Group income statement
53 weeks ended 28 February 2009
                  2009 2008* 
                  £m £m
Continuing operations
Revenue (sales excluding VAT)                54,327  47,298
Cost of sales                (50,109)  (43,668)
Gross profit                4,218  3,630
Administrative expenses                (1,248)  (1,027)
Profit arising on property-related items               236  188
Operating profit                3,206  2,791
Share of post-tax profits of joint ventures and associates             110 75 
Finance income                116  187
Finance costs                (478)  (250)
Profit before tax                2,954  2,803
Taxation                (788)  (673)
Profit for the year                2,166  2,130
Attributable to:
Equity holders of the parent                2,161  2,124
Minority interests                5  6
                  2,166  2,130
Earnings per share
Basic                27.50p  26.95p
Diluted                27.31p  26.61p
 
                  2009 2008* 
Non-GAAP measure: underlying profit before tax              £m £m
Profit before tax                2,954  2,803
Adjustments for:
IAS 32 and IAS 39 ‘Financial Instruments’ – Fair value remeasurements          88   (49)
IAS 19 Income Statement charge for pensions              403  414
‘Normal’ cash contributions for pensions              (376)  (340)
IAS 17 ‘Leases’ – Impact of annual uplifts in rent and rent-free periods          27  18
IFRS 3 Amortisation charge from intangibles arising on acquisition           32 –
Underlying profit before tax                3,128  2,846
Underlying diluted earnings per share               28.92p  27.02p
* Results for the year ended 23 February 2008 include 52 weeks of operation.
SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENT AND BUSINESS REv IEW
principally reflecting increased average net 
debt levels linked to acquisitions and foreign 
exchange movements, higher coupon rates 
on commercial paper and unfavourable 
changes in the non-cash IFRS elements  
of the interest charge. The interest charge, 
excluding IFRS adjustments, rose by £150m.
Tax has been charged at an effective rate of 
26.7% (2008 – 24.0%). This increase in tax 
rate is primarily due to last year’s one-off 
tax reimbursement, reflecting settlement 
of prior year tax items with HMRC.
The Summary Financial Statement on 
pages 22 to 24 and the Summary Report  
of the Directors on pages 20 and 21 are  
a summary of information in the Annual 
Report and Financial Statements 2009. 
This Summary Financial Statement does 
not contain sufficient information to allow 
as full an understanding of the results of 
the Group and state of affairs of the Group 
and of its policies and arrangements 
concerning Directors’ remuneration as is 
provided by the Annual Report and 
Financial Statements 2009.
The Report of the Directors, the financial 
statements and auditors’ report on those 
financial statements, which is unqualified, 
are contained in a separate publication 
entitled Annual Report and Financial 
Statements 2009. Copies may be obtained 
free of charge by writing to:
The Company Secretary 
Tesco PLC 
Tesco House 
Delamare Road 
Cheshunt 
Hertfordshire EN8 9SL
Shareholders wishing to receive the Annual 
Report and Financial Statements as well as 
the Annual Review and Summary Financial 
Statement in future years should write  
to this address. The Summary Financial 
Statement was approved by the Board  
on 1 May 2009.
Sir Terry Leahy 
Laurie McIlwee 
Directors Tesco PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2009
24 SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENT AND BUSINESS REv IEW
Summary Group balance sheet
28 February 2009
                  2009 2008 
                  £m £m
Non-current assets                32,008  23,864
Current assets (including assets held for sale)             14,045   6,300
Current liabilities                (18,040)  (10,263)
Net current liabilities               (3,995)   (3,963)
Total assets less current liabilities               28,013   19,901
Non-current liabilities               (15,018)   (7,999)
Net assets               12,995   11,902
Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent            12,938   11,815
Minority interests                57  87
Total equity                12,995  11,902
Balance sheet Net assets have increased by £1,093 million to £12,995 million. Non-current assets increased by £8,144 million, after charging 
depreciation and amortisation of £1,189 million.
Group capital expenditure was £4.7 billion. UK capital expenditure was £2.6 billion. Total international capital expenditure rose to £2.1 billion, 
£0.9 billion in Asia, £0.9 billion in Europe and £0.3 billion in the US. In the year ahead we forecast Group capital expenditure to be around  
£3.5 billion.
Summary Group cash flow statement
53 weeks ended 28 February 2009
                  2009 2008* 
                 £m £m
Cash generated from operations                4,978  4,099
Interest paid                (562)  (410)
Corporation tax paid                (456)  (346)
Net cash from operating activities                3,960  3,343
Net cash used in investing activities               (5,974)  (2,954)
Cash flows from financing activities
Dividends paid                (883)  (792)
Other net cash flows from financing activities               4,498  1,204
Net cash from financing activities               3,615  412
Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt
53 weeks ended 28 February 2009
                  2009 2008* 
                 £m £m
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents              1,601 801
Elimination of net increase in TPF cash and cash equivalents       (37) –
Net cash inflow from debt and lease financing              (4,636) (1,827)
Short-term investments               873 360
Movement in joint venture loan receivables             242 36
Debt acquired on acquisition of Homever             (611) –
Transfer of joint venture loan receivable on acquisition of TPF          (91) –
Other non-cash movements               (759) (691)
Increase in net debt in the year              (3,418) (1,321)
Opening net debt              (6,182) (4,861)
Closing net debt           (9,600) (6,182)
* Results for the year ended 23 February 2008 include 52 weeks of operation. 
NB. The reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt note is not a primary statement and does not form part of the Summary Group cash flow statement.
Cash flow statement Overall, the Group generated a net cash inflow of £1,601 million, leaving net debt of £9.6 billion at the year end,  
£3.4 billion higher than last year. Gearing was 74% (2008 – 52%). OUR BOARD OF DIRECTORS
1 2 3 4 5
6 7 8 9 10 11 12
13 14 16 15 17 18
1 David Reid – 62 
Non-executive Chairman
2 Rodney Chase CBE– 65 
Deputy Chairman and  
Senior Non-executive Director
3 Sir Terry Leahy – 53 
Chief Executive
4 Richard Brasher – 47 
Commercial and Marketing Director
5 Philip Clarke – 48 
International and IT Director
6 Andrew Higginson – 51 
Chief Executive of Retailing Services 
and Group Strategy Director
7 Tim Mason – 51 
President and Chief Executive Officer,  
Fresh & Easy 
8 Laurie McIlwee – 46  
Group Finance Director
9 Lucy Neville-Rolfe, CMG – 56  
Corporate & Legal Affairs Director
10 David Potts – 51  
Retail and Logistics Director
11 Charles Allen CBE – 52 
Non-executive Director
12 Patrick Cescau – 60  
Non-executive Director
Our Board  
of Directors
13 Karen Cook – 55 
Non-executive Director
14 Dr Harald Einsmann – 75  
Non-executive Director
15 Ken Hanna – 55 
Non-executive Director
16 Ken Hydon – 64 
Non-executive Director
17 Jacqueline Tammenoms Bakker – 55 
Non-executive Director
18 Jonathan Lloyd – 42 
Company Secretary
Please go to our website to view  
the complete biographies 
www.tesco.com/boardofdirectors
Printed on Revive, a 100% recycled paper  
with FSC certification. Printed by CTD. 
Designed and produced by 35 Communications. www.tesco.com/annualreview09
Tesco PLC
Tesco House
Delamare Road
Cheshunt
Hertfordshire EN8 9SL
