 Thomas C ook Group plc  
Annual Report & Accounts 2013
T ransformation
The first 365 days Strategic report Financial statements Directors’ report
Strategic report
Overview 2
At a glance 4
Chairman’s statement 8
Group Chief Executive Officer’s 
Q&A 10
Market overview 1 6
Business overview 1 7
Review of strategy 20
Our people 25
Risk management 30
Performance
Financial review 32
Operating review 42
Sustainability 47
Financial statements
Independent auditors’ report 90
Group income statement 93
Group statement of other 
comprehensive income 94
Group cash ﬂow statement 95
Group balance sheet 96
Group statement  
of changes in equity 98
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements 99
Company balance sheet 1 48
Company cash ﬂow statement 1 49
Company statement  
of changes in equity 1 50
Notes to the Company  
ﬁnancial statements 1 5 1
Shareholder information 1 58
Directors’ report
Board of Directors 50
Corporate governance report 52
Remuneration report 70
Other disclosures 88
1
2
3
Full ﬁnancial statements
From page 90
Financial highlights
Delivering improved ﬁnancial results Delivering a stronger balance sheet 
Underlying EBIT up by £86 million year-on-year Net debt reduced from £788 million in 2012
£263m £42 1 m
Delivering stronger margins Delivering more operational cash ﬂow
Underlying gross margin 22. 1%  
(up 80 basis points year-on-year)
Cash conversion ratio at 48%,  
on a last 12 months basis
22. 1 % 48%
Delivering more cost out and 
proﬁt improvement beneﬁts 
Cumulative total £194 million 
(FY13 target of £1 70 million)
£1 94m
Financial summary
Year ended  
30 September 2013
Year ended  
30 September 2012
£m (unless otherwise stated) Underlying Statutory Underlying Statutory
Revenue 9,3 1 5 9,3 1 5 9, 1 95 9, 1 95
EBIT 263 13 177 ( 170)
EBIT margin (%) 2.8% 0.1% 1. 9% N/ A
Free cash ﬂow 53 53 (1 03) ( 1 03)
Earnings (loss) per share (p) 5.0p (16.7)p 0.6p (67 .2)p
Net debt (421 ) (421 ) (788) (788)
Operational highlights
 > Signiﬁcant transformational progress – delivered UK underlying EBIT margin of 2.2% on a like-for-
like basis, on track to achieve a 5% margin on the same basis by FY1 5.
 > Incremental new product revenue grew by £94 million in FY1 3, including contributions from concept 
hotels, partnership hotels and city breaks, leading to an increase in our FY1 5 target of incremental 
new product revenue to £700 million.
 > Increased the percentage of holidays booked online to 36%, moving towards our target in FY1 5 of 
over 50%.
 > Simpliﬁed brand labels from 85 to 30, unifying them under the Sunny Heart symbol representing 
for our customers personalised and trusted holidays, high tech, high touch delivery, backed by 
market leading international scale and purchasing power.
 > Successful implementation of an internal and disciplined operating model called “The Thomas Cook 
Business System”. Under this system, with our customer at the heart of everything we do, as well as 
how and everywhere we do it, we aim to bring further professionalism to the high tech, high touch 
delivery of trusted, personalised products to all our customers, supported by a lean and innovative 
operating system that is designed speciﬁcally to serve their needs.
Throughout this document the term "underlying" refers to trading results after adjusting statutory results for separately disclosed 
items that are signiﬁcant in understanding the ongoing results of the Group. Separately disclosed items are included on the face of 
the income statement and are detailed in Note 7 to the ﬁnancial statements.
Free cash ﬂow is shown on page 37 and represents Operating Cash Flow less Net Interest , Capital Expenditure and Separately 
Disclosed Items. Thomas Cook Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 1
Directors’ report
2
Financial statements
3
Strategic report
1
The ﬁrst phase of our exciting Transformation is 
well underway.
Every day we are transforming towards an improved, 
more unique business model and have already 
delivered some signiﬁcant milestones. We’ve deﬁned 
our ‘high tech, high touch’ strategy for proﬁtable 
growth, committing to be there for our customers 
wherever, whenever and however they need us, 
building a digital presence for the future. 
We’re developing a new and differentiated product 
portfolio, inspiring our customers’ personal journeys 
with the assurance of quality they have come to 
expect from the global pioneer in travel. We’re living 
the values of the ‘Sunny Heart’ with trust, innovation 
and personalisation at the heart of all we do. 
With the Thomas Cook Business System we now 
have the methodology to further professionalise 
our business.
After the ﬁrst 365 days of our Transformation we 
have a clear strategy for proﬁtable growth, we have 
momentum and we’re delivering against our targets.
And this is just the start...
T ransformation: 
Inspiring personal journeys October 12 November 12 December 12 January 13 February 13 March 13
Thomas Cook Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 2
Transformation the ﬁrst 365 days
Share price chart pence
Overview: Our transformational milestones
The share price graph below shows some of our 
landmarks towards proﬁtable growth during the year. 
Landmarks towards 
proﬁtable growth
First Thomas Cook  
Leadership Council
Code of Conduct 
launched Group-wide
Launch of Digital  
Advisory Board
Peter Fankhauser 
appointed as CEO, UK 
and Continental Europe
Capital Markets Day 
(announcement of growth 
strategy and proﬁt 
improvement plans)
04
SEP
01
MAR
13
MAR
01
NOV
FEB
201 3 April 13 May 13 June 13 July 13 August 13 September 13
180
170
160
150
140
130
120
110
100
90
80
70
60
50
40
30
20
10
0
Thomas Cook Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 3
Directors’ report
2
Financial statements
3
Strategic report
1
First half underlying EBIT 
on a like-for -like basis 
improved by £58.7 million 
to £(197 .5) million.
£58. 7 m
“ D e s t ina t ion 
Discovery” 
launched
Launch of Sunny 
Heart brand
Half-year results & announcement 
of capital reﬁnancing plan
Launch of the 
“Every Voice” employee 
engagement survey
03
SEP
01
OCT
16
MAY
MAY
201 3 Thomas Cook Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 4
Transformation the ﬁrst 365 days
Building on our  
strengths
We have a strong ﬁnancial plan in place
We have developed a strong ﬁnancial plan for 
proﬁtable growth from a solid base, underpinned by:
1.  An improved ﬁnancial position following  
the recent recapitalisation.
2.  Detailed “bottom up” plans owned  
by each of our businesses.
3.  Embedded targets and KPIs aligned  
with our external commitments.
 > The Group has a medium-term 
planning horizon supported by 
detailed ﬁnancial projections 
prepared and owned by 
each business.
 >
 The plan for each business is 
rigorously reviewed by Group and 
segment management through 
a series of meetings to produce 
a robust result.
 > The Group ﬁnancial plan is reviewed 
and approved by the Board on an 
annual basis and updated regularly 
to reﬂect changes to projections as 
they arise.
 >
 The approved plan is fully aligned 
with externally communicated 
targets and KPIs and with 
management’s objectives and 
remuneration schemes.
We have a robust investment case
We have a compelling data-backed investment case,  
the delivery of which is speciﬁc and measurable:
It is based on three key drivers:
 Proﬁtable growth supported by new product
 Digital growth supported by innovation
 Cost out and proﬁt improvement 
It is measured through speciﬁc targets as follows:
We are one of the world’s leading leisure travel companies, with operations in 
1 7 source markets. Our core business model is that of a tour operator, sourcing 
holiday components by creating them ourselves or procuring them from third 
parties, and selling them to consumers via online and offline channels. We enjoy 
number one or number two positions (by revenue) in each of our core markets.
Overview: At a glance
Business model explained
On page 17
Full ﬁnancial statements
From page 90
1
2
3
Our targets and Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) for our 
Transformation and proﬁtable growth strategy
FY12 
actual
FY13 
actual
FY14 
target
FY15 
target
Targets
New product revenue N/A £94m > £300m >£700m
Web penetration
1
34% 36% >40% >50%
Cost out/proﬁt improvement 
(cumulative run-rate) £60m £194m >£340m >£440m
KPIs
Sales CAGR
2
N/A N/A > 2.5% >3.5%
Underlying gross margin improvement
3
N/A 0.8% > 1.2% > 1.5%
Underlying UK EBIT margin 0. 1% 2.2% >3.5% >5%
Cash conversion
4
11 % 48% > 5 5% > 70%
Notes:
1  Measured on a last 12 months departed basis.
2  Compound annual growth rate from FY13 to FY15 including new product revenue.
3  Underlying gross margins, adjusted for disposals and shop closures on a like-for-like basis.
4   Cash conversion deﬁned as net cash from operating activities less interest paid as a percentage 
of underlying EBITDA. Thomas Cook Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 5
Directors’ report
2
Financial statements
3
Strategic report
1
Our brand approach and values
We delight customers with trusted, personalised holiday experiences through High Tech and High Touch.
Brand approach Brand values
We have a new, diverse and experienced Executive Committee
On 7 November 201 3, we announced the completion of the Executive Committee, which is another step 
on our journey to further professionalise the Group, break down regional silos and realign leadership 
responsibilities to accelerate the delivery of our strategy for sustainable proﬁtable growth.
Executive Committee Diversity indicator
Our people
Building an Effective Organisation is central to our Transformation and, 
over the last year, we have established and continue to secure the 
foundations of a culture and structure that will be able to execute and 
deliver our Transformation effectively. During the year we have focused 
on ensuring that we have the right people in the right roles focused on the 
right priorities. We have identiﬁed and communicated new Values, Ways 
of Working and introduced a Code of Conduct across the Group.
Trusted
Trust, consistency and a strong 
brand are the most important 
drivers of customer choice
Innovative
We continue to enrich our 
online offer with leading digital 
innovations to improve 
conversion rates
Personal
50% of travellers feel overwhelmed 
by the amount of information 
and choice when booking 66% 
of travellers want help in choosing 
the right product for them
High tech, high touch
70% of travellers want a 
relationship with their holiday 
provider that goes beyond just 
booking and paying for a trip. 93% 
of travellers either search for 
content online or express a 
preference for booking online 
if possible
Our people expanded
On page 25
Related case study
On page 46
Related case study
On page 29
Related case study
On page 15
Related case study
On page 40
Group CEO
Harriet Green
Chief 
Technology 
Officer
Tomasz 
Smaczny
Chief 
Financial 
Officer
Michael Healy
General 
Counsel and 
MA
Craig Stoehr
Chief Digital 
Officer
Interim 
ECE Head 
supported 
by James 
Sandford
Chief 
Operating 
Officer
Peter 
Fankhauser
Chief People 
Officer
Sandra 
Campopiano
Group Head 
of Air Travel
Christopher 
Debus
5 British 
1 US 
1 Swiss
1 German 
1 Polish
5
countries
Group-wide gender diversity
1. Female 17,900
2. Male 7,800
1
2  
 
 
 
Revenue by segment   £m
2. Continental Europe £4,195m
3. Northern Europe £1,239m
4. Airlines Germany £1,312m
1. UK and Ireland £2,977m
1
2
3
4
 
 
 
 
Employees by segment   1
2
3
4
2. Continental Europe 7 ,253
3. Northern Europe 3,090
4. Airlines Germany 2,917
1. UK and Ireland 12,544
Thomas Cook Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 6
Transformation the ﬁrst 365 days
Building on our  
regional knowledge
Thomas Cook Group plc is one of the world’s leading leisure travel groups 
with sales of over £9 billion and more than 20 million customers in the year 
ended 30 September 2013. Thomas Cook is supported by approximately 
27 ,000 employees and operates from 1 7 source markets; it is number one or 
two (by revenue) in all its core markets. Thomas Cook Group plc’s shares are 
listed on the London Stock Exchange (TCG).
Key facts: 
Passengers: 6.2 million
Retail outlets: 874
Aircraft: 31
 
Controlled distribution: 86.7%
Internet distribution: 41.7%
 
Employees
1 2,544
Overview: At a glance continued
UK and Ireland Continental Europe
The turnaround of our UK business continues at pace. Focus on 
improved quality of earnings and simpliﬁcation leaves us on track to 
achieve our FY1 5 underlying EBIT margin target of >5%.
2013 2012
Revenue £2,977m £3, 1 10m
Gross margin % 25.9% 24.8%
Underlying EBIT £66m £2m
Underlying EBIT % 2.2% 0. 1%
Strict capacity management, leveraging the beneﬁts of our hotel strategy 
have delivered strong EBIT growth in Continental Europe, with good 
progress in turning round our loss making businesses in France and Russia.
2013 2012
Revenue £4, 195m £4,085m
Gross margin % 13.8% 14. 1 %
Underlying EBIT £78m £52m
Underlying EBIT % 1.8% 1.3% Thomas Cook Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 7
Directors’ report
2
Financial statements
3
Strategic report
1
Thomas mas Cook Group p mas pl
port
1
Our performance review
From page 32
UK and Ireland
Northern Europe
Continental Europe
Airlines Germany
Northern Europe Airlines Germany
Continued strength in the traditional packaged holiday market whilst 
developing capability in dynamic packaging have delivered record 
EBIT in Northern Europe.
2013 2012
Revenue £1,239m £1, 1 74m
Gross margin % 27 .4% 26. 9%
Underlying EBIT £109m £101 m
Underlying EBIT % 8.8% 8.6%
Increased capacity and strong yield management combined with 
beneﬁts from our One Airline implementation have driven strong EBIT 
growth in Airlines Germany despite challenging market conditions.
2013 2012
Revenue £1,3 1 2m £1, 1 65m
Gross margin % 28.6% 27 .5%
Underlying EBIT £48m £36m
Underlying EBIT % 3.7% 3. 1%
1 Includes 2.2 million in-house passengers
Key facts: 
Passengers: 7 .2 million
Retail outlets: 2,327
Aircraft: 5
 
Controlled distribution: 36.3%
Internet distribution: 1 3.0%
 
Employees
7, 2 5 3
Key facts: 
Passengers: 6.9 million
 1
Aircraft: 39
 
Employees
2, 9 1 7
Key facts: 
Passengers: 1.5 million
 
Retail outlets: 1 1
Aircraft: 5
Controlled distribution: 88.2%
Internet distribution: 72. 1%
 
Employees
3,090 Thomas Cook Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 8
Transformation the ﬁrst 365 days
A year of positive 
change and  
signiﬁcant 
achievement
We have built a ﬁrm 
foundation and we believe 
the Group has the potential 
to create signiﬁcant value 
in the future.
Overview: Chairman’s statement
Dear Shareholder
It is a real pleasure to report a year of positive change and signiﬁcant 
achievement; a year when we have successfully delivered the ﬁrst year of 
our Transformation and signiﬁcantly improved our ﬁnancial performance; 
a year when we have developed and started to deliver against our strategy 
for proﬁtable growth; a year when we have successfully strengthened our 
balance sheet with the completion of our £1.6 billion Capital Reﬁnancing 
Plan and an ongoing range of internal disciplines. 
These achievements are signiﬁcant by any standards and 2012/13 will be a 
year to remember in the history of this great Company. But this is just the start: 
we have built a ﬁrm foundation from which we will continue to deliver against 
our targets and KPIs as our strengthened Management Team, under the 
leadership of Harriet Green, continue to drive forward our Transformation 
and implement our strategy for proﬁtable growth. Thomas Cook Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 9
Directors’ report
2
Financial statements
3
Strategic report
1
T ransformation and strategy for 
proﬁtable growth
Our Transformation has, out of necessity, 
challenging targets and, against a range of 
measures, we have exceeded our original 
expectations. Under the leadership of Harriet 
Green and her Management Team, we have 
successfully reversed the negative trends of 
the past by improving the performance of 
the businesses, improved cash ﬂow, almost 
halved net debt, taken signiﬁcant cost out 
of the business and increased the cost out 
targets for future years. The considerable 
progress made in the ﬁrst half of the year 
enabled us to strengthen the balance sheet 
with the £1.6 billion Capital Reﬁnancing Plan, 
including extended maturities of our bank 
facilities. We made disposals to focus on 
our core businesses, conducted one of the 
most in-depth surveys of travellers to provide 
valuable data to support the development of 
our strategy for proﬁtable growth (which was 
presented to investors in March 201 3) and 
started to deliver against that strategy. 
The uniﬁcation of our brands under one 
common symbol, the Sunny Heart, 
supported by our new brand values and our 
“One Airline” approach are just two of many 
examples of how we are working together, 
tearing down the walls across the Segments 
and leveraging the combined power of 
the Group. The signiﬁcant progress made 
throughout the year, has helped attract high 
calibre talent to many areas of the business 
to support and drive further progress against 
our targets. 
Corporate culture
A major feature in the Transformation has 
been the development of Group-wide 
Values, Ways of Working and standards 
combined within a Code of Conduct. 
The Code was developed by managers and 
employees across the Group and sets out in 
clear language the standards of behaviour 
that are required by all of our employees, 
wherever they may work. The Board fully 
recognises that an organisation’s culture is an 
important part of ensuring that our progress 
is sustainable and we have paid particular 
attention to the introduction and roll-out 
of the Code to ensure it is ﬁrmly embedded 
across the Group. The Board is encouraged 
by the signiﬁcant progress that has been 
made in each aspect of the Transformation.  
It is, however, particularly pleasing to see 
evidence of a cultural shift having taken place, 
with the silos of old broken down and our 
people working together as one Group.
Building a stronger and more 
diverse Board
We have strengthened the Board with the 
addition of three independent Non-Executive 
Directors. In reviewing the construct of the 
Board we aim to ensure we have high calibre 
individuals, who possess the range of skills 
and experience that we need to ensure 
quality contribution to our decision making. 
I am pleased that Emre Berkin joined the 
Board in November 201 2 and Carl Symon and 
Warren Tucker in October 201 3. We welcome 
the breadth of skills and experience that they 
bring to our deliberations.
Roger Burnell, who has served the Board 
well over the years, most recently as 
Senior Independent Director and Chair 
of the Remuneration Committee, has 
decided to retire at the AGM in February 
201 4. He has served on the Board of the 
Company and, prior to the merger in 2007 , 
MyTravel Group plc, for a total period of 
just over 10 years. I would like to thank 
Roger for his contribution to the Board and 
particularly for chairing the Remuneration 
Committee during a period of signiﬁcant 
change and improvement to our executive 
remuneration arrangements. Upon Roger’s 
retirement, Carl Symon will take on the 
role of Senior Independent Director and 
Warren Tucker will become Chair of the 
Remuneration Committee. 
We strongly believe that diversity adds 
signiﬁcant value to the quality of discussion 
and decision making and we are pleased with 
the progress made by both the Board and 
Executive Committee. The Board currently 
comprises three women and seven men, 
of which six are based in the UK, two in 
Continental Europe, one in Turkey and one 
in the US. When looking for additional Non-
Executive Directors, we will search in countries 
in which we have signiﬁcant operations to 
capture relevant local knowledge, as well 
as a broad range of skills appropriate to our 
Boardroom. In my report on governance, 
I give more detail on the progress we have 
made in respect of the effectiveness of 
the Board and the action plan that we have 
in place to develop this further.
Our employees
The pace of change as we drive forward our 
Transformation is made possible by the hard 
work and delivery by our management and 
employees. On behalf of the Board, I would 
like to thank them for their signiﬁcant 
contribution in delivering a sustainable 
future for all our stakeholders.
Engaging with our important 
stakeholders 
Our many stakeholders are important to our 
business and we appreciate their tremendous 
support and loyalty in recent years. 
In addition to our shareholders, I would like 
to thank the banks, bondholders and our key 
regulators for their support before, during 
and after executing our £1.6 billion Capital 
Reﬁnancing Plan. We will continue to engage 
with them as we deliver our Transformation 
and strategy for proﬁtable growth. We should 
also recognise our corporate advisors, who 
have helped the Board steer a steady course 
during the past few years.
Sustainable future
The Board is delighted with the progress 
achieved to date, which is reﬂected in the 
ten-fold increase to our share price in the past 
year. Although we recognise there is much 
more to do as we implement our strategy for 
proﬁtable growth, the Board is conﬁdent of a 
sustainable future as our management across 
the Group, under the leadership of Harriet 
Green and her Executive Team, continue to 
build on our ﬁrm foundations and deliver 
beyond the targets we have set for 201 5. 
Through using the Thomas Cook Business 
System to further improve the Group, the 
Board believes that the Group has the 
potential to create signiﬁcant shareholder 
value in the future. 
Frank Meysman
Chairman
27 November 201 3 Thomas Cook Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 10
Transformation the ﬁrst 365 days
The ﬁrst 365 days 
of T ransformation
The momentum we have 
created in the ﬁrst 365 days 
will continue now into year 
two with even greater focus 
and commitment from the 
team at Thomas Cook.
This is an exciting journey 
as we build for the future.
The travel industry is changing at pace as consumers require greater 
ﬂexibility, greater choice and products personalised to meet their needs. 
Technology offers so much opportunity for customers to connect in many 
different ways and the Transformation of Thomas Cook will combine the 
“high tech” innovation that customers need with the “high touch” trusted, 
personal service at the heart of the world’s oldest travel brand.
The Thomas Cook Group is on a Transformation journey, and here I answer 
some of the questions I have been asked about my reﬂections on the ﬁrst 
365 days of that Transformation, as we now look forward to year two of 
our journey. 
Group Chief Executive Officer’s Q&A Thomas Cook Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 11
Directors’ report
2
Financial statements
3
Strategic report
1
Q: What have been your 
highlights of the past year ?
A: It’s been a year of signiﬁcant milestones 
for the Group, each one highly impactful, 
and an important next step on the journey. 
Our immediate priorities were to stabilise the 
business and create a solid foundation from 
which we could begin to deliver our newly 
outlined strategy for proﬁtable growth.
At the same time we had to re-instil a strong 
sense of belief both internally and externally 
with our key stakeholder groups that we are 
focused on the right activities to return this 
amazing brand to strength, and we had to 
deliver against our commitments. In the ﬁrst 
365 days of the Transformation of Thomas 
Cook we have effected a rigorous and rapid 
turnaround of the business and set out a 
robust strategy of sustainable proﬁtable 
growth. This pace will continue into the year 
ahead as we gain momentum, developing a 
high performance culture and a methodology 
to further professionalise the organisation.
We conducted one of the most far-reaching 
surveys of the leisure travel market in our 
early work, seeking the opinions of 18,000 
consumers (including both Thomas Cook 
customers and non-customers) across our 
key source markets of the UK, Germany and 
Sweden. The ﬁndings were invaluable as we 
began to develop our strategy for proﬁtable 
growth based on facts and data to ensure our 
new strategic focus would deliver products and 
services to meet the needs of today’s leisure 
traveller to inspire their personal journeys. 
Our strategy for proﬁtable growth gradually 
took shape, and on 1 3 March we announced 
our plans to the capital markets, on 27 June 
we successfully completed our £1.6 billion 
recapitalisation and on 1 October 201 3, 
we announced our uniﬁed brand strategy. 
Our disposals programme continues to gain 
momentum, in line with the targets we have 
set ourselves. All of our strategic commitments 
are underpinned by a strict timeline for 
delivery with robust KPIs and ﬁnancial targets. 
Delivering against our commitments is a vital 
part of the re-energising of Thomas Cook.
We have already made strong progress against 
many of the metrics, and where progress has 
been faster than expected, notably in the 
areas of new product development, our cost 
out and proﬁt improvement drive and also 
cash conversion, the targets have now been 
increased, as you will see on page 20.
Exceeding expectations and developing 
a methodology to further professionalise 
the business is vital if we are to restore 
shareholder conﬁdence and once again take a 
leadership role in shaping the future of travel.
At the end of the ﬁrst 365 days, underlying 
revenue had grown 1.3%, despite capacity 
reductions, costs are down 3%, and 
underlying EBIT is up 49% to £263 million. 
Free cash ﬂow, an important driver in the 
continuing deleverage of the business, is up 
£1 56 million. Net debt has almost halved 
and loan maturities have been extended. 
In order to drive the change that the business 
required, I needed to strengthen the leadership 
team and invest time and energy to ensure 
we have the right skills in place to lead the 
Transformation. We needed to change the 
culture – to put the needs of our customers 
and people back at the heart of the business. 
We have made real progress already in our 
quest to build a culture of high performance 
and accountability, stripping away layers 
of management between my Executive 
team and the customer, all consistent with 
our focus to take out cost and drive a leaner 
organisation, as more and more customers 
use the web to research and purchase.
One third of the senior leadership team are 
long-standing members of the Thomas 
Cook leadership team, bringing relevant 
knowledge and perspective, one third were 
promoted from within as strong talent and 
one third bought in from outside to bring 
specialist skills, expertise and discipline to 
the organisation. Travel has historically been 
quite siloed and there is so much that can 
be learned from other industries, providing 
opportunity for progress – creating a truly 
differentiated offering for customers and 
business partners alike. Internally we have 
a saying that we will be “lavish with our 
customers and lean with ourselves”.
The strengthened leadership team have been 
critical to the success to date, as we build an 
effective organisation. We will continue to 
invest in their development, whilst attracting 
new talent, as required. The formation of my 
new Executive Committee will ensure that 
we continue to drive our strategic progress 
with rigour, breaking down silos and working 
across the Group where appropriate whilst 
maintaining close local contact with our 
customers and their speciﬁc market needs. 
We are driving a change of culture, pace and 
professionalism with our Code of Conduct 
and Values, now embedded throughout 
the business, helping to guide how we 
work. The formation of my ExCo will help 
to streamline decision making and ensure 
we act as one Group, whilst aligning our 
leadership responsibilities even more robustly 
to the strategy to ensure that our next 365 
days of Transformation deliver results in the 
same way as the ﬁrst.
In a year of ﬁrsts we have also invested in 
our people. As part of the cost out drive we 
had to take out a number of roles – always 
regrettable but also essential if we were 
to secure the business for the long term, 
encouraging us to work smarter and reducing 
costly admin and unnecessary processes, 
that did not beneﬁt our customers or 
shareholders. Those who left were treated 
with dignity and respect and given support 
to help them take the next steps in their 
career. Through the consultation process 
over 800 employees, originally placed at risk 
were redeployed in new roles, keeping their 
knowledge and skills in the business for the 
beneﬁt of customers and shareholders.
Successfully completed recapitalisation 
£1 .6bn
Revenue up by
1.3 %
Costs down by
3%
Free cash ﬂow up by
£1 5 6m Thomas Cook Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 12
Transformation the ﬁrst 365 days
Q: Are you where you thought 
you would be at this stage?
A: Although overall we are ahead of where 
we thought we would be at this stage, 
the implementation of our strategy for 
sustainable proﬁtable growth has only just 
begun. We have much still to do, but I believe 
the infrastructure, foundations and culture 
we are building now are preparing us well to 
deliver our ambitious plans.
No one at Thomas Cook is complacent and, 
whilst our ﬁrst 365 days have delivered strong 
results in many areas, we are focused on 
continuous improvement and the long-term 
success of the Group. With the systemised 
approach to business, products, people and 
processes we are developing, I know we can 
deliver signiﬁcantly more. Reﬂecting this, we 
are increasing three of our key 201 5 targets: 
new product revenue, Wave 1 cost out and 
proﬁt improvement and cash conversion. 
In addition, we have importantly announced 
our Wave 2 cost out and proﬁt improvement 
programme, which is targeted to deliver 
improvement of the same magnitude of 
Wave 1 by 201 8. 
Listening to our customers and better 
understanding their needs is central as we 
continue to develop our products, systems 
and services. We are striving for differentiated 
products to give our customers the widest 
and most ﬂexible range of destinations, best 
able to meet their needs – all underpinned 
by the Thomas Cook assurance of safety 
and quality to give peace of mind that our 
customers can trust. Our holiday experiences 
need to be as individual as the people who 
book them – we want to be there for our 
customers however, whenever and wherever 
they need us. Our new SunConnect concept 
has been well received as just one example 
of new product that offers customers, 
and particularly families, a fully connected 
holiday experience.
We have some exciting innovations in 
the pipeline to drive our online customer 
experience – through enhanced web, 
improved search functionality and leading 
edge apps. We have committed 50% of 
our Group-wide sales will be transacted via 
the web by 201 5, although in some parts of 
the business we have already exceeded this 
target. We have much to deliver in this area, 
which continues to be an area of strategic 
investment as we bring in digital talent to 
support our progress. Our Digital Advisory 
Board, comprising external experts in their 
ﬁeld helps to ensure we keep abreast of the 
latest developments in all sectors, continue 
to help drive the pace of change in this area.
The ﬁrst 365 days of our journey are behind 
us and we are focused on new deliverables, 
exacting targets and operationalising the 
Thomas Cook Business System to deliver even 
greater beneﬁts to our business, the industry 
and all of our stakeholders. Every person 
in the business has clear objectives and 
performance measures as we each take our 
part in driving the Transformation of Thomas 
Cook and delivering on our commitments. 
I think my current frame of mind can best 
be described as positively dissatisﬁed and 
looking forward to the next 365 days.
Q: What is the signiﬁcance 
of Sunny Heart?
A: A huge part of our journey is centred 
around our employees and using their passion 
for our customers to make a difference to 
each and every personal journey.
Ours is the oldest, and arguably the best 
loved name in leisure travel. With 1 72 years 
of proud tradition behind us, we are a brand 
that customers trust. We must be worthy 
and deserving of that trust.
When I arrived, the Group was quite siloed in 
its thinking and approach. Customers were 
confused and not always clear which parts 
of their journey were being delivered by 
Thomas Cook. Best practice wasn’t being 
shared widely and there was duplicated 
activity and cost. Customers were missing 
out. Radically reducing our 85 brand labels 
was a clear priority – eliminating cost and 
confusion. We have now simpliﬁed these 
85 labels to just 30, unifying our brands 
under one common symbol – our new 
Sunny Heart. Simplifying the customer 
experience the Sunny Heart highlights the 
combined strengths of the Group in the 
minds of our customers, and will become 
synonymous with personalised and trusted 
holiday experiences and our high tech, high 
touch delivery. Our brand is underpinned 
by the Thomas Cook Quality Assurance, 
our international scale and market leading 
purchasing power – all vital if we are to deliver 
for our customers again and again. 
When I started at Thomas Cook, I asked 
our teams globally to share with me their 
thoughts. 8,000 of them did – candid, 
actionable feedback from the frontline. 
In September 201 3, we conducted our 
ﬁrst all employee engagement survey 
to sense check our progress with all of 
our employees. In a service business like 
Thomas Cook, where customers trust us to 
inspire and deliver their personal journeys, 
engaged employees who believe in our end 
goal are vital to customer satisfaction and 
loyalty – and ultimately our ability to deliver 
proﬁtable growth . Engaging our employees 
in the Transformation has been vital and 
we have worked hard to communicate with 
them at every stage – honestly sharing our 
position to help them understand the tough 
decisions we were making. They have been 
fantastic – united as one team to deliver 
for our customers.
Our own teams helped develop our new 
Values and Ways of Working. With integrity 
at our core we also have a Code of Conduct, 
which allows us to deliver the values of our 
new unifying brand – the Sunny Heart which 
our employees have embraced so positively 
as a real symbol that Thomas Cook is 
changing and is different.
We are actively recognising and celebrating 
individual contributions and through 
our Transformer programme involving 
some of our many talented individuals in 
spreading the messages of transformation. 
Communication is vital to a successful 
Transformation and we work hard to convey 
the messages of our progress across the 
organisation through many different 
mediums, including our intranet, which 
will enable real social collaboration and 
the sharing of best practice Group-wide.
In summary , so many highlights but still 
much more to do.
Group Chief Executive Officer’s Q&A continued Thomas Cook Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 13
Directors’ report
2
Financial statements
3
Strategic report
1
As already shared, during the development 
of our strategy for proﬁtable growth we 
undertook one of the largest traveller surveys 
of recent years. We have learned through the 
survey the importance of customer attitude 
in determining holiday preferences and our 
tailoring our product portfolio to ensure 
that we meet individual customer needs. 
Speciﬁcally, we have segmented our product 
portfolio into four areas: concept hotels, 
partnership hotels, hotels from our brochures 
and ﬂexible hotels available online, including 
hotels4u.com that has recently broadened its 
offer to appeal not just to business but also to 
retail customers. Developing these plans for 
the future are high on our list of ‘what’s next’ 
– with opportunity to increase the number 
of visitors to all product categories. 
In FY1 3 over 500,000 customers enjoyed 
our 93 exclusive concept hotels, which are 
operated under our own brands, Sentido, 
Sunwing, Sunprime and Smartline. 
These hotels provide our customers with a 
consistent experience based on a deﬁned 
list of features that meet their needs 
wherever they go on holiday. These are 
further categorised according to whether 
their customer focus is adult, couple or 
family orientated.
Our other exclusive hotels are partnership 
hotels. In FY1 3 over 800,000 customers 
enjoyed these hotels, which are owned 
by world leading hoteliers, with whom we 
have close relationships and who have 
strong reputations for providing consistently 
high quality service, in keeping with our 
commitment to assurance. 
Our third segment consists of hotels from 
our brochures, providing customers with 
a quality range of accommodation and 
style, as well as more choice across a wide 
range of destinations. In FY1 3 8.8 million 
customers enjoyed staying at these hotels.
Finally, we also offer a signiﬁcant range 
of ﬂexible hotels that are available 
online, on a real-time basis via the web 
to allow the greatest level of ﬂexibility. 
Supported by encouraging trials we see 
potential to attract new customers who 
like to book online and typically later than 
many others. 
An expensive brand roll-out would have 
been inappropriate for where we are on 
our Transformation journey. Instead we will 
rebrand as we replace. Our employees are 
fully engaged in the change, and we wanted 
them to embrace the heart and start to 
live the difference internally ﬁrst. With our 
employees engaged, we believe that all those 
who come into contact with us will sense the 
difference and know that they are dealing 
with a new, re-energised Thomas Cook.
Our new brand continues to engage and 
inspire our teams and almost daily I am sent 
photographs like these of people right across 
the Group embracing the heart. For many 
this has been the most visible sign of our 
Transformation and they’re embracing 
the change with renewed commitment 
and vigour.
Q: What’s next for Thomas Cook?
A: Our journey to build long-term sustainable 
value at Thomas Cook continues, with 
proﬁtable growth at the heart of all we do. 
Sustaining our Transformation and delivering 
for our customers and shareholders again 
and again will only be achieved if we have 
the best people, best products, best systems 
and best processes, all underpinned by the 
very best practices from all industries, not just 
our own. We are focused on over-delivering 
and we’ve increased three of our FY1 5 key 
performance targets already, reﬂecting better 
progress than originally anticipated in the 
areas of new product revenue, Wave 1 cost 
out and our cash conversion. 
With customer need ﬁrmly back at the heart 
of everything we do, we will be aiming to 
further professionalise the “high tech, high 
touch” delivery of our trusted, personalised 
products , supported by a lean and innovative 
operating system, speciﬁcally designed for 
our needs.
To support this, we have created a disciplined 
operating model called “The Thomas Cook 
Business System”. 
The process of embedding this methodology 
into the organisation has begun and 
is already helping to drive a culture of 
continuous improvement across the Group. 
This approach will be key as we shape the 
future of the Group and drive the second year 
of our Transformation. 
We will continue to strengthen the leadership 
team with global executives who have a track 
record for delivering results, and under my 
leadership the newly formed ExCo will be 
driving greater alignment in all parts of the 
strategy, creating real opportunity to reduce 
cost and duplication and deliver greater 
synergy as we strive to work more effectively.
Proﬁtable growth 
through trusted, 
personalised 
products
Thomas Cook Business System
Customers  
at the heart
High Tech, 
High Touch:  
a digital business
Top-to-bottom 
leadership 
and relentless 
performance 
management
Efficient structures, 
systems and 
processes through 
lean & innovation Thomas Cook Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 14
Transformation the ﬁrst 365 days
Our strategy is focused on continuing to 
shift more of the total investment spend 
into those hotels where we have the highest 
returns. These are areas of strong strategic 
investment for the future and we expect to 
increase our offering of exclusive partnership 
and concept hotels to 800 by FY1 7 , with over 
3.5 million guests.
Our product growth ambitions also include a 
relentless pursuit to innovate more products, 
such as our new “SunConnect” concept, 
developed as a direct response to customer 
feedback through our extensive traveller 
survey. Initial response has been good.
We are continuing to diversify beyond 
our traditional Sun and Beach Products, 
developing our portfolio of city hotels across 
our Group. We have already doubled our 
inventory in Central Europe and plan to more 
than double the number of city hotels we 
offer by FY1 5. 
We are also signiﬁcantly expanding our 
Winter Sun offering, with 25% of our planned 
growth coming from the addition of new 
destinations and the expansion of existing 
destinations. We have recently added seven 
new destinations to our offer including 
St Lucia, Barbados and Antigua and plan 
further additions in time for next winter.
We have increased our target for new product 
revenues, following a good performance in 
the year. Our target now is to achieve new 
product revenue of £700 million by FY1 5 
and by FY1 7 , we expected to have increased 
incremental product revenue growth 
further to more than £1.2 billion.
To underpin all our products right across 
the Group and continue to deliver on the 
trust that our customers place with us, 
when they book a holiday, we are rolling 
out an extensive and thorough assurance 
programme. This involves a continuous audit 
of key quality measures including health and 
safety, customer service and overall quality 
excellence. This work includes extensive 
customer surveys that will allow us to 
determine what really matters to customers 
which we can then reinvest into our ongoing 
product development. Our survey told us this 
matters to consumers. 
As we build an omni-channel approach 
that ensures customers can interact with 
us however they want, we will continue 
to develop our digital footprint. We have 
invested signiﬁcant resource and time in 
improving our web presence and this will 
continue as we move all markets away from 
the multiple platforms of the past onto 
one web platform. This will improve search 
capability and consistency, allowing us to 
better sort and organise our products to 
better meet customer requirements, as we 
maximise the product range we can offer to 
every customer in every market. We expect 
that web penetration will accelerate once all 
our businesses are on one platform, reaching 
over 50% by 201 5. We’re driving innovation 
and have many exciting new information 
and products in development to answer 
customer questions quickly and effectively. 
Through our new “destination discovery” 
system, in partnership with Triporati we can 
help customers narrow the range of choices 
and then, to transfer their own shortlist of 
selections to their personal devices through 
our new “Dream Capture” to allow them to 
peruse and make their ﬁnal selection in their 
own homes with their travelling companions. 
We are looking to add digital value to every 
part of the customer journey and many 
more innovations will follow as we look to a 
digital future, where every leader in our senior 
team has web targets embedded in their 
performance criteria.
In line with our new operating methodology, 
“The Thomas Cook Business System”, we plan 
to deliver further beneﬁts from enhanced 
margin management, more efficient use of 
shared services and a leaner organisational 
design. These will be delivered under a 
Wave 2 cost out and proﬁt improvement 
programme, which will be in addition to the 
Wave 1 work already underway to deliver 
£440 million of cost out by FY1 5.
Our new Wave 2 cost out and proﬁt 
improvement initiatives will drive beneﬁts 
in gross margin as well as reduce costs 
through lower overheads. Gross margin 
beneﬁts are expected to arise from further 
yield management and working more 
closely together as a Group – whether 
by adopting one system, one inventory 
and one web across our markets, and the 
scale beneﬁts that come from using our 
combined purchasing power to procure 
accommodation on a centralised basis, 
reducing expense further by growing online 
sales of our own branded products.
As customers increasingly purchase through 
our online channels, we will have the chance 
to further centralise activity, reducing cost, 
improving service and consistency, through 
more lean organisational structures and 
reduced “back-room” expenses.
We believe the total Wave 2 beneﬁts will be 
of a similar magnitude to those identiﬁed 
through Wave 1 and will be achieved by FY18. 
Over the next six months, we will continue to 
develop the plan as we reﬁne and develop 
our plans.
All of these plans will only be possible by 
employing the right people and so, we will 
continue to focus on attracting, developing 
and retaining the very best people – people 
who are as excited as we are by the Thomas 
Cook Transformation journey, as we continue 
to professionalise our business and proﬁtably 
grow for the beneﬁt of all of our stakeholders.
The momentum we have created in the ﬁrst 
365 days will continue now into year two with 
even greater focus and commitment from 
the team at Thomas Cook.
This is an exciting journey as we build 
for the future.
Harriet Green
Group Chief Executive Officer
27 November 201 3
Group Chief Executive Officer’s Q&A continued Thomas Cook Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 15
Directors’ report
2
Financial statements
3
Strategic report
1
Trusted
Brand uniﬁcation
On 1 October 201 3, the Company announced the 
uniﬁcation of its brands and market activity under 
one common symbol the Sunny Heart. 
Simplifying the brand proposition is a key element in the Group’s proﬁtable growth strategy, building on the 
Group’s already strong and trusted brand heritage and projecting its Transformation into a single business. 
The Group’s many leading brands, such as Neckermann in Europe, Ving in Sweden and Condor in Germany 
will all connect with the Sunny Heart in different ways. This is a major milestone in the Transformation of 
the Group, as it continues to develop its product offering and focus on an omni-channel approach.
Brand architecture
Corporate brand
Master brand
Aligned brands
Endorsed brands
Standalone brands Thomas Cook Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 16
Transformation the ﬁrst 365 days
We operate in a growing industry. In 2012, for the ﬁrst time, the number of international 
tourist arrivals (overnight visits made by international tourists) exceeded 1 billion in a single 
year. This represents an increase of 3.8% compared to 201 1. Almost half of those travellers 
were travelling within, or out of, Europe – home to all of our operating source markets – 
and the UN World Tourism Organisation estimates that the European outbound travel 
market will continue to grow at an average of 2.5% per year until 2030. Although the travel 
market has in the past been subject to exceptional external shocks, such as geopolitical 
events including recent political and civil unrest in MENA destinations such as Egypt, it has 
nevertheless grown (by volume) in 16 out of the last 18 years.
Market overview
Economic environment
The global economic recovery is projected 
to remain subdued in 201 3 at 2.9%, slightly 
lower than in 201 2. Our three largest markets, 
the UK, Germany and Sweden, are expected 
to achieve GDP growth of 1.4%, 0.5% and 
0.9% respectively in 201 3, reﬂecting the fact 
that global growth remains mainly driven 
by emerging economies, which expect real 
GDP growth of 4.5% in 201 3 compared to 
advanced economies at just 1.2%. 
The outlook for 201 4 is slightly improved 
with real GDP growth worldwide projected at 
3.6%, while the European Union, which has 
barely grown in 201 3, is expected to return 
to positive growth of 1.3%. (Source: IMF).
Unemployment rates in the UK at 7 .7%, 
Germany at 5.6% and Sweden at 8.0% are 
well below the Eurozone average at 1 2.3%. 
Despite a backdrop of subdued economic 
growth, demand for international leisure travel 
has remained reasonably strong as consumer 
spending has held up and unemployment in 
our key source markets has remained stable. 
Regulatory and political 
environment
Under the framework of regulations and 
standards in each of our source markets, we 
offer our customers the assurance of ﬁnancial 
protection including the reimbursement 
of travel costs in the event of insolvency or 
bankruptcy of a tour operator. Under the 
European Package Travel Directive, we are 
subject to various disclosure and liability 
obligations that apply to the marketers of 
travel packages. In July 201 3, the EC published 
a proposal for a revision of this Directive, 
which both enhances consumer protection 
rights and creates a more level playing ﬁeld 
among operators. This Directive is now 
under consultation in each member state. 
Speciﬁcally in the UK, the Government is 
currently consulting with the travel industry 
around possible changes to the ATOL 
consumer protection regime. We continue 
to engage with all key European institutions 
to seek the best outcome for consumers 
and for the industry.
The airline industry is heavily regulated 
principally for safety reasons. It has also 
been subject to an increasing level of 
taxation and protection of consumer rights. 
Signiﬁcantly the UK now imposes an air 
passenger duty upon travellers from UK 
airports ranging from £1 3 for customers 
travelling to Europe to £94 for customers 
travelling to Australia in economy class, 
subject to an annual inﬂationary re-rating. 
Germany and Northern Europe, on the other 
hand, have signiﬁcantly lower passenger 
duties. European airlines, including our 
own, have also now become subject to air 
passenger rights legislation whereby airlines 
may be required to pay compensation to 
passengers whose ﬂights are delayed more 
than three hours. Since its introduction, this 
legislation has cost the Group £1 9 million in 
compensation payments. We are actively 
engaged in lobbying governments in the 
interests both of our industry and our 
customers, and reminding them of the 
importance of travel and tourism as a source 
of employment and driver of growth.
Our holiday programmes are also inﬂuenced 
by national and political events, and the 
responses of governments to them. 
Political and civil unrest in MENA destinations 
impacted our operations most signiﬁcantly 
in 201 1/1 2, but it has continued this year 
most notably in summer 201 3, when 
several European national governments 
advised ceasing all but essential travel to 
Egypt. We follow such governmental travel 
advice closely, and are able to shift our ﬂying 
programme and bed capacity to alternative 
destinations at short notice in order to 
continue to meet our customers’ expectations.
A growing 
industry  
Thomas Cook Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 17
Directors’ report
2
Financial statements
3
Strategic report
1
Business overview
Business model
We are one of the world’s leading leisure travel 
companies, with operations in 1 7 source 
markets across Europe. Our core business 
model is that of a tour operator, sourcing 
holiday components, such as air travel and 
accommodation either by creating them 
ourselves or procuring them from third-
parties, and selling them either on a packaged 
or on a component-only basis to consumers, 
via both online and offline channels. We enjoy 
a number one or number two position 
(measured by revenues) among traditional 
package tour operators in our most signiﬁcant 
source markets, being the UK, Germany and 
Northern Europe. 
Our tour operator business is supported by 
our in-house airlines. Our airlines provide 
services to the Group and to third-parties 
including individuals and other tour operators. 
Our airlines contribute approximately 1 7% of 
the Group’s gross revenue.
Our tour operating model has some local 
adaptations within each of our markets, 
depending on the degree of vertical integration 
among our airlines, tour operators and 
distribution channels. In the UK, Northern 
Europe and Belgium, our business model is 
that of a vertically integrated tour operator, 
based largely on the use of our own airlines, 
and controlled distribution of product through 
our retail outlets, websites and call centres. 
In Germany, however, a signiﬁcant proportion 
of air capacity requirements are sourced 
from our German airline Condor, and the 
majority of travel products and services are 
distributed through third-party travel agents. 
In source markets where we do not operate our 
own airline, all our air capacity requirements 
are sourced from third-parties, and there is 
generally a lower level of controlled distribution 
than in vertically integrated markets.
We offer a wide range of holiday options, 
including traditional pre-packaged holidays, 
independent travel products (including 
dynamically-packaged holidays and individual 
holiday components), seat only ﬂights and a 
selection of travel-related ﬁnancial and other 
ancillary services.
How is 
value created?
Innovation
 Service and assurance
 Service and assurance
 
Purchasing 
and supply of 
airline seats 
and hotel beds
 
Production and 
marketing of 
travel packages, 
components 
and ancillaries
 
Sales via 
omni-channel 
distribution 
system – web, 
phone and 
face-to-face
Q: How does Thomas Cook create value through its business model?
A: > We offer our customers an integrated, end-to-end travel experience, underpinned by the strength  
of the Thomas Cook brands
 > We help make sense of the overwhelming choice of travel products available to customers
 > We differentiate ourselves from competitors by offering high levels of service throughout the customer journey
 > We offer the assurance of a quality controlled product portfolio and ﬁnancial security
Q: How does Thomas Cook 
develop and sustain its 
competitive advantage?
A: > We respond to customer 
needs and preferences, 
and to industry trends
 > We invest in our core brands, 
and in our processes and 
technology infrastructure
 > We are proud innovators 
in our industry
Q: What makes hotel partners 
and other suppliers want to 
work with Thomas Cook? 
A: > Our distribution strength
 > Our industry expertise 
and market intelligence
 > Our deep supplier 
relationships, dedicated 
service agents and ﬁeld 
support
Q: Why do customers buy from 
Thomas Cook and why do 
they continue to do so? 
Where does Thomas Cook’s 
competitive advantage 
come from?
A: > Product range and choice
 > Value for money
 > Service and assurance
 > Brand strength
In-house
Third-
party
Brands, services 
and product/
package portfolio
Third-
party
Customers
In-house Thomas Cook Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 18
Transformation the ﬁrst 365 days
Business overview continued
Key industry trends
In recent years, a number of key trends 
have led to signiﬁcant changes in the leisure 
travel market. These key trends include 
the following:
These changes have made it easier for 
customers to research and build their 
own travel experiences, leading to strong 
growth particularly in the independent 
travel sector (including dynamic packages 
and individual holiday components) and in 
online distribution. 
Traditional pre-packaged holidays are where 
two or more components of travel, such as 
charter ﬂights (often using the Group’s own 
airlines), hotels and transfers are bundled 
together and offered for sale as a single 
product. We sell our traditional pre-packaged 
holidays directly to customers through our 
own retail outlets, websites and call-centres, 
as well as on a business-to-business basis to 
third-party travel agents. 
The independent travel products we 
offer encompass dynamically-packaged 
holidays (where customers can tailor their 
holiday by bundling together individual 
holiday components to meet their personal 
requirements with regard to destination, 
duration, variety, quality and price), individual 
holiday components and scheduled 
tours. We typically aggregate the various 
components from a wide range of third-party 
suppliers and sell this aggregated product 
either directly to customers or to third-party 
travel agents on a business-to-business basis. 
We either charge a mark-up or are paid a 
commission by a third-party supplier based 
on the booking price paid by the customer. 
In addition, we provide travel-related ﬁnancial 
services including foreign currency and pre-
paid foreign currency cards, travel insurance 
and travel ﬁnance (products that allow 
customers to ﬁnance their travel), and certain 
ancillary travel services such as processing of 
passenger baggage at airports.
In order to generate deeper insights into our 
market, in November 201 2 we commissioned 
one of the largest surveys conducted in our 
industry in recent years. We questioned over 
18,000 consumers (including both Thomas 
Cook customers and non-customers) across 
our key source markets of the UK, Germany 
and Sweden in order to establish clear facts 
about our marketplace. Those surveyed 
were asked to respond to a set of questions 
regarding their travel habits and preferences, 
in order to understand why they shop with 
a particular travel brand, and to learn what 
travellers want and how they feel when they 
book and experience their holidays. From this 
survey we learned four key insights:
 > Trust, consistency and an assured 
experience underpinned by a strong 
brand are the most important drivers of 
customer choice;
 > Half of travellers feel overwhelmed by the 
amount of information and choice when 
booking, and two thirds of travellers want 
help in choosing the right product for them;
 > 93% of travellers either search for content 
online or express a preference for booking 
online if possible; and
 > 70% of travellers want a relationship with 
their holiday provider that goes beyond just 
booking and paying for a trip, and includes 
supporting them both before and during 
their travels.
We believe that these insights lay the 
foundations for a successful business 
model, and represent a clear competitive 
advantage over other business models in 
travel distribution. Through our trusted travel 
brands and multiple customer touchpoints, 
we are able to offer customers personalised 
help and advice when making their holiday 
arrangements, and support them before 
departure, during their holiday whilst in 
destination, and if necessary after their 
holiday once they return home. We are able 
to offer a quality assured product portfolio, 
and enjoy deep and long lasting relationships 
with many of our hotel suppliers. We believe 
that being able to engage with a trusted travel 
partner who can provide a competitively 
priced product, strong customer service 
and the assurance of quality control and 
ﬁnancial security is increasingly important 
to consumers. 
Online growth
Low cost air travel
The growth of the internet has increased 
price transparency and choice, leading 
to a signiﬁcant increase in the availability 
of travel products and services online, 
both through direct suppliers and travel 
intermediaries, and to a proliferation of 
information and reviews about travel 
experiences and destinations.
Availability and choice of airline routes has 
also expanded, as the rise of the low-cost 
carriers has led to a signiﬁcant increase in 
the online distribution of seats to a wide 
range of destinations at competitive prices.
70% of travellers want a 
relationship with their holiday 
provider that goes beyond just 
booking and paying for a trip. 1
3
2
4
Thomas Cook Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 19
Directors’ report
2
Financial statements
3
Strategic report
1
Our value proposition
We create value by offering a wide range of travel products and services to suit all customer 
needs, reaching our customers seamlessly through omni-channel distribution. Our value 
proposition is underpinned by the strength of our brand and our high tech, high touch 
approach, enabling customers to search for and book their travel arrangements through 
the channel of their choice, while providing a quality assured travel experience backed up 
by strong customer service. The key aspects of our value proposition are as follows:
Thomas Cook is one of the leading brands in the leisure travel market. Building on a 1 72-year history in the travel business, the Thomas Cook 
brand serves as a strong master brand for the Group and is complemented by a range of well-known regional brands, including Neckermann, 
Condor, Jet tours, Ving, Spies and Tjäreborg, which are joined by our new unifying mark, the Sunny Heart. As part of rolling out the Sunny 
Heart we have taken the opportunity to concentrate our brand investment, reducing the number of brand labels from 85 to just 30. 
Our strong brand recognition in the travel market provides us with a solid platform to develop particularly our online distribution channel, 
and is a key driver of consumer interest in our products and services, visits to our stores and websites and, ultimately, revenues.
We beneﬁt from an omni-channel distribution system for our products, which include retail stores, websites and call centres, as well as 
third-party travel agents. Access to such a wide variety of distribution channels enables us to maximise customer reach and provides choice 
to our customers. We aim to build on this strength through the development of a single customer gateway which will enable the delivery of 
a consistent, personalised customer experience with access to a full range of products, services and personal recommendations across all 
distribution channels. In support of this objective, a key priority of the Group is to become the leading online tour operator, with an online 
platform that hosts a broad range of products and services.
We offer a wide product range and choice of destinations enabling us to meet customer demands and preferences while mitigating 
the effect of factors which may negatively affect demand for travel to certain regions, such as the political and civil instability in certain 
MENA destinations. We have a history of successful product development and launch, including developing exclusive and differentiated 
products such as the Sunwing, Sunprime, Smartline and Sentido concept hotels, which aim to deliver a consistent, high-quality, branded 
hotel experience to our customers, as well as partnership hotels which also offer a high quality and exclusive hotel experience under local 
brands. We intend to broaden our product offering further by expanding our successful concept and partnership hotel programmes, and by 
developing new, ﬂexible products and services, closely tied to customer demands and preferences. We also intend to introduce or expand our 
product offerings to limit the impact of seasonality, for example, through the proposed expansion of our winter sun and city break offerings.
Our customer service representatives are present at many customer touch points, including in stores, on our aircraft and in destination, 
providing reassurance and ensuring a high-quality travel experience. We have a health and safety assurance process for our products. 
Our product inventory is quality assured, taking into account reviews and recommendations of our own customers and third-party reviewers. 
For our high volume destinations and accommodation, we carry out our own professional checks to ensure our product is fully quality controlled.
Brand strength
Product breadth
Distribution reach
Service and quality Thomas Cook Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 20
Transformation the ﬁrst 365 days
In the ﬁrst 365 days of the Transformation of Thomas Cook, we have effected 
a rigorous and rapid turnaround of the business and set out a robust strategy 
of sustainable proﬁtable growth. 
The fact that the business has responded so quickly and positively to the decisive 
actions taken during the year is a testament to the fundamental strengths of our 
iconic brand and the value that our customers, who total more than 20 million, 
place in Thomas Cook to provide them with what they want: trusted and personalised 
products, delivered both online and offline in a co-ordinated high tech, high touch way.
FY 12 FY 13 FY 14 FY 15
Targets
New product revenue N/ A £94m > £300m > £700m
Web penetration
1
34% 36% > 40% > 50%
Cost out/proﬁt improvement (cumulative run-rate) £60m £1 94m > £340m > £440m
KPIs
Sales CAGR
2
N/ A N/ A > 2.5% > 3.5%
Underlying gross margin improvement
3
N/ A 0.8% > 1.2% > 1.5%
UK underlying EBIT margin 0. 1 % 2.2% > 3.5% > 5%
Cash conversion
4
1 1 % 48% > 55% > 70%
Notes:
1  Measured on a last 12 months departed basis.
2  Compound annual growth rate from FY13 to FY15 including new product revenue.
3  Underlying gross margins, adjusted for disposals and shop closures on a like-for-like basis.
4  Cash conversion deﬁned as net cash from operating activities less interest paid as a percentage of underlying EBITDA.
Review of strategy
The ﬁrst 365 days of 
T ransformation delivered 
– this is just the start
T argets and KPIs
The extent of progress made, that has 
exceeded our original expectations of what 
could be achieved by the end of this ﬁnancial 
year, is encouraging for the future. This has 
led us to increase three of our key targets for 
the year ended 30 September 201 5 (“FY1 5”). 
Firstly, we are raising our incremental new 
product revenue target from more than 
£500 million to greater than £700 million. 
Secondly, we are raising our Cost Out and 
Proﬁt Improvement programme (“Wave 1”) 
target from more than £400 million to 
greater than £440 million. Thirdly, we are 
raising our cash conversion target from 
more than 60% to greater than 70%. 
In addition, we have announced a further 
cost out and proﬁt improvement programme 
(“Wave 2”) to be delivered by FY1 8, which 
will be of the same magnitude as Wave 1. 
Based on these and our other targets, we 
believe that the Group has potential to deliver 
signiﬁcant value for our shareholders over 
the short, medium and long term. To realise 
this value, we have set out a clear strategy for 
sustainable proﬁtable growth. This will not 
only deliver these speciﬁc and measurable 
targets and key performance indicators 
(“KPIs”) in FY1 5, but also sustained proﬁtable 
growth beyond it. Thomas Cook Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 21
Directors’ report
2
Financial statements
3
Strategic report
1
The Thomas Cook progress report
The progress report of the year demonstrates the enormity of what has been achieved. 
It also gives us an insight into what Thomas Cook is capable of and, with continued 
relentless business focus, what it could achieve in the future.
201 3 Thomas Cook progress report – a major turnaround
Year ended 30 September 201 2 Year ended 30 September 201 3
Operating loss Operating proﬁt
 > EBIT £(1 70)m > EBIT £1 3m
Revenue down Revenue up
 > Revenue £9, 1 95m > Revenue £9,31 5m, up £1 20m from £9, 1 95m in FY1 2,  
a rise of 1.3%
Operating margin down Operating margin up
 > Underlying EBIT margin 1.9% > Underlying EBIT margin 2.8%, up from 1.9% in FY1 2,  
a rise of 90 basis points
Negative free cash ﬂow Positive free cash ﬂow
 > Free cash ﬂow £(103)m > Free cash ﬂow £53m, up £1 56m from £(103)m in FY1 2
Balance sheet reﬁnancing required Balance sheet strengthened
 > Bank facilities maturing 201 5 > £1.6bn capital reﬁnancing
 > Maturities extended
Net debt Net debt almost halved
 > £788m > £42 1 m
Disposals made to raise cash More disposals made – on track to deliver target of between 
£100m to £150m in gross proceeds by FY15 > Hotels Y Clubs De Vacaciones sold
 > Thomas Cook India sold
 > Aircraft sale and leaseback
 > North American business sold
 > Thomas Cook Personal Finance (50% share) sold
 > Three London Foreign Exchange Bureaux sold
 > Egypt and Lebanon business sold*
 > 91.5% of our interest in The Airline Group sold*
 > Corporate Foreign Exchange Business sold*
 > Thomas Cook Tours outsourced*
 > Neilson sold*
Cost Out Programme (Wave 1 ) Cost Out & Proﬁt Improvement Programme (Wave 1 )
Beneﬁts Up and FY15 Targets Increased > £60m of cumulative beneﬁts realised 
 > Total cumulative target £240m by FY1 5 > £1 94m of cumulative beneﬁts realised
 > Total cumulative target increased to £440m by FY1 5
UK operating margin down UK operating margin up
 > UK underlying EBIT margin 0. 1 % > UK underlying EBIT margin 2.2%, up from 0. 1 % in FY1 2, a rise of 
210 basis points
No other Cost Out Programme New Cost Out Programme announced (Wave 2)
 > Beneﬁts of a similar scale to Wave 1 realised by FY18
Complex brand portfolio Simpliﬁed brand portfolio
 > 85 brand labels > 30 brand labels
Customers booking online More customers booking online
 > 34% of total bookings online > 36% of total bookings online
New products New product growth
 > 66 Concept Hotels > 93 Concept Hotels
*Subsequent to year end. Thomas Cook Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 22
Transformation the ﬁrst 365 days
In the year ended 30 September 201 3, we 
successfully reversed the negative trends of 
the past. We delivered a positive operating 
proﬁt for the ﬁrst time since FY10, putting 
Thomas Cook back on a ﬁrm trajectory of 
proﬁtable growth. We delivered encouraging 
proﬁtable growth with increased revenue, due 
to pricing and yield improvements as well as 
the effect of foreign exchange offsetting a 
managed reduction in committed capacity. 
Operating margin was up too; a strong signal 
that Thomas Cook can convert its signiﬁcant 
revenues of over £9 billion into proﬁt.
One of the most encouraging signs as we 
continue to repay debt and set out a strategy 
to enable dividend payments in the future 
is the positive free cash ﬂow generated 
during the year, a signiﬁcant reversal from 
the negative free cash ﬂow position of the 
previous year. Reﬂecting improvements in 
working capital and the progress that we are 
making, we have increased our FY1 5 cash 
conversion target to 70% from our initial 
target of 60%.
The considerable progress made 
transforming the Company in the ﬁrst half of 
the year enabled us to undertake a £1.6 billion 
capital reﬁnancing. Successfully completed 
in June we raised £431 million in new equity, 
a new banking facility of £500 million that 
matures in 201 7 with a second £1 91 million 
tranche available from 201 5 and a new 
bond of Euros 525 million that matures in 
2020. This reﬁnancing was one of the most 
signiﬁcant achievements of the year. Not only 
did it represent a major step on our journey to 
reach an optimal capital structure by reducing 
net debt and extending maturities, it crucially 
allowed us to continue with our rapid and 
successful Transformation of the Group.
As part of the Transformation, we undertook 
an extensive review of our portfolio of assets. 
This resulted in a number of disposals that 
have improved our business mix and enabled 
more focus on those core assets that will 
deliver sustained proﬁtable growth. 
In May we completed the sale of our 
North American business which reported 
an underlying operating loss in FY1 2 
of £41. 1 million, for cash proceeds of 
£3.4 million. At the end of May, we disposed 
of our 50% share in Thomas Cook Personal 
Finance and three standalone foreign 
exchange bureaux in London. Since the end 
of the ﬁnancial year, we have made further 
progress. On 4 October we disposed of 
our business in Egypt and Lebanon which 
reported an underlying operating proﬁt of 
£1. 1 million in FY1 3, for cash proceeds of 
£6.5 million. On 18 November we announced 
the sale of our Corporate Foreign Exchange 
business for cash proceeds of £4.5 million 
and an outsourcing agreement in respect of 
our escorted tours business, Thomas Cook 
Tours, for a minimum period of ﬁve years. 
On 1 9 November we announced the disposal 
of 91.5% of our shareholding and loan note 
interests in The Airline Group Limited, a 
41.9% shareholder in NATS Holdings Limited, 
for a cash consideration of approximately 
£38 million. Finally, on 25 November we 
announced the sale of Neilson for a cash 
consideration of £9.2 million. 
This equates, once The Airline Group 
transaction completes, to a total of 
£6 1 million of gross proceeds from disposals, 
putting us on track to achieve our target 
of between £100 million and £1 50 million 
by FY1 5.
We are also making progress transforming 
our underperforming businesses. In France, 
we have moved closer to our target of 
breakeven by FY1 5, reducing its loss by Euros 
5.3 million to Euros 18.7 million (FY1 2: Euros 
24 million). Having successfully concluded 
our discussions with the Workers Council, we 
are now implementing the restructuring in 
line with our planned timescale. In addition, 
we have stabilised our Russian business, 
reporting a loss of Euros 10.5 million (FY1 2: 
Euros 1 1 million) and expect to see signiﬁcant 
improvements in FY1 4 as our restructuring 
measures take effect.
The development of our new “One Airline” 
structure is also on track. This brings together 
the four airlines and enables the realisation of 
scale beneﬁts and efficiency improvements. 
In the meantime, we have continued to 
invest in the refurbishment and renewal of 
our airlines, having invested £78 million in 
maintaining, refurbishing and renewing our 
aircraft in FY1 3. 
One of the main reasons for Thomas 
Cook’s previous year losses was that it 
had too much cost due to the businesses 
operating in silos. From the commencement 
of our Cost Out and Proﬁt Improvement 
Programme to 30 September 201 3 we 
have made signiﬁcant progress successfully 
integrating the businesses and have removed 
£1 94 million of cost. This result is considerably 
higher than the £1 45 million that we had 
originally expected to have achieved by 
the end of September 201 3, reﬂecting an 
acceleration of the savings. 
One of the key contributors to the cost out 
programme has been the UK. We announced 
in March our plan to reduce our payroll by 
approximately 2,500 to a target of about 
1 3,000 full time employees. 
We also said that we would reduce the 
number of retail stores. As at 30 September 
201 3, we had reduced our network by 
21 % from 1, 101 stores at the beginning of 
the programme to 874 and increased the 
percentage of business booked online to 36% 
(FY1 2: 34%). A recent report by retail property 
consultants, CWM, conﬁrmed that our store 
network is highly ﬂexible, with well over half 
available for renegotiation over the next 
three years. 
As a result of this ongoing turnaround of the 
business, the UK underlying EBIT margin 
improved by 210 basis points from 0. 1 % in 
FY1 2 to 2.2% in FY1 3. 
We have also identiﬁed more cost savings 
as we have dug deeper into the business. 
Some of these have been due to the 
identiﬁcation of new initiatives. Some have 
been due to an internally imposed risk 
weighted process, which discounts potential 
savings for execution risk, proving to be 
overly prudent. In these instances, as the risk 
weighted project moved closer to realisation, 
it became clear that more savings would 
materialise, necessitating an adjustment to 
Review of strategy continued
The considerable 
progress made 
transforming the 
Company in the 
ﬁrst half of the 
year enabled us 
to undertake a 
£1.6 billion capital 
reﬁnancing. Thomas Cook Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 23
Directors’ report
2
Financial statements
3
Strategic report
1
the risk weighting which, in turn resulted in 
the release of additional beneﬁts. This has 
resulted in the total cumulative target for 
FY1 5 moving from £240 million at the 
beginning of this ﬁnancial year to £440 million 
at the end of it; an increase of £200 million.
Building sustainable value at Thomas Cook is 
crucial. We aim to deliver proﬁtable growth, 
not just to FY1 5 but also over the long term. 
Sustaining success is about ensuring that 
we have the best people, best products and 
best processes, underpinned by the very best 
practices from all industries, not just our own.
With our customer at the heart of 
everything we do, we aim to bring further 
professionalism to the high tech, high touch 
delivery of trusted, personalised products to 
all our customers. This will be supported by a 
lean and innovative operating system that is 
designed speciﬁcally to serve their needs.
This is encapsulated by our disciplined 
operating model called “The Thomas Cook 
Business System”. Consistent with these 
values, we plan to deliver further beneﬁts 
from enhanced margin management, 
more efficient use of shared services and a 
leaner organisational design. These will be 
delivered under a Wave 2 Cost Out and Proﬁt 
Improvement Programme, which will be in 
addition to Wave 1.
Our new Wave 2 Cost Out and Proﬁt 
Improvement initiatives will drive beneﬁts in 
gross margin as well as in cost out through 
reduced overheads. Gross margin beneﬁts 
are expected to arise from further yield 
management from adopting one system, 
one inventory and one web across our 
markets, scale beneﬁts from purchasing 
accommodation on a centralised basis and 
reduced commission expense from growing 
online sales of our own branded products.
Cost out beneﬁts are expected to arise 
from the migration of customers to online 
channels with lower associated distribution 
costs, the creation of shared service centres 
to support the businesses more efficiently 
and the adoption of more lean organisational 
structures within the Group as a whole.
We estimate that the total Wave 2 beneﬁts 
will be of a similar scale to Wave 1 and will be 
achieved by FY1 8. While it is early stages in 
the implementation of the plan, we do expect 
that Wave 2 will have a higher investment 
cost to achieve the beneﬁts than Wave 1. 
This investment cost is estimated to be 
approximately one third of the annual beneﬁt.
Over the next six months, we will continue to 
develop the plan, applying the risk-weighting 
methodology we use for Wave 1 and expect 
to include further details with our ﬁrst half 
results announcement. 
While cost out and proﬁt improvement 
are clearly major value drivers and provide 
Thomas Cook with the advantage of a highly 
competitive, lean and innovative operating 
platform, it will not, taken in isolation, drive 
proﬁtable growth on a sustained basis up to 
and beyond FY1 5.
This will, however, be delivered by the 
successful implementation of our strategy 
for sustainable proﬁtable growth.
Delivering our strategy 
for proﬁtable growth
The central driver of our corporate strategy 
is our customer. 
Our traveller survey was highly informative. 
It told us that trust, consistency and a strong 
brand are the most important drivers of 
customer choice. It also told us that 50% of 
travellers feel overwhelmed by the amount 
of choice when booking and 66% of travellers 
want help in choosing the right product 
for them.
In addition, as we might have expected, 93% 
of travellers either search for content online 
or express a preference for booking online if 
possible. However, it also told us that 70% of 
travellers want a relationship with their holiday 
provider that goes beyond just booking and 
paying for a trip.
With trust in our brand being highlighted 
as one of our most powerful competitive 
advantages, the value of our extensive and 
thorough quality assurance programme to 
customers became even clearer. This involves 
a continuous audit of key quality measures 
including health and safety, customer service 
and overall quality excellence. The health 
and safety programme measures standards, 
audits hotels and includes a clear escalation 
and decision process. The customer service 
includes structured and regular feedback 
that is continually embedded in our 
hotel contracting process. Finally, quality 
excellence includes extensive surveys that 
allow us to determine what really matters 
to customers which we can then reinvest 
into hotel assessment and our ongoing 
product development.
Quality assurance is also a key differentiator 
as we increasingly become a digital business. 
Central to our high tech, high touch approach 
is online delivery combined with protection, 
quality assured products and personalised 
support; all of which we know from our 
extensive traveller survey is what customers 
want. Consciously offering a differentiated 
model from the way the online industry has 
evolved, we believe that our high tech, high 
touch offer is more relevant to travellers’ 
needs today, bringing us closer to them and 
therefore better able to meet their needs 
in future.
With customers increasingly wishing to book 
their holiday online, we plan to increase the 
level of business transacted on the web 
to at least 50% by FY1 5. As at the end of 
September 201 3, the number of customers 
booking their holidays online had risen 
to 36%. All markets saw increased web 
penetration, including Scandinavia which is 
over 70%. We expect this to accelerate more 
towards our FY1 5 target of over 50% in the 
later periods of the plan, as the signiﬁcant 
organisational change that is currently 
underway to migrate our six key markets to a 
“OneWeb” common platform takes effect. 
At the same time, we continue to enrich our 
online offer with leading digital innovations 
to improve conversion rates. In particular, 
“DreamCapture” is expected to have a 
particularly high impact. This latest innovation 
enables the valuable customer relationship 
discussion in the store to continue digitally 
after the customer returns home, creating 
a crucial link between e-tail and retail and 
helping ensure safe passage between the 
channels. We expect this to drive increased 
conversion rates as customers have easy 
access to previously viewed content and have 
a clear link straight to purchase. 
Another innovation, “RepAdvisor”, allows our 
representatives to upload information, photos 
and videos on the web so that our customers 
can beneﬁt from ﬁrst-hand information about 
the resort and local area. We also continue to 
innovate with enhancements to content such 
as increased use of accommodation videos 
and improved room descriptions to inspire 
customers to book a holiday that meets their 
speciﬁc needs.
In recognition of our innovations, we recently 
won the Global Business Excellence Awards  Thomas Cook Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 24
Transformation the ﬁrst 365 days
for Outstanding Innovation and, in respect 
of RepAdvisor, Outstanding App, the latter 
being described as an outstanding example 
of harnessing modern technology to deliver 
great customer service.
In light of travellers feeling overwhelmed by 
the amount of choice, it was also clear that 
we needed to unify and simplify our brands. 
Having inherited as many as 85 brand labels, 
we took action to simplify these to just 
30, unifying our remaining brands under 
one common symbol, the Sunny Heart. 
This allows us to focus our considerable 
brand power, proposition and products in the 
fulﬁlment of our speciﬁc customers’ needs.
Building on Thomas Cook’s existing strong 
brand heritage, the Sunny Heart highlights 
the combined strengths of the Group in 
the minds of our customers, symbolising 
personalised and trusted holidays, high tech, 
high touch delivery, backed by Thomas Cook 
Quality Assurance, international scale and 
market leading purchasing power.
Our strategic management of hotel 
product is key to our delivery of sustainable 
proﬁtable growth. 
Having identiﬁed from our traveller survey the 
importance of customer attitudes in terms 
of holiday preferences, our hotel portfolio is 
carefully segmented to ensure that we meet 
individual customer needs. Speciﬁcally, we 
have segmented our product portfolio into 
four areas: concept hotels, partnership hotels, 
hotels from our brochure and ﬂexible hotels, 
including hotels4u.com that has recently 
broadened its offer to appeal not just to 
business but also to retail customers.
In FY1 3 over 500,000 customers enjoyed 
our 93 exclusive concept hotels, which are 
operated under our own brands, Sentido, 
Sunwing, Sunprime and Smartline. 
These hotels provide our customers with a 
consistent experience based on a deﬁned list 
of features that meet their needs wherever 
they go on holiday. These are further 
categorised according to whether their 
customer focus is adult or family orientated.
Our other exclusive hotels are partnership 
hotels. In FY1 3 over 800,000 customers 
enjoyed these hotels, which currently total 
21 6. Partnership hotels are owned by world 
leading hoteliers and strong local partners, 
with whom we have close relationships and 
who have strong reputations for providing 
consistently high quality service. 
Our third segment consists of our traditional 
brochure hotels, providing customers with a 
quality range of accommodation and style, 
as well as more choice across a wide range 
of destinations.
Finally, we also offer a signiﬁcant range of 
ﬂexible hotels, that are available online. 
Unlike the other segments which are either 
exclusive or involve a level of commitment to 
the hotelier, these hotels are offered on a real 
time basis via the web to allow the greatest 
level of ﬂexibility. Supported by encouraging 
trials in our German market, we see potential 
to attract signiﬁcantly more new customers 
who like to book these hotels online and 
typically later than our traditional customers.
Overall, our strategy is to shift from 
approximately 20% of hotel revenues in 
exclusive and ﬂexible hotels in FY1 2, to 
approximately 40% by FY1 7 . Together, they 
will account for incremental new product 
revenue growth of £700 million by FY1 5. 
By 201 7 we expect to have increased this 
incremental new product growth by a further 
£500 million to more than £1.2 billion. 
We will focus our total investment spend into 
exclusive hotels where we have the highest 
returns. Our proven concept hotels already 
deliver a margin premium relative to the other 
hotels in our portfolio of as much as 500 basis 
points. Our partnership hotels also deliver a 
margin premium, currently in excess of 1 50 
basis points above the other hotels, and it is 
our aim to double this margin premium over 
the next three years as we continue to invest 
further in this area.
Our product growth ambitions also include a 
relentless pursuit to innovate more product. 
In FY1 3 we have developed and launched a 
new concept hotel type called “SunConnect” 
which offers value based family holidays with 
a focus on making life simpler through the 
use of technology. This product has been 
designed speciﬁcally in response to customer 
feedback from our extensive survey. We will 
trial an initial 10 hotels in the coming 201 4 
Summer season.
A key driver of our proﬁtable growth, we 
plan to have 800 exclusive partnership and 
concept hotels open by FY1 7 , enjoyed by over 
3.5 million customers.
Another key product priority that we 
identiﬁed in March, when we announced 
our strategy for proﬁtable growth, was the 
conclusion that we should be providing more 
holidays to each customer by offering a 
broader product range. 
For example, the analysis of our survey data 
informed us that 77% of our Sun & Beach 
customers who took city breaks last year 
booked with another provider.
With a dedicated team in place we are 
signiﬁcantly enhancing our portfolio of city 
hotels across our Group and have already 
doubled our inventory in Central Europe. 
We plan to increase the number of city hotels 
that we can offer our customers from a 
current level of 7 ,000 to 20,000 by FY1 5. 
Further professionalising 
our Group
Consistent with our internal operating 
methodology, The Thomas Cook Business 
System, we need to ensure that we have the 
right people, doing the right things in the right 
way to deliver our strategy. As part of this, we 
have completed a new Executive Committee. 
This is an important step on our journey to 
further professionalise the Group, breaking 
down regional silos and realigning leadership 
responsibilities to deliver the best product in 
the best way to our customers.
Led by the Chief Executive Officer, who is 
committed to leading the sustained delivery 
of proﬁtable growth, the Committee also 
includes the Group Chief Financial Officer, 
Chief Operating Officer, Group Head of 
Air Travel, Chief Technology Officer, Chief 
Digital Officer, the Group General Counsel 
and the Chief People Officer; all key roles 
as we realign our operating approach to 
deliver performance excellence as one fully 
integrated Group.
This is just the start
An enormous amount has been achieved 
transforming Thomas Cook and the 
deliverables in the ﬁrst 365 days of the 
Transformation are clear. 
Yet the implementation of our strategy for 
sustained proﬁtable growth has only just 
begun. With our systemised approach to 
business under The Thomas Cook Business 
System, our products, people and processes 
and our powerful uniﬁed brand, we are 
conﬁdent of delivering signiﬁcantly more in 
the years to come.
Review of strategy continued Thomas Cook Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 25
Directors’ report
2
Financial statements
3
Strategic report
1
Our people
From the very beginning it was recognised 
that “Building an Effective Organisation” was 
a critical element of the key decisions to be 
made and critical to the Transformation – 
key streams of activity and work identiﬁed 
by the top 100 leaders who gathered at 
the ﬁrst Thomas Cook Leadership Council 
(“TCLC”) in September 201 2. Recognising the 
signiﬁcance and extent of the cultural shift 
required, the CEO set the tone for the 
leadership team, of rigour and pace to put the 
foundational building blocks, in place in order 
to deliver the structural and cultural change 
for the Transformation. 
We have moved at great pace to create one 
uniﬁed culture across the Group, now sharing 
a common brand and symbol in the Sunny 
Heart. Our high-performance culture will 
become one where diverse talent is attracted, 
employees are developed to maximise 
their potential and performance and where 
employees are encouraged to collaborate, to 
share and embed best practice. The Thomas 
Cook Values and Leadership Behaviours are 
central to our People Agenda and successful 
execution of our Strategy and Transformation. 
Our Code of Conduct was rolled out effectively 
during the year, guides behaviour and along 
with our new brand brings our values to life.
Key to an effective organisation is having 
the right people in the right roles focused 
on the right priorities. Therefore, this 
year there has been much emphasis on 
strengthening our leadership capability. 
The optimum balance has been achieved 
in the top 1 30 leaders through keeping a 
third in current roles, promoting a third from 
within, removing unnecessary management 
layers and attracting a third from outside. 
In the last year we have made signiﬁcant 
investment and attracted “world-class” 
talent to strengthen our leadership across 
the Group. The recruitment of high-calibre 
diverse talent into the organisation has 
signiﬁcantly contributed to the raising of 
standards and disciplines required to deliver 
the Transformation and our Strategy. 
These changes sometimes require difficult 
decisions. At Thomas Cook we live by our 
values, ensuring that anyone impacted is 
treated fairly, and supported to take the 
next steps. 
During the year, we have focused on the 
following aspects of “Building an Effective 
Organisation”:
Values, Ways of Working and  
Code of Conduct
In September 201 2, Thomas Cook developed 
the Group’s new Values and “Ways of 
Working”. These fully support our new Code 
of Conduct, providing a solid and uniﬁed 
framework across the Group to guide our 
behaviours and how we conduct our work 
to the highest of standards. To ensure that 
this important work is fully embedded, over 
90% of our employees across the Group have 
received comprehensive face-to-face training 
in interactive sessions led by line managers, 
with plans in place to ensure the remainder 
are trained in the near term. All new 
employees also undergo the training as part 
of their induction. In the past year we have 
seen an improvement in the overall culture 
of the organisation with more openness, 
Building an  
Effective Organisation
Background
The announcement of our new Proﬁtable Growth Strategy, at the Capital Markets 
Day in March 2013, was a critical part of the Transformation. Central to this is 
“Building an Effective Organisation”. The Thomas Cook Executive Committee are 
fully engaged in driving this work, recognising the signiﬁcant role it has to play in 
delivering sustainable, longer-term business success.
We have moved at 
great pace to create 
one uniﬁed culture 
across the Group, 
now sharing a 
common brand 
and symbol in the 
Sunny Heart. Thomas Cook Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 26
Transformation the ﬁrst 365 days
Our people continued
sharing of best practice and collaborative 
working across the Group. To ensure our 
improved culture remains embedded across 
the organisation we regularly monitor and 
measure how employees embrace our 
Code of Conduct. This includes follow-up 
interviews conducted amongst sample 
groups of employees and relevant questions 
included in the Group-wide employee 
engagement survey and in performance 
reviews. The feedback received by employees 
on the introduction of the Code of Conduct 
has been extremely positive throughout 
the organisation. 
Establishing rigour and governance
The TCLC, which comprises our top 1 30 
leaders, meets every quarter to share 
progress and best practices, providing 
a platform to engage and inspire in our 
Transformation. In addition, the CEO holds 
frequent meetings with the senior leadership 
team and the Executive Committee, formed 
in November 201 3, along with monthly one-
to-ones to ensure all leaders are fully aligned 
in key decisions and have the support they 
need to deliver. Monthly Strategy Steering 
Group meetings chaired by the CEO are a 
forum for key leaders to share progress, 
review and challenge on key Transformation 
initiatives. These meetings also provide 
the opportunity for visibility of our talent 
across the Group bringing to life our new 
culture of sharing best practice, openness 
and transparency. 
Communicating and engaging with 
our employees
In addition to the regular forums for our 
leadership teams we also have a range of 
communication channels to engage and 
inform our employees. Some examples of 
these are: CEO blogs, Transformation eNews 
and cascade brieﬁngs and videos. In addition 
to our digital communications, we have a 
regular programme of face-to-face interactive 
local events in each segment. In order to 
streamline our employee communication, 
we will be launching HeartBeat, a new Group-
wide intranet, from December 201 3. 
Leadership behaviours
Input was taken from the top 1 30 leaders 
to identify and develop our leadership 
behaviours, which are a critical component 
of our new high-performance culture. 
These behaviours will be embedded across 
the Group as we build a world-class talent 
system in order to maximise our talent, 
performance and development. A key 
competency for leaders will be the ability to 
collaborate and work across the Group as one 
team. These behaviours drive how managers’ 
performance is measured.
Development and succession
As part of the Transformation there is 
renewed focus on development and 
succession. Developing and maintaining 
strong leadership and succession within the 
organisation will be signiﬁcantly enhanced 
with the introduction of our Performance 
and Talent System. Succession planning 
principles will be designed and agreed as part 
of our talent strategy work and, along with 
segment and functional talent reviews, will be 
introduced next year following our ﬁrst online 
performance review process. 
Executive development and Emerging 
Talent Programme
During the year, we launched the executive 
development programme for 53 of our 
leaders. The purpose of the programme is to 
provide key leaders with a personal proﬁle of 
strengths, targeted improvement areas and 
development options that will enhance job 
performance. During 201 4, we will continue 
with this programme to ensure that we are 
identifying the correct individuals as we build 
our succession pipelines. 
To further support our succession plans we 
are currently designing our ﬁrst Thomas 
Cook Group Emerging Talent Programme. 
The programme will launch later this year 
with 20 candidates from our Airline and will 
provide accelerated development and growth 
for participants into key leadership roles.
Thomas Cook High Potential Model: 
An integral part of our Talent Strategy is 
to help leaders identify and develop our 
pipeline of talent. We have designed (with 
input from key business leaders and with 
reference to external research) a bespoke 
model to help identify and develop our “high 
potentials” across the Group. It will be used 
by all managers to support the identiﬁcation 
of talent. 
Input was taken from 
the top 1 30 leaders to 
identify and develop 
our leadership 
behaviours, which are 
a critical component 
of our new high-
performance culture. Thomas Cook Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 27
Directors’ report
2
Financial statements
3
Strategic report
1
Engagement survey
In September 201 3, for the very ﬁrst time, 
every employee in the Group, across 41 
countries and in 1 5 languages, was given 
the opportunity to participate in “Every 
Voice” – the same uniform employee survey. 
There was a positive response rate of 73% 
across the Group. We are engaging with 
all of our employees to share the results 
and these will be used to identify actions 
at a Group, segment and functional level 
to drive engagement for our continued 
Transformation. A further Group-wide survey 
will take place in 201 4, enabling us to track 
our progress, compared to the baseline of the 
201 3 survey. 
Pay for performance
At our Capital Markets Day in March 201 3, 
we announced our strategic targets and 
KPIs for our Transformation. Since this 
announcement, we have reviewed our 
Reward Policy across our entire senior 
leadership team. The aim was to ensure that 
our pay rewards the delivery of our strategy, 
and enables our key leaders and talented 
individuals to share in the success that they 
are creating with our Transformation. 
Details of our Remuneration Policy can be found 
in our Remuneration Report on pages 70 to 87 . 
Organisational effectiveness
As part of the Transformation we are 
reviewing our organisational efficiency 
and effectiveness to identify relevant, clear 
principles and metrics. We will focus initially 
on reviewing the structure in our organisation 
and drive organisational change in line with 
best practice metrics. This will ensure the 
Thomas Cook organisation is ﬁt for purpose 
and sustainable into the future, working 
more effectively as a team, driving out cost 
and ensuring that our leaders are closer to 
our customers.
Diversity and inclusion 
We believe that diversity is an essential 
part of how we do business and meet the 
needs of our equally diverse customer base. 
We operate in 41 countries, employing 
people and working with customers and 
suppliers from a broad range of backgrounds 
and cultures. 
Recent senior appointments have 
strengthened diversity across a range of 
measures including skills, experience, gender 
and nationality. We are already making 
progress and have had very positive feedback 
from employees. 
We do not tolerate any form of discrimination 
and aim to reﬂect the diversity of the 
communities in which we operate. We are 
committed to treating people fairly and 
ensuring that our employment practices are 
free from any form of unlawful discrimination 
against any employee on the grounds of sex, 
gender reassignment, sexual orientation, 
pregnancy, race, colour, nationality, ethnic 
or national origin, religion or belief and age 
and disability. 
The Group CEO has also been asked to be part 
of the Outstanding in Business Judging Panel.
The table below shows the gender split at 
different levels within the organisation, as at 
30 September 201 3. At Thomas Cook 70% of 
our workforce is female which is common in 
many service industries. However, as can be 
seen only 20% of our managers are female. 
We have much more to do in encouraging 
and supporting more gender diversity 
throughout Thomas Cook. Our focus next 
year on identifying and developing talent at 
all levels in the organisation will enable us to 
improve on the current situation. Led by the 
CEO, our leaders all have diversity as a focus 
and we will be supporting them to understand 
the importance of this work and improve with 
a new training programme to be launched 
next year on recruitment and selection. 
 Male Female Total
%  
Male
%  
Female
PLC Board 538 62% 38%
Executive 
Committee and 
CEO reports 8 5 13 62% 38%
Senior 
Management 
(TCLC and  
subsidiaries) 205 51 256 80% 20%
 TCLC 99 28 127 78% 22%
 Subsidiaries 106 23 129 82% 18%
Whole company 7 ,827 1 7 ,938 25,7 65 30% 70%
We believe that 
diversity is an 
essential part of 
how we do business 
and meet the 
needs of our 
equally diverse 
customer base. Thomas Cook Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 28
Transformation the ﬁrst 365 days
Our people continued
Creating and sustaining our 
culture – looking ahead 
With the appointment of Sandra 
Campopiano as Chief People Officer in 
September 201 3, we will further develop 
the People Agenda and Strategy necessary 
to deliver our Transformation and Proﬁtable 
Growth Strategy.
Recognition
Academic research proves a clear and positive 
correlation between recognition, engagement 
and performance of employees. Therefore, 
in order to further embed our new values 
and culture, we have launched a Group-wide 
online recognition scheme called “From the 
Heart”, which enables peer-to-peer instant 
recognition allowing people to recognise 
colleagues who are living the values. There are 
different levels of awards which employees 
receive as points, redeemable against a wide 
range of local merchandisers in each country 
and online. The system is easy to access 
through computers, mobiles and tablets – 
reinforcing our transition to high tech, high 
touch. Initial feedback shows that employees 
feel empowered and appreciate being able 
to recognise their colleagues in a simple and 
immediate way. 
Performance management
Alignment of objectives and goals to our 
Strategy and Transformation will be key to 
our successful execution. To deliver this it 
is crucial that all employees are clear about 
what is expected of them and how success 
will be measured both in terms of what they 
need to deliver and the behaviours they need 
to demonstrate. All employees have clear 
objectives, which are formally reviewed twice 
yearly. They also need the opportunity to 
discuss and agree their development needs. 
We have introduced new principles to align 
our approach to performance across the 
Group for 201 3/1 4. This will support our 
succession work as we identify and develop 
pipelines of talent, to continue to support 
the Transformation. During 201 4, we will 
be introducing an online Performance and 
Talent System to track the performance and 
potential of all our employees. 
Conclusion 
Over the last year, we have established 
and continue to secure the foundations 
of a culture and structure that will be able 
to execute and deliver the Transformation 
effectively. This means having “the right 
people in the right roles focused on the right 
priorities”. Getting the best people, doing 
their best work, with the best tools requires 
a disciplined and structured approach. 
The cultural change we are bringing about 
allows us to strengthen our succession plans 
for critical roles and pipelines as we accelerate 
our succession and talent work into 201 4. 
Creating and embedding our new 
culture is critical to the success of our 
Transformation. We have identiﬁed and 
communicated new Values, Ways of 
Working, Code of Conduct and leadership 
behaviours driving clear objectives and 
rigorous performance measurement, 
whilst also taking steps to harmonise our 
performance and development approach 
across the Group. We have begun the 
work to build succession pipelines, create 
a pay for performance culture and identify 
Group engagement actions which will 
drive engagement across Thomas Cook. 
This work will build a culture which will not 
only execute the Transformation but deliver 
a sustainable organisation. 
Over the last year, we 
have established and 
continue to secure 
the foundations of a 
culture and structure 
that will be able to 
execute and deliver 
the Transformation 
effectively. Thomas Cook Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 29
Directors’ report
2
Financial statements
3
Strategic report
1
Innovative
Ask & Thomas Cook 
will answer
“Ask & Answer” is an interactive online tool, offering 
potential and existing customers holiday tips and 
advice from the Company’s top travel experts.
Representatives of Thomas Cook’s Product, Overseas and Customer Services teams are sharing their 
accumulated knowledge with customers through the “Ask & Answer” service available exclusively on 
www.thomascook.com. Designed to complement the detailed information pages, comprehensive 
FAQs and direct links to the customer services team available on the website, “Ask & Answer” features 
on each individual package accommodation page. Customers choosing to research their holiday online 
can now tap into the travel expertise of Thomas Cook employees as if they were in a store without the 
need to venture away from their sofas. Since launching in April 201 3, we have received approximately 
6,000 questions and posted in excess of 5,500 answers. We have seen an improvement in conversion, 
average booking value and time on the site as a result of implementing “Ask & Answer”. Thomas Cook Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 30
Transformation the ﬁrst 365 days
Aligning risk to our 
strategic objectives
Enhanced risk 
management capability
The Board is responsible for maintaining 
the Group’s risk management and internal 
control systems, with a mandate that includes 
deﬁning risk appetite and monitoring risk 
exposures to ensure that the nature and 
extent of risks taken by the Group are aligned 
with its strategic objectives. During the year, 
the Group has made a signiﬁcant investment 
in people and technology as it continues to 
enhance and develop its risk management 
capability. We continue to focus on further 
embedding a culture of risk management 
that will contribute towards effective 
strategy execution, ensuring both risk and 
opportunities are identiﬁed and managed 
to deliver long-term value creation. 
Our approach to 
risk management
Operating in a dynamic and rapidly evolving 
environment requires a ﬂexible and 
responsive risk management process that 
can match the pace of change and provide 
management with a concise view of the 
Group’s risk proﬁle at any point in time. 
Risk registers are continually updated through 
an ongoing programme of risk workshops, 
with operational and ﬁnancial management. 
Risk is formally assessed as a standing agenda 
item at all monthly segment level board 
meetings, with key risks being escalated 
and discussed within the Risk Matters Group 
(“RMG”). The RMG and the broader risk 
management framework has been designed 
to ensure the scope of coverage includes 
operational, ﬁnancial and legal risks within a 
single framework. The purpose of the RMG is 
to provide leadership, direction and oversight 
with regard to the Group’s overall risk 
framework, appetite, tolerance and relevant 
risk policies, processes and controls. 
The RMG meets on a bi-monthly basis, 
attended by senior executives from across 
the Group and our external advisers, in 
order to provide a further dimension of 
insight and validation. The RMG reports 
to the Audit Committee and Risks and 
Disclosures Committee. 
The Audit Committee considers risk exposure 
against risk appetite by proﬁling key risks in 
respect of their potential impact and likelihood 
of occurrence, after consideration of mitigating 
and controlling actions that are in place. 
During the year, the Audit Committee has 
reviewed both top down and bottom up risk 
analyses and the Board has undertaken a 
detailed exercise to consider its risk appetite, 
both in relation to the Transformation activity 
and the business-as-usual environment. 
The aim of these activities has resulted in a 
Combined Assurance Plan, which will enable 
a risk-based approach to the ongoing internal 
audit and assurance programme. On an 
annual basis, the Board reviews risk appetite 
to ensure it is calibrated to the Group’s 
strategic objectives. 
The communication of the Thomas Cook 
Business System outlines our commitment 
to deﬁning excellence in governance and 
adopting principles of risk management 
across the organisation and our processes. 
Our vision for the Thomas Cook Business 
System extends beyond the parameters of 
conventional risk management and we are 
now ﬁnalising our plans to ensure principles of 
risk management inﬂuence our approach to 
leadership, organisational structure, business 
policies and performance and operational 
monitoring, decision making and day-to-day 
processes are “risk proofed” and aligned to 
our Proﬁtable Growth Strategy. We do not see 
this is as a one-time transformational activity, 
but an opportunity for governance and risk 
management to inﬂuence the culture and 
ethos of our operations and people.
Principal risks and uncertainties
The table below lists the principal risks and 
uncertainties that may affect the Group 
and highlights the mitigating actions that 
are being taken and the opportunities we aim 
to capture. The content of the table, however, 
is not intended to be an exhaustive list of all 
the risks and uncertainties that may arise.
Principal risks
Threat of a continued downturn 
in demand due to adverse global 
economic factors 
Recruitment, development and 
retention of talented people 
A major health and safety incident 
impacting our customers or colleagues 
Geo-political and regulatory 
Commodity, currency and interest rate 
The business Transformation fails 
to deliver against strategic and 
operational targets
Failure to expand products and services 
that meet customer demand
Impact of competition upon price 
and market share
Failure of IT infrastructure 
Internal control failure
Shortfall in pension funding
Risk management Thomas Cook Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 31
Directors’ report
2
Financial statements
3
Strategic report
1
Mitigating actions Opportunity
Our ﬂexible business model allows us to align our committed capacity to ﬂuctuating demand. We 
continue to develop multi-channel distribution and develop strategies to improve product mix, increase 
margins and reduce costs. Active co-ordination of Group-wide risk activity ensures teams have early 
indication of emerging risk and by working with risk specialists deliver robust and effective mitigations.
Our focus on delivery of our Proﬁtable Growth 
Strategy means we are able to respond rapidly to 
economic improvement. 
A CEO led review of leadership structure and personnel has resulted in 68 new leaders being appointed 
across the Group – reﬂecting a third being recruited externally, a third being retained and a third being 
promoted internally. These changes have enabled new strengths and skills to complement existing 
capabilities. We have made signiﬁcant investment in our people attracting “world-class” talent to 
strengthen our leadership across the Group. Our high potential talent is identiﬁed and nurtured through 
an Executive Development Programme. Our reward schemes are constantly evaluated to drive and 
reward performance and ensure retention of key talent. As we drive change throughout the organisation, 
our competency development and evaluation processes are focused on encouraging change agility. 
Sandra Campopiano, who was appointed as Chief People Officer in September 201 3, will drive our 
People Agenda going forward.
The creation of a high-performing actively 
engaged team which will consequently lead to 
delivery of the key objectives of the Group’s 
Transformation, embed the Thomas Cook 
Business System that will ultimately improve 
overall business performance on a 
sustainable basis.
There is a Group-wide structure in place to support management through the provision of staff training, 
auditing and specialist advice. The assessment of health and safety risks is inbuilt into daily management 
routines and is monitored by a comprehensive structure of health and safety committees that are in turn 
overseen by a corporate Health, Safety & Environmental Committee with Board level oversight. 
We are committed to identifying initiatives that 
will enhance the safety culture and contribute 
to the continuous improvement of the safety and 
well-being of all our customers and colleagues. 
Dedicated management teams ensure full compliance with formal regulatory requirements. We monitor 
stakeholder and political reactions to ensure we react to emerging political and regulatory developments. 
The Group will continue to contribute to the 
constructive engagement with government 
agencies and other stakeholders to help create 
a sustainable framework for travel and tourism. 
Comprehensive strategy and supporting policies to undertake hedging activity in line with the needs of 
the business and prevailing market conditions. 
The Group derives certainty over its exposure to 
trends in the commodity or currency markets 
and interest rates. This enables the Group to plan 
and make informed decisions particularly during 
periods of high volatility. 
We have a fully integrated Transformation plan to align the business to our Proﬁtable Growth Strategy. 
Delivery of strategic Transformation is led by a high calibre team with a rigorous framework of review, 
including Executive Committee meetings, one-to-ones between the Group CEO and her Direct Reports 
team, Direct Report meetings and Thomas Cook Leadership Council meetings. 
To deliver sustainable growth in shareholder 
value, balancing the needs of our customers, 
employees and communities in which we 
work with our strategic objectives and corporate 
and social responsibilities. 
The business has an extensive programme of market and client feedback, including what we believe to 
be one of the largest consumer surveys ever undertaken within the sector. The business has dedicated 
management teams focused on enhancing its portfolio of product and services, whilst continuously 
monitoring performance.
Focus on new products and services will be the 
primary driver in delivering our Proﬁtable 
Growth Strategy.
Management focus upon omni-channel distribution, Group-wide cost reduction programme, 
collaborative working with key hoteliers and partners, and targeted effort to expand products and services 
aligned to market demand.
Grow market share in historic markets and further 
penetration of digital and distribution channels.
The Group’s IT strategy, priorities and delivery plans are being reviewed as part of the IT Transformation 
project being led by the Group Chief Technology Officer. This review will ensure delivery of IT services and 
technology will be ﬁt to meet the needs of rapidly changing technologies, whilst maintaining integrity 
and performance of existing systems and operations which are key to the delivery of the Transformation.
To set the tone and drive for change as business 
pursues strategy of high tech, high touch 
Transformation; ultimately providing our 
customers enhanced products, service and 
functionality. Delivering the IT strategy will result 
in a strengthening of the Group’s capabilities 
which is also focused on making internal 
functions more efficient. 
Detailed policy and procedures spanning across key business functions. Established business processes 
with clearly deﬁned transactional controls and independent monitoring activity.
Enhanced control environment, minimising 
operational loss or fraud. 
Ongoing monitoring of pension scheme assets and liabilities, independent assessment and corrective 
action taken by management.
Early alert of pension liability ensures timely action 
whilst promoting robust ﬁnancial planning. Thomas Cook Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 32
Transformation the ﬁrst 365 days
Financially stronger: 
positioned for 
proﬁtable growth
The achievements of the 
past year have signiﬁcantly 
strengthened the ﬁnancial 
position of the Group 
and positioned it for 
proﬁtable growth.
Performance: Financial review
The past ﬁnancial year has seen a signiﬁcant improvement in the ﬁnancial 
health of Thomas Cook.
In March 2013, we held a Capital Markets Day where we set out the 
medium-term strategy for the Group for the three years ending 
30 September 201 5 and published detailed targets against which to 
track our progress. The status of our performance against those targets 
is summarised on page 20. Subsequently, in June, the Group concluded a 
complex, inter-connected £1.6 billion recapitalisation exercise to reduce 
debt, extend maturities and strengthen the capital base. 
At the same time Group underlying EBIT has increased by £86 million to 
£263 million, primarily through the ﬁrst wave of our Cost Out and Proﬁt 
Improvement programme and the continuing recovery of the UK business. 
In line with the Group’s Proﬁtable Growth strategy, new product lines have 
been expanded, which has enabled revenue to be maintained at above 
£9 billion during a period where capacity commitments have been better 
aligned to customer demand. Thomas Cook Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 33
Directors’ report
2
Financial statements
3
Strategic report
1
Income statement
£m (unless otherwise stated) 
Year ended  
30 Sept 
2013
Year ended  
30 Sept 
201 2
Change  
£m
Change  
%
Revenue 9,3 1 5 9, 1 95 1 20 1.3
Gross proﬁt 2,059 2,026 33 1.6
Underlying proﬁt from operations (EBIT) 263 177 86 48.6
EBIT separately disclosed items (250) (347) 97 28.0
EBIT 13 (1 70) 1 83 –
Other income/expenditure 1 2(1)(50.0)
Net ﬁnance charges (underlying) (1 46 ) (1 23) (23) (18.7)
Separately disclosed ﬁnance charges (26) (46 ) 20 42.2
Loss before tax (1 58) (337) 1 79 53. 1
Tax (49) (1 04) 55 52. 9
Discontinued operations – (149) 149 100.0
Loss for the year (207) (590) 383 64. 9
Throughout the Finance Review the term “underlying” refers to trading results after adjusting 
statutory results for separately disclosed items that are signiﬁcant in understanding the ongoing 
results of the Group. Separately disclosed items are detailed on pages 35 and 36. Within the Financial 
Review results are considered on an underlying basis unless otherwise stated. 
 
In implementing Transformation, the Group has undertaken certain 
activities that, combined with the normal translation effect of foreign 
exchange movements, impact upon the comparability of underlying 
performance for FY1 2 and FY1 3. 
To assist in understanding the impact of these factors and their 
inﬂuence on year-on-year progression of the Group’s performance, 
a “like-for-like” analysis has been presented in this report. A summary 
of the adjustments made to the reported results to arrive at a “like-for-
like” comparison is set out below:
Revenue
£m
Gross 
margin
%
Overheads
£m
EBIT
£m
FY12 reported (continuing) 9, 1 95 22.0 1,849 1 77
India disposal
1
 ( 43) (0.3) (32) (1 1 )
UK disposals/closures
2
 (13) (0. 1 ) (10) 1
CE disposals
3
 (30) (0. 1 ) (1 5) (2)
Impact of FY12 provision movements
4
– (0. 1 ) 16 (24)
Impact of currency movements
5
 235 (0. 1 ) 23 19
FY12 “like-for-like” 9,344 21.3 1,835 1 60
FY13 Reported 9,31 5 22. 1 1,796 263
FY13 “like-for-like” growth (£m) (29) 64 39 103
FY13 “like-for-like” growth (%) (0.3)% 0.8% 2. 1% 64.4%
1 Reﬂects the results of Thomas Cook India prior to its disposal in August 2012.
2  Net impact of the disposal/closure of individual businesses comprising Explorers 
Hotel, FX Bureaux and FY12 store closures.
3  Net impact of the disposal of individual businesses comprising HCV, Austral Lagoons 
and Secrets.
4  Net impact of provision releases in Northern Europe and Airlines Germany in FY12 
where the underlying liability for aircraft related and other costs no longer existed.
5  Net impact of movement in exchange rates on the translation of the results of 
non-GBP entities.
In May 201 3, the Group announced the disposal of its loss-making 
North American business. Although the disposal only generated 
£3.4 million of cash proceeds, this transaction signiﬁcantly de-risked 
our business by exiting an extremely competitive market, which had 
cost over £40 million in cash terms during FY1 2. After the year end, the 
Group also announced the sale of its outbound business in Egypt and 
Lebanon, the Neilson specialist holiday business in the UK, a corporate 
foreign exchange business and its interest in the Airline Group, which 
holds a stake in NATS, together generating further disposal proceeds 
of over £60 million.
Free cash ﬂow has improved signiﬁcantly, to £53 million, an 
improvement of £1 56 million over last year, due to better trading and 
enhanced disciplines in the management of working capital. 
As a consequence of the progress over the past year, Group net debt 
has been reduced from £788 million to £421 million. Whilst further 
deleveraging of the business will continue to be pursued, the 
achievements of the past year have signiﬁcantly strengthened the 
ﬁnancial position of the Group and positioned it for proﬁtable growth.
Balance sheet recapitalisation
On 27 June 201 3, the Group completed a major £1.6 billion 
recapitalisation of the business, which included:
 > Rights Issue and Placement of 496.6 million Ordinary Shares raising 
gross proceeds of £431 million; 
 > Issue of a new €525 million Eurobond with a coupon of 7 .75% which 
matures in June 2020; and
 > A new £470 million four-year banking facility maturing in May 201 7 
to replace prior facilities, together with an additional £1 91 million 
facility available from 201 5 and a separate £30 million bonding 
facility, which matures in May 201 5.
Total costs of £73 million were incurred as part of the recapitalisation, 
of which £1 9 million has been recognised as a reduction in net 
proceeds from the equity issue, £37 million has been capitalised 
against the carrying value of the new bond and bank facilities and 
£18 million has been included in separately disclosed items within 
operating proﬁt.
In addition, the recapitalisation has resulted in a signiﬁcantly improved 
ﬁnancial position of the Group by providing:
 > A strengthened capital base to deliver greater ﬁnancial headroom 
and ﬂexibility;
 > A stronger ﬁnancial position to enable the Group to negotiate 
improved terms from its suppliers, credit insurers and other trading 
counterparties; and
 > The ﬁnancial resources and ﬂexibility to invest in its Proﬁtable 
Growth strategy.
Following the recapitalisation, the Group’s debt levels have been 
reduced and the debt maturity proﬁle has been lengthened to better 
match the expected operational cash ﬂow proﬁle. The impact on 
the Group’s net debt and maturity proﬁle is set out in the Treasury 
Management section below. Thomas Cook Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 34
Transformation the ﬁrst 365 days
Revenue
Revenue for FY1 3 of £9,31 5 million represents an increase of 
£1 20 million (1.3%) on the comparable ﬁgure for FY1 2. Like-for-like 
revenue decreased by £29 million (0.3%) primarily as a result of 
planned capacity management. 
Throughout FY1 3, the Group has pursued a strategy of closely 
managing committed capacity to market requirements in order to 
allow effective management of pricing and yield to achieve improved 
and sustainable quality of earnings. In FY1 3 the Group reduced overall 
committed capacity by approximately 5%. 
Summer season revenue was also impacted by social unrest in Egypt 
which reduced revenue by approximately £40 million.
Although year-on-year volume driven revenue reduced by 
£290 million this was offset by the beneﬁts on pricing and yield, 
increasing revenue by £26 1 million. 
Gross margin
Underlying gross margin of 22. 1 % represents a 0. 1 % increase on FY1 2. 
On a like-for-like basis, FY1 3 gross margin of 22. 1 % represents a 0.8% 
increase on FY1 2.
The incremental beneﬁts realised in FY1 3 from the Group’s Cost Out 
and Proﬁt Improvement programme totalled £1 34 million. Of this, 
£57 million contributes to gross margin improvement with £77 million 
being reﬂected in operating cost reduction (see below). 
Pricing and yield beneﬁts have been delivered through improved 
capacity management as well as improved capability in dynamic 
pricing across our businesses. These beneﬁts have offset the margin 
impact of Summer 1 3 weather in UK and Continental Europe being 
unusually warm. We estimate that this impacted our gross margin by 
approximately £20 million (0.2%).
Cost inﬂation of £1 96 million represents a net increase across our 
relevant cost of sales of approximately 2.7%. The harmonisation of 
hotel purchasing across the Group has signiﬁcantly improved our 
ability to optimise purchasing negotiations and provide beneﬁts to 
our strategic hotelier partners through strengthened relationships. 
The beneﬁt of this improved purchasing activity is not yet fully 
reﬂected in our ﬁnancial results.
Operating expenses
In the year like-for-like operating expenses were reduced by 
£39 million (2. 1 %). This reduction represents the net effect of the 
impact of the Group’s Cost Out and Proﬁt Improvement initiatives 
with increases from certain volume-related airline costs and strategic 
operating expenditure investments as well as inﬂationary and 
performance related cost increases. 
The Group’s strategic operating cost investments were made to 
support the Transformation and our Cost Out and Proﬁt Improvement 
initiatives, including:
 > Operating investments to support Transformation: (£1 7 million).  
In order to facilitate the Group’s structural Transformation it is 
necessary to establish skill bases and infrastructure that facilitate 
future organisational efficiency and cost reduction through our 
Wave 2 initiatives. This results in operating investment in the areas 
of e-commerce development and IT that will be offset by future 
efficiencies across the Group as relevant transformational activity 
progresses. These investments cover improvements to our IT 
infrastructure and functional development in areas such as our 
reservation systems and dynamic packaging capability.
 > Strategic marketing expenditure focused on web transition 
(£4 million). This represents cost required to support the Group’s 
development of its web supported omni-channel strategy. As web 
penetration develops this will facilitate a compensating reduction in 
non-web marketing. 
Performance: Financial review continued
Revenue £m
Disposals
in UK
India
disposal
FY12 FY12
LFL
FX
impact
Disposals
in CE
FY13 Price Volume
Like-for-like change (£29m)
(43)
(30)
(290)
9,344
9, 1 95
(1 3)
235
9,3 1 5
26 1
Gross margin   %
Disposals India FY12 FY12
LFL
FX
impact
PY
provisions
FY13 Mix Cost
out
Price Cost
inﬂation
Like-for-like change +0.8%
(0.3%)
(0. 1%)
(0. 1%)
(2. 1%)
2.2%
22.0%
(0.2%)
21.3%
22. 1%
0.1%
0.6%
Operating expenses   £m
LFL
adjustments
FY12 FY12
LFL
FY13 Other Strategic
opex
investment
COPI Volume related
ﬂight costs
Like-for-like change (2. 1%)
(1 4)
(77)
2
25
1,849
1,835
11
1,796 Thomas Cook Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 35
Directors’ report
2
Financial statements
3
Strategic report
1
 > Operation of leased concept hotels (£2 million). A key element of the 
Group’s strategy for proﬁtable growth is the further development 
of our concept hotel offering. These exclusive hotels are operated 
under a mix of franchise arrangements and lease arrangements. 
Approximately 75% of concept hotels are expected to be franchised 
with the balance leased.
 > Introduction of business activities optimising returns such as in-
house duty free warehouse in Sweden (£2 million).
The Group has introduced strict assessment criteria to identify 
opportunities for integration of incremental activities that add value 
and meet our capital allocation requirements. 
Underlying EBIT
In the full year FY1 3, the Group earned underlying EBIT of 
£263 million, up £86 million ( 48.6%) on FY1 2 EBIT of £1 77 million. 
On a like-for-like basis Group EBIT increased by £103 million (64.4%). 
In FY1 3, the Group implemented a number of projects that will 
support the delivery of our strategy for proﬁtable growth. Given the 
nature of our business, there is a lead-time before the ﬁnancial beneﬁt 
of these initiatives will be reﬂected in ﬁnancial results. As such the 
like-for-like FY1 3 EBIT improvement of £103 million is driven primarily 
by improved capacity management, generating gross margin 
improvement and a net reduction in overheads.
A review of segmental performance by business is set out on 
pages 42 to 44.
Separately disclosed items
Separately disclosed items represent costs or proﬁts that have 
been recognised in the period which management believes are not 
the result of normal operating activity and performance. They are 
therefore disclosed separately to give a more comparable view of the 
year-on-year underlying trading performance.
The table below summarises separately disclosed items within 
these categories:
Cash
1
£m
Non-cash
£m
FY13
£m
FY12
£m
Restructuring costs (107) ( 20) (127) ( 55)
Reﬁnancing costs (18) – (1 8) ( 30)
Goodwill impairment and asset valuation reviews 21 (39) (1 8) (206)
Onerous contracts and legal disputes (16) (43) (59) (1 0)
Amortisation of business combination intangibles – (1 4) (1 4) (28)
Provision for tax dispute resolution – (14) (1 4) (1 2)
Pension/other – – – (6)
Impacting EBIT (120) (130) (250) (347)
Finance-related charges – (26) (26) (46)
Total ( 1 20) ( 1 56 ) (27 6) (393)
1  The cash column above represents items that will impact cash in the current period 
or in the future (FY12: £1 15 million)
Restructuring costs
Restructuring costs include £44 million in relation to the UK, 
£43 million in relation to Group wide Transformation projects, 
£1 3 million in respect of the France turnaround plan, £8 million in 
respect of the Russia turnaround plan, £8 million in respect of speciﬁc 
Transformation activities within Continental Europe, £5 million in 
respect of UK aircraft ﬂeet reductions and £3 million in respect of each 
of Airlines Germany and Head Office. Of these costs, £47 million are 
directly attributable to the Cost Out and Proﬁt Improvement initiatives. 
Reﬁnancing costs
Financial structuring costs from the June 201 3 recapitalisation of 
£1 8 million that cannot be attributed to speciﬁc debt or equity 
elements have been charged to the proﬁt and loss account. 
Reﬁnancing costs that are speciﬁcally attributable to ﬁnancing 
elements have either been capitalised and will be amortised over the 
period of the funding (bank facility and bond issuance), or netted off 
against the share premium account (equity issuance).
Underlying EBIT   £m
Disposal
in UK
India
disposal
FY12 FX
impact
FY12
provisions
Disposal
in CE
FY13 Overhead
reduction
FY12
LFL
Gross
margin
increase
Like-for-like change £103m
(1 1 )
(2)
(24)
64
160
39
177
1
19
263 Thomas Cook Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 36
Transformation the ﬁrst 365 days
Goodwill impairment and asset valuation reviews
The net charge of £18 million includes a pre-disposal review of 
goodwill in respect of Thomas Cook Egypt and Lebanon (£18 million 
impairment), the review of the value of the Group’s non-current asset 
investment in NATS (£29 million increase), a pre-disposal review of the 
goodwill and other assets of Neilson and its subsidiaries (£1 3 million 
impairment), a revaluation of speciﬁc investments held by the UK 
pension fund with a value guaranteed by the Group (impairment of 
£8 million) and other intangible asset impairments (£8 million). 
In the prior year goodwill in respect of the then West Europe segment 
totalling £94 million was impaired. Also in the prior year an impairment 
of £96 million was made in respect of India prior to its disposal. Due to 
improved business performance, no further goodwill impairments 
have been made in the current year in respect of ongoing 
business activity. 
Onerous contracts and legal disputes
In the year the Group has assessed its position in respect of certain 
onerous contracts and made appropriate adjustments to assets on 
the balance sheet and made provision for future losses under these 
contracts. These contracts included certain UK service outsourcing 
contracts (£10 million), hotel leases (£1 4 million), sports marketing 
and related travel contracts (£9 million) and foreign exchange and 
other commercial contracts (£26 million).
Amortisation of business combination intangibles
The amortisation of business combination intangibles has reduced 
as a result of impairments made in 201 2 as well as the disposal of the 
Group’s North American business.
Provision for tax dispute resolution
A provision of £1 4 million has been made following an adverse third-
party sales tax judgement in respect of the Tour Operator Margin 
Scheme “TOMS” (under appeal). The Group will continue to monitor 
the progress of the case but takes a prudent view of the outcome and 
has no cash exposure.
Finance related charges
The Group has provisions for future liabilities arising from separately 
disclosed circumstances primarily deferred acquisition consideration. 
A notional interest charge of £9 million on the discounted value of 
such provisions is recognised within separately disclosed ﬁnance 
related charges. Accelerated amortisation of £7 million of capitalised 
ﬁnancing fees from cancelled facilities is also recognised. In FY1 3 
the Group has adopted industry practice of separately disclosing the 
notional net interest charge arising from its pension scheme assets/
liabilities (£9 million). Prior year comparatives are restated. £1 million 
has also been charged in respect of IAS39 allocations of the time value 
of derivative products.
Net ﬁnance charges
Net interest and ﬁnance charges for FY1 3 (excluding separately 
disclosed items of £26 million) were £1 46 million (201 2: £1 23 million) 
up £23 million mainly as a result of costs arising from the sale and 
leaseback of aircraft in 201 2. 
Net interest and ﬁnance costs
FY13
£m
FY12
£m
Bank and bond interest and related charges (83) (81 )
Commitment fees (7) (4)
Letters of credit and bonding ( 16) (1 5)
Other interest costs (1 4) (1 2)
Interest and ﬁnance costs before aircraft ﬁnancing (120) (1 12) 
Interest income 6 7
Net interest and ﬁnance costs after aircraft ﬁnancing (1 14) (105)
Aircraft ﬁnancing (25) (10)
Fee amortisation (7) (8)
Net interest expense (1 46 ) (1 23)
Following the ﬁnancing activity undertaken in June 201 3, it is 
anticipated that net interest before aircraft ﬁnancing will remain 
broadly ﬂat until repayment of the Group’s 201 5 Bonds.
In September 201 3 two aircraft operating leases were extended 
such that under the IAS assessment criteria they are now adjudged 
to be ﬁnance leases. As such aircraft ﬁnancing interest is likely to be 
around 10% higher in FY1 4 than FY1 3 without any further changes to 
aircraft ﬁnancing.
Operating lease charges
Included within net operating expenses:
FY13
£m
FY12
£m
Aircraft operating lease charges 101 103
Retail operating lease charges 59 67
Hotel operating lease charges 34 28
Total 194 198
Retail operating lease charges have reduced by 1 2% primarily due 
to the reduction in the UK retail footprint following the closure of 
185 stores.
Performance: Financial review continued Thomas Cook Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 37
Directors’ report
2
Financial statements
3
Strategic report
1
Taxation
The Group tax charge and tax paid for the year can be analysed 
as follows:
Current tax:
FY13
£m
FY12
£m
UK 5 (4)
Overseas 39 30
Total current tax 44 26
Deferred tax 5 78
Total tax charge 49 104
Cash tax 31 28
The overall tax charge in the year reduced from £104 million 
to £49 million. In FY1 2, due to its trading position the Group 
derecognised signiﬁcant deferred tax assets. In FY1 3 the tax position 
has become more normalised with proﬁt and loss account tax charge 
and cash tax being more closely aligned. The Group continues to pay 
corporation tax in its proﬁtable markets, in particular in Northern 
Europe and Germany, where the annual offset of proﬁts against prior 
losses is restricted.
Earnings / Loss per share
Underlying basic earnings per share for the year were 5.0 pence 
(FY1 2: 0.6 pence). The basic loss per share, after taking into account 
separately disclosed items, was 1 6.7 pence (FY1 2: loss 67 .2 pence).
T reasury management
The Group’s funding, liquidity and exposure to foreign currency, 
interest rates, commodity prices and ﬁnancial credit risk are managed 
by the centralised Treasury function and are conducted within a 
framework of Board-approved policies and guidelines. 
The principal aim of treasury activities is to reduce volatility by 
hedging, providing a degree of certainty to operating segments and 
ensure a sufficient level of liquidity headroom at all times. 
The successful execution of policy will support a sustainable low risk 
growth strategy, enable the Group to meet its ﬁnancial commitments 
as they fall due and will enhance the Group’s credit rating over the 
medium term.
Cash and liquidity
Cash ﬂow statement
FY13
£m
FY12
£m
Change
£m
EBITDA 425 316 1 09
Working capital 77 (1 4) 91
Tax (31 ) (29) (2)
Pensions and other (1 8) (22) 4
Operating cash ﬂow 453 251 202
Exceptional Items (120) (1 05) ( 1 5)
Capital expenditure (1 50) (1 38) ( 1 2)
Net interest paid (130) ( 111 ) ( 1 9 )
Free cash ﬂow 53 (1 03) 1 56
Dividends – (33) 33
Disposals (34) 192 (226 )
New equity 431 –431
Other (31 ) –(31)
Net cash ﬂow 41 9 56 363
Note: FY12 EBITDA represents £333 million from continuing operations offset by £17 million from 
discontinued operations (TCNA).
Free cash ﬂow totalled £53 million, an improvement of £1 56 million, 
compared to 201 2, due to better trading and working capital 
management which together improved by £200 million. The improved 
operating cash ﬂow has facilitated the delivery of our Transformation 
programme by funding the costs of restructuring and increased 
capital expenditure. Cash interest costs are slightly higher than last 
year due to the sale and leaseback of aircraft in FY1 2.
Net cash ﬂow was further improved through the equity issue in June 
201 3 as part of the recapitalisation process which, together with cash 
divested with our North American business, resulted in net cash ﬂow 
of £41 9 million, all of which has been applied to debt reduction.
Cash Conversion
The Group uses a measure of cash conversion reﬂecting the 
amount of cash ﬂow retained by the business which can be used 
for investment in capital expenditure, debt repayment or payment 
of dividends.
£m FY13 FY12
Free cash ﬂow 53 (1 03)
Capital expenditure 150 138
FCF before Capex 203 35
Underlying EBITDA 425 316
Cash Conversion 48% 11 %
Note: FY12 EBITDA represents £333 million from continuing operations offset by £17 million from 
discontinued operations (TCNA).
Cash conversion has improved from 1 1 % to 48% in the year 
reﬂecting improved trading and signiﬁcant improvements in working 
capital management. Thomas Cook Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 38
Transformation the ﬁrst 365 days
Debt and ﬁnancing
The Group sources debt and ﬁnance facilities from a combination of 
the international capital markets and its relationship banking group. 
During the year, the Group completed a £1.6 billion recapitalisation as 
summarised on page 33 which, together with operating cash ﬂows, 
reduced net debt from £788 million to £421 million.
The composition and maturity proﬁle of the Group’s net debt at 
30 September 201 3 is summarised below: 
£m
30 September 
2013
30 September 
201 2 Change Maturity
201 5 Euro Bond (335) (319) (16) June 201 5
201 7 GBP Bond (300) (300) – June 201 7
2020 Euro Bond (440) – (440) June 2020
Commercial Paper (134) –(134)Oct/Nov2013
Revolving Credit Facility – (1 42) 1 42 n/a
Term Loan – (1 50) 1 50 n/a
Finance Leases (224) (233) 9 Various
Other external debt (122) (1 23) 1 Various
Arrangement fees 40 18 22 n/a
Total debt ( 1,515) (1,2 48) (26 7)
Cash and cash equivalents 1,094 460 634
Net debt (421 ) (788) 367
The Group’s £500 million Committed Facility comprises a Revolving Credit Facility of 
£300 million which was undrawn at 30 September 2013 and a £200 million bonding 
and guarantee facility of which £1 75 million was drawn at 30 September 2013. This 
Facility matures partly in May 201 5 (£30 million) and partly in May 201 7 (£470 million). 
The Group also has access to an Additional Facility of £191 million which is available from 
201 5 to partially repay the 201 5 Bonds, £100 million of this facility matures in May 2016 
with the remainder maturing in May 201 7 .
The Group’s credit rating was upgraded during the year as a result of 
the recapitalisation.
2013 201 2
Corporate ratings Rating Outlook Rating Outlook
Standard and Poor’s B Stable B− Negative
Fitch
1
BPositive B− Stable
1 Fitch rate the 2020 bond 1 notch higher at B+
A signiﬁcant proportion of the Group’s debt is held in Euro as a natural 
hedge against its Euro denominated assets and earnings. 
In addition to ﬁnancing working capital and capital expenditure the 
Group ﬁnances its ﬂeet of 86 aircraft. This is achieved through a 
mix of secured debt ﬁnancing, ﬁnance leases and operating leases. 
Following the recapitalisation in June 201 3, the Group completed a 
sale and leaseback transaction for six aircraft and has a requirement 
to arrange ﬁnancing for a further six aircraft due for delivery in 201 5 
and 201 6.
Cash management
Due to the seasonality of the Group’s business cycle and cash ﬂows, a 
substantial amount of surplus cash accumulates during the summer 
months. Efficient use and tight control of cash throughout the Group 
is facilitated by the use of cash pooling arrangements and the net 
surplus cash is invested by Treasury in high quality, short-term liquid 
instruments consistent with Board-approved policy, which is designed 
to mitigate counterparty credit risk. Yield is maximised within the 
constraints of the policy but returns in general remain low given the 
low interest rate environment in the UK, the US and Europe.
A 26-week rolling cash forecasting process, driven and embedded by 
Treasury and supported by business segments, provides a high degree 
of conﬁdence in the Group’s ability to manage cash effectively and 
predict accurately the liquidity headroom requirements during the 
seasonal low point.
A small portion of the Group’s cash is either trapped or restricted in 
overseas jurisdictions. Such cash does not form part of the liquidity 
headroom calculation. 
Performance: Financial review continued
Net debt £m
Recap
costs
Gross
equity
proceeds
FY12 Other Lease
reclass
1
Costs
capitalised
FX
impact
Disposals Financing
fees
amortisation
FY13 Underlying
improvement
LFL
FY12
net debt
431
37
(16)
(1 3)
(788)
(73)
(34)
(1 5)
(23)
73
(494)
(421 )
1 Leases previously treated as operating, now classiﬁed as ﬁnance leases
Debt maturity proﬁle   £m
  
Senior notes New facility
2013 2015 2014 2016 2018 2017 2020 2019
335m
134m
365m
300m
440m
770m
47 0m
Commercial paper
Note: Excluded ﬁnance leases and aircraft related loans. Additional facility of 
£191 million available to part fund 2015 bonds not included above as it is envisaged 
that this facility will not be drawn and will be cancelled in 2015. Thomas Cook Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 39
Directors’ report
2
Financial statements
3
Strategic report
1
Currency and commodity risk
The Group’s companies operate globally and experience variations 
in input costs arising from movements in the exchanges rates and oil 
prices. The main currency exposures include the Euro, relating to hotel 
sourcing, and USD for aircraft fuel costs.
Treasury executes hedging transactions on behalf of all business 
segments in line with policies agreed with local management using 
a mix of forward contracts and options. Hedging for both foreign 
exchange and fuel is built up over a period of up to 18 months on a 
season-by-season basis so that the business has a substantial amount 
of price certainty at the time of publishing holiday brochures. 
Interest rate risk
The majority of the Group’s Eurobonds are at ﬁxed interest rates. 
Treasury continually monitors the sensitivity of the Group’s interest 
charge to movements in rates and periodically use interest rate 
derivatives to alter the ﬁxed – ﬂoating mix. Short-term borrowings 
under the bank facilities are typically at ﬂoating rates and investment 
of surplus cash also attracts a ﬂoating rate return. 
Counterparty credit risk
The Group is exposed to counterparty default when depositing 
surplus cash and when undertaking hedging transactions. The mark-
to-market value of outstanding derivatives is measured frequently 
and added to the principal amount of deposits to determine total 
counterparty risk. Only counterparties with acceptable credit ratings 
are recommended to and approved by the Board.
Hedging of fuel and foreign exchange
The Group hedges its principal transactional market risks – which 
are exposure to ﬂuctuation in the sterling / euro and sterling / US 
dollar exchange rates and fuel price movements. The proportion of 
forthcoming requirements hedged are as noted below:
Winter 
2013/14
Summer 
2014
Euro 90% 65%
US Dollar 92% 63%
Jet fuel 89% 62%
Note: As at 31 October 2013.
Exchange rates
The average and year end exchange rates relevant to the Group were:
Average rate Year end rate
FY13 FY12 FY13 FY12
GBP/Euro 1. 1 9 1.21 1. 1 9 1.25
GBP/US dollar 1.56 1.58 1.62 1.62
GBP/SEK 10.22 10.68 10.37 10.56
Ordinary shares in issue
Million Number
Ordinary Shares in issue at 1 October 201 2 885.9
Ordinary Shares in issue at 30 September 2013 1,453.4
Weighted average number of shares in issue during the period 1, 195.9
The increase in ordinary shares in issue arises from the exercising of 
warrants (70.9 million) and as a result of the placement (87 .6 million) 
and rights issue ( 409.0 million) in June 201 3.
Post balance sheet disposals
After the year end the Group announced the disposal of the 
following businesses:
 > 1. Outbound tour operator businesses in Egypt and Lebanon
 > 2. UK corporate foreign exchange business
 > 3. Neilson Active Holidays 
 > 4. 91.5% of its investment in NATS.
The combined gross proceeds of these disposals will be approximately 
£58 million. The value expected to be realised in relation to each of the 
above transactions has been reﬂected in the respective asset carrying 
values in the Group accounts for the year ended 30 September 201 3. 
In the year to 30 September 201 3, the assets disposed of, as listed 
above contributed £89 million to Group Revenue and £4 million to 
underlying EBIT. Thomas Cook Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 40
Transformation the ﬁrst 365 days
Match your destination to your interest
www.thomascook.com
High tech, high touch
Performance continued
DreamCapture: 
Bridging retail with e T ail 
An example of the Group’s high tech, high touch 
strategy, which combines cutting-edge technology 
with outstanding customer service to build strong 
connections with customers wherever, whenever 
and however they choose to interact, 
“DreamCapture” focuses on connecting the retail 
and online experience. Thomas Cook Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 41
Directors’ report
2
Financial statements
3
Strategic report
1
This digital innovation replicates Thomascook.com search facets for the retail environment, 
linking the customer experience across all channels – from in-store to online – and allowing 
customers to decide how and when they interact with us when booking their holiday. 
Our retail consultants will use this customised service to build a shortlist of personalised 
holiday experiences that meet the speciﬁc needs of their customer. The customer can then 
access online giving them the choice of booking online, via the call centre or by going back 
to the store, thus linking the customer experience across all channels – whether it be retail 
or etail.
This digital innovation replicates Thomascook.com search facets for the retail environm Thomas Cook Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 42
Transformation the ﬁrst 365 days
Performance: Operating review
Turnaround continues at pace 
with underlying EBIT growth of 
£64 million. 
At a glance ﬁnancial highlights
£m FY13 Growth*
Like-for-like 
Growth
Revenue 2,977 (1 32) ( 1 1 9)
Gross margin (%) 25.9% 1. 1 % 1.2%
Operating expenses (704) 65 55 
EBIT 66 64 63
EBIT margin % 2.2% 1. 9% 2. 1 %
Pax booked (No) 6.2m (0.6)m (10.0)%
Pax committed capacity 3.3m (0.2)m (6. 1 )%
* Excludes India.
United Kingdom and Ireland Sources of growth in underlying EBIT
Cost out and proﬁt improvement 
Trading turnaround was focused on the improvement in the quality 
of earnings through improved yield management, facilitated by a 
reduction in committed capacity, and a reduction in unproﬁtable 
business in specialist markets.
Operationally, focus was on the continued simpliﬁcation of the 
business with de-duplication of back office functions and a signiﬁcant 
reduction in the number and scale of management boards. First steps 
were taken in a radical simpliﬁcation of the UK corporate structure 
which will allow further complexity to be removed from the business.
From a customer perspective this corporate simpliﬁcation is 
manifested through the launch of the Group’s new brand identity on 
1 October 201 3, and a reduction in the number of UK brands from 27 
to 10. 
On the high street the business continued the overhaul of its retail 
estate with the number of retail outlets being reduced by 1 95 from 
1,069 to 874. The roll-out of the Group’s high tech concept stores 
commenced, with 5 openings, and this combined with the roll out of 
store rebranding, will deliver a refreshed high street presence.
Financially, the UK turnaround plan delivered year on year cost 
savings of £64 million and further savings of approximately 
£42 million were achieved through Group-wide cost out and proﬁt 
improvement initiatives. 
Improved yield management combined with contribution from the 
cost out and proﬁt improvement initiatives realised a 1. 1 % increase in 
gross margin percentage.
These trading improvements, signiﬁcantly improving quality of 
earnings offset the managed volume reduction of non-proﬁtable 
business to deliver underlying EBIT of £66 million, which, in delivering 
an EBIT margin of 2.2% represented a signiﬁcant step towards 
achievement of the FY1 5 targeted 5% EBIT margin.
In understanding the delivery of the Group’s 
T ransformation it is helpful to view the performance 
of each business segment on a like-for-like basis. 
The adjustments to reported underlying results 
to reﬂect year on year growth in like-for-like EBIT , on a 
segmental basis are summarised below:
£m
United 
Kingdom
Continental 
Europe
Northern 
Europe
Airlines 
Germany Corporate Group
FY12 reported 13 52 101 35 (24) 1 77
Disposals/closures (10) (2) – – – (12)
Provision movements – – (9) (1 5) – (24)
Foreign Exchange – 1 2 5 2 – 19
FY12 like-for-like 3 62 97 22 (24) 160
FY13 Reported 66 78 109 48 (38) 263
Like-for-Like EBIT Growth 63 16 1 2 26 (14) 103
Like-for -Like EBIT Growth % 2, 100 25.8 1 2.4 1 1 8.2 (58.3) 64.4
Across the Group in FY1 3 the drivers of EBIT 
growth were:
£m
United 
Kingdom
Continental 
Europe
Northern 
Europe
Airlines 
Germany Corporate Group
FY12 like-for-like EBIT 3 62 97 22 (24) 160
Volume (38) (16) (7) 8 (5) (58)
Gross margin %  46 14 25 38 – 122
Overheads 55 18 (5) (20)  (9) 39
FY13 EBIT 66 78 109 48 (38) 263
The cost out and proﬁt improvement programme 
produced the incremental gross margin and 
operating expense beneﬁts in each segment as 
noted below, in the year to 30 September 201 3:
£m
United 
Kingdom
Continental 
Europe
Northern 
Europe
Airlines 
Germany Corporate Group
Gross margin 37 6 2 12 – 57
Operating expenses 69 4 – 1 3 77
Total 106 10 2 1 3 3 1 34 Thomas Cook Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 43
Directors’ report
2
Financial statements
3
Strategic report
1
The Continental Europe reporting segment combines the previous 
West and Central Europe segments and France. 
Through more integrated management the Group will realise the 
beneﬁts of scale and the implementation of common processes and 
procedures where appropriate, whilst maintaining local knowledge 
and capability.
Across Europe the Group took action to signiﬁcantly reduce risk and 
improve quality of earnings through reduction in committed capacity. 
These reductions, of close to 30% in the Winter season and 10% in 
the summer (average 1 3.8%) allowed the businesses to signiﬁcantly 
improve its ﬂexibility. Through leveraging and strengthening hotelier 
relationships capacity was added during the seasons where demand 
was highest, resulting in the overall reduction in bookings being 1 2% 
ahead of capacity management. 
Following a review of the French business at the start of the year, it was 
decided to retain the business and integrate it within the Continental 
Europe segment. A detailed turnaround plan was developed and 
implementation is proceeding well towards achieving breakeven 
by FY1 5.
The stabilisation and integration of our Russia business continues to 
make good progress. Underlying EBIT growth of 23.2% represents 
a signiﬁcant improvement on the prior year, giving an EBIT margin 
of 1.8%. In addition to the currently dilutive impact of our French 
and Russian businesses EBIT margin was also inﬂuenced by pricing 
pressure in some markets, which is being addressed through our hotel 
product strategy.
Controlled distribution of product within Continental Europe is 
signiﬁcantly lower than in other segments. This is being addressed 
through increasing focus on our multi-channel strategy, with the 
development of improved web capability and marketing throughout 
Continental Europe being a strategic focus area.
Underlying EBIT improved by 
50% with underperforming 
businesses stabilised. 
At a glance ﬁnancial highlights
£m FY13 Growth
Like-for-like 
Growth
Revenue 4,195 11 0 ( 1 0 )
Gross margin (%) 13.8% (0.3%) 0.0%
Operating expenses (503) 22 18 
EBIT 78 26 1 6
EBIT margin % 1.8% 0.5% 0.4%
Pax booked (No) 7.2m (0. 1 )m (1.4)%
Pax committed capacity 2.5m (0.4)m (1 3.8)%
Continental Europe Thomas Cook cares  
The UK business identiﬁed that there was a great need to help 
reduce negative sentiment across its UK brands in the area of 
social media. @ThomasCookCares was created to help do just 
that, starting on 1 9 August, they have reduced negative sentiment 
from 22% across the UK to 7%, and have also started pro-active 
outreach. This pro-active outreach is based on people Tweeting 
things like “I need a holiday”, and based on the team’s tools, they 
can identify individuals’ age, gender, location, likes and dislikes 
through their social proﬁle. Based on this information the team 
can Tweet individuals a direct link that would be speciﬁc to them, 
for example if someone is 18, perhaps a Club 18-30 holiday or if 
they are 60+ and like big bands, a link to a cruise. Previously this 
level of detail for marketing has not been available.
Lots of “friends” in Belgium  
According to external research Thomas Cook’s brands dominate 
the social media landscape in Belgium’s travel industry with 
Neckermann and Thomas Cook Belgium having nearly three 
times as many Facebook “friends” than their nearest competitor. Thomas Cook Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 44
Transformation the ﬁrst 365 days
Revenue growth of 1 % on a like-for-like basis and improved gross 
margins resulted in underlying EBIT growth of 3.9% and like-for-like 
EBIT growth of 1 3.0%. Gross margin improved by 1. 1 % on a like-for-
like basis.
Reﬂecting market conditions, Winter 1 2/1 3 capacity was reduced 
by 4% with capacity for the full year reduced by 1 %. This capacity 
reduction was offset by a combination of higher average sales prices 
and sales mix. Despite challenging summer 201 3 trading conditions 
due to the very good summer weather in the Nordics, gross margin 
remained strong with growth driven by yield management, positive 
currency effect, reduced agent sales and a successful launch of 
two new own operated Sunprime concept hotels. These hotels 
form part of the Group strategy to market more concept hotels 
and differentiated products. The increase in operating expenses is 
primarily due to these new leased hotels and insourcing of tax-free 
goods logistics in the airline. 
The Northern European market for traditional package holidays 
continues to be strong however, recognising developing market trends 
and new opportunities in the dynamic packaging market, the Group 
is investing to develop its ﬂexible package capability and offering, 
leveraging strength from the wider Group.
In December 201 2, Northern Europe launched the new branding 
platform with the Sunny Heart as the unifying symbol for all brands 
in the business segment. This was a pilot launch for the wider Group, 
leading to the Group-wide launch on 1 October 201 3.
The Northern European business 
once again performed robustly in 
the year to 30 September 201 3 
and achieved a record EBIT result. 
At a glance ﬁnancial performance 
£m FY13 Growth
Like-for-like 
Growth
Revenue 1,239 66 13
Gross margin (%) 27 .4% 0.4% 1. 1%
Operating expenses (230) (1 5) (5)
EBIT 109 9 12 
EBIT margin % 8.8% 0.3% 0.9%
Pax booked (No) 1.5m –(2.2)%
Pax committed capacity 1.4m –(1.1)%
Performance: Operating review continued
Northern Europe
Travelguide  
This year Thomas Cook Germany launched the award winning 
personalised travel app: “Travelguide” which, from December 
201 3, will have increased functionality, including the capability 
for customers to book excursions in destination.
Successful launch of two new 
Sunprime hotels  
The Sunprime hotel concept is exclusively offered by Thomas 
Cook and is especially created for adults holidaying without 
children looking for quality and comfort. In summer 201 3, we 
opened the refurbished and rebranded Sunprime Miramare 
Beach Hotel in Rhodes and the Sunprime Waterfront Palma 
Beach Hotel in Majorca. Both hotels have been very popular 
with customers and have received high customer satisfaction 
scores. During summer 201 4, we will be launching a two further 
Sunprime hotels in Turkey, both beachfront properties one 
outside Alanya and the other in Marmaris.  Thomas Cook Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 45
Directors’ report
2
Financial statements
3
Strategic report
1
Development of Group functions 
to drive the Transformation, also 
impacted by non-recurring costs.
At a glance ﬁnancial highlights 
£m FY13 Growth Growth %
Operating expenses 32 939.1%
Foreign exchange 6 5500%
Total 38 14 58.3%
Underlying EBIT growth of 37% 
through managed growth and 
yield management. 
At a glance ﬁnancial performance 
£m FY13 Growth
Like-for-like 
Growth
Revenue 1,3 1 2 14 7 1 1 6
Gross margin (%) 28.6% 1. 1 % 1. 1 %
Operating expenses (327) (42) (20)
EBIT 48 13 26
EBIT margin % 3.7% 0.7% 1.8%
Pax booked (No) 6.9m 0.2m 2.3%
Pax committed capacity 7.5m –0.3%
During the year, Group-wide functions necessary to drive the 
Group’s Transformation and continue its future proﬁtable growth 
were developed. These functions include Finance, HR, IT, Legal, 
E-Commerce and Procurement. In order to establish these Group 
functions in the time available there was initially a high utilisation 
of temporary and contract labour. Through the course of the year 
this resource has gradually been brought in-house, reducing future 
run rates. Additionally, due to the relative performance of the Group 
in the ﬁnancial year 201 3 and the prior period, incentive based 
remuneration increased year-on-year.
Prior to the Group’s reﬁnancing, completed on 27 June 201 3, the 
Group operated with restricted facilities for the hedging of foreign 
exchange exposures. In the year this resulted in foreign exchange 
losses of £6 million being incurred (201 2: £1 million). 
The Airlines Germany business has performed strongly in the year to 
30 September 201 3.
Capacity was increased in the long haul business, driven by the re-
allocation of an aircraft from within the Group, and with this capacity 
increase higher yields ( +4%) and a higher load factor ( +0.9%p.) 
were achieved. Due to reduced capacity in the whole short/medium 
haul market, yields ( + 7%) and load factors ( + 1. 1 %) have improved 
signiﬁcantly, especially in the Winter season.
These effects, combined with the delivery of the Group-wide 
proﬁt improvement programme, more than offset the increases 
of the hedged Kerosene price in Euro, increased depreciation (as a 
consequence of the Sale & Leaseback transaction in the prior year) 
and the adverse effect of the Egypt crisis in summer, allowing like-for-
like EBIT more than double from the prior period. 
Corporate Airlines Germany
The Sunny Heart takes off  
Starting from 1 October, all aircraft across the Group are going to 
be repainted with our new Sunny Heart logo Thomas Cook Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 46
Transformation the ﬁrst 365 days
Personal
Inspiring our customers 
wherever , whenever
In May 201 3 we introduced our 
Destination Discovery online holiday 
search platform, and with it we began 
to offer expert advice to inspire 
customers with personalised holiday 
recommendations using information 
provided by the customer.
Working as an online travel agent, it can be used by customers at home 
or by consultants in store, to help enhance customer service and add to 
their existing knowledge and resources. The technology provides users 
with detailed country research, in-depth travel videos and photos, street 
maps showing hotel locations and surrounding areas, and indicates 
the best time of year to visit countries. The site provides data on more 
than 2,500 destinations using material from 100 travel experts and 
professional travel writers.
Harnessing technology for exciting new applications like Destination 
Discovery helps our customers create their dream holiday wherever 
and whenever. Thomas Cook Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 47
Directors’ report
2
Financial statements
3
Strategic report
1
Performance: Sustainability
We launched our Group vision for a sustainable future in 201 0 to: “Ensure 
the longevity of our business through sustainable T ransformation and 
proﬁtable growth and to integrate sustainability into everything that we 
do and into every element of the customer journey – every product we 
sell, every customer’s holiday experience and every employee’s role.” 
Sustainability is fundamental to the success of our business. Not only is it 
at the heart of how we behave, it is a principle that is deeply embedded 
at each stage of our customers’ experience with us. From planning their 
holiday through to booking, arriving home and sharing their experience 
with friends, sustainability plays a key role in how we operate on a 
daily basis.
Sustainability and business strategy
Our T ransformation is geared around sustainable value creation. For us 
this means having the best people, best products and best processes 
in place to create a thriving business. Our approach to sustainability is 
intrinsically linked to this objective. For instance:
 > By working with suppliers to build trust, we are strengthening our 
relationships and creating a more sustainable marketplace.
 > By increasing efficiencies and minimising wasteful practices, we are 
generating signiﬁcant savings while safeguarding the environment. 
 > By engaging and energising our employees through talent 
development, we are bringing out the best in our people. 
 > And by supporting global communities we are increasing our social 
licence to operate across the world.
Our strategy for Proﬁtable Growth, which was presented to investors and 
other stakeholders in March of this year, has created the framework for 
our future success. Implementation of our strategy will continue to drive 
signiﬁcant change and improvement across our Group as our people 
work together to champion our T ransformation. 
Driving a sustainable T ransformation 
As well as driving our performance in the areas listed above, the 
T ransformation has helped us to improve our performance across a 
number of key areas in 201 3. 
The recruitment of high calibre talent into the organisation at executive 
and other levels of management has contributed signiﬁcantly to the 
raising of standards and disciplines required to deliver our corporate 
strategy. This has been coupled with a signiﬁcant cultural shift in our 
business. We have implemented a new set of corporate Values in 
201 3, as well as embedding a Code of Conduct by way of a thorough 
training programme.
The new strategy has also helped us to minimise many elements of risk. 
These include the potential impacts of instability, water and energy 
shortages and potential human rights issues in destinations, as well as 
the ﬁnancial impacts of carbon legislation and consumer directives. 
Delivering our Group vision for a sustainable future 
We work hard to identify the key areas of focus, which will contribute 
to this vision, and have consulted a number of stakeholder groups to 
review these areas. We are also in constant contact with millions of our 
customers, employees, suppliers and many other groups, and continue 
to use their input to ensure that we are focusing on the sustainability 
topics that matter most to them.
As part of our T ransformation process, we reviewed all stages of the 
customer journey in 201 3, and have mapped our sustainable impacts 
against these. Our approach, areas of focus, key ﬁgures and supporting 
case studies are given on pages 48 and 49 .
Managing sustainable development
The Board is responsible for the long-term success and sustainability 
of the Group, with the responsibility for overseeing the development 
by management and approval of our sustainability strategy being 
delegated to the Health, Safety and Environmental Committee.
Climate change performance
Global greenhouse gas emissions data  
for period 1 October 2012 to 30 September 2013
Tonnes of  
CO2 equivalent
Total emissions 4, 165,701
Airline fuel 4, 125,328
Gas 6,450
Diesel 2,290
Petrol 6 1 1
Other fuels 1 53
Electricity, heat and steam 30,869
Methodology
We have reported on all the emission sources required under the 
Companies Act 2006 (Strategic Report and Directors’ Reports) 
Regulations 201 3. These sources fall within our consolidated ﬁnancial 
statement. We do not have responsibility for any emission sources that 
are not included in our consolidated statement. 
 > Excludes energy use in shared offices where rates are included in the 
rent and data is therefore unavailable. This data is not considered to 
be material.
 > Excludes Thomas Cook Russia as data was unavailable. This is not 
considered to be material.
We have used the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting 
standard (revised edition), data from EU Emission T rading System and 
emission factors from the UK Government’s GHG Conversion Factors 
Guidance 201 0. 
Sustainability
is at our heart 
Our Code of Conduct 
The launch of the new Thomas Cook Code of Conduct in 201 3, 
which covers a number of key areas such as operating sustainably, 
community engagement and child protection issues, has meant that over 
90% of our employees across the Group have received training on these 
topics and plans are in place to ensure the remainder are trained in the 
near term. A constant training programme is in place to capture all new 
staff and refresh existing staff, to keep their focus on the importance of 
good behaviours in delivering a sustainable future for our business.  Thomas Cook Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 48
Transformation the ﬁrst 365 days
Book Dream and Plan
Embedding 
sustainability across 
our customer journey
Our approach
Before our customers even leave for their 
destinations, they want to have peace of mind that 
their holiday experience will meet their expectations, 
and will be delivered by a company they trust. That 
is why we offer a diverse range of bespoke holiday 
options to cater for their needs; we provide ﬁnancial 
protection, to build trust and provide conﬁdence, 
allowing early booking with the assurance that 
customer money will be safe; and we focus on 
implementing high standards of safety to ensure 
a secure journey. 
When it is time to book their holidays, our customers 
want to choose the package that is right for them. We can 
make our customers aware at the time of booking about 
sustainable holiday experiences and we promote local 
cultures. By adopting innovative approaches such as high 
tech,high touch, we are doing all we can to deliver this.
Engaging our employees on sustainability is a critical part 
of our work – people who are passionate about the work 
being done will encourage and initiate cost savings, as well 
as being the best advocates for the business. Looking after 
the health, welfare and well-being of those employees 
is a key priority and we have forums in all our markets to 
monitor and implement any necessary actions.
Maintaining an effective supply chain is also critical to our 
business success – our customers’ holiday experiences 
are made by our suppliers, so we must work with them 
to develop and deliver the services and standards our 
customers expect.
What do we focus on?
 > Financial protection
 > Customer experience
 > Customer safety
 > Community Engagement
 > High touch 
 > Engaging employees on sustainability
 > High tech and innovation (including brochure 
paper reduction)
 > Sustainable supply chain
 > Promoting local cultures
Key ﬁgures
In the UK, our Thomas Cook Children’s Charity has 
raised more than £4 million since 2009, and this 
money is spent on “Making Dreams Come True” 
for sick and disadvantaged children by improving 
education facilities, improving facilities that provide 
well-being and health care, and working with various 
charity partners to improve the lives of children.
In the UK, we produced over 2 million fewer brochures 
to save 1, 101 tonnes of paper between 201 1 and 2013. 
As part of our high tech, high touch approach, we are 
encouraging our customers to use high tech alternatives. 
Not only does this help to enhance their experience 
with us, it also improves the quality and amount of 
information available to them. 
Case study
Making dreams come true
Each Christmas in the past six years, Thomas Cook UK 
has offered children in the communities surrounding 
their airport bases the chance to experience a real ﬂight 
– children who, due to their personal circumstances, 
have not been able to experience a ﬂight before. Flights 
operate from a variety of airports and the children are 
taken up into the air, where Father Christmas joins them 
to hand out presents. Thomas Cook employees join 
these ﬂights as volunteers and help to make Christmas 
dreams come true for all involved.
Teacher Joe Mulhern said it was “one of the highlights 
of his career” Belfast Telegraph
Communicating sustainability 
It is important to engage with our customers on key 
sustainability issues as early in the customer journey 
process as possible. At Thomas Cook Germany, we have 
been focusing on the use of technology to achieve this. 
A newly designed sustainability section was launched 
across all websites in 2013, and a sustainable travel 
guide app has been developed for customers to ﬁnd out 
more about their destination, as well as how to immerse 
themselves more in the local culture, whilst preserving 
the environments they enjoy. The new blog area has also 
been well used, with information being included about 
sustainability projects in the places they intend to visit.
Performance: Sustainability continued  
 
 
Dream and Plan
Depart
Arrive  
and  
Experience
Return Home 
and Share
Book
Thomas Cook Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 49
Directors’ report
2
Financial statements
3
Strategic report
1
Return Home  
and Share
Arrive and Experience Depart
On departure, our customers want an easy and stress-
free journey. Through our focus on ﬁrst class customer 
service, we are making sure that we deliver this 
consistently. But there is also a lot we are doing behind 
the scenes to reduce our environmental impact and 
improve efficiencies. From reducing carbon emissions 
across our ﬂeet to minimising our operational waste, 
we are working to build a better business.
Climate change and greenhouse gas emissions 
remain a global challenge for all and we recognise the 
part our business plays in addressing this challenge. 
We also recognise the risk that our business faces 
from environmental threats. The majority of our 
emissions come from our airlines and increasing fuel 
efficiency therefore continues to be one of our key 
priorities – we are proud to operate one of the most 
efficient airlines in the world.
As our customers arrive at their holiday destinations, 
we continue to embed sustainability throughout 
our offer.
We strive to create thriving communities where 
our employees live and work, as well as where our 
customers travel. It is an integral part of creating a 
holiday experience. By supporting destinations, we 
are ensuring a high quality service and by investing 
in communities we are helping to grow our business 
and attract a talented workforce. 
Similarly, child safety and protection is central to our 
business and Thomas Cook Group is fully committed 
to the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. 
We believe it is our responsibility to promote and 
safeguard children’s welfare and our focus on this 
work and commitment to “The Code” (an industry-
driven international code of conduct) has this 
year led to us being nominated for a Responsible 
Tourism award.
We want all of our customers to enjoy their trip and 
experience with Thomas Cook. That is why we closely 
monitor their satisfaction through frequent customer 
feedback surveys. 
For us to continually develop our business and to 
ensure we focus our efforts on the issues which are 
most important, we place signiﬁcant emphasis on 
wider stakeholder engagement and communication. 
We ensure regular interaction with our key 
stakeholder audiences through various means, 
including face-to-face meetings, communications 
and questionnaires.
In-ﬂight waste is also one of our main waste streams 
and our airlines have been leaders in tackling 
this issue, despite the operational and legislative 
challenges it brings. Improving efficiencies extends 
to waste management and can bring a cost beneﬁt 
as well as customer engagement.
 > Climate change/GHG emissions
 > Fuel efficiency
 > Energy efficiency/security
 > Waste (including in-ﬂight waste)
 > Customer service
 > Child protection
 > Health and safety
 > Quality assurance
 > Child protection
 > Local economic 
development
 > Promoting local 
cultures
 > Resource efficiency
 > Water management
 > Engaging customers 
on sustainability
 > Sustainable supply 
chain
 > Customer satisfaction
 > In ﬂight waste
 > Stakeholder engagement
GHG Emissions Data and 70.9g CO2 per RPK and 
0.45kg CO2 per £1 turnover. See page 47 for 
greenhouse gas emissions data for period 1 October 
2012 to 30 September 2013.
243 Travelife awards, 88% of these Gold.
40 Local Label events in over 20 destinations 
around the world.
Feedback from our customers: 94% of customers in 
Northern Europe expressed overall satisfaction with 
their holidays; 83% of our customers in Germany 
would recommend Thomas Cook to a friend. 
Optimum Flight
Through a partnership with Manchester airport and 
collaborative working between global air navigation 
service providers, Thomas Cook UK Airlines operated 
a test ﬂight programme to achieve the “Optimum 
Flight”. The aims of this were to investigate increased 
efficiencies in all areas of ﬂight operations using a 
variety of techniques and results were measured 
to calculate reductions achieved. Fuel efficiency 
remains a key focus of all our airlines and we continue 
to operate one of the most fuel efficient airlines in 
the world.
Local Label excursions
In the summer of 2013, we introduced “Local Label” 
excursions, to focus on the promotion of local 
products and culture to our customers, while boosting 
local economies and environments. The excursions 
typically enable our customers to experience life and 
the communities away from the beaches, bars and 
other features they normally see during their holiday. 
Examples include the 100% Mayan excursion in 
Mexico, where customers get the chance to spend 
time with a real Mayan community in a village near 
the Sian Ka-an biosphere reserve. The money raised 
from these experiences is being used to help villagers 
improve their cultivation techniques. 
In ﬂight waste
A new recycling initiative introduced this year at 
Oslo airport by Thomas Cook Airlines Scandinavia 
has demonstrated the ability to engage customers, 
reduce environmental cost and raise funds for local 
communities. Several years ago, the airline was the 
ﬁrst to separate collection of plastic bottles and 
aluminium cans from ﬂights for recycling and now 
these are being sold to recycling centres. Money 
raised from this is then distributed directly to local 
charity, Save the Children Norway (Redd Barna).
More information regarding the Thomas Cook Group approach to sustainability can be 
found in our sustainability report at www.thomascookgroup.com/sustainability Thomas Cook Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 50
Transformation the ﬁrst 365 days
The Board is chaired by Non-Executive Chairman, Frank Meysman. 
In addition to the Chairman, the Board currently includes two Executive 
Directors and seven Non-Executive Directors. Each of the committees 
of the Board is chaired by a Non-Executive Director.
Directors
1. Frank Meysman
Non-Executive Chairman 61
Appointment: October 201 1
Committee memberships:  
Chairman of Nominations Committee.
Skills & experience: Frank Meysman was 
appointed Chairman Designate of the Company 
on 1 October 201 1 and became Chairman on 
1 December 201 1. He enjoyed a successful 
executive career in dynamic global brand 
companies, including Procter & Gamble between 
1 977 and 1 986, Douwe Egberts between 
1 986 and 1 990 and the Sara Lee Corporation 
between 1 990 and 2003 where, from 1 997 , 
he was Executive Vice President and a member 
of the Board of Directors. Since leaving Sara 
Lee, Frank has been a Non-Executive Director, 
including Chairman, of a number of public and 
private international companies. 
Other appointments: Chairman of Betafence 
and JBC N.V. He is also an Independent 
Representative Director of Picanol N.V., 
Warehouses De Pauw (WDP) and Spadel S.A. 
2. Harriet Green OBE
Group Chief Executive Officer 51
Appointment: July 201 2
Committee memberships: Member of Health, 
Safety & Environmental Committee and 
Nominations Committee. 
Skills & experience: Harriet Green joined the 
Company as Group Chief Executive Officer on 
30 July 201 2. Prior to this, she was Chief Executive 
Officer of leading high service technology 
distributor Premier Farnell plc. Harriet is a 
global executive with extensive, multi-channel 
business leadership experience of the worldwide 
technology and industrial markets. She has driven 
innovation and strategic transformation through 
proﬁtable global growth strategies and delivered 
industry leading results. Harriet has a real focus on 
employee engagement, having lived and worked 
on four continents running businesses for Premier 
Farnell and volume distributor, Arrow Electronics, 
Inc. In recognition of the ongoing T ransformation 
of Thomas Cook she was named “Leader of the 
Year 201 3” in the National Business Awards. 
Other appointments: Non-Executive Director 
of BAE Systems plc and Emerson Electric Co. 
She is also a member of the UK Prime Minister’s 
Business Advisory Group and a founder member 
and trustee of the PeaceWorks Foundation. 
3. Michael Healy 
Group Chief Financial Officer 53
Appointment: July 201 2 
Skills & experience: Michael Healy joined the 
Company on 1 4 May 201 2 and became Group 
Chief Financial Officer on 1 July 201 2. Prior to 
this, he was Group Finance Director of Kwik-Fit 
Group. Michael has considerable international 
experience, across a broad range of industries 
and was previously Chief Operating Officer 
and Finance Director of the Hong Kong listed 
First Paciﬁc Company Limited and subsequently 
Chief Financial Officer of ebookers plc. 
4. Dawn Airey 
Independent Non-Executive Director 53 
Appointment: April 2010 
Committee memberships: Member of Audit 
Committee, Health, Safety & Environmental 
Committee, Nominations Committee and 
Remuneration Committee. 
Skills & experience: Dawn Airey was appointed 
as an Independent Non-Executive Director 
on 1 2 April 2010. She has over 28 years’ 
experience in the media industry and has held 
senior positions at some of the UK’s leading 
media companies. She is currently Senior Vice 
President of Yahoo! EMEA. Until April 201 3 
she was President of CLT-UFA UK Television 
Limited within the RTL Group and prior to this, 
she was Chair and Chief Executive Officer of 
Five TV, after joining the company from her 
role as Managing Director, Global Content at 
ITV plc. Between 2004 and 2008, she was 
also a Non-Executive Director of easyJet plc. 
Other appointments: Chair of the National 
Youth Theatre.
5. Emre Berkin 
Independent Non-Executive Director 52 
Appointment: November 201 2 
Committee memberships: Member 
of Health, Safety & Environmental 
Committee, Nominations Committee and 
Remuneration Committee.
Skills & experience: Emre Berkin was appointed 
as an Independent Non-Executive Director 
on 1 November 201 2. He has considerable 
experience across the technological sector 
and international markets and, being based 
in Turkey, he has vital knowledge of one of the 
key destinations for millions of our customers. 
Governance: Board of Directors
1
11
7
12
2
6
5
4
3
9
10
8  
 
 
 
Board composition    2. Independent Non-Executive Directors 
3. Non-Executive Director
4. Executive Directors
1. Chairman
1
2
1
6
1
2
3
4
 
 
 
 
Board tenure   1. < 1 year 2
2. 1 – 3 years 7
3. > 3 years 1
1
2
3
Thomas Cook Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 51
Financial statements
3
Directors’ report
2
Strategic report
1
Between 1 993 and 2006, he held a number 
of senior positions at Microsoft, latterly as 
Chairman, Middle East & Africa and Vice-
President, Europe, Middle East & Africa, where 
he led all aspects of Microsoft business in 79 
countries. Since 2006, he has acted as a Non-
Executive Director to a number of companies, 
including Pegasus Airlines, Turkey’s leading low 
cost carrier, and a broad range of technology 
companies including Alcatel Lucent Teletas 
Telekomunikasyon A.S., which are both listed 
on the Istanbul Stock Exchange.
Other appointments: Non-Executive Director 
of Alcatel Lucent Teletas Telekomunikasyon A.S., 
and Pegasus Airlines. 
6. Roger Burnell 
Senior Independent Director 63 
Appointment: March 2007 
Committee memberships: Chairman of 
Remuneration Committee, Member of Audit 
Committee, Health, Safety & Environmental 
Committee and Nominations Committee. 
Skills & experience: Roger Burnell was 
appointed Senior Independent Director of the 
Company on 4 August 2010, after joining the 
Company as a Non-Executive Director in March 
2007 . He was also a Non-Executive Director of 
MyTravel Group plc from April 2003 and prior 
to this, he was Chief Operating Officer and a 
Director of Thomson Travel Group plc. 
Other appointments: Non-Executive Director 
and Chairman of the Risk Committee of 
Coventry Building Society. 
7. Peter Marks CBE 
Non-Executive Director 64 
Appointment: October 201 1 
Committee memberships: Chairman of 
Health, Safety & Environmental Committee. 
Skills & experience: Peter Marks was appointed 
as a Non-Executive Director on 1 October 201 1. 
He has over 45 years’ experience in the retail 
industry and has managed a broad range of 
businesses and functions. He was Group Chief 
Executive of The Co-operative Group from 
2007 until May 201 3 and prior to this he held 
a number of senior positions, including Chief 
Executive, United Co-operatives between 
2002 and 2007 and Chief Executive, Yorkshire 
Co-operatives from 2000 to 2002. 
8. Carl Symon 
Independent Non-Executive Director 67
Appointment: October 201 3
Skills & experience: Carl Symon was appointed 
as an Independent Non-Executive Director on 
3 October 201 3 and will be appointed Senior 
Independent Director following the Company’s 
AGM in February 201 4. He has extensive 
global business operations and management 
experience, having retired in 2001 from IBM 
after a long career during which he held various 
senior positions, both globally and as Chairman 
and Chief Executive Officer of IBM UK. His other 
former positions include Non-Executive Director 
of Rolls Royce Group plc, BT Group plc and 
Rexam plc and Chairman of HMV Group plc. 
Other appointments: Non-Executive Director 
of BAE Systems plc. 
9. Warren Tucker 
Independent Non-Executive Director 51
Appointment: October 201 3
Skills & experience: Warren Tucker was 
appointed as an Independent Non-Executive 
Director on 3 October 201 3 and will become 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 
following the Company’s AGM in February 201 4. 
Warren has signiﬁcant experience in international 
business and strategic transformations. He was, 
from 2003 until May 201 3, Chief Financial Officer 
of Cobham plc. He is a chartered accountant and 
has previously held senior ﬁnance positions at 
British Airways plc and Cable & Wireless plc.
Other appointments: Non-Executive Director 
of Reckitt Benckiser Group plc. 
10. Martine Verluyten 
Independent Non-Executive Director 62 
Appointment: May 201 1 
Committee memberships: Chairman of 
Audit Committee, Member of Nominations 
Committee and Remuneration Committee. 
Skills & experience: Martine Verluyten was 
appointed as an Independent Non-Executive 
Director on 9 May 201 1. She has signiﬁcant 
international ﬁnancial and IT expertise and 
has held a number of senior ﬁnance positions 
across the telecommunications, electronics 
and materials sectors. Between 2006 and 201 1, 
she was Chief Financial Officer of Umicore, a 
Brussels-based materials technology group and 
from 2000 to 2006 she was Group Controller 
and subsequently Chief Financial Officer of the 
mobile telephone operator Mobistar. 
Other appointments: Non-Executive Director 
of 3i Group plc, Supervisory Board member and 
chair of audit committee of STMicroelectronics 
N.V. and Independent Director of Group 
Bruxelles Lambert. She also chairs the audit 
committee of the Flemish Region in Belgium. 
Group General Counsel and 
Group Company Secretary
11 . Craig Stoehr 
Group General Counsel 46
Appointment: April 201 3 
Skills & experience: Craig Stoehr joined the 
Company in April 201 3, as Group General 
Counsel. Prior to joining the Company, Craig 
served as General Counsel and a member of the 
Executive Management Committee of Eastgate 
Capital Group, the private equity arm of The 
National Commercial Bank of Saudi Arabia. 
Prior to joining Eastgate, Craig was a partner 
at Latham & Watkins, a top tier global law ﬁrm. 
Craig also has a signiﬁcant amount of business 
experience, having served as chief executive of 
several small sports, media and entertainment 
businesses in Europe and the United States. 
12. Derek Woodward 
Group Company Secretary 55 
Appointment: April 2008 
Skills & experience: Derek Woodward joined 
the Company as Group Company Secretary in 
April 2008. Prior to this, he spent six years as 
Head of Secretariat at Centrica plc. From 1 998, 
he was Company Secretary of Allied Zurich 
plc, the UK listed holding company of the 
Zurich Financial Services Group and between 
1 990 and 1 998 he was Assistant Secretary 
of B.A.T Industries p.l.c.  Thomas Cook Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 52
Transformation the ﬁrst 365 days
Breathing life into 
good governance
Governance: Chairman’s letter
Dear Shareholder 
In my second year as Chairman, we have continued to 
make solid progress as we strengthen our governance 
arrangements. In last year’s report, we set out a 
number of agreed actions following our 2012 Board 
evaluation. I am pleased to report signiﬁcant progress 
against those commitments as outlined here and 
more fully disclosed on page 58 below.
As an integral part of our Transformation, Harriet Green 
and her strengthened management team have led 
a major improvement in governance and culture 
across the organisation. In particular, they have set 
the “tone from the top” and, with the support of 
the Board and the Audit Committee, have taken 
actions to strengthen risk management and internal 
control. The Group’s new Values and Code of Conduct 
have been thoroughly embedded throughout the 
organisation and it is particularly encouraging to 
see clear evidence of a cultural shift taking place. 
The Board places great emphasis on this area and 
receives regular reports as we monitor progress.
As part of the improvements to our risk and audit 
capabilities, the Board undertook an exercise 
to determine its risk appetite in relation to both 
transformational activities and the business as 
usual environment. The Board’s risk appetite, 
together with the thorough top down and bottom 
up risk analyses reviewed by the Audit Committee, 
has resulted in a Combined Assurance Plan that now 
provides a co-ordinated approach to the Group’s risk 
management and audit activities.
As an integral part of our 
Transformation, Harriet Green 
and her strengthened 
management team have 
led a major improvement 
in governance and culture 
across the organisation.
Chairman
Frank Meysman  Thomas Cook Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 53
Financial statements
3
Directors’ report
2
Strategic report
1
Last year, I made a commitment to further strengthen 
our Board. Attracting high calibre individuals with the 
skills and experience we require of our Board members 
was made possible by the signiﬁcant progress made 
in our Transformation by our executive management 
team and, more recently, by the development of a clear 
strategy and the execution of our £1.6 billion capital 
reﬁnancing plan. A key strength of our Board lies in 
its diversity, across a range of measures, including 
skills, experience gender and nationality and I am 
pleased that our diversity has been further reinforced 
by the appointments in the past year of Emre Berkin, 
Carl Symon and Warren Tucker. Carl will become the 
Senior Independent Director and Warren will become 
the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 
following the Company’s AGM in February 2014, 
when Roger Burnell will retire from the Board.
We have a well-developed induction programme in 
place to ensure that our new Directors develop an 
understanding of our businesses. In view of the fast 
pace of the Transformation, we have also developed 
an ongoing training programme for the Board with 
regular presentations given by senior managers from 
across the organisation. This not only increases the 
exposure of senior talent to the Board, but also gives 
the Board presence across the Group. 
Throughout the year, Roger Burnell and I engaged with 
our major shareholders and governance bodies on a 
number of occasions, mainly in respect of our executive 
remuneration policy and performance metrics, as 
we implement our “pay for performance” culture 
and align remuneration with our Transformation 
objectives and proﬁtable growth strategy. We are 
grateful for the feedback given, which has been 
supportive and constructive, and we will continue to 
engage on key issues in the future. Our remuneration 
policy and full details of performance metrics and 
remuneration payments are fully disclosed in our 
Remuneration Report, which is prepared for the ﬁrst 
time in accordance with the new regulations recently 
introduced by the UK Government.
We will continue to live and breathe sound principles of 
good governance in everything we do and build upon 
the high standards that we have implemented to date.
Frank Meysman  
Chairman  
27 November 201 3 
We will continue to live and 
breathe sound principles of 
good governance in everything 
we do and build upon the high 
standards that we have 
implemented to date. Thomas Cook Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 54
Transformation the ﬁrst 365 days
Governance: Corporate governance report
Compliance with the UK Corporate 
Governance Code 
This report sets out how the Company applied the principles of the 
UK Corporate Governance Code (“the Code”) and the extent to which 
the Company complied with the provisions of the Code in the year 
to 30 September 201 3. Throughout the year, the Company fully 
complied with the provisions of the Code, except for Provision B.3.3, in 
relation to Executive Directors taking on more than one non-executive 
directorship in a FTSE 100 company and, for part of the year, Provision 
D. 1.5, in relation to Directors’ notice or contract periods being set at 
one year or less. By the end of July 201 3, the Company complied with 
Provision D. 1.5 of the Code as the notice period for Harriet Green 
had reduced to 1 2 months (further reducing by one month for every 
month served until our policy position of six months is achieved at the 
end of January 201 4). Explanations in respect of these two Provisions 
are given in the relevant sections within the Remuneration Report 
on page 82.
The Group’s business model and strategy 
The Group’s business model and strategy are summarised on 
pages 1 7 to 24 of this Report. 
The Board of Directors 
The Board is responsible for the long-term success of the Group and 
must ensure that there is a framework of effective controls, which 
enables risk to be assessed and managed. During the year there has 
been a signiﬁcant focus by the Board and management in the areas 
of business and ﬁnancial controls, along with risk identiﬁcation and 
management. The Group CEO, CFO and strengthened management 
team have set the tone from the top and created a strong culture of 
governance, controls and risk management across the Group. A highly 
experienced and dedicated team of risk and audit professionals under 
the leadership of Lee Bradley, Director of Enterprise Risk and Audit, 
has been recruited to drive a signiﬁcant improvement agenda and 
to support management in this important area. More information is 
given below and in the Risk management section on pages 30 and 31. 
In September 201 2, the Thomas Cook Leadership Council (see page 
26), led by the Group CEO, redeﬁned the Group’s Values, Leadership 
Behaviours and Ways of Working in a major initiative to build a more 
effective organisation. This initiative, together with the focus on 
risk and controls and our trust commitments to our people and our 
stakeholders were brought together under a new Code of Conduct, 
drafted by a team of employees at all levels drawn from each of our 
businesses across the Group. During the year, the Code of Conduct 
was launched and embedded, with every employee across the Group 
participating in a thorough training programme to ensure it guides 
the way our people work as we create a more sustainable future. 
The Board receives regular reports and monitors progress in this 
important area.
The Board’s governance structure and the roles and activities of its 
Committees are described on pages 56 to 65. 
Responsibilities of the Board
The Board is speciﬁcally responsible for:
 > guiding the Group’s strategic aims, leading to its approval of the 
Group’s strategy and its budgetary and business plans; 
 > approval of signiﬁcant investments and capital expenditure; 
 > approval of annual and half-year results and interim 
management statements, accounting policies and, subject to 
shareholder approval, the appointment and remuneration of the 
external auditors; 
 > approval of the Group’s dividend policy and the payment of 
interim and the recommendation of ﬁnal dividends; 
 > changes to the Group’s capital structure and the issue of 
any securities; 
 > establishing and maintaining the Group’s risk appetite, system of 
internal control, governance and approval authorities; 
 > monitoring executive performance and succession planning; and 
 > reviewing standards of ethics and policy in relation to health, 
safety, environment, social and community responsibilities. 
The Thomas Cook Leadership 
Council, led by the Group CEO, 
redeﬁned the Group’s Values, 
Leadership Behaviours and 
Ways of Working in a major 
initiative to build a more 
effective organisation. Thomas Cook Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 55
Financial statements
3
Directors’ report
2
Strategic report
1
At each Board meeting, the Group CEO presents a comprehensive 
update on the Transformation, the strategy and business issues 
across the Group and the Group CFO presents a detailed analysis 
of the ﬁnancial performance, both at Group and segment level. 
Senior executives below Board level attend relevant parts of 
Board meetings in order to make presentations on their areas 
of responsibility. This gives the Board access to a broader group 
of executives and helps the Directors make assessments of the 
Group’s succession plans. In response to the output from the 
201 2 Board evaluation, the Board held some of its meetings in the 
segment locations and conducted in depth reviews of operations 
and strategy as well as gaining more presence and visibility 
amongst management and staff. During the year, the Board visited 
the Northern Europe, Continental Europe and Airlines Germany 
Segments and has plans for the current year to visit the UK Business 
Segment and one of the Group’s primary destinations.
At its meetings during the year, the Board discharged its 
responsibilities and, in particular, it reviewed:
Board meetings and attendance 
The Board and its Committees have regular scheduled meetings 
throughout the year and supplementary meetings are held as and 
when necessary. The table below shows the number of scheduled 
Board and Committee meetings attended by each Director out of the 
number convened during the time served by each Director on the 
Board or relevant Committee during the year. 
Peter Marks missed one Board meeting and one Nominations 
Committee meeting (both on the same date). Dawn Airey missed 
one Board meeting, one Remuneration Committee meeting and 
one Nominations Committee meeting (all on the same date). 
These missed meetings were due to unavoidable business 
commitments and both Peter and Dawn gave input on the agenda 
items to the Chairman prior to the meetings. The Chairman and 
each Non-Executive Director have provided assurance to the Board 
that they remain fully committed to their respective roles and can 
dedicate sufficient time to meet what is expected of them. 
As well as the scheduled meetings, the Directors attended additional 
Board and Committee meetings (please see the notes below), mainly 
in respect of the review and approval of the Proﬁtable Growth Strategy 
that was presented to the market on 1 3 March 201 3, the Capital 
Reﬁnancing Plan launched on 1 6 May 201 3 and the appointment 
of Non-Executive Directors. Despite these meetings being held at 
relatively short notice, attendance levels for each of the Directors 
was high. 
Current Directors (in office as at 30 September 2013)
Name Board 
Nominations 
Committee 
Audit 
Committee 
Remuneration 
Committee 
Health, 
Safety & 
Environmental 
Committee 
Frank Meysman 8/8 4/4 – – – 
Harriet Green
1
8/8 3/3 – – 4/4 
Michael Healy 8/8 – – – – 
Dawn Airey 7/8 3/4 4/4 4/5 4/4 
Emre Berkin
1
7 /7 3/3 – 3/3 2/2
Roger Burnell 8/8 4/4 4/4 5/5 4/4 
Peter Marks 7/8 3/4 – – 4/4 
Martine Verluyten 8/8 4/4 4/4 5/5 – 
Notes
As well as the meetings detailed above, the following additional meetings were held 
during the year, to discuss the issues highlighted on the previous page: Board: 8; 
Nominations Committee: 3; Audit Committee: 0; Remuneration Committee: 2.
1  Harriet Green joined the Nominations Committee and Emre Berkin joined the 
Board and the Nominations, Remuneration and Health, Safety & Environmental 
committees on 1 November 2012. 
 
Former Directors who served during the year
Name Board 
Nominations 
Committee 
Audit 
Committee 
Remuneration 
Committee 
Health, 
Safety & 
Environmental 
Committee 
Richard Pennycook
1
 1/1 1/1 – – – 
Notes:  
1  Richard Pennycook was appointed on 1 April 2013 and resigned on 5 June 2013 to 
focus on his executive career. 
Board activity during the year
Business performance
 > Transformation progress
 > the operational performance of 
each of the Group’s segments. 
Performance and strategy are 
continually monitored and 
reviewed by the Board and 
periodic updates are presented 
by the segment Managing 
Directors and their senior 
management teams
Strategy
 > the Group Transformation;
 > the UK Business Transformation plan;
 > the development of strategy, leading 
to the Proﬁtable Growth Strategy 
that was presented to the market on 
13 March 2013;
> the Group’s brand strategy
Diversity and talent
 > talent management 
and development 
across the Group
Governance
 > the Group’s treasury policy;
 > the Group’s tax policy;
 > Risk appetite;
 > the Group’s pension and 
insurance arrangements;
 > Board evaluation
Financial
 > the Group’s Capital 
Reﬁnancing Plan;
 > the Group’s annual 
budget
Values and standards
 > the development 
of the Group’s Code 
of Conduct and 
regular progress 
reports on the 
training programme 
to embed it across 
the Group
Shareholder relations
 > investor feedback following 
the presentation of the 
Proﬁtable Growth Strategy 
and the release of full and half 
year results Gender diversity
1. Male 7
2. Female 3
1
2
Nationality mix of 
board members
1. British 6 
2. Belgian 2 
3. Turkish 1
4. Dual Nationality (British/US) 1
1
2
3
4
Thomas Cook Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 56
Transformation the ﬁrst 365 days
Governance: Corporate governance report continued
Board composition 
As at 27 November 201 3, the Board comprised the Chairman, two 
Executive Directors, six Independent Non-Executive Directors and 
one Non-Executive Director. Biographical details of all Directors can 
be found on pages 50 and 5 1 and on the Company’s corporate 
website at www.thomascookgroup.com. 
The Chairman 
Frank Meysman was the Chairman throughout the year. 
The roles of the Chairman and Group CEO are separate and 
distinct. There is a Board-approved Division of Responsibilities, 
which clearly sets out in writing their respective responsibilities. 
This document can be found on the Company’s corporate website 
at www.thomascookgroup.com. 
The Senior Independent Director 
Roger Burnell was the Senior Independent Director throughout 
the year and, as such, is available to shareholders should they have 
concerns that cannot be resolved through the normal channels 
involving the Executive Directors or the Chairman. Carl Symon, who 
was appointed to the Board on 3 October 201 3, will become the 
Senior Independent Director following the AGM in February 201 4, 
when Roger Burnell will retire from the Board.
Changes to the Board 
The following individuals were appointed to the Board as Independent 
Non-Executive Directors on the dates set alongside their names: 
 > Emre Berkin – 1 November 201 2.
 > Carl Symon and Warren Tucker – 3 October 201 3.
Richard Pennycook was also appointed to the Board as an 
Independent Non-Executive Director on 1 April 201 3, but resigned 
on 5 June 201 3 to focus on his executive career.
The search, selection and appointment process for Non-Executive 
Directors is fully described in the section on the Nominations 
Committee on pages 62 and 63.
Board induction and training 
An induction programme tailored to meet the needs of individual 
Directors is provided for each new Director. Overall, the aim of 
the induction programme is to introduce new Directors to the 
Group’s business, its operations and its governance arrangements. 
Such inductions typically include meetings with senior management, 
visits to the Company’s business segments where they receive a 
thorough brieﬁng on the business and meet with the management 
team, and the receipt of presentations on other key business areas 
and relevant documentation. Individual induction requirements are 
monitored by the Chairman, with the support of the Group Company 
Secretary, to ensure that new and recently appointed Directors gain 
sufficient knowledge about the Group to enable them to contribute 
to the Board’s deliberations as swiftly as possible. As a number of 
new Directors have joined the Board in the past two years, there 
has been a high level of induction activity. New Directors also go on 
a destination visit during which time they meet with in-destination 
staff and are taken through every aspect of the customer experience. 
The induction content and process has evolved signiﬁcantly as we 
build on the experience of inducting each new Director. We are now 
using the beneﬁt of that experience for the beneﬁt of our longer-
serving Directors, by giving them the opportunity to accompany and 
participate in any aspect that they feel would further enhance their 
knowledge and understanding of the Group. 
The Board has a programme for holding some of its meetings at the 
business segments, where, in addition to its normal business, the 
Board will focus on the strategy and operations of that segment and 
meet with management and staff. In October 201 2, the Board held its 
meeting at the main offices of the Northern Europe segment and in 
March 201 3, the Board held its meeting in Germany where it received 
presentations on, and met management and staff of, the Group’s 
Continental Europe and Airlines Germany businesses. At other Board 
meetings and, where appropriate, Committee meetings, the Directors 
receive updates and presentations on developments and changes 
The induction content and process 
has evolved signiﬁcantly as we build 
on the experience of inducting each 
new Director. We are now using the 
beneﬁt of that experience for the 
beneﬁt of our longer-serving Directors, 
by giving them the opportunity to 
accompany and participate in any 
aspect that they feel would further 
enhance their knowledge and 
understanding of the Group.  Thomas Cook Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 57
Financial statements
3
Directors’ report
2
Strategic report
1
to the business, and to the legislative and regulatory environments. 
In addition to the in-depth presentations on the Company’s 
businesses, the Board was also provided during the year with: 
 > a comprehensive update on our web-based distribution 
transformation; and
 > the developments to the end-to-end customer service 
experience in our UK business.
The provision of additional training presentations has been further 
developed. In response to the 201 3 Board evaluation, an ongoing 
training programme for the Board with regular presentations 
given by senior managers from across the organisation has been 
established for the balance of 201 3 and throughout 201 4. In addition 
to the beneﬁt of the training given, this programme also increases 
the exposure of senior talent to the Board and gives the Board 
presence across the Group.
Director independence 
At its September 201 3 Board meeting, as part of its annual review 
of corporate governance against the Code, the Board considered 
the independence of the Non-Executive Directors against the 
criteria speciﬁed in the Code and determined that Dawn Airey, 
Emre Berkin, Roger Burnell and Martine Verluyten were independent. 
When approving their appointments, the Board also determined 
that each of the Non-Executive Directors who joined the Board 
during the year was independent. 
The Board recognises that Peter Marks, who held the position of 
Group Chief Executive of The Co-operative Group (which is a partner 
in the Group’s UK retail joint venture) until his retirement in May 201 3, 
is not independent. 
Directors’ conﬂicts of interest 
From 1 October 2008, the Companies Act codiﬁed the Directors’ duty 
to avoid a situation in which they have, or can have, an interest that 
conﬂicts, or possibly may conﬂict, with the interests of the Company. 
A Director will not be in breach of that duty if the relevant matter 
has been authorised in accordance with the Articles of Association 
by the other Directors. 
The Board has established a set of guiding principles on managing 
conﬂicts and has agreed a process to identify and authorise conﬂicts. 
As part of that process, it has also agreed that the Nominations 
Committee should review the authorised conﬂicts every six months, 
or more frequently if a new potential conﬂict arises for an existing 
Director. The Nominations Committee reviews the interests of 
candidates prior to making recommendations for the appointment 
of new Directors. The Nominations Committee and Board applied the 
above principles and process throughout the year to 30 September 
201 3 and conﬁrm that these have operated effectively. When the 
Board authorised the conﬂict relating to Peter Marks in relation to 
the Company’s UK retail joint venture with The Co-operative Group, 
it did so on the condition that Peter would not receive Board papers in 
respect of, or be involved in, decisions about the Company’s UK retail 
joint venture. 
Re-appointment of Directors 
In accordance with the Code and the Company’s Articles of 
Association, all Directors are subject to election by shareholders. 
At the AGM held in February 201 3, all the Directors were submitted for 
election/re-election and the Board has agreed that the Directors will 
continue to be subject to annual election in the future. Non-Executive 
Directors are initially appointed for a three-year term, subject to 
annual election by shareholders and, subject to rigorous review by 
the Nominations Committee and continued annual re-election 
by shareholders, can serve up to a maximum of three such terms. 
At the AGM to be held on 20 February 201 4, Roger Burnell will not 
stand for re-election and, accordingly, he will retire from the Board 
at the conclusion of that meeting.
Operation of the Board 
Throughout the year, a fully encrypted electronic portal system 
was operated, which enabled Board and Committee papers to be 
delivered securely to the Directors. This enabled a faster and more 
secure distribution of information, accessed using electronic tablets, 
and reduced resource usage. Directors were provided between 
meetings with relevant information on matters affecting the business. 
Such updates were carried out by a variety of methods, including 
conference calls amongst the full Board or between the Chairman 
and/or the Group CEO and the Non-Executive Directors, and by way 
of the Group Company Secretary circulating papers and updates on 
relevant issues electronically. 
The Group Company Secretary, who was appointed by the Board, is 
responsible for advising and supporting the Chairman and the Board 
on corporate governance matters as well as ensuring that there is 
a smooth ﬂow of information to enable effective decision making. 
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Group 
Company Secretary and the Group General Counsel and, through 
them, have access to independent professional advice in respect 
of their duties, at the Company’s expense. The Group Company 
Secretary acts as secretary to the Board, the Finance & Administration 
Committee, the Disclosure Committee, the Audit Committee, 
the Nominations Committee and the Remuneration Committee. 
The Deputy Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Health, 
Safety & Environmental Committee. 
In accordance with its Articles, the Company has granted a qualifying 
third party indemnity, to the extent permitted by law, to each Director 
and the Group Company Secretary. The Company also maintains 
Directors’ and Officers’ liability insurance. 
The provision of additional training 
presentations has been further 
developed. In response to the 201 3 
Board evaluation, an ongoing training 
programme for the Board with regular 
presentations has been established. Thomas Cook Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 58
Transformation the ﬁrst 365 days
Governance: Corporate governance report continued
Board evaluation 
The Board recognises the beneﬁt of a thorough Board and Committee 
evaluation process, leading to action to improve its effectiveness, 
future composition and focus. 
A thorough evaluation of the Board and its Committees was 
conducted during the year. This was facilitated by the Group Company 
Secretary, under the direction of the Chairman. The process involved 
each of the Directors completing a high level questionnaire, which 
was structured to provide an introduction for a more in-depth and 
comprehensive discussion between the Chairman and each of the 
Board members. Such meetings allowed each Director to express 
their perspectives of the Board’s effectiveness and performance, as 
well as to highlight areas in which they wished to see improvement. 
The output from the above was compiled by the Group Company 
Secretary and the key themes and issues, together with a range 
of recommendations, were presented in the ﬁrst instance to the 
Chairman and then to the Board for consideration and debate. 
The evaluation covered a range of areas including the breadth of 
skills and experience on the Board. The output from the evaluation 
reinforced the requirements previously speciﬁed in the candidate 
proﬁle in respect of the search for additional Board members. 
In addition, the outputs included the need to maintain an ongoing 
comprehensive Board training programme to keep pace with 
the transformational activities, a request for increased market 
information and intelligence, the continued review and development 
of strategy and increased opportunities to develop relationships 
amongst Board members. The Board has agreed an action plan in 
respect of each of these outputs and progress is being monitored by 
the Chairman, with the support of the Group Company Secretary, 
and reported regularly to the Board. Progress will be disclosed in the 
201 4 Governance Report. 
The Board agreed that real progress had been made in respect of 
Board and Committee effectiveness during a challenging year and 
that all the actions arising from the 201 2 Board evaluation had 
been dealt with in full to a high standard, but welcomed the actions 
from the 201 3 evaluation in a move to higher standards. The tables 
below show the outputs, agreed actions and achievements against 
the 201 2 and 201 3 Board evaluations. The Board has agreed that 
the effectiveness evaluation will be externally facilitated in 201 4.
Separately, the Non-Executive Directors, under the leadership of 
the Senior Independent Director and with input from the Executive 
Directors, conducted an evaluation of the Chairman. The outputs 
from that evaluation were debated by the Board in the absence 
of the Chairman and feedback was given to him by the Senior 
Independent Director. 
The Company’s performance management system applies 
to management at all levels across the Group. The individual 
performance of the Executive Directors is reviewed separately 
by the Chairman and the Remuneration Committee. 
The Chairman and the Group 
Company Secretary discuss 
and agree the scope of the 
evaluation and develop a 
comprehensive questionnaire.
Directors complete their 
questionnaire and meet 
individually with the 
Chairman to discuss.
A report of the ﬁndings from 
the questionnaires and the 
one-to-one discussions is 
prepared by the Chairman and 
the Group Company Secretary 
and includes a number 
of recommendations for 
discussion by the Board.
The report of the ﬁndings 
and the recommendations 
is discussed by the Board, 
which agrees an action plan 
for the year ahead.
The action plan is 
continually monitored by 
the Chairman and Group 
Company Secretary with 
regular update reports 
to the Board.
Our Board evaluation process
Outputs from 201 2 evaluation Agreed action in 201 2 and delivered in 201 2/1 3
A range of skills and experience, including 
travel, international, technology and UK plc, 
required of new Non-Executive Directors. 
Included in the candidate proﬁle for the search for additional Non-Executive Directors. Focus for 
international search and selection ﬁrm. Three additional high-calibre Non-Executive Directors appointed 
in the past year.
Board needs to have greater visibility 
and connection with the businesses  
to build a mutual understanding of roles 
and challenges. 
Board agreed a programme for holding some of its meetings at the business segments, where it will 
focus on the strategy and operations of that segment and will meet with management and staff. 
Programme carried out in 201 2/1 3 and will continue throughout 201 3/1 4.
Board induction programme ensures that new appointees visit each of the businesses shortly 
after joining. Existing Directors given the opportunity to undergo induction with new Directors. 
Programme carried out in 201 2/1 3 and will continue throughout 201 3/1 4. 
Need for improved ﬁnancial information 
to the Group and the Board. 
New Group CFO and strengthened Finance Team have signiﬁcantly improved ﬁnancial reporting 
and forecasting in 201 2/1 3.
Board needs to devote more time to the 
development of strategy and succession 
and talent management. 
Time allocated for strategy at each Board meeting. The Group CEO has driven the people agenda, 
focusing on assessment, development, succession, performance management, engagement and 
recognition for high performance. New Chief People Officer appointed in 201 3. Succession and talent 
management presented to the Board in 201 3. Commitment fully delivered in 201 2/1 3.
Board needs improved understanding of 
risk identiﬁcation and management. 
A highly experienced new Director of Enterprise Risk and Audit was appointed on 29 October 201 2 to 
drive an increased focus on risk and controls across the Group and improved reporting to the Board 
and the Audit Committee. He reports directly to the Group CFO and through to the Audit Committee. 
Signiﬁcant improvement in risk identiﬁcation and management delivered in 201 2/1 3.
1 2 3 4 5 Thomas Cook Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 59
Financial statements
3
Directors’ report
2
Strategic report
1
Outputs from 201 3 evaluation Action agreed in 201 3
Strengthen the Board with the appointment 
of additional Non-Executive Directors to meet 
succession requirements.
Two Non-Executive Directors appointed subsequent to the 201 3 Board evaluation, one of whom will be 
appointed Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and the other who will be appointed as the Senior 
Independent Director following the AGM in February 201 4, when Roger Burnell will retire from the Board.
Continued recruitment of high calibre 
management and ongoing talent 
management and development being 
regularly reported to the Board.
Ongoing programme in place with regular reporting to the Board. Senior management exposure to the 
Board as described on pages 55 to 57 .
Requirement for an ongoing comprehensive 
Board training programme to keep pace 
with the transformational activities.
Ongoing programme developed and immediately implemented.
Request for increased market information 
and intelligence. 
Increased information to be provided over time. 
Continued review and development of strategy . Built into the Board’s future agenda.
Opportunity to develop relationships 
amongst Board members.
Directors to group together for initial induction and ongoing training, where possible. Informal occasions 
when the Board can be together without management present are being arranged.
Group Executive Committee 
Throughout the year, the Group CEO regularly held meetings amongst 
her Direct Reports to discuss a range of issues in relation to the strategic 
and operational development and performance of the businesses. 
As disclosed in the People section (on pages 25 to 28 above) external 
recruitment and the development from within the organisation 
of world-class talented leaders has been a priority during the year. 
Building on the success in this area, the CEO formed the Group 
Executive Committee on 1 November 201 3. The CEO’s Direct Reports 
team and the Group Executive Committee that succeeded it comprise 
the most senior business leaders and Group function heads and, like 
the Thomas Cook Leadership Council, was both culturally and gender 
diverse reﬂecting the wide range of diversity amongst employees 
across the Group. 
Thomas Cook Leadership Council 
The Group CEO has also established the Thomas Cook Leadership 
Council (“TCLC”), comprising the top 1 30 leaders across the Group. 
The TCLC meets four times a year to review performance and help 
develop the Group’s strategy. 
Board 
Chairman, Group CEO, 
Group CFO and 7 Non-
Executive Directors
The Board and its primary committees 
The Board has a schedule of matters reserved for its approval and has a formal structure of 
delegated authority, whereby speciﬁed aspects of management and control of the Group 
have been delegated to the Group CEO, the Group CFO, business segments and the Board’s 
Committees. The Board has agreed the terms of reference for the Audit, Remuneration, 
Nominations, Risks and Disclosures, and Health, Safety & Environmental Committees 
and the Division of Responsibilities between the Chairman and the Group CEO.
Nominations Committee 
Chairman, Group CEO and  
4 Independent Non-Executive 
Directors
Committee report 
on page 62
Remuneration Committee 
4 Independent Non-Executive 
Directors
Committee report 
on page 65
Health, Safety &  
Environmental Committee 
Group CEO and 4 Non-Executive 
Directors
Committee report 
on page 64
Audit Committee 
3 Independent Non-Executive 
Directors
Committee report 
on page 60
The schedule of matters reserved, the terms of reference of each 
of the Board’s Committees and the Division of Responsibilities 
between the Chairman and the Group CEO, are available on request 
and on the Company’s website at www.thomascookgroup.com. 
The powers of the Directors are set out in the Company’s Articles of 
Association. These are also available on the Company’s website. 
The papers in respect of the Audit, Remuneration, Nominations and 
Health Safety & Environmental Committees are circulated to all the 
Non-Executive Directors, regardless of Committee membership. 
Major decisions taken under the Group’s Delegation of Authority 
are reported to the next Board meeting.  Thomas Cook Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 60
Transformation the ﬁrst 365 days
Governance: Corporate governance report continued
Chairman
Martine Verluyten*
Meetings
Four 
Meetings also regularly attended by: 
The Chairman and the other Non-Executive 
Directors, Harriet Green (Group CEO), Michael Healy 
(Group CFO), Craig Stoehr (Group General Counsel), 
Lee Bradley (Director of Enterprise Risk and Audit), 
Derek Woodward (Group Company Secretary), 
Gavin Manson (Group Head of Financial Reporting) 
and PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (“PwC”) 
Composition of the Committee 
During the year, Richard Pennycook was appointed 
a member on 1 April 201 3, until his resignation 
from the Board on 5 June 201 3.
*Martine Verluyten is considered by the Board to have recent 
and relevant ﬁnancial experience, as required by the Code. 
Other members 
Dawn Airey 
Roger Burnell 
The main focus of the Audit 
Committee during the year has 
been to support and oversee the 
signiﬁcant improvement led by 
executive management to the 
Group’s risk management and 
internal control arrangements.
Directors biographies 
on page 50
Audit Committee
Role of the Committee 
The Board has delegated to the Committee responsibility for 
overseeing the ﬁnancial reporting, internal risk management and 
control functions and for making recommendations to the Board 
in relation to the appointment of the Company’s internal and 
external auditors. 
In accordance with its terms of reference, the Committee, which 
reports its ﬁndings to the Board, is authorised to: 
 > monitor the integrity of the annual and half-year results and interim 
management statements, including a review of the signiﬁcant 
ﬁnancial reporting judgements contained in them; 
 > review the Company’s internal ﬁnancial controls and internal control 
and risk management systems; 
 > monitor and review the effectiveness of the Company’s internal 
audit function; 
 > establish and oversee the Company’s relationship with its external 
auditors, including the monitoring of their independence; and 
 > monitor matters raised pursuant to the Company’s “whistleblowing” 
arrangements. 
To enable it to carry out its duties and responsibilities effectively, the 
Committee relies on information and support from management 
across the business. The full terms of reference of the Committee are 
available at www.thomascookgroup.com or from the Group Company 
Secretary at the registered office. 
Principal activities during the year 
The main focus of the Audit Committee during the year has been to 
support and oversee the signiﬁcant improvement led by executive 
management to the Group’s risk management and internal control 
arrangements. In that regard, the Committee welcomed the 
appointment of the Director of Enterprise Risk and Audit, who in 
turn has recruited a highly experienced and dedicated team of risk 
and audit professionals to support management in this important 
area. The Finance Function has also been strengthened to improve 
ﬁnancial control. The signiﬁcantly increased activity in respect of risk 
management, controls and internal audit for both transformational 
and business as usual activities has been summarised in 
comprehensive reports that have been presented to and reviewed by 
the Committee at each of its meetings during the year. This activity 
together with reports from the external auditors has supported 
the Audit Committee in providing its advice to the Board in respect 
of the effectiveness of internal control (see section headed “Risk 
management and internal control” on page 66 below). At the end of 
two of its meetings during the year, the Committee (and also those 
Non-Executive Directors who are not on the Committee) met with 
the Director of Enterprise Risk and Audit and the external auditors 
in the absence of management. Committee activities
Thomas Cook Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 61
Financial statements
3
Directors’ report
2
Strategic report
1
In addition to focus on risk management, controls and internal audit 
described opposite, the Committee has discharged its responsibilities 
during the year and has reviewed:
Within its terms of reference, the Committee is authorised to 
monitor the integrity of the annual and half-year results and interim 
management statements, including a review of the signiﬁcant 
ﬁnancial reporting judgements contained in them. At its meeting 
in November 201 3, the Committee reviewed a comprehensive 
paper prepared by the Group Head of Financial Reporting, which set 
out the Group’s accounting policies and basis of preparation; gave 
consideration to a number of key disclosure considerations, including 
going concern, separately disclosed items and like-for-like analysis; 
matters arising in the preparation of the Group accounts; and the 
impact of new accounting developments. The Audit Committee also 
reviewed a paper prepared by the external auditors, which included 
the signiﬁcant reporting and accounting matters. Both papers were 
reviewed and discussed by the Audit Committee. The Committee 
pays particular attention to matters that it considers to be important 
by virtue of their impact on the Group results and remuneration 
of senior management, or the level of complexity, judgement 
or estimation in their application in preparation of the Group’s 
Financial Statements. The signiﬁcant issues considered by the 
Audit Committee were as follows:
Signiﬁcant issue considered by the Committee How the issue was addressed by the Committee
Going Concern: The appropriateness of 
preparing the Group ﬁnancial statements 
for the half year and full year on a going 
concern basis. 
The Committee considered papers 
prepared by management and, taking 
into account the external auditors’ review 
of these papers and their assumptions, 
concluded that management’s 
recommendation to prepare accounts on 
a going concern basis was appropriate.
The Group’s recapitalisation and 
treatment of costs: The appropriate 
accounting treatment of the costs 
and fees of £73 million in relation to 
the completion of the Group’s Capital 
Reﬁnancing Plan in June 2013.
The Committee reviewed a paper prepared 
by management on the proposed 
accounting treatment of costs associated 
with the Group’s recapitalisation. Having 
reviewed the paper, the Committee was 
comfortable with the treatment proposed 
and subsequently adopted.
Impairment and deferred tax: In view 
of the Group’s losses in recent years, 
the Committee considered whether 
there was a need to impair certain 
asset values, including goodwill and the 
reasonableness of the Group’s recognition 
of deferred tax assets. 
The Committee considered a paper 
presenting management’s intended 
approach and having taken input 
from the auditors, agreed with 
management’s proposals.
Separately disclosed items: The 
Group has an established policy of 
separately disclosing items that are 
either exceptional or detract from the 
reader’s understanding of the underlying 
performance of the Group. 
The Committee considered management’s 
presentation of separately disclosed items 
and in particular items relating to the 
Group’s Transformation and certain non-
cash ﬁnance allocations. Having considered 
the matter, the Committee agreed to adopt 
management’s proposed presentation.
Aircraft lease accounting and 
provisioning: The Group holds a 
number of its aircraft ﬂeet on lease from 
third parties. The designation of aircraft 
leases as operating leases or ﬁnance 
leases impacts on several aspects of 
reported results. 
The Committee considered a paper 
prepared by management dealing 
with the impacts of lease accounting 
and related aircraft maintenance 
provisions and accepted management’s 
proposed treatment. 
Control environment during 
Transformation: The Group is 
currently engaged in a fundamental 
Transformation encompassing most 
aspects of its activities. 
The Committee considered the broader 
risks associated with this Transformation 
as well as focusing on the operation of the 
Group’s control environment throughout 
the Transformation period. The Committee 
also considered a report by management 
on the operation of ﬁnancial and non-
ﬁnancial controls throughout the year.
Disposal of Thomas Cook North 
America: In the year the Group disposed 
of its businesses in North America. 
The Committee considered a proposal 
by management to account for its North 
America businesses under IFRS5 as a 
“discontinued operation” and agreed 
with the proposed treatment.
Governance
 > the prevention, detection 
and reporting of fraud 
and the Group’s anti-fraud 
and ethics policies; 
 > proposals for engaging the 
external auditors to carry 
out non-audit related work 
(see below);
 > the Committee’s work plan 
for the year ahead and a 
review of historic activity 
against the Committee’s 
terms of reference;
 > the effectiveness of the 
external audit process and 
a proposal in respect of the 
re-election of the external 
auditors (see external 
auditors section below)
Financial
 > the full and half-year 
results (including 
accounting issues and 
judgements) and the 
interim management 
statements issued during 
the year; 
 > information in support of 
the statements in relation 
to going concern and 
disclosure of information 
to the auditors; 
 > the annual work plan 
for each of the internal 
audit team and the 
external auditors
External auditors 
A policy is in place which requires all material non-audit work proposed 
to be carried out by the external auditors to be pre-authorised by 
the Committee in order to ensure that the provision of non-audit 
services does not impair the external auditors’ independence or 
objectivity. The policy, which is appended as a schedule to the Audit 
Committee’s terms of reference, is published on the Company’s 
website at www.thomascookgroup.com. An analysis of the fees 
earned by the Group’s auditors for audit and non-audit services is 
disclosed in Note 9 to the ﬁnancial statements. PwC were appointed 
as the sole auditors to the Group in 2008 and since that date have 
complied with the partner rotation requirement set out in the Ethical 
Standards for auditors; Paul Cragg, a Partner of PwC, was newly 
appointed Senior Statutory Auditor following the re-appointment of 
PwC by shareholders at the AGM held on 7 February 201 3. PwC have 
conﬁrmed their independence as auditors of the Company in a letter 
addressed to the Directors.
 At its meeting in November 201 3, the Audit Committee reviewed the 
effectiveness of the external audit process. This included reviewing 
comprehensive papers from both management and the external 
auditors, which set out the planning and execution of the conduct of 
the audit. The Audit Committee then held a meeting with the external 
auditors in the absence of management to discuss further. Upon the 
recommendation of the Audit Committee, PwC will be proposed for 
re-election by shareholders at the AGM to be held on 20 February 
201 4. In reaching its decision to propose PwC for re-election, the Audit 
Committee took into account the effectiveness of the external audit 
process, the length of tenure of PwC as auditors and the objectivity 
and independence of the external auditor.  Committee activities
Thomas Cook Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 62
Transformation the ﬁrst 365 days
Governance: Corporate governance report continued
Role of the Committee 
The Board has delegated to the Committee responsibility for 
reviewing and proposing appointments to the Board and for 
recommending any other changes to the composition of the Board 
or its Committees. The principal responsibility of the Committee is 
to make recommendations to the Board on all new appointments to 
the Board, as well as Board balance and composition. The Committee 
ensures that there is clarity in respect of the role description and 
capabilities required for such appointments. The Committee is also 
responsible for reviewing, at least every six months, or more frequently 
if required, the Directors’ potential conﬂicts of interest and for making 
recommendations to the Board in respect of authorising such matters. 
The full terms of reference of the Committee are available at 
www.thomascookgroup.com or from the Group Company Secretary 
at the registered office. 
Principal activities during the year 
At its meetings during the year, the Committee discharged its 
responsibilities as listed above and in particular: 
The Board is strengthened 
by the appointment of 
three independent 
Non-Executive Directors.
Chairman
Frank Meysman 
Meetings
Four 
Meetings also regularly attended by: 
The other Non-Executive Directors, Derek Woodward 
(Group Company Secretary) and Craig Stoehr (Group 
General Counsel) 
Composition of the Committee 
A majority of the members of the Committee are 
Independent Non-Executive Directors. Emre Berkin 
and Harriet Green joined the Committee on 
1 November 201 2. 
Other members 
Dawn Airey, Emre Berkin, Roger 
Burnell, Harriet Green and Martine 
Verluyten
Directors biographies 
on page 50
Nominations Committee
Governance
 > considered the re-appointment of the Directors, before making a 
recommendation to the Board regarding their re-election at the 2013 AGM; 
 > conducted a thorough process and made recommendations to the Board to 
appoint additional Non-Executive Directors in order to strengthen the Board; 
 > considered Directors’ potential conﬂicts of interest (see page 57). Thomas Cook Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 63
Financial statements
3
Directors’ report
2
Strategic report
1
Board appointments policy 
Appointments to the Board are made on merit, against objective 
criteria and with due regard for the beneﬁts of diversity on the 
Board. This process is led by the Committee which, after evaluating 
the balance of skills, knowledge and experience of each Director, 
makes recommendations to the Board. The Board appointments 
policy reinforces the Board’s principle that appointments are made 
on merit, in line with its current and future requirements, and reﬂect 
the UK listing and international activity of the Group. The policy 
also recognises the beneﬁts of diversity, including gender diversity. 
Appointments during the course of the year have been in line with 
that policy and have reinforced the diverse composition of the Board. 
A table illustrating the diversity of the Board is shown on page 56. 
The Board endorses the aims of the Davies’ Report entitled “Women 
on Boards”. A copy of the Group’s Board appointments policy can be 
found on our website at www.thomascookgroup.com. 
Non-Executive appointments 
One of the key areas of focus in the 201 2 Board effectiveness review 
(re-affirmed in the 201 3 Board effectiveness review) was to evaluate 
the breadth of skills and experience on the Board. The output from 
that evaluation (see page 58) helped shape the candidate proﬁle for 
the search for additional Non-Executive Directors. Egon Zehnder*, 
an international search and selection ﬁrm, was appointed to assist 
the Chairman to identify a range of suitable candidates for review 
by the Nominations Committee. As a result of the ongoing process, 
Emre Berkin was appointed to the Board on 1 November 201 2, 
Richard Pennycook was appointed on 1 April 201 3 (although he 
subsequently resigned on 5 June 201 3 to focus on his executive 
career) and Carl Symon and Warren Tucker were appointed on 
3 October 201 3. The Chairman and the Committee will continue 
their work in the current year to continue to monitor and develop the 
Board’s succession plans. The Committee will also support the Board 
with a review of Committee memberships, once the newly appointed 
Directors have completed their induction programmes.
*Egon Zehnder does not carry out any other work for the Group.
One of the key areas of focus in 
the 201 2 Board effectiveness 
review (re-affirmed in the 201 3 
Board effectiveness review) was 
to evaluate the breadth of skills 
and experience on the Board. 
The output from that evaluation 
helped shape the candidate proﬁle 
for the search for additional 
Non-Executive Directors.  Committee activities
Thomas Cook Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 64
Transformation the ﬁrst 365 days
Governance: Corporate governance report continued
Role of the Committee 
The Board has delegated to the Committee responsibility to review, 
develop and oversee consistent policy, standards and procedures 
for managing health, safety and environmental risks to the Group’s 
business. It is also responsible for the review and oversight of 
compliance with relevant legislation and regulation relating to health, 
safety and the environment across the Group. 
The full terms of reference of the Committee are available at 
www.thomascookgroup.com or from the Group Company Secretary 
at the registered office. 
Principal activities during the year 
At its meetings during the year, the Committee discharged its 
responsibilities as listed above and in particular reviewed, monitored 
and agreed: 
The Group’s Sustainability Report is available on 
www.thomascookgroup.com/sustainability and contains the Group’s 
health & safety and environmental policies, an explanation of how 
Thomas Cook manages sustainability and progress against targets. 
A summary of the approach and the Group’s performance in relation to 
sustainability is contained on pages 47 to 49. 
The Health, Safety & 
Environmental Committee has 
overseen a wide range of 
improvements, including the steps 
taken to embed our Code of 
Conduct across the Group.
Chairman
Peter Marks 
Meetings
Four 
Meetings also regularly attended by: 
The other Non-Executive Directors, Lee Bradley 
(Director of Enterprise Risk and Audit), Steve Solomon 
(Director, Group Aviation Safety, Compliance and 
Security), Andy Cooper (Director of Government and 
External Affairs), Derek Woodward (Group Company 
Secretary), Craig Stoehr (Group General Counsel) 
and Beth Horlock (Deputy Company Secretary) 
Composition of the Committee 
Dawn Airey, Roger Burnell and Harriet Green were 
members of the Committee throughout the year. 
Peter Marks was Chairman of the Committee 
throughout the year. Emre Berkin was appointed 
as a member of the Committee on 1 April 201 3. 
Other members 
Dawn Airey, Emre Berkin, Roger 
Burnell and Harriet Green 
Directors biographies 
on page 50
Health, Safety & Environmental Committee
External affairs
 > the Group-wide child protection policy and 
implementation plan; 
 > progress in relation to the Group’s 
programme of government affairs
Health and safety
 > the Group’s health and safety and sustainability strategies  
(also covering the Group’s hotel quality assurance programme),  
including performance against targets; 
 > future health and safety performance targets; 
 > the proposed outsourcing of customer health and safety data capture, 
risk assessment and data storage functions; 
 > overseas excursion safety policy compliance; 
 > employee safety regulations; 
 > the Group’s airline safety; 
 > key health and safety risks facing the Group and the mitigating actions taken; 
 > reviewed transfers and transport;
 > the Group Aviation drug and alcohol policy;
 > a crisis management test
Environmental
 > transfers and 
transport;
 > a number of health 
and safety policies, 
including the Group’s 
environmental and 
sustainability policies
Values and standards
 > the roll out of the 
Group’s Code of 
Conduct
Stakeholder relations
 > the Group’s 
Sustainability Reports Thomas Cook Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 65
Financial statements
3
Directors’ report
2
Strategic report
1
The Remuneration Committee 
has aligned executive pay 
arrangements with our 
Transformation and proﬁtable 
growth strategy.
Chairman
Roger Burnell 
Meetings
Five 
Meetings also regularly attended by: 
Frank Meysman (Chairman), Harriet Green (Group 
CEO)*, Peter Marks (Non-Executive Director), Sandra 
Campopiano (Chief People Officer), Judith Mackenzie 
(Group Head of Performance and Reward), Derek 
Woodward (Group Company Secretary) and Craig 
Stoehr (Group General Counsel)
 *Harriet Green does not attend in respect of matters relating to 
her remuneration. 
Composition of the Committee 
All members of the Committee are Independent Non-
Executive Directors. Emre Berkin was appointed as a 
member of the Committee on 1 April 201 3. 
Other members 
Dawn Airey, Emre Berkin and 
Martine Verluyten 
Directors biographies 
on page 50
Remuneration Committee Principal activities during the year 
During the year, the Committee made signiﬁcant progress 
implementing best practice as it pursues its “Pay for Performance” 
policy. In this connection, the Chairman and the Chairman of 
the Committee have conducted extensive consultations with 
major shareholders and governance bodies. A report detailing 
the composition, responsibilities and work carried out by the 
Remuneration Committee during the year, including an explanation 
of how it applies the Principles of the Code in respect of Executive 
Directors’ remuneration, is included within the Remuneration Report 
on pages 70 to 87 . 
Finance & Administration Committee 
To facilitate swift and efficient operational management 
decisions, the Board has established the Finance & Administration 
Committee (comprising any two Directors, one of whom must 
be an Executive Director), which has delegated authority within 
clearly identiﬁed parameters in relation to day-to-day ﬁnancing and 
administrative matters. 
Risks and Disclosures Committee 
The Board has established a Risks and Disclosures Committee, 
which is responsible for implementing and monitoring systems and 
controls in respect of the management of inside information and the 
disclosure of such information to the market in accordance with the 
Company’s obligations under the UK Listing Authority’s Disclosure and 
Transparency Rules. The Committee meets regularly during the year 
to consider the Group’s activities and risks, having received inputs from 
the Risk Matters Group, against its disclosure obligations and to review 
all results announcements, following certiﬁcation from individual 
executives from across the businesses. The Committee comprises 
the Group CEO, who is the Chairman, the Group CFO, the Director of 
Enterprise Risk and Audit, the Group General Counsel and the Group 
Company Secretary. Other attendees include senior managers from 
Group Finance and Investor Relations.  Thomas Cook Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 66
Transformation the ﬁrst 365 days
Governance: Corporate governance report continued
Shareholder communication and engagement 
The Board promotes open communication with shareholders. 
This is formalised within the framework of an investor relations 
programme conducted by the Group CEO, the Group CFO and the 
Investor Relations team. The programme included the presentation 
of preliminary and half-year results, which can be accessed on the 
Thomas Cook Group website at www.thomascookgroup.com along 
with ﬁnancial reports, interim management statements, other market 
announcements and trading updates. The management team 
conducts regular meetings with institutional investors and welcomes 
the dialogue that this enables with shareholders. 
During the year, in addition to their regular ongoing programme of 
investor meetings, the Group CEO and Group CFO had an extensive 
series of meetings with shareholders following the presentation of the 
Company’s new strategy to the market on 1 3 March 201 3 and with 
existing and prospective investors in respect of the Company’s Capital 
Reﬁnancing Plan that was completed in June 201 3. The Company 
makes every effort to ascertain investor perceptions of the Company 
and regular reports of investor and analyst feedback are provided 
to the Board. Additionally, the Board responds to ad-hoc requests 
for information and all shareholders are entitled to attend the 
Annual General Meeting. In addition to its AGM in February 201 3, the 
Company also held a general meeting in June 201 3, to gain approval 
for the share placing and rights issue as part of its Capital Reﬁnancing 
Plan. Shareholders are given the opportunity to lodge their votes 
by way of proxy and/or to attend such meetings in person where 
they have the opportunity to ask questions of the Board including 
the chairs of the Board Committees, vote by way of a poll and meet 
informally with the Directors to discuss any issues they may wish 
to raise.
During the year, both the Chairman of the Board and the Chairman 
of the Remuneration Committee met with a number of major 
institutional shareholders to discuss governance issues in general 
and, with those institutional investors who had voted against the 
Remuneration Report at the 201 3 AGM, to listen to their reasons why 
they had exercised their vote in that way. As a result of the feedback 
received at those meetings, the Remuneration Committee agreed to 
change the approach to measuring achievement against the share 
price performance targets in respect of future awards under the 
Performance Share Plan. 
This is explained in more detail in the Remuneration Report  
on pages 70 to 87 . 
Frank Meysman and Roger Burnell, the Senior Independent Director 
and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, had ongoing dialogue 
with shareholders in respect of Executive remuneration matters. 
Between June and September 201 3, they conducted a wide-scale 
engagement with a large number of the Company’s major institutional 
shareholders (representing over 50% of the Company’s shares 
in issue) and governance bodies to hear their views on proposed 
performance targets for both the 201 2 and then forthcoming 
201 3 awards to the Executive Directors under the Performance 
Share Plan and proposed amendments to the Company’s executive 
Remuneration Policy, presented in line with the new Directors' 
Remuneration Regulations. These meetings were both supportive 
and constructive and the Board and the Remuneration Committee 
were briefed on the feedback from the above discussions. The views 
expressed by shareholders were taken into account when ﬁnalising 
executive remuneration arrangements. The matters covered by the 
consultation are reported in the Remuneration Report on pages 70 
to 87 .
In line with the authority given at its 2008 AGM, the Company uses 
its website and email as the primary means of communication with 
its shareholders. This arrangement provides signiﬁcant beneﬁts for 
shareholders and the Company in terms of timeliness of information, 
reduced environmental impact and cost. Shareholders may still opt 
to receive their communications in a paper format. The Company’s 
corporate website contains information for shareholders, including 
share price information and news releases. It can be found at 
www.thomascookgroup.com.
Risk management and internal control 
During the year, there has been signiﬁcant progress made in the area 
of risk management and internal control. This has been led with a 
distinct “tone from the top” by the Group CEO and her strengthened 
management team, with the support of the Board and the Audit 
Committee, to drive a step-change improvement in the overall 
governance framework and culture throughout the organisation. 
A highly experienced and dedicated team of risk and audit 
professionals under the leadership of Lee Bradley, who was appointed 
as Director of Enterprise Risk and Audit in October 201 2, has been 
recruited to drive a signiﬁcant improvement agenda and to support 
management in this important area. Furthermore, high calibre 
professionals have also been recruited into the Group and Segment 
Finance teams to improve cash management and forecasting and 
ﬁnancial controls.
The Group’s new approach to risk management and internal control is more 
fully described in the Risk management section on pages 30 and 31.
The management team conducts 
regular meetings with institutional 
investors and welcomes the dialogue 
that this enables with shareholders. Thomas Cook Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 67
Financial statements
3
Directors’ report
2
Strategic report
1
The Board recognises its ultimate accountability for maintaining an 
effective system of internal control and risk management that is 
appropriate in relation to both the scope and the nature of the Group’s 
activities and complies with the Turnbull Committee Guidance on the 
UK Corporate Governance Code (the “Turnbull Guidance”) and has 
approved the framework and the standards implemented. During the 
year, the Board and the Audit Committee have reviewed the reports 
of the Director of Enterprise Risk and Audit, which included the results 
from wholesale top-down and bottom up risk reviews, involving 
management across the Group. The Board has also undertaken a 
detailed exercise to consider its risk appetite. These activities have 
resulted in a Combined Assurance Plan, which will enable a risk based 
approach to the ongoing internal audit and assurance programme.
This framework will be developed and standards improved as the 
new approach to risk management and internal control is further 
embedded across the Group. 
Such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of 
failure to achieve business objectives and can provide only reasonable, 
but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss. 
The Board has delegated responsibility for the implementation 
of the Group risk management policy to the Risk Matters Group 
(“RMG”), which is chaired by the Director of Enterprise Risk and Audit 
and comprises senior executives from across the Group. The Chair 
of the Audit Committee is invited to each of the RMG meetings and 
attends regularly.
Risk appetite 
During the year, the Board undertook a detailed exercise to consider 
its risk appetite in a number of key areas for the business. The results 
of this review indicate the relative appetite of the Board across the risk 
factors and behaviours. 
The Board is aligned on the relative risks and has agreed the appetite 
for risk taking for Transformation initiatives and operational delivery 
is entrepreneurial, this position aligns with the strategic aims of 
the Transformation programme and targets set for the business. 
The Board has a low tolerance for Health and Safety, Reputation and 
Regulatory Compliance risks. In all other aspects, the Board takes a 
balanced view on risk taking. 
It is the intent of the Board to use the results of this review to support 
its ongoing decision making and risk mitigations. The Board will review 
annually or more frequently as required in the light of the changes to 
the economic environment, strategic progress and performance of 
the business.
This exercise is in addition to the evaluation of key risks facing the 
business, which is undertaken, formally, on an annual basis and 
disclosed on pages 30 and 31 and the ongoing management and 
monitoring of risks which is described below.
Risk identiﬁcation and reporting 
Under the sponsorship of the Group CEO and her strengthened 
management team, a robust risk framework has been established 
though which risk is identiﬁed and managed with vigour. 
Management across the Group have responsibility for identifying 
and managing risk. Risk registers are continually updated through 
an ongoing programme of risk workshops with operational and 
ﬁnancial management. Risk is formally assessed as a standing 
item at all monthly Segment level board meetings, with key risks 
being escalated and discussed by the RMG. The chair of the Audit 
Committee also has a standing invitation to attend the meetings 
of the RMG. The RMG reports to the Audit Committee and the Risks 
and Disclosure Committee. 
The RMG reports and the risk register identify the principal risks to 
the business and assess the adequacy of controls and procedures in 
place to mitigate the likelihood and the impact of these risks. There are 
also reports to the RMG by speciﬁc risk owners on the effectiveness of 
actions taken to mitigate risks. The regular risk reporting regime has 
created an environment for the development and improvement of 
risk management procedures across the Group. The Audit Committee 
reviews the reports of the RMG and makes recommendations to 
improve risk management and internal control. This process of risk 
identiﬁcation, measurement and reporting provides a comprehensive 
ongoing assessment of the signiﬁcant risks facing the Group and the 
mitigating actions taken in respect of those risks. This process ensures 
that the Group complies with relevant corporate governance best 
practice in relation to risk management, including the guidance issued 
under the Turnbull Guidance. The Group’s internal audit function 
reports directly to the Director of Enterprise Risk and Audit who, 
together with the Group Finance function, makes recommendations 
to the Audit Committee in relation to the maintenance of a sound 
control environment throughout the Group. 
A schedule of the Group’s principal risks and uncertainties and mitigating 
actions being taken by management is set out on pages 30 and 31. 
During the year, the Board 
undertook a detailed exercise 
to consider its risk appetite in 
a number of key areas for the 
business. The Board will use 
the results to support its 
ongoing decision making. Thomas Cook Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 68
Transformation the ﬁrst 365 days
Governance: Corporate governance report continued
Code of Conduct 
During the year, a new set of Values and a Code of Conduct was 
drafted by a team of senior managers and employees drawn from 
each of our businesses across the Group. To ensure that this important 
work is fully embedded, over 90% of our employees across the Group 
have received comprehensive face-to-face training in interactive 
sessions led by line managers, with plans in place to ensure the 
remainder are trained in the near term. All new employees also 
undergo the training as part of their induction. Participation in the 
training is monitored by both line management and HR functions 
across the Group. Follow up interviews were also conducted amongst 
sample groups of employees in each of the business segments 
and relevant questions were included in the Group-wide employee 
engagement survey and in performance reviews as a means of 
conﬁrming that employees have participated in the training session 
and are aware of the Code and comfortable with its contents. 
Further training will be given in 201 4 to ensure the Code remains 
fully embedded across the organisation. 
The Code of Conduct sets out how we expect our employees to 
conduct themselves in their everyday working life. It covers areas 
such as: behaviour towards our customers and our people; health 
and safety; reputation management; sustainable operation; supplier 
relationships; anti-bribery; conﬂicts of interest; competition law; 
risk management and controls; fraud, theft and false accounting; 
IT security; share dealing and our prohibition of political donations. 
The Code also includes guidance to employees about their 
responsibility to report problems and issues that come to their 
attention and the alternative ways of raising such issues in escalating 
order – line management, HR, the “ask-Harriet” email facility, which 
promotes feedback from all employees, and the Trustline – see below.
The Code of Conduct was issued to all employees in paper copy and 
is also available on the Group’s intranet and website. In addition, the 
Group Company Secretary is available for advice on any matter which 
may give rise to cause for concern. 
Whistleblowing 
As mentioned above, the Code includes guidance to employees 
about their responsibility to report problems and issues that come 
to their attention and also the alternative ways of raising such 
issues. This included a thorough re-launch of the independently run 
whistleblowing helpline re-named the Trustline. Details of the Trustline 
are published in the Code of Conduct booklet and also on the Group’s 
intranet site. Also included in the Code of Conduct were details of the 
“ask-Harriet” email facility, which allows every employee across the 
Group to raise issues or make suggestions for improvement directly 
with the Group CEO. Signiﬁcant issues brought to management’s 
attention through the Trustline or “ask-Harriet” email facility are 
reported to the Audit Committee.
Review of system of internal control 
During the year, the Board, through the work of the Audit Committee, 
has conducted a review of the effectiveness of the Group’s system 
of internal control. There is an ongoing process for the identiﬁcation 
and evaluation of risk management and internal control processes, 
which has been in place, and signiﬁcantly improved, throughout the 
year and remains in place up to the date of the ﬁnancial statements. 
This includes the process by which management prepares 
consolidated accounts. The work conducted by management and 
described on pages 30 and 31 is complemented, supported and 
challenged by the controls assurance work carried out independently 
by the external auditors, PwC, and the Group Internal Audit function. 
Regular reports on control issues are presented to the Audit 
Committee by the Director of Enterprise Risk and Audit. The Board, 
in reviewing the effectiveness of the system of internal control, 
can conﬁrm that necessary actions have been or are being taken 
to remedy any signiﬁcant failings or weaknesses identiﬁed from 
that review. The appointment of the Director of Enterprise Risk and 
Audit was approved by the Audit Committee at the beginning of the 
ﬁnancial year in response to ﬁndings from the Audit Committee’s 
ongoing review. 
The approach to risk management and control that is being implemented 
in the current ﬁnancial year is set out in the Risk management section 
on pages 30 and 31. 
Drafted through engagement with stakeholders: Group-wide
Inclusion in Group-wide survey and performance reviews 
to conﬁrm awareness
Thorough training programme for all employees
Ongoing monitoring
Further training in 201 4
Code of Conduct process Thomas Cook Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 69
Financial statements
3
Directors’ report
2
Strategic report
1
Going concern 
After making appropriate enquiries and taking into account the 
matters set out in the Risk management section on pages 30 and 
31, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company 
and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational 
existence for the foreseeable future. For this reason, they continue to 
adopt the going concern basis in preparing the ﬁnancial statements. 
Internal control and risk management in relation to the 
ﬁnancial reporting process 
The Group has a thorough assurance process in place in respect of the 
preparation, veriﬁcation and approval of periodic ﬁnancial reports. 
This process includes:
 > the involvement of qualiﬁed, professional employees with an 
appropriate level of experience (both in Group Finance and 
throughout the business);
 > formal sign-offs from appropriate business segment managing 
directors and ﬁnance directors;
 > comprehensive review and, where appropriate, challenge from key 
internal Group functions;
 > a transparent process to ensure full disclosure of information to the 
external auditors. Engagement of a professional and experienced 
ﬁrm of external auditors;
 > oversight by the Group’s Audit Committee, involving (amongst 
other duties):
 – a detailed review of key ﬁnancial reporting judgements which 
have been discussed by management;
 – review and, where appropriate, challenge on matters including:
  the consistency of, and any changes to, signiﬁcant accounting 
policies and practices during the year;
 signiﬁcant adjustments resulting from an external audit;
 the going concern assumption; and
  the Company’s statement on internal control systems, prior to 
endorsement by the Board.
The above process, and the review by the Audit Committee of a 
comprehensive note that sets out the details of the preparation, 
internal veriﬁcation and approval process for the Annual Report and 
Accounts, provides comfort to the Board that the Annual Report 
and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable 
and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess 
the Company’s performance, business model and strategy. 
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities in respect 
of the Annual Report, the Directors’ Remuneration 
Report and the Financial Statements 
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report and the ﬁnancial statements in 
accordance with applicable law and regulations. Company law requires 
the Directors to prepare ﬁnancial statements for each ﬁnancial 
year. Under that law, the Directors have prepared the Group and 
the Company ﬁnancial statements in accordance with International 
Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRSs”) as adopted by the European 
Union. The ﬁnancial statements are required by law to give a true and 
fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group and of 
the proﬁt or loss of the Group for that period. 
In preparing those ﬁnancial statements, the Directors are required to: 
 > select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently; 
 > make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable 
and prudent; and 
 > state that the ﬁnancial statements comply with IFRSs as adopted by 
the European Union. 
The Directors conﬁrm that they have complied with the above 
requirements in preparing the ﬁnancial statements. The Directors 
also conﬁrm that they consider the annual report and accounts, 
taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides 
the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Company’s 
performance, business model and strategy.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records 
that show and explain the Company’s transactions and disclose with 
reasonable accuracy at any time the ﬁnancial position of the Company 
and the Group, and for ensuring that the ﬁnancial statements and 
the Directors’ Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 
2006 and, as regards the Group ﬁnancial statements, Article 4 of the 
IAS Regulation. They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets 
of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps 
for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities. 
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the 
Company’s website, and legislation in the United Kingdom governing 
the preparation and dissemination of ﬁnancial statements may differ 
from legislation in other jurisdictions. 
Each of the Directors, who were in office at the date of this report, 
whose names and responsibilities are listed on pages 50 and 5 1, 
conﬁrm that, to the best of their knowledge: 
 > the Group ﬁnancial statements, which have been prepared in 
accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view 
of the assets, liabilities, ﬁnancial position and proﬁt of the Group; 
and 
 > the Strategic and Directors’ Report contained on pages 2 to 89 
includes a fair review of the development and performance of the 
business and the position of the Group, together with a description 
of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces. 
Disclosure of information to auditors 
Each of the Directors who held office at the date of approval of this 
Directors’ Report conﬁrms that: so far as he/she is aware, there is 
no relevant audit information of which the Company’s auditors are 
unaware; and that he/she has taken all steps that he/she ought to 
have taken as a Director to make him/her aware of any relevant audit 
information and to establish that the Company’s auditors are aware of 
that information. 
Share capital and related disclosures 
Disclosures in relation to the share capital of the Company, including 
the Company’s major shareholders are given in the “Other Disclosures” 
section on pages 88 to 89. Chairman
Roger Burnell 
Thomas Cook Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 70
Transformation the ﬁrst 365 days
Governance: Report on Directors’ Remuneration  
Annual Statement by Chair of Remuneration Committee
Pay for  
performance 
Dear Shareholder, 
I am delighted to present our report on Directors’ remuneration at 
the end of a very successful year. The Group’s improved ﬁnancial 
performance and rapid progress in respect of the Transformation 
have exceeded our initial expectations. Whilst these signiﬁcant 
achievements are fully explained on pages 2 to 45 of the Annual 
Report, I would like to summarise the Group’s achievements here 
to give context to the decisions of the Committee during, and in 
respect of, the year.
The Committee believes that the performance of Harriet Green has 
been exceptional throughout the year. Under her strong leadership 
and vision we have effected a rigorous and rapid turnaround of the 
business and moved at pace with our ambitious Transformation; 
delivering more than expected, as demonstrated by our signiﬁcantly 
improved ﬁnancial performance across a range of KPIs. We have also 
developed, communicated and started to implement our strategy 
of sustainable proﬁtable growth. The performance of Michael 
Healy is also regarded by the Committee as exceptional with the 
introduction of a successful range of internal disciplines and measures 
to strengthen our balance sheet and the execution, in June of this year, 
of our £1.6 billion Capital Reﬁnancing Plan.
The outstanding performance of our Executive Directors across a 
range of metrics, as disclosed on page 80 of the Annual Remuneration 
Report, should not diminish the stretching nature of the targets when 
set by the Committee at the start of the year. It is against this pleasing 
backdrop, and in line with our ‘pay for performance’ remuneration 
philosophy, that the Committee has taken its decisions in respect of 
our Executive Directors’ remuneration arrangements.
The Committee considers it essential to ensure that our executive pay 
arrangements are fully aligned with the ambition and achievement 
of our Transformation and proﬁtable growth strategy. We also aim to 
operate a “best-in-class” approach to governance and shareholder 
engagement, so that our executives are remunerated in a manner 
that reﬂects the views of our shareholders and best corporate 
governance practice.
The Committee considers it 
essential to ensure that our 
executive pay arrangements 
are fully aligned with the 
ambition and achievement 
of our Transformation and 
proﬁtable growth strategy. Thomas Cook Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 71
Financial statements
3
Directors’ report
2
Strategic report
1
Alignment with our T ransformation 
and proﬁtable growth strategy
The Committee rigorously follows its pay for performance philosophy 
and, during the year, developed senior executive pay arrangements 
to ensure they are both stretching and fully aligned with our ambitious 
Transformation and proﬁtable growth strategy. For the ﬁrst time, all 
senior executives now share in the same strategic targets and KPIs that 
will focus Thomas Cook on delivery and success. Performance against 
these targets and KPIs is monitored on a regular basis. 
Key changes in line with the above reward philosophy include:
 > new ﬁnancial performance measures and targets for the 
Performance Share Plan (PSP); and 
 > new ﬁnancial and strategic performance measures and targets 
for the 201 3/1 4 annual bonus plan. 
Reﬂecting the views of our shareholders
In summer 201 3, the Committee conducted a comprehensive 
consultation with our major shareholders, representing greater than 50% 
of our share capital, and also key governance bodies to discuss our overall 
remuneration policy and the changes outlined above. 
We are grateful for the level of engagement and the positive, supportive 
and constructive feedback we received on our proposals. We used 
these inputs to ﬁnalise our remuneration policy as we strive to operate 
a “best-in-class” approach to remuneration and corporate governance.
Further detail, including key changes that were made as result of this 
consultation, is set out on pages 7 6 and 87 .
We remain committed to ongoing engagement with our shareholders 
and expect to consult with our major shareholders in relation to any 
matters that we consider shareholders should have the opportunity 
to express a prior view on. This includes determining the performance 
measures for the next award under the Performance Share Plan 
( currently expected to be made in January 201 5) and the exercise of 
ﬂexibility or signiﬁcant discretion as provided for in our Policy Report.
Remuneration outcomes for 201 2/1 3
As referenced above, the annual bonus performance targets set at the 
start of the year were stretching and fully reﬂected the challenging nature 
of the task that then lay ahead. We believe in pay for performance and 
therefore, due to the exceptional performance by our management 
team, 1 00% of the maximum annual bonus opportunity was paid to 
The changes outlined impact upon all senior executives with 
responsibility for delivering our Transformation, including 
Executive Directors.
Aligning the long-term interests of 
our senior executives 
The Committee considers it is important that Executive Directors 
and other key senior executives should further demonstrate their 
alignment with the long-term interests of shareholders and, therefore, 
the following changes have been made:
 > the introduction of a shareholding guideline policy of 1x salary; and
 > increased annual bonus deferral, with one-third of the annual bonus 
deferred for two years and the unvested deferred shares subject 
to clawback.
Harriet Green and Michael Healy. A full discussion of performance against 
targets is set out on page 80.
The 201 0 PSP and Co-Investment Plan (COIP) awards lapsed as the 
performance targets were not met.
Remuneration for 201 3/1 4
Base salary, annual bonus and PSP award decisions for 201 3/1 4 are set 
out in the “Statement of implementation of remuneration Policy in the 
following ﬁnancial year” on pages 84 and 85.
Those decisions also reﬂect the exceptional performance of both 
Harriet Green and Michael Healy over the last year, as evidenced by 
the achievement of the ﬁrst stages of our T ransformation; and the 
signiﬁcant contribution that will be required from our Executive Directors 
in the future. 
New style report 
Our Remuneration Report has been prepared in line with the new 
regulations. We are grateful to shareholders for their inputs to our Policy 
Report during our summer 201 3 consultation and look forward to your 
support at the 201 4 AGM and throughout the year ahead.
Roger Burnell  
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 
27 November 201 3
Our targets and KPIs for our Transformation  
and proﬁtable growth strategy
How our remuneration is aligned with our Transformation  
and proﬁtable growth strategy
FY15 Target Annual bonus 13/14 Performance share plan 2012 and 2013
New product revenue > £700m
1
Reﬂected as a core measure –
Web penetration > 50% Reﬂected as a core measure –
Cost out/proﬁt improvement > £440m
1
Reﬂected in Group EBIT measure and 
Group CEO and CFO role-speciﬁc objectives Reﬂected in our Group EBIT core measure
Sales CAGR (3 year) > 3.5% Role-speciﬁc objectives where appropriate –
Gross margin improvement > 1.5%
Reﬂected in Group EBIT measure and 
Group CEO and CFO role-speciﬁc objectives Reﬂected in our Group EBIT core measure
UK underlying EBIT margin > 5% Role-speciﬁc objectives where appropriate –
Cash conversion > 70%
1
Reﬂected as a core measure Reﬂected as a core measure for 201 2 and 201 3
1  As described on page 20, three of the targets set out above have been signiﬁcantly increased since March 201 3, when they were ﬁrst set and communicated to the market (reﬂecting the pace and extent of progress 
in respect of the Transformation). These increased targets are: “new product revenue” – increased from £500 million to £700 million, “cost out/proﬁt improvement” – increased from £350 million to £440 million, 
and “cash conversion” – increased from 60% to 70%. The targets for the FY 1 3/1 4 annual bonus and the September 201 3 PSP awards were set with reference to the new targets. Thomas Cook Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 72
Transformation the ﬁrst 365 days
Governance: Report on Directors’ Remuneration  
Directors’ Remuneration Policy
It is intended that this Policy Report shall take binding effect from the date of its approval at the 2014 AGM. 
Information on how the Company intends to implement the policy for the current ﬁnancial year is set out in the 
“Statement of implementation of remuneration policy” section in the attached Annual Remuneration Report.
Element Purpose and link to strategic objectives Operation
Base salary
–  Provides ﬁxed remuneration for the 
role, which reﬂects the size and scope of 
the Executive Director’s responsibilities.
–  Attracts and retains the high-calibre 
talent necessary to deliver the 
business strategy.
– Salaries are paid monthly and are normally reviewed annually. 
– Consideration is typically given to a range of factors including:




Retirement 
beneﬁts
–  To provide competitive post-retirement 
beneﬁts or cash allowance equivalent.
–  Attracts and retains the high-calibre 
talent necessary to deliver the 
business strategy.
–  Payment may be made either into a pension scheme (e.g. a deﬁned contribution plan) or delivered as a  
cash allowance with Company contributions set as a percentage of basic salary. 
– Level of beneﬁt is dependent upon seniority.
Beneﬁts
–  Ensures the overall package 
is competitive.
–  Attracts and retains the high-calibre 
talent necessary to deliver the 
business strategy.
–  Provision of a range of beneﬁts by the Company. Such beneﬁts may include those currently provided to Executive 
Directors, as disclosed on page 79. These are reviewed annually by the Committee to ensure that they provide a 
competitive package and facilitate the delivery of the business strategy.
–  The Company reserves the right to deliver beneﬁts to Executive Directors depending on their individual 
circumstances, which may include housing, travel, education, healthcare and other allowances. 
–  In the case of non-UK executives, the Committee may consider additional allowances in line with standard practice.
Annual bonus
–  Energises and focuses management on 
rigorous execution of Thomas Cook’s 
strategy on an annual basis. 
–  Rewards annual performance against 
challenging annual targets and key 
performance indicators which are 
critical to the realisation of our business 
strategy. 
–  Compulsory deferral into the 
Company’s shares provides a link to the 
creation of long-term sustainable value, 
and also a retention element.
–  The clawback provision enables the 
Company to mitigate risk.
–  Measures and targets are set annually and pay-out levels are determined by the Committee after the year end 
based on performance against those targets.
–  The Committee has full discretion to amend the bonus pay-out (upwards or downwards), if in its judgement any 
formulaic output does not produce a fair result for either the individual Executive Director or the Company, taking 
account of the overall business performance or situation of the Company.
–  Executive Directors must defer one-third of their annual bonus into Company shares which then vest two years 
after the cash bonus payment date, subject to continued employment and clawback provisions but no additional 
performance conditions. Regarding the clawback provisions, unvested share awards lapse in certain scenarios, 
as described on page 74.
– Good leaver terms are described in more detail on page 75.
–  At the Committee’s discretion, Executive Directors may receive the value of dividend equivalents during 
the holding period on the vested shares.
Long-term 
share-based 
incentive plan
–  Energises and focuses management on 
rigorous execution of Thomas Cook’s 
strategy over the longer term.
–  Rewards sustained performance 
against challenging long-term targets 
and key performance indicators which 
are critical to the realisation of our 
business strategy. 
–  Long-term performance targets and 
share-based remuneration support 
the creation of long-term shareholder 
value. 
–  The current Performance Share Plan was approved by shareholders in 2007 , and is governed by the rules of the Plan. 
A summary of the key features is set out below:
–  Awards may be made in the form of conditional shares or options with vesting dependent upon the achievement of 
performance conditions set by the Committee. Vesting of awards will be subject to a three-year performance period. 
–  The Committee has full discretion to amend the number of shares that vest (upwards or downwards), if in its 
judgement any formulaic output does not produce a fair result for either the individual Executive Director or the 
Company, taking account of the overall business performance or situation of the Company.
–  The award will lapse if the participant leaves employment before vesting unless in speciﬁc “good leaver” 
circumstances. Good leaver terms are described in more detail on page 75.
–  The Committee may in the event of a variation of the Company’s share capital adjust or amend the terms of 
the awards in accordance with the rules of the Plan. 
–  If the Company pays any dividends in respect of record dates falling in the period from the award date to the 
vesting date, the Committee may consider that the Executive should receive a payment following delivery 
of the shares in satisfaction of their award, the value of which is equivalent to the cash value of the dividends 
in respect of any shares that vest.
Chairman and 
Non-Executive 
Director fees
–  To reward individuals for fulﬁlling the 
relevant role.
–  Attracts and retains individuals with 
the skills, experience and knowledge to 
contribute to an effective Board.
–  The Committee is responsible for determining the fees for the Chairman of the Company. The fees for the other 
Non-Executive Directors are set by the Board.
– The fee structure may include:



– Travel and hotel costs that are deemed to be an employment beneﬁt by the relevant tax authority may also be paid.
The Committee reserves the right to make any remuneration or loss of office payments (including the satisfaction of any outstanding awards of variable remuneration made to Executive Directors), where the 
terms of that payment were agreed: (i) prior to the approval of this Policy under their original terms – for these purposes, the terms of a share award are “agreed” at the time it is granted; or (ii) at a time where 
the individual was not a Director of the Company, and in the opinion of the Committee, the payment was not in consideration for the individual becoming a Director of the Company.
Future policy table Thomas Cook Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 73
Financial statements
3
Directors’ report
2
Strategic report
1
Maximum opportunity Performance metrics
– Current salaries are disclosed on page 85.
–  Increases may be made to salary levels in certain circumstances as 
required, for example, to reﬂect:



–  Ordinarily, salary increases will not exceed the average increase 
awarded to other employees in the Group.
Performance, through our performance management processes is one of the key considerations in setting 
and reviewing salary.
– Current Company contribution rates are disclosed on page 79.
–  Set at a level which the Committee considers is appropriately 
positioned against comparable roles in companies of a similar size 
and complexity in the relevant market.
None.
–  Beneﬁts may include those currently provided to Executive Directors, 
as disclosed on page 79, however the Committee reserves the right 
to provide such level of beneﬁts as it considers appropriate to support 
the ongoing strategy of the Company.
None.
For maximum performance:
– 1 50% of salary.
–  The Committee will have regard to various performance metrics (which will be determined by 
the Committee) measured over the relevant ﬁnancial year, when determining bonuses. 
–  No less than 70% of the award is based on ﬁnancial measures and up to 30% of the award may 
be based on the achievement of role-speciﬁc objectives, which may be ﬁnancial or non-ﬁnancial. 
–  For achievement of a “threshold” performance level, (the minimum level of performance that results 
in any payment), no more than 20% of the maximum for each element of the bonus pays out.
–  For achievement of a “mid” performance level, no more than 60% of the maximum for each 
performance metric in relation to the bonus pays out.
– For achievement of a “maximum” performance level, 100% of the maximum pays out.
–  Under the plan rules, the aggregate value of all awards made within 
any 1 2 month period must not exceed 200% of base salary (or 
such other period as the Committee may determine in exceptional 
circumstances). 
–  The normal maximum face value of awards is 1 50% of salary. 
However the Committee has a discretion to award up to the plan rules 
max, when it believes the situation warrants a higher level of award.
–  The performance measures for the Performance Share Plan will be a combination of ﬁnancial measures 
and share price based measures, measured over at least a three-year performance period. Normally, the 
weightings will be as follows:



–  The Committee will determine more speciﬁc performance measures for future awards as the Company 
makes progress with its Transformation during 201 4 and will consult with major shareholders ahead of 
the next award.
–  The performance measures may be adjusted, following grant, by the Committee to ensure a consistent 
basis of calculation and to provide a fair reﬂection of the Company’s performance. 
–  For achievement of a “threshold” performance level, (which is the minimum level of performance that results 
in any part of an award vesting), no more than 30% of each respective element of the award will vest.
–  For achievement of a “maximum” performance level, (which is the highest level of performance that results 
in any additional vesting), 100% of each respective element of the award will vest.
–  Normally, there will be straight-line vesting for any performance level between “threshold” and “maximum”.
–  The Committee may substitute, vary or waive the performance targets if an event occurs which causes the 
Committee to consider that the target is no longer appropriate. 
–  Set at a level which the Committee (or the Board, as appropriate) 
considers:

from the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors

of a similar size and complexity in the relevant market. 
None. Thomas Cook Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 74
Transformation the ﬁrst 365 days
Governance: Report on Directors’ Remuneration  
Directors’ Remuneration Policy continued
Explanatory detail for future policy table
Changes made in the year
In light of the new Thomas Cook strategy for proﬁtable growth which 
was announced in March 201 3, the Company undertook a review 
of the executive remuneration policy to ensure that it ﬁts the future 
needs of the business. 
The following changes were made:
 > The performance measures for the annual bonus plan and the 
Performance Share Plan were reviewed and will be agreed each year 
to ensure that they support the Thomas Cook strategy
 > The level of annual bonus deferral was increased to improve the 
alignment of the Thomas Cook executive team with shareholders 
over the longer term
 > For the same reason, a shareholding guideline policy 
was introduced.
As detailed below, shareholder views were sought on these changes.
Explanation of chosen performance measures  
and the target setting process
Performance measures have been selected to reﬂect the targets and 
key performance indicators which are critical to the realisation of our 
business strategy.
Challenging performance targets are set by the Committee each 
year for the annual bonus and the PSP . When setting these targets, 
the Committee will take into account a number of different reference 
points including the Company’s business plan and consensus analyst 
forecasts of the Company’s performance. Full vesting will only occur 
for what the Committee considers to be stretching performance. 
Clawback
As highlighted in the policy table, a clawback arrangement is in 
place. Under this arrangement, the unvested deferred annual bonus 
shares may lapse in whole or in part if a clawback event occurs, 
which includes:
 > a material adverse misstatement of the Company’s 
ﬁnancial statements
 > the participant or their team having engaged in gross misconduct 
or in conduct which resulted in signiﬁcant losses, as determined 
by the Committee and/or
 > the Company having suffered serious reputational damage, 
as determined by the Committee, as a result of any action taken 
by the participant or his team.
In addition, under the PSP , the Committee has discretion to amend 
the ﬁnal vesting level should any formulaic output not reﬂect the 
overall business performance. This discretion allows the Committee 
to decrease or increase the pay-out in the range of 0% – 100% of the 
number of shares awarded.
Salary, pension and beneﬁts are not subject to clawback. 
Policy for the remuneration of employees generally
Remuneration arrangements are determined throughout the Group 
based on the same principle that reward should be achieved for 
delivery of our business strategy and should be sufficient to attract 
and retain high calibre talent, without paying more than is necessary. 
Thomas Cook has operations based in a number of different 
countries and at different levels of seniority, and though based on the 
overarching principle above, reward policies vary depending upon 
these factors. 
Senior executives with a signiﬁcant ability to inﬂuence Company 
results may participate in the annual bonus plan and the PSP .
Approach to recruitment remuneration
When agreeing a remuneration package for the appointment of new 
directors, the Committee will apply the following principles:
 > The package will be sufficient to attract and retain the high-calibre 
talent necessary to develop and deliver the business strategy
 > The Committee will seek to ensure that no more is paid than 
is necessary
 > In the next annual remuneration report, the Committee will explain 
to shareholders the rationale for the relevant arrangements and if 
and when the transition to the policy described on pages 72 and 73 
will occur. 
The following elements may be considered by the Committee 
for inclusion in a recruitment package for an Executive Director, in 
addition to the policy elements set out in the table on pages 72 
and 73:
Element Approach
Initial long-term 
incentive award
An initial long-term incentive award may be made, which may be 
higher than the maximum PSP opportunity, as set out on page 73.
The Committee will ensure:
–  The award is linked to the achievement of appropriate and 
challenging performance targets
–  The award will be forfeited if the performance and continued 
employment conditions are not achieved.
Initial annual bonus 
opportunity
The initial annual bonus opportunity may be set higher than the 
approved policy.
The Committee will ensure the award is linked to the achievement 
of appropriate and challenging performance targets.
Compensation for 
forfeited awards
The terms of any compensation will be determined by taking 
into account the terms of any forfeited awards, including:
– Performance achieved or likely to be achieved
– The proportion of performance/vesting period remaining
– The form and timing of the original award. 
Sign on awards In certain limited circumstances, for example in order to 
compensate for a loss at a previous employer other than for 
forfeited awards, the Committee may make a one-off sign-on 
award as part of the initial package. 
The Committee retains the discretion to determine, based on 
the circumstances at the time, whether this would be in cash or 
shares, whether or not performance conditions or an additional 
holding period would apply.
Notice period The initial notice period may be longer than the Company’s 
six month policy (up to a maximum of 24 months). However, 
this will reduce by one month for every month served, until the 
Company’s policy position is reached.
Relocation costs Where necessary, the Company will pay appropriate relocation 
costs, in line with standard practice. The Committee will seek 
to ensure that no more is paid than is necessary. Thomas Cook Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 75
Financial statements
3
Directors’ report
2
Strategic report
1
For reference, “good leaver” scenarios include death, disability, injury, 
ill-health, redundancy, retirement, the award holder’s employing 
company or business being sold out of the Group, or any other reason 
that the Committee determines appropriate. 
Other than in the “good leaver” scenarios described, no pay-outs will 
be made under performance-linked elements.
Any “good leaver” awards may vest or be paid out immediately upon 
termination or in line with the original vesting or payment date, at the 
discretion of the Committee. 
Awards granted under the PSP shall lapse at the time of cessation of 
employment unless the Committee has used its discretion to deem 
that an individual is a “good leaver”, when the Committee has the 
discretion to determine when awards vest and, if relevant, when they 
may be exercised. Awards structured as options shall be exercisable 
for a period of six months (or 1 2 months in the case of death) from 
vesting unless the Committee determines any other period should 
apply. Awards may also vest early if the participant is moved to a 
country where their capacity to hold the award or deal in shares would 
be restricted or they would suffer a tax disadvantage in connection 
with the award. 
In the event of a takeover or winding-up of the Company (other 
than as part of an internal reorganisation of the Thomas Cook 
Group), PSP awards may also vest to the extent determined by 
the Committee taking into account the period elapsed since grant 
and the performance achieved against any relevant performance 
targets. The awards may also be “rolled over” into new shares of an 
acquiring company.
Non-Executive Directors
Non-Executive Directors, including the Chairman, are appointed 
pursuant to a letter of appointment. During the year the notice period 
for all Non-Executive Directors was reduced, from six months to three 
months for the Chairman, and from six months to one month for the 
other Non-Executive Directors. All Non-Executive Directors are subject 
to annual re-election by shareholders at the AGM. The Non-Executive 
Directors’ letters of appointment continue until the date stated in their 
appointment letter, unless they are terminated for cause, or on the 
notice period stated, or if they are not re-elected at the AGM. 
The Directors’ service contracts and letters of appointment are kept 
for inspection by shareholders at the Company’s registered office.
An enhanced initial notice period, sign-on awards or increased initial 
annual bonus or long-term incentive award opportunities would only 
be made available in exceptional circumstances.
Under the reporting regulations, Thomas Cook is required to set 
out the maximum amount of variable pay which could be paid to a 
new Director in respect of their recruitment. In order to provide the 
Company with sufficient ﬂexibility in a recruitment scenario, the 
Committee has set this ﬁgure as 500% of base salary. This covers 
the maximum annual bonus and the maximum face value of any 
long-term incentive awards.
This level of variable pay would only be available in exceptional 
circumstances, and in order to achieve such a level of variable pay, 
stretching targets would need to be met, over both one year (for 
the annual bonus) and at least three-year (for long-term incentive) 
performance periods.
For individuals becoming Executive Directors as a result of an internal 
promotion from within Thomas Cook or as a result of an acquisition, 
any awards under other arrangements which were made prior to 
joining the Board may be allowed to continue under the original terms, 
or under a revised basis (such as a roll-over into Thomas Cook shares) 
if the Committee determines appropriate.
Fee levels for a new Chairman or new Non-Executive Directors will be 
determined in accordance with the policy set out in the future policy 
table above.
Service contracts and loss of office payments
Executive Directors
Executive Directors have Company service contracts. For Harriet Green 
and Michael Healy, the service contracts provide for a six month’s 
notice period, from both the Company and the Executive Director. 
If the Company terminates the employment of the Executive Director 
with immediate effect, a payment in lieu of notice may be made. 
This may include base salary, pension and beneﬁts.
Outstanding awards under the performance-linked elements of the 
package will normally lapse if an executive leaves the Company before 
the payment or vesting date. However, in “good leaver” scenarios 
these may vest. This may include: 
 > If the participant leaves during the annual bonus performance 
year and before the payment date, a bonus payment in respect 
of the year may be made, pro-rated to reﬂect the portion 
of the performance year elapsed, and with reference to 
performance achieved 
 > If the participant leaves before the end of the holding period, 
any unvested deferred bonus shares may vest
 > Outstanding unvested awards under the PSP vest to the extent 
determined by the Committee taking into account the period of 
time the individual has held the award and performance achieved 
against any relevant performance targets.  Thomas Cook Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 76
Transformation the ﬁrst 365 days
Outside appointments
The Company recognises the beneﬁts to the individual, and to the 
Group, of Executive Directors taking on external appointments as 
Non-Executive Directors. Subject to the approval of the Committee, an 
Executive Director may accept such appointments at other companies 
or other similar advisory or consultative roles. The Committee has set 
a limit of one external appointment for each Executive Director, to one 
FTSE 100 or 250 company, or an international company of a similar 
size, unless there is justiﬁcation for a further appointment. The Board 
will review the time commitment of all outside appointments and 
ensure that it is satisﬁed that this will not negatively impact upon 
the executive’s time commitment to the performance of Thomas 
Cook duties.
The Committee may allow Executive Directors to retain any 
fees payable.
Statement of consideration of conditions elsewhere 
in the Company
When setting the policy for Directors’ remuneration, the Committee 
has regard to the pay and employment conditions elsewhere within 
the Group. This includes consideration of: 
 > Salary increases for the general employee population
 > Overall spend on annual bonus
 > Participation levels in the annual bonus and any  
long-term incentives
 > Company-wide beneﬁt (including pension) offerings
 > Any other relevant factors as determined by the Committee.
In order to take into account the views of the general employee 
population when formulating Director pay policy, the Committee 
may review information provided by the HR function and feedback 
from employee engagement surveys. 
Statement of consideration of shareholder views
The Company is committed to on-going engagement and seeks major 
shareholder views in advance of proposing signiﬁcant changes to its 
remuneration policies. The following describes the 201 3 consultation 
as a recent example:
 > During the year, the Company consulted with its shareholders in 
respect of remuneration. 
 > In response to the advisory shareholder vote on the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report at the 201 3 AGM, both the Chairman of the 
Board and the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee met with 
major shareholders to discuss the issues raised by them.
 > In addition, after the announcement of the Company’s new strategy 
in March 201 3 the Chairman of the Board and the Remuneration 
Committee chairman met with major shareholders, representing 
cumulatively over 50% of the Company’s share capital in June 
and July 201 3 to discuss the approach to performance conditions 
for the September 201 2 and September 201 3 PSP awards, and 
to present the Remuneration Policy set out under the then draft 
revised Directors’ Remuneration Report Regulations, which included 
the increased annual bonus deferral and the introduction of 
shareholding requirements. At these meetings, soundings were 
taken in respect of Executive Director base pay rises.
 > Subsequent follow-up consultation was carried out during 
September, October and November.
We were pleased with the level of engagement from our shareholders, 
and the positive, supportive and constructive feedback we received 
on our proposals. Views from all shareholder meetings were taken 
into consideration when formulating executive remuneration policy. 
An example of how shareholders’ views were taken into account was 
that the Committee decided to amend the share-price measurement 
basis to be in line with shareholder requirements, as described on 
pages 81 and 87 .
Governance: Report on Directors’ Remuneration  
Directors’ Remuneration Policy continued
We were pleased with the 
level of engagement from 
our shareholders, and the 
positive, supportive and 
constructive feedback we 
received on our proposals. Group CEO – Harriet Green    Total Remuneration (£’000)
  
Total ﬁxed PSP Annual bonus
Maximum Mid Base salary,
beneﬁts, pension
3,500
3,000
2,500
2,000
1,500
1,000
500
0
39%
15%
31%
100% 54%
30%
31%
£1,070
£1,988
£3,450
Group CFO – Michael Healy    Total Remuneration (£’000)
  
Total ﬁxed PSP Annual bonus
Maximum Mid Base salary,
beneﬁts, pension
3,500
3,000
2,500
2,000
1,500
1,000
500
0
42%
17%
34%
100% 49%
31%
27%
£647
£1,322
£2,397
Thomas Cook Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 77
Financial statements
3
Directors’ report
2
Strategic report
1
The above charts are based on the current package. The charts show the level of remuneration that would be received by the Directors above 
in accordance with the Directors’ remuneration policy in the ﬁrst ﬁnancial year it applies (i.e. ﬁnancial year 201 3/201 4). The charts show three 
scenarios: (a) base salary, beneﬁts and pension, (b) mid and (c) maximum.
In developing the scenarios, the following assumptions have been made: 
Base salary, beneﬁts 
and pension
Based on what an Executive Director would receive if performance was in line with the following scenario:
Only total ﬁxed pay is received, i.e. base salary, beneﬁts and pension. This is calculated as follows:
– Base salary is the latest known salary.
– Beneﬁts measured at beneﬁts in single ﬁgure table. Further context for this ﬁgure is provided on page 79.
– Pension measured by applying cash in lieu rate against latest known salary.
Base Beneﬁts Pension Total ﬁxed
Group CEO £680,000 £186,000 £204,000 £1,070,000
Group CFO £500,000 £22,000 £1 25,000 £647 ,000
Mid
Based on what an Executive Director would receive if performance was in line with the Company’s expectations, which would result 
in the following scenario:
– Annual bonus pays out at 60% of maximum for mid performance.
–  A PSP award with a face value of 1 50% (in line with the “normal” grant policy) pays out 30% of maximum, being threshold level 
of vesting.
Maximum
Based on what an Executive Director would receive if performance was in line with the following scenario:
– Full pay-out of annual bonus, i.e. 1 50% of salary.
–  A PSP award with a face value of 200% (in line with the “maximum” possible award under the plan rules) pays out at 100% 
of maximum.
Notes: As required by the regulations, performance share plan awards (and amounts included within the bonus which have been deferred into shares) are set out at face value, 
with no share price growth assumptions.
Illustrative performance scenarios Thomas Cook Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 78
Transformation the ﬁrst 365 days
Governance: Report on Directors’ Remuneration  
Annual Remuneration Report
The Remuneration Committee presents its Annual Report on 
Directors’ remuneration which is set out below:
Consideration by the Directors of matters  
relating to Directors’ remuneration
The following Directors were members of the Remuneration 
Committee when matters relating to the Directors’ remuneration for 
the year were considered:
 > Roger Burnell (Chair)
 > Dawn Airey
 > Martine Verluyten
 > Emre Berkin (from 1 April 201 3)
The Committee invites individuals to attend meetings, as it deems 
beneﬁcial to assist it in reviewing matters for consideration. During the 
year, these individuals included Frank Meysman (Chairman), Harriet 
Green (Group Chief Executive Officer), Peter Marks (Non-Executive 
Director), Craig Stoehr (Group General Counsel), Sandra Campopiano 
(Chief People Officer), Judith Mackenzie (Group Head of Performance 
and Reward) and Derek Woodward (Group Company Secretary). 
Martine Verluyten is also Chairman of the Audit Committee and 
as such ensures that there is coordination in respect of risk and 
accounting issues. 
No Director or Senior Executive is present at meetings when their own 
remuneration arrangements are discussed. 
External advisors
Deloitte LLP were formally appointed as advisors by the Committee 
following a competitive tender process in June 201 2. They were 
appointed speciﬁcally to provide the Committee with objective and 
independent advice on executive remuneration matters. Deloitte is 
a member of the Remuneration Consultants’ Group and, as such, 
voluntarily operates under the code of conduct in relation to executive 
remuneration consulting in the UK. The Committee is satisﬁed that 
the advice they have received from Deloitte during the year has been 
objective and independent. Total fees paid to Deloitte in relation to 
advice to the Committee amounted to £65,559 (charged on a time 
plus expenses basis). Other practices of Deloitte, separate from the 
executive remuneration practice, have provided consulting services in 
relation to systems and organisational design projects and general tax 
and corporate ﬁnance advice to the Company during the year. 
During the year, Alithos provided assistance to the Committee 
regarding the calculation of total shareholder return, for which the 
total fees were £9,000 (based on the number of awards for which 
calculations were performed and the reports produced). Alithos was 
selected by the Company as a service provider, and the Committee is 
satisﬁed that the advice is independent and objective. Alithos provided 
no other services to the Company.
Single ﬁgure of total remuneration 
The following table sets out the single ﬁgure of total remuneration for Directors for the ﬁnancial years ending 30 September 201 2 and 201 3:
(a) 
Salary/fees
(b) 
Beneﬁts
(c) 
Annual bonus
(d) 
PSP
(e) 
Pension
Total (excluding 
buy-out awards)
Buy-out  
awards
6
(f) 
Total
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
2012/1 3 201 1 /12 2012/1 3 201 1 /12 2012/1 3 201 1 /12 2012/1 3 201 1 /12 2012/1 3 201 1 /12 2012/1 3 201 1 /12 2012/1 3 201 1 /12 2012/1 3 201 1 /12
Executive Directors
Harriet Green
1
680 1 18 186 27 1 ,785
2
– – – 204 36 2,855 181 – 536 2,855 71 7
Michael Healy
3
480 105 22 6 720 39 – – 120 261,342 176 – –1,342 176
Non-Executive Directors
Frank Meysman 275 275 38 54– –– –– – 313 329– – 313 329
Dawn Airey 60 60– –– –– –– – 60 60– – 60 60
Emre Berkin
4
55 –– –– –– –– – 55 – – – 55 –
Roger Burnell 80 76– –– –– –– – 80 76– – 80 76
Peter Marks 70 66– –– –– –– – 70 66– – 70 66
Martine Verluyten 80 73– –– –– –– – 80 73– – 80 73
Past-Non Executive Director
Richard Pennycook
5
11 –– –– –– –– – 11 – – – 11 –
Total 4,866 3,01 2
Notes:
1 Harriet Green was appointed Group CEO on 30 July 2012. 
2  The bonus amount shown of £1,785,000 relates to a 14-month period from 30 July 2012 to 30 September 2013, however, as the performance conditions ended during the year 
(2012/13), it is necessary to show the bonus amount solely within that year.
3 Michael Healy was appointed Group CFO on 1 July 2012.
4 Emre Berkin was appointed to the Board on 1 November 2012.
5 Richard Pennycook was appointed to the Board on 1 April 2013 and resigned on 5 June 2013.
6  As disclosed in the 201 1/12 Directors’ Remuneration Report, by resigning from her previous position to join the Company, Harriet Green forfeited deferred bonus and long-term 
incentive awards granted by her former employer. To help in securing her appointment, the Company agreed to provide a measure of compensation for these awards, based 
on an independent external valuation of the projected vesting level. As a result, the Company paid Harriet Green cash payments of £244,000 and £292,000 in April and July 
2013 respectively, such dates being the normal vesting dates for the awards made by her former employer. The value has been noted in the 201 1/12 column as the payment 
was in respect of Harriet Green’s appointment during that year. The Committee did not consider it appropriate to apply additional Thomas Cook performance measures to these 
payments, as they are compensation for forfeiture of awards from a former employer and reﬂect only the projected vesting level of those awards, already taking into account 
performance achieved compared to the original targets set. Thomas Cook Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 79
Financial statements
3
Directors’ report
2
Strategic report
1
Additional disclosures
Further information in respect of the salary, beneﬁts, pension, annual bonus and PSP amounts included in the table above are given below:
Salary
Base salaries for the Executive Directors were unchanged during the year. 
Beneﬁts
The following table sets out the beneﬁts received and the tax paid by the Company in respect of certain beneﬁts:
Name Car allowance Private medical Life assurance
Income 
protection
Accommodation 
costs
Tax on 
grossed-up 
accommodation 
costs Travel costs
Tax on grossed-
up travel costs Total
Harriet Green £20,000 £1,693 £1,405 £6,468 £60,937 £54,6 19 £21,205 £19,440 £185,767
Michael Healy £20,000 £1,693 £796––––– £22,489
Frank Meysman –––– £13, 1 74 £12,241 £12,379– £37 ,794
The beneﬁts received by the Executive Directors include private medical beneﬁts, life assurance/death-in-service beneﬁt and car allowance. 
Harriet Green additionally receives income protection and the provision of accommodation in London and travel costs reimbursed by the 
Company and the income tax assessed by HMRC as payable on the accommodation and travel expense elements*. Of the beneﬁts disclosed for 
Harriet Green, circa £82,000 relate to these accommodation and travel costs, which are considered necessary due to late and early meetings 
necessitated by the scale and pace of our ambitious Transformation. The ﬁgure disclosed for Frank Meysman is in respect of accommodation 
in London and travel costs reimbursed by the Company and the income tax assessed by HMRC as payable on the London accommodation 
element*. Frank Meysman’s travel expenses between Belgium and the UK are not taxable, as he is domiciled in Belgium and is entitled to a 
speciﬁc deduction under HMRC rules.
* The income tax is not paid on any other elements of the beneﬁts received by Harriet Green and Frank Meysman.
Pensions
The Company contributes for each of the Executive Directors into either a pension scheme or as a cash allowance an amount equivalent to 30% 
and 25% of annual base salary or the Group CEO and Group CFO, respectively. Currently, both Harriet Green and Michael Healy receive their 
pension contributions as cash allowances.  Thomas Cook Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 80
Transformation the ﬁrst 365 days
Measures
Weight 
(as a % of 
max award)
Actual performance relative to targets set
Actual performance 
achieved
% 
improvement 
on 201 1/12
Resulting level 
of award 
(% maximum 
opportunity)
Below Threshold  
(20% of 
maximum 
opportunity) 
Mid  
(60% of 
maximum 
opportunity)
Maximum  
(100% of 
maximum 
opportunity)
Financial
Group free cash ﬂow 35% £53.2m n/a
1
 100%
Group underlying EBIT
2
35% £263.0m 68.48% 100%
Strategic 
and people
Targets were set 
relating to external 
funding, development 
of the Group Finance 
function, and relevant 
strategic ﬁnancial 
targets
30%
Exceptional performance in leading 
the successful capital reﬁnancing 
in May 2013.
Continuous improvement of 
Group Finance processes.
Savings of £250m announced to the 
market at the half year and £70m 
realised FY13.
Supported the UK management team 
in achieving turnaround objectives and 
delivery of UK underlying EBIT of £65.2m.
n/a 100% 
Total resulting level of award as % of maximum opportunity 100%
Notes:
1  The percentage improvement on 201 1 /1 2 for Group free cash ﬂow is marked as n/a because last year’s ﬁgure of £( 103) million was negative which does not permit a 
percentage comparison.
2  Group underlying EBIT performance of £263 million for FY 1 3 resulted in 100% achievement of the bonus stretch target. In addition, the Remuneration Committee made an 
adjustment to the FY 1 3 actual performance and bonus targets to include the results of the North American business for the period prior to disposal in FY 1 3. Although this calculation 
reduced actual performance and increased the bonus target, as the North American business made losses prior to disposal while it was budgeted to be proﬁtable, the result showed 
that 100% of the stretch target would still have been achieved.
3 201 1/12 ﬁgures included India (divested in 2012).
Governance: Report on Directors’ Remuneration  
Annual Remuneration Report continued
Group CFO
Measures
Weight 
(as a % of 
max award)
Actual performance relative to targets set
Actual performance 
achieved
% 
improvement 
on 201 1/12
Resulting level 
of award 
(% maximum 
opportunity)
Below Threshold  
(20% of 
maximum 
opportunity) 
Mid  
(60% of 
maximum 
opportunity)
Maximum  
(100% of 
maximum 
opportunity)
Financial
Group free cash ﬂow 1 5% £53.2m n/a
1
100%
Group underlying EBIT
2
10% £263.0m 68.48% 100% 
UK underlying EBIT
3
10% £65.2m 413.39% 100% 
Internal savings 10%
 Savings of £250m announced to the 
market at the half year and £70m realised 
FY13
n/a 100%
External funding 1 5%
£1.6bn reﬁnancing plan executed 
in June 2013
n/a 100%
Management 
Information Reporting
5% Signiﬁcant improvements delivered n/a 100% 
Strategic 
and people
Targets were set 
relating to the 
development and 
launch of the new 
strategy, and key talent, 
engagement and 
best practice sharing 
initiatives 
35%
 Performance judged exceptional against 
all measures. Highlights include successful 
approval and positively received launch 
of the new strategy for proﬁtable growth 
and critical new leadership appointments 
made and signiﬁcant improvements in 
internal and external communication 
and effective ways of working.
n/a 100% 
Total resulting level of award as % of maximum opportunity 100%
Group CEO
Annual bonus
For the year, the maximum annual bonus award opportunity was:
 > Group CEO: 225% of salary per annum (however the Committee agreed at the time of appointment of Harriet Green that the 201 2/1 3 
annual bonus maximum would be adjusted to reﬂect the 1 4 month period from date of appointment to the year end). The rationale for this 
maximum bonus opportunity of 225% was, as stated in last year’s report, to incentivise signiﬁcant stretch targets linked to the Transformation 
plan. The annual bonus opportunity for FY 201 3/1 4 is aligned with policy at 1 50%.
 > Group CFO: 1 50% of salary per annum. 
The table below sets out details of performance against the FY 201 2/1 3 bonus targets: Thomas Cook Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 81
Financial statements
3
Directors’ report
2
Strategic report
1
The actual performance targets set at the beginning of the 
performance period are not disclosed as they are considered to 
remain commercially sensitive at this time. We will disclose these 
targets at such point that the Committee considers they are no longer 
commercially sensitive.
Annual bonus deferral 
One quarter of the annual bonus was deferred into the Company’s 
shares, which will be released after one year. This policy has been 
amended for the current year and one-third of the bonus declared 
in respect of the 201 3/1 4 year will be held in the form of shares, 
which will vest after two years from the cash bonus date, subject 
to continued employment and the clawback provisions described 
on page 74. The deferred shares may be forfeited if the Executive 
Director leaves before the date the deferred shares are released.
Performance Share Plan (“PSP”) awards
There are no pay-outs in respect of the PSP as no awards made to the 
Executive Directors have yet reached their vesting dates. 
The performance measures above were selected to reﬂect the 
strategic and transformational objectives of the Group. Along with 
the 201 3/1 4 annual bonus plan targets, these measures create full 
alignment of our reward arrangements with our Transformation 
targets and KPIs, as demonstrated on page 20. The rationale for 
the continued use of share price targets, albeit with an amended 
measurement basis, was agreed with major Shareholders, as set out 
on pages 66, 7 6 and 87 .
Scheme interests awarded during the ﬁnancial year
The following table sets out details of awards of conditional shares 
made during the year under the PSP . Thomas Cook consulted with 
major shareholders in respect of these awards – further detail is 
provided on pages 66, 7 6 and 87 .
Reﬂecting the exceptional performance of both Executive Directors 
over the last year, as evidenced by the achievement of the ﬁrst stages 
of our Transformation, the Committee considered enhanced award 
levels with face values of 200% and 187 .5% of salary were appropriate 
for Harriet Green and Michael Healy, respectively. The award levels, 
and the challenging performance targets, reﬂect the signiﬁcant 
contribution that will be required from our Executive Directors over the 
next three years. 
In addition, the levels reﬂect that the Committee does not currently 
envisage making any further awards under the PSP to Executive 
Directors until early 201 5 (i.e. it is not intended to make PSP awards 
to Executive Directors during the ﬁnancial year ending 30 September 
201 4). 
Face value has been calculated by multiplying the number of shares 
awarded by a price of £1.475 which was the closing share price for the 
trading day immediately prior to the award date. 
The Committee considers the targets to be challenging and the 
auditors maintain oversight of the performance measurement 
process. The Company’s share price when Harriet Green joined on 
30 July 201 2 was 1 6.25 pence and by 30 September 201 3 it was 
1 53.4 pence. The performance targets for the September 201 3 PSP 
award were made by reference to the new increased ﬁnancial targets 
as described on pages 20 and 71.
Date of award
Number of shares 
awarded Face value
Amount vesting 
End of ﬁnancial 
measures 
performance 
period 
End of share price 
performance 
period
Threshold 
performance
(% of face value)
Maximum 
performance
(% of face value)
Group CEO 30.09.2013 922,033 £1,360,000 30% 100% 30.09.2016 Measurement 
approach is 
described below Group CFO 30.09.2013 6 10, 169 £900,000 30% 100% 30.09.2016
Awards to both Executive Directors will vest dependent upon the achievement of three-year performance measures, as set out below:
Share price (45% of the overall award) Gr oup underly i n g E B IT ( 3 0% o f the overall a w ard) Cash conversion (25% of the overall award)
Performance 
level
Share price
Vesting (% of 
this portion )
Performance 
level
Group 
underlying 
EBIT
Vesting (% of 
this portion )
Performance 
level
Cash 
conversion
Vesting (% of 
this portion )
Maximum £3.00 100% Maximum See below 100% Maximum 90% 100%
Threshold £2.25 30% Threshold 30% Threshold 70% 30%
Share price performance is measured as the 
average share price performance over the ﬁxed 
period of 30 trading days from the release of 
the preliminary FY16 results, with the intention 
of capturing the market’s reaction to the 
ﬁnancial results.
Group underlying EBIT performance in respect of 
FY16, which is the ﬁnal year of the three-year 
performance period.
Group underlying EBIT excludes 
exceptional items.
Cash conversion performance measured in 
respect of FY16 cash conversion, which is the 
ﬁnal year of the three-year performance period.
Cash conversion is deﬁned as free cash ﬂow 
post exceptional items, before capital 
expenditure/EBITDA. Thomas Cook Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 82
Transformation the ﬁrst 365 days
Governance: Report on Directors’ Remuneration  
Annual Remuneration Report continued
Each of the Non-Executive Directors has been appointed pursuant 
to a letter of appointment, which are available for inspection at the 
Company’s registered office. The appointments under these letters 
continue until the expiry dates set out below unless terminated for 
cause or on the period of notice stated below:
Director
Date of latest letter 
of appointment Expiry date
Notice 
period
Frank Meysman 27 March 2013 N/A 3 months
Dawn Airey 27 March 2013 1 1 April 2016 1 month
Emre Berkin 27 March 2013 30 October 201 5 1 month
Roger Burnell 27 March 2013 2014 AGM 1 month
Peter Marks 27 March 2013 30 September 2014 1 month
Carl Symon 3 October 2013 2 October 2016 1 month
Warren Tucker 3 October 2013 2 October 2016 1 month
Martine Verluyten 27 March 2013 8 May 2014 1 month
Note: The notice period for Non-Executive Directors was reduced from six months to 
one month (three months for the Chairman) during the year, to bring the notice periods 
in line with best practice.
External appointments
As set out in the Policy Report, the Company recognises the beneﬁts of 
Executive Directors taking on external appointments as Non-Executive 
Directors, subject to the limitations set out in the Policy Report and to 
Committee approval.
Harriet Green is a non-executive director of BAE Systems plc and 
Emerson Electric Co. Both roles were held prior to her appointment 
as Group CEO. On her appointment, the Board agreed that she 
should continue to serve on both boards, being satisﬁed that she will 
devote sufficient time and energy to the Company and that being a 
non-executive director is a mutual beneﬁt to the executive and the 
Company. For the period from 1 October 201 2 until 30 September 
201 3, she received fees of £84,000 and $1 1 5,875.08 respectively, 
which she is allowed to retain.
Performance graphs
Performance of market capitalisation since 3 1 July 201 2:
The graph set out below shows the increase in the Company’s stock 
market capitalisation, in the period 31 July 201 2 to 30 September 
201 3 (the period between the appointment of Harriet Green as CEO 
and the end of FY1 3): 
The Committee also considers the Group underlying EBIT targets to 
be stretching, however due to our ambitious plans for the business 
Transformation, we consider that these targets are commercially 
sensitive at this point. We commit to disclosing the target range 
on a retrospective basis at the end of the performance period. 
We have discussed this approach with our major Shareholders, 
who are supportive. 
The Committee will have the discretion to amend the ﬁnal pay-out 
level if it does not consider that it reﬂects the underlying performance 
of the Company. As discussed on page 71, we would expect to consult 
with our shareholders in the event of any signiﬁcant adjustment, in 
particular an upwards adjustment.
The Committee considers that it is important that all senior executives 
share in the same strategic targets and KPIs that will focus Thomas 
Cook on delivery and success. The top 100 senior executives 
participate in the Performance Share Plan, and are therefore also 
focused on delivery of share price, Group underlying EBIT and cash 
conversion targets.
Full details of the scheme interests held by Executive Directors  
are set out on page 86.
Payments within the reporting year to past 
Directors, and loss of office payments
There were no payments to past Directors who were not in position 
as a Director at the time a relevant payment was accrued. There were 
also no loss of office payments made within the year.
Current Executive Director service contracts
The dates of the service contracts for Harriet Green and Michael 
Healy are 23 May 201 2 and 8 May 201 2. Harriet Green’s initial notice 
period was 24 months, reducing at the rate of one month for every 
month served (from commencement of her service as CEO on 30 July 
201 2) until the Policy position of six months is reached. At the date of 
approval of this report, Harriet Green’s notice period is nine months, 
and at the time of our AGM in February 201 4, it will be six months, 
in line with our Policy. The service contracts are available for inspection 
at the Company’s registered office.
Non-Executive Directors
The Chairman is paid a single, consolidated fee of £275,000.
The Non-Executive Directors are paid a basic fee, plus additional fees 
for chairmanship of Board Committees. 
The annual rates of Non-Executive Director fees are shown in the 
table below:
Position
Annual fees 
£’000
Non-Executive Director 60
Additional fee for the Chairman of the Audit Committee 20
Additional fee for the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 20
Additional fee for the Chairman of the Health, Safety  
and Environmental Committee 10
Note: Fee rates were reviewed during the year and, following a benchmarking exercise, 
were left unchanged.
Market capitalisation   £m
2,500
2,000
1,500
1,000
500
0
1,036m
1 ,068m
263m
177 m
31 July 1 2 30 Sept 1 2
Capital Markets Day
– 31 March 201 3
H1 Results and £1.6bn 
reﬁnancing – 16 May 201 3
Q3 IMS 1
– 1 August 201 3
Pre closing trading
– 26 Sept 201 3
30 Nov 1 2 31 Jan 1 3 31 Mar 1 3 31 May 1 3 31 July 1 3 30 Sep 1 3 Thomas Cook Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 83
Financial statements
3
Directors’ report
2
Strategic report
1
Relative performance since 3 1 July 201 2:
The graph set out on the right shows the Total Shareholder Return 
(“TSR”, described in more detail further below) for Thomas Cook 
Group plc shareholders from 31 July 201 2 to 30 September 201 3 (the 
period between the appointment of Harriet Green as CEO and the end 
of FY1 3), based on a starting value of £100 invested, compared to the 
FTSE 250 Index and the FTSE All Share Travel & Leisure Index.
Note: This graph shows the value of Thomas Cook plc on 31 July 2012 compared with 
the value of £100 invested in the FTSE 250 and FTSE All Share Travel & Leisure Index. 
The intermediate points are the values at the end of each month in the period.
Statutory graph:
The graph below shows the TSR for holders of Thomas Cook Group plc €0. 10 Ordinary Shares (€0.01 Ordinary Shares from 3 June 201 3) for the 
ﬁve-year period since 30 September 2008, measured against the FTSE 250 Index and the FTSE All Share Travel & Leisure Index. These indices 
were chosen as relevant comparators, as the Company is a member of both indices, with one reﬂecting a broad equity index and the other 
being speciﬁc to the travel sector. The calculation of TSR is in accordance with the relevant remuneration regulations and is broadly the 
change in market price together with reinvestment of dividend income. This graph shows the value of £100 invested in Thomas Cook Group 
plc on 30 September 2008 compared with the value of £100 invested in the FTSE 250 Index and the FTSE All Share Travel & Leisure Index. 
The intermediate points are the values at the Company’s ﬁnancial year ends.
Group CEO FY 2008/09 FY 2009/10 FY 2010/1 1 FY 201 1/12 FY 2012/13
CEO single ﬁgure 
of remuneration
Harriet Green
1
– – – £717 ,000 £2,855,000
Sam Weihagen
2
– – £153,000 £1,171,000 –
Manny Fontenla-Novoa
3
£2,996,000 £2,322,000 £2,175,000
4
––
Annual  bonus pay-out  
(as % maximum  
opportunity)
Harriet Green – – – See note 5 100%
Sam Weihagen –– 0% 23%–
Manny Fontenla-Novoa 96% 80% 0% – –
PSP vesting  
(as % of maximum  
opportunity)
Harriet Green – – – See note 6 See note 6
Sam Weihagen – – 0% 0% –
Manny Fontenla-Novoa 67 .5% 0% 0% – –
The table above shows the prescribed remuneration data (as shown in the left-handside column) for the Director(s) undertaking the role of 
Group Chief Executive Officer during each of the last ﬁve ﬁnancial years.
Notes:
1 Harriet Green was appointed Group CEO on 30 July 2012.
2   Sam Weihagen was appointed Group CEO on 3 August 201 1, and remained in post until the appointment of Harriet Green.
3 Manny Fontenla-Novoa stepped down as CEO on 2 August 201 1.
4  The single ﬁgure for FY 2010/1 1 for Manny Fontenla-Novoa includes his termination payment, which was a total of £1, 166,639 (in respect of contractual entitlements to base 
salary, pension allowance and beneﬁts, in lieu of notice).
5   No annual bonus targets were set in respect of the two-month period between Harriet Green’s appointment in July 2012 and the September 2012 year end.
6   There was no PSP award vesting in FY 201 1/12 and 2012/13 as none of Harriet Green’s awards had yet reached the end of their performance periods.
Total shareholder return £
30 Sept 08 30 Sept 09 30 Sept 10 30 Sept 1 1 30 Sept 1 2 30 Sept 1 3
200
175
150
125
100
75
50
25
0
Thomas Cook FTSE 250 FTSE All Share Travel & Leisure Index
Total shareholder return £ 
(31 July 2012 to 30 September 2013)
  
31 July 1 2 30 Sept 1 2 30 Nov 1 2 31 Jan 1 3 31 Mar 1 3 31 May 1 3 31 July 1 3 30 Sept 1 3
1,000
900
800
700
600
500
400
300
200
100
0
Thomas Cook FTSE 250 FTSE All Share Travel & Leisure Index Thomas Cook Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 84
Transformation the ﬁrst 365 days
Governance: Report on Directors’ Remuneration  
Annual Remuneration Report continued
the Group annual bonus plan were not met and therefore annual bonus payments 
were only made in limited, exceptional, circumstances in respect of the personal 
targets element of the plan. For FY 2012/13, the Group ﬁnancial targets have been 
exceeded, and 100% of the maximum opportunity in respect of this element will 
pay out for all participants. Group ﬁnancial targets account for 70% of the maximum 
opportunity. The remaining 30% is in respect of personal targets, and performance 
against these for the employee population will be determined in early December 
2013 in line with the usual performance management cycle.
Relative importance of spend on pay
The chart below displays the relative expenditure of the Company 
on various matters, as required (in the case of Group employees’ pay 
and shareholder distributions) by the relevant remuneration regulations: 
Group underlying EBIT is shown above as this is a key performance 
indicator for the Company. Overall Director pay has also been included, 
to give an indication of its context compared to overall employee pay. 
The ﬁgures shown in the table are extracted from the Group’s ﬁnancial 
statements. The amounts for Group employees’ pay and Directors’ 
pay both include employer social security payments.
Statement of implementation of remuneration 
policy in the following ﬁnancial year
The Committee considers that the Company’s performance has been 
exceptional since the appointment of Harriet Green and Michael 
Healy last year, as evidenced by the excellent delivery of the ﬁrst 
stages of our Transformation (measured by a range of metrics) and 
the Company’s Capital Reﬁnancing Plan. The following section of the 
report sets out the executive remuneration decisions made to support 
Thomas Cook’s delivery of the next stage of our Transformation. 
2013/14 base salaries
When reviewing Executive Director salaries, in line with our policy 
stated on page 72, the Committee considers a range of factors, 
including the size and scope of the executive’s responsibilities, 
performance and experience, and pay for other employees in 
the Company. The Committee also takes a holistic view of total 
remuneration, including the level of variable pay which will vest 
dependent upon achievement of demanding performance targets 
as we deliver our Transformation. 
The Committee is particularly mindful of the Company’s current 
circumstances, and the broader employee context within the 
organisation, with some parts of the Group subject to recent pay 
freezes and redundancy programmes. The Committee also noted 
the range of views expressed by Shareholders in our meetings 
this summer. 
Percentage change in remuneration 
of Chief Executive Officer
The table below sets out the percentage change in the remuneration 
of the Group CEO compared to that of UK-based employees, 
(including retail and tour-operations but excluding any employees 
whose pay is subject to long-term collective agreements). We have 
selected this comparator group as the Group CEO is UK-based and 
this provides a local market reference point, and is a sizeable and 
fair representation of our employee base. Long-term collective 
agreements have been excluded to ensure that pay movements 
within the comparator group are subject to similar external pressures 
as the Group CEO.
% change in remuneration from FY1 1/12 to FY12/13
% change in 
base salary
% change in  
beneﬁts
% change in  
annual bonus
Group CEO 0%
1
See note 3 below See note 5 below
UK-based employees 0%
2
See note 4 below See note 6 below
Notes:
1  The Group CEO, Harriet Green, was appointed on 30 July 2012. Her salary upon 
appointment was £680,000 and this has not increased during FY1 1/12 or FY12/13. 
Harriet Green’s salary on appointment was set at a lower level than her predecessors, 
Sam Weihagen and Manny Fontenla-Novoa. Their respective salary rates are 
shown below:
Salary rate per annum (£)
Harriet Green (from 30 July 2012) 680,000
Sam Weihagen (3 August 201 1 to 30 July 2012) 750,000
Manny Fontenla-Novoa (to 2 August 201 1 ) 850,000
2  UK-based employees have had their base salary frozen since 2010, due to business 
challenges and uncertainties, similar to the majority of Thomas Cook employees 
across all segments. Any exceptional or one-off changes to salaries due for example 
to promotions or role-changes within the year have been excluded.
3  The Company has provided the same types and levels of beneﬁts to Harriet Green 
since her appointment. Given the fact that Harriet Green was only CEO for two 
months of the prior ﬁnancial year it is difficult to provide a direct comparison. 
However, to provide some comparison, Harriet Green’s annualised beneﬁts for FY 
1 1/12 were £156,000 (based on £27 ,000 beneﬁts received, in relation to a 63-day 
period from 30 July 2012) and beneﬁts for the year being reported on (as shown in 
the single ﬁgure table on page 78) were £186,000. A full breakdown of the beneﬁts 
for the current year is provided on page 79. Harriet Green’s predecessor as CEO, 
Sam Weihagen, received £93,000 in beneﬁts in the prior year, as disclosed in last 
year’s report. 
4  The main taxable beneﬁts provided to UK-based employees are private medical 
insurance and car allowance, dependent upon seniority. There has been no change 
in the level of beneﬁts provided.
5  Harriet Green’s bonus payment of £1,785,000 shown in the single ﬁgure 
remuneration table on page 78 relates to a 14-month period as CEO (from 30 July 
2012 to 30 September 2013) and reﬂects a period of exceptional performance. 
Harriet Green did not receive a bonus payment in respect of the prior ﬁnancial 
year (having joined the Company as CEO just two months prior to the year end). 
Therefore a direct comparison against the prior year is not possible. Harriet Green’s 
predecessor as CEO, Sam Weihagen, was in place for approximately 10 months of 
the prior ﬁnancial year and, as disclosed in last year’s Remuneration Report, received 
a bonus payment of £300,000 for that 10-month period. Sam Weihagen’s bonus 
ﬁgure cannot be compared directly to Harriet Green’s ﬁgure, in a manner which 
permits comparison, as Sam Weihagen was an Interim CEO, and therefore his 
package was framed on an entirely different basis to Harriet Green’s. As disclosed 
in last year’s Remuneration Report, “the bonus arrangement in respect of Sam 
Weihagen reﬂected the special circumstances and uncertain tenure of his 
appointment as Group CEO”. As also previously disclosed, Sam Weihagen was 
awarded 23% of his maximum bonus opportunity for the prior year. Harriet Green 
has been awarded 100% of her bonus opportunity for the year being reported on, 
reﬂecting exceptional performance during that period.
6  In order to provide the most direct comparison possible, the Committee considers 
a focus on all employees participating in the Group annual bonus scheme is 
appropriate, as the performance targets have a “Group” focus similar to the 
performance targets in place for Harriet Green. It is difficult to provide a meaningful 
percentage change ﬁgure from FY 1 1/12 to FY 12/13 as the performance of the 
Company has transformed over this period. For FY 1 1/12, the ﬁnancial targets for 
Comparative chart   £m
  
2012 2013
Group underlying
EBIT
Overall expenditure
on Directors’ pay
Overall expenditure on
Group employees’ pay
1,200
1,000
800
600
400
200
0
1,036m
1 ,068m
5.4m 3.3m
Shareholder
distributions
Thomas Cook’s
dividend policy is
suspended during
the Transformation
£0 £0
263m
177 m
tive chart
1036m
68m
−3.0%
+63.6%
263m
+48.6%
No 
change Thomas Cook Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 85
Financial statements
3
Directors’ report
2
Strategic report
1
The Committee believes that the strong leadership, vision and 
exceptional achievements delivered by Harriet Green justify a salary 
increase, however, both the Committee and Harriet Green were 
mindful of the wider pay context, and share the view that it would 
be inappropriate to award a salary increase at this time to the Group 
CEO for 201 3/1 4 (the salary rate therefore remains £680,000 p.a.). 
Instead, the Committee decided that the best way to recognise the 
CEO’s signiﬁcant performance and achievements throughout the 
last year and her continued and signiﬁcant role in the future in the 
execution of our strategy was to grant an award under the 201 3 PSP 
at the maximum level of 200% of salary in September, as detailed 
on page 81, rather than by way of a small percentage increase in 
base pay. 
The Committee also recognises the exceptional performance 
delivered by Michael Healy throughout the past year. In view of his 
performance, his continued and signiﬁcant role in the future and, in his 
case, internal relativities with other senior executives, the Committee 
considered it appropriate to increase his base salary by 4.2% (from 
£480,000 to £500,000, with effect from 1 October 201 3) and make a 
201 3 PSP award of 187 .5% of salary (based on the pre-increase salary 
of £480,000) as detailed on page 81.
2013/14 annual bonus measures and weightings 
As detailed on page 80, the maximum annual bonus opportunity for 
both Executive Directors for 201 3/1 4 will be 1 50% of salary.
In line with our Policy, at least 70% of the annual bonus will be linked 
to the achievement of ﬁnancial measures and 30% will be linked to 
role-speciﬁc strategic objectives. For 201 3/1 4, the measures will be 
as follows:
Measures
Weighting 
(% overall 
opportunity) Harriet Green Michael Healy
Core  
measures
Group underlying EBIT 25% ◊◊
Group cash conversion 25% ◊◊
Web targets 10% ◊◊
New product revenue 10% ◊◊
Role-speciﬁc 
strategic 
objectives
Group “cost out” 10% ◊◊
Group “gross margin” 10% ◊◊
Organisation and people 10% ◊◊
The performance measures above were selected to reﬂect the 
strategic and transformational objectives of the Group. Along with 
the 201 2 and 201 3 Performance Share Plan targets, these measures 
create full alignment of our reward with our Transformation targets 
and KPIs, as demonstrated on page 20.
The Committee considers that the targets are commercially sensitive, 
so these have not been disclosed. We will disclose these targets 
at such point that the Committee considers they are no longer 
commercially sensitive. 
The Committee considers it is important that all senior executives 
share in the same strategic targets and KPIs that will focus Thomas 
Cook on delivery and success. The annual bonus plan described 
above (with 70% focus on “core measures” which are consistent for 
all participants and 30% on “role-speciﬁc” strategic objectives) is in 
place for the Executive Directors and other senior executives with 
responsibility for delivering our Transformation.
Performance Share Plan
The Committee granted awards under the PSP to Harriet Green and 
Michael Healy on 30 September 201 3. As these awards were made in 
the 201 2/1 3 ﬁnancial year, these are described in detail on page 81. 
The Committee will consider the next grant under the PSP for 
Executive Directors during the course of this year. This award is 
likely to made in January 201 5 (i.e. it is not intended to make PSP 
awards to Executive Directors during the ﬁnancial year ending 
30 September 201 4).
Directors’ share and share plan interests
The following tables show the interests of the Directors in the shares 
of the Company as follows:
 > shares held beneﬁcially;
 > shares held as part of the deferred bonus arrangements; and
 > share plan interests (under the Performance Share Plan) held 
by the Executive Directors.
Shareholding guidelines
Executive Directors are required to hold the Company’s shares to the 
value of 1 00% of base salary, under the Thomas Cook shareholding 
guidelines operating policy.
Executive Directors are allowed a build-up period which ends after 
sufficient awards under the PSP have vested to provide shares to the 
value of 1 00% of base salary ( after tax has been paid on the shares). 
Until the shareholding guideline is met, after-tax proceeds of vested 
PSP shares cannot be sold. At the year-end Harriet Green had met the 
shareholding guidelines in advance of the end of the build-up period, 
having acquired a total of 700,000 shares, with a value (based on a three-
month average share price of £ 1 .36 ) of 1 40% of her salary. Michael Healy 
continues to make progress towards the one times salary holding.
Total beneﬁcial holdings of the Directors:
The beneﬁcial interests of Directors in the shares of the Company 
are listed below:
Beneﬁcial holdings
No. shares as at 
30 September 2013
Current Directors
Harriet Green 700,000
Michael Healy 24,001
Frank Meysman 420,000
Dawn Airey 42,000
Emre Berkin –
Roger Burnell 271, 169
Peter Marks 145,051
Martine Verluyten 140,000
Past Non-Executive Director
Richard Pennycook –
Notes:
1  The shares shown in the beneﬁcial holdings table above were acquired by the 
Directors using their own funds and not through any share incentive scheme (or 
similar), with the exception of Michael Healy’s shareholding above which includes 
5,753 shares held within the Deferred Bonus Plan (detailed below). Harriet Green 
purchased 700,000 shares during the year, which comprised 500,000 shares 
purchased on 28 November 2012 and 200,000 shares purchased on 20 June 2013.
2  All share interests shown above were unchanged as at 26 November 2013.
3  Warren Tucker and Carl Symon were appointed as Non-Executive Directors of 
the Company on 3 October 2013. They had no beneﬁcial holdings in the Company’s 
shares as at 26 November 2013. Thomas Cook Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 86
Transformation the ﬁrst 365 days
Governance: Report on Directors’ Remuneration  
Annual Remuneration Report continued
Deferred Annual Bonus shares
The table below sets out the shares held as part of the Deferred Annual Bonus arrangements, as at 30 September 201 3:
Date of purchase Number of shares acquired
Share price on date of purchase  
(pence)
Michael Healy 20/06/2013 5,753 1 25. 1
Total: 5,753
Further details of the annual bonus deferral process are described on page 81. No further performance conditions apply. The bonus payment 
date was March 201 3 but the relevant shares were not purchased until the Company ceased to be in a prohibited period (at the conclusion of the 
Company’s Placing and Rights Issue in June 201 3). Subject to the conditions described on page 81 (with clawback described on page 7 4), the 
shares will be released in March 201 4.
Performance Share Plan (PSP)
The table below sets out the Directors’ PSP interests, as at 30 September 201 3:
Scheme Date of award
Number of 
shares awarded
(1)
Share price on 
date of award 
(pence)
Earliest 
vesting date Performance measures
Harriet Green PSP 28/09/2012 7 , 195,316 1 7 .5 28/09/201 5 Subject to share price and ﬁnancial performance measures, further detail available in the 
201 1/12 Directors’ Remuneration Report, and in notes 1 and 2 below.
PSP 30/09/2013 922,033 1 53.4 30/09/2016 Subject to share price and ﬁnancial performance measures, as set out on page 81.
Total: 8, 1 17 ,349
Michael Healy PSP 12/06/2012 576,780 16.5 12/06/201 5 Subject to share price, further detail available in the 201 1/1 2 Directors’ Remuneration 
Report, and in note 1 below
PSP 28/09/2012 2, 307 , 120 1 7 .5 28/09/201 5 Subject to share price and ﬁnancial performance measures, further detail available in the 
201 1/12 Directors’ Remuneration Report, and in notes 1 and 2 below.
PSP 30/09/2013 6 10, 169 1 53.4 30/09/2016 Subject to share price and ﬁnancial performance measures, as set out on page 81.
Total: 3,494,069
Notes:
1  The Company undertook a Rights Issue as part of its Capital Reﬁnancing in June 2013. This impacted upon the Company’s outstanding share awards made before this date. 
In line with usual market practice, the number of shares in the awards have been adjusted to ensure that participants were no better or worse off as a result of the Rights Issue. 
For reference the unadjusted numbers of shares, as provided in last year’s report, were as follows: Harriet Green’s September 2012 PSP award was 6,237 ,488 shares and Michael 
Healy’s June and September 2012 PSP awards were 500,000 and 2,000,000 shares respectively. (The share price on date of grant in the table above is shown on the same 
basis as last year’s report, i.e. on an unadjusted basis.) In addition, the Committee also considered that it was necessary to adjust the share price targets set in relation to the 
June 2012 and September 2012 PSP awards to ensure that the targets remain equally as challenging as when they were originally set. The adjustments used were calculated 
using the standard formula, taking into account the terms of the Rights Issue. The adjustments were applied to all outstanding awards held by employees. The principles of the 
adjustments were discussed with our major shareholders, who were supportive.
2  The September 2012 PSP awards made to Executive Directors were disclosed in the 201 1/12 Directors’ Remuneration Report. The share price targets were set at the time 
the award was made, and also disclosed in the report. However, the Committee considered that the ﬁnancial performance conditions attached to the award needed to 
be relevant to the task ahead, including creating value for shareholders and delivering the Transformation, although at the time of making the award the strategy had 
not yet been developed. Accordingly, it was determined and agreed with major shareholders that the ﬁnancial targets would be set after the announcement of the new 
strategy. In consultation with major shareholders as discussed on pages 66 and 76 the ﬁnancial performance measures and targets were set as described in the table below. 
The weightings of the performance conditions described in the table below for Michael Healy describe the overall 2012 award (i.e. June 2012 and September 2012).
Share price  
(45% of the overall award)
Group underlying EBIT  
(30% of the overall award)
Cash conversion  
(25% of the overall award)
Performance 
level
Applies to 45% of 
Michael Healy’s award 
and 25% of Harriet 
Green’s award
Applies to 20% of 
Harriet Green’s 
award only
Performance 
level
Group 
underlying 
EBIT
Vesting 
(% of this  
portion)
Performance 
level
Cash 
conversion
Vesting 
(% of this  
portion)
Share price 
(as adjusted 
for the 
Rights Issue)
Vesting  
(% of this  
portion)
Share price 
(as adjusted 
for the 
Rights Issue)
Vesting  
(% of this  
portion)
Maximum 86.69p 100% 1 21.36p 1 00% Maximum See below 100% Maximum 65% 100%
Threshold 26.01 p 30% 48.55p 0% Threshold 30% Threshold 55% 30%
Share price performance is measured as the highest 60-day 
average share price achieved in the ﬁnal year of the 
performance period.
As described on pages 81 and 87 this approach has been 
amended for the 201 3 PSP awards.
Group underlying EBIT performance in 
respect of FY1 5, which is the ﬁnal year of the 
three-year performance period.
Group underlying EBIT excludes 
exceptional items.
Cash conversion performance measured in 
respect of FY1 5 cash conversion, which is 
the ﬁnal year of the three-year 
performance period.
Cash conversion is deﬁned as free cash ﬂow 
post exceptional items, before capital 
expenditure/EBITDA. Thomas Cook Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 87
Financial statements
3
Directors’ report
2
Strategic report
1
At the time the performance targets were set, the Committee 
considered that these were challenging. The Company’s share price 
when Harriet Green joined on 30 July 201 2 was 1 6.25 pence and in 
September 201 2 when these share price targets were being set it 
remained around the same level. Therefore even the threshold target 
represented a signiﬁcant increase. Maximum achievement of the cash 
conversion target would exceed our then publicly stated FY1 5 target of 
60% (subsequently increased to 70%, reﬂecting the pace and extent 
of progress in respect of the Transformation – see pages 20 and 71 ).
The Committee also considers the Group underlying EBIT targets to 
be stretching, however due to our ambitious plans for the business 
Transformation we consider that these targets are commercially 
sensitive at this point. We commit to disclosing the target range 
on a retrospective basis at the end of the performance period. 
We have discussed this approach with our major Shareholders, 
who are supportive. 
The Committee has reviewed where the Company’s performance to 
date is tracking in relation to the targets and is satisﬁed that, overall, 
the plan continues to provide sufficient levels of incentivisation 
to participants.
The scheme interests shown in the tables above (the Deferred Annual 
Bonus shares and the PSP) were unchanged as at 26 November 201 3.
Statement of Shareholder voting
The table below sets out the results of the vote on the Remuneration 
Report at the 201 3 AGM:
Votes for Votes against Votes cast Votes withheld
Number % Number %
307 ,213,359 70.3 129,898,306 29.7 437 , 1 1 1,665 26,050,879
Both the Chairman of the Board and the Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee contacted key Shareholders to understand 
and address concerns. Speciﬁc issues raised by investors included:
 > The approach to share price measurement for the 201 2 PSP targets 
was based on the highest 60-day average share price achieved 
in the ﬁnal year of the performance period. Some Shareholders 
considered that this is retesting.
 > A number of Shareholders were not supportive of absolute share 
price targets in general for performance share plans. 
Actions taken in response to these concerns were:
 > As described on page 66 of the Corporate Governance Report, 
Frank Meysman and Roger Burnell met with a number of major 
Shareholders who had voted against the Remuneration Report 
last year, to listen to their reasons why they exercised their votes 
in this way.
 > As described on page 7 6, the Chairman of the Board and 
the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee met with key 
Shareholders representing over 50% of our share capital in June 
and July 201 3 to consult in respect of the remuneration policy and 
the performance measures in respect of the PSP , amongst other 
matters (described in more detail on page 7 6).
 > In these meetings, the rationale for the continued use of absolute 
share price targets was explained to Shareholders. This is on the 
basis that we expect the upward trajectory of our share price 
recovery to continue for some time. This makes measuring 
percentage growth relative to other companies less challenging than 
the absolute “pence” targets. In addition, the continued suspension 
of Thomas Cook’s dividend means that Total Shareholder Return 
(which is share price plus dividends) is a less relevant measure than 
share price. On this basis, major Shareholders were supportive of 
our continued use of an absolute (rather than relative) share price 
measure for our September 201 3 awards. The Committee agreed to 
reconsider the appropriateness of relative Total Shareholder Return 
as a performance measure for the next awards under the PSP , which 
are not currently envisaged to be granted until early 201 5.
 > A revised approach to share price measurement was taken for 
the September 201 3 PSP awards. As described on page 81, this 
will measure the average share price performance over the ﬁxed 
period of 30 trading days from the release of the preliminary FY1 6 
results, with the intention of capturing the market’s reaction to 
our results announcement. Shareholders were consulted on the 
revised approach. They were appreciative that the Committee had 
addressed their concerns on this matter and were supportive of the 
revised approach. 
Auditable sections of the Annual Report 
on Remuneration
The auditable sections of the Annual Remuneration Report are shown 
on page 78 (Single ﬁgure of total remuneration section, onwards) to 
page 82 (up to and including the section on Non-Executive Directors) 
and on page 85 (Total beneﬁcial holdings section, onwards) to page 
87 (up to and including the Performance Share Plan section).
This Annual Remuneration Report has been approved by the Board of 
Directors and signed on its behalf by:
Roger Burnell
Chairman, Remuneration Committee
27 November 201 3 Thomas Cook Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 88
Transformation the ﬁrst 365 days
Governance: Other disclosures
Share capital 
The Company has the following three classes of shares in issue: 
Name
Number of shares in issue at 
30 September 2013 
Ordinary Shares of €0.01 each 1,453,403,227
Deferred Shares of €0.09 each 934,981,938
Deferred Shares of £1 each 50,000
The Ordinary Shares carry the right to the proﬁts of the Company 
available for distribution and to the return of capital on a winding up of 
the Company. The Ordinary Shares carry the right to attend and speak at 
general meetings of the Company; each share holds the right to one vote. 
The Ordinary Shares are admitted to trading on the Official List of the 
London Stock Exchange. Both classes of Deferred Shares carry no right to 
the proﬁts of the Company. On a winding up, the holders of the sterling-
denominated Deferred Shares would be entitled to receive an amount 
equal to the capital paid up on each sterling-denominated Deferred 
Share and the holders of the euro-denominated Deferred Shares would 
be entitled to receive an amount equal to the capital paid up on each 
euro-denominated Deferred Share only after the holders of the Ordinary 
Shares and sterling-denominated Deferred Shares have received, in 
aggregate, the amounts paid up thereon. The holders of both classes 
of Deferred Shares are not entitled to receive notice, attend, speak or 
vote (whether on a show of hands or on a poll) at general meetings of 
the Company. 
As part of the £200 million bank facility announced on 25 November 
201 1 , the Company issued Warrants to certain of its lenders, giving 
holders the right, at any time until 22 May 201 5, to subscribe for up to an 
aggregate of 42, 91 4,639 Ordinary Shares (representing approximately 
4. 9% of the issued share capital of the Company at the date of issue ) at a 
subscription price per share of 1 9 .875 pence.
On 1 0 May 201 2, the Company issued Warrants as part of the bank 
facility amendment announced on 5 May 201 2 to certain of its lenders, 
giving holders the right, at any time until 22 May 201 5, to subscribe 
for up to an aggregate of 43,7 49 ,5 1 7 Ordinary Shares, representing 
approximately 5.0% of the issued share capital of the Company at 
the date of issue, (subsequently increased by 4,440,37 6 Ordinary 
Shares to reﬂect the Company’s Rights Issue and Placing in June 201 3) 
at a subscription price per share of €0. 1 0 (subsequently adjusted to 
€0.0857282 to reﬂect the Company’s Rights Issue and Placing in June 
201 3). In addition, the Warrants issued as part of the bank facility 
announced in November 201 1 were re-priced to the same exercise 
price. As at 26 November 201 3, 1 7 Warrantholders had exercised their 
Subscription Rights in respect of 81 , 97 4,4 78 Warrants ( exercised into 
Ordinary Shares on a one-for-one basis).
Articles of Association 
The Company’s Articles of Association (the “Articles”) may only be 
amended by a special resolution at a general meeting of Shareholders. 
The Articles are available on the Company’s website at  
www.thomascookgroup.com. 
Authority to purchase shares 
The Company currently does not have authority to purchase its 
own shares. 
Share transfer restrictions 
The Articles are designed to ensure that the number of the Company’s 
shares held by non-EEA nationals does not reach a level which could 
jeopardise the Company’s entitlement to continue to hold or enjoy the 
beneﬁt of any authority, permission, licence or privilege which it, or any 
of its subsidiaries, holds or enjoys and which enables an air service to be 
operated ( each an “Operating Right”). In particular, EC Council Regulation 
1 008/2008 on the licensing of air carriers requires that an air carrier must 
be majority-owned and effectively controlled by EEA nationals. 
The Articles allow the Directors, from time to time, to set a 
“Permitted Maximum” on the number of the Company’s shares 
which may be owned by non-EEA nationals at such level as they 
believe is in compliance with the Operating Rights, provided that the 
Permitted Maximum shall not be less than 40% of the total number 
of issued shares. 
The Company maintains a separate register (the “Separate Register”) of 
shares in which non-EEA nationals, whether individuals, bodies corporate 
or other entities have an interest (such shares are referred to as “Relevant 
Shares” in the Articles). An interest in this context is widely deﬁned (see 
below). The Directors may require relevant members or other persons 
to provide them with information to enable them to determine whether 
shares are, or are to be treated as, Relevant Shares. If such information 
is not provided, then the Directors will be able, at their discretion, to 
determine that shares to which their enquiries relate be treated as 
Relevant Shares. Registered shareholders will also be obliged to notify the 
Company if they are aware either ( a) that any share they hold ought to 
be treated as a Relevant Share for this purpose or (b ) that any share they 
hold which is treated as a Relevant Share should no longer be so treated. 
In this case, the Directors shall request such information and evidence as 
they require to satisfy themselves that the share should not be treated 
as a Relevant Share and, on receipt of such evidence, shall remove 
particulars of the share from the Separate Register . If the Directors 
determine that such action is necessary to protect any Operating Right 
due to the fact that an Intervening Act ( an “Intervening Act” being the 
refusal, withholding, suspension or revocation of any Operating Right or 
the imposition of materially inhibiting conditions or limitations on any 
Operating Right in either case, by any state or regulatory authority) has 
taken place or is contemplated, threatened or intended, or the aggregate 
number of Relevant Shares is such that an Intervening Act may occur 
or the ownership or control of the Company is such that an Intervening 
Act may occur, the Directors may, among other things: 
 > identify those shares that give rise to the need to take action and treat 
such shares as affected shares (“Affected Shares”) (see below); or 
 > set a Permitted Maximum on the number of Relevant Shares that may 
subsist at any time (which may not, save in the circumstances referred 
to below, be lower than 40% of the total number of issued shares) 
and treat any Relevant Shares in excess of this Permitted Maximum 
as Affected Shares (see below). The Directors may serve a notice ( an 
“Affected Share Notice”) in respect of any Affected Share. An Affected 
Share Notice can, if it so speciﬁes, have the effect of depriving the 
registered holder of the right to attend, vote and speak at general 
meetings which they would otherwise have had as a consequence 
of holding such shares. Such an Affected Share Notice can, if it so 
speciﬁes, also require the recipient to dispose of the Affected Shares 
(so that the Relevant Shares will then cease to be Affected Shares) 
within 21 days or such longer period as the Directors may determine. 
The Directors are also given the power to sell such Affected Shares 
themselves where there is non-compliance with an Affected Share 
Notice at the best price reasonably obtainable at the relevant time on 
behalf of the shareholder . 
In deciding which shares are to be dealt with as Affected Shares, the 
Directors, in their sole opinion, will determine which Relevant Shares may 
give rise to the fact of risk of an Intervening Act occurring and, subject 
to any such determination, will have regard to the chronological order 
in which particulars of Relevant Shares have been, or are to be, entered  Thomas Cook Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 89
Financial statements
3
Directors’ report
2
Strategic report
1
in the Separate Register unless to do so would, in the sole opinion of the 
Directors, be inequitable. If there is a change in any applicable law or the 
Company or any subsidiary receives any direction, notice or requirement 
from any state or regulatory authority, which, in either case, necessitates 
such action to overcome, prevent or avoid an Intervening Act, then the 
Directors may either: 
 > lower the Permitted Maximum to the minimum extent that they 
consider necessary to overcome, prevent or avoid an Intervening Act; 
or 
 > resolve that any Relevant Shares shall be treated as Affected Shares. 
The rights of the Directors referred to above apply until such time as 
the Directors resolve that grounds for the making of a determination 
have ceased to exist, whereupon the Directors must withdraw such 
determination. The Permitted Maximum is set at 40%. This Permitted 
Maximum may be varied by the Directors. If the Directors resolve 
to vary the Permitted Maximum to deal with shares as Affected 
Shares or relax the ownership limitations, they shall publish in at 
least one national newspaper in the UK ( and in any other country in 
which the shares are listed) notice of the determination and of any 
Permitted Maximum. 
The Directors shall publish, from time to time: 
 > information as to the number of shares particulars of which have been 
entered on the Separate Register; and 
 > any Permitted Maximum that has been speciﬁed. 
As at 25 November 201 3, 340,658,793 Ordinary Shares (23.44% ) were 
held on the Separate Register . 
The Directors may not register any person as a holder of shares unless 
such person has furnished to the Directors a declaration, together with 
such evidence as the Directors may require, stating ( a) the name and 
nationality of any person who has an interest in any such share and, if the 
Directors require, the nature and extent of such interest or (b ) such other 
information as the Directors may from time to time determine. 
The Directors may decline to register any person as a Shareholder if 
satisfactory evidence of information is not forthcoming. Existing holders 
of shares will be recorded on the Special Register unless and until 
they have certiﬁed, to the satisfaction of the Company, that they are 
EEA nationals. 
A person shall be deemed to have an interest in relation to Thomas Cook 
Group plc shares if: 
 > such person has an interest that would (subject as provided below) 
be taken into account, or which they would be taken as having, in 
determining for the purposes of Part 22 of the Companies Act 2006 
whether a person has a notiﬁable interest; or 
 > they have any such interest as is referred to in Part 22 of the Companies 
Act 2006, but shall not be deemed to have an interest in any shares in 
which their spouse or any infant, child or stepchild ( or, in Scotland, pupil 
or minor) of theirs is interested by virtue of that relationship or which 
they hold as a bare or custodian trustee under the laws of England, or 
as a simple trustee under the laws of Scotland, and interest shall be 
construed accordingly. 
Provisions of change of control 
The Company has a facilities agreement (the “Agreement”) in place 
which consists of £300 million revolving credit facility and £200 million 
bilateral bonding and guarantee facilities and a euro-equivalent of 
£ 1 91 million additional facility. The Agreement provides that, on any 
change of control of the Company, the Lenders under the Agreement 
are obligated to negotiate (for a period not exceeding 30 days, unless 
extended by agreement for a further period not exceeding 30 days) 
terms for continuing the facilities but, where agreement on new 
terms cannot be reached, any such Lender is entitled to: (i) receive a 
repayment of amounts owing to such Lender; and/ or (ii) cancel all of its 
commitments under the Agreement. 
The Company’s subsidiary, Thomas Cook Finance plc, has outstanding 
€525 million 7 .75% guaranteed notes due 2020. On the occurrence of 
certain change of control events relating to the Company, each holder 
has the option to require Thomas Cook Finance plc (the issuer of these 
bonds) to repurchase all or any part of the holders’ notes at a purchase 
price in cash equal to 1 01 % of the principal amount plus accrued and 
unpaid interest.
The Company also has outstanding €400 million 6.75% guaranteed 
notes due 201 5 and £300 million 7 .75% guaranteed notes due 201 7 
(together, the “Notes”). Upon the occurrence of certain change of control 
events relating to the Company ( and then only if certain rating conditions 
in respect of the relevant Notes are met), each holder has the option to 
require the Company to redeem or ( at the option of the Company) to 
purchase the Notes of such holder at par value plus accrued interest. 
Political donations 
The Company did not make any political donations during the ﬁnancial 
year (201 2: nil). 
Major shareholdings 
As at 26 November 201 3, the Company had been notiﬁed, in accordance 
with rule 5 of the Disclosure Rules and T ransparency Rules of the UK 
Listing Authority, of the following major shareholdings in the Ordinary 
Share capital of the Company: 
Name 
Number of 
shares held  
as at 
26/1 1/2013 
Percentage of 
issued capital 
(%) as at 
26/1 1/2013 
Number of 
shares held  
as at 
26/1 2/201 2 
Percentage of 
issued capital 
(%) as at 
26/1 2/201 2 
Invesco Ltd 156, 195, 950 10.7 4 1 49,209,379 1 6.75
BlackRock Inc 72,899,276 5.02 42,946,657 4.82
Marathon Asset 
Management LLP 69,384, 130 4. 77 59,283,472 6.65
Kames Capital 58,370,332 4.02 ––
Independent auditors 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP have expressed their willingness to be 
re-appointed as auditors of the Company. Upon the recommendation 
of the Audit Committee, resolutions to re-appoint them as the 
Company’s auditors and to authorise the Directors to determine their 
remuneration will be proposed to the 201 4 Annual General Meeting. 
The Strategic Report and Directors’ Report comprising pages 8 to 89 have 
been approved and are signed by order of the Board by: 
Derek Woodward 
Group Company Secretary 
27 November 201 3 
Registered office 
3rd ﬂoor, South Building
200 Aldersgate
London
EC1A 4HD
Registered number 
6091 951  Independent auditors’ report to the members  
of Thomas Cook Group plc 
Report on the financial statements 
Our opinion  
In our opinion: 
> The financial statements, defined below, give a true and fair view 
of the state of the Group’s and of the Parent Company’s affairs as 
at 30 September 2013 and of the Group’s loss and of the Group’s 
and Parent Company’s cash flows for the year then ended; 
> The Group financial statements have been properly prepared 
in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards 
(IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union; 
> The Parent Company financial statements have been properly 
prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European 
Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the 
Companies Act 2006; and 
> The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with 
the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the 
Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. 
This opinion is to be read in the context of what we say below. 
What we have audited 
The Group financial statements and Parent Company financial 
statements (the “financial statements”), which are prepared by 
Thomas Cook Group plc, comprise: 
> the Group and Parent Company balance sheets as at 
30 September 2013; 
> the Group income statement and statement of comprehensive 
income for the year then ended; 
> the Group and Parent Company statements of changes in equity 
and cash flow statements for the year then ended; and 
> the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of 
significant accounting policies and other explanatory information. 
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their 
preparation comprises applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the 
European Union and, as regards the Parent Company, as applied 
in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006. 
Certain disclosures required by the financial reporting framework 
have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report and Accounts, 
(the “Annual Report”), rather than in the notes to the financial 
statements. These are cross-referenced from the financial 
statements and are identified as audited. 
What an audit of financial statements involves  
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards 
on Auditing (UK and Ireland) (ISAs (UK & Ireland)). An audit 
involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in 
the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance 
that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, 
whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an assessment of: 
> whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s 
and Parent Company’s circumstances and have been consistently 
applied and adequately disclosed; 
> the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by 
the Directors; and  
> the overall presentation of the financial statements.  
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information 
in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the 
audited financial statements and to identify any information that is 
apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent 
with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the 
audit. If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements 
or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report. 
Overview of our audit approach 
Materiality 
We set certain thresholds for materiality. These helped us to 
determine the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures 
and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both individually and 
on the financial statements as a whole.  
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for 
the Group financial statements as a whole to be £15m. In arriving 
at this judgement we have had regard to underlying profit from 
operations because, in our view, this is the metric against which the 
performance of the Group is most commonly measured. 
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them 
misstatements identified during our audit above £1m as well as 
misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted 
reporting for qualitative reasons. 
Overview of the scope of our audit 
The Group is currently organised into four geographic operating 
divisions: UK, Continental Europe, Northern Europe and Airlines 
Germany. The Group financial statements are a consolidation of 
97 reporting units comprising the Group’s operating businesses 
within these divisions and centralised functions.  
In establishing the overall approach to the Group audit, we 
determined the type of work that needed to be performed at the 
reporting units by us, as the Group engagement team, or component 
auditors within PwC UK and from other PwC network firms operating 
under our instruction. Where the work was performed by component 
auditors, we determined the level of involvement we needed to have 
in the audit work at those reporting units to be able to conclude 
whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as 
a basis for our opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole. 
The reporting units vary significantly in size and we identified 21 
reporting units that, in our view, required an audit of their complete 
financial information, due to their size or risk characteristics, providing 
85% coverage of the Group’s underlying profit from operations.  
Specific audit procedures on certain balances and transactions were 
performed at a further two reporting units, comprising the Group’s 
internal IT development company (because of material internally 
generated intangible assets) and Russian operations (because of its size).  
Areas of particular audit focus 
In preparing the financial statements, the directors made a number 
of subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant 
accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and 
considering future events that are inherently uncertain. We primarily 
focused our work in these areas by assessing the directors’ judgements 
against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and 
evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements. 
In our audit, we tested and examined information, using sampling 
and other auditing techniques, to the extent we considered 
necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions. 
We obtained audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of 
controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.  
We considered the following areas to be those that required 
particular focus in the current year. This is not a complete list 
of all risks and particular areas of focus identified by our audit. 
We discussed these areas of focus with the Audit Committee. 
Their report on those matters that they considered to be significant 
issues in relation to the financial statements is set out on page 61. 
Thomas Cook Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 90
Transformation the ﬁrst 365 days  
 
Carrying value of goodwill and deferred tax assets The Group holds significant goodwill and deferred tax assets on the 
balance sheet and significant goodwill impairments were recorded 
during the prior year.  
We focused on this area as it involves complex and subjective 
judgements by the Directors about the future results of 
the business. 
How the scope of our audit addressed this area of focus 
In evaluating whether any impairment was necessary to the 
remaining carrying value of goodwill, our audit work involved 
obtaining evidence regarding its recoverable amount and how it 
compared to the amount at which goodwill is currently recorded. 
We evaluated the Directors’ goodwill impairment calculations 
(including the value in use computations and discount rate) 
and tested both the methodology and the assumptions applied, 
including a critical review of the historical accuracy of forecasts 
and budgets. We applied sensitivity analysis to the calculations 
to assess the impact of variations in the key assumptions, which 
included the forecast underlying profit before tax. 
We considered the Directors’ assessment of the recoverability 
of deferred tax assets by evaluating the likelihood of achieving 
expected taxable profits against which such assets are to be utilised. 
Risk of management override of internal controls  
ISAs (UK & Ireland) require that we consider this. 
How the scope of our audit addressed this area of focus 
We assessed the overall control environment of the Group, including 
the arrangements for staff to “whistle-blow” inappropriate actions, 
and interviewed senior management and the Group’s internal 
audit function.  
We examined the significant accounting estimates and judgements 
relevant to the financial statements for evidence of bias by the Directors 
that may represent a risk of material misstatement due to fraud. 
This included testing manual journal entries and evaluating 
significant accounting estimates (for example goodwill value 
in use computations) for evidence of biased judgements. 
Risk of fraud in revenue recognition  
ISAs (UK & Ireland) presume there is a risk of fraud in revenue 
recognition. Because of this, we focused on the timing of revenue 
recognition, given the level of deferred revenue at certain times 
of the year, and its presentation in the income statement. 
How the scope of our audit addressed this area of focus 
We evaluated the relevant IT systems and tested the internal 
controls over the completeness, accuracy and timing of revenue 
recognised in the financial statements.  
We tested journal entries posted to revenue accounts to identify any 
unusual or irregular items. We also tested the reconciliations between 
the revenue systems used by the Group and its financial ledgers. 
We tested the deferral of revenue where cash was received in 
advance of travel services being provided. 
We assessed whether the Group’s revenue recognition policies 
complied with the IFRSs as adopted by the EU, and tested that, 
in accordance with those policies, revenue was recognised based 
on the date of customer departure. We also tested whether the 
Group appropriately recorded revenue based on whether it acted 
as agent or principal. 
Going concern 
This was considered to be an area of audit focus due to the seasonal 
nature of the Group’s cash flow. 
How the scope of our audit addressed this area of focus 
We evaluated whether the Group’s forecast of funding 
requirements had taken appropriate account of the seasonal cash 
flows inherent in the Group’s business. 
We evaluated the key judgements within the Group’s forecast, 
including transformation activities and ‘cost-out’ initiatives. 
We considered the adequacy of the Group’s revised financing 
structure, including forecast compliance with financial covenants, 
and assessed the sensitivity of the Directors’ calculations to changes 
in key inputs, in particular forecast underlying profit before tax. 
Our conclusion on going concern is below. 
Aircraft leases and maintenance provisions 
Material assets and provisions for leased aircraft and their related 
maintenance are held on the balance sheet. This was an area of 
focus based on the size of these balances, which have increased 
following recent sale and leaseback transactions. 
How the scope of our audit addressed this area of focus 
We reviewed the appropriateness of the maintenance provision 
calculations performed by management, including the assessment 
of new obligations and key assumptions such as the quantum and 
timing of maintenance expenditure.  
We reviewed aircraft lease contracts to ensure that they have been 
appropriately accounted for as operating or finance leases. 
Risks associated with the Group’s transformation programme 
The Group’s transformation programme has given rise to significant 
changes to the Group’s control environment and a number of 
accounting estimates involving subjective judgements, including 
store closure and redundancy provisions, and asset disposals. 
How the scope of our audit addressed this area of focus 
We increased our testing of balances materially impacted by the 
transformation programme, evaluating management’s judgements 
used in estimating the related provisions. 
We have performed additional testing where key processes and 
controls have been affected by transformation activities during 
the year. 
Going concern 
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors’ 
statement, set out on page 69, in relation to going concern. 
We have nothing to report having performed our review. 
As noted in the directors’ statement, the Directors have concluded that 
it is appropriate to prepare the Group’s and Parent Company’s financial 
statements using the going concern basis of accounting. The going 
concern basis presumes that the Group and Parent Company have 
adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the Directors 
intend them to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial 
statements were signed. As part of our audit we have concluded that 
the Directors’ use of the going concern basis is appropriate. 
However, because not all future events or conditions can be 
predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Group’s 
and the Parent Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. 
1
Thomas Cook Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 91
Directors’ report
2
Financial statements
1
3
Strategic report
1 Independent auditors’ report to the members  
of Thomas Cook Group plc continued 
Opinions on matters prescribed by the 
Companies Act 2006 
In our opinion: 
> the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors’ 
Report for the financial year for which the financial statements 
are prepared is consistent with the financial statements; 
> the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited has 
been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 
2006; and 
> the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement 
set out on pages 50 to 69 in the Annual Report with respect to 
internal control and risk management systems and about share 
capital structures is consistent with the financial statements.  
Other matters on which we are required to report 
by exception 
Adequacy of accounting records and information and 
explanations received 
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, 
in our opinion: 
> we have not received all the information and explanations we 
require for our audit; or 
> adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent 
Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been 
received from branches not visited by us; or 
> the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not in 
agreement with the accounting records and returns. 
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility. 
Directors’ remuneration 
Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report if, in our 
opinion, certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified 
by law have not been made, and under the Listing Rules we are 
required to review certain elements of the report to shareholders 
by the Board on directors’ remuneration. We have no exceptions 
to report arising from these responsibilities. 
Corporate Governance Statement 
Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to you 
if, in our opinion a corporate governance statement has not been 
prepared by the Parent Company. We have no exceptions to report 
arising from this responsibility. 
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the 
Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Company’s 
compliance with nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code 
(‘the Code’). We have nothing to report having performed our review. 
On page 69 of the Annual Report, as required by the Code Provision 
C.1.1, the Directors state that they consider the Annual Report 
taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and 
provides the information necessary for members to assess the 
Group’s performance, business model and strategy. On page 61, 
as required by C3.8 of the Code, the Audit Committee has set out 
the significant issues that it considered in relation to the financial 
statements, and how they were addressed. Under ISAs (UK & 
Ireland) we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: 
> the statement given by the Directors is materially inconsistent 
with our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of 
performing our audit; or 
> the section of the Annual Report describing the work of the 
Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters 
communicated by us to the Audit Committee. 
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility. 
Other information in the Annual Report 
Under ISAs (UK & Ireland), we are required to report to you if, 
in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: 
> materially inconsistent with the information in the audited 
financial statements; or 
> apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially 
inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group and Parent 
Company acquired in the course of performing our audit; or 
> is otherwise misleading. 
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility. 
Responsibilities for the financial statements 
and the audit 
Our responsibilities and those of the Directors  
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement 
set out on page 69, the Directors are responsible for the 
preparation of the Group and Parent Company financial statements 
and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.  
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Group and 
Parent Company financial statements in accordance with applicable 
law and ISAs (UK & Ireland). Those standards require us to comply 
with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors.  
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only 
for the Company’s members as a body in accordance with Chapter 
3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose. 
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility 
for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is 
shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly 
agreed by our prior consent in writing. 
 
 
 
Paul Cragg (Senior Statutory Auditor) 
for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors 
 
London 
27 November 2013
Thomas Cook Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 92
Transformation the ﬁrst 365 days Group income statement 
For the year ended 30 September 2013 
 Year ended 30 September 2013  Restated Year ended 30 September 2012 
 notes 
Underlying 
results 
£m 
Separately 
disclosed 
items 
(note 7) 
£m 
Total 
£m  
Underlying  
results  
£m 
Separately 
disclosed 
items 
(note 7) 
£m 
Total 
£m 
Continuing operations  
Revenue 3 9,314.5 – 9,314.5 9,195.0 –9,195.0
Cost of providing tourism services 4 (7,255.7) (38.5) (7,294.2)(7,169.2) 5.6(7,163.6)
Gross profit 2,058.8 (38.5) 2,020.3 2,025.8 5.62,031.4
Personnel expenses 5 (1,035.7) (40.2) (1,075.9) (1,067.6) (39.5)(1,107.1)
Depreciation and amortisation 13/14 (161.7) (10.0) (171.7) (155.6) (12.3) (167.9)
Net operating expenses  6 (598.3) (122.4) (720.7) (625.6) (101.4) (727.0)
(Loss)/profit on disposal of assets  – (8.0) (8.0) – 19.1 19.1
Impairment of goodwill and amortisation 
of business combination intangibles  13 – (31.0) (31.0) – (218.6) (218.6)
Profit/(loss) from operations  3 263.1 (250.1) 13.0 177.0 (347.1) (170.1)
Share of results of associates and joint venture  15 0.7 – 0.7 2.1 – 2.1
Loss on disposal of associates and joint venture 7 – (0.4) (0.4) – (0.9) (0.9)
Net investment income 15 0.4 – 0.4 0.4 – 0.4
Finance income  8 6.4 41.2 47.6 6.7 41.4 48.1
Finance costs  8 (152.4) (67.0) (219.4) (129.9) (86.5) (216.4)
Profit/(loss) before tax 9 118.2 (276.3) (158.1) 56.3 (393.1) (336.8)
Tax  10 (49.5) (104.1)
Loss for the year from 
continuing operations (207.6) (440.9)
  
Discontinued operations        
Profit/(loss) for the year from  
discontinued operations 28 0.3 (149.2)
Loss for the year (207.3) (590.1)
  
Attributable to:  
  
Owners of the parent (199.0) (585.7)
Non-controlling interests  (8.3) (4.4)
 (207.3) (590.1)
Basic and diluted loss per share (pence) 12 
Continuing operations (16.7) (50.1)
Discontinued operations  – (17.1)
Total (16.7) (67.2)
1
Thomas Cook Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 93
Directors’ report
2
Financial statements
1
3
Strategic report
1 Group statement of other comprehensive income 
For the year ended 30 September 2013 
 
notes 
Year ended
30 September
2013
£m 
Year ended
30 September
2012
£m 
Loss for the year   (207.3) (590.1)
  
Other comprehensive income and expense   
Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss:  
Actuarial loss on defined benefit pension schemes  35 (77.2) (35.7)
Tax on actuarial losses 26 (0.2) 12.3
  
Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss:  
Foreign exchange translation losses 30 (19.6) (30.7)
  
Fair value gains and losses   
Losses deferred for the year  30 (13.8) (31.9)
Tax on losses deferred for the year  26 1.9 7.7
Losses/(gains) transferred to the income statement  30 8.6 (48.4)
Tax on losses/(gains) transferred to the income statement  26 (1.0) 12.1
Total comprehensive expense for the year   (308.6) (704.7)
  
Attributable to:   
Equity holders of the parent   (300.3) (700.5)
Non-controlling interests   (8.3) (4.2)
Total comprehensive expense for the year   (308.6) (704.7)
 
Thomas Cook Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 94
Transformation the ﬁrst 365 days Group cash flow statement 
For the year ended 30 September 2013  
 
notes 
Year ended
30 September
2013
£m 
Year ended
30 September
2012
£m 
Continuing operations   
  
Loss before tax   (158.1) (336.8)
Adjustments for:   
Net finance costs   171.8 168.3
Net investment income and share of results of associates and JV   (1.1) (2.5)
Loss on disposal of associates and joint venture  0.4 0.9
Depreciation, amortisation and impairment   224.6 408.5
Loss/(profit) on disposal of assets   8.0 (19.1)
Share-based payments   7.5 1.9
Write up of investments   (29.0) –
Increase in provisions   3.7 23.2
Income received from other non-current investments   0.4 0.4
Additional pension contributions  (26.0) (22.6)
Interest received   6.7 5.8
Decrease/(increase) in working capital:  
 Inventories  (1.4) 6.7
 Receivables  111.8 38.3
 Payables  82.9 (86.2)
Cash generated from operations   402.2 186.8
Income taxes paid   (31.0) (28.3)
Net cash used in discontinued operating activities  28 (30.1) (6.6)
Net cash from operating activities   341.1 151.9
Dividends received from associates   2.5 –
Proceeds on disposal of JV  0.3 –
Proceeds on disposal of subsidiaries (net of cash disposed) 16 (37.8) 122.7
Proceeds on disposal of property, plant and equipment   4.0 34.0
Purchase of subsidiaries (net of cash acquired)  16 (2.4) 32.4
Purchase of tangible assets   (102.8) (96.9)
Purchase of intangible assets   (47.5) (41.4)
Proceeds from other investments   1.9 1.9
Net cash (used in)/from investing activities   (181.8) 52.7
Interest paid   (137.5) (116.5)
Dividends paid   – (32.7)
Dividends paid to non-controlling interests   – (0.6)
Draw down of borrowings   1,369.5 869.2
Repayment of borrowings   (1,083.6) (930.5)
Payment of facility set-up fees   (37.9) (29.3)
Proceeds on sale and finance leaseback   – 189.4
Shares purchased by Employee Benefit Trust  (16.1) –
Net proceeds on the issue of ordinary shares  29 413.5 0.8
Repayment of finance lease obligations   (32.3) (23.5)
Net cash from/(used in) financing activities   475.6 (73.7)
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents   634.9 130.9
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year   453.5 341.7
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes   2.0 (19.1)
Cash, cash equivalents and overdrafts at end of year   1,090.4 453.5
1
Thomas Cook Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 95
Directors’ report
2
Financial statements
1
3
Strategic report
1 Group balance sheet 
At 30 September 2013 
 notes 
30 September
2013
£m 
30 September
2012
£m 
Non-current assets   
Intangible assets  13 3,154.5 3,158.9
Property, plant and equipment:   
 – aircraft and aircraft spares  14 602.9 599.6
 – other  14 198.0 241.2
Investments in associates and joint venture  15 14.4 14.2
Other investments  15 1.2 11.4
Deferred tax assets  26 168.0 204.7
Tax assets   – 5.6
Trade and other receivables  18 142.7 146.8
Derivative financial instruments  23 0.1 0.2
   4,281.8 4,382.6
Current assets   
Inventories  17 28.2 30.5
Tax assets   5.5 50.1
Trade and other receivables  18 785.4 944.1
Derivative financial instruments  23 25.0 39.2
Cash and cash equivalents  19 1,088.8 460.3
   1,932.9 1,524.2
Assets held for sale  28 70.1 –
Total assets   6,284.8 5,906.8
Current liabilities   
Retirement benefit obligations  35 (1.3) (6.8)
Trade and other payables  20 (1,995.2) (2,008.5)
Borrowings  21 (176.5) (37.8)
Obligations under finance leases  22 (42.7) (32.6)
Tax liabilities   (41.0) (90.4)
Revenue received in advance   (1,120.2) (1,094.1)
Short-term provisions  27 (246.8) (201.5)
Derivative financial instruments  23 (63.9) (68.4)
   (3,687.6) (3,540.1)
Liabilities related to assets held for sale  28 (17.0) –
 
Thomas Cook Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 96
Transformation the ﬁrst 365 days  
 notes 
30 September
2013
£m 
30 September
2012
£m 
Non-current liabilities   
Retirement benefit obligations  35 (403.1) (324.0)
Trade and other payables  20 (96.9) (95.4)
Long-term borrowings  21 (1,113.8) (977.6)
Obligations under finance leases  22 (181.8) (200.6)
Non-current tax liabilities   (8.2) (1.0)
Revenue received in advance   – (2.5)
Deferred tax liabilities  26 (52.8) (89.7)
Long-term provisions  27 (172.2) (214.3)
Derivative financial instruments  23 (3.3) (3.7)
   (2,032.1) (1,908.8)
Total liabilities   (5,736.7) (5,448.9)
Net assets   548.1 457.9
Equity   
Called-up share capital  29 68.4 60.0
Share premium account   434.3 29.2
Merger reserve   1,546.5 1,546.5
Hedging and translation reserves  30 201.8 225.7
Capital redemption reserve   8.5 8.5
Retained earnings deficit   (1,720.7) (1,450.0)
Investment in own shares   (29.5) (13.4)
Equity attributable to owners of the parent   509.3 406.5
Non-controlling interests   38.8 51.4
Total equity   548.1 457.9
The financial statements on pages 93 to 147 were approved by the Board of Directors on 27 November 2013.  
Signed on behalf of the Board 
Michael Healy  
Group Chief Financial Officer 
1
Thomas Cook Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 97
Directors’ report
2
Financial statements
1
3
Strategic report
1 Group statement of changes in equity 
For the year ended 30 September 2013 
 
Share capital
& share
premium
£m 
Other
reserves
£m 
Translation
& hedging
reserve
£m 
Accumulated 
losses
£m 
Attributable 
to equity 
holders of 
the parent 
£m 
Non-
controlling
interests
£m 
Total
£m 
Opening balance at 1 October 2011 88.4 1,613.0 316.9 (871.4)1,146.9 36.3 1,183.2
Loss for the year  – – – (585.9) (585.9) (4.2) (590.1)
Other comprehensive expense:   
Foreign exchange translation losses  – – (30.7) – (30.7) – (30.7)
Actuarial losses on defined benefit pension schemes 
(net of tax)  – – – (23.4) (23.4) – (23.4)
Fair value gains and losses:   
Loss deferred for the year (net of tax)  – – (24.2) – (24.2) – (24.2)
Gains transferred to the income statement (net of tax)  – – (36.3) – (36.3) – (36.3)
Total comprehensive expense for the year  – – (91.2) (609.3) (700.5) (4.2) (704.7)
Equity credit in respect of share-based payments  – – – 2.0 2.0 – 2.0
Purchase of own shares – (0.1) – – (0.1) – (0.1)
Issue of shares 0.8 – – – 0.8 – 0.8
Release of merger reserve – (71.3) – 71.3 – – –
Derecognition of put options to non-controlling 
interests  – – – 18.8 18.8 – 18.8
Acquisition of Co-op  – – – (61.4) (61.4) 36.7 (24.7)
Disposal of HCV  ––––– (2.9) (2.9)
Disposal of Thomas Cook India  ––––– (11.4) (11.4)
Exchange difference on non-controlling interests  ––––– (2.5) (2.5)
Dividends  ––––– (0.6) (0.6)
At 30 September 2012 89.2 1,541.6 225.7(1,450.0) 406.5 51.4 457.9
  
Loss for the year  – – – (199.0) (199.0) (8.3) (207.3)
Other comprehensive expense:   
Foreign exchange translation losses  – – (19.6) – (19.6) – (19.6)
Actuarial losses on defined benefit pension schemes 
(net of tax)  – – – (77.4)(77.4) – (77.4)
Fair value gains and losses:   
Loss deferred for the year (net of tax)  – – (11.9) – (11.9) – (11.9)
Gains transferred to the income statement (net of tax)  – – 7.6 – 7.6 – 7.6
Total comprehensive expense for the year  – – (23.9) (276.4) (300.3) (8.3) (308.6)
Equity credit in respect of share-based payments  – – – 7.9 7.9 – 7.9
Issue of shares – exercise of warrants 4.6 – – – 4.6 – 4.6
Issue of shares – rights issue 431.0 – – –431.0 –431.0
Issue of shares – rights issue transaction costs (22.1) – – – (22.1) – (22.1)
Investment in Employee Benefit Trust – (16.1) – – (16.1) – (16.1)
Acquisition of Russia shares  – – – (2.2) (2.2) (4.3) (6.5)
At 30 September 2013 502.71,525.5 201.8(1,720.7) 509.3 38.8 548.1
Other reserves consist of the merger reserve, the capital redemption reserve and own shares held. The capital redemption reserve was 
created as a consequence of the share buy back programme during the year ended 30 September 2009.  
The merger reserve arose on the reverse acquisition of Thomas Cook Group plc and MyTravel Group plc by Thomas Cook AG. In the case 
of Thomas Cook Group plc, the merger reserve represents the difference between the existing share capital and share premium of 
Thomas Cook AG and the share capital of Thomas Cook Group plc issued in exchange, and in the case of MyTravel Group plc, the merger 
reserve represents the difference between the fair value and the nominal value of the share capital issued by Thomas Cook Group plc.  
Details of changes in hedging and translation reserves are set out in note 30. 
Thomas Cook Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 98
Transformation the ﬁrst 365 days Notes to the financial statements 
 
1 General information  
Thomas Cook Group plc is a limited liability company incorporated and domiciled in England and Wales under the Companies Act 2006 
and listed on the London Stock Exchange. The address of the registered office is 3rd Floor, South Building, 200 Aldersgate, London 
EC1A 4HD. The principal activities of the Group are discussed in the Directors’ Report – Business Review on pages 17 to 19.  
These consolidated financial statements were approved for issue by the Board of Directors on 27 November 2013.  
2 Accounting policies  
These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS and IFRIC interpretations and with those parts of the Companies 
Act 2006 applicable to groups reporting under IFRS. The financial statements have also been prepared in accordance with IFRS adopted 
for use in the European Union and therefore comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation.  
The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis and under the historical cost convention, except for revaluation 
of certain financial instruments, investment property, share-based payments and defined benefit pension obligations.  
The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of the financial information presented in this document are set out below. 
These policies have been applied consistently to the periods presented unless otherwise stated.  
The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of the financial information presented in this document are set out below. 
These policies have been applied consistently to the periods presented unless otherwise stated.  
Comparative amounts have been restated to include North America within discontinued operations. In addition, following changes 
in management responsibilities, the former West Europe and Central Europe segments have been combined into one segment, 
Continental Europe. The comparative segmental information for the year ended 30 September 2012 has been restated. 
The Group’s policy on separately disclosed items has been expanded to include the interest income and charges arising on the Group’s 
defined benefit pension schemes as well as the interest charges arising on the unwind of discount on exceptional provisions and 
deferred consideration. 
Basis of preparation  
Adoption of new or amended standards and interpretations in the current year  
In the current year, the following new or amended standards have been adopted. Their adoption has not had a significant impact on the 
amounts reported or the disclosure and presentation in these financial statements, but may impact the accounting or the disclosure and 
presentation for the future transactions and arrangements. 
IAS 1 Amendment “Presentation of Items of Other Comprehensive Income” is effective for annual reporting periods commencing 
on or after 1 July 2012. The amendment requires disclosure of items that may be reclassified to profit or loss and 
items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss. 
  
1
Thomas Cook Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 99
Directors’ report
2
Financial statements
1
3
Strategic report
1 Notes to the financial statements continued 
 
2 Accounting policies continued 
New or amended standards and interpretations in issue but not yet effective and not EU endorsed  
The following new standards, amendments to standards and interpretations that are expected to impact the Group, which have not 
been applied in these financial statements, with the exception of IAS 19 R ‘Employee Benefits’ (EU endorsed), were in issue, but are not 
yet effective: 
IFRS 9  “Financial Instruments” is effective for annual reporting periods commencing on or after 1 January 2015. 
The standard will eventually replace IAS 39 but currently only details the requirements for recognition and 
measurement of financial assets.  
IFRS 10  “Consolidated financial statements” is effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013. 
This standard builds on existing principles by identifying the concept of control as the determining factor in 
whether an entity should be included within consolidated financial statements.  
IFRS 11  “Joint arrangements” is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013. This standard provides 
for a more realistic reflection of joint arrangements by focusing on the rights and obligations of the arrangement, 
rather than its legal form.  
IFRS 12  “Disclosure of interests in other entities” is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013. 
This standard includes the disclosure requirements for all forms of interests in other entities, including joint 
arrangements, associates, special purpose vehicles and other off balance sheet vehicles.  
IFRS 13  “Fair value measurement” is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013. This standard 
applies to IFRSs that require or permit fair value measurements or disclosures and provides a single IFRS 
framework for measuring fair value and requires disclosures about fair value measurement.  
IAS 27 (revised)  “Separate financial statements” is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013. This standard 
includes the provisions on separate financial statements that are left after the control provisions of IAS 27 have 
been included in the new IFRS 10.  
IAS 28 (revised)  “Investments in associates and joint ventures” is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013. 
This standard includes the requirements for joint ventures, as well as associates, to be equity accounted following 
the issue of IFRS 11.  
IFRS 7 (amendment)  “Financial instruments: disclosures” is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013, and 
amends the disclosures required where certain items have been offset.  
IAS 32  “Offsetting financial assets and liabilities” is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014, 
and provides clarification on the application of offsetting rules. 
The Group continues to assess the impact of adopting the above new or amended standards and interpretations in future accounting 
periods.  
IAS 19 (revised 2011)  “Employee benefits” is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013. The most significant 
change that will impact the Group is that both the expected returns on pension plan assets (currently based on 
expected returns) and the finance charge (currently based on the unwinding of the discount rate on scheme 
liabilities) will be replaced with a single net interest expense or income, calculated by applying the discount rate 
used in determining the present value of scheme liabilities to the net defined benefit asset or liability. 
Had the Standard been applied in the current financial year, the Group’s profit before tax would have been reduced by approximately 
£5m. 
Basis of consolidation  
The Group’s financial statements consolidate those of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings. The results of subsidiaries acquired, 
or disposed of, are consolidated for the periods from, or to, the date on which control passed. Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the 
Company. Control is achieved where the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an investee entity so as 
to obtain benefits from its activities.  
Acquisitions are accounted for under the purchase method. Where a transaction is a business combination amongst entities under 
common control, the requirements of IFRS 3(R) are applied. The purchase method of accounting is used to account for the acquisition 
of subsidiaries by the Group. The cost of an acquisition is measured at fair value of the assets given, equity instruments issued, 
contingent consideration arrangements entered into, and liabilities incurred or assumed at the date of exchange. Directly attributable 
transaction costs are expensed as incurred. Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business 
combination are measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date. When the ownership of an acquired company is less than 
100%, the non-controlling interest is measured as the proportion of the recognised net assets attributable to the non-controlling interest. 
The excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the Group’s share of identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.  
Where audited financial accounts are not coterminous with those of the Group, the financial information is derived from the last audited 
accounts available and unaudited management accounts for the period up to the Company’s balance sheet date.  
  
Thomas Cook Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 100
Transformation the ﬁrst 365 days  
 
2 Accounting policies continued 
All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.  
Interpretation guidance included within SIC Interpretation 12 “Consolidation – special purpose entities”, indicates that certain special 
purpose entities (SPEs), which are involved in aircraft leasing arrangements with the Group, should be interpreted as being controlled 
by the Group, and therefore subject to consolidation, even though the Group has no direct or indirect equity interest in those entities. 
As a consequence, the Group has consolidated three (2012: three) SPEs that own four (2012: four) aircraft operated by the Group on 
operating leases. In addition, during 2009 the operations of the German airline were placed in a holding company in which the Group 
owns a 50.0023% direct interest. All risks and rewards continue to be held by the Group and, in accordance with accounting standards, 
the entity has been treated as being 100% controlled and fully consolidated by the Group.  
Associates and joint ventures  
Entities, other than subsidiaries, over which the Group exerts significant influence, but not control or joint control, are associates. 
Entities which the Group jointly controls with one or more other party under a contractual arrangement are joint ventures.  
The Group’s share of the results of associates and joint ventures is included in the Group income statement using the equity accounting 
method. Investments in associates and joint ventures are included in the Group balance sheet at cost, as adjusted for post-acquisition 
changes in the Group’s share of the net assets of the entity, and including any goodwill identified on acquisition, net of any accumulated 
impairment loss. When the Group’s shares of losses in an associate or joint venture equals or exceeds its interest in the associate or joint 
venture, including any other unsecured receivables, the Group does not recognise further losses, unless it has incurred obligations or 
made payments on behalf of the associate or joint venture. Unrealised gains on transactions between the Group and its associates are 
eliminated to the extent of the Group’s interest in the associates. Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provided 
evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred.  
Intangible assets – goodwill  
Goodwill arising on an acquisition represents any excess of the fair value of the consideration given over the fair value of the identifiable 
assets and liabilities acquired. Goodwill is recognised as an asset, and is reviewed for impairment at least annually. Any impairment is 
recognised immediately in the Group’s income statement and is not subsequently reversed. For the purposes of assessing impairment, 
assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash flows (cash-generating units). The allocation of 
goodwill is made to those cash-generating units that are expected to benefit from the business combination in which the goodwill arose. 
The Group allocates goodwill to each segment in which it operates.  
On disposal of a subsidiary, joint venture or associate, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or 
loss on disposal.  
Intangible assets – other  
Intangible assets, other than goodwill, are carried on the Group’s balance sheet at cost less accumulated amortisation. Intangible assets 
with indefinite useful lives are not amortised. For all other intangible assets, amortisation is charged on a straight-line basis over the asset’s 
useful life, as follows: 
Brands  10 years to indefinite life  
Customer relationships  1 to 15 years  
Computer software  3 to 10 years 
Other acquired intangible assets are assessed separately and useful lives established according to the particular circumstances.  
Indefinite-lived intangible assets principally comprise those trademarks for which there is no foreseeable limit to the period over which 
they are expected to generate net cash inflows. These are considered to have an indefinite life, given the strength and durability of our 
brands and the level of marketing support. The nature of the industry we operate in is such that brand obsolescence is not common, 
if appropriately supported by advertising and marketing spend.  
Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are tested for impairment at least annually at the CGU level by comparing their carrying 
amount to their recoverable amount. All other intangible assets are assessed at each reporting date for indications of impairment. If such 
indications exist, the recoverable amount is estimated and compared to the carrying amount. If the recoverable amount is less than the 
carrying amount, the carrying amount is reduced to the recoverable amount and the impairment loss is recognised immediately in the 
income statement.  
  
1
Thomas Cook Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 10 1
Directors’ report
2
Financial statements
1
3
Strategic report
1 Notes to the financial statements continued 
 
2 Accounting policies continued 
Property, plant and equipment  
Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost, net of straight-line depreciation and any provision for impairment. Where costs are 
incurred as part of the start-up or commissioning of an item of property, plant or equipment, and that item is available for use but 
incapable of operating in the manner intended by management without such a start-up or commissioning period, then such costs are 
included within the cost of the item. Costs that are not directly attributable to bringing an asset to the location and condition necessary 
for it to be capable of operating in the manner intended by management are charged to the income statement as incurred.  
Depreciation on property, plant and equipment, other than freehold land, upon which no depreciation is provided, is calculated on 
a straight-line basis and aims to write down their cost to their estimated residual value over their expected useful lives as follows: 
Freehold buildings  40 to 50 years  
Leasehold properties  Shorter of remaining lease period and 40 years  
Aircraft  18 years (or remaining lease period if shorter)  
Aircraft spares  5 to 15 years (or remaining lease period if shorter)  
Other fixed assets  3 to 15 years 
Estimated residual values and useful lives are reviewed annually.  
Investment property comprises land and buildings which are held for long-term rental yields and capital growth. It is carried at fair value 
with changes in fair value recognised in the income statement. Investment property is valued annually by external qualified professional 
valuers in the countries concerned. In the event of a material change in market conditions between the valuation date and balance sheet 
date, an internal valuation is performed and adjustments made to reflect any material changes in fair value.  
Non-current assets held for sale  
The Group classifies non-current assets as held for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered principally through a sale transaction 
rather than through continuing use. To be classified as held for sale, the assets must be available for immediate sale in their present 
condition subject only to terms that are usual and customary for the sale of such assets, and their sale must be highly probable. Sale is 
considered to be highly probable when management is committed to a plan to sell the assets and an active programme to locate a buyer 
and complete the plan has been initiated at a price that is reasonable in relation to their current fair value, and there is an expectation that 
the sale will be completed within one year from the date of classification.  
Non-current assets classified as held for sale are carried on the Group’s balance sheet at the lower of their carrying amount and fair value 
less costs to sell. 
Aircraft overhaul and maintenance costs  
The cost of major overhauls of owned and finance leased engines, auxiliary power units and airframes is capitalised and then amortised 
over between two and ten years until the next scheduled major overhaul, except where the maintenance of engines and auxiliary power 
units is carried out under fixed rate contracts, in which case the cost is spread over the period of the contract. Provision is made for the 
future costs of major overhauls of operating leased engines, auxiliary power units and airframes by making appropriate charges to the 
income statement, calculated by reference to hours flown and/or the expired lease period, as a consequence of obligations placed upon 
the Group under the terms of certain operating leases.  
Inventories  
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost represents purchase price. Net realisable value represents the 
estimated selling price less all costs to be incurred in marketing, selling and distribution.  
Revenue recognition and associated costs  
Revenue represents the aggregate amount of gross revenue receivable from inclusive tours, travel agency commissions receivable and 
other services supplied to customers in the ordinary course of business. Revenue and direct expenses relating to inclusive tours arranged 
by the Group’s leisure travel providers, including travel agency commission, insurance and other incentives, are taken to the income 
statement on holiday departure. Revenue relating to travel agency commission on third-party leisure travel products is also recognised on 
holiday departure. The costs attributable to producing brochures are expensed when the brochures are available to be sent to customers 
or retail outlets. Other revenue and associated expenses are taken to the income statement as earned or incurred. Revenue and expenses 
exclude intra-group transactions.  
  
Thomas Cook Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 10 2
Transformation the ﬁrst 365 days  
 
2 Accounting policies continued 
Income statement presentation and separately disclosed items  
Profit or loss from operations includes the results from operating activities of the Group, before its share of the results of associates and 
joint ventures.  
The Group separately discloses in the income statement: exceptional items; impairment of goodwill and amortisation of business 
combination intangibles; and IAS 39 fair value re-measurement.  
Exceptional items, namely items that are material either because of their size or their nature, and which are non-recurring, are presented 
within their relevant income statement category, but highlighted through separate disclosure. The separate reporting of exceptional items 
helps provide a full understanding of the Group’s underlying performance.  
Items which are included within the exceptional category include:  
> profits/(losses) on disposal of assets or businesses and costs of acquisitions;  
> costs of integration of significant acquisitions and other major restructuring programmes;  
> significant goodwill or other asset impairments;  
> material write-down of assets/reassessment of accruals, reflecting a more cautious evaluation in light of current trading and economic 
conditions (excluding errors or prior year items);  
> other individually material items that are unusual because of their size, nature or incidence.  
Material business combination intangible assets were acquired as a result of the merger between Thomas Cook AG and MyTravel Group 
plc and other business combinations made in subsequent years. The amortisation of these intangible assets is significant and the Group’s 
management consider that it should be disclosed separately to enable a full understanding of the Group’s results.  
IAS 39 fair value re-measurement includes movements in forward points related to foreign exchange forward contracts and time value 
of options in cash flow hedging relationships. Both items are subject to market fluctuations and unwind when the options or forward 
contracts mature and therefore are not considered to be part of the Group’s underlying performance.  
Interest income and charges arising on the Group’s defined benefit pension schemes and interest charges arising on the unwind of 
discount on exceptional provisions and deferred consideration are not considered to be part of the Group’s underlying performance. 
The Group’s management consider that these items should be disclosed separately to enable a full understanding of the Group’s results. 
Finance income and costs  
Finance income comprises interest income on funds invested, expected return on pension plan assets and changes in the fair value of held 
for trading interest-related derivatives, and fair value adjustments to hedged items in a designated fair value hedge.  
Finance costs comprise interest costs on borrowings and finance leases, unwind of the discount on provisions, interest cost on pension 
plan liabilities, changes in the fair value of held for trading interest-related derivatives, movement in forward points on outstanding foreign 
exchange forward contracts in cash flow hedging relationships and changes in fair value of derivatives designated in a fair value hedge 
relationship.  
The movement in forward points on outstanding foreign exchange forward contracts in cash flow hedging relationships is included 
as a separately disclosed item in the income statement under the description “IAS 39 fair value re-measurement”.  
The changes in fair value on derivatives designated in a fair value hedge relationship and the fair value adjustment on hedged items 
in a fair value hedge relationship are separately disclosed in Note 8 under the description “IAS 39 fair value re-measurement”. 
Tax  
Tax represents the sum of tax currently payable and deferred tax. Tax is recognised in the income statement unless it relates to an item 
recognised directly in equity, in which case the associated tax is recognised directly in other comprehensive income or equity respectively.  
Tax currently payable is provided on taxable profits based on the tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted 
at the balance sheet date. Provision is made for deferred tax so as to recognise all temporary differences which have originated but 
not reversed at the balance sheet date that result in an obligation to pay more tax, or a right to pay less tax, in the future, except as set 
out below. This is calculated on a non-discounted basis by reference to the average tax rates that are expected to apply in the relevant 
jurisdictions and for the periods in which the temporary differences are expected to reverse. The deferred tax is not accounted for if 
it arises from the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business combination that at the time of the 
transaction does not affect either accounting or taxable profit or loss. Deferred tax assets are assessed at each balance sheet date and 
are only recognised to the extent that their recovery against future taxable profits is probable. Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for 
the temporary differences of overseas subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates unless the Group is able to control the timing of the 
distribution of those earnings and it is probable that they will not be distributed in the foreseeable future.  
  
1
Thomas Cook Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 10 3
Directors’ report
2
Financial statements
1
3
Strategic report
1 Notes to the financial statements continued 
 
2 Accounting policies continued 
Pensions  
Pension costs charged against profits in respect of the Group’s defined contribution schemes represent the amount of the contributions 
payable to the schemes in respect of the accounting period.  
The Group also operates a number of defined benefit schemes. The pension liabilities recognised on the balance sheet in respect of these 
schemes represent the difference between the present value of the Group’s obligations under the schemes (calculated using the 
projected unit credit method) and the fair value of those schemes’ assets. Actuarial gains or losses are recognised in the period in which 
they arise within the statement of comprehensive income and expense. The current service cost, representing benefits accruing over the 
year, is included in the income statement as a personnel expense. The unwinding of the discount rate on the scheme liabilities and the 
expected return on scheme assets are presented as finance costs and finance income respectively. Past service costs are recognised 
immediately in the income statement in personnel expenses.  
Foreign currency  
Average exchange rates are used to translate the results of all subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures that have a functional currency 
other than Sterling. The balance sheets of such entities are translated at period end exchange rates. The resulting exchange differences 
are recorded through a separate component of equity.  
Transactions in currencies other than the functional currency of an entity are translated at the exchange rate at the date of the transaction.  
Foreign currency monetary assets and liabilities held at the period end are translated at period end exchange rates. The resulting exchange 
gain or loss is recorded in the income statement.  
When a foreign entity is partially disposed of or sold, exchange differences that were recorded in equity are recognised in the income 
statement as part of the gain or loss on sale.  
Leases  
Leases under which substantially all of the risk and rewards of ownership are transferred to the Group are finance leases. All other leases 
are operating leases.  
Assets held under finance leases are recognised at the lower of the fair value of the asset and the present value of the minimum lease 
payments within property, plant and equipment on the balance sheet and depreciated over the shorter of the lease term or their expected 
useful lives. The interest element of finance lease payments represents a constant proportion of the capital balance outstanding and is 
charged to the income statement over the period of the lease.  
Operating lease rentals are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.  
Income arising from operating leases where the Group acts as lessor is recognised on a straight-line basis over the lease term and included 
in operating income due to its operating nature. 
Derivative financial instruments  
The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure to interest rate, foreign exchange and fuel price risks arising from 
operational, financing and investment activities. In accordance with its treasury policy, the Group does not hold or issue derivative financial 
instruments for trading purposes. However, derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting are accounted for as trading instruments.  
Derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently 
re-measured at fair value. The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as a 
hedging instrument and if so the nature of the item being hedged.  
The gain or loss on re-measurement to fair value, on derivatives not designated as a hedging instrument is recognised immediately in the 
income statement.  
Derivatives are presented on the Balance Sheet on a gross basis. A derivative with a positive fair value is recognized as a financial asset 
whereas a derivative with a negative fair value is recognised as a financial liability. A derivative is presented as a non-current asset or a non-
current liability if the remaining maturity of the instrument is more than 12 months and it is not expected to be realised or settled within 
12 months. The classification of derivatives between current and long-term assets and liabilities is presented in Note 23. 
Hedge Accounting 
The gain or loss on re-measurement to fair value on derivative financial instruments that are designated and effective as cash flow hedges 
of future cash flows is recognised directly in other comprehensive income and the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the 
income statement within net operating expenses. Forward points on foreign exchange forward contracts and time value of options are not 
designated as part of the hedging relationship and therefore, are recorded in the income statement within finance costs and costs of 
providing tourism respectively. 
  
Thomas Cook Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 104
Transformation the ﬁrst 365 days  
 
2 Accounting policies continued 
For cash flow hedges, changes in fair value deferred through the hedge reserve, are recognised in the income statement in the same 
period, or periods, in which the hedged highly probable forecast transactions are recognised in the income statement.  
For fair value hedges, changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that are designated as fair value hedges are recognised 
in the income statement as part of finance income or cost line, where they offset the changes in fair value on the hedged item. Where the 
hedged item designated in a fair value hedge relationship is a financial liability held at amortised cost, the change in fair value in respect to 
the hedged risk is recorded as an IAS 39 fair value adjustment within finance income or cost.  
Cash flow hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or no longer qualifies 
for hedge accounting. At that point in time, any cumulative gains or losses on the hedging instrument recognised in other comprehensive 
income are retained until the forecast transaction occurs. If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain 
or loss recognised in other comprehensive income is transferred to the income statement for the period.  
Fair value hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or no longer qualifies 
for hedge accounting. At that point in time the changes in fair value on the hedging instrument will continue to be recognised immediately 
into the income statement, while the hedged item will no longer be adjusted for fair value changes.  
Note 23 includes further information on the financial instruments designated as hedging instruments.  
Non-derivative financial instruments  
Financial assets and liabilities are recognised when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument. Financial 
assets are derecognised when the Group transfers the financial asset or when the contractual rights expire. Financial liabilities are 
derecognised when the obligation is discharged, cancelled or expires. The measurement of particular financial assets and liabilities is set 
out below:  
Trade and other receivables  
Trade and other receivables are recognised at their fair value and subsequently recorded at amortised cost using the effective interest 
method as reduced by allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts. An allowance for irrecoverable amounts is established when 
there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables. 
The amount of allowance is the difference between the asset’s carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows.  
Available-for-sale financial assets  
Available-for-sale financial assets are recognised and subsequently recorded at their fair value. Gains or losses (except for impairment 
losses and foreign exchange gains and losses) are recognised directly in equity until the financial asset is derecognised. At this point, the 
cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in equity is recognised in the income statement. Any impairment losses, foreign exchange 
gains or losses or dividends receivable are recognised in the income statement.  
Held for trading investments  
Short-term investments and derivatives that are not designated in a hedge relationship such as natural hedges of a balance sheet 
exposures, are classified as held for trading and are recognised and subsequently recorded at their fair value. Gains or losses are 
recognised in the income statement.  
Other non-current asset investments  
The fair value of investments in equity instruments that do not have a quoted market price in an active market are measured using 
an appropriate valuation technique. Where a fair value cannot be reliably measured, the investment is measured at cost. Loans and 
receivables are initially recognised at fair value plus any directly attributable transaction costs and are subsequently measured at 
amortised cost using the effective interest method. Any impairment losses are recognised in the income statement.  
Trade and other payables  
Trade and other payables are initially recognised at their fair value and subsequently recorded at amortised cost using the effective 
interest method.  
Borrowings  
Interest bearing borrowings are initially recognised at their fair value net of any directly attributable transaction costs. They are 
subsequently recorded at amortised cost using the effective interest method.  
Borrowings that are designated as hedged items in a fair value hedge relationship are adjusted for changes in their fair value in respect 
of the hedged risk. The adjustment will be amortised to the income statement at the time when the hedged item ceases to be adjusted 
for changes in its fair value attributable to the hedged risk. 
Provisions  
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation as a result of a past event, if it is probable that an outflow of resources 
will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate of the amount of the obligation can be made.  
  
1
Thomas Cook Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 105
Directors’ report
2
Financial statements
1
3
Strategic report
1 Notes to the financial statements continued 
 
2 Accounting policies continued 
Provisions are recognised at the Directors’ best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation at the balance sheet date. 
Where the effect of the time value of money is material, the provision is discounted to its present value.  
Termination benefits  
Termination benefits are payable when employment is terminated by the Group before the normal retirement date, or whenever 
an employee accepts voluntary redundancy in exchange for these benefits. The Group recognises termination benefits when it is 
demonstrably committed to: either terminating the employment of current employees according to a detailed formal plan without 
possibility of withdrawal; or providing termination benefits as a result of an offer made to encourage voluntary redundancy.  
Share-based payments  
The Group issues equity-settled share options to certain employees as part of their total remuneration. The fair values of the share options 
are calculated at the date of grant, using an appropriate option pricing model. These fair values are charged to the income statement on 
a straight-line basis over the expected vesting period of the options, with a corresponding increase in equity.  
The grant by the Company of options over its equity instruments to the employees of subsidiary undertakings in the Group is treated as 
a capital contribution. The fair value of employee services received, measured by reference to the grant date fair value, is recognised over 
the vesting period as an increase to investment in subsidiary undertakings, with a corresponding credit to equity.  
Insurance contracts and reinsurance contracts  
Premiums written relate to business incepted during the year, together with any differences between the booked premiums for prior years 
and those previously accrued, less cancellations. Premiums are recognised as revenue (earned premiums) proportionally over the period 
of coverage. Premiums are shown after the deduction of commission and premium taxes where relevant.  
Claims and loss adjustment expenses are charged to the income statement as incurred based on the estimated liability for compensation 
owed to policyholders or third parties damaged by policyholders. The Group does not discount its liabilities for unpaid claims. Liabilities for 
unpaid claims are estimated using the input of assessments for individual cases reported to the Group and statistical analysis for the claims 
incurred but not reported.  
Contracts entered into by the Group with reinsurers, under which the Group is compensated for losses on one or more contracts issued by 
the Group, and that meet the classification requirements for insurance contracts, are classified as reinsurance contracts held. The benefits 
to which the Group is entitled under its reinsurance contracts held are recognised as receivables from reinsurers. The Group assesses its 
reinsurance assets for impairment on an annual basis.  
Receivables and payables are recognised when due. These include amounts due to and from insurance policyholders.  
Critical judgements in applying the Group’s accounting policies  
In the process of applying the Group’s accounting policies, described above, management has made the following judgements that have 
the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements for revenue, expenses, assets and liabilities and 
accompanying disclosures. Actual results may differ from estimates:  
a) Judgements 
Residual values of tangible fixed assets  
Judgements have been made in respect of the residual values and useful economic lives of aircraft included in property, plant and 
equipment (see note 14). Those judgements determine the amount of depreciation charged in the income statement.  
Recoverable amounts of goodwill and intangible assets with an indefinite life  
Judgements have been made in respect of the amounts of future operating cash flows to be generated by certain of the Group’s 
businesses in order to assess whether there has been any impairment of the amounts included in the balance sheet for goodwill or 
intangible assets with an indefinite life in relation to those businesses.  
Special purpose entities  
The nature of the relationship with certain special purpose entities involved in leasing aircraft to the Group shows that they should be 
interpreted as controlled by the Group, and therefore consolidated, even though the Group has no direct or indirect equity interest in 
those entities.  
b) Estimates 
Key sources of estimation uncertainty  
The key assumptions concerning the future and other key sources of estimation uncertainty at the balance sheet date that have 
a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are 
discussed below:  
  
Thomas Cook Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 106
Transformation the ﬁrst 365 days  
 
2 Accounting policies continued 
Impairment of goodwill and intangible assets with an indefinite life  
Determining whether goodwill or intangible assets with an indefinite life are impaired requires an estimation of the value in use of the 
cash-generating units to which goodwill has been allocated. The value in use calculation requires the Group to estimate the future cash 
flows expected to arise from the cash-generating unit at a suitable discount rate in order to calculate present value.  
Recoverable amounts of deposits and prepayments  
Estimates have been made in respect of the volumes of future trading with hoteliers and the credit-worthiness of those hoteliers in order 
to assess the recoverable amounts of deposits and prepayments made to those hoteliers.  
Aircraft maintenance provisions  
Provisions for the cost of maintaining leased aircraft and spares are based on forecast aircraft utilisation, estimates of future maintenance 
costs and planned rollover and renewal of the aircraft fleet.  
Tax  
The Group operates in many tax regimes and the tax implications of its operations are complex. It can take several years for tax liabilities 
to be agreed with the relevant authorities. Tax assets and liabilities represent management’s estimates of tax that will be payable or 
recoverable in the future and may be dependent on estimates of future profitability.  
In addition, estimates have been made in respect of the probable future utilisation of tax losses, and deferred tax assets have been 
recognised as a result. The recoverability of these assets is dependent on the agreement of the losses with the relevant authorities and 
the estimates of future profitability.  
Share-based payments 
The Group measures the cost of equity-settled transactions with employees by reference to the fair value of the equity instruments 
at the date at which they are granted. Estimating fair value for share-based payment transactions requires determination of the most 
appropriate valuation model, which is dependent on the terms and conditions of the grant. This estimate also requires determination 
of the most appropriate inputs to the valuation model including the expected life of the share option, volatility and dividend yield and 
making assumptions about them. The assumptions and models used for estimating fair value for share-based payment transactions are 
disclosed in note 34.  
Retirement benefits  
The consolidated financial statements include costs in relation to, and provision for, retirement benefit obligations. The costs and the 
present value of any related pension assets and liabilities depend on such factors as life expectancy of the members, the salary 
progression of current employees, the returns that plan assets generate and the discount rate used to calculate the present value of the 
liabilities. The Group uses previous experience and impartial actuarial advice to select the values of critical estimates. The estimates, and 
the effect of variances in key estimates, are disclosed in note 35.  
3 Segmental information  
For management purposes, the Group is organised into four geographic based operating divisions: UK, Continental Europe, Northern 
Europe and Airlines Germany. These divisions are the basis on which the Group reports its primary segment information. Certain residual 
businesses and corporate functions are not allocated to these divisions and are shown separately as Corporate.  
On 1 May 2013, the Group finalised the sale of its businesses in North America and consequently the results of the North America 
segment are reported as discontinued operations. In addition, following changes in management structure, the Belgian, French and 
the Netherlands businesses have been transferred to from the former West segment to the Central Europe segment which has been 
renamed Continental Europe. The prior year segmental analysis has been restated to reflect the current segmental reporting of 
continuing operations. These reportable segments are consistent with how information is presented to the Group Chief Executive 
(chief operating decision maker) for the purpose of resource allocation and assessment of performance.  
The primary business of all of these operating divisions is the provision of leisure travel services and, accordingly, no separate secondary 
segmental information is provided. 
  
1
Thomas Cook Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 10 7
Directors’ report
2
Financial statements
1
3
Strategic report
1 Notes to the financial statements continued 
 
3 Segmental information continued 
Segmental information for these activities is presented below: 
Year ended 30 September 2013 
UK
£m 
Continental
Europe
£m 
Northern
Europe
£m 
Airlines 
Germany 
£m 
Corporate
£m 
Total
£m 
Continuing operations  
Revenue   
Segment sales  2,977.44,195.01,239.31,311.9 –9,723.6
Inter-segment sales  (46.6) (28.7) (6.9)(326.9) –(409.1)
Total revenue  2,930.84,166.31,232.4 985.0 –9,314.5
  
Revenue by product   
Tour operations  8,039.8
Airlines   1,683.8
Other   751.6
Inter-segment sales   (1,160.7)
Total revenue   9,314.5
  
Result   
Underlying profit/(loss) from operations  66.3 77.5 109.5 48.2 (38.4) 263.1
Exceptional operating items  (126.3) (28.7) 0.8 (6.5) (58.4) (219.1)
Impairment of goodwill and amortisation of business 
combination intangibles  (27.2) (3.7) (0.1) – – (31.0)
Segment result  (87.2) 45.1 110.2 41.7 (96.8) 13.0
Share of results of associates and joint venture   0.7
Loss on disposal of joint venture  (0.4)
Net investment income   0.4
Finance income   47.6
Finance costs   (219.4)
Loss before tax   (158.1)
Tax   (49.5)
Loss for the year from continuing operations  (207.6)
 
Discontinued operations   
Profit for the year from discontinued operations (note 28)   0.3
Total loss for the year  (207.3)
 
Other information   
Capital additions  52.5 22.6 17.3 66.5 18.4 177.3
Depreciation  40.3 8.2 19.0 72.4 0.7 140.6
Amortisation of intangible assets  11.5 14.0 1.3 0.3 4.0 31.1
Amortisation of business combination intangibles  10.0 3.7 0.1 – – 13.8
Impairment of goodwill  17.2 – – – – 17.2
Impairment of other intangible assets  –6.6 – – –6.6
Impairment of property, plant and equipment  14.4 – – – – 14.4
  
Thomas Cook Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 108
Transformation the ﬁrst 365 days  
 
3 Segmental information continued 
 
UK
£m 
Continental
Europe
£m 
Northern
Europe
£m 
Airlines 
Germany 
£m 
Corporate
£m 
Total
£m 
Balance sheet  
Assets   
Segment assets  2,842.0 3,609.6 1,687.0 1,139.2 8,413.8 17,691.6
Inter-segment eliminations   (11,594.7)
   6,096.9
Investments in associates and joint ventures   14.4
Tax and deferred tax assets   173.5
Total assets   6,284.8
Liabilities   
Segment liabilities  (2,730.7) (2,207.6) (986.6) (693.4) (8,739.2)(15,357.5)
Inter-segment eliminations   11,237.6
   (4,119.9)
Tax and deferred tax liabilities   (102.0)
Borrowings and obligations under finance leases   (1,514.8)
Total liabilities   (5,736.7)
Inter-segment sales are charged at prevailing market prices. Segment assets consist primarily of goodwill, other intangible assets, 
property, plant and equipment, trade and other receivables and cash and cash equivalents.  
Segment liabilities comprise trade and other payables, revenue received in advance and provisions.  
Capital additions comprise additions to other intangible assets (note 13) and property, plant and equipment (note 14).  
The entity is domiciled in the UK. Revenue from external customers in the UK was £2,879.0m (2012: £2,955.4m) which is derived from 
the ‘UK’ segmental revenue shown above but excluding external revenue in India, Egypt, Ireland and Spain-domiciled companies, which 
would otherwise be included in the UK segment. Revenue from external customers in Germany was £3,395.2m (2012: £2,884.7m).  
The total non-current assets, other than financial instruments and deferred tax (there are no employment benefits assets or rights arising 
under insurance contracts), located in the UK was £2,073.9m (2012: £2,066.3m). 
  
1
Thomas Cook Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 109
Directors’ report
2
Financial statements
1
3
Strategic report
1 Notes to the financial statements continued 
 
3 Segmental information continued 
Year ended 30 September 2012 (restated) 
 
UK
£m 
Continental
Europe
£m 
Northern
Europe
£m 
Airlines 
Germany 
£m 
Corporate
£m 
Total
£m 
Continuing operations  
Revenue         
Segment sales  3,152.5 4,084.7 1,173.6 1,164.6  – 9,575.4 
Inter-segment sales  (43.1) (30.8) (6.5) (300.0) – (380.4) 
Total revenue  3,109.4 4,053.9 1,167.1 864.6  – 9,195.0 
  
Revenue by product    
Tour operations  7,924.7 
Airlines   1,650.7 
Other   789.2 
Inter-segment sales   (1,169.6) 
Total revenue   9,195.0 
  
Result         
Underlying profit/(loss) from operations  12.7 52.1 100.9 35.7  (24.4) 177.0 
Exceptional operating items  (86.8) (10.7) (2.7) 4.1  (32.4) (128.5) 
Impairment of goodwill and amortisation of business 
combination intangibles  (108.3) (97.1) (13.2) –  – (218.6) 
Segment result  (182.4) (55.7) 85.0 39.8  (56.8) (170.1) 
Share of results of associates and joint venture        2.1 
Loss on disposal of associates        (0.9) 
Net investment income        0.4 
Finance income        48.1 
Finance costs        (216.4) 
Loss before tax        (336.8) 
Tax        (104.1) 
Loss for the year from continuing operations       (440.9) 
  
Discontinued operations  
Loss for the year from discontinued operations (note 28)  (149.2)
Total loss for the year  (590.1)
  
Other information         
Capital additions  61.3 18.3 17.3 239.3  6.4 342.6 
Depreciation  40.9 6.0 15.6 61.6  0.7 124.8 
Amortisation of intangible assets  23.2 14.2 1.5 0.3  3.9 43.1 
Amortisation of business combination intangibles  12.3 2.7 13.2 –  – 28.2 
Impairment of goodwill  96.0 94.4 – –  – 190.4 
Impairment of other intangible assets – 16.2 – –  5.1 21.3
  
Thomas Cook Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 11 0
Transformation the ﬁrst 365 days  
 
3 Segmental information continued 
Balance sheet 
 
UK
£m 
Continental
Europe
£m 
Northern
Europe
£m 
Airlines 
Germany 
£m 
Corporate
£m 
Total
£m 
Assets         
Segment assets  2,996.2 3,467.8 1,913.9 1,044.5  6,756.4 16,178.8 
Inter-segment eliminations       (10,546.6) 
       5,632.2 
Investments in associates and joint ventures       14.2 
Tax and deferred tax assets       260.4 
Total assets       5,906.8 
Liabilities        
Segment liabilities  (2,703.3) (2,247.1) (986.4) (588.6) (7,695.9) (14,221.3) 
Inter-segment eliminations        10,202.1 
        (4,019.2) 
Tax and deferred tax liabilities        (181.1) 
Borrowings and obligations under finance leases        (1,248.6) 
Total liabilities        (5,448.9) 
4 Cost of providing tourism services 
 
2013
£m 
Restated
2012
£m 
Tour accommodation 2,895.9 2,869.5 
Transportation costs 1,390.5 1,385.9 
Commissions and sales incentives 400.8 387.6 
Aircraft fuel 902.8 849.0 
Aircraft passenger taxes 459.3 446.3 
Other airline related costs 916.2 955.6 
Other cost of sales 290.2 275.3 
  7,255.7 7,169.2
5 Personnel expenses 
 
2013
£m 
Restated
2012
£m 
Wages and salaries  899.0 930.7 
Social security costs  120.5 134.4 
Share-based payments – equity settled (see note 34)  7.9 2.0 
Defined benefit pension costs (see note 35) 11.8 8.5 
Defined contribution pension costs (see note 35)  36.7 31.5 
  1,075.9 1,107.1 
The average number of employees of the Group during the year was:  
 
2013 
Number 
Restated
2012 
Number 
UK  12,941 18,066 
Continental Europe  7,253 8,187 
Northern Europe  3,090 2,983 
Airlines Germany  2,917 2,759 
Corporate  247 255 
  26,448 32,250 
Disclosures of Directors’ remuneration, share options, long-term incentive schemes, pension contributions and pension entitlements 
required by the Companies Act 2006 and those specified for audit by the Financial Services Authority are on pages 78 to 82 and 85 to 87 
within the Remuneration report and form part of these audited financial statements.  
Disclosures in respect of remuneration of key management personnel are included in note 36. 
  
1
Thomas Cook Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 111
Directors’ report
2
Financial statements
1
3
Strategic report
1 Notes to the financial statements continued 
 
6 Net operating expenses 
 
2013 
£m 
Restated
2012 
£m 
Advertising expenses  148.0 173.7 
Rents and expenses for building maintenance  134.1 154.2 
Information technology and telecommunication costs  138.1 120.8 
Travel expenses and ancillary personnel expenses  82.2 91.4 
Legal and consultancy fees  106.3 76.4 
Impairment of current and non-current assets, excluding goodwill  63.9 43.9 
Insurance  10.8 12.9 
Training expenses  9.4 11.4 
Other taxes  1.5 3.8 
Other operating expenses  26.4 38.5 
  720.7 727.0 
7 Separately disclosed items 
 
2013
£m 
Restated
2012
£m 
Affecting profit from operations  
Reorganisation and restructuring costs  (127.3) (55.4) 
Costs associated with refinancing  (17.7) (30.1) 
Impairment of goodwill and asset valuation reviews  (18.2) (205.7) 
Onerous contracts and legal disputes  (58.5) (9.9) 
Amortisation of business combination intangibles (13.8) (28.2) 
Provision for tax dispute resolution (14.2) (12.2) 
Other (including time value of options) (0.4) (5.6) 
 (250.1) (347.1) 
Affecting income from associates and JV   
Loss on disposal of associates  (0.4) (0.9) 
  (0.4) (0.9) 
Affecting net finance costs   
Write off of unamortised bank facility set-up and related costs  (6.8) (23.1) 
Interest cost on pension plan liabilities (50.2) (54.6) 
Other separately disclosed finance charges  (2.4) (0.9) 
Unwind of discount on provisions and other non-current liabilities  (9.2) (9.8) 
IAS 39 fair value measurement – forward points on foreign exchange cash flow hedging contracts  1.6 1.9 
Expected return on pension plan assets  41.2 41.4 
  (25.8) (45.1) 
Total separately disclosed items  (276.3) (393.1) 
Restructuring costs include £44m in relation to the UK turnaround plan, £29m in relation to transformation and restructuring in 
Continental Europe and £43m in relation to Group wide transformation projects. Costs associated with refinancing represent those costs 
that could not be attributed to specific debt or equity elements of the May 2013 refinancing and have therefore not been capitalised or 
netted against share premium. Of these costs £47m are directly attributable to ‘cost out and profit improvement’ initiatives. 
Impairment of goodwill and asset valuation reviews principally relate to the UK segment. The Egyptian and Lebanese businesses have 
been written down to their recoverable amount and classified as held for sale. A review of the carrying value in the Group's investment in 
the UK National Air Traffic Services (NATS) resulted in a write up to the disposal value giving rise to a gain of £29m. A pre-disposal review 
of Neilson and its subsidiaries resulted in an impairment of £13m. A revaluation of specific investments held by the UK pension fund, with 
a value guaranteed by the Group, resulted in an impairment of £8m. 
  
Thomas Cook Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 11 2
Transformation the ﬁrst 365 days  
 
7 Separately disclosed items continued 
In the year the Group assessed its position in respect of certain onerous contracts and made adjustments to assets on the balance sheet 
and made provision for future losses under these contracts. These contracts included certain UK service outsourcing contracts (£10m), 
hotel leases (£14m), sports marketing and related travel contracts (£9m) and foreign exchange and other commercial contracts (£26m).  
Provision for tax dispute resolution relates to a £14m provision in respect of an adverse third party sales tax judgement relating to the 
TOMS. The case is under appeal however the Group has taken a prudent view of the outcome and has no cash exposure.  
The Group has recognised a number of separately disclosed items affecting financing income and cost. During the year the Group has 
adopted industry practice of separately disclosing financing charges and income relating to defined benefit pension schemes. Following 
the successful refinancing in May 2013, the unamortised facility fees relating to the previous facility were written off. This resulted 
in a charge of £6.8m. The unwind of discount on provisions, relating primarily to deferred acquisition consideration, have also been 
separately disclosed. 
8 Finance income and costs 
  
2013 
£m 
Restated
2012 
£m 
Underlying finance income   
Income from loans included in financial assets  0.4 0.4 
Other interest and similar income  6.0 6.3 
  6.4 6.7 
Underlying finance costs   
Bank and bond interest  (90.1) (85.1) 
Fee amortisation (6.5) (7.9) 
Letters of credit (16.0) (15.3) 
Other interest payable  (14.4) (12.0) 
  (127.0) (120.3) 
Underlying aircraft related finance costs   
Interest payable  (7.1) (4.2)
Finance costs in respect of finance leases  (18.3) (5.4)
  (25.4) (9.6)
 
Net underlying interest  (146.0) (123.2) 
 
Separately disclosed finance income  
Interest income on pension plan assets  41.2 41.4 
  41.2 41.4 
 
Separately disclosed finance costs  
Write off of unamortised bank facility set-up and related costs  (6.8) (23.1) 
Interest cost on pension plan liabilities (note 35) (50.2) (54.6) 
Discounting of provisions and other non-current liabilities (9.2) (9.8) 
Other exceptional finance charges  (2.4) (0.9) 
  (68.6) (88.4) 
 
IAS 39 fair value re-measurement  
Forward points on foreign exchange cash flow hedging contracts  1.6 1.9 
 
Total net interest (171.8) (168.3)
The fair value adjustment on hedged items designated in a fair value hedge is £51k (2012:nil). 
  
1
Thomas Cook Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 11 3
Directors’ report
2
Financial statements
1
3
Strategic report
1 Notes to the financial statements continued 
 
9 Loss before tax  
Loss before tax for the year has been arrived at after charging/(crediting): 
  
2013 
£m 
Restated
2012
£m 
Separately disclosed items affecting profit from operations (see note 7)  250.1 347.1 
Including:   
– Impairment of goodwill  17.2 190.4 
– Impairment of other non-current intangible assets  7.4 22.6 
– Amortisation of business combination intangibles  14.7 28.2 
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment:   
– owned assets  92.3 98.5 
– held under finance leases  49.2 26.3 
Amortisation of intangible assets  32.7 43.1 
Cost of inventories recognised as expense  43.3 40.2 
Loss on disposal of associates and joint venture 0.4 0.9 
Operating lease rentals payable:   
– hire of aircraft and aircraft spares  101.3 103.1 
– other  115.1 115.9 
Net foreign exchange gains  (12.1) (19.9) 
Personnel expenses (note 5)  1,075.9 1,107.1 
Auditors’ remuneration  6.6 5.8 
A more detailed analysis of auditors’ remuneration on a worldwide basis is provided below: 
  
2013 
£m 
2012
£m 
Audit of the Company’s annual accounts  0.5 0.4 
Audit of subsidiaries  2.4 2.3 
Total audit fees  2.9 2.7 
Audit related assurance services  0.3 0.3 
Other assurance services  1.0 1.1 
Total assurance services  1.3 1.4 
Tax compliance services  0.1 0.1 
Services relating to taxation  0.1 0.1 
Other non-audit services not covered above  2.3 1.8 
Total other non-audit services  2.3 1.8 
Total non-audit services  3.7 3.3 
Total fees  6.6 6.0 
The prior year numbers have not been restated to exclude discontinued operations in the detailed auditors remuneration analysis above. 
In addition to the above, £72k (2012: £69k) has been incurred in respect of the audits of the Group pension schemes.  
Fees paid to the Company’s auditors and their associates for services other than the statutory audit of the Company are not disclosed 
in subsidiaries’ accounts since the consolidated accounts of the subsidiaries’ parent, Thomas Cook Group plc, are required to disclose 
non-audit fees on a consolidated basis.  
A description of the work of the Audit Committee is set out in the Corporate Governance report on pages 60 to 61 and includes an 
explanation of how auditor objectivity and independence is safeguarded when non-audit services are provided by the auditors.  
  
Thomas Cook Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 11 4
Transformation the ﬁrst 365 days  
 
10 Tax 
    
2013 
£m 
Restated
2012
£m 
Analysis of tax charge     
Current tax     
UK  corporation tax charge for the year  – – 
  adjustments in respect of prior periods  4.5 (3.8) 
    4.5 (3.8) 
Overseas  corporation tax charge for the year  41.8 32.8 
  adjustments in respect of prior periods  (2.5) (3.1) 
    39.3 29.7 
Total current tax    43.8 25.9 
Deferred tax     
  tax charge for the year  (10.5) 52.2 
  adjustments in respect of prior periods  16.2 26.0 
Total deferred tax    5.7 78.2 
Total tax charge    49.5 104.1 
The tax on the Group’s loss before tax differs from the theoretical amount that would arise using the weighted average tax rate applicable 
to profits of the Company as follows: 
 
2013 
£m 
Restated
2012
£m 
Tax reconciliation    
Loss before tax  (158.1) (336.8) 
Expected tax charge at the UK corporation tax rate of 23.5% (2012: 25.0%)  (37.2) (84.2) 
Income not liable for tax  (14.1) (17.2) 
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes  14.8 10.3 
Impairment for which no tax relief is due  6.5 48.2 
Losses and other timing differences for which tax relief is not available  132.5 76.8 
Utilisation of tax losses not previously recognised  (10.7) (6.1) 
Recognition of losses not previously recognised  (75.1) (12.5) 
Derecognition of deferred tax previously recognised  9.0 67.1 
Difference in rates of tax suffered on overseas earnings  (2.5) (6.1) 
Impact of changes in tax rates 7.3 8.7 
Other  0.8 – 
Income tax charge in respect of prior periods  18.2 19.1 
Tax charge  49.5 104.1 
In addition to the amount charged to the income statement, deferred tax relating to actuarial losses on pension schemes and the fair 
value of derivative financial instruments of £0.7m has been credited directly to equity (2012: credit of £32.1m). UK corporation tax is 
calculated at 23.5% (2012: 25.0%) of the estimated assessable loss for the year. Taxation for other jurisdictions is calculated at the rates 
prevailing in the respective jurisdictions.  
Surplus losses not recognised in deferred tax of £1,940.5m (2012: £1,933.9m) are available predominantly in the UK, France and 
Germany for offset against future profits.  
  
1
Thomas Cook Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 11 5
Directors’ report
2
Financial statements
1
3
Strategic report
1 Notes to the financial statements continued 
 
11 Dividends  
No dividends were declared during the year ended 30 September 2013 (2012: nil).  
12 Earnings per share  
The calculations for earnings per share, based on the weighted average number of shares, are shown in the table below. The weighted 
average number of shares shown excludes 7.5m shares held by the employee share ownership trusts (2012: 3.7m). 
Basic and diluted loss per share  
2013 
£m 
2012
£m 
Continuing operations  (199.3) (436.5) 
Discontinued operations  0.3 (149.2) 
Net loss attributable to owners of the parent  (199.0) (585.7) 
 
  millions millions 
Weighted average number of shares for basic and diluted loss per share  1,195.9 871.9 
 
  pence pence 
Basic and diluted loss per share from continuing operations  (16.7) (50.1) 
Basic and diluted loss per share from discontinued operations – (17.1) 
Total basic and diluted loss per share  (16.7) (67.2) 
 
Underlying basic and diluted earnings per share  
2013 
£m 
2012
£m 
Underlying net profit/(loss) attributable to owners of the parent*  59.8 5.5
 
  millions millions 
Weighted average number of shares for basic earnings per share  1,195.9 871.9 
Effect of dilutive potential ordinary shares – share options**  21.7 – 
Weighted average number of shares for diluted earnings per share  1,217.6 871.9 
 
  pence pence 
Underlying basic earnings per share  5.0 0.6
Underlying diluted earnings per share  4.9 0.6
* Underlying net profit attributable to owners of the parent is derived from the continuing pre-exceptional profit before tax for the year ended 30 September 2013 of £118.2m 
(2012: £56.3m) and deducting a notional tax charge of £66.7m (2012: £55.2m).  
** Awards of shares under the Thomas Cook Performance Share Plan, Buy As You Earn Scheme, Restricted Share Plan and Co-Investment Plan will be satisfied by shares held in 
trust and therefore are potentially dilutive. The remainder of the share schemes will be satisfied by the purchase of existing shares in the market and will therefore not result in any 
dilution of earnings per share.  
  
Thomas Cook Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 11 6
Transformation the ﬁrst 365 days  
 
13 Intangible assets 
  
2013 
£m 
2012
£m 
Goodwill  2,690.9 2,660.2 
Business combination intangible assets  325.9 369.2 
Other  137.7 129.5 
  3,154.5 3,158.9 
Goodwill 
Cost  £m 
At 1 October 2011  3,389.0
Additions  83.0 
Reassessment of goodwill  7.7 
Disposals  (142.6) 
Exchange differences  (81.8) 
At 30 September 2012  3,255.3
Disposals  (267.0) 
Transfer to non-current assets held for sale (note 28)  (16.2) 
Exchange differences  63.2
At 30 September 2013  3,035.3
Accumulated impairment losses  
At 1 October 2011  407.4
Impairment charge for the year  299.6
Disposals  (99.5) 
Exchange differences  (12.4) 
At 30 September 2012  595.1
Impairment charge for the year  17.2
Disposals  (267.0) 
Transfer to non-current assets held for sale (note 28)  (16.2) 
Exchange differences  15.3
At 30 September 2013  344.4
Carrying amount    
At 30 September 2013  2,690.9
At 30 September 2012  2,660.2
The carrying value of goodwill is analysed by business segment as follows: 
  
2013 
£m 
2012
£m 
UK  1,755.8 1,746.0 
Continental Europe  168.8 162.4 
Northern Europe  745.3 731.8 
Airlines Germany  21.0 20.0 
  2,690.9 2,660.2 
In accordance with accounting standards, the Group tests the carrying value of goodwill for impairment annually and whenever events or 
circumstances change.  
  
1
Thomas Cook Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 11 7
Directors’ report
2
Financial statements
1
3
Strategic report
1 Notes to the financial statements continued 
 
13 Intangible assets continued 
Impairment testing is performed by comparing the carrying value of each cash-generating unit (CGU) to the recoverable amount, 
determined on the basis of the CGU’s value in use. The value in use is based on the net present value of future cash flow projections 
discounted at pre-tax rates appropriate for each CGU. The Group’s CGUs are determined by geographical market and consist of UK, 
Continental Europe, Northern Europe and Airlines Germany. See note 3 for details of changes to the Group’s CGUs during the year.  
The future cash flow projections used to determine the value in use are based on the most recent annual budgets and three-year plans 
for each of the CGU’s. The key assumptions used to determine the business’ budget and three-year plans relate to capacity and the 
pricing of accommodation and fuel inputs. Capacity is based on management’s view of market demand and the constraints to managing 
capacity such as aircraft lease commitments. The accommodation pricing is primarily driven by the underlying bed rate and the foreign 
exchange hedges in place. The former is based on the businesses’ ongoing dialogue with bed suppliers and local cost inflation. The fuel 
pricing assumption is primarily driven by the fuel hedges in place and the forward fuel curve at the time that the budget is set. The key 
assumptions used to determine the Independent business’ budget and three-year plans relate to passenger volumes and commission 
rates, and are based on the individual businesses’ view of the market conditions.  
Cash flow forecasts for years beyond the three-year plan are extrapolated at an estimated average long-term nominal growth rate.  
The other key assumptions used in the value in use calculations are as follows:  
> a pre-tax discount rate of between 13.3% – 14.1% reflecting the specific risks of each CGU  
> a long-term nominal terminal growth rate of 2% for all CGUs  
The decision to sell the businesses in Egypt and Lebanon led to the reassessment of the carrying value of goodwill in the current year and, 
as a result, the goodwill relating to these businesses was impaired. The cost and accumulated impairment of the Egyptian and Lebanese 
businesses has been classified as held for sale as at 30 September 2013.  
In 2012 a total of £299.6m was impaired, which consisted of impairments in North America (£109.2m), the former West Europe CGU, 
which is now included within the Continental Europe segment (£94.4m) and India (£96.0m), which was sold in 2012 and was included 
in the UK segment. 
The value in use calculations performed as at 30 September 2013 indicate that the UK CGU is no longer sensitive to reasonably possible 
changes in the key assumptions.  
Sensitivity analysis for the remaining segments has not been disclosed as management believe that any reasonable change in 
assumptions would not cause the carrying value of the CGUs to exceed their recoverable amount.  
  
Thomas Cook Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 11 8
Transformation the ﬁrst 365 days  
 
13 Intangible assets continued 
Business combination intangibles 
 
Brands and
customer
relationships
£m 
Order 
backlog
£m 
Computer 
software 
£m 
Other
£m 
Total
£m 
Cost        
At 1 October 2011 525.5 41.5 15.6 3.3 585.9 
Additions  27.1 1.5 – – 28.6
Disposals  (26.0) – – (2.9) (28.9) 
Exchange differences  (4.0) (0.1) 0.1 (0.4) (4.4) 
At 30 September 2012 522.6 42.9 15.7 – 581.2
Disposals  (45.2) – – – (45.2) 
Transfer to non-current assets held for sale (note 28) (1.8) – – – (1.8) 
Exchange differences  5.3 0.7 – – 6.0
At 30 September 2013  480.9 43.6 15.7 – 540.2
Accumulated amortisation   
At 1 October 2011 135.3 41.5 15.6 0.2 192.6
Charge for the year  27.3 1.2 – – 28.5
Impairment  0.6 – – – 0.6
Disposals  (9.9) – – (0.2) (10.1) 
Exchange differences  0.4 (0.1) 0.1 – 0.4
At 30 September 2012 153.7 42.6 15.7 – 212.0
Charge for the year  14.4 0.3 – – 14.7
Impairment  0.8 – – – 0.8
Disposals  (12.3) – – – (12.3) 
Transfer to non-current assets held for sale (note 28) (1.8) – – – (1.8) 
Exchange differences  0.2 0.7 – – 0.9
At 30 September 2013  155.0 43.6 15.7 – 214.3
Carrying amount   
At 30 September 2013  325.9 – – – 325.9
At 30 September 2012 368.9 0.3 – – 369.2
The initial valuation of business combination intangibles is based on applicable projected future cash flows discounted at an appropriate 
discount rate. Customer relationships are being amortised over periods of 1 to 15 years and computer software over a period of 3 to 10 
years. Order backlog has been amortised over the period from acquisition to departure.  
Indefinite-lived intangible assets principally comprise those trademarks for which there is no foreseeable limit to the period over which 
they are expected to generate net cash inflows. These are considered to have an indefinite life, given the strength and durability of our 
brands and the level of marketing support. The nature of the industry we operate in is such that brand obsolescence is not common if 
appropriately supported by advertising and marketing spend. The Group annually tests the carrying value of indefinite-lived intangibles 
for impairment on a value in use basis consistent with that disclosed for goodwill earlier in this note.  
  
1
Thomas Cook Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 11 9
Directors’ report
2
Financial statements
1
3
Strategic report
1 Notes to the financial statements continued 
 
13 Intangible assets continued 
The carrying value of brands with an indefinite life is analysed by business segment as follows: 
 
2013
£m 
2012
£m 
UK  70.6 70.6 
Continental Europe  48.3 47.9 
Northern Europe  137.2 134.7 
North America  – 23.9 
 256.1 277.1 
Other intangible assets 
 
Computer software  
and concessions  Other 
Total
£m  
Purchased 
£m 
Internally  
generated  
£m  
Purchased 
£m 
Cost        
At 1 October 2011 285.1 206.3  21.4 512.8
Additions  6.3 34.9  0.2 41.4
Reclassification (16.0) 17.1  – 1.1
Disposals  (115.4) (24.4)  (0.7) (140.5) 
Exchange differences  (19.8) (6.2)  (0.4) (26.4) 
At 30 September 2012  140.2 227.7  20.5 388.4
Additions  4.9 48.1  – 53.0
Disposals  (29.4) (26.9)  (0.1) (56.4) 
Transfer to non-current assets held for sale (note 28)  (0.4) –  (0.1) (0.5) 
Exchange differences  6.0 4.5  – 10.5
At 30 September 2013  121.3 253.4  20.3 395.0
Accumulated amortisation     
At 1 October 2011 213.0 116.5  8.2 337.7
Charge for the year  11.6 26.0  8.0 45.6
Impairment losses  14.9 7.7  – 22.6
Reclassification  (2.8) 2.8  – –
Disposals  (113.8) (12.7)  (0.7) (127.2) 
Exchange differences  (16.8) (3.0)  – (19.8) 
At 30 September 2012  106.1 137.3  15.5 258.9
Charge for the year  6.1 26.4  0.2 32.7
Impairment losses  5.3 1.3  – 6.6
Disposals  (27.8) (20.5)  (0.1) (48.4) 
Transfer to non-current assets held for sale (note 28)  (0.2) –  – (0.2) 
Exchange differences  4.8 2.9  – 7.7
At 30 September 2013 94.3 147.4  15.6 257.3
Carrying amount     
At 30 September 2013  27.0 106.0  4.7 137.7
At 30 September 2012 34.1 90.4  5.0 129.5
Concessions include the value of licences granted to the Group, as well as copyrights and trademarks and similar items. Licences are 
amortised over the period of the licence, up to a maximum of ten years. 
  
Thomas Cook Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 12 0
Transformation the ﬁrst 365 days  
 
14 Property, plant and equipment 
    Other property, plant and equipment 
 
Aircraft and
aircraft spares
£m 
Investment
property
£m 
Freehold land
and buildings
£m 
Short 
leaseholds 
£m 
Other
fixed assets
£m 
Other
Total
£m 
Cost   
At 1 October 2011 1,772.2 18.0 177.1 195.4 232.5 605.0
Additions  276.9 – 3.5 8.7 16.4 28.6
Acquisitions  – – 1.1 7.3 2.3 10.7
Reclassification – – – – (1.1) (1.1) 
Disposals  (823.4) (16.6) (23.5) (29.6) (34.1) (87.2) 
Exchange differences  (117.9) (1.4) (13.4) (6.2) (14.2) (33.8) 
At 30 September 2012 1,107.8 – 144.8 175.6 201.8 522.2
Additions  95.4 – 1.8 6.2 20.9 28.9
Disposals  (22.2) – (0.9) (38.8) (32.0) (71.7) 
Transfer to non-current assets held for sale (note 28) – – – (0.5) (11.1) (11.6) 
Exchange differences  45.9 – 7.0 2.7 17.6 27.3
At 30 September 2013  1,226.9 – 152.7 145.2 197.2 495.1
Accumulated depreciation and impairment   
At 1 October 2011 1,133.6 – 55.6 128.5 140.6 324.7
Charge for the year  94.9 – 4.6 11.0 15.8 31.4
Provision for impairment  ––– – 0.6 0.6
Disposals  (631.3) – (8.9) (23.0) (25.0) (56.9) 
Exchange differences  (89.0) – (5.0) (4.4) (9.4) (18.8) 
At 30 September 2012 508.2 – 46.3 112.1 122.6 281.0
Charge for the year  108.7 – 7.0 10.0 15.8 32.8
Provision for impairment (note 7)  – – – 0.1 14.3 14.4
Disposals  (18.3) – (0.7) (20.3) (25.6) (46.6) 
Transfer to non-current assets held for sale (note 28)  – – – (0.2) (3.5) (3.7) 
Exchange differences  25.4 – 2.6 1.8 14.8 19.2
At 30 September 2013  624.0 – 55.2 103.5 138.4 297.1
Carrying amount   
At 30 September 2013 602.9 – 97.5 41.7 58.8 198.0
At 30 September 2012 599.6 – 98.5 63.5 79.2 241.2
Freehold land with a cost of £25.1m (2012: £24.3m) has not been depreciated.  
The net book value of aircraft and aircraft spares includes £284.4m (2012: £311.3m) in respect of assets held under finance leases.  
The net book value of other property, plant and equipment includes £11.5m (2012: £10.9m) in respect of assets held under 
finance leases. 
Capital commitments 
 
2013
£m 
2012
£m 
Capital expenditure contracted but not provided for in the accounts  57.2 8.1 
In addition, the Group is contractually committed to the acquisition of six new Airbus A321 aircraft which have a list price of $96m each, 
before escalations and discounts. 
  
1
Thomas Cook Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 12 1
Directors’ report
2
Financial statements
1
3
Strategic report
1 Notes to the financial statements continued 
 
15 Non-current asset investments 
    Other Investments 
 
Associates and
joint venture
£m 
Available-for-
sale financial
assets
£m 
Equity 
investments 
£m 
Loans &
receivables
£m 
Total other
 Investments
£m 
Cost   
At 1 October 2012 37.0 8.3 – 10.2 18.5
Disposals  (0.6) (5.3) – – (5.3) 
Group’s share of associates’ and joint venture’s profit for the year  0.7 – – – –
Interest received  – – – (2.8) (2.8) 
Additional loan investment  0.1 – – 0.2 0.2
Write up of investment  – – 29.0 – 29.0
Transfer to non-current assets held for sale (note 28) – – (29.0) (7.6) (36.6) 
Exchange differences  1.1 0.2 – – 0.2
At 30 September 2013 38.3 3.2 – – 3.2
Amounts written off or provided   
At 1 October 2012 22.8 7.1 – – 7.1
Disposals  – (5.3) – – (5.3) 
Exchange differences  1.1 0.2 – – 0.2
At 30 September 2013 23.9 2.0 – – 2.0
Carrying amount   
At 30 September 2013  14.4 1.2 – – 1.2
At 30 September 2012 14.2 1.2 – 10.2 11.4
Associates  
Investments in associates at 30 September 2013 included a 40% interest in Activos Turisticos S.A, an incoming agency and hotel 
company based in Palma de Mallorca, Spain, and a 25% interest in Hotelera Adeje S.L., a hotel company based in Santa Cruz, Tenerife.  
During the year the Group received a dividend payment of £2.5m which had been recognised in the prior year. 
Joint venture  
During the year the group disposed of its share in Thomas Cook Personal Finance Limited for net proceeds of £0.3m. 
Summarised financial information in respect of the associates and joint venture is as follows:  
 
2013
Joint venture
£m 
2013 
Associates 
£m 
2012
Joint venture
£m 
2012
Associates
£m 
Total assets  – 101.9 57.0 97.2 
Total liabilities  – (42.7) (79.6) (41.0) 
Net assets/(liabilities) – 59.2 (22.6) 56.2 
Group’s share of net assets/(liabilities) – 17.7 (11.3) 16.4 
Revenue  3.0 51.6 8.2 51.2 
Profit for the year  0.2 1.8 0.4 3.9 
Group’s share of associates’ and joint venture’s profit for the year  0.1 0.6 0.2 1.9 
The financial statements of the associated undertakings are made up at different times to that of the Group. For the purposes of applying 
the equity method of accounting the most recent financial statements of these undertakings and the management accounts are used to 
draw up the financial position and performance of each associate.  
  
Thomas Cook Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 12 2
Transformation the ﬁrst 365 days  
 
15 Non-current asset investments continued 
Other investments  
During the year ended 30 September 2013, the Group recognised income from available-for-sale financial assets of £0.4m 
(2012: £0.4m). There is no active market for the available-for-sale financial assets, consequently they are recorded at cost. 
During the year, the Group disposed of its remaining 24.9% interest in Aldiana, a specialist hotel operator for nil gain or loss. 
Equity investments and loans and receivables are in respect of the Group’s investment, as a member of The Airline Group, in the UK 
National Air Traffic Services (NATS). The investment comprises ordinary shares and related loan notes accruing interest at 8% in the 
Airline Group. 
During the year the Group wrote up the carrying value of its investment to fair value less costs to sell and classified the investment as held 
for sale. On 19 November 2013 the Group announced it had agreed to sell 91.5% of its shareholding and loan note interests for a cash 
consideration of £38m. 
16 Acquisitions and disposals 
A list of the principal investments in subsidiaries, including the name, country of incorporation, description and proportion of ownership 
interest, is given in note 19 to the Company’s separate financial statements. All of the subsidiary undertakings have been consolidated 
in the Group accounts.  
Acquisitions made in previous periods  
Hotels4U.com 
During the year a final deferred consideration of £5.5m was paid to the former owners of Hotels4U.com. 
ITC Travel Investments SL 
A cash payment of £3.1m ($5.0m) was received during the year in respect of partial settlement of deferred consideration. 
Disposal of businesses 
Thomas Cook Canada Inc. and Thomas Cook USA Holdings Inc. 
On 1 May 2013 the Group sold Thomas Cook Canada Inc. and Thomas Cook USA Holdings Inc. to Red Label Vacations Inc. for a cash 
consideration of 5.3m Canadian dollars. At the balance sheet date, 3.3m Canadian dollars (£2.2m) had been received from the purchaser. 
£38m cash was included within the net assets disposed with the business.  
The results of these businesses have been included as discontinued operations. Further details can be found in note 28 ‘Discontinued 
operations and assets classified as held for sale’. 
Financial information related to the disposal is set out below: 
 £m 
Consideration received, net of costs 3.4
Less carrying amount of net assets disposed of (41.3)
Less share of translation reserve 39.9
Gain on disposal 2.0
Disposal of Russian subsidiaries 
During the year the Group disposed of a number of small, non-core subsidiaries in Russia. The net cash disposed with these businesses 
was £2.9m.  
Thomas Cook Personal Finance Ltd 
In March 2013, Thomas Cook Personal Finance Limited, a joint venture arrangement with Barclays Bank, was wound up. The net cash 
proceeds received for the Group’s 50% share were £0.3m. The Group recorded a loss of £0.4m. 
Disposal of businesses in previous periods 
During the year the Group received a deferred cash consideration payment of £0.9m in relation to the sale of Oasis Company SAE, 
a business disposed of in the prior year. 
17 Inventories 
 
2013
£m 
2012
£m 
Goods held for resale  5.1 7.2 
Airline spares and other operating inventories  23.1 23.3 
 28.2 30.5 
 
1
Thomas Cook Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 12 3
Directors’ report
2
Financial statements
1
3
Strategic report
1 Notes to the financial statements continued 
 
18 Trade and other receivables 
 
2013
£m 
2012
£m 
Non-current assets 
Trade receivables  0.4 0.1 
Other receivables  23.6 35.5 
Deposits and prepayments  114.9 106.6 
Loans  2.5 2.9 
Securities  1.3 1.7 
 142.7 146.8 
Current assets  
Trade receivables  270.5 317.3 
Other receivables  42.5 62.1 
Deposits and prepayments  443.7 494.9 
Loans  3.9 2.6 
Securities  0.4 0.4 
Amounts owed by associates and participations  2.1 7.5 
Other taxes  22.3 59.3 
 785.4 944.1 
The average credit period taken on invoicing of leisure travel services is 12 days (2012: 15 days). No interest is charged on the receivables. 
The credit risk in respect of direct receivables from customers is limited as payment is required in full before the services are provided. 
In the case of travel services sold by third-party agents, the credit risk depends on the creditworthiness of those third parties, but this risk 
is also limited because of the relatively short period of credit.  
Deposits and prepayments include amounts paid in advance to suppliers of hotel and other services in order to guarantee the provision 
of those supplies. The Group’s current policy is that deposits and prepayments will normally be made for periods of up to two years in 
advance. There is a credit risk in respect of the continued operation of those suppliers during those periods. Deposits and prepayments 
also include £31.6m (2012: £20.8m) of deposits on aircraft lease arrangements which are primarily attributable to the UK airline.  
Securities include money market securities amounting to £1.3m (2012: £1.7m) purchased as collateral against liabilities arising from 
part-time retirement contracts at Thomas Cook AG, which are classified as available-for-sale financial assets.  
The amounts presented in the balance sheet are net of allowances for doubtful receivables. An allowance for impairment is made where 
there is an identified loss event which, based on previous experience, is evidence of a reduction in the recoverability of the cash flows.  
Allowances for doubtful debts in respect of trade receivable balances are managed in the business units where the debts arise and 
are based on local management experience. Factors that are considered include the age of the debt, previous experience with the 
counterparty and local trading conditions. Trade receivables arise from individual customers as well as businesses in the travel sector. 
The Directors do not consider there to be significant concentration of credit risk relating to trade and other receivables. 
Movement in allowances for doubtful receivables 
 
2013
£m 
2012
£m 
At beginning of year  56.3 61.4 
Additional provisions 7.8 9.3 
Exchange differences  1.6 (3.9) 
Acquisitions  – 7.9 
Disposals (0.9) –
Transfer to non-current assets held- for-sale (0.7) –
Receivables written off  (16.1) (8.3) 
Unused amounts released  (3.6) (10.1) 
At the end of year  44.4 56.3 
At the year end, trade and other receivables of £109.9m (2012: £96.9m) were past due but not impaired.  
  
Thomas Cook Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 12 4
Transformation the ﬁrst 365 days  
 
18 Trade and other receivables continued 
The analysis of the age of these financial assets is set out below:  
Ageing analysis of overdue trade and other receivables 
 
2013
£m 
2012
£m 
Less than one month overdue  56.6 45.7 
Between one and three months overdue  29.7 22.2 
Between three and twelve months overdue  12.8 16.8 
More than twelve months overdue  10.8 12.2 
 109.9 96.9 
Trade and other receivables are not subject to restrictions on title and no collateral is held as security.  
The Directors consider that the carrying amounts of trade and other receivables approximate to their fair values.  
19 Cash and cash equivalents 
 
2013
£m 
2012
£m 
Cash at bank and in hand  410.8 447.3 
Term deposits  678.0 13.0 
 1,088.8 460.3 
Cash and cash equivalents largely comprise bank balances denominated in Sterling, Euro and other currencies for the purpose of settling 
current liabilities as well as balances arising from agency collection on behalf of the Group’s travel agencies.  
Included within the above balance are the following amounts considered to be restricted:  
> £52.7m (2012: £80.5m) held within escrow accounts in UK, Switzerland and the Czech Republic in respect of local regulatory 
requirements;  
> £14.4m (2012: £15.7m) of cash held by White Horse Insurance Ireland Limited, the Group’s captive insurance company; and  
> £8.2m (2012: £7.8m) of cash held in countries where exchange control restrictions are in force (Tunisia, Cyprus and Morocco), 
net of cash available to repay local debt in those countries.  
The Directors consider that the carrying amounts of these assets approximate to their fair value.  
20 Trade and other payables 
 
2013
£m 
2012
£m 
Current liabilities  
Trade payables  1,296.7 1,221.1 
Amounts owed to associates and participations  2.6 3.2 
Social security and other taxes  67.6 76.5 
Accruals and deferred income  514.5 537.9 
Other payables  113.8 169.8 
 1,995.2 2,008.5 
Non-current liabilities  
Accruals and deferred income  4.0 5.5 
Other payables  92.9 89.9 
 96.9 95.4 
The average credit period taken for trade purchases is 66 days (2012: 63 days).  
The Directors consider that the carrying amounts of trade and other payables approximate to their fair value.  
  
1
Thomas Cook Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 12 5
Directors’ report
2
Financial statements
1
3
Strategic report
1 Notes to the financial statements continued 
 
21 Borrowings 
 
2013
£m 
2012
£m 
Short-term borrowings  
Unsecured bank loans and other borrowings  134.0 0.6 
Unsecured bank overdrafts  3.2 6.8 
 137.2 7.4 
Current portion of long-term borrowings 39.3 30.4 
 176.5 37.8 
Long-term borrowings  
Bank loans and bonds:  
– repayable within one year  39.3 30.4 
– repayable between one and five years  689.8 977.1 
– repayable after five years  424.0 0.5 
 1,153.1 1,008.0 
Less: amount due for settlement within one year shown under current liabilities  (39.3) (30.4) 
Amount due for settlement after one year  1,113.8 977.6 
Borrowings by class 
 2013  2012 
 
Current 
£m 
Non-current  
£m  
Current 
£m 
Non-current 
£m 
Group committed credit facility (including transaction costs)  – (18.6)  – 280.6 
Aircraft-related bank loans (including transaction costs)  38.6 64.5  29.8 70.3 
Bank and other borrowings  137.9 15.1  8.0 15.1 
Issued bonds (including transaction costs)  – 1,052.8  – 611.6 
 176.5 1,113.8  37.8 977.6 
On 27 June 2013 the Group completed a £1.6bn recapitalisation of the business which included:  
> a 2 for 5 rights issue of 409,029,271 new ordinary shares at 76 pence per new ordinary share and a placing of 87,591,241 shares at 
137 pence per share, raising gross proceeds of £431m 
> issue of a new €525m Eurobond with a coupon of 7.75% which matures in June 2020 
> a new £470m four year banking facility maturing in May 2017 to replace prior facilities, together with an additional £191m facility 
available from 2015 and a separate £30m bonding facility which matures in May 2015. 
The Directors consider that the fair value of the Group’s borrowings with a carrying value of £1,290.3m is £1,349.9m (2012: carrying 
value £1,015.4m; fair value £739.4m). The fair values quoted were determined on the basis of the interest rates for the corresponding 
terms to maturity or repayment as at the year end. The fair value of the issued bonds has been derived using the quoted market price as 
at 30 September 2013. For items maturing in less than one year, the Directors consider that the fair value is equal to the carrying amount. 
During the year £6.5m (2012: £7.9m) of capitalised transaction costs relating to banking facilities have been recognised within finance 
costs in the income statement. In addition, following the agreement of the new financing package, £6.8m (2012: £22.3m) of capitalised 
fees associated with the old debt facility have been written off and included within 'Separately disclosed items – finance costs'. 
Borrowing facilities  
As at 30 September 2013, the Group had undrawn committed debt facilities of £290.4m (2012: £793.3m) and undrawn committed 
debt facilities plus cash available to repay revolving credit facility of £1,207m (2012: £980.8m). Whilst these facilities have certain 
financial covenants they are not expected to prevent full utilisation of the facilities if required. The Group has complied with its covenants 
throughout the year.  
Covenant measures  
The covenant measures are tested on a quarterly rolling 12 month basis and consist of a leverage covenant and a fixed charge covenant. 
The leverage covenant is a measure of pre-exceptional earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation and aircraft operating 
lease rentals compared to net debt. The fixed charge covenant is a measure of pre-exceptional earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, 
amortisation and operating lease charges compared to net interest and aircraft operating lease rental plus retail rental charges. The 
leverage and fixed charge covenant hurdles vary depending on the period that they relate to and range between 1.54x to 4.51x and 
1.62x to 2.45x respectively.  
  
Thomas Cook Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 12 6
Transformation the ﬁrst 365 days  
 
22 Obligations under finance leases 
 Minimum lease payments  
Present value of 
minimum lease payments 
 
2013 
£m 
2012  
£m  
2013 
£m 
2012 
£m 
Amounts payable under finance leases:    
Within one year  58.7 48.8   42.7 32.6 
Between one and five years  165.2 170.6   126.1 129.5 
After five years  66.7 84.8   55.7 71.1 
 290.6 304.2   224.5 233.2 
Less: future finance charges  (66.1) (71.0)  – – 
Present value of lease obligations  224.5 233.2   224.5 233.2 
    
Less: amount due for settlement within 12 months (shown under current liabilities)    (42.7) (32.6) 
Amount due for settlement after 12 months    181.8 200.6 
The currency analysis of amounts payable under finance leases is: 
 
2013
£m 
2012
£m 
Euro  14.7 14.1 
US dollar  209.8 219.1 
 224.5 233.2 
Finance leases principally relate to aircraft and aircraft spares.  
No arrangements have been entered into for contingent rental payments.  
The Directors consider that the fair value of the Group’s finance lease obligations with a carrying value of £224.5m was £239.2m at 
30 September 2013 (2012: carrying value £233.2m; fair value £254.1m). The fair values quoted were determined on the basis of the 
interest rates for the corresponding terms to repayment as at the year end. The Group’s obligations under finance leases are secured 
by the lessors’ rights over the leased assets.  
  
1
Thomas Cook Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 12 7
Directors’ report
2
Financial statements
1
3
Strategic report
1 Notes to the financial statements continued 
 
23 Financial instruments  
Carrying values of financial assets and liabilities  
The carrying values of the Group’s financial assets and liabilities as at 30 September 2013 and 30 September 2012 are as set out below: 
At 30 September 2013 
Held 
for trading 
£m 
Derivative 
instruments 
in designated 
hedging 
relationships 
£m 
Loans & 
receivables  
£m 
Available-  
for-sale  
£m 
Financial 
liabilities at 
amortised 
cost 
£m 
Non-current asset investments  – – – 1.2 –
Trade and other receivables  – – 404.2 1.3 –
Cash and cash equivalents  – –1,088.8 – –
Trade and other payables  – – – – (1,922.3)
Borrowings  – – – – (1,290.3)
Obligations under finance leases – – – – (224.5)
Provisions arising from contractual obligations – – – – (394.8)
Derivative financial instruments  (2.4) (39.7) – – –
 (2.4) (39.7)1,493.0 2.5 (3,831.9)
 
At 30 September 2012 
Held 
for trading 
£m 
Derivative 
instruments 
in designated 
hedging 
relationships 
£m 
Loans & 
receivables  
£m 
Available-  
for-sale  
£m 
Financial 
liabilities at 
amortised 
cost 
£m 
Non-current asset investments  – – 10.2  1.2  – 
Trade and other receivables  – – 471.2  1.7  – 
Cash and cash equivalents  – – 460.3  –  – 
Trade and other payables  – – –  –  (1,913.2) 
Borrowings  – – –  –  (1,015.4) 
Obligations under finance leases  – – –  –  (233.2) 
Provisions arising from contractual obligations  – – –  –  (371.3) 
Derivative financial instruments  3.4 (36.1) –  –  – 
 3.4 (36.1) 941.7 2.9 (3,533.1)
Derivative financial instruments  
The fair values of derivative financial instruments as at 30 September 2013 were: 
 
Interest 
rate swaps 
£m 
Currency  
contracts  
£m 
Fuel  
contracts  
£m 
Total 
£m 
At 1 October 2011  (3.0) 39.5  (4.3) 32.2 
Movement in fair value during the year  (0.6) (74.3) 10.0  (64.9) 
At 1 October 2012  (3.6) (34.8) 5.7 (32.7)
Movement in fair value during the year  (1.4) (3.0) (5.0) (9.4)
At 30 September 2013  (5.0) (37.8) 0.7 (42.1)
 
  
Thomas Cook Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 12 8
Transformation the ﬁrst 365 days  
 
23 Financial instruments continued 
 
2013
£m 
2012
£m 
Non-current assets  0.1 0.2 
Current assets  25.0 39.2 
Current liabilities  (63.9) (68.4) 
Non-current liabilities  (3.3) (3.7) 
 (42.1) (32.7) 
Fair value hierarchy  
The fair value of the Group’s financial instruments are disclosed in hierarchy levels depending on the valuation method applied. 
The different methods are defined as follows:  
Level 1: valued using unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical financial instruments  
Level 2: valued using techniques based on information that can be obtained from observable market data  
Level 3: valued using techniques incorporating information other than observable market data as at least one input to the valuation 
cannot be based on observable market data.  
The fair value of the Group’s financial assets and liabilities at 30 September 2013 are set out below: 
 
Level 1
£m 
Level 2 
£m 
Level 3 
£m 
Total
£m 
Financial assets    
Currency contracts  – 15.2 – 15.2
Fuel contracts  –9.8 – 9.8
Securities  1.3 – – 1.3
Financial liabilities    
Currency contracts  – (53.0) – (53.0)
Fuel contracts  – (9.1) – (9.1)
Interest rate swaps  – (5.0) – (5.0)
At 30 September 2013  1.3 (42.1) – (40.8)
The fair value of the Group’s financial assets and liabilities at 30 September 2012 are set out below: 
 
Level 1
£m 
Level 2 
£m 
Level 3 
£m 
Total
£m 
Financial assets    
Currency contracts  – 25.9  –  25.9 
Fuel contracts  – 13.4  –  13.4 
Securities  1.7 –  –  1.7 
Financial liabilities    
Currency contracts  – (60.7) –  (60.7) 
Fuel contracts  – (7.7) –  (7.7) 
Interest rate swaps  – (3.6) –  (3.6) 
At 30 September 2012  1.7 (32.7) –  (31.0) 
The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge significant future transactions and cash flows denominated in foreign currencies. 
The Group enters into foreign currency forward contracts, swaps and options in the management of its exchange rate exposures. The fair 
value of currency contracts designated in a cash flow hedge as at 30 September 2013 was a liability of £33.1m (2012: £38.2m liability).  
  
1
Thomas Cook Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 12 9
Directors’ report
2
Financial statements
1
3
Strategic report
1 Notes to the financial statements continued 
 
23 Financial instruments continued 
Currency hedges are entered into up to a maximum of 18 months in advance of the forecasted requirement. As at 30 September 2013, 
the Group had in place currency hedging derivative financial instruments with a maximum maturity of October 2014. All foreign exchange 
hedges are designated as cash flow hedges. 
The Group also uses derivative financial instruments to mitigate the risk of adverse changes in the price of fuel. The Group enters into fixed 
price contracts (swaps) and net purchased options in the management of its fuel price exposures. All fuel hedges are designated as cash 
flow hedges.  
Fuel price hedges are entered into up to a maximum of 18 months in advance of forecasted consumption of fuel. As at 30 September 
2013, the Group had in place fuel price hedging derivative financial instruments with a maximum maturity of December 2014.  
In addition, the Group uses derivative financial instruments to manage its interest rate exposures. The Group enters into interest rate 
swaps to hedge against interest rate movements in connection with the financing of aircraft and other assets. The Group also enters into 
cross currency interest rate swaps to hedge the interest rate and the currency exposure on foreign currency external borrowings. The fair 
value of interest rate swaps and cross currency contracts in a designated cash flow hedge relationship at 30 September was a liability of 
£2.5m (2012: £3.6m liability).  
During the year the Group entered into interest rate swaps with a notional value of €300m on the €525m loan notes disclosed in Note 21. 
These interest rate swaps have been designated as hedging instruments in a fair value hedge relationship and their fair value is £2.5m 
(2012: nil). 
As at 30 September 2013, the maximum maturity of interest rate derivatives was June 2020.  
The fair values of the Group’s derivative financial instruments have been calculated using underlying market prices available on 
30 September 2013.  
During the year, a loss of £8.6m (2012: £48.4m gain) was transferred from the hedging reserve to the income statement following 
recognition of the hedged transactions. The amount included in each line item in the income statement is shown below. In addition, 
a gain of £1.6m was recognised in the income statement in respect of the forward points on foreign exchange cash flow hedging 
contracts (2012: £1.9m gain) and a loss of £4.0m in respect of the movement in the time value of options in cash flow hedging 
relationships (2012: £9.1m gain). 
 
2013
£m 
2012
£m 
Cost of providing tourism services:  
 – release from hedge reserve  (8.6) 48.4 
 – time value on options  (4.0) 9.1 
Finance income/(costs):  
 – release from hedge reserve  – 0.1 
 – forward points on foreign exchange cash flow hedging contracts  1.6 1.9 
 – fair value movements on derivatives in designated fair value hedge  (3.4) – 
The fair value adjustment on hedged items designated in a fair value hedge is £51k (2012: nil). 
During the year a loss of £1.6m (2012: £4.7m loss) was taken directly to the income statement in respect of held for trading derivatives 
that are used to hedge Group balance sheet exposure. This has been recorded within net foreign exchange gain for the year of £12.1m 
(2012: £19.9m gain) which is included within cost of providing tourism services.  
The closing hedging reserve, excluding the impact of tax, was a loss of £31.5m (2012: £26.3m loss). The periods in which the cash flows 
are expected to occur and when they are expected to impact the income statement are a loss of £29.9m (2012: £25.3m loss) within one 
year and a loss of £1.6m (2012: £1.0m gain) between one and five years.  
24 Financial risk  
The Group is subject to risks related to changes in interest rates, exchange rates, fuel prices, counterparty credit and liquidity within the 
framework of its business operations.  
Interest rate risk  
The Group is subject to risks arising from interest rate movements in connection with the issue of Eurobonds, bank debt, aircraft financing 
and cash investments. Interest rate swaps are used to manage these risks and are designated as both cash flow and fair value hedges.  
Foreign exchange rate risk  
The Group has activities in a large number of countries and is therefore subject to the risk of foreign exchange rate fluctuations. These risks 
arise in connection with the procurement of services in destinations outside the source market. For example, US Dollar exposure arises on 
the procurement of fuel and operating supplies for aircraft, as well as investments in aircraft.   
Thomas Cook Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 130
Transformation the ﬁrst 365 days  
 
24 Financial risk continued 
The Group requires segments to identify and appropriately hedge all exposures in line with approved treasury policies designed to reflect 
the commercial risk of each underlying business. Each segmental hedging policy covers the hedge build up, permitted instruments in use 
and further risk mitigation. The maximum hedge tenor is 18 months and each segment should achieve at least an 80% hedge ratio prior 
to the start of the season.  
The Group uses currency forwards, currency swaps and currency options to manage currency risks and these are usually designated as 
cash flow hedges.  
Fuel price risk  
Exposure to fuel price risk arises due to flying costs incurred by the Group’s aircraft.  
The Group requires segments to identify and appropriately hedge all exposures in line with approved treasury policies designed to reflect 
the commercial risk of each underlying business. Each segmental hedging policy covers the hedge build up, permitted instruments and 
further risk mitigation. The maximum hedge tenor is 18 months and each segment should achieve at least an 80% hedge ratio prior to the 
start of the season.  
The Group uses commodity derivative contracts, including fixed price contracts (swaps) and net purchased options to manage fuel price 
risk and these are usually designated as cash flow hedges.  
The market risks that the Group is subject to have been identified as interest rate risk, exchange rate risk and fuel price risk. The impact 
of reasonably possible changes in these risk variables on the Group, based on the period end holdings of financial instruments, have 
been calculated and are set out in the tables below. In each case it has been assumed that all other variables remain constant. As at 
30 September 2013, the sensitivity of these risks to the defined scenario changes are set out below: 
Interest rate risk 
 2013  2012 
 
Impact 
on profit 
before tax 
£m 
Impact  
on equity  
£m  
Impact 
on profit 
before tax 
£m 
Impact 
on equity 
£m 
1% (2012: 1%) increase in interest rates  4.4 –  1.2 – 
0.25% (2012: 0.25%) decrease in interest rates  (1.1) –  (0.3) – 
Foreign exchange rate risk 
 2013  2012 
 
Impact 
on profit 
before tax 
£m 
Impact  
on equity  
£m  
Impact 
on profit 
before tax 
£m 
Impact 
on equity 
£m 
5% (2012: 5%) strengthening of Euro  (57.0) 11.0  (12.4) 19.0 
5% (2012: 5%) weakening of Euro  44.8 (2.4)  10.7 (15.5) 
5% (2012: 5%) strengthening of US Dollar  (6.0) 65.1  (18.1) 56.9 
5% (2012: 5%) weakening of US Dollar  2.8 (52.5)  16.3 (52.5) 
Fuel price risk 
 2013  2012 
 
Impact 
on profit 
before tax 
£m 
Impact  
on equity  
£m  
Impact 
on profit 
before tax 
£m 
Impact 
on equity 
£m 
10% (2012: 10%) increase in fuel price  0.4 42.5  0.1 32.4 
10% (2012: 10%) decrease in fuel price  (4.9) (38.2)  (3.8) (27.0) 
Given recent historical movements in fuel prices management believes a 10% shift is a reasonable possibility.  
  
1
Thomas Cook Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 13 1
Directors’ report
2
Financial statements
1
3
Strategic report
1 Notes to the financial statements continued 
 
24 Financial risk continued 
Liquidity risk  
The liquidity position of the Group is significantly influenced by the booking and payment pattern of customers. As a result, liquidity is at 
its lowest in the winter months and at its highest in the summer months. The Group manages the seasonal nature of its liquidity by making 
use of its banking facility, the terms of which, including the covenant measures, are detailed in the borrowings note (refer to note 21). 
The Group also uses liquidity swaps to manage short term currency positions. These liquidity swaps are presented as held-for-trading 
financial instruments.  
The undrawn committed debt facility plus cash available to repay revolving credit facility ranged between £217.8m and £1,233.8m 
during the current financial year (2012: £156m-£981m).  
Surplus short-term liquidity is invested in accordance with approved treasury policies.  
Financial liabilities are analysed below based on the time between the year end and their contractual maturity. The amounts shown are 
estimates of the undiscounted future cash flows and will differ from both carrying value and fair value. 
 Amount due  
At 30 September 2013 
in less than 
3 months 
£m 
between 
3 and 12 months 
£m 
between  
1 and 5 years  
£m 
in more than 
5 years  
£m 
Total 
£m 
Trade and other payables  1,752.9 73.3 92.4 3.7 1,922.3
Borrowings  146.9 31.6 824.9 644.4 1,647.8
Obligations under finance leases  13.2 45.5 165.2 66.7 290.6
Derivative financial instruments:    
 – payable  1,083.71,233.7 138.6 – 2,456.0
 – receivable  (1,079.1)(1,193.0)(132.0) – (2,404.1)
Provisions arising from contractual obligations  51.0 181.0 123.7 39.2 394.9
 1,968.6 372.1 1,212.8 754.0 4,307.5
 
 Amount due  
At 30 September 2012 
in less than 
3 months 
£m 
between 
3 and 12 months 
£m 
between  
1 and 5 years  
£m 
in more than 
5 years  
£m 
Total 
£m 
Trade and other payables  1,657.0 141.6 111.6  3.0  1,913.2 
Borrowings  11.4 27.0 1,180.3  0.7  1,219.4 
Obligations under finance leases  12.4 36.4 170.6  84.8  304.2 
Derivative financial instruments:         
 – payable 2,264.3 1,007.0 10.1  –  3,281.4 
 – receivable (2,246.3) (980.6) (9.4) –  (3,236.3) 
Provisions arising from contractual obligations  31.7 127.8 183.9  29.7  373.1 
 1,730.5 359.2 1,647.1  118.2  3,855.0 
For all gross settled derivative financial instruments, such as foreign currency forward contracts and swaps, the pay and receive leg has 
been disclosed in the table above. For net settled derivative financial instruments, such as fuel swaps and options, the fair value as at the 
year end of those instruments in a liability position has been disclosed in the table above. Trade and other payables include non-financial 
liabilities of £170.1m (2012: £190.7m) which have not been analysed above.  
Counterparty credit risk  
The Group is exposed to credit risk in relation to deposits, outstanding derivatives and trade and other receivables. The maximum exposure 
in respect of each of these items at the balance sheet date is their carrying value. The Group assesses its counterparty exposure in relation 
to the investment of surplus cash, fuel contracts, foreign exchange and interest rate hedging contracts and undrawn credit facilities. The 
Group primarily uses published credit ratings to assess counterparty strength and therefore to define the credit limit for each counterparty 
in accordance with approved treasury policies.  
The Group’s approach to credit risk in respect of trade and other receivables is explained in note 18.  
  
Thomas Cook Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 13 2
Transformation the ﬁrst 365 days  
 
25 Insurance  
Management of insurance risk  
Incidental to its main business, the Group, through its subsidiary White Horse Insurance Ireland Limited, issues contracts that transfer 
significant insurance risk and that are classified as insurance contracts. As a general guideline, the Group defines as significant insurance 
risk the possibility of having to compensate the policyholder if a specified uncertain future event adversely affects the policyholder.  
Business written includes standard commercial risks for the Group and travel insurance for both Group and non-Group customers.  
The principal nature of travel insurance risks is one of short-term, low value and high volume. Underwriting performance is monitored 
on an ongoing basis and pricing reviewed annually for each individual contract. Exposure is capped by specific limits within the insurance 
policy and by using reinsurance contracts for any claims in excess of these retention limits. Commercial policies with the Group are subject 
to policy excesses and single event and aggregate limits.  
Insurance risk is spread across several European countries where the Group operates including the UK, Ireland and Continental Europe.  
When estimating the cost of claims outstanding at the year end, the principal assumption underlying the estimates is the Group’s past 
development pattern. This includes assumptions in respect of historic claims costs, average claims handling expenses and market 
developments. The Group also uses an independent actuary to review its liabilities to ensure that the carrying values are adequate. 
Any changes to these variables are not expected to have a material effect on the Group financial statements.  
The Group operates a reinsurance policy approved by the White Horse Insurance Ireland Ltd Board of Directors which ensures that 
reinsurers have a financial stability rating of B+ (A M Best) or above. The Group has assessed these credit ratings as being satisfactory 
in diminishing the Group’s exposure to the credit risk of its insurance receivables.  
Income and expenses arising directly from insurance contracts 
 
2013
£m 
2012
£m 
Revenue  
Net earned premium income  6.3 10.0 
Deposit interest  – 0.1 
 6.3 10.1 
Expenses  
Claims incurred  5.9 7.7 
Other operating expenses  1.1 0.9 
 7.0 8.6 
Assets and liabilities arising directly from insurance contracts 
 
2013
£m 
2012
£m 
Assets  
Receivables arising out of direct insurance operations  1.5 2.2 
Prepayments  0.1 0.1 
 1.6 2.3 
Liabilities   
Deferred income arising from unearned premiums  1.3 2.5 
Claims accruals  7.8 8.0 
Insurance premium tax payable  1.2 1.5 
Other creditors  0.1 0.2 
Accruals and deferred income  1.3 1.6 
 11.7 13.8 
  
1
Thomas Cook Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 13 3
Directors’ report
2
Financial statements
1
3
Strategic report
1 Notes to the financial statements continued 
 
25 Insurance continued 
Reconciliation of movement in insurance liabilities 
 
Deferred 
income arising 
from 
unearned 
premiums 
£m 
Claims 
accruals 
£m 
At 1 October 2012  2.5 8.0
Net earned premium income (6.3) –
Premiums written  5.1 –
Claims incurred  –5.9
Claims paid  – (6.1)
At 30 September 2013  1.3 7.8
26 Deferred tax  
The following are the major deferred tax liabilities and assets recognised by the Group and movements thereon during the current and 
prior reporting year:  
 
Aircraft 
 finance 
 leases 
£m 
Retirement 
benefit 
obligations 
£m 
Fair value 
of financial 
instruments 
£m 
Other  
temporary 
differences  
£m  
Tax losses 
£m 
Total 
£m 
At 30 September 2011  (7.2) 38.1 (5.7) (47.2) 182.4 160.4 
(Charge)/credit to income  (47.3) (5.2) (7.5) 28.3  (46.2) (77.9) 
Credit to equity  – 12.3 19.8 –  – 32.1 
Reclassifications  – 2.7 (4.2) 1.6  (0.1) – 
Acquisitions  – – – (2.6) – (2.6) 
Disposals  – – – 5.9  – 5.9 
Exchange differences  – 0.8 (0.3) 1.2  (4.6) (2.9) 
At 30 September 2012 (54.5) 48.7 2.1 (12.8) 131.5 115.0 
(Charge)/credit to income  0.5 (5.4) (5.8) (21.8) 26.8 (5.7)
Credit to equity  – (0.2) 0.9 – – 0.7
Reclassifications  (8.7) (0.2) 4.2 4.7 – –
Disposals  – – – 6.3 – 6.3
Transferred to assets held for sale – – – (0.2) – (0.2)
Other – (0.1) – (0.9) 0.3 (0.7)
Exchange differences  (0.8) 0.6 (0.9) (1.5) 2.4 (0.2)
At 30 September 2013 (63.5) 43.4 0.5 (26.2) 161.0 115.2
Certain deferred tax assets and liabilities have been offset. The following is the analysis of the deferred tax balances for financial 
reporting purposes:  
 
2013 
£m 
2012
 £m 
Deferred tax liabilities  (52.8) (89.7) 
Deferred tax assets  168.0 204.7 
 115.2 115.0 
At the balance sheet date, the Group had unused tax losses of £2,624.6m (2012: £2,460.2m) available for offset against future profits. 
Deferred tax assets have only been recognised where there is sufficient probability that there will be future taxable profits against which 
the assets may be recovered. No deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of tax losses of £1,940.5m (2012: £1,933.9m) due 
to the unpredictability of future profit streams.  
Other temporary differences on which deferred tax has been provided primarily relate to the difference in book to tax value on 
qualifying tax assets, provisions for which tax relief was not originally available, and fair value accounting on properties acquired as part 
of the merger.  
 
Thomas Cook Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 13 4
Transformation the ﬁrst 365 days  
 
26 Deferred tax continued
In addition, the Group had unused other temporary differences in respect of which no deferred tax asset has been recognised amounting 
to £385.3m (2012: £253.5m), also due to the unpredictability of future profit streams. 
Deferred tax liabilities were offset against the corresponding deferred tax assets where both items fell within the responsibility of the same 
tax authority.  
The deferred tax assets and liabilities at the year end, without taking into consideration the offsetting balances within the same 
jurisdiction, are £252.1m and £136.9m respectively.  
Finance Act 2012 reduced the main rate of UK corporation tax from 24% to 23% with effect from 1 April 2013, resulting in a UK 
current tax rate of 23.5% applicable to the year ended 30 September 2013. Finance Act 2013 was substantively enacted on 2 July 2013 
and included further UK rate reductions, with the main rate of UK corporation tax to reduce to 21% from 1 April 2014 and 20% from 
1 April 2015. The effect of this change on deferred tax balances is included in these financial statements and has resulted in a decrease 
in deferred tax assets of £14.1m. 
27 Provisions  
 
Aircraft 
maintenance  
provisions  
£m  
Other 
provisions 
£m 
Total 
£m 
At 1 October 2012 247.4 168.4 415.8
Additional provisions in the year  66.2 134.3 200.5
Unused amounts released in the year  (6.4) (34.0) (40.4)
Unwinding of discount  – 2.6 2.6
Utilisation of provisions  (53.6) (111.5) (165.1)
Exchange differences  2.1 3.5 5.6
At 30 September 2013 255.7 163.3 419.0
 
Included in current liabilities  125.4 121.4 246.8
Included in non-current liabilities  130.3 41.9 172.2
At 30 September 2013 255.7 163.3 419.0
 
Included in current liabilities  81.0  120.5 201.5 
Included in non-current liabilities  166.4  47.9 214.3 
At 30 September 2012 247.4  168.4 415.8 
The aircraft maintenance provisions relate to maintenance on leased aircraft and spares used by the Group’s airlines in respect of leases 
which include contractual return conditions. This expenditure arises at different times over the life of the aircraft with major overhauls 
typically occurring between two and ten years (see accounting policies for more details).  
Other provisions  
 
Off-market 
leases 
£m 
Insurance and 
litigation 
£m 
Reorganisation 
and 
restructuring 
plans 
£m 
Deferred and 
contingent 
consideration 
£m  
Other 
£m 
Total 
£m 
At 1 October 2012 33.7 35.8 35.8 26.2 36.9 168.4
Additional provisions  0.3 38.2 57.1 1.1 37.6 134.3
Unused amounts released  – (4.1) (5.9) (14.6) (9.4) (34.0)
Unwinding of discount  2.2 – –0.4 –2.6
Utilisation of provisions  (7.8) (30.0) (44.5) (8.0) (21.2) (111.5)
Exchange differences  1.5 0.4 0.8 – 0.8 3.5
At 30 September 2013 29.9 40.3 43.3 5.1 44.7 163.3
Off-market leases relate to leases acquired through the Hi!Hotels International Limited acquisition and The Co-operative Group and 
Midlands Co-operative, and MyTravel Group plc mergers, which have commitments in excess of the market rate at the time of the 
transaction. Insurance and litigation represents costs related to legal disputes, customer compensation claims and estimated costs arising 
through insurance contracts in the Group’s subsidiary, White Horse Insurance Ireland Limited. Reorganisation and restructuring plans 
predominantly represent committed restructuring costs in the UK and Continental segments. Deferred and contingent consideration 
represents future purchase options on Think W3 Limited acquisitions.   
1
Thomas Cook Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 13 5
Directors’ report
2
Financial statements
1
3
Strategic report
1 Notes to the financial statements continued 
 
27 Provisions continued 
‘Other’ represents liabilities where there is uncertainty of the timing or amount of the future expenditure required in settlement and 
includes such items as onerous contracts, dilapidations and emissions trading liabilities. This grouping contains no single category larger 
than £15m.  
Provisions included in non-current liabilities are principally in respect of off-market lease contracts and are expected to be utilised over 
the term of the contracts which extend up to 10 years from the balance sheet date, and deferred and contingent consideration arising 
on acquisitions. 
28 Discontinued operations and assets classified as held for sale  
Following the sale on 1 May 2013 of the business previously disclosed within the North America segment, the results of these businesses 
have been included as discontinued operations. 
Consolidated Income Statement- discontinued operations 
 
 Year ended 30 September 
2013  
 Year ended 30 September 
2012 
 
Underlying 
results
£m 
Separately 
disclosed 
items 
£m 
Total 
£m  
Underlying 
results 
£m 
Separately 
disclosed 
items 
£m 
Total 
£m 
Revenue  174.8 – 174.8 296.2 –296.2
Cost of providing tourism services  (142.8) – (142.8)(252.3) –(252.3)
Gross profit  32.0 – 32.0 43.9 – 43.9
Personnel expenses  (22.0) – (22.0) (41.0) (3.1) (44.1)
Depreciation and amortisation (2.5) – (2.5) (4.0) – (4.0)
Net operating expenses (9.5) – (9.5) (19.8) (14.5) (34.3)
Profit/(loss) on disposal of assets –2.9 2.9 – (1.2) (1.2)
Impairment of goodwill and amortisation of business 
combination intangibles 
– (0.9) (0.9) – (109.5) (109.5)
(Loss)/profit from operations (2.0) 2.0 – (20.9) (128.3) (149.2)
Finance income 0.4 – 0.4 0.5 – 0.5
Finance costs (0.1) 0.1 – (0.2) 0.4 0.2
(Loss)/profit before tax (1.7) 2.1 0.4 (20.6) (127.9) (148.5)
Tax (0.1) (0.7)
Profit/(loss) for the year 0.3 (149.2)
Cash flows- discontinued operations 
 
2013 
£m 
2012 
£m 
Net cash used in operating activities (30.1) (6.6)
Net cash (used in)/from investing activities (1.5) 6.4 
Net cash used in financing activities (0.1) (0.7)
Assets classified as held-for-sale 
 
2013 
£m 
2012 
£m 
Assets   
Intangible assets 0.3 – 
Property, plant and equipment 7.9 – 
Non-current asset investments 36.6 – 
Inventories 4.4 –
Tax assets 0.2 – 
Trade and other receivables 16.0 – 
Cash and cash equivalents 4.7 – 
   70.1 – 
  
Thomas Cook Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 13 6
Transformation the ﬁrst 365 days  
 
28 Discontinued operations and assets classified as held for sale continued 
 
2013 
£m 
2012 
£m 
Liabilities   
Trade and other payables  17.0 – 
  17.0 – 
In the current year the assets and liabilities of the Egyptian and Lebanese businesses, Neilson Active Holidays and Thomas Cook CFX Ltd, all 
of which were reported within the UK segment, have been classified as held for sale. In addition, the Group has included its investment in 
UK National Air Traffic Services which has been written up by £29m to the expected disposal value. The Group expects to complete the 
sale of these businesses within the next 12 months. 
29 Called-up share capital  
 Allotted, called-up and fully paid Allotted, called-up and partly paid 
 
Ordinary shares of 
€0.10 each 
Ordinary shares of 
€0.01 each 
Deferred shares of 
€0.09 each 
Ordinary shares 
of €0.10 each
£m 
Ordinary shares 
of €0.01 each
£m 
Deferred shares 
of €0.09 each 
£m 
Deferred shares 
of £1 each, 
25p paid 
Deferred shares 
of £1 each, 
25p paid 
£m 
At 1 October 2012 885,900,334 – –60.0 – – 50,000 –
Exercise of warrants 49,081,604 21,800,777 – 4.0 0.2 – – –
Capital reorganisation (934,981,938) 934,981,938934,981,938 (64.0) 6.4 57.6 – –
Private placement – 87,591,241 – – 0.7 – – –
Rights issue – 409,029,271 – – 3.5 – – –
At 30 September 2013 – 1,453,403,227 934,981,938 – 10.8 57.6 50,000 –
As part of the £200m bank facility announced on 25 November 2011 the Company issued Warrants to certain of its lenders giving 
holders the right, at any time until 22 May 2015, to subscribe for up to an aggregate of approximately 42,914,640 ordinary shares at 
a subscription price per share of 19.875 pence. On 10 May 2012 the Company issued Warrants as part of the bank facility amendment 
announced on 5 May 2012 to certain of its lenders giving holders the right, at any time until 22 May 2015, to subscribe for up to an 
aggregate of 43,749,516 (subsequently increased by 4,440,376 ordinary shares to reflect the Company's Rights Issue in June 2013) 
ordinary shares at a subscription price per share of €0.10 per share (subsequently adjusted to €0.0857282 to reflect the Company’s 
Rights Issue in June 2013). In addition, the Warrants issued as part of the bank facility announced in December 2011 were re-priced to 
the same exercise price. As at 27 November 2013, 17 Warrant holders had exercised their Subscription Rights in respect of 81,974,478 
Warrants (exercised into ordinary shares on a one-for-one basis). 
Contingent rights to the allotment of shares  
As at 30 September 2013, options to subscribe for ordinary shares were outstanding with respect to the Thomas Cook Group plc 2007 
Performance Share Plan, the Thomas Cook Group plc 2008 Co-Investment Plan, the Thomas Cook Restricted Share Plan and the Thomas 
Cook Group plc 2008 Save As You Earn Scheme. For further details refer to note 34. On exercise, the awards of shares under the plan will 
be satisfied by either purchases in the market of existing shares or, subject to institutional guidelines, issuing new shares. 
Own shares held in trust  
Shares of the Company are held under trust by EES Trustees International Limited in respect of the Thomas Cook Group plc 2007 
Performance Share Plan, the Thomas Cook Group plc 2008 Co-Investment Plan and the Thomas Cook Restricted Share Plan and are held 
by Equiniti Share Plan Trustees Limited in connection with the Thomas Cook Group plc Buy As You Earn Scheme. In accordance with IFRS, 
these are treated as Treasury Shares and are included in “other reserves” in the balance sheet.  
The number of shares held at 30 September 2013 by EES Trustees International Limited and Equiniti Share Plan Trustees Limited was 
17,245,721 (2012: 3,551,668) and 438,615 (2012: 432,653) respectively. The cumulative cost of acquisition of these shares was 
£29.5m (2012: £13.4m) and the market value at 30 September 2013 was £27.1m (2012: £1.5m). Shares held by the trust have been 
excluded from the weighted average number of shares used in the calculation of earnings per share.  
  
1
Thomas Cook Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 13 7
Directors’ report
2
Financial statements
1
3
Strategic report
1 Notes to the financial statements continued 
 
29 Called-up share capital continued 
Issue of company shares  
In order to enable the Company to carry out an issue of ordinary shares without being in breach of its Warrant Instrument requirements, 
the Company undertook a Capital Reorganisation on 3 June 2013. Under the Capital Reorganisation, each existing ordinary share of €0.10 
nominal value was subdivided into one Ordinary Share of €0.01 nominal value and one Deferred Share of €0.09 nominal value. 
During the year the Company raised gross proceeds of approximately £431 million by way of a Placing and a Rights Issue. Under the 
placing 87,591,241 €0.01 Ordinary Shares were issued on 3 June 2013 immediately following the capital reorganisation outlined above. 
409,029,271 €0.01 Ordinary Shares were issued through the Rights Issue on 20 June 2013 on the basis of two new shares for every five 
€0.01 ordinary shares held by shareholders on 3 June 2013 immediately following the Placing.  
Capital management  
The Group’s objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide 
returns for shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders and to maintain an optimal capital structure to reduce the cost of capital.  
The Group continues to make strengthening its balance sheet a priority and has been taking further steps to achieve this in the current 
year, through the issue of equity capital in its June 2013 Placement and Rights Issue and the announcement of its new Profitable Growth 
Strategy on 13 March 2013, in addition to the sale of non-core assets and suspension of dividends.  
The capital structure of the Group consists of debt, cash and cash equivalents (as shown in note 31) and equity attributable to equity 
holders of the parent (as shown in the Group balance sheet). At the balance sheet date the Group had total capital of £930.7m 
(2012: £1,194.8m).  
30 Hedging and translation reserves  
 
Hedging  
reserve  
£m  
Translation 
reserve 
£m 
Total 
£m 
At 1 October 2011 38.9 278.0 316.9
Foreign exchange translation losses  –  (30.7) (30.7) 
Fair value losses deferred for the year  (31.9) – (31.9) 
Fair value gains transferred to the income statement  (48.4) – (48.4) 
Tax on fair value gains and losses and transfers  19.8  – 19.8 
At 30 September 2012 (21.6) 247.3 225.7 
Foreign exchange translation losses  – (19.6) (19.6)
Fair value losses deferred for the year  (13.8) – (13.8)
Fair value losses transferred to the income statement  8.6 – 8.6
Tax on fair value gains and losses and transfers  0.9 – 0.9
At 30 September 2013 (25.9) 227.7 201.8
  
  
Thomas Cook Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 13 8
Transformation the ﬁrst 365 days  
 
31 Net debt  
 
At 
1 October
 2012 
£m 
Cash flow 
£m 
Transfer to held 
for sale
£m 
Other  
non-cash 
changes  
£m  
Exchange 
movements
£m 
At 
30 September 
2013
 £m 
Liquidity   
Cash and cash equivalents  460.3 630.9 (4.7) – 2.3 1,088.8
Cash classified as held-for-sale –– 4.7 – – 4.7
  460.3 630.9 – – 2.3 1,093.5
Current debt   
Bank overdrafts  (6.8) 3.9 – – (0.3) (3.2)
Short-term borrowings  (0.6) (132.9) – – (0.5) (134.0)
Current portion of long-term borrowings  (30.4) 24.7 – (32.1) (1.5) (39.3)
Obligations under finance leases  (32.6) 9.7 – (19.2) (0.6) (42.7)
  (70.4) (94.6) – (51.3) (2.9) (219.2)
Non-current debt   
Long-term borrowings  (977.6) (139.8) – 15.9 (12.3) (1,113.8)
Obligations under finance leases  (200.6) 22.6 – (3.7) (0.1) (181.8)
  (1,178.2) (117.2) – 12.2 (12.4) (1,295.6)
Total debt  (1,248.6) (211.8) – (39.1) (15.3) (1,514.8)
Net debt  (788.3) 419.1 – (39.1) (13.0) (421.3)
32 Operating lease arrangements  
The Group as lessee  
At the balance sheet date, the Group had outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable 
operating leases, which fall due as follows:  
 
Property 
and other 
2013 
£m 
Aircraft and 
aircraft spares 
2013 
£m 
Total 
2013 
£m 
Property  
and other  
2012 
 £m  
Aircraft and 
aircraft spares 
2012
 £m 
Total 
2012 
£m 
Within one year  60.2 64.3 124.5 99.3  85.0 184.3 
Later than one and less than five years  141.2 241.1 382.3 236.2  178.8 415.0 
After five years  175.6 477.3 652.9 160.2  145.8 306.0 
  377.0 782.7 1,159.7 495.7  409.6 905.3 
Operating lease payments principally relate to rentals payable for the Group’s retail shop and hotel properties and for aircraft and spares 
used by the Group’s airlines.  
Shop leases are typically negotiated for an average term of five years.  
Leases for new aircraft are typically negotiated for an average term of 12 years; leases for second hand aircraft and extensions are typically 
much shorter.  
  
1
Thomas Cook Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 13 9
Directors’ report
2
Financial statements
1
3
Strategic report
1 Notes to the financial statements continued 
 
32 Operating lease arrangements continued 
The Group as lessor  
At the balance sheet date, the Group had contracted with tenants for future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating 
leases, which fall due as follows:  
 
Property 
2013 
£m 
Aircraft 
2013 
£m 
Total 
2013 
£m 
Property  
2012  
£m  
Aircraft 
2012 
£m 
Total 
2012 
£m 
Within one year  1.7 5.2 6.9 1.7  4.7 6.4 
Later than one and less than five years  4.6 – 4.6 4.2  – 4.2 
After five years  0.3 – 0.3 1.2  – 1.2 
  6.6 5.2 11.8 7.1  4.7 11.8 
Rental income earned during the year was:  2.0 5.0 7.0 2.8  6.3 9.1 
Certain of the Group’s retail and other properties and aircraft, that are not being used in the Group’s businesses, are sub-let on the best 
terms available in the market for varying periods, with an average future committed period of 2.8 years for property (2012: 2.9 years) and 
6 months for aircraft (2012: 6 months).  
At 30 September 2013, no aircraft held under operating leases (2012: nil) were sub-let by the Group. 
33 Contingent liabilities 
 
2013
£m 
2012 
£m 
Contingent liabilities 100.5 126.0
Contingent liabilities primarily comprise guarantees, letters of credit and other contingent liabilities, including contingent liabilities related 
to structured aircraft leases, all of which arise in the ordinary course of business. The amounts disclosed above represent the Group’s 
contractual exposure.  
The Group complies with all the standards relevant to consumer protection and formal requirements in respect of package tour contracts 
and has all the necessary licences for the various sales markets. The customers’ right to reimbursement of the return travel costs and 
amounts paid in case of insolvency or bankruptcy on the part of the tour operator or travel agency is guaranteed in all Thomas Cook sales 
markets in line with local legislation and within the various guarantee systems applied. In the United Kingdom, there is a fund mechanism 
whereby travel companies are required to collect and remit a small charge for each protected customer upon booking. Customer rights 
in relation to Thomas Cook Group in Germany, Belgium and Austria are guaranteed via an insolvency insurance system, in Ireland, 
Scandinavia and France via guarantees provided by banks and insurance companies, and in the Netherlands via a guaranteed fund.  
34 Share-based payments  
The Company operates five equity-settled share-based payment schemes, as outlined below. The total charge recognised during the year 
in respect of equity-settled share-based payment transactions was £7.9m (2012: £2.0m charge).  
The Thomas Cook Group plc 2007 Performance Share Plan (PSP) and the HM Revenue & Customs Approved Company Share 
Option Sub-Plan (CSOSP) 
Executive Directors and senior executives of the Company and its subsidiaries are granted options to acquire, or contingent share awards 
of, the ordinary shares of the Company. The awards will vest if performance targets including adjusted earnings per share (EPS), total 
shareholder return (TSR) and the Company’s share price are met during the 3 years following the date of grant. Subject to vesting 
conditions, the options are exercisable up to 10 years after the date of grant.  
The Thomas Cook Group plc 2008 Co-Investment Plan (COIP)  
Executive Directors and senior executives may be required to purchase the Company’s shares using a proportion of their net bonus 
(Lodged Shares). For each Lodged Share purchased participants may receive up to 3.5 Matching Shares if performance targets for 
EPS, return on invested capital (ROIC), TSR and the Company’s share price are met during the 3 years following the date of grant. 
Subject to vesting conditions, the options or contingent share awards are exercisable up to 10 years after the date of grant.  
  
Thomas Cook Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 140
Transformation the ﬁrst 365 days  
 
34 Share-based payments continued 
The Thomas Cook Group plc 2008 Save As You Earn Scheme (SAYE)  
Eligible employees across the Group were offered options to purchase shares in the Company by entering into a three or four year savings 
contract. The option exercise price was set at a 10% (2010 grant) or 20% (2008 grant) discount to the market price at the offer date. 
Options are exercisable during the six months after the end of the savings contract.  
The Thomas Cook Group plc 2008 HM Revenue & Customs Approved Buy As You Earn Scheme (BAYE)  
Eligible UK tax-paying employees are offered the opportunity to purchase shares in the Company by deduction from their monthly gross 
pay. For every ten shares an employee buys in this way, the Company will purchase one matching share on their behalf.  
The Thomas Cook Group plc Restricted Share Plan (RSP)  
Senior executives of the Company and its subsidiaries are granted options to acquire, or contingent share awards of, the ordinary shares 
of the Company. Executive Directors are excluded from receiving awards under the RSP. The Company will determine at the date of award 
whether the award will be subject to a performance target and the date of vesting. Subject to any vesting conditions, the options or 
contingent share awards are exercisable up to ten years after the date of grant.  
The movements in options and awards during the year and prior year were: 
     2013 
 PSP COIP SAYE  CSOSP  RSP 
Outstanding at beginning of year  26,561,228 5,344,824 2,278,404 212,968 159,538
Granted  10,791,150 – – – 895,809
Exercised  (164,107) –(43,441) – (39,201)
Lapsed – –(115,405) – –
Cancelled  –(1,955,356)(497,447) – –
Forfeited (8,164,900)(1,233,669) (57,864) (136,908) (246,969)
Rights issue adjustment  2,875,791 331,033 260,268 11,680 271,948
Outstanding at end of year  31,899,1622,486,8321,824,515 87,740 1,041,125
Exercisable at end of year 100,682 –1,799,299 – 82,805
   
Exercise price (£)  nil nil1.57-2.15 1.97 nil
Average remaining contractual life (years) 8.7 7.7 0.3 7.3 9.5
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for the options exercised during the year ended 30 September 2013 was £1.45.  
     2012 
 PSP COIP SAYE  CSOSP  RSP 
Outstanding at beginning of year  17,480,878 5,991,751 5,608,535  774,594  513,304 
Granted  18,157,456 2,332,514 –  –  – 
Exercised  – – –  –  (326,443) 
Cancelled  – (553,763) (3,206,060) –  – 
Forfeited  (9,077,106) (2,425,678) (124,071) (561,626) (27,323) 
Outstanding at end of year  26,561,228 5,344,824 2,278,404  212,968  159,538 
Exercisable at end of year 174,233 – –  –  159,538 
        
Exercise price (£)  nil nil 1.81-1.88  1.97  nil 
Average remaining contractual life (years) 9.2 8.7 1.3  8.3  8.5
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for the options exercised during the year ended 30 September 2012 was £0.17.  
  
1
Thomas Cook Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 14 1
Directors’ report
2
Financial statements
1
3
Strategic report
1 Notes to the financial statements continued 
 
34 Share-based payments continued 
The fair value of options and awards subject to adjusted EPS and ROIC performance targets was determined by the use of Black-Scholes 
models and the fair value of options subject to TSR performance targets was determined by the use of Monte Carlo simulations. 
For options and awards granted during the year the key inputs to the models were: 
 2013 
 PSP COIP  RSP 
Weighted average share price at measurement date  £1.07 – £1.47
Weighted average exercise price  nil – nil
Expected volatility  50% – 50%
Weighted average option life (years)  3– 3
Weighted average risk-free rate  0.9% – 0.7%
Expected dividend yield  nil – nil
Weighted average fair value at date of grant £0.45 – £0.66
 
 2012 
 PSP COIP  RSP 
Weighted average share price at measurement date  £0.17 £0.17  – 
Weighted average exercise price  nil nil  – 
Expected volatility  50% 50% – 
Weighted average option life (years)  3 3  – 
Weighted average risk-free rate  0.3% 0.4% – 
Expected dividend yield  0% 0% – 
Weighted average fair value at date of grant £0.05 £0.04  –
Expected volatility has been based on the historic volatility of the Company’s shares and the shares of other companies in the same or 
related sectors.  
35 Retirement benefit schemes  
Pension schemes for the employees of the Thomas Cook Group consist of defined contribution plans and defined benefit plans, with 
the  defined benefit plans being both funded and unfunded. The obligations arising from defined contribution plans are satisfied by 
contribution payments to both private and state-run insurance providers.  
Unfunded defined benefit pension obligations  
Unfunded defined benefit pension obligations primarily relate to the Group’s employees in the German businesses of Thomas Cook AG 
and the Condor Group. Provisions are established on the basis of commitments made to those employees for old-age and transitional 
pensions based on the legal, tax and economic circumstances of the individual countries and on the period of employment and level 
of remuneration of the respective employees.  
Provisions for pensions and similar obligations totalling £251.9m (2012: £212.9m) were attributable to the pension commitments of the 
Condor Group (Condor Flugdienst GmbH, Condor Berlin GmbH and CF GmbH). For employees who joined a Condor Group company prior 
to 1995, the total pension commitment of the pensions authority of the German federal government and regional states was adjusted 
and maintained in the form of a company pension scheme. The flight crews were additionally entitled to a transitional provision for the 
period between the termination of their in-flight employment and the time they became eligible for a state-run or company pension. 
In both cases, the benefit commitment depended on the final salaries of the employees concerned prior to the termination of their 
in-flight employment (final salary plan). Employees who joined a Condor Group company from 1995 onwards participate in a company 
pension scheme under which the pension entitlements are based on the average salaries of those employees (average salary plan). 
The Condor Group also has retirement obligations arising from individual commitments and transitional provisions. In accordance with 
IAS 19, all these commitments are classified as unfunded defined benefit obligations and classified as such in these financial statements.  
  
Thomas Cook Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 14 2
Transformation the ﬁrst 365 days  
 
35 Retirement benefit schemes continued 
The Condor Group defined benefit plans have been closed to new entrants (with the exception of pilots) since 2004.  
There are additional unfunded defined benefit obligations comprising individual commitments to executive staff at Thomas Cook Group 
and obligations in respect of past service for employees in the Northern Europe and West Europe segments.  
The unfunded pension schemes are accounted for as part of liabilities for retirement benefit obligations in the balance sheet.  
The following weighted average actuarial assumptions were made for the purpose of determining the unfunded defined benefit 
obligations: 
 
2013
% 
2012 
% 
Discount rate for scheme liabilities  3.75% 4.14% 
Expected rate of salary increases  2.62% 2.58% 
Future pension increases 1.42% 1.51%
The mortality tables 2005 G drawn up by Prof. Dr. Klaus Heubeck were used as the basis for the mortality assumptions used in arriving at 
the present value of the pension obligations at 30 September 2013. These assume a life expectancy for members currently aged 65 of 
19 years for men and 23 years for women. 
Amounts recognised in the income statement in respect of these defined benefit schemes are as follows: 
 
2013
£m 
2012 
£m 
Current service cost  10.6 8.5 
Past service cost  1.2 – 
Gain on settlements  (2.3) (2.0) 
Curtailment gain  (1.0) (0.3) 
Interest cost on scheme liabilities  11.4 10.9 
Total included in the income statement 19.9 17.1
Service costs, gains on settlement and curtailment gains have been included in personnel expenses in the income statement and the 
unwinding of the discount rate of the expected retirement benefit obligations has been included in finance costs. Actuarial gains and 
losses have been reported in the statement of comprehensive income.  
Changes in the present value of unfunded pension obligations were as follows: 
 
2013
£m 
2012 
£m 
At beginning of year  253.5 227.8 
Current service cost  10.6 8.5 
Past service cost  1.2 – 
Interest cost  11.4 10.9 
Benefits paid  (6.8) (6.1) 
Settlements  (4.9) (7.2) 
Curtailments  (1.0) (0.3) 
Actuarial losses 19.7 37.1 
Exchange difference  12.1 (17.2) 
At end of year 295.8 253.5
 
  
1
Thomas Cook Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 14 3
Directors’ report
2
Financial statements
1
3
Strategic report
1 Notes to the financial statements continued 
 
35 Retirement benefit schemes continued 
Funded defined benefit pension obligations  
The pension entitlements of employees of Thomas Cook UK and employees in Norway and the Netherlands are provided through funded 
defined benefit schemes, where pension contributions are paid over to the schemes and the assets of the schemes are held separately 
from those of the Group in funds under the control of trustees. Pension costs are assessed in accordance with the advice of qualified 
actuaries in each country. The fair value of the pension assets in each scheme at the year end is compared with the present value of 
the retirement benefit obligations and the net difference reported as a pension asset or retirement benefit obligation as appropriate. 
Pension assets are only recognised to the extent that they will result in reimbursements being made or future payments being reduced.  
Funded defined benefit pension obligations have been determined on the basis of assumptions relevant to each country. The weighted 
averages of these were: 
 
2013
% 
2012 
% 
Discount rate for scheme liabilities  4.41% 4.32% 
Inflation rate  3.14% 2.66% 
Expected return on scheme assets  5.03% 5.49% 
Expected rate of salary increases  0.02% 0.18% 
Future pension increases 0.25% 0.42%
The Thomas Cook UK Pension Plan accounts for approximately 92% (2012: 86%) of the total funded defined benefit obligations. The 
mortality assumptions used in arriving at the present value of those obligations at 30 September 2013 are based on the PMA92/PFA92 
tables with medium cohort improvements and a minimum future longevity improvement per year of 1%, adjusted for recent mortality 
experience. The mortality assumptions adopted for the plan liabilities indicate a further life expectancy for members currently aged 65 
of 23.2 years for men and 25.2 years for women.  
On 31 March 2011, the UK defined benefit schemes closed to all active members who were given the option of joining Thomas Cook’s 
defined contribution scheme. The closure of the schemes resulted in a cessation of future pension benefit accrual and a consequent 
curtailment gain of £25.8m, which was recognised in the income statement for the year ended 30 September 2011. 
Amounts recognised in the income statement in respect of these defined benefit schemes are as follows: 
 
2013
£m 
2012 
£m 
Current service cost  3.3 2.3 
Expected return on scheme assets  (41.2) (41.4) 
Interest cost on scheme liabilities  38.8 43.7 
Total loss included in the income statement 0.9 4.6 
Service costs and curtailment gains have been included in personnel expenses in the income statement and the unwinding of the discount 
rate of the expected retirement benefit obligations has been included in finance costs. The expected return on scheme assets has been 
included in finance income.  
The actual return on scheme assets was £76.3m (2012: £63.9m).  
Actuarial gains and losses have been reported in the statement of comprehensive income.  
  
Thomas Cook Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 14 4
Transformation the ﬁrst 365 days  
 
35 Retirement benefit schemes continued 
Changes in the present value of funded defined benefit obligations were as follows: 
 
2013
£m 
2012 
£m 
At beginning of year  888.2 846.5 
Current service cost  3.3 2.3 
Interest cost  38.8 43.7 
Benefits paid  (23.5) (19.8) 
Disposal of businesses  – (1.2)
Expenses paid  (2.7) (2.4) 
Contributions paid by plan participants  0.3 0.2 
Actuarial losses  92.5 21.1 
Exchange difference  1.3 (2.2) 
At end of year  998.2 888.2 
Changes in the fair value of scheme assets were as follows: 
 
2013
£m 
2012 
£m 
At beginning of year  810.9 743.3 
Expected return on scheme assets  41.2 41.4 
Contributions from the sponsoring companies  28.0 28.7 
Contributions paid by plan participants  0.3 0.2 
Actuarial gains  35.0 22.5 
Benefits paid  (23.5) (19.8) 
Disposal of businesses  – (1.1) 
Expenses paid  (2.7) (2.4) 
Exchange difference  0.4 (1.9) 
At end of year  889.6 810.9 
Following the 2008 actuarial valuation of the Thomas Cook UK pension plan, a 6 year Recovery Plan was agreed with the pension trustees 
to fund the actuarial deficit. In line with that agreement, Thomas Cook UK committed to make additional quarterly payments totalling 
£105.6m through to June 2014. During the year ended 30 September 2013 Thomas Cook UK paid four instalments totalling £26m in line 
with the recovery plan.  
  
1
Thomas Cook Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 14 5
Directors’ report
2
Financial statements
1
3
Strategic report
1 Notes to the financial statements continued 
 
35 Retirement benefit schemes continued 
The fair value of scheme assets at the balance sheet date is analysed as follows: 
 2013 
Long-term rate 
of return
 % 
2013 
£m 
2012 
Long-term rate 
of return
 % 
2012 
£m 
Equities  7.0% 293.4 6.6% 319.3 
Property  5.4% 80.9 4.9% 81.0 
Fixed interest gilts  3.9% 278.3 3.1% 225.1 
Hedge funds  7.0% 190.9 6.6% 143.9 
Other  6.8% 46.1 5.6% 41.6 
At end of year 889.6 810.9
The scheme assets do not include any of the Group’s own financial instruments, nor any property occupied by, or other assets used by, 
the Group.  
The expected rates of return on scheme assets have been calculated as the weighted average rate of return on each asset class. The return 
on each asset class is taken as the market rate of return.  
The amount included in the balance sheet arising from the Group’s obligations in respect of its defined benefit pension schemes is 
as follows: 
 
2013
£m 
2012 
£m 
Present value of funded defined benefit obligations  998.2 888.2 
Fair value of scheme assets  (889.6) (810.9) 
Deficit on funded retirement benefit obligations  108.6 77.3 
Present value of unfunded defined benefit obligations  295.8 253.5 
Scheme deficits recognised in the balance sheet  404.4 330.8 
This amount is presented as follows:   
Current liabilities  1.3 6.8 
Non-current liabilities  403.1 324.0 
 404.4 330.8 
The cumulative net actuarial losses recognised in the statement of comprehensive income at 30 September 2013 were £435.8m 
(2012: £358.6m).  
The history of the experience gains and losses of the schemes is as follows: 
 2013
£m 
2012 
£m 
2011  
£m  
2010  
£m 
2009 
£m 
Present value of defined benefit obligations  1,294.0 1,141.7 1,074.3  1,117.9  993.0 
Fair value of scheme assets  (889.6) (810.9) (743.3) (703.4) (621.9) 
Scheme deficits  404.4 330.8 331.0  414.5  371.1 
Experience adjustments on scheme liabilities  (3.1) 19.1 (9.4) (10.1) (7.7) 
Experience adjustments on scheme assets  (34.9) 22.2 (24.1) 27.6  (13.7)
Defined contribution schemes  
There are a number of defined contribution schemes in the Group, the principal scheme being the Thomas Cook UK DC Pension Scheme, 
which is open to all UK employees. The total charge for the year in respect of this and other defined contribution schemes, including 
liabilities in respect of insured benefits relating to workers’ compensation arrangements, amounted to £36.7m (2012: £29.4m).  
The assets of these schemes are held separately from those of the Group in funds under the control of trustees.  
  
Thomas Cook Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 14 6
Transformation the ﬁrst 365 days  
 
36 Related party transactions 
Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are 
not disclosed in this note. Transactions between the Group and its associates and joint venture undertakings are disclosed below. 
Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries and associates are disclosed in the Company’s separate financial statements.  
Trading transactions  
During the year, Group companies entered into the following transactions with related parties who are not members of the Group: 
 
Associates, joint venture 
and participations*
 
2013
£m 
2012 
£m 
Sale of goods and services  13.3 42.1 
Purchases of goods and services  (11.5) (22.9) 
Other income  2.2 1.6 
Interest receivable  0.2 0.3 
Amounts owed by related parties**  4.8 23.2 
Provisions against amounts owed  (2.7) (3.9) 
Amounts owed to related parties  (2.6) (3.2) 
* Participations are equity investments where the Group has a significant equity participation but which are not considered to be associates or joint ventures.  
** Amounts owed by related parties in 2012 included £11.8m which was reported as part of the investment in Thomas Cook Personal Finance. During the year the group 
disposed of its investment in Thomas Cook Personal Finance.  
All transactions are considered to have been made at market prices. Outstanding amounts will normally be settled by cash payment.  
Remuneration of key management personnel  
The remuneration of the Directors, who are the key management personnel of the Group, is set out below in aggregate for each of the 
categories specified in IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures. Further information about the remuneration of individual Directors is provided 
in the audited part of the Remuneration report on pages 78 to 82 and 85 to 87. 
 
2013
£m 
2012 
£m 
Short-term employee benefits 5.3 3.3 
Share-based payments 0.1 – 
 5.4 3.3
The short-term employee benefits figure includes employer social security payments which are excluded from the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report.  
37 Subsequent events  
Subsequent to the balance sheet date and the approval of this financial information a number of events occurred that require disclosure: 
Disposal of Egypt and Lebanon 
On 7 October 2013 the Group announced it had sold 100% of Thomas Cook Egypt and Thomas Cook Lebanon to Yusuf Bin Ahmed Kanoo 
(Holdings) Co WLL of Bahrain for a cash consideration of £6.5m. At the balance sheet date the assets and liabilities have been classified as 
held for sale in accordance with IFRS. 
Disposal of UK Corporate Foreign Exchange  
On 18 November 2013 the Group announced it had sold its UK Foreign Exchange business, Thomas Cook CFX Ltd, to Moneycorp for 
a cash consideration of £4.5m  
Disposal of interest in the Airline Group (NATS) 
On 19 November 2013 the Group announced it had agreed to sell 91.5% of its shareholding and loan note interests in The Airline Group 
Limited. The cash consideration is £38m. 
Disposal of Neilson Active Holidays Ltd 
On 25 November 2013 the Group announced it had agreed to sell Neilson Active Holidays Ltd for a consideration of £9.15m. 
The transactions are expected to complete in December. 
1
Thomas Cook Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 14 7
Directors’ report
2
Financial statements
1
3
Strategic report
1 Company balance sheet 
At 30 September 2013 
 notes 
30 September
2013 
£m 
30 September
2012 
£m 
Non-current assets     
Property, plant and equipment  6  3.2 1.6 
Investments in subsidiaries  7  2,167.4 2,054.7 
Trade and other receivables  8  627.9 561.9 
   2,798.5 2,618.2 
Current assets   
Trade and other receivables  8  1,052.1 1,060.9 
Cash and cash equivalents  9  46.3 26.1 
   1,098.4 1,087.0 
Total assets   3,896.9 3,705.2 
  
Current liabilities   
Trade and other payables  10  (173.3) (408.1) 
Short term provisions   12  (0.7) (2.0)
    (174.0) (410.1) 
  
Non-current liabilities   
Borrowings  13   (629.0) (611.5) 
Total liabilities   (803.0) (1,021.6) 
Net assets   3,093.9 2,683.6 
  
Equity   
Called-up share capital  14  68.4 60.0 
Share premium account   434.3 29.2 
Merger reserve   1,429.0 1,429.0 
Hedging and translation reserves   769.0 649.7 
Capital redemption reserve   8.5 8.5 
Retained earnings surplus   414.2 520.6 
Investment in own shares   (29.5) (13.4) 
Total equity   3,093.9 2,683.6 
The financial statements on pages 148 to 157 were approved by the Board of Directors on 27 November 2013.  
Signed on behalf of the Board  
Michael Healy  
Group Chief Financial Officer  
Notes 1 to 19 form part of these financial statements.  
Thomas Cook Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 14 8
Transformation the ﬁrst 365 days Company cash flow statement 
For the year ended 30 September 2013 
 
Year ended
30 September 
2013 
£m 
Year ended
30 September 
2012 
£m 
Cash flows from operating activities   
Loss before tax  (112.1) (87.2) 
Adjustments for:  
Interest received (0.5) (2.2) 
Interest paid 49.4 61.5 
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment  0.3 0.2 
Loss on disposal of assets  – 0.6 
Share-based payments  2.2 – 
(Decrease)/increase in provisions  (1.3) 2.0 
(Increase)/decrease in receivables  (55.8) 80.4
(Decrease)/increase in payables  (226.0) 65.0 
Net cash used in operating activities  (343.8) 120.3 
Investing activities   
Addition of fixed assets (1.6) –
Net cash from investing activities  (1.6) – 
Financing activities   
Inflow from borrowings 17.6 –
Interest paid (49.4) (61.5)
Dividends paid – (32.7)
Share issue 8.4 –
Net share premium on issue of shares 405.1 –
Investment in own shares (16.1) –
Net cash from/(used in) financing activities  365.6 (94.2) 
Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents  20.2 26.1 
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year  26.1 – 
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes  – – 
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year  46.3 26.1 
Liquid assets  – – 
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year  46.3 26.1 
 
1
Thomas Cook Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 14 9
Directors’ report
2
Financial statements
1
3
Strategic report
1 Company statement of changes in equity 
For the year ended 30 September 2013 
 
Share
capital 
£m 
Share 
premium 
£m 
Merger 
reserve 
£m 
Capital 
redemption 
reserve 
£m 
Translation 
reserve 
£m 
 
Retained  
earnings  
£m  
Own 
shares 
£m 
Total 
£m 
At 1 October 2011  59.2 29.2 1,588.0 8.5 888.7 446.8 (13.3)3,007.1
Loss for the year  – – – – – (87.2) – (87.2)
Other comprehensive expense  – – – –(239.0) – –(239.0)
Total comprehensive expense for the year  – – – – (239.0) (87.2) – (326.2)
Equity debit in respect of share-based payments  – – – – – 2.0 – 2.0
Issue of equity shares net of expenses  0.8 ––– –– – 0.8
Release of merger reserve  – –(159.0) – –159.0 – –
Purchase of own shares – ––– –– (0.1) (0.1)
At 30 September 2012  60.0 29.2 1,429.0 8.5 649.7 520.6 (13.4)2,683.6
Loss for the year  – – – – –(112.1) –(112.1)
Other comprehensive expense  – – – –119.3 – –119.3
Total comprehensive expense for the year  – – – –119.3(112.1) – 7.2
Equity credit in respect of share-based payments  – – – – – 5.7 – 5.7
Issue of shares-exercise of warrants  8.4––– –– – 8.4
Share Premium  –405.1 – – – – –405.1
Purchase of own shares – – – – – – (16.1) (16.1)
At 30 September 2013  68.4 434.31,429.0 8.5 769.0 414.2 (29.5)3,093.9
The statement of changes in equity and Company cash flow statement for the year ended 30 September 2012 have been re-presented to include dividends received and Group 
relief not at the standard rate of UK tax within the loss for the year. This has no effect upon opening or closing retained earnings for the year.  
The merger reserve arose on the issue of shares of the Company in connection with the acquisition of the entire share capital of  
 2007 and represents the difference between the nominal value and the fair value   
 the Company’s investment in subsidiaries in the prior year, the Company has, in  
through a transfer from the merger reserve to retained  
The share premium arose in connection with the issue of ordinary shares of the Company following the exercise of MyTravel executive 
share options.  
At 30 September 2013, the Company had distributable reserves of £414.2m (2012: £520.6m).  
Details of the own shares held are set out in note 29 to the Group financial statements.  
 
Thomas Cook AG and MyTravel Group plc on 19 June
of the shares acquired. Following the impairment of
accordance with the Companies Act 2006, relieved part of the impairment loss 
earnings of £159.0m.  
Thomas Cook Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 15 0
Transformation the ﬁrst 365 days Notes to the Company financial statements 
 
1 Accounting policies  
The accounting policies applied in the preparation of these Company financial statements are the same as those set out in note 2 to the 
Group financial statements with the addition of the following:  
Investments  
Investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost less provision for impairment.  
These policies have been applied consistently to the periods presented.  
The functional currency of the Company is Euro, however, the Directors have decided to adopt Sterling as the presentational currency to 
be in line with the consolidated accounts.  
2 Loss for the year  
As permitted by section 408(3) of the Companies Act 2006, the Company has elected not to present its own income statement for the 
year. The loss after tax of the Company amounted to £112.1m (2012: £87.2m loss after tax).  
The auditors’ remuneration for audit services to the Company was £0.5m (2012: £0.4m).  
3 Personnel expenses  
 
2013
£m 
2012
£m 
Wages and salaries  22.7 21.1 
Social security costs  2.3 1.3 
Share based payments 2.2 –
 27.2 22.4
 
 
2013 
Number 
2012
Number 
Average number of employees of the Company during the year 110 109
Employees are based in the United Kingdom and Germany.  
Disclosures of individual Directors’ remuneration, share options, long-term incentive schemes, pension contributions and pension 
entitlements required by the Companies Act 2006 and specified for audit by the Financial Services Authority are on pages 78 to 82 and 
85 to 87 within the Remuneration report and form part of these audited accounts.  
The employees of the Company are members of the Group pension schemes as detailed in note 35 of the Group financial statements.  
4 Tax  
At the balance sheet date the Company had unused tax losses of £139.0m (2012: £37.5m) and other deductible short term temporary 
differences of £4.2m (2012: £9.0m) available for offset against future profits. No deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of 
unused tax losses and other deductible short- term timing differences. 
5 Dividends  
The details of the Company’s dividend are disclosed in note 11 to the Group financial statements.  
  
1
Thomas Cook Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 15 1
Directors’ report
2
Financial statements
1
3
Strategic report
1 Notes to the Company financial statements continued 
 
6 Property, plant and equipment 
Other fixed assets £m 
Cost  
At 1 October 2011  3.0
Disposals (0.6)
Exchange differences (0.2)
At 30 September 2012  2.2
Additions 1.6
Exchange differences  0.3
At 30 September 2013  4.1
Accumulated depreciation and impairment  
At 1 October 2011  0.4
Charge for the year  0.2
At 30 September 2012  0.6
Charge for the year  0.3
At 30 September 2013  0.9
Carrying amount at 30 September 2013  3.2
Carrying amount at 30 September 2012  1.6
7 Investment in subsidiaries 
 £m 
Cost and net book value  
At 1 October 2011  2,619.8
Adjustment in respect of share-based payments  1.8
Impairment  (367.0)
Exchange difference  (199.9)
At 30 September 2012  2,054.7
Adjustment in respect of share-based payments  5.7
Additions  6.0
Exchange difference  101.0
At 30 September 2013  2,167.4
A list of the Company’s principal subsidiary undertakings is shown in note 19 to the financial statements.  
The additions in the current year relate to the investment in Thomas Cook Finance plc (£6.0m). Adjustment in respect of share-based 
payment charge related to subsidiaries' employees was £5.7m (2012: £1.8m).  
During the year the Company did not recognise any impairment loss in relation to its investments in subsidiaries (2012: £367.0m).  
8 Trade and other receivables 
 
2013
£m 
2012
£m 
Current   
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings  995.2 1,013.2 
Other receivables  0.7 3.8 
Deposits and prepayments  56.2 43.9 
  1,052.1 1,060.9 
Non-current   
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings  625.1 558.9 
Deposits and prepayments  2.8 3.0 
  627.9 561.9 
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings are repayable on demand. The average interest on overdue amounts owed by subsidiary 
undertakings is 0.4% (2012: 0.4%). The Directors consider the fair value to be equal to the book value. 
Thomas Cook Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 15 2
Transformation the ﬁrst 365 days  
 
9 Cash and cash equivalents 
 
2013
£m 
2012
£m 
Cash at bank and in hand 46.3 26.1 
 46.3 26.1 
Cash and cash equivalents comprise of balances which are considered to be restricted. £46.2m (2012: £26.1m) is held within escrow 
accounts in Denmark and Norway in respect of local regulatory requirements. The Directors consider that the carrying amounts of these 
assets approximate their fair value.  
10 Trade and other payables  
 
2013
£m 
2012
£m 
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings  121.3 368.9 
Social security and other taxes  2.9 1.7 
Other payables  21.1 19.7 
Accruals  28.0 17.8 
 173.3 408.1 
The average interest on overdue amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings is 1.1% (2012: 0.7%).  
Amounts owing to subsidiary undertakings are repayable on demand. The Directors consider the fair value to be equal to the book value.  
11 Financial instruments 
The Company's financial instruments comprise investment in subsidiary undertakings, amounts due to/from subsidiary undertakings, 
cash and cash equivalents, and other payables and receivables. The Company's approach to the management of financial risks is 
discussed on pages 30 and 31. The Company believes the value of its financial assets to be fully recoverable. 
The carrying value of the Company's financial instruments is exposed to movements in foreign currency exchange rates (primarily Sterling). 
The Company estimates that a 5% strengthening in Sterling would increase loss before tax by £20.2m (2012: increase loss before tax by 
£26.6m), while a 5% weakening in Sterling would decrease loss before tax by £20.2m (2012: decrease loss before tax by £26.6m).  
The carrying value of the Company's financial instruments is exposed to movements in interest rates. The Company estimates that a 
0.5% increase in interest rates would increase loss before tax by £1.1m (2012: 0.5% increase in interest rates increase loss before tax 
by £0.1m), while a 0.5% decrease in interest rates would decrease loss before tax by £1.1m (2012: 0.5% decrease in interest rates 
decrease loss before tax by £0.1m). 
Carrying value of financial assets and liabilities 
The carrying values of the Group's financial assets and liabilities as at 30 September 2013 and 30 September 2012 are set out below: 
At 30 September 2013 
Total other 
financial assets 
£m 
Total other 
financial 
liabilities 
£m 
Loans & 
receivables 
£m 
Available for 
sale  
£m  
Financial 
liabilities at 
amortised cost 
£m 
Total 
£m 
Non-current asset investments 2,167.4 – – – –2,167.4
Trade and other receivables 1,680.0 – – – –1,680.0
Cash and cash equivalents 46.3 – – – – 46.3
Trade and other payables  –(173.3) – – –(173.3)
Borrowings  –––– (629.0) (629.0)
Provisions arising from contractual obligations – (0.7) – – – (0.7)
 3,893.7 (174.0) – – (629.0) 3,090.7
1
Thomas Cook Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 15 3
Directors’ report
2
Financial statements
1
3
Strategic report
1 Notes to the Company financial statements continued 
 
11 Financial instruments continued 
At 30 September 2012 
Total other 
financial assets 
£m 
Total other 
financial 
liabilities 
£m 
Loans & 
receivables 
£m 
Available for sale  
£m  
Financial 
liabilities at 
amortised cost 
£m 
Total 
£m 
Non-current asset investments 2,054.7 – – – –2,054.7
Trade and other receivables 1,622.8 – – – –1,622.8
Cash and cash equivalents 26.1 – – – – 26.1
Trade and other payables  –(408.1) – – –(408.1)
Borrowings  –––– (611.5) (611.5)
Provisions arising from contractual obligations – (2.0) – – – (2.0)
 
Financial liabilities are analysed below based on the time between the year end and their contractual maturity. The amounts shown are 
estimates of the undiscounted future cash flows and will differ from both carrying value and fair value. Any cash flows based on a floating 
rate are calculated using interest rates as set at the date of the last rate reset. 
At 30 September 2013 
Amount due 
In less than 
3 months
£m 
Between 3 and 
12 months 
£m 
Between 1 and 
5 years
£m £m 
Trade and other payables (22.5)(127.9) –(150.4)
Borrowings – (45.9) (735.1) (781.0)
Provisions arising from contractual obligations – (0.7) – (0.7)
(22.5) (174.5) (735.1) (932.1)
 
At 30 September 2012 
Amount due 
In less than 
3 months
£m 
between 3 and 
12 months 
£m 
between 1 and 
5 years
£m 
Total
£m 
Trade and other payables (15.4)(368.3) – (383.7)
Borrowings – (44.8) (762.9) (807.7)
Provisions arising from contractual obligations – (1.3) (0.7) (2.0)
(15.4) (414.4) (763.6) (1,193.4)
  
3,703.6 (410.1) – – (611.5) 2,682.0
Thomas Cook Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 15 4
Transformation the ﬁrst 365 days  
 
12 Provisions 
 
2013 
£m 
2012
£m 
At 1 October (2.0) –
Additional provision in the year  (0.7) (2.0)
Release of provision 2.0 –
At 30 September (0.7) (2.0)
Provisions relate to provisions for severance costs. 
13 Borrowings  
Borrowings comprise a €400m bond issued with an annual coupon of 6.75% maturing in June 2015 and a £300m bond with an annual 
coupon of 7.75% maturing in June 2017. 
14 Called-up share capital  
The details of the Company’s share capital are the same as those of the Group, and are disclosed in note 29 to the Group financial 
statements in this report.  
Details of share options granted by the Company are set out in note 34 to the Group financial statements.  
15 Operating lease arrangements  
At the balance sheet date, the Company had outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments related to property, 
under non-cancellable operating leases, which fall due as follows:  
 
2013
£m 
2012
£m 
Within one year  0.3 0.6 
Later than one year and less than five years  1.2 2.4 
After five years  1.5 0.7 
 3.0 3.7 
16 Contingent liabilities  
At 30 September 2013, the Company had contingent liabilities in respect of counter-guarantees for bank funding, letters of credit and 
guarantees of amounts owed by subsidiaries amounting to £894.1m (2012: £707.5m). This predominately relates to a guarantee on the 
drawndown portion of the Group banking facility (detailed in note 20 to the Group financial statements).  
Also included are guarantees related to aircraft finance lease commitments, estimated based on the current book value of the finance 
lease liabilities of £209.7m (2012: £249.9m).  
The Company complies with all the standards relevant to consumer protection and formal requirements in respect of package tour 
contracts and has all the necessary licences. In the UK the customer’s right to reimbursement of the return travel costs and amounts paid 
in case of insolvency or bankruptcy on the part of the tour operator or travel agency is guaranteed in line with legislation in the UK via a 
fund mechanism, whereby travel companies are required to collect and remit a small charge for each protected customer upon booking.  
  
1
Thomas Cook Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 15 5
Directors’ report
2
Financial statements
1
3
Strategic report
1 Notes to the Company financial statements continued 
 
17 Related party transactions  
Subsidiaries  
The Company transacts and has outstanding balances with its subsidiaries. The Company enters into loans with its subsidiaries, at both 
fixed and floating rates of interest, on a commercial basis. Hence, the Company incurs interest expense and earns interest income on 
these loans. The Company also received dividend income from its subsidiaries during the year. 
 
2013 
£m 
2012 
£m 
Transactions with subsidiaries 
Interest receivable 0.5 2.2 
Interest payable (1.4) (4.0) 
Management fees and other expenses 15.8 12.7
Dividend income received 41.2 292.8
 
Year-end balances arising on transactions with subsidiaries 
Loans receivable  869.9 835.3
Interest receivable  0.4 0.6
Other receivables  124.9 177.3
Loans payable  (71.6) (322.5)
Other payables  (50.2) (46.4)
Remuneration of key management personnel  
The remuneration of the Directors, who are the key management personnel of the Company, is set out in note 36 of the Group 
financial statements.  
18 Share-based payments  
The employees of the Company, including the Directors, collectively participate in all of the Group’s equity-settled share-based payment 
schemes. The details relating to these schemes in respect of the Company are identical to those disclosed in note 34 to the Group financial 
statements and have therefore not been re-presented here.  
The share-based payment charge of £2.2m (2012: nil) is stated net of amounts recharged to subsidiary undertakings. 
  
Thomas Cook Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 15 6
Transformation the ﬁrst 365 days  
 
19 Principal subsidiaries 
 
Country of  
incorporation  
and operation Nature of the business 
Proportion 
held by 
Company (%) 
Proportion
held by 
Group (%) 
Direct subsidiaries   
Thomas Cook Investments (2) Limited England Holding Company 100 100 
Thomas Cook AG Germany Holding Company 100 100 
Thomas Cook Finance plc England Financing Company 
   
Indirect subsidiaries   
UK   
Thomas Cook Airlines Limited  England Airline 100 
Thomas Cook Retail Limited  England Travel Agent 100 
Thomas Cook Scheduled Tour Operations Limited  England Tour Operator 100 
Thomas Cook Tour Operations Limited  England Tour Operator 100 
Thomas Cook UK Limited  England Tour Operator 100 
TCCT Retail Limited England Tour Operator 100
Neilson Active Holidays Limited* England Tour Operator 100 
Continental Europe   
Bucher Reisen GmbH Germany Tour Operator 100
TC Touristik GmbH Germany Tour Operator 50.0023
Thomas Cook Airlines Belgium NV Belgium Airline 100
Thomas Cook Belgium NV Belgium Tour Operator 100 
Thomas Cook SAS France Tour Operator and Travel Agent 100 
Thomas Cook Austria AG Austria Tour Operator 100
Neckermann Polska Biuro Podrozy sp z.o.o Poland Tour Operator 100
Northern Europe   
Thomas Cook Airlines Scandinavia A/S Denmark Airline 100 
Thomas Cook Northern Europe AB Sweden Intermediate Holding Company 100 
North America   
Thomas Cook Canada Inc.** Canada Tour Operator 100
Airlines Germany   
Condor Berlin GmbH*** Germany Airline 50.0023 
Condor Flugdienst GmbH*** Germany Airline 50.0023 
Corporate   
Thomas Cook Group Treasury Limited England Financing Company 100
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption under Section 410 of the Companies Act 2006 by providing information only in 
relation to subsidiary undertakings whose results or financial position, in the opinion of the Directors, principally affected the financial 
statements. A full list of subsidiaries will be sent to Companies House with the next annual return.  
* As explained in note 37 to the Group accounts, on 25 November 2013, the Group announced it had agreed to sell Neilson Active Holidays Limited. Its results for the year end 
30 September 2013 have been included within the Group Income Statement and its assets and liabilities have been classified as held for sale in accordance with IFRS 5. 
** As explained in note 16 to the Group accounts, on 1 May 2013, the Group sold Thomas Cook Canada Inc. In accordance with IFRS the results of the North America business 
have been included as discontinued operations. 
*** All risks and rewards continue to be held by the Group and, in accordance with accounting standards, the entity has been treated as being 100% controlled and fully 
consolidated by the Group. 
100 100 
1
Thomas Cook Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 15 7
Directors’ report
2
Financial statements
1
3
Strategic report
1 Shareholder information  
Annual General Meeting (‘AGM’)  
The AGM will be held at 1
st
 Floor, North Building, 200 Aldersgate, 
St Pauls, London EC1A 4HD on Thursday 20 February 2014 at 
10.30am. The last date for AGM proxy votes to be received by the 
Registrar is Tuesday 18 February 2014.  
All shareholders can submit their proxy vote for the AGM 
electronically at www.sharevote.co.uk. To register their vote, 
shareholders will need the numbers detailed on their form of proxy.  
Alternatively, shareholders who have already registered with 
Shareview can submit their proxy vote by logging on to 
www.shareview.co.uk and clicking on the link to vote underneath 
their Thomas Cook Group plc holding.  
Share register and shareholder enquiries  
The Company’s share register is maintained by Equiniti. Queries 
relating to Thomas Cook Group plc shares should be addressed to: 
The Registrar  
Equiniti  
Aspect House  
Spencer Road  
Lancing  
West Sussex BN99 6DA  
Tel: 0871 384 2154 *  
(International telephone number: +44 (0)121 415 0182)  
* Calls to this number cost 8p per minute plus network extras. Lines are open 8.30am 
to 5.30pm (London time), Monday to Friday (excluding UK public holidays).  
Shareholders should quote the Company reference number 3174 
and their shareholder reference number (which can be found on 
their share certificates), when contacting the Registrar.  
Shareview  
To be able to access information about their shares and other 
investments online, shareholders can register with Shareview 
(www.shareview.co.uk). Registration is free; shareholders will 
need their shareholder reference number which is shown on their 
form of proxy and share certificate. By registering for this service, 
shareholders will:  
> help reduce paper, print and postage costs;  
> help the environment;  
> be able to submit their queries by email; and  
> be able to manage their shareholding easily and securely online.  
Once registered, whenever shareholder documents are available, 
shareholders will be sent a link to the appropriate website, where 
the documents will be available to view or download. Receiving 
documents online does not affect shareholders’ rights in any way.  
Website  
The Company’s corporate website, www.thomascookgroup.com, 
provides information including: 
> news, updates, press releases and regulatory announcements;  
> investor information, including the Annual Report, financial 
results, financial calendar and share price information;  
> details of shareholder meetings and poll results;  
> biographies of the Board of Directors;  
> the Company's Articles of Association, the terms of reference for 
the Committees of the Board and the Board Appointments Policy; 
and  
> sustainability reporting.  
Multiple accounts on the share register  
If a shareholder receives two or more sets of the documents 
concerning the AGM, this means that there is more than one 
account in their name on the shareholder register, perhaps 
because either the name or the address appears on each account 
in a slightly different way. For security reasons, Equiniti will not 
amalgamate the accounts without the shareholder’s written 
consent. Therefore, if a shareholder would like their multiple 
accounts to be combined, they should write to Equiniti at the 
address above, detailing the different shareholder reference 
numbers, and request that they be combined into one account.  
Electronic communications  
At the AGM on 10 April 2008, the Company passed a resolution 
allowing the Company’s corporate website to be used as 
the primary means of communication with its shareholders. 
A consultation card was sent to shareholders enabling them 
to choose either to:  
> receive notification by email when shareholder documentation 
is available on the website; or  
> continue to receive shareholder documentation in hard copy.  
Shareholders who did not respond were deemed, in accordance 
with the Companies Act 2006, to have agreed to receive 
shareholder documentation via the Company’s corporate website. 
These arrangements for electronic shareholder communications 
provide shareholders with the opportunity to access information 
in a timely manner and help the Company to reduce both its costs 
and its environmental impact.  
 
 
Thomas Cook Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 15 8
Transformation the ﬁrst 365 days  
 
Dividends  
Information on recent dividend payments is detailed below: 
Name 
Final dividend for the 
financial year ended 
30 September 2009 
Interim dividend for the 
financial year ended 
30 September 2010 
Final dividend for the 
financial year ended 
30 September 2010  
Interim dividend for the 
financial year ended 
30 September 2011 
Amount per share 7.00p 3.75p 7.00p  3.75p 
Record date 19 March 
2010 
10 September 
2010 
18 March  
2011  
9 September 
2011 
Payment date 8 April 
2010 
8 October 
2010 
7 April  
2011  
7 October 
2011 
No further dividends have been paid or declared since the interim dividend for the financial year ended 30 September 2011, paid on 
7 October 2011.  
 
Thomas Cook AG/MyTravel Group plc merger 
Thomas Cook Group plc was formed in June 2007 upon the merger 
of Thomas Cook AG and MyTravel Group plc.  
MyTravel Group plc shareholders received one Thomas Cook 
Group plc ordinary share for every one MyTravel Group plc share 
previously held. MyTravel Group plc share certificates are no longer 
valid and can be destroyed. Replacement Thomas Cook Group plc 
share certificates were sent to shareholders, who held shares in 
certificated form, on or around 19 June 2007. If you have any 
queries relating to this, please contact the Registrar.  
Warning to shareholders about share fraud  
Fraudsters use persuasive and high-pressure tactics to lure investors 
into scams. 
They may offer to sell shares that turn out to be worthless or  
non-existent, or to buy shares at an inflated price in return for 
an upfront payment. 
While high profits are promised, if you buy or sell shares in this way 
you will probably lose your money. 
5,000 people contact the Financial Conduct Authority about share 
fraud each year, with victims losing an average of £20,000.  
How to avoid share fraud  
If you are offered unsolicited investment advice, discounted 
shares, a premium price for shares you own, or free company 
or research reports, you should take these steps before handing 
over any money:  
1. Keep in mind that firms authorised by the FCA are unlikely to 
contact you out of the blue with an offer to buy or sell shares. 
2. Do not get into a conversation, note the name of the person 
and firm contacting you and then end the call. 
3. Check the Financial Services Register from www.fca.org.uk 
to see if the person and firm contacting you is authorised 
by the FCA.  
4. Beware of fraudsters claiming to be from an authorised firm, 
copying its website or giving you false contact details. 
5. Use the firm’s contact details listed on the Register if you want 
to call it back. 
6. Call the FCA on 0800 111 6768 if the firm does not have 
contact details on the Register or you are told they are out 
of date. 
7. Search the list of unauthorised firms to avoid at 
www.fca.org.uk/scams. 
8. Consider that if you buy or sell shares from an unauthorised 
firm you will not have access to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service or Financial Services Compensation Scheme. 
9. Think about getting independent financial and professional 
advice before you hand over any money. 
10. Remember: if it sounds too good to be true, it probably is! 
Report a scam  
If you are approached about a share scam you should tell the FCA 
using the share fraud reporting form at www.fca.gov.uk/scams, 
where you can find out about the latest investment scams. You can 
also call the FCA Consumer Helpline on 0800 111 6768. If you have 
already paid money to share fraudsters you should contact Action 
Fraud on 0300 123 2040.  
1
Thomas Cook Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 15 9
Directors’ report
2
Financial statements
1
3
Strategic report
1 Shareholder information continued 
ShareGift  
Shareholders with a small number of shares, the value of which 
make it uneconomical to sell, may wish to consider donating them 
to the charity ShareGift (Registered Charity Number 1052686), 
which specialises in using such holdings for charitable benefit. 
Find out more about ShareGift at www.sharegift.org or by 
telephoning +44 (0)20 7930 3737.  
Shareview dealing  
A telephone and internet dealing service has been arranged 
through the Registrar to provide a simple way of buying and 
selling Thomas Cook Group plc shares for existing and prospective 
UK-based shareholders. For telephone dealing call 08456 037 037 
(international telephone number: +44 (0)121 415 7560) 
between 8.00am and 4.30pm (London time), Monday to Friday 
(excluding UK public holidays), or visit the website: 
www.shareview.co.uk/dealing. Shareholders will need the 
shareholder reference number shown on their share certificate(s).  
Analysis of shareholders as at  
30 September 2013 
Distribution of shares by the type of shareholder 
Number of 
holdings Number of shares 
Nominees and institutional investors 1,434 1,433,441,170
Individuals 15,630 19,962,057
Total 17,064 1,453,403,227 
 
Size of shareholding 
Number of 
holdings Number of shares 
1–100  9,282 300,159 
101–500  3,307  782,050 
501–1,000  1,055 791,626
1,001–10,000  2,426 8,825,861
10,001–100,000  619  18,257,807
100,001–500,000  162 39,110,074
500,001–1,000,000  52 35,300,709
1,000,001 and above  161  1,350,034,941
Total 17,064 1,453,403,227
Registered office  
3rd Floor, South Building, 200 Aldersgate, London EC1A 4HD  
Registered Number: 6091951  
Shareholder contacts  
Shareholder Helpline: 0871 384 2154*  
(International telephone number: +44 (0)121 415 0182)  
Website: www.thomascookgroup.com  
Registrar’s website: www.shareview.co.uk 
*Calls to this number cost 8p per minute plus network extras. Lines are open 8.30am to 
5.30pm (London time), Monday to Friday (excluding UK public holidays). 
Financial calendar 
Date Event 
11 February 2014 Q1 2014 Interim Management Statement 
20 February 2014 Annual General Meeting 
15 May 2014 Interim results for 6 months ended 
31 March 2014 
31 July 2014 Q3 2014 Interim Management Statement 
 
Thomas Cook Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 160
Transformation the ﬁrst 365 days www.thomascookgroup.com
The Thomas Cook Group website provides news
and details of the Group’s activities, plus links to our
customer sites and up-to-date information, including:
> corporate news
> presentations
> share price data
> historic Annual & Sustainability Reports
> half-year results and interim management statements
> news alerts
This report is printed on Hello Fat Matt, produced 
at a mill certiﬁed to the ISO14001 and EMAS 
environmental management standards.
Manufactured using responsible sources and is 
FSC certiﬁed.
This report is fully recyclable and biodegradable.
Designed and produced by Radley Yeldar.
Printed by Park Communications. Thomas Cook Group plc  
3rd ﬂoor, South Building
200 Aldersgate
London EC1A 4HD
www.thomascookgroup.com
