 Adjust spine if necessary
 Travis Perkins plc, Lodge Way House, Harlestone Road, Northampton NN5 7UG. T elephone 01604 752 424
www.travisperkinsplc.com
 Travis Perkins plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2011
 TRAVIS PERKINS PLC
T r avis P erkins
The largest 
supplier of 
building 
materials 
in the UK
Annual 
Report and 
Accounts
2011
 TRAVIS PERKINS PLC
TP_COVER_ARTWORK.indd   1 TP_COVER_ARTWORK.indd   1 10/04/2012   11:50 10/04/2012   11:50  This document is important and requires your immediate attention. If you are in any doubt as to what action you should take, you are recommended to seek your own ﬁ nancial 
advice from your stockbroker or other independent adviser authorised under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000. If you have sold or transferred all of your shares in 
Travis Perkins plc, please forward this document, together with the accompanying documents, as soon as possible either to the purchaser or transferee or to the person who 
arranged the sale or transfer so they can pass these documents to the person who now holds the shares.
Printed on:
Revive 50 Silk, a recycled paper containing 50% recycled waste and 50% virgin ﬁ bre and manufactured at a mill certiﬁ ed with ISO 14001 environmental 
management standard. The pulp used in this product is bleached using an Elemental Chlorine Free process (ECF), and
Tauro Offset, made from virgin wood ﬁ bre sourced mainly from sustainable forests in the EC. It is bleached using a Totally Chlorine Free (TCF) process. 
This material can be disposed of by recycling, or incineration for energy and composting.
 Designed by RWH Design Consultants, Photography by Charles Ward
Printed by Jones and Palmer
General Merchanting
Travis Perkins Midlands 
and North West
Travis Perkins Northern
Travis Perkins South East
Travis Perkins South West 
and Wales
Consumer
Tile Giant
Toolstation
Wickes
Specialist Merchanting
Benchmarx
CCF
Keyline
Plumbing and 
Heating
Birchwood Price Tools
BSS
City Plumbing
DHS
F&P Wholesale
PTS
Spendlove C. Jebb
 TRAVIS PERKINS PLC
TP_COVER_ARTWORK.indd   2 TP_COVER_ARTWORK.indd   2 10/04/2012   11:50 10/04/2012   11:50 1
OVERVIEW REPORTS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
CONTENTS
  Overview
 4 Financial Highlights
 4 Operating Highlights
 5 Financial Summary
 6 Key Performance Indicators
 8 Our Group Mission, Vision and Values
 9 Who we are
  Financial statements
 74 Income Statements 
 75 Statements of Comprehensive Income 
 76 Balance Sheets 
 78 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 
 79 Statement of Changes in Equity 
 80 Cash Flow Statements 
 81 Notes to the Financial Statements
 122 Five Year Record 
  Governance
 46 Directors
 48 Corporate Responsibility Statement
 48 Committees and Professional Advisers
 49 Corporate Governance
 53 Audit Committee Report
 56 Directors’ Remuneration Report
 67 Nominations Committee Report
 68 Directors’ Report
 72 Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities
 73 Independent Auditor’s Report
  Reports
 12 Chairman’s Statement
 14 Chief Executive’s Review of the Year 
 22 Strategic Delivery Overview
 24 Deputy Chief Executive’s Review of the Year
 29 Business Model
 30 Finance Director’s Review of the Year
 36 Statement of Principal Risks and Uncertainties
 38 Environment Report
 43 Health & Safety Report
Direct Heating Spares
Forward looking statements
The review of the businesses contained in the annual report and accounts contains forward looking statements with respect to the financial condition, results, operations and business 
of the Travis Perkins plc group. These statements and forecasts include risk and uncertainty because they relate to events and depend on circumstances that occur in the future. 
There are a number of factors that could cause actual results or developments to differ materially from those expressed or implied by the forward statements. 
  Shareholder information
 124 Notice of Annual General Meeting
 126 Appendix to Notice of Annual General Meeting
 127 Notes to Notice of Annual General Meeting
 129 Directions to Annual General Meeting
 130 Other Shareholder Information
 132 Warning Regarding Unsolicited Calls and Mail 2
Sarah Pattison at BSS National Tube Distribution Centre
“2011 was a good 
year for T ravis 
Perkins. Our 
primary focus 
was integrating 
the former BSS 
businesses into the 
Group to maximise 
synergies”
Robert Walker, Chairman OVERVIEW
3 4
Operating Highlights Financial Highlights
•
  Group revenue up 52% at £4,779m, 
up 6% on a like-for-like basis
•
  Adjusted profit before tax up 
37% to £297m
•
 Adjusted EPS up 21% to 93.1p
•
  Proforma adjusted group operating 
margin maintained at 6.6%
•
  Net debt reduced by £191m to £583m 
with adjusted net debt to EBITDA of 
1.3x (note 37)
•
  Total dividend per share up by 33% to 
20p, including a final dividend 
of 13.5p
•
  BSS acquisition synergies 
realised in 2011 exceeded 
expectations at £20m
•
  Expected synergies for 2012 
increased to £30m
•
 BSS integration ahead of schedule
•
  Strong like-for-like performance and 
market share gains
•
  Toolstation acquisition completed on 
3 January 2012
•
  13 ex-Focus stores acquired and 
trading ahead of expectations OVERVIEW
TRA VIS PERKINS ANNUAL REPOR T AND ACCOUNTS 2011
5
    2011  2010
    £m % £m
Revenue 4,779.1 51.6 3,152.8
Adjusted:*
Operating profi t (note 5a) 313.2 31.0 239.0
Profi t before taxation (note 5b) 296.7 36.9 216.7
Profi t after taxation (note 5b) 219.0 39.6 156.9
Adjusted earnings per ordinary share (pence) (note 12b)  93.1 20.6 77.2
 
Statutory:   
Operating profi t  290.5 32.2 219.8
Profi t before taxation  269.6 37.0 196.8
Profi t after taxation  212.4 50.3 141.3
Basic earnings per ordinary share (pence) 90.3 29.7 69.6
 
Total dividend declared 
per ordinary share (pence) (note 13) 20.0p 33.3 15.0p
 
* Throughout this Annual Report the term ‘adjusted’ has been used to signify that the effects of the exceptional items, amortisation of intangible assets and the associated tax impacts have been excluded 
from the disclosure being made. The term ‘proforma’ when used in this Annual Report signifies that the 2010 comparative has been adjusted to include the effect of BSS for the entire year, not just the 
post acquisition period. Details of exceptional items are given in notes 5, 10 and 11.
Financial Summary Revenue 
(£m) 
Adjusted 
profit before 
taxation (£m) 
Like-for-like
sales growth
(%) 
180.0
216.7
296.7
300
100
200
0
75.2
77.2
93.1
100
50
0
Adjusted 
earnings per 
share (pence)
Key Performance Indicators
-10
-8.6%
5.0%
6.0%
5
0
-5
75
25
09 10 11 09 10 11 09 10 11 09 10 11
2,930.9
3,152.8
4,779.1
5,000
3,000
2,000
1,000
4,000
0
6 OVERVIEW
TRA VIS PERKINS ANNUAL REPOR T AND ACCOUNTS 2011
7
Adjusted 
return on 
capital (%) 
Net debt to
EBITDA 
Employee
retention
Free cash flow
(£m) 
10.9%
12.2%
11.3%
15
5
10
0
294.4
277.8
293.5
300
100
200
0
86%
87%
100
50
75
25
0
1.47x
1.92x
1.3x
2
1
1.5
.5
0
09 10 11 09 10 11 09 10 11 10 11 8
Our Group Mission, Vision and Values
 Our Group Mission
‘Continue to deliver better 
returns by... putting in place and 
growing the best businesses, with 
outstanding people and operations, 
providing comprehensive building 
material solutions, to everyone 
creating, maintaining, repairing or 
improving the built environment,
… helping to build Britain’.
 Our Group Vision
To ensure that anyone in Britain 
who wants to access any kind of 
building materials through any 
form of supply channel will have a 
Travis Perkins group operation as 
their fi rst or fi rst alternative choice.
  Our Gr oup V alues
At Travis Perkins, we:
Know our customers – we understand their needs, beat their expectations, treat 
them with respect, and know our major customers personally.
Talk and listen – we say what we mean clearly and honestly, we listen carefully; we 
respond objectively, we explain our decisions.
Are with you, not against you – we seek mutual benefi ts with all stakeholders; we 
think about the impact of our actions; we search for similarities.
Know how to do our jobs – not just today, but for the next job; we equip ourselves 
with the skills needed to perform and be confi dent we can perform.
Like to deliver – we enjoy being the best; we know exactly what each of us is 
expected to achieve; we focus on getting results, simply.
Work together – we actively work with each other; when something goes wrong, the 
fi rst thing we will do is fi x the problem; not look for someone to blame.
Always try to get better – we constructively challenge how we work; we look for 
fresh ideas that are different; we only have rules where they are necessary because 
we use our common sense.
Are proud to be here – this is a great company; everyone working with us is 
welcome; we make work enjoyable for everyone.
8 OVERVIEW
9
TRA VIS PERKINS ANNUAL REPOR T AND ACCOUNTS 2011
Who we are
Travis Perkins, a major plc, is the UK’s largest 
supplier to the building and construction 
market, one of the most economically significant 
activities in the UK.
The present day Company was formed in 
1988 out of a merger between Travis and 
Arnold plc, a company with strong Midlands and 
Northern based business, and Sandell Perkins 
plc, a company with an equivalent strength in 
the South of England.
The origins of Sandell Perkins can be traced 
back over 200 years to 1797 when a carpentry 
company was first established in London; Travis 
and Arnold was initially formed as a partnership 
in 1899. During the early to mid 20th century 
both businesses expanded before eventually 
becoming listed public companies, Travis and 
Arnold was the first to the market in 1964, 
followed 22 years later by Sandell Perkins. 
Travis Perkins plc
Group Reorganisation
Andrew Pike
Company Secretary 
and Lawyer
Carol Kavanagh
Group Human 
Resources Director
Martin Meech
Group Property 
Director
Robin Proctor
Supply Chain 
Director
Norman Bell
Group Development 
Director 
In 2011 we operated as three divisions – 
Merchanting, Retail and BSS – and it is on that 
basis we report in this year’s Annual Report 
and Financial Statements. However, on 
1 January 2012 we reorganised the business 
into four divisions, General Merchanting, 
Specialist Merchanting, Consumer and 
Plumbing & Heating. It is on the new divisional 
structure that we have prepared this section of 
the Annual Report. The general merchanting division of Travis 
Perkins plc supplies building materials to 
professional building companies, contractors and 
tradesman throughout Great Britain.
The core businesses of Travis and Arnold 
plc and Sandell Perkins plc formed, following 
the merger in 1988, what is now the general 
merchanting business, which trades nationally 
through the Travis Perkins brand and comprises 
four geographically organised individual 
businesses. 
Joe Mescall, who has been with the Group 
since 1974, leads the General Merchanting 
business in his role as Divisional Chairman. 
The Managing Directors of the four businesses 
are Phil Gransden (Travis Perkins South East), 
Kieran Griffin (Travis Perkins Midlands and North 
West), David Kelman (Travis Perkins North) 
and Mark Nottingham (Travis Perkins South 
West and Wales). The customers of the four 
general merchanting businesses are primarily 
professional tradesmen, ranging from sole 
traders to national housebuilders, whose key 
requirements are product range and availability, 
competitive pricing and customer service.
The strategy of the general merchanting 
business aims to increase market share through 
implementation of our best practice programme, 
ongoing branch network expansion, entry 
into new market segments and exploitation of 
multi channel opportunities. The Best Practice 
programme is designed to enhance our overall 
service to trade customers and covers all of 
their key requirements: even though all four 
general merchanting businesses are already 
operating to high standards in these areas they 
have stretching targets in place to deliver further 
improvements.
Network expansion will be concentrated on 
identifying prime locations through brownfield 
openings and small acquisitions. In addition, 
store projects and framework agreements will 
continue to be expanded with Local Authorities 
and Housing Associations. 
General Merchanting Division
Phil Gransden
MD South East
David Kelman
MD North
Mark Nottingham
MD South West 
and Wales
The Consumer division comprises three 
businesses; Wickes, a national chain of DIY 
retail outlets, Tile Giant a ceramic tile merchant 
acquired in 2007 and Toolstation a multi-channel 
operator, which was acquired by the Group on 
3 January 2012. 
The Chairman of the Consumer Division is 
Jeremy Bird who joined Wickes 19 years ago 
and has held a number of senior positions in the 
Group including that of Managing Director of 
Wickes. The new managing director of Wickes is 
Simon King who joined the Company at the end 
of 2011 and has fulfilled various external retail 
roles including chief operating officer of Asda.
Wickes, which opened its first store in the UK 
in 1972 at Whitefield in Manchester, was acquired 
by Travis Perkins in 2005 and the Company now 
operates from 221 stores nationwide. 
Wickes stores are designed to appeal to 
tradesmen, who undertake general repairs, 
maintenance and improvement projects for 
households and small businesses and to serious 
DIY customers, who undertake more complete 
DIY projects. These customers are more 
demanding in terms of service, quality and price.
The business meets its customers’ 
expectations by offering a focussed range of high 
quality, primarily own brand, competitively priced 
home improvement products, such as timber, 
building materials, tools and decorative materials. 
In addition, Wickes stores offer a range of 
kitchens and bathrooms, which are sold through 
both in-store showrooms and 10 standalone 
specialist kitchen and bathroom stores.
In 2007 Travis Perkins acquired its seventh 
brand, Tile Giant. In 2008 this business acquired 
and rebranded Tile Magic, a 17 store chain and 
Tile it All, a 16 store chain. In 2009, Travis Perkins 
acquired Tile HQ an internet based retailer of 
ceramic and stone tiles. The brand is now trading 
from a total of 107 stores. Under the leadership 
of managing director Andy Morrison, the brand 
offers a strong pipeline for further expansion.
The Group first took a minority investment in 
Toolstation, a direct retailer of lightside products, 
during 2008 before acquiring the remaining 
shares in 2012. Since then, led by its founder 
Mark Goddard-Watts, with support from the 
Group, this multi-channel retailer of lightside 
products has rapidly expanded its trade counter 
network and now occupies 103 trade counters 
throughout Great Britain. It also operates a very 
successful catalogue based internet business. 
Consumer Division
Simon King
MD Wickes
Andy Morrison
MD Tile Giant
Neil Carroll
MD Toolstation
Kieran Griffi n
MD Midlands and 
North West
Who we are
Joe Mescall
Divisional Chairman
Jeremy Bird
Divisional Chairman
10 OVERVIEW
11
TRA VIS PERKINS ANNUAL REPOR T AND ACCOUNTS 2011
The specialist merchanting business consists 
of four separate businesses trading under the 
following brands; Keyline, CCF, Benchmarx 
and Rinus Roofing Supplies. Arthur Davidson 
is the Divisional Chairman. He has worked in 
merchanting for over thirty years having joined 
Keyline prior to its acquisition by the Travis 
Perkins Group.
Andrew Harrison, the Managing Director of 
Keyline, has been with the Group since 1989. 
Keyline is a specialist merchant supplying 
heavy building materials and civils and drainage 
solutions to the construction industry throughout 
the UK. Keyline is known for its knowledgeable 
staff and excellent delivery service. 
CCF is a leading supplier of interior building 
products to the construction industry. It operates 
throughout the UK, offering a one-stop-shop to its 
customers from its nationwide branch network. 
CCF’s Managing Director is Howard Luft, formerly 
managing director of Buck and Hickman, which 
was sold by the Group in September 2011. 
In 2006 Benchmarx became the first 
group brand to be created as a completely 
new business within a market adjacent to 
the markets already served by the Group. 
The business is a leading supplier of kitchen 
and joinery products to the trade through 
its competitive pricing, quality products and 
knowledgeable staff. Benchmarx is led by Chris 
Larkin, formerly a Regional Director within Travis 
Perkins South East, who became Managing 
Director in July 2009.
Rinus Roofing Supplies, an associate 
company in which the Group holds a 25% 
interest, is a supplier of roofing materials. 
The Group has entered into a development 
agreement with Rinus aimed at creating a new 
competitor in this adjacent market. Although 
the Group sells many of the products available 
through Rinus, specialist roofing contractors 
prefer using specialist distributors in this market.
Specialist Merchanting Division
Howard Luft
MD CCF
Chris Larkin
MD Benchmarx
Andrew Harrison
MD Keyline
The new plumbing and heating division was 
established on 1 January 2012 under the 
leadership of its Chairman, Paul Tallentire. The 
division consists of the original plumbing business 
of the Travis Perkins group, City Plumbing 
Supplies together with the businesses of The 
BSS Group, which was acquired on 14 December 
2010. It is now the leading plumbing and heating 
business in the UK
City Plumbing Supplies, run by managing 
director John Frost, is a major nationwide 
plumbing and heating merchant serving both the 
contract market and the general plumbing and 
heating market from 190 branches. The business 
offers high quality products and expert service to 
the trade. In 2010, a new operation was formed, 
City Heating Spares, the spare parts division of 
City Plumbing. 
The ex-BSS businesses are leading 
distributors of plumbing and heating products to 
specialist trades. Their principal activities are the 
distribution and sale of heating, ventilation and 
plumbing products, tools and industrial supplies 
to, amongst others, industrial contractors, 
domestic plumbers, independent merchants 
and industrial end users through a network of 
401 branches. 398 branches are located in the 
United Kingdom and three in the Republic of 
Ireland. 
● PTS operates from 317 branches and supplies 
a wide range of customers from national 
contractors to sole trading plumbers and 
heating engineers;
● The industrial, commercial, process, 
construction and warehouse markets are 
serviced through a network of sixty two 
branches of BSS Industrial in the UK and 
Ireland; and
● Birchwood Price Tools is a wholesaler of power 
tools and accessories, hand tools, safety wear 
and general consumables and F&P Wholesale 
supply heating, plumbing and sanitaryware to 
smaller merchanting businesses.
Plumbing and Heating Division
Ian Church
MD PTS Group
Frank Elkins
MD BSS Industrial
John Frost
MD City Plumbing
Mark Earnshaw
MD F&P Wholesale
Mick Magon
MD DHS
Paul Nieduszynski
MD Birchwood 
Price Tools
Arthur Davidson
Divisional Chairman
Paul Tallentire
Divisional Chairman 12
Introduction
Travis Perkins is the UK’s largest distributor of 
building and construction materials.
Through our various group companies, we 
aim to offer the widest range of products to our 
professional and retail customers, providing 
the highest levels of customer service at 
competitive prices. 
Our organisation model devolves 
management responsibility close to customers 
and provides the benefits of innovative and 
shared central services. 
Our businesses are supported by sector 
leading IT, and a strong people culture based 
on clear values and leadership behaviours.
We aim to deliver consistent and increasing 
shareholder value over time. 
Results
2011 was a good year for Travis Perkins. Our 
primary focus was integrating the former 
BSS businesses into the Group to maximise 
synergies, but we have also outperformed in the 
majority of our markets through the continued 
implementation of self-help initiatives, all this, 
in spite of the markets in which we operate 
declining by between 4% and 5%. 
Revenue increased by 52% to £4.8bn and 
our adjusted pre-tax profits rose by 37% to 
£297m; adjusted earnings per share were up 
by 21% to 93.1 pence. On a proforma basis, 
Chairman’s Statement
For the year ended 31 December 2011
assuming BSS had been owned for all of 2010, 
adjusted profit before tax was 11% higher, and 
adjusted earnings per share were up 11%, or 
9.0 pence.
We have made excellent progress with our 
planned BSS financial systems integration 
and organisational changes, and our synergy 
project is running ahead of schedule. In 
2011, we realised £20m of synergies and 
we anticipate that we will beat our previously 
published target of £25m, achieving £30m in 
2012.
Strong cash flows and working capital 
management, which includes £27m from the 
sale of Buck and Hickman, have reduced debt 
by £191m to £583m. 
On 3 January 2012, the Group exercised its 
option to acquire the remaining share capital of 
Toolstation. The company, which sells lightside 
products through its network of 103 UK based 
retail stores, a catalogue operation and online, 
has grown rapidly and profitably in recent 
years. We welcome our new colleagues to 
the Group and look forward to their continued 
success. 
Dividend
The Board’s stated intention is to reduce the 
multiple by which dividends are covered by 
post tax earnings to between 2.5 times and 
3.5 times over the medium term from the 
“Our businesses are 
supported by sector leading 
IT , and a strong people culture 
based on clear values and 
leadership behaviours”
Robert Walker
Chairman REPORTS
TRA VIS PERKINS ANNUAL REPOR T AND ACCOUNTS 2011
13
current cover of 4.7 times. As a step towards 
meeting that target, the Board is pleased to 
recommend a final dividend of 13.5 pence per 
share, payable to shareholders on the register 
on 4 May 2012, which will give a total dividend 
for 2011 of 20 pence per share. The proposed 
33% increase in dividend over 2010 will result 
in a cash outflow of £47m.
Board of Directors
I am delighted that Ruth Anderson joined 
the Company as a non-executive director 
in October. She has extensive experience of 
advising a broad range of companies across 
many business sectors and so will be of great 
value to the Board.
As a result of re-organising the Group’s 
operations into four divisions and making 
other organisational changes, John Carter, 
who has successfully served as the Group’s 
Chief Operating Officer for the past seven 
years, was promoted to Deputy Chief Executive 
on 1 January 2012. I am sure that John will 
continue to make a very significant contribution 
to the Group in his new role.
Employees
Our engaged and hard working colleagues are 
critical to our success. Yet again, they have 
delivered outstanding results for shareholders 
in difficult circumstances. I should like to thank 
them, on behalf of the Board, for all their efforts 
during the year.
Outlook
The markets in which we operate are likely to 
remain subdued for much of 2012. We expect 
new house starts and mortgage applications, 
which are key indicators for our business, 
to remain relatively flat and public sector 
expenditure to fall as the government strives 
to reduce the deficit. Consumer markets are 
likely to be soft as disposable income is further 
squeezed.
Our investment in Toolstation will realise 
full year profits for the first time, the 13 stores 
acquired from Focus in the summer are trading 
profitably and our synergy projects will continue 
to deliver strong benefits. When these projects 
are taken together with our ongoing initiatives 
to improve customer service and our careful 
management of costs, we are confident 2012 
will be another year of progress for the Group.
Robert Walker
Chairman 
21 February 2012 14
Introduction
Over the last dozen years or so the Group has, 
from its original base in general merchanting, 
steadily expanded its activities to develop 
businesses and new distribution channels to 
serve a greater proportion of the market in 
the UK. In parallel, we have augmented that 
strategy with a drive to improve continuously all 
our businesses so that they become the most 
attractive supplier in their market segment, and 
consequently outperform their competitors. 
Both these initiatives have allowed us to 
capture economies of scale and synergies 
through centralisation of common activities and 
purchasing into highly efficient, low cost and 
powerful central functions.
Execution of our strategy meant we came 
into 2011 as the largest supplier of building 
materials in the UK, having just acquired BSS. 
During 2011 we have continued to make 
good progress on all fronts – integrating 
the BSS acquisition, adding our presence in 
additional channels and stretching our lead in 
market outperformance by making a series of 
improvements in all businesses.
The integration project under the leadership 
of Norman Bell has progressed well thanks to 
the very effective work of a team of colleagues 
drawn from across the Group. Their focus 
has been to integrate BSS colleagues and 
businesses into the Group and identify and 
realise synergies. New operating and financial 
systems have been developed for our PTS 
and BSS Industrial businesses, cross brand 
selling opportunities have been realised, the 
management team has been strengthened 
and we have invested in expanding the 
warehousing facilities at Magna Park in 
Leicestershire and Chorley in Lancashire.
The first year of the BSS synergy project 
has exceeded our expectations. The initial 
target of £8m, for 2011, has been surpassed 
as we achieved a total of £20m of synergies 
in 2011 – £15m from purchasing and £5m 
from overheads. We are on course to deliver 
£30m in 2012. This is one year earlier than we 
anticipated, and £5m more than our original 
2013 target. 
We have continued to take opportunities 
where they have met our stringent investment 
criteria and have added around 2.5% to 
revenue from expansion on an annualised 
basis. The administration of Focus, a 
competitor in the DIY market, allowed us 
to acquire 13 new stores in high priority 
catchment areas. Also, we have added a new 
sales channel to the Group by acquiring 25% of 
a small roofing supplies company based in the 
North of England. Should our investment prove 
to be successful then we have the option to 
acquire the entire company at a future date. 
Early in 2012 we completed the acquisition 
of Toolstation by purchasing the 70% of 
issued share capital we did not already own. 
The company has experienced rapid organic 
growth over the last three years and now 
trades from 103 outlets as well as strongly via 
the telephone and the internet. The IT system 
“Execution of our strategy 
meant we came into 2011 
as the largest supplier of 
building materials in the UK”
Chief Executive’s Review of the Y ear 
For the year ended 31 December 2011
Geoff Cooper
Chief Executive REPORTS
TRA VIS PERKINS ANNUAL REPOR T AND ACCOUNTS 2011
15
and multichannel expertise of the Toolstation 
management makes it a valuable and profitable 
addition to the Group. 
In early February, the OFT contacted us to 
raise concerns about the acquisition. Given our 
agreement with Toolstation has created a new 
and robust competitor in the multi-channel 
market we are surprised they contacted us. We 
are in the process of responding to the initial 
enquiry and are confident that the issue will be 
satisfactorily resolved.
2011 performance
The success of our business is based upon 
having strong operational and financial 
disciplines, tight controls on both margins and 
costs and allocating capital to ensure that 
our mature businesses have both the highest 
operating margin and return on capital in their 
respective sectors. 
Throughout this annual report, consistent 
with our approach last year, the term ‘adjusted’ 
has been used to signify that the effects 
of exceptional items and amortisation of 
intangible assets have been excluded from 
the disclosures being made. Details of the 
exceptional charges are given in the Finance 
Director’s report on page 30. The term 
‘proforma’ is also used in this annual report 
to signify that the current year performance is 
being compared to 2010 adjusted to reflect the 
full year performance of the BSS business. 
Revenue for 2011 was £4,779m (2010: 
£3,153m), an increase of £1,626m. Excluding 
BSS, most of the revenue increase came from 
our Merchanting division with all businesses 
and product groups seeing strong growth. Of 
the 51.6% increase in revenue, like-for-like 
(‘LFL’) sales increased by 6.0% with inflation of 
4.7% and volumes increasing by 1.3%, whilst 
BSS accounted for 43.7% and other expansion 
provided 2.2%. One fewer working day reduced 
sales by 0.3%. These gains in LFL sales reflect 
the work we have done to find more ways to 
improve further the merchanting and retail 
businesses by continuously improving our offer 
to customers. Significant progress has been 
made on customer service, product availability, 
product presentation and improved sourcing in 
both divisions. 
Adjusted operating profit increased by £74m 
to £313m (2010: £239m), which resulted in 
adjusted group operating margin of 6.6%, in 
line with last year on a proforma basis. Our 
trading strategies in 2011 have been aimed at 
maximising operating profits by sustaining our 
volume outperformance, and using these to 
drive economies of scale. With market volumes 
likely to fall slightly in 2012, we aim to modify 
this stance on a selective basis, to reflect 
market trends in order to protect margins, as 
we have done successfully in the past.
Clearly, the inclusion of BSS contributed 
the major part of the increase in profits – on 
an adjusted proforma basis, operating profits 
were up by £11m, an increase of 3.6%. This 
increase reflects our ability to drive synergies 
and outperform.
After allowing for a £6m reduction in 
financing costs, the trend in operating profits 
was reflected in the £67m rise in adjusted 
pre-tax profits to £284m (2010: £217m).
Adjusted earnings per share ‘EPS’ increased 
by 21% to 93.1 pence (2010: 77.2 pence). 
Again, this mainly reflected the impact of 
the BSS acquisition. Taking into account 
synergies, this acquisition has enhanced EPS 
by 12%, with gains in the non-BSS businesses 
increasing EPS by 9%.
Our strategy of reducing debt has continued 
during the year with careful control of working 
capital and capital investment resulting in a 
significant cash inflow. By 31 December we had 
achieved our target net debt of £583m (2010: 
£774m), and had reduced the ratio of net debt 
to EBITDA to 1.3 times (2010: 1.9 times). 
Markets and our response
The market predictions we made for the year 
were broadly correct, although the first quarter 
of last year proved to be better than expected 
and we, like others, did not foresee the full 
extent and impact of the Eurozone related 
uncertainty later in the year. The latter part of 
the year saw markets slowing as a result of 
fewer property transactions in the spring and 
increasing public sector spending cuts.
Our underlying organic strategy has 
delivered good returns against a background of 
weak macro indicators and the key indicators 
that we follow show that the market remains 
weak. We believe that market volumes for trade 
are still some 30% below their 2007 peak 
whilst in retail, the situation is marginally better 
at minus 25%. 
We track a number of key external 
indicators, but those most closely correlated 
with our performance have shown little 
improvement in 2011. 
Trade market volumes in 2011 declined 
by around 3%. Towards the end of the year 
property transactions, a good lead indicator for 
our merchanting businesses, were around 11% 
better than the corresponding period last year, 
but they remain stubbornly low at around 70 
– 80,000 per month compared with 135,000 
pre-recession. 
According to Government statistics private 
new house starts in England reached almost 
76,000 in the 12 months to September 2011, 
down by 5% compared with the 12 months 
to September 2010. This level of activity is 
substantially below the peak of around 155,000 
in 2007 and the estimated current need in Great 
Britain of 250,000 new houses per annum.
The consumer market was adversely 
impacted by a combination of low consumer 
confidence and significant tax increases from 
April, which reduced household disposable 
income. Both indicators have fallen during 
2011, with consumer confidence continuing 
on a declining trend. Core market volumes 
declined by around 5%, but the market for big 
ticket items contracted by over 10%. 
We have seen further falls in competitor 
capacity in both of our markets, although it was 
more pronounced in consumer following the 
closures of Focus and Homeform in mid-year. 
Although we benefited from our acquisition 
of 13 Focus stores, the rest of the estate 
gained very little from either closure as both 
mainly operated in different markets to Wickes, 
supplying different customer bases. 
Divisions
On 1 January 2012 we reorganised the 
Group’s divisional structure so that the Group 
now operates through four distinct divisions; 
general merchanting, specialist merchanting, 
consumer and plumbing and heating, each  16
managed by a divisional chairman. Combining 
similar businesses, under common leadership, 
will ensure that we maximise the benefits from 
consistently applying best practice.
The following comments are based upon the 
divisional structure in place during 2011. 
Our culture of continuous improvement has 
driven the business forward again, enabling 
us to retain our position as the UK’s leading 
provider of building materials. 
Merchanting division
Our merchanting division has performed 
strongly with each of our businesses recording 
impressive growth and outperforming both 
national and independent merchants. Sales 
increased in aggregate by £231m, or 10.9% 
with LFL sales improving by 9.4%, sales from 
new branches contributing 2.2% and closures 
and one less working day reducing sales by 
0.7%. Volumes increased by 3.9% supported 
by higher than expected price inflation of 5.5%. 
Adjusted operating profit was up 9.4% to 
£201.8m.
Operating margins fell by 0.2% to 8.6% 
(2010: 8.8%). Gross margin for the division 
fell by 0.8% in 2011, due to a combination of 
mix (direct sales improved diluting the gross 
margins by 0.4%), limited price investment 
in the early part of the year and investment 
in our warehousing infrastructure which 
reduced margins by 0.4%. However, the ratio 
of overheads to sales fell by 0.4% due to the 
operational gearing effect of the fixed element 
of our cost base and synergies improved profits 
by 0.2%. 
The general merchanting business 
had a good year with a particularly strong 
performance in London and the South East. 
The difficulty of achieving such good results 
should not be underestimated. They have come 
about because of skill and effort deployed 
by Joe Mescall and the general merchanting 
team. A profit enhancement project has been 
running since the middle of the year designed 
to identify those aspects of the business where 
good practice can be shared, margins can be 
improved and costs can be driven out. 
A greater focus on analysis of customer 
profitability has yielded positive results. Action 
has been taken where margin has been falling, 
whether due to the mix of products being 
sold, the structure of the customer deals or 
cost inflation pressure. Improved in-house 
data interrogation and analysis software and 
techniques have enabled us to develop plans 
leading to raised profitability. Another area 
of focus has been reducing the incidence 
of stock shrinkage, through improved data 
availability, which has enabled us to target 
more rapidly those areas of stock loss and the 
possible causes.
Further progress has been made on cost 
control to ensure the general merchanting 
division goes into a probably tough 2012 with 
an affordable cost base. Despite increased 
turnover, like-for-like headcount at the end 
of the year was in line with last year and a 
number of initiatives were running to target 
aspects such as distribution. 
The specialist merchanting businesses, 
operating under the Chairmanship of Arthur 
Davidson, had a successful year.
Keyline management are working hard to 
ensure that the business is the first choice 
supplier for heavy building materials, civils and 
drainage products with industry leading returns 
on sales. In 2011 Keyline revenue growth 
has outperformed the market, LFL sales have 
increased substantially, particularly in civils and 
drainage and the UGS business transferred 
from BSS has been absorbed, generating 
synergies. New propositions in rail and utilities 
were launched and the business’ Centres of 
Excellence have been rolled out.
CCF, our specialist distributor of interior 
building products and insulation has performed 
strongly during 2011, improving profitability 
and increasing revenue at a faster rate than 
the market leader. A number of improvements 
to the customer experience are being targeted, 
including greater stock availability, a higher 
proportion of on-time in-full deliveries and the 
introduction of a new customer service model, 
which is currently being piloted.
Benchmarx, our specialist kitchen joinery 
business, has made good progress during the 
year. Sales have increased by over 40%, gross 
margin has improved and 32 new branches 
have been opened either as standalone sites 
or as implants into the existing estate. This 
business is now firmly established in our 
portfolio and competes effectively with more 
established players.
The City Plumbing team have performed 
well in a tough environment increasing 
like-for-like sales by 4%. Project Endeavour, 
our initiative aimed at introducing a common 
showroom template and product matrix to CPS 
and the general merchanting business, was 
piloted successfully and is now in place in 11 
branches. Plans are in place to roll it out into a 
further 40 branches during 2012. The heating 
spares business introduced in 2010 now 
trades out of 62 sites.
Retail division 
Poor consumer confidence and lower levels 
of disposable income have had a detrimental 
effect on our retail businesses in 2011. 
Revenue is up £15m (1.5%) to £1,018m 
(2010: £1,003m), due to the expansion from 
new sites which increased sales by 2.9%. 
Despite having a strong product offering 
and competitive prices a fall in demand for 
delivered kitchen and bathroom products 
caused total LFL delivered sales to fall by 
1.4%. Overall volumes fell by 4.3% whilst 
inflation increased turnover by 2.9%.
Retail division adjusted operating profit 
fell by £14m to £45m as lower sales 
and increased overheads in Wickes, due 
to investment in store expansion and 
reorganisation costs, outweighed the benefits 
of an improved gross margin. 
We have continued to invest in Wickes, 
taking the opportunity to acquire 13 new 
stores from the receiver of Focus for £8m. The 
locations of the sites has meant these stores 
are already contributing to profits ahead of our 
expectations, and leads us to believe that the 
new branches will be very profitable, which 
when taken together with the benefits arising 
from economies of scale, should result in 
returns well in excess of our cost of capital. 
In the expectation that consumer markets 
will be more difficult in 2012, the Wickes team 
under Jeremy Bird’s guidance have undertaken 
a detailed review of the Company’s cost base. 
Three stores were closed during the year 
Chief Executive’s Review of the Y ear 
Gordon Forrest at Keyline Bedford REPORTS
TRA VIS PERKINS ANNUAL REPOR T AND ACCOUNTS 2011
17
“In 2011 Keyline revenue growth has outperformed the market” 18
and just over 200 people left our business as 
we restructured store operations. This was 
a difficult process, but as always the store 
managers undertook it in a professional, but 
compassionate manner. 
Gross margins in Wickes have improved by 
1.3% when compared to 2010. However, the 
investment in initiatives and start-up costs for 
new stores, combined with reorganisation costs 
incurred to achieve long-term overhead savings 
has reduced operating profits by £10m. 
Consequently the division’s operating margins 
fell by 1.4% to 4.5% (2010: 5.9%). 
Tile Giant has consolidated its position in 
difficult markets with total sales up 9%. Its 
like-for-like sales outperformed the market 
leader, so gaining market share. The business 
now trades from 107 stores a net increase 
of 6 this year. Under the initial guidance of 
Mo Iqbal, the Company’s founder, and more 
recently Andy Morrison, Tile Giant has grown to 
be the second largest specialist tile retailer in 
the country. 
Associate company
Toolstation performed strongly in 2011. The 
investment in new stores continued, but the 
early losses incurred by immature outlets have 
now been surpassed by the profits of maturing 
stores with the result that the business moved 
into profits during the second half. The unique 
business model together with the skill of 
management will be a considerable asset to 
the Group as we seek to expand our multi-
channel capabilities.
BSS division
Proforma LFL sales increased by 2.9%. 
Inflation was 4.5%, but volumes fell by 1.6% 
even though the expanded British Gas contract, 
during the last nine months of the year, added 
2.4% to volumes. New branches accounted for 
additional sales of 0.5%, whilst the branches 
sold at the insistence of the OFT and one fewer 
working day reduced sales by 3.3%. 
Reported revenue has decreased, on a 
proforma basis, by £22m to £1,436m due to a 
number of structural changes. In the early part 
of the year, at the insistence of the OFT, 14 PTS 
branches were sold. In June the trade of UGS 
was transferred into our Keyline business and 
on 30 September the trade and assets of Buck 
and Hickman were sold to Brammer plc.
On a proforma basis adjusted operating 
profit, including synergies, increased by 
9.5% to £67m (2010: £61m). In advance of 
establishing the new plumbing and heating 
division, Paul Tallentire joined us with the 
intention of becoming its chairman. He has 
come into the Group at a time of significant 
change and we are already seeing the benefits 
of his experience. 
2011 was a more challenging year for the 
domestic business, and PTS in particular, as 
volumes in the boiler market fell around 15% 
from 2010 levels when the boiler scrappage 
scheme was in place. However, in April, the 
PTS team won a significant contract to supply 
plumbing and heating materials to British 
Gas on an exclusive basis. Two of the primary 
reasons for winning the contract are the 
outstanding levels of customer service that PTS 
is able to offer from a countrywide network of 
sites together with our industry leading on-time 
in-full delivery capability. Other advances in 
PTS came in both the spares and renewables 
offerings.
PTS was named national builders merchant 
of the year at the Builders Merchanting News 
awards, a real testament to the commitment of 
our colleagues.
The BSS Industrial business has performed 
strongly with sales outperforming the market. 
Increased volumes, high inflation in the 
first nine months from rising copper prices, 
increasing gross margins and good cost control 
have made 2011 a very successful year, which 
underlines the strength of the team led by 
Managing Director Frank Elkins. A particular 
focus on the drainage business has seen sales 
grow by over 25% year-on-year with eight 
new drainage implants into BSS branches 
during 2011. 
The other businesses in the BSS group 
are F&P Wholesale, a distributor of plumbing, 
heating and bathroom products nationally to 
Chief Executive’s Review of the Y ear 
The City Plumbing team have performed well in a tough environment, increasing like-for-like sales by 4% REPORTS
TRA VIS PERKINS ANNUAL REPOR T AND ACCOUNTS 2011
19
the independent merchants and Birchwood 
Price Tools (BPT), which focusses on the 
wholesale market distributing power tools, 
hand tools and site equipment. F&P sales have 
been adversely affected by the boiler market, 
with like-for-like sales down year-on-year. 
By contrast, BPT has achieved a significant 
increase in sales and has been particularly 
successful in introducing new products, in 
particular Scruffs workwear, to the rest of the 
Travis Perkins Group. 
2012 Performance
The year has started satisfactorily with 
Group LFL sales for the first seven weeks up 
1.8%. LFL sales for the general merchanting 
division have increased by 5.4% and for the 
specialist merchanting division they are up 
3.9%. Delivered sales, on a LFL basis for the 
retail division (excluding Toolstation since it 
remains non-LFL until 2013) have decreased 
by 3.1%, whilst on an ordered basis they are 
up 0.9%. The addition of Toolstation’s own LFL 
performance would have increased the retail 
division’s ordered LFL sales to 2.7%. Plumbing 
and heating division LFL sales are up 0.9%.
Investors and lenders
We place great emphasis on good 
communications with investors, analysts 
and lenders. In 2011, we expanded our 
road-shows to encompass large investment 
funds located on the west coast of America. 
Approximately 26% of our investor base 
is located in North America so increased 
contact with potential new investors from that 
continent is an important aspect of our investor 
relations strategy.
In the summer of 2011, with the debt crisis 
in the Eurozone seemingly worsening, we 
decided that it would be better to refinance 
our UK syndicated bank facility early, rather 
than waiting for the summer of 2012. From 
the outset of negotiations, it became clear that 
European banks have become considerably 
more cautious since we last raised funds in 
2008. Even so, thanks to the continued support 
of many of the banks in our existing syndicate, 
the Group raised a £550m forward start (from 
April 2013) revolving credit facility, which 
secures our funding needs through to 2016. 
Whilst the cost of this source of capital has 
increased, it remains an attractive source of 
funding relative to other sources, and sustains, 
within prudent financing parameters, an 
efficient balance sheet for shareholders.
Management
The pace of our development and growth 
requires our executives to continuously improve 
their skills and impact in their current roles. It 
also provides opportunities for them to take up 
new challenges often providing promotion to 
new roles. During the year we have continued 
to strengthen our management team through a 
combination of promoting top performers within 
our business and attracting fresh talent from 
other organisations. 
The new appointments have significantly 
increased our strength in depth and 
organisational capabilities, particularly in our 
new Consumer division and our Plumbing and 
Heating division. These appointments cover 
all aspects of our business, ranging from 
specialist areas such as sustainability and 
multichannel to operational functions.
We have also made changes to the roles 
of some people on our executive committee. 
John Carter’s promotion has already been 
covered in the Chairman’s statement, but it is 
worth reiterating the great contribution he has 
made to the success of the Group. Norman 
Bell was promoted to the new role of Group 
Development Director, following his successful 
running of the BSS integration project 
alongside John. 
Following our reorganisation of the Group 
into four operating divisions we have been 
able to appoint Paul Tallentire, who recently 
joined the Group following a career as a senior 
executive in a variety of trade businesses, 
as Divisional Chairman of the Plumbing and 
Heating division. Jeremy Bird, who previously 
ran our Wickes business, has been promoted 
to the new role of Divisional Chairman for the 
Consumer division. 
Joe Mescall and Arthur Davidson continue 
to lead the remaining two operating divisions 
as Divisional Chairmen of General Merchanting 
and Specialist Merchanting respectively. 
Opportunities for advancement have also 
been given to the people who manage a 
number of our businesses. 
Ian Church, who has led the Travis Perkins 
business in the Midlands with distinction for the 
“The pace of our development 
and growth requires our 
executives to continuously 
improve their skills and 
impact in their current roles” 20
last seven years, is now managing director, PTS. 
Simon King, an experienced retail executive 
from Safeway (now Morrisons), Tesco and Asda 
(where he was most recently Chief Operations 
Officer), joins the Group as Managing Director 
Wickes. Kieran Griffin, a former Keyline and 
Travis Perkins manager and regional director, 
who enjoyed success in his first managing 
director role at CCF, has been promoted to 
Managing Director, Travis Perkins Midlands and 
North West.
Howard Luft, who was until the end of 
September the Managing Director of Buck 
and Hickman and who was responsible for the 
successful turnaround and subsequent sale 
of this business, has re-joined the Group to 
become Managing Director of CCF.
We are delighted that we have been able 
to continue to build on our previous success 
by promoting talented people from inside the 
Group to their new roles. To achieve a promotion 
in these circumstances is truly outstanding. 
It is also pleasing to know that both the 
strength of the Group and its prospects are 
recognised by the new people we have been 
able to attract to our Group. It is a testament 
to the success we have achieved, against a 
backdrop of challenging economic conditions. 
I am sure that this group of talented individuals 
will make important contributions to our 
continued growth. 
Travis Perkins in the community
While many aspects of the Group are 
co-ordinated centrally, corporate social 
responsibility is one area that remains firmly 
the responsibility of the individual businesses, 
particularly when it comes to charitable 
fundraising and community programmes. 
In 2011 each of our businesses supported 
a charity of their choice and undertook a 
plethora of activities to raise funds. In 2011 
through the efforts of the Group’s employees, 
ably supported by customers and suppliers, 
£1.9m was raised for worthy causes (2010: 
£1.7m) including £146,217 (2010: £112,083) 
contributed by the Group.
Given the success of the charity fundraising 
in terms of motivation and colleague 
participation, we have also devolved the 
management of very successful community 
programmes to individual businesses, moving 
responsibility away from the centre. Branches 
are encouraged to fundraise for their business’ 
partner charity and carry out building or repair 
related work in their local community.
In total, businesses across the Group partner 
with 14 charities, with many having chosen 
during 2011 to extend their initial two-year 
partnership for a further year. In addition, 
businesses in the former BSS Group have 
increased their fundraising activities. They have 
all adopted new charities for 2012 or joined 
forces with another business or central function 
to support an existing partnership.
For its work with The Prostate Cancer 
Charity, Keyline won Best UK Project at the 
2011 Business Charity awards. It was declared 
the company that made the biggest difference 
to beneficiaries through involvement with a 
charity project. The company and its colleagues 
were also highly commended for their 
partnership with the charity.
The Travis Perkins business adopted the 
Breast Cancer Campaign and Together for 
Short Lives as its charities in 2010. Having 
re-sprayed 12 of its trucks pink in a charity 
supporting publicity campaign in 2010, the 
pink theme has continued in 2011. The 
inaugural ‘Travis Pinkins’ charity day took place 
to complement the continued sale of pink 
products such as wheelbarrows, saws, pencils 
and tape measures in its branches. 
Wickes continued its support for Leukaemia 
and Lymphoma Research, with colleagues yet 
again raising over £0.6m for the charity. 
Group-wide initiatives include a lottery where 
colleagues donate £1 a month from their 
pay, half of which is donated to the partner 
charities. With 70% of eligible employees now 
taking part, more than £100,000 has been 
donated to charity since the launch of the 
lottery in August 2009. 
Strategy 
The statements of Mission, Vision, and Values 
at the front of this annual report set out what 
we exist to do, the direction we aim to take the 
Group, and the way in which we believe we 
should work. The strategy we are following to 
achieve these aims is designed to maximise 
over the long term shareholder returns and 
involves:
● Creation, acquisition and development 
of businesses that seek to serve all the 
segments for the distribution of building 
materials in the UK;
● Continuously improving the customer and 
supplier proposition in all our businesses to 
become the highest rated in each segment, 
as measured by customers, and as tested by 
seeking to outperform markets on a like-for-
like basis;
● Exploit the economies of scale this creates 
through the centralisation of common 
activities and common purchasing into low 
cost, highly efficient and powerful central 
functions;
● Sustaining an organisational model that 
devolves authority to operating managers 
and allows them to compete with the 
most effective competitors with minimal 
constraints, but always maintaining very 
strong controls;
● Operating a performance management 
system, closely matched to arrangements 
for incentives, that encourages the 
right economic behaviour and allows all 
colleagues to participate in the financial 
success of the Group;
● Recruiting and developing people whose 
personal characteristics are consistent with 
a culture of customer sensitivity, continuous 
improvement and a drive for performance;
The table on page 22 shows how we approach 
the various dimensions of our strategy, and how 
it is integrated with our management of risk.
These relatively dry words are easy to write 
on a page, but require leadership by example, 
active management and considerable thought 
in deployment. Senior management’s role is 
to maintain a focus on these strategies. The 
goal, for each of our mature businesses, is that 
they achieve the highest operating margin and 
return on capital of any business operating in 
their segment.
The particular themes currently being 
pursued in executing these strategies are:
● Having recently expanded our asset 
base and considerably accelerated our 
Chief Executive’s Review of the Y ear  REPORTS
TRA VIS PERKINS ANNUAL REPOR T AND ACCOUNTS 2011
21
designed to support these themes as well 
as drive the impact of our programmes of 
continuous improvement.
Our summary of principal risks and 
uncertainties is set out on pages 36 
and 37. In summary, our performance is 
closely aligned with the fortunes of the UK 
construction industry. However, it is also 
possible that we could suffer from the 
effects of disintermediation if we do not offer 
value, match our customer preferences, or 
improve our proposition. In addition, we are 
dependent upon maintaining our IT capabilities, 
purchasing and distributing goods effectively 
and recruiting and retaining the best people. 
Outlook
Our research suggests that market volumes 
will remain subdued in 2012. We expect trade 
market volumes to decline responding to the 
decrease in the number of housing transactions 
in the first half of 2011 and to the contraction 
in public sector expenditure, for which we 
have less than a 20% exposure. The consumer 
sector is likely to decline by a more substantial 
amount as consumer confidence remains low, 
unemployment rises and disposable income 
remains under pressure. 
Against a backdrop of generally weak lead 
indicators including mortgage approvals, 
property transactions, consumer confidence 
and pressure on net disposable income we will 
further grow revenue by continuously improving 
our businesses. Although we will continue to 
target outperformance against the competition 
on a like-for-like basis, we will actively balance 
this objective with maintaining gross margins 
and limiting cost growth. In a weakening 
market, we judge this slight modification of our 
trading stance will yield the best outcome in 
terms of absolute profits and trend of operating 
margin. In 2012, our priorities will be threefold:
● Leverage our self help initiatives including 
the incremental return from the 13 ex-Focus 
stores added in 2011 and the growth in 
profit from the maturity of the Toolstation 
stores 100% owned from January 2012;
● Use our strong cash flow to pay down 
debt (targeting a reduction of £125m for 
the year), maintain selective expansion 
investment and increase dividends;
● Continue the successful integration of BSS 
into the Group by adding trading systems 
to the already integrated financial systems, 
whilst working to realise our increased 
synergy target of £30m for 2012.
We therefore look forward to another year of 
solid progress in 2012.
Geoff Cooper
Chief Executive
21 February 2012
market outperformance, now prioritise 
improvements in operating margins;
● Add multi-channel capabilities to our 
businesses, building on the considerable 
success achieved via Toolstation and 
Wickes’ multi-channel activities;
● Expand our global sourcing activities, 
supported by an expansion of own-label 
products, category management activity and 
harmonised product specifications across 
market segments;
● Improve asset turn and lower property 
costs via new supply chain capabilities, 
concentration of brands on single sites, 
development of our owned ‘trade parks’ and 
realisation of spare assets through active 
property management.
Growth prospects for the Group are positive, 
with gains expected from a recovery of activity 
in construction markets, further market 
outperformance, operational leverage from 
economies of scale and expansion of our 
branch networks and related activities. Whilst 
we confidently expect this to provide several 
years of good growth in financial returns, we 
believe over the next two or three years we 
should begin to cautiously, with a low-risk and 
low-capital approach, explore the prospects 
for expansion in new markets and activities. 
Our approach to these trials should not 
adversely impact the prospects for profits, cash 
generation and debt reduction.
Our management arrangements are 
“The goal, for each of our mature 
businesses, is that they achieve 
the highest operating margin and 
return on capital of any business 
operating in their segment” 22
Strategic Delivery Overview
Devolving authority to managers to allow them to compete in the market, but 
without weakening our control environment.
Recruiting and developing people with attributes that support our core values.
Operating a performance management system closely aligned to incentives.
People Employee retention. Employee recruitment, 
retention and 
succession.
Approach Strategic
dimension
Key performance 
indicators
Principal risks and 
uncertainties
Exploiting the economies of scale delivered by growth and centralisation to 
improve our operating margins.
Centralising most support services.
Improving asset turn and lowering property costs.
Realising surplus assets and reinvesting the proceeds.
Cost control 
and asset 
management
Group overheads to 
sales ratio.
Adjusted ROCE.
Information technology 
failure.
Defined benefit scheme 
funding.
Achieving market leading returns on sales and returns on capital employed.
Reducing debt through cash generation.
Increasing adjusted earnings per share.
Optimising our dividend cover.
Financial Net debt to EBITDA.
Free cash flow.
Adjusted ROCE.
Adjusted EPS.
Adjusted PBT.
Dividend cover.
Market conditions.
Exploiting economies of scale from growth to improve our proposition, gain 
further market share and improve operating margins.
Centralising purchasing to increase the benefits of common purchasing.
Improving our supply chain capabilities.
Expanding our global sourcing activities to support our own brand proposition. 
Continuously improving our customer and supplier proposition.
Harmonising product specifications across our businesses.
Sales and 
margin 
management
Like-for-like 
revenue growth.
Like-for-like sales 
outperformance.
Adjusted operating 
profit/margin.
Competitive pressures.
Information technology 
failure.
Supplier dependency 
and direct sourcing.
Using our superior financial performance to expand our branch network so 
ensuring we penetrate all catchments in the UK.
Operating a well resourced and innovative property function. 
Extending our multi-channel capabilities.
Adding additional channels or creating businesses to serve all segments of the 
UK building materials market where we can achieve synergies.
Developing and owning trade parks and multiple brand sites.
Expansion Revenue from 
expansion.
Integration complexity.
Travis Perkins is the largest provider of 
building materials in the UK. Our philosophy of 
continuous improvement is intended to increase 
shareholder value through innovation, organic 
self-help initiatives and targeted expansion. 
In order that we might achieve our goal, we 
seek to ensure that our businesses offer 
market leading propositions, (as measured by 
customers and suppliers) and outgrow their 
markets on a like-for-like basis. 
Successful execution of our strategy is based 
upon a strong and well resourced share service 
model, which enables branches to concentrate 
on delivering excellent customer service, whilst 
allowing the central teams to concentrate on 
innovation and leadership across the Group.
The section below gives a high level overview 
of our approach to delivering our strategy, how 
we judge progress, and which of the principal 
risks and uncertainties could prevent it being 
delivered. Further details are provided within 
the Chairman’s Statement, the Chief Executive’s 
Review of the Year, the Deputy Chief Executive’s 
Review of the Year and the Finance Director’s 
Review of the Year. 
Stephen Armstrong, Steve Simms and Nigel Read at F&P Wholesale Bedford REPORTS
TRA VIS PERKINS ANNUAL REPOR T AND ACCOUNTS 2011
23
“F&P Wholesale, a distributor of plumbing, heating and bathroom products to independent merchants” 24
Introduction
We aim to grow and develop the operating 
businesses that make Travis Perkins the largest 
and most economically rewarding provider of 
building material solutions to anybody in the 
UK wanting to construct, maintain, improve or 
repair the built environment. We believe that 
this will ensure that we achieve our overall 
strategy of improving returns for the Group’s 
shareholders. The business model we deploy 
to execute this strategy is shown on the table 
on page 29.
In 2011, the approach we have taken to 
meeting our aims has been to: 
● Increase our investment in colleague training 
and development;
● Improve our health and safety and 
environmental credentials;
● Make many small improvements throughout 
our organisation rather than putting all our 
efforts into large projects; 
● Successfully integrate BSS into the Group;
● Concentrate on maximising the benefits from 
existing initiatives;
● Maximise the purchasing and overhead 
synergies arising from the acquisition of BSS;
● Target expansion in emerging channels 
by expanding our newest businesses and 
seeking opportunities to add new channels 
in areas that are complementary to our 
existing businesses.
In developing our business it is important 
that we do not overlook the influence that our 
colleagues, customers, suppliers and other 
stakeholders can have on results. For that 
reason it is an imperative that we strive to 
make our work environment a better place to 
do business.
Operationally we measure our success 
through a comprehensive ‘balanced scorecard’ 
of key performance indicators (‘KPI’), which are 
aligned to achieving our strategy:
“Proof that our inclusive culture 
works is evidenced by those 
employees who have been 
employed by the business for 
almost their entire working lives”
  2011 2010
Like-for-like revenue growth – Merchanting 9.4% 7.6%
Like-for-like revenue growth – Retail (1.3)% 0.9%
Like-for-like revenue growth – BSS (proforma) 2.9% 6.2%
Like-for-like revenue outperformance 5.0% 3.5%
Employee retention 87.0% 86.0%
Revenue from expansion  2.0% 2.6%
Environment – see separate report on pages 38 to 42.
Health & Safety – see separate report on pages 43 and 44.
Deputy Chief Executive’s Review of the Y ear
For the year ended 31 December 2011
John Carter
Deputy Chief Executive REPORTS
TRA VIS PERKINS ANNUAL REPOR T AND ACCOUNTS 2011
25
People
Engagement
Building colleague engagement is of great 
importance to the success of our business 
because committed employees improve 
performance, which has a positive ripple-down 
effect on customers. To monitor progress we 
regularly survey our colleagues to seek their 
opinions about what is working well and what 
prevents them from performing at their best 
and feeling connected.
This year we sought feedback from all of the 
BSS colleagues who joined the Group late last 
year and were delighted when the engagement 
score matched the 60% registered by the rest 
of the Group in mid 2010. However, to ensure 
that we remain informed between group-wide 
surveys, in 2011, we launched an online 
survey panel called Voice Box intended to test 
where we are on issues that might influence 
engagement. All employees were invited to take 
part, and within weeks, 2,700 had registered. 
We also embrace a variety of two-way 
communication channels to maintain 
employee involvement and engagement in 
group activities. These include open forums 
for employees to ask any questions about the 
business, colleague liaison forums, employee 
nominated special achievement awards, and 
our popular quarterly magazine, The Bridge.
Proof that our inclusive culture works is 
evidenced by those employees who have been 
employed by the business for almost their 
entire working lives. Some employees have 
given 50 years’ continuous service, whilst 
more than 80 have been with Travis Perkins’ 
companies for more than 40 years.
Training and development
The primary objectives for the business over 
the past two years have been to maximise sales 
opportunities, protect margin and out perform 
the market. To achieve those targets we needed 
a learning and development strategy that gave:
● Colleagues the confidence and expert 
product knowledge to offer the service and 
advice trade customers expect; 
● Managers the leadership skills and 
commercial acumen to motivate our people 
and drive results; 
● Leaders the creativity and inspiration to set 
the agenda and facilitate change.
During the year, in support of our strategy, we 
have undertaken many projects to improve the 
abilities of colleagues at all levels throughout 
the Group. These are designed to give them 
the confidence and skills needed to exercise 
the authority they are given to compete in the 
market. The projects included:
● Establishing an executive development 
group of senior managers with potential for 
leadership roles, forging a link with Ashridge, 
the leading management school, to deliver 
programmes to this group in 2012;
● Delivering leadership and coaching 
programmes to up-skill our regional 
directors and their peers; 
● Developing job skills and product knowledge 
expertise amongst branch and store 
colleagues through sales and service 
workshops;
● Re-launching, as an apprenticeship scheme, 
our management training scheme, which 
many current directors and I went through 
on originally joining the Group. 
The success we have achieved in recent 
years culminated in our being positioned as 
a finalist in the HR Excellence Awards 2011 
for ‘Best learning and development strategy’ 
which confirms that learning and development 
activity within the Group delivers bottom line 
business benefits.
Careers and talent pipeline
The on-going challenge is to build the 
capability of the talent pipeline and leverage 
internal knowledge, skills, networks and 
experience for the benefit of the Group as a 
whole. The hard work and abilities of many 
colleagues have been recognised this year 
through promotions and new opportunities 
to work in different parts of the business, but 
in those cases where we have to seek talent 
from outside the existing internal talent pool 
we need to be positioned as an ‘employer of 
choice’ among candidates.
During the year we have invested in a new 
centralised IT recruitment platform to bring 
more efficiency to our recruitment processes 
and increase hire quality. To attract the best 
candidates, we believe we need to offer a rich 
candidate experience and to let candidates 
know where they are in the process at all 
times. Our new system allows us to do this. 
Furthermore as part of this investment, we 
have added a bespoke recruitment site that 
colleagues within our business can use to 
seek out career opportunities before many 
of the vacancies are placed on external 
recruitment sites. 
Stay Safe
We have an absolute commitment to 
continuously improving our health and safety 
record, which in recent years has resulted in 
our approach to safety in our business evolving 
from one which was ‘Stay Legal’ to one which 
is now ‘Stay Safe’. In achieving this change, 
each year, our safety team have developed a 
large number of initiatives to promote the Stay 
Safe message. 
Driven by the business’ desire to progress 
the Stay Safe journey more quickly and 
effectively, we have re-aligned our Stay Safe 
team to our new divisional structure. This 
will strengthen the awareness and personal 
ownership of each business board which in 
turn will accelerate the development of the Stay 
Safe culture in our branch and store managers. 
In restructuring the health & safety team we 
have created:
● Four Stay Safe business partner roles, 
each supporting one of the four operating 
divisions;
● A Stay Safe central services team, which is 
responsible for reviewing and developing 
health & safety policy, managing incidents, 
and providing advice and guidance to 
operational management; and
● A team of Stay Safe training advisors that 
will support the business by developing 
and delivering Stay Safe training across all 
divisions.
Sales and margin management
It is our aim to outperform our main markets 
on a like-for-like basis by communicating and 
delivering a superior offer to our customers. 
Customer service continues to be an area of 
focus for all colleagues. 26
One aspect of increasing sales and customer 
satisfaction is ensuring that our prices are 
transparent, consistent and understandable 
to our customers. In our Merchanting brand 
we are trialling new pricing structures with 
the intention of rolling them out during 2012. 
We have also invested in our sales force 
and focussed them, through incentivisation, 
on increasing active trading accounts. As a 
result we opened or reactivated a number of 
customer accounts during the year. 
In 2011 we saw merchanting gross margins 
come under pressure due to a combination 
of high input inflation and our own strategy 
to gain market share. In the early part of the 
year our actions were supported by investing 
a proportion of the gains from our sourcing 
initiatives into prices. However, from quarter 
2 onwards, as markets became more difficult 
we adjusted our stance in favour of achieving 
a consistent year-on-year gross margin by the 
end of the year. 
The category management team undertook 
projects to investigate returns on timber 
and sheet materials. This involves looking at 
all aspects of product holding, pricing and 
merchandising. Later in 2012 branches will be 
able to order and stock timber by specific length. 
We have started to benefit from new ranges 
being cross-sold between BSS businesses and 
the rest of the Group. A particular success was 
the introduction into Wickes, of the Scruffs 
workwear range supplied by Birchwood Price 
Tools. The new products, which already have 
proved to be very popular, will be introduced to 
replace an existing range in the Merchanting 
division during 2012. Furthermore, we are 
now piloting tool-hire in BSS Industrial with the 
intention of rolling it out to more branches later 
in the year.
Our supply chain operations are wide 
reaching with many products now sourced 
direct from global manufacturers. We operate 
24 warehouse facilities, covering nearly 3m 
square feet which supply over 1,800 branches 
that utilise 2,500 vehicles to deliver product 
to customers' worksites and homes. Over 
1,500 colleagues across the Group now 
support internal supply chain solutions picking 
48,000,000 separate items per annum.
Our customers are rightly becoming ever 
more demanding, expecting us to provide 
consistent and timely access to a broad 
range of products. This provides us with a 
significant sales and margin opportunity as we 
can leverage our unique multi brand scale, to 
improve customer service and reduce costs. 
Therefore, we continue to invest successfully 
in our supply chain as a key enabler to our 
organic growth programme.
Additional focus on our timber and heavyside 
bulky goods supply chains now allows our 
smaller branches to access a broader range of 
products regardless of their space constraints. 
The implementation of a feeder network from 
larger branches has improved sheet materials 
availability by 5% whilst after a year of 
operation our heavyside consolidation operation 
in the Northwest now services 110 branches 
with an extended range of 3,000 products. As 
a result our branches can consistently promise 
customers 24 hour delivery for product that 
would otherwise have come direct from 
suppliers, on much longer lead times. 
Our performance in supply chain has been 
recognised externally with the team beating 
many major European retail and merchant 
businesses to win two prestigious awards in 
2011– the Ligenta European Retail Supply 
Chain award and Retail Week’s Distribution 
Development Award.
Investment this year focused on further 
centralisation of our lightside and plumbing 
& heating product ranges, with an additional 
500,000 square foot warehouse facility being 
added to our Northampton campus. The new 
site has allowed us to extend the number 
of centrally stocked products available to 
branches and so has improved our overall 
levels of service and product availability. The 
facility is also an enabler to our commercial 
team’s direct sourcing programme. 
As part of our drive to increase direct 
sourcing we opened a new office in Shanghai 
to manage the flow of product from factories 
located in the Far East. Forty colleagues 
Deputy Chief Executive’s Review of the Y ear
“Our performance in supply 
chain has been recognised 
externally with the team beating 
many major European retail and 
merchant businesses to win two 
prestigious awards in 2011”
Eliot Longhorn at Travis Perkins Bedford REPORTS
TRA VIS PERKINS ANNUAL REPOR T AND ACCOUNTS 2011
27
“Our merchanting division has performed strongly with each of our businesses recording impressive growth” 28
Deputy Chief Executive’s Review of the Y ear
from China and the UK work in Shanghai and 
Shenzhen to ensure that goods are delivered to 
our UK warehouses to the right specification, in 
the correct quantities as efficiently as possible. 
This has enabled us to capture the margin 
previously made by the third party distributors 
and agents.
Although we are now purchasing £450m 
of goods from approximately 90 factories 
located in 15 countries across five continents 
our analysis suggests that as more product is 
direct sourced we could realise a further £25m 
of annual profits by 2016. Consequently, we 
plan to expand further our team in China during 
the coming year.
The introduction of new product ranges is 
fundamental to the growth of the business. 
During 2011, we completely re-launched IFLO 
our own brand plumbing range. Supported 
by a new fully priced catalogue, sales have 
increased 22% year-on-year at the same time 
as margins have increased. We predict further 
growth in 2012 when additional ranges and 
a new pricing structure will be introduced. In 
addition, we are actively seeking new sales 
opportunities in areas such as fire protection, 
renewables, drainage and water recovery.
Our most important project in 2011 has 
been to deliver the BSS synergies identified at 
the time of the acquisition. A team comprising 
colleagues from across the Group exceeded our 
2011 expectations of £8m by delivering £15m 
of purchasing synergies in 2011, and putting 
in place a process that will lead to our £25m 
initial target being achieved one year early. In 
2012 we will be concentrating on maximising 
synergies by consolidating purchases where we 
currently have multiple suppliers.
In BSS we acquired a group that was part 
way through a project to implement a new 
operating system throughout the business. Our 
assessment of the programme resulted in a 
change of course whereby we will implement 
new systems into BSS based upon existing 
group systems. Our IT colleagues have spent 
most of 2011 rewriting system programmes so 
that they meet the specific needs of both the 
BSS and PTS businesses. We have trialled the 
new systems in seven PTS branches during the 
year. We plan new systems in PTS to improve 
the information available to branch managers 
to enable them to trade better, reduce credit 
risk and help collect debts more rapidly.
Tight cost control and 
asset management
In these difficult economic times we have 
continued to place emphasis on finding ways 
of improving our efficiency, exploiting the 
economies of scale delivered by centralising 
group services and managing our cost base. 
We have also taken the decision to concentrate 
on maximising the returns from existing 
initiatives, rather than investing heavily in new 
ones. Initiatives where due to market conditions 
returns were found to be more marginal have 
been delayed or cancelled.
In Wickes we have changed the store 
structure by removing some management 
roles, but at the same time increasing 
colleague hours, to facilitate a greater focus 
on customer service. Whilst some colleagues 
were redeployed into other roles, unfortunately 
the reorganisation has resulted in some 200 
colleagues leaving the business towards the 
end of the year. 
Our delivery fleet based at branches 
has benefited from further investment in 
automated delivery planning and scheduling 
technology, this improves our 'on-time' delivery 
performance for customers, while reducing 
vehicle costs by optimising the delivery route.
Our synergy programme was not 
confined only to product purchases. Through 
implementing new systems and processes, 
switching suppliers and combining BSS teams 
with those in Northampton we achieved almost 
£5m of overhead synergies during the year. 
Improve return on capital
Managing stock levels, whilst improving stock 
availability, is one of the key initiatives being 
undertaken by the supply chain team. At 30 
June, stock levels were higher than we planned 
due to a combination of holding more stock 
due to direct sourcing, advance buying due 
to favourable pre-inflation increase deals with 
suppliers and increasing sales levels. However, 
by the year-end we had reduced stock from 
its peak levels by approximately £50m. Whilst 
we continue to target additional areas where 
stock can be reduced without impacting upon 
availability, we are also investing in pre-price 
increase deals where appropriate.
We are now trialling stock auto-replenishment 
in our Wickes business. This will yield working 
capital and productivity gains and stronger sales 
through better availability.
External expansion
The closure of Focus in the first half of the 
year presented us with a great opportunity to 
expand selectively our store base in a number 
of new catchment areas that had previously 
proved difficult to penetrate. In what was the 
largest project of its kind ever undertaken by 
Wickes, a cross-functional team of colleagues 
responded magnificently to the challenge of 
engaging 350 new colleagues and opening 13 
new stores within four and a half months. The 
early results, from what was our largest single 
investment of the year, have exceeded our 
expectations with all stores trading profitably. 
We have continued to leverage our existing 
estate by seeking opportunities to expand our 
smaller businesses by establishing implants 
within our existing merchanting branches. This 
approach minimises set up costs and improves 
returns through utilising spare capacity within 
our network.
● Turnover for toolhire rose 22% in the year. 
We now trade from 196 toolhire outlets in 
our merchanting business having opened 
a further nine during 2011 and we expect 
to trial our first toolhire outlet within a BSS 
branch in early 2012 before rolling it out 
further later in the year.
● Benchmarx opened 27 new implanted 
outlets in 2011 so we now trade from 84 
Our local and UK staff, based in Shanghai and Shenzhen, 
ensured our fi rst Far East team day was a success REPORTS
TRA VIS PERKINS ANNUAL REPOR T AND ACCOUNTS 2011
29
sites. It is now the third largest business in 
its sector; and 
●
 We continued to expand our heating spares 
capability adding a further 44 outlets in PTS 
branches and 28 outlets in City Plumbing 
branches. We now operate 244 spares 
outlets across the Group; a network that has 
produced exceptional sales growth in this 
category. 
A further 1,268 colleagues joined the group 
when Toolstation was acquired on 3 January 
2012. Toolstation is a multi channel retailer of 
lightside products, trading from 103 sites in 
the UK as well as by telephone and through 
the internet. It has expanded rapidly since 
2008 and as more stores have reached trading 
maturity it is now trading profitably. 
Part of our strategy is to increase our 
presence in emerging channels by investing in 
new opportunities in markets adjacent to our 
existing businesses. In 2011, we acquired a 
25% stake in Rinus Roofing, a small company 
selling approximately 2,000 roofing products 
from seven branches in the north of England.
Outlook
In November, we announced a new divisional 
structure would be put in place from 1 January 
2012. Our plumbing and heating businesses 
have been brought together to form a new 
division under the leadership of Paul Tallentire, 
whilst Toolstation joins our Consumer division 
bringing with it a multichannel expertise that 
we can exploit throughout the business.
2011 was a difficult year for companies in 
our sector, but colleagues throughout the Travis 
Perkins group responded to the challenges set 
for them. A lot was achieved, but there remains 
a lot of potential. All indications are that 2012 
will be equally difficult, but I fully expect that 
the initiatives we are undertaking to improve 
our business will keep us at the forefront of 
our sector. 
I would like to place on record my sincere 
thanks to all colleagues across the Group for 
their outstanding efforts, which have produced, 
yet again, an industry leading performance.
John Carter
Deputy Chief Executive
21 February 2012
Business Model
Are committed to ensuring that we buy quality 
goods and materials from responsible and 
ethical sources, at prices that are fair to all. 
Purchase over 100,000 products from UK and 
overseas manufacturers and distributors.
Stock a wide range of own brand products, 
particularly in our consumer business, as well 
as branded goods supplied by market leading 
companies.
Achieve economies of scale by focussing 
our purchases towards a limited number of 
suppliers.
Are the largest or second largest customer for a 
considerable number of our suppliers, many of 
whom have forged close relationships with the 
Group over a long period of time.
Operates from 24 central warehouses, enabling 
us to buy goods in bulk and distribute them to 
our branches in smaller quantities.
Utilises a distribution fleet of 192 vehicles to 
transport product between warehouses and 
branches.
Makes around 350,000 branch deliveries p.a.
Engages over 1,500 colleagues to ensure the 
efficient movement of stock throughout our 
organisation.
Improves branch efficiency by ensuring we 
have an appropriate mix of suppliers delivering 
either direct to our branches or to our central 
warehouses. 
Gives customers access to our businesses 
through a nationwide branch network.
Employing the best available people and 
investing in their training and development.
Ensuring branches maintain high levels of stock 
availability in full project quantities.
Offering advice and building related services 
that support their needs.
Using a fleet of 2,300 vehicles to provide an 
efficient, on-time-in-full, local delivery service, 
where customers have chosen not to collect 
goods from our sites.
Making credit available for approximately 80% 
of customer purchases.
Ensuring our prices reflect both the quality of 
the goods we sell and the service we provide, 
whilst remaining competitive.
Travis Perkins is a multi-channel operator selling a wide range of building materials to the trade and consumer primarily through a network of mainly UK 
branches. Our business model is based upon:
●
  Achieving growth through investing in organic initiatives and acquisitions that leverage our fi xed and central costs to deliver further benefi ts from increasing 
economies of scale;
●
   An organisation structure, which devolves responsibilities close to customers and provides the benefi ts of shared central services;
●
  Thorough performance management monitoring systems and processes;
●
   A technology approach, where retaining control by writing our own systems delivers lower cost, more fl exibility and higher matched functionality, particularly 
in areas such as logistics, supply chain and multi-channel;
●
  Incentivisation structures that are linked to performance and encourage improvement;
●
  A strong culture, which extends to the types of people we employ and the values and leadership behaviours we encourage.
In delivering our product solutions we… Our products are distributed to the end user 
through a supply chain network which…
We strive to provide our customers with the 
highest levels of service possible by… 30
Paul Hampden Smith 
Finance Director
“We have arranged a £550m 
forward start extension to the 
Group’s UK borrowing facilities 
which will meet the Group’s 
funding requirements until 2016” 
Financial achievements
Our principal financial objectives for 2011 
were to support the Group’s strategy by 
delivering the synergies anticipated at the time 
of the BSS acquisition, further reducing group 
borrowings, managing margins and costs in 
the face of increasingly difficult markets and 
ensuring increased profitability by leveraging 
the investments we made in product service 
initiatives and branch expansion. This involved: 
● Delivering £20m of synergies from the BSS 
acquisition, which has left us well placed to 
exceed our original £25m target, with £30m 
being our new target;
● Reducing net debt by £191m to £583m 
through a series of initiatives and synergies 
designed to improve cash flow;
● Increasing adjusted earnings per share on a 
proforma basis (assuming we owned BSS for 
all of 2010) by 6%;
● Integrating financial systems following the 
BSS acquisition.
Furthermore, at a time when financial market 
liquidity has been severely affected by events 
in Europe, we have arranged a £550m forward 
start extension to the Group’s UK borrowing 
facilities which will meet the Group’s funding 
requirements until 2016.
Financial results
The Group’s overall adjusted operating margin 
remained flat at 6.6% compared with last year 
on a proforma basis. 
Whilst the operating margins of individual 
divisions are still strong, there has been a 
limited amount of erosion during the year in 
merchanting. The overheads to sales ratio 
reduced by 0.4% due to the combined impact 
of good cost control and the operational 
gearing effect of the fixed element of our cost 
base and synergy benefits contributed 0.2%. 
However, these were not enough to prevent 
merchanting operating margins falling by 0.2% 
to 8.6% (2010: 8.8%) as gross margins eased 
0.8% due to mix (direct to site deliveries grew 
strongly, so diluting gross margins), input price 
pressure, investment in warehouse facilities 
and some investment in market share. 
In our retail business, despite a 1.3% gross 
margin improvement due to a combination of 
improved purchasing terms, direct sourcing 
and lower sales incentives, adjusted operating 
margin fell by 1.4% to 4.5% (2010: 5.9%). 
This reflects an increase in overheads due to 
higher marketing spend, the initial costs of 
opening all of the new stores acquired from 
Focus and restructuring.
BSS adjusted operating margins including 
synergies improved by 0.4% to 4.6% (2010: 
4.2% on a proforma basis) as the benefits of 
our synergy programme more than offset the 
effects of sales mix, which reduced operating 
margins, due to significantly increased turnover 
with British Gas from April.
The Group incurred £10m of exceptional 
operating charges in 2011 (2010: £19m) as 
a result of integrating BSS into the Group. 
The charges arose mainly as a result of 
Finance Director’s Review of the Y ear
For the year ended 31 December 2011
Richard Haines at Toolstation Redditch REPORTS
TRA VIS PERKINS ANNUAL REPOR T AND ACCOUNTS 2011
31
“Early in 2012 we completed the acquisition of T oolstation” 32
Finance Director’s Review of the Y ear
the on-going programme to integrate BSS 
colleagues, systems and processes into the 
Group, although there was a £2m charge due 
to the closure or disposal of businesses that 
were determined to be non-core to the Group’s 
operations. After charging the exceptional 
operating items, operating profit was £291m 
(2010: £220m). 
Despite incurring increased interest charges 
due to the acquisition of BSS late in 2010, 
overall net financing costs before exceptional 
charges have reduced in 2011 by £6m to 
£17m. Gains on derivatives, mainly one-off, 
were £7m higher than in 2010 as the Group 
benefited from revaluing forward currency 
contracts taken out during the course of the 
year to fix the exchange rate at which goods 
sourced in foreign currency will be purchased. 
In addition, other finance income associated 
with the pension scheme increased by £6m 
due to significantly higher asset values at the 
start of 2011 than 2010. The average interest 
rate during the year was 3.0% (2010: 3.1%).
Exceptional integration related finance costs 
of £4m (2010: £1m) were incurred as a result 
of repaying $125m of BSS private placement 
notes before their contractual maturity dates. 
Profit before tax, after charging £14m 
(2010: £20m) of exceptional costs and £13m 
of intangible asset amortisation (2010: £nil), 
rose by £73m to £270m (2010: £197m). 
Excluding the combined tax effect of the 
exceptional operating and financing costs of 
£4m (2010: £2m) and an exceptional deferred 
tax credit of £13m (2010: £2m) caused by the 
reduction in the corporation tax rate to 25% 
from April 2012, the tax charge for the period 
was £74m (2010: £60m), which represents an 
effective rate of 26.2%, (2010: 27.6%). The 
reduction from last year reflects the drop in the 
statutory tax rate during the year. 
Basic earnings per share were 30% higher 
at 90.3 pence (2010: 69.6 pence). Adjusted 
earnings per share (note 12) were 93.1 pence 
(2010: 77.2 pence), a 21% increase, which is 
primarily due to the acquisition of BSS towards 
the end of 2010. The proforma increase in 
adjusted EPS was 11%. There is no significant 
difference between basic and diluted earnings 
per share.
The following table shows the Group’s key financial performance indicators: 
  2011 2010 2009 2008
Adjusted operating profit to revenue ratio 6.6% 7.6% 7.7% 8.5%
Group overheads to sales ratio 23.6% 26.7% 26.3% 26.1%
Profit before tax growth / (decline)  37.0% (7.5)% 45.4% (44.0)%
Adjusted profit before tax growth / (decline)  36.9% 20.4% (11.1)% (22.5)%
Adjusted earnings per share 93.1p 77.2p 75.2p 96.9p
Dividend cover 4.7x 5.1x - 8.5x
Free cash flow (note 36) £294m £278m £294m £185m
Adjusted return on capital (note 37) 11.3% 12.2% 10.9% 12.9%
Net debt to adjusted EBITDA (note 38) 1.3x 1.9x 1.5x 2.8x
the covenant limits that apply to its banking 
arrangements. 
The capital structure is formally reviewed by 
the Board as part of its annual strategy review, 
but it is kept under review by me throughout 
the year. The Company will rebalance its capital 
structure through raising or repaying debt, 
issuing equity or paying dividends.
The Group’s capital structure is aimed at 
balancing equity and debt in a way, which 
comfortably retains the Group’s investment 
grade status, maintains the financial flexibility 
for business development and optimises the 
efficiency of its finance costs given that the 
cost of debt is below the cost of equity. This 
equates to a maximum Net Debt/EBITDA target 
of 2.5 times post any acquisition (against 3.0 
times bank covenant) with the aim of paying 
down debt to achieve a 1 times ratio. 
The current preferred capital structure of 
the Group consists of debt, which includes the 
bank borrowings and the US private placement 
notes, cash and cash equivalents and equity 
attributable to equity holders of the parent, 
comprising issued capital, reserves and 
retained earnings. However, we regularly review 
the sources of debt available to the Group with 
the aim of maintaining both diversified sources 
and diversified maturities. 
In addition the Group also utilises operating 
leases, particularly in respect of properties. At 
31 December 2011, the annual rent roll for 
leased properties was approximately £173m. 
Our aim is to maintain a ratio approximating to 
20% of properties owned, 80% leased.
Financial capital management
Strong financial capital management is a 
fundamental component of the overall group 
strategy.
The Directors are committed to the 
generation of long-term shareholder value, 
which we believe will be achieved through:
● Increasing the Group’s market share via 
a combination of LFL sales growth and 
targeted expansion through acquisitions, 
brown field openings and in-store 
development;
● Investing in projects and acquisitions where 
the post-tax return on capital employed 
exceeds the weighted average cost of capital 
of the Group by a minimum of 4%;
● Generating sufficient free cash flow to enable 
the Group to expand its operations whilst 
funding attractive returns to shareholders, 
reducing its debt and pension deficit;
● Operating an efficient balance sheet, by 
structuring sources of capital to minimise 
the Group’s weighted average cost of capital 
consistent with maintaining an investment 
grade financial profile. On a lease adjusted 
basis this would mean a ratio of net debt 
and operating leases to EBITDAR would be 
less than three times (31 December 2011 
3.4 times); 
● Maintaining long-term dividend cover at 
between two and a half and three and a half 
times earnings.
The Group maintains a capital structure that 
is both appropriate to the on-going needs of 
the business and ensures it remains within  REPORTS
TRA VIS PERKINS ANNUAL REPOR T AND ACCOUNTS 2011
33
The capital structure of the Group 
at 31 December comprises:
Liquidity and funding
The Group is financed through a combination 
of unsecured bank borrowings and unsecured 
guaranteed private placement notes at fixed 
and floating rates of interest. The Board 
regularly reviews the facilities available and 
seeks to maintain them at a level sufficient 
to facilitate execution of its strategy, whilst 
ensuring that liquidity headroom will cover 
possible contingencies.
At 31 December 2011, the Group had 
committed UK bank facilities of £800m and 
$400m of $US private placement notes in 
issue. In addition it had £40m of uncommitted 
overdraft facilities.
During the year, as part of the continuing 
integration of BSS into the Group, we repaid 
$125m of private placement notes issued by 
BSS in 2006. We also cancelled 3 derivative 
contracts that were established to hedge 
against interest and currency movements 
on those notes. In total, these transactions 
resulted in a charge to the income statement 
of £4m, which has been disclosed as an 
exceptional finance cost.
In December 2011, we signed a new 
£550m forward start banking agreement with 
a syndicate of banks. The £550m revolving 
credit facility, which runs until December 
2016, can be drawn from April 2013, the 
expiry date for the Group’s existing £800m 
facility agreement.
The new agreement will increase the Group’s 
funding costs in line with changes that have 
occurred in the market since the last financing 
agreement was signed in 2008. As a result, it is 
anticipated that the Group will incur additional 
financing costs of around £4m in 2012.
The first $200m tranche of our private 
placement notes are due for repayment in 
early 2013, the remaining $200m being 
available until 2016. These together with 
our existing bank facilities provide the Travis 
Perkins group with the liquidity it requires for 
the foreseeable future.
The Group is also party to a large number 
of leases, most of which relate to premises 
occupied by the Group for trading purposes. 
Note 31 gives further details about the Group’s 
operating lease commitments.
Continued focus on debt reduction
Careful control of capital investment together 
with a strong focus on working capital 
management and integration synergies arising 
from aligning supplier payment terms meant 
that net debt was reduced by £191m during the 
year to £583m. Our net debt to EBITDA ratio 
continues to fall towards our target of around 
one times. At 31 December 2011, it was 1.3 
times (2010: 1.9 times). Free cash flow for the 
year was £294m (2010: £278m) (note 36). 
Gross capital and investment expenditure 
totalled £121m. £55m was spent on capital 
replacements, and £66m on expansion. 
We believe our culture of undertaking small 
incremental improvement projects with strict 
return criteria for each expansion project is a 
major strength of the Group. 
The peak and minimum levels of daily 
borrowings on a cleared basis during the 
year ended 31 December 2011 were £949m 
and £597m respectively (2010: £876m and 
£551m). The maximum month end cleared 
borrowings were £867m (2010: £736m). At 
31 December 2011, the Group had undrawn 
committed facilities of £475m (2010: £455m).
Pension fund performance
The Travis Perkins’ final salary pension scheme 
started the year with an accounting surplus of 
£32m, whilst the aggregate gross deficits on 
the three BSS related defined benefit schemes 
totalled £60m 
During 2011, high quality corporate 
bond yields have fallen dramatically, which 
has reduced the discount rate applied to 
scheme liabilities. This, combined with lower 
than anticipated returns from investments, 
particularly equity, has resulted in an actuarial 
loss of £50m. At 31 December 2011 the 
combined accounting gross deficit was £46m 
(2010: £28m).
The triennial valuation of the Travis Perkins 
scheme for September 2011 is currently being 
undertaken. Details will be reported in the 
2012 annual report.
Extracting value from 
our business assets
After reviewing the individual businesses 
acquired with BSS we decided that the Buck 
and Hickman business was not sufficiently 
aligned to either the Travis Perkins or the BSS 
Group core businesses to warrant retaining it 
in the Group. Accordingly, the trade and assets 
were sold for £27m on a debt free, cash free 
basis in September 2011.
Our property team has continued to make 
an important contribution to group profits by 
realising gains from carefully selected property 
development projects. They achieved their 
targets for 2011 by generating in excess of 
£16m of property profits from seven projects, 
one of the largest of which was at Guildford, 
which is the second trade park development 
undertaken by the Group. The proceeds from 
some deals will not be received until 2012, 
but £14m was generated during 2011. At the 
year-end, the carrying value of our freehold and 
long leasehold property portfolio was £285m 
(2010: £262m).
Capital employed and balance sheet
Capital employed at the end of 2011 was 
£2,108m (2010: £1,952m). The Group’s 
adjusted return on capital for the year was 
11.3%, (2010: 12.2%), which continues to be 
  2011 2010
  £m £m
Cash and cash equivalents (79) (51)
Bank loans 323 402
US private placement notes 279 366
Loan notes 3 3
Finance leases 20 22
Pension SPV 37 36
Pension fund deficit 34 20
Equity attributable 
to shareholders 2,108 1,952
Total balance sheet 
capital employed 2,725 2,750
Operating leases 
(8 times rentals) 1,408 1,352
Total capital employed 4,133 4,102 34
above our pre-tax weighted average cost of 
capital (‘WACC’) of 6.9% (2010: 8.1%). Our 
WACC reduced in 2011 due to lower Gilt yields.
Our balance sheet remains strong with 
over £2bn of net assets and once again our 
calculations show there were no impairments 
to the carrying values of goodwill and other 
intangible assets. Across the Group, our 
operating assets continue to be highly cash 
and profits generative.
During the year, the daily closing share price 
ranged between 711p and 1,127p. The shares 
closed the year at a price of 796p, giving a total 
market value or market capitalisation of £1.9bn. 
This represented 0.9 times shareholders funds 
(31 December 2010: 1.3 times).
BSS 
During the year, we completed our fair value 
exercise on the assets acquired in 2010. In total 
we made adjustments of £48m (before goodwill 
and intangible write offs) which were principally 
in respect of aligning policies on stock, debtor 
and pension scheme valuations, writing off the 
cost of certain fixed assets and establishing 
accruals for previously unrecorded liabilities. 
After reflecting all fair value adjustments, 
the final value of goodwill included in the group 
balance sheet was £345m. In accordance 
with the requirements of IFRS the balance 
sheet at 31 December 2010 has been 
restated to incorporate the additional fair value 
adjustments identified since that balance sheet 
was signed on 22 February 2011. 
 
Effective financial risk management
The overall aim of the Group’s financial risk 
management policies is to minimise potential 
adverse effects on financial performance 
and net assets. The Group manages the 
principal financial risks within policies and 
operating parameters approved by the Board 
of Directors and does not enter into speculative 
transactions. Treasury activities, which fall 
under my day-to-day responsibilities, are 
managed centrally under a framework of 
policies and procedures approved by and 
monitored by the Board. 
The Group’s policy is to enter into derivative 
contracts only with members of its UK banking 
facility syndicate, provided such counterparties 
meet the minimum rating set out in the Board 
approved derivative policy.
The Group’s hedging policy is to generate its 
preferred interest rate profile, and so manage 
its exposure to interest rate fluctuations, 
through the use of interest rate derivatives. 
Currently the policy is to maintain between 
33% and 75% of drawn borrowings at fixed 
interest rates.
The Group has entered into a number of 
interest rate derivatives designed to protect 
it from fluctuating interest and exchange 
rates on its borrowings. At the year-end, the 
Group had £250m of interest rate derivatives 
fixing interest rates on approximately 38% of 
the Group’s cleared debt. In total 66% of the 
Group’s debt is at fixed interest rates.
The Group settles its currency related trading 
obligations using a combination of currency 
purchased at spot rates and currency bought 
in advance on forward contracts. Its policy is 
to purchase forward contracts for between 
30% and 70% of its anticipated requirements 
twelve months forward. At 31 December 2011 
the nominal value of currency contracts, all of 
which were $US denominated, was $120m. 
To protect itself against adverse currency 
movements and enable it to achieve its desired 
interest rate profile, the Group has entered into 
four cross currency swaps and four forward 
contracts in respect of its $400m fixed rate 
guaranteed unsecured notes.
In summary, the key points of our financial risk 
management strategy are that we: 
● Seek to maintain a strong balance sheet;
● Accord top priority to effective cash and 
working capital management;
● Retain significant liquidity headroom of 
over £100m in our borrowing facilities and 
maintain good relationships with our bankers;
● Operate within comfortable margins to our 
banking covenants:
● The ratio of net debt to EBITDA (earnings 
before interest, tax and depreciation) has 
to be lower than 3.0; it was approximately 
1.3 at the year-end; and
● The number of times operating profit 
covers interest charges has to be a least 
3.5 times and it was 15 times in 2011.
● Have a conservative hedging policy that 
reduces the Group’s exposure to currency 
and interest rate fluctuations;
● Serve over 150,000 ‘live’ customer accounts 
and no single customer accounts for more 
than 1% of our sales; the bad debt charge in 
2011 was 0.6% (2010: 0.6%) of credit sales.
Going concern
After reviewing the Group’s forecasts and risk 
assessments and making other enquiries, the 
Directors have formed a judgement at the 
time of approving the financial statements, 
that there is a reasonable expectation that 
the Group and the Company have adequate 
resources to continue in operational existence 
for the foreseeable future. For this reason, they 
continue to adopt the going concern basis in 
preparing the financial statements.
In arriving at their opinion the Directors 
considered the:
● Group’s cash flow forecasts and revenue 
projections;
● Reasonably possible changes in trading 
performance;
●
 Committed facilities available to the Group to 
late 2016 and the covenants thereon;
● Group’s robust policy towards liquidity and 
cash flow management; and
● Group management’s ability to successfully 
manage the principal risks and uncertainties 
outlined on pages 36 and 37 during 
periods of uncertain economic outlook and 
challenging macro economic conditions. 
Paul Hampden Smith 
Finance Director
21 February 2012
Finance Director’s Review of the Y ear
Ben Walker at Wickes Rushden REPORTS
TRA VIS PERKINS ANNUAL REPOR T AND ACCOUNTS 2011
35
“ A particular success was the introduction into Wickes of the Scruffs workwear range supplied by Birchwood Price T ools” 36
 Risk description Risk mitigation Impact
The Group’s products are sold to tradesmen and retail 
customers for a broad range of end uses in the built 
environment. The performance of the market is affected 
by general economic conditions and a number of specific 
drivers of construction and DIY activity, including housing 
transactions, net disposable income, house price inflation, 
consumer confidence, interest rates and unemployment.
The Board conducts an annual review of strategy, which includes an 
assessment of likely competitor activity, market forecasts and possible 
future trends in products, channels of distribution and customer behaviour.
The Group maintains a comprehensive tracking system for lead indicators 
that influence the market for the consumption of building materials in the 
UK.
Significant events including those in the supply chain that may affect the 
Group are monitored by the Executive Committee and reported to the 
Board monthly by the Group Chief Executive. 
Adverse 
effect on 
financial 
results
Market conditions 
Market trends, particularly in respect of customers’ 
preferences for purchasing materials through a range of 
supply channels, may affect the Group’s performance so 
making traditional branch based operations less relevant.
Public sector buying groups could reduce sales if public 
bodies chose to buy direct from the manufacturers.
Disintermediation may become more of a threat if 
manufacturers decide to deal directly with the end user.
Changes to market practice are tracked on an on-going basis and reported 
to the Board each month.
The Group is leading the industry in terms of the development of new 
and innovative supply solutions, and works closely with customers and 
suppliers on a programme of continuous improvement of current models.
The Group’s branding strategy allows it to use sites flexibly. Alternative 
space utilisation models are possible, including maintaining smaller stores 
and implanting additional services into existing branches.
Adverse 
effect on 
financial 
results
Competitive pressures 
The operations of the Group depend on a wide range of 
complex IT systems operating efficiently and effectively.
The rapid expansion of the Group together with an 
increasing demand for IT services, particularly in respect 
of the BSS integration, could result in development 
programmes being delayed.
Increasing levels of cyber crime represent a significant 
threat with the potential to cause loss of system 
availability or financial loss.
The strategic demands of the business, resources available to IT, 
performance levels of key systems and IT security are kept under review by 
the Executive Committee.
Maintenance is undertaken on an on-going basis to ensure the resilience 
of group systems, with escalation procedures operating to ensure any 
performance issues are resolved at an early stage. Our two main data 
centres mirror each other with data processing switched from one to the 
other on a regular basis. An IT disaster recovery plan exists and is tested 
regularly together with the business continuity plan with arrangements in 
place for alternative data sites for both trade and retail businesses. Off-site 
back-up routines are in place.
Adverse 
effect on 
financial 
results.
Adverse 
effect 
on the 
Company’s 
reputation
Information technology
A number of factors affect the operating 
results, financial condition and prospects of 
each of the businesses in the Travis Perkins 
group. This section describes the risk factors 
that are considered by the Directors to be 
material, their potential impacts and the 
factors that mitigate them. However, these 
should not be regarded as a complete and 
comprehensive statement of all potential 
risks and uncertainties. Additional risks and 
uncertainties that are not presently known to 
the Directors, or which they currently deem 
immaterial, may also have an adverse effect 
on the Group’s operating results, financial 
condition or prospects.
Statement of Principal Risks and Uncertainties
As at 31 December 2011
Tile Giant has consolidated its position in diffi cult markets with total sales up 9% REPORTS
TRA VIS PERKINS ANNUAL REPOR T AND ACCOUNTS 2011
37
The Group is required by law to maintain a minimum funding level 
in relation to its on-going obligations to provide current and future 
pensions for members of its pension schemes who are entitled to 
defined benefits. 
Some issues could adversely affect the funding of these obligations 
including poor performance of the pension fund investments and 
increasing longevity of pension scheme members. 
The level of contributions required from the Group to meet the 
benefits promised in the final salary schemes will vary depending 
upon the funding position of those schemes.
All of the Group’s final salary pension schemes are closed to new 
members.
For the Travis Perkins scheme, pensionable salary inflation has 
been capped at 3% per annum.
The schemes’ investment policies are kept under regular review 
to ensure asset profiles are kept in line with the profiles of 
liabilities.
Adverse 
affect on 
financial 
results.
Defined benefit pension scheme funding
The Group is the largest customer of many of its suppliers. In 
some cases, those suppliers are large enough to cause significant 
difficulties to the Group if they become unable to meet their supply 
obligations. 
Alternative sourcing is generally available, but the volumes required 
and the time it may take those suppliers to increase production 
could result in significant stock-outs for some considerable time.
We have rapidly expanded our direct sourcing capabilities, 
which have increased the Group’s reliance on overseas factories 
producing product. This increases the Group’s exposure to 
sourcing, quality, trading, warranty and currency issues.
The commercial and financial teams monitor the financial position 
of the Group’s key suppliers. Where possible, contracts exist with 
more than one supplier for key products. 
The Group has made a significant investment in a new Far 
East infrastructure to support its direct sourcing operation. 
Comprehensive checks are undertaken on the factories producing 
product, the quality and suitability of that product before it is 
shipped to the UK.
Adverse 
affect on 
financial 
results.
Adverse 
affect on 
reputation.
Supplier dependency and direct sourcing
Integrating large acquisitions into the Group requires the 
re-direction of considerable expertise and resource if progress is to 
be achieved efficiently and effectively. 
Should the process encounter significant unforeseen difficulties 
with systems development and implementation, colleague 
integration or process alignment then considerable additional 
cost could be incurred, management could be deflected from the 
important task of running the rest of the business and our ability to 
trade successfully could be inhibited. 
All major integration processes are overseen by a member of the 
Executive committee who is designated as integration director. 
They are charged with the responsibility for drawing together the 
resource and expertise required to deliver our integration plans. 
Colleagues from throughout the Group who have the skills and 
experience necessary to undertake complicated integration work 
are seconded from their existing roles to the integration team for 
the duration of the project, with additional resource employed to 
backfill their positions.
A rigorous quality control process is implemented to ensure 
that system and process changes are thoroughly tested by 
business users before they are released into the live operating 
environment.
The Board regularly reviews progress against the project plan to 
ensure that the process is properly controlled and has sufficient 
resource to complete the project. 
Adverse 
affect on 
financial 
results.
Adverse 
affect on 
reputation.
Integration complexity
Many employees have worked for the Group for some considerable 
time during which they have gained valuable knowledge and 
expertise. 
The ability to recruit, retain and motivate suitably qualified staff is 
an important driver of the Group’s overall performance. 
Ensuring succession for key positions throughout the Group is 
important if it is to continue to be successful in the future. 
The Group Human Resources Director monitors staff engagement 
and turnover by job type and reports to the Executive Committee 
regularly and to the Board annually. Succession plans are 
established for the most senior positions within the Group and 
these are reviewed annually.
Our reward and recognition systems are actively managed to 
ensure high levels of employee engagement.
A wide-range of training programmes are in place to encourage 
staff development, whilst management development programmes 
are used to assist those identified for more senior positions. 
Salaries and other benefits are benchmarked annually to ensure 
that the Group remains competitive.
Inability to 
develop and 
execute our 
development 
plans.
Competitive 
disadvantage
Employee recruitment, retention and succession
 Risk description Risk mitigation Impact 38
Introduction
In a difficult market, it is possible to regard 
environmental challenges as distracting or 
not crucial to the immediate success of our 
company. We do not take that view and, in 
2011, we started to build the frameworks 
within the Group to continue to pursue our 
environmental vision.
Specifically we have: 
● Restructured how we work in the branches 
to allow us to provide the environmental 
assurance increasingly required by 
customers who purchase timber and timber 
products;
●
 Increased the ability of our branches to 
recycle both our own and our customers 
waste; 
● Challenged our businesses to instil 
behaviours aimed at lower energy 
consumption; 
● Started to consider how we might better 
measure, reduce and communicate the 
environmental impact of our international 
supply chain; and
● Developed our Sustainable Building Solutions 
‘SBS’ service to make sure we are at the 
forefront of construction product supply for 
a sector being asked to make deep cuts in 
carbon emissions.
In 2011 we estimate that 6% (2010: 5%) 
of our total profit was delivered by being 
environmentally responsible. Despite 
uncertainty remaining over the impact of 
environmental regulation, we will expect to be 
able to continue to grow this contribution faster 
than our competitors giving us a sustainable 
competitive advantage.
It is an occupational hazard of reporting 
on environmental matters that measurement 
bases and definitions of data are constantly 
shifting as regulators, governments and 
industries gradually evolve a more robust 
approach. In this report we describe where 
we have changed our approach in response 
to these shifts, and also describe where we 
believe we need to adopt fresh targets for the 
future. The report is structured to cover our 
environmental performance in four aspects 
of Group – Environmental Management 
Processes, Buying Responsibly, Operating 
Responsibly and Selling Responsibly.
Environmental management 
processes
Working with key stakeholders
We have identified three key themes where 
we need to innovate, improve and sometimes 
be disruptive in order to achieve our vision. 
Our approach to these themes – responsible 
buying, operating and selling – is supported 
by our Non-Executive Environmental Advisory 
Panel (NEEAP) and by other communications 
with stakeholders. In 2011, we canvassed 44 
views about our approach through a range of 
channels.
We continue to believe that a collaborative 
approach is important in delivering sustainable 
change to the construction supply and home 
improvement retail sectors. We have increased 
the number of partners with whom we are 
working to 13. Each of these partners offers a 
skill, perspective or knowledge that we could 
otherwise not access. Some of our important 
partners are:
● Waste and Resources Action Programme 
(‘WRAP’);
●
 The Carbon Trust;
● WWF;
● UK Forest and Trade Network;
● Constructing Excellence Wales;
● The Environment Agency;
● University of Salford;
● The Building Research Establishment (‘BRE’);
● Construction Products Association; and
● The British Retail Consortium.
Our NEEAP continues to challenge our 
assumptions about the rate and complexity 
of change and our perceptions of our own 
performance. The composition of the panel has 
evolved since its inception in 2009 and in 2011 
we welcomed three new members, representing 
our customers’ views, onto the panel.
We received 30 environmental complaints, 
which have informed and will continue to inform 
how we operate. The detail of these complaints 
is included in the relevant sections below.
Improving measurement 
As far as possible, we use the same data to 
compile the KPIs reported here and in our 
regulatory or voluntary submissions such as 
the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), Forest 
Footprint Disclosure Project (FFDP) or WWF UK 
Forest and Trade Network annual report. Where 
start and year-end periods differ, such as in 
the Carbon Reduction Commitment Energy 
Efficiency Scheme (‘CRC’) submissions, we 
apply the same measurement methodology. 
We use our sector knowledge and experience 
to determine issues of materiality. For example, 
we currently exclude, from our carbon 
Environment Report
For the year ended 31 December 2011
CCF has performed strongly during 2011 REPORTS
TRA VIS PERKINS ANNUAL REPOR T AND ACCOUNTS 2011
39
reduction KPI, emissions of other green house 
gases from air conditioning. Our KPIs are 
compiled from measurable data when it is 
available or estimates when not. 
Lloyds Register of Quality Assurance (‘LRQA’) 
verifies our annual environment report and their 
assurance statement for this report is available 
on our website at www.travisperkinsplc.com/
environment.
The introduction of a full years worth of data 
from the BSS Group has made the compilation 
of 2011 KPIs a little more challenging since 
road and waste data in particular have had to 
be estimated.
Setting ambitions
We are proud of what we have achieved in 
2011: 
● A 6% contribution to the Group’s profit; 
● Significant improvements in our waste 
management performance; 
● Sourcing 91% of timber purchases by value 
in our merchanting division from certified 
well managed or controlled origins;
● The development and introduction of our 
SBS; and 
● An upper quartile placement in the CRC 
performance league table. 
For us to retain a sustainable competitive 
advantage, deliver our vision and continue to 
act responsibly we recognise the need and 
intend to establish targets for our carbon 
intensity, waste management performance 
and contribution to profit from environmental 
activity for the next 5 to 10 years.
Buying responsibly 
Purchasing more certified 
well-managed timber 
We estimate the Group purchased 85% by 
value of timber and timber-fibre products 
in 2011 from supply chains that started in 
certified well managed or controlled forests. 
Whilst the proportion achieved in merchanting 
increased, the retail contribution fell slightly, 
largely due to increased sales of existing 
uncertified flooring.
We have now improved the flooring range 
so that in 2012 it will consist of material 
predominantly sourced from certified well 
managed or controlled forests. In 2011, we 
made good progress with our range of doors in 
both retail and merchanting. Door ranges now 
have significantly more certified options than 
uncertified options. As a result of these two 
initiatives, we expect to increase our proportion 
of certified purchases in 2012.
In 2012, we will be checking that our 
existing due diligence system meets the 
detailed requirements of the EU Timber 
Regulations, with which we will have to comply 
by 2013. In partnership with the WWF, we 
campaigned for these regulations, and welcome 
their introduction. We anticipate opportunities 
will arise from better-controlled local purchases 
and a level playing field amongst first placers of 
timber and timber products in the EU market. 
Our target for 2012 is to ensure that all of 
the timber products we place on the EU market 
for the first time are credibly certified. By 
2014, we expect all our timber and timber-
fibre product purchases to be from supply 
chains that started in certified well managed or 
controlled forests.
Controlling the environmental impact 
of other products
The enquiry rate from our customers, for 
products certified to BES 6001 (responsible 
sourcing of construction products) remains 
low and has not grown substantially over 
2011. At the same time, there is a plethora of 
customer facing schemes designed to promote 
the environmental credentials of products. 
The international standards bodies are acting 
slowly, which is where we believe we should 
step in to innovate to find the right solution. 
We estimate that 40% of our supply chain 
is already operating with ISO14001 certified 
environmental management control and we 
have requested that all our general merchant, 
specialist merchant and retail suppliers adopt 
this standard. We will make a similar request to 
plumbing and heating suppliers in 2012.
Over 2011 we have worked with a couple of 
partners to trial a measure of the environmental 
impact of a product that is simple enough 
to be repeated at scale and yet meaningful, 
and therefore, useful to our suppliers, our 
customers and ourselves. We have adopted 
two approaches, one broad brush, which 
aggregates all environmental factors into a 
single score, the other, a narrower focus on 
cradle to factory gate carbon dioxide emissions. 
We intend to continue developing these 
measures during 2012 before releasing them 
for suppliers to adopt. 
Getting more from less (resource efficiency)
In 2011, we continued to review our product 
categories for opportunities to introduce 
products with a higher recycled content, such 
as Ecosand made from recycled glass. We 
have also eliminated approximately 40 tonnes 
of packaging from existing products by either 
reduction or reuse. Although the tonnage 
savings are relatively small, the changes made 
during 2011 are forecast to save over 600 
tonnes of packaging during the full calendar 
year of 2012. We continue to work with WRAP 
on home improvement product resource 
efficiency. 
We have not yet done enough work to be 
able to quantify a target reduction in resource 
use within our products, but recognise its 
 Energy  Transport FSC: Forest Stewardship Council   OCS: Other certifi ed schemes
2005 data excludes Wickes timber fi gures
Timber certification
Timber purchased by value
CO
2
 emissions
Corrected data and OECD sales defl ated fi gures
Tonnes CO
2
 per £m group sales
100%
0% 0%
50%
Target
24%
34%
49%
36%
48%
54%
58%
63%
63%
90%
28%
26%
26%
25%
21%
75
0
50
25
Target
26.5
27.1
31.9
32.6
27.8
32.6
32.3
33.7
25.4
47.8
25.6
27.6
26.9
26.7
27.5
06 06 05 05 07 07 08 08 09 09 10 10 11 11 11 13 40
10
5
10
21
37
30
17
3
26
0 Target
06 05 07 08 09 10 11 11
growing importance. In 2012, we will be trying 
to understand the best way of approaching 
this area.
Operating responsibly 
Reducing our energy consumption 
and reducing road journeys
In 2011, we used approximately the same 
amount of energy for heating and lighting 
(241 MWh) as we did in 2010, despite the 
acquisition of the BSS Group, which represents 
a significant improvement in efficiency. In 
addition, on a like-for-like basis, we increased 
the number of deliveries we made to branches 
from central warehouses and from branches 
to our customers. In total, we consumed 14 
million litres of fuel in 2011, 53% more than in 
2010. As a result, the quantity of carbon dioxide 
(CO
2
) that we account for increased by 48% to 
104,000 tonnes. These increases are driven 
by the expansion of our Group, and by our 
supply chain product centralisation initiatives. 
We estimate, although we cannot measure with 
precision, that suppliers save more carbon from 
product centralisation than we use in increasing 
our central distribution activity.
Despite our absolute emission growth, 
because of acquisitions, we are now a less 
carbon intensive business than at any point 
in the last six years. In 2011, 52.7 tonnes of 
CO
2
 were emitted for every million pounds of 
turnover we took, at 2005 prices. In 2010 the 
equivalent measure was 60.4 tonnes and you 
need to look back to 2007 for our previous 
lowest intensity level of 53.1.
In 2012, we will benchmark carbon 
performance between the acquired BSS 
business, which has recorded better efficiency, 
and the rest of the Group to exploit best 
practice. Towards the end of 2011, we gave our 
Merchant and Wickes branch managers visibility 
of their electricity consumption patterns for the 
first time and challenged them to cut out waste. 
We are confident that, through this approach, 
we will recover the cost of our CRC carbon 
credits for the 2011 – 2012 financial year of 
approximately £1m, by reducing our electricity 
consumption by 8 – 10%.
Our vehicle fleet has grown by 50%, to 
approximately 3,000 commercial vehicles, 
mainly because of the purchase of the BSS 
Group. In 2011, we replaced 330 commercial 
vehicles with more efficient models. 
We continued to increase the final destination 
deliveries and internal distribution activity in 
2011. Whilst we believe we increase the carbon 
efficiency of these activities when we do them 
in-house, they are counted as new emissions 
against us and therefore do not reflect in our 
KPI. Our internal modelling of supply chain 
emissions is not yet sophisticated enough to 
reflect the gains we believe we have made and 
we cannot use this data to publically report on 
all emissions across the supply chain. 
We will continue to develop our modelling 
capability of supply chain emissions to 
establish a separate target for distribution and 
property carbon dioxide equivalent emissions.
We believe that we are on track to meet our 
2013 intensity reduction of 20% on 2005 levels.
Reducing waste to landfill 
and increasing recycling 
In 2011, we sent 79% less waste to landfill than 
we did in 2005. We extended our waste back-
haul service to include paper, brochures, timber 
and pallets. Branches and stores now routinely 
segregate 18 waste streams and send back 9 
different wastes to our distribution centres. 
All the businesses support our drive 
towards sector leading waste management 
performance. By the end of 2011, we had 
introduced the Group’s waste management 
facilities from the supply chain to the BSS 
businesses and will be developing this further 
over 2012. By the end of 2011, most branches 
and all stores had visibility of their own waste 
reduction and recycling performance. In 2012, 
the best performing sites will be able to operate 
with neutral waste costs. 
With the right support from the waste 
management industry, we believe that zero 
waste to landfill is achievable and cost effective 
for our businesses. By 2014, we would expect 
to have achieved a 90% reduction in waste 
going to landfill on 2005 levels.
Operating without polluting 
our local environment
We were not prosecuted for any environmental 
offence in 2011, although we were involved in 
19 environmental incidents, which we reported 
to the competent authorities. Fourteen of these 
were paint spills in transit, a result of taking on 
the distribution of paint to our branches, which 
had previously been done by our suppliers. 
Supply chain teams have quickly understood 
how to distribute paint more safely, but it is an 
area we monitor in case further improvements 
are required. 
We are disappointed to have caused a 
nuisance to our neighbours at four of our 
branches over 2011, with one being issued 
with an enforcement note. All the issues have 
been satisfactorily resolved.
Unfortunately, oil or diesel from spills entered 
nearby watercourses three times over the year. 
We continue to provide spill kits to branches 
and stores and train colleagues in their use.
We have an absolute target of zero incidents, 
which we believe is achievable. The trend in 
incidents reported over the last five years is 
Environment Report
Jeanette Wakefi eld at Wickes Rushden
60
30
0 5
5
6
4
5
Waste tonnage
Corrected data and OECD sales defl ated fi gures
Tonnes waste per £m yard and core sales
Environmental incidents and complaints
2009 restated to include timber chain of custody complaints, 
omitted in 2010 report
30
15
0
06 05 07 08 09 10 11 14
1.0 21.9
18.0
18.4
13.3
9.0
4.6
2.8
5.6
7.7
6.8
2.2 Target
3.1
1.7 19.6
 Incidents  Complaints Landfi ll  Recycling REPORTS
TRA VIS PERKINS ANNUAL REPOR T AND ACCOUNTS 2011
41
“We have continued to invest in Wickes, taking the opportunity to acquire 13 new stores from the receiver of Focus” 42
for numbers to rise roughly in proportion to the 
number of sites from which we operate. 
Reducing water use
In 2011, we used 88m
3
 of water per million 
pounds of adjusted turnover, which is already 
better, some two years earlier, than our 2013 
target of 132.6 m
3
 per million pounds of sales. 
The 37% reduction on the 2008 baseline year 
was driven through our continuing leakage 
detection programme. We will review our data 
and set a new target during 2012. 
Environmental management system
We remain on track to bring the BSS Group 
companies into the Travis Perkins ISO14001 
Environmental Management System Certificate 
in 2012.
In 2011, the Travis Perkins Group had a 
30% equity interest in Toolstation. Toolstation 
data has been included in the report on a 
proportional basis.
Selling responsibly 
Selling timber and timber products
Customers of our general merchanting 
businesses are increasingly demanding 
evidence that the timber and timber products 
we sell are from well-managed sources.
We have continued to develop our internal 
chain of custody procedures and have changed 
the way our branches work to improve the 
provision of evidence. The way we sell certified 
well-managed timber will always require close 
Environment Report
monitoring if we are to retain the confidence 
of our certification body and of our customers. 
It is our assertion that we remain the multiple 
merchant with the best coverage of product 
and branches for chain of custody with every 
Travis Perkins branch able to provide evidence. 
We are pleased to report a 36% fall in the 
number of customer complaints about this 
aspect of our service delivery. Never the less, 
18 unhappy customers is unacceptable and in 
2012 we will work towards making responsible 
timber supply second nature.
Reducing packaging use 
We markedly improved the calculation of 
merchant packaging volume in 2011 by 
switching from category level estimates to 
measured data, thereby reducing our estimate 
of packaging used by more than 50%. Over the 
course of 2012, we will adopt this approach 
in the BSS businesses. This change in basis 
of measurement means it is not easy to 
determine meaningful data for any reduction 
driven by our activities. 
The reduction in the intensity of packaging 
used has, in the main, been achieved through a 
changed product mix following the acquisition 
of the BSS Group. The product categories 
sold by BSS have very little packaging. Taking 
back significant quantities of pallets from 
our customers’ sites is also contributing. We 
estimate we reused or recycled 21,000 tonnes 
of pallets in 2011. 
Over 2012 we will be incentivising our 
branches to recover more pallets from our 
customers, as well as refining our measure of 
packaging use. We will set out a 2017 target in 
line with our other KPIs once we have achieved 
an accurate measure of packaging used. 
Product and service innovation 
About 80% of the contribution that our 
responsible environmental approach makes 
to profit comes from having the right products 
and services to meet the sustainability needs of 
our customers, their customers and the policy 
frameworks for sustainable construction.
We launched our Sustainable Business 
Solutions service at the end of 2010 and in 
2011 it incorporates a detailed set of solutions 
that provide the right level of help, support and 
expert technical assistance to the construction 
industry. Our integrated approach provides 
solutions to energy efficient building, renewable 
energy projects and waste management.
In 2011, Travis Perkins Group sold 
approximately 60km
2
 of insulation, had a range 
of over 14 different types of renewable product 
categories and took over £1.3 million in revenue 
from our customer waste management offer.
Travis Perkins exhibited at Eco build in 2011 
and will be there again. 
Geoff Cooper
Chief Executive
21 February 2012
Benchmarx sales have increased by over 40% REPORTS
TRA VIS PERKINS ANNUAL REPOR T AND ACCOUNTS 2011
43
Health & Safety (‘H&S’) is integrated into 
everything we do, from the Group Board 
to every colleague in every branch, store, 
warehouse and office. Our underlying 
philosophy is that all injuries are avoidable 
and that everyone involved in our business 
should return home safe and well at the end 
of each day, every day. However, we do not 
under-estimate the challenge of achieving this 
in a group that now includes 17 businesses, 
with a fully integrated supply chain, operating 
from over 1,800 branches with over 23,500 
colleagues making in excess of 10 million 
deliveries per annum. We aim to be industry 
leaders in our sector for the reduction and 
elimination of injuries. During 2011, we 
continued improving our standards, with the 
leaders in each of our businesses continuing 
to own and drive our Stay Safe culture change 
programme. 
Our group accident frequency rate (8.8 lost 
time injuries per million hours worked), and 
our group severity rate (0.14 days lost per 
thousand hours worked) remained at similar 
levels compared to the previous year. These 
results include the BSS businesses for both 
years for comparison purposes.
Stay Safe requires effective leadership, a 
focus on the key risks in our business and 
is simply summarised by the desire to have 
everyone return home safely at the end of 
each working day. We continue to develop our 
Stay Safe programme in each business, in 
order to achieve our vision of making injuries a 
rare occurrence. We are putting considerable 
emphasis on finding new ways to engage the 
team and supported by the group health 
and safety team. The overall theme is one 
of colleague engagement, with a focus on 
improved communication, increased buy-in 
from colleagues and personal ownership of 
Stay Safe with more individual involvement. 
Several on-going themes from 2010 were 
further supported by new initiatives in 2011.
The Stay Safe quarterly newsletter remains 
an important tool in the communication 
campaign, along with regular presentations and 
briefings for directors, managers and branch 
colleagues on topics such as Stay Safe focus 
groups, updated safe systems, safety bulletins, 
and training DVDs.
‘Keep your feet on the ground’, an initiative 
introduced during 2010, has gathered 
momentum during the year, and is a great 
example of involving colleagues, developing 
their own ideas, to increase their personal 
commitment to the Stay Safe programme. 
Likewise, our modification of brick grab 
equipment to facilitate the grabbing of bulk 
bags was rolled out across the fleet, to remove 
the need for drivers to climb onto vehicle beds 
to attach bulk bags. These improvements alone 
have reduced by 50% the number of incidents 
involving work at height on the vehicle bed.
To maintain further the momentum of the 
Stay Safe programme, a bespoke in-house 
training programme, based around the 
Institution of Occupational Safety and Health 
(‘IOSH’) Managing Safely programme, has 
continued for all operational directors and key 
senior managers in support functions. This 
has proven extremely successful in exploring 
different personal strategies for achieving 
culture change, and has also been developed 
into a Stay Safe Leadership programme for 
branch managers.
All businesses have continued to develop 
their own approach to driving the Stay Safe 
programme in 2011, including:
● The CCF ‘Line in the Sand’ engagement 
programme has helped reduce their lost 
time injury frequency rate by a further 10% 
during 2011, (42% over the last 3 years);
● Keyline, similarly engaged with all branches 
and colleagues to develop their ‘Don’t Walk 
By’ programme, which helped reduce their 
Health & Safety Report
For the year ended 31 December 2011
colleagues in our branches, to increase their 
personal ownership of Stay Safe.
Health & Safety performance 
and initiatives
Our improvement rate in 2011 has slowed 
compared to prior years, however, the 10% 
increase in minor injury reporting rates and 
a 93% increase in near miss reporting rates 
are both clear indicators of the high profile 
we continue to place on transparency and 
honesty in the reporting of incidents. The 
relatively static year-on-year statistics we 
have seen for group frequency and severity 
rates do not truly reflect the great strides in 
health and safety performance seen in many 
of our individual group businesses, which are 
highlighted later in this summary. Despite 
these continuing improvements, we recognise 
there is no quick fix to reducing injuries, and 
this is very much ‘work in progress’ to make 
injuries rare. We intend to further reduce the 
frequency and severity rates over the next five 
years, by continuing our focus on high-risk 
aspects of our operations, and also by targeting 
the working behaviour of our colleagues, 
customers and suppliers.
External enforcement officer inspections 
of branches continued to show a favourable 
improvement in performance and standards, 
with numerous complimentary letters received. 
The Group received no legal notices in 2011, 
for the second year running. 
There have been numerous initiatives under 
the Stay Safe development programme, led 
personally by each business-unit management 
Lost time injury frequency rate
Lost time injuries per million man hours
Lost time injury severity rate
Days lost per thousand man hours
09 10 11
0
10.6
9.7
8.8
20
10
GROUP
0.17
0.16
0.14
GROUP
0
0.3
0.2
0.1
09 10 11 44
lost time injury frequency rate by 28% 
during 2011 alone; 
● Group supply chain established steering 
and implementation committees to help 
drive ownership and support for the Stay 
Safe programme. Numerous initiatives 
including forklift truck ‘black box’ software, 
pallet collars, near miss reporting pads, 
observational safety sessions and IOSH 
accredited training programmes have all 
contributed to achieving a 50% reduction in 
their lost time injury frequency rate over the 
last three years;
● Travis Perkins in the South West, has 
developed a Stay Safe support team for 
drivers and yard teams, with drivers and 
yard managers seconded to the team from 
key branches across the region. The support 
team have been spending their time out on 
deliveries with drivers or in the yards and 
warehouses, supporting the establishment 
and sharing of good practice to drive 
behavioural change;
● The Wickes national delivery service has 
continued to expand massively, delivering 
almost 10 million products in 2011. 
Although dedicated training and support for 
delivery hubs (1,500 training days in 2011) 
has prevented further increases in driver 
related injury levels during this period of 
growth, Stay Safe for warehouse colleagues 
and other store based activities remains a 
high priority for 2012 to reduce the overall 
injury levels. 
These initiatives and many others across the 
individual businesses are designed to increase 
the personal ownership of Stay Safe and 
engagement of colleagues. 
In support of the business desire to increase 
personal ownership and accountability amongst 
regional and branch management teams, 
the group safety team is being reorganised 
to better reflect the divisional structure of 
the Group. Consultations commenced at the 
end of 2011 to move to a divisional business 
partner structure based with the businesses, 
supported by expert trainers and a central 
Health & Safety Report
call centre providing specialist advice to over 
1,800 managers. This innovative approach 
is intended to better support the Stay Safe 
journey at all levels, driving personal ownership 
and removing the potential for over-reliance 
on field-based advisors, which carried a risk of 
abdication of accountability at local level.
 
Group plc and group trading 
board stay safe committees
Both established committees have continued 
to drive and oversee the Stay Safe journey 
following the format established over the last 
few years. Further details of their composition 
and terms of reference are available, on the 
investor centre section of the company website. 
In 2012, the format of these committees will 
be reviewed to take account of the larger group 
and divisional structure now in place.
 
Andrew Simon 
Chairman, Plc Board Health & Safety Committee
21 February 2012
“We aim to be industry leaders 
in our sector for the reduction 
and elimination of injuries”
Adrian Osbourne and James Harrison at PTS Coventry REPORTS
TRA VIS PERKINS ANNUAL REPOR T AND ACCOUNTS 2011
45
“PTS was named national builders merchant of the year” 46
Chairman
Robert Walker was appointed as a non-executive director in 
September 2009 and became Chairman in May 2010. He is 
chairman of Americana International Holdings Ltd, a non-executive 
director of Tate & Lyle PLC and has recently been appointed chairman 
designate of Enterprise Inns plc. He was previously chairman of 
W H Smith PLC, Williams Lea Group Ltd and BCA Europe and Group 
Chief Executive of Severn Trent Plc. He spent over 30 years with 
Procter & Gamble, McKinsey and PepsiCo and has also served as a 
non executive director on a number of FTSE 100/250 boards. 
He is Chairman of the Nominations Committee and a member of the 
Remuneration and Health & Safety Committees.
Directors
Finance Director
Paul Hampden Smith is a chartered accountant and joined Sandell 
Perkins in 1988. Following the merger with Travis & Arnold, he was 
appointed regional finance director. In 1992, he became Finance 
Director of Travis Perkins Trading Company Limited and was 
appointed Finance Director of Travis Perkins plc in 1996. He is a 
non-executive director of Redrow plc.
Chief Executive
Geoff Cooper joined the Company in February 2005 and was 
appointed Chief Executive on 1 March 2005. He is a chartered 
management accountant and worked in management consultancy 
before joining Gateway (now Somerfield plc) as Finance Director 
in 1990. In 1994 he became Finance Director of UniChem plc, 
subsequently Alliance UniChem plc (which later became part of 
Alliance Boots plc), where he was appointed Deputy Chief Executive 
in 2001. He is non-executive Chairman of Dunelm Group Plc. He is 
Chairman of the Executive Committee.
Deputy Chief Executive
John Carter joined Sandell Perkins as a management trainee in 1978. 
He held a number of regional management positions, before being 
appointed Managing Director, Operations in 1996, and a director of 
Travis Perkins plc in July 2001. He became Chief Operating Officer 
in February 2005 and was appointed Deputy Chief Executive in 
December 2011. He is a member of the Health & Safety Committee. GOVERNANCE
TRA VIS PERKINS ANNUAL REPOR T AND ACCOUNTS 2011
47
Ruth Anderson was appointed as a 
non-executive director in 2011. She is a 
chartered accountant and held a number of 
positions in KPMG (UK) from 1976 to 2009, 
being a member of its board from 1998 to 
2004 and Vice Chair from 2005 to 2009. 
She is a non-executive director of Ocado 
plc. She is a member of the Audit and 
Health & Safety Committees. 
Chris Bunker was appointed as a 
non-executive director in 2004. He is a 
chartered management accountant and was 
Finance Director of Thames Water plc, from 
2000 until March 2004. He was previously 
Finance Director of Tarmac PLC and 
Westland Group PLC. He is a non-executive 
director of D S Smith Plc and formerly 
was a non-executive director of Mowlem 
plc, Baltimore Technologies plc and Xansa 
PLC. He is the Senior Independent Director 
and Chairman of the Audit Committee 
and a member of the Nominations and 
Remuneration Committees.
Non-executive Directors
John Coleman was appointed as a 
non-executive director in 2005. He is a 
chartered management accountant and 
Chairman of AGA Rangemaster Group 
plc. He has previously been Chairman of 
Holiday Break plc, Chief Executive of House 
of Fraser plc and Chief Executive of Texas 
Homecare and of a number of businesses 
within Burton Group PLC. He is a member 
of the Remuneration, Audit and Nominations 
Committees.
Philip Jansen was appointed as a 
non-executive director in April 2009. He 
is Group Chief Executive of Brakes Group, 
and a senior advisor to Bain Capital,the 
private equity group. He is also a trustee 
of the charity, Wellbeing of Women. He has 
previously been Group Chief Operating 
Officer and Chief Executive of Europe for 
Sodexo, Chief Operating Officer of MyTravel 
plc and Managing Director, Consumer 
Division of Telewest Communications PLC. 
He has also held senior positions with 
Procter & Gamble and Dunlop Slazenger 
Group. He is a member of the Remuneration 
Committee. 
Andrew Simon O.B.E. was appointed 
as a non-executive director in 2006. He 
is a non-executive director of Finning 
International Inc. (Canada), Management 
Consulting Group plc, SGL Carbon 
SE (Germany), Exova Group plc, Icon 
Infrastructure Management Limited 
(Guernsey) and British Car Auctions. He was 
previously Deputy Chairman of Dalkia plc, 
Chairman and / or Chief Executive of Evode 
Group plc and has also held non-executive 
directorships with Severn Trent Plc, Ibstock 
PLC, Laporte Plc, Associated British Ports 
Holdings PLC, and Brake Bros Holdings Ltd. 
He is chairman of the Remuneration and 
Health & Safety Committees. 48
The Company has not produced a separate 
corporate responsibility statement in the report 
and accounts since it believes these matters 
are sufficiently important to receive the personal 
attention of individual directors rather than risking 
less focus through the exercise of collective 
responsibility. Instead, full details of those areas 
normally covered by such a report are contained 
either in the reports of the directors responsible 
for such matters, or in a separate report, as 
explained below:
Environment:
Chief Executive, Geoff Cooper, 
Environment report on pages 38 to 42;
Corporate Responsibility Statement 
For the year ended 31 December 2011
Committees and Professional Advisers
Secretary: 
A. S. Pike
Audit committee: 
C. J. Bunker (Chairman), R. Anderson, 
J. Coleman
Remuneration committee: 
A. H. Simon (Chairman), C. J. Bunker, 
J. Coleman, P . Jansen, R. Walker
Nominations committee: 
R. Walker (Chairman), C. J. Bunker, 
J. Coleman
Health & Safety committee: 
A. H. Simon (Chairman), R. Anderson, 
J. P . Carter, R. Walker
Health & Safety:
Non Executive Director, Andrew Simon, 
Health & Safety report on pages 43 and 44;
Supply chain:
Deputy Chief Executive, John Carter’s review of 
the year;
Employees:
Deputy Chief Executive, John Carter’s review of 
the year; and
Community relations:
Chief Executive, Geoff Cooper’s review of 
the year.
Executive committee: 
G. I. Cooper (Chief Executive and Committee 
Chairman), 
J. P . Carter (Deputy Chief Executive), 
P . N. Hampden Smith (Finance Director), 
N. G. Bell (Group Development Director), 
J. Bird (Chairman, Consumer Division), 
A. J. Davidson (Chairman, Specialist Merchanting), 
C. Kavanagh (Group HR Director), 
M. R. Meech (Group Property Director), 
J. Mescall (Chairman, General Merchanting), 
A. S. Pike (Company Secretary & Lawyer), 
R. D. Proctor (Supply Chain Director),
P . Tallentire (Chairman, Plumbing & Heating 
Division)
Investment Bankers/Advisors: 
HSBC Bank plc, Nomura International plc
Corporate broker: 
Citibank, 
Credit Suisse
Bankers: 
The Royal Bank of Scotland plc, 
Barclays Bank plc, 
Lloyds TSB Bank plc
Solicitors:
Slaughter and May, London, 
Linklaters LLP , London, 
Clifford Chance LLP , London, 
Hewitsons LLP , Northampton
Auditors: 
Deloitte LLP , London
Registrars: 
Capita Registrars, Beckenham
The Board takes into account, environmental, 
social and governance matters in its conduct 
of the Company’s business. The Board believes 
that it has adequate information to identify and 
assess the major environmental, social and 
governance risks and as part of the system of 
internal control receives reports on the risks 
associated with these matters. The Board has 
received briefings on such matters during 2011.
Robert Walker
Chairman
21 February 2012 GOVERNANCE
49
TRA VIS PERKINS ANNUAL REPOR T AND ACCOUNTS 2011
Corporate Governance
For the year ended 31 December 2011
UK corporate governance code
This explains how the Company has applied 
the principles, and the extent to which it has 
complied with the provisions of, the new UK 
Corporate Governance Code (‘the Code’) in 2011. 
We do so by reference to the five main sections 
of the Code.
Hopefully, this will provide better background 
information and context to the way the Board 
is governed, and less ‘boiler-plate’ than in past 
years.
1. Leadership
The Company is governed by a board of 
directors, of which I am Chairman. In addition 
there are three executive and five non-executive 
directors. Geoff Cooper is Chief Executive and 
Chris Bunker is the Senior Independent Director. 
Ruth Anderson, (who joined the Board in October 
2011), John Coleman, Philip Jansen and Andrew 
Simon are also independent non-executive 
directors. 
The Board has a schedule of matters 
reserved to it, which is reviewed annually. 
Its key responsibilities are for overall group 
strategy, policy on corporate governance, 
approval of expansion plans and major capital 
expenditure, consideration of significant financial 
and operational matters and the Company’s 
exposure to key risks. It also reviews the strategy 
of the individual businesses, their annual 
budgets and progress towards the achievement 
of those budgets and long-term objectives. 
Legislative, environmental, health and safety and 
employment issues are also considered. The 
Board has also approved a written statement of 
the division of key responsibilities between me, 
as Chairman, and the Chief Executive; and again 
we review this annually. 
The Company maintains appropriate directors 
& officers’ insurance in respect of the risk of 
claims against directors. This is reviewed on a 
regular basis.
Communication
As Chairman, I take care to ensure that each 
director is able to make an effective contribution 
within an atmosphere of transparency and 
constructive debate. I agree the agenda for board 
meetings in conjunction with the Chief Executive 
and the Company Secretary. Agendas are based 
upon an annual plan, but also include matters of 
particular interest or concern to the Board at any 
particular time. 
I discuss the meeting papers with any director 
who is unable to attend a meeting, to obtain that 
director’s view prior to the meeting. I also monitor 
the information provided to the Board to ensure 
it is sufficient, timely and clear, and from time 
to time, the board reviews the adequacy of this 
information. 
I email all the non-executive directors in 
advance of board meetings, to suggest the key 
issues and high priority matters for particular 
discussion during the meeting; this also helps the 
directors to prepare, as they read the papers in 
advance of the meeting. 
I maintain regular direct contact with the 
executive directors and keep the non-executive 
directors informed of material developments 
between board meetings. I held three meetings 
during the year with all the non-executive 
directors, without the executive directors being 
present. Finally, and consistent with normal 
practice these days, I have regular weekly 
meetings with the Group Chief Executive and 
meet from time to time throughout the year 
with the Finance Director and the Deputy Chief 
Executive.
Board meetings
We held thirteen Board meetings in 2011, two 
meetings were dedicated to consideration of the 
Company’s long-term strategy. Five meetings 
either included visits to parts of the Company’s 
operations or included presentations by senior 
executives on their areas of responsibility. 
Individual visits to operational sites by 
non-executive directors also took place (see 
non-executive mentoring below). In addition to the 
regular board meetings, key financial information 
is circulated to directors outside of meetings. 
The number of board and committee meetings 
attended by each director (in whole or in part) 
during the year was as follows:
  PLC Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Health & Safety Executive
  No. No. No. No. No. No.
Number of meetings 13 5 6 3 3 11
Attendances:      
R. Anderson
1
 3 1 - 1 1 -
C. J. Bunker 13 5 6 3 - -
J. P . Carter 13 2 - - 3 11
J. Coleman 12 5 6 3 - -
G. I. Cooper 13 - 6 3 - 11
P . N. Hampden Smith 13 5 - - - 11
P . Jansen
2
 13 5 1 3 - -
A. H. Simon 13 1 6 3 3 -
R. Walker 13 5 6 3 3 -
1
 Appointed to the Board in October 2011.
2
 Retired from Audit Committee and appointed to Remuneration Committee in December 2011.  50
Board committees
We have five board committees: the Audit 
Committee, the Remuneration Committee, the 
Nominations Committee, the Health & Safety 
Committee and the Executive Committee, which 
operate within defined terms of reference, which 
we review annually. These are available on the 
Company’s website or may be obtained from the 
Company Secretary. The minutes of committee 
meetings are circulated to all the Directors. 
The Executive Committee is chaired by the 
Group CEO and its members are listed on page 
48. Other executives are invited to attend from 
time to time in relation to specific matters. The 
main purpose of this Committee is to assist the 
executive directors in the performance of their 
duties in relation in particular to:
● Strategy, operational plans, policies, 
procedures and budgets;
● The monitoring of operational and financial 
performance;
● The assessment and control of risk;
● The prioritisation and allocation of resources.
2. Effectiveness
The Board is satisfied that I and the five 
non-executive directors are all independent. In 
particular, none of the specific circumstances set 
out in Code provision B.1.1 apply. Appointments 
of new directors are made by the Board on the 
recommendation of the Nominations Committee. 
I chair that Committee and the other members 
are independent non-executive directors. 
In the past year, we have expanded the 
remit of the Committee to include a broader 
HR and succession agenda across the senior 
management layers of the Group. This has 
worked particularly well and a full report of the 
Committee’s work in 2011 is on page 67.
Appointment terms
With regard to the appointment of non-executive 
directors, our policy is to recruit people of the 
highest calibre, with a breadth of skills and 
experience appropriate for the Company’s 
business. Non-executive directors are appointed 
for a period of three years, at the end of 
which the appointment may be renewed by 
mutual agreement. It is the Board’s policy that 
non-executive directors should generally serve 
for six years (two three-year terms) and that any 
term beyond this should be subject to a rigorous 
review. This review takes into account both the 
need for progressive refreshing of the Board, and 
the particular requirements of the Company at 
the time of the possible extension. 
Non-executive directors do not have a service 
contract, but each has received a letter of 
appointment. These appointments expire on the 
following dates, and the length of service at that 
date is also shown.
Ruth Anderson October 2014 (3 years)
Chris Bunker May 2013 (9 years, 4 months)
John Coleman February 2014 (9 years)
Philip Jansen April 2015 (6 years)
Andrew Simon February 2015 (9 years)
Robert Walker September 2012 (3 years)
The letters of appointment will be available for 
inspection at the Annual General Meeting.
Induction
The Board has an induction process for new 
directors, which is facilitated by the Company 
Secretary. I ensure that all directors receive 
appropriate training on appointment and then 
subsequently as required, taking into account the 
need to update their skills and their knowledge of 
the Company’s business. Non-executive directors 
are also regularly provided with information 
on forthcoming legal and regulatory changes 
and corporate governance developments, and 
briefings on the key risks facing the Company, 
including those identified in the Corporate 
Responsibility statement on page 48.
All directors have direct access to the 
Company Secretary and may take independent 
professional advice in the furtherance of their 
duties if necessary.
Non-executive mentoring
Travis Perkins has a long tradition of maintaining 
close contact between the Board, management 
and employees. Part of the feedback from the 
Board’s internal evaluation of its performance in 
2010 suggested this contact had slipped, due to 
the work involved in securing the BSS acquisition 
and the subsequent long-winded and inefficient 
OFT clearance process. As a response, in 2011, 
we trialled a new approach to involving our 
non-executive directors (including myself) more 
closely with the individual businesses. At the 
start of the year, each non-executive director 
was allocated two of the Group’s businesses 
to mentor throughout the year. The mentoring 
process was each non executive directors’ 
choice, but involved a programme of contact 
and meetings with the management of those 
businesses and a number of site visits. The 
intention was to get each non-executive more 
involved in better understanding our businesses, 
their people and strategies, and thereby bring a 
fresher and more independent viewpoint to their 
meetings.
We reviewed the progress of this initiative 
through the course of the year and have decided 
to extend it for 2012, rotating the allocation of 
businesses and including the central functions 
(HR, Supply Chain, Property etc.) in the exercise. 
Evalution of performance
During the year, the Board undertook an 
evaluation of its performance and the 
performance of its committees and the individual 
directors. The Board’s policy is to engage an 
external facilitator to assist this process at 
least every three years, and in 2011, the Board 
appointed Egon Zehnder in this role, since they 
had conducted a thorough external evaluation 
four years earlier and there was no conflict of 
interest with the Company. The Board firmly 
believes that search firms are better equipped to 
perform this work than individual consultants. 
Egon Zehnder conducted interviews with each 
director and the Company Secretary separately. 
These interviews formed the basis of a report, 
which Egon Zehnder presented to the Board in 
October. The conclusion, following an extensive 
discussion of the report by the Board, was that 
overall the Board operated very effectively. 
Corporate Governance GOVERNANCE
TRA VIS PERKINS ANNUAL REPOR T AND ACCOUNTS 2011
51
However, following discussion of suggestions 
for improvement, the Board will focus on a 
number of areas in 2012, to improve further its 
performance. Those areas are:
● Continued monitoring of succession planning, 
both at board and senior executive level;
● In addition to non-executive director 
mentoring, increased attendance at board 
meetings by senior executives;
● More use of external expertise to improve the 
Board’s knowledge. E-commerce was an area 
particularly emphasised. 
In 2012, the Board will conduct an internal 
review of its performance.
Re-election
From the 2012 AGM, all directors will submit 
themselves for re-election every year. As a result 
of the board evaluation exercise, as Chairman 
I am satisfied that each director continues to 
show the necessary level of commitment to the 
Group, and has sufficient time available to fulfil 
his or her duties, to justify their re-election. The 
other directors, in a process led by the Senior 
Independent Director, have reached a similar 
view in regard to my own re-election. 
The Board believes that there is presently 
a blend of skills and experience among the 
non-executive directors, which is appropriate 
for the Group. In profiling the skills required 
for the Board, we emphasise experience in the 
merchanting sector, retail and consumer goods 
experience, capital project and M&A evaluation 
and exposure and experience of international 
markets; as well of course, as the required 
financial control and accounting background. 
In particular, the Group will benefit from the 
recent addition of Ruth Anderson, whose financial 
and accounting experience will aid the planning 
for Chris Bunker’s retirement in 2013. In order to 
secure Ruth’s addition to the Board, we created 
an additional Board seat. 
3. Accountability 
A review of the performance of the Group’s 
businesses and the financial position of the 
Group is included in the reports of the Chief 
Executive, the Deputy Chief Executive and 
Finance Director set out on pages 14 to 34. The 
Board uses them, together with my statement on 
pages 12 and 13 to present a full assessment 
of the Company’s position and prospects, its 
business model, and its strategy for delivering 
that model. The Directors’ responsibilities for 
the financial statements are described on page 
72. Their consideration of the Group as a going 
concern is dealt with in the Finance Director’s 
report on page 34.
Internal control
The Board is responsible for the Group’s 
system of internal control and for reviewing its 
effectiveness. In the design of the system of 
internal control, consideration has been given 
to the significant risks to the business, the 
probability of these risks manifesting themselves 
and the most cost effective means of controlling 
them. The system manages rather than eliminates 
risk and therefore can only provide reasonable, 
and not absolute, assurance against material 
misstatement or loss.
The day-to-day operation of the system of 
internal control has been delegated to executive 
directors and senior management, but the 
effectiveness of the system is regularly reviewed 
by the Audit Committee and the Board in a 
process that accords with the Turnbull Guidance. 
Risk assessment
The Board and the Executive Committee 
receive regular reports on specific areas 
of risk and the results of Internal Audit 
reviews. If appropriate, these reports include 
recommendations for improvement in controls 
or for the management of those risks. Measures 
to integrate risk management processes into 
the Group’s operations, to extend awareness 
of the importance of risk management and 
to ensure that recommended improvements 
are implemented, are regularly reviewed and 
refreshed. Senior executives are asked, twice 
a year, to confirm the adequacy of internal 
controls in their areas of responsibility, identify 
any control weaknesses, and to confirm the 
accuracy and completeness of information given 
to the directors and to the external auditors. 
This process was extended further through the 
management structure in 2011. 
As regards the Board’s evaluation of the 
risks associated with the business, the Board 
addresses this in two particular ways:
● At each board meeting a rolling update of 
major risks assessed by the executive teams 
is reviewed for relevance, standard of controls 
and accountabilities.
● A new initiative this year, at the suggestion of 
the Group Chief Executive, was to evaluate 
each quarter a list of ‘things that are keeping 
us awake’, including potential ‘black swan’ 
(or unexpected) risks that the Group might 
encounter. Amongst the comprehensive and 
sometimes voluminous reports the Board 
receives, this new process has worked 
exceptionally well in that it has focussed 
attention on the main risks we face and is now 
a regular feature of the Board agenda.
The Group has systems and procedures in place 
to manage and control the risks associated 
with financial reporting and the preparation of 
consolidated accounts. This includes experienced 
and qualified personnel preparing the 
consolidation and review by senior management.
In conjunction with the Audit Committee, the 
Board has carried out an annual review of the 
overall effectiveness of the system of internal 
control and risk management procedures, during 
the year and up until the date of approval of this 
annual report. 
Audit committee and auditors 
The Board has established an Audit Committee 
consisting of three independent non-executive 
directors. Its terms of reference and a description 
of its work in 2011 are contained in its report 
which is set out on pages 53 to 55.
4. Remuneration 
The Board has established a Remuneration 
Committee consisting of the Chairman and 
four independent non-executive directors. Its 
responsibilities include remuneration policy, a  52
review of the performance of executive directors 
prior to determining their remuneration and the 
approval of incentive arrangements, including 
performance criteria. The remuneration of the 
non-executive directors is determined by the 
Board as a whole, except that the Remuneration 
Committee makes a recommendation in respect 
of the Chairman’s fee. No director plays a part in 
the discussion about his own remuneration. 
The Committee’s terms of reference and a 
description of its work in 2011 are contained in 
its report which is set out on pages 56 to 66.
5. Relations with shareholders
The Company encourages two-way 
communication with both its institutional and 
private investors and responds promptly to all 
enquiries received. In 2011, the Chairman, the 
Senior Independent Director and the executive 
directors, either separately or together, attended 
a number of meetings with analysts, and with 
shareholders representing circa 60% of the 
issued share capital. In particular, a strategy 
presentation, combined with a visit to some 
key Group premises, was held for analysts 
in May 2011. We also make it clear that the 
Senior Independent Director is available as a 
direct contact for shareholders, if they wish. The 
Chairman and executive directors report to the 
Board on any meetings with shareholders or 
analysts. In addition, written reports about the 
Company by analysts or brokers are circulated to 
all directors. 
During 2011, and starting shortly after 
the AGM, I had a series of meetings with the 
Company’s main shareholders. The timing was 
deliberate, and allowed the Board significant time 
before the following year’s AGM to both consider 
Corporate Governance
and respond to issues raised by shareholders. 
In addition, the intention was to speak with the 
group’s top 18 or so investors, in order to ensure 
as many views as possible are canvassed; given 
current market volatility, it is quite possible that 
a smaller shareholder one year will become 
a major shareholder the following year. This 
process hopefully ensures that their views will 
have been taken into account.
As well as sending the annual report to 
shareholders, during the year, the Company 
published its interim results on its website, 
issued two interim management statements, 
and one further trading update. All shareholders 
receive at least twenty working days notice 
of the Annual General Meeting at which all 
directors are available for questions and a 
short business presentation takes place. Each 
substantive issue is the subject of a separate 
resolution. I announce the numbers of proxy 
votes for and against each resolution at the 
meeting, after the voting has taken place, and 
these numbers are subsequently published on 
the Company’s website.
Corporate governance 
compliance statement
I am pleased to report that the Company 
has complied throughout the year ended 31 
December 2011 with the provisions set out in 
the Code.
Robert Walker
Chairman
21 February 2012 GOVERNANCE
TRA VIS PERKINS ANNUAL REPOR T AND ACCOUNTS 2011
53
Audit Committee Report
For the year ended 31 December 2011
As Chairman of the Audit Committee, I set out 
below our report on its operation and activities 
in 2011, which particularly included financial 
oversight of the BSS Group integration. During 
the year, I was pleased to welcome Ruth 
Anderson as member of the Committee, a role to 
which she brings extensive financial experience.
Role of the audit committee
The Committee is primarily responsible for:
● The integrity of the financial statements of 
the Company and any formal announcements 
relating to the Company’s financial 
performance, and reviewing significant 
financial reporting judgments contained 
therein;
● Reviewing the Company’s internal financial 
controls and its internal control and risk 
management systems;
● Monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of 
the Company’s internal audit function;
● Reviewing the audit plans of the external 
auditors and for monitoring the conduct of the 
audit;
● Reviewing the external auditors’ independence 
and objectivity and the effectiveness of the 
audit process, taking into consideration 
relevant UK professional and regulatory 
requirements;
● Reviewing and implementing the Company’s 
policy on the engagement of the external 
auditors to supply non-audit services, taking 
into account relevant guidance regarding the 
provision of non-audit services by an external 
audit firm;
● Making recommendations to the Board, for 
a resolution to be put to the shareholders in 
relation to the appointment and remuneration 
of the external auditors.
After each meeting, I report to the Board on the 
work of the Committee, identifying any matters 
where it considers that action or improvement is 
needed, and make recommendations as to the 
steps to be taken.
The Committee’s full terms of reference 
are available on the Company’s website, or on 
request to the Company Secretary.
Composition of the audit committee 
I was Chairman, and John Coleman was 
a member, of the Committee throughout 
2011. Philip Jansen was also a member until 
December 2011, when Ruth Anderson joined 
the Committee following her appointment to 
the Board in October 2011. All members of the 
Committee are considered to be independent 
and have considerable financial and commercial 
experience from a variety of corporate 
backgrounds. The Company Secretary is 
secretary to the Committee. The Board considers 
that both I and Ruth Anderson have the recent 
and relevant financial experience required by the 
UK Corporate Governance Code (see also the 
board profiles on pages 46 and 47).
Meetings and attendance
The Committee held five meetings during 2011, 
and attendance at the meetings is shown on 
page 49. I also invited the Group Chairman, the 
Chief Executive, the Finance Director, the Deputy 
Chief Executive, the Group Financial Controller, 
the Director of Business Risk and Assurance and 
the external auditors to attend the meetings. At 
each meeting I gave the external auditors and 
the Director of Business Risk and Assurance the 
opportunity to discuss with the Committee, any 
matters which they wished to raise without the 
presence of management. In addition, during 
the year, I held a number of meetings with the 
Director of Business Risk and Assurance and 
with the external auditors, without management 
being present. Committee members meet 
regularly with operational and functional staff 
throughout the year and participate in relevant 
technical update programmes. I am satisfied that 
the Committee received sufficient, reliable and 
timely information from management to enable it 
to fulfil its responsibilities during the year.
Main activities of the 
committee during the year
At our meeting in February, the Committee 
reviewed the annual financial statements 
of the Company taking into account regular 
management accounting information and reports 
from the internal auditors on internal control 
matters and from the external auditors on the 
conduct of their audit, their review of accounting 
policies, areas of judgment in the financial 
statements and their comments on statements 
concerning risk and internal control. A similar 
review was undertaken at the July meeting when 
the interim statements were considered. At these 
and our other meetings the Committee also 
reviewed:
● Progress with regard to the financial 
integration of the BSS Group and key 
accounting assumptions and judgements 
related thereto, including the fair value of the 
assets acquired;
● The plans for restructuring of the Group 
Finance function in the light of the growth of 
the Group;
● The Group’s systems for accounting for 
rebates on product purchases, and stock 
management;
● The policies and training which had been 
implemented in respect of the Bribery Act;
● The internal controls for the new office in 
China;
● The Group’s tax planning;
● Proposed revisions to the Group’s segmental 
reporting following the BSS acquisition; 
● An evaluation of the Committee’s work carried 
out as part of the Board evaluation process 
referred to on page 50; I subsequently 
reported to the Board on this evaluation;
● The Committee’s terms of reference; no 
changes were recommended to the Board;
●
 Any comments received on its 2010 report 
from institutional investor bodies;
● The effectiveness of the system of internal 
financial control and the system for monitoring 
and reporting on risks faced by the Group 
taking into account regular reports received 
from financial management, internal and 
external auditors;
● The terms of reference, strategy, staffing, 
processes and effectiveness of the internal 
audit department taking into account the 
results of a survey amongst stakeholders; 
● The status of actions taken in response to  54
recommendations arising from internal and 
external audit work;
● The effectiveness of the Group’s 
‘whistleblowing’ policy;
● The policy on engagement of the external 
auditor for non-audit work, as referred to 
below, and the policy on the employment of 
anyone previously employed by the external 
auditor;
● The plans presented by the external auditor for 
conduct of the year-end audit and half-year 
review including the related risk analyses, 
terms of engagement, fees and letters of 
representation;
● The effectiveness, independence, and 
objectivity of the external auditor, taking 
into account written assurances provided 
by Deloitte LLP , with regard to its quality 
and independence controls, and its ethical 
standards, together with the results of a 
survey of stakeholders and the annual report 
of the Audit Inspection Unit;
● The Group’s accounting policies, forthcoming 
changes to International Financial Reporting 
Standards and other regulatory changes and 
various guidance notes issued by the Financial 
Reporting Council;
● The effectiveness of the Group’s policies and 
processes for fraud prevention.
No matters of material significance were 
identified by the auditors during the year and 
there were no material audit-related matters that 
were discussed with investors.
Two members of the Committee are also 
members of the Remuneration Committee. 
The Audit Committee is satisfied that the 
Group’s remuneration policies are compatible 
with a robust control environment and good 
stewardship. 
The key areas of risk and sensitivity, the 
major accounting policies, and the principal 
assumptions with regard to fair values are 
described in the Annual Report and notes to 
the accounts. The Committee reviewed these 
during the year, taking into account relevant 
external advice, and was satisfied that they were 
appropriate.
External auditors
We place great importance on the effectiveness 
and independence of the external auditors 
and, together with them, are careful to ensure 
their objectivity is not compromised. At our 
October meeting, the auditors presented to the 
Committee their plans for the forthcoming audit 
together with details of their proposed fees 
and how they ensure that their objectivity and 
independence are not compromised. Deloitte 
LLP (or its predecessor firms) is a leading 
international audit partnership, and was first 
appointed as auditor to Group companies more 
than 30 years ago. There are no contractual 
restrictions on the Group with regard to their 
appointment. In accordance with professional 
standards, the partner responsible for the audit 
changes every 5 years; the last change occurred 
in 2010. 
The Committee considers that Deloitte provide 
a high quality, efficient and cost effective audit 
service. Accordingly, following our February 2012 
meeting at which we reviewed the 2011 audit 
process, the Committee recommended to the 
Board that resolutions be put to shareholders 
at the Annual General Meeting for the 
re-appointment of the external auditors, and to 
authorise the Directors to fix their remuneration. 
One of the Committee’s responsibilities is 
to ensure compliance with the Board’s policy 
in respect of services provided by, and fees 
paid to, the auditors. Audit fees, which are 
regularly compared with peer companies by 
the Committee, are initially negotiated by the 
Finance Director, but are then approved by 
the Committee. The policy in relation to other 
services that could be provided by the external 
auditors, which has been approved by the Board, 
can be summarised as follows:
General principles
There is a presumption against the external 
auditors providing non-audit services and they 
should only be selected for such work where its 
nature makes it more timely and cost effective to 
select advisors who have a good understanding 
of the Group or the work is of a particularly 
confidential or specialist nature. The external 
auditors should not provide non-audit services 
where either the nature of the work or the extent 
of such services might impair their independence 
or objectivity. Any engagement of the external 
auditors for non-audit work with a fee over 
£25,000 requires my approval.
Areas of work 
The policy sets out certain non-audit services 
where it would be usual to engage the external 
auditors, such as regulatory reviews and some 
tax services, and those where their engagement 
is not permitted, such as work relating to the 
design of financial information systems. I am 
consulted in relation to any proposed work not 
covered by the list.
Value of work
Non-audit services require approval as follows:
● Up to £5,000 – no formal approval is required 
provided the work is permitted under the list 
referred to above;
● £5,000 to £25,000 – Group Finance Director;
● £25,000 to £50,000 – Group Finance Director 
and Committee Chairman;
● £50,000 and above – Group Finance 
Director and Committee Chairman following a 
competitive tender.
Formal approval by the Committee is also 
required if the aggregated level of forecast fees 
for non-audit services exceeds 50% of the 
statutory audit fee.
Reporting
The Group Finance Director reports twice yearly 
to the Committee on fees for non-audit services 
payable to the auditors.
As shown in note 5 to the accounts, during 
the year the Auditors were paid £401k (2010; 
£404k) for audit-related work, and £299k (2010: 
£689k) for non-audit work.
The principal item of non-audit fees was 
£182k related to specialist taxation advice 
associated with the acquisition of BSS Group 
plc. In addition, non-audit fees included a 
review of the interim statements and audit work 
Audit Committee report GOVERNANCE
TRA VIS PERKINS ANNUAL REPOR T AND ACCOUNTS 2011
55
undertaken in respect of US private placement 
notes issued by BSS prior to acquisition. In 
view of Deloitte’s detailed understanding of the 
Group’s operations and accounting policies, 
and being mindful of future Auditor reporting 
obligations, the Audit Committee decided that 
it was appropriate for Deloitte to undertake this 
work. In addition, £119k (2010: £514k) of fees 
was paid to other accounting firms for non-audit 
work.
The Committee understands that the total 
fees paid by the Group to Deloitte in 2011 
amount to less than 0.03% of Deloitte’s UK 
fee income and considers that the Auditors 
independence has not been impaired by the 
non-audit fees paid in 2011.
Internal audit
As well as its reviews of the internal audit 
department’s strategy and processes, as 
described above, during its meetings in 2011, 
the Committee received presentations from 
the Director of Business Risk and Assurance, 
about the results of work undertaken by the 
department, and approved its risk-based plans 
for work in 2012. Taking into account the results 
of a stakeholder survey and other reports, 
the Committee was satisfied with the overall 
effectiveness of the internal audit function.
Overview
As a result of our work during the year, and 
taking into account the result of the Board and 
Committee evaluation process described on page 
50, the Committee has concluded that it has 
acted in accordance with its terms of reference 
and has ensured the independence, objectivity 
and effectiveness of the external and internal 
auditors. The Committee has also concluded that 
the Group’s internal control and risk management 
systems were effective during the year. 
I will be available at the Annual General 
Meeting to answer any questions about the work 
of the Committee.
Chris Bunker
Chairman, Audit Committee
21 February 2012 56
Introduction
This report sets out the Group’s remuneration 
policies for its directors and senior executives 
and describes how those policies are applied in 
practice.
Unaudited information
Remuneration committee 
chairman’s statement
Executive remuneration is a high profile issue 
and the Remuneration Committee welcomes 
the accountability and transparency that 
shareholders and the public expect. The 
increasingly complex nature of executive 
remuneration requires Committee members to 
keep themselves abreast of developments and 
to obtain high quality, independent advice on a 
range of issues.
In 2011, the Committee undertook a review 
of its external advisers and decided to appoint 
PWC LLP as its main advisor replacing Hewitt 
New Bridge Street. We are working with our new 
advisors on a review of executive remuneration 
to ensure that it continues to provide value for 
shareholders whilst retaining and motivating top 
quality executives. 
●  Remuneration should be competitive and 
contribute to the delivery of short and long-
term shareholder value;
●  Remuneration should contain significant 
performance related incentive elements;
●  All colleagues should be able to share in the 
success of the Group through participation in 
both annual bonus schemes and longer term 
share plans.
The Committee is delighted that more than 2,100 
colleagues benefited from a record pay-out 
of more than £17 million under the group’s 
Sharesave Scheme. In addition to this, executive 
share options vested for more than 100 senior 
managers. 
Our executive directors are entitled to awards 
of up to 75.9% of their maximum potential 
under the Annual Bonus Plan as a result of the 
Group meeting the targets set for 2011, (which 
are described in more detail later in this report). 
These targets were set at a more stretching 
level in 2011, evaluated by considering the likely 
value of risks and opportunities pertaining to the 
Group’s annual budget. In 2011, the net risks 
were valued at the outset of the year at a higher 
level than in previous years. In 2012, the level 
of stretch has increased yet further. In 2011, 
long-term incentive awards made in 2008 under 
the Performance Share Plan (‘PSP’) did not vest, 
but we anticipate that there will be partial vesting 
in 2012 of the PSP awards made in 2009.
Future developments
The Committee plans a full review of executive 
remuneration in the Group. We have retained 
broadly the same structure for 6 years and 
believe that, with the expanded group following 
the BSS acquisition now more settled, we should 
plan for the next stage of our development to 
ensure that remuneration continues to support 
our aim to build sustainable shareholder value 
and give our senior managers opportunities to 
share in our success. 
It is vital that both our short and long-term 
incentives reward our leaders in maintaining the 
focus on the strategies described earlier in the 
Chief Executive’s section of the report on page 
20. The goal, for each of our mature businesses, 
is that they equal the highest operating margin 
and return on capital of any business operating 
in their segment. We will ensure that any future 
changes to our short and long-term incentive 
arrangements continue to encourage the right 
economic behaviour and allow all colleagues to 
participate in the financial success of the Group.
Whilst we have already taken time to discuss 
the implications of the ABI guidelines, the 
current political and public scrutiny of executive 
remuneration may lead to new legal or regulatory 
requirements for companies. We do not know yet 
what the impact of these will be and we welcome 
calls for transparency and more dialogue with 
shareholders. The shareholdings of our senior 
executives give them much more alignment with 
the interest of shareholders. We would like to 
build on this and encourage more colleagues in 
the Group to become long-term shareholders.
We are also very much mindful of our duty to 
appoint and retain top quality executives in order 
to build on our management strength across all 
Group businesses.
Continuing to ensure appropriate pay and 
reward relativities is an area of increasing 
concern for the Remuneration Committee. Whilst 
we have been successful in recruiting some high 
quality individuals at senior executive level to 
strengthen our Executive Committee and to lead 
new parts of our significantly enlarged business, 
the external market pay demands are creating 
issues in relation to pay relativity with our existing 
plc directors. We are debating ways of dealing 
with this difficult and contentious issue. 
Finally on page 19 of the Annual Report, we 
confirm the decision to promote John Carter 
to the new role of Deputy Chief Executive 
Officer, from January 1, 2012, with significantly 
increased responsibilities, allowing our Chief 
Executive, Geoff Cooper to begin to develop 
the strategic themes highlighted in his report. 
We have commissioned a piece of external 
benchmarking work to assist us to determine 
the appropriate remuneration package for John 
Carter’s expanded role, which will apply from the 
date of his appointment. The decision made will 
be disclosed in next year’s Remuneration report.
2011 highlights
●  Below inflation salary increases for executive 
directors at the same level as the percentage 
increase for all colleagues, for the fifth 
consecutive year. This means that excluding 
the previously disclosed pension adjustment 
made for Geoff Cooper in 2010, their fixed pay 
compound increase for the last five years is 
12%; 
● Stretching annual performance targets met, 
resulting in bonus payments being made to 
our strong management team;
● 25% of annual bonus deferred for three years 
held in the form of shares, with 78,755 shares 
now deferred in this way for the plc directors;
● All employees continue to share in the 
Group’s success through participation in short 
term incentive plans and longer term share 
plans with a record pay-out under the group 
Sharesave Scheme;
● Executive share options vested for over 
100 senior managers (excluding executive 
directors who were not eligible);
● All of our top 27 senior executives, including 
the three executive directors had a 
shareholding valued in excess of our guidance.
Who attends remuneration 
committee meetings?
During the year the Committee comprised 
Andrew Simon (Chairman), Chris Bunker, John 
Coleman, and Robert Walker all of whom are 
independent non-executive directors. Philip 
Jansen, also an independent Non Executive 
Directors’ Remuneration Report
For the year ended 31 December 2011 GOVERNANCE
TRA VIS PERKINS ANNUAL REPOR T AND ACCOUNTS 2011
57
Director, joined the committee in December.
The Committee met 6 times in 2011. 
Attendance at the meetings is shown on page 49. 
The Committee is responsible for the broad 
policy on directors’ and senior executives’ 
remuneration. It determines all aspects of 
the remuneration packages of the executive 
directors and reviews, with the Chief Executive, 
the remuneration packages of other senior 
executives. It also oversees the administration of 
the share schemes. The Committee’s terms of 
reference are available on our website or from 
the Company Secretary.
Hewitt New Bridge Street (a trading name 
of Aon Corporation) and PwC provided advice 
to the Committee during the year on executive 
remuneration. PwC provided audit services to a 
BSS subsidiary early in the year together with 
limited tax services prior to their resignation 
as auditors. Other than that neither provided 
other services to the Company during the year, 
but another part of AON Corporation provides 
insurance broking services. These advisors 
were appointed by the Committee. In addition, 
Geoff Cooper (Chief Executive), Paul Hampden 
Smith (Finance Director), Andrew Pike (Group 
Company Secretary), Carol Kavanagh (Group 
Human Resources Director) and Stella Girvin 
(Deputy Company Secretary) have assisted the 
Committee in its work, but never in respect of 
their own remuneration. The Committee keeps 
itself fully informed of relevant developments and 
best practice in remuneration matters and seeks 
advice where appropriate from external advisors.
What is our remuneration policy? 
We continue to focus our efforts on ensuring 
that we have the right mix of fixed and variable 
remuneration. Our incentive structure is designed 
to support the group goal of creating shareholder 
value through consistently outperforming in our 
markets. We believe that, measured as a long 
run average, over 50% of total remuneration 
for executive directors should be performance 
related. 
In determining the overall policy for executive 
remuneration, all associated risks arising 
throughout the group are considered, thereby 
ensuring that the overall remuneration structure 
and variable scheme targets are set so that 
they do not give rise to any undue risk taking. 
We believe that it is important that our most 
senior executives build up a shareholding in 
the Company and we set formal shareholding 
guidelines. The target shareholding, to be 
acquired within 5 years of appointment, is 
100% of salary for the executive directors and 
50% of salary for our most senior executives. 
All directors and executives are aware that 
the Remuneration Committee may scale back 
future long-term incentive awards for individuals 
who have not consistently met the target level. 
Share options which have vested, but not been 
exercised, count towards the target.
As at 31 December 2011, all 27 senior 
executives had achieved their target 
shareholding. More specifically, Geoff Cooper, 
Paul Hampden Smith and John Carter held a 
salary ratio shareholding of 292%, 722% and 
167% respectively. 
What makes up fixed remuneration?
BASIC SALARIES 
Basic salaries are reviewed annually for each 
director and are normally set with reference 
to individual performance, experience and 
contribution together with developments in 
the relevant employment market, internal 
relativities and reference to the general economic 
environment; it is this last point which has 
outweighed all others in determining pay awards 
for 2012. 
In line with the majority of employees, the 
executive directors were awarded a 2% base pay 
increase in January 2012. This means that for 
the fifth successive year the same basic salary 
increase percentage has been applied to all 
employee levels. 
From 1 January 2012, the executive directors’ 
salaries are:
● John Carter £392,100;
● Geoff Cooper £652,200;
● Paul Hampden Smith £392,100.
BENEFITS
In addition to their basic salary, directors receive 
a benefits package, which includes private 
medical insurance, life assurance, and an 
incapacity benefits scheme. Paul Hampden Smith 
and John Carter are also in receipt of either a car 
or car allowance.
PENSION ARRANGEMENTS
In respect of pension arrangements, Geoff 
Cooper and John Carter receive cash equal to 
25% of basic salary.
Paul Hampden Smith was a member of the 
Group’s defined benefits pension scheme until 
31 March 2011 and now receives cash equal to 
25% of basic salary. 
 
What makes up variable remuneration?
Variable remuneration is a mix of short-term 
and long-term incentives designed to deliver 
shareholder value and to reward executives.
ANNUAL BONUS
Executive directors are eligible for an annual 
bonus. The Remuneration Committee sets 
targets linked to board approved annual budgets. 
Maximum bonus payments are awarded only 
when performance for the year in question 
significantly exceeds the agreed annual budget 
targets. The maximum bonus levels are 120% of 
salary for the Chief Executive and 100% of salary 
for the Finance Director and the Deputy Chief 
Executive. One-quarter of the bonus is deferred 
in shares for 3 years.
PERFORMANCE SHARE PLAN
Executive directors receive awards under this Plan 
each year. The maximum award is 150% of salary. 
These awards vest after 3 years, subject to the 
achievement of a range of performance targets.
In 2011, the total level of award made under 
this scheme to each executive director was 
150% of basic salary.
SHARE MATCHING SCHEME
Executive directors are also invited to participate 
in this Scheme, which involves a participant 
buying shares from their own resources. The 
maximum amount that can be invested by a 
participant is equal to 50% of post-tax salary. 
Provided that these shares are retained for 3 
years, and further performance targets are met, 
matching shares will be made available. The 
maximum share match is effectively on a basis of 
2 shares for each 1 purchased.
ALL EMPLOYEE SHARE PLANS
As with all group employees, the executive 
directors can participate in two HMRC approved 
schemes; the Sharesave scheme and the Share 
Incentive Plan which operates only on a buy as 
you earn basis. 58
Variable remuneration in 2011
ANNUAL BONUS
The performance measures were the same as for the previous year and the targets and results are as follows:
Measure  Weighting Target range Achieved
EPS  50% 95% - 105% 45.1%
ROCE  30% 95% - 105% 16.8%
Personal objectives  20% 0% - 20% 10%-14%
The evaluation of personal objectives involved the Remuneration Committee considering personal development and performance by the executive eirectors on 
a balanced scorecard of measures, including the following main topics:
● Market outperformance;
● Risk monitoring;
● Health and safety;
● Integration of BSS;
● Global sourcing initiatives;
● Category management capability;
● Supply chain optimisation;
● Succession.
The Remuneration Committee assessed the specific achievements against these objectives by reviewing the detailed measures attached to each one as well 
as reviewing the performance of each director overall. The annual bonus for each of the executive directors is as follows:
  % bonus Full bonus Cash bonus Deferred 
     in shares
John Carter 75.9 £291,760 £218,820 9,106
Geoff Cooper 91.1 £582,498 £435,873 18,180
Paul Hampden Smith 71.9 £276,384 £207,288 8,626
PERFORMANCE SHARE PLAN
The targets set in 2008 were not met and no awards vested in 2011. This is disappointing as the Company has out-performed its competitors and the share 
price has risen significantly. It does serve as a reminder that stretching targets are difficult to achieve in difficult economic circumstances.
SHARE MATCHING SCHEME
There was partial vesting at 51% of the full awards made in 2008. The participants have also benefitted from the increase in the share price along with other 
shareholders.
ALL EMPLOYEE SHARE PLANS
Over 2,100 colleagues shared a record pay-out of more than £17 million under the Sharesave scheme. None of the executive directors received this benefit as 
their savings and share options under the scheme do not mature until December 2013.
EXECUTIVE SHARE OPTION AWARDS
Executive share options granted in 2008 vested during the year for over 100 senior managers. The executive directors were excluded from this ‘one-off’ award. 
The Board believes that wider employee share ownership benefits the Company and strengthens the link between shareholders and group employees. In 
2011 the success of the two schemes previously mentioned, along with our ‘Buy as You Earn’ scheme has created many more employee shareholders.
Variable remuneration in 2012
As mentioned above, we do not propose any fundamental change to the current remuneration structure during 2012, but we are conducting a full review with 
our new advisers.
Directors’ Remuneration Report GOVERNANCE
TRA VIS PERKINS ANNUAL REPOR T AND ACCOUNTS 2011
59
ANNUAL BONUS
The compulsory deferral of 25% of the bonus in shares remains. Performance will be assessed against agreed budgets and the weighting will be as follows. 
The weighting is unchanged from 2011.
Measure Weighting
EPS 50%
ROCE 30%
Personal objectives 20%
PERFORMANCE SHARE PLAN
The maximum award levels will be 150% of basic salary for each of the executive directors. The performance targets will be Aggregate Cashflow, Relative Total 
Shareholder Return (‘TSR’) and Adjusted Earnings per Share (‘EPS’) with the same relative weighting as last year.
Measure Rationale  Weighting
Aggregate cashflow Reinforces importance of cash generation at a time when the Group wishes to 
  reduce the financial leverage taken on in respect of acquisitions 40%
Relative TSR External measure of shareholder value  20%
EPS growth A reasonable and well understood proxy for an increase in shareholder value 
  for the benefit of all shareholders, provided undue leverage is controlled 40%
   Range
Aggregate cashflow over three years up to 2014 Three aggregate cash flow targets 
  No vesting below lower target £761m - £841m
  Straight line increase until full vesting at upper target 
Company TSR relative to FTSE250 Index Median (top 50%) 30% vests
  Upper quartile (top 25%) 100% vests
  Straight-line between these points 
EPS growth RPI + 3% p.a. 30% vests
  RPI + 10% p.a. 100% vests
  Straight-line between these points
The Earnings Per Share targets are calculated on a compound annual basis and include the increase in the Retail Prices Index (‘RPI’). Although RPI is forecast 
to reduce in the next 3 years, it has remained stubbornly high for some time. If it reduces to average 3% over the next 3 years the aggregate EPS growth will 
have to be 44% in 3 years time for this part of the award to vest in full. 
Given the current economic climate, this would represent an outstanding achievement. 
SHARE MATCHING SCHEME
Once again the maximum investment will be 50% of post-tax salary and the other features of the scheme will also be unchanged. The performance target will 
be Cash Return on Capital Employed (‘CROCE’).
Measure Rationale  Range Matching ratio
CROCE Reinforces importance of cash generation and   0.6 for 1
 Return on Capital Employed 9.53% - 10.53% 2 for 1
   Straight-line  
   between the two 60
For executive directors, the remuneration framework can be summarised as follows:
Fixed remuneration
Base salary Reviewed on 1 January each year against:
  
●
 economic circumstances;
  
●
 increases for all group employees;
  
●
 salary levels in similar sized companies e.g. FTSE150-250;
  
●
 individual performance, experience and contribution.
Benefits 
●
 market competitive;
  
●
 linked to benefits for other group employees.
Pension 
●
 where appropriate, membership of a group pension scheme;
  
●
 alternative cash allowance or top-up at 25% of all or part of basic salary.
Variable remuneration
Annual bonus  Targets reviewed each year:
  
●
 on target bonus for CEO – 60% of salary;
  
●
 max bonus for CEO – 120% of salary;
  
●
 on target bonus for other directors – 50% of salary;
  
●
 max bonus for other directors – 100% of salary;
  
●
 compulsory deferral of 25% of bonus in Company shares and paid after 3 years, subject to continued employment.
Performance share plan Awards made each year:
  
●
 max value of award – 150% of salary;
  
●
 awards vest after 3 years subject to achievement of a range of performance targets and continuing employment;
  
●
 current performance targets are EPS growth, TSR and Aggregate Cash Flow each with a vesting range.
Share matching scheme Voluntary investment by director in Company shares from own resources:
  
●
 max investment equal to 50% of post-tax salary;
  
●
 matching shares awarded after 3 years provided that investment shares are still held, performance targets are met and
    director continues in employment;
  
●
 matching shares of up to 2 for each 1 investment share held plus grossing up for tax;
  .
●
 current performance target is CROCE with a vesting range.
Expected value of total remuneration package
The following charts show the split between fixed and variable remuneration excluding benefits in kind for ‘on-target’ performance and ‘maximum’ performance. 
 
 
 
N.B. The charts exclude the one off 2009 share award made to John Carter. 
Directors’ Remuneration Report
 Fixed  Bonus  LTIP
50%
Deputy Chief Executive
and Group Finance Director
50%
25%
25%
Deputy Chief Executive
and Group Finance Director
31%
46%
23%
Chief Executive Officer
32%
26%
42%
Chief Executive Officer
27%
23%
50%
ON TARGET MAXIMUM ON TARGET MAXIMUM GOVERNANCE
TRA VIS PERKINS ANNUAL REPOR T AND ACCOUNTS 2011
61
Non-executive directors
The remuneration of the non-executive directors is determined by the Board (in the case of the Chairman, on the recommendation of the Remuneration 
Committee). Each non-executive director receives an annual fee. In addition, Chris Bunker and Andrew Simon receive additional fees for, in the case of the 
former, the role of Senior Independent Director and for chairing the Audit Committee and, in the case of the latter, for chairing the Remuneration and Health & 
Safety Committees. The fees for 2011 were set as:
● Base fee - £50,000 p.a.
● Additional fee for Senior Independent Director – £7,000 p.a. 
● Additional fee for committee chairmanship – £10,000 p.a.
● Additional fee for second committee chairmanship – £4,000 p.a.
Non-executive directors do not receive any other benefits (other than a staff discount card for purchasing products) and are not eligible to join a company 
pension scheme. No compensation is payable on termination of their employment, which may be without notice from the Company. They cannot participate in 
any of the Company’s share schemes.
Total shareholder return
As required by the Companies Act, the graph below shows total shareholder return for Travis Perkins’ shares over the last five years, relative to the FTSE 250 
Index. Total shareholder return is defined as a combination of growth in the Company’s share price and dividends paid to shareholders. The FTSE 250 Index has 
been chosen as a comparable broad equity market index because the Company has been a member of it for the five year period. 
Audited information
Contracts of executive directors
Each of the executive directors has a service contract, the date of which is shown below, which will be available for inspection at the Annual General Meeting. 
These contracts provide for six month’s notice from the directors and 12 month’s notice from the Company. They do not specify any particular level of 
compensation in the event of termination or change of control.
● John Carter 6 August 2001
● Geoff Cooper 1 February 2005
● Paul Hampden Smith 8 October 1996
It is the Company’s policy to allow each executive director to hold one non-executive directorship in another company (and to retain the fee payable).
150%
100%
50%
0%
2006 2007 2008 2009
 Travis Perkins plc  FTSE 250
2010 2011 62
Amount of directors’ emoluments
Part of each executive director’s remuneration may consist of benefits in kind not payable in cash, such as the provision of a company car, a fuel card, and private 
healthcare insurance. No director receives an expense allowance, which is chargeable to tax. Details of directors’ remuneration are set out in the table below. 
 Basic salary Annual bonus Benefits Total remuneration
 2011 2011 2011 2011 2010
 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Executive     
Geoff Cooper
1
 639 582 168 1,389 1,424
Paul Hampden Smith
2
 384  276 96 756 766
John Carter
3
 384  292 131 807 781
Non-executive
Ruth Anderson
4
 9 - - 9 -
Chris Bunker 67 - - 67 60
John Coleman 50 - - 50 44
Philip Jansen 50 - - 50 44
Andrew Simon 64 - - 64 55
Tim Stevenson
5
 - - - - 68 
Robert Walker 200 - - 200 162
 1,847 1,150 395 3,392  3,404
Notes:
1   Highest paid director - Benefits include a cash allowance of £159,851 (2010: £244,007) in lieu of pension accrual and £8,446 dividend equivalent on exercise of LTIP awards. These do 
not count when calculating annual bonus and granting share incentives. Geoff Cooper also received, and retained, in 2011, £100,000 (2010: £92,840) in respect of his non-executive 
chairmanship of Dunelm Group Plc.
2   Benefits include a £16,000 ‘cash for car’ allowance, a £1,500 fuel allowance and £72,075 cash allowance in lieu of pension accrual and £5,624 dividend equivalent on exercise of LTIP 
awards, which do not count when calculating annual bonus and granting share incentives. Paul Hampden Smith also received, and retained, in 2011, £45,000 (2010: £40,000 ) in respect 
of his non-executive directorship of Redrow plc.
3   Benefits include a cash allowance of £96,100 in lieu of pension accrual and £1,272 dividend equivalent on exercise of LTIP awards, which do not count when calculating annual bonus and 
granting share incentives.
4  Appointed 24 October 2011.
5  Retired 17 May 2010.
Directors’ pension entitlements
Pension entitlements of the executive directors during the year were as follows:
 John Carter Paul Hampden Smith Geoff Cooper
Age at 31 December 2011 50 51 57
 £’000 £’000 £’000
Accrued pension at 31 December 2010 290 82 5
Accrued pension at 31 December 2011 or earlier leaving 246 83 5
(Decrease) / increase in accrued pension in 2011 (44) 1 -
Real decrease in accrued pension in 2011 (60) (3) -
Transfer value of the real decrease in accrued pension net of member’s contributions (1,263) (53) (1)
Value of decrease in accrued benefit (1,263) (61) (1)
Member’s contributions towards pension - 8 -
Increase in transfer value net of member’s contributions 481 395 19
Transfer value of benefits accrued at 31 December 2010 4,608 1,239 116
Transfer value of benefits accrued at 31 December 2011 5,089 1,642 135
Notes:
1. Only base salary is pensionable for service from 1 December 2004.
2. Geoff Cooper ceased future accrual on 5 April 2006, but benefits up to that date retain a link to current salary.
3. John Carter ceased future accrual on 31 December 2010. Benefits on leaving have been calculated using a 3 year averaging of pensionable salaries.
4. Paul Hampden Smith ceased future accrual on 31 March 2011. Benefits on leaving have been calculated using a 3 year averaging of pensionable salaries.
5. Salary Sacrifice was introduced for member contributions in April 2006. The figures for Paul Hampden Smith above include the sacrificed amounts.
6. Any pensions paid on early retirement are subject to abatement.
Directors’ Remuneration Report GOVERNANCE
TRA VIS PERKINS ANNUAL REPOR T AND ACCOUNTS 2011
63
Travis Perkins’ share price information
   2011 2010
Mid-market price at the year end 796p 1,058p
Highest mid-market price during the year 1,127p 1,058p
Average mid-market price during the year 928p 817p
Lowest mid-market price during the year 711p 665p
Directors’ shareholdings
The Directors’ holdings of ordinary 10p shares of Travis Perkins plc at 31 December 2011 and 2010 were as follows:
   2011 2010
Director Interest No. No.
Ruth Anderson Beneficial owner - -
Chris Bunker Beneficial owner 11,900 11,900
John Carter Beneficial owner 61,918 52,062
John Coleman Beneficial owner 2,465 2,465
Geoff Cooper Beneficial owner 195,053 165,094
Paul Hampden Smith Beneficial owner 283,933 208,883
Philip Jansen Beneficial owner - -
Andrew Simon Beneficial owner 3,400 3,400
Robert Walker Beneficial owner 80,595 65,000
Between 31 December 2011 and the date of this report, the only change to the above Directors’ shareholdings is to Paul Hampden Smith’s whose shareholding 
had increased to 283,961 because of his monthly contribution to the Travis Perkins’ Buy As You Earn Plan.
 
Share matching scheme
Participation by directors is as follows:   
   Outstanding Granted Lapsed Vested Outstanding
Grant date   1 January 2011 during year during year  during year  31 December 2011
    No. No. No. No. No. 
Geoff Cooper    
1 April 2008 Investment matching shares 103,988 - (50,955) (53,033) -
19 May 2009 Investment matching shares 157,785 - - - 157,785
16 March 2010 Investment matching shares 71,853 - - - 71,853
15 March 2011 Investment matching shares - 65,580 - - 65,580
Paul Hampden Smith     
1 April 2008 Investment matching shares 72,787 - (35,666) (37,121) -
19 May 2009 Investment matching shares 110,450 - - - 110,450
16 March 2010 Investment matching shares 50,296 - - - 50,296
15 March 2011 Investment matching shares - 39,424 - - 39,424
John Carter    
19 May 2009 Investment matching shares 63,974 - - - 63,974
16 March 2010 Investment matching shares 50,296 - - - 50,296
15 March 2011 Investment matching shares - 39,424 - - 39,424
Notes:
1. Vesting is on the third anniversary of the grant date.
2. Award/purchase prices (restated for the rights issue as appropriate) are: 1 April 2008, 840p, 19 May 2009, 553p, 16 March 2010, 740p, 15 March 2011, 968p.
3.  Performance criteria apply. For the share matching shares granted in 2008, which vested during 2011, minimum vesting required CROCE of 11.5%, and full vesting required 12.5%. The 
Award vested at 51%. For investment matching shares granted in 2009 and 2010 a condition based on a three-year average of cash return on capital employed (‘CROCE’) applies as 
described on page 59. For 2009 the target range was 6.45% - 8.82%, and for 2010 the target range was 7.5% to 9.0%. 64
Performance share plan
Participation by directors is as follows:
 Outstanding Granted Lapsed Outstanding
Grant date 1 January 2011 during year during year  31 December 2011
    No. No. No. No. 
Geoff Cooper     
5 March 2008  73,015 - (73,015) -
23 June 2009  131,289 - - 131,289
5 March 2010  92,437 - - 92,437
4 March 2011  - 75,224 - 75,224
4 April 2011  - 18,605 - 18,605
Paul Hampden Smith    
5 March 2008  42,591 - (42,591) -
23 June 2009  76,585 - - 76,585
5 March 2010  53,921 - - 53,921
4 March 2011  - 37,686 - 37,686
4 April 2011  - 18,642 - 18,642
John Carter    
5 March 2008  42,591 - (42,591) -
23 June 2009  76,585 - - 76,585
5 March 2010  53,921 - - 53,921
4 March 2011  - 37,686 - 37,686
4 April 2011  - 18,642 - 18,642
Notes:
1. Vesting is on the third anniversary of the grant date.
2. Award prices (restated for the 2009 rights issue as appropriate) are: 23 June 2009, 473p, 5 March 2010, 695.5p, 4 March 2011, 1,020p, 4 April 2011, 1,031p. 
3.  Performance criteria apply. For performance shares granted in 2008 and 2009, vesting is at 33 1/3% if EPS exceeds inflation by 3% a year, pro rata between 100% & 33 1/3% if EPS exceeds 
inflation by between 3% and 10%, and 100% if EPS exceeds inflation by 10%. The 2008 Award lapsed. Performance conditions for the 2010 award are: vesting is at 30% if EPS exceeds 
inflation by 3% a year, TSR is in the top 50% of the FTSE 250 and Aggregate cash flow is at least £470m, vesting is at 100% if EPS exceeds inflation by 10% a year, TSR is in the top 25% 
and Aggregate cash flow is at least £520m. There is a straight-line vesting between these points. Conditions for the 2011 award performance were the same as 2010 except the range for 
Aggregate cash flow is £844m to £977m.
Directors’ Remuneration Report GOVERNANCE
TRA VIS PERKINS ANNUAL REPOR T AND ACCOUNTS 2011
65
Deferred share bonus plan
Participation by directors is as follows:
 Outstanding Granted Lapsed Outstanding
Grant date  1 January 2011 during year during year  31 December 2011
      No. No. No. No. 
Geoff Cooper    
5 March 2008    13,564 - (13,564) -
3 March 2010    19,862 - - 19,862
2 March 2011    - 16,729 - 16,729
Paul Hampden Smith    
5 March 2008    7,743 - (7,743) -
3 March 2010    11,586 - - 11,586
2 March 2011    - 9,496 - 9,496
John Carter    
5 March 2008    7,743 - (7,743) -
3 March 2010    11,586 - - 11,586
2 March 2011    - 9,496 - 9,496
Notes:
1. Vesting is on the third anniversary of the grant date.
2.  The award price (restated for the 2009 rights issue if appropriate) for the 5 March 2008 grant was 998p, for the 3 March 2010 grant was 801.1667p and for the 2 March 2011 grant was 
987.3p.
Executive share options 
Participation by directors in the 2001 Executive Share Option Scheme is as follows:
  Outstanding Exercised Outstanding Exercise Exercise
  1 January 2011 during year 31 December 2011 price period
   No. No. No.  
Geoff Cooper 17,980 - 17,980 1,320p Anytime until 31/3/15
Paul Hampden Smith 49,923 (49,923) - 596p 
  39,368 - 39,368 845p Anytime until 9/4/12
  51,994 - 51,994 841p Anytime until 10/4/13
  23,787 - 23,787 1,033p Anytime until 15/3/14
  10,489 - 10,489 1,320p Anytime until 31/3/15
John Carter 37,296 - 37,296 845p Anytime until 9/4/12
  41,594 - 41,594 841p Anytime until 10/4/13
  22,058 - 22,058 1,033p Anytime until 15/3/14
  10,487 - 10,487 1,320p Anytime until 31/3/15
    
Share award for John Carter
Grant date
 Outstanding 1 Jan and
   31 Dec 2011
   No.
10 November 2009  47,612
Notes:
1. The one off Award structured as a nil cost share option was made following consultation with principal shareholders in 2009.
2. The Award vests in equal tranches after completion of years four, five and six, the first year being 2009.
3.  The performance conditions are linked to procurement improvement initiatives agreed annually by the Remuneration Committee together with delivery of John Carter’s objectives as part of 
Travis Perkins’ strategic plan. 66
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Sharesave options
   
Participation by directors in the 2002 Travis Perkins’ Sharesave Scheme is as follows:
   Outstanding 1 Jan and
   31 Dec 2011
   No.
Geoff Cooper 3,670
Paul Hampden Smith 3,670
John Carter 3,670
Notes:
1. No performance conditions apply.
2.  All options are exercisable from 1 December 2013 to 31 May 2014 at a price of 442p (restated for the 2009 rights issue).
Share dilution
At 31 December 2011, shares under grant for executive share schemes over a 10 year period represented 1.43% of issued share capital and shares under 
grant for all employee share schemes over the previous 10 years represented 5.22%. There were 6,012,644 (2.47% of issued share capital) unallocated 
shares and 289,142 allocated shares (0.12%) held in the employee trust. 
Shareholders’ approval
The directors confirm that this report has been drawn up in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and the UK Corporate Governance 
Code. 
The shareholders will be invited to approve the remuneration policy set out in this report at the Annual General Meeting, at which the Chairman of the Committee 
will be available to answer any questions.
Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by:
Andrew Simon 
Chairman, Remuneration Committee
21 February 2012  GOVERNANCE
TRA VIS PERKINS ANNUAL REPOR T AND ACCOUNTS 2011
67
Nominations Committee Report
For the year ended 31 December 2011
The principal role of the Nominations Committee 
is to identify and nominate for Board approval, 
candidates to fill board vacancies as and when 
they arise. The Committee prepares a description 
of the role, and skills and capabilities required, 
and maintains contact with major shareholders 
about appointments to the Board. It also keeps 
the structure, size and composition of the Board 
under review, and considers succession planning 
for both executive and non-executive directors 
and for other senior executive posts. The terms 
of reference of the Committee are available on 
the Company’s website or from the Company 
Secretary.
During the year, the Committee members were 
Robert Walker (Chairman), together with Chris 
Bunker and John Coleman, both of whom are 
independent non-executive directors. 
The Committee met three times in 2011. 
In addition to the Committee members, the 
meetings were also attended by the other 
non-executive directors and, in part, by the Chief 
Executive and the Group HR Director.
In the past year, the remit of the Committee 
has been expanded to include a broader HR 
and succession agenda across the senior 
management levels in the Company. The 
Committee reviewed the personal development 
plans for the Executive Directors, a proposed 
reorganisation of the Finance department, the 
recruitment of a further non-executive director 
and the bench strength and succession plans for 
the most senior levels throughout the Company.
For each board position, the Committee selects 
the appropriate search firm, after reviewing a 
shortlist of a minimum of three alternatives. In the 
case of Ruth Anderson’s appointment, the Board 
prepared a detailed job specification, shortlisted 
three search firms, then asked Lygon Group 
to undertake a search for candidates with the 
requisite skills and experience.
 The Committee and the Board also 
considered the aspirations of the Davies Review 
for an increasing representation of women 
on company boards. The Board shares that 
aspiration, but in view of the historic challenge 
faced in the construction sector in attracting 
women candidates, it is reluctant to commit 
to specific targets. Nevertheless, for board 
appointments, while ensuring that existing high 
standards are maintained, the recruitment criteria 
set by the Committee have been amended so 
that prior PLC experience is not essential. It is 
hoped that this will widen the pool of potential 
candidates.
The Chairman of the Nominations Committee 
will be available at the Annual General Meeting 
to answer any questions about the work of the 
Committee.
Robert Walker
Chairman, Nominations Committee
21 February 2012 68
Directors’ Report
For the year ended 31 December 2011
The Directors present their annual report 
and audited accounts for the year ended 31 
December 2011. The Corporate Governance 
statement on pages 49 to 52 forms part of the 
Directors’ report.
Principal activities
Travis Perkins is one of the largest builder’s 
merchants and home improvement retailers 
in the UK. The principal activities of the Group 
are the sale of timber, building materials, and 
plumbing and heating products, and the hiring of 
tools, to the building trade, industry generally and 
the general public, within the United Kingdom. 
The Directors are not aware, at the date of this 
report, of any likely major changes in the Group’s 
activities in the next year.
Business review
A review of the Group’s position, developments 
and future prospects is contained in the 
Chairman’s statement on pages 12 and 13, 
the Chief Executive’s review of the year on 
pages 14 to 21, the Deputy Chief Executive’s 
review of the year on pages 24 to 29 and the 
Finance Director’s review of the year on pages 
30 to 34. A review of the Group’s environmental 
performance is on pages 38 to 42.
Results and dividends 
The Group results for the year ended 31 
December 2011 and dividends for the year 
ending 31 December 2011 are set out on page 
74. If approved, the final dividend will be paid 
on 31 May 2012 to those shareholders on the 
register at the close of business on 4 May 2012.
Balance sheet and post 
balance sheet events
The balance sheet on pages 76 and 77 shows the 
Group’s financial position. No significant events 
have occurred since the balance sheet date.
Principal risks and uncertainties
A review of the Group’s principal risks and 
uncertainties are on pages 36 to 37.
Directors and their interests 
In accordance with the Company’s Articles of 
Association, Ruth Anderson will be standing for 
election by shareholders at the Annual General 
Meeting, having been appointed to the Board 
since the last Annual General Meeting. The 
Board believes that Ruth Anderson’s professional 
financial background and extensive experience 
of advising a broad range of companies across 
many business sectors will greatly benefit the 
Company, complement the skills of the other 
Board members, and make her an excellent 
choice as a non-executive director.
The UK Corporate Governance Code (‘the 
Code’) requires that all directors of FTSE 350 
companies are subject to re-election at the 
Company’s Annual General Meeting each year, 
and therefore executive directors, Geoff Cooper, 
Paul Hampden Smith and John Carter, and non 
executive directors Robert Walker, Chris Bunker, 
John Coleman, Philip Jansen and Andrew Simon 
will all seek re-election at the Annual General 
Meeting.
The names of the Directors at 31 December 
2011, together with their biographical details 
are set out on pages 46 and 47. All of these 
Directors held office throughout the year, 
except Ruth Anderson who was appointed on 
24 October 2011. The executive directors have 
rolling 12 month notice periods in their contracts. 
The non-executive directors do not have service 
contracts. In the light of the formal evaluation 
of their performances as a result of the process 
described on page 50, Robert Walker, Chairman, 
confirms on behalf of the Board that all directors 
continue to be effective in, and committed to, 
their roles.
Directors and officers of the Company are 
entitled to be indemnified out of the assets of 
the Company in respect of any liability incurred 
in relation to the affairs of the Company, or 
any associate company, to the extent the law 
allows. In this regard, the Company is required to 
disclose that under article 140 of the Company’s 
Articles of Association, the Directors have the 
benefit of an indemnity, to the extent permitted 
by the Companies Act 2006 against liabilities 
incurred by them in the execution of their duties 
and exercise of their powers. This indemnity 
is currently in force. In addition, if proceedings 
against directors are instituted subsequent to 
any person acquiring control of the Company, 
the Company has agreed with each of the 
Directors that pursuant to article 140(D) of the 
Company’s Articles of Association, the Company 
shall provide a director with funds (subject to 
certain restrictions) to meet expenditure incurred 
by that director in defending any criminal or civil 
proceedings.
A copy of the Company’s Articles of 
Association (which contains this indemnity) 
is available for inspection at the Company’s 
registered office during normal business hours 
and will be available for inspection at (and during 
the period of 30 minutes prior to) the Company’s 
forthcoming Annual General Meeting. 
None of the Directors had an interest in any 
contract to which the Company or any of its 
subsidiaries was a party during the year.
The Company has undertaken to comply 
with the best practice on approval of directors’ 
conflicts of interests in accordance with the 
Company’s Articles of Association. Under the 
Companies Act 2006, a director must avoid a 
situation where he has, or can have, a direct or 
indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly may 
conflict, with the Company’s interests. 
The disclosable interests of Directors at 31 
December 2011, including holdings, if any, of 
wives and of children aged under 18, were as 
detailed in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on 
pages 63 to 66. GOVERNANCE
TRA VIS PERKINS ANNUAL REPOR T AND ACCOUNTS 2011
69
Substantial shareholdings 
As at 21 February 2012, the Company had been 
notified of the following interests amounting to 
3% or more of the voting rights in the issued 
ordinary share capital of the Company: 
Close company status 
The close company provisions of the Income and 
Corporation Taxes Act 1988 do not apply to the 
Company.
Employees and charitable 
donations
Statements on these matters are contained in the 
Chief Executive’s review of the year on page 20 
and the Deputy Chief Executive’s review of the 
year on page 25 respectively. 
Details of the number of employees and 
related costs can be found in note 7 to the 
financial statements. 
The Company is committed to equality 
of opportunity and recognises the benefit of 
diversity within its workforce. Its approach to 
the matter of the representation of women on 
company boards is set out in the Nominations 
Committee report. The Company has an equal 
opportunities policy aimed at ensuring that 
employment decisions are based on ability 
and potential regardless of gender, race, 
colour, ethnic origin or sexual orientation, 
age or disability. In particular, applications for 
employment by disabled persons are always 
fully considered, bearing in mind the aptitudes 
of the person concerned. In the event of a 
member of staff becoming disabled, every effort 
is made to ensure that their employment with the 
Group continues and that appropriate training is 
arranged. It is the policy of the Company that the 
training, career development and promotion of 
disabled persons should, as far as possible, be 
identical to that of other employees.
The Group’s policies and practices have 
been designed to keep employees informed on 
matters relevant to them as employees through 
regular meetings and newsletters. Employee 
representatives are consulted regularly on a wide 
range of matters affecting their interests. All 
employees with more than three months’ service 
are eligible to participate in the Company’s 
Sharesave and Buy As You Earn plans. Details are 
provided in the Directors’ Remuneration Report.
Political donations
The Group did not give any money for political 
purposes nor did it make any donations to 
political organisations or incur any political 
expenditure during the year. 
Supplier payment policy 
The Group’s policy is to pay all of its suppliers in 
accordance with established terms. Group trade 
creditors at 31 December 2011 represented 
57 days (31 December 2010: 55 days) of 
average purchases of goods and services. The 
Company’s trade creditors at 31 December 2011 
represented 30 days (2010: 30 days).
Auditor
Resolutions to re-appoint Deloitte LLP as the 
Company’s auditor and to authorise the Directors 
to fix the auditor’s remuneration will be proposed 
at the Annual General Meeting.
Statement on disclosure of 
information to auditors
Each of the persons who is a director at the date 
of approval of this report confirms that:
● So far as the director is aware, there is 
no relevant audit information of which the 
Company’s auditor is unaware; and
● The director has taken all reasonable steps 
that he ought to have taken as a director 
in order to make himself aware of any 
relevant audit information and to establish 
that the Company’s auditor is aware of that 
information. 
This confirmation is given and should be 
interpreted in accordance with the provisions of 
s.418 of the Companies Act 2006. 
Share capital and change of control
As at 31 December 2011 the Company had 
an allotted and fully paid share capital of 
243,816,533 ordinary shares of 10 pence 
each, with an aggregate nominal value of 
24,381,653 (including shares owned by the 
employee share ownership trust). The ordinary 
shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange. 
All the shares rank pari passu. The rights and 
obligations attaching to the shares are set out in 
the Company’s Articles of Association. Fully paid 
shares in the Company are freely transferable. 
  Number %
Sprucegrove Investment Management Ltd 13,993,653 5.74
Standard Life Investments Ltd 12,179,018 4.99
Pzena Investment Management LLC 11,363,083 4.66
Morgan Stanley & Co Inc 10,944,193 4.49
Investec Ltd 9,193,693 3.77
Dimensional Fund Advisors LP 9,001,799 3.69
Sanderson Asset Management Ltd 8,912,988 3.65
UBS 8,512,604 3.49
Legal & General Investment Management Ltd 8,448,143 3.46 70
There are no persons that hold securities 
carrying special rights with regard to the control 
of the Company. Details of the structure of the 
Company’s share capital and changes in the 
share capital during the year are also included in 
note 21 to the financial statements.
The Travis Perkins Employee Share Ownership 
Trust owns 6,305,367 shares in the Company 
(2.59% of issued share capital) for use in 
connection with the Company’s share schemes. 
Any voting or other similar decisions relating to 
those shares would be taken by the trustees, 
who may take account of any recommendation of 
the Company.
There are no restrictions on voting rights 
attaching to the Company’s ordinary shares. 
The Company is not aware of any agreements 
between holders of securities that may result in 
restrictions on the transfer of securities or on 
voting rights.
The rules governing the appointment and 
replacement of board members and changes 
to the Articles of Association accord with usual 
English company law provisions. The powers 
of the Company’s Directors are set out in the 
Company’s Articles of Association. In particular, 
the Board has the power to issue shares and 
to purchase its own shares and is seeking 
renewal of these powers at the forthcoming 
Annual General Meeting in accordance with the 
restrictions and within the limits set out in the 
notice of that meeting.
There are a number of agreements to which 
the Company is a party that may take effect, alter 
or terminate upon a change of control following 
a takeover bid. None of these agreements is 
considered significant in the context of the 
Company as a whole. 
There are no agreements providing for 
compensation for Directors or employees on 
change of control. As set out in the Directors 
Remuneration Report on page 61, service 
contracts for executive directors do not specify 
any particular level of compensation in the event 
of termination following change of control of the 
Company. As noted above, the Company has 
agreed with each of the directors that it shall 
provide a director with funds (subject to certain 
restrictions) to meet expenditure incurred in 
defending any criminal or civil proceedings if 
such proceedings are instituted subsequent to 
any person acquiring control of the Company.
Annual general meeting 
The Annual General Meeting of the Company 
will be held at Northampton Rugby Football Club, 
Franklin’s Gardens, Weedon Road, Northampton, 
NN5 5BG on Tuesday 22 May 2012 at 11.45 
a.m. A buffet lunch will be available. In addition 
to the resolutions to approve the receipt of the 
Company’s annual accounts, the declaration 
of a final dividend, the appointment and 
re-appointment of the Company’s directors, the 
re-appointment of the Company’s auditors and 
to give the directors authority to fix the auditors’ 
remuneration, the following items are to be 
proposed at the forthcoming Annual General 
Meeting. The Board considers that all of the 
resolutions proposed are in the best interests of 
the company and of its shareholders as a whole 
and unanimously recommends that shareholders 
vote in favour of all resolutions put before the 
Annual General Meeting.
Resolution 14: 
Directors’ Remuneration Report
In accordance with the Directors’ Remuneration 
Report Regulations 2002, this resolution 
seeks shareholders’ approval of the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report as set out on pages 56 
to 66.
Resolution 15: 
Sharesave scheme 2012
This resolution seeks shareholder approval to 
establish a new savings-related share option 
scheme, which will replace the existing 2002 
Travis Perkins Sharesave Scheme, which is due 
to expire this year. The Travis Perkins Sharesave 
Scheme 2012 is a standard HM Revenue & 
Customs approved all-employee plan and will be 
used to encourage employee share ownership 
throughout the Group. A description of the 
principal terms of the Sharesave Scheme 2012 
are summarised in the Appendix to the Notice of 
Annual General Meeting which can be found on 
page 126.
Resolution 16: 
Renewal of authority to allot shares
Paragraph (a) of this resolution would give the 
Directors the authority to allot ordinary shares 
up to an aggregate nominal amount equal 
to £8,132,018 (representing 81,320,185 
ordinary shares of 10 pence each). This amount 
represents approximately one-third of the issued 
ordinary share capital of the Company as at 21 
February 2012, the latest practicable date prior 
to publication of this Notice. 
In line with guidance issued by the Association 
of British Insurers (the ‘ABI’), paragraph (b) of 
this resolution would give the Directors authority 
to allot ordinary shares in connection with a 
rights issue in favour of ordinary shareholders 
up to an aggregate nominal amount equal 
to £16,264,037 (representing 162,640,371 
ordinary shares of 10p each), as reduced by 
the nominal amount of any shares issued under 
paragraph (a) of this resolution. This amount 
(before any reduction) represents approximately 
two-thirds of the issued ordinary share capital 
of the Company as at 21 February 2012, the 
latest practicable date prior to publication of this 
Notice. If this authority is exercised, the Directors 
intend to follow ABI guidance issued from time to 
time, (including as to the re-election of directors). 
It is now our practice to propose all directors 
for annual re-election at each Annual General 
Meeting in accordance with the Code.
The authorities sought under paragraphs (a) 
and (b) of this resolution will expire at the earlier 
of 30 June 2013 (the last date by which the 
Company must hold an annual general meeting 
in 2013) and the conclusion of the annual 
general meeting of the Company held in 2013.
The Directors have no present intention to 
exercise either of the authorities sought under 
this resolution, except, under paragraph (a), to 
satisfy options under the Company’s employee 
share option schemes.
Directors’ report GOVERNANCE
TRA VIS PERKINS ANNUAL REPOR T AND ACCOUNTS 2011
71
Resolution 17: 
Limited authority to allot shares for cash
This resolution would give the Directors the 
authority to allot ordinary shares (or sell any 
ordinary shares which the Company elects to 
hold in treasury) for cash without first offering 
them to existing shareholders in proportion to 
their existing shareholdings.
Except as provided in the next paragraph, this 
authority would be limited to allotments or sales 
in connection with pre-emptive offers and offers 
to holders of other equity securities if required 
by the rights of those shares or as the board 
otherwise considers necessary, or otherwise up 
to an aggregate nominal amount of £1,219,802 
(representing 12,198,027 ordinary shares). 
This aggregate nominal amount represents 
approximately 5% of the issued ordinary share 
capital of the Company as at 21 February 2012, 
the latest practicable date prior to publication of 
this Notice. In respect of this aggregate nominal 
amount, the Directors confirm their intention to 
follow the provisions of the Pre-Emption Group’s 
Statement of Principles regarding cumulative 
usage of authorities within a rolling 3-year period 
where the Principles provide that usage in excess 
of 7.5% should not take place without prior 
consultation with shareholders.
Allotments made under the authorisation in 
paragraph (b) of resolution 16 would be limited to 
allotments by way of a rights issue only (subject 
to the right of the board to impose necessary or 
appropriate limitations to deal with, for example, 
fractional entitlements and regulatory matters).
The authority will expire at the earlier of 30 
June 2013 (the last date by which the Company 
must hold an annual general meeting in 2013) 
and the conclusion of the annual general meeting 
of the Company held in 2013. Any issue of 
shares for cash will, however, still be subject to 
the requirements of the UK Listing Authority.
Resolution 18: 
Notice of meetings
The Companies Act 2006 requires that the notice 
period for general meetings of a company is 21 
days unless certain requirements are satisfied, 
including that shareholders approve a shorter 
notice period, which cannot be less than 14 
clear days. At the Annual General Meeting held in 
2011, shareholders approved a notice period for 
general meetings (other than AGMs) of not less 
than 14 clear days effective until the AGM to be 
held in 2012. This resolution is proposed to allow 
the Company to continue to call general meetings 
(other than AGM’s) on 14 clear days notice. The 
Directors believe it is in the best interests of the 
shareholders of the Company to preserve the 
shorter notice period and accordingly are putting 
this resolution, to be proposed as a special 
resolution to the meeting. The shorter notice 
period would not be used as a matter of routine 
for general meetings, but only where the flexibility 
is merited by the business of the meeting and is 
thought to be to the advantage of shareholders 
as a whole. The approval will be effective until 
the Company’s Annual General Meeting in 2013, 
when it is expected that a similar resolution will 
be proposed. Under the Companies Act 2006 in 
order to be able to call a general meeting on less 
than 21 clear days’ notice, the Company must 
make a means of electronic voting available to all 
shareholders.
Resolution 19: 
Authority to purchase own shares
The authority for the Company to purchase its 
own shares of 10 pence each granted at last 
year’s Annual General Meeting will expire on the 
date of the forthcoming Annual General Meeting. 
The Directors wish to renew this authority and 
a special resolution, which is set out in full in 
the Notice of Annual General Meeting on page 
125, will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual 
General Meeting to give the Company the 
authority to purchase its own ordinary shares 
in the market as permitted by the Companies 
Act 2006. The authority limits the number of 
shares that could be purchased to a maximum 
of 24,396,055 (representing 10% of the issued 
ordinary share capital of the Company as at 
21 February 2012) and sets minimum and 
maximum prices. This authority will expire no 
later than 30 June 2013.
The Directors consider that it is in the best 
interests of the Company to have available this 
authorisation, in case of circumstances when 
it would be appropriate to use it. They would 
only use it after consideration of the effect on 
earnings per share and the longer-term benefit 
for the Company and shareholders generally. 
The fact that such authorisation is being sought 
should not be taken to imply that shares would 
be purchased at any particular price or indeed 
at all. Any ordinary shares purchased pursuant 
to this authority may either be held as treasury 
shares or cancelled by the Company, depending 
on which course of action is considered by 
the Directors to be in the best interests of 
shareholders at the time.
As at 21 February 2012, there were options 
over 12,252,464 ordinary shares in the capital of 
the Company, (including 2,044,655 Investment 
Matching Shares, 240,508 Deferred Bonus 
Share Plan shares and 1,653,045 Performance 
Share Plan shares - these are described in the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 56 to 
66), which represent 5.02% of the Company’s 
issued ordinary share capital (excluding any 
treasury shares). If the authority to purchase 
the Company’s ordinary shares were exercised 
in full, these options would represent 5.02% 
of the Company’s issued ordinary share capital 
(excluding any treasury shares). As at 21 
February 2012, the Company did not hold any 
treasury shares in the Company and no warrants 
over ordinary shares in the capital of the 
Company existed.
By order of the Board,
Andrew Pike 
Company Secretary
21 February 2012 72
The Directors are responsible for preparing the 
Annual Report and the financial statements in 
accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to 
prepare financial statements for each financial 
year. Under that law the Directors are required 
to prepare the group financial statements in 
accordance with International Financial Reporting 
Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European 
Union and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and 
have also chosen to prepare the Parent Company 
financial statements under IFRSs as adopted 
by the EU. Under company law the Directors 
must not approve the accounts unless they 
are satisfied that they give a true and fair view 
of the state of affairs of the Company and 
of the profit or loss of the Company for that 
period. In preparing these financial statements, 
International Accounting Standard 1 requires that 
directors:
● Properly select and apply accounting policies;
● Present information, including accounting 
policies, in a manner that provides relevant, 
reliable, comparable and understandable 
information; 
● Provide additional disclosures when 
compliance with the specific requirements 
in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users 
to understand the impact of particular 
transactions, other events and conditions on 
the entity’s financial position and financial 
performance; and
● Make an assessment of the Company’s ability 
to continue as a going concern.
The Directors are responsible for keeping 
adequate accounting records that are sufficient 
to show and explain the Company’s transactions 
and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any 
time the financial position of the Company 
and enable them to ensure that the financial 
statements comply with the Companies Act 
2006. They are also responsible for safeguarding 
the assets of the Company and hence for taking 
reasonable steps for the prevention and detection 
of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the 
maintenance and integrity of the corporate and 
financial information included on the Company’s 
website. Legislation in the United Kingdom 
governing the preparation and dissemination of 
financial statements may differ from legislation in 
other jurisdictions.
Responsibility statement 
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge:
●  The financial statements, prepared in 
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities
For the year ended 31 December 2011
accordance with International Financial 
Reporting Standards, give a true and fair view 
of the assets, liabilities, financial position 
and profit or loss of the Company and the 
undertakings included in the consolidation 
taken as a whole; and
●  The management report, which is 
incorporated into the directors’ report, 
includes a fair review of the development 
and performance of the business and the 
position of the Company and the undertakings 
included in the consolidation taken as a 
whole, together with a description of the 
principal risks and uncertainties that they 
face.
By order of the Board
Geoff Cooper
Chief Executive
Paul Hampden Smith
Finance Director
21 February 2012 GOVERNANCE
TRA VIS PERKINS ANNUAL REPOR T AND ACCOUNTS 2011
73
We have audited the financial statements 
of Travis Perkins plc for the year ended 31 
December 2011 which comprise Group and 
Parent Company Income Statements, the 
Group and Parent Company Statements of 
Comprehensive Income, the Group and Parent 
Company Balance Sheets, the Group and Parent 
Company Statements of Changes in Equity, 
the Group and Parent Company Cash Flow 
Statements and the related notes 1 to 38. The 
financial reporting framework that has been 
applied in their preparation is applicable law 
and International Financial Reporting Standards 
(‘IFRS’s’) as adopted by the European Union.
This report is made solely to the Company’s 
members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 
3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. Our 
audit work has been undertaken so that we 
might state to the Company’s members those 
matters we are required to state to them in an 
auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the 
fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept 
or assume responsibility to anyone other than 
the Company and the Company’s members as a 
body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the 
opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities 
of directors and auditor
As explained more fully in the Directors’ 
Responsibilities Statement, the Directors are 
responsible for the preparation of the financial 
statements and for being satisfied that they 
give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to 
audit and express an opinion on the financial 
statements in accordance with applicable law 
and International Standards on Auditing (UK and 
Ireland). Those standards require us to comply 
with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical 
Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the
financial statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about 
the amounts and disclosures in the financial 
statements sufficient to give reasonable 
assurance that the financial statements are 
free from material misstatement, whether 
caused by fraud or error. This includes an 
assessment of: whether the accounting policies 
are appropriate to the Group’s and the Parent 
Company’s circumstances and have been 
consistently applied and adequately disclosed; 
the reasonableness of significant accounting 
estimates made by the Directors; and the overall 
presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and 
non-financial information in the annual report 
to identify material inconsistencies with the 
audited financial statements. If we become 
aware of any apparent material misstatements or 
inconsistencies we consider the implications for 
our report.
Opinion on financial statements
In our opinion:
● The financial statements give a true and fair 
view of the state of the Group’s and of the 
Parent Company’s affairs as at 31 December 
2011 and of the Group’s and the Parent 
Company’s profit for the year then ended;
●  The financial statements have been properly 
prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted 
by the European Union; and
●  The financial statements have been prepared 
in accordance with the requirements of the 
Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the 
Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS 
Regulation.
Separate opinion in relation to 
IFRSs as issued by the IASB
As explained in note 1 to the group financial 
statements, the Group in addition to complying 
with its legal obligation to apply IFRSs as adopted 
by the European Union, has also applied IFRSs as 
issued by the International Accounting Standards 
Board (IASB).
In our opinion the group financial statements 
comply with IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
Opinion on other matters 
prescribed by the Companies 
Act 2006
In our opinion:
●  The part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report 
to be audited has been properly prepared in 
accordance with the Companies Act 2006; and
● The information given in the Directors’ Report 
for the financial year for which the financial 
statements are prepared is consistent with the 
financial statements.
Matters on which we are required 
to report by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the 
following:
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required 
to report to you if, in our opinion:
● Adequate accounting records have not been 
kept by the Parent Company, or returns 
adequate for our audit have not been received 
from branches not visited by us; or
●  The Parent Company financial statements and 
the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report 
to be audited are not in agreement with the 
accounting records and returns; or
● Certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration 
specified by law are not made; or
● We have not received all the information and 
explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review:
● The Directors’ statement, contained within 
the Finance director’s review of the year, in 
relation to going concern; 
●  The part of the Corporate Governance 
Statement relating to the Company’s 
compliance with the nine provisions of the UK 
Corporate Governance Code specified for our 
review; and
● Certain elements of the report to shareholders 
by the Board on directors’ remuneration.
Colin Hudson FCA (Senior statutory auditor)
for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor
London, United Kingdom
21 February 2012
Independent Auditor’s Report to the Members of Travis Perkins plc 
For the year ended 31 December 2011 74
 THE GROUP
 –––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
 2011 2010
 –––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– ––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
  Pre-exceptional Exceptional  Pre-exceptional Exceptional
  items items Total items items Total
  £m £m £m £m £m £m
 Notes     
Revenue 4 4,779.1 - 4,779.1 3,152.8 - 3,152.8
Operating profi t before amortisation 5 313.2 (9.8) 303.4 239.0 (19.0) 220.0
Amortisation of intangible assets  (12.9) - (12.9) (0.2) - (0.2)
Operating profi t  300.3 (9.8) 290.5 238.8 (19.0) 219.8
Finance income  10 22.4 - 22.4 17.5 - 17.5
Finance costs  10 (38.9) (4.4) (43.3) (39.8) (0.7) (40.5)
Profi t before tax  283.8 (14.2) 269.6 216.5 (19.7) 196.8
Tax 11 (74.5) 17.3 (57.2) (59.8) 4.3 (55.5)
Profi t for the year  209.3 3.1 212.4 156.7 (15.4) 141.3
Earnings per ordinary share  12      
Basic    90.3p   69.6p
Diluted    87.3p   67.2p
Total dividend declared
per ordinary share  13   20.0p   15.0p
All results relate to continuing operations. Details of exceptional items are given in notes 5, 10 and 11.
  THE COMPANY
  –––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
   2011 2010
   £m £m
 Notes
Revenue 4 86.0 47.2
Operating profit before exceptional items 5 68.9 31.8
Exceptional items  - (13.4)
Operating profi t after exceptional items  68.9 18.4
Finance income  10 19.5 15.5
Finance costs  10 (39.8) (42.1)
Profi t / (loss) before tax  48.6 (8.2)
Tax 11 10.1 10.4
Profit for the year  58.7 2.2
All results relate to continuing operations.
Income Statements
For the year ended 31 December 2011 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
TRA VIS PERKINS ANNUAL REPOR T AND ACCOUNTS 2011
75
Statements of Comprehensive Income 
For the year ended 31 December 2011
 THE GROUP THE COMPANY
 ––––––––––––––––––––––––– –––––––––––––––––––––––––
 2011 2010 2011 2010
 £m £m £m £m 
Profi t for the year 212.4 141.3 58.7 2.2
Cash fl ow hedges:
Losses arising during the year (4.6) (4.4) (4.6) (4.4)
Transferred to income statement 2.8 6.8 2.8 6.8
 (1.8) 2.4 (1.8) 2.4
Actuarial (losses) / gains on defi ned benefi t pension schemes (49.8) 15.9 - -
 (51.6) 18.3 (1.8) 2.4
Movement on cash fl ow hedge cancellation payment 4.2 4.8 4.2 4.8
Tax relating to components of other comprehensive income 7.1 (6.7) (0.6) (2.0)
Other comprehensive (loss) / income for the year (40.3) 16.4 1.8 5.2
Total comprehensive income for the year 172.1 157.7 60.5 7.4 76
Balance Sheets
As at 31 December 2011
 THE GROUP THE COMPANY
 ––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– –––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
  2011 2010* 2011 2010
 Notes £m £m £m £m
Assets
Non-current assets    
Property, plant and equipment 16 562.6 527.1 0.2 0.1
Goodwill 14 1,706.2 1,697.8 - -
Other intangible assets 15 388.9 411.9 - -
Derivative fi nancial instruments 25 40.3 56.9 40.3 0.3
Investment property 17 0.4 0.4 - -
Interest in associates 18 51.3 45.7 58.5 52.3
Investment in subsidiaries 18 - - 2,872.8 2,697.8
Loans and receivables 25 - - - 174.4
Available-for-sale investments 18 1.5 1.5 - -
Retirement benefi t asset 8 19.3 31.7 - -
Deferred tax asset 27 - - 9.9 14.7
Total non-current assets  2,770.5 2,773.0 2,981.7 2,939.6
     
 
Current assets
Inventories  596.0 571.4 - -
Trade and other receivables 19 743.0 687.2 214.1 208.4
Derivative fi nancial instruments 25 3.1 0.1 3.1 0.1
Assets held for resale  - 2.3 - -
Cash and cash equivalents 20 78.6 62.9 - 12.4
Total current assets  1,420.7 1,323.9 217.2 220.9
Total assets  4,191.2 4,096.9 3,198.9 3,160.5
* As required by IFRS 3 (revised) the 2010 comparative numbers and appropriate notes have been revised to refl ect the fi nal fair value adjustments 
to the assets and liabilities of The BSS Group plc identifi ed since the last annual report. Further details are given in note 30. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
TRA VIS PERKINS ANNUAL REPOR T AND ACCOUNTS 2011
77
 THE GROUP THE COMPANY
 ––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– –––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
  2011 2010* 2011 2010
 Notes £m £m £m £m
Equity and liabilities
Capital and reserves     
Issued capital 21 24.4 24.2 24.4 24.2
Share premium account 23 480.8 471.5 479.7 470.4
Merger reserve 23 326.5 325.9 326.5 325.9
Revaluation reserve 23 20.8 21.3 - -
Hedging reserve 23 (5.1) (6.9) (5.1) (6.9)
Own shares 23 (75.2) (83.4) (75.2) (83.4)
Accumulated profi ts 23 1,335.6 1,199.2 192.5 178.7
Total equity  2,107.8 1,951.8 942.8 908.9
Non-current liabilities     
Interest bearing loans and borrowings 24 598.2 760.9 592.8 686.8
Derivative fi nancial instruments 25 5.9 4.2 5.9 124.7
Retirement benefi t obligations 8 65.0 59.6 - -
Long-term provisions 26 28.9 36.0 - -
Amounts due to subsidiaries  - - 1,563.5 1,335.7
Deferred tax liabilities 27 97.4 110.5 - -
Total non-current liabilities  795.4 971.2 2,162.2 2,147.2
Current liabilities     
Interest bearing loans and borrowings 24 60.3 72.3 71.6 71.9
Unsecured loan notes 24 3.3 3.3 3.3 3.3
Trade and other payables 28 1,088.3 1,004.5 19.0 26.7
Derivative fi nancial instruments 25 - 2.5 - 2.5
Tax liabilities  75.9 36.5 - -
Short-term provisions 26 60.2 54.8 - -
Total current liabilities  1,288.0 1,173.9 93.9 104.4
Total liabilities  2,083.4 2,145.1 2,256.1 2,251.6
Total equity and liabilities  4,191.2 4,096.9 3,198.9 3,160.5
The fi nancial statements of Travis Perkins plc, registered number 824821, were approved by the Board of Directors on 21 February 2012 and 
signed on its behalf by:
Geoff Cooper, Chief Executive Paul Hampden Smith, Finance Director 78
 THE GROUP
 ––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
 Issued  Share 
 share  premium  Merger Revaluation  Hedging  Own  Retained Total
  capital account reserve reserve reserve shares earnings equity
 £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2010 20.9 471.2 - 21.3 (12.1) (83.7) 1,042.8 1,460.4
Profi t for the year - - - - - - 141.3 141.3
Cash fl ow hedge gains - - - - 2.4 - - 2.4
Actuarial gains on defi ned benefi t
pension schemes - - - - - - 15.9 15.9
Unamortised cash fl ow hedge 
cancellation payment - - - - 4.8 - - 4.8
Tax relating to comprehensive income - - - - (2.0) - (4.7) (6.7)
Total comprehensive income for the year - - - - 5.2 - 152.5 157.7
Dividends - - - - - - (10.1) (10.1)
Issue of share capital 3.3 0.3 325.9 - - 0.3 (0.3) 329.5
Realisation of revaluation reserve in 
respect of property disposals - - - (0.2) - - 0.2 -
Difference between depreciation of assets on
a historical basis and on a revaluation basis - - - (0.2) - - 0.2 -
Deferred tax rate change - - - 0.4 - - - 0.4
Credit to equity for equity-settled 
share based payments - - - - - - 13.9 13.9
At 31 December 2010 24.2 471.5 325.9 21.3 (6.9) (83.4) 1,199.2 1,951.8
Profi t for the year - - - - - - 212.4 212.4
Cash fl ow hedge losses - - - - (1.8) - - (1.8)
Actuarial losses on defi ned 
benefi t pension schemes - - - - - - (49.8) (49.8)
Unamortised cash fl ow hedge 
cancellation payment - - - - 4.2 - - 4.2
Tax relating to comprehensive income - - - - (0.6) - 7.7 7.1
Total comprehensive income for the year - - - - 1.8 - 170.3 172.1
Dividends - - - - - - (38.8) (38.8)
Issue of share capital 0.2 9.3 0.6 - - 8.2 (7.1) 11.2
Realisation of revaluation reserve in
respect of property disposals - - - (1.1) - - 1.1 -
Difference between depreciation of assets on
a historical basis and on a revaluation basis - - - (0.3) - - 0.3 -
Deferred tax rate change - - - 0.9 - - - 0.9
Foreign exchange differences - - - - - - (0.1) (0.1)
Credit to equity for equity-settled
share based payments - - - - - - 10.7 10.7
At 31 December 2011 24.4 480.8 326.5 20.8 (5.1) (75.2) 1,335.6 2,107.8
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
For the year ended 31 December 2011 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
TRA VIS PERKINS ANNUAL REPOR T AND ACCOUNTS 2011
79
Statement of Changes in Equity
For the year ended 31 December 2011
 THE COMPANY
 ––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
 Issued  Share 
 share premium  Merger Hedging  Own  Retained  Total 
 capital account reserve reserve shares earnings equity
 £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2010 20.9 470.1 - (12.1) (83.7) 178.7 573.9
Profi t for the year - - - - - 2.2 2.2
Cash fl ow hedge gains - - - 2.4 - - 2.4
Unamortised cash fl ow hedge
cancellation payment - - - 4.8 - - 4.8
Tax relating to comprehensive income - - - (2.0) - - (2.0)
Total comprehensive income for the year - - - 5.2 - 2.2 7.4
Dividends - - - - - (10.1) (10.1)
Issue of share capital 3.3 0.3 325.9 - 0.3 (0.3) 329.5
Credit to equity for equity-settled 
share based payments - - - - - 8.2 8.2
At 31 December 2010 24.2 470.4 325.9 (6.9) (83.4) 178.7 908.9
Profi t for the year - - - - - 58.7 58.7
Cash fl ow hedges losses - - - (1.8) - - (1.8)
Unamortised cash fl ow hedge
cancellation payment - - - 4.2 - - 4.2
Tax relating to comprehensive income - - - (0.6) - - (0.6)
Total comprehensive income for the year - - - 1.8 - 58.7 60.5
Dividends - - - - - (38.8) (38.8)
Issue of share capital 0.2 9.3 0.6 - 8.2 (7.1) 11.2
Credit to equity for equity-settled 
share based payments - - - - - 1.0 1.0
At 31 December 2011 24.4 479.7 326.5 (5.1) (75.2) 192.5 942.8 80
Cash Flow Statements
For the year ended 31 December 2011
 THE GROUP THE COMPANY
 ––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– –––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
 2011 2010 2011 2010
 £m £m £m £m
Operating profi t before exceptional items 300.3 238.8 68.9 31.8
Adjustments for:    
  Depreciation of property, plant and equipment and amortisation 76.8 57.7 - 0.1
  Other non cash movements 13.9 8.0 5.1 2.3
  Losses of associate 0.6 2.1 - -
  Gain on disposal of property, plant, equipment and investments  (17.6) (11.3) - -
Operating cash fl ows before movements in working capital 374.0 295.3 74.0 34.2
Increase in inventories (36.1) (62.3) - -
(Increase) / decrease in receivables (62.0) (3.2) 1.5 (125.0)
Increase in payables 107.1 112.8 231.9 353.9
Payments on exceptional items (17.8) (7.6) (5.4) (7.8)
Pension payments in excess of the charge to profi ts (20.1) (52.7) - -
Cash generated from operations 345.1 282.3 302.0 255.3
Interest paid (24.2) (25.4) (29.2) (27.5)
Income taxes paid (26.3) (42.4) - -
Net cash from operating activities 294.6 214.5 272.8 227.8
Cash fl ows from investing activities    
Interest received 0.7 9.4 11.6 8.0
Proceeds on disposal of property, plant, equipment and investments  15.0 17.2 - 0.1
Purchases of property, plant and equipment (109.2) (52.6) (0.1) (0.2)
Interest in associate (2.3) (12.5) (2.3) (12.5)
Disposal of business (note 29) 26.9 - - -
Provision of funding to subsidiary undertaking - - (168.2) -
Acquisition of businesses net of cash acquired (note 30)  (9.9) (294.9) (1.6) (481.6)
Net cash used in investing activities (78.8) (333.4) (160.6) (486.2)
Financing activities    
Net proceeds from the issue of share capital 10.6 0.3 10.6 0.3
Bank facility fees paid (6.1) - (6.1) 
Swap cancellation receipt - 13.7 - 16.3
Payment of fi nance lease liabilities (1.6) (1.3) - -
Repayment of unsecured loan notes - (0.6) - (0.6)
Pension SPV - 34.7 - -
Decrease in bank loans (152.2) (214.1) (90.0) (50.0)
Dividends paid (38.8) (10.1) (38.8) (10.1)
Net cash from fi nancing activities (188.1) (177.4) (124.3) (44.1)
Net increase / (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 27.7 (296.3) (12.1) (302.5)
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 50.9 347.2 10.5 313.0
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year (note 20) 78.6 50.9 (1.6) 10.5 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
TRA VIS PERKINS ANNUAL REPOR T AND ACCOUNTS 2011
81
1. General information
Overview
Travis Perkins plc is a company incorporated in 
the United Kingdom under the Companies Act 
2006. The address of the registered offi ce is 
given on page 130. The nature of the Group’s 
operations and its principal activities are set out 
in the Chief Executive’s review of the year, the 
Deputy Chief Executive’s review of the year and 
the Finance Director’s review of the year on pages 
14 to 34.
These fi nancial statements are presented 
in pounds sterling, the currency of the primary 
economic environment in which the Group 
operates.
Basis of accounting
The fi nancial statements have been prepared 
in accordance with International Financial 
Reporting Standards (‘IFRS’) issued by the 
International Accounting Standards Board. The 
fi nancial statements have also been prepared in 
accordance with IFRS adopted by the European 
Union and therefore the Group fi nancial statements 
comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulations.
Basis of preparation
The fi nancial statements have been prepared 
on the historic cost basis, except that derivative 
fi nancial instruments are stated at their fair value. 
The consolidated fi nancial statements include 
the accounts of the Company and all entities 
controlled by the Company (its subsidiaries) 
(together referred to as ‘the Group’) from the date 
control commences until the date that control 
ceases. Control is achieved where the Company 
has the power to govern the fi nancial and 
operating policies of an investee entity to obtain 
benefi ts from its activities. As such, the results of 
subsidiaries acquired during the year are included 
in the consolidated income statement from the 
effective date of acquisition.
In the current fi nancial year, the Group has 
adopted the following, which did not have a 
material impact:
● IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures (2009) 
● Amendments to various standards arising from 
annual improvements issued in 2010.
At the date of authorisation of these fi nancial 
statements, the following Standards and 
Interpretations, which have not yet been applied in 
these fi nancial statements, were in issue, but not 
yet effective:   
●   IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint 
Ventures (2011);
●  IFRS 9 Financial Instruments (2009);
●  IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements;
●  IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements;
● IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities;
● IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement.
The Directors anticipate that adoption of these 
Standards and Interpretations in future periods 
will have no material impact on the fi nancial 
statements of the Group.
Management is currently of the opinion that 
the Group’s forecasts and projections, show that 
the Group should be able to operate within its 
current facilities and comply with its banking 
covenants. The Group is, however, exposed to 
a number of signifi cant risks and uncertainties, 
which could affect on the Group’s ability to meet 
management’s forecast and projections and hence 
its ability to meet its banking covenants. 
The Directors believe that the Group has the 
fl exibility to react to changing market conditions 
and is adequately placed to manage its business 
risks successfully despite the current uncertain 
economic outlook and challenging macro 
economic conditions. 
A detailed consideration of going concern, 
risks and uncertainties is provided in the Finance 
Director’s review of the year on page 34.
After making enquiries, the Directors have 
formed a judgement at the time of approving the 
fi nancial statements, that there is a reasonable 
expectation that the Company and the Group have 
adequate resources to continue in operational 
existence for the foreseeable future. For this 
reason, they continue to adopt the going concern 
basis in preparing the fi nancial statements.
2. Significant accounting policies
The principal accounting policies adopted in 
preparing the fi nancial statements are set out 
below.
Revenue recognition
Revenue is recognised when goods or services 
are received by the customer and the risks 
and rewards of ownership have passed to 
them. Revenue is measured at the fair value 
of consideration received or receivable and 
represents amounts receivable for goods and 
services provided in the normal course of 
business, net of discounts and value added tax. 
For the Parent Company, revenue comprises 
management charges receivable and dividend 
income received.
Exceptional items
Exceptional items are those items of income and 
expenditure that by reference to the Group are 
material in size or unusual in nature or incidence, 
that in the judgement of the Directors, should be 
disclosed separately on the face of the fi nancial 
statements (or in the notes in the case of a 
segment) to ensure both that the reader has a 
proper understanding of the Group’s fi nancial 
performance and that there is comparability of 
fi nancial performance between periods.
Items of income or expense that are considered 
by the Directors for designation as exceptional 
items include, but are not limited to, signifi cant 
restructurings, onerous contracts, write-downs or 
impairments of current and non-current assets, 
the costs of acquiring and integrating businesses, 
gains or losses on disposals of businesses and 
investments, re-measurement gains or losses 
arising from changes in the fair value of derivative 
fi nancial instruments to the extent that hedge 
accounting is not achieved or is not effective and 
pension scheme curtailment gains.
Business combinations and goodwill
All business combinations are accounted for using 
the purchase method. The cost of an acquisition 
represents the cash value of the consideration 
and/or the fair value of the shares issued on 
the date the offer became unconditional. The 
acquiree’s identifi able assets, liabilities and 
contingent liabilities that meet the conditions for 
recognition under IFRS 3 (2008) are recognised at 
their fair value at the acquisition date except that:
●  Deferred tax assets or liabilities and liabilities 
or assets related to employee benefit 
arrangements are recognised and measured in 
accordance with IAS 12 Income Taxes and IAS 
19 Employee Benefits respectively;
● Liabilities or equity instruments related to the 
replacement by the Group of an acquiree’s 
Notes to the Financial Statements
For the year ended 31 December 2011 82
share-based payment awards are measured in 
accordance with IFRS 2 Share-based Payment;
● Assets (or disposal groups) that are classified 
as held for sale in accordance with IFRS 
5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and 
Discontinued Operations are measured in 
accordance with that Standard.
Goodwill arising on acquisition represents the 
excess of the cost of acquisition over the share of 
the aggregate fair value of identifi able net assets 
(including intangible assets) of a business or a 
subsidiary at the date of acquisition. All material 
intangible fi xed assets obtained on acquisition 
have been recognised separately in the fi nancial 
statements. Goodwill is initially recognised as 
an asset and allocated to cash generating units, 
then at least annually, is reviewed for impairment. 
Any impairment is recognised immediately in 
the income statement and is not subsequently 
reversed, as such, goodwill is stated in the balance 
sheet at cost less any provisions for impairment 
in value.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before the 
date of transition to IFRS (1 January 2004) has 
been retained at the previous UK GAAP amounts 
subject to being tested for impairment at that date. 
Goodwill written off to reserves under UK GAAP 
prior to 1998 has not been reinstated and is not 
included in determining any subsequent profi t or 
loss on disposal.
Investments in associates
An associate is an entity over which the Group has 
signifi cant infl uence, but not control or joint control 
through participation in the fi nancial and operating 
policy decisions of the investee. The results, assets 
and liabilities of associates are incorporated in 
these fi nancial statements using the equity method 
of accounting. Investments in associates are 
carried in the balance sheet at cost as adjusted 
by post acquisition changes in the group’s share 
of the net assets of the associate, less any 
impairment in the value of individual investments.
Intangible assets
Intangible assets identifi ed as part of the assets 
of an acquired business are capitalised separately 
from goodwill if the fair value can be measured 
reliably on initial recognition. Intangible assets are 
amortised to the income statement on a straight-
line basis over a maximum of 20 years except 
where they are considered to have an indefi nite 
useful life. In the latter instance they are reviewed 
annually for impairment.
Investment properties
Investment properties, which are held to earn rental 
income or for capital appreciation or for both, are 
stated at deemed cost less depreciation. Properties 
are depreciated to their estimated residual value 
on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful 
lives, up to a maximum of 50 years. 
Rental income from investment property is 
recognised in the income statement on a straight-
line basis over the term of the lease.
Assets held for sale
Assets held for sale are measured at the lower of 
carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell. 
Assets are held for sale if their carrying amount 
will be recovered through a sale transaction rather 
than continuing use. This condition is regarded as 
met only when the sale is highly probable and the 
asset is available for sale in its present condition.
Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost or 
deemed cost less accumulated depreciation and 
any impairment in value. Assets are depreciated 
to their estimated residual value on a straight-line 
basis over their estimated useful lives as follows:
● Buildings – 50 years or if lower, the estimated 
useful life of the building or the life of the lease;
●    Plant and equipment – 4 to 10 years;
● Freehold land is not depreciated.
Assets held under fi nance leases are depreciated 
over their expected useful lives on the same basis 
as owned assets, or where shorter, the term of the 
relevant lease. 
The gain or loss arising on the disposal or 
retirement of an asset is determined as the 
difference between the sale proceeds net of 
expenses and the carrying amount of the asset in 
the balance sheet and is recognised in the income 
statement. Where appropriate, the attributable 
revaluation reserve remaining in respect of 
properties revalued prior to the adoption of IFRS is 
transferred directly to accumulated profi ts.
Leases
Finance leases, which transfer to the Group 
substantially all the risks and benefi ts incidental 
to ownership of the leased item, are capitalised at 
the inception of the lease at the fair value of the 
leased asset or, if lower, at the present value of 
the minimum lease payments. Lease payments 
are apportioned between the fi nance charges 
and reduction of the lease liability to achieve a 
constant rate of interest on the remaining balance 
of the liability. Finance charges are charged 
directly against income. Capitalised leased assets 
are depreciated over the shorter of the estimated 
useful life of the asset or the lease term. Leases 
where the lessor retains substantially all the 
risks and benefi ts of ownership of the asset are 
classifi ed as operating leases. 
Operating lease rental payments are recognised 
as an expense in the income statement on a 
straight-line basis over the lease term. 
Reverse lease premia and other incentives 
receivable for entering into a lease agreement are 
recognised in the income statement over the life 
of the lease.
Impairment of tangible and intangible 
assets excluding goodwill
The carrying amounts of the Group’s tangible 
and intangible assets are reviewed at each 
balance sheet date to determine whether there 
is any indication of impairment. If such an 
indication exists, the asset’s recoverable amount 
is estimated and compared to its carrying value. 
Where the asset does not generate cash fl ows 
that are independent from other assets, the 
Group estimates the recoverable amount of the 
cash-generating unit (‘CGU’) to which the asset 
belongs. Where the carrying value exceeds the 
recoverable amount a provision for the impairment 
loss is established with a charge being made to 
the income statement.
For intangible assets that have an indefi nite 
useful life the recoverable amount is estimated at 
each annual balance sheet date.
Impairment losses recognised in respect of 
a CGU are allocated fi rst to reduce the carrying 
amount of any goodwill allocated to the CGU and 
then to reduce the carrying amount of the other 
assets in the unit on a pro-rata basis.
Notes to the Financial Statements FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
TRA VIS PERKINS ANNUAL REPOR T AND ACCOUNTS 2011
83
Inventories
Inventories, which consist of goods for resale, 
are stated at the lower of average weighted 
cost and net realisable value. Cost comprises 
direct materials and, where applicable, direct 
labour costs and those overheads that have been 
incurred in bringing the inventories to their present 
location and condition. Net realisable value is the 
estimated selling price less the estimated costs of 
disposal.
Financial instruments
Financial assets and liabilities are recognised 
in the balance sheet when the Group becomes 
a party to the contractual provisions of the 
instrument.
Trade receivables
Trade receivables are measured at amortised 
cost, which is carrying amount less provision 
for irrecoverable amounts. Allowances for the 
estimated irrecoverable amounts are made in 
the income statement when the receivable is 
considered to be uncollectable.
Impairment of fi nancial assets
Financial assets are treated as impaired when in 
the opinion of the Directors, the likelihood of full 
recovery is diminished either by events or change 
of circumstance.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash 
balances and call deposits with an original 
maturity of three months or less. 
Bank and other borrowings
Interest bearing bank loans and overdrafts, 
loan notes and other loans are recognised in 
the balance sheet at amortised cost. Finance 
charges associated with arranging a bank facility 
are recognised in the income statement over the 
life of the facility. All other borrowing costs are 
recognised in the income statement in the period 
in which they are incurred.
Trade payables
Trade payables are measured at amortised cost.
Foreign currencies
Transactions denominated in foreign currencies 
are recorded at the rates ruling on the date of the 
transaction.
At the consolidated balance sheet date, 
unhedged monetary assets and liabilities 
denominated in foreign currencies are translated 
at the rate of exchange ruling at that date. Foreign 
exchange differences arising on translation are 
recognised in the income statement.
Derivative fi nancial instruments 
and hedge accounting
The Group uses derivative fi nancial instruments 
to hedge its exposure to interest rate and foreign 
exchange risks arising from fi nancing activities. 
The Group does not enter into speculative 
fi nancial instruments. In accordance with its 
treasury policy, the Group does not hold or 
issue derivative fi nancial instruments for trading 
purposes. 
Derivative fi nancial instruments are stated at 
fair value. The fair value of derivative fi nancial 
instruments is the estimated amount the Group 
would receive or pay to terminate the derivative at 
the balance sheet date, taking into account current 
interest and exchange rates and the current 
creditworthiness of the counterparties. 
Changes in the fair value of derivative fi nancial 
instruments, that are designated and effective as 
hedges of the future variability of cash fl ows, are 
recognised directly in equity and the ineffective 
portion is recognised immediately in the income 
statement.
For an effective hedge of an exposure to 
changes in the fair value of a hedged item, the 
hedged item is adjusted for changes in fair value 
attributable to the risk being hedged with the 
corresponding entry in the income statement. 
For derivatives that do not qualify for hedge 
accounting, any gains or losses arising from 
changes in fair value are taken to the income 
statement as they arise.
Derivatives embedded in commercial contracts 
are treated as separate derivatives when their risks 
and characteristics are not closely related to those 
of the underlying contracts, with unrealised gains 
or losses being reported in the income statement. 
The fair value of hedged derivatives is classifi ed 
as a non-current asset or non-current liability if 
the remaining maturity of the hedge relationship 
is more than 12 months, otherwise they are 
classifi ed as current.
Foreign currency forward contracts are not 
designated effective hedges and so are marked 
to market at the balance sheet date, with any 
gains or losses being taken through the income 
statement.
Financial assets and fi nancial liabilities
Financial assets are classifi ed into the following 
specifi ed categories: fi nancial assets at ‘fair 
value through profi t or loss’ (‘FVTPL’), ‘available-
for-sale’ (‘AFS’) fi nancial assets and ‘loans and 
receivables’. The classifi cation depends on the 
nature and purpose of the fi nancial assets and is 
determined at the time of initial recognition.
Financial liabilities are classifi ed as either 
fi nancial liabilities ‘at FVTPL’ or ‘other fi nancial 
liabilities’ and trade and other payables.
The Group has defi ned the classes of fi nancial 
assets to be other fi nancial assets, cash and 
borrowings and derivative fi nancial instruments.
Financial assets and fi nancial 
liabilities at FVTPL
Financial assets and fi nancial liabilities are 
classifi ed as at FVTPL where the fi nancial asset or 
the fi nancial liability is either held for trading or it 
is designated as FVTPL.
A fi nancial asset or fi nancial liability is classifi ed 
as held for trading if it:
● Has been acquired principally for the purpose of 
selling or of disposal in the near future; or
● Is a part of an identified portfolio of financial 
instruments that the Group manages together 
and has a recent actual pattern of short-term 
profit-taking; or
● Is a derivative that is not designated and 
effective as a hedging instrument.
Financial assets and fi nancial liabilities at FVTPL 
are stated at fair value, with any resultant gain or 
loss recognised in the income statement unless 
it is an effective cash fl ow relationship. The net 
gain or loss recognised in the income statement 
incorporates any interest earned or paid on the 
fi nancial asset and fi nancial liability respectively. 84
Loans and receivables
Trade receivables and other receivables that have 
fi xed or determinable payments that are not quoted 
in an active market are classifi ed as loans and 
receivables. Loans and receivables are measured 
at amortised cost using the effective interest 
method, less any impairment. Interest income is 
recognised by applying the effective interest rate, 
except for short-term receivables, which applies 
to all amounts owed to the Group when the 
recognition of interest would be immaterial. 
Other fi nancial liabilities
Other fi nancial liabilities, including borrowings, are 
initially measured at fair value, net of transaction 
costs. Other fi nancial liabilities are subsequently 
measured at amortised cost using the effective 
interest method, with interest expense recognised 
on an effective yield basis. The effective interest 
method is a method of calculating the amortised 
cost of a fi nancial liability and of allocating interest 
expense over the relevant period. The effective 
interest is the rate that exactly discounts estimated 
future cash payments through the expected life 
of the fi nancial liability, or, where appropriate, a 
shorter period.
Derecognition of fi nancial assets 
and fi nancial liabilities
The Group derecognises a fi nancial asset only 
when the contractual rights to the cash fl ows 
from the asset expire; or it transfers the fi nancial 
asset and substantially all the risks and rewards 
of ownership of the asset to another entity. If the 
Group neither transfers nor retains substantially all 
the risks and rewards of ownership and continues 
to control the transferred asset, the Group 
recognises its retained interest in the asset and an 
associated liability for amounts it may have to pay. 
If the Group retains substantially all the risks and 
rewards of ownership of a transferred fi nancial 
asset, the Group continues to recognise the 
fi nancial asset and also recognises a collateralised 
borrowing for the proceeds received.
The Group derecognises fi nancial liabilities 
when, and only when, the Group’s obligations are 
discharged, cancelled or they expire.
Taxation
The tax expense represents the sum of the tax 
currently payable and the deferred tax.
The tax currently payable is based on taxable 
profi t for the year. Taxable profi t differs from 
net profi t as reported in the income statement 
because it excludes items of income and expense 
that are taxable or deductible in other years and it 
further excludes items which are never taxable or 
deductible. The Group’s liability for current tax is 
calculated using tax rates that have been enacted 
or substantially enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable 
or recoverable on differences between the 
carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the 
fi nancial statements and the corresponding 
tax bases used in the computation of taxable 
profi t. This is accounted for using the balance 
sheet liability method. Deferred tax liabilities are 
generally recognised for all taxable temporary 
differences and deferred tax assets are 
recognised to the extent that it is probable that 
taxable profi ts will be available against which 
deductible temporary differences can be utilised. 
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if 
the temporary difference arises from goodwill 
or from the initial recognition (other than in 
a business combination) of other assets and 
liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the 
tax profi t nor the accounting profi t.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that 
are expected to apply in the period when the 
liability is settled or the asset realised. Deferred tax 
is charged or credited in the income statement, 
except when it relates to items charged or credited 
directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is 
also dealt with in equity.
Pensions and other post-employment benefi ts
For defi ned benefi t schemes, operating profi t is 
charged with the cost of providing pension benefi ts 
earned by employees in the period. The expected 
return on pension scheme assets less the interest 
on pension scheme liabilities is shown as fi nance 
income or as a fi nance cost within the income 
statement.
Actuarial gains and losses arising in the period 
from the difference between actual and expected 
returns on pension scheme assets, experience 
gains and losses on pension scheme liabilities 
and the effects of changes in demographics 
and fi nancial assumptions are included in the 
statement of recognised income and expense.
Recoverable pension scheme surpluses and 
pension scheme defi cits and the associated 
deferred tax balances are recognised in full in the 
period in which they occur and are included in the 
balance sheet.
Obligations for contributions to defi ned 
contribution pension plans are recognised as an 
expense in the income statement as incurred.
Employee share incentive plans
The Group issues equity-settled share-based 
payments to certain employees (long term 
incentives, executive share options and Save As 
You Earn). These payments are measured at fair 
value at the date of grant by the use of the Black 
Scholes option-pricing model taking into account 
the terms and conditions upon which the options 
were granted. The cost of equity-settled awards is 
recognised on a straight-line basis over the vesting 
period, based on the Group’s estimate of the 
number of shares that will eventually vest. 
Provisions
A provision is recognised in the balance sheet 
when the Group has a present legal or constructive 
obligation as a result of a past event, and it is 
probable that an outfl ow of economic benefi ts will 
be required to settle the obligation. Provisions are 
measured at the Directors’ best estimate of the 
expenditure required to settle the obligation at the 
balance sheet date, and are discounted to present 
value where the effect is material.
Equity instruments and own shares 
The Group has applied the requirements of IFRS 2 
– Share Based Payments. In accordance with the 
transitional provisions, IFRS 2 has been applied to 
all grants of equity instruments after 7 November 
2002 that were unvested at 1 January 2005.
Equity instruments represent the ordinary 
share capital of the Group and are recorded at 
the proceeds received, net of directly attributable 
incremental issue costs.
Consideration paid by the Group for its own 
shares is deducted from total shareholders’ 
equity. Where such shares vest to employees 
under the terms of the Group’s share incentive 
schemes or the Group’s share save schemes or 
are sold, any consideration received is included in 
shareholders’ equity.
Dividends
Dividends proposed by the Board of Directors and 
unpaid at the period end are not recognised in the 
fi nancial statements until they have been approved 
by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
Notes to the Financial Statements FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
TRA VIS PERKINS ANNUAL REPOR T AND ACCOUNTS 2011
85
3. Critical judgements and 
key sources of estimation 
and uncertainty
These consolidated fi nancial statements have 
been prepared in accordance with IFRS as 
issued by the IASB. The preparation of fi nancial 
statements requires the Directors to make 
estimates and assumptions about future events 
that affect the reported amounts of assets and 
liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and 
liabilities. Future events and their effects cannot be 
determined with absolute certainty. Therefore, the 
determination of estimates requires the exercise 
of judgement based on various assumptions and 
other factors such as historical experience, current 
and expected economic conditions. The Directors 
constantly re-evaluate these signifi cant factors and 
make adjustments where facts and circumstances 
dictate. The Directors believe that the following 
accounting policies are critical due to the degree 
of estimation required and / or the potential 
material impact they may have on the Group’s 
fi nancial position and performance.
Income taxes
The Group is subject to the income tax laws of 
the United Kingdom. These laws are complex and 
subject to different interpretations by taxpayers 
and tax authorities. When establishing income 
tax provisions, the Directors make a number 
of judgements and interpretations about the 
application and interaction of these laws. Changes 
in these tax laws or in their interpretation could 
impact the Group’s effective tax rate and the 
results of operations in a given period. 
Goodwill and intangible assets
In testing for impairment, the Directors have 
made certain assumptions concerning discount 
rates and the future development of the business 
that are consistent with its annual budget and 
three-year plan. Whilst the Directors consider 
these assumptions are realistic should these 
assumptions regarding the growth in profi tability 
be unfounded then it is possible that the value 
of goodwill and intangible assets included in the 
balance sheet could be impaired. Further details 
concerning the impairment of goodwill and 
intangible assets are given in note 14. 
Pension assumptions
The Group has chosen to adopt assumptions that 
the Directors believe are generally in line with the 
median for comparable companies. If the future 
return on equities is lower than anticipated, or if 
the difference between actual infl ation and the 
actual increase in pensionable salaries is greater 
than that assumed, or if long term interest rates 
were lower than assumed, or if the average life 
expectancy of pensioners increases, then the 
pension defi cit would be greater than currently 
stated in the balance sheet.
Property leases
The Group is party to a number of leases on 
properties that are no longer required for trading. 
Whilst every effort is made to profi tably sub-let 
these properties, it is not always possible. Where 
a lease is onerous to the Group, a provision is 
established for the difference between amounts 
contractually payable to the landlord and to local 
authorities and amounts contractually receivable 
from the tenant (if any) for the period up until the 
point it is judged that the lease will no longer be 
onerous.
The Directors believe that their estimates, 
which are based upon the current state of the 
UK property market, are appropriate. However, 
it is possible that it may take longer to dispose 
of leases than they anticipate. As a result the 
provisions may be understated, but in the opinion 
of the Directors this is unlikely to be material.
Insurance provisions
The Group has been substantially self-insured 
since 2001. The nature of insurance claims is that 
they frequently take many years to fully crystallise, 
therefore the Directors have to estimate the 
value of provisions to hold in the balance sheet in 
respect of historical claims. Under the guidance 
of the Group’s insurance advisors, the value of 
incurred claims is estimated using the Generalised 
Cape Cod Method. The provision is determined by 
deducting the value of claims settled to date from 
the estimated level of claims incurred. Whilst the 
Generalised Cape Cod Method is an insurance 
industry standard methodology, it relies on 
historical trends to determine the level of expected 
claims. To the extent that the estimates are 
inaccurate the Group may be underprovided, but in 
the opinion of the Directors, any under-provision is 
unlikely to be material. 86
Notes to the Financial Statements
4. Revenue
 THE GROUP THE COMPANY
 ––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– –––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
 2011 2010 2011 2010
 £m £m £m £m
Sale of goods 4,779.1 3,152.8 - -
Management charges - - 6.9 6.9
Dividends from subsidiaries - - 79.1 40.3
 4,779.1 3,152.8 86.0 47.2
Other operating income 20.5 15.4 - -
Finance income 22.4 17.5 19.5 15.5
 4,822.0 3,185.7 105.5 62.7
5. Profit
(a) Operating profit
 THE GROUP THE COMPANY
 ––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– –––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
 2011 2010 2011 2010
 £m £m £m £m
Revenue 4,779.1 3,152.8 86.0 47.2
Cost of sales (3,355.8) (2,081.5) - -
Gross profi t 1,423.3 1,071.3 86.0 47.2
Selling and distribution costs (882.1) (675.8) - -
Administrative expenses (270.6) (189.0) (17.1) (28.8)
Other operating income 20.5 15.4 - -
Share of results of associate (0.6) (2.1) - -
Operating profi t 290.5 219.8 68.9 18.4
Add back exceptional items  9.8 19.0 - 13.4
Add back amortisation of intangible assets 12.9 0.2 - -
Adjusted operating profit  313.2 239.0 68.9 31.8
Exceptional items
2011
The Group incurred £9.8m of exceptional operating charges in 2011 (2010: £19.0m) as a result of integrating BSS into the Group. The charges arose mainly as a 
result of the on-going programme to integrate BSS colleagues, systems and processes into the Group, although there was a £2.2m charge due to the closure or 
disposal of businesses that were determined to be non-core to the Group’s operations.
2010 
On 14 December 2010, the group acquired 100% of the issued share capital of The BSS Group plc (‘BSS’) for total consideration of £623.9m. As required by IFRS 
3 (2008), £13m of costs incurred in making the acquisition and £8.1m of non-fair value charges incurred in respect of assets written out of the opening BSS group 
balance sheet were charged to the income statement as exceptional items and included in administrative expenses. Offset against the exceptional charge was the 
release of £2.1m of onerous lease provisions, which were originally established in 2008 as exceptional charges to the income statement. The net total of exceptional 
items was £19.0m.
£13.4m of costs incurred in making the acquisition of BSS were charged to the Company’s income statement in 2010 as an exceptional item and included in 
administrative expenses.
To enable readers of the financial statements to obtain a clear understanding of underlying trading, the Directors have shown the exceptional items separately in 
the group income statement. 
  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
TRA VIS PERKINS ANNUAL REPOR T AND ACCOUNTS 2011
87
5. Profit continued
Operating profit has been arrived at after charging / (crediting):
 THE GROUP THE COMPANY
 ––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– –––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
 2011 2010 2011 2010
 £m £m £m £m
Movement of provisions against inventories (0.3) 5.7 -  -
Cost of inventories recognised as an expense 3,356.1 2,075.8 - -
Pension costs included in cost of sales 0.5 - - -
Pension costs in administration expenses 1.4 2.9 0.4  1.3
Pension costs in selling and distribution costs 10.9 6.4 -  -
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 63.9 57.5 - 0.1
Staff costs (see note 7) 579.7 412.5 12.4 8.6
Gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment (16.3) (11.3) -  -
Rental income (4.2) (4.3) -  -
Hire of vehicles, plant and machinery 33.4 16.7 -  -
Other leasing charges – property 164.3 140.8 -  -
Amortisation of intangible assets 12.9 0.2 - -
Auditor’s remuneration for audit services 0.4 0.4 0.1 0.1
During the year the Group incurred the following costs for services provided by the Company’s auditors: 
  THE GROUP
  –––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
   2011 2010
   £000 £000
Fees payable to the Company’s auditors for the audit of the Company’s annual accounts    104 108
Fees payable to the Company’s auditors for the audit of the Company’s subsidiaries    297 256
Fees paid to the Company’s auditors for other services:  
 Audit related assurance services    107 60
 Other services relating to taxation - advisory    192 216
 Corporate fi nance transactions – acquisition of BSS    - 445
 Other services    - 8
   700 1,093
Audit related assurance services includes £17,000 (2010: £10,000) which was paid to the auditors by the Travis Perkins Pension and Dependents Benefi t Scheme. 
A description of the work of the Audit Committee is set out in the Audit Committee report on pages 53 to 55, and includes an explanation of how auditor objectivity 
and independence is safeguarded when non-audit services are provided by the auditors.
(b) Adjusted profit before and after tax
  THE GROUP
  –––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
   2011 2010
   £m £m
Profi t before tax   269.6 196.8
Exceptional items    14.2 19.7
Amortisation of intangible assets   12.9 0.2
Adjusted profit before tax   296.7 216.7
  THE GROUP
  –––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
   2011 2010
   £m £m
Profi t after tax   212.4 141.3
Exceptional items   14.2 19.7
Amortisation of intangible assets   12.9 0.2
Tax on exceptional items and amortisation   (7.9) (1.9)
Effect of reduction in corporation tax rate on deferred tax   (12.6) (2.4)
Adjusted profit after tax    219.0 156.9 88
Notes to the Financial Statements
5. Profit continued
(c) Adjusted operating margin
 Merchanting Retail Group Pre-BSS BSS Eliminations Group
 ––––––––––––––– ––––––––––––––– ––––––––––––––– ––––––––––––––– ––––––––––––––– –––––––––––––––
 2011  2010 2011  2010 2011  2010  2011  2010 2011  2010 2011  2010
 £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Revenue 2,337.0 2,106.5 1,017.8 1,002.9 3,354.8 3,109.4 1,436.0 43.4 (11.7) - 4,779.1 3,152.8
Segment result 195.8 174.1 45.3 58.7 241.1 232.8 50.0 (10.9) - - 291.1 221.9
Share of 
associate losses - - - - - - - - - - (0.6) (2.1)
Amortisation of
intangible assets - - - - - - 12.9 0.2 - - 12.9 0.2
Exceptional items 6.0 10.3 - 0.6 6.0 10.9 3.8 8.1 - - 9.8 19.0
Adjusted segment 
result 201.8 184.4 45.3 59.3 247.1 241.6 66.7 (2.6) - - 313.2 239.0
Adjusted 
operating margin 8.6% 8.8% 4.5% 5.9% 7.4% 7.8% 4.6% (6.0)% - - 6.6% 7.6%
Segmental information is shown in note 6. 
6. Business and geographical segments
As required by IFRS 8 the operating segments are identifi ed on the basis of internal reports about components of the Group that are regularly reviewed by the Chief 
Executive to assess their performance. For management purposes, during 2011 the Group was organised into three operating divisions – Merchanting, Retailing 
and BSS, which operate mainly in the United Kingdom. It is on this basis that we report in the 2011 Annual Report and Accounts. On 1 January 2012 the Group was 
reorganised into four divisions, General Merchanting, Specialist Merchanting, Consumer and Plumbing and Heating. In 2012, we will report segmental information 
on the basis of the new divisional structure.
Segment profit represents the profit earned by each segment without allocation of share of losses of associates, finance income and costs and income tax expense.
Inter-segment sales are eliminated. During 2011 and 2010, other than in respect of fair value adjustments and exceptional charges made in respect of BSS 
assets, there were no impairment losses or reversals of impairment losses recognised in profit or loss or in equity in any of the reportable segments.
  2011
  ––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
 Merchanting Retail BSS Unallocated  Eliminations Consolidated
 £m £m £m £m £m £m
Revenue 2,337.0 1,017.8 1,436.0 - (11.7) 4,779.1
Result      
Segment result 195.8 45.3 50.0 - - 291.1
Share of associate losses - - - (0.6) - (0.6)
Finance income - - - 22.4 - 22.4
Finance costs - - - (43.3) - (43.3)
Profi t before taxation 195.8 45.3 50.0 (21.5) - 269.6
Taxation - - - (57.2) - (57.2)
Profi t for the year 195.8 45.3 50.0 (78.7) - 212.4
Segment assets 1,954.4 1,498.8 893.3 192.5 (347.8) 4,191.2
Segment liabilities (791.1) (343.7) (390.2) (906.2) 347.8 2,083.4
Consolidated net assets 1,163.3 1,155.1 503.1 (713.7) - 2,107.8
Exceptional items 6.0 - 3.8 - - 9.8
Capital expenditure 86.9 17.7 3.5 - - 108.1
Amortisation - - 12.9 - - 12.9
Depreciation 45.3 13.3 5.3 - - 63.9 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
TRA VIS PERKINS ANNUAL REPOR T AND ACCOUNTS 2011
89
6. Business and geographical segments continued
  2010
  ––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
 Merchanting Retail BSS Unallocated  Eliminations Consolidated
 £m £m £m £m £m £m
Revenue 2,106.5 1,002.9 43.4 - - 3,152.8
Result      
Segment result 174.1 58.7 (10.9) - - 221.9
Share of associate losses - - - (2.1) - (2.1)
Finance income - - - 17.5 - 17.5
Finance costs - - - (40.5) - (40.5)
Profi t before taxation 174.1 58.7 (10.9) (25.1) - 196.8
Taxation - - - (55.5) - (55.5)
Profi t for the year 174.1 58.7 (10.9) (80.6) - 141.3
Segment assets 1,823.5 1,444.2 963.5 197.3 (331.6) 4,096.9
Segment liabilities (738.9) (367.3) (317.6) (1,052.9) 331.6 (2,145.1)
Consolidated net assets 1,084.6 1,076.9 645.9 (855.6) - 1,951.8
Exceptional items 10.3 0.6 8.1 - - 19.0
Capital expenditure 44.5 7.2 - 0.2 - 51.9
Amortisation - - 0.2 - - 0.2
Depreciation 43.3 13.7 0.5 - - 57.5
7. Staff costs 
(a) The average monthly number of persons employed (including executive directors)
 THE GROUP THE COMPANY
 ––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– –––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
 2011 2010 2011 2010
 No. No. No. No.
Sales 15,923 11,880 - -
Distribution 3,240 2,345 - -
Administration 2,260 1,567 42 42
 21,423 15,792 42 42
(b) Aggregate remuneration
 THE GROUP THE COMPANY
 ––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– –––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
 2011 2010 2011 2010
 £m £m £m £m
Wages and salaries 519.0 368.6 6.7 5.5
Share based payments (note 9) 13.9 8.1 5.1 2.3
Social security costs 46.8 35.8 0.6 0.5
Other pension costs (note 8) 12.8 9.3 0.4 1.6
 592.5 421.8 12.8 9.9 90
Notes to the Financial Statements
8. Pension arrangements
Defi ned benefi t schemes
Prior to the acquisition of The BSS Group plc, the Group operated one fi nal salary scheme; the Travis Perkins Pensions and Dependants Benefi t Scheme (‘the TP 
scheme’), which for the majority of members is a 1/60th scheme. The TP scheme is funded by contributions from Group companies and employees. Contributions 
are paid to the Trustees on the basis of advice from an independent professionally qualifi ed actuary who carries out a valuation of the scheme every three years.
Employees are entitled to start drawing a pension, based on their membership of the scheme, on their normal retirement date. If employees choose to retire early 
and draw their pension, then the amount they receive is scaled down accordingly.
A full actuarial valuation of the TP scheme was carried out on 30 September 2008. The full actuarial valuation as at 30 September 2011 is currently in progress.
The IAS 19 valuation has been based upon the results of the 30 September 2008 valuation, then updated to 31 December 2011 by a qualified actuary. The present 
values of the defined obligations, the related current service costs and the past service costs for the scheme were measured using the projected unit method.
Following the acquisition of The BSS group plc the Group now operates three additional defined benefit pension schemes (‘the BSS schemes’) based on final 
pensionable salary. The assets of the schemes are held separately from those of the Group in funds under the control of the schemes trustees. All defined benefit 
schemes are closed to new members. The most recent actuarial valuations of the scheme assets and the present value of the defined benefit obligation were carried 
out at 1 June 2009 for the main UK and Irish schemes and 31 December 2008 for the secondary UK scheme. The present value of the defined benefit obligation, 
and the related current service cost and past service cost, were measured using the projected unit method with a control period equal to the future working lifetime 
of the active members.
In June 2010 an agreement was reached with the trustees of the Travis Perkins final salary pension scheme to fund £34.7m of the deficit using a group controlled 
special purpose vehicle. The pension scheme will be entitled to receive the income of the SPV for a period of up to 20 years, subject to funding levels. This income 
is backed by the security of 16 Travis Perkins freehold properties. As the SPV is consolidated into the Travis Perkins plc group accounts advantage has been taken 
of Regulation 7 of The Partnership (Accounts) Regulations 2008 and accounts for the SPV will neither be audited or filed.
(a) Major assumptions used by the actuary at the balance sheet date (in nominal terms) 
    
  At 31 December 2011 At 31 December 2010 At 31 December 2011 At 31 December 2010
 TP Scheme TP Scheme BSS Schemes BSS Schemes
Rate of increase in pensionable salaries 2.25% 2.5% 2.25% 3.5%
Rate of increase of pensions in payment 2.5% 2.4% 2.5% 3.5%
Discount rate 4.9% 5.35% 4.9% 5.35%
Inflation assumption 3.1% 3.5% 3.1% 3.5%
In respect of longevity, the valuation adopts the PMA/PFA92 tables with improvements in life expectancy to continue in the medium term, with base year appropriate 
to the member’s date of birth. This results in the following life expectancies at illustrative ages:
Weighted average life expectancy for mortality tables used to determine pension liability at 31 December 2011:
   
 Male Years Female Years
Member age 65 (current life expectancy) – TP Scheme 21.5 24.1
Member age 45 (life expectancy on reaching age 65) – TP Scheme 23.4 26.0
Member age 65 (current life expectancy) – BSS Schemes 21.7 24.3
Member age 45 (life expectancy on reaching age 65) – BSS Schemes 23.6 26.3
(b) Amounts recognised in income in respect of the defined benefit schemes
 TP Scheme BSS Schemes 2011 Group 2010 Group
 £m £m £m £m
Current and past service costs charged to operating profi t 
in the income statement 3.5 3.6 7.1 5.7
Interest cost 32.5 12.2 44.7 32.2
Expected return on scheme assets (43.4) (13.1) (56.5) (38.4)
Total pension costs (7.4) 2.7 (4.7) (0.5)
The total charge to the profi t and loss account disclosed in note 7 of £12.8m (2010: £9.3m) comprises defi ned benefi t scheme current and past service costs of 
£7.1m (2010: £5.7m) and £5.7m (2010: £3.6m) of contributions made to the defi ned contribution schemes.
The directors have agreed with the Scheme Actuary and the Trustees to pay contributions of £20.0m in 2012 in excess of the forecast charge to the income 
statement to the TP scheme. In addition, agreement has been made to pay £3m in respect of the BSS schemes.
Note 5 shows where pension costs have been charged in the income statement. Actuarial gains and losses have been included in the Statement of Comprehensive 
Income. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
TRA VIS PERKINS ANNUAL REPOR T AND ACCOUNTS 2011
91
8. Pension arrangements continued
(c) Assets and liabilities in the schemes and the expected rate of return (net of allowance for administration expenses)
TP Scheme At 31 December 2011 At 31 December 2010
 ––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– –––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
 Expected Fair value Expected Fair value 
  return £m  return £m
Equities 8.0% 335.2 8.25% 382.2
Bonds, gilts and cash  3.95% – 4.2% 215.0 4.50% – 5.70% 150.6
Pensions SPV 7.0% 44.0 5.0% 36.2
Property 5.2% 58.0 6.5% 74.4
Total fair value of assets  652.2  643.4
Actuarial value of liability  (632.9)  (611.7)
Surplus in scheme  19.3  31.7
Related deferred tax liability  (4.9)  (8.6)
Net pension asset  14.4  23.1
BSS Schemes At 31 December 2011 At 31 December 2010
 ––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– –––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
 Expected Fair value Expected Fair value 
 return £m  return £m
Equities 8.0% 145.1 8.25% 151.7
Bonds, gilts and cash  3.95 – 4.2% 17.2 4.50% – 5.70% 14.0
Property 5.2% 4.1 6.2% 3.8
Total fair value of assets  166.4  169.5
Actuarial value of liability  (231.4)  (229.1)
Defi cit in schemes  (65.0)  (59.6)
Related deferred tax asset  16.3  16.4
Net pension liability  (48.7)  (43.2)
Actual return on scheme assets 2011 2010
 ––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– –––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
 £m % £m %
TP Scheme 5.0 0.8 72.9 13.8
BSS Schemes (5.3) (3.1) 12.1 7.7
(d) The amount included in the balance sheet arising from the Group’s obligations in respect of its defined benefit schemes 
and the movements during the year
 2011 2010
 ––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– –––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
  TP Scheme BSS Schemes Group TP Scheme BSS Schemes Group
  £m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 January 31.7 (59.6) (27.9) (43.0) - (43.0)
Liability at date of acquisition - - - - (59.6) (59.6)
Income / (expense) recognised in the
income statement 7.4 (2.7) 4.7 0.5 - 0.5
Contributions received by the scheme 19.5 7.8 27.3 58.3 - 58.3
Actuarial (losses) / gains recognised in
the statement of comprehensive income (39.3) (10.5) (49.8) 15.9 - 15.9
At 31 December 19.3 (65.0) (45.7) 31.7 (59.6) (27.9) 92
Notes to the Financial Statements
8. Pension arrangements continued
(e) Movements in the present value of defined benefit obligations in the current period
 2011 2010
 ––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– –––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
  TP Scheme BSS Schemes Group TP Scheme BSS Schemes Group
  £m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 January (611.7) (229.1) (840.8) (571.1) - (571.1)
Liability at date of acquisition - - - - (229.1) (229.1)
Service cost (3.5) (3.6) (7.1) (5.7) - (5.7)
Interest cost (32.5) (12.2) (44.7) (32.2) - (32.2)
Contributions from scheme members (5.2) (0.1) (5.3) (5.5) - (5.5)
Actuarial (losses) / gain (0.9) 7.9 7.0 (18.6) - (18.6)
Foreign exchange - 0.2 0.2 - - -
Benefi ts paid 20.9 5.5 26.4 21.4 - 21.4
At 31 December  (632.9) (231.4) (864.3) (611.7) (229.1) (840.8)
(f) Movements in the present value of fair value of scheme assets in the current period
 2011 2010
 ––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– –––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
  TP Scheme BSS Schemes Group TP Scheme BSS Schemes Group
  £m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 January  643.4 169.5 812.9 528.1 - 528.1
Scheme assets at date of acquisition - - - - 169.5 169.5
Expected return of scheme assets 43.4 13.1 56.5 38.4 - 38.4
Actuarial (losses) / gains  (38.4) (18.4) (56.8) 34.5 - 34.5
Contributions from sponsoring companies 19.5 7.8 27.3 58.3 - 58.3
Contributions from scheme members 5.2 0.1 5.3 5.5 - 5.5
Foreign exchange - (0.2) (0.2) - - -
Benefi ts paid (20.9) (5.5) (26.4) (21.4) - (21.4)
At 31 December  652.2 166.4 818.6 643.4 169.5 812.9
(g) Cumulative actuarial gains and losses recognised in equity 
 TP Scheme BSS Schemes
 ––––––––––––––––––––––––––– –––––––––––––––––––––––––––
 2011 2010 2011 2010
 £m £m £m £m
At 1 January (182.1) (198.0) - -
Net actuarial (losses) / gains recognised in the year (39.3) 15.9 (10.5) -
At 31 December (221.4) (182.1) (10.5) - FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
TRA VIS PERKINS ANNUAL REPOR T AND ACCOUNTS 2011
93
8. Pension arrangements continued
(h) History of experience gains and losses
TP Scheme  2011 2010 2009 2008 2007
Fair value of assets (£m)  652.2 643.4 528.1 420.7 533.9
Present value of obligations (£m)  (632.9) (611.7) (571.1) (490.6) (549.9)
Surplus / (defi cit) in the scheme (£m)  19.3 31.7 (43.0) (69.9) (16.0)
Experience adjustments on scheme liabilities      
Amounts (£m)  - - - 13.4 -
Percentage of liabilities (%)  - - - 2.7% -
Experience adjustments on scheme assets       
Amounts (£m)  38.4 34.5 62.3 (157.2) (13.5)
Percentage of assets (%)  6.0% 5.4% 11.8% (37.4%) (2.5%)
BSS Schemes     2011 2010
Fair value of assets (£m)     166.4 169.5
Present value of obligations (£m)     (231.4) (229.1)
Defi cit in the schemes (£m)     (65.0) (59.6)
Experience adjustments on scheme liabilities
Amounts (£m)     7.9 39.4
Percentage of liabilities (%)     3.4% 17.2%
Experience adjustments on scheme assets
Amounts (£m)     (18.4) 3.4
Percentage of assets (%)     (11.1)% 2.1%
(i) Sensitivities
The estimated effects of changing the key assumptions (discount rate, inflation and life expectancy) on the IAS19 balance sheet position as at 31 December 2011:
  TP Scheme effect on   BSS Schemes effect on 
Assumption Change  2011 balance sheet position  2011 balance sheet position
  £m £m
Discount rate Increase of 1.0% 120.0 39.8
 Decrease of 1.0% (150.0) (53.4)
Infl ation Increase of 1.0% (90.0) (42.2)
 Decrease of 1.0% 55.0 39.9
Longevity Increase of 1 year (15.6) (4.6)
 Decrease of 1 year 15.6 4.6
Defined contribution schemes
Prior to the acquisition of The BSS Group plc there were two defi ned contribution schemes in the Group. The Group now operates a further three defi ned contribution 
schemes for all qualifying employees. The pension cost, which represents contributions payable by the Group, amounted to £5.7m (2010: £3.6m). 94
Notes to the Financial Statements
9. Share-based payments 
The following disclosures relate to share option and SAYE grants made after 7 November 2002.
The Black-Scholes option-pricing model is used to calculate the fair value of the options and the amount to be expensed. The probability of the performance 
conditions being achieved was included in the fair value calculations. The inputs into the model for options granted in the year expressed as weighted averages are 
as follows: 
 2011 2010
 ––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– –––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
  Nil price  Nil price
 SAYE options SAYE options
Share price at grant date (pence) - Group 833 975 819 734
Option exercise price (pence) - Group 657 - 691 -
Share price at grant date (pence) - Company 833 975 819 734
Option exercise price (pence) - Company 657 - 691 -
Volatility (%) – Group and Company 48.6% 61.4% 59.5% 62.1%
Option life (years) – Group and Company 3.5 3.0 3.5 3.0
Risk-free interest rate (%) – Group and Company 0.9% 1.7% 1.6% 1.3%
Expected dividends as a dividend yield (%) – Group and Company 1.8% 1.9% 0.6% 0.6%
Volatility was based on historic share prices over a period of time equal to the vesting period. Option life used in the model has been based on options being exercised 
in accordance with historical patterns. For executive share options the vesting period is 3 years. If options remain unexercised after a period of 10 years from the 
date of grant, these options expire. Options are forfeited if the employee leaves the Group before options vest. SAYE options vest after 3 or 5 years and expire 3½ 
or 5½ years after the date of grant. 
The risk-free interest rate of return is the yield on zero-coupon UK Government bonds on a term consistent with the vesting period. Dividends used are based on 
actual dividends where data is known and future dividends estimated using a dividend cover of 3 times. 
The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based upon management’s best estimate, for the effect of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and 
behavioural considerations.
SAYE options were granted on 1 December 2011. The estimated fair value of the shares at that date was £10.4m for the Group and £0.1m for the Company.
Shares were granted under the share-matching scheme on 15 March, 6 September and 7 December 2011. The estimated fair value of the shares at those dates 
was £4.2m for the Group and £2.1m for the Company.
Shares were granted under the performance share plan on 4 March, 4 April, 21 June and 19 August 2011. The estimated fair value of the shares at those dates 
was £7.0m for the Group and £4.6m for the Company.
Shares were granted under the deferred share bonus plan on 2 March 2011. The estimated fair value of the shares at that date was £1.1m for the Group and 
£0.5m for the Company. 
The Group charged £13.9m (2010: £8.0m) and the Company charged £5.1m (2010: £2.3m) to the income statement in respect of equity-settled share-based 
payment transactions.
The number and weighted average exercise price of share options is as follows:
 THE GROUP
 –––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
 2011 2010
 –––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– ––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
 Weighted  Number of Weighted  Number of 
  average Number of nil price  average Number of nil price
 exercise price  options options exercise price  options options
In thousands of options p No. No. p No. No.
Outstanding at the beginning of the period 582 8,917 4,454 680 9,624 2,959
Forfeited during the period 778 (1,290) (712) 1,247 (1,580) (2)
Exercised during the period 392 (2,473) (248) 511 (19) -
Granted during the period 657 2,896 1,381 691 892 1,497
Outstanding at the end of the period 636 8,050 4,875 582 8,917 4,454
Exercisable at the end of the period 718 1,656 - 1,116 1,004 -
Share options were exercised on a regular basis throughout the year. The weighted average share price for options exercised during the year was 392 pence (2010: 
511 pence). FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
TRA VIS PERKINS ANNUAL REPOR T AND ACCOUNTS 2011
95
9. Share-based payments continued
Details of the options outstanding at 31 December 2011 were as follows:
 THE GROUP
 –––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
 2011 2010
 –––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– ––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
 Executive   Nil price  Executive   Nil price 
 options SAYE options options SAYE options
Range of exercise prices (pence) 201 – 1,611 442 – 1,114 - 201 – 1,611 442 – 1,114 -
Weighted average exercise price (pence) 733 604 - 667 532 -
Number of shares (thousands) 1,992 6,058 4,874 3,302 5,615 4,454
Weighted average expected remaining life (years) 0.7 2.6 1.2 1.4 2.1 1.5
Weighted average contractual remaining life (years) 5.3 3.1 8.2 6.7 2.6 8.5
The number and weighted average exercise price of share options is as follows:
 THE COMPANY
 –––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
 2011 2010
 –––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– ––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
 Weighted  Number of Weighted  Number of
  average Number of nil price  average Number of nil price
 exercise price  options options exercise price  options options
In thousands of options p No. No. p No. No.
Outstanding at the beginning of the period 698 473 2,166 980 701 1,480
Forfeited during the period 362 (55) (361) 1,550 (232) -
Exercised during the period 952 (318) (168) - - -
Transferred from other group companies - - - 596 1 -
Granted during the period 657 11 560 691 3 686
Outstanding at the end of the period 606 111 2,197 698 473 2,166
Exercisable at the end of the period 713 33 - 1,018 239 -
Share options were exercised on a regular basis throughout the year. The weighted average share price for options exercised during the year was 952 pence.
(2010:511 pence)
Details of the options outstanding at 31 December 2011 were as follows:
 THE COMPANY
 –––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
 2011 2010
 –––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– ––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
 Executive   Nil price  Executive   Nil price 
 options SAYE options options SAYE options
Range of exercise prices (pence) 201 – 1,611 442 – 1,114 - 201 – 1,611 442 – 1,114 -
Weighted average exercise price (pence) 700 516 - 727 479 -
Number of shares (thousands) 54 56 2,196 418 55 2,166
Weighted average expected remaining life (years) 1.0 2.2 1.1 0.8 2.5 1.5
Weighted average contractual remaining life (years) 6.0 2.7 8.1 5.1 3.0 8.5 96
Notes to the Financial Statements
10. Net finance costs
 THE GROUP THE COMPANY
 –––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– –––––––––––––––––––––––––
 2011 2011 2011 2010 2011 2010
 Pre-exceptional  Exceptional    
 items  items Total   
 £m £m £m £m £m £m
Interest on bank loans and overdrafts* (26.6) - (26.6) (28.5) (26.4) (31.5)
Interest payable to group companies - - - - (6.4) (3.5)
Interest on obligations under fi nance leases (1.2) - (1.2) (1.2) - -
Unwinding of discounts (5.7) - (5.7) (4.2) - -
Amortisation of cancellation payment for 
swaps accounted for as cash fl ow hedges (4.2) - (4.2) (4.9) (4.2) (4.9)
Other interest (1.2) - (1.2) (0.2) (1.2) (0.2)
Net loss on settlement of private placement - (4.4) (4.4) - - -
Net loss on re-measurement of derivatives at fair value - - - (1.5) (1.6) (2.0)
Finance costs (38.9) (4.4) (43.3) (40.5) (39.8) (42.1)
Other fi nance income - pension scheme 11.8 - 11.8 6.2 - -
Amortisation of cancellation receipt for swap 
accounted for as fair value hedge 1.1 - 1.1 0.9 1.1 3.6
Net gain on re-measurement of derivatives at fair value 5.1 - 5.1 - 5.1 -
Interest receivable 4.4 - 4.4 10.4 13.3 11.9
Finance income 22.4 - 22.4 17.5 19.5 15.5
Net fi nance costs (16.5) (4.4) (20.9) (23.0) (20.3) (26.6)
Adjusted interest cover   15.4x 18.9x  
*Includes £3.1m (2010: £5.7m) of amortised bank fi nance charges.
Adjusted interest cover is calculated by dividing, adjusted operating profit of £313.2m (2010: £239.0m) less £1.5m (2010: £1.2m) of specifically excluded 
IFRS adjustments, by the combined value of interest on bank loans and overdrafts (excluding amortised bank finance charges), other interest payable and interest 
receivable, which total £20.3m (2010: £12.6m). 
The unwinding of the discounts charge arises principally from the property provisions created in 2008 and the pensions SPV.
During 2011 the Group repaid $125m of the BSS unsecured senior notes and terminated the associated derivatives. This resulted in a net loss of £4.4m, which 
is shown as exceptional.
Included within finance costs in 2010 is an exceptional charge of £0.7m due to writing off unamortised bank fees in respect of the BSS loan facility, which was 
repaid following the acquisition.
11. T ax
 THE GROUP THE COMPANY
 ––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– –––––––––––––––––––––––––
 2011 2011 2011 2010 2010 2010 2011 2010
 Pre-   Pre-    
 exceptional Exceptional  exceptional Exceptional   
 items items Total items items Total
 £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Current tax        
UK corporation tax         
current year 72.5 (3.3) 69.2 51.0 0.4 51.4 (8.1) (8.5)
prior year (1.1) (1.4) (2.5) (1.2) - (1.2) (1.4) -
Total current tax 71.4 (4.7) 66.7 49.8 0.4 50.2 (9.5) (8.5)
Deferred tax        
current year 2.8 (12.6) (9.8) 10.1 (4.7) 5.4 (0.6) (1.9)
prior year 0.3 - 0.3 (0.1) - (0.1) - -
Total deferred tax 3.1 (12.6) (9.5) 10.0 (4.7) 5.3 (0.6) (1.9)
Total tax charge 74.5 (17.3) 57.2 59.8 (4.3) 55.5 (10.1) (10.4) FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
TRA VIS PERKINS ANNUAL REPOR T AND ACCOUNTS 2011
97
11. T ax continued
The differences between the total tax charge shown above and the amount calculated by applying the standard rate of UK corporation tax to the profi t before tax 
are as follows:
 
 THE GROUP
 –––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
 2011 2010
 ––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– –––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
 £m % £m %
Profit before tax 269.6  196.8 
Tax at the UK corporation tax rate  71.4 26.5 55.1 28.0
Tax effect of expenses / credits that are not deductible / 
taxable in determining taxable profi t 1.9 0.7 2.1 1.0
Depreciation of non-qualifying property 2.3 0.8 1.5 0.8
Exceptional costs not allowable for tax purposes 0.5 0.2 3.6 1.8
Deferred tax rate change (12.6) (4.7) (2.4) (1.2)
Property sales (4.1) (1.5) (3.2) (1.6)
Exceptional prior period adjustment (1.4) (0.5) - -
Prior period adjustment (0.8) (0.3) (1.2) (0.6)
Tax expense and effective tax rate for the year 57.2 21.2 55.5 28.2
The tax rate for the year of 26.5% is a blended rate of 28% up to 1 April 2011 and 26% thereafter. The tax charge for 2011 includes an exceptional credit of £12.6m 
arising from the reduction in the rate of UK corporation tax from 27% to 25% on 1 April 2012. Future changes reducing the corporation tax rate by 1% per annum 
to 23% by 1 April 2014 have been announced but not substantively enacted and therefore have not been taken into account.
 
 THE COMPANY
 –––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
 2011 2010
 ––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– –––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
 £m % £m %
Profi t / (loss) before tax 48.6  (8.2)
Intercompany dividends (79.1)  (40.3) 
Loss before tax and dividends received (30.5)  (48.5) 
Tax at the UK corporation tax rate (8.1) (26.5) (13.6) (28.0)
Tax effect of expenses / credits that are not deductible / 
taxable in determining taxable profi t (1.5) (5.0) (1.7) (3.5)
Prior year  (1.4) (4.6) - -
Deferred tax rate change 0.6 2.0 - -
Exceptional costs not allowable for tax purposes - - 3.6 7.4
Receipts in subsidiary taxable in company 0.3 1.0 1.3 2.7
Tax expense and effective tax rate for the year (10.1) (33.1) (10.4) (21.4) 98
Notes to the Financial Statements
12. Earnings per share
(a) Basic and diluted earnings per share
 2011 2010
Earnings £m £m
Earnings for the purposes of basic and diluted earnings per share being net profit attributable to equity holders of the Parent Company 212.4 141.3
Number of shares No. No.
Weighted average number of shares for the purposes of basic earnings per share pre BSS acquisition share issue 235,113,837 201,682,453
Issued in connection with the BSS acquisition 37,267 1,444,926
Weighted average number of shares for the purposes of basic earnings per share 235,151,104 203,127,379
Dilutive effect of share options on potential ordinary shares 8,057,058 7,099,195
Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purposes of diluted earnings per share 243,208,162 210,226,574
At 31 December 2011, 796,390 (2010: 2,450,045) share options had an exercise price in excess of the market value of the shares on that day. As a result, these 
share options are excluded from the calculation of diluted earnings per share.
(b) Adjusted earnings per share
Adjusted earnings per share are calculated by excluding the effect of the exceptional items and amortisation from earnings.
   2011 2010
   £m £m
Earnings for the purposes of basic and diluted earnings per share being net profi t attributable to 
equity holders of the Parent Company   212.4 141.3
Exceptional items   14.2 19.7
Amortisation of intangible assets   12.9 0.2
Tax on amortisation   (3.2) -
Tax on exceptional items   (4.7) (1.9)
Effect of reduction in corporation tax rate on deferred tax   (12.6) (2.4)
Adjusted earnings   219.0 156.9
Adjusted earnings per share   93.1p 77.2p
(c) Adjusted pro-forma earnings per share
    2010
    £m
Weighted average number of shares for the purposes of basic earnings per share pre BSS acquisition share issue    201,682,453
Issued in connection with the BSS acquisition assumed 1 January 2010    33,068,032
Weighted average number of shares for the purposes of proforma earnings per share    234,750,485
    2010
    £m
Earnings for adjusted earnings per share    156.9
BSS post tax pre acquisition earnings    40.6
Adjusted proforma earnings    197.5
Adjusted proforma earnings per share    84.1p FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
TRA VIS PERKINS ANNUAL REPOR T AND ACCOUNTS 2011
99
13. Dividends
Amounts were recognised in the financial statements as distributions to equity shareholders as follows:
   2011 2010
   £m £m
Final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2010 of 10p (2009: nil) per ordinary share   23.5 -
Interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2011 of 6.5p (2010: 5p) per ordinary share   15.3 10.1
Total dividend recognised during the year   38.8 10.1
The Company is proposing a fi nal dividend of 13.5p in respect of the year ended 31 December 2011.
Adjusted dividend cover of 4.7x (2010: 5.1x) is calculated by dividing adjusted earnings per share (note 12) of 93.1 pence (2010: 77.2 pence) by the total dividend 
for the year of 20.0 pence (2010: 15.0 pence).
There are no income tax consequences in respect of the dividends declared, but not recognised in the financial statements.
The dividends declared for 2011 at 31 December 2011 and for 2010 at 31 December 2010 were as follows:
   2011 2010
   Pence Pence
Interim paid   6.5 5.0
Final proposed   13.5 10.0
Total dividend for the year   20.0 15.0
14. Goodwill
 THE GROUP
  ––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
  BSS Retail Merchanting Total
Cost £m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2010 - 719.9 632.9 1,352.8
Recognised on acquisitions during the year (note 30) 191.8 - 153.2 345.0
At 1 January 2011 191.8 719.9 786.1 1,697.8
Recognised on acquisitions during the year - 8.4 - 8.4
At 31 December 2011 191.8 728.3 786.1 1,706.2
The following is an analysis of goodwill by CGU (‘Cash Generating Unit’). 
Name of CGU    Amount of Goodwill
    £m
CCF    43.6
City Plumbing Supplies    175.4
Keyline    101.5
Travis Perkins    465.6
Tile Giant    26.8
Wickes    701.5
PTS    133.7
BSS Industrial    27.8
F&P    30.3
    1,706.2
On the acquisition of the BSS Group £153.2m of goodwill, which represented synergies derived principally from cost savings arising from the acquisition, was 
allocated to the City Plumbing Supplies (£101.2m), Travis Perkins (£29.5m) and Keyline (£22.5m) CGU’s. 100
Notes to the Financial Statements
14. Goodwill continued
The Group tests goodwill and other non monetary assets for impairment annually or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill might be impaired. 
The recoverable amounts of the CGUs are determined from value in use calculations. The key assumptions for the value in use calculations are those regarding 
the discount rates, growth rates and forecast cash flows during the period. Management estimates discount rates using pre-tax rates that reflect current market 
assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the CGUs. 
The turnover growth rates in each CGU are based on the Directors’ forecasts for the next 1 to 4 years. Changes in selling prices and direct costs used in the 
calculations are based on past practices and expectations of future changes in the market. 
At the beginning and end of the financial period the fair value of goodwill and intangible assets in all segments was in excess of their book value. The Directors’ 
calculations have shown that no impairments have occurred. The key assumptions applied in the value in use calculations were:
● Cash flow forecasts which were derived from the most recent financial budgets and plans, which were approved by the directors. Cash flows for the following 
year are extrapolated from cash flows produced for the budget period using similar assumptions to those applied to the final year of the budget;
● The weighted average cost of capital (‘WACC’) of the Group, which is used as the discount rate, is 6.9%, which is not significantly different for any individual CGU;
●   Long-term forecast growth rates of 2.5% in line with the average long-term GDP growth trend applied from 2017 onwards. 
Whilst management believe the assumptions are realistic, it is possible that an impairment would be identifi ed if any of the above key assumptions were changed 
signifi cantly. For instance factors which could cause an impairment are:
● Significant underperformance relative to the forecast results;
● Changes to the way the assets are used or changes to the strategy for the business;
● A deterioration in the industry or in the economy.
The impairment review calculations are based upon anticipated discounted future cash fl ows. These calculations are sensitive to changes in future cash fl ows, the 
discount rate applied and the terminal growth rate. The Directors believe the assumptions used are appropriate, but have conducted a sensitivity analysis to determine 
the assumptions, all other assumptions remaining the same, that would result in an impairment to goodwill and intangibles of £1m and these are as follows:
      
Name of CGU   Discount rate Long term growth rate
  ––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
CCF   27.5% (18.0%)
City Plumbing Supplies   13.5% (4.1%)
Keyline   10.3% (0.9%)
Tile Giant   13.3% (6.4%)
Travis Perkins   19.1% (9.7%)
Wickes   8.7% 0.3%
PTS   12.1% (2.8%)
BSS Industrial   24.2% (14.8%)
F&P    18.1% (8.7%)
The Company has no goodwill. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
TRA VIS PERKINS ANNUAL REPOR T AND ACCOUNTS 2011
101
15. Other intangible assets
 
 THE GROUP
 –––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
 Brand Computer software Customer relationships Total
Cost or valuation £m £m £m £m
 
At 1 January 2010 162.5 - - 162.5
On acquisition of subsidiary 112.8 9.9 135.0 257.7
At 31 December 2010 275.3 9.9 135.0 420.2
Disposals (6.6) (1.5) (2.5) (10.6)
At 31 December 2011  268.7 8.4 132.5 409.6
Amortisation    
At 1 January 2010 - - - -
Charged to operating profi t in the year - - 0.2 0.2
Charged to exceptional item - 8.1 - 8.1
At 31 December 2010 - 8.1 0.2 8.3
Charged to operating profi t in the year 0.3 0.4 12.2 12.9
Disposals - (0.4) (0.1) (0.5)
At 31 December 2011 0.3 8.1 12.3 20.7
Net book value    
At 31 December 2011 268.4 0.3 120.2 388.9
At 31 December 2010 275.3 1.8 134.8 411.9
On the acquisition of The BSS Group plc the following brands were recognised: 
● PTS £40.9m;
● BSS Industrial £49.3m;
● F&P £8.5m;
● Others £14.1m.
These brands together with the Wickes brand of £162.5m are all considered to be leading brands in their sectors with signifi cant growth prospects. They are 
considered, therefore, to have an indefi nite useful life and are reviewed annually for impairment. Acquired customer relationships are amortised over their estimated 
useful lives, which range from 5 to 15 years.
Details of impairment testing are given in note 14. No impairments were identified in either year.
The Company has no intangible assets. 102
Notes to the Financial Statements
16. Property, plant and equipment 
 THE GROUP THE COMPANY
 ––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– ––––––––––––––––––––
  Long Short Plant &  Plant &
 Freehold  leases  leases equipment Total equipment
 £m £m £m £m £m £m
Cost or valuation
At 1 January 2010 258.1 25.0 113.8 411.2 808.1 0.5
Additions 10.8 2.7 2.1 36.3 51.9 0.2
Additions from acquired businesses 7.1 1.0 6.1 23.4 37.6 -
Reclassifi cations to current assets (0.3) (1.0) - - (1.3) -
Disposals (1.1) - (1.0) (13.6) (15.7) (0.1)
At 1 January 2011 274.6 27.7 121.0 457.3 880.6 0.6
Additions 28.2 1.3 9.4 69.2 108.1 0.1
Reclassifi cations  1.5 (0.9) 9.5 (10.1) - -
Disposals (3.1) - (5.4) (29.6) (38.1) -
At 31 December 2011 301.2 28.1 134.5 486.8 950.6 0.7
Accumulated depreciation      
At 1 January 2010 31.6 4.3 35.1 238.1 309.1 0.4
Charged this year 4.0 0.6 7.0 45.9 57.5 0.1
Reclassifi cations to current assets (0.1) (0.3) - - (0.4) -
Disposals (0.4) - (0.4) (11.9) (12.7) -
At 1 January 2011 35.1 4.6 41.7 272.1 353.5 0.5
Charged this year 4.5 0.6 10.1 48.7 63.9 -
Disposals (0.7) 0.2 (3.1) (25.8) (29.4) -
At 31 December 2011 38.9 5.4 48.7 295.0 388.0 0.5
Net book value      
At 31 December 2011 262.3 22.7 85.8 191.8 562.6 0.2
At 31 December 2010 239.5 23.1 79.3 185.2 527.1 0.1
The cost element of the fi xed assets carrying value is analysed as follows:
 THE GROUP THE COMPANY
 ––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– –––––––––––––––––––
  Long Short Plant and   
 Freehold leases leases equipment Total Total
 £m £m £m £m £m £m
At valuation 65.7 6.1 1.9 - 73.7 -
At cost 235.5 22.0 132.6 486.8 876.9 0.7
 301.2 28.1 134.5 486.8 950.6 0.7
Those freehold and leasehold properties included at valuation in the consolidated balance sheet were revalued at their open market value on an existing use basis. 
The valuations were performed as at 31 December 1999 by an independent professional valuer, Lambert Smith Hampton, Consultant Surveyors and Valuers.
Included within freehold property is land with a value of £115.0m (2010: £98.0m) which is not depreciated. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
TRA VIS PERKINS ANNUAL REPOR T AND ACCOUNTS 2011
103
16. Property, plant and equipment continued
The carrying amount of assets held under finance leases is analysed as follows:
 
 THE GROUP THE COMPANY
 –––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– –––––––––––––––––––
  Long Short Plant &   
  leases leases equipment Total Total
  £m £m £m £m £m
2011  0.8 10.7 - 11.5 -
2010  0.8 11.9 1.3 14.0 -
Comparable amounts determined according to the historical cost convention:
 THE GROUP THE COMPANY
 ––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– –––––––––––––––––––
  Long Short Plant &   
 Freehold leases leases equipment Total Total
 £m £m £m £m £m £m
Cost 297.0 26.8 143.1 486.8 953.7 0.7
Accumulated depreciation (55.2) (6.6) (54.5) (295.0) (411.3) (0.5)
Net book value
At 31 December 2011 241.8 20.2 88.6 191.8 542.4 0.2
At 31 December 2010 217.7 20.6 82.2 184.2 504.7 0.1
17. Investment property 
  THE GROUP
  ––––––––––––––––––––––
    £m
Cost 
At 1 January 2010    3.9
Disposals    (3.4)
Cost at 31 December 2010 and 31 December 2011    0.5
Accumulated depreciation 
At 1 January 2010    0.6
Provided in 2010    (0.5)
At 31 December 2010 and 31 December 2011    0.1
Net book value 
At 31 December 2010 and 31 December 2011    0.4
Investment property rental income totalled £nil (2010: £nil). The Group also receives income from subletting all or part of 100 ex-trading and trading properties, the 
amount of which is not material.
No external valuation has been performed and therefore, the Directors have estimated that the fair value of investment property equates to its carrying value. 
The Company has no investment property. 104
Notes to the Financial Statements
18. Investments
(a) Interest in associates and joint ventures
 THE GROUP THE COMPANY
 ––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– –––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
 2011 2010 2011 2010
 £m £m £m £m
Equity investment 18.0 17.5 17.9 17.4
Loan facility 30.3 28.5 30.3 28.5
Interest on loan facility 10.3 6.4 10.3 6.4
Share of losses (7.3) (6.7) - -
 51.3 45.7 58.5 52.3
On 4 April 2008, Travis Perkins plc acquired a 30% investment in Toolstation Limited for a total consideration of £5.2m with a further £12.0m paid in 2010. In 
addition, Travis Perkins plc has provided a non-revolving loan facility totalling £27.8m. In the year to 31 December 2011 Toolstation recognised total revenues of 
£103.8m and a loss before tax of £2.2m. At 31 December 2011, total aggregate assets were £34.3m and total aggregate liabilities (including the loan facility 
provided by Travis Perkins plc) were £63.2m. On 3 January 2012, Travis Perkins plc acquired the remaining 70% of the issued share capital for a consideration of 
£24.2m (note 30). Travis Perkins plc holds a 49% investment in The Mosaic Tile Company Limited and in 2011, acquired a 25% investment in Rinus Roofi ng Limited.
(b) Shares in group undertakings
  THE COMPANY
  –––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
   2011 2010
   £m £m
Cost at 1 January   2,714.8 1,912.1
Reclassifi cation of loans and receivables (note 25)   173.8 -
Additions   1.2 802.7
Cost at 31 December   2,889.8 2,714.8
Provision for impairment    (17.0) (17.0)
Net book value at 31 December   2,872.8 2,697.8
The principal operating companies of the Group at 31 December 2011 are as follows:
Travis Perkins Trading Company Limited* (Builders merchants)
Keyline Builders Merchants Limited* (Builders merchants) 
Wickes Building Supplies Limited (DIY retailers)
City Plumbing Supplies Holdings Limited (Plumbers merchants)
CCF Limited* (Ceiling & dry lining distribution)
Travis Perkins (Properties) Limited* (Property management company)
Benchmarx Kitchens and Joinery Limited (Specialist distribution)
Tile Giant Limited (Ceramic tile merchants)
PTS Group Limited (Plumbing and Heating Merchants)
*Direct subsiduary of Travis Perkins plc
The registered office for all the subsidiaries listed above is: Lodge Way House, Harlestone Road, Northampton NN5 7UG, except for Keyline Builders Merchants 
Limited, for which the registered office is Suite S3, 8 Strathkelvin Place, Kirkintilloch, Glasgow G66 1XT.
The Directors have applied s409 to s410 of the Companies Act 2006 and therefore list only signifi cant subsidiary companies.
All subsidiaries are 100% owned. Each company is registered and incorporated in England and Wales, other than Keyline Builders Merchants Limited and eight 
dormant companies, which are registered and incorporated in Scotland, City Investments Limited, which is registered and incorporated in Jersey and two dormant 
companies registered and incorporated in Northern Ireland. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
TRA VIS PERKINS ANNUAL REPOR T AND ACCOUNTS 2011
105
18. Investments continued
(c) Available-for-sale investments
 THE GROUP THE COMPANY
 ––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– –––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
 2011 2010 2011 2010 
 £m £m £m £m
Fair value investment 1.5 1.5 - -
The investment represents a minority holding in a unit trust that acquired properties from the Group in 2006. The investment presents the Group with an opportunity 
to generate returns through both income and capital gains. The Directors consider that the carrying amount of this investment approximates its fair value.
19. Trade and other receivables
 THE GROUP THE COMPANY
 ––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– –––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
 2011 2010 2011 2010
 £m £m £m £m
Trade receivables 585.7 575.4 - -
Allowance for doubtful debts (54.5) (44.4) - -
 531.2 531.0 - -
Amounts owed by subsidiaries - - 208.1 205.5
Other receivables, prepayments and accrued income 211.8 156.2 6.0 2.9
Trade and other receivables 743.0 687.2 214.1 208.4
The Group’s trade and other receivables at the balance sheet date comprise principally of amounts receivable from the sale of goods, together with amounts due in 
respect of rebates and sundry prepayments. The Directors consider the only class of asset containing signifi cant credit risk is trade receivables. The average credit 
term taken for sales of goods is 55 days (2010: 55 days). 
The amounts presented in the balance sheet are net of allowances for doubtful debts of £54.5m (2010: £44.4m), estimated by the Group’s management based on 
prior experience and their assessment of the current economic environment. The Directors consider the carrying amount of trade and other receivables approximates 
their fair values.
No interest is charged on the trade receivable from the date of the invoice until the date the invoice is classified as overdue according to the trading terms agreed 
between the Group and the customer. Thereafter, the Group retains the right to charge interest between 2% to 4% above the clearing bank base rate per annum on 
the outstanding balance. The business has provided fully for all receivables outstanding for more than 90 days beyond agreed terms. Trade receivables not receivable 
for up to 90 days are specifically provided for based on estimated irrecoverable amounts. 
Movement in the allowance for doubtful debts
  THE GROUP
  –––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
   2011 2010
   £m £m
At 1 January   44.4 34.5
Arising on acquisition   - 5.2
Amounts written off during the year   (10.2) (5.3)
Increase in allowance recognised in the income statement   20.3 10.0
At 31 December   54.5 44.4
In determining the recoverability of the trade receivables, the Group considers any change in the credit quality of the trade receivable that may have occurred 
between the date credit was initially granted and the reporting date. The concentration of credit risk is limited due to the customer base being large. Accordingly, the 
Directors believe that no further credit provision is required in excess of the allowance for doubtful debts.
Included in the Group’s trade receivable balance are unprovided against debtors with a carrying amount of £65.9m (2010: £70.4m) which are past due at the 
reporting date for which the Group has not identified a significant change in credit quality and as such, the Group considers that the amounts are still recoverable. 
Except for some instances of personal guarantees the Group does not hold any collateral over these balances.  106
Notes to the Financial Statements
19. Trade and other receivables continued
Ageing of past due but not impaired receivables
Days overdue
  THE GROUP
  –––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
   2011 2010
   £m £m
0 – 30 days   53.0 54.7
31 – 60 days   9.2 9.4
61 – 90 days   3.7 6.3
   65.9 70.4
Included in the allowance for doubtful debts are specifi c trade receivables with a balance of £30.7m (2010: £24.0m) which have been placed into liquidation. The 
impairment represents the difference between the carrying amount of the specifi c trade receivable and the amount it is anticipated will be recovered.
None of the Company’s debts are overdue. The directors do not consider there to be any significant credit risk, as the majority of the debt is due from subsidiaries.
20. Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash held by the Group and Company net of overdrafts. The carrying amount of these assets approximates their fair value.
21. Share capital
 THE GROUP AND THE COMPANY
 –––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
 Issued and fully paid
 –––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
Ordinary shares of 10p    No. £m
At 1 January 2010    208,631,466 20.9
Allotted on acquisition of BSS    33,000,681 3.3
Allotted under share option schemes    69,770 -
At 1 January 2011    241,701,917 24.2
Allotted in respect of acquisition of BSS    67,351 -
Allotted under share option schemes    2,047,265 0.2
At 31 December 2011    243,816,533 24.4
The Company has one class of ordinary share that carries no right to fi xed income. The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends as declared from 
time to time and are entitled to one vote per share at meetings of the Company. All shares rank equally with regard to the Company’s residual assets.
22. Own shares
 THE GROUP AND THE COMPANY
 –––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
   2011 2010
   No. No.
At 1 January    6,961,930 7,000,690
Re-issued during the year   (656,563) (38,760)
At 31 December    6,305,367 6,961,930
Allocated to grants of executive options   289,142 289,142
Not allocated to grants of executive options   6,016,225 6,672,788
   6,305,367 6,961,930
The own shares are stated at cost and held by the Employee Share Ownership Trust to satisfy options under the Group’s share option schemes. All rights attaching 
to own shares are suspended until the shares are re-issued.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
TRA VIS PERKINS ANNUAL REPOR T AND ACCOUNTS 2011
107
23. Reserves
Details of all movements in reserves for both the Group and Company are shown in the Statement of Changes in Equity. A description of the nature and purpose of 
each reserve is given below.
●
  The revaluation reserve represents the revaluation surplus that has arisen from property revaluations in 1999 and prior years;
●
   The hedging reserve comprises the effective portion of the cumulative net change in the fair value of cash fl ow hedging instruments related to hedged transactions 
that have yet to occur; 
●
   The own shares reserve represents the cost of shares purchased in the market and held by the Employee Share Ownership Trust to satisfy options under the 
Group’s share option schemes;
●
    The merger reserve represents the premium on equity instruments issued as consideration for the acquisition of BSS.
The cumulative total of goodwill written off directly to reserves for acquisitions from December 1989 to December 1998 is £40.1m. The aggregate information for 
the accounting periods prior to this period is not available.
24. Borrowings
A summary of the Group policies and strategies with regard to fi nancial instruments can be found in the Finance Director’s review of the year on pages 30 to 34. 
At 31 December 2011 all borrowings were made in Sterling except for the unsecured senior notes (note 25 (i)).
(a) Summary
 THE GROUP THE COMPANY
 ––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– –––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
 2011 2010 2011 2010
 £m £m £m £m
Unsecured senior notes 279.3 366.0 279.3 286.4
Liability to pension SPV (note 8) 37.2 36.1 - -
Bank loans (note 24c)* 323.2 401.9 385.0 475.0
Bank overdraft* - 12.0 1.6 1.9
Finance leases (note 24d) 20.3 21.8 - -
Loan notes (note 24e) 3.3 3.3 3.3 3.3
Finance charges netted off bank debt*  (1.5) (4.6) (1.5) (4.6)
 661.8 836.5 667.7 762.0
Current liabilities 63.6 75.6 74.9 75.2
Non-current liabilities 598.2 760.9 592.8 686.8
 661.8 836.5 667.7 762.0
*These balances together total the amounts shown as bank loans in note 24(b). 
(b) Analysis of borrowings
 THE GROUP
 –––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
 Bank loans 
  and overdrafts Other borrowings
 ––––––––––––––––––––––––––– –––––––––––––––––––––––––––
 2011 2010 2011 2010
 £m £m £m £m
Borrowings repayable 
On demand or within one year 58.8 70.8 4.8 4.8
More than one year, but not more than two years 262.9 58.8 138.5 1.5
More than two years, but not more than fi ve years - 279.7 147.2 187.8
More than fi ve years - - 49.6 233.1
 321.7 409.3 340.1 427.2 108
Notes to the Financial Statements
24. Borrowings continued
 THE COMPANY
 –––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
 Bank loans 
 and overdrafts Other borrowings
 ––––––––––––––––––––––––––– –––––––––––––––––––––––––––
 2011 2010 2011 2010
 £m £m £m £m
Borrowings repayable     
On demand or within one year 71.6 71.9 3.3 3.3
More than one year, but not more than two years 313.5 70.0 136.9 142.2
More than two years, but not more than fi ve years - 330.4 142.4 -
More than fi ve years - - - 144.2
 385.1 472.3 282.6 289.7
(c) Facilities
At 31 December 2011, the Group had the following bank facilities available:
 THE GROUP THE COMPANY
 ––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– –––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
 2011 2010 2011 2010
 £m £m £m £m
Drawn facilities     
5 year term loan 323.2 382.0 385.0 455.0
5 year revolving credit facility - 20.0 - 20.0
Unsecured senior notes 279.3 366.0 279.3 286.4
Bank overdrafts - 12.0 1.6 1.9
 602.5 780.0 665.9 763.3
Undrawn facilities    
5 year revolving credit facility 475.0 455.0 475.0 455.0
Bank overdrafts 40.0 38.4 38.4 38.1
 515.0 493.4 513.4 493.1
The disclosures in note 24(c) do not include fi nance leases, loan notes, or the effect of fi nance charges netted off bank debt.
(d) Obligations under finance leases
 THE GROUP
 –––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
  Present value
 Minimum of minimum
 lease payments lease payments
 ––––––––––––––––––––––––––– –––––––––––––––––––––––––––
 2011 2010 2011 2010
 £m £m £m £m
Amounts payable under fi nance leases:
Within one year 2.7 2.7 1.5 1.5
In the second to fi fth years inclusive 10.0 10.3 6.4 6.3
After fi ve years 21.3 23.6 12.4 14.0
 34.0 36.6 20.3 21.8
Less: future fi nance charges (13.7) (14.8) - -
Present value of lease obligations 20.3 21.8 20.3 21.8
Less: Amount due for settlement within 1 year (shown under current liabilities)   (1.5) (1.5)
Amount due for settlement after 1 year   18.8 20.3
The Group considers certain properties to be subject to fi nance leases. Excluding 999-year leases, the average loan term for these properties is 49 years and the 
average borrowing rate has been determined at the inception of the lease to be 9.0%. Interest rates are fi xed at the contract date. All lease obligations, which are 
denominated in Sterling, are on a fi xed repayment basis and no arrangements have been entered into for contingent rental payments. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
TRA VIS PERKINS ANNUAL REPOR T AND ACCOUNTS 2011
109
24. Borrowings continued
(e) Loan notes 
Included in borrowings due within one year are £3.3m (2010: £3.3m) in respect of loan notes issued as consideration for the acquisition of Broombys Limited in 
1999. They are redeemable on 30 June and 31 December each year until the fi nal redemption date of 30 June 2015. 
(f) Interest
The weighted average interest rates paid were as follows:
   2011 2010
   % %
Unsecured senior notes   5.8 5.8
Bank loans and overdraft   1.8 1.8
Other borrowings   6.0 6.0
Bank term loans and revolving credit facilities of £798m (2010: £857m) were arranged at variable interest rates. The $400m unsecured Travis Perkins senior notes 
were issued at fi xed rates of interest and swapped into variable rates. This exposes the Group to fair value interest rate risk. As detailed in note 25, to manage the 
risk the Group enters into interest rate derivatives arrangements, which for 2011, fi xed interest rates on an average of £335m of borrowing. For the year to 31 
December 2011 this had the effect of increasing the weighted average interest rates paid by 1.4%.
In respect of income earning financial assets and interest bearing financial liabilities, the following table indicates their effective interest rates at the balance sheet 
date and the periods in which they reprice.
 THE GROUP
 –––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
 2011 2010
 ––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– –––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
  6 months or less   6 months or less
 Effective Total Effective Total
 interest rate £m  interest rate  £m
Unsecured senior notes 5.8% 279.3 5.8% 366.0
Unsecured variable rate bank facilities 2.3% 323.2 1.8% 401.9
Loan notes 6.0% 3.3 6.0% 3.3
Bank overdraft - - 2.3% 12.0
  605.8  783.2
 THE COMPANY
 –––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
 2011 2010
 ––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– –––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
  6 months or less   6 months or less
 Effective Total Effective Total
 interest rate £m  interest rate  £m
Unsecured senior notes 5.8% 279.3 5.8% 286.4
Unsecured variable rate bank facilities 2.3% 385.0 1.8% 475.0
Loan notes 6.0% 3.3 6.0% 3.3
Bank overdraft 2.3% 1.6 2.3% 1.9
  669.2  766.6
(g) Fair values
For both the Group and the Company the fair values of fi nancial assets and liabilities have been calculated by discounting expected cash fl ows at prevailing rates at 
31 December. There were no signifi cant differences between book and fair values on this basis and therefore no further information is disclosed.
Details of the fair values of derivatives are given in note 25.
(h) Guarantees and security
There are cross guarantees on the overdrafts between group companies.
The companies listed in note 18, with the exception of Benchmarx Kitchens and Joinery Limited, Tile Giant Limited and The BSS Group Limited, together with Wickes 
Limited are guarantors of the following facilities advanced to Travis Perkins plc:
●
    £323m term loan;
●
  £475m revolving credit facility;
●
  $400m unsecured senior notes (note 24(i));
●
 Interest rate and currency derivatives, (note 25).
The group companies have entered into other guarantee and counter-indemnity arrangements in respect of guarantees issued in favour of group companies by the 
clearing banks amounting to approximately £16.1m (2010: £21.1m). 110
Notes to the Financial Statements
24. Borrowings continued
(i) Unsecured senior notes
The US private placement carries fi xed rate coupons of between 130 bps and 140 bps over US treasuries. As described in note 25, to protect itself from currency 
movements and bring interest rate exposures back into line with the Group’s desired risk profi le the Group entered into four cross currency swaps. 
(j) Forward start facility
On 14 December 2011 The Group signed a new £550m forward start banking agreement with a syndicate of banks. The £550m revolving credit facility which runs 
until December 2016 can be drawn from April 2013, the expiry date of the Group’s existing £800m facility agreement.
25. Financial instruments
(a) Significant accounting policies
Details of the signifi cant accounting policies and methods adopted, including the criteria for recognition, the basis of measurement and the basis on which income 
and expenses are recognised, in respect of each class of fi nancial asset, fi nancial liability and equity instrument are disclosed in note 2 to the fi nancial statements.
(b) The carrying value of categories of financial instruments
 THE GROUP THE COMPANY
 ––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– –––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
 2011 2010 2011 2010
 £m £m £m £m
Financial assets     
Designated as fair value through profi t and loss (FVTPL) 3.1 0.1 3.1 0.1
Derivative instruments in designated hedge accounting relationships 40.3 56.9 40.3 0.3
Loans and receivables (including cash and cash equivalents) 753.5 679.9 214.1 395.2
Available-for-sale 1.5 1.5 - -
 798.4 738.4 257.5 395.6
    
Financial liabilities     
Designated as fair value through profi t and loss (FVTPL) 3.3 4.1 3.3 124.7
Derivative instruments in designated hedge accounting relationships 2.6 2.6 2.6 2.6
Borrowings (note 24a) 661.8 836.5 667.7 762.0
Trade and other payables at amortised cost (note 28) 872.7  835.6 19.0 26.7
 1,540.4 1,678.8 692.6 916.0
Loans and receivables exclude prepayments of £68.1m (2010: £70.2m). Trade and other payables exclude taxation and social security and accruals and deferred 
income totalling £215.6m (2010: £168.9m).
The carrying amount of financial assets recorded in the financial statements, which is net of impairment losses, represents the Group’s maximum exposure to 
credit risk.
(c) Fair value of financial instruments
The fair values of fi nancial assets and fi nancial liabilities are determined as follows:
●
 Foreign currency forward contracts are measured using quoted forward exchange rates; 
●
 Interest rate swaps are measured at the present value of future cash flows estimated and discounted based on the applicable yield curves derived from quoted 
interest rates.
The following table provides an analysis of fi nancial instruments that are measured subsequent to initial recognition at fair value, grouped into Levels 1 to 3 based 
on the degree to which the fair value is observable:
●
 Level 1 fair value measurements are those derived from quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities;
●
  Level 2 fair value measurements are those derived from inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability either 
directly (i.e. as prices ) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices); and
●
  Level 3 fair value measurements are those derived from valuation techniques that include inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market 
data (unobservable inputs).
There were no transfers between levels during the year. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
TRA VIS PERKINS ANNUAL REPOR T AND ACCOUNTS 2011
111
25. Financial instruments continued
Included in assets
 THE GROUP THE COMPANY
 ––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– –––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
 2011 2010 2011 2010
 £m £m £m £m
Level 2   
Foreign currency forward contracts at fair value through profi t and loss 3.1 0.1 3.1 0.1
Foreign currency forward contracts designated and effective 
as hedging instruments carried at fair value 0.1 0.3 0.1 0.3
Cross currency interest rate swaps designated and effective
as hedging instruments carried at fair value 40.2 54.1 40.2 -
Cross currency interest rate swaps designated and effective
as cash hedging instruments - 2.5 - -
 43.4 57.0 43.4 0.4
Current assets 3.1 0.1 3.1 0.1
Non-current assets 40.3 56.9 40.3 0.3
 43.4 57.0 43.4 0.4
Included in liabilities 
    
Level 2    
Foreign currency forward contracts at fair value through profi t and loss - 1.0 - 1.0
Interest rate swaps at fair value through profi t and loss  3.3 4.1 3.3 4.1
Interest rate swaps designated and effective as cash hedging instruments 2.6 1.6 2.6 1.6
Cross currency interest rate swaps designated and effective
as hedging instruments carried at fair value  - - - 120.5
 5.9 6.7 5.9 127.2
Current liabilities - 2.5 - 2.5
Non-current liabilities 5.9 4.2 5.9 124.7
 5.9 6.7 5.9 127.2
(d) Interest risk management
The Group is exposed to interest rate risk as entities in the Group borrow funds at both fi xed and fl oating interest rates. The risk is managed by the Group by 
maintaining an appropriate mix between fi xed and fl oating rate borrowings, by the use of interest rate swap contracts and forward interest rate contracts. Hedging 
activities are evaluated regularly to align with interest rate views and defi ned risk appetite, ensuring optimal hedging strategies are applied, by either positioning the 
balance sheet or protecting interest expense through different interest rate cycles.
Interest rate swaps
The Group adopts a policy of ensuring that its exposure to changes in interest rates on borrowings either is on a fi xed rate basis or is subject to movements within 
pre-defi ned limits. To achieve its desired interest rate profi le the Group uses interest rate swaps. 
As part of their interest rate management processes, in respect of the facilities described in note 24, the Group and the Company at the commencement of the 
year were parties to four amortising swaps each with an initial notional value of £100m, two amortising swaps with an initial notional value of £50m and two non 
amortising swaps each with a notional value of £50m, all expiring on 11 May 2011. On the 11 May 2011, the Group and the Company entered into five amortising 
swaps each with an initial notional value of £45m. Contracts with notional values of £200m are designated as cash flow hedges with fixed interest payments at an 
average rate of 1.71% for periods up until May 2014 and have floating interest receipts equal to 1 month LIBOR. The non-amortising interest rate swap with a call 
option has a notional value of £50m with fixed interest payments at a rate of 4.595% for periods up until October 2013 and has floating interest payments equal 
to 6 month LIBOR.
At 31 December 2011 the fair value of interest rate derivatives, all of which terminate before three years from the balance sheet date, to which the Group and the 
Company were parties was estimated at £5.9m (2010: £5.7m). This amount is based on market values of equivalent instruments at the balance sheet date. Interest 
rate swaps excluding those with a call option are designated and effective as cash flow hedges and the fair value thereof has been deferred in equity. A credit of 
£0.9m (2010: charge £0.7m) in respect of the fair value movement on interest rate swaps with a call option has been taken to the income statement through net 
finance charges as the Group has not applied hedge accounting. 112
Notes to the Financial Statements
25. Financial instruments continued
Interest rate swap contracts
Under interest rate swap contracts, the Group agrees to exchange the difference between fi xed and fl oating interest rate amounts calculated on agreed notional 
principal amounts. Such contracts enable the Group to mitigate the risk of changing interest rates on the fair value of issued fi xed rate debt held and the cash fl ow 
exposures on the issued variable rate debt held. The fair value of interest rate swaps at the reporting date is determined by discounting the future cash fl ows using 
the curves at the reporting date and the credit risk inherent in the contract, and is disclosed below. The average interest rate is based on the outstanding balances 
at the end of the fi nancial year.
The following table details the notional principal amounts and remaining terms of interest rate swap contracts as at the reporting date:
Cash fl ow hedges – outstanding receive fl oating pay fi xed contracts
  
  Average contract fi xed interest rate  Notional principle amount Fair value
 –––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– –––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– –––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010
 % % £m £m £m £m
Less than 1 year - 1.52% - 400.0 - (1.6)
2 to 5 years 1.17% - 200.0 - (2.6) -
Greater than 5 years - 5.40% - 29.0 - 2.5
   200.0 429.0 (2.6) 0.9
The interest rate swaps settle on a monthly basis. The fl oating rate on the interest rate swaps is 1 month LIBOR. The Group will settle the difference between the fi xed 
and fl oating interest rate on a net basis. All interest rate swap contracts exchanging fl oating rate interest amounts for fi xed rate interest amounts are designated as 
cash fl ow hedges in order to reduce the Group’s cash fl ow exposure resulting from variable interest rates on borrowings. The interest rate swaps and the interest rate 
payments on the loan occur simultaneously and the amount deferred in equity is recognised in the income statement over the period that the fl oating rate interest 
payments on debt affect profi t or loss.
(e) Currency swaps and currency forward contracts
In order to eliminate the currency risk associated with the $400m unsecured senior notes described in note 24(i) the Group and Company has four cross currency 
swaps in varying amounts between £23m and £58m to fi x the exchange rate at £1 equal to $1.73 for the entire lives of $290m of the unsecured loan notes. The 
forward options fi xed the notional amount receivable and payable in respect of the unsecured senior notes to £168m as well as fi xing the exchange rate applicable 
to future coupon payments.
The Group and the Company has three forward contracts with a notional value of $30m each and one with a notional value of £20m to hedge $110m of unsecured 
senior notes. These contracts have a maturity date of January 2016. At 31 December 2011 the fair value of these forward contracts was estimated at £0.1m 
(2010: £0.3m).
The interest rate swaps settle on a half-yearly basis. The floating rate on the interest rate swaps is 6 months LIBOR. The Group will settle the difference between 
the fixed and floating interest on a net basis.
The currency swaps manage the Group’s and the Company’s exposure to the fixed interest rate on the US dollar denominated borrowing arising out of a private 
placement on 26 January 2006. There are two interest rate swaps of £58m that convert the borrowing rate on $200m of debt from 5.77% to a variable rate on 6 
month LIBOR plus a weighted average basis point increment of 81.9. At 26 January 2006 the variable rates were both at 5.43%. A further two interest rate swaps 
of £29m and £23m convert the borrowing rates on US$50m, US$40m of debt from 5.89% to a variable rate based on six month LIBOR plus basis point increment 
of 86.5 and 86.7 respectively. At 26 January 2006 the variable rates were at weighted average 5.47%.
In order to eliminate the currency risk associated with the BSS private placement of $125m The BSS Group plc entered into three cross currency interest rate 
swaps to fix the exchange rate at £1 equal to $1.73 for the entire duration of the private placement. The private placement was repaid in June and July 2011 and 
consequently all three cross currency swaps were settled. The aggregate net loss from these transactions was £4.4m, which is shown as an exceptional item.
During 2010 the Group and Company novated one cross currency interest rate swap with a notional value of $110m and a sterling equivalent of £63m for total 
proceeds of £13.7m in the Group and £16.3m in the Company. The proceeds are being amortised to the income statement over the remaining life of the unsecured 
senior notes.
Fair value hedges – outstanding receive fi xed pay fl oating contracts
  
  Average contract fl oating interest rate  Notional principle amount Fair value
 –––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– –––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– –––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010
 % % £m £m £m £m
1 to 2 years 1.9% - 115.6 - 23.5 -
2 to 5 years 1.9% 1.8% 52.0 158.6 16.7 38.7
Greater than 5 years - 1.8% - 52.0 - 15.4
   167.6 210.6 40.2 54.1 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
TRA VIS PERKINS ANNUAL REPOR T AND ACCOUNTS 2011
113
25. Financial instruments continued
Interest rate swap contracts exchanging fi xed rate interest for fl oating rate interest are designated and effective as fair value hedges in respect of interest rates. 
During the period, the hedge was 100% effective in hedging the fair value exposure to interest movements and as a result, the carrying amount of the loan was 
adjusted by £36.9m (2010: £38.4m), which was included in the income statement at the same time that the fair value of the interest rate swap was included in 
the income statement.
The Group acquires goods for sale from overseas, which when not denominated in Sterling are paid for principally in US dollars. The Group has entered into 
forward foreign exchange contracts (all of which are less than one year in duration) to buy US dollars to hedge the exchange risk arising from these anticipated future 
purchases. At the balance sheet date the total notional value of contracts to which the Group was committed was US$120.3m (2010: US$93.6m). The fair value of 
these derivatives is £3.1m (2010: [£0.9m]). These contracts have not been designated as hedges and accordingly the fair value movement has been reflected in 
the income statement.
(f) Liquidity analysis
The following table details the Group’s liquidity analysis for its derivative financial instruments and other financial liabilities. The table has been drawn up based on 
the undiscounted net cash inflows / (outflows) on the derivative instrument that settle on a net basis and the undiscounted gross inflows and (outflows) on those 
derivatives that require gross settlement. When the amount payable or receivable is not fixed, the amount disclosed has been determined by reference to the 
projected interest and foreign currency rates as illustrated by the yield curves existing at the reporting date.
  2011
  ––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
  0-1 year 1-2 years 2-5 years 5+ years Total
  £m £m £m £m £m
Gross settled      
Interest rate swaps – receipts  10.9 139.3 63.0 - 213.2
Interest rate swaps – payments  (3.3) (118.9) (53.8) - (176.0)
  7.6 20.4 9.2 - 37.2
Foreign exchange forward contracts  (77.3) - (0.1) - (77.4)
Total gross settled  (69.7) 20.4 9.1 - (40.2)
Net settled     
Interest rate swaps  (1.4) (0.6) - - (2.0)
Total derivative fi nancial instruments  (71.1) 19.8 9.1 - (42.2)
Borrowings  (77.0) (407.3) (157.4) (37.2) (678.9)
Other fi nancial liabilities (note 28)  (872.7) - - - (872.7)
Finance leases (note 24d)  (2.7) (2.7) (7.3) (21.3) (34.0)
Total fi nancial instruments  (1,023.5) (390.2) (155.6) (58.5) (1,627.8)
  2010
  ––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
  0-1 year 1-2 years 2-5 years 5+ years Total
  £m £m £m £m £m
Gross settled      
Interest rate swaps – receipts  10.8 10.8 141.7 59.2 222.5
Interest rate swaps – payments  (2.9) (3.6) (122.0) (52.6) (181.1)
  7.9 7.2 19.7 6.6 41.4
Foreign exchange forward contracts  (57.4) - - (0.4) (57.8)
Total gross settled  (49.5) 7.2 19.7 6.2 (16.4)
Net settled     
Interest rate swaps  (0.8) (0.9) 1.1 0.1 (0.5)
Total derivative fi nancial instruments  (50.3) 6.3 20.8 6.3 (16.9)
Borrowings  (93.7) (78.5) (508.2) (211.3) (891.7)
Other fi nancial liabilities (note 28)  (831.0) - - - (831.0)
Finance leases (note 24d)  (2.7) (2.7) (7.6) (23.6) (36.6)
Total fi nancial instruments  (977.7) (74.9) (495.0) (228.6) (1,776.2) 114
Notes to the Financial Statements
25. Financial instruments continued
(g) Interest rate sensitivity analysis
The sensitivity analyses below have been determined based on the exposure to interest rates for both derivatives and non-derivative fi nancial instruments at the 
balance sheet date. For fl oating rate liabilities, the analysis is prepared assuming that the amount of liability outstanding at the balance sheet date was outstanding 
for the whole year. A 1.0% increase or decrease is used when reporting interest rate risk internally to key management personnel. If interest rates had been 1.0% 
higher / lower and all other variables were held constant, the Group’s:
●
   Profit before taxation for the year ended 31 December 2011 would have decreased / increased by £2.1m (2010: increased / decreased by £0.2m) including 
£0.7m (2010: £1m) of movement on interest rate swaps with options;
●
   Net equity would have increased / decreased by £0.6m (2010: increased / decreased by £0.2m) mainly because of the changes in the fair value of 
interest rate derivatives.
The Group’s sensitivity to interest rates has decreased during the current period mainly due to the increase in the nominal value of interest rate derivatives.
(h) The Company
On 15th October 2010, as part of financing arrangements in relation to the proposed reorganisation and integration of the Group’s plumbing and heating businesses, 
the Company agreed to pay amounts equal to a proportion of future US$ receipts under certain cross currency interest rate swaps to a subsidiary, as part of a 
contribution agreement entered into with it and a further subsidiary of the Company. The maximum amounts payable under the contribution agreement would have 
been US$273m. This transaction resulted in the derecognition of the fair value of these future US$ receipts from the balance sheet of the company. 
On 8th December 2011 it was agreed by all relevant parties to terminate this contribution agreement early. As a result of this early termination the Company has 
made a payment to its subsidiary of £168.2m in full and final settlement of the contribution agreement. 
As a result of this early termination the Company has re-recognised the fair value of the US$ amounts receivable on the $273m cross currency interest rate 
swaps in its balance sheet from the date of termination, and has designated the swaps as a fair value hedge of the relevant proportion of the Company’s US$ private 
placement debt.
Also on 8 December 2011 the Company agreed with another of its subsidiaries to redenominate an investment by the company in US$ preference shares with a 
value of $273m to their sterling equivalent. As well as this redenomination, the preference shares were converted to ordinary shares ranking equally with its existing 
investment in the ordinary shares of the subsidiary. Up to the date of redenomination and conversion the Company received accrued preference dividends of £9.2m 
and made a retranslation loss of £0.6m, both of which have been recognised in the Company’s income statement.
26. Provisions
 THE GROUP 
 –––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
 Property Insurance  Other Total
 £m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2010  58.3 28.8 2.2 89.3
Arising on acquisition 5.1 2.0 - 7.1
Additional provision in the year 0.2 2.6 0.8 3.6
Exceptional provision release (2.1) - - (2.1)
Utilisation of provision (8.0) (1.9) - (9.9)
Unwinding of discount 2.8 - - 2.8
At 31 December 2010 56.3 31.5 3.0 90.8
Additional provision in the year 1.8 8.8 - 10.6
Utilisation of provision (10.4) (4.8) (0.1) (15.3)
Unwinding of discount 3.0 - - 3.0
At 31 December 2011 50.7 35.5 2.9 89.1
    
Included in current liabilities 21.8 35.5 2.9 60.2
Included in non-current liabilities 28.9 - - 28.9
 50.7 35.5 2.9 89.1
The Group has a number of vacant and partly sub-let leasehold properties. Where necessary provision has been made for the residual lease commitments after 
taking into account existing and anticipated sub-tenant arrangements.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
TRA VIS PERKINS ANNUAL REPOR T AND ACCOUNTS 2011
115
26. Provisions continued
It is Group policy to substantially self insure itself against claims arising in respect of damage to assets, or due to employers or public liability claims. The nature of 
insurance claims means they may take some time to be settled. The insurance claims provision represents management’s best estimate, based upon external advice 
of the value of outstanding insurance claims where the final settlement date is uncertain. The following table details the Group’s liquidity analysis of its provisions. 
The table has been drawn up based on the undiscounted net cash outflows.
  0-1 year 1-2 years 2-5 years 5+ years Total
2011  £m £m £m £m £m
Property  16.1 7.5 15.4 21.4 60.4
Insurance  35.5 - - - 35.5
Other  2.9 - - - 2.9
  54.5 7.5 15.4 21.4 98.8
     
2010     
Property  17.0 8.7 18.1 28.5 72.3
Insurance  31.5 - - - 31.5
Other  3.0 - - - 3.0
  51.5 8.7 18.1 28.5 106.8
The Company has no provisions.
27 . Deferred tax
The following are the major deferred tax liabilities and assets recognised by the Group and movements thereon during the current and prior reporting periods.
 THE GROUP
 ––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
  At 1 Jan Aquired Recognised Recognised  At 31 Dec Recognised Recognised At 31 Dec
  2010 in year  in income  in equity  2010 in income in equity 2011
Provided £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Capital allowances 11.6 (0.3) (4.7) - 6.6 (0.4) - 6.2
Revaluation 12.1 0.3 - (0.4) 12.0 - (0.9) 11.1
Share based payments (3.8) (0.1) (1.8) (5.9) (11.6) (0.7) 4.2 (8.1)
Provisions (10.7) (0.1) (1.1) - (11.9) 0.5 - (11.4)
Derivatives (4.6) 0.6 - 2.1 (1.9) - 0.7 (1.2)
Business combinations 12.7 5.4 (1.4) - 16.7 (2.3) - 14.4
Brand 45.5 64.5 (1.6) - 108.4 (10.6) - 97.8
Pension scheme surplus - - 3.9 4.7 8.6 2.9 (6.6) 4.9
Pension scheme liability (12.0) (16.4) 12.0 - (16.4) 1.1 (1.0) (16.3)
Deferred tax 50.8 53.9 5.3 0.5 110.5 (9.5) (3.6) 97.4
At the balance sheet date the Group had unused capital losses of £56.0m (2010: £59.3m) available for offset against future capital profi ts. No deferred tax asset 
has been recognised because it is not probable that future taxable profi ts will be available against which the Group can utilise the losses.
Other than disclosed above, no deferred tax assets and liabilities have been offset. 
 THE COMPANY
 ––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
 At 1 Jan Recognised Recognised  At 31 Dec Recognised Recognised At 31 Dec
  2010 in equity in income 2010 in income in equity 2011
Provided £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Share based payments (3.8) (5.9) (1.8) (11.5) (0.7) 4.1 (8.1)
Derivatives (4.6) 2.1 - (2.5) - 1.3 (1.2)
Provisions (0.6) - (0.1) (0.7) 0.1 - (0.6)
 (9.0) (3.8) (1.9) (14.7) (0.6) 5.4 (9.9) 116
Notes to the Financial Statements
28. Other financial liabilities
 THE GROUP THE COMPANY
 ––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– –––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
 2011 2010 2011 2010
 £m £m £m £m
Trade payables 740.7 684.7 - -
Other taxation and social security 76.2 50.1 - -
Other payables 132.0 150.9 19.0 26.7
Accruals and deferred income 139.4 118.8 - -
Trade and other payables 1,088.3 1,004.5 19.0 26.7
The Group 
Trade and other payables principally comprise amounts outstanding for trade purchases and ongoing costs. The average credit period taken for trade purchases is 57 
days (2010: 55 days). The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade payables approximates to their fair value. The Group has fi nancial risk management 
policies in place to ensure that all payables are paid within the credit timeframe.
The Company
Trade and other payables principally comprise amounts outstanding for trade purchases and ongoing costs. The average credit period taken for trade purchases is 
30 days (2010: 30 days). The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade payables approximates to their fair value.
29. Disposal of businesses
On the 2 September 2011 the Group disposed of its interest in the Buck and Hickman business. Shown below are the assets and liabilities disposed of and 
the resulting loss on disposal.
    
   2011
Assets and liabilities   £m
Property, plant and equipment    2.9
Identifi able intangible assets    10.3
Inventories    12.0
Trade and other receivables    23.8
Trade and other payables    (21.4)
Net assets    27.6
Loss on disposal    (0.7)
Total consideration    26.9
Satisfied by cash    26.9
30. Acquisition of businesses
(a) The BSS Group plc 
On the 14 December 2010 the Group acquired the entire issued share capital of The BSS Group plc. The acquisition was accounted for using the purchase method 
of accounting. The acquisition has created the leading plumbing and heating distribution business in the UK. Provisional fair values ascribed to identifi able assets as 
at 31 December 2010 have been adjusted during 2011 and the fi nal fair values acquired are shown in the table on page 117. The 2010 balance sheet has been 
amended to show the fi nal fair values acquired. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
TRA VIS PERKINS ANNUAL REPOR T AND ACCOUNTS 2011
117
30. Acquisition of businesses continued
  2011
    Fair value acquired
Net assets acquired:   £m
Property, plant and equipment    37.6
Identifi able intangible assets    257.7
Derivative fi nancial instruments    14.9
Investments    0.1
Inventories    199.4
Trade and other receivables    311.7
Retirement benefi t obligations    (59.6)
Trade and other payables    (246.3)
Provisions    (7.1)
Deferred tax liabilities    (53.9)
Current tax liabilities    (0.6)
Bank overdrafts and loans    (174.6)
    279.3
Goodwill    345.0
Amount payable    624.3
Satisfi ed by:    
Cash    294.5
Equity instruments (closing price on 14 December 2010)    329.8
    624.3
Fair value adjustments
The Directors have fi nalised the fair value exercise in respect of assets and liabilities of The BSS Group plc. As the exercise is now complete further adjustments 
have been made to the 2010 opening balance sheet in respect of the acquisition accounting. There are no impacts on the balance sheet at 31 December 2009.
(b) T oolstation Limited
On the 3 January 2012, the Group acquired the remaining 70% of the issued share capital of Toolstation Limited for further consideration of £24m. The Group had 
previously acquired 30% in April 2008, which included an option to buy the remaining 70%. The aggregate consideration following the payment on 3 January is 
now £41m. Future consideration dependent upon future performance and expansion of the business over the period to December 2013 is estimated to be £75.3m. 
Toolstation net liabilities (including the £27.8m loan repayable to Travis Perkins plc) were £28.9m at 31 December 2011. The net liabilities quoted are provisional as 
the fair value exercise has not been started due to the proximity of the acquisition to the 21 February 2012. It will be completed by the end of the year.
31. Operating lease arrangements
The Group leases a number of trading properties under operating leases. The leases, at inception, are typically 25 years in duration, although some have lessee only 
break clauses of between 10 and 15 years. Lease payments are reviewed every fi ve years and increases applied in line with market rates. The Group also leases 
certain items of plant and equipment. The Company has no operating lease arrangements.
(a) The Group as lessee
   2011 2010
   £m £m
Minimum lease payments under operating leases recognised in income for the year   176.0 143.4
At the balance sheet date, the Group had outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases, which fall due as 
follows:
   2011 2010
   £m £m
Within one year   173.3 167.4
In the second to fi fth years inclusive   599.9 576.7
After fi ve years   1,194.4 1,153.9
   1,967.6 1,898.0 118
Notes to the Financial Statements
31. Operating lease arrangements continued
(b) The Group as lessor
The Group sublets a number of ex-trading properties to third parties. Property rental income earned during the year in respect of these properties was £4.1m (2010: 
£4.0m).
At the balance sheet date, the Group had contracts with tenants for the following future minimum lease payments:
   2011 2010
   £m £m
Within one year   3.6 3.6
In the second to fi fth years inclusive   12.6 11.1
After fi ve years   17.3 14.1
   33.5 28.8
32. Capital commitments
 THE GROUP THE COMPANY
 ––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– –––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
 2011 2010 2011 2010
 £m £m £m £m
Contracted for but not provided in the accounts 15.6 16.1 - -
33. Related party transactions
The Group has a related party relationship with its subsidiaries and with its directors. Transactions between group companies, which are related parties, have 
been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in this note. Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries are disclosed below. In addition the 
remuneration, and the details of interests in the share capital of the Company, of the Directors, are provided in the audited part of the remuneration report on pages 
56 to 66.
The remuneration of the key management personnel of the Group is set out below in aggregate for each of the categories specified in IAS 24 Related Party 
Disclosures
   2011 2010
   £m £m
Short term employee benefi ts   7.3 8.0
Share based payments   4.9 3.0
   12.2 11.0
The Company undertakes the following transactions with its active subsidiaries:
●
 Providing day-to-day funding from its UK banking facilities;
●
 Paying interest to members of the Group totalling £6.4m (2010: £3.5m)
●
 Levying an annual management charge to cover services provided to members of the Group of £6.9m (2010: £6.9m);
●
 Receiving preference dividends totalling £9.2m (2010: £2.1m)
●
 Receiving annual dividends totalling £79.1m (2010: £40.3m)
Details of balances outstanding with subsidiary companies are shown in note 19 and on the Balance Sheet on page 77.
There have been no material related party transactions with directors.
Details of transactions with Toolstation are shown in note 18. The Group advanced a total of £2.3m to all the group’s associate companies in 2011. Operating 
transactions with all three associates during the year were not significant.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
TRA VIS PERKINS ANNUAL REPOR T AND ACCOUNTS 2011
119
34. Net debt reconciliation
 THE GROUP THE COMPANY
 ––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– –––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
 2011 2010 2011 2010
 £m £m £m £m
Net debt at 1 January (773.6) (467.2) (749.6) (477.9)
Increase / (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 27.7 (296.3) (12.1) (302.5)
Net debt arising on acquisition - (174.6) - -
Cash fl ows from debt 153.8 167.6 90.0 34.3
Decrease / (increase) in fair value of debt 1.0 3.1 6.0 (2.1)
Fair value of BSS loan notes repaid 12.4 - - -
Finance charges netted off bank debt (3.1) (5.7) (3.1) (5.0)
Amortisation of swap cancellation receipt 1.1 1.0 1.1 3.6
Discount unwind on pension SPV (2.5) (1.5) - -
Net debt at 31 December (583.2) (773.6) (667.7) (749.6)
35. Gearing  THE GROUP
  –––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
   2011 2010
   £m £m
Net debt under IFRS   (583.2) (773.6)
IAS 17 fi nance leases   20.3 21.9
Unamortised swap cancellation receipt   4.0 5.1
Pension SPV   37.2 -
Fair value on debt acquired   - 12.4
Fair value adjustment to debt   36.6 37.4
Finance charges netted off bank debt   (1.5) (4.6)
Net debt under covenant calculations   (486.6) (701.4)
Total equity   2,107.8 1,951.8
Gearing   23.1% 36.0%
36. Free cash flow  THE GROUP
  –––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
   2011 2010
   £m £m
Net debt at 1 January   (773.6) (467.2)
Net debt at 31 December   (583.2) (773.6)
Decrease / (increase) in net debt   190.4 (306.4)
Dividends paid   38.8 10.1
Net cash outfl ow for expansion capital expenditure   54.4 29.0
Net cash outfl ow for acquisitions   9.9 294.9
Disposal of business   (26.9) -
Bank fees paid   6.1 -
Amortisation of swap cancellation receipt   (1.1) (0.9)
Discount unwind on SPV   2.5 1.5
Cash impact of exceptional items   17.8 7.6
Interest in associate   2.3 12.5
Shares issued and sale of own shares   (10.6) (0.3)
Decrease in fair value of debt   (13.3) (3.1)
Movement in fi nance charges netted off bank debt   3.1 5.7
Net debt arising on BSS on acquisition   - 174.6
Special pension contributions   20.1 52.6
Free cash flow    293.5 277.8 120
Notes to the Financial Statements
Adjusted ratio of net debt to earnings before interest, tax and depreciation (‘EBITDA’) is derived as follows:
  THE GROUP
  –––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
   2011 2010
   £m £m
Profi t before tax   269.6 196.8
Net fi nance costs   20.9 23.0
Depreciation and amortisation   76.7 57.7
EBITDA under IFRS   367.2 277.5
Exceptional operating items   9.8 19.0
BSS 2010 pre-acquisition EBITDA   - 71.3
IFRS adjustments not included in covenant calculations    (2.7) (2.6)
Adjusted EBITDA under covenant calculations   374.3 365.2
Net debt under covenant calculations   486.6 701.4
Adjusted net debt to EBITDA   1.3x 1.9x
38. Adjusted return on equity and adjusted return on capital
Adjusted return on equity 
  THE GROUP
  ––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
   2011 2010
   £m £m
Profi t before tax   269.6 196.8
Amortisation of intangible assets   12.9 0.2
Exceptional items   14.2 19.7
BSS post acquisition loss before tax   - 2.8
Adjusted profi t before tax   296.7 219.5
Opening equity   1,951.8 1,460.4
Net pension defi cit   20.1 31.0
Goodwill written off   92.7 92.7
Opening net assets   2,064.6 1,584.1
Closing equity   2,107.8 1,951.8
BSS post acquisition loss after tax   - 2.8
Shares issued in respect of the BSS acquisition   - (329.2)
Net pension defi cit / (surplus)*   34.3 (23.1)
Goodwill written off   92.7 92.7
Closing net assets   2,234.8 1,695.0
Average net assets   2,149.7 1,640.0
Adjusted return on equity   13.8% 13.4%
37. Adjusted ratio of net debt to earnings before interest, tax and depreciation FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
TRA VIS PERKINS ANNUAL REPOR T AND ACCOUNTS 2011
121
Adjusted return on capital
  THE GROUP
  ––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
   2011 2010
   £m £m
Operating profi t   290.5 219.8
Amortisation of intangible assets   12.9 0.2
Exceptional items   9.8 19.0
BSS post acquisition operating losses (excluding exceptional items)    - 2.6
Adjusted operating profi t   313.2 241.6
Opening net assets   1,951.8 1,460.4
Net pension defi cit   20.1 31.0
Goodwill written off   92.7 92.7
Net borrowings    773.6 467.2
Exchange adjustment   (52.2) (40.5)
Opening capital employed   2,786.0 2,010.8
Closing net assets   2,107.8 1,951.8
BSS post acquisition loss before tax   - 2.8
Shares issued in respect of the BSS acquisition   - (329.2)
Net pension defi cit / (surplus)*   34.3 (23.1)
Goodwill written off   92.7 92.7
Net borrowings    583.2 773.6
Borrowings arising from the BSS acquisition   - (469.3)
Exchange adjustment   (36.6) (37.4)
Closing capital employed   2,781.4 1,961.9
Average capital employed   2,783.7 1,986.4
Adjusted return on capital   11.3% 12.2%
* 2010 was adjusted only for the surplus in the Travis Perkins defi ned benefi t scheme. 
38. Adjusted return on equity and adjusted return on capital continued 122
Five Y ear Record
Consolidated income statement  2011 2010 2009 2008 2007
  £m £m £m £m £m
Revenue  4,779.1 3,152.8 2,930.9 3,178.6 3,186.7
Operating profi t before amortisation and exceptional items  313.2 239.0 224.6 271.5 319.9
Amortisation  (12.9) (0.2) - - -
Exceptional items  (9.8) (19.0) 32.7 (56.2) -
Operating profi t  290.5 219.8 257.3 215.3 319.9
Net fi nance costs  (20.9) (23.0) (44.6) (69.0) (58.5)
Profi t before tax  269.6 196.8 212.7 146.3 261.4
Income tax expense  (57.2) (55.5) (55.3) (44.4) (76.1)
Net profi t  212.4 141.3 157.4 101.9 185.3
Adjusted return on capital   11.3% 12.2% 10.9% 12.9% 15.9%
Adjusted return on equity   13.8% 13.4% 13.1% 17.6% 23.6%
Basic earnings per share  90.3p 69.6p 88.4p 68.6p 120.8p
Adjusted earnings per share  93.1p 77.2p 75.2p 96.9p 118.1p
Dividend declared per ordinary share (pence)  20.0p 15.0p - 14.5p 44.9p
Branches at 31 December (No.)  1,868 1,813 1,238 1,223 1,125
Average number of employees (No.)  21,423 15,792 14,528 15,414 14,580
Basic and adjusted earnings per share for 2007 and 2008 have been restated for the impact of the rights issue.
Consolidated cash fl ow statement  2011 2010 2009 2008 2007
  £m £m £m £m £m
Cash generated from operations  345.1 282.3 319.8 337.6 303.9
Net interest paid  (23.5) (16.0) (29.0) (63.0) (72.5)
Swap cancellation receipt / (payment)  - 13.7 (28.7) - -
Income taxes paid  (26.3) (42.4) (27.3) (66.0) (74.5)
Net purchases of investments, property and plant  (94.2) (35.4) (7.8) (82.4) (118.9)
Interest in associates  (2.3) (12.5) (12.9) (20.7) -
Disposal of businesses  26.9 - - - -
Acquisition of businesses net of cash acquired  (9.9) (294.9) (1.0) (22.5) (47.2)
Proceeds from issuance of share capital  10.6 0.3 300.3 0.6 6.8
Dividends paid  (38.8) (10.1) - (52.5) (48.1)
Bank facility fi nance charges  (6.1) - - (14.7) -
Own shares acquired  - - - - (76.0)
Payment of fi nance lease liabilities  (1.6) (1.3) (1.5) (2.1) (1.9)
Repayment of unsecured loan notes  - (0.6) (0.1) (11.5) (0.2)
Pension SPV  - 34.7 - - -
(Decrease) / increase in bank loans  (152.2) (214.1) (160.0) (33.7) 98.6
Net increase / (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents  27.7 (296.3) 351.8 (30.9) (30.0)
Net debt at 1 January  (773.6) (467.2) (1,017.4) (941.0) (804.4)
Non cash adjustment  8.9 (3.1) 36.8 (92.8) (2.4)
Loan notes issued  - - - - (7.7)
Cash fl ow from debt and debt acquired   153.8 (7.0) 161.6 47.3 (96.5)
Net debt at 31 December  (583.2) (773.6) (467.2) (1,017.4) (941.0)
Free Cash Flow  293.5 277.8 294.4 185.3 157.8 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
TRA VIS PERKINS ANNUAL REPOR T AND ACCOUNTS 2011
123
Consolidated balance sheet 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007
  £m £m £m £m £m
Assets     
Non-current assets     
Property, plant and equipment 562.6 527.1 499.0 534.5 505.0
Goodwill and other intangible assets 2,095.1 2,109.7 1,515.3 1,513.9 1,492.2
Derivative fi nancial instruments 40.3 57.0 44.7 80.3 3.0
Interest in associates 51.3 45.7 31.7 19.6 -
Retirement benefi t assets 19.3 31.7 - - -
Investment property and other investments 1.9 1.9 4.8 5.4 5.5
Deferred tax asset - - 12.0 19.5 4.5
Current assets     
Inventories 596.0 571.4 312.7 321.9 330.2
Trade and other receivables 746.1 687.2 375.4 388.6 422.6
Assets held for resale - 2.3 - - -
Cash and cash equivalents 78.6 62.9 347.2 7.7 26.3
Total assets 4,191.2 4,096.9 3,142.8 2,891.4 2,789.3
Issued capital 24.4 24.2 20.9 12.3 12.3
Share premium account 480.8 471.5 471.2 179.5 178.9
Merger reserve 326.5 325.9 - - -
Own shares (75.2) (83.4) (83.7) (83.7) (83.9)
Other reserves 15.7 14.4 9.2 6.0 27.1
Accumulated profi ts 1,335.6 1,199.2 1,042.8 904.1 902.5
Total equity 2,107.8 1,951.8 1,460.4 1,018.2 1,036.9
Non-current liabilities     
Interest bearing loans and borrowings 598.2 760.9 739.1 1,007.3 863.9
Derivative fi nancial instruments 5.9 4.2 6.1 25.8 29.8
Retirement benefi t obligations 65.0 59.6 43.0 69.9 16.0
Long term provisions 28.9 36.0 43.7 47.8 13.7
Deferred tax liabilities 97.4 110.5 62.8 74.7 75.3
Current liabilities      
Interest bearing loans and borrowings 63.6 75.6 75.3 17.8 103.4
Derivative fi nancial instruments - 2.5 - - -
Trade and other payables 1,088.3 1,004.5 638.7 582.2 585.0
Tax liabilities 75.9 36.5 28.1 9.1 32.3
Short-term provisions 60.2 54.8 45.6 38.6 33.0
Total liabilities 2,083.4 2,145.1 1,682.4 1,873.2 1,752.4
Total equity and liabilities 4,191.2 4,096.9 3,142.8 2,891.4 2,789.3 124
Notice is hereby given that the forty-eighth 
Annual General Meeting of Travis Perkins plc will 
be held at Northampton Rugby Football Club, 
Franklin’s Gardens, Weedon Road, Northampton, 
NN5 5BG on Tuesday 22 May 2012 at 11.45 am.
The Resolutions
Resolutions 1 to 16 (inclusive) will be proposed 
as ordinary resolutions. Resolutions 17 to 19 
(inclusive) will be proposed as special resolutions.
1. To receive the Company’s annual accounts 
for the financial year ended 31 December 
2011, together with the directors’ report, 
the directors’ remuneration report and 
the auditors’ report on those accounts 
and on the auditable part of the directors’ 
remuneration report.
2. To declare a final dividend for the financial 
year ended 31 December 2011 of 13.5 
pence per ordinary share, payable to 
shareholders on the register at the close of 
business on 4 May 2012.
3. To appoint Ruth Anderson as a 
non-executive director of the Company. 
Biographical details of Ruth Anderson appear 
on page 47.
4. To re-appoint Robert Walker as a director of 
the Company. Biographical details of Robert 
Walker appear on page 46.
5. To re-appoint Chris Bunker as a 
non-executive director of the Company. 
Biographical details of Chris Bunker appear 
on page 47.
6. To re-appoint John Coleman as a 
non-executive director of the Company. 
Biographical details of John Coleman appear 
on page 47.
7. To re-appoint Philip Jansen as a 
non-executive director of the Company. 
Biographical details of Philip Jansen appear 
on page 47.
8. To re-appoint Andrew Simon as a 
non-executive director of the Company. 
Biographical details of Andrew Simon appear 
on page 47.
9. To re-appoint Geoff Cooper as a director of 
the Company. Biographical details of Geoff 
Cooper appear on page 46.
10. To re-appoint Paul Hampden Smith as a 
director of the Company. Biographical details 
of Paul Hampden Smith appear on page 46.
11. To re-appoint John Carter as a director of 
the Company. Biographical details of John 
Carter appear on page 46.
12. To re-appoint Deloitte LLP , Chartered 
Accountants, as auditors of the Company 
to hold office from the conclusion of this 
meeting until the conclusion of the next 
general meeting of the Company at which 
accounts are laid.
13. To authorise the Directors to fix the 
remuneration of Deloitte LLP .
14. That the directors’ remuneration report for 
the financial year ended 31 December 2011 
set out on pages 56 to 66 be approved.
15. That the rules of the Travis Perkins 
Sharesave Scheme 2012 (the ‘Scheme’) 
produced in draft to this meeting and, for the 
purposes of identification, initialled by the 
Chairman, be approved and the Directors be 
authorised to: 
a. Make such modifications to the Scheme 
as they may consider appropriate to take 
account of the requirements of HMRC and 
for the implementation of the Scheme 
and to adopt the Scheme as so modified 
and to do all such other acts and things 
as they may consider appropriate to 
implement the Scheme; and 
b Establish further schemes based on the 
Scheme but modified to take account of 
local tax, exchange control or securities 
laws in overseas territories, provided that 
any shares made available under such 
further schemes are treated as counting 
against the limits on individual or overall 
participation in the Scheme.
16. That, in substitution for all existing 
authorities, the Directors be generally and 
unconditionally authorised in accordance with 
section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 to 
exercise all the powers of the Company to 
allot:
(a) shares (as defined in section 540 of the 
Companies Act 2006) or grant rights to 
subscribe for or to convert any security 
into shares up to an aggregate nominal 
amount of £8,132,018; and
(b) equity securities (as such phrase is 
to be interpreted in accordance with 
section 560 of the Companies Act 2006) 
up to an aggregate nominal amount 
of £16,264,037 (such amount to be 
reduced by the aggregate nominal 
amount of shares allotted or rights to 
subscribe for or to convert any security 
into shares in the Company granted 
under paragraph (a) of this resolution 16) 
in connection with an offer by way of a 
rights issue:
i. to ordinary shareholders in proportion 
(as nearly as may be practicable) to 
their existing holdings; and
ii. to holders of other equity securities 
(as defined in section 560(1) of the 
Companies Act 2006) as required 
by the rights of those securities or, 
subject to such rights, as the directors 
otherwise consider necessary, 
and so that the Directors may 
impose any limits or restrictions and 
make any arrangements which they 
consider necessary or appropriate to 
deal with treasury shares, fractional 
entitlements, record dates, legal, 
regulatory or practical problems in, or 
under the laws of, any territory or any 
other matter, 
such authorities to apply until the end of the 
Company’s next annual general meeting 
after this resolution is passed (or, if earlier, 
until the close of business on 30 June 2013) 
but, in each case, so that the Company 
may make offers and enter into agreements 
before the authority expires which would, or 
Notice of Annual General Meeting SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
TRA VIS PERKINS ANNUAL REPOR T AND ACCOUNTS 2011
125
might, require shares to be allotted or rights 
to subscribe for or to convert any security 
into shares to be granted after the authority 
expires and the Directors may allot shares 
or grant such rights under any such offer 
or agreement as if the authority had not 
expired.
17. That, in substitution for all existing powers 
and subject to the passing of resolution 
16, the Directors be generally empowered 
pursuant to section 570 of the Companies 
Act 2006 to allot equity securities (as such 
phrase is to be interpreted in section 560 of 
the Companies Act 2006) for cash pursuant 
to the authority granted by resolution 16 
and/or where the allotment constitutes an 
allotment of equity securities by virtue of 
section 560(3) of the Companies Act 2006, 
in each case free of the restriction in section 
561 of the Companies Act 2006, such power 
to be limited:
(a) to the allotment of equity securities in 
connection with an offer of equity securities 
(but in the case of an allotment pursuant 
to the authority granted by paragraph (b) of 
resolution 16, such power shall be limited 
to the allotment of equity securities in 
connection with an offer by way of a rights 
issue only):
(i) to ordinary shareholders in proportion 
(as nearly as may be practicable) to 
their existing holdings; and
 (ii) to holders of other equity securities 
(as defined in section 560(1) of the 
Companies Act 2006), as required 
by the rights of those securities or, 
subject to such rights, as the directors 
otherwise consider necessary, and 
so that the Directors may impose any 
limits or restrictions and make any 
arrangements which they consider 
necessary or appropriate to deal 
with treasury shares, fractional 
entitlements, record dates, legal, 
regulatory or practical problems in, or 
under the laws of, any territory or any 
other matter; and
(b) to the allotment of equity securities pursuant 
to the authority granted by paragraph (a) 
of resolution 16 and/or an allotment which 
constitutes an allotment of equity securities 
by virtue of section 560(3) of the Companies 
Act 2006 (in each case otherwise than in 
the circumstances set out in paragraph 
(a) of this resolution 17) up to a nominal 
amount of £1,219,802 calculated, in the 
case of equity securities which are rights 
to subscribe for, or to convert securities 
into, ordinary shares (as defined in section 
560(1) of the Companies Act 2006) by 
reference to the aggregate nominal amount 
of relevant shares which may be allotted 
pursuant to such rights, such power to 
apply until the end of the Company’s next 
annual general meeting after this resolution 
is passed (or, if earlier, until the close of 
business on 30 June 2013); but so that the 
Company may make offers and enter into 
agreements before the power expires which 
would, or might, require equity securities to 
be allotted after the power expires and the 
Directors may allot equity securities under 
any such offer or agreement as if the power 
had not expired.
18. That a general meeting other than an annual 
general meeting may be called on not less 
than 14 clear days’ notice.
19. That the Company be and is hereby 
generally and unconditionally authorised 
to make one or more market purchases 
(within the meaning of section 693(4) of the 
Companies Act 2006) of ordinary shares of 
10 pence each in the capital of the Company 
(‘ordinary shares’), provided that:
(a) the maximum aggregate number 
of ordinary shares authorised to be 
purchased is 24,396,055 (representing 
10% of the issued share capital of the 
Company as at 21 February 2012);
(b) the minimum price (exclusive of 
expenses) which may be paid for an 
ordinary share is its nominal value of 10 
pence;
(c) the maximum price (exclusive of 
expenses) which may be paid for an 
ordinary share is an amount equal to 
105% of the average of the middle 
market quotations for an ordinary share 
as derived from The London Stock 
Exchange Daily Official List for the five 
business days immediately preceding 
the day on which that ordinary share is 
purchased;
(d) this authority expires at the conclusion of 
the next Annual General Meeting of the 
Company or 30 June 2013, whichever is 
the earlier; and
(e) the Company may make a contract to 
purchase ordinary shares under this 
authority before the expiry of such 
authority, which will or may be executed 
wholly or partly after the expiry of such 
authority, and may make a purchase of 
ordinary shares pursuant to any such 
contract.
By order of the Board
Andrew Pike
Company Secretary
Lodge Way House, Harlestone Road, 
Northampton NN5 7UG
21 February 2012
Registered in England No. 824821
Directions to Northampton Rugby Football Club 
can be found on page 129. 126
Summary of principal terms of the 
Travis Perkins Sharesave Scheme 
2012 (the ‘Scheme’)
Operation
The operation of the Scheme will be supervised 
by the board of directors of the Company (the 
‘Board’). It will be approved by HM Revenue 
& Customs (‘HMRC’) in order to provide UK 
tax-advantaged options to UK employees. 
Eligibility
Employees and full-time directors of the 
Company and any designated participating 
subsidiary who are UK resident taxpayers are 
eligible to participate. The Board may require 
employees to have completed a qualifying period 
of employment of up to five years before the 
grant of options. The Board may also allow other 
employees to participate. 
Grant of options
Options can only be granted to employees who 
enter into HMRC approved savings contracts, 
under which monthly savings are normally made 
over a period of three or five years. Options 
must be granted within 30 days (or 42 days if 
applications are scaled back) of the first day by 
reference to which the option price is set. The 
number of Shares over which an option is granted 
will be such that the total option price payable for 
those Shares will correspond to the proceeds on 
maturity of the related savings contract. 
An option may not be granted more than 10 
years after shareholder approval of the Scheme. 
Options are not transferable, except on death. 
Options are not pensionable.
Individual participation
Monthly savings by an employee under all savings 
contracts linked to options granted under any 
sharesave scheme may not exceed the statutory 
maximum (currently £250). The Board may set a 
lower limit in relation to any particular grant.
Option price
The price per Share payable upon the exercise of 
an option will not be less than the higher of: (i) 80 
per cent. of the average middle-market quotation 
of a Share on the London Stock Exchange on 
the three days preceding a date specified in an 
invitation to participate in the Scheme (or such 
other day or days as may be agreed with HMRC); 
and (ii) if the option relates only to new issue 
Shares, the nominal value of a Share.
The option price will be determined by 
reference to dealing days which fall within six 
weeks of the announcement by the Company 
of its results for any period or at any other time 
when the Board considers there to be exceptional 
circumstances which justify offering options 
under the Scheme. 
Exercise of options
Options will normally be exercisable for a six 
month period from the third, fifth or seventh 
anniversary of the commencement of the related 
savings contracts. Earlier exercise is permitted, 
however, in the following circumstances:
● following cessation of employment by reason 
of death, injury, disability, redundancy, 
retirement on reaching age 60 (or any other 
age at which the employee is bound to 
retire under his terms of employment) or the 
business or company that the employee works 
for ceasing to be part of the Company’s group;
● when an employee reaches 60;
● where employment ceases more than three 
years from grant for any reason other than 
dismissal for misconduct; and 
● in the event of a takeover, amalgamation, 
reconstruction or winding-up of the Company, 
except in the case of an internal corporate 
re-organisation when the Board may decide to 
exchange existing options for equivalent new 
options over shares in a new holding company.
Except where stated above, options will lapse on 
cessation of employment or directorship with the 
Company’s group. 
Shares will be allotted or transferred to 
participants within 30 days of exercise. 
Overall scheme limits
The Scheme may operate over new issue Shares, 
treasury Shares or Shares purchased in the 
market.
In any ten calendar year period, the Company 
may not issue (or grant rights to issue) more 
than 10 per cent of the issued ordinary share 
capital of the Company under the Scheme and 
any other employee share Scheme adopted by 
the Company.
Treasury Shares will count as new issue 
Shares for the purposes of these limits unless 
the institutional investors decide that they need 
not count. 
Variation of capital
If there is a variation in the Company’s share 
capital then the Board may, subject to HMRC 
approval, make such adjustment as it considers 
appropriate to the number of Shares under option 
and the option price. 
Rights attaching to shares
Any Shares allotted when an option is exercised 
under the Scheme will rank equally with 
Shares then in issue (except for rights arising 
by reference to a record date prior to their 
allotment).
Alterations to the scheme
The Board may amend the provisions of the 
Scheme in any respect, provided that the prior 
approval of shareholders is obtained for any 
amendments that are to the advantage of 
participants in respect of the rules governing 
eligibility, limits on participation, the overall limits 
on the issue of Shares or the transfer of treasury 
Shares, the basis for determining a participant’s 
entitlement to, and the terms of, the Shares to be 
acquired and the adjustment of options.
The requirement to obtain the prior approval 
of shareholders will not, however, apply to 
any minor alteration made to benefit the 
administration of the Scheme, to take account of 
a change in legislation or to obtain or maintain 
favourable tax, exchange control or regulatory 
treatment for participants or for any company in 
the Company’s group. 
Overseas schemes
The shareholder resolution to approve the 
Scheme will allow the Board, without further 
shareholder approval, to establish further 
schemes for overseas territories, any such 
scheme to be similar to the Scheme, but modified 
to take account of local tax, exchange control or 
securities laws, provided that any Shares made 
available under such further schemes are treated 
as counting against the limits on individual and 
overall participation in the Scheme.
Appendix to Notice of Annual General Meeting SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
TRA VIS PERKINS ANNUAL REPOR T AND ACCOUNTS 2011
127
1. A form of proxy is enclosed and instructions 
for its use are shown on the form. The 
appointment of a proxy will not prevent a 
member from subsequently attending, voting 
and speaking at the Meeting in person, in 
which case any votes of the proxy will be 
superseded.
2.  A member of the Company is entitled to 
appoint a proxy to exercise all or any of his 
rights to attend, speak and vote at a general 
meeting of the Company. A member may 
appoint more than one proxy, provided that 
each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights 
attaching to different shares. A proxy need not 
be a member. 
3.  To appoint more than one proxy, (an) 
additional proxy form(s) may be obtained 
by contacting the Registrars or you may 
photocopy the form. Please indicate in the box 
next to the proxy holder’s name the number of 
shares in relation to which they are authorised 
to act as your proxy. Please also indicate by 
ticking the box provided if the proxy instruction 
is one of multiple instructions being given. All 
forms must be signed and should be returned 
together in the same envelope.
4.  The right to appoint a proxy under note 
1 and 2 above does not apply to persons 
whose shares are held on their behalf 
by another person and who have been 
nominated to receive communication from 
the Company in accordance with Section 
146 of the Companies Act 2006 (‘nominated 
persons’). Nominated persons may have a 
right under an agreement with the registered 
shareholder who holds shares on their 
behalf to be appointed (or to have someone 
else appointed) as a proxy. Alternatively, if 
nominated persons do not have such a right, 
or do not wish to exercise it, they may have 
a right under such an agreement to give 
instructions to the person holding the shares 
as to the exercise of voting rights. 
5.  To be effective, the instrument appointing 
a proxy and any authority under which 
it is signed (or a notarially certified copy 
of such authority) for the Annual General 
Meeting to be held at Northampton Rugby 
Notes to the Notice of Annual General Meeting
Football Club, Franklins Gardens, Weedon 
Road, Northampton, NN5 5BQ at 11.45 
am on Tuesday 22 May 2012 and any 
adjournment(s) thereof must be returned to 
Capita Registrars, PXS, 34 Beckenham Road, 
Beckenham, Kent, BR3 4TU, by 11.45 am on 
18 May 2012. Alternatively you may submit 
your proxy form online by accessing the 
Shareholder portal at www.capitaregistrars.
com, logging in and selecting the ‘Proxy 
Voting’ link. If you have not previously 
registered for electronic communications, 
you will first be asked to register as a new 
user, for which you will require your investor 
code (which can be found on the enclosed 
proxy form, your share certificate or dividend 
tax voucher), family name and post code (if 
resident in the UK). 
6.  CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy 
or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy 
appointment service may do by using the 
procedures described in the CREST Manual. 
CREST personal members or other CREST 
sponsored members, and those CREST 
members who have appointed a voting 
service provider(s) should refer to their 
CREST sponsors or voting service provider(s), 
who will be able to take the appropriate 
action on their behalf.
In order for a proxy appointment made 
by means of CREST to be valid, the 
appropriate CREST message (a ‘CREST 
Proxy Instruction’) must be properly 
authenticated in accordance with Euroclear 
UK & Ireland Limited’s specifications and 
must contain the information required 
for such instructions, as described in the 
CREST Manual. The message, regardless of 
whether it constitutes the appointment of a 
proxy or an amendment to the instruction 
given to a previously appointed proxy must, 
in order to be valid, be transmitted so as 
to be received by the Company’s agent (ID 
RA10) by the latest time(s) for receipt of 
proxy appointments (11.45 am on 18 May 
2012). For this purpose, the time of receipt 
will be taken to be the time (as determined 
by the timestamp applied to the message 
by the CREST Application Host) from which 
the Company’s agent is able to retrieve the 
message by enquiry to CREST in the manner 
prescribed by CREST. After this time, any 
change of instructions to proxies appointed 
through CREST should be communicated to 
the appointee through other means.
CREST members and, where applicable, 
their CREST sponsors and voting service 
providers should note that Euroclear UK & 
Ireland Limited does not make available 
special procedures in CREST for any particular 
messages. Normal system timings and 
limitations will therefore apply in relation 
to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions. It 
is the responsibility of the CREST member 
concerned to take (or, if the CREST member 
is a CREST personal member or sponsored 
member or has appointed a voting service 
provider(s), to procure that his CREST sponsor 
or voting service provider(s) take(s)) such 
action as shall be necessary to ensure that 
a message is transmitted by means of the 
CREST system by any particular time. In this 
connection, CREST members and, where 
applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting 
service providers are referred, in particular, 
to those sections of the CREST Manual 
concerning practical limitations of the CREST 
system and timings. The CREST Manual can 
be reviewed at www.euroclear.com/CREST.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST 
Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out 
in Regulation 35(5)(a) of the Uncertificated 
Securities Regulations 2001.
In each case the proxy appointments must 
be received by the Company not less than 48 
hours before the time appointed for holding 
the meeting or any adjournment thereof.
7. Only those members entered on the register 
of members of the Company as at 6.00 pm 
on 18 May 2012 shall be entitled to attend or 
vote at the meeting in respect of the number 
of shares registered in their name at that 
time. Changes to entries on the register of 
members after that time shall be disregarded 
in determining the rights of any person to 
attend or vote at the meeting.
8. Reference to the register means the issuer 
register of members and the Operator register 
of members maintained in accordance with 
Regulation 20 of the Uncertificated Securities 
Regulations 2001. 128
12. The statement of the rights of members in 
relation to the appointment of proxies in 
paragraphs 1 to 6 above does not apply to a 
Nominated Person. The rights described in 
these paragraphs can only be exercised by 
registered members of the Company.
13. Any corporation which is a member 
can appoint one or more corporate 
representatives who may exercise on 
its behalf all of the same powers as the 
corporation could exercise if it were an 
individual member.
14. Under section 527 of the Companies Act 
2006 members meeting the threshold 
requirements set out in that section have the 
right to require the company to publish on a 
website a statement setting out any matter 
relating to: (i) the audit of the Company’s 
accounts (including the auditor’s report and 
the conduct of the audit) that are to be laid 
before the meeting; or (ii) any circumstance 
connected with an auditor of the Company 
ceasing to hold office since the previous 
meeting at which annual accounts and 
reports were laid in accordance with section 
437 of the Companies Act 2006. The 
Company may not require the shareholders 
requesting any such website publication to 
pay its expenses in complying with sections 
527 or 528 of the Companies Act 2006. 
Where the Company is required to place a 
statement on a website under section 527 of 
the Companies Act 2006, it must forward the 
statement to the Company’s auditor not later 
than the time when it makes the statement 
available on the website. The business 
which may be dealt with at the meeting 
includes any statement that the Company 
has been required under section 527 of the 
Companies Act 2006 to publish on a website.
15. Under section 338 and section 338A of the 
Companies Act 2006, members meeting the 
threshold requirements in those sections 
have the right to require the company (i) to 
give, to members of the company entitled 
to receive notice of the meeting, notice of a 
resolution which may properly be moved and 
is intended to be moved at the meeting and/
9.  The following documents will be available 
for inspection at the Registered Office of 
the Company during usual business hours 
on any weekday (Saturdays, Sundays and 
public holidays excluded) from the date of 
this Notice to the date of the meeting and 
at Northampton Rugby Football Club from 
11.15 am on the day of the meeting until the 
conclusion of the meeting. 
● Copies of contracts of service of directors 
and non–executive directors’ letters of 
appointment with the Company, or with 
any of its subsidiary companies. 
● The register of directors’ interests kept by 
the Company.
● A copy of the Company’s Articles of 
Association.
● A statement giving particulars of directors’ 
relevant transactions.
● A copy of the draft rules of the Travis 
Perkins Sharesave Scheme 2012. Copies 
will also be available for inspection at 
the offices of New Bridge Street, 10 
Devonshire Square, London, EC2M 4YP 
during usual business hours on any 
weekday (Saturdays and English public 
holidays excepted) from the date of this 
notice until the conclusion of the meeting.
10. At 21 February 2012 (being the latest 
practicable date before publication of this 
notice) the issued share capital of the 
Company consisted of 243,960,557 ordinary 
shares, carrying one vote each. Therefore, 
the total voting rights in the Company as at 
21 February 2012 was 243,960,557.
11. A person to whom this Notice is sent who is 
a person nominated under Section 146 of 
the Companies Act 2006 to enjoy information 
rights (a ‘Nominated Person’) may, under 
an agreement between him/her and the 
shareholder by whom he/she was nominated, 
have a right to be appointed (or to have 
someone else appointed) as a proxy for the 
Meeting. If a Nominated Person has no such 
proxy appointment right or does not wish 
to exercise it, he/she may, under any such 
agreement, have a right to give instructions 
to the shareholder as to the exercise of 
voting rights.
or (ii) to include in the business to be dealt 
with at the meeting any matter (other than a 
proposed resolution) which may be properly 
included in the business. A resolution may 
properly be moved or a matter may properly 
be included in the business unless (a) (in 
the case of a resolution only) it would, if 
passed, be ineffective (whether by reason 
of inconsistency with any enactment or the 
company’s constitution or otherwise), (b) it is 
defamatory of any person, or (c) it is frivolous 
or vexatious. Such a request may be in hard 
copy form or in electronic form, must identify 
the resolution of which notice is to be given 
or the matter to be included in the business, 
must be authorised by the person or persons 
making it, must be received by the company 
not later than 9 April 2012, being the date 
six clear weeks before the meeting, and (in 
the case of a matter to be included in the 
business only) must be accompanied by a 
statement setting out the grounds for the 
request.
16. Shareholders and their proxies will have the 
opportunity to ask questions at the Meeting. 
When invited by the Chairman, if you wish to 
ask a question, please wait for a Company 
representative to bring you a microphone. It 
would be helpful if you could state your name 
before you ask your question. Questions 
may not be answered at the Meeting if they 
are deemed not to be in the interests of the 
Company, or the good order of the Meeting, 
would interfere unduly with the preparation 
for the Meeting or involve the disclosure of 
confidential information, or if the answer 
has already been given on a website. The 
Chairman may also nominate a Company 
representative to answer a specific question 
after the Meeting or refer the response to the 
Company’s website.
17. A copy of this Notice, and other information 
required by section 311A of the Companies 
Act 2006, can be found in the Investor 
Centre at www.travisperkinsplc.com.
Notes to the Notice of Annual General Meeting SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
TRA VIS PERKINS ANNUAL REPOR T AND ACCOUNTS 2011
129
Directions
From the south (via the M1)
Exit off motorway at junction 15A and follow the 
signs towards Sixfields. At roundabout with TGI 
Fridays on the right and a BP petrol station on 
the left carry straight on up the hill. At Cineworld 
roundabout turn right towards the Town Centre. 
Go straight over the next roundabout (Sainsbury’s 
is on the left before the roundabout and Wickes 
on the right after the roundabout) and set of 
traffic lights. Continue on that road (Weedon 
Road). The entrance to the Saints is on the right 
immediately after Beacon Bingo. Follow signs for 
VIP car park off Weedon Road.
From the north (via the M1)
Exit off motorway at junction 16 and follow the 
A45 to Northampton. At Cineworld roundabout 
continue straight on and follow directions from 
the South.
From the east, Peterborough, Cambridge, 
Wellingborough
Follow A45 to M1 junction 15. Head north 
to junction 15A then follow directions from 
the South.
From Welford, Market Harborough
Aim towards the Kingsthorpe area of 
Northampton. Turn right at the major set of 
traffic lights (the Cock Hotel is on the corner), 
signposted Sixfields. Continue on this road until 
you get to Cineworld roundabout (approx 3 miles) 
then continue as from the South.
From the railway station
Turn right out of the station. Continue past 
Thomas A Becket pub, Church and Co. factory 
and bus station. At fork in road bear left and 
Franklin’s Gardens is on your left. Walk takes 
approx 15 minutes.
Nearest airports
London Luton and Nottingham East Midlands.
Further information
For detailed directions you might want to try the 
following websites:
Multimap (www.multimap.com);
The AA (www.theaa.com);
The RAC (www.rac.co.uk).
For further details about the venue:
www.northamptonsaints.co.uk
Directions to the Annual General Meeting 
The Travis Perkins Annual General Meeting is to be held in The Captains Lounge and The Rodber Suite, 
Northampton Rugby Football Club, Franklin’s Gardens, Weedon Road, Northampton NN5 5BG.
Parking is directly outside in the VIP Car Park (follow VIP Car Park signs off Weedon Road). 130
Shareholder enquiries
Shareholder enquiries should be directed to the 
Company Secretary at the Company’s registered 
office:
Lodge Way House, Lodge Way, Harlestone 
Road, Northampton NN5 7UG 
(telephone 01604 752424; 
email cosec@travisperkins.co.uk) 
or to the Company’s registrars, 
Capita Registrars, 
The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, 
Beckenham, Kent, BR3 4TU 
(telephone 0871 664 0300 – calls cost 10p 
per minute plus network extras; lines are open 
8.30am to 5.30pm, Monday – Friday;
email ssd@capitaregistrars.com).
Should your query relate to a pensions matter 
please email pensions@travisperkins.co.uk or if 
your query relates to a marketing matter please 
email marketing@travisperkins.co.uk.
Financial diary
Announcement of 2011 
annual results: 22 February 2012
Ex-dividend date: 2 May 2012
Record date: 4 May 2012
Annual General Meeting: 22 May 2012
Payment of final dividend: 31 May 2012
Announcement of 2012 
interim results: July 2012
Announcement of 2012 
annual results: February 2013
Annual general meeting – 
catering arrangements
It has always been the Company’s custom 
to provide a light luncheon for shareholders 
following the AGM and a buffet luncheon will be 
available. (You need not notify the company in 
advance if you would like lunch).
Internet
There are sites on the internet that carry a range 
of information about the Group and its principal 
brands, products and services at the following 
addresses: 
www.ccfltd.co.uk * 
www.4tradeproducts.co.uk 
www.benchmarxkitchens.co.uk
www.benchmarxshowroom.co.uk (end user site)
www.birchwoodpricetools.com
www.bmpublicsector.co.uk
www.bssgroup.com
www.bssindustrial.co.uk
www.buytiles.co.uk
www.cityheatingspares.co.uk
www.cityplumbing.co.uk*
www.defenderpower.com
www.dhsspares.co.uk
www.fponlineordering.co.uk
www.fpwholesale.co.uk
www.fressshbathrooms.co.uk
www.havelockcontrols.co.uk
www.hire.travisperkins.co.uk/hire * 
www.iflo.co.uk
www.insulationgiant.co.uk – going live in March 
www.keyline.co.uk* 
www.keyline.co.uk/hire/*
www.mispares.com 
www.mywickescard.co.uk
www.premiumstone.co.uk
www.pro-heat.co.uk 
www.ptsonlineordering.co.uk
www.ptsplumbing.co.uk
www.ptsrenewables.co.uk
www.scruffs.com
www.selfbuildgroup.co.uk 
www.southern-darwent.co.uk 
www.sustainablebuildingsolutions.co.uk
www.tilegiant.co.uk * 
www.tilehq.co.uk
www.tilemagic.co.uk
www.timberdirect.co.uk
www.toolstation.co.uk*
www.tpcareers.co.uk
www.tpmanagedservices.co.uk 
www.trademate.co.uk * 
www.travisperkins.co.uk*
www.travisperkinsplc.com (investor relations site)
www.vanvault.co.uk
www.wickes.co.uk*
www.wickescareers.co.uk
www.wickeskitchens.co.uk
* These sites allow credit account holders 
to order on-line through Trademate, with 
the exception of the Wickes, Tile Giant and 
Toolstation sites which allow on-line ordering by 
secure card transaction. 
Most of the sites provide information about 
branch locations and allow access to prices and 
the product range available. Customers are also 
able to construct their own price quotation that 
includes any special price arrangements that 
have been negotiated with the Group.
Electronic communication
In accordance with the Companies Act 2006 
and the Company’s Articles of Association, the 
company is allowed to use its website to publish 
statutory documents and communications to 
shareholders, such as the Annual Report and 
Accounts and the Notice of the AGM. You can 
therefore view or download a copy of the Annual 
Report and Accounts and the Notice of the AGM 
by going to our website at www.travisperkinsplc.
com (see section called ‘Investor Centre’). If 
you received a hard copy of this report in the 
post then you will not have consented to this 
method of publication. Should you now wish to 
consent to this method of publication, you should 
contact Capita Registrars, Freepost RLYX-GZTU-
KRRG, SAS, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, 
Beckenham, BR3 9ZA. By reducing the number 
of communications sent by post, it will not 
only result in cost savings to the Company but 
also reduce the impact that the unnecessary 
printing and distribution of reports has on the 
environment. Please note that if you consent 
to website publication, you will continue to be 
notified each time that the Company places a 
statutory communication on the website. This 
notification will be sent to you by post. However, 
you may also choose to receive notifications by 
e-mail and we would encourage you to do so. If 
you wish to receive these notifications by e-mail, 
you should register at www.capitashareportal.
com, and follow the instructions (see Registrar’s 
On-Line Service below).
Please telephone Capita Registrars on 
0871 664 0391 (within the UK, calls cost 10p 
per minute plus network extras; lines are open 
9.00am to 5.30pm, Monday – Friday or +44 20 
8639 3367 (Non-UK) if you have any queries.
Notes
1. Before consenting to receive documents and 
communications via the website, shareholders 
should ensure that they have a computer with 
internet access and the Adobe Acrobat reader 
facility. The Adobe Acrobat reader software may 
be obtained via the website free of charge.
Other Shareholder Information SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
TRA VIS PERKINS ANNUAL REPOR T AND ACCOUNTS 2011
131
2. If you elect to receive notifications of 
the publication of the documents and 
communications on the website electronically, 
it will be your responsibility to notify our 
registrars, Capita, of any subsequent change 
in your e-mail address or other contact 
details.
3. If you are not resident in the United 
Kingdom, it is your responsibility to ensure 
that you may validly receive documents and 
communications electronically (either generally 
or in relation to any particular document or 
communication) without the Company being 
required to comply with any governmental 
or regulatory procedures or any similar 
formalities. The Company may deny electronic 
access to documents and communications 
relating to certain corporate actions in respect 
of those shareholders who it believes are 
resident in jurisdictions where it is advised 
that to provide such access would or may be a 
breach of any legal or regulatory requirements.
4. The Company’s obligation to provide 
shareholder documents to you is satisfied 
when it transmits an electronic message. The 
Company is not responsible for any failure in 
transmission for reasons beyond its control 
any more than it is for postal failures. In the 
event of the Company becoming aware that 
an electronic communication to you has not 
been successfully transmitted, a further two 
attempts will be made. If the transmission is 
still unsuccessful, a hard copy of the relevant 
notification will be posted to your registered 
address.
5. Your registration to receive electronic 
communications and your relevant contact 
address details will stand until such time as 
the Company receives alternative instructions 
from you by e-mail or in writing.
6 The Company takes all reasonable precautions 
to ensure no computer viruses are present 
in any electronic communication it transmits, 
but the Company shall not be responsible for 
any loss or damage arising from the opening 
or use of any e-mail or attachments sent by 
the Company or on its behalf. The Company 
recommends that shareholders subject 
all messages to computer virus checking 
procedures. Any electronic communication 
received by or on behalf of the Company, 
including the lodgement of an electronic proxy 
form that is found to contain any computer 
virus will not be accepted.
7 The Company reserves the right, irrespective 
of your election, to revert to sending hard copy 
documentation by post whenever it considers 
it necessary or desirable to do so.
 
Capita registrars
The Company’s registrars, Capita Registrars 
(‘Capita’), provide a number of services that, as a 
shareholder, might be useful to you:
Registrar’s on-line service
By logging onto www.capitashareportal.com and 
following the prompts, shareholders can view 
and amend various details on their account. 
Please note that you will need to register to use 
this service for which purpose you will require 
your unique investor code, which can be found 
on your share certificate, proxy card or dividend 
tax voucher.
Dividend Re-Investment Plan (‘DRIP’)
This is a scheme which allows you to use 
your dividends to buy further shares in Travis 
Perkins. For any shareholders who wish to 
re-invest dividend payments in the Company, a 
facility is provided by Capita IRG Trustees Ltd in 
conjunction with Capita Registrars. Under this 
facility, cash dividends are used to purchase 
additional shares. Shares are bought on the 
dividend payment date at the then current market 
price. Any cash left over which is insufficient to 
purchase a whole share will be carried forward 
and held without interest, in a Client Money 
bank account. Any shareholder requiring further 
information should contact Capita on 0871 
664 0381 (Calls cost 10p per minute plus any 
network extras from within the UK; lines are open 
from 9.00 am to 5.30 pm Monday - Friday). If 
Non-UK +44 0208 639 3402. Fax 0208 639 
1023. E-mail shares@capitaregistrars.com or 
visit www.capitaregistrars.com. 
Duplicate share register accounts
If you are receiving more than one copy of our 
report, it may be that your shares are registered 
in two or more accounts on our register of 
members. If that was not your intention you 
might consider merging them into one single 
entry. Please contact Capita who will be pleased 
to carry out your instructions.
Overseas shareholders
Capita are able to provide you with a service that 
will convert your sterling dividends into your local 
currency at a competitive rate. You can choose to 
receive payment directly into your bank account, 
or you can be sent a draft in your local currency. 
Further details are available from Capita 
Registrars, Freepost RLYX-GZTU-KRRG, SAS, The 
Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent 
BR3 9ZA; telephone UK: 0871 664 0385 (Calls 
cost 10 pence per minute plus network extras; 
lines are open to 9.00am to 5.30pm, Monday 
– Friday) or +44 208 639 3405 (Non-UK) or by 
logging on to 
www.capitaregistrars.com/international.
Share dealing services
There are two share dealing services that you 
may wish to use to buy or sell shares in Travis 
Perkins (but alternatively there are many other 
options that you could use):
1. Capita offers an on-line and telephone share 
dealing service which is available by logging 
on to www.capitadeal.com or telephoning 
0871 664 0346 (calls cost 10p per minute 
plus network extras; lines are open 8.00am 
to 4.30pm, Monday – Friday). For the on-line 
service, Capita’s commission rates are 1% of 
the value of the deal (minimum £20, maximum 
£75) and for the telephone service, Capita’s 
commission rates are 1.50% of the value of 
the deal (minimum £25, maximum £102.50). 
2.  Stocktrade offer a telephone share dealing 
service which is available by telephoning 0845 
6010 995 (non-UK +44131 240 0414) and 
quoting reference ‘Low cost 335’. Stocktrades 
commission will be 0.5%, to £10,000 and 
0.2% on the excess thereafter, subject to 
minimum of £17.50. Please note that UK 
share purchases will be subject to 0.5% 
stamp duty. There will also be a PTM (‘Panel 
for Takeovers and Mergers’) levy of £1 for 
single trades in excess of £10,000. When 
buying shares you will be required to pay for 
your transaction at the time of the deal by 
debit card, and you should ensure that you 
have sufficient cleared funds available in your 
debit card account to pay for the shares in full. 132
Warning Regarding Unsolicited Calls and Mail
We have been made aware that several of 
our shareholders have received unsolicited 
calls or mail regarding their shareholding in 
Travis Perkins, and offering to buy shares at an 
attractive price. Typically these approaches come 
from overseas companies.
Such approaches are invariably ‘scams’ and 
usually the people involved will ask you to provide 
them with your bank details, or send them money 
(often referred to as a ‘bond’), and send them 
your share certificate. No reputable company 
would behave in this way and so, if you do 
receive an approach, we would suggest that you 
ignore it or treat it with caution – if it sounds too 
good to be true, it probably is! Further details of 
these so called ‘boiler room’ scams can be found 
on our website www.travisperkinsplc.com
Shareholder Notes  This document is important and requires your immediate attention. If you are in any doubt as to what action you should take, you are recommended to seek your own ﬁ nancial 
advice from your stockbroker or other independent adviser authorised under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000. If you have sold or transferred all of your shares in 
Travis Perkins plc, please forward this document, together with the accompanying documents, as soon as possible either to the purchaser or transferee or to the person who 
arranged the sale or transfer so they can pass these documents to the person who now holds the shares.
Printed on:
Revive 50 Silk, a recycled paper containing 50% recycled waste and 50% virgin ﬁ bre and manufactured at a mill certiﬁ ed with ISO 14001 environmental 
management standard. The pulp used in this product is bleached using an Elemental Chlorine Free process (ECF), and
Tauro Offset, made from virgin wood ﬁ bre sourced mainly from sustainable forests in the EC. It is bleached using a Totally Chlorine Free (TCF) process. 
This material can be disposed of by recycling, or incineration for energy and composting.
 Designed by RWH Design Consultants, Photography by Charles Ward
Printed by Jones and Palmer
General Merchanting
Travis Perkins Midlands 
and North West
Travis Perkins Northern
Travis Perkins South East
Travis Perkins South West 
and Wales
Consumer
Tile Giant
Toolstation
Wickes
Specialist Merchanting
Benchmarx
CCF
Keyline
Plumbing and 
Heating
Birchwood Price Tools
BSS
City Plumbing
DHS
F&P Wholesale
PTS
Spendlove C. Jebb
 TRAVIS PERKINS PLC
TP_COVER_ARTWORK.indd   2 TP_COVER_ARTWORK.indd   2 10/04/2012   11:50 10/04/2012   11:50 Adjust spine if necessary
 Travis Perkins plc, Lodge Way House, Harlestone Road, Northampton NN5 7UG. T elephone 01604 752 424
www.travisperkinsplc.com
 Travis Perkins plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2011
 TRAVIS PERKINS PLC
T r avis P erkins
The largest 
supplier of 
building 
materials 
in the UK
Annual 
Report and 
Accounts
2011
 TRAVIS PERKINS PLC
TP_COVER_ARTWORK.indd   1 TP_COVER_ARTWORK.indd   1 10/04/2012   11:50 10/04/2012   11:50
