 20386-04  01/04/2011 Proof 3 20386-04  01/04/2011 Proof 3
TRAVIS PERKINS PLC
Lodge Way House · HarLestone road · nortHampton nn5 7 ug 
teLepHone 01604 752 424
tra VI s per KI ns p L C · 2010 annua L repor t and a C C ount s 2010
2010 ANNuAL REPoRT & ACC ouNTS
A LEAdER IN buILdERS mERChANTINg ANd homE ImPR oVEmENT RETAILINg TRAVIS PERKINS PLC 20386-04  01/04/2011 Proof 3 20386-04  01/04/2011 Proof 3
This document is important and requires your immediate attention. 
If you are in any doubt as to what action you should take, you are 
recommended to seek your own financial advice from your stockbroker 
or other independent adviser authorised under the Financial Services 
and Markets Act 2000. If you have sold or transferred all of your shares 
in Travis Perkins plc, please forward this document, together with the 
accompanying documents, as soon as possible either to the purchaser or 
transferee or to the person who arranged the sale or transfer so they can pass 
these documents to the person who now holds the shares.
Printed on: 
Revive 50 Silk, a recycled paper containing 50% recycled 
waste and 50% virgin fibre and manufactured at a mill 
certified with ISO 14001 environmental management 
standard. The pulp used in this product is bleached using 
an Elemental Chlorine Free process (ECF), and
Tauro Offset, made from virgin wood fibre sourced mainly 
from sustainable forests in the EC. It is bleached using 
a Totally Chlorine Free (TCF) process. This material can 
be disposed of by recycling, or incineration for energy 
and composting.
Designed by RWH Design Consultants 
Photography by Charles Ward
BSS photography by Barry Willis
Printed by Jones and Palmer
Robert Steward, Yard Sales Assistant
Front cover: Mark Bonham,Yard Supervisor
Scott Richardson, Sales Assistant 1
 
20386.04 proof 2 31/03/11
CONTENTS
   
   
   
   
   
OVERVIEW
Financial highlights 2
Operating highlights 3
Highlights of 2010 4
Mission, vision and values 6
Who we are 7
REPORTS
Chairman’s statement 12
Chief executive’s review of the year 14
Chief operating officer’s review of the year 26
Finance director’s review of the year 32
Environmental report 37
Health & safety report 43
GOVERNANCE
Directors 46
Committees and professional advisers 48
Corporate responsibility statement 48
Statement of principal risks and uncertainties 49
Corporate governance 55
Audit committee report 58
Directors’ remuneration report 61
Nominations committee report 72
Directors’ report 73
Statement of directors’ responsibilities 77
Independent auditors’ report 78
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Income statements 80
Statement of comprehensive income 81
Balance sheets 82
Consolidated statement of changes in equity 84
Statement of changes in equity 85
Cash flow statements 86
Notes to the financial statements 87
Five year record 126
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Notice of Annual General Meeting 129
Notes to notice of Annual General Meeting 131
Directions to Annual General Meeting 133
Other shareholder information 134 2
 
20386.04 proof 2 31/03/11
FINANCIAL 
HIGHLIGHTS
●
 Group revenue up 8% at £3,153m, up 5% on a like-for-like basis
●
 Adjusted profit before tax up 20% to £217m
●
  Adjusted EPS up 5% before consolidating BSS, up 3% to 77.2p  
on a reported basis
●
  Adjusted group operating margin before BSS impact increased  
by 0.1% to 7.8%
●
  Net debt reduced by £205m before the effect of the BSS 
acquisition and the one-off pension contribution
●
  Year end net debt was £774m. Adjusted net debt to EBITDA was 
1.92x (note 38)
●
  Travis Perkins pension fund into surplus of £32m
●
  Final dividend of 10p per share making a total dividend of  
15p per share
●
  BSS acquisition completed on 14 December 2010 for £799m 
enterprise value 3
 
20386.04 proof 2 31/03/11
OPERATING 
HIGHLIGHTS
●
  All 11 group businesses performed better than the market with 
outperformance of around 4% in merchanting and around  
6% in retail
●
  Focus on operating and financial performance maintained 
against background of completion of the major acquisition 
project of BSS
●
  Strong like-for-like performance in merchanting with  
increase of 7.3%
●
  Retail like-for-like sales increase of 0.2% 4
 
20386.04 proof 2 31/03/11
ADJUSTED 
PROFIT
BEFORE 
TAXATION  
(£M)
ADJUSTED  
BASIC 
EARNINGS  
PER SHARE 
(PENCE)
Restated for impact of rights issue
REVENUE 
(£M)
HIGHLIGHTS 
OF 2010
0
3000
4000
2000
1000
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
2,848.8
3,186.7
3,178.6
2,930.9
3,152.8
0
300
200
100
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
220.3
261.4
202.5
180.0
216.7
100
50
0
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
100.4
118.1
96.9
75.2
77.2
100.4
118.1
96.9
75.2
77.2 5
 
20386.04 proof 2 31/03/11
    2010  2009
    £m % £m
Revenue 3,152.8 7.6 2,930.9
ADJUSTED:*
Operating profit (note 5a) 239.0 6.4 224.6
Profit before taxation (note 5b) 216.7 20.4 180.0
Profit after taxation (note 5b) 156.9 17.2 133.9
Basic earnings per ordinary share (pence) (note 12)  77.2 2.7 75.2
 
STATUTORy:   
Operating profit  219.8 (14.4) 257.3
Profit before taxation  196.8 (7.5) 212.7
Profit after taxation  141.3 (10.2) 157.4
Basic earnings per ordinary share (pence) 69.6 (21.3) 88.4
 
Total dividend declared   
per ordinary share (pence) (note 12) 15.0p - -
HIGHLIGHTS 
OF 2010
* Throughout these financial statements the term ‘adjusted’ has been used to signify that the effect of exceptional items, amortisation of intangible assets and the associated tax impacts 
have been excluded from the disclosure being made. Full details of the exceptional items for both 2010 and 2009 are given in notes, 5, 8, 10 and 11. 6
 
20386.04 proof 2 31/03/11
OUR GROUP 
MISSION, VISION 
AND VALUES
OUR GROUP MISSION
‘Continue to deliver better returns by... putting 
in place and growing the best businesses, with 
outstanding people and operations, providing 
comprehensive building material solutions, to 
everyone creating, maintaining, repairing or 
improving the built environment,… helping to 
build Britain’.
OUR GROUP VISION
To ensure that anyone in Britain who wants to 
access any kind of building materials through 
any form of supply channel will have a Travis 
Perkins group operation as their first or first 
alternative choice.
Know our customers – we understand their 
needs, beat their expectations, treat them 
with respect, and know our major customers 
personally.
Talk and listen – we say what we mean clearly 
and honestly, we listen carefully; we respond 
objectively, we explain our decisions.
Are with you, not against you – we seek 
mutual benefits with all stakeholders; we think 
about the impact of our actions; we search for 
similarities.
Know how to do our jobs – not just today, but 
for the next job; we equip ourselves with the 
skills needed to perform and be confident we 
can perform.
Like to deliver – we enjoy being the best; we 
know exactly what each of us is expected to 
achieve; we focus on getting results, simply.
Work together – we actively work with each 
other; when something goes wrong, the first 
thing we will do is fix the problem; not look for 
someone to blame.
Always try to get better – we constructively 
challenge how we work; we look for fresh ideas 
that are different; we only have rules where they 
are necessary because we use our common 
sense.
Are proud to be here – this is a great 
company; everyone working with us is welcome; 
we make work enjoyable for everyone.
OUR GROUP VALUES
At Travis Perkins, we: 7
 
20386.04 proof 2 31/03/11
WHO WE ARE
The present day Company was formed in 1988 out of a merger between Travis and Arnold plc, a 
company with strong Midlands and Northern based business, and Sandell Perkins plc, a company with 
an equivalent strength in the South of England.
The origins of Sandell Perkins can be traced back over 200 years to 1797 when a carpentry 
company was first established in London; Travis and Arnold was initially formed as a partnership in 
1899. During the early to mid 20th century both businesses expanded before eventually becoming 
listed public companies, Travis and Arnold was the first to the market in 1964, followed 22 years later 
by Sandell Perkins.
Andrew Pike
Company 
Secretary  
and Lawyer
Carol Kavanagh
Group Human  
Resources 
Director
Martin Meech
Group Property 
Director
Robin Proctor
Supply Chain 
Director
Norman Bell
Category 
Management 
Director 
TRAVIS PERKINS PLC
Travis Perkins, a major plc, is a main supplier to the building 
and construction market, one of the largest industries in  
the UK. 8
 
20386.04 proof 2 31/03/11
The core businesses of Travis and Arnold plc and Sandell Perkins plc formed, following the merger in 
1988, what is now the general merchanting business within the merchanting division. It trades nation-
ally through the Travis Perkins brand and comprises four individual businesses. 
Joe Mescall, who has been with the Group since 1974, leads the business in his role as Divisional 
Chairman. The Managing Directors of the four regional businesses are Ian Church (Travis Perkins 
Midlands), Phil Gransden (Travis Perkins South East), Andrew Popple (Travis Perkins Northern) and 
Mark Nottingham (Travis Perkins South West). The customers of the four general merchanting regional 
businesses are primarily professional tradesmen, ranging from sole traders to national housebuilders, 
whose key requirements are product range and availability, competitive pricing and customer service.
The strategy of the general merchanting business aims to increase market share through imple-
mentation of our Best Practice programme, ongoing branch network expansion, to enter new market 
segments and to exploit multi channel opportunities. The Best Practice programme is designed to 
enhance our overall service to trade customers and covers all of their key requirements: even though 
all four general merchanting businesses are already operating to high standards in these areas they 
have stretching targets in place to deliver further improvements.
Network expansion will be concentrated on identifying prime locations through brownfield openings 
and small acquisitions; store projects and framework agreements will continue to be expanded with 
Local Authorities and Housing Associations. 
The specialist merchanting business of the merchanting division consists of four separate busi-
nesses trading under the following brands; Keyline, City Plumbing Supplies, CCF and Benchmarx. It is 
led by the Divisional Chairman, Arthur Davidson. He has worked in merchanting for over thirty years 
having joined Keyline prior to its acquisition by the Travis Perkins Group.
MERCHANTING 
DIVISION
Joe Mescall
Divisional 
Chairman
Ian Church
MD Midlands
Phil Gransden
MD South East
Andrew Popple
MD Northern
Mark 
Nottingham
MD South West
The merchanting division of Travis Perkins plc supplies building 
materials to generalist and specialist professional tradesman 
throughout Great Britain. 9
 
20386.04 proof 2 31/03/11
Arthur Davidson 
Divisional 
Chairman
Andrew 
Harrison 
MD Keyline 
John Frost
MD City 
Plumbing
Kieran Griffin 
MD CCF
Chris Larkin
MD Benchmarx
Andrew Harrison, the Managing Director of Keyline, has been with the group since 1989. Keyline 
is a specialist merchant supplying heavy building materials and civils and drainage solutions to the 
construction industry throughout the UK. Keyline is known for its knowledgeable staff and excellent 
delivery service. 
City Plumbing Supplies is a major nationwide plumbing and heating merchant serving both the 
contract market and the general plumbing and heating market. The Company offers high quality prod-
ucts and expert service to the trade. The Managing Director of City Plumbing Supplies is John Frost 
who joined the Travis Perkins Group in 1983. In 2010, led by Ian Tillotson, City Heating Spares – the 
spare parts division of City Plumbing Supplies – was formed. 
CCF is a leading supplier of interior building products to the construction industry. It operates 
throughout the UK, offering a one-stop-shop to its customers from its nationwide branch network. 
CCF’s Managing Director is Kieran Griffin who joined the Group in 1995 and progressed via its 
management training scheme, branch management and regional management roles, to the position 
of Managing Director. 
In 2006 Benchmarx became the first group brand to be created as a completely new business 
within a market adjacent to the markets already served by the Group. Based mainly in the South East, 
the business is a leading supplier of kitchen and joinery products to the trade through its competi-
tive pricing, quality products and knowledgeable staff. Benchmarx is led by Chris Larkin, formerly a 
Regional Director within Travis Perkins South East, who became Managing Director in July 2009.  
20386.04 proof 2 31/03/11
RETAIL 
DIVISION
Wickes stores are designed to appeal to tradesmen, who undertake general repairs, maintenance and 
improvement projects for households and small businesses and to serious DIY customers, who carry 
out more complete DIY projects. These customers are more demanding in terms of service, quality 
and price.
The Company meets these expectations by offering a focussed range of high quality primarily own 
brand, competitively priced home improvement products, such as timber, building materials, tools and 
decorative materials. In addition, Wickes stores offer a range of kitchens and bathrooms, which are 
sold through in-store showrooms.
Wickes, which opened its first store in the UK in 1972 at Whitefield in Manchester, was acquired by 
Travis Perkins in 2005 and the Company now operates from 201 stores nationwide. 
The Managing Director of Wickes is Jeremy Bird who joined Wickes eighteen years ago and has 
fulfilled various roles including that of Commercial Director.
In 2007 Travis Perkins acquired its seventh brand, Tile Giant, whilst in 2008 this business acquired 
Tile Magic, a 17 store chain and Tile it All a 16 store chain. In 2009, Travis Perkins acquired Tile HQ an 
internet based retailer of ceramic and stone tiles. The brand is now trading from a total of 101 stores.
Under the leadership of Mo Iqbal, the Managing Director of Tile Giant, up to the end of 2010 and 
his successor Andy Morrison, the brand offers a strong pipeline for further expansion.
Toolstation
In 2008, the Group invested in a 30% share of a direct retailer of lightside products. This multi-channel 
business has a strong internet and catalogue based business and a rapidly expanding store network 
which has extended to 84 stores throughout Great Britain by the end of 2010. 
Jeremy Bird
Divisional 
Chairman
and MD Wickes
Mo Iqbal
MD Tile Giant
The Retail division comprises two businesses; Wickes, a 
national chain of DIY retail outlets and Tile Giant, a ceramic tile 
merchant acquired in 2007. 
10 11
 
20386.04 proof 2 31/03/11
BSS  
DIVISION
The BSS Group plc is a leading distributor to specialist trades and its principal activities are the distribu-
tion and sale of heating, ventilation and plumbing products, tools and industrial supplies to, amongst 
others, industrial contractors, domestic plumbers, independent merchants and industrial end users 
through a network of 446 branches. 443 branches are located in the United Kingdom and 3 in the 
Republic of Ireland. 
The Group’s business comprises three divisions, Domestic, Industrial and Specialist. Its principal 
brands are PTS, BSS and F & P Wholesale. 
PTS operates from 317 branches and supplies a wide range of customers from national contractors to 
sole trading plumbers and heating engineers. Merchant heating, plumbing and sanitary ware is supplied 
through the 11 branches of F & P Wholesale. The industrial, commercial and process industry, construc-
tion and warehouse markets are serviced by the 61 branches of BSS Industrial in the UK and Ireland.
The specialist division of BSS comprises Buck and Hickman, one of the UK’s leading distributors of 
tools, maintenance and health and safety products, and Birchwood Price Tools a wholesaler of power  
tools and accessories, hand tools, safety wear and general consumables.
FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS
The review of the businesses contained in the annual report and accounts contains forward looking statements 
with respect to the financial condition, results, operations and business of the Travis Perkins plc group. These 
statements and forecasts include risk and uncertainty because they relate to events and depend on circum-
stances that occur in the future. There are a number of factors that could cause actual results or developments 
to differ materially from those expressed or implied by the forward statements. 
Travis Perkins purchased the entire share capital of  
The BSS Group plc on 14 December 2010. 12
 
20386.04 proof 2 31/03/11
CHAIRMAN’S 
STATEMENT
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2010
Robert Walker, 
Chairman
INTRODUCTION
I am pleased to present my first 
statement to shareholders as Chairman of 
Travis Perkins and to report on a year of 
substantial progress across the Group, in 
spite of the deepest recession that most 
of us can remember. Increased revenues, 
together with a continuing focus on cash 
generation, cost reduction and margin 
protection, have produced an excellent 
set of results in the current economic 
circumstances.
A further highlight was the acquisition 
of The BSS Group plc (‘BSS’) at the end 
of 2010. As a result, the Group now has 
a better balanced set of businesses 
focussed on three segments; merchanting, 
retail and BSS. All these businesses 
were characterised by increasing market 
share, focussed strategies and self-help 
initiatives. 13
 
20386.04 proof 2 31/03/11
CHAIRMAN’S S TATEMENT
RESULTS
The Group’s reported revenue in 2010 rose by almost 8% to over £3.1bn 
and our adjusted pre-tax profits climbed by 20% to almost £217m. 
Adjusted earnings per share before the consolidation of the last two 
weeks of trading at BSS (through the traditional Christmas shutdown) 
increased by 5% to 78.8 pence, and on a reported adjusted basis, rose 
3% to 77.2p per share. Importantly, every single business in the Group, 
from Travis Perkins merchants and Wickes DIY through to each individual 
specialist business, increased market share in its segment and grew 
sales and profitability.
Once again, underlying net debt fell, this time by £205m, to £262m, 
before taking account of the acquisition of BSS.
Gross capital expenditure for the year was £65m. In addition, £624m, 
which included an equity element of £329m, was spent on acquisitions.
I am also pleased to report that as a result of actions taken, including 
making a £35m one-off special contribution, and improved investment 
performance, the Travis Perkins final salary pension scheme is now into 
an accounting surplus of £32m.
DIVIDEND
In view of the Group’s improved prospects and strengthened financial 
position, I am pleased to recommend to shareholders, on behalf of the 
Board, a final dividend of 10p per share. Together with the interim divi-
dend of 5.0p per share paid last November, the total dividend for 2010 
will amount to 15p per share, which will absorb £35m of cash. Our objec-
tive is to grow dividends ahead of earnings so as to reduce dividend cover 
to between 2.5 times and 3.5 times over the medium term.
ACqUISITION OF BSS
The acquisition of BSS was the significant event of 2010 for the Group, for 
a total consideration of £624m, a combination of cash and equity. BSS is 
a well established and proven quality business with excellent people. The 
prospects for the business are exciting and we look forward to working 
together to achieve the synergistic benefits from the combination of our two 
businesses, and to invest in further growth. 
On behalf of all employees of Travis Perkins, I am delighted to welcome 
the BSS team into our Group. We now have the leading plumbing busi-
ness in the UK to add to the leading positions represented by other group 
businesses.
EMPLOyEES
We continue to enjoy the support and loyalty of very committed 
colleagues. We are investing to develop our people and we go to consid-
erable lengths to ensure that we provide the best incentives and career 
progression possible. On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank our 
colleagues throughout the Group for their contributions to the success 
of the business.
OUTLOOK
Conditions for the next 12 months remain difficult. There is considerable 
gloom in the wider economy, but we do not subscribe to the double-dip 
theory. The merchanting market fell by over 30% from its peak in 2008 
and although activity has picked up a little, from a longer term perspec-
tive, activity levels are currently around 20% below their peak. Although 
we will probably see some turbulence in short term trends, we expect 
activity levels to continue their gradual recovery. In contrast, we expect 
the retail market to continue to be soft.
We will continue to pursue our organic growth strategy, which is deliv-
ering increasing market share and sales performance. This process of 
continual improvement is supported by many new initiatives that we will 
implement during the course of the year.
Our key objectives to drive financial performance in 2011 are to 
continue the Group’s strategy of organic growth and to integrate BSS so 
we get the best out of the acquisition. We have proved we can generate 
superior returns from businesses in our sector; we will continue to drive 
all our businesses for cash generation. 
We look forward to another year of good progress.
Robert Walker 
Chairman 
22 February 2011
.
“
WE WILL CONTINUE TO PURSUE OUR ORGANIC GROWTH STRATEGy, WHICH 
IS DELIVERING INCREASING MARKET SHARE AND SALES PERFORMANCE”  
20386.04 proof 2 31/03/11
INTRODUCTION
The Group made excellent progress 
in 2010 – a year in which our organic 
development strategy, against a 
background of depressed levels of 
construction activity, produced a strong 
financial performance, with further 
market share gains and impressive 
increases in profits. We also strengthened 
considerably the Group’s strategic 
position and prospects in the UK through 
the completion of the BSS transaction at 
the end of the year.
The prevailing culture within the Travis 
Perkins Group is to allow managers to 
manage, to anticipate markets and trends 
with our customers and to swiftly find 
sensible and workable solutions to our 
customers’ requirements. Our highly 
efficient central service functions are 
there to underpin and support the activity 
of our branch and operational managers. 
This approach has served us well during 
the past 12 months. It is our ethos.  
We are a quality business consisting of 
quality people.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S 
REVIEW OF  
THE yEAR
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2010
We are also a progressive business. We get on and do things. With an 
unshakable focus on delivering excellent products and service, we were 
able to achieve all the main ambitions we set ourselves for 2010, in 
spite of a challenging economic climate, particularly in the building and 
refurbishment industry.
The Group outperformed its markets by 4% to 6% in 2010, on a like-
for-like basis, in both merchanting and retail. We had good growth in 
sales, taking market share and, as a result, grew our profit before tax 
and exceptional items and amortisation by 20%. We have the systems 
and tools in place to continue our organic growth and we enter 2011 
with confidence.
We pursued our acquisition target, BSS, for most of the year, finally 
succeeding in completing the acquisition in December. We now look 
forward to working with our new colleagues to grasp the excellent oppor-
tunities presented by this transaction.
PERFORMANCE
All 11 businesses within the Group performed relatively better through 
the recession than their sector benchmarks. This was largely due to the 
intensive and wide-ranging groundwork we began in 2008 to ensure we 
were better equipped than our rivals to cope with changes in the market 
and the economy.
Throughout this annual report, consistent with our approach last year, 
the term ‘adjusted’ has been used to signify that the effects of excep-
tional items and amortisation of intangible assets have been excluded 
from the disclosures being made. The exceptional operating charge of 
£19.0m in 2010 relates to costs associated with the Group’s acquisition 
of BSS. In 2009 the exceptional income related to a £32.7m pension 
scheme curtailment gain which arose when future increases in pension 
scheme members’ pensionable salaries were capped.
For 2010, the Group reported revenue up £222m at £3,153m (2009: 
£2,931m). Whilst the market overall was broadly flat in value, our 
revenues increased mainly through the self-help initiatives incorporated 
within our organic strategy. This revenue increase drove adjusted oper-
ating profit up 6% to £239m (2009: £225m), adjusted profit before tax 
up 20% to almost £217m (2009: £180m), and adjusted earnings per 
share up 3% to 77.2 pence (2009: 75.2 pence). The revenue increase 
of 7.6% comprised an increase of 5.0% in like-for-like (‘LFL’) sales, with 
network expansion accounting for growth of 2.6%. 
Excluding BSS, where we consolidate the last two weeks trading 
over the Christmas shutdown, adjusted group operating margin rose by 
0.1% to 7.8% (2009: 7.7%). This reflects our strategy of investing in 
Geoff Cooper  
Chief Executive
14 15
CHIEF E XE C U TIVE’S REVIEW OF THE YEAR
 
20386.04 proof 2 31/03/11
improvements to our customer propositions. Whilst adjusted operating 
margin in the retail division improved by 0.1% to 5.9% (2009: 5.8%), 
merchanting division adjusted operating margin remained at 8.8%. 
Including the effect of the BSS acquisition, adjusted operating margin 
(including BSS’ post acquisition loss of £2.6m) fell by 0.1% to 7.6% 
(note 5c). 
After including exceptional items and amortisation of intangible assets 
in both years, the Group recorded a decrease of 7% in PBT to £196.8m 
(2009; £212.7m) and a decrease of 21% in earnings per share to 69.6 
pence (2009; 88.4 pence). 
The Group generated free cash flow of £277.8m in 2010 (2009: 
£294.4m), a 5.6% decrease year-on-year. Overall, including the 
cash outflow relating to the acquisition of BSS of £476.9m, net debt 
increased to £773.6m (2009: £467.2m). For covenant purposes net 
debt was £701.4m (2009; £413.1m), giving a net debt / EBITDA ratio of 
1.92 times (2009: 1.47 times) and interest cover of 18.9 times (2009: 
10.7 times). 
Including the effect of our £624m acquisition of BSS Group, share-
holders’ funds increased by £491m.
The Group has started the year well with LFL sales in January up 22% 
in merchanting, 8% up in BSS and 12% in Retail on a delivered basis 
(Wickes core up 12%, kitchen and bathroom (‘K&B’) up 15%), reflecting 
the weak comparatives from the snow affected January 2010. The first 3 
weeks of February have also traded well with a 10% increase in LFL sales 
in merchanting, 5% in BSS, and a 2% increase in Retail on a delivered 
basis (Wickes core up 3%, K&B down 2%). 
In January, Wickes’ K&B orders were down 3% and in February 
they were down 36%. This reflects a combination of pre-VAT increase 
advanced ordering in late 2010, rather than early 2011, and recent 
competitor discounting. In this weak K&B market our K&B gross margins 
are ahead of 2009.
These strong performance ratios are directly related to our managers’ 
expertise and experience. Our direction is heavily influenced by our 
operating managers who tell us what is really going on in the market. 
No one is better placed to know what our customers are doing and 
what they need to carry out their work than our branch and operational 
managers. Gathering intelligence from customers is the only way we can 
really know what is happening at ground level. Thanks to our regular 
customer surveys and the experience and knowledge of our managers, 
our antennae are highly developed.
As a result, the Group was able to identify key turns in the course of 
the economic cycle, and as a consequence:
●
  Take quick action to reduce costs as construction activity fell at the 
.
“
NO ONE IS BETTER PLACED TO KNOW WHAT OUR CUSTOMERS ARE DOING 
AND WHAT THEy NEED TO CARRy OUT THEIR WORK THAN OUR BRANCH AND 
OPERATIONAL MANAGERS”
outset of the recession;
●
  Begin a programme of investing in growing our business as markets 
began to stabilise;
●
 Identify swiftly the opportunity and benefits of acquiring BSS.
We combine systems and processes, which track a range of lead indi-
cators, with our managers’ instinct and close knowledge of customers’ 
views. As a result of those relationships, we know what drives our market 
and we know how to adapt and respond to changing market conditions.
 
MARKETS AND OUR RESPONSE 
We predicted, in merchanting, a gradual recovery in 2010 from the sharp 
contraction of activity, caused by the recession, which started towards 
the end of 2008. In contrast, we expected a contraction in retail markets 
in 2010 following the fading of the artificial support consumers received 
from a fall in housing costs in 2009. We were broadly correct, with the 
aggregate value of these two segments of the market being broadly flat 
despite continued relatively high product cost and price inflation.
Our tracking of lead indicators told us that construction activity levels 
were improving at the end of 2009 and the beginning of 2010. When 
the UK went into the recession at the end of 2008, builders were doing 
more and more ‘second fix’ internal work, but less and less heavy-duty 
foundation, and block and brick building work. In effect, the builders were 
completing projects that were already underway. This changed towards 
the end of 2009 when a slow recovery in mortgage activity encour-
aged more housing related building works, including the opening up of 
many new housing sites. Whilst this directly boosted the merchanting 
market, the retail market had a tough time as inflation bit into consumers’ 
purchasing power.
We responded to this turn in the market by re-starting many of the 
improvement programmes that drive our organic growth strategy. The main 
programmes boosted at the beginning of 2010 cover product availability, 
ranging, delivery services, multi channel trading and account manage-
ment. Behind these programmes significant support is provided by our 
central technology, supply chain, procurement and marketing functions.
Successful deployment of these programmes meant we were able to 
outperform in both merchanting and retailing sectors by anticipating what 
was likely to confront us and be sufficiently flexible in our working opera-
tions to manage fluctuations in the market.
So what is behind this quality of flexibility that we have? It is because 
of the culture of our managers and the way we organise ourselves. We 
try to give our managing directors, boards and branch managers as much 
autonomy as possible. In effect, we leave our businesses and branches   
20386.04 proof 2 31/03/11
MErchanting productivity  
pEr EMployEE (£k ) 
0
100
200
CHIEF E XE C U TIVE’S REVIEW OF THE YEAR
with the freedom to trade in the best way they deem appropriate. They 
decide on the hiring of staff, on remuneration, on the products they stock, 
and the pricing of products. Our key colleagues in branches have day-
to-day working relationships with all their customers, from householders 
and sole traders to major construction businesses, and they can deter-
mine how to manage those customers and on what terms. Those deci-
sions are not set in stone from a head office policy-maker. Each individual 
business board and branch manager has the freedom to work within 
a sensible business plan, aimed at delivering performance on a broad 
range of financial and service metrics. 
The central functions are made to report to the business, rather than 
the other way round. If the managing director of a business has identified a 
significant issue or a potential problem, he or she has the ability to contact 
a senior director at head office and demand an immediate response.
It is our culture of ‘getting on and doing things’ that makes all our busi-
nesses flexible and quick to respond. Every day we see many examples of 
our people getting on with fixing things, solving problems on behalf of our 
customers and suppliers and improving our businesses.
MERCHANTING DIVISION
The four businesses that operate under the Travis Perkins brand all 
performed strongly during 2010. Joe Mescall, Chairman of the general 
merchanting division, a superb merchant who has been with the Group 
since 1974, and his four managing directors and their boards, have all 
had an outstanding year. 
Merchanting division sales increased by 8.0%, with sales from new 
branch openings contributing 0.7%, and LFL sales improving 7.3%. The 
LFL increase comprised 3.6% of price inflation and 3.7% increase in 
volumes. We estimate that both our general and specialist merchanting 
operations recorded a performance of around 4% ahead of the market, 
with LFL sales in general merchanting increasing by 6.7% and specialist 
merchanting increasing by 8.5%. 
These performances were achieved by improvements in our overall 
service to builders, including better product availability to ensure that 
constructors and builders had sufficient stock to complete entire projects. 
A great deal of effort has been concentrated on being able to supply 
products in the right quantity and at the right price. Our regular customer 
research indicates that over the year we have consolidated our reputation 
for being the merchant who can supply what customers need, when they 
need it. Because of our growing international sourcing expertise, we can 
increasingly supply both unique and routine products at more competitive 
2007 2008 2009 2010 2006
206 220 216 215 228
Robert Steward, Yard Sales Assistant Kevin Hancock, Driver Robert Newton, Branch Manager
16  
20386.04 proof 2 31/03/11
CHIEF E XE C U TIVE’S REVIEW OF THE YEAR
The general merchanting business 
produced strong like-for-like sales
F OC US ON O RGA NI C GROWTH
Paul Dancer, Tool Hire Manager
Robert Steward, Yard Sales Assistant
Left: Robert Newton, Branch Manager. Right: Eliot Linzey-Jones, Senior Sales Assistant 
The general merchanting 
business produced strong 
like-for-like sales growth 
and increased market share, 
whilst eight new branches 
were opened in 2010
17 18
CHIEF E XE C U TIVE’S REVIEW OF THE YEAR
 
20386.04 proof 2 31/03/11
prices than our rivals. This aspect of our work relies on the vital support of 
our buying and supply chain teams, working in tandem.
As activity levels began to increase, the Travis Perkins branches were 
there to support customers and we saw strong sales growth and an 
increase in operating profits. In general terms, when you ask a builder 
why they go to a particular supplier, they give a dozen or so reasons for 
their choice. Travis Perkins likes to be the number one choice in seven or 
eight of those decision-making criteria. And we make sure we are.
Arthur Davidson, another great merchant with many years experience, 
chairs our specialist division. He and his team produced a superb perfor-
mance from their four businesses whilst strengthening their strategic 
position with significant development activity
Keyline
Our heavy building materials and civils and drainage specialist experi-
enced the toughest year of all 11 of our businesses as a result of the 
obvious squeeze in the new construction market. Our customers needed 
to repair a house, but they didn’t have to build a new property. But in line 
with our Group ethos, Keyline responded imaginatively and instantly with 
a boost to its customer service under the banner ‘Best In Town’. Even 
though the market was undeniably challenging, Keyline, under the direc-
tion of Managing Director Andrew Harrison, led the market by supplying 
the best range of products to satisfy demand from customers. This initia-
tive enabled Keyline to convince customers that they were first choice for 
civils products, with Keyline recording like-for-like sales growth ahead of 
the general merchanting division, and a healthy increase in profits.
City Plumbing
Our acquisition of BSS after a protracted nine-month process overshad-
owed the activity of City Plumbing, since the two businesses compete 
in the same market. However, we were delighted by the team’s ability 
to maintain their enthusiasm and focus throughout. The result is that 
Managing Director John Frost and his team completed an impressive year, 
improving their sales, outgrowing their market and increasing profits. In 
fact, CPS recorded the highest like-for-like sales growth of any of our 
mature merchant businesses. That was a considerable achievement under 
the circumstances. The team put together a progressive and exciting 
initiative to focus on what plumbers really require under the banner ‘What 
Good Looks Like’. This ethos swept through the whole operation.
Benchmarx
Our specialist kitchen and joinery business which sells to the trade, under 
the guidance of Managing Director Chris Larkin, is only four years old. 
Having completed the first two phases in growing the business, namely 
its launch and then its refinement, Chris took over in the third phase – to 
drive profits. This involved looking at fresh opportunities to attract new 
customers to Benchmarx. Chris did an excellent job, performing beyond 
our expectations, motivating his team and strengthening the engagement 
of management. Chris also created and led a new initiative to install 
Benchmarx ‘implants’ in other group trading brands offering good cross-
selling opportunities. This has been successful, and will be pursued in 
2011. Sales growth has been very strong, outstripping the market leader 
by some considerable distance. Our budgets suggested that the business 
would make a small loss in its third year; Benchmarx has reached profit-
ability ahead of schedule.
CCF
Our specialist distributor of building materials for interiors contractors 
had another excellent year, led by Kieran Griffin, its recently appointed 
managing director. Kieran spearheaded efforts to further widen CCF’s 
product range under its ‘one stop shop’ concept. This, together with a 
range of other operational initiatives, enabled CCF to significantly outper-
form the market in like-for-like sales growth and increase operating profits. 
 
RETAIL
All retail markets were tough in 2010, with non-food, particularly our own 
segment of DIY, badly affected by falling consumer confidence. Against 
this backdrop our retail division outperformed its market by around 6%, 
with further improvements to our customer proposition, particularly in our 
multi-channel operations, where our superior technologies and fulfilment 
operations have helped us make significant gains in revenues. We are 
pleased that, with increasing use of retail channels by tradesmen, our 
market share gains have been greatest in that segment of the market. 
Retail division total sales were up by 2.3% to £1,003m (2009: 
£981m), with sales from new branch openings contributing 2.1%. A 
3.3% sales increase arising from price inflation was offset by a 3.1% 
volume decrease resulting in a LFL sales increase of 0.2%. Within the 
retail division’s overall LFL performance, LFL sales for the full year of 
Wickes’ core products were down by 2.0%, and on the same basis K&B 
sales were ahead by 9.5%. 
Wickes
We continued to develop the Wickes nationwide comprehensive televi-
sion advertising campaign. ‘Wickes: It’s Got Our Name On It’ was intro-
duced at the end of 2008 and has continued to establish huge brand 
Kelli Pennells, Branch Assistant Matt Hastings, Sales Assistant Lisa Massey, Assistant Branch Manager 19
CHIEF E XE C U TIVE’S REVIEW OF THE YEAR
 
20386.04 proof 2 31/03/11
CCF widened its product range 
under its ‘one stop shop’ concept
F OC US ON O RGA NI C GROWTH
Chris Williams, Warehouse Assistant
Mark Smith, Warehouse Assistant 20
CHIEF E XE C U TIVE’S REVIEW OF THE YEAR
 
20386.04 proof 2 31/03/11
recognition and awareness. Managing Director, Jeremy Bird, and his 
team, have seen a considerable uplift in Wickes’ sales and market share 
as a result. We were initially reluctant to embark on this campaign since 
Wickes is not represented in every town and city in the UK. However, the 
advertisements were impactful from the start. The early concentration 
was on kitchens and bathrooms, before moving to a broader range of 
general DIY products.
The advertising campaign was accompanied by improvements to 
ranges, pricing and delivery options, and complemented by an increas-
ingly powerful multi-channel approach. As a result, Wickes achieved like-
for-like sales growth and improved operating profits in a falling market 
– a remarkable performance, and a tribute to the attractiveness of Wickes 
as a no-nonsense home improvement retailer. 
Tile Giant
Mo Iqbal started the business and continues to drive it forward with great 
passion and effort. Travis Perkins acquired the company in late 2007 
when it had 29 stores, mainly in the Midlands. There are now 101, and 
Tile Giant is a serious challenger in the market. The main focus has been 
to develop an outstanding product range. Initially, Tile Giant concentrated 
on ceramics, but following the acquisition of two other businesses that 
specialised in other segments of the market, its product offering has 
been strengthened significantly. The result is Tile Giant offers its growing 
number of customers a wide range of excellent products at great prices, 
all under one roof. This has driven a positive and market-leading like-for-
like sales performance in 2010.
rEtail productivity  
pEr EMployEE (£k ) 
0
100
200
189 197 186 198 186
Mark Davis, Branch Manager
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 21
CHIEF E XE C U TIVE’S REVIEW OF THE YEAR
 
20386.04 proof 2 31/03/11
ToolStation
It was another outstanding year for ToolStation, driven by the entrepre-
neur Mark Goddard Watts. When the Group acquired a 30% stake in 
the business in April 2008, ToolStation had 12 stores, but as a result 
of the concept being rolled out so effectively, there are now 84. Based 
on its world-class in-house developed technology, it continues to be 
a low-cost business that delivers outstanding product availability and 
value to its customers. 
INVESTORS
Throughout the course of the recession, the Group has been strongly 
backed by investors. The decision to bring stability to our balance sheet 
with the rights issue in May 2009 has been of great benefit to the Group. 
Investors taking up their rights will have seen an excellent return for their 
support to the Company. We meet our investors at least twice a year and 
we continue to benefit from their support.
Our banks and US note holders continue to be similarly very supportive 
of the Group. When there was a great deal of uncertainty in the economy 
and in the construction industry in particular, we informed investors and 
bankers what we thought would happen and what we could do to counter 
the conditions. We performed ahead of our targets and retained confi-
dence in our ability to run our businesses robustly and effectively.
ACqUISITION OF BSS
We approached the BSS opportunity with great confidence because we 
believed BSS was strategically strong and financially very attractive. 
Although we had a considerable amount of plumbing business through 
our various brands, we were in the second tier of national companies 
operating in the market. By acquiring BSS and combining our activities, 
the Group has been promoted to a leading position in the market, making 
us a powerful force in serving customers and helping suppliers meet their 
own strategies.
The Group’s published target for synergies arising from the BSS 
acquisition is £25m, which comprises £19m in respect of goods for 
resale and £6m of overhead savings. We remain confident of achieving 
these targets.
The integration programme has commenced, but it is too early to 
provide any further meaningful insight about the synergies available to 
the Group. However, it is clear that achieving the target will require a 
substantial effort from teams across the business and in particular the 
allocation of considerable resource to, and investment in, supply chain 
and IT. We aim to provide an update at the interim stage this year on our 
progress towards achieving these synergies.
MANAGEMENT
Because of our scale and our focus on supplying what our customers 
want, we have consistently achieved the highest return on sales amongst 
our peers. The Group’s pre-recession operating margin was typically 
more than half as much again when compared to our national competi-
tors. In the more recent tougher economic climate, whilst our operating 
margin has come down by about a quarter, our peers have suffered 
proportionately larger falls.
We put a great deal of this difference down to the attitude of our 
managers. As I discussed earlier, they are highly skilled at anticipating 
problems and finding sensible and swift solutions. They are on top of 
their business, so that they respond to tough times by closely managing 
gross margin and reducing costs. The disaggregated culture of decision 
making and the prevailing ethos of running our business has taken many 
years to establish. 
Our positive management environment makes for a more rewarding 
place to work. Following the actions we took to slim down our top 
management resources at the start of the recession, we have not seen 
many departures from our director group of 202 people since then.
Every single branch in the Group is subject to a detailed review of 
its performance, analysing sales contributions from all of them. Branch 
managers are highly motivated individuals who are keen to perform at 
their optimum level. We reward our staff well and they are incentivised 
through effective bonus schemes. 
TRAVIS PERKINS IN THE COMMUNITy
Characteristic of how the Group operates, driven from the ground 
upwards, we continue to move forward our ‘1000 projects’ community 
programme.
Every branch is encouraged to establish a community project, inspired 
by a personal contact, completed in their spare time and using our own 
materials. It’s not mandatory, but the response rate has been exception-
ally high. The projects create a tremendous sense of team-work and 
goodwill. The initiative was launched when we reached the milestone of 
1,000 branches. With the inclusion of BSS, we now operate from over 
1,800 branches, and we are reviewing what the next version of this 
programme looks like. 
I believe the work in our ‘1,000 projects’ initiative contributes greatly 
.
“
BRANCH MANAGERS ARE HIGHLy MOTIVATED INDIVIDUALS WHO ARE 
KEEN TO PERFORM AT THEIR OPTIMUM LEVEL” 22
CHIEF E XE C U TIVE’S REVIEW OF THE YEAR
 
20386.04 proof 2 31/03/11
to improving engagement of staff. In a vast majority of cases, employees 
want to be recognised for what they do and many like being part of a 
winning and harmonious team. The ‘1,000 projects’ works were innova-
tive and helped us to do things that move beyond clichés about business 
in the community. 
The Board of Directors was also encouraged to take part in a commu-
nity project. Last year, board members spent a day at Battersea Park in 
London digging and creating a community garden.
The Group’s charitable donations were in the region of £200,000 five 
years ago. Last year we together with our colleagues, customers and 
suppliers, contributed £1.7m.
Our charity fundraising activity continues to play a key role in engaging 
our colleagues across the Group, enabling colleagues to take time to 
support charitable causes that are close to their hearts. Our individual 
businesses selected their own charitable causes in 2010, after the Group 
devolved its centrally-managed fundraising model to better fit with our 
decentralised business model. We now partner with 11 UK based charities. 
Each Managing Director leads fundraising for his own business, 
assisted by a charity committee of employee representatives. Team 
building and charity fundraising activities are combined powerfully. 
Strong colleague engagement has led to more than £1.7m being raised 
in 2010, an uplift of more than double the 2009 total – despite the 
recession.
Fundraising has been particularly visual in our Travis Perkins brand, 
which adopted the Breast Cancer Campaign and Children’s Hospices UK 
charities on a two-year partnership and in our Wickes brand which raised 
nearly £655,000 for its adopted charity Leukaemia and Lymphoma 
Research. The Travis Perkins business re-sprayed 12 of its delivery 
vehicles pink, sourced and sold pink products in its branches, and 
even changed its name to ‘Travis Pinkins’ for a national day of fund-
raising. Keyline’s partnership with The Prostate Cancer Charity has been 
beneficial to the charity in terms of fundraising, and substantially raised 
public awareness of prostate cancer in the male-dominated building and 
construction sector. Other beneficiaries of charity partnerships with Travis 
Perkins’ businesses include Clic Sargent, Childline, Whizz-Kidz, and the 
Warwickshire and Northamptonshire Air Ambulance.
More than £225,000 was donated through the company’s Payroll 
Giving facility in 2010. All of the partner charities benefited from a share 
of the donations, together with other charitable causes personally chosen 
by employees. Much of this was raised through a popular and fully 
licensed Colleague Lottery. Colleagues donate £1 per month from their 
salary, with up to 50% going to the charity of their business. More than 
70% of employees donate through the Lottery, with over £60,000 raised 
for the partner charities in 2010.
STRATEGy
We are determinedly pursuing our vision of ensuring that anyone in 
the UK who wants to be supplied with materials to construct, repair or 
improve the built environment will have a Travis Perkins business as their 
first choice. Our strategy to achieve this is relatively simple:
●
  Through a low risk programme of continuous improvement, have the 
best offer to customers in each market; and
●
  By applying our business model of disciplined margin management, 
tight cost control, clear focus on capital returns and a strong alignment 
of accountability and incentives, have the highest operating margin in 
each sector.
This approach has produced sector-leading performances in revenue 
growth and returns, and has enabled us to grow our asset base to 
achieve powerful positions in each sector of our market. 
Over the last four years we have seen three clear turning points in 
the course of the recession in construction markets – a sharp downturn, 
a return to stability in activity at low levels, and a gradual but choppy 
recovery, which still has a long way to go. At each turn we decisively 
adapted our stance to trading, investment and cash. We took costs out 
rapidly and decisively at the downturn, put more investment back in as 
the market stabilised, and, of course, committed to a major acquisition as 
growth returned last year. These actions mean we are now positioned with 
a larger footprint in the sector, a leading position in plumbing and heating 
to add to our longstanding leading position in heavyside and timber, and 
with our branch network intact having seen closures elsewhere.
We are now poised to use our management resources to exploit this 
position and achieve further growth in returns to shareholders.
As I have noted, the course of the recovery is likely to be choppy and 
conditions for the next 12 months remain challenging. There is consider-
able gloom in the wider economy, but we don’t subscribe to the double-
dip theory. The construction market fell by over 30% in 2008/09 and 
although activity has picked up a little, on a longer term perspective, 
activity levels remain low.
The Group’s organic growth strategy is based on a combination of self-
help initiatives and external expansion. In particular, the Group will extend 
its direct sourcing operations in the Far East and enhance its supply chain 
whilst at the same time investing in the IT resource necessary to support 
those and many other activities.  23
CHIEF E XE C U TIVE’S REVIEW OF THE YEAR
 
20386.04 proof 2 31/03/11
Left: Andy Marr, Branch Manager. Right: Scott Richardson, Sales Assistant
Keith Ward, Driver
Scott Richardson, Sales Assistant
Keyline’s ‘Best in Town’ programme 
delivered improved performance 
F OC US ON O RGA NI C GROWTH  
20386.04 proof 2 31/03/11
CHIEF E XE C U TIVE’S REVIEW OF THE YEAR
We will continue to pursue this organic strategy, which is delivering 
increasing market share and sales performance whilst we monitor very 
closely both our performance and market conditions to keep ahead of our 
competitors. We will retain our policy of continuous improvement of our 
businesses, taking many small steps in a large number of areas of our 
business. This process of continual improvement is supported by many 
new initiatives that will be implemented during the course of the year.
Our acquisition of BSS was the stand out event at Travis Perkins last 
year. Our commercial analysis indicated we would be acquiring a strong 
company with quality people and that the prospects for the business are 
excellent and exciting. This has proven to be the case.
We are realistic about market prospects, but are positive about the 
future because we have the strategy, market position, execution skills and 
scale to respond quickly to market changes and to deliver outstanding 
service to our customers.
Our three main targets for 2011 to create value are to:
●
  continue the Group’s strategy of organic growth. We have more 
initiatives in gestation to bring to market;
●
  use our strong cash generation to pay down debt, maintain investment 
in continuous improvement, selectively continue network expansion 
and increase dividends;
●
  integrate BSS and get the best out of the acquisition. We have proved 
we can generate superior returns from businesses in our sector, and 
will work hard to apply those skills to the BSS businesses.
We look forward to another year of good progress.
Geoff Cooper  
Chief Executive 
22 February 2011 
Dale White, Forklift Driver Rhianon Rickard, Senior Cashier
24  
20386.04 proof 2 31/03/11
CHIEF E XE C U TIVE’S REVIEW OF THE YEAR
Wickes achieved significant 
additional sales
F OC US ON O RGA NI C GROWTH
Wickes achieved significant 
additional sales, thanks 
to its next day delivery 
service, six days per week, 
its stand-alone kitchen and 
bathroom stores and its 
new paint range
Leanne Pointon, 
Customer Assistant
25 26
 
20386.04 proof 2 31/03/11
CHIEF OPERATING 
OFFICER’S REVIEW 
OF THE yEAR 
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2010
INTRODUCTION
The Group’s strength is based on the 
commitment, dedication and motivation of 
an outstanding team of people who work 
towards a common goal. There are 22,500 
of us, and we are excited going into 2011 
about the prospects of sharing best 
practice between our existing businesses 
and the 5,000 BSS colleagues who have 
recently joined us.
Last year was tough, but our competitors 
experienced even harsher times. We 
continued to grow our 11 merchanting 
and retail businesses thanks to our proven 
and detailed systems of operation and 
we are equipped to respond rapidly to 
change. We gained from an initial increase 
in house-building in early 2010 and even 
when that activity levelled off, we were 
able to cope with changing conditions. As 
a result, all of our businesses reported 
excellent results under challenging 
circumstances.
OUTPERFORMANCE FROM RESULTS-DRIVEN PEOPLE
I have no hesitation in repeating our driving vision – that the Travis Perkins 
Group is a great place to work and a great place for our customers and 
suppliers to do business.
We place staff engagement and fulfilment at the very heart of what 
we set out to achieve. I firmly believe in the mantra that happy, well-
motivated people are more productive. Our overarching vision is to create 
an environment that gets the best from all colleagues, and that is a great 
and safe place to work.
Our business priorities drive our people initiatives. During 2010, 
this was clearly illustrated by our pioneering approach to flexible 
working in the merchanting sector. The economic downturn gave us 
the impetus to review and improve the flexibility of our branch teams 
in our merchanting business. We studied our customer flow rates and 
instigated a process to ensure that we were operating our branches 
more appropriately. The objective of improving sales, customer service 
and operating standards by ensuring the right people were at the right 
place at the right time has been a challenge, but a very worthwhile one. 
It will enhance our productivity and will contribute to attracting and 
retaining our people. 
Our people initiatives gained real momentum last year and have 
opened a new world of improved flexibility in employment models and 
working patterns to reflect our early morning peak hours in the trade 
sector. Wickes has been operating this system for many years and we 
will now embrace this flexibility throughout the Group where appropriate.
IMPORTANCE OF AN IMPROVING SAFETy RECORD
Our ‘Stay Safe’ culture is central to the entire management team’s 
approach. By the very nature of our business, there is considerable 
movement of heavy machinery and transport on a daily basis in our ware-
houses, depots and operational sites. In a determined effort to protect our 
people, we have continued to concentrate on our ‘Keep Your Feet on the 
Ground’ programme to avoid accidents. Over 2,500 drivers were trained 
last year in our on-going effort to meet the spirit, as well as the letter, of 
the current safety legislation.
 
BUILDING ENGAGEMENT AMONG OUR COLLEAGUES 
In 2010 we employed a bespoke independent research company to carry 
out our detailed staff survey, which indicated very satisfactory levels of 
colleague engagement. The results showed that a majority of our people 
John Carter  
Chief Operating Officer 27
 
20386.04 proof 2 31/03/11
CHIEF OPERATING OFFI CER’S REVIEW OF THE YEAR
wanted the Group to:
●
  Reward staff appropriately;
●
  Communicate effectively;
●
  Help develop their careers.
We believe that engaged colleagues are more likely to drive customer 
service delivery and, in turn, to create sustainable and profitable growth. 
Our survey, called ‘You Talk, We Listen’, produced a significant 25% 
improvement in engagement scores across all respondents. Over 70% of 
our people took the time to complete the questionnaire.
The survey found that 82% of colleagues are proud to work in their 
particular branch or department and 70% were proud to be part of the 
Company. This harmony has undoubtedly led to all 11 of our businesses 
outperforming the sector in which they operate. 
Unlike 2009 when we had to reduce the workforce, last year we main-
tained our staffing level in a carefully controlled way.
There are many ‘stars’ in the Group. There are far too many to mention 
them all here, but I would like to recognise the work by individuals who 
have led the achievements of our many teams: our category management 
director Norman Bell, supply chain director Robin Proctor, global sourcing 
director Ian Preedy and the Group’s human resources director Carol 
Kavanagh, plus our divisional chairmen Joe Mescall, Arthur Davidson and 
Jeremy Bird.
Many of those individuals have very many years of loyal service and we 
have benefited from the dedication of a stable and robust merchanting 
team and a fusion of new blood and new skills from the senior figures in 
our retail businesses.
The Group thrives on the selection, recruitment and induction of its 
people. During challenging times, we have used our training and develop-
ment resources to keep our people motivated and engaged. 
It is critical to my role that I walk the branches and the warehouses. I 
am continually proud and encouraged by the commitment shown in all 
areas of our businesses.
INFRASTRUCTURE INVESTMENT & PRODUCT 
AVAILABILITy DISCIPLINES
The working environment across the Group is results-orientated. Last 
year we continued to drive our self-help programme. On the merchanting 
side, we identified up to a dozen work streams where we could make a 
significant difference, delivering goods quickly, speeding up our service 
and ensuring we stocked sufficient quantities of product to suit our 
customers’ demand.
On the retail side, and with Wickes in particular, we focussed on 
three main strands of activity: to be a specialist kitchens and bathrooms 
distributor, to be more focussed on the trade element of DIY (i.e. the small 
trader) and to become a multi-channel business by adopting an approach 
of ‘anything, anywhere, anytime’ with three routes to market via stores, 
telephone sales or online. This gives our customers the option to access 
our goods in a variety of ways.
 
SUPPLy CHAIN GAINS & GLOBAL SOURCING
The essence of the Group’s supply chain is to have the right products 
in the right place at the right time. Through detailed research and 
consultation with customers, we have developed a core range of goods, 
called the mandated range. This comprises about 1,500 products (or 
Stock Keeping Units) that MUST be stocked in sufficient quantity for a 
customer to complete an entire project purchase, rather than a single 
unit being classed as meeting a customer’s needs. As a result, our avail-
ability targets are more challenging to meet, however, as we improve our 
performance the sales rewards are much greater. We started extending 
this programme in September 2010 and will increase its coverage from 
50% of our sales to 75% of sales (our expected maximum) during 2011.
We have significantly improved the utilisation of our 2,000 commercial 
vehicles through GPS tracking, which has helped reduce our vehicle CO
2 
emissions by 812 tonnes. The addition of a 500,000 sqft warehouse to 
the distribution network and the opening of a ‘heavyside’ regional distri-
bution hub have greatly improved our efficiency in moving goods to the 
right locations at the right times.
Another critical innovation has been the introduction of a new daily IT 
alert. All of our branch managers receive a daily communication informing 
them of product quantity and availability in their branch. In addition, 
the senior managers of our suppliers are also notified of their product 
availability. This tells our suppliers about their missed opportunities for 
potential sales throughout our branches. We set tough targets, but it has 
proved to be a highly-effective self-managing process. 
Our sourcing is a truly global activity. Sixty countries manufacture 
goods for the Group, covering every continent, except Antarctica.
We buy a significant quantity of product direct from between 15 and 
20 countries, including ceramics and plywood from Brazil, timber from 
Scandinavia, pottery from Morocco and stone and variety of other goods 
from India. Increasingly we deal directly with the manufacturers, rather 
than engaging specialist ‘intermediaries’. Often we take responsibility for 
the product once it comes off the production line and have a team of 
people who are in charge of quality control at the manufacturing source. 
In these cases we are totally in control of packing and distributing the 
.
“
THE ECONOMIC DOWNTURN GAVE US THE IMPETUS TO REVIEW AND IMPROVE 
THE FLEXIBILITy OF OUR BRANCH TEAMS IN OUR MERCHANTING BUSINESS” 28
 
20386.04 proof 2 31/03/11
CHIEF OPERATING OFFI CER’S REVIEW OF THE YEAR
goods from the 14 factories who supply us back to our own distribution 
hubs in the UK.
Our sourcing activity has had a positive effect on our margins. It has 
also been a great learning curve, dramatically changing the way we 
operate and requiring many administrative departments within the Group 
to adapt their systems accordingly.
We have opened a consolidation centre in Shanghai, which has greatly 
improved our trading in China. The Group buys products from 85 manu-
facturers in China, but often in insufficient quantities to fill a container for 
immediate transport back to the UK. However, the new centre enables us 
to store goods safely and securely until the time there is sufficient stock 
to fill a freight container.
We want to buy the best possible products at the best possible price, 
but we are not prepared to compromise our standards by dealing with 
unethical companies. We do not trade with suppliers who fail to meet 
our strict standards in staff welfare, health and safety and care for the 
environment. We are proud to set the standard for our sector.
 
BSS INTEGRATION
I lead the integration team for BSS. A detailed integration plan was devel-
oped during the drawn-out negotiation with the OFT last year. A four-
phase plan was initiated on December 14 2010:
●
  Phase 1: Communication. In the first few days we had meetings with 
as many BSS personnel as possible to brief them on our plans and to 
welcome them to the Travis Perkins Group;
●
  Phase 2: Definition. This involved understanding and prioritising the 
key projects – particularly the early synergy-bearing opportunities;
●
 Phase 3: Synergies and overheads – our current activity;
●
  Phase 4: Long-term structural projects, such as IT and harmonising 
supply chains.
MERCHANTING
All four Travis Perkins branded businesses produced strong like-for-like 
sales growth and increased market share, while trading margin was 
maintained and good profit growth was achieved.
Eight new branches were opened and key sales projects were 
successfully undertaken to increase the number of accounts opened. 
Product availability continued to increase and strong productivity 
growth was achieved, together with enhanced multi-skill training for 
branch colleagues.
nuMBEr oF BranchES
0
2000
1000
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
1,022 1,125 1,223 1,238 1,728
gE ographical SalES 
% of total 2010 sales
NORTH MIDLANDS
SOUTH EAST SOUTH WEST
27%
27%
41%
24%
27% 19%
19%
16%
MERCHANTING RETAIL
Wayne Meads, Manager 29
 
20386.04 proof 2 31/03/11
CHIEF OPERATING OFFI CER’S REVIEW OF THE YEAR
Tile Giant opened 15 new 
branches in 2010
Jim Smith, Assistant Manager
F OC US ON O RGA NI C GROWTH  
20386.04 proof 2 31/03/11
CHIEF OPERATING OFFI CER’S REVIEW OF THE YEAR
City Plumbing Supplies
Thanks to improved sourcing, City Plumbing improved its gross margin 
and showed a strong growth in profits. The business achieved a consis-
tently high sales performance and its own label, iflo, performed well.
CCF
The business extended its flooring range and, with the help of improved 
supply chain initiatives, CCF enjoyed strong growth. Three branches relo-
cated to better premises.
Keyline
The ‘Best in Town’ programme delivered improved performance, with 
strong growth in the civils and drainage sector in the second half of 
the year. Trading margins were maintained and good profit growth was 
achieved.
Benchmarx
Twenty-one new businesses were opened on existing group sites and 
a further two stand-alone branches. The company achieved very strong 
like-for-like sales growth.
RETAIL
Wickes
Wickes achieved significant additional sales, thanks to its next-day delivery 
service six days per week, its stand-alone kitchen and bathroom stores 
and a new paint range. There continues to be considerable investment in 
the online and catalogue side of the business.
ToolStation
Turnover increased by 70% to £70m with an increase in its customer 
base of 479,000. There are now 84 stores, serving 85,000 customers 
each week.
Tile Giant
There were 15 new branch openings last year, taking the total number to 
101. Market share has grown to over 4% of the UK tile market.
THE yEAR AHEAD
2011 will again be a difficult year, but we have invested a great deal of 
time in developing operational systems that enable us to compete in the 
marketplace better than our rivals. We have innovative and exciting proj-
ects and work streams ready to roll out this year and we feel confident 
about being able to outgrow our competitors by being better.
We have the best teams in the sector. It will be a year for integrating 
BSS, achieving synergies and giving our businesses the support they need.
John Carter 
Chief Operating Officer 
22 February 2011
Sophie Buchanan, Assistant Branch Manager
30  
20386.04 proof 2 31/03/11
CHIEF OPERATING OFFI CER’S REVIEW OF THE YEAR
Benchmarx opened 21 new businesses 
on existing group sites
Name Surname Title
Matthew Carberry,
Kitchen Designer
F OC US ON O RGA NI C GROWTH
31 32
 
20386.04 proof 2 31/03/11
FINANCE 
DIRECTOR’S REVIEW 
OF THE yEAR 
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2010
INTRODUCTION
The acquisition of BSS, finally completed 
on 14 December, was the key highlight 
of 2010. The acquisition process took 
from April to December, longer than we 
initially anticipated, and absorbed much 
management time, but was completed on 
satisfactory terms. But it was not the only 
highlight of last year. 
We produced a healthy 20% increase in 
adjusted pre-tax profits to £217m with 
the merchanting division performing 
ahead of our expectations at the 
beginning of the year.
Our working capital management was 
also very strong and, with tight controls 
on capital expenditure, we were able 
to deliver a substantial reduction in 
underlying debt of £205m, which showed 
considerable progress in the light of the 
challenging economic climate. 
STRONGEST LIKE-FOR-LIKE PERFORMANCE  
ON RECORD
Our concentration on achieving further gains in market share at satisfac-
tory profit margin led to the strongest relative like-for-like trading perfor-
mance, around 4% ahead of the trade market and around 6% ahead of 
the retail market, since I became Finance Director fifteen years ago. In 
such difficult economic circumstances, this was a major achievement.
FINANCIAL OBJECTIVES ACHIEVED
Our principal objectives for 2010 were to reduce group borrowings 
through cash generation, continue the creation of shareholder value by 
increasing profits and increase the Group’s market share via like-for-like 
sales growth, expansion through acquisitions and in-store developments. 
We exceeded those targets, when the effect of the acquisition of BSS is 
excluded from net debt.
Thanks to better market conditions in Q2 and Q3 last year, our 
merchanting businesses performed very strongly due to a programme of 
sustainable organic growth, while our retail businesses also performed well. 
The Group’s operating margins were very healthy, with merchanting 
operating at 8.8%, while in retail we achieved a 5.9% margin. Both 
merchanting and retail were the highest in their respective sectors.
The Group incurred net exceptional operating charges of £19m in 
2010. £21m of exceptional costs related to the acquisition of BSS, which 
comprised £13m of professional and bank fees and £8m of charges 
arising from post acquisition adjustments to assets and liabilities in the 
books of BSS. There was a £2m exceptional credit to operating profit due 
to the partial release of exceptional onerous lease provisions established 
in 2008. After charging these exceptional operating items, operating 
profit was £220m (2009: £257m). 
Overall, lower interest rates combined with significantly lower borrow-
ings following the rights issue have reduced net finance charges, excluding 
the effects of an exceptional bank fee write-off and other finance income 
and charges associated with the pension scheme, by £13m (31%). The 
average interest rate during the year was 3.1% (2009:3.7%).
Excluding the effect of exceptional items the adjusted tax charge was 
£60m, an effective rate of 27.6% compared with £46m (25.6%) in 2009. 
The increase was due mainly to the non-recurrence of the reduced IFRS 
2 share option charge in 2009. 
Basic earnings per share were 69.6 pence (2009: 88.4 pence). 
Adjusted earnings per share (note 12b) were 77.2 pence (2009: 75.2 
pence) a 2.7% increase. This reflects the 13% dilution of the £300m 
Paul Hampden Smith  
Finance Director 33
 
20386.04 proof 2 31/03/11
FINANCE D IRE CT OR’S REVIEW OF THE YEAR 
The Directors remain committed to the generation of long-term share-
holder value, which we believe will be achieved through:
●
  Increasing the Group’s market share via a combination of LFL sales 
growth and targeted expansion through acquisitions, brown field open-
ings and in-store development;
●
  Improving profitability with a medium term target for profit growth in 
percentage terms exceeding that for sales;
●
  Investing in projects and acquisitions where the post-tax return on 
capital employed exceeds the weighted average cost of capital of the 
Group by a minimum of 4%;
●
  Generating sufficient free cash flow to enable the Group to expand its 
operations whilst funding attractive returns to shareholders, reducing 
its debt and pension deficit;
●
  Operating an efficient balance sheet, by structuring sources of capital 
to minimise the Group’s weighted average cost of capital consistent 
with maintaining an investment grade financial profile with the ratio of 
net debt to EBITDA being between one and two and a half times; 
●
  Maintaining long-term dividend cover at between two and a half and 
three and a half times earnings.
CONTINUED FOCUS ON STRONG CASH GENERATION
Despite the tough operating conditions, the Group still managed to 
generate £343m from operations, before exceptional and special pension 
cash flows of £53m. Free cash flow for the year was £278m (2009: 
£294m).
Before including the £295m cash element of the BSS acquisition and 
disposal proceeds of £17m, gross capital expenditure and investment 
totalled £65m. £24m was spent on capital replacements, and £41m 
on expansion, including £13m on ToolStation. We believe our culture of 
undertaking small incremental improvement projects with strict return 
criteria for each expansion project is a major strength of the Group. 
Excluding the £477m effect of acquiring BSS and the £35m one-off 
pension payment, net debt reduced by £205m to £262m at the end of 
2010. At 31 December total debt was £774m. 
At 31 December 2010, the Group had committed UK bank facilities of 
£857m and $525m of $US private placement notes in issue. In agree-
ment with its lenders, during the year the Group bought in, but did not 
cancel £84m of its £1,000m revolving credit facility in return for a profit 
FINANCIAL REVIEW
.
“
OUR MERCHANTING BUSINESSES PERFORMED VERy STRONGLy DUE  
TO A PROGRAMME OF SUSTAINABLE ORGANIC GROWTH”
rights issue in the middle of 2009. There is no significant difference 
between basic and diluted earnings per share.
The following table shows the Group’s key performance indicators: 
RESULTS 2010 2009 2008 2007
Revenue growth / (decline) 7.6% (7.8)% (0.3)% 11.9%
LFL revenue growth / (decline)  5.0% (8.6)% (4.5)% 8.1%
Adjusted operating profit to sales ratio 7.6% 7.7% 8.5% 10.0%
Profit before tax (decline) / growth  (7.5)% 45.4% (44.0)% 12.7%
Adjusted profit before tax growth / (decline)  20.3% (11.3)% (22.5)% 18.7%
Net debt to adjusted EBITDA (note 38) 1.9x 1.5x 2.8x 2.5x
Adjusted interest cover (note 10) 18.9x 10.7x 4.3x 5.4x
Adjusted return on capital (note 37) 12.2% 10.9% 12.9% 15.9%
Free cash flow (note 36) £277.8m £294.4m £185.3m £157.8m
Adjusted dividend cover (note 13) 5.1x - 8.5x 3.3x 34
 
20386.04 proof 2 31/03/11
FINANCE D IRE CT OR’S REVIEW OF THE YEAR 
of £3m, which has benefited finance charges in the income statement.
At the instigation of one of the Group’s counterparty banks, the Group 
realised £14m cash from cancelling an in the money cross currency 
swap associated with its US private placement borrowings. This derivative 
has been replaced by four US Dollar forward contracts. 
The peak and minimum levels of daily borrowings on a cleared basis 
during the year ended 31 December 2010 was £876m and £551m 
respectively (2009: £1,083m and £438m). The maximum month end 
cleared borrowings were £736m (2009: £1,035m). At 31 December 
2010 the Group had undrawn committed facilities of £493m (2009: 
£515m).
Note 31 gives details about the Group’s operating lease commitments, 
most of which relate to properties occupied by the Group for trading 
purposes.
PENSION FUND INTO SURPLUS
At 31 December 2009 the gross deficit of the Travis Perkins’ final salary 
pension scheme was £43m which following negotiations with the Scheme 
Trustee, the Group has agreed to eliminate over an eight-year period. 
In June 2010 we reached a further agreement to fund £35m of the 
deficit using a group controlled special purpose vehicle (‘SPV’). The 
pension scheme will be entitled to receive the income of the SPV for 
a period of up to 20 years, subject to funding levels, and this income 
is backed by the security of 16 Travis Perkins’ freehold properties. The 
existing cash contributions to reduce the deficit of the pension scheme 
will fall from £18m in 2010 to £16m in 2011. 
Due to the combination of the one-off £35m contribution to the 
fund and the strong performance of the fund, the capping of pension-
able salaries at 3% in December 2009 and the increase in employees’ 
contributions in April 2009, the Travis Perkins pension scheme now has 
an accounting surplus of £32m. The BSS pension schemes have an 
accounting deficit of £60m, using the same actuarial assumptions as the 
Travis Perkins’ scheme.
EXTRACTING VALUE FROM OUR PROPERTy 
PORTFOLIO
The Group currently owns about 341 freehold sites, giving us flexibility 
operationally. One example of this is our site in Guildford, where we have 
located Travis Perkins and City Plumbing branches. We are now also 
building a new Wickes store and selling some of the excess land for 
£11m. Capital expenditure on this project will be £6m. 
Our property team makes a very important contribution to our opera-
tions. We now expect to make approximately £10m of property profits 
and generate £15m to £20m of cash from this activity each year. At the 
year-end, the carrying value of our freehold and long leasehold property 
portfolio was £262m compared to £247m at the end of 2009.
CAPITAL EMPLOyED AND BALANCE SHEET
Capital employed at the end of 2010 was £1,952m and the Group’s 
adjusted return on capital for the year was 12.2%, which continues to be 
above our weighted average cost of capital of 8.1%.
Our business volumes continue to run at around 20% below the peak 
at the high part of the cycle – and at the low point were some 30% lower 
– but our returns throughout this period have continued to exceed our 
weighted average cost of capital.
Our balance sheet remains very strong and once again there were 
no impairments to the carrying values of goodwill and other intangible 
assets. Across the Group, our operating assets continue to be highly cash 
and profits generative.
During the year, the daily closing share price ranged between 665p 
and 1,058p. The shares closed the year at 1,058p, 466p above the June 
2009 theoretical rights issue price of £592p, which resulted in a total 
market value or market capitalisation of £2.56bn. 
EFFECTIVE FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT
The principal risks and uncertainties of the business are covered under a 
separate summary report on pages 49 to 54. In summary, the key points 
of our financial risk management are: 
●
  The Group seeks to maintain a strong balance sheet;
●
  Effective cash and working capital management is accorded top 
priority;
●
  We retain significant headroom of over £200m in our borrowing facili-
ties and we have good relationships with our bankers;
●
  We operate within comfortable margins to our banking covenants:
●
  The ratio of net debt to EBITDA (earnings before interest, tax and 
depreciation) has to be lower than 3.5; it was approximately 1.9 at 
the year-end; and
●
  The number of times operating profit covers interest charges has to 
be a least 3.5 times and it was nearly 20 times in 2010.
●
  We serve over 150,000 ‘live’ customer accounts and no one customer 
accounts for more than 1% of our sales; the bad debt charge was 
0.59% of credit sales; 35
 
20386.04 proof 2 31/03/11
FINANCE D IRE CT OR’S REVIEW OF THE YEAR 
City Plumbing put together a 
progressive and exciting initiative
F OC US ON O RGA NI C GROWTH
Stephan Towers, Showroom Manager
Dan Cuchi, Sales Assistant
City Plumbing put 
together a progressive 
and exciting initiative to 
focus on what plumbers 
require under the banner 
‘What Good Looks Like’ 36
 
20386.04 proof 2 31/03/11
FINANCE D IRE CT OR’S REVIEW OF THE YEAR 
●
  Our product selling prices tend to reflect inflation in materials prices;
●
  We conducted extensive due diligence on BSS ahead of acquiring the 
business.
INTEGRATING BSS 
BSS was a financially and operationally well-managed company, but not 
unexpectedly, there is a great deal of work to do to bring our two systems 
together. This work is well underway and we expect a relatively smooth 
and swift integration process for our financial reporting, analysis and 
management systems.
In 2011 we have embarked on driving out the synergy benefits from 
combining BSS with Travis Perkins and on integrating information flows 
and reporting.
Paul Hampden Smith 
Finance Director
22 February 2011 37
 
20386.04 proof 2 31/03/11
ENVIRONMENT 
REPORT 
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2010
OUR VISION IS… 
“To become the best providers of 
responsibly sourced, resource efficient 
products, fit for low carbon building and 
refurbishment, delivered with a low carbon 
footprint and minimal waste by people 
who care. In doing this, we will become 
the most trusted group for providing 
environmentally sustainable solutions”. 
We believe that taking responsibility for 
our impact on the natural environment in 
this way creates added business value and 
is compatible with operating a successful 
business. We seek to anticipate changes in 
demand for products and services that are 
driven by environmental considerations, 
and invest to develop our offer where we 
can see reasonable prospects of economic 
return. This requires us to adopt an 
inclusive approach involving colleagues, 
customers and suppliers to deliver 
environmental improvement.
Our vision is actively used to help guide 
decisions on our business priorities and 
consult other stakeholders.
We know that being green makes us money. In 2010, we have esti-
mated that 5% of our Earnings Before Interest & Tax (‘EBIT’) comes from 
profit on the sale of environmental technologies (including insulation), 
profit from timber product sales to customers requiring responsibly 
sourced product and reduced waste and energy costs net of environ-
mental operating costs. We also see opportunities in developing addi-
tional services that will help customers negotiate an ever increasingly 
complex sustainability agenda. We expect to see significant growth in the 
environment contribution to EBIT over the next 2 years.
CONTINUOUS IMPROVEMENT
Management Systems
This year has seen a doubling of the resources we deploy to pursue 
our environmental vision. In particular, we have strengthened our envi-
ronmental management system, energy management activities and the 
development of commercial sustainable solutions. We have increased the 
breadth of representation in our Non Executive Environmental Advisory 
Panel, which now comprises nine members, meeting twice a year. The 
panel remains an important touchstone for us in determining how we 
approach each aspect of our environmental vision and has been espe-
cially useful in its advice on matters of engaging our people. In 2010 we 
asked all our branch and store managers to share their environmental 
innovations via an internal ‘crowdsourcing’ website and embarked on 
activity to encourage green thinking in our day-to-day practice. 
Engagement
We stepped up our engagement activities in 2010, talking to more people 
and organisations about our environmental performance. In total, we initi-
ated or responded to 87 consultations in addition to those we routinely 
had with our trade body and Non Governmental Organisation (‘NGO’) 
partnerships, the Construction Product Association (‘CPA’), British Retail 
Consortium and WWF’s Global Forest and Trade Network (‘GFTN-UK’). 
We sponsored, and were involved in the production of, a Sustainable 
Housing Action Plan report on the Community Green Deal advising in 
particular on how the supply chain might structure itself to deliver low 
carbon refurbishment via local authorities in the West Midlands. Earlier 
in the year we provided a case study for the CPA’s low carbon refurbish-
ment guide. We also provide the chairman to the CPA’s pallet repatriation 
working group. 
We continue to supply detailed information and plans to the Carbon 
Disclosure Project, Forest Footprint Disclosure Project, Waste and 
Resources Action Plan (‘WRAP’) and the GFTN-UK. In return we receive   
20386.04 proof 2 31/03/11
38
ENVIRONMENT REPOR T 
information to benchmark our environmental performance. In 2010 we 
extended our engagement with WRAP by signing the Halving Waste to 
Landfill Commitment and will provide performance information on this 
to them in future years. In 2010 we were awarded the Carbon Trust 
Standard, certifying that we have genuinely reduced our carbon footprint 
and are committed to making further reductions year on year.
Metrics 
This year we have accounted for the environmental impact of our invest-
ment (30%) in ToolStation by including relevant performance data in this 
report proportionate to our investment in them. We have installed over 
1,000 new electricity meters and increased the number of sites on a 
central waste contract to 97%. All of these improvements allow us to 
report our environmental performance with greater accuracy, with the last 
two allowing us to disaggregate environmental performance to site level 
and target site-by-site improvements.
The increased importance of multi-channel retailing, including 
ToolStation, and direct sourcing increase the requirement to look at our 
carbon footprint beyond country and company boundaries, and in 2011 
we intend to estimate carbon dioxide equivalent emissions for the prod-
ucts journey from factory gate to construction site. 
When measuring performance we combine and convert information 
from across the Group to create a common base. This produces indi-
cators comprising a combination of measured, averaged and estimated 
performance. Wherever possible, we use external standards for data 
collection and reporting techniques and continue to work to improve the 
accuracy of the measures reported.
We have again asked Lloyds Register of Quality Assurance (‘LRQA’) 
to verify the materiality and accuracy of our environmental performance 
indicators. A copy of their statement can be found in the environment 
section of the Travis Perkins’ web site.
Incidents & Complaints
During 2010 Travis Perkins received an increase in complaints and inci-
dents from previous years. The majority of the increase in complaints 
were from customers relating to our timber chain of custody system. 
Details of the reportable incidents and complaints can be found in the 
relevant sections of this report.
BSS
The purchase of BSS in December 2010 presents growth opportunities in 
sales of renewables and other low impact solutions and will change the 
environmental footprint of the expanded group. BSS previously published 
EnvironMEntal incidEnt S  
and coMplaint S
25
50
0
INCIDENTS COMPLAINTS
5
5
5
10
6
10
4
17
3
6
5
37
2005 2006 2008 2009 2007 2010
Samantha Hodkin, Sales Coordinator, F & P Wakefield Sulayman Cham, Senior Warehouse Person, 
F & P Wakefield
indications of their environmental performance along similar lines to our 
own. This will help us understand quickly where there may be environ-
mental efficiencies across the expanded group. In 2011 we will seek to 
realise these opportunities whilst ensuring group policies, legal compli-
ance, pollution prevention and continuous improvement are consistently 
applied in all operating sites. It is our aim that all BSS sites will operate 
with ISO14001 certified management system tools by early 2012.
The environmental impact from BSS for the 16 days that they were 
part of the expanded group is not included in the figures presented in 
this report.
Following the inclusion of BSS we will consider whether the current key 
performance targets we have remain appropriate for the enlarged Group, 
and would aim to publish revised targets, if appropriate, by the end of the 
year. This review will also consider the validity of the time scale for targets 
and a potential need to set targets for a 10 – 15 year time line compared 
to our current 5 years horizon.
ToolStation 
During 2010, our equity share in ToolStation was accountable for 274 
tonnes of waste of which 37% was recycled, 1,029 tonnes of carbon 
emissions, 2,678 litres of water and 114 tonnes of packaging. ToolStation 
did not receive any environmental complaints or have any reportable 
environmental incidents during 2010.  
20386.04 proof 2 31/03/11
ENVIRONMENT REPOR T 
BSS – The newest addition to the 
Travis Perkins Group
Carl Adcock, Branch Manager, F & P Wakefield
39 40
 
20386.04 proof 2 31/03/11
ENVIRONMENT REPOR T 
MARKET PLACE
Responsible Supply
The demand for responsibly sourced products in 2010 remained strong. 
We were asked to provide certified timber for £17m of sales (9% of total 
timber sales). We also detected a growing awareness of the Building 
Research Establishment (‘BRE’) framework standard for the respon-
sible sourcing of construction products (BES 6001) amongst our largest 
customers; although we have seen very little change in awareness of any 
aspect of responsible sourcing from smaller building firms. 
As one of the largest multi-site holders of FSC and PEFC Chain of 
Custody and the only multiple merchant that offers certified timber at 
every branch selling timber, we strive to ensure that our supply chain 
operates at the highest levels of integrity. However, in 2010 we recorded 
16 complaints about our Chain of Custody system and responded to all 
of them. This level of complaint has prompted us to think again about 
how we organise our controls. In 2011 we are determined to improve 
the service we give to discerning customers seeking responsibly 
sourced product.
Low Impact Products
At the end of 2010, Wickes, in partnership with the Mark Group, launched 
an insulation and renewable power installation service. The service takes 
advantage of the subsidies on offer from Feed in Tariffs and Carbon 
Emission Reduction Targets to offer a highly attractive and professional 
service. In 2011 Wickes will look to grow this service on an internet only 
platform before moving into a multi-channel offer in 2012 and beyond. 
Excluding the installation service, the group sells over 3,000 prod-
ucts that have either a beneficial or reduced ‘in use’ impact on the 
environment. These products appear across categories and brands and 
sales growth in these products has outperformed average sales growth 
across all the group’s product categories. In 2011 we will apply category 
management principles to this eclectic mix of product with the expecta-
tion of even greater sales growth.
tiMBEr cErtiF ication
Timber purchased by value 
2005 data excludes Wickes figures
100%
50%
0%
FSC: FOREST STEWARDSHIP COUNCIL
OCS: OTHER CERTIFIED SCHEMES
36% 49%
24%
34%
48% 54% 58% 63% 90%
2005 2006 2008 2009 2007 2010 2011
FSC 
and 
OCS
Target
28%
26%
26%
25% 41
 
20386.04 proof 2 31/03/11
ENVIRONMENT REPOR T 
Waste Services
We are already providing a number of waste services to our customers, 
most notably in pallet repatriation and waste brokering. By 2012 we see 
waste services providing a significant revenue stream for us as customers 
increasingly look to lower their costs, constrain vehicle movements to 
site, and comply with site waste management plans. In 2011 we will be 
expanding the number and complexity of joint take back trials with our 
customers and looking to launch a full service before the end of the year.
In some waste categories, such as batteries and electrical and 
electronic equipment, we have an obligation to either take back our 
customers’ waste or provide waste disposal advice. Towards the end of 
2010 the regulator asked us to improve the availability of advice for the 
disposal of electrical and electronic items and will be checking to see that 
we have done this in early 2011.
Packaging
With close to a quarter of a million active individual items for sale it is 
important for us to prioritise packaging reduction activity. Approximately 
two thirds of our merchanting product range and a third of our Wickes 
product range is currently sold without any primary packaging, save 
perhaps for a returnable pallet. Some of our supplier partners are looking 
to remove packaging from more of their products. We are improving the 
cycle of recovering pallets from many customers and getting them back 
into circulation. In 2011 we plan to incentivise branches to collect more 
pallets, including damages, and to encourage suppliers to re-use more 
repatriated pallets. We believe that good pallet repatriation could reduce 
the amount of packaging we leave with the customer on a per million 
pound of adjusted sales basis by as much as 10% and contribute half of 
the reduction we are targeting in this measure.
Measuring progress on making packaging reductions is complicated 
by poor baseline data, and our first priority has been to establish a truer 
baseline from which to judge improvements. We do not yet feel that we 
have had enough data from suppliers to be able to retrospectively estab-
lish a 2008 baseline, or to be able to measure our suppliers’ reduction 
activities. The inclusion of products unique to BSS is likely to mean that 
we will not be in a position to accurately measure packaging reduction 
performance across the expanded group before mid 2012. In the mean 
time, we will continue to work with our principal suppliers in identifying 
primary packaging reductions. There has been some notable activity in 
2010 with a trial of a reusable cartridge gun system with an 80% reduc-
tion in packaging using a sealant pouch. We have also trialled the use of 
lower gauge bags for our bagged aggregate products that, if rolled out, 
would lead to a 5% packaging reduction. We have also identified 30% 
.
“
THE DEMAND FOR RESPONSIBLy SOURCED PRODUCTS IN 2010 
REMAINED STRONG. WE WERE ASKED TO PROVIDE CERTIFIED TIMBER 
FOR £17 MILLION OF SALES”
weight reductions that can be achieved in nails and screw packaging.
In 2010 we were contacted by a regulator of the essential require-
ments for packaging, concerned that one of our retail products may be 
over packed. The regulator confirmed they were satisfied with the correc-
tive actions taken and will not be taking any enforcement action. We have 
recorded this as a complaint.
RESPONSIBLE SOURCING
This is a core element of our environmental vision. We continue to 
make measured progress towards our 2011 target and 2013 ambi-
tion to purchase only timber and timber products from fully certified or 
controlled sources. We estimate that in 2010 we purchased 88% by 
value of timber products from material that came from certified well 
managed or controlled forests. Joinery, flooring and kitchens remain our 
weakest categories where more work is still required. In addition, we keep 
a watchful eye on global sheet material markets and the availability of 
certain certified sheet materials where we perceive risk to be higher. For 
example, in 2010 we moved producer country, for much of our certified 
hardwood plywood, from Brazil to South East Asia due to lack of supply of 
certified timber. We would expect to achieve our target by the end of 2011 
and will be reviewing future targets before the end of the year.
Whilst we had many conversations with stakeholders over the year 
about responsible sourcing only one person did not agree with our 
approach and wrote to tell us so. Whilst we are disappointed to receive 
any letters, we responded and addressed the concerns being raised.
CARBON 
Our monitoring and targeting of truck idling times continues to deliver 
carbon and financial savings. With over 1,800 trucks on the road every day, 
the savings are appreciable. We will use our practice of targeting specific 
behaviours to reduce our costs and carbon emissions from lighting, heating 
and electrical appliance consumption in 2011, now that most stores and 
branches have installed the necessary metering equipment.
Absolute carbon dioxide emissions in 2010 were 159,548 tonnes. 
When normalised against adjusted turnover, this represented 60.4 
tonnes per million pounds of sales. Unfortunately, this means that, as 
predicted last year, we have not met our 2010 interim target of a 15% 
reduction in intensity from 2005. 
The increase in carbon dioxide emissions in 2010 was mainly due 
to an increase in gas consumption for heating during the extreme and 
exceptional temperatures in December 2010.  42
 
20386.04 proof 2 31/03/11
ENVIRONMENT REPOR T 
We will be looking at all our environmental performance indicators in 
the second half of 2011 in light of the expansion to the Group. However, 
this will not result in a scaling back of ambition in our carbon reduction 
plans and they will at least be equal to the current 20% intensity reduc-
tion target we have set ourselves for 2013. 
RESOURCE EFFICIENCy 
Waste
In December 2010 we launched the third iteration of our waste back 
haul service from distribution centres to branches and stores. We now 
ask our sites to segregate thirteen waste streams. We are following up 
the improved back haul service in early 2011 with a downgrading of bin 
capacity at most operating sites. Waste budgets in 2011 have already 
been reduced in line with the expected savings that will result.
By the end of 2010, out of 36,765 tonnes of waste produced, we 
had recycled or recovered 16,905 tonnes. When this performance is 
normalised by turnover; it represents a 59% reduction from the level of 
waste sent to landfill in 2005. This means we have exceeded our 50% 
reduction target three years ahead of time. We will announce a new 
reduction target by the end of 2011, following the assessment of BSS 
environmental metrics.
Water
By examining bill payments in 2010 we estimate that we used 112 litres 
of water per million pounds of adjusted turnover. Our colleague engage-
ment activities, which started in 2010, suggest that there is an appetite 
and appreciation for water efficiency and we will look to capitalise on 
this in 2011. 
POLLUTION PREVENTION 
We called the Environment Agency twice in 2010 due to spillages threat-
ening to enter controlled waters. We talked to Highway authorities twice 
because of spills on public roads. 
There are no ongoing investigations by any environmental regulator 
and we have had no environmental prosecutions in 2010.
Geoff Cooper  
Chief Executive 
22 February 2011 
WaS tE tonnagE
Corrected data and OECD sales deflated figures.
Tonnes waste per £m yard and core sales  
10
20
30
0
LANDFILL RECYCLING
21.9
1.0
19.6
1.7
18.0
2.8
18.4
3.1
13.3
5.6
9.0
7.7
10.9
2005 2006 2008 2009 2007 2010 2013
Excludes sales from direct deliveries
co
2
 EMiSS ionS
Corrected data and OECD sales deflated figures. 
Tonnes CO
2
 per £m Group Sales
50
75
25
0
2006
ENERGY TRANSPORT
2005 2006 2008 2009 2007
31.9 32.6
26.5 27.1
27.8
25.6
32.6
27.6
32.3
26.9
2010 2010
33.7 50.8
26.7
2010 CO
2
 emissions from Tile Giant haulage estimated
Energy
and
Transport
Waste to 
Landfill
Target
Target 43
 
20386.04 proof 2 31/03/11
Health & safety (‘H&S’) is a Group priority, integrated into everything 
we do, from the Group Board to every colleague in every branch, store, 
warehouse and office. Our underlying philosophy is that all injuries are 
avoidable, however, we do not under-estimate the challenge of achieving 
this in a group that now includes almost 1,800 branches and 20,000 
colleagues making in excess of 8 million deliveries per annum. We aim 
to be industry leaders in our sector for the reduction and elimination of 
injuries.
During 2010, we continued improving our standards, with the leaders 
in each of our businesses continuing to own and drive our Stay Safe 
culture change programme. Stay Safe requires effective leadership, 
a focus on the eight key risks in our business and the desire to have 
everyone return home safely at the end of each working day. We are 
still in the early stages of our Stay Safe programme, but we continue to 
make considerable progress in achieving our vision of making injuries a 
rare occurrence. We are putting considerable emphasis on finding new 
ways to engage the colleagues in our branches, to increase their personal 
ownership of Stay Safe.
HEALTH & SAFETy PERFORMANCE  
AND INITIATIVES
Our 2010 H&S performance continued the improvements started in 
2009, with further reductions in both the frequency and severity of lost 
time injuries as measured according to industry standards. The group 
frequency rate of 9.7 lost time injuries per million hours worked is an 8% 
improvement on the 2009 level whilst the group severity rate of 0.156 
days lost per thousand hours worked also shows an 8% improvement 
on the 2009 level. Despite these overall improvements, we recognise 
there is no quick fix to reducing injuries, and that this is very much ‘work 
in progress’ to make injuries rare. We intend to further reduce both the 
frequency and severity rates over the next five years, by continuing our 
focus on high-risk areas, and also by targeting the working behaviour of 
our colleagues, customers and suppliers. 2010 saw the launch of the 
extremely successful Wickes’ National Delivery Service. This resulted 
in a significant change in the risk profile of the Wickes’ stores, and 
increased support was provided to counter this. Despite this support, a 
few colleagues have suffered injuries in the delivery service in 2010, and 
as a result, we only managed to slightly improve both the frequency and 
severity rates during the year. We intend to continue with the investment 
in training and support for the Wickes delivery service, with the intention 
to create the benchmark for safe delivery standards. 
External enforcement officer inspections of branches continued to 
EHO NOTICES
HEALTH & SAFETy 
REPORT
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2010
show a favourable improvement in performance and standards, with 
numerous complimentary letters received. The Group received no legal 
notices in 2010.
The reductions in 2010, were achieved as a result of numerous initia-
tives under the Stay Safe development programme, led personally by 
each business unit management team and supported by the group health 
and safety team. The overall theme is one of colleague engagement, with 
a focus on improved communication, increased buy-in from colleagues 
and personal ownership of Stay Safe with more individual involvement. 
Several ongoing themes from 2009 were further supported by new initia-
tives in 2010. 
The Stay Safe quarterly newsletter is an important tool in the commu-
nication campaign. It is now incorporated into the group internal maga-
zine, The Bridge, and has introduced personal stories written by branch 
colleagues to the circulation of c15,000, as well as the usual mix of 
updates on current initiatives or incidents.
Regular presentations and brief-
ings for directors, managers and 
all branch colleagues, at in-house 
conferences and meetings, on 
topics such as enforcement officer 
formal interview procedures, Stay 
Safe mystery shopper observa-
tions, updated safe systems, safety 
bulletins, etc have supported this 
communication strategy.
Ongoing development and 
updating of training programmes, 
including new e-learning pack-
ages for controlling contractors 
and ‘grabbing’ bulk bags, combined with online quizzes to test learning 
following internal briefings has maintained the consistent approach to 
communicating with our colleagues. Stay Safe is also an integral part of 
all driver Continuing Professional Competence (‘CPC’) training.
‘Keep your feet on the ground’, the initiative introduced at the end of 
2009, has gathered momentum during the year, and is a great example 
of involving colleagues and developing their own ideas, to increase their 
  2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
  No. No. No. No. No.
 Prohibition 7 8 - - -
 Improvement 29 9 8 4 - 44
 
20386.04 proof 2 31/03/11
H EAL TH & S AFE TY R EPOR T
personal commitment to the Stay Safe programme. This is centred around 
basic vehicle loading and unloading techniques, designed to minimise or 
remove the need for the driver to access the vehicle bed. The simple 
principles, behind ‘keep your feet on the ground’, like many of the best 
ideas, were suggestions from our own drivers.
 Continuing this theme, following suggestions from our own drivers, 
detailed testing of the lorry mounted crane ‘grab’ and the bulk bags used 
for all our loose aggregates, has resulted in a new approach to unloading 
bulk bags at the customer site in 2011. As part of the ‘keep your feet on 
the ground’ initiative, we are investing in modifications to every crane 
‘grab’ so that it can be safely used to actually grab the bulk bag, and 
therefore remove the need to climb onto the vehicle bed to attach the bag 
to it. To support this Stay Safe programme of modifying over 1,000 crane 
‘grabs’, we have produced a short DVD and online quiz to supplement 
the safe working procedures for our drivers. This initiative alone should 
more than halve the number of times the driver is expected to climb up 
onto the vehicle bed.
The Stay Safe communication board and quarterly branch committee 
meetings have continued to provide a simple structure to support this 
two-way flow of information, updating of risk assessments and discus-
sion of local issues.
To further maintain the momentum of the Stay Safe programme, we 
have developed a bespoke training programme for all operational direc-
tors and key senior managers in support functions, based around the 
Institution of Occupational Safety and Health (‘IOSH’) Managing Safely 
programme, but with additional significant elements added, including 
behavioural psychology and safety leadership. This has proven successful 
in exploring different personal strategies for achieving culture change, 
and is currently being considered as an option to support the Stay Safe 
journey for all branch managers.
All businesses devel-
oped their own personal 
approach to driving the Stay 
Safe programme in 2010, 
an example of one approach 
being the CCF ‘Line in 
the Sand’ engagement 
programme. The CCF Board 
engaged with all branches 
and colleagues to develop the model, which included closing the branch 
for an afternoon to hold team meetings to discuss the way forward.
Group Supply Chain has added an additional dedicated Health and 
Safety advisor to the team, who is assisting in developing H&S initiatives 
loS t tiME inJury  
FrEQuEncy ratE 
Lost time injuries per million  
man hours
MERCHANTING
15
10
5
0
2008 2009 2010
12.5 11.6 10.9
RETAIL
15
10
5
0
2008 2009 2010
11 7.2 7.2
GROUP
15
10
5
0
2008 2009 2010
12 10.6 9.7
loS t tiME inJury  
SEvErity ratE 
Lost time injuries per million 
 man hours
.
“
THE SIMPLE PRINCIPLES, BEHIND ‘KEEP yOUR FEET ON THE GROUND’, LIKE 
MANy OF THE BEST IDEAS, WERE SUGGESTIONS FROM OUR OWN DRIVERS”
MERCHANTING
0.3
0.2
0.1
0
0.24 0.19 0.18
2008 2009 2010
GROUP
0.3
0.2
0.1
0
0.24 0.17 0.156
2008 2009 2010
RETAIL
0.3
0.2
0.1
0
2008 2009 2010
0.2 0.12 0.11 45
 
20386.04 proof 2 31/03/11
H EAL TH & S AFE TY R EPOR T
to suit supply chain’s specific requirements. These include their own 
interpretation of ‘Keep Your Feet on the Ground’, using supply chain 
expertise to assist and develop branch unloading procedures, and 
tackling specific supply chain issues such as unloading the ship-
ping containers now regularly received as part of the global sourcing 
expansion. 
These initiatives and many others across the individual businesses 
are increasing the personal ownership of Stay Safe and resulting in the 
increasing engagement of colleagues. This has also been recognised 
in 2010 by two individual training awards. Stay Safe was commended 
by the National Training Awards and also by the IOSH Training Awards.
GROUP PLC AND GROUP TRADING BOARD STAy 
SAFE COMMITTEES
Both established committees continue to drive and oversee the ongoing 
Stay Safe journey following the format established over the last few 
years. Further details of their composition and terms of reference are 
available, on the investor centre section of the company website.
Andrew Simon  
Chairman, Plc Board Health and Safety Committee 
22 February 2011
Scott Richardson, Sales Assistant  
20386.04 proof 2 31/03/11
DIRECTORS
CHAIRMAN
Robert Walker (aged 66) was appointed as a non-executive director in September 2009 and succeeded Tim Stevenson as 
Chairman after the AGM on 17 May 2010. He is chairman of Americana International Holdings Ltd and a non-executive director 
of Tate & Lyle PLC. He has previously been chairman of W H Smith PLC and Williams Lea Group Ltd, and Chief Executive of Severn 
Trent Plc and held a number of senior posts with Pepsi Co Inc. He has also been a non-executive director of BAA plc, Signet 
Group Plc, Thomson Travel Group Plc, British Car Auctions and Wolseley plc. He is Chairman of the Nominations Committee and 
a member of the Remuneration and Health and Safety Committees. 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE
Geoff Cooper (aged 56) joined the Company in February 2005 and was appointed Chief Executive on 1 March 2005. He is a 
chartered management accountant and worked in management consultancy before joining Gateway (now Somerfield plc) as 
Finance Director in 1990. In 1994 he became Finance Director of UniChem plc, subsequently Alliance UniChem plc (which later 
became part of Alliance Boots plc), where he was appointed Deputy Chief Executive in 2001. He is non-executive Chairman of 
Dunelm Group Plc. He is Chairman of the Executive Committee.
FINANCE DIRECTOR
Paul Hampden Smith (aged 50) is a chartered accountant and joined Sandell Perkins in 1988. Following the merger with Travis 
& Arnold, he was appointed regional finance director. In 1992, he became Finance Director of Travis Perkins Trading Company 
Limited and was appointed Finance Director of Travis Perkins plc in 1996. He is a non-executive director of Redrow plc.
CHIEF OPERATING OFFICER
John Carter (aged 49) joined Sandell Perkins as a management trainee in 1978. He held a number of regional management 
positions, before being appointed Managing Director, Operations in 1996, and a director of Travis Perkins plc in July 2001. He 
became Chief Operating Officer in February 2005, and is a member of the Health and Safety Committee.
Geoff Cooper Paul Hampden Smith John Carter Robert Walker
46 47
 
20386.04 proof 2 31/03/11
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
Chris Bunker (aged 64) was appointed as a non-executive director in 2004. He is a chartered management accountant and 
was Finance Director of Thames Water plc, from 2000 until March 2004. He was previously Finance Director of Tarmac PLC and 
Westland Group PLC. He is a non-executive director of D S Smith Plc and formerly was a non-executive director of Mowlem plc, 
Baltimore Technologies plc and Xansa PLC. He is the Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee and a 
member of the Nominations and Remuneration Committees.
John Coleman (aged 58) was appointed as a non-executive director in 2005. He is a chartered management accountant and 
Chairman of AGA Rangemaster Group plc and Holiday Break plc. He was Chief Executive of House of Fraser plc from 1996 
to 2006 and previously Chief Executive of Texas Homecare and of a number of businesses within Burton Group PLC. He is a 
member of the Remuneration, Audit and Nominations Committees.
Philip Jansen (aged 44) was appointed as a non-executive director in April 2009. He is Group Chief Executive of Brakes Group. 
He has previously been Group Chief Operating Officer and Chief Executive of Europe for Sodexo, Chief Operating Officer of 
MyTravel plc and Managing Director, Consumer Division of Telewest Communications PLC. He was also a non-executive director 
of the Professional Cricketers’ Association. He has also held senior positions with Procter & Gamble and Dunlop Slazenger Group. 
He is a member of the Audit Committee. 
Andrew Simon O.B.E. (aged 65) was appointed as a non-executive director in 2006. He is a non-executive director of Finning 
International Inc. (Canada), Management Consulting Group plc, SGL Carbon SE (Germany), Exova Group plc, Icon Infrastructure 
Management Limited (Guernsey) and British Car Auctions. He was previously Deputy Chairman of Dalkia plc, Chairman and / or 
Chief Executive of Evode Group plc and has also held non-executive directorships with Severn Trent Plc, Ibstock PLC, Laporte 
Plc, Associated British Ports Holdings PLC, and Brake Bros Holdings Ltd. He is chairman of the Remuneration and Health and 
Safety Committees.
John Coleman Philip Jansen Andrew Simon O.B.E. Chris Bunker
D IRE CT ORS  
20386.04 proof 2 31/03/11
The Company has not produced a separate corporate responsibility 
statement in the report and accounts since it believes these matters 
are sufficiently important to receive the personal attention of individual 
directors rather than risking less focus through the exercise of collective 
responsibility. Instead full details of those areas normally covered by such 
a report are contained either in the reports of the directors responsible for 
such matters, or in a separate report, as explained below:
Environment Environment report on pages 37 to 42
Health & safety  Health & safety report on pages 43 to 45
Supply chain  Chief Operating Officer’s review of the year
Employees  Chief Operating Officer’s review of the year
Community relations  Chief Executive’s review of the year
The Board takes into account, environmental, social and governance 
matters in its conduct of the Company’s business. The Board believes 
that it has adequate information to identify and assess the major environ-
mental, social and governance risks and as part of the system of internal 
control receives reports on the risks associated with these matters. The 
Board has received briefings on such matters during 2010.
CORPORATE 
RESPONSIBILITy  
STATEMENT
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2010
COMMITTEES AND 
PROFESSIONAL 
ADVISERS
Secretary:  
A. S. Pike
Audit Committee:  
C. J. Bunker (Chairman), J. Coleman, P . Jansen
Remuneration Committee:  
A. H. Simon (Chairman), C. J. Bunker,  
J. Coleman, R. Walker
Nominations Committee:  
R. Walker (Chairman), C. J. Bunker, J. Coleman
Health and Safety Committee:  
A. H. Simon (Chairman), J. P . Carter, R. Walker
Executive Committee:  
G. I. Cooper (Chief Executive and Committee Chairman),  
J. P . Carter (Chief Operating Officer),  
P . N. Hampden Smith (Finance Director),  
N. G. Bell (Category Managing Director),  
J. Bird (Managing Director, Wickes),  
A. J. Davidson (Chairman, Specialist Merchanting),  
C. Kavanagh (Group HR Director),  
M. R. Meech (Group Property Director),  
J. Mescall (Chairman, General Merchanting),  
A. S. Pike (Company Secretary & Lawyer),  
R. D. Proctor (Supply Chain Director)
Investment Bankers/Advisors:  
HSBC Bank plc; Nomura International plc
Corporate Broker:  
Citibank; Credit Suisse
Bankers:  
The Royal Bank of Scotland plc; Barclays Bank plc
Solicitors: 
Slaughter and May, London; Linklaters LLP , London;   
Clifford Chance LLP , London; Hewitsons LLP , Northampton
Auditors:  
Deloitte LLP , London
Registrars:  
Capita Registrars, Huddersfield
48 49
 
20386.04 proof 2 31/03/11
S TATEMENT OF PRINCIPAL RISK S AND UNCER TAINTIES
STATEMENT OF 
PRINCIPAL RISKS  
AND UNCERTAINTIES
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2010
A number of factors affect the operating results, financial condition and 
prospects of each of the businesses in the Travis Perkins Group. This section 
describes risk factors considered by the Directors to be material. However, 
these should not be regarded as a complete and comprehensive statement of 
all potential risks and uncertainties. Additional risks and uncertainties that are 
not presently known to the Directors, or which they currently deem immaterial, 
may also have an adverse effect on the Group’s operating results, financial 
condition or prospects. 
FINANCIAL RISKS
Going Concern
A review of the Group’s business activities, together with the factors likely to 
affect its future development, performance and position are set out on pages 
14 to 24 of the Chief Executive’s review of the year. The financial position of 
the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are shown 
in the balance sheet, cash flow statement and accompanying notes in the 
financial statements. Further information concerning the Group’s objectives, 
policies and processes for managing its capital; its financial risk management 
objectives; details of its financial instruments and hedging activities; and its 
exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk can be found below. 
After reviewing the Group’s forecasts and making other enquiries, the 
Directors have formed a judgement at the time of approving the financial 
statements, that there is a reasonable expectation that the Group and the 
Company have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the 
foreseeable future. For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern 
basis in preparing the financial statements.
In arriving at their opinion the Directors considered the:
●
  Group’s cash forecast and revenue projections;
●
  Reasonably possible changes in trading performance;
●
   Committed facilities available to the Group to early 2013 and covenants 
thereon;
●
  Group’s robust policy towards liquidity and cash flow management; and;
●
   Group’s abilities to manage its business risks successfully during periods of 
uncertain economic outlook and challenging macro economic conditions.
Financial Risk Management 
Financial risk management is an integral part of the way the Group is 
managed. In the course of its business, the Group is exposed primarily to 
liquidity risk, interest rate risk, foreign exchange risk, credit risk, capital risk 
and tax risk. The overall aim of the Group’s financial risk management policies 
is to minimise potential adverse effects on financial performance and net 
assets. The Group manages the principal financial risks within policies and 
operating parameters approved by the Board of Directors and does not enter 
into speculative transactions.
Treasury activities, which fall under the day-to-day responsibility of the 
Finance Director, are managed centrally under a framework of policies and 
procedures approved by and monitored by the Board. The policies in respect of 
interest and currency hedging, the investment of surplus funds and the quality 
and acceptability of financial counterparties were reviewed and re-approved 
by the Board during the year.
The treasury department is not a profit centre. Its objectives are to protect 
the assets of the Group and to identify and then manage financial risk. In 
applying these policies, the Group will utilise derivative instruments, but only 
for risk management purposes. 
The Board receives monthly reports on cash flows, debt levels and covenant 
compliance with comparisons to budgets and forecasts. In addition, all derivative 
related activity is reported to the Board at the immediate next board meeting. As 
described in the Corporate Governance Report on page 55, the Board receives 
regular reports on specific areas of risk. As part of these risk reviews papers are 
presented on areas such as budgeting and planning, debt strategy (including 
derivative policy) and banking relations and working capital control. 
Liquidity and Net Debt (Note 25)
LIquIDITY RIsk
The Group’s policy on liquidity risk is to ensure that sufficient cash is available 
to fund on-going operations. The Board manages exposure to liquidity risk 
by maintaining adequate facilities to meet the future needs of the business. 
Those needs are determined by continuously monitoring forecast and actual 
cash flows taking into account the maturity of financial assets and liabilities 
included in the balance sheet. 
The Group’s principal borrowing facilities are provided by a group of core 
relationship banks in the form of a term loan and a revolving credit facility 
and by us institutions in the form of us$ denominated notes. The quantum of 
committed borrowing facilities available to the Group is reviewed regularly and 
is designed to comfortably exceed forecast peak gross debt levels.
LIquIDITY MANAGEMENT
The Group’s treasury team are responsible for monitoring the Group’s short 
and medium term liquidity requirements using a combination of annual 
budgets which have been analysed on a daily basis using historical trends, 
quarterly trading and cash flow re-forecasts and short-term forecasts adjusted 
for actual events as they occur. They are then charged with drawing down 
sufficient funds to meet those needs whilst minimising borrowing costs and 
reducing the incidences of investing surplus funds. 
Medium term borrowing and hedging requirements (up to 5 years) are 
determined from the Group’s annual budget and three-year plan, which are 
prepared to show monthly trading, cash flows and debt requirements for the 
entire period, and are updated and approved by the Board each year.
To ensure the Board takes pre-emptive action where necessary, the Group 
re-forecasts profits and cash flows on a quarterly basis. 
FACILITIEs
The Group has a £1bn syndicated credit facility provided by 14 banks. By 31   
20386.04 proof 2 31/03/11
50
S TATEMENT OF PRINCIPAL RISK S AND UNCER TAINTIES
us$ denominated Notes have fixed rates of interest.
The Group’s hedging policy is to generate its preferred interest rate profile, 
and so manage its exposure to interest rate fluctuations, through the use of 
interest rate derivatives. Currently the policy is to maintain between 33% and 
75% of drawn borrowings at fixed interest rates.
The Group has entered into a number of interest rate derivatives designed 
to protect it from fluctuating interest and exchange rates on its borrowings. At 
the year-end, the Group had ten interest rate derivatives fixing interest rates 
on approximately 65% of the Group’s cleared debt. The maturity of the Group’s 
derivatives is as follows:
 Term Maturity Notional value
Vanilla interest rate swaps Amortising May 2011 £300m
Vanilla interest rate swaps Bullet May 2011 £100m
Cancellable swap Bullet October 2013 £50m
CuRRENCY RIsk 
Having taken out:
●
   3 cross currency swaps and 4 forward contracts, to protect it from exchange 
rate fluctuations, in respect of its $400m fixed rate guaranteed unsecured 
notes;
●
   3 cross currency swaps to protect it from currency fluctuations on the Bss 
$125m fixed rate guaranteed unsecured notes;
the Group is not exposed to significant foreign exchange risk. 
Whilst the majority of purchases of goods and services are invoiced in 
sterling, goods acquired from overseas either directly from manufacturers 
or through uk based distributors continue to increase. Overseas originated 
purchases currently approximate to 4% of group purchases and so adverse 
movements in sterling, could, to the extent they cannot be passed on to 
customers, affect profitability.
The Group settles its currency related trading obligations using a 
combination of currency purchased at spot rates and currency bought in 
advance on forward contracts. Its policy is to purchase forward contracts 
for between 30% and 70% of its anticipated requirements twelve months 
forward. At 31 December 2010 the nominal value of currency contracts, most 
of which were $us denominated, was $94m and €8m. At 31 December 2010, 
based upon forecast currency requirements for 2011, a us$10c change in 
the exchange rate would impact costs, before any corresponding selling price 
amendment, by approximately £3m. 
Credit Risk 
FINANCING
Credit risk refers to the risk that a counterparty will default on its contracted 
obligations resulting in loss to the Group. It arises on financial instruments 
such as trade receivables, short-term bank deposits, banking facilities, interest 
rate derivatives and foreign currency hedging transactions. To reduce the risk 
December 2010, repayments and the debt buy back referred to on page 33 
had reduced the facility to £846m of which £371m is in the form of a fully 
drawn amortising term loan, the remainder being a revolving credit facility, 
which can be drawn down as required. In addition the Group had access to 
£70m of uncommitted overdraft facilities at 31 December 2010. 
In early 2006 the Group issued $400m of fixed rate guaranteed unsecured 
notes (the ‘Notes’) with a broad range of us financial institutions. The debt 
comprises $200m of Notes repayable in 2013 and the remainder in 2016. 
At inception, the fixed interest rate net proceeds were swapped into sterling 
6-month LIBOR determined variable rate debt. 
On 14 December 2010 the Group adopted $125m of fixed rate guaranteed 
unsecured notes as part of the Bss acquisition. Whilst $75m of the notes 
are due to be repaid in 2013 and $50m in 2016, the Group is currently 
determining the future of the notes.
Liquidity headroom is expected to remain high with the term loan due to be 
repaid in four £35m tranches in April and October each year, with the balance 
falling due in April 2013. The revolving credit facility is available to the Group 
until April 2013. 
Tranches of the syndicated facility can be drawn down for weekly, monthly, 
three monthly and six monthly terms, with the actual duration of draw downs 
being dependent upon management’s interest rate expectations. For all of 
2010, due to the high differential between 6 month LIBOR and weekly and 
monthly LIBOR the Group has drawn funds on a weekly or monthly basis.
COVENANT COMPLIANCE
The Group’s borrowings are subject to covenants set by the lenders. Covenant 
compliance is measured semi-annually using financial results prepared under 
IFRs extant at 31 December 2007. 
The key financial covenants are the ratio of net debt to earnings before 
interest tax, depreciation and amortisation ‘EBITDA’ which must be less than 
3.5 times, and the ratio of earnings before interest, tax and amortisation 
‘EBITA’ to net interest which must be above 3.5 times. At 31 December 2010 
the Group achieved a net debt to EBITDA ratio of 1.9x (note 38) and interest 
cover of 18.9x (note 10).
In addition to these financial covenants the Group’s borrowing agreements 
include general covenants and potential events of default. At the date of this 
report there had been no breaches of the financial covenants and the Group 
had complied in all other respects with the terms of its borrowing agreements.
Interest Rate and Currency Derivatives (Note 26)
The Group’s policy is to enter into derivative contracts only with members of its 
uk banking facility syndicate, provided such counterparties meet the minimum 
rating set out in the Board approved derivative policy.
INTEREsT RATE RIsk 
One of the principal risks facing the Group is an exposure to interest rate 
fluctuations. The Group has borrowed in sterling at floating rates, whilst its 
STATEMENT OF 
PRINCIPAL RISKS  
AND UNCERTAINTIES
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2010 51
 
20386.04 proof 2 31/03/11
S TATEMENT OF PRINCIPAL RISK S AND UNCER TAINTIES
of loss arising from counterparty default, the Group has a policy of dealing 
with credit-worthy counterparties. The Group has policies and procedures to 
ensure that customers have an appropriate credit history and that account 
customers are given credit limits appropriate to their circumstances, which 
are regularly monitored. 
The Group does not have any significant credit risk exposure to any single 
counterparty or any group of counterparties having similar characteristics 
(other than banks providing banking facilities, interest rate derivatives and 
cross currency swaps). The Group defines counterparties as having similar 
characteristics if they are connected entities. The credit risk in liquid funds and 
derivative financial instruments is limited because the counterparties used are 
banks with high credit-ratings assigned by international credit-rating agencies.
At the year-end, the Group had open currency hedging contracts with four 
banks, open interest rate derivative contracts with 6 banks and had 14 banks 
within its banking syndicate. There were 18 companies holding the Travis 
Perkins us$ denominated Notes, of which the largest held 21% by value 
(11 held the Bss us$ denominated Notes of which the largest held 15% by 
value). All currency hedging contracts and swaps are held with members of 
the banking syndicate. 
On 22 February 2010, the Group’s banking counterparties had ratings of:
   Notional Notional Notional
  Amount of Value of  Value of Cross Value of
 Number UK Bank Interest Rate Currency Currency
Rating of banks Facilities Derivatives Swaps Forwards
 No. £m £m $m £m
AA+ to AA- 7 £398m £220m £87m £45m
A+ to A- 4 £378m £230m £139m £10m
Below A- 2 £77m - £14m £18m
Not rated 1 £4m - - -
CusTOMER CREDIT 
Within the Group’s trade businesses, one of the key aspects of service is 
the provision of credit to customers, with the Group carrying the associated 
credit risk. 
Trade receivables consist of a large number of customers, none of which 
represents more than 1% of sales, spread across diverse industries and 
geographical areas. However, the nature of the industry is such that there is a 
risk that some of these customers will be unable to pay outstanding balances. 
Ongoing evaluation of the financial condition of accounts receivable and 
reviews of the total credit exposure to all customers is performed monthly, 
using external credit risk services where necessary. Increased credit levels 
are approved by both operational and financial management with personal 
guarantees being obtained, where appropriate, before credit is advanced. 
Whilst day-to-day credit control is the responsibility of the centrally based 
teams, the Group also operates an in-house debt recovery team, headed by a 
qualified solicitor that is responsible for recovering debt that remains unpaid. 
The Group does not have credit insurance. 
During the recession of 1990/91, the Group experienced bad debt levels 
of up to 1.35% of credit sales. Over the past 10 years, the bad debt charge 
has averaged below 0.5%. The charge for 2010 was 0.59% of credit sales 
(2009: 0.8%). 
Debtor days at 31 December 2010 were 55 days (2009: 54 days). An 
increase in one debtor day at 31 December would have reduced cash flow 
by approximately £7m.
Capital Risk
The Group manages its capital risk by ensuring it has a capital structure 
appropriate to the ongoing needs of the business that ensures it remains 
within the covenant limits that apply to its banking arrangements. The capital 
structure of the Group consists of debt, which includes the borrowings 
disclosed in note 25, cash and cash equivalents and equity attributable to 
equity holders of the parent, comprising issued capital, reserves and retained 
earnings as disclosed in notes 22 to 24. 
The capital structure is formally reviewed by the Board as part of its annual 
strategy review, but it is kept under review by the Group Finance Director 
throughout the year. As necessary, the Company will rebalance its capital 
structure through raising or repaying debt, issuing equity or paying dividends.
The Group’s capital structure is aimed at balancing equity and debt in a 
way which comfortably maintains the Group’s investment grade status in the 
view of its lenders, whilst optimising the efficiency of its finance costs given 
that the cost of debt is below the cost of equity. This equates to a maximum 
Net Debt/EBITDA target of 2.5 times post any acquisition (against 3.5 times 
bank covenant) with the aim of paying down debt down to achieve a 1 times 
ratio. For the purposes of this calculation and of setting the target, any pension 
related debt, bank debt and the amount of any operating lease commitments 
are included (see note 31).
Our current preferred sources of debt financing include bank debt and us 
private placement notes. We are regularly reviewing the sources of debt with 
the aim of maintaining both diversified sources and diversified maturities.
Tax Risk
The Group seeks to efficiently manage its tax affairs whilst at the same time 
complying with the relevant laws and disclosure obligations placed upon it. 
However, the complexity of tax legislation means that there will always be an 
element of uncertainty when determining its tax liabilities.
To minimise compliance risk the Group utilises qualified in-house expertise 
and takes external advice when making judgements about the amount of tax 
to be paid and the level of provisions required.
Future tax charges and payments could be affected by changes in legislation 
and accounting standards beyond the control of the Group.
Pension Risk
The risks in this area relate to the potential for contributions required to 
STATEMENT OF 
PRINCIPAL RISKS  
AND UNCERTAINTIES
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2010  
20386.04 proof 2 31/03/11
52
S TATEMENT OF PRINCIPAL RISK S AND UNCER TAINTIES
meet the benefits promised in the final salary schemes rising to a level that 
restricts other corporate activity. The schemes’ Trustees and the Group obtain 
independent actuarial advice and formal valuations are carried out at least 
every three years. The Trustees receive reports on the investment performance 
quarterly. The Travis Perkins’ final salary scheme was closed to all new 
members in April 2006 and in 2009 pensionable salary inflation was capped 
at 3% per annum. The three Bss final salary pension schemes were closed to 
new members between October 2001 and October 2003.
The combined accounting deficit at 31 December 2010 on all group 
schemes is £28m. The Group currently has arrangements in place to eliminate 
the funding deficit on the Travis Perkins defined benefit scheme over a period 
of 8 years and on the Bss defined benefit schemes by 2019. Any deterioration 
in the schemes’ funding position could impact the Group’s liquidity.
Insurance Risk
The Group has been substantially self-insured since 2001. The nature of 
insurance claims is that they frequently take many years to fully crystalise, 
therefore the Directors have to estimate the value of provisions to hold in 
the balance sheet in respect of historic claims. under the guidance of the 
Group’s insurance advisors, the value of incurred claims is estimated using the 
Generalised Cape Cod Method. 
The provision is determined by deducting the value of claims settled to 
date from the estimated level of claims incurred. Whilst the Generalised 
Cape Cod Method is an insurance industry standard methodology, it relies 
on historic trends to determine the level of expected claims. To the extent 
that the estimates are inaccurate, they may be underprovided in respect 
of claims, which could result in an adverse effect on the Group’s results of 
operations and on cash flows which could adversely affect future prospects 
or financial condition.
OThER OPERATIONAL RISKS
Market Conditions and Competitive Pressures 
The Group’s products are sold to tradesmen and retail customers for a 
broad range of end uses in the built environment. The performance of the 
market is affected by general economic conditions and a number of specific 
drivers of construction and DIY activity, including housing transactions, net 
disposable income, house price inflation, consumer confidence, interest 
rates and unemployment. The Board conducts an annual review of strategy, 
which includes an assessment of likely competitor activity, market forecasts 
and possible future trends in products, channels of distribution and customer 
behaviour. significant events including those in the supply chain that may 
affect the Group are monitored by the Executive Committee and reported to 
the Board monthly by the Group Chief Executive. 
Market trends, particularly in respect of Multi-channel offerings, could 
also affect the Group’s performance if they continue to move towards greater 
internet purchasing so making traditional branch based operations less 
relevant. In addition, competitor activity could affect group performance. These 
are tracked on an ongoing basis and reported to the Board each month.
Product Availability and Product Prices 
security of supply of products and product quality are monitored by product 
category directors in the trade and retail businesses. supplier financial strength, 
capacity availability, product quality and service levels are monitored on a 
continuous basis. An annual risk assessment with recovery plans is prepared 
for the major suppliers across the Group. The Group is not significantly 
exposed to one supplier or product type with no supplier accounting for more 
than 4% of total goods purchased in 2010. An established qA process is in 
place throughout the business.
The ability to pass on price increases to customers is affected by competitor 
activity and the economic climate. An inability to raise selling prices could 
reduce margins.
The expansion of direct sourcing increases the Group’s reliance on 
overseas factories and so exposes the group to greater risk due to both 
potential lack of availability and from product quality, which could affect the 
reputation of the Group’s brands. The market price of products distributed by 
the Group, particularly commodity products, can vary significantly and affect 
operating results particularly those sourced from overseas which also may 
be impacted by currency fluctuations. To mitigate these potential risks the 
Group’s businesses actively take steps to protect themselves from anticipated 
price rises and currency fluctuations, invest in quality assurance and maintain 
sensible stock levels.
Any restrictions on third party credit insurance available to suppliers could 
result in them reducing their own credit exposure to the Group. If this were to 
occur, it could adversely affect the Group’s working capital and therefore its 
debt levels.
Information Technology and Business Continuity 
The operations of the Group depend on a wide range of IT systems operating 
efficiently. An IT strategy committee reviews the strategic demands of the 
business, resources available to it, performance levels of the key systems and 
systems security and prioritises development work. Maintenance is undertaken 
on an ongoing basis to ensure the resilience of group systems and escalation 
procedures are in place to resolve any performance issues at an early stage. 
Our two data centres mirror each other with data processing switched from 
one to the other on a regular basis. An IT disaster recovery plan exists and is 
tested regularly together with the business continuity plan with arrangements 
in place for alternative data sites for both trade and retail businesses. Off-site 
back-up routines are in place.
The Group distributes products from 27 central distribution centres in Great 
Britain. The loss of any single warehouse through fire or other major incident 
could have a material effect on the availability of product in the trade and retail 
outlets. Each warehouse has fire detection and alarm systems and a business 
continuity plan.
STATEMENT OF 
PRINCIPAL RISKS  
AND UNCERTAINTIES
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2010 53
 
20386.04 proof 2 31/03/11
S TATEMENT OF PRINCIPAL RISK S AND UNCER TAINTIES
Human Resources 
The ability to recruit and retain staff at all levels of the Group is an important 
driver of our overall performance. salaries and other benefits are benchmarked 
annually to ensure that the Group remains competitive. A recruitment toolkit is 
available for both trade and retail outlets. A wide-range of training programmes 
are in place to encourage staff development and management development 
programmes are used to assist those identified for more senior positions. The 
Group Human Resources Director monitors staff turnover by job type and 
reports to the Board annually. succession plans are established for the most 
senior positions within the Group and these are reviewed annually. 
Leased Property
The majority of the Group’s branch portfolios are held through leasehold 
interests, which are generally subject to periodic rent reviews, lease expiries 
and renegotiations. As a result, the Group is susceptible to changes in the 
property rental market, such as increases in market rents, which are cost 
increases to the Group that they may not be able to pass on to customers 
in the form of higher prices. Any such rental increases may negatively affect 
the Group’s margins and could have an adverse effect on the Group’s future 
prospects, financial condition or results of operations.
The Group has assigned a limited number of leases on surplus properties in 
the course of its business, and the Group has acquired businesses, which also 
have assigned leases prior to acquisition. In certain circumstances, the Group 
may be contingently liable for performance of leasehold and other obligations 
relating to the assigned leases. Particularly in the current market environment, 
there is a risk of such liability crystallising in the event of the insolvency of, or 
other default by, an entity or entities to which a number of the leases on those 
properties were assigned. 
Acquisitions and Other Expansion
Growth by acquisition continues to be an important part of the long-term 
strategy of the Group. significant risk can arise from acquisitions in terms of 
the initial valuation, the integration programme and the ongoing management 
of the acquisition. Detailed internal analysis of the market position of major 
acquisition targets is undertaken and valuations are completed using 
discounted cash flow financial models. Independent advisors are used to 
comment on the strategic implications and the assumptions in valuation 
models for larger acquisitions. A rolling programme of post acquisition audits 
is completed and reviewed by the Board each year.
Legislation
The Group is affected, both positively and negatively, by the legislative 
environment within which it operates. Planning and building legislation 
affects its customers, and consequently the Group, whilst health and safety, 
employment, environmental and competition laws together with the rules of 
the Financial services Authority and the Listing Rules influence its day-to-
day operations.
The Group has an in-house legal team headed by the Group Company 
secretary, which together with health and safety and environmental experts, 
monitor changes in legislation that affect the Group and enable it to take timely 
action to ensure any impacts are reduced.
Reputation and Litigation
The Group is potentially exposed to litigation, including that related to product 
liability, asbestos and environmental pollution or contamination. Where this 
relates to a supplier or the actions of third parties, the Group would seek to 
pass such liability back to them, but were this not possible it would seek to rely 
on its insurance policies.
some Group companies up to the 1970s included asbestos-based products 
in their product ranges. On occasions when handling these products, employees 
may have been exposed to the potentially harmful effects of asbestos, with the 
result that their health may have suffered. Occasionally, the Group receives 
a claim for damages from a former employee, or from his or her estate, in 
respect of their ill-health. For the majority of cases where liability is proven 
against the Group, the claim is paid by the insurers of the employing company 
at the time the exposure to asbestos occurred. However, occasionally, where, 
due to the passage of time and the lack of records, particularly for companies 
subsequently acquired by the Group, it is not possible to identify the insurer, 
the Group may be directly liable for settling the claim.
Historically, the level of such claims has not been material either individually 
or in aggregate and the Board currently has no reason to believe that the 
situation will change. However, if there was a significant increase in the 
number of such claims for which insurance cover could not be traced, the 
future prospects, financial condition or results of operations of the Group could 
be adversely affected.
The Group’s property portfolio includes properties of various ages and a 
number of their properties were constructed in areas that have historically 
been the subject of commercial or industrial use. It is possible that on-site 
pollution or contamination could have been caused by any such previous uses, 
or in limited circumstances by current uses, for which the Group could be held 
liable. Although the Board is not aware of any relevant liability, claims or actions, 
a claim or regulatory action against the Group pollution or contamination could 
have a material adverse effect on the Group
Any litigation carries an inherent risk of an adverse outcome. Any successful 
product liability, asbestos or environmental claim could have a material 
adverse effect on the Group’s future prospects, financial condition or results of 
operations. In addition, even if the Group successfully defends any such claim, 
claims of this nature could have a negative impact on customer confidence in 
the Group’s products and on the Group itself.
Environmental
Failure to operate within the highest environmental standards may reduce the 
Group’s profitability if such action causes it to come into conflict with legislative 
requirements. Furthermore, with heightened environmental awareness, 
STATEMENT OF 
PRINCIPAL RISKS  
AND UNCERTAINTIES
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2010  
20386.04 proof 2 31/03/11
54
S TATEMENT OF PRINCIPAL RISK S AND UNCER TAINTIES
companies that fail to meet environmental standards may find their ability to 
trade or gain access to capital markets reduced.
The Group has accreditation for its environmental management system to 
the IsO 14001 standard. Further details of the Group’s environmental policies 
and performance are given in the Environmental report on pages 37 to 42. 
However, to mitigate the potential environmental risks, the Group undertakes 
comprehensive reviews across all its businesses involving independent 
external advisers. External verification of environmental performance is 
undertaken and repeated on an annual basis.
Government pressures to reduce carbon emissions may result in significant 
changes to the new build and RMI building market. Regulations may drive 
substantial changes to the products that are specified by customers, which 
could affect the builders merchanting industry if those customers move 
towards more direct sourcing from the manufacturers or installers.
Climate
The building materials industry provides customers with products used largely 
in construction and RMI. These activities are typically undertaken less during 
inclement weather, and, as a result, the Group’s operations are characterised 
by weather-affected fluctuations in demand. Prolonged periods of poor 
weather can adversely affect the Group’s future prospects, financial condition 
and results of operations.
 
STATEMENT OF 
PRINCIPAL RISKS  
AND UNCERTAINTIES
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2010 55
 
20386.04 proof 2 31/03/11
C ORPORATE GOVERNANCE
COMBINED CODE
The London stock Exchange issued the Combined Code on Corporate 
Governance (‘the Code’) in 1998 and it was revised most recently in June 
2008. section 1 of the Code is applicable to companies. A statement explaining 
how the Company has applied the principles and the extent to which it has 
complied with the provisions of the Code appears below. The Company will 
report on its compliance with the new uk Corporate Governance Code in its 
2011 annual report. 
The Code contains fourteen main principles of governance, which are 
divided into the following four areas:
1. Directors
The Company is controlled through a board of directors, which presently 
comprises the Chairman, three executive and four non-executive directors. 
Robert Walker (having succeeded Tim stevenson on 17 May 2010) is 
Chairman and Geoff Cooper is Chief Executive. Chris Bunker is the senior 
Independent Director. John Coleman, Philip Jansen and Andrew simon are 
also independent non-executive directors. Appointments of new directors are 
made by the Board on the recommendation of the Nominations Committee. 
All directors will submit themselves for re-election at least every three years. 
The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved to it and meets at 
least ten times a year. It is responsible for overall group strategy, policy on 
corporate governance matters, acquisition policy, approval of major capital 
expenditure and consideration of significant financial and operational matters. 
It monitors the exposure to key business risks and reviews the strategy of 
the trading subsidiaries, their annual budgets and progress towards the 
achievement of those budgets and their capital expenditure programmes. It 
also considers legislative, environmental, health and safety and employment 
issues. The Board has approved a written statement of the division of key 
responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief Executive.
The Chairman leads the Board, ensuring that each director is able to make 
an effective contribution. He also monitors the information provided to the 
Board to ensure it is sufficient, timely and clear, and from time to time, the 
Board reviews the adequacy of this information.
The Board held sixteen meetings during 2010, five of which were by 
conference telephone call. One meeting dealt with consideration of the 
Company’s long-term strategy and seven meetings either included visits 
to parts of the Company’s operations or included presentations by senior 
executives on their areas of responsibility. Individual visits to operational 
sites by non-executive directors also took place. In addition to the regular 
board meetings, key financial information is circulated to directors outside 
of meetings. The Chairman has regular direct contact with the executive 
directors and keeps the non-executive directors informed of material 
developments between board meetings. The Chairman held two meetings 
during the year with all the non-executive directors, without the executive 
directors being present.
All directors have direct access to the Company secretary and may take 
independent professional advice in the furtherance of their duties if necessary. 
The Company maintains directors & officers’ insurance in respect of the risk 
of claims against directors.
The Board has an induction process for new directors, which is facilitated 
by the Company secretary. The Chairman ensures that all directors receive 
appropriate training on appointment and then subsequently as required, 
taking into account the need to update their skills and their knowledge of 
the Company’s business. They are also regularly provided with information 
on forthcoming legal and regulatory changes and corporate governance 
developments, and briefings on the key risks facing the Company, including 
those identified in the Corporate Responsibility statement on page 48.
The Board has established five committees: the Audit Committee, the 
Remuneration Committee, the Nominations Committee, the Health and safety 
Committee and the Executive Committee, which operate within defined 
terms of reference, which are available on the Company’s website or may be 
obtained from the Company secretary. The minutes of committee meetings 
are available to all the directors. The reports of the Audit Committee, Health & 
safety Committee, Remuneration Committee and Nominations Committee are 
on pages 58 to 60, 43 to 45, 61 to 71 and 72 respectively. 
The Executive Committee’s members are listed on page 48. Other 
executives are invited to attend from time to time in relation to specific matters. 
The principal purpose of the Committee is to assist the executive directors in 
the performance of their duties in relation in particular to:
●
 strategy, operational plans, policies, procedures and budgets;
●
 The monitoring of operational and financial performance;
●
 The assessment and control of risk;
●
 The prioritisation and allocation of resources.
CORPORATE 
GOVERNANCE
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2010  
20386.04 proof 2 31/03/11
56
C ORPORATE GOVERNANCE
The number of board and committee meetings attended by each director (in 
whole or in part) during the year was as follows:
If a director was unable to attend a meeting of the Board or a committee of 
which he is a member, the Chairman discussed the meeting papers with him 
to obtain his views prior to the meeting.
During the year, the Board undertook an evaluation of its performance and 
the performance of its committees and the individual directors. This consisted 
of completion of a questionnaire followed by interviews by the Chairman with 
each other director and the Company secretary separately. These interviews 
formed the basis of a report by the Chairman that was the subject of a 
discussion by the Board, which was satisfied that the process showed that the 
Board and its committees worked effectively. However, it agreed a number of 
measures, all aimed at further improving its performance. The focus of these 
measures was on:
●
  Ensuring that there was adequate and timely review of succession planning 
for the Board, including providing for appropriate diversity among non-
executive board members and for management posts below board level;
●
  Improving the Board’s identification and review of high level risks to the 
business;
●
  Enhancing non-executive directors’ knowledge of the Group’s businesses 
by arranging for them to ‘mentor’ particular businesses, on a rotating basis.
A board evaluation process will be carried out in 2011, using the services of 
an external facilitator. It is the Board’s policy to engage such a facilitator at 
least every 3 years.
2. Directors’ Remuneration 
The Remuneration Committee consists of the Chairman and three 
independent non-executive directors, and meets at least four times a year. Its 
responsibilities include remuneration policy, a review of the performance of 
executive directors prior to determining their remuneration and the approval 
of incentive arrangements, including performance criteria. The remuneration 
of the non-executive directors is determined by the Board as a whole, except 
that the Remuneration Committee makes a recommendation in respect of the 
Chairman’s salary. No director plays a part in the discussion about his own 
remuneration. 
The Remuneration Report is set out on pages 61 to 71.
3. Accountability and Audit 
A review of the performance of the Group’s trading subsidiaries and the 
financial position of the Group is included in the reports of the Chief Executive, 
the Chief Operating Officer and Finance Director set out on pages 14 to 36. 
The Board uses them, together with the Chairman’s statement on pages 12 
and 13 to present a full assessment of the Company’s position and prospects. 
The Directors’ responsibilities for the financial statements are described on 
page 77.
INTERNAL CONTROL
The Board is responsible for the Group’s system of internal control and for 
reviewing its effectiveness. In designing the system of internal control, 
consideration is given to the significant risks to the business, the probability 
of these risks manifesting themselves and the most cost effective means of 
controlling them. The system is designed to manage rather than eliminate 
risk and therefore can only provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance 
against material misstatement or loss.
The day-to-day operation of the system of internal control has been 
delegated to executive directors and senior management, but the effectiveness 
of the system is regularly reviewed by the Board in a process that accords with 
the Turnbull Guidance. The Board and the Executive Committee receive regular 
reports on specific areas of risk and the results of Internal Audit analysis. 
If appropriate, these reports include recommendations for improvement in 
controls or for the management of those risks. Measures to integrate risk 
management processes into the Group’s operations, to extend awareness 
of the importance of risk management and to ensure that recommended 
improvements are implemented, are regularly reviewed and refreshed. senior 
executives are asked, twice a year, to confirm the adequacy of internal controls 
in their areas of responsibility, identify any control weaknesses, and to confirm 
the accuracy and completeness of information given to the directors and to the 
external auditors. This confirmatory process will be extended further through 
the management structure in 2011.
CORPORATE 
GOVERNANCE
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2010
* Retired from the Board in May 2010.
 Number of meetings 16 4 7 1 3 11
 Attendances:      
 C. J. Bunker 16 4 7 1 - -
 J. P. Carter 16 - - - 3 11
 J. Coleman 13 4 6 1 - -
 G. I. Cooper 16 1 7 1 - 11
 P. N. Hampden Smith 16 4 1 - - 11
 P. Jansen 16 4 - 1 - -
 A. H. Simon 14 - 7 1 3 -
 R. Walker 16 4 7 1 3 -
 T. E. P. Stevenson* 6 1 2 1 1 -
PLC BOARD
AUDIT
REMUNERATION
NOMINATION
HEALTH & SAFETy
ExE CUTIVE 57
 
20386.04 proof 2 31/03/11
C ORPORATE GOVERNANCE
The Group has systems and procedures in place to manage and control the 
risks associated with financial reporting and the preparation of consolidated 
accounts. This includes experienced and qualified personnel preparing the 
consolidation and review by senior management.
In conjunction with the Audit Committee, the Board has carried out an 
annual review of the overall effectiveness of the system of internal control and 
risk management procedures, during the year and up until the date of approval 
of this annual report. 
AuDIT COMMITTEE AND AuDITORs 
The report of the Audit Committee is set out on pages 58 to 60.
4. Relations with Shareholders
The Company encourages two-way communication with both its institutional 
and private investors and responds promptly to all enquiries received. During 
the year the Chairman, the senior Independent Director and the executive 
directors, either separately or together, attended a number of meetings with 
analysts, and with shareholders representing circa 60% of the issued share 
capital. The Chairman and executive directors report to the Board on any 
meetings with shareholders or analysts. In addition, written reports about the 
Company by analysts or brokers are circulated to all directors.
As well as sending the annual report to shareholders, during the year, 
the Company published its interim results on its website, issued two interim 
management statements, two further trading updates and sent a circular to 
shareholders in July 2010 concerning its proposed acquisition of The Bss 
Group plc. All shareholders receive at least twenty working days notice of the 
Annual General Meeting at which all directors are available for questions and a 
short business presentation takes place. Each substantive issue is the subject 
of a separate resolution. The numbers of proxy votes for and against each 
resolution are announced at the meeting, after the voting has taken place, and 
are subsequently published on the Company’s website.
GOING CONCERN
This matter is dealt with in the statement of Principal Risks and uncertainties 
on page 49.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE COMPLIANCE STATEMENT
The Company is pleased to report that it has complied throughout the year 
ended 31 December 2010 with the provisions set out in section 1 of the Code.
CORPORATE 
GOVERNANCE
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2010  
20386.04 proof 2 31/03/11
58
AUD IT C OMMITTEE REPOR T
AUDIT  
COMMITTEE 
REPORT 
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2010
ROLE OF ThE AUDIT COMMITTEE
The Audit Committee is responsible for:
●
  The integrity of the financial statements of the Company and any formal 
announcements relating to the Company’s financial performance, and 
reviewing significant financial reporting judgments contained therein;
●
  Reviewing the Company’s internal financial controls and, unless expressly 
addressed by the Board itself, the Company’s internal control and risk 
management systems;
●
  Monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Company’s internal audit 
function;
●
  Reviewing the audit plans of the external auditors and for monitoring the 
conduct of the audit;
●
  Reviewing the external auditors’ independence and objectivity and the 
effectiveness of the audit process, taking into consideration relevant uk 
professional and regulatory requirements;
●
  Reviewing the Company’s policy on the engagement of the external 
auditors to supply non-audit services, taking into account relevant guidance 
regarding the provision of non-audit services by an external audit firm;
●
  Making recommendations to the Board, for a resolution to be put to the 
shareholders for their approval in general meeting, in relation to the 
appointment and remuneration of the external auditors.
The Audit Committee is required to report its findings to the Board, identifying 
any matters in respect of which it considers that action or improvement is 
needed, and make recommendations as to the steps to be taken.
The Committee’s full terms of reference are available on the Company’s 
website, or on request to the Company secretary.
COMPOSITION OF ThE AUDIT COMMITTEE
Chris Bunker was Chairman and John Coleman and Philip Jansen were 
members of the Committee throughout 2010. All members of the Committee 
are considered to be independent. The Company secretary, Andrew Pike, is 
secretary to the Committee. The Board considers that Chris Bunker has the 
recent and relevant financial experience required by the Combined Code (see 
also the board profiles on pages 46 and 47).
MEETINGS AND ATTENDANCE
The Committee met four times during 2010 to consider inter alia, the annual 
and interim results. Attendance at the meetings is shown on page 56. The 
Chairman of the Committee also invited the Group Chairman, the Chief 
Executive, the Finance Director, the Chief Operating Officer, the Group 
Financial Controller, the Group Head of Business Risk and Assurance and 
the external auditors to attend the meetings. When present, the external 
auditors and the Group Head of Business Risk and Assurance were given the 
opportunity to discuss with the Committee, any matters which they wished 
to raise without the presence of management. In addition, during the year, 
the Committee Chairman held a number of meetings with the Group Head 
of Business Risk and Assurance and with the external auditors, all without 
management being present.
MAIN ACTIVITIES OF ThE COMMITTEE  
DURING ThE YEAR
At its meeting in February, the Committee reviewed the annual financial 
statements of the Company and received reports from the internal auditors on 
internal control matters and from the external auditors on the conduct of their 
audit, their review of accounting policies, areas of judgment in the financial 
statements and their comments on statements concerning risk and internal 
control. A similar review was undertaken at its July meeting when the interim 
statements were considered. At these and its other meetings the Committee 
also reviewed:
●
  An evaluation of its work carried out as part of the Board evaluation process 
referred to on page 56; the Chairman of the Committee subsequently 
reported to the Board on this evaluation;
●
  The Committee’s terms of reference; no changes were recommended to 
the Board;
●
  Any comments received on its 2009 report from institutional investor 
bodies;
●
  The effectiveness of the system of internal financial control and the system 
for monitoring and reporting on risks faced by the Group;
●
  The strategy, staffing, processes and effectiveness of the internal audit 
department; minor changes to the terms of reference of that department 
were recommended to the Board;
●
  The demands on the Group’s I.T. systems and the constraints imposed by 
having different systems in certain parts of the Group;
●
  The status of actions taken in response to recommendations arising from 
internal and external audit work;
●
  The operation of the Group’s ‘whistleblowing’ policy;
●
  The policy on engagement of the external auditors for non-audit work, as 
referred to below, and its policy on the employment of anyone previously 
employed by the external auditor;
●
  The plans presented by the external auditors for conduct of the year-end 
audit including terms of engagement, fees and letters of representation;
●
  The plans for the audit of the Bss Group companies at the year end; it was 
agreed that due to the close proximity of the acquisition to the year-end, the 
existing auditor, PricewaterhouseCoopers, would be retained for this work;
●
  The effectiveness, independence, and objectivity of the external auditors, 
taking into account written assurances provided by Deloitte LLP with regard 
to its quality and independence controls, and its ethical standards, and the 
results of a survey among stakeholders;
●
  The Group’s accounting policies, forthcoming changes to International 
Financial Reporting standards and other regulatory changes and various  59
 
20386.04 proof 2 31/03/11
AUD IT C OMMITTEE REPOR T
guidance notes issued by the Financial Reporting Council;
●
  The Group’s policies and processes for fraud prevention;
●
  The Group’s tax planning.
No matters of material significance were identified by the auditors during the 
year and there were no material audit-related matters that were discussed 
with investors.
Two members of the Audit Committee are also members of the Remuneration 
Committee. The Audit Committee is satisfied that the Group’s compensation 
policies are compatible with a robust control environment and good stewardship 
and also that the Committee received sufficient, reliable and timely information 
from management to enable it to fulfil its responsibilities.
The key areas of risk and sensitivity, the major accounting policies, and the 
principal assumptions with regard to fair values are described in the Report 
and notes to the accounts. The Audit Committee reviewed these during the 
year, taking into account relevant external advice, and was satisfied that they 
were appropriate.
EXTERNAL AUDITORS
The Company places great importance on the effectiveness and independence 
of its external auditors and together with them is careful to ensure their 
objectivity is not compromised. At its October meeting, the auditors presented 
to the Committee their plans for the forthcoming audit together with details of 
their proposed fees and how they ensure that their objectivity and independence 
are not compromised. These plans reflected a review by the new audit partner 
(see below) of the methods used to perform each element of the audit.
Deloitte LLP (or its predecessor firms) a leading international audit 
partnership, was first appointed as auditor to Group companies more than 
30 years ago. There are no contractual restrictions on the Group with regard 
to their appointment. In accordance with professional standards, the partner 
responsible for the audit is changed every 5 years, and changed in 2010. 
The Committee considers that Deloitte provide a high quality, efficient 
and cost effective audit service. Accordingly, following its February 2011 
meeting, the Committee recommended to the Board that resolutions be put 
to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting for the re-appointment of the 
external auditors, and to authorise the Directors to fix their remuneration. 
It is the role of the Committee to ensure compliance with the Board’s policy 
in respect of services provided by, and fees paid to, the auditors. Audit fees, 
which are regularly compared with peer companies by the Committee, are 
negotiated by the Finance Director and approved by the Audit Committee. 
The policy in relation to other services that could be provided by the external 
auditors, which has been approved by the Board, can be summarised  
as follows:
General Principles
There is a presumption against the external auditors providing non-audit 
services and they should only be selected for such work where its nature 
makes it more timely and cost effective to select advisors who have a good 
understanding of the Group or the work is of a particularly confidential or 
specialist nature. The external auditors should not provide non-audit services 
where either the nature of the work or the extent of such services might impair 
their independence or objectivity. Any assignment to the external auditors of 
non-audit work with a fee over £25,000 requires the approval of the Chairman 
of the Committee.
Areas of Work 
The policy lists certain non-audit services where it would be usual to engage 
the external auditors, such as regulatory reviews and certain tax services, 
and those where their engagement is not permitted, such as work that would 
conflict with ethical guidance to auditors, or work relating to the design of 
financial information systems. The Committee Chairman is consulted in 
relation to any proposed work not covered by the list.
Value of Work
Non-audit services require approval as follows:
●
   up to £5,000 – no formal approval required provided the work is permitted 
under the list referred to above;
●
  £5,000 to £25,000 – Group Finance Director;
●
   £25,000 to £50,000 – Group Finance Director and Committee Chairman;
●
   £50,000 and above – Group Finance Director and Committee Chairman 
following a competitive tender.
Formal Committee approval is also required if the aggregated level of forecast 
fees for non-audit services exceeds 50% of the statutory audit fee.
Reporting
The Group Finance Director reports twice yearly to the Committee on fees for 
non-audit services payable to the auditors.
As shown in note 5 to the accounts, during the year the Auditors were 
paid £404k (2009: £338k) for audit-related work, and £689k (2009: £522k) 
for non-audit work. Of the non-audit fees, £445k related to work required to 
be undertaken by the Company’s auditors on the prospectus and associated 
reports in respect of the acquisition of The Bss Group plc; the balance of 
£244k mainly comprised specialist taxation advice. In accordance with 
the Group’s policy on non-audit fees, a project worth £145k was awarded 
following a competitive tender, whilst £62k related to work started in 2008.
In view of Deloitte’s detailed understanding of the Group’s operations and 
accounting policies, and being mindful of future Auditor reporting obligations, 
the Audit Committee decided that it was appropriate for Deloitte to undertake 
the non-Bss, non-audit related, work previously described. In addition, £514k 
of fees was paid to other accounting firms for non-audit work.
The Committee understands that the total fees paid by the Group to Deloitte 
in 2010 amount to less than 0.06% of Deloitte’s uk fee income and considers 
that the Auditors independence has not been impaired by the non-audit fees 
paid in 2010.
AUDIT  
COMMITTEE 
REPORT 
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2010  
20386.04 proof 2 31/03/11
60
AUD IT C OMMITTEE REPOR T
INTERNAL AUDIT
As well as its reviews of the internal audit department’s strategy and processes, 
as described above, during its meetings in 2010, the Committee received 
presentations from the Group Head of Business Risk and Assurance, about 
the results of work undertaken by the department, and approved its plans for 
work in 2011. The Committee was satisfied with the overall effectiveness of 
the department.
OVERVIEW
As a result of its work during the year, and taking into account the result 
of the Board and Committee evaluation process described on page 56, the 
Committee has concluded that it has acted in accordance with its terms of 
reference and has ensured the independence, objectivity and effectiveness of 
the external and internal auditors. 
The Chairman of the Committee will be available at the Annual General 
Meeting to answer any questions about the work of the Committee.
Chris Bunker
Chairman, Audit Committee
22 February 2010
AUDIT  
COMMITTEE 
REPORT 
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2010 61
 
20386.04 proof 2 31/03/11
D IRE CT ORS’ REMUNERATI ON REPOR T 
DIRECTORS’ 
REMUNERATION 
REPORT 
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2010
INTRODUCTION
This report sets out the Group’s remuneration policies for its directors and 
senior executives and describes how those policies are applied in practice. 
UNAUDITED INFORMATION
Highlights of 2010:
●
   stretching annual performance targets exceeded, resulting in bonus 
payments being made to our strong management team;
●
   25% of annual bonus deferred for three years held in the form of shares; 
●
   same base salary percentage increases applied to all levels, including 
executive directors, for the fourth year in succession;
●
   All employees continue to share in the Group’s success through participation 
in short term incentive plans and longer term share plans; and
●
   Alignment of our CEO’s pension remuneration going forward to fit with the 
Company’s pension policy, keeping his fixed pay the same.
Remuneration Committee Chairman’s Statement
In addition to its standard remit, the Remuneration Committee has spent much 
time reviewing the pension provision for the group executives affected by 
legislation changes as well as keeping an eye on the proposed changes for 
2012, which will affect all employees. 
Our remuneration principles for all employees remain the same for the 
following financial year: 
●
   Remuneration should be competitive and contribute to the delivery of short 
and long-term shareholder value;
●
   Remuneration should contain significant performance related incentive 
elements whose proportion increases with seniority;
●
   All employees should share in the success of the Group through participation 
in both annual bonus schemes and longer term share plans. 
Maximum bonus awards have been made to our executive directors as a 
result of the Group exceeding the stretching targets set for 2010, (which are 
described in more detail later in this report) being exceeded. In contrast, the 
recession has continued to impact maturing long term incentive plans and, 
as anticipated, no awards vested in 2010.
Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors
Our incentive structure is designed to support the Group goal of consistently 
outperforming in our markets. 
In order to attract, motivate and retain high quality executives to achieve 
this goal, we continue to focus our efforts in ensuring that we have the right 
mix of fixed and variable pay, with more than 50% of total remuneration being 
performance related. 
In determining the overall policy for executive remuneration, we consider 
all associated risks arising throughout the Company are considered, thereby 
ensuring that the overall remuneration structure and variable scheme targets 
are set so that they do not give rise to any undue risk taking. Further, in 
formulating our policy, we consider pay and employment conditions elsewhere 
in the Company.
In addition, we encourage our most senior executives to build up a 
shareholding in the Company over a five-year period via formal shareholding 
guidelines. The target shareholding for the executive directors is 100% of 
salary and 50% for our most senior managers. senior executives are aware 
that the Remuneration Committee may scale back future long-term incentive 
awards for individuals who have not consistently met the target level. share 
options which have vested, but not been exercised, count towards this target. 
As at 31 December 2010, all three executive directors had a shareholding 
valued in excess of their salary guideline, as did all but two of the Group’s top 
23 senior managers.
Base Salaries and Benefits
Base salaries are reviewed annually for each director and are normally set 
with reference to individual performance, experience and contribution together 
with developments in the relevant employment market, internal relativities and 
reference to the general economic environment; it is this last point which has 
outweighed all others in determining pay awards for 2011. 
In line with the majority of employees, the executive directors were awarded 
a 2.5% base pay increase in January 2011.This means that for the fourth 
successive year the same salary increase percentage has been applied to all 
employee levels. In addition to their basic salary, directors receive a benefits 
package which includes a car or car allowance (in the case of John Carter and 
Paul Hampden smith), private medical insurance, life assurance, an incapacity 
benefits scheme and membership of a company pension scheme or a cash 
allowance in lieu.
From 1 January 2011, the executive directors’ salaries are: 
John Carter £384,400 
Geoff Cooper £639,405 
Paul Hampden smith £384,400
In respect of pension arrangements, Geoff Cooper agreed upon joining the 
Company that he would be pensioned within the defined benefits scheme 
on his salary up to the Earnings Cap, and receive a cash allowance on 
salary above the Earnings Cap. In 2006, when the Lifetime Allowance was 
introduced, he elected to cease being a member of the scheme for further 
service accrual, and to receive a cash allowance in lieu. This allowance 
was calculated with regard to the cost the Company would have incurred 
in providing continuing pension accrual. In contrast, for any executive now 
choosing such a cash allowance, the rate is equal to the percentage of salary 
payable by the Company to the DC pension plan (25% for executive directors). 
Recognising this mismatch and following shareholder consultation, the 
excess of Geoff Cooper’s cash allowance over 25% has been consolidated into 
salary. Whilst there is no change to the value of his fixed pay, it is recognised   
20386.04 proof 2 31/03/11
62
D IRE CT ORS’ REMUNERATI ON REPOR T 
that this increases his variable pay opportunity. In making the decision to effect 
the change, the Remuneration Committee undertook an independent review of 
Geoff Cooper’s position on base and variable pay versus the market (against 
the 50-150 FTsE companies) and was satisfied that the position of Geoff 
Cooper’s remuneration (at between median and upper quartile) versus this 
group of comparator companies is entirely appropriate for a Chief Executive of 
his calibre and proven delivery of results. There were no other changes in the 
basis of directors’ pension entitlements during the year.
During 2010, Paul Hampden smith and John Carter were both members 
of the Group’s defined benefits pension scheme. As described in detail in last 
year’s report, increases in defined benefit members’ pensionable salaries after 
1 December 2009 were capped at 3% per annum, irrespective of any future 
salary increases which may, at some time, exceed 3%. There are no unfunded 
pension commitments or similar arrangements for directors. 
As a result of the announced changes in the taxation of pensions at April 
2011 and April 2012 we anticipate that Paul Hampden smith and John Carter, 
together with a number of other senior executives, may choose to cease 
accrual in the Group’s pension schemes during 2011. senior executives may 
  Performance  Maximum bonus Achieved 
Element Purpose measure Weighting target (rights restated)* actual
 
Rewards achievement of annual
 EPs  50% 73.1p 77.2p
Annual Bonus financial and personal  ROC E 30% 11.2% 12.2%
 
performance targets
 Personal objectives* 20% 20% 20%
* The main personal objectives which were achieved covered the following areas:
●
   Market outperformance   
●
   Risk monitoring
●
   Health and safety
●
   Pricing strategy
●
   Global sourcing initiatives
●
   Category management capability 
●
   supply chain optimisation 
●
   succession
The Remuneration Committee assessed the specific achievements against these objectives by reviewing the detailed measures attached to each one.
DIRECTORS’ 
REMUNERATION 
REPORT 
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2010
choose to receive a cash allowance in lieu of pension benefits or to have 
DC pension contributions up to the level of the Annual Allowance and a cash 
allowance above. Where an executive receives a cash allowance in lieu of 
pension benefits, this is not taken into account for the purposes of bonuses, 
long-term incentives or other benefits. 
Annual Bonus
Executive directors are eligible for an annual bonus. The Remuneration 
Committee sets targets linked to board approved annual budgets. Maximum 
bonus payments are only awarded when performance for the year in question 
significantly exceeds the agreed annual budget targets. The maximum bonus 
levels remain unchanged for 2011 at 120% of salary for the Chief Executive 
and 100% of salary for the Finance Director and the Chief Operating Officer.
2010 Annual Bonus
As a result of the very strong performance of our Merchanting businesses 
compared with their competitors, all group financial and individual business 
related targets have been exceeded as outlined in the table below. 
Consequently, and as a reflection of this sector leading annual performance, 
bonus payments at maximum levels have been approved for 2010. 
The targets and achievement in relation to the 2010 bonus scheme are below:  63
 
20386.04 proof 2 31/03/11
D IRE CT ORS’ REMUNERATI ON REPOR T 
2011 Annual Bonus
For 2011, there are no changes to the bonus metrics and relative weightings and the potential bonus maxima (as a percentage of salary) remain unchanged, 
despite a greater ‘stretch’ in the Group’s targeted financial performance in its annual budget for 2011. 
Performance CEO Plan COO / FD Plans
measure Weighting Maximum On target Maximum On target
EPs 50% 60% 30% 50% 25%
ROCE 30% 36% 18% 30% 15%
Individual objectives 20% 24% 0-24% 20% 0-20%
Total 100% 120% 48-72% 100% 40-60%
Long Term Incentive Plans 
As anticipated, the performance measures attached to the long term incentive awards made in 2007 were not achieved, resulting in no awards vesting under 
these schemes in 2010. However, reflecting the sector leading performance of the TP Group since 2008, it is likely that there will be partial vesting in 2011 of 
the share Matching plan made in 2008. The ‘one off’ Executive share Option scheme awarded to the senior management group in November 2008 is also still 
on target to vest in full. The Executive Directors were not included in this award.
Performance Share Plan (‘PSP’) 
For 2011, the Remuneration Committee has reviewed the relative weighting for the performance conditions and recalibrated the weighting by increasing the EPs 
element. This change is designed to reflect the significant change in the group’s focus due to the Bss acquisition and shareholders’ interests. The Remuneration 
Committee believes that the recalibrated weightings are more appropriate for this 2011 award, taking these factors into account. 
PSP Element Rationale Weighting
Aggregate cashflow  key measure to take account of the importance of cash generation in the current climate 40%
Relative Total shareholder Return (‘TsR’)  External measure of shareholder value creation  20%
EPs growth  Profits generated for shareholders  40%
The targets proposed for 2011 PsP awards are as follows:
 EPS – No change to the current EPs growth targets as set out below (the 2010 base year EPs for the 2011 awards will be increased on a ‘perfect foresight’ basis 
to reflect the proforma Group 2010 performance including Bss).
EPS Growth % of EPS element that vests
RPI + 10% p.a.  100%
RPI + 3% p.a. 30%
These targets will continue to prove to be stretching in the current climate.
Relative Total Shareholder Return (‘TSR’) – The Company’s TsR will be measured against the TsR of the constituent companies of the FTsE 250 Index, 
excluding Investment Trusts. 
Travis Perkins plc TSR relative to FTSE 250 Index % of TSR element that vests
upper quartile (Top 25%) 100%
Median (Top 50%) 30%
straight-line vesting between these points
A three month averaging period at the start and end of the performance period will be used to calculate TsR. 
DIRECTORS’ 
REMUNERATION 
REPORT 
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2010  
20386.04 proof 2 31/03/11
64
D IRE CT ORS’ REMUNERATI ON REPOR T 
 Aggregate Cashflow – To reflect the importance of effective working capital 
management and of generating cash from assets, three-year aggregate 
cash flow targets will apply, based on the Company’s three-year plan. The 
Committee will, if appropriate, adjust for the impact of items such as major 
capital investments or disposals. The proposed target range for this PsP 
element in the 2011 award is £884m – £977m with 0% vesting at less than 
£884m and 100% of this element vesting at £977m on a straight line basis. 
The Committee will continue to review annually whether the performance 
targets and their percentage weightings described above remain appropriate 
and challenging, or whether they should be recalibrated taking into account 
economic expectations, the industry’s outlook and shareholder interests.
The maximum PsP award level for all executive directors is 150% of basic 
salary. However, for awards made in 2010 and those proposed for 2011 the 
maximum award is restricted to 120% for the CEO and 100% of salary for the 
other executive directors. 
Share Matching Scheme
The maximum personal investment in the share Matching scheme in 2011 
is 50% of post tax salary. The performance targets for the matching share 
awards are based on Cash Return On Capital Employed (‘CROCE’). The targets 
for awards planned for 2011 are set by the Remuneration Committee and 
determined by the Company’s three-year business plan. 30% of the matching 
award (0.6 for 1) vests if the target set is met with a straight line increase 
required above target for a 2 for 1 match. The target range planned for the 
2011 award is 10.75% – 11.89% where none of the matching award will vest 
over the three-year period unless the average CROCE is at least 10.75% and 
the whole of the matching award will vest if the average CROCE is 11.89% 
or more. The proposed targets for 2011 also take into account the impact 
of the Bss acquisition and are considered to be appropriately stretching in 
the current environment, with the target range for matching awards being 
significantly higher than that attached to the 2010 awards. 
All-employee Share Plans
The Company also operates two all employee share schemes; the sharesave 
scheme and a share Incentive Plan: the Travis Perkins Buy As You Earn Plan. 
Non-executive Directors
The policy of the Board is to recruit non-executive directors of the highest 
calibre, with a breadth of skills and experience appropriate for the Company’s 
business. Non-executive directors are appointed for a period of three years, at 
the end of which the appointment may be renewed by mutual agreement. It is 
the Board’s policy that non-executive directors should generally serve for six 
years (two three year terms) and that any term beyond this should be subject 
to a rigorous review. This review would take into account both the need for 
progressive refreshing of the Board, and the particular requirements of the 
Company at the time of the possible extension. Non-executive directors do not 
have a service contract, but each has received a letter of appointment expiring 
on the following dates:
Chris Bunker January 2012
John Coleman February 2014
Philip Jansen April 2012
Andrew simon February 2012
Robert Walker september 2012
The letters of appointment will be available for inspection at the Annual 
General Meeting.
The remuneration of the non-executive directors is determined by the Board 
(in the case of the Chairman, on the recommendation of the Remuneration 
Committee). Each non-executive director receives an annual fee. In addition, 
Chris Bunker and Andrew simon receive additional fees for, in the case of 
the former, the role of senior Independent Director and for chairing the Audit 
Committee and, in the case of the latter, for chairing the Remuneration and 
Health & safety Committees. During 2010, these fees were subject to an 
external benchmarking review as a result of which, from 1 July 2010, annual 
fees were increased for the first time since 2007 to the following:
Base fee £50,000 p.a.
Additional fee for senior Independent Director £7,000 p.a. 
Additional fee for committee chairmanship £10,000 p.a.
Additional fee for second committee chairmanship £4,000 p.a.
Non-executive directors do not receive any other benefits and are not 
eligible to join a company pension scheme. No compensation is payable 
on termination of their employment, which may be without notice from the 
Company. They cannot participate in any of the Company’s share schemes.
DIRECTORS’ 
REMUNERATION 
REPORT 
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2010 65
 
20386.04 proof 2 31/03/11
D IRE CT ORS’ REMUNERATI ON REPOR T 
150%
100%
50%
0%
2005 2006 2007 2008
 Travis Perkins plc  FTSE 250
2009 2010
Committee Details
During the year the Committee comprised Andrew simon (Chairman), Chris 
Bunker, John Coleman, all of whom are independent non-executive directors 
together with Tim stevenson (until his retirement in May 2010) when he was 
replaced by Robert Walker. It met 7 times in 2010. Attendance at the meetings 
is shown on page 56. The Committee is responsible for the broad policy on 
directors’ and senior executives’ remuneration. It determines all aspects of 
the remuneration packages of the executive directors and reviews, with the 
Chief Executive, the remuneration packages of other senior executives. It also 
oversees the administration of the share schemes. The Committee’s terms of 
reference, which are available on our website or from the Company secretary, 
require it to give due regard to the best practice contained in the Code. 
The Committee keeps itself fully informed of relevant developments and best 
DIRECTORS’ 
REMUNERATION 
REPORT 
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2010
Total Shareholder Return
As required by the Companies Act, the graph below shows total shareholder return for Travis Perkins’ shares over the last five years, relative to the FTsE 250 Index. 
Total shareholder return is defined as a combination of growth in the Company’s share price and dividends paid to shareholders. The FTsE 250 Index has been 
chosen as a comparable broad equity market index because the Company has been a member of it for the five year period.
practice in remuneration matters and seeks advice where appropriate from 
external advisors. Hewitt New Bridge street (a trading name of Aon Corporation) 
provided advice to the Committee during the year on executive remuneration, 
including the proposed incentive scheme in respect of synergies arising 
from the Bss acquisition, and also gave an update on trends in executive 
remuneration to the Board. Hewitt New Bridge street did not provide other 
services to the Company during the year, but another part of AON Corporation 
provides insurance broking services. Deloitte LLP also gave some advice on 
the Performance share Plan and they also provide audit and taxation services 
to the Company. These advisors were appointed by the Committee. In addition, 
Geoff Cooper (Chief Executive), Paul Hampden smith (Finance Director), Andrew 
Pike (Group Company secretary), Carol kavanagh (Group Human Resources 
Director) and stella Girvin (Deputy Company secretary) have assisted the 
Committee in its work, but never in respect of their own remuneration.  
20386.04 proof 2 31/03/11
66
D IRE CT ORS’ REMUNERATI ON REPOR T 
AUDITED INFORMATION
Contracts of Executive Directors
Each of the executive directors has a service contract, the date of which is shown below, which will be available for inspection at the Annual General Meeting. These 
contracts provide for six month’s notice from the directors and 12 month’s notice from the Company. They do not specify any particular level of compensation in 
the event of termination or change of control.
John Carter 6 August 2001
Geoff Cooper 1 February 2005
Paul Hampden smith 8 October 1996
It is the Company’s policy to allow each executive director to hold one non-executive directorship in another company (and to retain the fee payable).
Amount of Directors’ Emoluments
Part of each executive director’s remuneration may consist of benefits in kind not payable in cash, such as the provision of a company car, a fuel card, and private 
healthcare insurance. No director receives an expense allowance, which is chargeable to tax. Details of directors’ remuneration are set out in the table below. 
  Basic salary Annual bonus Benefits in kind Total remuneration
  2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Executive        
Geoff Cooper
1
 780 750 643 636 1 26 1,424 1,412
Paul Hampden smith
2
 390 377 375 371 1 1 766 749
John Carter 375 363 375 371 31 29 781 763
Non-executive        
Chris Bunker 60 52 - - - - 60 52
John Coleman 44 38 - - - - 44 38
Philip Jansen 44 28 - - - - 44 28
Andrew simon 55 46 - - - - 55 46
Tim stevenson
3
 68 180 - - - - 68 180
Robert Walker 162 25 - - - - 162 25
  1,978 1,859 1,393 1,378 33 56 3,404 3,293
Notes:
1.  Highest paid director – Basic salary includes a cash allowance of £244,007 (2009: £231,167) which replaced continuing pension accrual from April 2006. This does not count when 
calculating annual bonus and granting share incentives. Geoff Cooper also received, and retained, in 2010, £92,840 (2009: £84,840) in respect of his non-executive chairmanship of 
Dunelm Group Plc.
2.  Basic salary includes a £13,000 ‘cash for car’ allowance and a £1,500 fuel allowance, which do not count when calculating annual bonus and granting share incentives. Paul Hampden 
smith also received, and retained, in 2010, £40,000 (2009: £16,558) in respect of his non-executive directorship of Redrow plc.
3. Retired 17 May 2010.
DIRECTORS’ 
REMUNERATION 
REPORT 
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2010 67
 
20386.04 proof 2 31/03/11
D IRE CT ORS’ REMUNERATI ON REPOR T 
Directors’ Pension Entitlements
Pension entitlements of the executive directors during the year were as follows:
  John Carter Paul Hampden smith Geoff Cooper
Age at 31 December 2010 49 50 56
  £’000 £’000 £’000
Accrued pension at 31 December 2009 260 72 5
Accrued pension at 31 December 2010 290 82 5
Increase in accrued pension in 2010 30 10 -
Real increase in accrued pension in 2010 17 6 (5)
Transfer value of the real increase in accrued pension net of member’s contributions 234 40 -
Value of increase in accrued benefit 268 74 (5)
Member’s contributions towards pension 33 33 -
Increase in transfer value net of member’s contributions 501 102 8
Transfer value of benefits accrued at 31 December 2009 4,074 1,104 108
Transfer value of benefits accrued at 31 December 2010 4,608 1,239 116
Notes:
1. Only base salary is pensionable for service from 1 December 2004.
2.  Geoff Cooper ceased future accrual on 5 April 2006, but benefits up to that date retain a link to current salary (subject to the Earnings Cap, which applied up to April 2006). This was 
cost neutral for the Company.
3. salary sacrifice was introduced for member contributions in April 2006. The figures above include the sacrificed amounts.
4. Any pensions paid on early retirement are subject to abatement.
Travis Perkins’ Share Price Information 2010 2009
Mid-market price at the year end   1,058p 852p
Highest mid-market price during the year   1,058p 880p
Average mid-market price during the year   817p 592p
Lowest mid-market price during the year   665p 229p
Directors’ Shareholdings
The Directors’ holdings of ordinary 10p shares of Travis Perkins plc at 31 December 2010 and 2009 were as follows:
   2010 2009
Director Interest  No. No.
Chris Bunker Beneficial owner  11,900 11,900
John Carter Beneficial owner  52,062 45,510
John Coleman Beneficial owner  2,465 2,465
Geoff Cooper Beneficial owner  165,094 135,904
Paul Hampden smith Beneficial owner  208,883 186,593
Philip Jansen Beneficial owner  - -
Andrew simon Beneficial owner  3,400 3,400
Robert Walker Beneficial owner  65,000 25,000
Between 31 December 2010 and the date of this report, the only change to the above Directors’ shareholdings is to Paul Hampden smith’s whose shareholding 
had increased to 208,907 because of his monthly contribution to the Travis Perkins’ Buy As You Earn Plan.
DIRECTORS’ 
REMUNERATION 
REPORT 
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2010  
20386.04 proof 2 31/03/11
68
D IRE CT ORS’ REMUNERATI ON REPOR T 
Share Matching Scheme
Participation by directors is as follows:  
   Outstanding Granted Lapsed Vested  Outstanding
Grant date  1 Jan 2010  during year during year during year 31 Dec 2010
   No. No. No. No. No.
Geoff Cooper    
2 April 2007 Deferred shares
5
 7,634 - - 7,634 -
  Deferred matching shares 7,634 - (7,634) - -
  Investment matching shares 16,031 - (16,031) - -
1 April 2008 Investment matching shares 103,988 - - - 103,988
19 May 2009 Investment matching shares 157,785 - - - 157,785
16 March 2010 Investment matching shares - 71,853 - - 71,853
Paul Hampden Smith    
2 April 2007 Deferred shares
6
 5,213 - - 5,213 -
  Deferred matching shares 5,213 - (5,213) - -
  Investment matching shares 13,091 - (13,091) - -
1 April 2008 Investment matching shares 72,787 - - - 72,787
19 May 2009 Investment matching shares 110,450 - - - 110,450
16 March 2010 Investment matching shares - 50,296 - - 50,296
John Carter    
2 April 2007 Deferred shares
6
 5,213 - - 5,213 -
  Deferred matching shares 5,213 - (5,213) - -
  Investment matching shares 10,687 - (10,687) - -
19 May 2009 Investment matching shares 63,974 - - - 63,974
16 March 2010 Investment matching shares - 50,296 - - 50,296
Notes:
1. Vesting is on the third anniversary of the grant date.
2. Award/purchase prices (restated for the rights issue) are: 2 April 2007, 1,586p, 1 April 2008, 840p, 19 May 2009, 553p, 16 March 2010, 740p
3.  Performance criteria apply. For the share matching shares granted in 2007 which lapsed during 2010 minimum vesting required EPs to exceed inflation by 4% a year. For investment 
matching shares granted in 2008, 2009 and 2010 a condition based on a three year average of cash return on capital employed (‘CROCE’) applies as described on page 64. For 2008 
the target range was 11.5% – 12.5%, for 2009 the target range was 6.45% – 8.82% and for 2010 the target range was 7.5% – 9.0%.
4. The share price on the date the deferred shares vested was 835p.
5. The gross gain realised on awards vesting in the year was £50,728.
6. The gross gain realised on awards vesting in the year was £34,640.
DIRECTORS’ 
REMUNERATION 
REPORT 
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2010 69
 
20386.04 proof 2 31/03/11
D IRE CT ORS’ REMUNERATI ON REPOR T 
Performance Share Plan
Participation by directors is as follows:
  Outstanding Granted Outstanding
Grant date 1 Jan 2010 during year 31 Dec 2010
  No. No. No.
Geoff Cooper   
5 March 2008 73,015 - 73,015
23 June 2009 131,289 - 131,289
5 March 2010 - 92,437 92,437
Paul Hampden Smith   
5 March 2008 42,591 - 42,591
23 June 2009 76,585 - 76,585
5 March 2010 - 53,921 53,921
John Carter   
5 March 2008 42,591 - 42,591
23 June 2009 76,585 - 76,585
5 March 2010 - 53,921 53,921
Notes:
1. Vesting is on the third anniversary of the grant date.
2. Award prices (restated for the 2009 rights issue) are: 5 March 2008, 850p, 23 June 2009, 473p, 5 March 2010, 695.5p. 
3.  Performance criteria apply. For performance shares granted in 2008 and 2009, vesting is at 33 1/3% if EPs exceeds inflation by 3% a year, pro rata between 100% & 33 1/3% if EPs 
exceeds inflation by between 3% and 10%, and 100% if EPs exceeds inflation by 10%. Performance conditions for the 2010 award are: vesting is at 30% if EPs exceeds inflation by 
3% a year, TsR is in top 50% and Aggregate Cashflow is at least £470m, vesting is at 100% if EPs exceeds inflation by 10% a year, TsR is in top 25% and Aggregate Cashflow is at 
least £520m. There is straight line vesting between these points.
Deferred Share Bonus Plan
Participation by directors is as follows:
  Outstanding Granted Outstanding
Grant date 1 Jan 2010 during year 31 Dec 2010
  No. No. No.
Geoff Cooper   
5 March 2008 13,564 - 13,564
3 March 2010 - 19,862 19,862
Paul Hampden Smith   
5 March 2008 7,743 - 7,743
3 March 2010 - 11,586 11,586
John Carter   
5 March 2008 7,743 - 7,743
3 March 2010 - 11,586 11,586
Notes:
1. Vesting is on the third anniversary of the grant date.
2. The award price (restated for the 2009 rights issue) for 5 March 2008 was 998p. For 3 March 2010 the award price was 801.1667p.
DIRECTORS’ 
REMUNERATION 
REPORT 
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2010  
20386.04 proof 2 31/03/11
70
D IRE CT ORS’ REMUNERATI ON REPOR T 
Share Award for John Carter
 Outstanding Granted Outstanding
Grant date 1 Jan 2009 during year  31 Dec 2010
 No. No. No.
10 November 2009 47,612 - 47,612
Notes:
1. The one off Award structured as a nil cost share option was made following consultation with principal shareholders in 2009.
2. The Award vests in equal tranches after completion of years four five and six, the first year being 2009.
3.  The performance conditions are linked to agreed procurement improvement initiatives agreed annually together with delivery of John Carter’s objectives as part of Travis Perkins’ 
strategic plan.
Executive Share Options 
Participation by directors in the 2001 Executive share Option scheme is as follows:
   
 Outstanding  Lapsed Outstanding 
 1 Jan 2010 during year  31 Dec 2010 Exercise price Exercise period
  No.  No.  No.
Geoff Cooper 17,980 - 17,980 1,320p Anytime until 31/3/15
 64,399 (64,399) - 1,553p 
Paul Hampden Smith 49,923 - 49,923 596p Anytime until 3/7/11
  39,368 - 39,368 845p Anytime until 9/4/12
 51,994 - 51,994 841p Anytime until 10/4/13
 23,787 - 23,787 1,033p Anytime until 15/3/14
 10,489 - 10,489 1,320p Anytime until 31/3/15
 39,444 (39,444) - 1,553p 
John Carter 37,296 - 37,296 845p Anytime until 9/4/12
 41,594 - 41,594 841p Anytime until 10/4/13
 22,058 - 22,058 1,033p Anytime until 15/3/14
 10,487 - 10,487 1,320p Anytime until 31/3/15
 39,444 (39,444) - 1,553p 
Notes:
1. Performance conditions apply. For the grant still to vest, 25% of the options vest at EPs growth of RPI plus 9% and full vesting requires EPs growth plus 15%. 
DIRECTORS’ 
REMUNERATION 
REPORT 
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2010 71
 
20386.04 proof 2 31/03/11
D IRE CT ORS’ REMUNERATI ON REPOR T 
Sharesave Options
Participation by directors in the 2002 Travis Perkins’ sharesave scheme is as follows:
   Outstanding Outstanding
   1 Jan 2010 31 Dec 2010
   No. No.
Geoff Cooper  3,670 3,670
Paul Hampden smith  3,670 3,670
John Carter  3,670 3,670
Notes:
1. No performance conditions apply.
2. All options are exercisable from 1 December 2013 to 31 May 2014 at a price of 442p (rights restated). 
Share Dilution
At 31 December 2010, shares under grant for executive share schemes over a 10 year period represented 1.48% of issued share capital and shares under grant 
for all employee share schemes over the previous 10 years represented 4.31%. There were 6,672,788 (2.76% of issued share capital) unallocated shares and 
289,142 allocated shares (0.12%) held in the employee trust. 
 
Shareholders’ Approval
The directors confirm that this report has been drawn up in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and the Combined Code on Corporate 
Governance. 
The shareholders will be invited to approve the remuneration policy set out in this report at the Annual General Meeting, at which the Chairman of the Committee 
will be available to answer any questions.
Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by:
Andrew Simon  
Chairman, Remuneration Committee 
22 February 2011
DIRECTORS’ 
REMUNERATION 
REPORT 
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2010  
20386.04 proof 2 31/03/11
72
NOMINATI ONS C OMMITTEE REPOR T
NOMINATIONS 
COMMITTEE 
REPORT 
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2010
The principal role of the Nominations Committee is to identify and nominate 
for Board approval, candidates to fill board vacancies as and when they arise. 
It is required to prepare a description of the role, and capabilities required, 
for any appointment, and to maintain contact with major shareholders about 
appointments to the Board. It also keeps the structure, size and composition of 
the Board under review, and considers succession planning for both executive 
and non-executive directors and for other senior executive posts. The terms of 
reference of the Committee are available on the Company’s website or from 
the Company secretary.
During the year, the Committee members were Tim stevenson (Chairman) 
(until his retirement in May 2010 when he was replaced as Chairman by 
Robert Walker), together with Chris Bunker and John Coleman, both of whom 
are independent non-executive directors. 
The Committee met once in 2010, in February, to agree on the scope of a 
review of the Group’s succession plans. This review was then the subject of a 
meeting of all the non-executive directors in May, which was attended in part 
by the Chief Executive and the Group HR Director. Further work was planned 
as a result of that meeting which, together with an assessment of succession 
plans and capabilities in Bss, will be the subject of a number of Committee 
meetings in 2011.
The Chairman of the Nominations Committee will be available at the Annual 
General Meeting to answer any questions about the work of the Committee.
Robert Walker 
Chairman, Nominations Committee 
22 February 2011 73
 
20386.04 proof 2 31/03/11
D IRE CT ORS’ REPOR T 
The Directors present their annual report and audited accounts for the year 
ended 31 December 2010.
PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES
Travis Perkins is one of the largest builders merchants and home improvement 
retailers in the uk. The principal activities of the Group are the sale of timber, 
building materials, and plumbing and heating products, and the hiring of tools, 
to the building trade, industry generally and the general public, within the 
united kingdom. The Directors are not aware, at the date of this report, of any 
likely major changes in the Group’s activities in the next year.
BUSINESS REVIEW
A review of the Group’s position, developments and future prospects is 
contained in the Chairman’s statement on pages 12 and 13, the Chief 
Executive’s review of the year on pages 14 to 24, the Chief Operating Officer’s 
review of the year on pages 26 to 30 and the Finance Director’s review of the 
year on pages 32 to 36. A review of the Group’s environmental performance 
is on pages 37 to 42.
RESULTS AND DIVIDENDS 
The Group results for the year ended 31 December 2010 and dividends for the 
year ending 31 December 2010 are set out on page 80. If approved, the final 
dividend will be paid on 31 May 2011 to those shareholders on the register at 
the close of business on 6 May 2011.
BALANCE ShEET AND POST BALANCE ShEET EVENTS
The balance sheet on pages 82 and 83 shows the Group’s financial position. 
No significant events have occurred since the balance sheet date.
PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES
A review of the Group’s principal risks and uncertainties are on pages 49 to 54.
DIRECTORS AND ThEIR INTERESTS 
The names of the Directors at 31 December 2010, together with their 
biographical details, are set out on pages 46 and 47. All of those Directors 
held office throughout the year. In accordance with the Company’s Articles 
of Association, Andrew simon, Philip Jansen and John Carter will retire and, 
being eligible, will offer themselves for re-election at the forthcoming Annual 
General Meeting. John Carter has a rolling 12 month notice period in his 
contract. As non-executive directors, Andrew simon and Philip Jansen do not 
have service contracts. In the light of the evaluation of their performances as a 
result of the process described on page 56, Robert Walker, Chairman, confirms 
on behalf of the Board that Andrew simon and Philip Jansen continue to be 
effective in, and committed to, their roles as non-executive directors.
Directors and officers of the Company are entitled to be indemnified out of 
the assets of the Company in respect of any liability incurred in relation to the 
affairs of the Company, or any associate company, to the extent the law allows. 
In this regard, the Company is required to disclose that under article 140 of 
the Company’s Articles of Association, the Directors have the benefit of an 
indemnity, to the extent permitted by the Companies Act 2006 against liabilities 
incurred by them in the execution of their duties and exercise of their powers. 
This indemnity is currently in force. In addition, if proceedings against Directors 
are instituted subsequent to any person acquiring control of the Company, the 
Company has agreed with each of the Directors that pursuant to article 140 (D) 
of the Company’s Articles of Association, the Company shall provide a Director 
with funds (subject to certain restrictions) to meet expenditure incurred by that 
Director in defending any criminal or civil proceedings.
A copy of the Company’s Articles of Association (which contains this indem-
nity) is available for inspection at the Company’s registered office during normal 
business hours and will be available for inspection at (and during the period of 
30 minutes prior to) the Company’s forthcoming Annual General Meeting. 
None of the directors had an interest in any contract to which the Company 
or any of its subsidiaries was a party during the year.
The Company has undertaken to comply with the best practice on approval 
of directors’ conflicts of interests in accordance with the Company’s Articles of 
Association. under the Companies Act 2006, a director must avoid a situation 
where he has, or can have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly 
may conflict, with the Company’s interests. 
The disclosable interests of Directors at 31 December 2010, including 
holdings, if any, of wives and of children aged under 18, were as detailed in 
the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 67 to 71.
SUBSTANTIAL ShAREhOLDINGS 
As at 22 February 2011, the Company had received notification under the 
Disclosure Transparency Rules that the holdings and voting rights exceeding 
the 3% notification threshold were as follows:
DIRECTORS’  
REPORT 
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2010
 Number %
Sprucegrove Investment Management Ltd. 13,706,676 5.67
Standard Life Investments Ltd. 12,260,926 5.07
Morgan Stanley  9,334,607 3.86
Legal & General Investment Management Ltd. 8,804,059 3.64
Pzena Investment Management LLC 8,533,159 3.53
AxA  8,147,201 3.37
BlackRock Advisors  7,322,733 3.03  
20386.04 proof 2 31/03/11
74
D IRE CT ORS’ REPOR T 
CLOSE COMPANY STATUS 
The close company provisions of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 
do not apply to the Company.
EMPLOYEES AND ChARITABLE DONATIONS
statements on these matters are contained in the Chief Executive’s review of 
the year on pages 21 and 22, respectively. 
Details of the number of employees and related costs can be found in note 
7 to the financial statements. 
The Company is committed to equality of opportunity and recognises the 
benefit of diversity within its workforce. It has an equal opportunities policy 
aimed at ensuring that employment decisions are based on ability and 
potential regardless of gender, race, colour, ethnic origin or sexual orientation, 
age or disability. In particular, applications for employment by disabled persons 
are always fully considered, bearing in mind the aptitudes of the person 
concerned. In the event of a member of staff becoming disabled, every effort 
is made to ensure that their employment with the Group continues and that 
appropriate training is arranged. It is the policy of the Company that the 
training, career development and promotion of disabled persons should, as far 
as possible, be identical to that of other employees.
The Group’s policies and practices have been designed to keep 
employees informed on matters relevant to them as employees through 
regular meetings and newsletters. Employee representatives are consulted 
regularly on a wide range of matters affecting their interests. All employees 
with more than three months’ service are eligible to participate in the 
Company’s sharesave and Buy as You Earn plans. Details are provided in the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report.
POLITICAL DONATIONS
The Group did not give any money for political purposes in the uk nor did 
it make any donations to Eu political organisations or incur any Eu political 
expenditure during the year. 
SUPPLIER PAYMENT POLICY 
The Group’s policy is to pay all of its suppliers in accordance with established 
terms. Group trade creditors at 31 December 2010 represented 55 days (31 
December 2009: 52 days) of average purchases of goods and services. The 
Company’s trade creditors at 31 December 2010 represented 30 days (2009: 
30 days).
AUDITORS
Resolutions to re-appoint Deloitte LLP as the Company’s auditors and to 
authorise the Directors to fix the auditors’ remuneration will be proposed at 
the Annual General Meeting.
STATEMENT ON DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION  
TO AUDITORS
Each of the persons who is a director at the date of approval of this report 
confirms that:
●
  so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of 
which the Company’s auditors are unaware; and
●
  The Director has taken all reasonable steps that he ought to have taken as 
a director in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit information 
and to establish that the Company’s auditors are aware of that information. 
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the 
provisions of s.418 of the Companies Act 2006. 
   ShARE CAPITAL AND ChANGE OF CONTROL
As at 31 December 2010 the Company had an allotted and fully paid share 
capital of 241,701,917 ordinary shares of 10 pence each, with an aggregate 
nominal value of 24,170,192 (including shares owned by the employee share 
ownership trust). The ordinary shares are listed on the London stock Exchange. 
All the shares rank pari passu. The rights and obligations attaching to the 
shares are set out in the Company’s Articles of Association. Fully paid shares in 
the Company are freely transferable. There are no persons that hold securities 
carrying special rights with regard to the control of the Company. Details of 
the structure of the Company’s share capital and changes in the share capital 
during the year are also included in note 22 to the financial statements.
The Travis Perkins Employee share Ownership Trust owns 6,961,930 
shares in the Company (2.88%) for use in connection with the Company’s 
share schemes. Any voting or other similar decisions relating to those shares 
would be taken by the trustees, who may take account of any recommendation 
of the Company.
There are no restrictions on voting rights attaching to the Company’s 
ordinary shares. The Company is not aware of any agreements between 
holders of securities that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities 
or on voting rights.
The rules governing the appointment and replacement of board members 
and changes to the Articles of Association accord with usual English company 
law provisions. The powers of the Company’s Directors are set out in the 
Company’s Articles of Association. In particular, the Board has the power 
to purchase its own shares and is seeking renewal of that power at the 
forthcoming Annual General Meeting within the limits set out in the notice of 
that meeting.
There are a number of agreements to which the Company is a party that 
may take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control following a 
takeover bid. None of these agreements is considered to be significant in the 
context of the Company as a whole. 
DIRECTORS’  
REPORT 
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2010 75
 
20386.04 proof 2 31/03/11
D IRE CT ORS’ REPOR T 
There are no agreements providing for compensation for Directors or 
employees on change of control. As set out in the Directors Remuneration 
Report on page 66, service contracts for executive directors do not specify any 
particular level of compensation in the event of termination following change 
of control of the Company. As noted above, the Company has agreed with 
each of the Directors that it shall provide a Director with funds (subject to 
certain restrictions) to meet expenditure incurred in defending any criminal or 
civil proceedings if such proceedings are instituted subsequent to any person 
acquiring control of the Company.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING 
The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at Northampton 
Rugby Football Club, Franklin’s Gardens, Weedon Road, Northampton, NN5 
5BG on Thursday 26 May 2011 at 11.45 am. A buffet lunch will be available. 
In addition to the resolutions to approve the receipt of the Company’s annual 
accounts, the declaration of a final dividend, the reappointment of certain 
of the Company’s directors and the Company’s auditors and to give the 
directors authority to fix the auditors’ remuneration, the following items are 
to be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, and the Board 
recommends that shareholders vote in favour of all resolutions put before the 
Annual General Meeting.
Resolution 8: Directors’ Remuneration Report
In accordance with the Directors’ Remuneration Report Regulations 2002, this 
resolution seeks shareholders’ approval of the Directors’ Remuneration Report 
as set out on pages 61 to 71.
Resolution 9: Renewal of Authority to Allot Shares
Paragraph (a) of this resolution would give the Directors the authority to allot 
ordinary shares up to an aggregate nominal amount equal to £8,057,284 
(representing 80,572,842 ordinary shares of 10 pence each). This amount 
represents approximately one-third of the issued ordinary share capital of 
the Company as at 22 February 2011, the latest practicable date prior to 
publication of this Notice.
In line with guidance issued by the Association of British Insurers (the 
‘ABI’), paragraph (b) of this resolution would give the Directors authority to 
allot ordinary shares in connection with a rights issue in favour of ordinary 
shareholders up to an aggregate nominal amount equal to £16,114,568 
(representing 161,145,685 ordinary shares of 10p each), as reduced by the 
nominal amount of any shares issued under paragraph (a) of this resolution. 
This amount (before any reduction) represents approximately two-thirds of the 
issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at 22 February 2011, the 
latest practicable date prior to publication of this Notice. If this authority is 
exercised, the Directors intend to follow ABI guidance issued from time to time 
(including as to the re-election of directors).
The authorities sought under paragraphs (a) and (b) of this resolution will 
expire at the earlier of 30 June 2012 (the last date by which the Company 
must hold an annual general meeting in 2012) and the conclusion of the 
annual general meeting of the Company held in 2012.
The Directors have no present intention to exercise either of the authorities 
sought under this resolution, except, under paragraph (a), to satisfy options 
under the Company’s employee share option schemes.
Resolution 10: Limited Authority to Allot Shares for Cash
This resolution would give the Directors the authority to allot ordinary shares 
(or sell any ordinary shares which the Company elects to hold in treasury) for 
cash without first offering them to existing shareholders in proportion to their 
existing shareholdings.
Except as provided in the next paragraph, this authority would be limited 
to allotments or sales in connection with pre-emptive offers and offers to 
holders of other equity securities if required by the rights of those shares or 
as the board otherwise considers necessary, or otherwise up to an aggregate 
nominal amount of £1,208,593 (representing 12,085,926 ordinary shares). 
This aggregate nominal amount represents approximately 5% of the issued 
ordinary share capital of the Company as at 22 February 2011, the latest 
practicable date prior to publication of this Notice. In respect of this aggregate 
nominal amount, the Directors confirm their intention to follow the provisions 
of the Pre-Emption Group’s statement of Principles regarding cumulative 
usage of authorities within a rolling 3-year period where the Principles provide 
that usage in excess of 7.5% should not take place without prior consultation 
with shareholders.
Allotments made under the authorisation in paragraph (b) of resolution 9 
would be limited to allotments by way of a rights issue only (subject to the right 
of the board to impose necessary or appropriate limitations to deal with, for 
example, fractional entitlements and regulatory matters).
The authority will expire at the earlier of 30 June 2012 (the last date by 
which the Company must hold an annual general meeting in 2012) and the 
conclusion of the annual general meeting of the Company held in 2012. Any 
issue of shares for cash will, however, still be subject to the requirements of 
the uk Listing Authority.
Resolution 11: Notice of Meetings
under the shareholders’ Rights Regulations 2009, the notice period for 
general meetings of a company has been extended to 21 days unless certain 
requirements are satisfied. The Company has met the requirements and 
accordingly this resolution is proposed to allow the Company to continue to call 
general meetings on 14 clear days notice. The Directors believe it is in the best 
interests of the shareholders of the Company to preserve the shorter notice 
period and accordingly are putting this resolution to the meeting. The shorter 
notice period would not be used as a matter of routine for general meetings, 
but only where the flexibility is merited by the business of the meeting and is 
thought to be to the advantage of shareholders as a whole. The approval will 
be effective until the Company’s Annual General Meeting in 2012, when it is 
DIRECTORS’  
REPORT 
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2010  
20386.04 proof 2 31/03/11
76
D IRE CT ORS’ REPOR T 
expected that a similar resolution will be proposed. under the Companies Act 
2006 in order to be able to call a general meeting on less than 21 clear days’ 
notice, the Company must make a means of electronic voting available to all 
shareholders.
Resolution 12: Authority to purchase own shares
The authority for the Company to purchase its own shares of 10 pence each 
granted at last year’s Annual General Meeting will expire on the date of 
the forthcoming Annual General Meeting. The Directors wish to renew this 
authority and a special resolution, which is set out in full in the Notice of 
Annual General Meeting on page 129, will be proposed at the forthcoming 
Annual General Meeting to give the Company the authority to purchase its own 
ordinary shares in the market as permitted by the Companies Act 2006. The 
authority limits the number of shares that could be purchased to a maximum 
of 24,171,853 (representing 10% of the issued ordinary share capital of the 
Company as at 22 February 2011) and sets minimum and maximum prices. 
This authority will expire no later than 30 June 2012.
The Directors consider that it is in the best interests of the Company to 
have available this authorisation, in case of circumstances when it would 
be appropriate to use it. They would only use it after consideration of the 
effect on earnings per share and the longer term benefit for the Company and 
shareholders generally. The fact that such authorisation is being sought should 
not be taken to imply that shares would be purchased at any particular price 
or indeed at all. Any ordinary shares purchased pursuant to this authority may 
either be held as treasury shares or cancelled by the Company, depending on 
which course of action is considered by the Directors to be in the best interests 
of shareholders at the time.
 As at 22 February 2011, there were options over 12,810,861 ordinary 
shares in the capital of the Company, (including 1,969,082 Investment 
Matching shares, 203,322 Deferred Bonus share Plan shares and 1,474,383 
Performance share Plan shares – these are described in the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report on pages 61 to 71), which represent 5.3% of the 
Company’s issued ordinary share capital (excluding any treasury shares). If the 
authority to purchase the Company’s ordinary shares were exercised in full, 
these options would represent 5.89% of the Company’s issued ordinary share 
capital (excluding any treasury shares). As at 22 February 2011, the Company 
did not hold any treasury shares in the Company and no warrants over ordinary 
shares in the capital of the Company existed.
By order of the Board,
Andrew Pike 
Company secretary
22 February 2011
DIRECTORS’  
REPORT 
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2010 77
 
20386.04 proof 2 31/03/11
S TATEMENT OF D IRE CT ORS’ RESPONS IBILITIES 
The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the financial 
statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for 
each financial year. under that law the Directors are required to prepare 
the group financial statements in accordance with International Financial 
Reporting standards (IFRss) as adopted by the European union and Article 4 
of the IAs Regulation and have also chosen to prepare the Parent Company 
financial statements under IFRss as adopted by the Eu. under company law 
the Directors must not approve the accounts unless they are satisfied that they 
give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit 
or loss of the Company for that period. In preparing these financial statements, 
International Accounting standard 1 requires that directors:
●
 Properly select and apply accounting policies;
●
  Present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that 
provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information; 
●
  Provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific 
requirements in IFRss are insufficient to enable users to understand the 
impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entity’s 
financial position and financial performance; and
●
  Make an assessment of the Company’s ability to continue as a going 
concern.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that 
are sufficient to show and explain the Company’s transactions and disclose 
with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company 
and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the 
Companies Act 2006. They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets 
of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and 
detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the 
corporate and financial information included on the Company’s website. 
Legislation in the united kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination 
of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT 
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge:
●
  The financial statements, prepared in accordance with International 
Financial Reporting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, 
liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the 
undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole; and
●
  The management report, which is incorporated into the directors’ report, 
includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business 
and the position of the Company and the undertakings included in the 
consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal 
risks and uncertainties that they face.
By order of the Board
  
  
Geoff Cooper  Paul Hampden Smith 
Chief Executive  Finance Director 
22 February 2011  22 February 2011  
STATEMENT OF  
DIRECTORS’  
RESPONSIBILITIES 
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2010  
20386.04 proof 2 31/03/11
78
INDEPENDENT AUD IT ORS’ REPOR T
We have audited the financial statements of Travis Perkins plc for the year 
ended 31 December 2010 which comprise Group and Parent Company Income 
statements, the Group and Parent Company statements of Comprehensive 
Income, the Group and Parent Company Balance sheets, the Group and 
Parent Company Cash Flow statements, the Group and Parent Company 
statements of Changes in Equity and the related notes 1 to 38. The financial 
reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable 
law and International Financial Reporting standards (‘IFRss’) as adopted by 
the European union.
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in 
accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. Our audit 
work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company’s members 
those matters we are required to state to them in an auditor’s report and for 
no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or 
assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Company’s 
members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we 
have formed.
RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS 
AND AUDITOR
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities statement, the 
Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and 
for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to 
audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with 
applicable law and International standards on Auditing (uk and Ireland). Those 
standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical 
standards for Auditors.
SCOPE OF ThE AUDIT OF ThE FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the 
financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial 
statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or 
error. This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are 
appropriate to the Group’s and the Parent Company’s circumstances and 
have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed; the reasonableness 
of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors; and the overall 
presentation of the financial statements.
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’  
REPORT TO ThE MEMBERS  
OF TRAVIS PERKINS PLC 
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2010
OPINION ON FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
In our opinion:
●
  The financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s 
and of the Parent Company’s affairs as at 31 December 2010 and of the 
Group’s and the Parent Company’s profit for the year then ended;
●
  The financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with 
IFRss as adopted by the European union; and
●
  The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the 
requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial 
statements, Article 4 of the IAs Regulation.
SEPARATE OPINION IN RELATION TO IFRSs AS 
ISSUED BY ThE IASB
As explained in note 1 to the group financial statements, the Group in 
addition to complying with its legal obligation to apply IFRss as adopted by 
the European union, has also applied IFRss as issued by the International 
Accounting standards Board (IAsB).
In our opinion the group financial statements comply with IFRss as issued 
by the IAsB.
OPINION ON OThER MATTERS PRESCRIBED BY ThE 
COMPANIES ACT 2006
In our opinion:
●
  The part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited has been 
properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006; and
●
  The information given in the Directors’ Report for the financial year for 
which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial 
statements. 79
 
20386.04 proof 2 31/03/11
INDEPENDENT AUD IT ORS’ REPOR T
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’  
REPORT TO ThE MEMBERS  
OF TRAVIS PERKINS PLC 
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2010
MATTERS ON WhICh WE ARE RE qUIRED TO REPORT 
BY EXCEPTION
We have nothing to report in respect of the following:
under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our 
opinion:
●
  Adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, 
or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not 
visited by us; or
●
  The Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the 
accounting records and returns; or
●
  Certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law are not 
made; or
●
  We have not received all the information and explanations we require for 
our audit.
under the Listing Rules we are required to review:
●
  The Directors’ statement, contained within statement of principal risks and 
uncertanties, in relation to going concern; 
●
  The part of the Corporate Governance statement relating to the Company’s 
compliance with the nine provisions of the June 2008 Combined Code 
specified for our review; and
●
  Certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on directors’ 
remuneration.
Colin Hudson F .C.A. (Senior statutory auditor) 
for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP 
Chartered Accountants and statutory Auditor 
London, united kingdom 
22 February 2011  
20386.04 proof 2 31/03/11
80
INC OME S TATEMENT S
INCOME 
STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2010
 THE GROuP
 –––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
  2010 2010 2010 2009 2009 2009
  Pre-exceptional Exceptional  Pre-exceptional Exceptional
  items items Total items items Total 
  £m £m £m £m £m £m
 Notes     
Revenue 4 3,152.8 - 3,152.8 2,930.9 - 2,930.9
Operating profit before amortisation 5 239.0 (19.0) 220.0 224.6 32.7 257.3
Amortisation of intangible assets  (0.2) - (0.2) - - -
Operating profit 5 238.8 (19.0) 219.8 224.6 32.7 257.3
Finance income  10 17.5 - 17.5 5.6 - 5.6
Finance costs  10 (39.8) (0.7) (40.5) (50.2) - (50.2)
Profit before tax  216.5 (19.7) 196.8 180.0 32.7 212.7
Tax 11 (59.8) 4.3 (55.5) (46.1) (9.2) (55.3)
Profit for the year  156.7 (15.4) 141.3 133.9 23.5 157.4
Earnings per ordinary share  12      
Basic    69.6p   88.4p
Diluted    67.2p   86.2p
Total dividend declared  
per ordinary share  13   15.0p   -
All results relate to continuing operations. Details of exceptional items are given in notes 5, 8, 10 and 11.
  THE COMPANY
  –––––––––––––––––––––––––
  2010 2009 
 Notes  £m £m
Revenue 4 47.2 129.3
Operating profit before exceptional items 5 31.8 112.6
Exceptional items  (13.4) -
Operating profit after exceptional items  18.4 112.6
Finance income  10 15.5 4.9
Finance costs  10 (42.1) (43.9)
(Loss) / profit before tax  (8.2) 73.6
Tax 11 10.4 15.1
Profit for the year  2.2 88.7
All results relate to continuing operations.  
20386.04 proof 2 31/03/11
81
S TATEMENT S OF C OMPREHENS IVE INC OME
STATEMENTS OF 
COMPREhENSIVE 
INCOME
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2010
 THE GROuP THE COMPANY
 ––––––––––––––––––––––––– –––––––––––––––––––––––––
 2010 2009 2010 2009
 £m £m £m £m 
Profit for the year 141.3 157.4 2.2 88.7
Cash flow hedges:
(Losses) / gains arising during the year (4.4) 14.7 (4.4) 14.7
Transferred to income statement 6.8 0.4 6.8 0.4
 2.4 15.1 2.4 15.1 
Actuarial gains / (losses) on defined benefit pension schemes 15.9 (28.3) - -
 18.3 (13.2) 2.4 15.1
Movement on cash flow hedge cancellation payment 4.8 (14.0) 4.8 (14.0)
Tax relating to components of other comprehensive income (6.7) 12.5 (2.0) 4.6 
Other comprehensive income / (loss) for the year 16.4 (14.7) 5.2 5.7
Total comprehensive income for the year 157.7 142.7 7.4 94.4  
20386.04 proof 2 31/03/11
82
 THE GROuP THE COMPANY
 ––––––––––––––––––––––––– –––––––––––––––––––––––––
  2010 2009 2010 2009
 Notes £m £m £m £m 
ASSETS
Non-current assets    
Property, plant and equipment 16 526.0 499.0 0.1 0.1
Goodwill 14 1,690.4 1,352.8 - -
Other intangible assets 15 411.5 162.5 - -
Derivative financial instruments 26 56.9 44.7 0.3 44.7
Investment property 17 0.4 3.3 - -
Interest in associates 18 45.7 31.7 52.3 36.3
Investment in subsidiaries 18 - - 2,697.8 1,895.1
Loans and receivables 26 - - 174.4 -
Available-for-sale investments 18 1.5 1.5 - -
Deferred tax asset 28 16.4 12.0 14.7 9.0
Total non-current assets  2,748.8 2,107.5 2,939.6 1,985.2
     
 
Current assets      
Inventories  571.6 312.7 - -
Trade and other receivables 19 692.5 375.4 208.4 50.8
Derivative financial instruments 26 0.1 - 0.1 -
Assets held for resale 20 2.3 - - -
Cash and cash equivalents 21 62.9 347.2 12.4 317.0
Total current assets  1,329.4 1,035.3 220.9 367.8
Total assets  4,078.2 3,142.8 3,160.5 2,353.0
BALANCE 
ShEETS
As AT 31 DECEMBER 2010
BALANCE SHEE T S  
20386.04 proof 2 31/03/11
83
BALANCE SHEE T S
 THE GROuP THE COMPANY
 ––––––––––––––––––––––––– –––––––––––––––––––––––––
  2010 2009 2010 2009
 Notes £m £m £m £m 
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES     
Capital and reserves     
Issued capital 22 24.2 20.9 24.2 20.9
share premium account 24 471.5 471.2 470.4 470.1
Merger reserve 24 325.9 - 325.9 -
Other reserve 24 21.3 21.3 - -
Hedging reserve 24 (6.9) (12.1) (6.9) (12.1)
Own shares 24 (83.4) (83.7) (83.4) (83.7)
Accumulated profits 24 1,199.2 1,042.8 178.7 178.7
Total equity  1,951.8 1,460.4 908.9 573.9
Non-current liabilities     
Interest bearing loans and borrowings 25 760.9 739.1 686.8 717.1
Derivative financial instruments 26 4.2 6.1 124.7 6.1
Retirement benefit obligations 8 27.9 43.0 - -
Long-term provisions 27 36.0 43.7 - -
Amounts due to subsidiaries  - - 1,335.7 958.5
Deferred tax liabilities 28 126.9 62.8 - -
Total non-current liabilities  955.9 894.7 2,147.2 1,681.7
Current liabilities     
Interest bearing loans and borrowings 25 72.3 71.5 71.9 74.0
unsecured loan notes 25 3.3 3.8 3.3 3.8
Trade and other payables 29 999.9 638.7 26.7 19.6
Derivative financial instruments 26 2.5 - 2.5 -
Tax liabilities  39.4 28.1 - -
short-term provisions 27 53.1 45.6 - -
Total current liabilities  1,170.5 787.7 104.4 97.4
Total liabilities  2,126.4 1,682.4 2,251.6 1,779.1
Total equity and liabilities  4,078.2 3,142.8 3,160.5 2,353.0
The financial statements of Travis Perkins plc, registered number 824821, were approved by the Board of Directors on  
22 February 2011 and signed on its behalf by:
 
BALANCE 
ShEETS
As AT 31 DECEMBER 2010
Geoff Cooper, Chief Executive Paul Hampden Smith, Finance Director 84
 
20386.04 proof 2 31/03/11
84
C ONSOLIDATED S TATEMENT OF CHANGES IN E QUIT y
CONSOLIDATED 
STATEMENT OF 
ChANGES IN EqUITY
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2010
 THE GROuP
 –––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
 Issued  share 
 share  premium  Merger Revaluation  Hedging  Own  Retained Total
  capital account reserve reserve reserve shares earnings equity
 £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2009 12.3 179.5 - 23.8 (17.8) (83.7) 904.1 1,018.2
Profit for the year - - - - - - 157.4 157.4
Cash flow hedge gains - - - - 15.1 - - 15.1
Actuarial losses on defined benefit
pension schemes - - - - - - (28.3) (28.3)
unamortised cash flow hedge 
cancellation payment - - - - (14.0) - - (14.0)
Tax relating to comprehensive income - - - - 4.6 - 7.9 12.5
Total comprehensive income for the year - - - - 5.7 - 137.0 142.7
Issue of share capital 8.6 304.9 - - - - - 313.5
Costs of issuing shares - (13.2) - - - - - (13.2)
Realisation of revaluation reserve in 
respect of property disposals - - - (2.1) - - 2.1 -
Difference between depreciation of assets on 
a historical basis and on a revaluation basis - - - (0.4) - - 0.4 -
Debit to equity for equity-settled 
share based payments - - - - - - (0.8) (0.8)
At 31 December 2009 20.9 471.2 - 21.3 (12.1) (83.7) 1,042.8 1,460.4
Profit for the year - - - - - - 141.3 141.3
Cash flow hedge gains - - - - 2.4 - - 2.4
Actuarial gains on defined 
benefit pension schemes - - - - - - 15.9 15.9
unamortised cash flow hedge 
cancellation payment - - - - 4.8 - - 4.8
Tax relating to comprehensive income - - - - (2.0) - (4.7) (6.7)
Total comprehensive income for the year - - - - 5.2 - 152.5 157.7
Dividends - - - - - - (10.1) (10.1)
Issue of share capital 3.3 0.3 325.9 - - 0.3 (0.3) 329.5
Realisation of revaluation reserve in
respect of property disposals - - - (0.2) - - 0.2 -
Difference between depreciation of assets on
a historical basis and on a revaluation basis - - - (0.2) - - 0.2 -
Deferred tax rate change - - - 0.4 - - - 0.4
Credit to equity for equity-settled
share based payments - - - - - - 13.9 13.9
At 31 December 2010 24.2 471.5 325.9 21.3 (6.9) (83.4) 1,199.2 1,951.8  
20386.04 proof 2 31/03/11
85
STATEMENT 
OF ChANGES  
IN EqUITY
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2010
 THE COMPANY
 –––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
 Issued  share 
 share premium  Merger Hedging  Own  Retained  Total 
 capital account reserves reserve shares earnings equity
 £m £m  £m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2009 12.3 178.4 - (17.8) (83.7) 87.2 176.4
Profit for the year - - - - - 88.7 88.7
Cash flow hedges - - - 15.1 - - 15.1
Tax relating to comprehensive income - - - 4.6 - - 4.6
unamortised cash flow hedge
cancellation payment - - - (14.0) - - (14.0)
Total comprehensive income for the year - - - 5.7 - 88.7 94.4
Issue of share capital 8.6 304.9 - - - - 313.5
Costs of issuing shares - (13.2) - - - - (13.2)
Credit to equity for equity-settled 
share based payments - - - - - 2.8 2.8
At 31 December 2009 20.9 470.1 - (12.1) (83.7) 178.7 573.9
Profit for the year - - - - - 2.2 2.2
Cash flow hedges - - - 2.4 - - 2.4
Tax relating to comprehensive income - - - (2.0) - - (2.0)
unamortised cash flow hedge
cancellation payment - - - 4.8 - - 4.8
Total comprehensive income for the year - - - 5.2 - 2.2 7.4
Dividend paid - - - - - (10.1) (10.1)
Issue of share capital 3.3 0.3 325.9 - - - 329.5
Movement in own shares - - - - 0.3 (0.3) -
Credit to equity for equity-settled 
share based payments - - - - - 8.2 8.2
At 31 December 2010 24.2 470.4 325.9 (6.9) (83.4) 178.7 908.9
S TATEMENT OF CHANGES IN E QUIT y 86
 
20386.04 proof 2 31/03/11
86
CASH FL OW S TATEMENT S
 THE GROuP THE COMPANY
 ––––––––––––––––––––––––– –––––––––––––––––––––––––
 2010 2009 2010 2009
 £m £m £m £m 
Operating profit before exceptional items 238.8 224.6 31.8 112.6
Adjustments for:    
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 57.5 58.7 0.1 0.1
Other non cash movements 8.0 (1.5) 2.3 2.1
Amortisation of intangible fixed assets 0.2 - - -
Impairment of investment - 0.5 - -
Losses of associate 2.1 3.2 - -
Write down of value of investments - - - 4.1
Gain on disposal of property, plant, equipment and investments  (11.3) (12.0) - -
Operating cash flows before movements in working capital 295.3 273.5 34.2 118.9
(Increase) / decrease in inventories (62.3) 9.2 - -
(Increase) / decrease in receivables (3.2) 12.4 (125.0) 19.7
Increase in payables 112.8 52.3 353.9 308.8
Payments on exceptional items (7.6) (2.5) (7.8) -
Payments to the pension scheme in excess of the charge to profits (52.7) (25.1) - -
Cash generated from operations 282.3 319.8 255.3 447.4
Interest paid (25.4) (30.5) (27.5) (28.9)
swap cancellation payment - (28.7) - (28.7)
Income taxes paid (42.4) (27.3) - -
Net cash from operating activities 214.5 233.3 227.8 389.8
Cash flows from investing activities    
Interest received 9.4 1.5 8.0 1.0
Acquisition of shares in unit trust and subsidiaries - - - (101.3)
Proceeds on disposal of property, plant, equipment and investments  17.2 20.8 0.1 -
Purchases of property, plant and equipment (52.6) (28.6) (0.2) -
Interest in associate (12.5) (12.9) (12.5) (12.9)
Acquisition of businesses net of cash acquired (note 30)  (294.9) (1.0) (481.6) -
Net cash used in investing activities (333.4) (20.2) (486.2) (113.2)
Financing activities    
Net proceeds from the issue of share capital 0.3 300.3 0.3 300.3
swap cancellation receipt 13.7 - 16.3 -
Payment of finance lease liabilities (1.3) (1.5) - -
Repayment of unsecured loan notes (0.6) (0.1) (0.6) (0.1)
Pension sPV 34.7 - - -
Decrease in bank loans (214.1) (160.0) (50.0) (160.0)
Dividends paid (10.1) - (10.1) -
Net cash from financing activities (177.4) 138.7 (44.1) 140.2
Net (decrease) / increase in cash and cash equivalents (296.3) 351.8 (302.5) 416.8
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 347.2 (4.6) 313.0 (103.8)
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 50.9 347.2 10.5 313.0
CASh FLOW 
STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2010  
20386.04 proof 2 31/03/11
87
1. GENERAL INFORMATION
Overview
Travis Perkins plc is a company incorporated in the united kingdom under the 
Companies Act 2006. The address of the registered office is given on page 
134. The nature of the Group’s operations and its principal activities are set out 
in the Chief Executive’s review of the year, the Chief Operating Officer’s review 
of the year and the Finance Director’s review of the year on pages 14 to 36.
These financial statements are presented in pounds sterling, the currency 
of the primary economic environment in which the Group operates.
Basis of accounting
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International 
Financial Reporting standards (‘IFRs’) issued by the International Accounting 
standards Board. The financial statements have also been prepared in 
accordance with IFRs adopted by the European union and therefore the Group 
financial statements comply with Article 4 of the Eu IAs Regulations.
Basis of preparation
The financial statements have been prepared on the historic cost basis, 
except that derivative financial instruments are stated at their fair value. The 
consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and 
all entities controlled by the Company (its subsidiaries) (together referred to 
as ‘the Group’) from the date control commences until the date that control 
ceases. Control is achieved where the Company has the power to govern the 
financial and operating policies of an investee entity so as to obtain benefits 
from its activities. As such, the results of subsidiaries acquired during the year 
are included in the consolidated income statement from the effective date of 
acquisition.
In the current financial year, the Group has adopted the following which did 
not have a material impact:
●
  Various amendments to IFRs 2;
●
   Amendments to various standards arising from annual improvements 
issued in April 2009.
At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following 
standards and Interpretations, which have not yet been applied in these 
financial statements, were in issue, but not yet effective:   
●
   Amendment to IFRs 1 (issued January 2010) – Limited exemptions from 
comparative IFRs 7 disclosures for first time adopters; 
●
  IAs 24 (revised November 2009) – Related Party Disclosures; 
●
   Amendment to IAs 32 (issued October 2009) – Classification of rights 
issues; 
●
   Amendment to IFRIC 14 (issued November 2009) – Prepayments of a 
minimum funding requirement.
The Directors anticipate that adoption of these standards and Interpretations 
in future periods will have no material impact on the financial statements of 
the Group.
Management is currently of the opinion that the Group’s forecasts and 
projections, show that the Group should be able to operate within its current 
facilities and comply with its banking covenants. The Group is, however, 
exposed to a number of significant risks and uncertainties which could impact 
on the Group’s ability to meet management’s forecast and projections and 
hence its ability to meet its banking covenants. 
The Directors believe that the Group has the flexibility to react to changing 
market conditions and is adequately placed to manage its business risks 
successfully despite the current uncertain economic outlook and challenging 
macro economic conditions. 
A detailed consideration of going concern, risks and uncertainties is 
provided in the statement of Principal Risks and uncertainties on pages 49 
to 54.
After making enquiries, the Directors have formed a judgement at the time 
of approving the financial statements, that there is a reasonable expectation 
that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in 
operational existence for the foreseeable future. For this reason, they continue 
to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
2. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
The principal accounting policies adopted in preparing the financial statements 
are set out below.
Revenue recognition
Revenue is recognised when goods or services are received by the customer 
and the risks and rewards of ownership have passed to them. Revenue is 
measured at the fair value of consideration received or receivable and 
represents amounts receivable for goods and services provided in the normal 
course of business, net of discounts and value added tax. For the Parent 
Company, revenue comprises management charges receivable and dividend 
income received.
Exceptional items
Exceptional items are those items of income and expenditure that by 
reference to the Group are material in size and unusual in nature or incidence, 
that in the judgement of the Directors, should be disclosed separately on the 
face of the financial statements (or in the notes in the case of a segment) 
to ensure both that the reader has a proper understanding of the Group’s 
financial performance and that there is comparability of financial performance 
between periods.
Items of income or expense that are considered by the Directors for 
designation as exceptional items include, but are not limited to, significant 
restructurings, onerous contracts, write-downs or impairments of current 
and non-current assets, the costs of acquiring and integrating businesses, 
gains or losses on disposals of businesses, investments or individual assets, 
re-measurement gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of 
NOTES TO ThE 
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS 
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2010
NO TES T O THE FINANCIAL S TATEMENT S  88
NO TES T O THE FINANCIAL S TATEMENT S
 
20386.04 proof 2 31/03/11
88
derivative financial instruments to the extent that hedge accounting is not 
achieved or is not effective and pension scheme curtailment gains.
Business combinations and goodwill
All business combinations are accounted for using the purchase method. 
The cost of an acquisition represents the cash value of the consideration and/or 
the fair value of the shares issued on the date the offer became unconditional. 
The acquiree’s identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that meet 
the conditions for recognition under IFRs 3 (2008) are recognised at their fair 
value at the acquisition date except that:
●
   Deferred tax assets or liabilities and liabilities or assets related to employee 
benefit arrangements are recognised and measured in accordance with IAs 
12 Income Taxes and IAs 19 Employee Benefits respectively;
●
   Liabilities or equity instruments related to the replacement by the Group of 
an acquiree’s share-based payment awards are measured in accordance 
with IFRs 2 share-based Payments; and
●
   Assets (or disposal groups) that are classified as held for sale in accordance 
with IFRs 5 Non-current Assets Held for sale and Discontinued Operations 
are measured in accordance with that standard.
Goodwill arising on acquisition represents the excess of the cost of acquisition 
over the share of the aggregate fair value of identifiable net assets (including 
intangible assets) of a business or a subsidiary at the date of acquisition. All 
material intangible fixed assets obtained on acquisition have been recognised 
separately in the financial statements. Goodwill is initially recognised as an 
asset and allocated to cash generating units, then at least annually, is reviewed 
for impairment. Any impairment is recognised immediately in the income 
statement and is not subsequently reversed, as such, goodwill is stated in the 
balance sheet at cost less any provisions for impairment in value.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before the date of transition to IFRs (1 
January 2004) has been retained at the previous uk GAAP amounts subject 
to being tested for impairment at that date. Goodwill written off to reserves 
under uk GAAP prior to 1998 has not been reinstated and is not included in 
determining any subsequent profit or loss on disposal.
Investments in associates
An associate is an entity over which the Group has significant influence, but not 
control or joint control through participation in the financial and operating policy 
decisions of the investee. The results and assets and liabilities of associates 
are incorporated in these financial statements using the equity method of 
accounting. Investments in associates are carried in the balance sheet at cost 
as adjusted by post acquisition changes in the group’s share of the net assets 
of the associate, less any impairment in the value of individual investments.
Intangible assets
Intangible assets identified as part of the assets of an acquired business are 
capitalised separately from goodwill if the fair value can be measured reliably 
on initial recognition. Intangible assets are amortised to the income statement 
on a straight-line basis over a maximum of 20 years except where they are 
considered to have an indefinite useful life. In the latter instance they are 
reviewed annually for impairment.
Investment properties
Investment properties, which are held to earn rental income or for capital 
appreciation or for both, are stated at deemed cost less depreciation. 
Properties are depreciated to their estimated residual value on a straight-line 
basis over their estimated useful lives, up to a maximum of 50 years. 
Rental income from investment property is recognised in the income 
statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
Assets held for sale
Assets held for sale are measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair 
value less costs to sell. Assets are held for sale if their carrying amount will be 
recovered through a sale transaction rather than continuing use. This condition 
is regarded as met only when the sale is highly probable and the asset is 
available for sale in its present condition.
 
Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost or deemed cost less 
accumulated depreciation and any impairment in value. Assets are depreciated 
to their estimated residual value on a straight-line basis over their estimated 
useful lives as follows:
●
   Buildings – 50 years or if lower, the estimated useful life of the building or 
the life of the lease
●
  Plant and equipment – 4 to 10 years
●
  Freehold land is not depreciated
Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over their expected useful 
lives on the same basis as owned assets, or where shorter, the term of the 
relevant lease. 
The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an asset is 
determined as the difference between the sale proceeds net of expenses and 
the carrying amount of the asset in the balance sheet and is recognised in 
the income statement. Where appropriate, the attributable revaluation reserve 
remaining in respect of properties revalued prior to the adoption of IFRs is 
transferred directly to accumulated profits.
Leases
Finance leases, which transfer to the Group substantially all the risks and 
benefits incidental to ownership of the leased item, are capitalised at 
the inception of the lease at the fair value of the leased asset or, if lower, 
at the present value of the minimum lease payments. Lease payments are 
apportioned between the finance charges and reduction of the lease liability 
so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the 
liability. Finance charges are charged directly against income. Capitalised 
leased assets are depreciated over the shorter of the estimated useful life of 
the asset or the lease term. Leases where the lessor retains substantially all the 
risks and benefits of ownership of the asset are classified as operating leases. 
Operating lease rental payments are recognised as an expense in the 
income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term. 
Reverse lease premia and other incentives receivable for entering into 
a lease agreement are recognised in the income statement over the life of 
the lease.
Impairment of tangible and intangible assets excluding goodwill
The carrying amounts of the Group’s tangible and intangible assets are 
reviewed at each balance sheet date to determine whether there is any 
indication of impairment. If such an indication exists, the asset’s recoverable 
amount is estimated and compared to its carrying value. Where the asset does 
not generate cash flows that are independent from other assets, the Group 
estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit (‘CGu’) to which 
the asset belongs. Where the carrying value exceeds the recoverable amount 
a provision for the impairment loss is established with a charge being made 
to the income statement.
For intangible assets that have an indefinite useful life the recoverable 
amount is estimated at each annual balance sheet date.
Impairment losses recognised in respect of a CGu are allocated first to 
reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the CGu and then to 
reduce the carrying amount of the other assets in the unit on a pro-rata basis. NO TES T O THE FINANCIAL S TATEMENT S
 
20386.04 proof 2 31/03/11
89
Inventories
Inventories, which consist of goods for resale, are stated at the lower of 
average weighted cost and net realisable value. Cost comprises direct 
materials and, where applicable, direct labour costs and those overheads that 
have been incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and 
condition. Net realisable value is the estimated selling price less the estimated 
costs of disposal.
Financial instruments
Financial assets and liabilities are recognised in the balance sheet when the 
Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Trade receivables
Trade receivables are measured at amortised cost which is carrying amount 
less provision for irrecoverable amounts. Allowances for the estimated 
irrecoverable amounts are made in the income statement when the receivable 
is considered to be uncollectible.
Impairment of financial assets
Financial assets are treated as impaired when in the opinion of the Directors, 
the likelihood of full recovery is diminished either by events or change of 
circumstance.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits with an 
original maturity of three months or less. 
Bank and other borrowings
Interest bearing bank loans and overdrafts, loan notes and other loans are 
recognised in the balance sheet at amortised cost. Finance charges associated 
with arranging a bank facility are recognised in the income statement over 
the life of the facility. All other borrowing costs are recognised in the income 
statement in the period in which they are incurred.
Trade payables
Trade payables are measured at amortised cost.
Foreign currencies
Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are recorded at the rates 
ruling on the date of the transaction.
At the consolidated balance sheet date, unhedged monetary assets 
and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rate 
of exchange ruling at that date. Foreign exchange differences arising on 
translation are recognised in the income statement.
Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting
The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure to 
interest rate and foreign exchange risks arising from financing activities. The 
Group does not enter into speculative financial instruments. In accordance 
with its treasury policy, the Group does not hold or issue derivative financial 
instruments for trading purposes. 
Derivative financial instruments are stated at fair value. The fair value of 
derivative financial instruments is the estimated amount the Group would 
receive or pay to terminate the derivative at the balance sheet date, taking into 
account current interest and exchange rates and the current creditworthiness 
of the counterparties. 
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments, that are 
designated and effective as hedges of the future variability of cash flows, 
are recognised directly in equity and the ineffective portion is recognised 
immediately in the income statement.
For an effective hedge of an exposure to changes in the fair value of a 
hedged item, the hedged item is adjusted for changes in fair value attributable 
to the risk being hedged with the corresponding entry in the income statement. 
For derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting, any gains 
or losses arising from changes in fair value are taken to the income 
statement as they arise.
Derivatives embedded in commercial contracts are treated as separate 
derivatives when their risks and characteristics are not closely related to those 
of the underlying contracts, with unrealised gains or losses being reported in 
the income statement. 
The fair value of hedged derivatives is classified as a non-current asset or 
non-current liability if the remaining maturity of the hedge relationship is more 
than 12 months, otherwise they are classified as current.
Foreign currency forward contracts are not designated effective hedges and 
so are marked to market at the balance sheet date, with any gains or losses 
being taken through the income statement.
Financial assets and financial liabilities
Financial assets are classified into the following specified categories: financial 
assets at ‘fair value through profit or loss’ (‘FVTPL’), ‘available-for-sale’ (‘AFs’) 
financial assets and ‘loans and receivables’. The classification depends on the 
nature and purpose of the financial assets and is determined at the time of 
initial recognition.
Financial liabilities are classified as either financial liabilities ‘at FVTPL’ or 
‘other financial liabilities’ and trade and other payables.
The Group has defined the classes of financial assets to be other financial 
assets, cash and borrowings and derivative financial instruments.
Financial assets and financial liabilities at FVTPL
Financial assets and financial liabilities are classified as at FVTPL where 
the financial asset or the financial liability is either held for trading or it is 
designated as FVTPL.
A financial asset or financial liability is classified as held for trading if it:
●
   Has been acquired principally for the purpose of selling or of disposal in the 
near future; or
●
   Is a part of an identified portfolio of financial instruments that the Group 
manages together and has a recent actual pattern of short-term profit-
taking; or
●
   Is a derivative that is not designated and effective as a hedging instrument.
Financial assets and financial liabilities at FVTPL are stated at fair value, with 
any resultant gain or loss recognised in the income statement unless it is an 
effective cash flow relationship. The net gain or loss recognised in the income 
statement incorporates any interest earned or paid on the financial asset and 
financial liability respectively.
Loans and receivables
Trade receivables and other receivables that have fixed or determinable 
payments that are not quoted in an active market are classified as loans and 
receivables. Loans and receivables are measured at amortised cost using the 
effective interest method, less any impairment. Interest income is recognised 
by applying the effective interest rate, except for short-term receivables which 
applies to all amounts owed to the Group when the recognition of interest 
would be immaterial. 
Other financial liabilities
Other financial liabilities, including borrowings, are initially measured at fair  90
NO TES T O THE FINANCIAL S TATEMENT S
 
20386.04 proof 2 31/03/11
90
value, net of transaction costs. Other financial liabilities are subsequently 
measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, with interest 
expense recognised on an effective yield basis. The effective interest method 
is a method of calculating the amortised cost of a financial liability and of 
allocating interest expense over the relevant period. The effective interest is 
the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash payments through the 
expected life of the financial liability, or, where appropriate, a shorter period.
Derecognition of financial assets and financial liabilities
The Group derecognises a financial asset only when the contractual rights to 
the cash flows from the asset expire; or it transfers the financial asset and 
substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset to another 
entity. If the Group neither transfers nor retains substantially all the risks and 
rewards of ownership and continues to control the transferred asset, the 
Group recognises its retained interest in the asset and an associated liability 
for amounts it may have to pay. If the Group retains substantially all the risks 
and rewards of ownership of a transferred financial asset, the Group continues 
to recognise the financial asset and also recognises a collateralised borrowing 
for the proceeds received.
The Group derecognises financial liabilities when, and only when, the 
Group’s obligations are discharged, cancelled or they expire.
Taxation
The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and the 
deferred tax.
The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year. Taxable 
profit differs from net profit as reported in the income statement because it 
excludes items of income and expense that are taxable or deductible in other 
years and it further excludes items which are never taxable or deductible. The 
Group’s liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been 
enacted or substantially enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences 
between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial 
statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable 
profit. This is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method. Deferred 
tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences 
and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that 
taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences 
can be utilised. such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary 
difference arises from goodwill or from the initial recognition (other than in 
a business combination) of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that 
affects neither the tax profit nor the accounting profit.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the 
period when the liability is settled or the asset realised. Deferred tax is charged 
or credited in the income statement, except when it relates to items charged 
or credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with 
in equity.
Pensions and other post-employment benefits
For defined benefit schemes, operating profit is charged with the cost of 
providing pension benefits earned by employees in the period. The expected 
return on pension scheme assets less the interest on pension scheme 
liabilities is shown as finance income or as a finance cost within the income 
statement.
Actuarial gains and losses arising in the period from the difference 
between actual and expected returns on pension scheme assets, experience 
gains and losses on pension scheme liabilities and the effects of changes 
in demographics and financial assumptions are included in the statement of 
recognised income and expense.
Recoverable pension scheme surpluses and pension scheme deficits and 
the associated deferred tax balances are recognised in full in the period in 
which they occur and are included in the balance sheet.
Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension plans are 
recognised as an expense in the income statement as incurred.
Employee share incentive plans
The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees 
(long term incentives, executive share options and save As You Earn). These 
payments are measured at fair value at the date of grant by the use of 
the Black scholes option-pricing model taking into account the terms and 
conditions upon which the options were granted. The cost of equity-settled 
awards is recognised on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on 
the Group’s estimate of the number of shares that will eventually vest. 
Provisions
A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the Group has a present 
legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, and it is probable 
that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation. 
Provisions are measured at the Directors’ best estimate of the expenditure 
required to settle the obligation at the balance sheet date, and are discounted 
to present value where the effect is material.
Equity instruments and own shares 
The Group has applied the requirements of IFRs 2 – share Based Payments. 
In accordance with the transitional provisions, IFRs 2 has been applied to all 
grants of equity instruments after 7 November 2002 that were unvested at 1 
January 2005.
Equity instruments represent the ordinary share capital of the Group and 
are recorded at the proceeds received, net of directly attributable incremental 
issue costs.
Consideration paid by the Group for its own shares is deducted from total 
shareholders’ equity. Where such shares vest to employees under the terms 
of the Group’s share incentive schemes or the Group’s share save schemes or 
are sold, any consideration received is included in shareholders’ equity.
Dividends
Dividends proposed by the Board of Directors and unpaid at the period end are 
not recognised in the financial statements until they have been approved by 
shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
3. CRITICAL JUDGEMENTS AND KEY SOURCES OF 
ESTIMATION AND UNCERTAINTY
These consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance 
with IFRs as issued by the IAsB. The preparation of financial statements 
requires the Directors to make estimates and assumptions about future events 
that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of 
contingent assets and liabilities. Future events and their effects cannot be 
determined with absolute certainty. Therefore, the determination of estimates 
requires the exercise of judgement based on various assumptions and 
other factors such as historical experience, current and expected economic 
conditions. The Directors constantly re-evaluate these significant factors and 
make adjustments where facts and circumstances dictate. The Directors 
believe that the following accounting policies are critical due to the degree of 
estimation required and / or the potential material impact they may have on 
the Group’s financial position and performance: NO TES T O THE FINANCIAL S TATEMENT S
 
20386.04 proof 2 31/03/11
91
Inventory valuation 
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Provisions 
for excess or obsolete inventory are recorded based upon assumptions about 
future demand and market conditions. 
The level of inventory provisioning required is sensitive to changes in 
the forecast sales of particular products which is dependent on changes in 
conditions in the Group’s markets. If changes in actual market conditions are 
less favourable than those projected, additional inventory provisions may be 
required; similarly if changes in actual market conditions are more favourable 
than predicted, it may be possible to release a proportion of the inventory 
provision. 
Debtor recoverability
The Group provides credit to a significant number of its customers. At each 
period end an assessment is made of the extent to which those customers may 
not pay amounts due to the Group and a doubtful debt provision is established 
accordingly. Determining the likelihood of the Group incurring bad debts 
requires the Directors to exercise judgement. To the extent this judgement 
ultimately proves to be inaccurate it would change the profit for the period. 
Provisions for returns and warranty claims
The products sold by the Group are covered by warranties given to it by the 
suppliers from whom the goods are bought. should any of those suppliers 
cease to trade then any liabilities for product warranties would rest with the 
Group. In such circumstances the Directors would have to estimate the value 
of any provision required to meet the obligations of the Group. While the 
Directors believe that the Group’s warranty provisions are adequate and that 
the judgements applied are appropriate, the ultimate cost of product warranty 
could differ significantly from the estimates. 
Income taxes
The Group is subject to the income tax laws of the united kingdom. These 
laws are complex and subject to different interpretations by taxpayers and 
tax authorities. When establishing income tax provisions, the Directors make 
a number of judgements and interpretations about the application and 
interaction of these laws. Changes in these tax laws or in their interpretation 
could impact the Group’s effective tax rate and the results of operations in 
a given period. 
The process of estimating the Group’s tax position requires an assessment 
of temporary differences resulting from differing treatment of items for tax 
and accounting purposes. These differences result in the recognition of 
deferred tax assets and liabilities. Deferred tax assets are included within the 
consolidated balance sheet to the extent that the Directors believe they are 
recoverable. In recognising deferred tax assets, the Group considers profit 
forecasts including the effect of exchange rate fluctuations on sales and 
external market conditions. 
Management’s judgement is required in determining the provision for 
income taxes, deferred tax assets and liabilities. Deferred tax assets have been 
recognised where the Directors believe there are sufficient taxable temporary 
differences or convincing other evidence that sufficient taxable profit will be 
available in future to realise deferred tax assets. Although the deferred tax 
assets which have been recognised are considered realisable, actual amounts 
could be reduced if future taxable income is lower than expected. This can 
materially affect the Group’s reported net income and financial position. 
Goodwill and intangible assets
In testing for impairment, the Directors have made certain assumptions 
concerning the future development of the business that are consistent with 
its annual budget and three-year plan. Whilst the Directors consider these 
assumptions are realistic should these assumptions regarding the growth in 
profitability be unfounded then it is possible that the value of goodwill and 
intangible assets included in the balance sheet could be impaired. Further 
details concerning the impairment of goodwill and intangible assets are given 
in note 14. 
Pension liabilities
The Group has chosen to adopt assumptions that the Directors believe are 
generally in line with the median for comparable companies. If the future 
return on equities is lower than anticipated, or if the difference between 
actual inflation and the actual increase in pensionable salaries is greater 
than that assumed, if long term interest rates were lower than assumed, or if 
the average life expectancy of pensioners increases, then the pension deficit 
would be greater than currently stated in the balance sheet.
 
Property leases
The Group is party to a number of leases on properties that are no longer 
required for trading. Whilst every effort is made to profitably sub-let these 
properties, it is not always possible. Where a lease is onerous to the Group, 
a provision is established for the difference between amounts contractually 
payable to the landlord and to local authorities and amounts contractually 
receivable from the tenant (if any) for the period up until the point it is judged 
that the lease will no longer be onerous.
The Directors believe that their estimates, which are based upon the current 
state of the uk property market, are appropriate. However, it is possible that 
it may take longer to dispose of leases than they anticipate. As a result the 
provisions may be understated, but in the opinion of the Directors this is unlikely 
to be material.
Insurance provisions
The Group has been substantially self-insured since 2001. The nature of 
insurance claims is that they frequently take many years to fully crystallise, 
therefore the Directors have to estimate the value of provisions to hold in 
the balance sheet in respect of historic claims. under the guidance of the 
Group’s insurance advisors, the value of incurred claims is estimated using 
the Generalised Cape Cod Method. The provision is determined by deducting 
the value of claims settled to date from the estimated level of claims incurred. 
Whilst the Generalised Cape Cod Method is an insurance industry standard 
methodology, it relies on historic trends to determine the level of expected 
claims. To the extent that the estimates are inaccurate the Group may be 
underprovided, but in the opinion of the Directors any under-provision is 
unlikely to be material.
Fair value adjustments
The Directors are in the process of undertaking a fair value exercise in respect 
of assets and liabilities of The Bss Group plc (note 30). In some circumstances 
this exercise requires judgements to be made, the accuracy of which will 
be determined by the passing of time. As the exercise is incomplete, further 
adjustments may be made in the 2011 annual report and accounts. 92
NO TES T O THE FINANCIAL S TATEMENT S
 
20386.04 proof 2 31/03/11
92
4. REVENUE
 
 THE GROuP THE COMPANY
 ––––––––––––––––––––––––– –––––––––––––––––––––––––
 2010 2009 2010 2009 
 £m £m £m £m
sale of goods 3,152.8 2,930.9 - -
Management charges - - 6.9 6.9
Dividends from subsidiaries - - 40.3 122.4
 3,152.8 2,930.9 47.2 129.3
Other operating income 15.4 48.8 - -
Finance income 17.5 5.6 15.5 4.9
 3,185.7 2,985.3 62.7 134.2
5. PROFIT
(a) Operating profit
 THE GROuP THE COMPANY
 ––––––––––––––––––––––––– –––––––––––––––––––––––––
 2010 2009 2010 2009 
 £m £m £m £m 
Revenue 3,152.8 2,930.9 47.2 129.3
Cost of sales (2,081.5) (1,944.4) - -
Gross profit 1,071.3 986.5 47.2 129.3
selling and distribution costs (675.8) (649.8) - -
Administrative expenses (189.0) (125.0) (28.8) (16.7)
Other operating income 15.4 48.8 - -
share of results of associate (2.1) (3.2) - -
Operating profit 219.8 257.3 18.4 112.6
Exceptional items 19.0 (32.7) 13.4 -
Amortisation of intangible assets 0.2 - - -
Adjusted operating profit  239.0 224.6 31.8 112.6
Exceptional items
On 14 December 2010 the group acquired 100% of the issued share capital of The Bss Group plc (‘Bss’) for total consideration of £623.9m. As required by IFRs 
3 (2008), £13m of costs incurred in making the acquisition and £8.1m of non-fair value charges incurred in respect of assets written out of the opening Bss group 
balance sheet have been charged to the income statement as exceptional items and included in administrative expenses. Offset against the exceptional charges 
is the release of £2.1m of onerous lease provisions, which were originally established in 2008 as exceptional charges to the income statement. The net total of 
exceptional items is £19.0m.
With effect from the 1 December 2009 the Company and the Trustees of the Travis Perkins defined benefits pension scheme agreed to amend the terms of the 
scheme to include a cap on future pensionable salary increases of 3% per annum. This was treated as a curtailment event and the resulting exceptional reduction 
of £32.7m in the benefit obligation was included in other operating income in 2009.
As required by IFRs 3 (2008) £13.4m of costs incurred in making the acquisition of Bss have been charged to the company income statement as an exceptional 
item and included in administrative expenses.
To enable readers of the financial statements to obtain a clear understanding of underlying trading, the Directors have shown the exceptional items separately 
in the group income statement.  NO TES T O THE FINANCIAL S TATEMENT S
 
20386.04 proof 2 31/03/11
93
5. PROFIT CONTINUED
Operating profit has been arrived at after charging / (crediting):
 THE GROuP THE COMPANY
 ––––––––––––––––––––––––– –––––––––––––––––––––––––
 2010 2009 2010 2009 
 £m £m £m £m
Provisions against inventories 5.7 (0.4)  -  -
Cost of inventories recognised as an expense 2,075.8 1,944.8 - -
Pension costs in administration expenses 2.9 2.8  1.3 0.3
Pension costs in selling and distribution costs 6.4 6.2  -  -
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 57.5 58.7 0.1 0.1
staff costs (see note 7) 412.5 360.3 8.6 9.1
Gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment (11.3) (12.0) - -
Rental income (4.3) (4.9) - -
Hire of vehicles, plant and machinery 16.7 13.6  - -
Other leasing charges – property 137.5 132.4  - -
Amortisation of intangible assets 0.2 - - -
Auditor’s remuneration for audit services 0.4 0.3 0.1 0.1
During the year the Group incurred the following costs for services provided by the Company’s auditors: 
  THE GROuP
  –––––––––––––––––––––––––
   2010 2009 
   £000 £000
Fees payable to the Company’s auditors for the audit of the Company’s annual accounts   108 104
Fees paid to the Company’s auditors for other services:  
The audit of the Company’s subsidiaries pursuant to legislation   296 234
Other services pursuant to legislation   20 18
Other services relating to taxation – advisory   216 85
Corporate finance transactions – rights issue   - 414
Corporate finance transactions – acquisition of Bss   445 -
Other services   8 5
   1,093 860
Other services pursuant to legislation includes £10,000 (2009: £9,000) which was paid to the auditors by the Travis Perkins Pension and Dependents Benefit scheme. 
A description of the work of the Audit Committee is set out in the Audit Committee report on pages 58 to 60 and includes an explanation of how auditor 
objectivity and independence is safeguarded when non-audit services are provided by the auditors.
(b) Adjusted profit before and after tax
  THE GROuP
  –––––––––––––––––––––––––
   2010  2009 
   £m £m
Profit before tax   196.8 212.7
Exceptional items    19.7 (32.7)
Amortisation of intangible assets   0.2 -
Adjusted profit before tax   216.7 180.0
  THE GROuP
  –––––––––––––––––––––––––
   2010  2009 
   £m £m
Profit after tax   141.3 157.4
Exceptional items   19.7 (32.7)
Tax on exceptional items   (1.9) 9.2
Amortisation of intangible assets   0.2 -
Effect of reduction in corporation tax rate on deferred tax   (2.4) -
Adjusted profit after tax    156.9 133.9 94
NO TES T O THE FINANCIAL S TATEMENT S
 
20386.04 proof 2 31/03/11
94
5. PROFIT CONTINUED
(c) Adjusted operating margin
 Merchanting Retail unallocated Group Pre-Bss Bss Group
 ––––––––––––––– ––––––––––––––– ––––––––––––––– ––––––––––––––– ––––––––––––––– –––––––––––––––
 2010  2009 2010  2009 2010  2009  2010  2009 2010  2009 2010  2009 
 £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Revenue 2,106.5 1,950.2 1,002.9 980.7 - - 3,109.4 2,930.9 43.4 - 3,152.8 2,930.9
Operating profit 174.1 203.5 58.7 57.0 - - 232.8 260.5 (10.9) - 221.9 260.5
share of 
associate losses - - - - (2.1) (3.2) (2.1) (3.2) - - (2.1) (3.2)
Amortisation of
intangible assets - - - - - - - - 0.2 - 0.2 -
Exceptional items 10.3 (32.7) 0.6 - - - 10.9 (32.7) 8.1 - 19.0 (32.7)
Adjusted segment 
result 184.4 170.8 59.3 57.0 (2.1) (3.2) 241.6 224.6 (2.6) - 239.0 224.6
Adjusted 
operating margin 8.76% 8.76% 5.91% 5.81% - - 7.77% 7.66% (5.99)% - 7.58% 7.66%
The segmental results for merchanting and retail are shown in note 6. 
6. BUSINESS AND GEOGRAPhICAL SEGMENTS
For management purposes, the Group was, prior to the acquisition of The Bss Group plc, organised into two operating divisions – Merchanting and Retailing, 
both of which operate entirely in the united kingdom. Following the acquisition of The Bss Group plc the Group will report a third segment, Bss, which operates 
mainly in the united kingdom. As required by IFRs 8 the operating segments are identified on the basis of internal reports about components of the Group that are 
regularly reviewed by the Chief Executive to assess their performance. segment profit represents the profit earned by each segment without allocation of share of 
losses of associates, finance income and costs and income tax expense.
There are no significant inter-segment sales.
During 2010 and 2009, other than in respect of fair value adjustments and exceptional charges made in respect of Bss assets, there were no impairment losses 
or reversals of impairment losses recognised in profit or loss or in equity in any of the reportable segments.
  2010
  –––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
  Merchanting Retail Bss unallocated  Eliminations Consolidated 
 £m £m £m £m £m £m
Revenue 2,106.5 1,002.9 43.4 - - 3,152.8
Result      
segment result 174.1 58.7 (10.9) - - 221.9
share of associate losses - - - (2.1) - (2.1)
Finance income - - - 17.5 - 17.5
Finance costs - - - (40.5) - (40.5)
Profit before taxation 174.1 58.7 (10.9) (25.1) - 196.8
Taxation - - - (55.5) - (55.5)
Profit for the year 174.1 58.7 (10.9) (80.6) - 141.3
Segment assets 2,543.8 1,498.5 1,128.4 308.8 (1,401.3) 4,078.2
Segment liabilities (865.6) (215.3) (466.1) (1,980.7) 1,401.3 (2,126.4)
Consolidated net assets 1,678.2 1,283.2 662.3 (1,671.9) - 1,951.8
Capital expenditure 44.5 7.2 - 0.2 - 51.9
Amortisation - - 0.2 - - 0.2
Depreciation 43.3 13.7 0.5 - - 57.5 NO TES T O THE FINANCIAL S TATEMENT S
 
20386.04 proof 2 31/03/11
95
6. BUSINESS AND GEOGRAPhICAL SEGMENTS CONTINUED 
 
  2009
  ––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
   Merchanting Retail unallocated  Eliminations Consolidated 
  £m £m £m £m £m
Revenue  1,950.2 980.7 - - 2,930.9
Result     
segment result  203.5 57.0 - - 260.5
share of associate losses  - - (3.2) - (3.2)
Finance Income   - -  5.6 - 5.6
Finance costs   - -  (50.2) - (50.2)
Profit before taxation  203.5 57.0 (47.8) - 212.7
Taxation  - - (55.3) - (55.3)
Profit for the year  203.5 57.0 (103.1) - 157.4
Segment assets  2,234.5 1,438.8 524.5 (1,055.0) 3,142.8
Segment liabilities  (725.7) (237.5) (1,774.2) 1,055.0 (1,682.4)
Consolidated net assets  1,508.8 1,201.3 (1,249.7) - 1,460.4
Capital expenditure  16.0 16.1 - - 32.1
Depreciation  44.1 14.6 - - 58.7
7. STAFF COSTS 
(a) The average monthly number of persons employed (including executive directors)
 THE GROuP THE COMPANY
 ––––––––––––––––––––––––– –––––––––––––––––––––––––
 2010 2009 2010 2009 
 No. No. No. No. 
sales 11,880 11,196 - -
Distribution 2,345 1,885 - -
Administration 1,567 1,447 42 37
 15,792 14,528 42 37
(b) Aggregate remuneration
 THE GROuP THE COMPANY
 ––––––––––––––––––––––––– –––––––––––––––––––––––––
 2010 2009 2010 2009 
 £m £m £m £m 
Wages and salaries 368.6 329.6 5.5 6.0
share based payments 8.1 (1.5) 2.3 2.1
social security costs 35.8 32.2 0.5 0.8
Other pension costs (note 8) 9.3 9.0 1.6 0.2
 421.8 369.3 9.9 9.1 96
NO TES T O THE FINANCIAL S TATEMENT S
 
20386.04 proof 2 31/03/11
96
8. PENSION ARRANGEMENTS
Defined benefit schemes
Prior to the acquisition of The Bss Group plc, the Group operated a final salary scheme; the Travis Perkins Pensions and Dependants Benefit scheme (‘the TP 
scheme’), which is a 1/60th scheme. The TP scheme is funded by contributions from Group companies and employees. Contributions are paid to the Trustees on 
the basis of advice from an independent professionally qualified actuary who carries out a valuation of the scheme every three years.
Employees are entitled to start drawing a pension, based on their membership of the scheme, on their normal retirement date. If employees choose to retire 
early and draw their pension, then the amount they receive is scaled down accordingly.
A full actuarial valuation of the TP scheme was carried out on 30 september 2008. The IAs 19 valuation has been based upon the results of the 30 september 
2008 valuation, then updated to 31 December 2010 by a qualified actuary. The present values of the defined obligations, the related current service costs and the 
past service costs for the scheme were measured using the projected unit method.
Following the acquisition of The Bss group plc the Group now operates three additional defined benefit pension schemes (‘the Bss schemes’) based on final 
pensionable salary. The assets of the schemes are held separately from those of the Group in funds under the control of the schemes trustees. All defined benefit 
schemes are closed to new members. The most recent actuarial valuations of the scheme assets and the present value of the defined benefit obligation were 
carried out at 1 June 2009 for the main uk and Irish schemes and 31 December 2008 for the secondary uk scheme. The present value of the defined benefit 
obligation, and the related current service cost and past service cost, were measured using the projected unit method with a control period equal to the future 
working lifetime of the active members.
In June 2010 an agreement was reached with the trustees of the Travis Perkins final salary pension scheme to fund £34.7m of the deficit using a group 
controlled special purpose vehicle. The pension scheme will be entitled to receive the income of the sPV for a period of up to 20 years, subject to funding levels. 
This income is backed by the security of 16 Travis Perkins freehold properties. As the sPV is consolidated into the Travis Perkins plc group accounts advantage has 
been taken of Regulation 7 of The Partnership (Accounts) Regulations 2008 and accounts for the sPV will neither be audited or filed.
(a) Major assumptions used by the actuary at the balance sheet date (in nominal terms) 
    
  At 31 December 2010 At 31 December 2010 At 31 December 2009
 TP Scheme BSS Schemes TP scheme
Rate of increase in pensionable salaries 2.5% 3.5% 2.5%
Rate of increase of pensions in payment 2.4% 3.5% 2.4%
Discount rate 5.35% 5.35% 5.7%
Inflation assumption 3.5% 3.5% 3.5%
In respect of longevity the valuation adopts the PMA/PFA92 tables with improvements in life expectancy to continue in the medium term, with base year appropriate 
to the member’s date of birth. This results in the following life expectancies at illustrative ages:
Weighted average life expectancy for mortality tables used to determine pension liability at 31 December 2010:   
 Male Years Female Years
Member age 65 (current life expectancy) – TP scheme 21.6 24.8
Member age 45 (life expectancy on reaching age 65) – TP scheme 23.5 26.7
Member age 65 (current life expectancy) – Bss schemes 21.8 25.0
Member age 45 (life expectancy on reaching age 65) – Bss schemes 23.8 27.1
(b) Amounts recognised in income in respect of the defined benefit schemes
   2010 2009
 –––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
 TP Scheme BSS Schemes Group 
 £m £m £m £m
Current and past service costs charged to operating profit
in the income statement 5.7 - 5.7 5.8
Interest cost 32.2 - 32.2 30.4
Effect of curtailment - - - (32.7)
Expected return on scheme assets (38.4) - (38.4) (27.8)
Total pension costs (0.5) - (0.5) (24.3)
The total charge to the profit and loss account disclosed in note 7 of £9.3m (2009: £9.0m) comprises defined benefit scheme current and past service costs of 
£5.7m (2009: £5.8m) and £3.6m (2009: £3.2m) of contributions made to the defined contribution schemes.
The Company and Trustee agreed to amend the benefits of the TP scheme with effect from 1 December 2009 to include a cap on future pensionable salary 
increases of 3% per annum. This was treated as an exceptional curtailment event and the resulting reduction in the benefit obligation was included as a curtailment 
gain in 2009 (Note 5).
The directors have agreed with the scheme Actuary and the Trustees to pay contributions of £16.0m in 2011 in excess of the forecast charge to the income 
statement to the TP scheme. In addition agreement has been made to pay £3.2m in respect of The Bss schemes.
Note 5 shows where pension costs have been charged in the income statement. Actuarial gains and losses have been included in the statement of Comprehensive 
Income. NO TES T O THE FINANCIAL S TATEMENT S
 
20386.04 proof 2 31/03/11
97
8. PENSION ARRANGEMENTS CONTINUED
(c) Assets and liabilities in the schemes and the expected rate of return (net of allowance for administration expenses)
TP Scheme
 At 31 December 2010 At 31 December 2009
 ––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– –––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
 Expected Fair value Expected Fair value 
  return £m  return £m
Equities 8.25% 382.2 8.05% 328.2
Bonds, gilts and cash  4.50% - 5.70% 150.6 4.30% - 6.30% 152.3
Pensions sPV 5.0% 36.2 - -
Property 6.5% 74.4 6.30% 47.6
Total fair value of assets  643.4  528.1
Actuarial value of liability  (611.7)  (571.1)
surplus / (deficit) in scheme  31.7  (43.0)
Related deferred tax (liability) / asset  (8.6)  12.0
Net pension asset / (liability)  23.1  (31.0)
BSS Schemes
  At 31 December 2010
  –––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
   Expected  Fair value 
   return £m
Equities   8.25% 151.7
Bonds, gilts and cash    4.50% - 5.70% 14.0
Property   6.2% 3.8
Total fair value of assets    169.5
Actuarial value of liability    (229.1)
Deficit in schemes    (59.6)
Related deferred tax asset    16.4
Net pension liability    (43.2)
TP Scheme
 2010 2009
 ––––––––––––––––––––––––– –––––––––––––––––––––––––
 £m % £m %
The actual returns on scheme assets 72.9 13.8 90.1 21.4
    
(d) The amount included in the balance sheet arising from the Group’s obligations in respect of its defined benefit schemes and the 
movements during the year
 2010 2009
 ––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
 TP BSS  
 Scheme Schemes  Group 
 £m £m  £m £m
At 1 January (43.0) -  (43.0) (69.9)
Liability at date of acquisition - (59.6) (59.6) -
Expense recognised in the income statement 0.5 -  0.5 24.3
Contributions received by the scheme 58.3 -  58.3 30.9
Actuarial losses recognised in the statement of comprehensive income 15.9 -  15.9 (28.3)
At 31 December 31.7 (59.6) (27.9) (43.0) 98
NO TES T O THE FINANCIAL S TATEMENT S
 
20386.04 proof 2 31/03/11
98
8. PENSION ARRANGEMENTS CONTINUED
(e) Movements in the present value of defined benefit obligations in the current period
 2010 2009
 –––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
 TP Scheme BSS Schemes Group 
 £m £m £m £m
At 1 January (571.1) - (571.1) (490.6)
Liability at date of acquisition - (229.1) (229.1) -
service cost (5.7) - (5.7) (5.8)
Interest cost (32.2) - (32.2) (30.4)
Contributions from scheme members (5.5) - (5.5) (5.4)
Curtailment gain - - - 32.7
Actuarial losses (18.6) - (18.6) (90.6)
Benefits paid 21.4 - 21.4 19.0
At 31 December  (611.7) (229.1) (840.8) (571.1)
(f) Movements in the present value of fair value of scheme assets in the current period
 2010 2009
 –––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
 TP Scheme BSS Schemes Group 
 £m £m £m £m
At 1 January  528.1 - 528.1 420.7
scheme assets at date of acquisition - 169.5 169.5 -
Expected return of scheme assets 38.4 - 38.4 27.8
Actuarial gains  34.5 - 34.5 62.3
Contributions from sponsoring companies 58.3 - 58.3 30.9
Contributions from scheme members 5.5 - 5.5 5.4
Benefits paid (21.4) - (21.4) (19.0)
At 31 December  643.4 169.5 812.9 528.1
(g) Cumulative actuarial gains and losses recognised in equity 
   2010 2009 
   £m £m
At 1 January   (198.0) (169.7)
Net actuarial losses recognised in the year   15.9 (28.3)
At 31 December   (182.1) (198.0)
(h) history of experience gains and losses
TP Scheme  2010 2009 2008 2007 2006
Fair value of scheme assets (£m)  643.4 528.1 420.7 533.9 500.5
Present value of scheme obligations (£m)  (611.7) (571.1) (490.6) (549.9) (581.3)
Surplus / (deficit) in the scheme (£m)  31.7 (43.0) (69.9) (16.0) (80.8)
Experience adjustments on scheme liabilities      
Amounts (£m)  - - 13.4 - -
Percentage of scheme liabilities (%)  - - 2.7% - -
Experience adjustments on scheme assets       
Amounts (£m)  34.5 62.3 (157.2) (13.5) 14.7
Percentage of scheme assets (%)  5.4% 11.8% (37.4%) (2.5%) 2.9% NO TES T O THE FINANCIAL S TATEMENT S
 
20386.04 proof 2 31/03/11
99
8. PENSION ARRANGEMENTS CONTINUED
(i) Sensitivities
The estimated effects of changing the key assumptions (discount rate, inflation and life expectancy) on the IAs19 balance sheet position as at 31 December 2010 
and on projected amounts to be recognised in the income statement for 2011 are:
  TP Scheme effect on   BSS Schemes effect on  
Assumption   2010 balance sheet position  2010 balance sheet position
Discount rate Increase of 1.0% (108.4) (41.4)
 Decrease of 1.0% 131.7 56.2
Inflation Increase of 1.0% 88.4 50.8
 Decrease of 1.0% (77.3) (38.9)
Longevity Increase of 1 year 13.5 5.1
 Decrease of 1 year (13.2) (5.1)
The impact of the change from RPI to CPI is a reduction in liabilities of £25m. 
(j) Defined contribution schemes
Prior to the acquisition of The Bss Group plc there were two defined contribution schemes in the Group. The Bss Group plc operates a further three defined 
contribution schemes for all qualifying employees. The pension cost, which represents contributions payable by the Group, amounted to £3.6m (2009: £3.2m).
9. ShARE-BASED PAYMENTS 
The following disclosures relate to share option and sAYE grants made after 7 November 2002.
The Black-scholes option-pricing model is used to calculate the fair value of the options and the amount to be expensed. The probability of the performance 
conditions being achieved was included in the fair value calculations. The inputs into the model for options granted in the year expressed as weighted averages 
are as follows: 
 
 2010 2009
 ––––––––––––––––––––––––– –––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
    Nil price    Executive  Nil price  
  SAYE options  sAYE  options options
share price at grant date (pence) – Group  819 734 794 653 616
Option exercise price (pence) – Group  691 - 636 663 -
share price at grant date (pence) – Company  819 734 794 653 616
Option exercise price (pence) – Company  691 - 636 663 -
Volatility (%) – Group and Company  59.5% 62.1% 50.7% 61.0% 60.1%
Option life (years) – Group and Company  3.5 3.0 3.5 3.0 3.0
Risk-free interest rate (%) – Group and Company  1.6% 1.3% 2.1% 2.2% 2.4%
Expected dividends as a dividend yield (%) – Group and Company 0.6% 0.6% 2.0% 1.6% 1.6%
Volatility was based on historic share prices over a period of time equal to the vesting period. Option life used in the model has been based on options being 
exercised in accordance with historical patterns. For executive share options the vesting period is 3 years. If options remain unexercised after a period of 10 years 
from the date of grant, these options expire. Options are forfeited if the employee leaves the Group before options vest. sAYE options vest after 3 or 5 years and 
expire 3½ or 5½ years after the date of grant. 
The risk-free interest rate of return is the yield on zero-coupon uk Government bonds on a term consistent with the vesting period. Dividends used are based 
on actual dividends where data is known and future dividends estimated using a dividend cover of 3 times. 
The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based upon management’s best estimate, for the effect of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and 
behavioural considerations. 100
NO TES T O THE FINANCIAL S TATEMENT S
 
20386.04 proof 2 31/03/11
100
9. ShARE-BASED PAYMENTS CONTINUED
The number and weighted average exercise price of share options is as follows:
The Group
 2010 2009
 –––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– –––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
 Weighted   Number of Weighted    Number of 
 average  Number of nil price average Number of nil price 
 exercise price options  options exercise price options  options 
In thousands of options p No. No. p No. No.
Outstanding at the beginning of the period 680 9,624 2,959 935 8,190 790
Rights issue adjustment - - - (187) 1,885 467
Forfeited during the period 1,247 (1,580) (2) 1,001 (2,064) (246)
Exercised during the period 511 (19) - 583 (8) -
Granted during the period 691 892 1,497 645 1,621 1,948
Outstanding at the end of the period 582 8,917 4,454 680 9,624 2,959
Exercisable at the end of the period 1,116 1,004 - 1,117 1,055 -
share options were exercised on a regular basis throughout the year. The weighted average share price for options exercised during the year was 511 pence 
(2009: 583 pence).
Details of the options outstanding at 31 December 2010 were as follows:
 2010 2009
 –––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– –––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
 Executive   Nil price  Executive   Nil price 
 options SAYE options options sAYE options
Range of exercise prices (pence) 201 - 1,611 422 - 1,114 - 201 - 1,611 442 - 1,114 -
Weighted average exercise price (pence) 667 532 - 976 518 -
Number of shares (thousands) 3,302 5,615 4,454 4,380 5,244 2,959
Weighted average expected remaining life (years) 1.4 2.1 1.5 2.1 2.7 2.2
Weighted average contractual remaining life (years) 6.7 2.6 8.5 7.7 3.2 9.2
The Company
 2010 2009
 –––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– –––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
 Weighted   Weighted
  average  Number of Nil price  average Number of Nil price 
 exercise price  options options exercise price  options options 
In thousands of options p No. No. p No. No.
Outstanding at the beginning of the period 980 701 1,480 1,341 693 449
Rights issue adjustment - - - (271) 148 285
Forfeited during the period 1,550 (232) - 1,550 (168) (133)
Transferred from / (to) other group companies 596 1 - 442 (1) -
Granted during the period 691 3 686 653 29 879
Outstanding at the end of the period 698 473 2,166 980 701 1,480
Exercisable at the end of the period 1,018 239 - 1,018 239 -
There were no share options exercised during the year. Details of the options outstanding at 31 December 2010 were as follows:
 2010 2009
 –––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– –––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
 Executive   Nil price  Executive   Nil price 
 options SAYE options options sAYE options
Range of exercise prices (pence) 201 - 1,611 442 - 1,114 - 201 - 1,611 442 - 1,114 -
Weighted average exercise price (pence) 727 479 - 1021 970 -
Number of shares (thousands) 418 55 2,166 649 52 1,480
Weighted average expected remaining life (years) 0.8 2.5 1.5 1.2 3.5 2.1
Weighted average contractual remaining life (years) 5.1 3.0 8.5 6.5 4.0 9.1 NO TES T O THE FINANCIAL S TATEMENT S
 
20386.04 proof 2 31/03/11
101
9. ShARE-BASED PAYMENTS CONTINUED
The Group and the Company
sAYE options were granted on 1 December 2010. The estimated fair value of the shares at that date was £3.6m for the Group and nil for the Company.
shares were granted under the share matching scheme on 16 March 2010. The estimated fair value of the shares at that date was £3.4m for the Group and 
£2.0m for the Company.
shares were granted under the performance share plan on 5 March, 20 May and 27 August 2010. The estimated fair value of the shares at those dates were 
£4.5m for the Group and £1.5m for the Company.
shares were granted under the deferred share bonus plan on 3 March 2010. The estimated fair value of the shares at that date was £0.8m for the Group and 
£0.4m for the Company. 
The Group charged £8.0m (2009 credit: (£1.5m)) and the Company charged £2.3m (2009: £2.1m) to the income statement in respect of equity-settled share-
based payment transactions.
10. NET FINANCE COSTS
 THE GROuP THE COMPANY
 –––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– –––––––––––––––––––––––––
 2010 2010 2010 2009 2010 2009 
 Pre-exceptional  Exceptional     
 items  items Total    
 £m £m £m £m £m £m
Interest on bank loans and overdrafts* (27.8) (0.7) (28.5) (29.1) (31.5) (28.5)
Interest on unsecured loans (0.2) - (0.2) (0.2) (0.2) (0.2)
Interest payable to group companies - - - - (3.5) (2.7)
Interest on obligations under finance leases (1.2) - (1.2) (1.3) - -
Other finance charges – pension scheme - - - (2.6) - -
unwinding of discounts in provisions (4.2) - (4.2) (3.8) - -
Amortisation of cancellation payment for swaps
accounted for as cash flow hedges (4.9) - (4.9) (8.7) (4.9) (8.7)
Cancellation of swaps measured at fair value - - - (0.8) - (0.8)
Net loss on re-measurement of derivatives at fair value (1.5) - (1.5) (3.7) (2.0) (3.0)
Finance costs (39.8) (0.7) (40.5) (50.2) (42.1) (43.9)
Other finance income – pension scheme 6.2 - 6.2 -  -
Amortisation of cancellation receipt for swap
accounted for as fair value hedge 0.9 - 0.9 - 3.6 -
Interest receivable 10.4 - 10.4 5.6 11.9 4.9
Finance income 17.5 - 17.5 5.6 15.5 4.9
Net finance costs (22.3) (0.7) (23.0) (44.6) (26.6) (39.0)
Adjusted interest cover   18.9x 10.7x  
*Includes £5.7m (2009: £2.9m) of amortised bank finance charges.
Adjusted interest cover is calculated by dividing, adjusted operating profit of £239.0m (2009: £224.6m) less £1.2m (2009: £1.3m) of specficially excluded 
IFRs adjustments, by the combined value of interest on bank loans and overdrafts (excluding amortised bank finance charges), unsecured loans, and interest 
receivable, which total £12.6m (2009: £20.8m). 
The unwinding of the discount charge arises principally from the property provisions created in 2008 and the pensions sPV.
Included in interest on bank loans and overdrafts are fair value and exchange gains on the us private placement of £3.1m offset by a £3.1m loss on hedged 
derivatives.
Included within finance costs is an exceptional charge of £0.7m arising from the write off of unamortised bank fees in respect of the Bss loan facility which 
was repaid following the acquisition. 102
NO TES T O THE FINANCIAL S TATEMENT S
 
20386.04 proof 2 31/03/11
102
11. TAX
 THE GROuP THE COMPANY
 ––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– –––––––––––––––––––––––––
 2010 2010 2010 2009 2009 2009 2010 2009 
 Pre-   Pre-     
 exceptional Exceptional  exceptional Exceptional    
 items items Total items items Total
 £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Current tax        
uk corporation tax         
current year 51.0 0.4 51.4 47.3 - 47.3 (8.5) (12.2)
prior year (1.2) - (1.2) (0.9) - (0.9) - -
Total current tax 49.8 0.4 50.2 46.4 - 46.4 (8.5) (12.2)
Deferred tax        
current year 10.1 (4.7) 5.4 (0.3) 9.2 8.9 (1.9) (2.9)
prior year (0.1) - (0.1) - - - - -
Total deferred tax 10.0 (4.7) 5.3 (0.3) 9.2 8.9 (1.9) (2.9)
Total tax charge 59.8 (4.3) 55.5 46.1 9.2 55.3 (10.4) (15.1)
The differences between the total tax charge shown above and the amount calculated by applying the standard rate of uk corporation tax to the profit before tax 
are as follows:
The Group 
 2010 2009
 ––––––––––––––––––––––––– –––––––––––––––––––––––––
 £m % £m %
Profit before tax 196.8  212.7 
Tax at the uk corporation tax rate of 28.0% 55.1 28.0 59.6 28.0
Tax effect of expenses / credits that are not deductible / 
taxable in determining taxable profit 2.1 1.0 (1.9) (0.9)
Depreciation of non-qualifying property 1.5 0.8 1.5 0.7
Exceptional costs not allowable for tax purposes 3.6 1.8 - -
Deferred tax rate change (2.4) (1.2) - -
Property sales (3.2) (1.6) (3.0) (1.4)
Prior period adjustment (1.2) (0.6) (0.9) (0.4)
Tax expense and effective tax rate for the year 55.5 28.2 55.3 26.0
The tax charge for 2010 includes an exceptional credit of £2.4m arising from the reduction in the rate of uk corporation tax from 28% to 27% on 6 April 2011. 
Future changes reducing the corporation tax rate by 1% per annum to 24% by 1 April 2014 have been announced but not substantively enacted and therefore 
have not been taken into account.
The Company
 2010 2009
 ––––––––––––––––––––––––– –––––––––––––––––––––––––
 £m % £m %
(Loss) / profit before tax (8.2)  73.6 
Intercompany dividends (40.3)  (122.4) 
Loss before tax and dividends received (48.5)  (48.8) 
Tax at the uk corporation tax rate of 28.0% (13.6) (28.0) (13.7) (28.0)
Tax effect of expenses / credits that are not deductible / 
taxable in determining taxable profit (1.7) (3.5) (1.4) (2.9)
Exceptional costs not allowable for tax purposes 3.6 7.4 - -
Receipts in subsidiary taxable in company 1.3 2.7 - -
Tax expense and effective tax rate for the year (10.4) (21.4) (15.1) (30.9) NO TES T O THE FINANCIAL S TATEMENT S
 
20386.04 proof 2 31/03/11
103
12. EARNINGS PER ShARE
The Group and the Company
(a) Basic and diluted earnings per share
   2010 2009 
   £m £m
Earnings
Earnings for the purposes of basic and diluted earnings per share being net profit 
attributable to equity holders of the Parent Company   141.3 157.4
Number of shares   No. No.
Weighted average number of shares for the purposes of basic earnings per share pre-rights issue 
adjustment and Bss acquisition share issue   201,682,453 117,034,434
Rights issue adjustment   - 61,001,501
Issued in connection with the Bss acquisition   1,444,926 -
Weighted average number of shares for the purposes of basic earnings per share   203,127,379 178,035,935
Dilutive effect of share options on potential ordinary shares   7,099,195 4,427,564
Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purposes of diluted earnings per share  210,226,574 182,463,499
At 31 December 2010, 2,450,045 (2009: 3,913,130) share options had an exercise price in excess of the market value of the shares on that day. As a result, these 
share options are excluded from the calculation of diluted earnings per share.
(b) Adjusted earnings per share
Adjusted earnings per share are calculated by excluding the effect of the exceptional items and amortisation from earnings.
   2010 2009 
   £m £m
Earnings for the purposes of basic and diluted earnings per share being net profit 
attributable to equity holders of the Parent Company   141.3 157.4
Exceptional items   19.7 (32.7)
Amortisation of intangible assets   0.2 -
Tax on exceptional items   (1.9) -
Effect of reduction in corporation tax rate on deferred tax   (2.4) 9.2
Earnings for adjusted earnings per share   156.9 133.9
Adjusted basic earnings per share   77.2p 75.2p
Adjusted diluted earnings per share   74.6p 73.4p
(c) Adjusted pre-BSS earnings per share
   2010 2009 
   £m £m
Earnings for adjusted earnings per share   156.9 133.9
Bss post tax loss for the period   2.0 -
Earnings for adjusted earnings per share pre-Bss   158.9 133.9
Adjusted basic earnings per share pre-Bss   78.8p 75.2p 104
 
20386.04 proof 2 31/03/11
104
NO TES T O THE FINANCIAL S TATEMENT S
13. DIVIDENDS
The Group and the Company
Amounts were recognised in the financial statements as distributions to equity shareholders as follows:
   2010 2009 
   £m £m
Final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2009 of nil p (2008: nil p) per ordinary share   - -
Interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2010 of 5.0p (2009: nil p) per ordinary share  10.1 -
Total dividends recognised during the year   10.1 -
The Company is proposing a final dividend of 10p in respect of the year ended 31 December 2010.
Adjusted dividend cover of 5.1x (2009: nil) is calculated by dividing adjusted basic earnings per share (note 12 of 77.2 pence (2009: 75.2 pence) by the total 
dividend for the year of 15.0 pence (2009: nil pence).
There are no income tax consequences in respect of the dividends declared, but not recognised in the financial statements.
The dividends declared for 2010 at 31 December 2010 and for 2009 at 31 December 2009 were as follows:
   2010 2009 
   Pence Pence
Interim paid   5.0 -
Final proposed   10.0 -
Total dividends declared for the year   15.0 -
14. GOODWILL
The Group
  Bss Retail Merchanting Total
  ––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
  £m £m £m £m
Cost    
At 1 January 2009 - 969.9 381.5 1,351.4
Recognised on acquisitions during the year - - 1.4 1.4
At 1 January 2010 - 969.9 382.9 1,352.8
Recognised on acquisitions during the year 337.6 - - 337.6
At 31 December 2010 337.6 969.9 382.9 1,690.4
The following is an analysis of goodwill by CGu (‘Cash Generating unit’). 
Name of CGu    Amount of Goodwill
    £m
CCF    43.6
City Plumbing supplies    74.2
keyline    79.0
Tile Giant    26.8
Travis Perkins    436.1
Wickes    693.1
Bss    337.6
    1,690.4
On the acquisition of the Wickes’ business, £250m of goodwill, which represented synergies arising from the acquisition, was allocated to the Travis Perkins CGu.
The Group tests goodwill annually for impairment, or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill might be impaired. The recoverable amounts of the 
CGus are determined from value in use calculations. The key assumptions for the value in use calculations are those regarding the discount rates, growth rates 
and expected changes to selling prices and direct costs during the period. These assumptions have been reviewed during the year in light of the current economic 
environment which has resulted in more conservative estimates about the future and the changing capital structure of the Company. Management estimates  NO TES T O THE FINANCIAL S TATEMENT S
 
20386.04 proof 2 31/03/11
105
discount rates using pre-tax rates that reflect current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the CGus. As a result of these 
deliberations the discount rate has been amended to reflect changes in the capital structure arising from the rights issue. 
The turnover growth rates in each CGu are based on the Directors’ expectations for the next 3 years. Changes in selling prices and direct costs used in the 
calculations are based on past practices and expectations of future changes in the market. 
At the beginning and end of the financial period the fair value of goodwill and intangible assets in all segments was in excess of their book value. The Directors’ 
calculations have shown that no impairments have occurred. The key assumptions applied in the value in use calculations were:
●
   Cash flow forecasts which were derived from the most recent financial budgets and plans for the three years ending 2013, which were approved by the directors. 
Cash flows for the following year are extrapolated from cash flows for 2013 using similar assumptions to those applied to 2013;
●
   The weighted average cost of capital (‘WACC’) of the Group which is used as the discount rate is 8.1% which is not significantly different for any individual CGu;
●
   Long-term forecast growth rates of 2.5% in line with the average long-term GDP growth trend applied from 2014 onwards. 
Whilst management believe the assumptions are realistic, it is possible an impairment would be identified if any of the above key assumptions were changed 
significantly. For instance factors which could cause an impairment are:
●
  significant underperformance relative to the forecast results;
●
   Changes to the way the assets are used or changes to the strategy for the business;
●
  A deterioration in the industry or the economy.
The impairment review calculations are based upon anticipated discounted future cash flows. These calculations are sensitive to changes in future cash flows, 
the discount rate applied and the terminal growth rate. The Directors believe the assumptions used are appropriate, but have conducted a sensitivity analysis to 
determine the assumptions that would result in an impairment to goodwill and intangibles of £100m:
 Merchanting  Retail
Weighted average cost of capital    15.8% 10.8%
Long term growth rate    (9.0)% (0.9)%
The goodwill arising on the acquisition of Bss on 14 December 2010 did not suffer an impairment during the two weeks of ownership by the Group. 
The Company has no goodwill.
15. OThER INTANGIBLE ASSETS
 
The Group
 Brand Computer software Customer relationships Total
 ––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
Cost or valuation £m £m £m £m
 
At 1 January & 31 December 2009 162.5 - - 162.5
Acquired on acquisition of subsidiary 112.9 9.6 134.8 257.3
At 31 December 2010 275.4 9.6 134.8 419.8
Amortisation    
At 1 January & 31 December 2009 - - - -
Charged to operating profit in the year - - 0.2 0.2
Charged to exceptional items - 8.1 - 8.1
At 31 December 2010 - 8.1 0.2 8.3
Net book value    
At 31 December 2010 275.4 1.5 134.6 411.5
At 31 December 2009 162.5 - - 162.5
Following the acquisition of The Bss Group plc the following brands were acquired: 
●
  PTs £38.6m;
●
  Bss £51.6m;
●
  F & P Wholesale £8.5m;
●
  Others £14.2m.
These brands together with the Wickes brand (which accounts for the remainder) are all considered to be leading brands in their sectors with significant growth 
prospects. They are considered therefore to have an indefinite useful life and are reviewed annually for impairment. Acquired customer relationships are amortised 
over their estimated useful lives which range from 5 to 15 years.
Details of impairment testing are given in note 14. No impairments were identified in either year.
The Company has no intangible assets.
 
14. GOODWILL CONTINUED 106
NO TES T O THE FINANCIAL S TATEMENT S
 
20386.04 proof 2 31/03/11
106
16. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EqUIPMENT
 THE GROuP THE COMPANY
 ––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– –––––––––––––––––––
  Long short Plant &  Plant &
 Freehold  leases  leases equipment Total equipment
 £m £m £m £m £m £m
Cost or valuation
At 1 January 2009 264.4 25.4 103.9 409.2 802.9 0.5
Additions 2.1 - 12.0 18.0 32.1 -
Reclassifications 0.4 (0.4) - - - -
Disposals (8.8) - (2.1) (16.0) (26.9) -
At 1 January 2010 258.1 25.0 113.8 411.2 808.1 0.5
Additions 10.8 2.7 2.1 36.3 51.9 0.2
Additions from acquired businesses 7.1 1.0 6.1 22.3  36.5 -
Reclassifications to current assets (0.3) (1.0) - - (1.3) -
Disposals (1.1) - (1.0) (13.6) (15.7) (0.1)
At 31 December 2010 274.6 27.7 121.0 456.2 879.5 0.6
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 January 2009 28.8 3.7 30.3 205.6 268.4 0.3
Charged this year 4.0 0.6 6.8 47.2 58.6 0.1
Disposals (1.2) - (2.0) (14.7) (17.9) -
At 1 January 2010 31.6 4.3 35.1 238.1 309.1 0.4
Charged this year 4.0 0.6 7.0 45.9 57.5 0.1
Reclassifications to current assets (0.1) (0.3) - - (0.4) -
Disposals (0.4) - (0.4) (11.9) (12.7) -
At 31 December 2010 35.1 4.6 41.7 272.1 353.5 0.5
Net book value
At 31 December 2010 239.5 23.1 79.3 184.1 526.0 0.1
At 31 December 2009 226.5 20.7 78.7 173.1 499.0 0.1
The cost element of the fixed assets carrying value is analysed as follows:
 THE GROuP THE COMPANY
 ––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– –––––––––––––––––––
  Long short Plant and   
 Freehold leases leases equipment Total Total
 £m £m £m £m £m £m
At valuation 68.8 6.1 1.9 - 76.8 -
At cost 205.8 21.6 119.1 456.2 802.7 0.6
 274.6 27.7 121.0 456.2 879.5 0.6
Those freehold and leasehold properties included at valuation in the consolidated balance sheet were revalued at their open market value on an existing use basis. 
The valuations were performed as at 31 December 1999 by an independent professional valuer, Lambert smith Hampton, Consultant surveyors and Valuers.
Included within freehold property is land with a value of £98.0m (2009: £94.7m) which is not depreciated. NO TES T O THE FINANCIAL S TATEMENT S
 
20386.04 proof 2 31/03/11
107
16. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EqUIPMENT CONTINUED
The carrying amount of assets held under finance leases is analysed as follows:
 
 THE GROuP THE COMPANY
 ––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– –––––––––––––––––––
  Long short Plant &   
  leases leases equipment Total Total
  £m £m £m £m £m
2010  0.8 11.9 1.3 14.0 -
2009  0.8 13.1 1.9 15.8 -
Comparable amounts determined according to the historical cost convention:
 THE GROuP THE COMPANY
 ––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– –––––––––––––––––––
  Long short Plant &   
 Freehold leases leases equipment Total Total
 £m £m £m £m £m £m
Cost 269.5 26.4 129.6 456.2 881.7 -
Accumulated depreciation (51.8) (5.8) (47.4) (272.0) (377.0) -
Net book value
At 31 December 2010 217.7 20.6 82.2 184.2 504.7 -
At 31 December 2009 204.2 18.1 81.7 173.1 477.1 -
17. INVESTMENT PROPERTY
 
  THE GROuP
  –––––––––––––––––––
    £m
Cost 
At 1 January 2009 and 1 January 2010    3.9
Disposals    (3.4)
At 31 December 2010    0.5
Accumulated depreciation 
At 1 January 2009    0.5
Provided in the year    0.1
At 1 January 2010    0.6
Disposals    (0.5)
At 31 December 2010    0.1
Net book value 
At 31 December 2010    0.4
At 31 December 2009    3.3
Investment property rental income totalled £nil (2009: £0.2m). In addition, the Group also receives income from subletting all or part of 100 ex-trading and trading 
properties, the amount of which is not material.
As no external valuation has been performed, the Directors have estimated that the fair value of investment property equates to its carrying value. As such, it 
is not material to the Group’s balance sheet.
The Company has no investment property. 108
NO TES T O THE FINANCIAL S TATEMENT S
 
20386.04 proof 2 31/03/11
108
18. INVESTMENTS
(a) Interest in associates and joint ventures
 THE GROuP THE COMPANY
 ––––––––––––––––––––––––– –––––––––––––––––––––––––
 2010 2009 2010 2009 
 £m £m £m £m
Equity investment 17.4 5.4 17.4 5.4
Loan facility 28.5 28.0 28.5 28.0
Interest on loan facility 6.4 2.9 6.4 2.9
Arising on acquisition of The Bss Group plc 0.1 - - -
share of losses (6.7) (4.6) - -
 45.7 31.7 52.3 36.3
On 4 April 2008 Travis Perkins plc acquired a 30% investment in Toolstation Limited for a total consideration of £5.2m. In addition Travis Perkins plc has provided 
a non-revolving loan facility totalling £28.0m. In the year to 31 December 2010 Toolstation recognised total revenues of £69.8m and a loss before tax of £6.9m. 
At 31 December 2010 total aggregate assets were £26.4m and total aggregate liabilities (including the loan facility provided by Travis Perkins plc) were £53.2m.
On 1 December 2009 Travis Perkins plc acquired a 49% investment in The Mosaic Tile Company Limited for a total consideration of £0.2m. In the twelve month 
period to 31 December 2010 The Mosaic Tile Company Limited recognised total revenues of £7.4m and a loss before tax of £0.1m. At 31 December 2010 total 
aggregate assets were £2.8m and total aggregate liabilities were £2.5m.
In April 2009 Construction site solutions LLP (‘Css’), a consortium consisting of Hewden stuart Plc, speedy Hire Plc, Lavendon Group plc and The Bss Group 
plc. were granted a licence from ODA to supply plant and builders merchant products to primary on site contractors. Each consortium member has a 25% holding 
in Css. In the twelve month period to 31 December 2010 Css recognised total revenues of £0.4m and a profit before tax of £nil. At 31 December 2010 total 
aggregate assets were £0.7m and total aggregate liabilities were £0.2m.
(b) Shares in group undertakings
  THE COMPANY
  –––––––––––––––––––––––––
   2010 2009 
Cost   £m £m
At 1 January   1,912.1 1,814.3
Additions   802.7 97.8
At 31 December   2,714.8 1,912.1
Provision for impairment    (17.0) (17.0)
Net book value at 31 December   2,697.8 1,895.1
The principal operating subsidiaries of the Group and Company at 31 December 2010 are as follows:
Subsidiary  Registered Office
Travis Perkins Trading Company Limited* (Builders merchants) Lodge Way House, Harlestone Road, Northampton NN5 7uG
keyline Builders Merchants Limited* (Builders merchants) suite s3, 8 strathkelvin Place, kirkintilloch, Glasgow G66 1XT
Wickes Building supplies Limited (DIY retailers) Lodge Way House, Harlestone Road, Northampton NN5 7uG
City Plumbing supplies Holdings Limited (Plumbers merchants) Lodge Way House, Harlestone Road, Northampton NN5 7uG
CCF Limited* (Ceiling & dry lining distribution) Lodge Way House, Harlestone Road, Northampton NN5 7uG
Travis Perkins (Properties) Limited* (Property management company) Lodge Way House, Harlestone Road, Northampton NN5 7uG
Benchmarx kitchens and Joinery Limited (specialist distribution) Lodge Way House, Harlestone Road, Northampton NN5 7uG
Tile Giant Limited (Ceramic tile merchants) Lodge Way House, Harlestone Road, Northampton NN5 7uG
The Bss Group Limited* (Plumbing and Heating Merchants) Fleet House, Lee Circle, Leicester, Leicestershire LE1 3qq
PTs Group Limited (Plumbing and Heating Merchants) Fleet House, Lee Circle, Leicester, Leicestershire LE1 3qq
*Held directly by Travis Perkins plc
The Directors have applied s409 to s410 of the Companies Act 2006 and therefore list only significant subsidiary companies.
All subsidiaries are 100% owned. All companies are registered and incorporated in England and Wales, other than keyline Builders Merchants Limited and 8 
dormant companies, which are registered and incorporated in scotland, City Investments Limited, which is registered and incorporated in Jersey and 2 dormant 
companies registered and incorporated in Northern Ireland.  
20386.04 proof 2 31/03/11
109
NO TES T O THE FINANCIAL S TATEMENT S
18. INVESTMENTS CONTINUED
(c) Available-for-sale investments
 THE GROuP THE COMPANY
 ––––––––––––––––––––––––– –––––––––––––––––––––––––
 2010 2009 2010 2009 
 £m £m £m £m
Fair value investment 1.5 1.5 - -
The investment represents a minority holding in a unit trust that acquired properties from the Group in 2006. The investment presents the Group with an opportunity 
to generate returns through both income and capital gains. The Directors consider that the carrying amount of this investment approximates its fair value.
19. TRADE AND OThER RECEIVABLES
 THE GROuP THE COMPANY
 ––––––––––––––––––––––––– –––––––––––––––––––––––––
 2010 2009 2010 2009 
 £m £m £m £m
Trade receivables 575.4 279.5 - -
Allowance for doubtful debts (44.4) (34.5) - -
 531.0 245.0 - -
Amounts owed by subsidiaries - - 205.5 49.0
Other receivables, prepayments and accrued income 161.5 130.4 2.9 1.8
Trade and other receivables 692.5 375.4 208.4 50.8
The Group’s trade and other receivables at the balance sheet date comprise principally of amounts receivable from the sale of goods, together with amounts due 
in respect of rebates and sundry prepayments. The Directors consider the only class of asset containing significant credit risk is trade receivables. The average 
credit term taken for sales of goods is 55 days (2009: 54 days). 
The amounts presented in the balance sheet are net of allowances for doubtful debts of £44.4m (2009: £34.5m), estimated by the Group’s management 
based on prior experience and their assessment of the current economic environment. The Directors consider the carrying amount of trade and other receivables 
approximates their fair values.
No interest is charged on the trade receivable from the date of the invoice until the date the invoice is classified as overdue according to the trading terms agreed 
between the Group and the customer. Thereafter, the Group retains the right to charge interest between 2% to 4% above the clearing bank base rate per annum 
on the outstanding balance. The merchanting division has provided fully for all receivables outstanding over 90 days beyond agreed terms. Trade receivables not 
receivable for up to 90 days are specifically provided for based on estimated irrecoverable amounts. Trade receivables within the Bss division are provided for 
based on prior experience and assessment of the current economic environment. 
Movement in the allowance for doubtful debts
  THE GROuP
  –––––––––––––––––––––––––
   2010 2009
   £m £m
At 1 January   34.5 32.3
Arising on acquisition   5.2 -
Amounts written off during the year   (5.3) (10.2)
Increase in allowance recognised in the income statement   10.0 12.4
At 31 December   44.4 34.5
In determining the recoverability of the trade receivables, the Group considers any change in the credit quality of the trade receivable from the date credit was initially 
granted up to the reporting date. The concentration of credit risk is limited due to the customer base being large. Accordingly, the Directors believe that no further 
credit provision is required in excess of the allowance for doubtful debts.
Included in the Group’s trade receivable balance are unprovided against debtors with a carrying amount of £70.4m (2009: £20.9m) which are past due at the 
reporting date for which the Group has not identified a significant change in credit quality and as such, the Group considers that the amounts are still recoverable. 
Except for some instances of personal guarantees the Group does not hold any collateral over these balances.  110
NO TES T O THE FINANCIAL S TATEMENT S
 
20386.04 proof 2 31/03/11
110
19. TRADE AND OThER RECEIVABLES CONTINUED 
Ageing of past due but not impaired receivables
 
Days overdue
  THE GROuP
  –––––––––––––––––––––––––
   2010 2009
   £m £m
0 – 30 days   54.7 16.0
31 – 60 days   9.4 3.3
61 – 90 days   6.3 1.6
   70.4 20.9
Included in the allowance for doubtful debts are specific trade receivables with a balance of £24.0m (2009: £20.4m) which have been placed into liquidation. The 
impairment represents the difference between the carrying amount of the specific trade receivable and the amount it is anticipated will be recovered.
None of the Company’s debts are overdue. The directors do not consider there to be any significant credit risk, as the majority of the debt is due from subsidiaries.
20. ASSETS hELD FOR RESALE
To address competition concerns raised by the OFT arising on the acquisition of The Bss Group plc, Travis Perkins plc has given undertakings to dispose of 15 PTs 
and 4 CPs branches. The net book value of these assets has been transferred from fixed assets and held in current assets at net realisable value. 
The Group
    2010
    £m
Property plant and equipment    1.0
Inventories    3.1
Impairment of assets    (0.6)
Costs of disposal    (1.2)
    2.3
21. CASh AND CASh E qUIVALENTS
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash held by the Group and Company. The carrying amount of these assets approximates their fair value. NO TES T O THE FINANCIAL S TATEMENT S
 
20386.04 proof 2 31/03/11
111
22. ShARE CAPITAL
 THE GROuP AND THE COMPANY
 –––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
 Issued and fully paid
 –––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
Ordinary shares of 10p No. £m
At 1 January 2009  122,719,114  12.3
Allotted on rights issue  85,903,379  8.6
Allotted under share option schemes  8,973  -
At 1 January 2010  208,631,466  20.9
Allotted on acquisition of Bss  33,000,681  3.3
Allotted under share option schemes  69,770  -
At 31 December 2010  241,701,917  24.2
On 14 December 2010, Travis Perkins plc issued 33,000,681 ordinary shares at an issue price of £9.975 pursuant to the acquisition of the entire share capital 
of The Bss Group plc. 
The Company has one class of ordinary share that carries no right to fixed income. The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends as declared 
from time to time and are entitled to one vote per share at meetings of the Company. All shares rank equally with regard to the Company’s residual assets.
23. OWN ShARES
The Group and the Company
   2010 2009
   No. No.
At 1 January    7,000,690 5,684,680
Acquired during the year   - 1,316,010
Re-issued during the year   (38,760) -
At 31 December    6,961,930 7,000,690
Allocated to grants of executive options   289,142 289,142
Not allocated to grants of executive options   6,672,788 6,711,548
   6,961,930 7,000,690
The own shares are stated at cost and held by the Employee share Ownership Trust to satisfy options under the Group’s share option schemes. All rights attaching 
to own shares are suspended until the shares are re-issued. 
24. RESERVES
Details of all movements in reserves for both the Group and Company are shown in the statement of Changes in Equity. A description of the nature and purpose 
of each reserve is given below.
The revaluation reserve represents the revaluation surplus that has arisen from property revaluations in 1999 and prior years.
The hedging reserve comprises the effective portion of the cumulative net change in the fair value of cash flow hedging instruments related to hedged transactions 
that have yet to occur. 
The own shares reserve represents the cost of shares purchased in the market and held by the Employee share Ownership Trust to satisfy options under the 
Group’s share option schemes.
The merger reserve represents the premium on equity instruments issued as consideration for the acquisition of Bss.
The cumulative total of goodwill written off directly to reserves for acquisitions from December 1989 to December 1998 is £40.1m. The aggregate information 
for the accounting periods prior to this period is not available. 112
NO TES T O THE FINANCIAL S TATEMENT S
 
20386.04 proof 2 31/03/11
112
25. BORROWINGS
A summary of the Group policies and strategies with regard to financial instruments can be found in the statement of Principal Risks and uncertanties on pages 49 
to 51. At 31 December 2010 all borrowings were made in sterling except for the unsecured senior notes (note 25 (i)).
(a) Summary
 THE GROuP THE COMPANY
 ––––––––––––––––––––––––– –––––––––––––––––––––––––
 2010 2009 2010 2009 
 £m £m £m £m
unsecured senior notes 366.0 271.7 286.4 271.7
Liability to pension sPV (note 8) 36.1 - - -
Bank loans (note 25c) * 401.9 525.0 475.0 525.0
Bank overdraft* 12.0 - 1.9 4.0
Finance leases (note 25d) 21.8 23.5 - -
Loan notes (note 25e) 3.3 3.8 3.3 3.8
Finance charges netted off bank debt*  (4.6) (9.6) (4.6) (9.6)
 836.5 814.4 762.0 794.9
Current liabilities 75.6 75.3 75.2 77.8
Non-current liabilities 760.9 739.1 686.8 717.1
 836.5 814.4 762.0 794.9
*These balances together total the amounts shown as bank loans in note 25(b). 
(b) Analysis of borrowings
The Group
 Bank loans  
  and overdrafts Other borrowings
 ––––––––––––––––––––––––– –––––––––––––––––––––––––
 2010 2009 2010 2009
 £m £m £m £m
Borrowings repayable 
On demand or within one year 70.8 70.0 4.8 5.3
More than one year, but not more than two years 58.8 70.0 1.5 1.5
More than two years, but not more than five years 279.7 375.4 187.8 140.6
More than five years - - 233.1 151.6
 409.3 515.4 427.2 299.0
The Company
 Bank loans  
  and overdrafts Other borrowings
 ––––––––––––––––––––––––– –––––––––––––––––––––––––
 2010 2009 2010 2009
 £m £m £m £m
Borrowings repayable     
On demand or within one year 71.9 74.0 3.3 3.8
More than one year, but not more than two years 70.0 70.0 142.2 -
More than two years, but not more than five years 330.4 375.4 - 135.9
More than five years - - 144.2 135.8
 472.3 519.4 289.7 275.5 NO TES T O THE FINANCIAL S TATEMENT S
 
20386.04 proof 2 31/03/11
113
25. BORROWINGS CONTINUED
(c) Facilities
At 31 December 2010, the Group had the following bank facilities available:
 THE GROuP THE COMPANY
 ––––––––––––––––––––––––– –––––––––––––––––––––––––
 2010 2009 2010 2009 
 £m £m £m £m
Drawn facilities     
5 year term loan 382.0 525.0 455.0 525.0
5 year revolving credit facility 20.0 - 20.0 -
unsecured senior notes 366.0 271.7 286.4 271.7
Bank overdrafts 12.0 - 1.9 4.0
 780.0 796.7 763.3 800.7
Undrawn facilities    
5 year revolving credit facility 455.0 475.0 455.0 475.0
Bank overdrafts 38.4 40.0 38.1 -
 493.4 515.0 493.1 475.0
The disclosures in note 25(c) do not include finance leases, loan notes, or the effect of finance charges netted off bank debt.
(d) Obligations under finance leases
The Group
  Present value 
 Minimum of minimum 
 lease payments lease payments
 ––––––––––––––––––––––––– –––––––––––––––––––––––––
 2010 2009 2010 2009 
 £m £m £m £m
Amounts payable under finance leases:     
  
Within one year 2.7 2.8 1.5 1.5
In the second to fifth years inclusive 10.3 10.7 6.3 6.3
After five years 23.6 26.2 14.0 15.7
 36.6 39.7 21.8 23.5
Less: future finance charges (14.8) (16.2) - -
Present value of lease obligations 21.8 23.5 21.8 23.5
Less: Amount due for settlement within 1 year (shown under current liabilities)   (1.5) (1.5)
Amount due for settlement after 1 year   20.3 22.0
As a result of the introduction of IAs 17 – ‘Leases’, the Group considers certain properties to be subject to finance leases. Excluding 999 year leases, the average 
loan term for these properties is 49 years and the average borrowing rate has been determined at the inception of the lease to be 8.9%. In addition the Group leases 
certain fixtures and equipment under finance leases, the obligations for which are secured by the lessors’ charges over the leased assets. The average lease term 
is 3-4 years. For the year ended 31 December 2010, the average implicit borrowing rate was 12.9% (2009: 13.4%). Interest rates are fixed at the contract date. All 
lease obligations, which are denominated in sterling, are on a fixed repayment basis and no arrangements have been entered into for contingent rental payments.
(e) Loan notes 
Included in borrowings due within one year are £3.3m (2009: £3.8m) in respect of loan notes issued as consideration for the acquisition of Broombys Limited in 
1999. They are redeemable on 30 June and 31 December each year until the final redemption date of 30 June 2015. 
  114
NO TES T O THE FINANCIAL S TATEMENT S
 
20386.04 proof 2 31/03/11
114
25. BORROWINGS CONTINUED
(f) Interest
The weighted average interest rates paid were as follows:   2010 2009
   % %
unsecured senior notes   5.8 5.8
Bank loans and overdraft   1.8 2.2
Other borrowings   6.0 5.4
Bank term loans and revolving credit facilities of £857m (2009: £1,000m) were arranged at variable interest rates. The $400m unsecured Travis Perkins senior 
notes and the $125m unsecured Bss Group senior notes were issued at fixed rates of interest and swapped into variable rates. This exposes the Group to fair 
value interest rate risk. As detailed in note 26, to manage the risk the Group enters into interest rate derivatives arrangements, which for 2010, fixed interest rates 
on an average of £523m of borrowing. For the year to 31 December 2010 this had the effect of increasing the weighted average interest rates paid by 1.25%.
In respect of income earning financial assets and interest bearing financial liabilities, the following table indicates their effective interest rates at the balance 
sheet date and the periods in which they reprice.
The Group
 2010 2009
 ––––––––––––––––––––––––– –––––––––––––––––––––––––
  6 months or less   6 months or less
 Effective Total Effective Total
 interest rate £m  interest rate  £m
unsecured senior notes 5.8% 366.0 5.8% 271.7
unsecured variable rate bank facilities 1.8% 401.9 1.8% 525.0
Loan notes 6.0% 3.3 5.6% 3.8
Bank overdraft 2.3% 12.0 2.3% -
  783.2  800.5
The Company
 2010 2009
 ––––––––––––––––––––––––– –––––––––––––––––––––––––
  6 months or less   6 months or less
 Effective Total Effective Total
 interest rate £m  interest rate  £m
unsecured senior notes 5.8% 286.4 5.8% 271.7
unsecured variable rate bank facilities 1.8% 475.0 1.8% 525.0
Loan notes 6.0% 3.3 5.6% 3.8
Bank overdraft 2.3% 1.9 2.3% 4.0
  766.6  804.5
(g) Fair values
For both the Group and the Company the fair values of financial assets and liabilities have been calculated by discounting expected cash flows at prevailing rates at 
31 December. There were no significant differences between book and fair values on this basis and therefore no further information is disclosed. Details about the 
fair values of derivatives are given in note 26.
(h) Guarantees and security
There are cross guarantees on the overdrafts between group companies.
The companies listed in note 18, with the exception of Benchmarx kitchens and Joinery Limited, Tile Giant Limited, PTs Group Limited and The Bss Group 
Limited, together with Wickes Limited are guarantors of the following facilities advanced to Travis Perkins plc:
●
  £382m term loan;
●
  £475m revolving credit facility;
●
  $400m unsecured senior notes (note 25(i));
●
  Interest rate and currency derivatives, (note 26).
The Bss Group Limited and PTs Group Limited along with 10 dormant subsidiaries are guarantors of $125m of the unsecured senior notes.
The group companies have entered into other guarantee and counter-indemnity arrangements in respect of guarantees issued in favour of group companies by 
the clearing banks amounting to approximately £21.1m (2009: £13.7m). NO TES T O THE FINANCIAL S TATEMENT S
 
20386.04 proof 2 31/03/11
115
25. BORROWINGS CONTINUED
(i) Unsecured senior notes
On 26 January 2006 the Group finalised a us private placement that resulted in it receiving $400m. $200m of the unsecured senior notes is repayable in January 
2013 and $200m in January 2016. The us borrowings carry fixed rate coupons of between 130 bps and 140 bps over us treasuries. As described in note 26, to 
protect itself from currency movements and bring interest rate exposures back into line with the Group’s desired risk profile the Group entered into five cross currency 
swaps. On 11 May 2006 The Bss Group plc finalised a us private placement that resulted in it receiving $125m and repaying the sterling equivalent outstanding 
on the revolving credit facility. Of this borrowing $75m is repayable in May 2013 with the remaining $50m repayable in May 2016. In order to protect itself against 
currency movements and interest rate exposures the Bss Group entered into three cross currency interest rate swaps.
26. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
Significant accounting policies
Details of the significant accounting policies and methods adopted, including the criteria for recognition, the basis of measurement and the basis on which income 
and expenses are recognised, in respect of each class of financial asset, financial liability and equity instrument are disclosed in note 2 to the financial statements.
The carrying value of categories of financial instruments
 THE GROuP THE COMPANY
 ––––––––––––––––––––––––– –––––––––––––––––––––––––
 2010 2009 2010 2009 
 £m £m £m £m
Financial assets     
Designated as fair value through profit and loss (FVTPL) 0.1 - 0.1 -
Derivative instruments in designated hedge accounting relationships 56.9 44.7 0.3 44.7
Loans and receivables (including cash and cash equivalents) 685.2 671.8 395.2 367.8
Available-for-sale 1.5 1.5 - -
 743.7 718.0 395.6 412.5
    
Financial liabilities     
Designated as fair value through profit and loss (FVTPL) 4.1 3.5 124.7 3.5
Derivative instruments in designated hedge accounting relationships  2.6 2.6 2.6 2.6
Borrowings (note 25a) 836.5 814.4 762.0 794.9
Trade and other payables at amortised cost (note 29)  831.0 638.7 26.7 19.6
 1,674.2 1,459.2 916.0 820.6
Loans and receivables exclude prepayments of £70.2m (2009: £50.8m). Trade and other payables exclude taxation and social security and accruals and deferred 
income totalling £168.9m.
The carrying amount of financial assets recorded in the financial statements, which is net of impairment losses, represents the Group’s maximum exposure to 
credit risk.
Fair value of financial instruments
The fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities are determined as follows:
●
   Foreign currency forward contracts are measured using quoted forward exchange rates. 
●
   Interest rate swaps are measured at the present value of future cash flows estimated and discounted based on the applicable yield curves derived from quoted 
interest rates.
The following table provides an analysis of financial instruments that are measured subsequent to initial recognition at fair value, grouped into Levels 1 to 3 based 
on the degree to which the fair value is observable:
●
   Level 1 fair value measurements are those derived from quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities;
●
   Level 2 fair value measurements are those derived from inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability 
either directly (i.e. as prices ) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices); and
●
   Level 3 fair value measurements are those derived from valuation techniques that include inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market 
data (unobservable inputs).
There were no transfers between levels during the year. 116
NO TES T O THE FINANCIAL S TATEMENT S
 
20386.04 proof 2 31/03/11
116
26. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED
Included in assets
 THE GROuP THE COMPANY
 ––––––––––––––––––––––––– –––––––––––––––––––––––––
 2010 2009 2010 2009 
 £m £m £m £m
Level 2   
Foreign currency forward contracts at fair value through profit and loss 0.1 - 0.1 -
Foreign currency forward contracts designated and effective as 
hedging instruments carried at fair value 0.3 - 0.3 -
Cross currency interest rate swaps designated and effective as 
hedging instruments carried at fair value 54.1 44.7 - 44.7
Cross currency interest rate swaps designated and effective as 
cash hedging instruments 2.5 - - -
 57.0 44.7 0.4 44.7
    
Current assets 0.1 - 0.1 -
Non-current assets 56.9 44.7 0.3 6.1
 57.0 44.7 0.4 6.1
Included in liabilities     
Level 2    
Foreign currency forward contracts at fair value through profit and loss 1.0 - 1.0 -
Interest rate swaps at fair value through profit and loss  4.1 3.5 4.1 3.5
Interest rate swaps designated and effective as cash hedging instruments 1.6 2.6 1.6 2.6
Cross currency interest rate swaps designated and effective 
as hedging instruments carried at fair value  - - 120.5 -
 6.7 6.1 127.2 6.1
   
Current liabilities 2.5 - 2.5 -
Non-current liabilities 4.2 6.1 124.7 6.1
 6.7 6.1 127.2 6.1
Interest risk management
The Group is exposed to interest rate risk as entities in the Group borrow funds at both fixed and floating interest rates. The risk is managed by the Group by 
maintaining an appropriate mix between fixed and floating rate borrowings, by the use of interest rate swap contracts and forward interest rate contracts. Hedging 
activities are evaluated regularly to align with interest rate views and defined risk appetite, ensuring optimal hedging strategies are applied, by either positioning 
the balance sheet or protecting interest expense through different interest rate cycles.
Interest rate swaps
The Group adopts a policy of ensuring that its exposure to changes in interest rates on borrowings is either on a fixed rate basis or is subject to movements within 
pre-defined limits. To achieve its desired interest rate profile the Group uses interest rate swaps. 
As part of their interest rate management processes, in respect of the facilities described in note 25, the Group and the Company at the commencement of the 
year were parties to four amortising swaps each with an initial notional value of £100m, two amortising swaps with an initial notional value of £50m and two non 
amortising swaps each with a notional value of £50m. Contracts with notional values of £400m are designated as cash flow hedges with fixed interest payments 
at an average rate of 1.51% for periods up until May 2011 and have floating interest receipts equal to 1 month LIBOR. The non-amortising interest rate swap with 
a call option has a notional value of £50m with fixed interest payments at a rate of 4.595% for periods up until October 2013 and has floating interest payments 
equal to 6 month LIBOR.
At 31 December 2010 the fair value of interest rate derivatives, all of which terminate before three years from the balance sheet date, to which the Group and 
the Company were parties was estimated at £5.7m (2009: £6.1m). This amount is based on market values of equivalent instruments at the balance sheet date. 
Interest rate swaps excluding those with a call option are designated and effective as cash flow hedges and the fair value thereof has been deferred in equity. A 
credit of £0.7m (2009: £4.7m) in respect of the fair value movement on interest rate swaps with a call option has been taken to the income statement through 
net finance charges as the Company has not applied hedge accounting.
Interest rate swap contracts
under interest rate swap contracts, the Group agrees to exchange the difference between fixed and floating interest rate amounts calculated on agreed notional 
principal amounts. such contracts enable the Group to mitigate the risk of changing interest rates on the fair value of issued fixed rate debt held and the cash  NO TES T O THE FINANCIAL S TATEMENT S
 
20386.04 proof 2 31/03/11
117
26. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED
flow exposures on the issued variable rate debt held. The fair value of interest rate swaps at the reporting date is determined by discounting the future cash flows 
using the curves at the reporting date and the credit risk inherent in the contract, and is disclosed below. The average interest rate is based on the outstanding 
balances at the end of the financial year.
The following tables detail the notional principal amounts and remaining terms of interest rate swap contracts as at the reporting date:
Cash flow hedges – outstanding receive floating pay fixed contracts
   
  Average contract fixed interest rate  Notional principle amount Fair value
 –––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– –––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– ––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 
 % % £m £m £m £m
Less than 1 year 1.52% - 400.0 - (1.6) -
1 to 2 years - 1.51% - 530.0 - (2.6)
Greater than 5 years 5.40% - 29.0 - 2.5 -
   429.0 530.0 0.9 (2.6)
The interest rate swaps settle on a monthly basis. The floating rate on the interest rate swaps is 1 month LIBOR. The Group will settle the difference between 
the fixed and floating interest rate on a net basis. All interest rate swap contracts exchanging floating rate interest amounts for fixed rate interest amounts are 
designated as cash flow hedges in order to reduce the Group’s cash flow exposure resulting from variable interest rates on borrowings. The interest rate swaps 
and the interest rate payments on the loan occur simultaneously and the amount deferred in equity is recognised in the income statement over the period that the 
floating rate interest payments on debt impact profit or loss.
Currency swaps
In order to eliminate the currency risk associated with the $400m unsecured senior notes described in note 25(i) the Group and the Company entered into five 
cross currency swaps in varying amounts between £23m and £63m to fix the exchange rate at £1 equal to $1.73 for the entire lives of the unsecured loan notes. 
The forward options fixed the notional amount receivable and payable in respect of the unsecured senior notes to £231m as well as fixing the exchange rate 
applicable to future coupon payments.
During the year the Group and Company novated one cross currency interest rate swap with a notional value of $110m and a sterling equivalent of £63m 
for total proceeds of £13.7m in the Group and £16.3m in the Company. The proceeds are being amortised to the income statement over the remain life of the 
unsecured senior notes.
The remaining currency swaps manage the Group’s and the Company’s exposure to the fixed interest rate on the us dollar denominated borrowing arising out of 
a private placement on 26 January 2006. There are two interest rate swaps of £58m that convert the borrowing rate on $200m of debt from 5.77% to a variable 
rate on 6 month LIBOR plus a weighted average basis point increment of 81.9. At 26 January 2006 the variable rates were both at 5.43%. A further two interest 
rate swaps of £29m and £23m convert the borrowing rates on us$50m, us$40m of debt from 5.89% to a variable rate based on six month LIBOR plus basis point 
increment of 86.5 and 86.7 respectively. At 26 January 2006 the variable rates were at weighted average 5.47%.
In order to eliminate the currency risk associated with the Bss private placement of $125m The Bss Group plc entered into three cross currency interest rate 
swaps to fix the exchange rate at £1 equal to $1.73 for the entire duration of the private placement. The interest rate swaps settle on a half yearly basis. The floating 
rate on the interest rate swaps is six month LIBOR. There are two interest rate swaps on the seven year borrowing of £29m and £14m that convert the borrowings 
on $50m and $25m respectively from 5.8% to a variable rate on six month LIBOR plus a basis point increment of 64.75 and 66.79. At 31 December 2010 the 
fair value of cross currency derivatives was estimated at £54.1m (2009: £44.7m). All of these currency swaps are designated and effective as fair value hedges.
 A further interest rate swap on the ten year borrowing of £29m converts the borrowing on the $50m debt from 5.91% to a fixed rate of 4.7% plus a basis point 
increment of 70.75. This is accounted for as a cash flow hedge. At 31 December 2010 this cash flow hedge had an estimated fair value of £2.5m.
In April 2010 the Group and the Company entered into three forward contracts to purchase us$ with a notional value of $30m each and one with a notional 
value of £20m. These contracts have a maturity date of January 2016. At 31 December 2010 the fair value of these forward contracts was estimated at £0.3m.
The interest rate swaps settle on a half yearly basis. The floating rate on the interest rate swaps is 6 months LIBOR. The Group will settle the difference between 
the fixed and floating interest on a net basis.
Fair value hedges – outstanding receive fixed pay floating contracts
  Average contract floating interest rate  Notional principle amount Fair value
 –––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– –––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– ––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 
 % % £m £m £m £m
2 to 5 years 1.8% 2.9% 158.6 115.6 38.7 21.6
Greater than 5 years 1.8% 2.9% 52.0 115.6 15.4 23.1
   210.6 231.2 54.1 44.7 118
NO TES T O THE FINANCIAL S TATEMENT S
 
20386.04 proof 2 31/03/11
118
26. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED
Interest rate swap contracts exchanging fixed rate interest for floating rate interest are designated and effective as fair value hedges in respect of interest rates. 
During the period, the hedge was 100% effective in hedging the fair value exposure to interest movements and as a result, the carrying amount of the loan was 
adjusted by £38.4m (2009: £39.7m), which was included in the income statement at the same time that the fair value of the interest rate swap was included in 
the income statement.
The Group acquires goods for sale from overseas, which when not denominated in sterling are paid for principally in us dollars. The Group has entered into 
forward foreign exchange contracts (all of which are less than one year in duration) to buy us dollars to hedge the exchange risk arising from these anticipated 
future purchases. At the balance sheet date the total notional value of contracts to which the Group was committed was us$93.6m (2009: us$40m). The fair value 
of these derivatives is £1.0m (2009: £0m). These contracts have not been designated as hedges and accordingly the fair value movement has been reflected in 
the income statement.
On 15 October 2010 the Company derecognised the dollar receivable on $273m of cross currency interest rate swaps and transferred the rights to that 
receivable to a subsidiary. The dollar legs had maturity dates and amounts of $188m in January 2013 and $85m in January 2016. The total fair value of the 
dollar cross currency interest rate swaps in the Company is £120.5m. On the 15 October the Company subscribed to $273m of dollar preference shares issued 
by a subsidiary company. These preference shares carry a right to receive interest and a total credit of £2.1m has been recognised in the income statement. The 
investment in the preference shares has been retranslated at year end rates with a gain of £4.3m being recognised in the income statement.
The following table details the Group’s liquidity analysis for its derivative financial instruments and other financial liabilities. The table has been drawn up based 
on the undiscounted net cash inflows / (outflows) on the derivative instrument that settle on a net basis and the undiscounted gross inflows and (outflows) on 
those derivatives that require gross settlement. When the amount payable or receivable is not fixed, the amount disclosed has been determined by reference to 
the projected interest and foreign currency rates as illustrated by the yield curves existing at the reporting date.
  2010
  ––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
  0-1 year 1-2 years 2-5 years 5+ years Total 
  £m £m £m £m £m
Gross settled      
Interest rate swaps – receipts  10.8 10.8 141.7 59.2 222.5
Interest rate swaps – payments  (2.9) (3.6) (122.0) (52.6) (181.1)
  7.9 7.2 19.7 6.6 41.4
Foreign exchange forward contracts  (57.4) - - (0.4) (57.8)
Total gross settled  (49.5) 7.2 19.7 6.2 (16.4)
Net settled     
Interest rate swaps  (0.8) (0.9) 1.1 0.1 (0.5)
Total derivative financial instruments  (50.3) 6.3 20.8 6.3 (16.9)
Borrowings  (93.7) (78.5) (508.2) (211.3) (891.7)
Other financial liabilities (note 29)  (831.0) - - - (831.0)
Finance leases (note 25d)  (2.7) (2.7) (7.6) (23.6) (36.6)
Total financial instruments  (977.7) (74.9) (495.0) (228.6) (1,776.2)
  2009
  ––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
  0-1 year 1-2 years 2-5 years 5+ years Total 
  £m £m £m £m £m
Gross settled     
Interest rate swaps – receipts  14.5 14.5 157.4 135.4 321.8
Interest rate swaps – payments  (3.7) (4.5) (132.4) (122.9) (263.5)
  10.8 10.0 25.0 12.5 58.3
Foreign exchange forward contracts  (26.8) - - - (26.8)
Total gross settled  (16.0) 10.0 25.0 12.5 31.5
Net settled     
Interest rate swaps  (1.9) (6.0) (2.2) - (10.1)
Total derivative financial instruments  (17.9) 4.0 22.8 12.5 21.4
Borrowings  (73.8) (70.0) (520.9) (135.8) (800.5)
Other financial liabilities (note 29)  (638.7) - - - (638.7)
Finance leases (note 25d)  (2.8) (2.8) (7.9) (26.2) (39.7)
Total financial instruments  (733.2) (68.8) (506.0) (149.5) (1,457.5) NO TES T O THE FINANCIAL S TATEMENT S
 
20386.04 proof 2 31/03/11
119
26. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED
Interest rate sensitivity analysis
The sensitivity analyses below have been determined based on the exposure to interest rates for both derivatives and non-derivative financial instruments at the 
balance sheet date. For floating rate liabilities, the analysis is prepared assuming that the amount of liability outstanding at the balance sheet date was outstanding 
for the whole year. A 1.0% increase or decrease is used when reporting interest rate risk internally to key management personnel. If interest rates had been 1.0% 
higher / lower and all other variables were held constant, the Group’s:
●
   Profit before taxation for the year ended 31 December 2010 would have decreased / increased by £0.2m (2009: increased / decreased by £3m) including £1m 
(2009: £2m) of movement on interest rate swaps with options;
●
   Net equity would have increased / decreased by £0.2m (2009: increased / decreased by £6m) mainly as a result of the changes in the fair value of interest rate 
derivatives.
The Group’s sensitivity to interest rates has decreased during the current period mainly due to the increase in the nominal value of interest rate derivatives.
 27. PR OVIS I ONS
  
 THE GROuP 
 –––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
 Property Insurance  Other Total 
 £m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2010  58.3 28.8 2.2 89.3
Arising on acquisition 3.4 2.0 - 5.4
Additional provision in the year 0.2 2.6 0.8 3.6
Exceptional provision release (2.1) - - (2.1)
utilisation of provision (8.0) (1.9) - (9.9)
unwinding of discount 2.8 - - 2.8
At 31 December 2010 54.6 31.5 3.0 89.1
Included in current liabilities 18.6 31.5 3.0 53.1
Included in non-current liabilities 36.0 - - 36.0
 54.6 31.5 3.0 89.1
The Group has a number of vacant and partly sub-let leasehold properties. Where necessary provision has been made for the residual lease commitments after 
taking into account existing and anticipated sub-tenant arrangements. 
It is Group policy to substantially self insure itself against claims arising in respect of damage to assets, or due to employers or public liability claims. The nature 
of insurance claims means they may take some time to be settled. The insurance claims provision represents management’s best estimate, based upon external 
advice of the value of outstanding insurance claims where the final settlement date is uncertain.
The following table details the Group’s liquidity analysis of its provisions. The table has been drawn up based on the undiscounted net cash outflows.
  0-1 year 1-2 years 2-5 years 5+ years Total 
2010  £m £m £m £m £m
Property  17.0 8.7 18.1 28.5 72.3
Insurance  31.5 - - - 31.5
Other  3.0 - - - 3.0
  51.5 8.7 18.1 28.5 106.8
     
2009     
Property  13.7 9.3 23.2 31.8 78.0
Insurance  28.8 - - - 28.8
Other  2.2 - - - 2.2
  44.7 9.3 23.2 31.8 109.0
The Company has no provisions. 120
NO TES T O THE FINANCIAL S TATEMENT S
 
20386.04 proof 2 31/03/11
120
 28. DEFERRED TAX
The following are the major deferred tax liabilities and assets recognised by the Group and movements thereon during the current and prior reporting periods.
The Group         
      Recognised in    
 At 1 Jan Recognised Recognised At 31 Dec Acquired  non-current Recognised Recognised At 31 Dec  
 2009 in income in equity 2009  in year  assets in income in equity 2010 
 £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Capital allowances 13.9 (2.3) - 11.6 (0.3) - (4.7) - 6.6
Revaluation 12.1 - - 12.1 0.3 - - (0.4) 12.0
share based payments - (3.0) (0.8) (3.8) (0.1) - (1.8) (5.9) (11.6)
Provisions (10.4) (0.3) - (10.7) (0.1) - (1.1) - (11.9)
Derivatives - - (4.6) (4.6) 0.6 - - 2.1 (1.9)
Business combinations 13.6 (0.9) - 12.7 - 5.4 (1.4) - 16.7
Brand 45.5 - - 45.5 3.9 60.6 (1.6) - 108.4
Pension scheme surplus - - - - - - 3.9 4.7 8.6
Deferred tax liability 74.7 (6.5) (5.4) 62.8 4.3 66.0 (6.7) 0.5 126.9
Deferred tax asset (19.5) 15.4 (7.9) (12.0) (16.4) - 12.0 - (16.4)
Net deferred tax 55.2 8.9 (13.3) 50.8 (12.1) 66.0 5.3 0.5 110.5
At the balance sheet date the Group had unused capital losses of £59.3m (2009: £59.3m) available for offset against future capital profits. No deferred tax asset 
has been recognised because it is not probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the Group can utilise the losses.
Other than disclosed above, no deferred tax assets and liabilities have been offset. 
The Group has recognised a deferred tax asset of £16.4m (2009: £12.0m) in respect of the deficit on the Bss group pension schemes. The Directors believe 
that the deferred tax asset will be realised as the deficit is reduced over the coming years. 
The Company    
 At 1 Jan Recognised Recognised  At 31 Dec Recognised Recognised At 31 Dec
  2009 in equity in income 2009 in income in equity 2010 
Provided £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
share based payments - (3.0) (0.8) (3.8) (1.8) (5.9) (11.5)
Derivatives - - (4.6) (4.6) - 2.1 (2.5)
Provisions (0.7) 0.1 - (0.6) (0.1) - (0.7)
 (0.7) (2.9) (5.4) (9.0) (1.9) (3.8) (14.7)
29. OThER FINANCIAL LIABILITIES
 
 THE GROuP THE COMPANY
 ––––––––––––––––––––––––– –––––––––––––––––––––––––
 2010 2009 2010 2009 
 £m £m £m £m
Trade payables 684.7 408.9 - -
Other taxation and social security 50.1 33.7 - -
Other payables 146.3 98.6 26.7 19.6
Accruals and deferred income 118.8 97.5 - -
Trade and other payables 999.9 638.7 26.7 19.6
The Group 
Trade and other payables principally comprise amounts outstanding for trade purchases and ongoing costs. The average credit period taken for trade purchases 
is 55 days (2009: 52 days). The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade payables approximates to their fair value. The Group has financial risk 
management policies in place to ensure that all payables are paid within the credit timeframe. NO TES T O THE FINANCIAL S TATEMENT S
 
20386.04 proof 2 31/03/11
121
29. OThER FINANCIAL LIABILITIES CONTINUED
The Company
Trade and other payables principally comprise amounts outstanding for trade purchases and ongoing costs. The average credit period taken for trade purchases 
is 30 days (2009: 30 days). The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade payables approximates to their fair value.
30. ACqUISITION OF BUSINESSES
(a) The BSS Group plc (2009: other)
On the 14 December 2010 the Group acquired the entire issued share capital of The Bss Group plc. The acquisition was accounted for using the purchase method 
of accounting. The acquisition has created the leading plumbing and heating distribution business in the uk.
  2010 2009 
  Provisional fair value acquired Fair value acquired 
  £m £m
Net assets acquired:  
Property, plant and equipment  36.5 -
Identifiable intangible assets  257.3 -
Derivative financial instruments  14.9 -
Investments  0.1 -
Inventories  199.7 - 
Trade and other receivables  316.8 0.1
Retirement benefit obligations  (59.6) -
Trade and other payables  (242.0) 0.4
Provisions  (5.4) -
Deferred tax liabilities  (53.9) -
Current tax liabilities  (3.5) -
Bank overdrafts and loans  (174.6) (1.8)
  286.3 (1.3)
Goodwill  337.6 1.4
Deferred consideration  - 0.9
Amount payable  623.9 1.0
Satisfied by:  
Cash  294.7 1.0
Equity instruments (closing price on 14 December 2010)  329.2 -
  623.9 1.0
Due to the close proximity of the date of acquisition of The Bss Group plc to the Group’s year-end it has not been possible to undertake all of the reviews that the 
Directors of Travis Perkins believe are necessary to finalise the fair value adjustments relating to the Bss balance sheet on the acquisition date. Accordingly the fair 
values ascribed to assets and liabilities in the table above are provisional and will be subject to change in the 2011 statutory accounts.
Expenses incurred on the acquisition of The Bss Group plc are discussed in note 5. The total amount of goodwill expected to be deductible for tax purposes 
is nil. The fair value of the financial assets include trade and other receivables with a fair value of £311.6m and a gross contractual value of £316.8m. The best 
estimate at the acquisition date of the contractual cash flows not to be collected are £5.2m.
The identifiable intangible assets comprise customer relationships of £134.8m, brands acquired of £112.9m and computer software of £9.6m.
If the acquisition of The Bss Group plc had been completed on the first day of the financial year, group revenues for the period would have been £4,599m and 
group operating profit would have been £300m.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions
The goodwill arising on the acquisition made during the year is attributable to the anticipated profitability of this acquisition and the future operating synergies 
arising in the enlarged group.  122
NO TES T O THE FINANCIAL S TATEMENT S
 
20386.04 proof 2 31/03/11
122
30. ACqUISITION OF BUSINESSES CONTINUED
(b) Other acquisitions
The Group paid £0.2m for other immaterial acquisitions during 2010. 
31. OPERATING LEASE ARRANGEMENTS
The Group leases a number of trading properties under operating leases. The leases are typically 25 years in duration, although some have lessee only break 
clauses of between 10 and 15 years. Lease payments are reviewed every five years and increases applied in line with market rates. The Group also leases certain 
items of plant and equipment. The Company has no operating lease arrangements.
The Group as lessee   2010 2009
   £m £m
Minimum lease payments under operating leases recognised in income for the year   143.4 135.4
At the balance sheet date, the Group had outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases, which fall due 
as follows:
   2010 2009
   £m £m
Within one year   167.4 136.2
In the second to fifth years inclusive   576.7 489.9
After five years   1,153.9 1,086.8
   1,898.0 1,712.9
The Group as lessor
The Group sublets a number of ex-trading properties to third parties. Property rental income earned during the year in respect of these properties was £4.0m 
(2009: £4.7m).
At the balance sheet date, the Group had contracts with tenants for the following future minimum lease payments:
   2010 2009
   £m £m
Within one year   3.6 3.6
In the second to fifth years inclusive   11.1 12.6
After five years   14.1 15.8
   28.8 32.0
32. RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS
The Group has a related party relationship with its subsidiaries and with its directors. Transactions between group companies, which are related parties, have 
been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in this note. Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries are disclosed below. In addition the 
remuneration, and the details of interests in the share capital of the Company, of the Directors, are provided in the audited part of the remuneration report on 
pages 66 to 71.
The remuneration of the key management personnel of the Group is set out below in aggregate for each of the categories specified in IAs 24 Related Party 
Disclosures.
   2010 2009
   £m £m
short term employee benefits   8.0 6.6
share based payments   3.0 2.3
   11.0 8.9 NO TES T O THE FINANCIAL S TATEMENT S
 
20386.04 proof 2 31/03/11
123
32. RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS CONTINUED
The Company undertakes the following transactions with its active subsidiaries:
●
  Providing day-to-day funding from its uk banking facilities;
●
   Levying an annual management charge to cover services provided to members of the Group of £6.9m (2009: £6.9m);
●
  Receiving annual dividends totalling £40.3m (2009: £122.4m).
Details of balances outstanding with subsidiary companies are shown in note 19 and on the Balance sheet on page 82.
There have been no material related party transactions with directors.
Details of transactions with the Group’s Associate Companies Toolstation and The Mosaic Tile Company Limited are shown in note 18. Operating transactions with 
both associates during the year were not significant. 
33. CAPITAL COMMITMENTS
 THE GROuP THE COMPANY
 ––––––––––––––––––––––––– –––––––––––––––––––––––––
 2010 2009 2010 2009 
 £m £m £m £m
Contracted for but not provided in the accounts 16.1 4.2 - -
34. NET DEBT RECONCILIATION
 THE GROuP THE COMPANY
 ––––––––––––––––––––––––– –––––––––––––––––––––––––
 2010 2009 2010 2009 
 £m £m £m £m
Net debt at 1 January (467.2) (1,017.4) (477.9) (1,091.6)
(Decrease) / increase in cash and cash equivalents (296.3) 351.8 (302.5) 416.8
Net debt arising on acquisition (174.6) - - -
Cash flows from debt 167.6 161.6 34.3 160.1
Decrease / (increase) in fair value of debt 3.1 39.7 (2.1) 39.7
Finance charges netted off bank debt (5.7) (2.9) (5.0) (2.9)
Amortisation of swap cancellation receipt 1.0 - 3.6 -
Discount unwind on pension sPV (1.5) - - -
Net debt at 31 December (773.6) (467.2) (749.6) (477.9)
35. GEARING 
  THE GROuP
  –––––––––––––––––––––––––
   2010 2009 
   £m £m
Net debt under IFRs   (773.6) (467.2)
IAs 17 finance leases   21.9 23.2
swap cancellation receipt   5.1 -
Fair value on debt acquired   12.4 -
Fair value adjustment to debt   37.4 40.5
Finance charges netted off bank debt   (4.6) (9.6)
Net debt under covenant calculations   (701.4) (413.1)
Total equity   1,951.8 1,460.4
Gearing   36.0% 28.3% 124
NO TES T O THE FINANCIAL S TATEMENT S
 
20386.04 proof 2 31/03/11
124
36. FREE CASh FLOW
  THE GROuP
  –––––––––––––––––––––––––
   2010 2009 
   £m £m
Net debt at 1 January   (467.2) (1,017.4)
Net debt at 31 December   (773.6) (467.2)
(Decrease) / increase in net debt   (306.4) 550.2
Dividends paid   10.1 -
Net cash outflow for expansion capital expenditure   29.0 11.1
Net cash outflow for acquisitions   294.9 -
Net cash outflow for acquisition of investments   - 1.0
swap cancellation fee   - 28.7
Amortisation of swap cancellation receipt   (0.9) -
Discount unwind on sPV   1.5 -
Cash impact of exceptional items   7.6 2.5
Interest in associate   12.5 12.9
shares issued   (0.3) (300.3)
Decrease in fair value of debt   (3.1) (39.7)
Movement in finance charges netted off bank debt   5.7 2.9
Net debt arising on Bss on acquisition   174.6 -
special pension contributions   52.6 25.1
Free cash flow    277.8 294.4
 
37. ADJUSTED RETURN ON EqUITY AND ADJUSTED RETURN ON CAPITAL
Adjusted return on equity 
  THE GROuP
  –––––––––––––––––––––––––
   2010 2009 
   £m £m
Profit before tax   196.8 212.7
Amortisation of intangible assets   0.2 -
Exceptional items   19.7 (32.7)
Bss post acquisition loss before tax   2.8 -
Adjusted profit before tax   219.5 180.0
Opening equity   1,460.4 1,018.2
Net pension deficit   31.0 50.4
Goodwill written off   92.7 92.7
Opening net assets   1,584.1 1,161.3
Closing equity   1,951.8 1,460.4
Bss post acquisition loss after tax   2.8 -
shares issued in respect of the Bss acquisition   (329.2) -
Net Travis Perkins pension (surplus) / deficit   (23.1) 31.0
Goodwill written off   92.7 92.7
Closing net assets   1,695.0 1,584.1
Average net assets   1,640.0 1,372.7
Adjusted return on equity   13.4% 13.1% NO TES T O THE FINANCIAL S TATEMENT S
 
20386.04 proof 2 31/03/11
125
37. ADJUSTED RETURN ON EqUITY AND ADJUSTED RETURN ON CAPITAL CONTINUED
Adjusted return on capital 
  THE GROuP
  –––––––––––––––––––––––––
   2010 2009 
   £m £m
Operating profit   219.8 257.3
Amortisation of intangible assets   0.2 -
Exceptional items   19.0 (32.7)
Bss post acquisition operating losses (excluding exceptional items)    2.6 -
Adjusted operating profit   241.6 224.6
Opening net assets   1,460.4 1,018.2
Net pension deficit   31.0 50.4
Goodwill written off   92.7 92.7
Net borrowings    467.2 1,017.4
Exchange adjustment   (40.5) (80.2)
Opening capital employed   2,010.8 2,098.5
Closing net assets   1,951.8 1,460.4
Bss post acquisition loss before tax   2.8 -
shares issued in respect of the Bss acquisition   (329.2) -
Net Travis Perkins pension (surplus) / deficit   (23.1) 31.0
Goodwill written off   92.7 92.7
Net borrowings    773.6 467.2
Borrowings arising from the Bss acquisition   (469.3) -
Exchange adjustment   (37.4) (40.5)
Closing capital employed   1,961.9 2,010.8
Average capital employed   1,986.4 2,054.7
Adjusted return on capital   12.2% 10.9%
38. ADJUSTED RATIO OF NET DEBT TO EARNINGS BEFORE INTEREST, TAX AND DEPRECIATION
Adjusted ratio of net debt to earnings before interest, tax and depreciation (‘EBITDA’) is derived as follows:
  THE GROuP
  –––––––––––––––––––––––––
   2010 2009 
   £m £m
Profit before tax   196.8 212.7
Net finance costs   23.0 44.6
Depreciation, impairments and amortisation   57.7 58.7
EBITDA under IFRs   277.5 316.0
Exceptional operating items   19.0 (32.7)
Bss 2010 pre-acquisition EBITDA   71.3 -
IFRs adjustments not included in covenant calculations    (2.6) (2.5)
Adjusted EBITDA under covenant calculations   365.2 280.8
Net debt under covenant calculations   701.4 413.1
Adjusted net debt to EBITDA   1.92x 1.47x 126
 
20386.04 proof 2 31/03/11
126
FIVE y EAR RE C ORD
Consolidated income statement  2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 
  £m £m £m £m £m
Revenue  3,152.8 2,930.9 3,178.6 3,186.7 2,848.8
Operating profit before amortisation and exceptional items  239.0 224.6 271.5 319.9 278.0
Amortisation  (0.2) - - - -
Exceptional items  (19.0) 32.7 (56.2) - 11.6
Operating profit  219.8 257.3 215.3 319.9 289.6
Net finance costs  (23.0) (44.6) (69.0) (58.5) (57.7)
Profit before tax  196.8 212.7 146.3 261.4 231.9
Income tax expense  (55.5) (55.3) (44.4) (76.1) (64.9)
Net profit  141.3 157.4 101.9 185.3 167.0
Adjusted return on capital   12.2% 10.9% 12.9% 15.9% 14.6%
Adjusted return on equity   13.4% 13.1% 17.6% 23.6% 21.8%
Basic earnings per share  69.6p 88.4p 68.6p 120.8p 108.7p
Adjusted earnings per share  77.2p 75.2p 96.9p 118.1p 100.4p
Dividend declared per ordinary share (pence)  15.0p - 14.5p 44.9p 37.4p
Branches at 31 December (No.)  1,813 1,238 1,223 1,125 1,022
Average number of employees (No.)  15,792 14,528 15,414 14,580 13,831
Basic and adjusted earnings per share for 2006, 2007 and 2008 have been restated for the impact of the rights issue.
FIVE YEAR 
RECORD  
20386.04 proof 2 31/03/11
127
FIVE y EAR RE C ORD
Consolidated cash flow statement  2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 
  £m £m £m £m £m
Cash generated from operations  282.3 319.8 337.6 303.9 323.3
Net interest paid  (16.0) (29.0) (63.0) (72.5) (59.0)
swap cancellation receipt / (payment)  13.7 (28.7) - - -
Income taxes paid  (42.4) (27.3) (66.0) (74.5) (57.3)
Net purchases of investments, property and plant  (35.4) (7.8) (82.4) (118.9) (13.5)
Interest in associates  (12.5) (12.9) (20.7) - -
Acquisition of businesses net of cash acquired  (294.9) (1.0) (22.5) (47.2) (10.9)
Proceeds from issuance of share capital  0.3 300.3 0.6 6.8 6.9
Dividends paid  (10.1) - (52.5) (48.1) (42.5)
Bank facility finance charges  - - (14.7) - -
Own shares acquired  - - - (76.0) -
Payment of finance lease liabilities  (1.3) (1.5) (2.1) (1.9) (2.8)
Repayment of unsecured loan notes  (0.6) (0.1) (11.5) (0.2) (0.3)
Pension sPV  34.7 - - - -
(Decrease) / increase in bank loans  (214.1) (160.0) (33.7) 98.6 (143.7)
Net (decrease) / increase in cash and cash equivalents  (296.3) 351.8 (30.9) (30.0) 0.2
Net debt at 1 January  (467.2) (1,017.4) (941.0) (804.4) (982.4)
Non cash adjustment  (3.1) 36.8 (92.8) (2.4) -
Loan notes issued  - - - (7.7) -
Cash flow from debt and debt acquired   (7.0) 161.6 47.3 (96.5) 177.8
Net debt at 31 December  (773.6) (467.2) (1,017.4) (941.0) (804.4)
Free Cash Flow  277.8 294.4 185.3 157.8 216.6
FIVE YEAR 
RECORD 128
 
20386.04 proof 2 31/03/11
128
FIVE y EAR RE C ORD
Consolidated balance sheet 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006
 £m £m £m £m £m
Assets     
Non-current assets     
Property, plant and equipment 526.0 499.0 534.5 505.0 426.4
Goodwill and other intangible assets 2,101.9 1,515.3 1,513.9 1,492.2 1,444.5
Derivative financial instruments 57.0 44.7 80.3 3.0 3.8
Interest in associates 45.7 31.7 19.6 - -
Investment property and other investments 1.9 4.8 5.4 5.5 5.9
Deferred tax asset 16.4 12.0 19.5 4.5 24.2
Current assets     
Inventories 571.6 312.7 321.9 330.2 294.4
Trade and other receivables 692.5 375.4 388.6 422.6 364.3
Assets held for resale 2.3 - - - -
Cash and cash equivalents 62.9 347.2 7.7 26.3 56.3
Total assets 4,078.2 3,142.8 2,891.4 2,789.3 2,619.8
Issued capital 24.2 20.9 12.3 12.3 12.2
share premium account 471.5 471.2 179.5 178.9 172.2
Merger reserve 325.9 - - - -
Own shares (83.4) (83.7) (83.7) (83.9) (7.9)
Other reserves 14.4 9.2 6.0 27.1 29.3
Accumulated profits 1,199.2 1,042.8 904.1 902.5 727.3
Total equity 1,951.8 1,460.4 1,018.2 1,036.9 933.1
Non-current liabilities     
Interest bearing loans and borrowings 760.9 739.1 1,007.3 863.9 763.6
Derivative financial instruments 4.2 6.1 25.8 29.8 30.9
Retirement benefit obligations 27.9 43.0 69.9 16.0 80.8
Long term provisions 36.0 43.7 47.8 13.7 13.1
Deferred tax liabilities 126.9 62.8 74.7 75.3 71.1
Current liabilities      
Interest bearing loans and borrowings 75.6 75.3 17.8 103.4 97.1
Derivative financial instruments 2.5 - - - 0.2
Trade and other payables 999.9 638.7 582.2 585.0 565.2
Tax liabilities 39.4 28.1 9.1 32.3 34.2
short-term provisions 53.1 45.6 38.6 33.0 30.5
Total liabilities 2,126.4 1,682.4 1,873.2 1,752.4 1,686.7
Total equity and liabilities 4,078.2 3,142.8 2,891.4 2,789.3 2,619.8
FIVE YEAR 
RECORD  
20386.04 proof 2 31/03/11
129
Notice is hereby given that the forty-seventh Annual General Meeting of 
Travis Perkins plc will be held at Northampton Rugby Football Club, Franklin’s 
Gardens, Weedon Road, Northampton, NN5 5BG on Thursday 26 May 2011 
at 11.45 am. 
ThE RESOLUTIONS
Resolutions 1 to 9 (inclusive) will be proposed as ordinary resolutions. 
Resolutions 10 to 12 (inclusive) will be proposed as special resolutions.
1.   To receive the Company’s annual accounts for the financial year ended 
31 December 2010, together with the directors’ report, the directors’ 
remuneration report and the auditors’ report on those accounts and on 
the auditable part of the directors’ remuneration report.
2.   To declare a final dividend for the financial year ending 31 December 
2010 of 10 pence per ordinary share, payable to shareholders on the 
register at the close of business on 6 May 2011.
3.   To re-appoint Andrew simon as a non-executive director, who is retiring 
by rotation pursuant to Article 71 of the Company’s Articles of Association. 
Biographical details of Andrew simon appear on page 47.
4.   To re-appoint Philip Jansen as a non executive director, who is retiring by 
rotation pursuant to Article 71 of the Company’s Articles of Association. 
Biographical details of Philip Jansen appear on page 47.
5.   To re-appoint John Carter as a director, who is retiring by rotation pursuant 
to Article 71 of the Company’s Articles of Association. Biographical details 
of John Carter appear on page 46.
6.   To re-appoint Deloitte LLP, Chartered Accountants, as auditors of the 
Company to hold office from the conclusion of this meeting until the 
conclusion of the next general meeting of the Company at which accounts 
are laid.
7.   To authorise the Directors to fix the remuneration of Deloitte LLP .
8.   That the directors’ remuneration report for the financial year ended 31 
December 2010 set out on pages 62 to 71 be approved.
9.   That, in substitution for all existing authorities, the Directors be generally 
and unconditionally authorised in accordance with section 551 of the 
Companies Act 2006 to exercise all the powers of the Company to allot:
(a)  shares (as defined in section 540 of the Companies Act 2006) or 
grant rights to subscribe for or to convert any security into shares up 
to an aggregate nominal amount of £8,057,284; and
(b)  equity securities (as such phrase is to be interpreted in accordance 
with section 560 of the Companies Act 2006) up to an aggregate 
nominal amount of £16,114,568 (such amount to be reduced by the 
aggregate nominal amount of shares allotted or rights to subscribe for 
or to convert any security into shares in the Company granted under 
paragraph (a) of this resolution 9) in connection with an offer by way 
of a rights issue:
i.  to ordinary shareholders in proportion (as nearly as may be 
practicable) to their existing holdings; and
ii.  to holders of other equity securities (as defined in section 560(1) 
of the Companies Act 2006) as required by the rights of those 
securities or, subject to such rights, as the directors otherwise 
consider necessary, 
and so that the Directors may impose any limits or restrictions and 
make any arrangements which they consider necessary or appropriate 
to deal with treasury shares, fractional entitlements, record dates, 
legal, regulatory or practical problems in, or under the laws of, any 
territory or any other matter, 
such authorities to apply until the end of the Company’s next annual 
general meeting after this resolution is passed (or, if earlier, until the close 
of business on 30 June 2012) but, in each case, so that the Company 
may make offers and enter into agreements before the authority expires 
which would, or might, require shares to be allotted or rights to subscribe 
for or to convert any security into shares to be granted after the authority 
expires and the Directors may allot shares or grant such rights under any 
such offer or agreement as if the authority had not expired.
10.   That, in substitution for all existing powers and subject to the passing of 
resolution 9, the Directors be generally empowered pursuant to section 
570 of the Companies Act 2006 to allot equity securities (as such phrase 
is to be interpreted in section 560 of the Companies Act 2006) for cash 
pursuant to the authority granted by resolution 9 and/or where the 
allotment constitutes an allotment of equity securities by virtue of section 
560(3) of the Companies Act 2006, in each case free of the restriction in 
section 561 of the Companies Act 2006, such power to be limited:
(a)  to the allotment of equity securities in connection with an offer of 
equity securities (but in the case of an allotment pursuant to the 
authority granted by paragraph (b) of resolution 9, such power shall 
be limited to the allotment of equity securities in connection with an 
offer by way of a rights issue only):
i.   to ordinary shareholders in proportion (as nearly as may be 
practicable) to their existing holdings; and
ii.  to holders of other equity securities (as defined in section 560(1) 
of the Companies Act 2006), as required by the rights of those 
securities or, subject to such rights, as the directors otherwise 
consider necessary and so that the Directors may impose any limits 
or restrictions and make any arrangements which they consider 
necessary or appropriate to deal with treasury shares, fractional 
entitlements, record dates, legal, regulatory or practical problems 
in, or under the laws of, any territory or any other matter; and
(b)  to the allotment of equity securities pursuant to the authority 
granted by paragraph (a) of resolution 9 and/or an allotment which 
constitutes an allotment of equity securities by virtue of section 
560(3) of the Companies Act 2006 (in each case otherwise than in 
the circumstances set out in paragraph (a) of this resolution 10) up 
to a nominal amount of £1,208,593 calculated, in the case of equity 
securities which are rights to subscribe for, or to convert securities 
NOTICE OF  
ANNUAL GENERAL 
MEETING
NO TI CE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEE TING  
20386.04 proof 2 31/03/11
130
into, ordinary shares (as defined in section 560(1) of the Companies 
Act 2006) by reference to the aggregate nominal amount of relevant 
shares which may be allotted pursuant to such rights, 
such power to apply until the end of the Company’s next annual general 
meeting after this resolution is passed (or, if earlier, until the close of 
business on 30 June 2012); but so that the Company may make offers 
and enter into agreements before the power expires which would, or 
might, require equity securities to be allotted after the power expires 
and the Directors may allot equity securities under any such offer or 
agreement as if the power had not expired.
11.   That a general meeting other than an annual general meeting may be 
called on not less than 14 clear days’ notice.
12.   That the Company be and is hereby generally and unconditionally 
authorised to make one or more market purchases (within the meaning 
of section 693(4) of the Companies Act 2006) of ordinary shares of 10 
pence each in the capital of the Company (‘ordinary shares’), provided 
that:
(a)  the maximum aggregate number of ordinary shares authorised to 
be purchased is 24,171,853 (representing 10% of the issued share 
capital of the Company as at 22 February 2011);
(b)  the minimum price (exclusive of expenses) which may be paid for an 
ordinary share is its nominal value of 10 pence;
(c)  the maximum price (exclusive of expenses) which may be paid for 
an ordinary share is an amount equal to 105% of the average of 
the middle market quotations for an ordinary share as derived from 
The London stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business 
days immediately preceding the day on which that ordinary share is 
purchased;
(d)  this authority expires at the conclusion of the next Annual General 
Meeting of the Company or 30 June 2012, whichever is the earlier; 
and
(e)  the Company may make a contract to purchase ordinary shares under 
this authority before the expiry of such authority, which will or may be 
executed wholly or partly after the expiry of such authority, and may 
make a purchase of ordinary shares pursuant to any such contract.
By order of the Board
Andrew Pike 
Company secretary
Lodge Way House, Harlestone Road, Northampton NN5 7uG
22 February 2011
Registered in England No. 824821
Directions to Northampton Rugby Football Club can be found on page 133.
NO TI CE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEE TING
NOTICE OF  
ANNUAL GENERAL 
MEETING  
20386.04 proof 2 31/03/11
131
1. A form of proxy is enclosed and instructions for its use are shown on 
the form. The appointment of a proxy will not prevent a member from 
subsequently attending, voting and speaking at the Meeting in person, in 
which case any votes of the proxy will be superseded.
2. A member of the Company is entitled to appoint a proxy to exercise all 
or any of his rights to attend, speak and vote at a general meeting of 
the Company. A member may appoint more than one proxy, provided 
that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attaching to different 
shares. A proxy need not be a member. 
3. To appoint more than one proxy, (an) additional proxy form(s) may be 
obtained by contacting the Registrars or you may photocopy the form. 
Please indicate in the box next to the proxy holder’s name the number of 
shares in relation to which they are authorised to act as your proxy. Please 
also indicate by ticking the box provided if the proxy instruction is one of 
multiple instructions being given. All forms must be signed and should be 
returned together in the same envelope.
4. The right to appoint a proxy under note 1 above does not apply to 
persons whose shares are held on their behalf by another person and 
who have been nominated to receive communication from the Company 
in accordance with section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 (‘nominated 
persons’). Nominated persons may have a right under an agreement 
with the registered shareholder who holds shares on their behalf to be 
appointed (or to have someone else appointed) as a proxy. Alternatively, if 
nominated persons do not have such a right, or do not wish to exercise it, 
they may have a right under such an agreement to give instructions to the 
person holding the shares as to the exercise of voting rights. 
5. To be effective, the instrument appointing a proxy and any authority under 
which it is signed (or a notarially certified copy of such authority) for the 
Annual General Meeting to be held at Northampton Rugby Football Club, 
Franklins Gardens, Weedon Road, Northampton, NN5 5Bq at 11.45 am 
on Thursday 26 May 2011 and any adjournment(s) thereof must be 
returned to Capita Registrars, PXs, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, 
kent, BR3 4Tu, by 11.45 am on 24 May 2011. Alternatively you may 
submit your proxy form online by accessing the shareholder portal at 
www.capitaregistrars.com, logging in and selecting the ‘Proxy Voting’ link. 
If you have not previously registered for electronic communications, you 
will first be asked to register as a new user, for which you will require your 
investor code (which can be found on the enclosed proxy form, your share 
certificate or dividend tax voucher), family name and post code (if resident 
in the uk). 
6. CREsT members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through 
the CREsT electronic proxy appointment service may do by using the 
procedures described in the CREsT Manual. 
CREsT personal members or other CREsT sponsored members, and 
those CREsT members who have appointed a voting service provider(s) 
should refer to their CREsT sponsors or voting service provider(s), who 
will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
In order for a proxy appointment made by means of CREsT to be 
valid, the appropriate CREsT message (a ‘CREsT Proxy Instruction’) must 
be properly authenticated in accordance with Euroclear uk & Ireland 
Limited’s specifications and must contain the information required for 
such instructions, as described in the CREsT Manual. The message, 
regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or an 
amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must, 
in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the Company’s 
agent (ID RA10) by the latest time(s) for receipt of proxy appointments 
specified in the notice of meeting (11.45 am on 24 May 2011). For this 
purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time (as determined 
by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREsT Application Host) 
from which the Company’s agent is able to retrieve the message by 
enquiry to CREsT in the manner prescribed by CREsT. After this time, 
any change of instructions to proxies appointed through CREsT should be 
communicated to the appointee through other means.
CREsT members and, where applicable, their CREsT sponsors and 
voting service providers should note that Euroclear uk & Ireland Limited 
does not make available special procedures in CREsT for any particular 
messages. Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in 
relation to the input of CREsT Proxy Instructions. It is the responsibility 
of the CREsT member concerned to take (or, if the CREsT member is a 
CREsT personal member or sponsored member or has appointed a voting 
service provider(s), to procure that his CREsT sponsor or voting service 
provider(s) take(s)) such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a 
message is transmitted by means of the CREsT system by any particular 
time. In this connection, CREsT members and, where applicable, their 
CREsT sponsors or voting service providers are referred, in particular, to 
those sections of the CREsT Manual concerning practical limitations of 
the CREsT system and timings. The CREsT Manual can be reviewed at 
www.euroclear.com/CREsT.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREsT Proxy Instruction in 
the circumstances set out in Regulation 35(5)(a) of the uncertificated 
securities Regulations 2001.
In each case the proxy appointments must be received by the Company 
not less than 48 hours before the time appointed for holding the meeting 
or any adjournment thereof.
7. Only those members entered on the register of members of the Company 
as at 6.00 pm on 24 May 2011 shall be entitled to attend or vote at the 
meeting in respect of the number of shares registered in their name at 
that time. Changes to entries on the register of members after that time 
shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or 
vote at the meeting.
8. Reference to the register means the issuer register of members and the 
Operator register of members maintained in accordance with Regulation 
20 of the uncertificated securities Regulations 2001.
9. The following documents will be available for inspection at the Registered 
NOTES TO ThE 
NOTICE OF ANNUAL 
GENERAL MEETING
NO TES T O THE NO TI CE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEE TING  
20386.04 proof 2 31/03/11
132
Office of the Company during usual business hours on any weekday 
(saturdays, sundays and public holidays excluded) from the date of this 
Notice to the date of the meeting and at Northampton Rugby Football 
Club from 11.15 am on the day of the meeting until the conclusion of the 
meeting. 
●
   Copies of contracts of service of directors and non–executive directors’ 
letters of appointment with the Company, or with any of its subsidiary 
companies. 
●
  The register of directors’ interests kept by the Company 
●
  A copy of the Company’s Articles of Association.
●
  A statement giving particulars of directors’ relevant transactions.
10.  At 22 February 2011 (being the latest practicable date before publication 
of this notice) the issued share capital of the Company consisted of 
241,718,527 ordinary shares, carrying one vote each. Therefore, the total 
voting rights in the Company as at 22 February 2011 was 241,718,527.
11.  A person to whom this Notice is sent who is a person nominated under 
section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 to enjoy information rights (a 
‘Nominated Person’) may, under an agreement between him/her and the 
shareholder by whom he/she was nominated, have a right to be appointed 
(or to have someone else appointed) as a proxy for the Meeting. If a 
Nominated Person has no such proxy appointment right or does not wish 
to exercise it, he/she may, under any such agreement, have a right to give 
instructions to the shareholder as to the exercise of voting rights.
12.  The statement of the rights of members in relation to the appointment 
of proxies in paragraphs 1 to 6 above does not apply to a Nominated 
Person. The rights described in these paragraphs can only be exercised 
by registered members of the Company.
13.  Any corporation which is a member can appoint one or more corporate 
representatives who may exercise on its behalf all of the same powers as 
the corporation could exercise if it were an individual member.
14. under section 527 of the Companies Act 2006 members meeting the 
threshold requirements set out in that section have the right to require 
the company to publish on a website a statement setting out any matter 
relating to: (i) the audit of the Company’s accounts (including the auditor’s 
report and the conduct of the audit) that are to be laid before the meeting; 
or (ii) any circumstance connected with an auditor of the Company ceasing 
to hold office since the previous meeting at which annual accounts and 
reports were laid in accordance with section 437 of the Companies Act 
2006. The Company may not require the shareholders requesting any 
such website publication to pay its expenses in complying with sections 
527 or 528 of the Companies Act 2006. Where the Company is required 
to place a statement on a website under section 527 of the Companies 
Act 2006, it must forward the statement to the Company’s auditor not 
later than the time when it makes the statement available on the website. 
The business which may be dealt with at the meeting includes any 
statement that the Company has been required under section 527 of the 
Companies Act 2006 to publish on a website.
15. under section 338 and section 338A of the Companies Act 2006, 
members meeting the threshold requirements in those sections have 
the right to require the company (i) to give, to members of the company 
entitled to receive notice of the meeting, notice of a resolution which may 
properly be moved and is intended to be moved at the meeting and/or 
(ii) to include in the business to be dealt with at the meeting any matter 
(other than a proposed resolution) which may be properly included in the 
business. A resolution may properly be moved or a matter may properly 
be included in the business unless (a) (in the case of a resolution only) 
it would, if passed, be ineffective (whether by reason of inconsistency 
with any enactment or the company’s constitution or otherwise), (b) it 
is defamatory of any person, or (c) it is frivolous or vexatious. such a 
request may be in hard copy form or in electronic form, must identify 
the resolution of which notice is to be given or the matter to be included 
in the business, must be authorised by the person or persons making it, 
must be received by the company not later than 13 April 2011, being the 
date six clear weeks before the meeting, and (in the case of a matter to 
be included in the business only) must be accompanied by a statement 
setting out the grounds for the request
16. shareholders and their proxies will have the opportunity to ask questions 
at the Meeting. When invited by the Chairman, if you wish to ask a 
question, please wait for a Company representative to bring you a 
microphone. It would be helpful if you could state your name before you 
ask your question. questions may not be answered at the Meeting if they 
are deemed not to be in the interests of the Company, or the good order of 
the Meeting, would interfere unduly with the preparation for the Meeting 
or involve the disclosure of confidential information, or if the answer has 
already been given on a website. The Chairman may also nominate a 
Company representative to answer a specific question after the Meeting 
or refer the response to the Company’s website.
17. A copy of this Notice, and other information required by section 311A 
of the Companies Act 2006, can be found at www.travisperkinsplc.com/
investorcentre/ir.asp?page=home.
NO TES T O THE NO TI CE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEE TING
NOTES TO ThE 
NOTICE OF ANNUAL 
GENERAL MEETING  
20386.04 proof 2 31/03/11
133
From the South (via the M1)
Exit off motorway at junction 15A and follow the signs towards sixfields. At 
roundabout with TGI Fridays on the right and a BP petrol station on the left 
carry straight on up the hill. At Cineworld roundabout turn right towards the 
Town Centre. Go straight over the next roundabout (sainsbury’s is on the left 
before the roundabout and Wickes on the right after the roundabout) and set of 
traffic lights. Continue on that road (Weedon Road). The entrance to the saints 
is on the right immediately after Beacon Bingo. Follow signs for VIP car park 
off Weedon Road.
From the North (via the M1)
Exit off motorway at junction 16 and follow the A45 to Northampton. At 
Cineworld roundabout continue straight on and follow directions from the 
south.
From the East, Peterborough, Cambridge, Wellingborough
Follow A45 to M1 junction 15. Head north to junction 15A then follow 
directions from the south.
From Welford, Market Harborough
Aim towards the kingsthorpe area of Northampton. Turn right at the major set 
of traffic lights (the Cock Hotel is on the corner), signposted sixfields. Continue 
on this road until you get to Cineworld roundabout (approx 3 miles) then 
continue as from the south.
From the Railway Station
Turn right out of the station. Continue past Thomas A Becket pub, Church and 
Co. factory and bus station. At fork in road bear left and Franklin’s Gardens is 
on your left. Walk takes approx 15 minutes.
Nearest Airports
London Luton and Nottingham East Midlands.
Further Information
For detailed directions you might want to try the following websites:
●
 Multimap (www.multimap.com);
●
 The AA (www.theaa.com);
●
 The RAC (www.rac.co.uk).
For further details about the venue:www.northamptonsaints.co.uk
The Annual General Meeting is to be held at 
Northampton Rugby Football Club
Northampton Rugby Football Club 
Franklin’s Gardens,  
Weedon Road,  
Northampton, NN5 5BG
The Travis Perkins AGM will be held in  
The Captains Lounge and The Rodber suite. 
Parking is directly outside in the VIP Car Park 
(follow VIP Car park signs off Weedon Road).
DIRECTIONS TO 
NORThAMPTON RUGBY 
FOOTBALL CLUB 
D IRE CTI ONS T O NOR THAMP T ON RUGB y F OO TBALL CL UB   
20386.04 proof 2 31/03/11
134
ShAREhOLDER ENqUIRIES
shareholder enquiries should be directed to the Company secretary at the 
Company’s registered office:
Lodge Way House 
Lodge Way
Harlestone Road
Northampton NN5 7UG 
Telephone 01604 752424
Email cosec@travisperkins.co.uk
or to the Company’s registrars:
Capita Registrars 
The Registery
34 Becknham Road
Beckenham
Kent BR3 4TU
 
Telephone 0871 664 0300 (8.30am to 5.30pm, Monday – Friday 
calls cost 10p per minute plus network extras)
Email ssd@capitaregistrars.com
should your query relate to a pensions matter please email 
pensions@travisperkins.co.uk 
or if your query relates to a marketing matter please email 
marketing@travisperkins.co.uk. 
FINANCIAL DIARY
Announcement of 2010 annual results 23 February 2011
Ex-dividend date 4 May 2011
Record date 6 May 2011
Annual General Meeting 26 May 2011
Payment of final dividend 31 May 2011
Announcement of 2011 interim results July 2011
Announcement of 2011 annual results February 2012
AGM – CATERING ARRANGEMENTS
It has always been the Company’s custom to provide a light luncheon for 
shareholders following the AGM. and a buffet luncheon will be available. (You 
need not notify the company in advance if you would like lunch).
INTERNET
There are sites on the internet that carry a range of information about the Group 
and its principal brands, products and services at the following addresses: 
www.travisperkinsplc.com (investor relations site)
www.travisperkins.co.uk* 
www.tpmanagedservices.co.uk
www.cityplumbing.co.uk* 
www.ccfltd.co.uk* 
www.hire.travisperkins.co.uk/hire*  
www.keyline.co.uk* 
www.keyline.co.uk/hire/* 
www.wickes.co.uk*
www.tilegiant.co.uk*  
www.benchmarxjoinery.co.uk 
www.benchmarxshowroom.co.uk (end user site)
www.iflo.co.uk 
www.toolstation.co.uk*
www.trademate.co.uk*  
www.wickeskitchens.co.uk
www.4tradeproducts.co.uk  
www.selfbuildgroup.co.uk
www.bssgroup.com 
www.ptsplumbing.co.uk
www.bssindustrial.co.uk  
www.fpwholesale.co.uk 
www.dhsspares.co.uk  
www.buckandhickman.com 
www.birchwoodpricetools.com
* These sites allow credit account holders to order on-line through Trademate, 
with the exception of the Wickes, Tile Giant and Toolstation sites which allow 
on-line ordering by secure card transaction. 
Most of the sites provide information about branch locations and allow 
access to prices and the product range available. Customers are also 
able to construct their own price quotation that includes any special price 
arrangements that have been negotiated with the Group.
ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATION
In accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and the Company’s Articles of 
Association, the company is allowed to use its website to publish statutory 
documents and communications to shareholders, such as the Annual Report 
and Accounts and the Notice of the AGM. You can therefore view or download a 
copy of the Annual Report and Accounts and the Notice of the AGM by going to 
OThER 
ShAREhOLDER 
INFORMATION 
O THER SHAREHOLDER INF ORMATI ON   
20386.04 proof 2 31/03/11
135
OThER 
ShAREhOLDER 
INFORMATION 
our website at www.travisperkinsplc.com (see section called ‘Investor Centre’). 
If you received a hard copy of this report in the post then you will not have 
consented to this method of publication. should you now wish to consent to 
this method of publication, you should contact: 
Capita Registrars 
Freepost RLYX-GZTU-KRRG, SAS  
The Registry  
34 Beckenham Road, 
Beckenham
Kent BR3 9ZA 
By reducing the number of communications sent by post, it will not only 
result in cost savings to the Company but also reduce the impact that the 
unnecessary printing and distribution of reports has on the environment. 
Please note that if you consent to website publication, you will continue to be 
notified each time that the Company places a statutory communication on the 
website. This notification will be sent to you by post. However, you may also 
choose to receive notifications by email and we would encourage you to do so. 
If you wish to receive these notifications by email, you should register at www.
capitashareportal.com, and follow the instructions (see Registrar’s On-Line 
service below).
Please telephone Capita Registrars on 0871 664 0391 (within the uk, calls 
cost 10p per minute plus network extras; lines are open 9.00am to 5.30pm, 
Monday – Friday) or +44 20 8639 3367 if calling from outside the uk, if you 
have any queries.
NOTES
1.  Before consenting to receive documents and communications via the 
website, shareholders should ensure that they have a computer with 
internet access and the Adobe Acrobat reader facility. The Adobe Acrobat 
reader software may be obtained via the website free of charge.
2.  If you elect to receive notifications of the publication of the documents and 
communications on the website electronically, it will be your responsibility 
to notify our registrars, Capita, of any subsequent change in your email 
address or other contact details.
3. If you are not resident in the united kingdom, it is your responsibility 
to ensure that you may validly receive documents and communications 
electronically (either generally or in relation to any particular document 
or communication) without the Company being required to comply with 
any governmental or regulatory procedures or any similar formalities. The 
Company may deny electronic access to documents and communications 
relating to certain corporate actions in respect of those shareholders 
who it believes are resident in jurisdictions where it is advised that to 
provide such access would or may be a breach of any legal or regulatory 
requirements.
4.   The Company’s obligation to provide shareholder documents to you is 
satisfied when it transmits an electronic message. The Company is not 
responsible for any failure in transmission for reasons beyond its control 
any more than it is for postal failures. In the event of the Company 
becoming aware that an electronic communication to you has not been 
successfully transmitted, a further two attempts will be made. If the 
transmission is still unsuccessful, a hard copy of the relevant notification 
will be posted to your registered address.
5.   Your registration to receive electronic communications and your relevant 
contact address details will stand until such time as the Company receives 
alternative instructions from you by email or in writing.
6.   The Company takes all reasonable precautions to ensure no computer 
viruses are present in any electronic communication it transmits, but the 
Company shall not be responsible for any loss or damage arising from 
the opening or use of any email or attachments sent by the Company 
or on its behalf. The Company recommends that shareholders subject 
all messages to computer virus checking procedures. Any electronic 
communication received by or on behalf of the Company, including 
the lodgement of an electronic proxy form, that is found to contain any 
computer virus will not be accepted.
7.   The Company reserves the right, irrespective of your election, to revert 
to sending hard copy documentation by post whenever it considers it 
necessary or desirable to do so.
CAPITA REGISTRARS
The Company’s registrars, Capita Registrars (‘Capita’), provide a number of 
services that, as a shareholder, might be useful to you:
Registrar’s On-Line Service
By logging onto www.capitashareportal.com and following the prompts, 
shareholders can view and amend various details on their account. Please 
note that you will need to register to use this service for which purpose you 
will require your unique investor code, which can be found on your share 
certificate, proxy card or dividend tax voucher.
Share Dealing Services
Capita offers an on-line and telephone share dealing service which is available 
by logging on to www.capitadeal.com or telephoning 0871 664 0346 (calls 
cost 10p per minute plus network extras; lines are open 8.00am to 4.30pm, 
O THER SHAREHOLDER INF ORMATI ON   
20386.04 proof 2 31/03/11
136
Monday – Friday). For the on-line service, Capita’s commission rates are 1% 
of the value of the deal (minimum £20, maximum £75) and for the telephone 
service, Capita’s commission rates are 1.50% of the value of the deal 
(minimum £25, maximum £102.50). 
Dividend Re-Investment Plan (‘DRIP’)
This is a scheme which allows you to use your dividends to buy further 
shares in Travis Perkins. For any shareholders who wish to re-invest dividend 
payments in the Company, a facility is provided by Capita IRG Trustees Ltd in 
conjunction with Capita Registrars. under this facility, cash dividends are used 
to purchase additional shares. shares are bought on the dividend payment 
date at the then current market price. Any cash left over which is insufficient 
to purchase a whole share will be carried forward and held without interest, 
in a Client Money bank account. Any shareholder requiring further information 
should contact:
Capita on 0871 664 0381  
(Calls cost 10p per minute plus any network extras from within the uk; lines 
are open from 9.00 to 5.30 pm Monday – Friday). 
If calling from overseas +44 (0)208 639 3402. Fax 0208 639 1023. 
Email shares@capitaregistrars.com or visit www.capitaregistrars.com. 
Duplicate Share Register Accounts
If you are receiving more than one copy of our report, it may be that your 
shares are registered in two or more accounts on our register of members. If 
that was not your intention you might consider merging them into one single 
entry. Please contact Capita who will be pleased to carry out your instructions.
Overseas Shareholders
Capita are now able to provide you with a service that will convert your sterling 
dividends into your local currency at a competitive rate. You can choose to 
receive payment directly into your bank account, or you can be sent a draft in 
your local currency. Further details are available from:
Capita Registrars 
Freepost RLYX-GZTU-KRRG, SAS
The Registry
34 Beckenham Road
Beckenham
Kent BR3 9ZA
Telephone uk: 0871 664 0385 
(Calls cost 10 pence per minute plus network extras; lines are open from 
9.00am to 5.30pm, Monday – Friday) or +44 20 8639 3405 (from outside the 
uk) or by logging on to www.capitaregistrars.com/international.
O THER SHAREHOLDER INF ORMATI ON 
OThER 
ShAREhOLDER 
INFORMATION  20386-04  01/04/2011 Proof 3 20386-04  01/04/2011 Proof 3
This document is important and requires your immediate attention. 
If you are in any doubt as to what action you should take, you are 
recommended to seek your own financial advice from your stockbroker 
or other independent adviser authorised under the Financial Services 
and Markets Act 2000. If you have sold or transferred all of your shares 
in Travis Perkins plc, please forward this document, together with the 
accompanying documents, as soon as possible either to the purchaser or 
transferee or to the person who arranged the sale or transfer so they can pass 
these documents to the person who now holds the shares.
Printed on: 
Revive 50 Silk, a recycled paper containing 50% recycled 
waste and 50% virgin fibre and manufactured at a mill 
certified with ISO 14001 environmental management 
standard. The pulp used in this product is bleached using 
an Elemental Chlorine Free process (ECF), and
Tauro Offset, made from virgin wood fibre sourced mainly 
from sustainable forests in the EC. It is bleached using 
a Totally Chlorine Free (TCF) process. This material can 
be disposed of by recycling, or incineration for energy 
and composting.
Designed by RWH Design Consultants 
Photography by Charles Ward
BSS photography by Barry Willis
Printed by Jones and Palmer
Robert Steward, Yard Sales Assistant
Front cover: Mark Bonham,Yard Supervisor
Scott Richardson, Sales Assistant 20386-04  01/04/2011 Proof 3 20386-04  01/04/2011 Proof 3
TRAVIS PERKINS PLC
Lodge Way House · HarLestone road · nortHampton nn5 7 ug 
teLepHone 01604 752 424
tra VI s per KI ns p L C · 2010 annua L repor t and a C C ount s 2010
2010 ANNuAL REPoRT & ACC ouNTS
A LEAdER IN buILdERS mERChANTINg ANd homE ImPR oVEmENT RETAILINg TRAVIS PERKINS PLC
