 TREATT PLC
Annual Report and  
Financial Statements 2013
A world of 
difference
in the world of ingredient solutions,  
we’re at the core of product innovation
Treatt plc  
Northern Way,  
Bury St Edmunds,  
Suffolk, IP32 6NL UK
Tel: 01284 702500   
Fax: 01284 703809 
Email: enquiries@treatt.com
www.treatt.com
www.earthoil.com
Treatt plc Annual Report and Financial Statements  2013   About the
group
OVERVIEW
01 Group Strategy
02 What We Do
04 Highlights
05 Group Five Year Trading Record
06 Chairman’s Statement
07 Chief Executive Officer’s Report
09 Financial Review
11 Directors’ Report
16 Strategic Report
GOVERNANCE
18 Corporate Governance Statement
23 Directors’ Remuneration Report
36 Independent Auditor’s Report to  
 the Members of Treatt plc
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
38 Group Income Statement
39  Group Statement of Comprehensive Income
40  Group and Parent Company Statements  
of Changes in Equity
42  Group and Parent Company Balance Sheets
43  Group and Parent Company Statement  
of Cash Flows
44  Group Reconciliation of Net Cash Flow  
to Movement in Net Debt
45 Notes to the Financial Statements
74 Notice of Annual General Meeting
86 Financial Calendar
87 Parent Company Information and Advisers
TREATT IS A WORLD-LEADING  
INNOVATIVE INGREDIENT SOLUTIONS 
PROVIDER FOR THE FLAVOUR, FRAGRANCE 
AND CONSUMER GOODS INDUSTRIES
T reatt places great emphasis on investing resources into developing first-hand 
knowledge and relationships with growers and suppliers to ensure a sustainable,  
fair and rewarding future for all its stakeholders; investors, customers, growers  
and staff – across the globe.
The Group has manufacturing sites on three continents with sales offices in the  
UK, USA, France and China. Our manufacturing sites are certified to the Global  
Food Safety Initiative (GFSI) approved standard, which serves as a testament of  
our commitment to quality and safety , and allows T reatt to supply across the globe.
By developing innovative solutions for multi-national customers and providing 
unparalleled customer service, T reatt continues to create outstanding value for  
both its customers and its shareholders. TREATT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013   01
Group  
Strategy
T reatt’ s strategy consists of delivering profitable and sustainable 
growth by means of a focused sales approach and market-driven new 
product development. This strategy is underpinned by continued 
innovation, added-value manufacturing and by driving efficiency 
improvements across the Group.  
Treatt takes pride in its positive culture, 
which creates the environment for employee 
engagement, key to the successful delivery  
of its strategy. Through proactive share save 
schemes in the UK and the US, employees 
are able to build shareholdings in the business, 
which is encouraged by the Board. 
INNOVATION
Product development and a vibrant product 
portfolio are market and customer driven. 
INVESTMENT
Treatt will invest to maintain its competitive 
advantage and equip the business with the 
technology, capacity and skill set required to 
meet our strategic objectives.
GROWTH
Treatt’s strategic targets will be achieved 
through a global focused sales approach, 
control of overheads, and unlocking operational 
efficiency.
ADDING VALUE
Treatt provides ingredient solutions that address 
customer and market needs, such as authentic 
and unique flavour profiles, cost-effective and 
stable fragrance specialties and ingredients that 
naturally impart sweetness without calories.
TREATT PRODUCTS
125
+
300
+
9m
+
years experience
employees
kg shipped pa
•  Citrus oils
•  Spice and herb oils
•   Treattarome
®
 natural distillates from the  
named food
•  Functional ingredients
•  Natural isolates
•  Organic and ethical trade ingredients
•  Natural cosmetic ingredients
•  Fragrance ingredients
 
Soft
Drinks
Tea Coffee
Personal 
Care
Alcoholic 
Beverages
Flavour
&
Fragrance 02   TREATT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013
T reatt  
What we do
ESSENTIAL OILS CITRUS TREATTAROME
®
Treatt’s essential oils are derived from 
a variety of origins and are distilled and 
blended in various qualities for food, flavour, 
fragrance and cosmetic applications.
Treatt has always been known for the 
quality of its citrus products and now 
produces various ranges including 
CitrustT™, Citreatt
®
, and the new unique 
TreattZest™ concentrated citrus oils.
Treattaromes are a range of 100% natural 
‘From the Named Food’ water soluble, 
clear essences, suitable for numerous 
applications from beverages to ice creams 
and savoury sauces.
BEHIND THE SCENES 
Scan here to watch ‘behind the scenes’ 
videos of how Treattaromes are produced, 
or visit  
www.treatt.com/products/treattarome
Pineapple
Banana
Kiwi
Coffee
Honey
Cucumber
Tea
Watermelon
A WORLD OF DIFFERENCE
Innovative ingredient solutions
Our in-depth knowledge of flavour 
and fragrance ingredients allows us 
to provide direct access to unique 
ingredient solutions 
which customers 
would not usually 
find elsewhere. 
This allows our customers to create 
signature products using T reatt’ s 
specialties, which can set their product 
apart from the competition. TREATT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013   03
WELLNESS
Treatt’s Wellness range of products are 
non-caloric, 100% natural essences that 
impart desirable flavour and mouthfeel, 
while smoothing out the sweetness profile 
and undesirable lingering characteristics 
associated with Stevia and other 
sweeteners.
AROMA INGREDIENTS
Treatt offers an extensive selection of aroma 
ingredients which deliver an authentic 
aromatic profile to a variety of flavours and 
fragrances.
VEGETABLE OILS
Treatt, through its cosmetic ingredients 
division, Earthoil, also specialises in 
conventional, organic and fair trade cold 
pressed vegetable seed oils. A variety of 
vegetable, fruit and tree seeds are pressed 
to produce quality oils in our Kenyan facility.
ORGANIC ESSENTIAL OILS
Treatt’s diverse product range includes 
organically-certified and Fair Trade 
ingredients for the flavour, fragrance  
and cosmetics industries.
FAIR TRADE 
PRINCIPLES
Earthoil in Kenya
Earthoil, the 
cosmetics ingredients 
division of T reatt,  
is committed to  
Fair T rade principles 
through its Fair for 
Life certification.
Here in Kenya, farmers are being taught 
about composting, good agricultural 
practices, organic and Fair Trade 
requirements. 04   TREATT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013
 T reatt  
Highlights
Treatt is continually launching new products to provide solutions to 
customer and market needs. More and more consumers are seeking 
low calorie, better-for-you beverages to improve their overall health and 
wellness. 
Eager to tap into this buoyant market, drinks manufacturers across the 
globe are looking for innovative solutions to enable them to produce 
healthier beverages, while addressing the challenges associated with 
natural sweeteners such as Stevia. As a solution, Treatt has created 
TreattSweet
™
, a natural flavour ingredient that makes sweet flavours 
taste better.
World coffee consumption continues to grow, thanks in part 
to new markets such as China, but also due to new varieties of 
coffee drinks such as iced coffee becoming more mainstream.  
T o help manufacturers create good-tasting coffee beverages, Treatt 
has developed some exciting natural ingredients which impart the 
authentic coffee flavour that consumers are looking for. 
With alcoholic beverages an increasing focus for T reatt, an innovative 
natural distillate, Cascade Hop Treattarome
®
, was developed to 
enable brewers to adjust the aroma of hop whilst avoiding the cost 
and bitterness associated with additional hopping.
Treatt will continue to use its expertise to develop other innovative 
solutions, based on market and consumer demand.
*  The dividend per share shown relates to the interim dividend declared and final 
dividend proposed, both of which are paid after the year end and, under IFRS, 
accounted for in the subsequent financial year.
The Directors visiting Treatt’s plant in Lakeland, Florida
REVENUE  
£74.1m
OPERATING PROFIT  
Operating profit increased by 23.3%
+23.3%
RETURN ON CAPITAL EMPLOYED  
ROCE grew from 14.4% to 19.4%
19.4%
NET CASH FLOW  
Net cash inflow of £4.7m
£4.7m
£74.1m
£74.0m
ADJUSTED PROFIT BEFORE TAX  
£6.2m
£6.2m
£5.1m
ADJUSTED EARNINGS PER SHARE  
43.2p
43.2p
34.4p
DIVIDENDS PER SHARE*  
18.5p
18.5p
15.5p
NET ASSETS PER SHARE  
£2.62
£2.62
£2.48
2013
2012
2013
2012
2013
2012
2013
2012
2013
2012
FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS TREATT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013   05
Group Five Year Trading Record
 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013
 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
INCOME STATEMENT     
Revenue 56,313 63,298 74,518 74,009 74,097
EBITDA (pre-exceptionals) 5,012 6,032 8,032 6,891 8,278
Operating profit 3,893 4,904 6,864 5,628 6,938
Adjusted profit before taxation 3,501 4,503 6,372 5,060 6,227
Growth in adjusted profit before taxation 14.3% 28.6% 41.5% (20.6%) 23.1%
     
Exceptional items — (2,432) — (598) (1,093)
Profit before taxation 3,501 2,071 6,372 4,462 5,134
     
Taxation (1,013) (1,417) (2,017) (1,390) (1,655)
Non-controlling interest (3) (1) (7) — —
Profit for the year attributable to owners of the Parent Company 2,485 653 4,348 3,072 3,479
BALANCE SHEET     
Goodwill 4,272 1,051 1,192 1,080 1,075
Other intangible assets 290 250 742 718 684
Property, plant and equipment 9,847 10,250 10,120 11,543 11,718
Deferred tax asset/(liability) 245 (19) (261) (594) (723)
Non-current trade and other receivables 586 586 586 586 586
Current assets 28,687 34,311 35,847 38,053 38,340
Current liabilities (15,954) (14,292) (12,592) (17,345) (12,484)
Non-current trade and other payables (789) — (135) (23) (23)
Non-current bank loans (1,773) (7,348) (7,606) (5,469) (8,889)
Post-employment benefits (2,000) (1,596) (803) (838) (1,589)
Non-current derivative financial instruments — — (864) (1,033) (577)
Redeemable loan notes (net) (675) (675) (675) (675) (675)
Total equity 22,736 22,518 25,551 26,003 27 ,443
CASH FLOW     
Cash generated from operations 10,675 2,361 8,312 1,482 9,250
Taxation paid (755) (1,312) (1,998) (1,279) (649)
Net interest paid (541) (387) (527) (618) (714)
Dividends paid (1,138) (1,222) (1,330) (1,490) (1,585)
Additions to non-current assets net of proceeds (1,005) (1,571) (1,540) (2,787) (1,578)
Acquisition/disposal of interests in joint ventures or subsidiaries — (38) (14) — (9)
Net (purchase)/sale of own shares by share trust 65 87 100 (306) 91
Other (407) (5) (16) 43 (151)
Movement in net debt 6,894 (2,087) 2,987 (4,955) 4,655
Total net debt (8,894) (10,981) (7,994) (12,949) (8,294)
RATIOS     
Net operating margin
1
 6.9% 7.7% 9.2% 7.6% 9.4%
Return on capital employed
2
 12.3% 14.6% 20.5% 14.4% 19.4%
Average net debt to EBITDA
3
 2.46 1.65 1.18 1.52 1.28
Adjusted basic earnings per share 24.5p 30.3p 42.5p 34.4p 43.2p
Growth in adjusted basic earnings per share 25.9% 23.6% 40.5% (19.1%) 25.6%
Dividend per share
4
 12.0p 13.0p 14.5p 15.5p 18.5p
Dividend cover (adjusted to exclude exceptionals)
4
 2.03 2.32 2.92 2.22 2.33
Net assets per share 217.0p 214.9p 243.8p 248.0p 262.0p
Notes on calculations:
1  Operating profit divided by revenue
2  Operating profit divided by total equity plus net debt
3  Average of net debt at start and end of financial year divided by EBITDA
4  The dividend per share shown relates to the interim dividend declared and final dividend proposed, both of which are paid after the year end and, under IFRS, accounted for in the 
subsequent financial year. 06   TREATT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013
Chairman’ s  
Statement
RESULTS
The performance of the Group, in a year of significant change, has 
been very encouraging and it is pleasing to report that results for 
the last year were better than had been originally forecast. Pre-
exceptional profits for the financial year increased by 23% to £6.2m 
(2012: £5.1m) and adjusted* basic earnings per share grew by 26% 
to 43.2p (2012: 34.4p). Revenue, which can fluctuate due to changes 
in product mix and movements in raw material prices, was steady 
at £74.1m (2012: £74.0m). Adjusted* earnings before interest, tax, 
depreciation and amortisation increased by 20% to £8.3m (2012: 
£6.9m). Operating profit margins rose in the year from 7.6% to 9.4% 
leading to operating profits rising by 23% to £6.9m (2012: £5.6m).
Cash flows of the Group can vary from one year to the next because 
of movements in raw material prices and the strategic purchasing 
decisions made by our very experienced procurement team. 2013 
saw a very encouraging net cash inflow of £4.7m, reducing net debt 
by more than a third to £8.3m (2012: £12.9m), resulting in a modest 
average net debt to EBITDA ratio of 1.3 times (2012: 1.5 times).
The exceptional items totalling £1.1m reported in these results relate 
to corporate finance and other related one-off costs (£0.5m) and 
the legal and professional costs in relation to the on-going earnout 
dispute in relation to the acquisition of the Earthoil Group (£0.6m). 
Further details concerning the contingent liability in respect of this 
dispute are given in note 27.
DIVIDENDS
The Board is proposing a net final dividend of 13.0p (2012: 10.4p), 
increasing the total dividend for the year by 19% to 18.5p (2012: 15.5p) 
per share. If approved by shareholders at the forthcoming AGM, the 
final dividend will be payable on 4 April 2014 to all shareholders on 
the register at close of business on 28 February 2014. Shareholders 
who wish to participate in the dividend re-investment plan for this and 
future dividends should elect to do so by 10 March 2014.
BOARD CHANGES
Following ten years as a Non-executive Director, we bade farewell 
to Peter Thorburn this year. Peter’s contribution to the Board over 
a decade of major change for the Group has been immense and 
as a UK national resident in Florida, he has been particularly closely 
associated with the success of Treatt USA over the last few years. 
I would very much like to place on record our thanks to Peter for 
everything he has done for Treatt and to wish him and his family well 
for the future.
I was delighted to welcome Jeff Iliffe to the Board as a Non-executive 
Director during the year. Jeff is the Chief Financial Officer of Abcam 
plc and brings with him a wealth of financial and City experience 
which will, I have no doubt, be of great benefit to the Board.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
In addition to Jeff Iliffe’s appointment as Audit Committee Chairman, it 
has been a very busy year for other aspects of corporate governance 
as well. 
New rules apply to companies reporting on financial years ending 
on or after 30 September 2013 – which means that Treatt is one of 
the companies now needing, at very short notice, to deal with new 
procedures on remuneration policy, gender diversity, greenhouse 
gas reporting, and the strategic report. In consequence, this year’s 
annual report contains a significant amount of new and additional 
information. 
The Remuneration Committee consulted major shareholders on its 
remuneration policy and, together with a new Long Term Incentive 
Plan, will be putting these proposals before shareholders at the 
forthcoming AGM in February 2014.
A full and comprehensive risk review has also been undertaken, 
reviewed and approved by the Board.
SHAREHOLDER RELATIONS
Following the decision of the Bovill family to dispose of their 
shareholding earlier this year, I would like to formally recognise and 
thank Hugo Bovill and his family for their dedication and stewardship 
of Treatt over the years. Treatt has a proud heritage which will be built 
upon as the business continues to grow.
I am also, therefore, delighted to welcome some new names to 
Treatt’s share register and I look forward to updating all shareholders 
regularly on the on-going progress being made by the Group.
REVIEW OF THE YEAR
I mentioned in my report last year that the Board was carrying out a 
thorough review of the business. CEO Daemmon Reeve developed 
a new strategic plan which met with the Board’s approval and which 
was rolled out to all colleagues through a series of workshops in 
January 2013. Daemmon discusses the new strategy in detail in his 
report.
Turning now to the performance of the business over the last twelve 
months, we were anticipating a year of steady growth and it is clear 
that the new strategy gained traction very quickly. Although Q1 was, 
as ever, a seasonally quiet period for the Group, from the turn of the 
year business has been pleasing with both the Treatt and Earthoil 
branded businesses performing well. Sales revenues remained 
unchanged but a combination of improved margins and stringent 
overhead control has delivered the 23% growth in adjusted pre-tax 
profits being reported.
Treatt’s strong technical and procurement experience with raw 
material ingredients is enabling the business to both transition up the 
value chain and margins to grow, notwithstanding top line sales value 
being impacted by lower average costs of key raw materials. At the 
same time, overall costs have been reduced; with the centralising of 
the Group finance function delivering a particularly noteworthy saving.
The steady improvement in Earthoil’s results is also very pleasing to 
report, with profits almost doubling compared with the year before. 
Its innovative range of cosmetic ingredient solutions, and increasing 
interest in fair trade activities, puts Earthoil in a good position to deliver 
material profits in years to come. 
PEOPLE
It is always extremely important, but particularly this year with all the 
changes which have taken place over the last eighteen months, 
that I publicly express the sincere thanks of the Board to all Treatt 
and Earthoil colleagues for their hard work and contribution to the 
success of Treatt.
PROSPECTS
The Group has made a solid start to the new financial year. With 
further progress on strategy implementation, continuing focus on key 
markets including the alcoholic and non-alcoholic beverage sectors, 
and on-going development of exciting, new and innovative products, 
the Board is confident that the Group will again show good progress 
in the coming year.
TIM JONES
Chairman
6 December 2013
* Excluding exceptional items
Adjusted earnings 
per share increased 
by 26% and dividends 
per share by 19%
Tim Jones
Chairman TREATT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013   07
Chief Executive Officer’ s  
Report
OVERVIEW
Treatt has had a good year with profit before exceptionals up by 23%, 
adjusted earnings per share 26% higher and net debt 36% lower 
than a year ago, and I would like to begin by thanking my colleagues 
throughout the Group for their endeavours and engagement which 
has enabled us to report such a pleasing set of figures. Our new 
strategy, which has been clearly communicated throughout the Treatt 
organisation, has been the central core to our success; colleagues 
are very clear about what Treatt is and the values we stand for. With 
greater focus, clarity and cost control as central pillars to our strategy 
it has enabled Treatt to begin the necessary path of preparing our 
business for the next stage of our growth as an innovative ingredient 
solution provider. The year has been exciting as well as challenging 
and I have been delighted to see so many colleagues flourishing 
and contributing to the business in a wide variety of ways. Creating 
the environment for colleagues to succeed is very motivating for me 
personally and our work on this continues. 
STRATEGY
As our strategy further beds in to Treatt and we look to the future, we 
are building a sound platform to progress from. 
Through greater focus and meaningful engagement with customers 
who can bring Treatt long term sustainable value we will create 
opportunities of consequence with products that excite customers 
and make them want to engage with us. 
‘ONE TREATT’ STRATEGY FOR GROWTH
Our strategy is clear - to grow Group profitability and margins in the 
flavour, fragrance and consumer goods markets through:
In addition to growth, a company-wide culture of cost control is an 
important aspect of our strategy and has encompassed everything 
from energy savings to process improvements, from reduction in 
global freight costs to savings on departmental consumables. 
Our new strategy is 
the central core to 
our success
Daemmon Reeve
Chief Executive Officer
SALES PROSPECTS
A key aspect of growing sales is retention of existing customers. 
With acute focus on the overall value to the Group, our sales team is 
incentivised to both retain as well as grow our business. By focussing 
on those accounts where meaningful opportunities are evident we 
increase our prospects, and aligning our technical resources with 
those opportunities maximises our chances of success - and as part 
of this we are currently working on a number of exciting opportunities 
with major beverage companies.
RAW MATERIAL RISK MANAGEMENT
The volatility of raw material prices, and their availability, continues 
to present challenges for the Group but the proven experience, 
expertise and innovation of our global procurement team has enabled 
Treatt to mitigate the extremes of these impacts. Empowerment of 
our team to move nimbly and authoritatively in markets also provides 
Treatt with an important competitive advantage. 
Our most significant raw material, orange oil, has seen prices 
reaching highs of more than double the previous forty year peak and 
a far greater level of volatility in the last three years than had been 
the case previously. The potential, therefore, exists for revenues on - 
most notably - some lower margin aspects of our citrus ingredients 
business, to have an effect on the top line performance of the Group, 
as longstanding Treatt followers will be aware. Consequently, in the 
short term the leadership team have a greater focus on contribution 
margin, as opposed to solely focusing purely on sales, as a better 
indicator of the success of our strategy.
THE TREATT BRAND
To ensure clarity for our customers we are marketing our business 
as Treatt. The Treatt brand is trusted by our global customer base 
as being synonymous with exceptional quality and outstanding 
service. Whilst the legal entities of R C Treatt and Treatt USA remain, 
the focus and the branding of the business will continue to be built 
around one Treatt. This is reflected in our new website and can 
also be seen at the trade exhibitions we attend around the globe. 
A single branding message ensures clarity for our customers and 
supports our strategy of operating as one holistic Treatt business. It 
also enables us to globalise key departments in order to maximise 
synergies and strengthen our customer offering. Due to its unique 
offering as a supplier of specialist cosmetic ingredient solutions, the 
Earthoil brand will continue to flourish as a separate, distinct, and 
highly valued, brand in its own right.
ALIGNING OUR ORGANISATION
Our procurement, sales, IT and finance departments are now truly 
global and the resultant benefits in the form of cost savings and the 
synergistic effect of teams working with clarity of direction and greater 
alignment are tangible. The fully integrated global sales structure 
enables greater focus on multi-national flavour, fragrance and FMCG 
customers. Our marketing will increasingly be focused, which has 
proven to be very effective this year with increasing press coverage 
in our targeted markets. Further improvements in the organisational 
focus and structure of the Group will be taking place in 2014. 
Focused 
sales 
approach
Cost 
control 
Concentrated 
product 
range
Excellent 
quality and 
service 
Well motivated 
and 
experienced 
workforce 
Market-driven 
new product 
development
Increasing 
group 
margins  08   TREATT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013
Chief Executive Officer’s Report
continued
We have made good progress in developing positive cultural change 
and enhancing team spirit within the business, and this work, central 
to our strategy, will continue. 
INNOVATION
It is vital that our colleagues feel empowered, fulfilled and motivated in 
their roles within the Group and we are taking further steps to create 
an environment where cutting edge innovation is both fostered and 
thrives. A significant aspect of this is that teams are working closer than 
ever across the Group and, with this much improved communication, 
new product development and innovation is being market-driven 
to create more innovative products with greater market potential. 
Members of our technical team are increasingly visiting customers 
with our sales staff to provide essential technical support. Engaging 
with counterparts in key accounts to get first-hand feedback from 
customers on our new innovations enables rapid fine tuning to meet 
customer needs.
To illustrate using just one example of our innovation efforts, we 
have developed a range of products targeted towards wellness 
applications. The arrival of Stevia and other natural non-nutritive 
sweeteners in the marketplace stimulated us to take another 
look at how our Treattaromes might be used in combination with 
natural sweeteners. Our team found that a certain mixture of our 
Treattarome
®
 essences provided sweet flavour notes and taste 
experience, and importantly masked the lingering Stevia taste with 
mellow softness. As we looked further into the different products in 
which Stevia is used, we perceived a need for products that were 
more closely tailored to the needs of the application, carbonated soft 
drinks needing a different profile to still applications for example and 
other specialised versions were developed to broaden the scope of 
our product offerings.
ENHANCING CUSTOMER VALUE
We have engaged with our customers at all levels to determine 
how Treatt’s products can enhance customer value. If we delight 
customers they return and, importantly, turn to us when they have 
new requirements. Building trust to build business has been a key 
element of our success; our strategy enables our teams to build and 
firm relationships for the long term.
Treatt USA and R C Treatt/Earthoil have built on last year’s success 
and continue to enjoy British Retail Consortium ‘A’ grade status, with 
fewer and fewer areas for improvement identified.
R C TREATT
Much work has taken place in the UK to modernise business 
practices to derive efficiency and improve productivity. This work 
continues into the current fiscal year. Management and their teams 
taking ownership of business improvement processes has been 
particularly effective and the level of cross-departmental collaboration 
is high. Focus on key areas of the business such as added-value 
specialty manufactured chemicals has delivered pleasing results at 
accounts which provide sustainable value for the business. Lower 
performing products have been de-listed from our offering to enable 
greater focus on those products which bring more sustainable value 
to our business and this work continues. Engagement with the 
strategy has been and continues to be very high.
A review of Treatt’s UK site has been under consideration by the 
Directors for some time. The Board and operations management 
are working closely to ensure that we make the right investment 
decisions at the right time for the future of our business in order to 
ensure we have a fit for purpose UK manufacturing facility to improve 
efficiency across the business and drive value for our shareholders for 
the long term. This review currently remains a work in progress and 
no decisions have yet been made.
TREATT USA
Treatt USA had a year of consolidation with an anticipated tougher 
year in key orange oil markets. Over-stocking of ingredients at some 
accounts and underperforming beverages at others led to lower than 
anticipated sales of specialty non-orange product ranges, negatively 
affecting profitability. However, optimism levels remain healthy in 
the business, with relationships with key accounts being in good 
shape. Good progress is also being made with some potential key 
accounts which are receiving much attention in the business. The 
sales opportunity pipeline looks promising and this should translate 
into meaningful opportunities for the business in the next year or two.
EARTHOIL
I am pleased to report that Earthoil, the Group’s niche cosmetic 
ingredients business, had a record year and its third successive year of 
profitability. Again, the strategy guided the meaningful progress made 
with a greater focus on those customers who can bring sustainable 
business receiving increased focus and technical support. Important 
wins at new material accounts also enabled the business to perform 
well. In February we appointed our new Director of African Operations, 
Leopold Kerama, who is driving further efficiency improvements in our 
Kenyan manufacturing facilities as we develop our business. 
SUSTAINABILITY
I was privileged to visit our Earthoil facility in Kenya in August to witness 
first hand not only the excellent work being done by our teams but also 
the responsibility it shows towards the local community by assisting 
the farmers to organise themselves into a society (the Kenya Organic 
Oil Farmers Association) so that they are properly represented and 
able to carry out communal projects. Through Fair for Life certification, 
we pay a Fair Trade premium for the products we purchase into a 
community fund to be used for projects as decided by the farmers 
and workers themselves. So far, this has funded scholarships for 
seven children from poor families to attend secondary school and 
there are plans afoot to build a social hall where farmers and workers 
can carry out educational and social activities.
OUTLOOK
Whilst the macro-economic situation is still fragile in many corners of 
the globe, we remain optimistic that the re-alignment and refreshment 
of our business through our strategy, coupled with healthy levels of 
consumer goods innovation, most notably in the beverage sector, 
will enable Treatt to continue on its path of progress with excitement 
and renewed determination. Challenges remain and we will not be 
complacent in this regard, but we look forward with confidence as 
a business. Importantly, we have an excellent team; empowered, 
motivated and equipped to deliver the results.
DAEMMON REEVE
Chief Executive Officer
KEY POINTS
New strategy with greater focus, clarity and cost control, 
aimed at accelerating underlying revenue growth  
Retention of meaningful existing business and maximising 
prospects for growth
Creating an environment for effective innovation
Enhanced customer value for improved profitability TREATT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013   09
Financial 
Review
INCOME STATEMENT
The Group’s revenue can fluctuate due to changes in product mix 
and movements in raw material prices. Consequently whilst revenue 
for the year remained unchanged at £74.1m (2012: £74.0m), gross 
margins (being a greater driver of bottom line growth) rose from 
22.6% to 23.7%. This, together with tight control of costs, resulted in 
a healthy 23% increase in pre-exceptional operating profit of £1.3m 
to £6.9m (2012: £5.6m).
Exceptional costs in the year of £1.1m were incurred in connection 
with shareholder-related matters and professional fees relating to 
the Earthoil earnout dispute. Excluding these costs, earnings before 
interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation for the year increased by 
20% to £8.3m (2012: £6.9m). Profit before tax after exceptional items 
of £1.1m rose by 15% to £5.1m (2012: £4.5m). Further information 
on the exceptional items is given in note 8.
The proposed total dividend for the year has been increased by 19.4% 
to 18.5p per share, resulting in a dividend cover of 2.4 times pre-
exceptional earnings for the year and a rolling three year cover after 
exceptionals of 2.2 times. The Board’s policy is to maintain dividend 
growth on a consistent basis at between 2 and 2.5 times three year 
rolling cover with this year’ s dividend representing an increase of 65% 
over the last five years. Basic earnings per share (adjusted to exclude 
exceptionals – see note 11) for the year increased by 26% to 43.2p 
(2012: 34.4p). The calculation of earnings per share excludes those 
shares which are held by the Treatt Employee Benefit Trust (EBT) 
since they do not rank for dividend, and is based upon profit after tax.
Whilst the Group’s functional currency is the British Pound (‘Sterling’) 
as explained below, the amount of business which is transacted in 
other currencies creates foreign exchange risk, particularly with the 
US Dollar and to a more limited extent with the Euro. During the year 
the US Dollar fluctuated considerably but ended the year almost 
where it started with a closing balance sheet rate of $1.62 (2012: 
$1.61). As explained further in this report under ‘Treasury Policies’, 
the Group hedges its foreign exchange risk at R C Treatt by holding 
and managing US Dollar borrowings and taking out forward currency 
contracts. This can result in timing differences in the short term, giving 
rise to re-translation gains or losses in the income statement. This has 
resulted in a very small gain of £0.1m in 2013 compared to a gain of 
£0.3m in 2012. There was a currency loss of £0.2m (2012: loss of 
£0.3m) in ‘The Statement of Comprehensive Income’ in relation to 
the Group’ s investment in overseas subsidiaries, principally in respect 
of Treatt USA.
The Group’s net finance costs for the year increased by 15% to 
£0.7m (2012: £0.6m) as a result of higher levels of debt in H1, before 
cash flows then improved sharply in H2. As a consequence of the 
improvement in profitability, interest cover for the year improved to 
10.6 times (2012: 9.9 times). 
As part of the Group’s risk management, in 2011 R C Treatt fixed 
$9m of US Dollar borrowings at 5.68% for ten years by way of an 
interest rate swap. This swap has been designated as a ‘hedge’ in 
accordance with IFRS and consequently any movements in the mark-
to-market of the swap are taken directly to equity. At the balance 
sheet date, the fair value liability, net of deferred tax, of the swap was 
£0.5m (2012: £0.8m). 
GROUP TAX CHARGE
The current tax charge of £1.5m (2012: £0.9m) represents an effective 
tax rate (based on profit before tax and exceptional items) of 26.5% 
(2012: 20.8%), the previous year having benefitted from significant 
accelerated capital allowances in the US. The overall tax charge has 
increased by £0.3m to £1.7m (2012: £1.4m), resulting in an overall 
effective tax rate which was almost unchanged at 32% (2012: 31%). 
There were no significant adjustments required to the previous year’s 
tax estimates. With the current and deferred rates of tax continuing 
to fall in the UK until they reach an expected 20%, the Group’ s overall 
effective tax rates are expected to fall for the next two years.
BALANCE SHEET 
Group shareholders’ funds grew by £1.4m (2012: £0.4m) in the year 
to £27.4m (2012: £26.0m), with net assets per share increasing by 
5.6% to £2.62 (2012: £2.48). Over the last five years, net assets per 
share have grown by 27%. Net current assets now represent 94% 
(2012: 80%) of shareholders’ funds. The Board has chosen not to 
avail itself of the option under IFRS to revalue land and buildings 
annually and, therefore, all the Group’s land and buildings are held at 
historical cost, net of depreciation, in the balance sheet. It should be 
noted that net assets have been reduced by £0.6m (2012: £0.7m) as 
a result of shares held by the EBT , due to the accounting requirements 
for employee trusts. This impact will be reversed when these shares 
are used to satisfy employee share option schemes.
CASH FLOW
In 2013 Group net debt fell by £4.7m to £8.3m (2012: £12.9m) with 
a corresponding reduction in the level of gearing from 50% to 30%. 
The Group has a mix of secured and unsecured borrowing facilities 
totalling £19.9m, of which only £2.8m expire in one year or less. The 
Group’s borrowing facilities are held with HSBC, Bank of America and 
Lloyds Banking Group with the majority of facilities now held on three 
to five year terms with expiry dates staggered to fall in different years. 
The Group continues to enjoy positive relationships with its banks 
and expects all facilities to be renewed without difficulty when they fall 
due. The reduction in cash tied up in working capital for the year was 
£2.4m largely due to an increase in trade creditors. Inventory levels 
for the Group increased by 3% to £23.7m (2012: £22.9m). This level 
of inventory, which is highly significant in cash terms, arises because 
as an ingredients specialist, Treatt takes many annual, and in some 
cases longer-term, contracts with customers as well as servicing the 
immediate spot needs of its diverse customer base. The success of 
the business has been built upon managing geographic, political and 
climatic risk of supply for our customers by judicious purchasing and 
inventory management to ensure continuity of supply and availability. 
Therefore it is part of the Group’s business model to hold significant 
levels of inventory, although only less than 5% is on average more 
than a year old.
Operating margins 
increased from 7.6% 
to 9.4% whilst costs 
were kept under 
tight control
Richard Hope
Finance Director 10   TREATT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013
Financial Review
continued
The level of capital expenditure in the year was at the lower end of 
expectations with a total spend of £1.4m compared to £2.7m in 
2012. This was fairly evenly spread between the UK and US, being 
focused primarily on added-value investment in manufacturing 
processes to create improved capabilities and efficiencies, together 
with on-going investment in technical facilities to enhance the Group’ s 
R&D capabilities, together with continuous development of the IT 
platforms and infrastructure. 
TREATT EMPLOYEE BENEFIT TRUST
During the year the Group continued its annual programme of offering 
share option saving schemes to staff in the UK and USA. Under 
US tax legislation, staff at Treatt USA are able to exercise options 
annually, whilst the UK schemes provide for three-year savings plans. 
In addition, 22,000 (2012: Nil) full market value options were granted 
to Directors and senior management. As part of these programmes, 
including the full market value options, options were granted over a 
total of 52,000 (2012: 52,000) shares during the year, whilst 40,000 
(2012: 47,000) were exercised. The Employee Benefit Trust (EBT) 
currently holds 217,000 shares (2012: 256,000) acquired in the 
market in order to satisfy future option schemes without causing 
shareholder dilution. Furthermore, by holding shares in the EBT for 
some time before they are required to satisfy the exercise of options, 
it is expected that the current programme of employee share option 
schemes will be self-financing as the proceeds from share options 
which vest are expected to exceed the original cost of the shares 
acquired.
FINAL SALARY PENSION SCHEME
The three-year actuarial review of the R C Treatt final salary pension 
scheme was carried out in January 2012, the result of which was 
that the company agreed to maintain contributions at their current 
levels in order to eliminate the actuarial deficit by 2019. Despite this, 
the IAS 19, “Employee Benefits” pension liability, net of deferred tax, 
increased in the year from £0.6m to £1.3m. The principal cause 
of this increase was the assumption of a higher rate of inflation in 
the future, both in respect of CPI and RPI, which increased gross 
liabilities by £1.9m.
Following consultation with members, it was agreed that the scheme 
would not be subject to any further accruals after 31 December 2012 
and instead members of the final salary pension scheme were offered 
membership of the Company’s defined contribution pension plan 
with effect from 1 January 2013. As a consequence, a curtailment 
gain of £0.2m was recognised in last year’ s financial statements. This 
means that the defined benefit scheme has now been de-risked as 
far as it is practicable and reasonable to do so.
FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT
The Group operates conservative treasury policies to ensure that no 
unnecessary risks are taken with the Group’s assets.
No investments other than cash and other short-term deposits are 
currently permitted. Where appropriate these balances are held in 
foreign currencies, but only as part of the Group’s overall hedging 
activity as explained below.
The nature of T reatt’ s activities is such that the Group could be affected 
by movements in certain exchange rates, principally between Sterling 
and the US Dollar, but other currencies such as the Euro can have a 
material effect as well. This risk manifests itself in a number of ways.
Firstly, the value of the foreign currency net assets of Treatt USA and 
the overseas Earthoil companies can fluctuate with Sterling. Currently 
these are not hedged as the risks are considered insufficient to justify 
the cost of putting the hedge in place. 
Secondly, with R C Treatt exporting throughout the world, fluctuations 
in Sterling’s value can affect both the gross margin and operating 
costs. Sales are principally made in three currencies in addition to 
Sterling, with the US Dollar being the most significant. Even if a sale 
is made in Sterling, its price may be set by reference to its US Dollar 
denominated raw material price and therefore has an impact on the 
Sterling gross margin. Raw materials are also mainly purchased in US 
Dollars and therefore US Dollar bank accounts are operated, through 
which US Dollar denominated sales and purchases flow. Hence it 
is Sterling’s relative strength against the US Dollar that is of prime 
importance. 
As well as affecting the cash value of sales, US Dollar exchange 
movements can also have a significant effect on the replacement 
cost of stocks, which affects future profitability and competitiveness.
The Group therefore has a policy of maintaining the majority of cash 
balances, including the main Group overdraft facilities, in US Dollars 
and, to a lesser extent in Euros, as this is the most cost effective 
means of providing a natural hedge against movements in exchange 
rates. Where it is more cost effective to do so, the Group will enter 
into forward currency contracts as well. Consequently, during the 
year forward currency contracts have been entered into which hedge 
part of R C Treatt’s foreign exchange risk. These contracts have 
been designated as formal ‘hedge’ arrangements, with movements 
in mark-to-market valuations initially taken to equity and re-cycled 
to the income statement to match with the appropriately hedged 
currency receipts. Currency accounts are also run for the other main 
currencies to which R C Treatt is exposed. This policy will protect the 
Group against the worst of any short-term swings in currencies.
RICHARD HOPE
Finance Director
The steady improvement  
in Earthoil’ s results is also  
very pleasing to report TREATT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013   11
Directors’ Report
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The Directors present their report and the audited financial statements 
for the Group for the year ended 30 September 2013.
RESULTS AND DIVIDENDS
The results of the Group for the year are set out on page 38.  
Profit before tax for the year excluding exceptional items was 
£6,227,000 (2012: £5,060,000).
The Directors recommend a final dividend of 13.0p (2012: 10.4p) per 
ordinary share.
This, when taken with the interim dividend of 5.5p (2012: 5.1p)  
per share paid on 18 October 2013, gives a total dividend of 18.5p  
(2012: 15.5p) per share for the year ended 30 September 2013.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
The Corporate Governance Statement on pages 18 to 22 forms part 
of this Directors’ Report.
DIRECTORS
The Directors of the Parent Company are shown on page 87. 
APPOINTMENT AND REPLACEMENT OF DIRECTORS
Rules about the appointment and replacement of Directors are set out 
in the Parent Company’s Articles of Association. Further details are 
provided in the Corporate Governance Statement on page 19.
Details of the Executive Directors’ contracts and notice periods 
are given in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on page 29. The 
Executive Directors’ contracts are terminable by the Group giving the 
required notice period of one year for the CEO and Finance Director, 
and two years for the HR Director who retires at the conclusion of the 
AGM in February 2014. 
In accordance with the Parent Company’s Articles of Association and 
as reported in the Corporate Governance Statement on page 19, in 
recognition of Provision B.7.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code 
David Johnston retires by rotation and Jeff Iliffe retires, having been 
appointed during the year. Anita Haines is retiring from the Board as 
Human Resources Director but is standing for re-election as a Non-
executive Director. All three Directors, being eligible, offer themselves 
for re-election. The Nomination Committee confirms that the 
individuals’ performances continue to be effective and to demonstrate 
commitment to the role, including commitment of time for Board and 
Committee meetings and any other duties.
DIRECTORS’ INTERESTS IN SHARES
The interests of Directors in shares of the Parent Company are shown 
in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on page 33.
SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDERS
In accordance with Rule 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules 
of the Financial Services Authority, the Parent Company has been 
notified of the following holdings of 3% or more of the voting rights 
at 5 December 2013 (the latest practicable reporting date prior to 
publication of this document).
 Number %
Schroder Investment Management 1,703,269 16.59
Discretionary Unit Fund Managers 1,580,000 15.39
Henderson Volantis Capital 841,859 8.20
Miton Capital Partners 522,500 5.09
James Sharp Stockbrokers 345,711 3.37
Barclayshare Stockbrokers 322,048 3.14
CONFLICTS OF INTEREST
No Director had an interest in any contract of significance during the 
year. The Group has procedures in place for managing conflicts of 
interests. If a Director becomes aware that they, or a connected party, 
have an interest in an existing or proposed transaction with the Group, 
they should notify the Company Secretary as soon as possible and 
before the next meeting. Directors have a continuing obligation to 
update any changes to conflicts and the Board formally reviews them 
annually. 
DIRECTORS’ AND OFFICERS’ LIABILITY INSURANCE
The Group maintains Directors’ and Officers’ liability insurance which 
is reviewed annually. The insurance covers the directors and officers 
of the Parent Company and its subsidiaries against the costs of 
defending themselves in civil proceedings taken against them in their 
capacity as a director or officer of a Group company and in respect 
of damages or civil fines or penalties resulting from the unsuccessful 
defence of any proceedings.
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
Product innovation and research and development are a critical part of 
the Group’s strategy and business model as outlined in the strategic 
report on pages 16 to 17. The main research and development activity 
undertaken by the Group is in the area of new product development. 
The Group utilises its strong technical capabilities to develop innovative 
products that provide solutions for customers, particularly in the food 
and beverage area. In this way it seeks to make itself indispensable to 
a key group of major global multi-national companies. In the opinion 
of the Directors, continuity of investment in this area is essential for the 
maintenance of the Group’ s market position and for future growth.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
Information on the Group’s financial risk management objectives and 
policies and on the exposure of the Group to relevant risks in respect 
of financial instruments is set out in note 28 of the financial statements.
GOING CONCERN
The Group’s business activities, together with the factors likely to 
affect its future development, performance and position are set out 
in the Chairman’s Statement, CEO’s Report and Financial Review on 
pages 6 to 10. 
In determining whether the Group and Parent Company’s financial 
statements can be prepared on a going concern basis, the Directors 
considered the Group’s business activities, together with the factors 
likely to affect its future development, performance and position. The 
review also included the financial position of the Group, its cash flows, 
and borrowing facilities. The key factors considered by the Directors 
were:
• the implications of the challenging economic environment 
and future uncertainties on the Group revenues and profits by 
undertaking forecasts and projections on a regular basis; 
• the impact of the competitive environment within which the 
Group’ s businesses operate;
• the potential actions that could be taken in the event that revenues 
are worse than expected, to ensure that operating profit and cash 
flows are protected; and
• the Group’s access to overdraft facilities and committed bank 
facilities to meet day-to-day working capital requirements. During 
the period all the Group’s banking facilities which were due for 
renewal have been renewed on either existing or improved terms. 
The Group also has in place a ten year fixed interest rate swap for 
$9m in order to protect (hedge) the Group against possible future 
increases in interest rates. 12   TREATT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013
Directors’ Report
continued
As at the date of this report, the Directors have a reasonable expectation 
that the Group and Parent Company have adequate resources to 
continue in business for the foreseeable future. Accordingly, the 
financial statements have been prepared on the going concern basis.
HEALTH AND SAFETY
The Group’ s on-going investment in health and safety continued during 
the financial year and forms an integral part of the Group’s strategy, 
remaining at the forefront of all of our operations. Particular emphasis 
is placed upon continuous improvement by way of a comprehensive 
Safety Management System designed to monitor and measure 
top line policies and procedures and a range of key indicators are 
maintained and reported at every Board meeting. 
A top to bottom culture of safety awareness and responsibility is 
actively promoted and a training programme of accredited safety 
management and awareness courses is in place across the workforce 
to help underpin the efforts of the health and safety professionals 
already employed within the Group. 
Employee health and well-being is monitored and dedicated and 
bespoke support is provided where necessary. 
ENVIRONMENT
The Group is committed to good environmental practice. It places 
importance on the impact of its operations on the environment and 
on ensuring that it operates and adopts responsible practices. Group 
performance and risk reviews are undertaken and monitored on a 
regular basis and reported to the Board.
Environm Ental P Erformanc E and Strat Egy
The Group has for a long time managed energy, fuel and waste 
disposal costs with the aim of lessening the Group’s environmental 
impact whilst reducing cost and improving efficiencies. In accordance 
with The Companies Act 2006 (Strategic Report and Directors’ 
Report) Regulations 2013, the Group is now required to report its 
greenhouse gas emissions. The release of greenhouse gases, notably 
carbon dioxide generated by burning fossil fuels, is understood to 
have an impact on global temperatures, weather patterns and weather 
severity, which can directly and indirectly affect the Group’s business. 
As a supplier of natural ingredients, adverse weather events can have 
an effect on crop yields resulting in higher commodity prices and 
limited supply. Examples of this have been seen in 2013 with a large 
freeze in Northern Argentina causing reduced yields of lemon oil and 
in 2004/5 when the Florida hurricanes caused significant reductions in 
crops of orange and grapefruit. 
Environm Ental i m Prov Em Ent S in 2013
The Group continuously evaluates ways of reducing its impact on 
the environment and during the year has implemented a number of 
improvements at each of its subsidiaries:
R C Treatt
• new refrigerant systems installed, which provide lower carbon 
emissions;
• the introduction of variable speed drives on main thermal oil 
heaters, improving energy consumption;
• the introduction of adaptive controls on main process chillers;
• cessation of the use of Hexane, r educing carbon emissions;
• re-use of aqueous/methanol waste by the waste contractor 
through input in an anaerobic bio-digester.
Treatt USA
• energy efficient LED lights with motion sensors installed in large 
cold and freezer boxes;
• use of well water in place of treated city water for water pump 
seals; 
• recycling the well water rather than sending it to the city water 
sewage treatment;
• installation of dust collection filters for tea leaf processing to 
protect workers and the environment.
Earthoil
• installation of a grease trap to remove grease from water 
discharged into the sewage system;
• use of large capacity tanks to export oil to some customers rather 
than smaller drums. 
g r EEnhou SE g a S Emi SSion S
The Group has adopted a greenhouse gas reporting policy and a 
management system based on the ISO 14064-1:2006 methodology, 
which has been used to calculate the Group’s Scope 1 and 2 
emissions in 2013 for activities within the operational control of the 
Group. It is not currently intended to report Scope 3 emissions.
In measuring the Group’ s greenhouse gas emissions, the sales offices 
in the UK, France and China, in which a maximum of two staff are 
employed, have been excluded on the grounds of materiality on the 
basis that emissions from utility consumption, which is included in the 
rent, are estimated to be less than a materiality threshold of 5% of 
overall Group emissions. Additionally , since the Earthoil India operation 
closed in January 2013 and the subsidiary primarily consisted of an 
office, its emissions are also considered to be immaterial. Whilst 
the majority of the data has been accurately recorded from invoice 
information, since the timing of the implementation of the legislation 
has only recently been announced, some opening data for the year 
has not been recorded and estimates have been made on a pro-rated 
basis, an example being vehicle mileage. 
As this is the first occasion on which the Group has reported its 
greenhouse gas emissions, there is no comparable data in respect 
of prior years.
 2013
Scope 1 – Direct CO
2
 emissions (tonnes CO
2
e) 1,428
Scope 2 – Indirect CO
2
 emissions (tonnes CO
2
e) 2,617
Total tonnes CO
2
e emissions 4,045
gCO
2
e emissions per Kg of product shipped  408
Data included in this table has been independently verified by Carbon 
Credentials Energy Services Ltd and is covered by an assurance 
report. GHG emissions have been calculated using the appropriate 
2013 DEFRA conversion factors. 
Wa St E
Approximately 90% of Treatt USA’s refuse goes into one container 
which is picked up by a recycle company and separated into different 
recycle types. The remaining 10% composed of restroom and canteen 
refuse is collected by the local authority as required by law. TREATT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013   13
At R C Treatt certain employees throughout the business are 
appointed as waste champions with additional responsibility for the 
reduction and efficient use of waste streams in their areas. All waste 
streams in the UK continue to work towards a zero land fill waste 
strategy. In addition, R C Treatt’s waste oil with a calorific value is sent 
for use as biomass, thereby further reducing the Company’s carbon 
footprint and eliminating disposal costs. 
Earthoil Kenya utilises macadamia nut husks as a biomass fuel 
source, burning an average of 22,000kgs per month to produce heat 
for its distillation plant. As well as providing efficiencies in fuel costs 
and reducing waste from the facility, the use of this biomass has a net 
zero climate impact. 
Wat Er The Group has decided to record water consumption data whilst 
recording its greenhouse gas emissions in order to gain a greater 
understanding of its environmental impact. The largest consumer of 
water in the Group is Treatt USA, which uses large quantities in its 
manufacturing processes and the cleaning of its specialist equipment. 
Due to its high consumption, Treatt USA recently replaced its closed 
loop cooling water circuit with direct cooling from deep well water 
on all still condensers. This well water is then recycled back into the 
aquifer via a second deep well. The system provides significant local 
environmental benefits as well as reduced energy usage.
The Group’ s own crop growing area in Kenya uses rain water harvested 
in its own dam, a borehole and water pumped from a nearby river, for 
which it pays a small annual fee. It does not purchase any water from 
a water treatment company. 
In recording water consumption for the Group, the sales offices in the 
UK, France and China and the Earthoil India operation, have been 
excluded on the basis that water usage is included in the rent. Whilst 
the majority of the data has been accurately recorded from invoice 
information, some opening data for the year has not been recorded 
and estimates on consumption have been made on a pro-rata basis. 
As this is the first occasion on which the Group has reported its water 
consumption, there is no comparable data in respect of prior years.
 2013
T otal water used (m³) 39,708
Water efficiency (litres per Kg of product shipped) 4.00
Data included in this table has been independently verified by Carbon 
Credentials Energy Services Ltd and is covered by an assurance 
report.
EMPLOYMENT POLICIES
The Group is committed to a policy of recruitment and promotion on 
the basis of aptitude and ability without discrimination. Applications for 
employment by disabled persons are given full and fair consideration 
for suitable vacancies, having regard to their particular aptitudes and 
abilities. Where a person becomes disabled while in the Group’s 
employment a suitable position will be sought for that person within 
the Group where practical.
EMPLOYEE INVOLVEMENT
Meetings are held with employees to discuss the operations and 
progress of the business and employees are encouraged to become 
involved in the success of the Group through share option schemes 
(see note 24). In particular, Executive Directors make half yearly results 
presentations to all employees and encourage questions and dialogue 
on any matters pertaining to the performance or activities within the 
Group. In addition, the Information Exchange Committee (IEC) at  
R C Treatt exists in order to encourage a further exchange of ideas 
and information between the Company and its employees. The IEC 
is chaired by the Human Resources Director and the members of the 
Committee are all employees below management level who represent 
all departments and areas of the business in the UK. Board members 
make a point of visiting all Group affiliates and regularly carry out site 
visits and tours, and thereby engage in meaningful discussions with 
employees at all levels within the organisation. All-employee bonus 
schemes, based on the performance of the business, remain in place.
STRUCTURE OF SHARE CAPITAL
As at 30 September 2013, the Parent Company’s share capital 
comprises ordinary shares with a nominal value of 10 pence each.  
All of the Parent Company’s issued ordinary shares are fully paid 
up and rank equally in all respects. The rights attached to them, in 
addition to those conferred on their holders by law, are set out in 
the Articles, a copy of which can be obtained on request from the 
Company Secretary.
Details of the issued ordinary share capital of the Parent Company 
and movements during the year are set out in note 23 of the financial 
statements. During both the current and prior period, the Parent 
Company did not issue any new shares.
 
RESTRICTIONS ON TRANSFER OF SECURITIES
There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares or on 
the exercise of voting rights attached to them, except (i) where the 
Parent Company has exercised its right to suspend their voting rights 
or to prohibit their transfer following the omission of their holder or 
any person interested in them to provide the Parent Company 
with information requested by it in accordance with Part 22 of the 
Companies Act 2006 or (ii) where their holder is precluded from 
exercising voting rights by the Financial Services Authority’s Listing 
Rules or the City Code on Takeovers and Mergers.
RIGHTS AND OBLIGATIONS OF ORDINARY SHARES
On a show of hands at a general meeting every holder of ordinary 
shares present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote shall have 
one vote and on a poll, every member present in person or by proxy 
and entitled to vote shall have one vote for every ordinary share held. 
Subject to the relevant statutory provisions and the Articles, holders of 
ordinary shares are entitled to a dividend where declared or paid out 
of profits available for such purposes.
ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION
The powers of the Directors are conferred on them by UK legislation 
and the Articles of Association. Changes to the Articles must be 
approved by shareholders passing a special resolution at a general 
meeting.
POWERS OF THE DIRECTORS AND PURCHASE OF OWN 
SHARES
At the forthcoming Annual General Meeting in 2014, the Parent 
Company will be seeking shareholder authority for the Directors’ 
to purchase up to 10% of the Parent Company’s ordinary shares, 
although at present the Directors have no plans to buy back any  14   TREATT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013
Directors’ Report
continued
shares. It is, however, considered prudent to have the authority in 
place in order that the Parent Company is able to act at short notice if 
circumstances warrant. A resolution will also be proposed at the 2014 
Annual General Meeting, to give the Directors the power to issue new 
shares up to an amount of 33% of the existing issued share capital, in 
line with the latest institutional guidelines issued by the Association of 
British Insurers (ABI), of which 5% of the existing issued share capital 
can be issued by disapplying pre-emption rights. These authorities, if 
granted by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting, will expire at 
the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting in 2015. It is the Parent 
Company’s intention to seek renewal of these authorities annually.
TREATT EMPLOYEE BENEFIT TRUST (THE ‘EBT’)
The EBT holds ordinary shares in the Parent Company (acquired in 
the market) in order to meet obligations under the Group’s employee 
share option schemes. No shares (2012: 100,000 shares) were 
purchased by the EBT during the year ended 30 September 2013. 
The trustees have waived their voting rights and their right to receive 
dividends (other than 0.001 pence per share) in respect of the ordinary 
shares held by the trust. 
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING AND RESTRICTIONS ON 
VOTING DEADLINES
The Annual General Meeting of the Parent Company will be held at 
Treatt plc, Northern Way, Bury St Edmunds, Suffolk, IP32 6NL on 
24 February 2014. The Notice of Meeting and explanatory notes 
are given on pages 74 to 85. The notice of any general meeting will 
specify the deadline for exercising voting rights and appointing a proxy 
or proxies to vote in relation to resolutions to be proposed at a general 
meeting. The number of proxy votes for, against or withheld in respect 
of each resolution are announced and published on the Treatt website 
after the meeting.
AUDITORS
Baker Tilly UK Audit LLP has indicated its willingness to continue  
in office. On the recommendation of the Audit Committee, resolutions 
are to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting for the re-
appointment of Baker Tilly UK Audit LLP as auditors of the Parent 
Company and its subsidiaries, and to authorise the Board to fix their 
remuneration. The remuneration of the auditors for the year ended 30 
September 2013 is fully disclosed in note 5 to the financial statements.
STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Directors’ Report, the 
Strategic Report, the Directors’ Remuneration Report, the Corporate 
Governance Statement and the financial statements in accordance 
with applicable law and regulations.
 
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and Parent 
Company financial statements for each financial year. The Directors 
are required under the listing rules of the Financial Services Authority 
to prepare Group financial statements in accordance with International 
Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”) as adopted by the European 
Union (“EU”) and have elected under company law to prepare the 
Parent Company financial statements in accordance with IFRS as 
adopted by the EU.
 
The financial statements are required by law, and IFRS adopted by 
the EU, to present fairly the financial position of the Group and the 
Parent Company and the financial performance of the Group. The 
Companies Act 2006 provides in relation to such financial statements 
that references in the relevant part of that Act to financial statements 
giving a true and fair view are references to their achieving a fair 
presentation.
Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial 
statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view 
of the state of affairs of the Group and the Parent Company and of the 
profit of the Group for that period. 
 
In preparing each of the Group and Parent Company financial 
statements, the Directors are required to:
a. select suitable accounting policies and then apply them 
consistently;
b. make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
c. state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs 
adopted by the EU;
d. prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis 
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the 
Parent Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting 
records that are sufficient to show and explain the Group’s and 
the Parent Company’s transactions and disclose with reasonable 
accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and the Parent 
Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements 
and the Directors’ Remuneration Report comply with the Companies 
Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 
of the IAS Regulation. They are also responsible for safeguarding the 
assets of the Group and the Parent Company and hence for taking 
reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other 
irregularities.
DIRECTORS’ STATEMENT PURSUANT TO THE DISCLOSURE 
AND TRANSPARENCY RULES
Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed in the 
Directors’ Report, confirms that, to the best of their knowledge:
a. the financial statements, prepared in accordance with IFRS as 
adopted by the EU give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, 
financial position and profit of the Group and Parent Company 
and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a 
whole; and
b. the Strategic Report contained in the annual report includes a fair 
review of the development and performance of the business and 
the position of the Group and the undertakings included in the 
consolidation taken as a whole together with a description of the 
principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
STATEMENT AS TO DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION  
TO AUDITORS
The Directors who were in office on the date of approval of these 
financial statements have confirmed, as far as they are aware, 
that there is no relevant audit information of which the auditors are 
unaware. Each of the Directors have confirmed that they have taken 
all the steps that they ought to have taken as Directors in order to 
make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to 
establish that it has been communicated to the auditors.
This report was approved by the Board on 6 December 2013.
ANITA STEER
Secretary TREATT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013   15
Richard Hope was appointed 
Finance Director in May 2003. 
He qualified as a Chartered 
Accountant in 1990 at 
PricewaterhouseCoopers and 
was appointed a Fellow of the 
Institute of Chartered Accountants 
in England and Wales in 2010. 
Richard has held senior finance 
positions in value-added 
manufacturing businesses for 
almost twenty years having 
previously worked as Head of 
Finance at Hampshire Cosmetics 
Limited from 1996 until 2003.
RICHARD HOPE
Finance Director
Anita Haines joined R C Treatt & 
Co Limited in January 1988 as 
Company Secretary and was 
appointed Human Resources (HR) 
Manager in September 2000. She 
was appointed HR Director of the 
Group in October 2002. Anita will 
be retiring as Human Resources 
Director with effect from 24 
February 2014 and will be seeking 
re-election as a Non-executive 
Director. 
ANITA HAINES
Human Resources Director
Daemmon Reeve has extensive 
industry experience and 
knowledge, having been employed 
at R C Treatt & Co Limited, the 
Group’s UK operating subsidiary, 
from 1991 to 2010. During this 
time he gained widespread 
experience in technical, 
operational, sales and purchasing 
disciplines. Daemmon was 
appointed CEO of Treatt USA 
in July 2010 and Group CEO in 
August 2012.
DAEMMON REEVE
Chief Executive Officer
Tim Jones is Non-Executive 
Chairman of Treatt, having joined 
the Board in February 2012, and 
is CEO and Secretary of Allia. He 
is also Non-Executive Director 
and Trustee of SkillsBridge, a 
community support organisation. 
Tim’s 35-year career spans 
financial services, SME start-ups 
and social entrepreneurship. He 
has worked across the US, Middle 
East and Europe, with posts 
including Head of Marketing at 
Royal Insurance and European 
Managing Director at Direct 
Marketing Corporation. He is a 
Fellow of the Royal Society for the 
Arts, an Associate of the Chartered 
Insurance Institute, an Associate 
Fellow at Saïd Business School 
and Entrepreneur-in-Residence 
at the Centre for Entrepreneurial 
Learning. 
TIM JONES
Jeff Iliffe joined the Board in 
February 2013 and is Chief 
Financial Officer and Director of 
Cambridge-based Abcam Plc, 
an AIM listed global leader in 
the supply of high quality protein 
research tools. He has extensive 
experience of the City, industry 
and internet-based business. 
Jeff was a corporate financier at 
Panmure Gordon & Co. between 
1989 and 1996, during which time 
he advised Treatt, and has held 
a number of financial positions at 
companies including Enviros Group 
Limited and Plethora Solutions 
plc, an AIM listed company. Prior 
to joining Abcam in 2007, he 
was Chief Financial Officer at the 
eCommerce company St Minver 
Ltd.
JEFF ILIFFE
Dr. David Johnston was appointed 
to the Board in May 2011. David 
has a PhD in Biochemistry and has 
worked for Firmenich, one of the 
leading global flavour and fragrance 
companies for over 13 years in a 
variety of roles, most recently as 
Vice President of Innovation and 
Design. David was also a member 
of the flavour executive team at 
Firmenich and held the position 
of Vice President of the European 
Flavour Association. David is 
currently part owner of Natural 
Taste Consulting.
DAVID JOHNSTON
Ian Neil was appointed to the 
Board in December 2009. He 
was with International Flavors and 
Fragrances for 25 years in a variety 
of international management roles, 
including Vice President Europe, 
Africa and Middle East (“EAME”) 
Flavors. Ian is currently the UK 
Director of Perfotec BV , a Laser 
Micro Perforation provider for the 
fresh produce packaging industry.
* Senior Independent Director
IAN NEIL
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
1
1 1 1 1 Chair Chair Chair
*
2 2 2 2 3 3 3 3
1 Nomination Committee
2 Remuneration Committee
3 Audit Committee 16   TREATT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013
Strategic Report
OVERVIEW
The Group is required to produce a strategic report complying with 
the requirements of The Companies Act 2006 (Strategic Report and 
Directors’ Report) Regulations 2013 (‘the Regulations’). 
An overview of the Group’s strategy and business model is set out 
on page 1, and together with the Chairman’s Statement, CEO’s 
Report and Financial Review, on pages 6 to 10 form part of this Group 
Strategic Report. This incorporates a review of the Group’s activities, 
its business performance and developments during the year as well as 
an indication of likely future developments. 
The Board approved a new Group strategy in December 2012 and this 
was presented to all employees in the UK and US by the CEO during 
January 2013. Underpinning the strategy outlined on page 1, is a clear 
focus on delivering long-term and consistent growth in profitability by 
focusing on those customers and products which can bring T reatt long 
term sustainable value.
Our business model is designed to bridge the gap between the 
raw material and providing the quality ingredient solutions which 
our customers want. In doing so, we are increasingly leveraging our 
position as a key supplier to major global multi-national corporations. 
Key to the success of our business model is our experience and 
knowledge of the ingredients we handle, and our focus on product 
innovation.
We are clear about what we do and this is outlined on page 2.  
In serving the flavour, fragrance and consumer goods industries, we 
place a particular emphasis on the beverage market where many of 
our innovative ingredient solutions are used.
In order to deliver long-term sustainable profit growth, there are four 
key pillars to our strategy which support a focused sales approach:
• QUALITY – we have an excellent reputation for delivering quality 
products but we are not complacent. We invest continuously in 
our quality control and assurance processes to ensure that our 
customers receive quality products, right first time.
• COST CONTROL – we continually bear down on costs and 
improve the efficiency of our business in order to deliver the best 
possible returns for shareholders. Where we can, we manage our 
costs globally in order to maximise our efficiency.
• POSITIVE CULTURE – we strongly believe that a happy, well-
motivated workforce is a more successful one. As part of strategy 
implementation, we have moved to ‘One Treatt’ and operate the 
business on a progressively global platform. A business is only as 
good as its people – we attract and promote the most talented 
people to drive our business forward and foster a culture of 
responsibility, accountability and openness.
• HEALTH & SAFETY – this is the number one priority in the 
business. Without a safe business the Group cannot exist. We 
continuously train and re-train our staff to ensure that we operate 
best health and safety practices throughout the organisation.
KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS (KPIs)
1
KPIs have been set at Group level, having been devised to allow the Board and shareholders to monitor the Group as a whole, as well as the 
operating businesses within the Group. The Group has financial KPIs which it monitors on a regular basis at Board level and, where relevant, at 
operational executive management meetings as follows:
 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009
Growth in adjusted profit before tax 23.1% (20.6%) 41.5% 28.6% 14.3%
Growth in adjusted basic earnings per share 25.6% (19.1%) 40.5% 23.6% 25.9%
Net operating margin 9.4% 7.6% 9.2% 7.7% 6.9%
Return on capital employed
2
 19.4% 14.4% 20.5% 14.6% 12.3%
Average net debt to EBITDA 1.28 1.52 1.18 1.65 2.46
1 All KPIs are calculated excluding exceptional items
2 Return is defined as operating profit. Capital employed is defined as net assets plus net debt. Further explanation of the calculations is given on page 5.
In addition, the Board monitors a number of non-financial key performance indicators relating to health and safety and employee well-being  
as follows:
    2013 2012
Number of reportable accidents across the Group    3 4
Average number of sick days per employee    3.45 4.03 TREATT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013   17
RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES
The Group has provided in the Chairman’s Statement, CEO Report, 
Financial Review and the notes to the financial statements details of 
various risks and uncertainties it faces, which include:
• foreign exchange risk, particularly with regard to the US Dollar, as 
many of the Group’s raw materials are considered to be dollar-
denominated commodities;
• credit risk in ensuring payments from customers are received in 
full and on a timely basis;
• legislative and regulatory risk as new requirements are being 
imposed on business and the industries with which the Group 
are involved, for example the European REACH (Registration, 
Evaluation, Authorisation and restriction of CHemicals) legislation;
• movements in commodity and essential oil prices often caused 
by unpredictable weather patterns or other sudden changes in 
supply or demand, for example the impact of the 2004 Florida 
hurricanes on grapefruit oil prices, the 2008 movement in lemon 
oil prices, and the sharp rise and fall in orange oil prices between 
2010 and 2012.
The Group has taken appropriate steps to manage and control these 
risks, which include:
• the implementation of a foreign exchange risk management policy 
as explained in the Financial Review;
• agreeing appropriate payment terms with customers including, 
where necessary, payment in advance or by securing payment 
through bank letters of credit;
• taking a pro-active and leading role in ensuring the Group’s 
systems and procedures are adapted to ensure compliance with 
new or changing legislative or regulatory requirements;
• ensuring that Group purchases of raw materials are based upon a 
well-researched understanding of the risks involved and ensuring 
that appropriate inventory balances are held in order to meet 
future demand, whilst not holding excessive levels which may 
expose the Group to unnecessary levels of risk.
Group risk is regularly reviewed at Board level to ensure that risk 
management is being implemented and monitored effectively.
The Group regularly reviews its commercial insurance programme and 
maintains an appropriate and adequate portfolio of insurance policies 
in line with the nature, size and complexity of the business.
The Group also continues to have in place a ‘Business Continuity’ 
team whose on-going responsibility is to assess the issues which 
the Group would face should it experience a major and unforeseen 
disaster and to put in place a clear action plan as to how the Group 
would continue to operate successfully in such an event.
DIVERSITY
Appointments within the Group are made on merit according to the 
balance of skills and experience offered by prospective candidates. 
Whilst acknowledging the benefits of diversity , individual appointments 
are made irrespective of personal characteristics such as race, 
disability, gender, sexual orientation, religion or age. 
As a manufacturing Group, few women apply for positions  
within the production areas. However, women are well represented  
in other areas of the business and account for 29% of both the 
Group workforce and Group senior management positions, as at  
30 September 2013. 
Position Male Female T otal
Group Director 6 1 7
Senior Manager 27 11 38
Other Employees 186 78 264
T otal Employees 219 90 309
SOCIAL, COMMUNITY AND HUMAN RIGHTS ISSUES
The Group endeavours to impact positively on the communities in 
which it operates. Earthoil in particular is committed to purchasing oils 
directly from source at a fair and sustainable price and works closely 
with growers in under-developed countries through Fair for Life – 
Social and Fair Trade certification. 
Long term and trusted support and co-operation has also been 
a driver for positive change which has led to Earthoil’s Kenyan 
Organic Oil Farmers Association (KOOFA) increasing from its initial 90 
members to now well over 500 producers. In addition, Community 
funds provide further benefits to the farmers and their families, such 
as scholarships, and a project is currently underway to build a social 
hall for community activities.
Ethical concerns and human rights issues have always played an 
important role in Treatt’s company philosophy and the Group’s 
ethical and social accountability statement details the standards of 
behaviour which Treatt regards as acceptable. Provision of a safe, 
clean working environment, free from discrimination, coercion and the 
use of child or forced labour is a basic right of all employees, which 
Treatt expects of its business partners as a minimum standard. The 
Group is often audited by its customers to assess compliance with 
minimum acceptable standards, including ethical and human rights 
considerations. 
This strategic report was approved by the Board on 6 December 
2013.
ANITA STEER
Secretary 18   TREATT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013
Corporate Governance Statement
COMPLIANCE WITH THE UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 
CODE
The Board confirms that throughout the year ended 30 September 
2013 the Group has complied with the provisions set out in the UK 
Corporate Governance Code
1
, except for clause D1.5 in that one 
Executive Director (who has announced their intention to retire as 
an Executive Director) has a service contract which provides for 
two years notice. This non-compliance will no longer apply from 
February 2014. In addition, and as explained in the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report, the Board does not fully comply with D2.2,  
in that the remuneration of Group senior managers is determined by 
the Executive Directors as the Remuneration Committee believe that 
they are best placed to make this decision. However, remuneration 
proposals in respect of senior managers are reviewed by the 
Remuneration Committee. The bonuses of all senior managers in the 
Group are approved by the Remuneration Committee.
The Board is accountable to the Parent Company’s shareholders for 
good governance and the statement set out below describes how 
the principles identified in the UK Corporate Governance Code are 
applied by the Group.
The Directors consider the annual report and financial statements, 
taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and 
provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the 
Group’s performance, business model and strategy.
The terms of reference of all the Committees can be found on the 
Treatt website at www.treatt.com.
LEADERSHIP
Details of the Directors who served during the year, the positions they 
hold, and the Committees of which they are members are shown 
on page 15. The Board consists of four Non-executive Directors, 
of which Tim Jones is chairman, and three Executive Directors, of 
which Daemmon Reeve is Chief Executive Officer. Anita Haines will 
retire as an Executive Director at the conclusion of the Annual General 
Meeting and is standing for re-election as a Non-executive Director. 
There is a clear division of responsibility between the Chief Executive 
Officer, who is required to develop and lead business strategies and 
processes to enable the Group’ s business to meet the requirements of 
its shareholders, and the Chairman who is responsible for leadership 
of the Board and ensuring that appropriate conditions are created 
to enable the Board to be effective in providing entrepreneurial 
leadership to the company. The key functions of the Chairman are 
to conduct board meetings, meetings of shareholders and to ensure 
that all Directors are properly briefed in order to take a full and 
constructive part in Board discussions. The Chairman has regular 
contact with the Non-executive Directors without the presence of the 
Executive Directors. Concerns relating to the executive management 
of the Group or the performance of the other Non-executive Directors 
may be raised with the Senior Independent Director, who is Ian Neil.
The Board meets at least five times each year and more frequently 
where business needs require, with attendance in person or by 
video conference required at each meeting. In addition regular 
contact is maintained by email and telephone with written updates 
provided in respect of on-going issues, enabling regular input from 
all Board members. On a bi-annual basis a Board meeting is held  
at the Group’s US subsidiary, Treatt USA, to enable closer interaction 
of the Non-executive Directors with the senior management and staff. 
Day to day management of the Group is delegated to the Executive 
Directors. However the Board has a schedule of matters reserved 
to it for decision and the requirement for Board approval on these 
matters is communicated widely throughout the senior management 
of the Group. These matters, which are reviewed periodically, 
include material capital commitments, commencing or settling major 
litigation, business acquisitions and disposals, appointments to 
subsidiary company boards and dividend policy. 
To enable the Board to function effectively and Directors to 
discharge their responsibilities, full and timely access is given to  
all relevant information. In the case of board meetings, this consists of 
a comprehensive set of papers, including regular business progress 
reports and discussion documents regarding specific matters. 
Board meetings are of sufficient duration to enable debate and 
discussion ensuring adequate analysis of issues during the decision 
making process. Further opportunity for more informal and extended 
discussion is provided at Board lunches which take place after every 
Board meeting and also provide the Board with an opportunity to 
meet members of staff, who are invited to attend.
There is an agreed procedure for Directors to take independent 
professional advice if necessary and at the Group’s expense. This is 
in addition to the access which every Director has to the Company 
Secretary. The Secretary is charged by the Board with ensuring that 
Board procedures are followed and that there are good information 
flows within the Board and its Committees and between senior 
management and Non-executive Directors.
At T reatt there is a commitment to high standards of corporate 
governance throughout the Group and this is reflected in our governance 
principles, policies and practices. We believe that effective governance, 
not only in the boardroom but right across the business, ultimately 
produces a better business and supports long-term performance.
TIM JONES 
Chairman
1 A copy of the UK Corporate Governance Code can be obtained from www.frc.org.uk TREATT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013   19
EFFECTIVENESS
The Directors believe that the Board, having been refreshed in  
2011, 2012 and 2013, has an appropriate balance of skills and 
experience with financial, technical, industry specific and general 
business disciplines being represented. The structure of the Board 
ensures that no one Director is dominant in the decision-making 
process and that open debate and discussion is encouraged. 
There is a suitable balance between the number of Executive  
and Non-executive Directors. 
The importance of a diverse board, including gender diversity 
which has been the subject of recent debate in respect of board 
composition, is recognised and supported by the Directors of 
Treatt plc. The Board is conscious of the benefits of diversity in the 
boardroom and within management positions within the Group. Our 
policy is to recruit the best possible candidate for each individual role 
having regard to qualifications, experience and personality, without 
prejudice to a candidate’s characteristics. 
The Board considers that all the Non-executive Directors are 
independent of management and free of any relationship which could 
materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement. 
In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, in the event 
of her re-election as a Non-executive Director in February 2014, 
Anita Haines will not be regarded as independent as defined by the 
code, having just retired as an Executive Director. None of the Non-
executive Directors have a significant interest in the shares of Treatt 
plc and all receive a fixed fee for their services. However , in exceptional 
circumstances, where significant additional time commitment is 
required, a Non-executive Director may, if approved by the Board 
or Remuneration Committee as required, be paid an additional fee. 
The Board is satisfied that the Chairman’s other commitments do not 
detract from the extent or the quality of the time which he is able to 
devote to the Group.
NOMINATION COMMITTEE
Members of the Nomination Committee throughout the year are 
shown on page 87. The Nomination Committee’s principal remit is 
to consider the appointment or retirement of Directors, to review 
proposed nominations, and make recommendations thereon to the 
Board.
Appointments to the Board of both Executive and Non-executive 
Directors are considered by the Nomination Committee, which 
consults with Executive Directors and ensures that a wide range of 
candidates are considered. The Committee considers the skills mix of 
the serving Directors to identify potential gaps or areas where increased 
strength is required. In accordance with Treatt’ s Board Diversity Policy 
and having recognised the benefit of having an appropriate level of 
diversity on the Board to support the achievement of its strategic 
objectives, the Committee also considers the benefits of all aspects 
of diversity, including but not limited to, race, disability, gender, sexual 
orientation, religion, belief, age and culture. The recommendations 
of the Nomination Committee are ultimately made to the full Board 
which considers them before any appointment is made. 
During the year Jeff Iliffe was appointed as a Non-executive Director. 
It had been recognised that following the change of Chairman in 
2012, financial skills and city experience were under-represented on 
the Board amongst the Non-executive Directors and a Non-executive 
Director with those skills was sought to bridge the gap. Although 
the role was not openly advertised, a number of applications were 
received and considered. Jeff Iliffe, who had previously worked with 
Treatt when he was at Panmure Gordon & Co. between 1989 and 
1996, attended a series of interviews with the Nomination Committee 
and subsequently the Executive Directors. Following satisfactory 
completion of this process, the appointment was approved by the 
full Board. 
Upon appointment, Directors are provided with access to an 
appropriate external training course and to advice from the Group’s 
solicitors in respect of their role and duties as a public company 
director. Where they have significant relevant experience for the role, 
training may be felt to be unnecessary. In addition, all new Directors 
receive an induction to acquaint them with the Group. This takes the 
form of site tours, meetings with other Board members and senior 
management and the provision of an induction pack, which contains 
general information about the Group, its structure and key personnel, 
together with copies of relevant policies and procedures, financial 
information and briefings on Directors’ responsibilities and corporate 
governance. 
The Nomination Committee is also responsible for the annual 
evaluation of the Board, its committees and its Directors. During the 
year an evaluation of the Board, its committees and each individual 
Director is carried out internally, with the assistance of the Company 
Secretary, as the Board believes it has the appropriate resources 
and experience to undertake the reviews. The Board and committee 
reviews are conducted under the supervision of the appropriate 
Chairman. The Board evaluation process involved completion, by 
each Board member, of a comprehensive anonymous questionnaire 
designed to evaluate each of the essential components of an effective 
board. The results, which were benchmarked against the previous 
year’s evaluation, demonstrated that performance is effective overall. 
These results were reported to the Committee and action points 
agreed to further improve performance.
The performance of individual Directors is evaluated by the Chairman, 
in conjunction with the Chief Executive Officer in the case of other 
Executive Directors. The Chairman is evaluated by the Chief 
Executive Officer and Senior Independent Director. The process 
includes individual performance meetings, at which past performance 
is discussed and evaluated and future objectives established. In the 
event that training and development needs are identified during 
the evaluation process, suitable resources or training are provided. 
During the course of the year, the Board has undertaken training on 
corporate governance provided by an external trainer, specialising in 
board support.
Any Director appointed during the year is required, under the 
provisions of the Articles of Association, to retire and seek election by 
shareholders at the next Annual General Meeting. The Articles also 
require that one third of the Directors retire by rotation each year and 
seek re-election at the Annual General Meeting provided always that 
all directors must be subject to re-election at intervals of no more than 
three years. Any Non-executive Director having been in post for nine 
years or more, is subject to annual re-election. The Directors required 
to retire are those in office longest since their previous re-election. 20   TREATT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013
Corporate Governance Statement
continued
other costs incurred to support the Group in discussions with the 
Bovill family shareholders and related matters;
•  the treatment of the contingent consideration included within the 
investment of the Earthoil Group;
•  the level of provisions made against the carrying value of inventories; 
and
•  the estimation of taxable profits in the jurisdictions in which the 
Group operates to support the current tax liability. 
After due challenge and debate the Committee was content that 
the assumptions made and judgements applied in these areas, 
which where possible are supported by external advice or other 
corroborative evidence, are reasonable and therefore agreed with 
management recommendations.
The Committee also reviewed compliance with the additional 
disclosure requirements recently introduced for companies reporting 
on financial years ending on or after 30 September 2013, which 
the Group is reporting on for the first time. This included changes 
to the reporting on Directors’ remuneration and the introduction of 
the remuneration policy, the new strategic report and reports on 
greenhouse gas emissions and gender diversity.
MEMBERSHIP AND MEETINGS
Members of the Audit Committee throughout the year are shown on 
page 87. The Committee has met twice since the approval of the 2012 
financial statements. The auditor attended these meetings other than 
when their appointment or performance was being reviewed. The 
Chief Executive Officer, Finance Director and other senior finance staff 
attend as and when appropriate. The Committee has discussions 
at least once a year with the auditor without management being 
present. Furthermore the Committee Chairman meets informally 
with, and has access to, the Finance Director to discuss matters 
considered relevant to the Committee’s duties.
EXTERNAL AUDITOR
The Committee has oversight of the relationship with the external 
auditor and is responsible for monitoring the auditor’ s independence, 
objectivity and compliance with professional and regulatory 
requirements. The incumbent auditors, Baker Tilly UK Audit LLP , were 
invited to submit a full audit tender in 2009 and were reappointed, on 
an annual rolling contract but with a long-term agreement on fees, 
on the basis of their proposal. During the year the Committee has 
monitored Baker Tilly’s effectiveness and performance and were 
satisfied that Baker Tilly were providing the audit services agreed. 
The Committee has therefore recommended to the Board that Baker 
Tilly be reappointed in 2014.
The level of non-audit fees and their effect on the auditor’s 
independence or objectivity is also considered on a regular basis. 
The split between audit and non-audit fees for the year under review 
appears in note 5. Non-audit fees are generally paid mainly in respect 
of tax compliance services and advice on share schemes. The Group 
has a policy to ensure that the provision of such services does not 
impair their independence or objectivity and when considering the use 
of the auditor to undertake non-audit assignments, management give 
consideration at all times to the provisions of the FRC Guidance on 
Audit Committees with regard to the preservation of independence.
AUDIT COMMITTEE
ROLE AND RESPONSIBILITIES
The main responsibilities of the Audit Committee (“the Committee”) are: 
•  to monitor the integrity of the annual report of the Group and to 
review and report to the Board on significant financial reporting 
issues and judgements which it contains, having regard to matters 
communicated to it by the auditor;
•  to review the content of the annual report and advise the Board 
on whether, taken as a whole, it presents a balanced assessment 
of the Group’s position and provides the information necessary for 
shareholders to assess the Group’s performance, business model 
and strategy;
•  to oversee the relationship with the auditor, including making 
recommendations to the Board on their appointment, remuneration 
and terms of engagement. The Committee also monitors their 
independence and objectivity, and sets the policy for non-audit 
work;
•  to make recommendations to the Board on the requirement for an 
internal audit function; and
•  to ensure that procedures are in place whereby staff of the Group 
may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties 
in matters of financial reporting or other matters. The Committee 
has arrangements in place for the proportionate and independent 
investigation of such matters and for appropriate follow-up action.
ACTIVITIES SINCE THE LAST REPORT
•  the composition of the Committee was reviewed and on appointment 
to the Board in February 2013 Jeff Iliffe was invited to join as 
Chairman. Jeff is deemed by the Board to have significant, recent 
and relevant financial experience. He is a Chartered Accountant 
with over 20 years experience in the financing and management of 
companies, both in the City and in industry;
•  a review of the Committee’s terms of reference was undertaken 
and revisions made to reflect the current responsibilities of the 
Committee;
•  a review of the requirement for an internal audit function was 
undertaken. Given the structure of the Group, and the level of 
control exercised by the management team, the establishment of a 
formal internal audit function was not considered to be necessary 
at present. As the Group develops, the need for such a function will 
be kept under review;
•  the Committee met with the auditor to agree the scope of audit 
work to be undertaken and agree the audit fee;
•  a review of the auditor’s performance was undertaken, to ensure 
that they remain objective and independent, and to assess the 
effectiveness of the audit; 
•  the Group’s annual report for 2013 was reviewed to ensure that 
taken as a whole, it was fair, balanced and understandable. This 
included consideration of a report from the auditor on their audit 
and review of the financial statements; and
•  the policy for the engagement of the external auditor for non-audit 
related services was reviewed together with an assessment of its 
implementation during the year.
FINANCIAL REPORTING
Amongst the matters considered by the Committee were the key 
accounting issues, matters and judgement in relation to the Group’s 
2013 annual report and financial statements relating to:
•  the presentation of the financial statements and in particular the 
treatment of exceptional items in respect of legal and professional 
fees relating to the Earthoil contract dispute, and advisory fees and  TREATT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013   21
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE
The Remuneration Committee’s primary responsibility is to determine 
the remuneration of the Executive Directors of the Group ensuring 
that there is a sufficient balance between the levels of ordinary 
remuneration and performance-related elements designed to 
promote the Group’s long term success.
Full details of the Directors’ remuneration and a statement of the 
Group’ s remuneration policy are set out in the Directors’ Remuneration 
Report appearing on pages 23 to 35. Members of the Remuneration 
Committee throughout the year are shown on page 87. The Chief 
Executive Officer attends meetings of the Remuneration Committee 
to discuss the performance of the other Executive Directors and 
make proposals as necessary, but is not present when his own 
position is being discussed.
Each Executive Director abstains from any discussion or voting at 
full Board meetings on Remuneration Committee recommendations 
where the recommendations have a direct bearing on their own 
remuneration package. The details of each Executive Director’s 
individual package are fixed by the Committee in line with the policy 
adopted by the full Board.
ACCOUNTABILITY
The Board is responsible for reviewing and approving the annual report and financial statements, the half year results and other financial 
statements made to ensure they present a balanced assessment of the Group’s position. Drafts of all financial releases are provided to the 
Board in a timely manner and Directors’ feedback is discussed and incorporated where appropriate, prior to publication.
ATTENDANCE AT MEETINGS
The members of the Board during the year and its Committees, together with their attendance, are shown below:
   Audit  Nomination Remuneration
 Board Committee  Committee Committee
Number of meetings held in year 6 2 3 5
Daemmon Reeve 
Chief Executive Officer 6 N/A 3 N/A
Anita Haines
Human Resources Director 6 N/A N/A N/A
Richard Hope
Finance Director 6 N/A N/A N/A
Tim Jones 6 2 3 5
Non-executive Director and Chairman Chairman  Chairman 
Jeff Iliffe 5 1 2 4
Non-executive Director from 25 February 2013  Chairman
David Johnston 6 2 3 5
Non-executive Director  
Ian Neil 6 2 3 5
Senior Independent Non-executive Director  Chairman (1)  Chairman
Peter Thorburn 1 1 1 1
Non-executive Director until 25 February 2013 
As permitted by the Parent Company’s Articles of Association, Directors may participate in the minuted decisions via telephone or video 
communication where it is impractical for them to attend in person.  22   TREATT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013
INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY
The Group operates on a common centrally managed computer 
platform. This provides common reporting and control systems and 
the ability to manage and interrogate businesses remotely. However, 
there are associated risks with having the entire group IT systems on 
a common platform, such as IT security, access rights and business 
continuity. These risks are mitigated by an on-going focus on IT 
security through a process of continuous investment in IT facilities.
CAPITAL INVESTMENT
The Group has clearly defined guidelines for capital expenditure. 
These include annual budgets, appraisal and review procedures, 
and levels of authority. Post-investment appraisals are performed for 
major investments.
RISK ASSESSMENT AND INFORMATION
Operational management in conjunction with the Executive Directors, 
who report regularly to the Board, are responsible for identification 
and evaluation of significant risks applicable to their area of business 
and the design and operation of suitable internal controls. Details of 
the principal risks associated with the Group’s activities are given in 
the Strategic Report on page 17.
RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS
The Group places a great deal of importance on communication with 
its shareholders. The Parent Company mails to all shareholders its full 
annual report and financial statements. This information, together with 
the quarterly interim management statements, half yearly statements 
and other financial announcements, is also available on the Group’s 
website and, upon request, to other parties who have an interest in 
the Group’s performance. 
There is regular dialogue with individual institutional and other major 
shareholders as well as presentations after the half and full year 
results. The views of major shareholders are communicated and 
discussed at Board meetings and Non-executive Directors may 
request meetings with major shareholders should they wish to do so 
and vice versa. All shareholders have the opportunity to put questions 
at the Parent Company’s Annual General Meeting.
This report was approved by the Board on 6 December 2013.
ANITA STEER
Secretary
FINANCIAL AND INTERNAL CONTROL
The Board confirms that a process for the on-going identification, 
evaluation and management of significant risks faced by the Group 
has been in place throughout the year and to the date of approval 
of this report, which complies with the guidance ‘Internal Control: 
Guidance to Directors’ (“the Turnbull guidance”). The process is 
subject to regular review by the Board and there were no significant 
internal control issues identified during the year.
The Directors are responsible for the Group’s system of internal 
control, the effectiveness of which is reviewed by them annually. This 
covers all controls including those in relation to financial reporting 
processes (including the preparation of consolidated accounts). In 
addition to monitoring reports received via the Executive Directors 
they consider the risks faced by the Group, whether the control 
systems are appropriate and consult with internal and external 
experts on environmental, insurance, legal and health and safety 
compliance. However, such a system can only provide reasonable 
but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss. 
The key procedures that the Directors have established to provide 
effective internal controls are as follows:
FINANCIAL REPORTING
A detailed formal budgeting process for all Group businesses 
culminates in an annual Group budget which is approved by the 
Board. Results for the Group and its main constituent businesses 
are reported monthly against the budget to the Board and revised 
forecasts for the year are prepared through the year. The Group 
uses a standardised consolidation system for the preparation of 
the Group’s monthly management accounts, half year and annual 
consolidated financial statements, which is subject to review by 
senior management throughout the consolidation process.
The Board monitors the integrity of all financial announcements 
released by the Group, ensuring that, among other things, appropriate 
accounting standards and policies are applied consistently, that 
all material information is presented and that the disclosures are 
accurate. 
FINANCIAL AND ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES
Financial controls and accounting policies are set by the Board so as 
to meet appropriate levels of effective financial control. Compliance 
with these policies and controls is reviewed where necessary by 
external auditors.
Corporate Governance Statement
continued TREATT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013   23
Directors’ Remuneration Report
ANNUAL STATEMENT
INTRODUCTION
As Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, I am pleased to 
present our report on Directors’ remuneration. 
This report has been prepared in accordance with the new legislation 
relating to the reporting of Directors’ remuneration and complies with 
the Companies Act 2006 (‘the Act’) and Schedule 8 of the Large 
and Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) 
Regulations 2008 (the ‘Regulations’), as amended. The report also 
meets the relevant requirements of the Listing Rules of the Financial 
Conduct Authority and describes how the Board has applied the 
Principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code relating to Directors’ 
remuneration. In accordance with the Act, the Remuneration Report is 
now divided into two sections, a Remuneration Policy Report, which 
describes our approach to remuneration, and an Implementation 
Report, which details the remuneration paid to the Directors during 
the financial year under review. The Remuneration Policy Report and 
the Implementation Report will be put to binding and advisory votes 
respectively at the AGM of the Parent Company on 24 February 
2014.
2013 PERFORMANCE
As detailed elsewhere in this report, the Group performed well in 
2013, meeting upwardly revised expectations for adjusted pre-
tax profit and earnings per share. The Group’s new strategic plan, 
although only approved in late 2012, showed some early signs of 
success, contributing towards the year’s result. The base salaries of 
Anita Haines and Daemmon Reeve were increased with effect from 1 
October 2013 by 1% and 2.7% respectively, in line with the increases 
received by staff generally. The base salary of Richard Hope was 
increased by 8% following the identification of a misalignment with 
benchmarking data relative to other Fledgling Index companies. 
REMUNERATION POLICY
The aim of our remuneration policy is to attract and retain 
appropriately skilled and experienced Directors with the ability to 
deliver the Group’s strategic objectives and obtain good returns 
for shareholders in accordance with the Group’s values. This may 
be achieved through an appropriate combination of salary, benefits 
and performance-related longer term incentives, which align the 
interests of Directors with shareholders. Following consultation with 
the Group’s major shareholders, a share retention policy has been 
adopted by the Board which imposes a shareholding requirement of 
200% of salary on the Chief Executive Officer and 150% of salary on 
the Finance Director. 
The Committee believes that this policy is aligned with our business 
strategy outlined elsewhere in this report. The Committee is also 
satisfied that within the remuneration policy , and particularly in respect 
of the setting of performance targets, there is a sufficient balance 
between encouraging entrepreneurial behaviour without encouraging 
excessive risk-taking. 
 
In a departure from provision D2.2 of the UK Corporate Governance 
Code, the remuneration of Group senior management is determined 
by the Executive Directors since the Board believes that the 
Executive Directors are best placed to make this decision. However, 
remuneration proposals in respect of senior managers are reviewed 
and monitored by the Committee to ensure consistency and 
proportionality. The bonuses of all senior managers in the Group are 
approved by the Committee.
DECISIONS MADE DURING THE YEAR
In line with its terms of reference, the following key matters were 
considered by the Committee during the year: 
• approval of the 2012 Directors’ Remuneration Report; 
• agreement of the bonuses payable for the 2012 financial year;
• grant of share options to directors under the Treatt 2005 
Approved and Unapproved Share Option Schemes and the 
setting of performance conditions; 
• review of the remuneration policy and the remuneration 
arrangements for the Executive Directors and Chairman; 
• review of salary levels for the Executive Directors and agreement 
of salary increases for the 2014 financial year; 
• to propose a Long Term Incentive Plan to shareholders at the 
2014 AGM which will operate in place of the existing Treatt 2005 
Approved and Unapproved Share Option Schemes; and
• to propose an all-employee Share Incentive Plan to shareholders 
at the 2014 AGM.
During the year all elements of the packages of the Executive 
Directors were reviewed and no significant changes have been made, 
although greater emphasis will be placed on share-based incentives 
going forward with new plans, as detailed above, being proposed to 
shareholders.
I hope that shareholders will support the resolutions on Directors 
remuneration and the new share schemes and I will be available at 
the AGM to answer any questions you may have.
IAN NEIL
Chairman
Remuneration Committee
Members of the Committee are shown on page 87 and for full 
biographies of the Committee members see page 15. The terms of 
reference of the Committee can be found on the Treatt website at 
www.treatt.com.
POLICY SECTION
REMUNERATION POLICY REPORT
The Committee’s policy is to ensure that remuneration structures are 
simple, transparent and proportional to the size and complexity of the 
business whilst ensuring that Executive Directors are fairly rewarded 
for the role they undertake. The main principles of the remuneration 
policy are:
• salaries should be competitive but not excessive when compared 
to similar companies;
• remuneration packages should align the interests of Directors 
with shareholders by using stretching performance metrics that 
provide a strong link to the creation of shareholder value;
• there should be appropriate balance between fixed and 
performance-related pay to ensure delivery of results over the 
short, medium and longer term;
• performance metrics should not encourage a culture of excessive 
risk taking;
• Directors should invest in and retain shares in Treatt.
The Committee reviews its policy annually to determine whether it 
remains effective and aligned to the Group strategy. As a result of 
this review greater emphasis will be placed on longer-term share-
based incentives to more closely align the interests of Directors with 
shareholders and provide stretching longer term targets to encourage 
strong performance.
The current intention is that the framework of this remuneration policy 
will apply for future years.  24   TREATT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION
The following table sets out a summary of each element of the Executive Directors’ remuneration, how it operates, the maximum opportunity 
available, applicable performance metrics and changes to remuneration for the 2014 financial year:
Element —
Purpose and link  
to strategy Operation
Maximum 
Opportunity
Performance 
Metrics
Changes for 2014 
financial year
Base salary
Help recruit and retain 
high calibre Executive 
Directors
To provide a competitive 
salary relative to the size 
of the Group
Reflects individual 
experience and the role
Reviewed annually by the 
Committee with changes taking 
effect from 1 October unless a 
change in responsibility requires an 
interim review
Influenced by personal 
performance and by the increase in 
salaries of other Group employees 
Normally benchmarked at 
intervals of 3 years against similar 
companies and targeted broadly at 
the median level 
Discretion may be exercised for the 
purpose of retention
Excluding a review 
required by a 
change in role or 
responsibility, to align 
with benchmarking, 
or in exceptional 
circumstances, the 
annual increase 
should not exceed 
the average 
salary increase of 
employees within  
the Group
Individual and 
company 
performance are 
considered
No changes have been 
made to the salary review 
process.
Base salary increase for 
Richard Hope addresses 
the misalignment with 
benchmarking. Other 
base salary increases are 
consistent with increases 
of Group employees
The car and fuel 
allowances of Daemmon 
Reeve and Richard 
Hope have been rolled 
into salary to provide a 
simpler remuneration 
structure
Benefits
Help recruit and retain 
high calibre Executive 
Directors
Entitlement to the following benefits 
on the same terms as employees 
in the country in which Director is 
resident:
Private Healthcare - except that 
Daemmon Reeve also receives 
Family Cover in the UK; Life 
Assurance; Permanent Health 
Insurance – except that Daemmon 
Reeve receives enhanced long 
term disability cover; All-employee 
Share Schemes
Any new benefits introduced to 
staff generally shall be provided to 
Directors on equal or comparable 
terms
Discretion may be exercised to 
provide appropriate benefits that 
might become payable as a result 
of a new business requirement, 
such as a need for a Director to 
relocate 
Except as otherwise 
stated these are on 
the same terms as 
the benefits received 
by other employees 
in the country in 
which the Director is 
resident
Not applicable None
Directors’ Remuneration Report
continued TREATT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013   25
Element —
Purpose and link  
to strategy Operation
Maximum 
Opportunity
Performance 
Metrics
Changes for 2014 
financial year
Annual Bonus
(Note 1)
Provides an element 
of at risk pay, which 
incentivises the 
achievement of good 
annual financial results 
Aligns Directors’ interests 
with shareholders
The rules of the Executive 
Directors Bonus Scheme and the 
performance targets are reviewed 
every three years
A bonus pool is calculated by 
reference to the achievement 
of performance targets for the 
financial year and each Director 
is entitled to a set percentage of 
the pool, subject to the maximum 
opportunity
Bonuses are subject to 
determination by the Committee 
after year end and are paid in cash 
in December 
Discretion may be exercised 
in respect of the treatment of 
exceptional items which may 
have the effect of increasing or 
decreasing the bonus pool 
100% of salary The bonus pool 
is based on an 
amount by which 
adjusted pre-tax 
profit exceeds a 
minimum level 
The bonus pool 
ranges from 
3% of pre-tax 
profit above the 
threshold level rising 
incrementally to a 
maximum of 16% 
for performance 
exceeding the 
threshold by a 
specified margin
For 2014 bonuses the 
Committee’s discretion 
has been extended to 
include the ability to 
reduce bonus where 
circumstances have 
created a sufficiently 
significant impact on 
the reputation of the 
Group to justify, in the 
view of the Committee, 
the operation of this 
discretion
The bonus pool is being 
re-calibrated, and will 
range from 1.5% to 9% 
of profits in excess of a 
minimum level
Daemmon Reeve will be 
eligible to receive 60% 
of the pool, and Richard 
Hope 40%
Share Options
(Note 2)
Incentivises Directors 
to achieve returns for 
shareholders over a 
longer time frame
Aligns Directors’ interests 
with shareholders
The Group has one Approved and 
one Unapproved Share Option 
Scheme which were approved by 
shareholders in February 2005. 
Grants of options are considered 
annually after year end. The 
quantum of awards are reviewed 
to ensure that they are in line with 
market rates
 
Awards must be made at market 
price with vesting dependent on 
the achievement of performance 
conditions over a period 
determined by the Committee, 
which shall be a minimum of  
3 years 
Discretion may be exercised in 
respect of the performance criteria 
by replacing the current measure 
with a similarly appropriate 
measure or combination of 
measures
The Committee may also exercise 
the specific discretions contained 
within the rules of the scheme, as 
approved by shareholders
100% of salary based 
on market value of 
shares at date of 
grant
Performance is 
measured over 
three years. The 
vesting of the 
options shall be 
subject to growth 
in adjusted basic 
EPS exceeding 
a minimum level 
during the period 
from date of grant 
to date of vesting 
20% vests at 
threshold rising 
incrementally 
to 100% for 
performance 
exceeding the 
threshold by a 
specified margin
Options lapse if 
performance criteria 
are not met at the 
end of the three 
year performance 
period
None 26   TREATT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013
Element —
Purpose and link  
to strategy Operation
Maximum 
Opportunity
Performance 
Metrics
Changes for 2014 
financial year
Long T erm Incentive 
Plan (Note 2)
Incentivises Directors 
to achieve returns for 
shareholders over a 
longer time frame
Aligns Directors interests 
with shareholders
The Board has proposed an 
LTIP which will be put before 
shareholders at the AGM in 
February 2014
The Committee will consider 
awards of shares under the 
LTIP annually and will review the 
quantum of awards to ensure that 
they are in line with market rates
Awards will be made at nil cost 
with vesting dependent on the 
achievement of performance 
conditions over a period 
determined by the Committee, 
which shall be a minimum of  
3 years
Discretion may be exercised in 
respect of the performance criteria 
by replacing the current measure 
with a similarly appropriate 
measure or combination of 
measures
The Committee may also exercise 
the specific discretions contained 
within the rules of the scheme, as 
approved by shareholders
100% of salary based 
on market value of 
shares at date of 
grant
The vesting of the 
awards shall be 
subject to growth 
in adjusted basic 
EPS exceeding 
a minimum level 
during the period 
from date of grant 
to date of vesting 
20% vests at 
threshold rising 
incrementally 
to 100% for 
performance 
exceeding the 
threshold by a 
specified margin
Awards lapse if 
performance criteria 
are not met at the 
end of the three 
year performance 
period
If approved, 2014 will be 
the first year in which this 
scheme will operate
Share Retention Policy Holding requirements:
CEO – 200% of basic salary
FD – 150% of basic salary
Directors are required to retain 
shares acquired under share-
based incentive awards until the 
holding requirements are met, 
save that they are permitted to 
sell sufficient shares to pay any 
exercise price and all applicable 
taxes due in respect of that award
Not applicable Not applicable This policy is effective 
from 6 December 2013
Pension
Help recruit and retain 
high calibre Executive 
Directors and to provide 
a competitive package 
relative to the size of the 
Group
Entitlement to receive employer 
contributions into a defined 
contribution pension scheme on 
the same terms as employees in 
the country in which the Director is 
resident
Daemmon Reeve also receives a 
contribution into a Supplemental 
Executive Retirement Plan (SERP)
UK employees - 
9% base salary 
contribution or 15% 
where previously 
a member of the 
defined benefit 
pension scheme (no 
personal contribution 
required in either 
case)
US employees – up 
to 6% base salary 
contribution, which 
matches personal 
contribution
SERP - 4% base 
salary contribution 
(no personal 
contribution required)
Not applicable None
Directors’ Remuneration Report
continued TREATT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013   27
Element —
Purpose and link  
to strategy Operation
Maximum 
Opportunity
Performance 
Metrics
Changes for 2014 
financial year
Recruitment of 
Executive Directors
Enable recruitment of 
high calibre Executive 
Directors able to 
contribute to the success 
of the Group
Salary will be set to reflect skills 
and experience of incoming 
Director and market rate for the 
role to be undertaken
Existing benefits and incentives 
of the Group to be used with 
participation on the same basis as 
existing Directors
Payment of relocation expenses 
where relevant
In the event of an internal 
promotion any commitments made 
prior to promotion may continue 
to be honoured when they would 
otherwise be inconsistent with this 
policy 
Discretion may be exercised in 
exceptional circumstances and 
existing entitlements with current 
employer, such as bonus and 
share schemes, may be bought 
out on a like for like basis and 
subject to performance conditions
Recruitment awards 
are subject to the 
maximum value of 
any outstanding 
awards forgone by 
the recruit
Based on existing 
Treatt performance 
conditions
Not applicable
Clawback
To ensure Executive 
Directors do not 
benefit from errors or 
misconduct 
Provisions are to be included 
in performance-related 
remuneration to enable 
clawback of remuneration 
which has been overpaid due 
to material misstatement of the 
Group’s accounts, errors made 
in calculation or a Director’s 
misconduct
Not applicable Not applicable These provisions will be 
included in respect of 
2014 and onwards
Notes
1 The performance targets were set by the Remuneration Committee and are reviewed annually to ensure that they continue to incentivise 
strong financial performance. The Committee continues to believe that this performance measure offers a balance between the needs 
of shareholders, in providing good profitability and providing a measure of performance over which the Executive Directors have direct 
influence. The Committee considers that the level of performance required is appropriately stretching.
 The bonuses of staff and senior management are restricted to between 12% and 75% of base salary depending on seniority, role and 
market conditions.
2 Performance targets are set by the Committee at the date of grant of the options to ensure that they are appropriately stretching. The 
Committee considers adjusted basic EPS to be a complete and appropriate measure of performance, capturing revenue growth and 
operating margin. EPS targets are aligned with the Board’s strategy.
 
 If the LTIP is approved by shareholders in February 2014 it will replace the Approved and Unapproved Share Option Schemes and no further 
grants will be made under these schemes after February 2014. Renewal of the Approved and Unapproved Share Option Schemes will not 
be sought once they expire in February 2015. The LTIP permits the grant of nil cost options which, subject to remaining an employee and 
the satisfaction of performance criteria, provide the participants with the benefit of the full market value of the shares. 
 Awards under the Approved and Unapproved Schemes and the proposed LTIP may be made to Senior Executives who have significant 
influence over the Group’ s ability to meet its strategic targets with such awards being subject to the achievement of performance conditions 
set by the Committee at the date of grant. 28   TREATT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION
Element —
Purpose and link  
to strategy Operation
Maximum 
Opportunity Changes for 2013/2014
Fees
To recruit high calibre  
Non-executive Directors
To reward additional 
responsibility by virtue of position 
as Chairman of the Board or 
Chairman of a Committee
Subject to an aggregate limit within the 
Articles of Association, for which the 
Board has proposed an increase which 
will be put before shareholders at the 
AGM in February 2014
Reviewed annually with changes taking 
effect from 1 October 
The Chairman’s fees are reviewed  
by the Committee and the other Non-
executives’ fees are reviewed by the 
Board (excluding the Non-executives) 
Influenced by the increase in salaries of 
other Group employees and by personal 
performance
Benchmarked against similar companies 
and targeted broadly at the median level 
Additional fees may be paid in respect 
of increased responsibility or time 
commitment required by the role or in 
respect of invoiced consultancy fees, 
where relevant
Excluding a review 
required by a change 
in role or responsibility 
or to align with 
benchmarking the 
annual increase should 
not exceed the average 
increase of employees 
within the Group
Fee increase for Tim Jones 
takes account of an increase in 
the time commitment required 
for the role and addresses the 
misalignment with benchmarking
Fee increases for the other 
Non-executive directors are 
consistent with increases of 
group employees, except that 
a small additional fee has been 
awarded in respect of the 
position of Chairman of the Audit 
and Remuneration Committees
Where exceptional circumstances arise, the Committee shall have discretion to approve payments not specifically referred to above where the 
Committee, acting in good faith and taking into account the needs of the wider business, considers it reasonable and appropriate to do so.
ILLUSTRATION OF REMUNERATION POLICY
The graphs below provide estimates of the potential future reward for each of the Executive Directors based on their current roles, the 
remuneration policy outlined on pages 23 to 30 and base salaries as at 1 October 2013. Although Daemmon Reeve is paid in US Dollars, the 
figures below are in Pounds Sterling at an exchange rate of £1=$1.56, being the average rate over the preceding twelve months.
As the illustrations are forward-looking, Anita Haines is not included as an Executive Director as she will be stepping down from her position at 
the AGM on 24 February 2014 and will be standing for re-election as a Non-executive Director.
500
400
300
200
100
0
Minimum On target Maximum Minimum On target Maximum
Chief Executive Officer - 
Daemmon Reeve
Finance Director - 
Richard Hope
Salary
Benefits
Pension
Bonus
Share Options
Only those share options which potentially vest in 2014 have been included and have been calculated as the difference in market value at 
30 September 2013, being £6.025 and the option price. Following the consolidation of car and fuel allowances into salaries, Richard Hope’s 
benefits total less than £1,000 per annum and are not shown.
Directors’ Remuneration Report
continued
(£’000)
REMUNERATION POLICY ILLUSTRATION TREATT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013   29
COMPARISON OF REMUNERATION POLICY 
This policy sets out the remuneration structure applicable to Directors of the Group. Salary levels and incentive arrangements applicable to 
other Group employees are determined by reference to local employment conditions for comparative roles. 
Budgeted salary increases for Group employees are taken into consideration when determining increases for the Executive Directors.
Employees are provided with a competitive benefits package including healthcare, life assurance and pension. Recent replacement of the 
defined benefit scheme in the UK has applied equally to all employees, including Directors. Consistent with Directors, employees are eligible to 
participate in an annual bonus scheme with conditions linked to the performance of their operating subsidiary and the Group overall. Employee 
share ownership is encouraged across the Group and participation, particularly in the UK, is strong. If approved, the introduction of a Share 
Incentive Plan in the UK is designed to further encourage employee share ownership. Eligible employees, including Executive Directors, are 
able to participate in the all-employee share schemes on equal terms. Executive Directors and key employees with the greatest potential to 
influence achievement of the Group’ s strategic objectives are provided with share options or Long T erm Incentives (if approved by shareholders) 
designed to encourage strong Group performance. 
The Group does not consult with employees in respect of the Executive Directors remuneration policy. However, the Committee receives 
regular updates on salary and bonus levels across the Group and is aware of how the remuneration of Directors compares to employees. 
In addition, when setting remuneration levels for the Executive Directors the Committee takes account of the levels of remuneration received 
by executive directors of similar companies that are selected on the grounds of:
• size in terms of turnover, profits and number of people employed;
• a ranking within the FTSE Fledgling Index or FTSE Small Cap Ind ex;
• the diversity and complexity of the business;
• the geographical spread of its business; and
• market segment.
Whilst remuneration consultants have not been engaged, regular benchmarking is undertaken against companies within the FTSE Fledgling 
and Small Cap Indexes using salary reports and surveys of established remuneration consultants. 
DIRECTORS’ CONTRACTS
Ex Ecutiv E d ir Ector S
The Committee reviews the contractual terms of new and existing Executive Directors to ensure that they reflect best practice and are designed 
to attract and retain suitable candidates. The Committee considers that a rolling contract terminable on twelve months’ notice by either party is 
appropriate. The notice period of Anita Haines, which she is currently serving and expires at the 2014 AGM, is historic and is no longer regarded 
as appropriate by the Committee. 
Summary of Director’s service contracts as at 30 September 2013:
   
 Date of contract Notice period
Daemmon Reeve  30 October 2012 12 months
Richard Hope   12 May 2003*  12 months
Anita Haines  24 December 2002 2 years
* Richard Hope signed a new contract on 1 October 2013 which is consistent with the new remuneration policy.
Summary of the key elements of Directors’ service contracts:
Provision Summary
Notice period 12 months by either party
 Exception — Anita Haines
Termination payment Daemmon Reeve — Payment in lieu of notice clause providing for base salary and benefits payable  
 during notice period
 Richard Hope — No provision for payment in lieu of notice
Salary Reviewed annually with effect from 1 October each year
Benefits Private healthcare, life assurance, permanent health insurance or other disability cover, pension
 Participation in discretionary incentive arrangements determined by the Committee 30   TREATT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013
The Directors’ contracts are available for inspection at the Company’s registered office during normal business hours.
Future contracts are to provide for remuneration obligations comparable to those set out above taking into consideration role and responsibility, 
except in exceptional circumstances where additional incentive is required in order to secure the services of an outstanding candidate. 
n on- Ex Ecutiv E d ir Ector S
All Non-executive Directors are subject to the same terms and conditions of appointment which provide for the payment of fees for their 
services in connection with Board and Board Committee meetings. In their Non-executive capacities they do not qualify for participation in any 
of the Group’s bonus, share option or other incentive schemes, and they are not eligible for pension scheme membership. 
The terms and conditions of appointment of Non-executive Directors are available for inspection at the Company’s registered office during 
normal business hours.
PAYMENTS FOR LOSS OF OFFICE
In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code notice periods shall not exceed a maximum of twelve months.
In normal circumstances it is expected that termination payments for Executive Directors should not exceed current salary and benefits for the 
notice period. When determining termination payments in the event of early termination, the Committee will take into account a variety of factors 
including length of service, personal and company performance, the Director’ s obligation to mitigate his loss, statutory compensation to which 
a Director may be entitled and legal fees and other payments which may be payable under a Settlement Agreement. 
A Director who has been given notice by the Company for any reason other than on the grounds of injury, disability, redundancy or change 
of control shall only be eligible to a payment under the bonus scheme at the discretion of the Committee, which will take into account the 
circumstances leading to the notice.
Directors have no entitlement to performance-related share-based incentives, the unvested portion of which will generally lapse following 
termination of employment. However, in certain circumstances, such as injury, disability or redundancy, share options, which shall be pro-rated 
by reference to the amount of the performance period completed and subject to performance conditions, may be exercised within six months 
of termination. Where termination is for any other reason, share options may only be exercised at the discretion of, and to the extent permitted 
by the Committee, acting fairly and reasonably.
PAYMENTS TO A FORMER DIRECTOR
The compensation for loss of office agreed with Hugo Bovill, the former Group Managing Director, comprised on-going elements which the 
Company is contractually obligated to continue to pay. The value of these on-going elements was accrued in the figure for compensation for 
loss of office disclosed in the 2012 annual report and financial statements.
The Company agreed to a fixed sum to provide future private medical insurance for Mr Bovill and his children. The annual premiums paid by 
the Company in respect of this cover will be deducted from the fixed sum until the residual amount is insufficient to cover the annual premium, 
whereupon the Company’s obligations will cease.
Additionally, due to the length of Mr Bovill’s tenure, the Company agreed to a small fixed sum to provide outplacement advice, which is payable 
upon invoice.
EXTERNAL APPOINTMENTS
Whilst neither of the Executive Directors currently serve as Non-executive Directors on the boards of other companies, it is recognised that 
such appointments would provide an opportunity to gain broader experience outside of Treatt which would benefit the Group. In the event that 
the Directors are offered such positions and providing that they are not likely to lead to a conflict of interest or significant constraints on time, 
Executive Directors may, with the prior approval of the Board, accept Non-executive appointments and retain the fees received.
SHAREHOLDER VIEWS
The Remuneration Committee has engaged pro-actively with the Group’s major shareholders in respect of the details of this policy and 
welcomed feedback received from them. The Committee will also consult with major shareholders prior to any material changes to the 
remuneration policy.
This Remuneration Policy, if approved at the 2014 Annual General Meeting, shall be effective immediately.
Directors’ Remuneration Report
continued TREATT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013   31
IMPLEMENTATION REPORT 
The following section of this report provides details of the implementation of the policy for the year ended 30 September 2013.
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION (AUDITED)
The tables below report a single figure for total remuneration for each individual Executive and Non-executive Director respectively. 
 
 Daemmon Reeve Richard Hope Anita Haines
Executive Directors: 2013 2012* 2013 2012 2013 2012
Salary 201 66 142 138 121 119
Taxable Benefits (Note 1) 14 4 21 21 20 20
Annual Bonus (Note 2) 171 54 118 78 118 78
Share Options vesting in the financial year 4 3 5 3 5 3
Pension 16 — 14 12 26 30
 405 127 300 252 290 250
* Remuneration shown for Daemmon Reeve in the prior year relates only to the period of five months following his appointment to the Board  in May 2012.
 Fees
Non-executive Directors:     2013 2012
Tim Jones     42 18*
Jeff Iliffe (From 25 February 2013)     20 —
David Johnston     29 29
Ian Neil     29 29
Peter Thorburn (Until 25 February 2013)     15 31
     135 107
* Remuneration shown for Tim Jones in the prior year relates only to the period of seven months following his appointment to the Board in February 2012.
Note 1: Taxable benefits provided to Executive Directors include a car allowance, fuel and private medical insurance. As explained in the 
remuneration policy report, with effect from 1 October 2013, car allowances and re-imbursement of fuel expenses will be incorporated into 
basic salaries for all Directors other than those retiring during the year.
Note 2: Details relating to the annual bonus are as follows:
The annual bonus for Executive Directors is calculated based upon the amount by which profit before tax and exceptional items (at the 
discretion of the Remuneration Committee) exceeds a minimum level of 10% of adjusted net assets, with the actual result for the year being 
a return on adjusted net assets of 24.5%. Net assets are adjusted to exclude any movement in the pension liability which is considered to be 
outside the control of the Executive Directors. The annual bonus is capped at a maximum of 100% of annual basic salary. The annual bonus, 
as a percentage of the maximum achievable, was as follows:
     2013 2012
Daemmon Reeve     85% 50%
Richard Hope     83% 56%
Anita Haines     97% 66%
The proportion of fixed and variable pay, exclusive of pension, benefits and share options, is shown below for the Executive Directors:
  Basic Salary Annual Bonus
   2013 2012 2013 2012
Daemmon Reeve   54% 55% 46% 45%
Richard Hope   55% 64% 45% 36%
Anita Haines    51% 60% 49% 40% 32   TREATT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013
PERFORMANCE GRAPH
This performance graph shows Treatt 
Plc’s performance, measured by 
total shareholder return, compared 
with the performance of the FTSE All 
Share Index, also measured by total 
shareholder return, which has been 
selected by the Board as being the 
most appropriate measure against 
which to benchmark its performance.
• Treatt Plc
• FTSE All Share
250.00
200.00
150.00
100.00
50.00
0.00
Sep 08 Sep 09 Sep 10 Sep 11 Sep 12 Sep 13
% Shareholder return from 30/9/08
Total shareholder return 2008-2013
CEO REMUNERATION
The following table provides historical data on remuneration in respect of the Director(s) performing the role of Chief Executive Office for each 
of the years covered by the performance graph:
 2013 2012
2
 2011 2010 2009
Total remuneration (£’000) 405 274 447 281 307
Annual bonus as % of maximum
1
 85% 11%
3
 104% 47% 30%
Share options vesting as % of maximum
4
 100% 100% 100% 100% 100%
1 Prior to 2012 there was no cap on the payment of annual bonuses to Executive Directors, therefore the percentage of annual salary is shown by way of comparative.
2 The CEO Remuneration for 2012 is the combined remuneration paid to the current and previous CEO for the periods when they held that post.
3 The 2012 annual bonus only related to two months of the financial year.
4 All share options vested in full as they were all-employee share options which were not subject to performance conditions.
The percentage change in remuneration of the Director undertaking the role of CEO, compared to employees as a whole was as follows:
    Salaries Bonus
CEO    6.0%
1
 32%
2
Employees
3
    4.5% 74%
1 The percentage increase in CEO salary compares the 2013 salary of the current CEO to the combined 2012 salaries of the current and previous CEO for the periods when they held 
that post.
2 The percentage increase in bonus, compares the 2013 bonus of the current CEO with the annualised equivalent bonus earned by the current CEO in 2012 in his capacity as CEO.
3 The employees used for comparison are those UK and US employees who, for the salary comparison, were employed for the whole of the 2013 financial year, and for bonuses, for the 
whole of both the 2012 and 2013 financial years.
RELATIVE IMPORTANCE OF SPEND ON PAY
Wages and salaries are the most significant overhead cost in the Group. The following table sets out, in a manner prescribed by the 
regulations, the relative importance of employee remuneration, as compared to distributions to shareholders and other significant  
uses of profit, the most significant of which, taxation, has therefore been selected:
   2013 2012 Movement
Total remuneration
1
   10,837  9,852  +10%
Dividends
2
     1,585  1,490  +6%
Current tax
3
        1,496      901  +66%
1 Total remuneration includes wages, salaries and pension costs as disclosed in note 6.
2  Dividends paid in the financial year as disclosed in note 10.
3  Current tax payable in respect of the financial year as disclosed in note 9.
Directors’ Remuneration Report
continued TREATT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013   33
DIRECTORS’ INTERESTS (AUDITED)
The Directors who held office at 30 September 2013 had the following interests in the shares of the Parent Company:
  Unvested Share Unvested
 Shares Held Options with All-Employee
 Outright or Vested Performance Conditions Share Options
 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012
Executive Directors      
Daemmon Reeve 14,944 8,897 15,639 — 635 1,088
Richard Hope 27 ,769 10,971 2,564 — 2,650 3,359
Anita Haines 10,136 8,839 — — — 1,297
Non-executive Directors      
Tim Jones 12,499 10,751 — — — —
There have been no changes between 1 October 2013 and 5 December 2013, the latest date practicable to obtain the information prior to 
publication of this document, other than an additional 236 shares received by Richard Hope under a dividend reinvestment plan.
The table below shows the value of Executive Directors’ interests in shares as at 30 September 2013 as a percentage of their base salary:
   Value of
 Value of Shares Held  Interest as % of
 Outright or Vested Base Salary
1
 Base Salary
 2013 2012 2013 2012
2
 2013 2012
 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 % %
Daemmon Reeve  90  31 201 158 45% 19%
Richard Hope  167  38 142 138 118% 27%
Anita Haines  61  30 121 119 50% 26%
1 Base salary is the average basic gross pay for the corresponding year. 
2 The comparative salary for Daemmon Reeve is for the whole of the 2012 financial year and not from the date of his appointment to the Board.
SHARE OPTION SCHEMES (AUDITED)
The following share options were granted to Executive Directors during the financial year:
    Share Price Face Min 
   Date of at Date Value Performance Performance
 Scheme Basis Grant of Grant £’000 Award End Date
Daemmon Reeve ESPP 2013 (1) All-staff 15 Jul 13 £6.00 4 N/A N/A
 ISO 2013 (2) Individual 14 Dec 12 £3.95 62 20% 30/9/17
Richard Hope SAYE 2013 (3) All-staff 15 Jul 13 £6.00 4 N/A N/A
 ASO 2013 (4) Individual 14 Dec 12 £3.95 10 20% 30/9/15
1  ESPP (Employee Stock Purchase Plan) share options are offered to US employees (subject to tax exempt limits) at a discount of 15% of the share price at date of grant and are 
exercisable after one year.
2  ISO (Incentive Stock Options) are granted at the share price at date of grant, subject to performance conditions.
3  SAYE (Save As You Earn) share options are offered to UK employees (subject to tax exempt limits) at a discount of 20% of the average share price for the three days preceding the date 
of grant and are exercisable after three years.
4 ASO (Approved Share Options) are granted at the average share price for the three days preceding the date of grant, subject to performance conditions.
The performance conditions for ISO and ASO options are as follows:
Average annual growth in adjusted basic earnings per share during the period from date of grant to date of vesting. The option shall vest on 
the following sliding scale: 20% where average annual growth equals or exceeds 6%; 40% where average annual growth equals or exceeds 
7%; 60% where average annual growth equals or exceeds 8%; 80% where average annual growth equals or exceeds 9%; and 100% where 
average annual growth equals or exceeds 10%. 34   TREATT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013
The share options of the Directors in office during the year are as set out below:
   At Granted Exercised Expired At
 Exercise Exercise 1 Oct  During During During 30 Sep
 Dates Price 2012 the Year the Year the Year 2013
Daemmon Reeve Jul 2013 284p 1,088 — (1,088) — —
 Jul 2014 501p — 635 — — 635
 Dec 2017 – Dec 2022 395p — 15,639 — — 15,639
   1,088 16,274 (1,088) — 16,274
      
Richard Hope Sep 2013 – Feb 2014 222p 1,297 — (1,297) — —
 Sep 2014 – Feb 2015 340p 849 — — — 849
 Sep 2015 – Feb 2016 267p 1,213 — — — 1,213
 Sep 2016 – Feb 2017 489p — 588 — — 588
 Dec 2015 – Dec 2022 390p — 2,564 — — 2,564
   3,359 3,152 (1,297) — 5,214
Anita Haines Sep 2013 – Feb 2014 222p 1,297 — (1,297) — —
      
The aggregate amount of gains made by the Directors on the exercise of share options in the year was £14,000 (2012: £13,000).
There have been no further changes in the interests of the Directors to subscribe for or acquire shares between 1 October 2013 and  
5 December 2013, the latest date practicable to obtain the information prior to publication of this document.
The market price of the shares at 30 September 2013 was £6.025 and the range during the financial year was £3.425 to £6.325. All market 
price figures are derived from the Daily Official List of the London Stock Exchange.
PENSIONS (AUDITED)
Certain Executive Directors are deferred members of the R C Treatt & Co Limited Pension & Assurance Scheme following its closure to future 
accruals on 31 December 2012. The plan was a non-contributory, H.M. Revenue & Customs approved, defined benefit occupational pension 
scheme. Its main features are:
• a normal pension age of 65 but early r etirement may be permitted from age 55;
• a pension at normal pension age of two thir ds of final pensionable salary, subject to completion of 20 years’ service;
• life assurance cover of four times basic annual salary;
• spouse’s pension on death.
Pensionable salary is the member’s basic salary, excluding all bonuses. From 1 October 2004, pensionable salary was restricted to the lower 
of actual salary and salary as at 1 January 2004 as adjusted for the cumulative increase in inflation until retirement. 
The pension entitlement of these Directors is as follows:
 Increase in Accrued Transfer Value
 Pension During Year in Respect of Increase Accrued T otal
 (Excluding Inflation) (Excluding Inflation) Pension at
 Normal 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012
 Retirement Date £ £ £ £ £ £
Daemmon Reeve 24 Sep 2036 65 — 385 5,457 20,178 19,680
Anita Haines  6 Nov 2017 593 1,499 8,309 21,637 43,816 42,293
The transfer values have been calculated on the basis of actuarial advice in accordance with Regulation 7B(2) of the Occupational Pension 
Schemes (Transfer Values) Regulations 1996. Further details of the scheme are included in note 25.
Directors’ Remuneration Report
continued TREATT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013   35
In addition, contributions to defined money purchase pension plans were made as follows:
     2013 2012
     £’000 £’000
Daemmon Reeve*     15 —
Richard Hope     14 12
Anita Haines*     14 —
* Following the closure of the defined benefit scheme, with effect from 1 January 2013 Daemmon Reeve and Anita Haines were in receipt of contributions towards money purchase pension plans  
as shown.
STATEMENT OF VOTING
At the Annual General Meeting held on 25 February 2013, the vot es cast in respect of the resolution to approve the Directors’ Remuneration 
Report, were as follows:
For: 75.3% Against: 24.7% Votes withheld: 1,510,874
AUDIT NOTES 
In accordance with Section 421 of the Companies Act 2006 and the Regulations, where indicated, certain information contained within the 
Implementation Section of this report has been audited. The remaining sections are not subject to audit.
This report was approved by the Board and signed on its behalf on 6 December 2013.
ANITA STEER
Secretary 36   TREATT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013
Independent Auditor’s Report to the Members of Treatt plc
We have audited the Group and Parent Company financial statements 
(“the financial statements”) on pages 38 to 73. The financial reporting 
framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law 
and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted 
by the European Union and, as regards the Parent Company financial 
statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the 
Companies Act 2006. 
This report is made solely to the Parent Company’s members, as a 
body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 
2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state 
to the Parent Company’s members those matters we are required 
to state to them in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To 
the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume 
responsibility to anyone other than the Parent Company and the 
Parent Company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this 
report, or for the opinions we have formed.
RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITOR
As more fully explained in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement 
set out on page 14, the Directors are responsible for the preparation 
of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a 
true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit and express an 
opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable 
law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those 
standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s 
(APB’s) Ethical Standards for Auditors.
SCOPE OF THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided 
on the Financial Reporting Council’s website at http://www.frc.org.uk/
Our-Work/Codes-Standards/Audit-and-assurance/Standards-and-
guidance/Standards-and-guidance-for-auditors/Scope-of-audit/UK-
Private-Sector-Entity-(issued-1-December-2010).aspx
OPINION ON FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
In our opinion: 
• the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the 
Group’s and the Parent Company’s affairs as at 30 September 
2013 and of the Group’s profit for the year then ended;
• the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in 
accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union; 
• the Parent Company financial statements have been properly 
prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European 
Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the 
Companies Act 2006; and
• the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with 
the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the 
Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
OPINION ON OTHER MATTERS PRESCRIBED BY THE 
COMPANIES ACT 2006
In our opinion:
• the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited has 
been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 
2006; 
• the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors’ 
Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are 
prepared is consistent with the financial statements; and
• the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement set 
out on pages 18 to 22 in compliance with rules 7.2.5 and 7.2.6 
in the Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules sourcebook 
issued by the Financial Conduct Authority (information about 
internal control and risk management systems in relation to 
financial reporting processes and about share capital structures) 
is consistent with the financial statements.
MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REq UIRED TO REPORT BY 
EXCEPTION
We have nothing to report in respect of the following:
•  Under the ISAs (UK and Ireland) we are required to report to you if, 
in our opinion, information in the annual report is:
• materially inconsistent with the information in the audited 
financial statements; or
• apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially 
inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in 
the course of performing our audit; or
• otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified 
any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit 
and the Directors’ statement that they consider the annual report is 
fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual report 
appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the 
audit committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
•  Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, 
in our opinion:
• adequate accounting records have not been kept by the 
parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not 
been received from branches not visited by us; or
• the Parent Company financial statements and the part of 
the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not in 
agreement with the accounting records and returns; or
• certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration specified by 
law are not made; or
• we have not received all the information and explanations 
we require for our audit; or
• a Corporate Governance Statement has not been prepared 
by the Parent Company. TREATT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013   37
• Under the Listing Rules we are required to review:
• the Directors’ statement, set out on pages 11 and 12, in 
relation to going concern; 
• the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on page 
18 relating to the Parent Company’s compliance with the 
nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code 
specified for our review; and
• certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board 
on Directors’ remuneration.
OUR ASSESSMENT OF RISKS OF MATERIAL MISSTATEMENT
We identified the following risks as being those which had the most 
significant impact on our audit strategy and set out below how each 
of these were addressed by the scope of our audit:
• the valuation of inventories and, in particular, the determination of 
provisions against obsolete, slow moving and defective lines and 
against items where expected net realisable value is lower than 
cost.
 We reconfirmed our understanding of the basis for determining 
inventory provisions and the controls over this process, and 
considered whether these continued to be appropriate and 
consistently applied. We tested a sample of inventory provisions, 
considered their appropriateness and reviewed post year end 
transactions to consider whether there were further inventory 
lines which ought to have been provided for. We also reviewed 
the outcome of prior year provisions.
• the accounting for and disclosure of the claim made by the 
vendors of the Earthoil subsidiaries, acquired in 2008, in respect 
of the deferred consideration relating to their earn-out.
We reviewed the progress of the claim and considered 
the independent professional advice in connection with 
management’s assessment of the Group’s liability in respect of 
the earn-out and the disclosures relating to the contingent liability 
relating to this claim. We reviewed the accounting treatment and 
disclosures regarding the costs incurred in defending the claim 
and reviewed post year end transactions for omitted liabilities in 
this regard. We undertook specific post balance sheet enquiries 
to confirm that events to the date of signing the audit report were 
appropriately reflected and disclosed.
OUR APPLICATION OF MATERIALITY
When establishing our overall audit strategy , we set certain thresholds 
which help us to determine the nature, timing and extent of our audit 
procedures and to evaluate the effects of misstatements, both 
individually and on the financial statements as a whole. During 
planning we determined a magnitude of uncorrected misstatements 
that we judge would be material for the financial statements as a 
whole (FSM). During planning FSM was calculated as £400,000, 
which was not changed during the course of our audit.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them 
all unadjusted differences in excess of £10,000, as well as differences 
below those thresholds that, in our view, warranted reporting on 
qualitative grounds.
AN OVERVIEW OF THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT 
Our group audit approach focused on the Parent Company and 
the three key trading subsidiaries, two in the UK and one in the US. 
The UK entities are subject to local statutory audit completed to 
the Group reporting timetable. The US entity is not subject to local 
statutory audit and has been subject to full scope audit to Group 
materiality. The US entity audit was undertaken by the same team as 
the UK statutory audits.
These audits covered 98% of Group revenue, 98% of Group profit 
before tax, and 99% of Group total assets. 
CHARLES FRAY (Senior Statutory Auditor)
For and on behalf of BAKER TILLY UK AUDIT LLP , Statutory Auditor
Chartered Accountants
Abbotsgate House
Hollow Road
Bury St Edmunds
Suffolk IP32 7FA
6 December 2013 38   TREATT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013
Group Income Statement
for the year ended 30 September 2013
  2013 2012
 Notes £’000 £’000
Revenue 4 74,097 74,009
   
Cost of sales  (56,510) (57,319)
Gross profit  17 ,587 16,690
   
Administrative expenses  (10,649) (11,062)
Operating profit  5 6,938 5,628
   
Loss on disposal of subsidiaries 15 (60) —
Finance revenue 7 85 108
Finance costs 7 (736) (676)
Profit before taxation and exceptional items  6,227 5,060
   
Exceptional items 8 (1,093) (598)
Profit before taxation  5,134 4,462
   
Taxation 9 (1,655) (1,390)
Profit for the period attributable to owners of the Parent Company  3,479 3,072
Earnings per share   
    
Basic 11 34.0p 30.0p
Diluted 11 33.9p 29.9p
Adjusted basic 11 43.2p 34.4p
Adjusted diluted 11 43.0p 34.3p
All amounts relate to continuing operations
Notes 1 - 29 form part of these financial statements TREATT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013   39
Group Statement of Comprehensive Income
for the year ended 30 September 2013
  2013 2012
 Notes £’000 £’000
Profit for the period attributable to owners of the Parent Company  3,479 3,072
   
Other comprehensive income/(expense):   
Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss:
Currency translation differences on foreign currency net investment  (180) (339)
Current tax on foreign currency translation differences 9 30 9
Deferred tax on foreign currency translation differences 9 — (12)
Fair value movement on cash flow hedge 28 546 (169)
Deferred tax on fair value movement 16 (135) 30
  261 (481)
   
Items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss:
Actuarial loss on defined benefit pension scheme 25 (1,058) (478)
Current tax credit on actuarial loss 9 72 —
Deferred tax credit on actuarial loss 16 158 110
  (828) (368)
Other comprehensive expense for the period  (567) (849)
T otal comprehensive income for the period attributable to owners of the Parent Company  2,912 2,223
Notes 1 - 29 form part of these financial statements 40   TREATT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013
Group and Parent Company Statements of Changes in Equity
for the year ended 30 September 2013
   Own 
   shares in   Foreign
 Share Share share Hedging exchange Retained T otal
 capital premium trust reserve reserve earnings equity
Group £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
1 October 2011 1,048 2,757 (485) (864) 974 22,121 25,551
Profit for the period — — — — — 3,072 3,072
Other comprehensive 
  income/(expense):
Exchange differences net of tax — — — — (339) (3) (342)
Fair value movement on cash
  flow hedge net of tax — — — (169) — 30 (139)
Actuarial gain on defined benefit 
  pension scheme net of tax — — — — — (368) (368)
Total comprehensive income — — — (169) (339) 2,731 2,223
Transactions with owners: 
Dividends — — — — — (1,490) (1,490)
Share-based payments — — — — — 25 25
Movement in own shares in 
  share trust — — (251) — — — (251)
Loss on release of shares in 
  share trust — — — — — (55) (55)
1 October 2012 1,048 2,757 (736) (1,033) 635 23,332 26,003
Profit for the period — — — — — 3,479 3,479
Other comprehensive 
  income/(expense):
Exchange differences net of tax — — — — (180) 30 (150)
Fair value movement on cash 
  flow hedge net of tax — — — 546 — (135) 411
Actuarial loss on defined 
  benefit pension scheme net of tax — — — — — (828) (828)
Total comprehensive income — — — 546 (180) 2,546 2,912
Transactions with owners: 
Dividends — — — — — (1,585) (1,585)
Share-based payments — — — — — 22 22
Movement in own shares in 
  share trust — — 114 — — — 114
Loss on release of shares in 
  share trust — — — — — (23) (23)
30 September 2013 1,048 2,757 (622) (487) 455 24,292 27 ,443
Notes 1 - 29 form part of these financial statements TREATT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013   41
Group and Parent Company Statements of Changes in Equity
for the year ended 30 September 2013
     Own 
     shares in  
   Share Share share Retained T otal
   capital premium trust earnings equity
Parent Company   £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
1 October 2011   1,048 2,757 (485) 1,330 4,650
Profit for the period   — — — 2,058 2,058
Total comprehensive income   — — — 2,058 2,058
Transactions with owners:
Dividends   — — — (1,490) (1,490)
Movement in own shares in share trust   — — (251) — (251)
Loss on release of shares in share trust   — — — (55) (55)
1 October 2012   1,048 2,757 (736) 1,843 4,912
Profit for the period   — — — 1,571 1,571
Total comprehensive income   — — — 1,571 1,571
Transactions with owners:
Dividends   — — — (1,585) (1,585)
Movement in own shares in share trust   — — 114 — 114
Capital contribution to subsidiary undertakings  — — — 22 22
Loss on release of shares in share trust   — — — (23) (23)
30 September 2013   1,048 2,757 (622) 1,828 5,011
Notes 1 - 29 form part of these financial statements 42   TREATT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013
Group and Parent Company Balance Sheets
as at 30 September 2013 Registered Number: 1568937
 Group Parent Company 
  2013 2012 2013 2012
 Notes £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
ASSETS     
Non-current assets     
Goodwill 12 1,075 1,080 — —
Other intangible assets 13 684 718 — —
Property, plant and equipment 14 11,718 11,543 — —
Investment in subsidiaries 15 — — 5,238 5,216
Deferred tax assets 16 278 286 — —
Trade and other receivables 18 586 586 586 586
Redeemable loan notes receivable 28 — — 1,350 1,350
  14,341 14,213 7,174 7,152
Current assets     
Inventories 17 23,669 22,915 — —
Trade and other receivables 18 13,207 13,959 454 58
Current tax assets  128 252 — —
Derivative financial instruments 28 219 — — —
Cash and cash equivalents 19 1,117 927 — —
  38,340 38,053 454 58
T otal assets  52,681 52,266 7 ,629 7,210
LIABILITIES     
Current liabilities     
Borrowings 20 (522) (8,407) (1,915) (1,566)
Provisions 21 (49) — — —
Trade and other payables 22 (11,292) (8,938) (4) (34)
Current tax liabilities  (621) — — —
  (12,484) (17,345) (1,919) (1,600)
Net current assets/(liabilities)  25,856 20,708 (1,465) (1,542)
Non-current liabilities     
Deferred tax liabilities  16 (1,001) (880) — —
Borrowings 20 (8,889) (5,469) — —
Trade and other payables 22 (23) (23) (23) (23)
Post-employment benefits 25 (1,589) (838) — —
Derivative financial instruments 28 (577) (1,033) — —
Redeemable loan notes payable 28 (675) (675) (675) (675)
  (12,754) (8,918) (698) (698)
T otal liabilities  (25,238) (26,263) (2,617) (2,298)
Net assets  27 ,443 26,003 5,011 4,912
EQUITY
Share capital 23 1,048 1,048 1,048 1,048
Share premium account  2,757 2,757 2,757 2,757
Own shares in share trust  (622) (736) (622) (736)
Hedging reserve  (487) (1,033) — —
Foreign exchange reserve  455 635 — —
Retained earnings  24,292 23,332 1,828 1,843
T otal equity attributable to owners of the Parent Company   27 ,443 26,003 5,011 4,912
Notes 1 - 29 form part of these financial statements
The financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors and authorised for issue on 6 December 2013 and were signed on its behalf by:
Tim Jones Richard Hope
Chairman Finance Director  TREATT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013   43
Group and Parent Company Statement of Cash Flows
for the year ended 30 September 2013
 Group Parent Company 
  2013 2012 2013 2012
 Notes £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Cash flow from operating activities     
Profit before taxation  5,134 4,462 1,560 2,033
Adjusted for:      
  Foreign exchange loss  — (258) — —
  Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 14 1,219 1,104 — —
  Amortisation of intangible assets 13 181 159 — —
  Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment  3 — — —
  Loss on disposal of subsidiaries 15 60 — — —
  Net finance costs 7 714 618 44 66
  Share-based payments  24 22 25 — —
  Increase in fair value of derivatives 28 (129) — — —
  Decrease in post-employment benefit obligation   (307) (443) — —
Operating cash flow before movements in working capital  6,897 5,667 1,604 2,099
Movements in working capital:     
  Increase in inventories  (789) (2,578) — —
  Decrease/(increase) in trade and other receivables  876 (2,104) (397) 173
  Increase/(decrease) in trade and other payables, and provisions  2,266 497 (29) (156)
Cash generated from operations  9,250 1,482 1,178 2,116
  Taxation (paid)/received  (649) (1,279) 11 24
Net cash from operating activities  8,601 203 1,189 2,140
Cash flow from investing activities     
  Disposal of subsidiaries 15 (9) — — —
  Proceeds on disposal of property, plant and equipment  2 — — —
  Purchase of property, plant and equipment 14 (1,433) (2,651) — —
  Purchase of intangible assets 13 (147) (136) — —
  Interest received 7 22 58 20 37
  (1,565) (2,729) 20 37
Cash flow from financing activities     
  (Decrease)/increase in bank loans  (2,223) 692 — —
  Amounts converted to non-current borrowings  — 3,158 — —
  Interest paid 7 (736) (676) (64) (103)
  Dividends paid 10 (1,585) (1,490) (1,585) (1,490)
  Net sale/(purchase) of own shares by share trust  91 (306) 91 (306)
  (4,453) 1,378 (1,558) (1,899)
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents  2,583 (1,148) (349) 278
       
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period  (1,341) (178) (1,566) (1,844)
       
Effect of foreign exchange rates  (147) (15) — —
Cash and cash equivalents at end of period  1,095 (1,341) (1,915) (1,566)
Cash and cash equivalents comprise:     
Cash and cash equivalents 19 1,117 927 — —
Bank borrowings 20 (22) (2,268) (1,915) (1,566)
  1,095 (1,341) (1,915) (1,566)
Notes 1 - 29 form part of these financial statements 44   TREATT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013
Group Reconciliation of Net Cash Flow to Movement in Net Debt
for the year ended 30 September 2013
  2013 2012
  £’000 £’000
Increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents  2,436 (1,163)
Decrease/(increase) in bank loans  2,223 (692)
Amounts converted from current borrowings  — (3,158)
Cash inflow/(outflow) from change in net debt in the period  4,659 (5,013)
   
Effect of foreign exchange rates  (4) 58
Movement in net debt in the period  4,655 (4,955)
Net debt at start of the period  (12,949) (7,994)
Net debt at end of the period  (8,294) (12,949)
Notes 1 - 29 form part of these financial statements TREATT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013   45
Notes to the Financial Statements
for the year ended 30 September 2013
1. GENERAL INFORMATION
Treatt plc (‘the Parent Company’) is a public limited company incorporated in the United Kingdom and domiciled in England and Wales. 
The Parent Company’s shares are traded on the London Stock Exchange. The address of the registered office is included within the Parent 
Company Information section on page 87. 
2. ADOPTION OF NEW AND REVISED ACCOUNTING STANDARDS
New and amended accounting standards
The following new standards and amendments to standards, none of which have a material impact on these financial statements, are mandatory 
and relevant to the Group for the first time for the financial year ending 30 September 2013:
• IAS 1 Presentation of financial statements – amendments to revise presentation of other comprehensive income – published June 2011
Accounting standards in issue but not yet effective
At the date of authorisation of these financial statements the following standards and interpretations, which have not been applied in these 
financial statements and which are considered potentially relevant, were in issue but not yet effective:
* Annual improvements 2009-2011 – published May 2012
* IAS 19  Employee benefits – amendments from post-employment benefits project – published June 2011
* IAS 27  Separate financial statements – published May 2011
* IAS 28  Investments in associates and joint ventures – published May 2011
* IAS 32  Financial instruments: Presentation – Offsetting of assets and liabilities – published December 2011
* IFRS 7  Financial instruments: Disclosures – Offsetting of assets and liabilities – published December 2011
 IFRS 9  Financial instruments: Classification and measurement of assets and liabilities – published November 2009, reissued October  
 2010. Reissued for deferral of effective date December 2011
* IFRS 10  Consolidated financial statements – published May 2011 and amended June 2012 and October 2012
* IFRS 11  Joint arrangements – published May 2011 and amended June 2012
* IFRS 12  Disclosure of interests in other entities – published May 2011 and amended June 2012 and October 2012
* IFRS 13  Fair value measurement – published May 2011
* EU endorsed
The Directors anticipate that the adoption of these standards and interpretations in future periods will have no material impact on the financial 
statements of the Group or the Parent Company when the relevant standards and interpretations come into effect.
3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
The significant accounting policies which have been used in the preparation of these financial statements are set out below.
Accounting convention
The Group is required to prepare its annual consolidated financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards 
(IFRS) as adopted for use by the European Union. The Parent Company has also prepared its own financial statements in accordance with 
IFRS as adopted by the European Union. The financial statements have also been prepared under the historical cost convention (unless a fair 
value basis is required by IFRS) and are in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 applicable for companies reporting under IFRS.
Of the profit for the financial year, £1.6m (2012: £2.1m) has been dealt with in the accounts of the Parent Company. The Parent Company has 
taken advantage of the exemption under Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 and has not presented its own income statement in these 
financial statements.
 
Basis of consolidation
The Group accounts consolidate the accounts of Treatt plc and all of its subsidiaries (entities controlled by the Parent Company) made up to 
30 September each year. Control is achieved where the Parent Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an 
investee entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities. All intra-group transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions between 
Group companies are eliminated on consolidation. Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an 
impairment of the asset transferred.
Going concern
The Directors have, at the time of approving the financial statements, a reasonable expectation that the Parent Company and the Group have 
adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. Thus they continue to adopt the going concern basis of 
accounting in preparing the financial statements. Further detail is contained in the Directors’ Report on page 11.
Presentation of financial statements 
The primary statements within the financial information contained in this document have been presented in accordance with IAS 1, “Presentation 
of Financial Statements”.  46   TREATT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013
Notes to the Financial Statements
for the year ended 30 September 2013 continued
3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued)
Investments in subsidiaries
Investments in subsidiaries in the Parent Company balance sheet are stated at cost, less any provision for impairment.
Business combinations
The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for using the purchase method. The cost of the acquisition is measured at the aggregate fair 
values, at the date of exchange, of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity instruments issued by the Group in exchange for 
control of the acquiree. The acquiree’s identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that meet the conditions for recognition under IFRS 
3 are recognised at their fair value at the acquisition date, except for non-current assets (or disposal groups) that are classified as held for sale 
in accordance with IFRS 5, “Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations”, which are recognised and measured at fair value 
less costs to sell.
The accounting policy for goodwill is shown later in this note under intangible assets.
The interest of non-controlling shareholders in the acquiree is initially measured at the non-controlling interest’s proportion of the net fair value 
of the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities recognised.
Revenue recognition
Revenue represents amounts receivable net of trade discounts, VAT and other sales related taxes. Revenue is recognised in these financial 
statements when goods are physically despatched from the Group and/or Parent Company’s premises or other storage depots, irrespective 
of the terms of trade.
Effect of changes in foreign exchange rates
Transactions in currencies other than Pounds Sterling are recorded at the rate of exchange at the date of transaction. Assets and liabilities in 
foreign currencies are translated into Pounds Sterling in the balance sheet at the year-end rate. The exchange rate of the US Dollar, the principal 
foreign currency, was $1.62 (2012: $1.61) at the year end.
Income and expense items of the Group’s overseas subsidiaries are translated into Pounds Sterling at the average rate for the year. Their 
balance sheets are translated at the rate ruling at the balance sheet date.
Exchange differences which arise from the translation of the opening net assets and results of foreign subsidiaries and from translating the 
income statement at an average rate are taken to reserves. Under IAS 21, “The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates”, these 
cumulative translation differences which are recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income are separately accounted for within 
reserves and are transferred from equity to the income statement in the event of the disposal of a foreign operation. All other exchange 
differences are taken to the income statement. 
 
Research and development expenditure
Expenditure on research activities is recognised as an expense and charged to the income statement in the period in which it is incurred.
Expenditure arising from any specific development is recognised as an asset only if all of the following conditions are met:
• An asset is created that can be identified;
• It is probable that the asset created will generate future economic benefits; and
• The development cost of the asset can be measur ed reliably.
Development expenditure meeting these conditions is amortised on a straight line basis over its useful life. Where these conditions for capitalising 
development expenditure have not been met, the related expenditure is recognised as an expense in the period in which it is incurred.
Leases
Rentals receivable under operating leases are recognised in the income statement as and when they fall due.
Rentals payable under operating leases, where substantially all of the benefit and risks of ownership remain with the lessor, are charged against 
profits on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease. TREATT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013   47
3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued)
Taxation
The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax attributable to current profits. 
Current tax
The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year. Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the income statement 
because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never 
taxable or deductible. The Group’s liability for current tax is calculated by using tax rates that have been enacted or substantially enacted by 
the balance sheet date. Where the Group and/or Parent Company have a net current tax asset in one legal jurisdiction and a liability in another, 
and consequently have no legal right of set off, then these assets and liabilities will be shown separately on the balance sheet as required by 
IAS 12, “Income Taxes”.
Current tax is charged or credited in the income statement, except when it relates to items credited or charged directly to equity, in which case 
the current tax is also dealt with in equity.
Deferred tax
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amount of assets and liabilities in the financial 
statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability 
method. Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it 
is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised. Such assets and liabilities are 
not recognised if the temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or from the initial recognition (other than in a business 
combination) of other assets and liabilities in a transaction which affects neither the tax profit nor the accounting profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, and interests in 
joint ventures, except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference 
will not reverse in the foreseeable future. As the Group is in fact in a position to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences 
arising from its investments in subsidiaries it is not required to recognise a deferred tax liability. In view of the variety of ways in which these 
temporary differences may reverse, and the complexity of the tax laws, it is not possible to accurately compute the temporary differences 
arising from such investments. 
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of the retained earnings of overseas subsidiaries and associates only to the extent that, at the balance 
sheet date, dividends have been accrued as receivable or a binding agreement to distribute past earnings in future has been entered into by 
the subsidiary or associate.
Deferred tax is measured at the average tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which timing differences are expected to reverse, 
based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date. 
Where the Group and/or Parent Company have a net deferred tax asset in one legal jurisdiction and a liability in another, and consequently have 
no legal right of set off, then these assets and liabilities will be shown separately on the balance sheet as required by IAS 12, “Income Taxes”.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income statement, except when it relates to items credited or charged directly to equity, in which 
case deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
Post balance sheet events and dividends 
IAS 10, “Events after the Balance Sheet Date” requires that final dividends proposed after the balance sheet date should not be recognised 
as a liability at that balance sheet date, as the liability does not represent a present obligation as defined by IAS 37, “Provisions, Contingent 
Liabilities and Contingent Assets”. Consequently, final dividends are only recognised as a liability once formally approved at the Annual General 
Meeting and interim dividends are not recognised until paid.
Cash flow
The Statement of Cash Flows explains the movement in cash and cash equivalents and short term borrowings.
Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less depreciation. 
Depreciation is provided on all property, plant and equipment, except freehold and long leasehold land, using the straight-line basis to write off 
the cost of the asset, less estimated residual value, as follows:
• Plant and machinery: 4-10 years
• Buildings: 50 years 48   TREATT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013
Notes to the Financial Statements
for the year ended 30 September 2013 continued
3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued)
Intangible assets
Other intangible assets
Amortisation (which is included within administrative expenses) is provided on all intangible assets, other than goodwill, using the straight-line 
basis to write off the cost of the asset, less estimated residual value, as follows:
• Software licenses:   4 years
• Lease premium:   85 years
Goodwill
Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the cost of the business combination over the Group’s interest in the net fair value 
of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities at the date of acquisition. Goodwill is initially recognised as an asset at cost and is 
subsequently measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses. Goodwill which is recognised as an asset is reviewed for impairment 
at least annually in relation to the cash generating unit it represents. Any impairment is recognised immediately in the income statement and 
is not subsequently reversed. On disposal of a subsidiary, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or 
loss on disposal.
Impairment of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets
Provision will be made should any impairment in the value of properties or other non-current assets occur.
The need for any non-current asset impairment write down is assessed by comparison of the carrying value of the asset against the higher of 
net realisable value and value in use.
Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost is based on raw material costs plus attributable overheads.
Net realisable value is based on estimated selling price less further costs expected to be incurred through to disposal. Provision is made for 
obsolete, slow-moving and defective items.
Onerous contracts
Provisions for onerous contracts are recognised when the expected benefits from a contract are lower than the unavoidable costs of meeting 
the contract’s obligations.
Financial instruments
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Group and/or Parent Company’s balance sheet when the Group and/or Parent 
Company have become a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Financial assets
Financial assets held by the Group are either classified as held for trading or are accounted for as trade receivables, loans, other receivables and 
cash and cash equivalents at amortised cost. The classification depends on the nature and purpose of the financial assets and is determined 
at the time of initial recognition.
Trade and other receivables
Trade and other receivables are initially recognised at fair value. They are subsequently measured at their amortised cost using the effective 
interest method less any provision for impairment. A provision for impairment is made where there is objective evidence, (including customers 
with financial difficulties or in default on payments), that amounts will not be recovered in accordance with original terms of the agreement. A 
provision for impairment is established when the carrying value of the receivable exceeds the present value of the future cash flow discounted 
using the original effective interest rate. The carrying value of the receivable is reduced through the use of an allowance account and any 
impairment loss is recognised in the income statement.
Loans receivable
All loans receivable are initially recognised at fair value. After initial recognition, interest-bearing loans are measured at amortised cost less any 
impairment loss recognised to reflect irrecoverable amounts. An impairment loss is recognised in profit or loss when there is objective evidence 
that the asset is impaired, and is measured as the difference between the loan’s carrying amount and the present value of estimated future 
cash flows discounted at the effective interest rate computed at initial recognition. Impairment losses are reversed in subsequent periods when 
an increase in the loan’s recoverable amount can be related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment was recognised, subject to 
the restriction that the carrying amount of the loan at the date the impairment is reversed shall not exceed what the amortised cost would have 
been had the impairment not been recognised.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents includes cash in hand, deposits held at call with banks, other short term highly liquid investments with original 
maturities of three months or less. Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral part of the Group’s cash management 
are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purposes of the consolidated cash flow statement. Bank overdrafts are 
shown within borrowings in current liabilities on the balance sheet. TREATT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013   49
3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued)
Financial liabilities and equity instruments
Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into. An equity 
instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Group or Parent Company after deducting all of its liabilities.
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings
All loans and borrowings are initially recognised at the fair value of the consideration received, net of issue costs. After initial recognition, interest-
bearing loans and borrowings are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. All borrowing costs are recognised in the 
income statement in the period in which they are incurred.
Trade payables
Trade payables are not interest-bearing and are stated at their nominal value.
Equity instruments
Equity instruments issued by the Parent Company are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting
The Group’s activities expose it to both the financial risks of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. From time to time 
the Group uses foreign exchange forward contracts and interest rate swap contracts to hedge some of these exposures. The Group does 
not use derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes. The use of financial derivatives is governed by the Group’s policies approved 
by the board. Further information on currency and interest rate management is provided in note 28, “Financial Instruments”. Changes in the 
fair value of derivative financial instruments that are designated and effective as cash flow hedging instruments are recognised directly in 
equity. The ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement. If the cash flow hedge of a firm commitment or forecasted 
transaction results in the recognition of an asset or a liability, then, at the time the asset or liability is recognised, the associated gains or losses 
on the derivative that had been previously recognised in equity are included in the initial measurement of the asset or liability. For transactions 
that do not result in the recognition of an asset or a liability, amounts deferred in equity are recognised in the income statement in the same 
period in which the hedged item affects net profit or loss. Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that do not qualify for 
hedge accounting are recognised in the income statement as they arise. At the inception of the hedge relationship, the entity documents the 
relationship between the hedging instrument and the hedged item, along with its risk management objectives and its strategy for undertaking 
various hedge transactions. Furthermore, at the inception of the hedge and on an ongoing basis, the Group documents whether the hedging 
instrument that is used in a hedging relationship is highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of the hedged item. 
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated, or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge 
accounting. At that time, any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in equity is retained in equity until the forecasted 
transaction occurs. If a hedging transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss that was recognised in equity is 
recognised immediately in profit or loss for the period.
 
Pension costs
One of the Group’s UK subsidiaries, R C Treatt & Co Limited, operates a defined benefit scheme through an independently administered 
pension scheme.
For defined benefit retirement plans, the cost of providing benefits is determined using the projected unit credit method, with actuarial valuations 
being carried out every three years and updated at each balance sheet date. The post-employment benefits obligation recognised in the 
balance sheet represents the present value of the defined benefit pension obligations adjusted for unrecognised past service cost, and as 
reduced by the fair value of scheme assets. Any asset resulting from this calculation is limited to past service costs, plus the present value of 
available refunds and reductions in future contributions to the scheme.
In accordance with IAS 19, “Employee Benefits”, the asset or liability in the defined benefit pension scheme is recognised as an asset or 
liability of the Group under non-current assets or liabilities under the heading “Post-employment benefits”. The deferred tax in respect of “Post-
employment benefits” is netted against other deferred tax assets and liabilities relating to the same jurisdiction (see T axation accounting policy) 
and included in the deferred taxation asset or liability shown under non-current assets or liabilities.
The service cost and expected return on assets, net of interest on scheme liabilities, are reflected in the income statement for the period, in 
place of the actual cash contribution made. All experience gains or losses on the assets and liabilities of the scheme, together with the effect 
of changes in assumptions are reflected as a gain or loss in the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
The Group also operates a number of defined contribution pension schemes. The contributions for these schemes are charged to the income 
statement in the year in which they become payable.
 
Share options and the employee benefit trust
Shares held by the “Treatt Employee Benefit Trust” for the purpose of fulfilling obligations in respect of various employee share plans are 
deducted from equity in the Group and Parent Company balance sheets. The treatment in the Parent Company balance sheet reflects the 
substance of the entity’s control of the trust. 50   TREATT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013
Notes to the Financial Statements
for the year ended 30 September 2013 continued
3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued)
Share-based payments 
IFRS 2, “Share-based Payments”, requires that an expense for equity instruments granted be recognised in the financial statements based on 
their fair value at the date of grant. The Group has adopted the Black-Scholes model for the purposes of computing fair value of options under 
IFRS. The fair value excludes the effect of non market-based vesting conditions. This expense, which is in relation to share option schemes 
for staff in the UK and USA, is recognised on a straight-line basis over the vesting period of the scheme, based on the Group’s estimate of the 
number of equity instruments that will eventually vest. 
At each balance sheet date, the Group revises its estimate of the number of equity instruments expected to vest as a result of the effect of 
non market-based vesting conditions. The impact of the revision of the original estimates, if any, is recognised in profit or loss such that the 
cumulative expense reflects the revised estimate, with a corresponding adjustment to the employee share option reserve.
Savings-related share options granted to employees are treated as cancelled when employees cease to contribute to the scheme. Cancelled 
options are accounted for as an acceleration of vesting. The unrecognised grant date fair value is recognised in profit or loss in the year that 
the options are cancelled.
Where the Parent Company grants options over its shares to employees in subsidiaries, it recognises this as a capital contribution equivalent to 
the share-based payment charge recognised in the Group Income Statement. In the financial statements of the Parent Company, this capital 
contribution is recognised as an increase in the cost of investment in subsidiaries, with the corresponding credit being recognised directly in 
equity.
Details of share-based payments are disclosed in note 24. 
Critical accounting estimates, assumptions and judgements
Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience and other factors, including expectations of future 
events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. The Group makes estimates and assumptions concerning the future. 
The resulting accounting estimates and assumptions will, by definition, seldom equal the related actual results. The Group has evaluated the 
estimates and assumptions that have been made in relation to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in these financial statements. 
The key accounting judgements and sources of estimation uncertainty with a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to assets and 
liabilities in the next 12 months include the following:
Critical accounting estimates and assumptions
Pensions – movements in equity markets, interest rates and life expectancy could materially affect the level of surpluses and deficits in the 
defined benefit pension scheme. The key assumptions used to value pension assets and liabilities are set out in note 25 ‘Pension schemes’;
Useful economic life and residual value estimates – the Group reviews the useful economic lives and residual values attributed to assets on 
an on-going basis to ensure they are appropriate. Changes in economic lives or residual values could impact the carrying value and charges 
to the income statement in future periods;
Provisions – using information available at the balance sheet date, the Directors make judgements based on experience on the level of provision 
required. Further information received after the balance sheet date may impact the level of provision required;
Share-based payments – in accordance with IFRS 2 “Share-based payments”, share options and other share awards are measured at fair 
value at the date of grant. The fair value determined is then expensed in the income statement on a straight line basis over the vesting period, 
with a corresponding increase in equity. The fair value of the options is measured using the Black-Scholes option pricing model. The valuation 
of these share-based payments requires several judgements to be made in respect of the number of options that are expected to be exercised. 
Details of the assumptions made in respect of each of the share-based payment schemes are disclosed in note 24 ‘Share-based payments’. 
Changes in these assumptions could lead to changes in the income statement expense in future periods;
Goodwill – determining whether goodwill is impaired requires an estimation of the value in use of the cash-generating units to which goodwill 
has been allocated. The value in use calculation requires the Group to estimate the future cash flows expected to arise from the cash-
generating unit and a suitable discount rate in order to calculate present value. Goodwill can also include an estimate of deferred consideration 
payable using assumptions which are consistent with those used to determine the carrying value of goodwill. Future changes in performance 
or disposals could also impact the value of goodwill. Details of the assumptions made in respect of goodwill and deferred consideration are 
disclosed in note 12. These estimates could change materially in future years in line with actual and expected future performance; 
Taxation – the Group operates in a number of tax jurisdictions and estimation is required of taxable profit in order to determine the Group’s 
current tax liability. There are transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination can be uncertain. The Group periodically 
evaluates situations in which applicable tax regulation is subject to interpretation and establishes provisions where appropriate based on 
amounts expected to be paid to the tax authorities.
Critical accounting judgements
Deferred tax assets - deferred tax assets are recognised for all unused tax losses to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be 
available against which the losses can be utilised. Management judgement is required to determine the amount of deferred tax assets that can 
be recognised, based upon the likely timing and level of future taxable profits together with future tax planning strategies; TREATT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013   51
3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued)
Description of the nature and purpose of each reserve within equity
Share premium account - the share premium account represents amounts received in excess of the nominal value of shares on issue of new 
shares.
Own shares in share trust - own shares in share trust relate to shares held in the Treatt Employee Benefit Trust (the ‘EBT’). The shares held in 
the EBT are all held to meet options to be exercised by employees. The number of shares held by the EBT, together with the net acquisition 
costs, are shown in the Statement of Changes in Equity. Dividends on these shares have been waived except for 0.001p per share. The market 
value of the shares held by the EBT at 30 September 2013 was £1,304,000 (2012: £884,000).
Hedging reserve - the hedging reserve comprises the effective portion of the cumulative net change in the fair value of cash flow hedging 
instruments related to hedged transactions that have not yet occurred.
Foreign exchange reserve - the foreign exchange reserve records exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements 
of overseas subsidiaries.
Retained earnings - retained earnings comprises the Group’s annual profits and losses, actuarial gains and losses on the defined benefit 
pension scheme and dividend payments, combined with the employee share option reserve which represents the equity component of share 
based payment arrangements.
4. SEGMENTAL INFORMATION
Group
Business segments
IFRS 8 requires operating segments to be identified on the basis of internal financial information reported to the Chief Operating Decision 
Maker (CODM). The Group’s CODM has been identified as the Board of Directors who are primarily responsible for the allocation of resources 
to the segments and for assessing their performance. The disclosure in the Group accounts of segmental information is consistent with the 
information used by the CODM in order to assess profit performance from the Group’s operations. 
During the year, following the implementation of a new strategy by the Board, the Group now operates as one global business segment. 
The Group is engaged in the manufacture and supply of ingredient solutions for the flavour, fragrance and consumer goods markets with 
manufacturing sites in the UK, US and Kenya. Many of the Group’ s activities, including sales, manufacturing, technical, IT and finance, are now 
being managed globally on a Group basis.
Geographical segments
The following table provides an analysis of the Group’s revenue by geographical market, irrespective of the origin of the goods or services:
 2013 2012
Revenue by destination £’000 £’000
United Kingdom  10,016  9,764
Rest of Europe  19,837  17,830
The Americas  26,661  28,792
Rest of the World  17 ,583  17,623
 74,097 74,009
  
All Group revenue is in respect of the sale of goods, other than property rental income of £16,000 (2012: £16,000). No customer represented 
more than 10% of Group revenue.
Non-current assets by geographical location, excluding deferred tax assets, were as follows:
 2013 2012
 £’000 £’000
United Kingdom  7 ,622 7,749
United States  6,139  5,869
Rest of the World 302  309
 14,063 13,927 52   TREATT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013
Notes to the Financial Statements
for the year ended 30 September 2013 continued
5. OPERATING PROFIT is stated after charging/(crediting)
 2013 2012
Group £’000 £’000
Depreciation of property, plant & equipment 1,219 1,104
Amortisation of intangible assets (included in administrative expenses) 181 159
Loss on disposal of property, plant & equipment 3 —
Research and development costs 657 512
Operating leases  
  – plant & machinery 17 32
  – land & buildings 75 49
Net exchange gain on trading activities (56) (258)
Rent receivable (16) (16)
Cost of inventories recognised as expense 46,548 48,337
Shipping costs 1,569 1,677
IT & telephony costs 565 540
Insurance costs 457 444
Energy & utility costs 543 501
The analysis of auditor’s remuneration is as follows:  
Fees payable to the Parent Company’s auditors and their associates for the audit of:
  – the Parent Company and Group accounts 28 27
  – the Group’s subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 57 55
T otal audit fees 85 82
    
Fees payable to the Parent Company’s auditors and their associates for other services  
  to the Group:
  – tax compliance services 11 12
  – tax advisory services — 1
  – corporate finance services (included in exceptional items) 34 —
  – (over)/under accrual from prior years and disbursements (4) 5
T otal non-audit fees  41 18
6. EMPLOYEES
Group
Number of employees
During the year the average number of staff employed by the Group, including Directors, was as follows:
 2013 2012
 Number Number
Technical and production 182 151
Administration and sales 122 134
 304 285
  
Employment costs  
The followings costs were incurred in respect of the above:
 2013 2012
 £’000 £’000
Wages and salaries 10,127 9,223
Social security costs 992 877
Pension costs (see note 25) 710 629
Share-based payments (see note 24) 22 25
 11,851 10,754
Directors 
The information on Directors’ emoluments and share options set out on pages 31 to 35 form part of these financial statements. TREATT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013   53
7 . NET FINANCE COSTS
  2013 2012
Group  £’000 £’000
Finance revenue  – bank interest received 22        58
 – pension finance income (see note 25) 63 50
  85 108
Finance costs     – bank overdraft interest paid (555)  (517)
 – other bank finance costs  (56) (46)
 – loan interest paid (115) (103)
 – loan note interest paid (10) (10)
  (736) (676)
 
8. EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS
The exceptional item referred to in the income statement can be categorised as follows:
 2013 2012
Group £’000 £’000
Compensation for loss of office — 598
Legal and professional fees 634 —
Corporate finance advisory and other costs 459 —
 1,093 598
   
The exceptional items in the year all relate to non-recurring items. The legal and professional fees relate to the Earthoil earnout contract dispute. 
The corporate finance advisory and other costs relate to advice taken to support the Group in discussions with the Bovill family shareholders 
and related matters.
9. TAXATION
 2013 2012
Group £’000 £’000
Analysis of tax charge in income statement:  
Current tax:  
UK corporation tax on profits for the period 953 206
Adjustments to UK tax in respect of previous periods 7 (12)
Overseas corporation tax on profits for the period 581 700
Adjustments to overseas tax in respect of previous periods (45) 7
Total current tax 1,496 901
Deferred tax:  
Origination and reversal of temporary differences 163 533
Effect of reduced tax rate on opening assets and liabilities (3) —
Adjustments in respect of previous periods (1) (44)
Total deferred tax (see note 16) 159 489
Tax on profit on ordinary activities 1,655 1,390
Analysis of tax credit/(charge) in other comprehensive income:
Current tax:  
Foreign currency translation differences 30 9
Actuarial loss on defined benefit pension scheme 72 —
Deferred tax:  
Foreign currency translation differences — (12)
Cash flow hedges (135) 30
Actuarial loss on defined benefit pension scheme 158 110
Total tax credit recognised in other comprehensive income 125 137 54   TREATT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013
Notes to the Financial Statements
for the year ended 30 September 2013 continued
9. TAXATION (continued)
Factors affecting tax charge for the year:  
The tax assessed for the year is different from that calculated at the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 23.5% (2012: 25%).   
The differences are explained below:
 2013 2012
 £’000 £’000
Profit before tax multiplied by standard rate of UK corporation tax at 23.5% (2012: 25%) 1,206 1,116
  
Effects of:  
Expenses not deductible in determining taxable profit and other items 300 92
Difference in tax rates on overseas earnings 188 231
Adjustments to tax charge in respect of prior years (39) (49)
T otal tax charge for the year 1,655 1,390
  
The main rate of UK corporation tax was reduced from 24% to 23% with effect from 1 April 2013. The Group’s effective UK corporation tax  
rate for the year was therefore 23.5% (2012: 25%) The adjustments in respect of prior years relate to the finalisation of previous year’s tax 
computations.
In March 2013, the UK Government published the Finance Bill 2013 that included proposals to reduce further the main rate of UK corporation 
tax to 21% with effect from 1 April 2014 and to 20% with effect from 1 April 2015. The Finance Bill 2013 was substantively enacted in 2 July 
2013. The reduction to 21% has been reflected in these financial statements and the further reduction to 20% will affect the Group’s tax 
expense for the 2014 financial year onwards.
10. DIVIDENDS
 Dividend per share for years
 ended 30 September
 2013
2
 2012
1
 2011
1
 2013 2012
Parent Company and Group Pence Pence Pence £’000 £’000
Equity dividends on ordinary shares:     
Interim dividend 5.5p 5.1p 4.8p 521 493
Final dividend 13.0p 10.4p 9.7p 1,064 997
 18.5p 15.5p 14.5p 1,585 1,490
1 Accounted for in the subsequent year in accordance with IFRS.
2 The declared interim dividend for the year ended 30 September 2013 of 5.5 pence was approved by the Board on 9 May 2013 and was paid on 18 October 2013. Accordingly it has 
not been included as a deduction from equity at 30 September 2013. The proposed final dividend for the year ended 30 September 2013 of 13.0 pence will be voted on at the Annual 
General Meeting on 24 February 2014. Both dividends will therefore be accounted for in the financial statements for the year ended 30 September 2014.
11. EARNINGS PER SHARE
Basic earnings per share
Basic earnings per share is based on the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue and ranking for dividend during the year. The 
weighted average number of shares excludes shares held by the EBT.
 2013 2012
Earnings (£’000) 3,479 3,072
Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue (No: ‘000) 10,228 10,227
Basic earnings per share (pence) 34.0p 30.0p TREATT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013   55
11. EARNINGS PER SHARE (continued)
Diluted earnings per share
Diluted earnings per share is based on the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue and ranking for dividend during the year, 
adjusted for the effect of all dilutive potential ordinary shares.
The number of shares used to calculate earnings per share (EPS) have been derived as follows:
 2013 2012
 No (’000) No (’000)
Weighted average number of shares 10,481 10,481
Weighted average number of shares held in the EBT (253) (254)
Weighted average number of shares used for calculating basic EPS 10,228 10,227
  
Executive share option schemes 2 —
Savings-related share options 45 36
  
Weighted average number of shares used for calculating diluted EPS 10,275 10,263
Diluted earnings per share (pence) 33.9p 29.9p
Adjusted earnings per share
Adjusted earnings per share measures are calculated based on profits for the year attributable to owners of the Parent Company before 
exceptional items as follows:
 2013 2012
 £’000 £’000
Earnings for calculating basic and diluted earnings per share 3,479 3,072
Adjusted for:
Exceptional items (see note 8) 1,093 598
Taxation thereon (155) (150)
Earnings for calculating adjusted earnings per share 4,417 3,520
Adjusted basic earnings per share (pence) 43.2p 34.4p
Adjusted diluted earnings per share (pence) 43.0p 34.3p
12. GOODWILL 
 Goodwill
Group £’000
Cost  
1 October 2011 3,624
Decrease in estimated deferred consideration (112)
1 October 2012 3,512
Disposal of cash generating unit (5)
30 September 2013 3,507
Accumulated impairment losses  
1 October 2011 2,432
1 October 2012 2,432
30 September 2013 2,432
Carrying amount  
30 September 2013 1,075
30 September 2012 1,080 56   TREATT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013
Notes to the Financial Statements
for the year ended 30 September 2013 continued
12. GOODWILL (continued)
In March 2007 the Parent Company acquired 50% of Earthoil Plantations Limited and Earthoil Kenya EPZ Pty Limited (collectively known as 
‘Earthoil’) and in the financial year ending 30 September 2008 the remaining 50% of Earthoil was acquired. The consideration for the second 
50% is entirely based upon an earnout formula in relation to the profits of Earthoil in the calendar years 2010 and 2011. Deferred consideration 
of £23,000 (2012: £23,000) has been included in goodwill in relation to the earnout notice which has been issued but not yet settled as it is the 
subject of an on-going dispute (see note 27). 
The goodwill arising on the acquisition of Earthoil is attributable to the anticipated profitability of Earthoil’s products in new and rapidly growing 
existing markets and the anticipated future operating synergies from the combination.
 
The Group tests goodwill annually for impairment, or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill might be impaired. The recoverable 
amount of goodwill arising on the acquisition of Earthoil is determined from value in use calculations. The key assumptions for the value in 
use calculations are those regarding the discount rates, revenue, overhead growth rates and perpetuity growth rate. Management estimates 
discount rates using pre-tax rates that reflect market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to Earthoil. As at the year 
ended 30 September 2013, the impairment review has concluded that the value in use of Earthoil now significantly exceeds its carrying value. 
In performing this impairment review, the Group has prepared cash flow forecasts derived from the most recent financial budgets approved by 
the Board, and then estimates revenue growth for the following four years at 6.25% (2012: 6.25%) per annum, with overheads assumed to 
increase at 5% (2012: 5%) per annum. Thereafter, a growth rate for pre-tax profit of 2% (2012: 2%) per annum is assumed into perpetuity. A 
rate of 12.5% (2012: 12.5%) has been used to discount the forecast cash flows. The key assumptions are based on past experience adjusted 
for expected changes in future conditions.
Based upon this impairment review the recoverable amount of Earthoil exceeds its carrying amount by £10.2m (2012: £6.0m). The recoverable 
amount is most sensitive to changes in the discount rate and sales growth. A 1% change in the discount rate would affect the recoverable 
amount by £1m and a 1% change in sales growth would also change the recoverable amount by £1m.
13. OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS
 Lease Software
 premium licences T otal
Group £’000 £’000 £’000
Cost     
1 October 2011 343 629 972 
Exchange adjustment — (1) (1) 
Additions — 136 136 
1 October 2012 343 764 1,107 
Additions — 147 147 
Disposals — (73) (73) 
30 September 2013 343 838 1,181 
Amortisation     
1 October 2011 5 225 230 
Charge for period 4 155 159 
1 October 2012 9 380 389 
Charge for period 4 177 181 
Disposals — (73) (73) 
30 September 2013 13 484 497 
Net book value   
30 September 2013 330 354 684 
30 September 2012 334 384 718 
Intangible assets with a net book value of £4,000 (2012: £2,000) have been pledged as security in relation to the Industrial Development Loan 
detailed in note 20. TREATT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013   57
14. PROPERTY , PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
 Land & Plant &
 Buildings Machinery T otal
Group £’000 £’000 £’000
Cost     
1 October 2011 6,379 8,989 15,368
Exchange adjustment (120) (118) (238)
Additions — 2,651 2,651
Disposals — (10) (10)
1 October 2012 6,259 11,512 17,771
Exchange adjustment (10) (50) (60)
Additions 12 1,421 1,433
Disposals — (443) (443)
Disposal of subsidiary — (7) (7)
30 September 2013 6,261 12,433 18,694
Depreciation     
1 October 2011 710 4,538 5,248
Exchange adjustment (23) (91) (114)
Charge for period 139 965 1,104
Disposals — (10) (10)
1 October 2012 826 5,402 6,228
Exchange adjustment (4) (26) (30)
Charge for period 136 1,083 1,219
Disposals — (439) (439)
Disposal of subsidiary — (2) (2)
30 September 2013 958 6,018 6,976
Net book value
30 September 2013 5,303 6,415 11,718
30 September 2012 5,433 6,110 11,543
 
Analysis of land & buildings
  2013 2012
Net book value  £’000 £’000
Freehold  4,548 4,662
Long Leasehold  755 771
  5,303 5,433
Included in plant and machinery are assets in the course of construction totalling £516,000 (2012: £354,000).
Property, plant and equipment with a net book value of £5.8m (2012: £5.5m) has been pledged as security in relation to the Industrial 
Development Loan and Equipment Financing Loan detailed in note 20.
  2013 2012
Capital commitments  £’000 £’000
Contracted but not provided for    134 304 58   TREATT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013
Notes to the Financial Statements
for the year ended 30 September 2013 continued
15. INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES
 T otal
Parent Company £’000
Cost 
1 October 2011 5,328
Decrease in estimated deferred consideration (112)
1 October 2012 5,216
Capital contribution to subsidiaries 22
30 September 2013 5,238
  2013 2012
Parent Company  £’000 £’000
Subsidiary:  
R C Treatt & Co Limited – at cost
50,000 ordinary shares of £1 each, fully paid  2,318 2,299
  
Treatt USA Inc – at cost
2,975,000 common stock of US$1 each, fully paid  1,845 1,842
  
Earthoil Plantations Limited
4,051,000 ordinary shares of 50p each, fully paid  923 923
  
Earthoil Kenya Pty Limited
2,500 ‘A’ ordinary shares of KES20 each, fully paid
2,500 ‘B’ ordinary shares of KES20 each, fully paid  152 152
  5,238 5,216
Subsidiary Country Holding Principal activity
R C Treatt & Co Limited England 100% Supply of flavour and fragrance ingredients
Treatt USA Inc USA 100% Supply of flavour and fragrance ingredients
Earthoil Plantations Limited  England 100% Supply of natural cosmetic ingredients
Earthoil Kenya EPZ Pty Limited  Kenya 100% Supply of organic & fair trade vegetable oils
Earthoil Extracts Limited Kenya 100% Supply of organic & fair trade essential oils
Group
The loss on disposal of subsidiaries relates to Earthoil India Private Limited that ceased to trade as at 31 December 2012 and resulted in a loss 
of £60,000. Due to the immaterial amounts involved no further disclosures have been made. TREATT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013   59
16. DEFERRED TAXATION
  2013 2012
Group  £’000 £’000
UK deferred tax asset  278 286
Overseas deferred tax liability  (1,001) (880)
Net deferred tax liability  (723) (594)
A reconciliation of the net deferred liability is shown below:
 UK Deferred Tax Overseas Deferred Tax T otal
 Post-   Other  Other
 employment Fixed Cash flow temporary Fixed temporary
 benefits assets hedge differences assets differences 
Group £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
1 October 2011 193 (260) 207 131 (631) 99 (261)
Exchange differences — — — — 32 (4) 28
(Charge)/credit to income 
  statement (111) 65 1 (68) (401) 25 (489)
(Charge)/credit to equity 110 — 30 (12) — — 128
1 October 2012 192 (195) 238 51 (1,000) 120 (594)
Exchange differences — — — — 7 — 7
(Charge)/credit to income 
  statement (17) 29 (27) (16) (111) (17) (159)
Credit/(charge) to other 
  comprehensive income 158 — (135) — — — 23
30 September 2013 333 (166) 76 35 (1,104) 103 (723)
At the balance sheet date, Earthoil Plantations Limited had unused tax losses of £Nil (2012: £224,000) available for offset against its future 
profits and R C Treatt & Co Limited had a deferred tax asset in relation to its pension liability. R C Treatt & Co Limited has a specific plan in place 
to reverse the deficit and so this deferred tax asset has also been recognised.
The deferred tax rate applied to UK companies within the Group is 21% (2012: 23%) as legislation has been substantively enacted which 
reduces the main rate of UK corporation tax from 23% for the 2013/14 tax year to 21% in 2014/15. A further reduction to 20% for the 2015/16 
tax year has also been substantively enacted and will be reflected in the 2014 financial statements.
17 . INVENTORIES
  2013 2012
Group  £’000 £’000
Raw materials  11,736 11,887
Work in progress and intermediate products  8,135 5,631
Finished goods  3,798 5,397
  23,669 22,915
Inventory with a carrying value of £8.1m (2012: £8.2m) has been pledged as security in relation to the Industrial Development Loan detailed  
in note 20. 60   TREATT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013
Notes to the Financial Statements
for the year ended 30 September 2013 continued
18. TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES
 Group Parent Company 
  2013 2012 2013 2012
Current £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Trade receivables 11,448 12,368 — —
Amounts owed by subsidiaries — — 454 45
Other receivables 931 851 — 13
Prepayments 828 740 — —
 13,207 13,959 454 58
 Group Parent Company 
  2013 2012 2013 2012
Non-current £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Other receivables 586 586 586  586 
     
The Group’s credit risk is primarily attributable to its trade receivables. Before accepting any new customer, the Group uses a range of 
information, including credit reports, industry data and other publicly or privately available information in order to assess the potential customer’ s 
credit quality and defines credit limits by customer, and where appropriate will only accept orders on the basis of cash in advance, or if secured 
through a bank letter of credit. Processes are in place to manage trade receivables and overdue debt and to ensure that appropriate action is 
taken to resolve issues on a timely basis. Credit control operating procedures are in place to review all new customers. Existing customers are 
reviewed as management become aware of any specific changes in circumstances. The average credit period taken for trade receivables is 59 
days (2012: 57 days). An impairment review has been undertaken at the balance sheet date to assess whether the carrying amount of financial 
assets is deemed recoverable. The primary credit risk relates to customers which have amounts due outside of their credit period. A provision 
for impairment is made when there is objective evidence of impairment which is usually indicated by a delay in the expected cash flows or 
non-payment from customers. The amounts presented in the balance sheet are net of amounts that are individually determined to be impaired 
of £0.2m (2012: £0.1m), estimated by the Group’s management based on prior experience and their assessment of the current economic 
environment. The Group’s top five customers represent 25% (2012: 23%) of the Group’s turnover. These customers have favourable credit 
ratings and consequently reduce the credit risk of the Group’s overall trade receivables. The Directors consider that the carrying amount of 
trade and other receivables approximates to their fair value. The Group holds no collateral against these receivables at the balance sheet date. 
 
The ageing profile of trade receivables which are past their due date but not impaired is as follows:
 Number of days past the due date
  1-30 31-60 Over 60
Group  £’000 £’000 £’000
2013  1,842 489 187
 
2012  1,471 780 285
The ageing profile of impaired trade receivables is as follows:
 Number of days past the due date
 Current 1-30 31-60 Over 60
Group £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
2013 95 17 1 51
2012 35 6 4 104
   TREATT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013   61
18. TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES (continued)
At 30 September 2013 £3.2m (2012: £3.1m) of trade receivables were denominated in Sterling, £6.9m (2012: £8m) in US Dollars and £1.5m 
(2012: £1.2m) in Euros. The currency risk in respect of trade receivables is managed in conjunction with the other currency risks faced by the 
Group as part of its overall hedging strategy. For further details see note 28 and the Financial review on pages 69 to 72.
Trade receivables with a carrying value of £2.6m (2012: £2.8m) have been pledged as security in relation to the Industrial Development Loan 
detailed in note 20.
There is no credit risk associated with non-current other receivables of £0.6m (2012: £0.6m) as these amounts are contractually fully recoverable 
against loan notes payable of £0.7m (2012: £0.7m) when they fall due, and are recoverable at an earlier date if deferred consideration in respect 
of Earthoil becomes payable. 
19. CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
Group
Cash and cash equivalents of £1,117,000 (2012: £927,000) comprise cash held by the Group and short term deposits with an original maturity 
of one month or less. The carrying amount of these assets approximates to their fair value.
A detailed analysis of cash balances by currency is shown in note 28. All material cash balances are held with the Group’s main banks, being 
Lloyds Banking Group, HSBC and Bank of America. The credit ratings of these banks are considered to be satisfactory.
20. BORROWINGS
 Group Parent Company 
  2013 2012 2013 2012
Current £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
US term loans 500 566 —  — 
UK revolving credit facilities — 5,573 — —
Bank borrowings 22 2,268 1,915 1,566
 522 8,407 1,915 1,566
 Group 
  2013 2012
Non-current £’000 £’000
US term loans 2,096 2,311
UK revolving credit facilities 6,793 3,158
 8,889 5,469
US loans and borrowings
US term loans include an industrial development loan of £1,279,000 (2012: £1,440,000) and equipment financing loans of £1,317,000 (2012: 
£1,438,000). 
The industrial development loan is repayable by fixed quarterly instalments over 20 years ending on 1 July 2021. The rate of interest payable 
has been fixed at 3.66% for ten years ending on 1 July 2021 by way of an interest rate swap which covers the full term of the loan. The fair 
value of this interest rate swap at the year-end was £135,000 (2012: £196,000) based on yea- end exchange rates. The fair value of this swap 
is not included on the balance sheet or through the income statement as the amount involved is not material. Similarly, the Directors do not 
apply hedge accounting in respect of US borrowings due to the lack of materiality of the items involved. 
The equipment financing loans of £1,026,000 (2012: £1,296,000) and £291,000 (2012: £142,000) are repayable by fixed monthly instalments 
over five years ending on 30 March and 31 December 2017, with fixed interest rates of 4.36% and 2.89% respectively.
The US Dollar overdraft facility (‘line of credit’) of $4 million is a four year facility expiring in 2017. The US term loans and line of credit, both held 
by Treatt USA Inc., are secured by a fixed and floating charge over Treatt USA’s current and non-current assets. 62   TREATT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013
Notes to the Financial Statements
for the year ended 30 September 2013 continued
20. BORROWINGS (continued)
Other borrowings
The Group’s UK overdraft facilities are unsecured. UK borrowings of $9m are held on a three year revolving credit facility (RCF) which expires 
in 2016, and £1.2m on a three year RCF expiring in 2015. The rate of interest on $9m of UK revolving credit facilities has been fixed for ten 
years at a rate of 5.68% through an interest rate swap. Hedge accounting has been applied to the fair value of this swap, details of which are 
provided in note 28.
Borrowings are repayable as follows:
  2013 2012
  £’000 £’000
– in one year or less  522 8,407
– in more than one year but not more than two years  1,749 436
– in more than two years but not more than five years  6,647 4,383
– in more than five years  493 650
  9,411 13,876
Further information on Group borrowing facilities is given in notes 27 and 28, including a detailed analysis of cash balances by currency.
Borrowing facilities
At 30 September 2013, the Group had total borrowing facilities of £19.9m (2012: £20.1m) of which £6.0m (2012: £11.6m) expire in one year 
or less and £11.6m (2012: £7.2m) were undrawn.
  
21. PROVISIONS
  2013 2012
Group  £’000 £’000
Onerous contract provision:  
At start of year  — 79
Utilised in year  — (79)
Additional provision in year  49 —
Balance at end of year  49 —
Onerous contract provisions relate to losses which are or were expected to materialise in the following twelve months on fixed price contracts 
as a result of significant increases in certain raw material prices.
22. TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES
 Group Parent Company 
  2013 2012 2013 2012
Current £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Trade payables 7 ,434 5,275 —  — 
Amounts owed to subsidiaries — — — 27
Other taxes and social security costs 415 580 4 3
Accruals 3,443 3,083 — 4
 11,292 8,938 4 34
 Group Parent Company 
  2013 2012 2013 2012
Non-current £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Other creditors and accruals 23 23 23 23 TREATT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013   63
22. TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES (continued)
Trade payables principally comprise amounts for trade purchases and on-going costs. The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade 
and other payables approximates to their fair values.
At 30 September 2013 £2.2m (2012: £1.2m) of trade payables were denominated in Sterling, £4.1m (2012: £2.5m) in US Dollars and £0.9m 
(2012: £0.5m) in Euros. The currency risk in respect of trade payables is managed in conjunction with the other currency risks faced by the 
Group as part of its overall hedging strategy. For further details see note 28 and the Financial Review on pages 69 to 72.
Non-current other creditors and accruals relates to the deferred consideration payable to the vendors in relation to the acquisition of Earthoil. 
See note 12 for further information. 
23. SHARE CAPITAL
 
Parent Company and Group 2013 2013 2012 2012 
Called up, allotted and fully paid £’000 Number £’000 Number
At start and end of period 1,048 10,481,034 1,048  10,481,034 
     
The Parent Company has one class of ordinary shares, with a nominal value of 10p each, which carry no right to fixed income.
24. SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS
Group
The Group has applied the requirements of IFRS2 “Share-based payments”. 
The Group operates executive share option schemes for Directors and senior management within the Group in addition to issuing UK and US 
approved savings-related share options for employees of certain subsidiaries. Options are granted with a fixed exercise price and will lapse 
when an employee leaves the Group subject to certain ‘good leaver’ provisions.
Under the schemes listed below, options have been granted to subscribe for the following number of existing ordinary shares of 10p each in the 
capital of the Parent Company. All share options are expected to be settled via the transfer of shares out of the “Treatt Employee Benefit Trust”.
The options outstanding at 30 September 2013 for which a share-based payment charge of £22,000 (2012: £25,000) has been made are as 
follows:
 Number Number Exercise
 of shares exercised price per
 outstanding in year share Date option exercisable
UK Executive Options 2012 2,564 — 390.0p Dec 2015 – Dec 2022
US Executive Options 2012 19,548 — 395.0p Dec 2015 – Dec 2022
UK SAYE
1
 Scheme 2011  22,170 — 340.0p Sep 2014 - Mar 2015
UK SAYE Scheme 2012 40,178 — 267.0p Sep 2015 - Mar 2016
UK SAYE Scheme 2013 25,652 — 489.0p Sep 2016 - Mar 2017
US ESPP
2
 scheme 2013 4,409 — 501.0p July 2014
1 Save as you earn 
2 Employee stock purchase plan 64   TREATT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013
Notes to the Financial Statements
for the year ended 30 September 2013 continued
24. SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS (continued)
The fair value per option granted using the “Black-Scholes” model, and the assumptions used in the share-based payments calculations, are 
as follows:
     UK Exec US Exec US ESPP
  SAYE 2011 SAYE 2012 SAYE 2013 2012 2012 2013
Share price at date of grant  422.5p 316.5p 617.5p 390.0p 390.0p 617.5p
Contractual life  3.5 years 3.5 years 3.5 years 10 years 10 years 1 year
Expected life  3 years 3 years 3 years 3 years 5 years 1 year
Expected volatility  21.8% 21.1% 23.6% 21.1% 21.7% 26.8%
Risk-free interest rate  1.83% 0.57% 1.30% 0.84% 0.84% 1.30%
Dividend yield  3.2% 4.7% 2.6% 4.0% 4.0% 2.6%
Expected cancellations  15.0% 10.0% 10.0% 0.0% 0.0% 10.0%
Expected forfeitures  15.0% 10.0% 10.0% 25.0% 25.0% 10.0%
Fair value per option at date of grant  76.5p 40.6p 131.8p 41.2p 42.2p 114.2p
Expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the Group’ s share price over a period equivalent to the vesting period 
of the respective options prior to their date of grant.
The risk-free interest rate was based on the simple average of the historical daily gilt yields quoted for five year benchmark gilts during the 
month in which a grant of options is made.
Details of movements in share options during the year were as follows:
  2013  2012
  Weighted  Weighted
  average  average
 No of exercise No of exercise 
 options price options price
Outstanding at start of period 111,671 £2.69 120,283 £2.37
Granted during the period 52,173 £4.50 52,139 £2.69
Forfeited during the period (7 ,722) £2.78 (3,038) £3.09
Exercised during the period (39,797) £2.30 (46,531) £1.70
Expired during the period — — (7,716) £3.64
Cancelled during the period (1,804) £3.03 (3,466) £2.50
Outstanding at end of period 114,521 £3.64 111,671 £2.69
Exercisable at end of period — — — —
Forfeiture arises when the employee is no longer entitled to participate in the savings-related share option scheme as a consequence of leaving 
the Group whereas cancellation arises when a participant voluntarily chooses to cease their membership of a scheme within the vesting period. 
The options outstanding had a weighted average remaining contractual period of 3.7 years (2012: 2.4 years). The weighted average actual 
market share price on date of exercise for share options exercised during the year was 628.4 pence (2012: 342.5 pence) and the weighted 
average fair value of options granted during the year was 92.3 pence (2012: 39.7 pence). TREATT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013   65
25. PENSION SCHEMES
Group
The Group operates a wholly-funded defined benefit pension scheme for certain UK employees. The scheme’s assets are held separately 
from the assets of the Group and are administered by trustees and managed professionally. From 1 October 2001 this scheme was closed to 
new entrants. Pensionable salary for the remaining members of the scheme is based upon the lower of their actual salary upon retirement or 
leaving the Group and their 2003 salary as increased by inflation. Following consultation with members, they agreed that the scheme will not 
be subject to any further accruals after 31 December 2012 and instead members of the final salary pension scheme were offered membership 
of a defined contribution pension plan with effect from 1 January 2013.
Defined contribution schemes are operated on behalf of eligible employees, the assets of which are held separately from those of the Group 
in independently administered funds.
The pension charge for the year principally represents contributions payable to the defined contribution schemes, together with the current 
service cost for the year (until 31 December 2012 as explained above) in relation to the defined benefit pension scheme, amounting to:
  2013 2012
  £’000 £’000
Defined benefit scheme – current service cost  112 481
Defined contribution schemes  574 312
Curtailment gain  — (188)
Other pension costs  24 24
  710 629
The Group accounts for pensions in accordance with IAS 19, “Employee Benefits”, details of which are as follows:
The valuation used for IAS 19 disclosures in respect of the defined benefit pension scheme (“the scheme”) has been based on the most 
recent actuarial valuation at 1 January 2012 carried out by Barnett Waddingham and updated by Mrs L Lawson, a Fellow of the Institute and 
Faculty of Actuaries, to take account of the requirements of IAS 19 in order to assess the liabilities of the scheme at 30 September 2013. 
Scheme assets are stated at their market value as at that date.
The financial assumptions used to calculate scheme liabilities and assets under IAS 19 are:
 2013 2012
Discount rate 4.65% 4.60%
Expected return on scheme assets 6.17% 5.23%
Rate of increase in salaries N/A N/A
Rate of increase in pensions in payment – CPI max 5% 2.35% 1.60%
Rate of increase in pensions in payment – CPI max 3% 2.20% 1.55%
Rate of increase in pensions in payment – CPI max 2.5% 2.00% 1.50%
Rate of inflation (CPI) 2.35% 1.60%
Rate of inflation (RPI) 3.35% 2.60%
Mortality table 100% of S1PxA table with  100% of S1PxA table with
 CMI_2011 projections with a  CMI_2011 projections with a
 long term average rate of  long term average rate of
 improvement of 1% pa improvement of 1% pa 
Life expectancy for male aged 65 now 22.1 22.0
Life expectancy for male aged 65 in 10 years’ time 22.7 22.6
Commutation allowance 20% 20% 66   TREATT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013
Notes to the Financial Statements
for the year ended 30 September 2013 continued
25. PENSION SCHEMES (Continued)
The expected return on individual classes of pension scheme assets are determined by reference to external indices and after taking advice 
from external advisers. The overall expected rate of return shown above is the weighted average of the returns allowing for anticipated balances 
held in each asset class according to the scheme’s investment strategy. The Group expects to make on-going contributions of approximately 
£297,000 to its defined benefit pension scheme in 2014 (2013: £389,000).
 2013 2012
 £’000 £’000
Scheme assets:  
Equities 8,653 9,011
Target return funds 5,213 —
Bonds 3,256 5,560
Other 49 1,027
Fair value of scheme assets 17 ,171 15,598
    
Present value of funded obligations (scheme liabilities) (18,760)  (16,436)
Deficit in the scheme recognised in the balance sheet (1,589) (838)
Related deferred tax 333 192
Net pension liability (1,256)              (646)
Changes in scheme liabilities    
Balance at start of period (16,436) (14,477)
Current service cost (112) (481)
Interest cost (747) (788)
Curtailment — 188
Benefits paid 560 612
Actuarial loss (2,025) (1,490)
Balance at end of period (18,760) (16,436)
Changes in scheme assets    
Balance at start of period 15,598 13,674
Expected return on scheme assets 810 838
Employer contributions 356 686
Benefits paid (560) (612)
Actuarial gain 967 1,012
Balance at end of period 17 ,171 15,598 TREATT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013   67
25. PENSION SCHEMES (Continued)
 2013 2012
 £’000 £’000
Amount charged to operating profit  
Current service cost (excluding employee contributions) (112) (481)
Curtailment — 188
T otal operating charge (112) (293)
Amount credited to finance revenue
Expected return on assets 810 838
Interest on scheme liabilities (747) (788)
Net finance revenue 63 50
Net expense recognised in income statement (49) (243)
Amount recognised in statement of comprehensive income
Actual less expected return on assets 967 1,012
Experience gains on liabilities — 41
Effect of change in assumptions on liabilities            (2,025) (1,531)
T otal loss recognised in statement of comprehensive income (1,058) (478)
Actual return on scheme assets 1,777 1,850
Statement of comprehensive income  
Actuarial gain from assets 967 1,012
Actuarial loss from liabilities (2,025) (1,490)
Actuarial loss recognised in statement of comprehensive income (1,058) (478)
Cumulative actuarial loss recognised in statement of comprehensive income (2,343) (1,285)
Movement in balance sheet net liability during the period 
Net liability at start of period (838) (803)
Current service cost (112) (481)
Curtailment — 188
Cash contribution 356 686
Other finance income 63                  50
Actuarial loss (1,058) (478)
Net liability at end of period (1,589) (838)
History of scheme assets, liabilities, experience gains and losses: 
 
 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009
 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Scheme assets 17 ,171 15,598 13,674 13,737 12,427
Scheme liabilities (18,760) (16,436) (14,477) (15,333) (14,427)
Net liability (1,589) (838) (803) (1,596) (2,000)
Difference between expected and actual returns 
  on scheme assets: 967 1,012 (1,099) 151 544
     
Experience gains/(losses) on scheme liabilities: — 41 20 110 (190)
     
Total actuarial (loss)/gain: (1,058) (478) 599 172 (1,821) 68   TREATT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013
Notes to the Financial Statements
for the year ended 30 September 2013 continued
25. PENSION SCHEMES (continued)
Approximate effect of change of assumptions on liability values at 30 September 2013:
Change: Increases liability by:
  £’000
Reduce discount rate by 0.25% pa 880
Increase inflation and all related assumptions by 0.1% pa 255
Increase life expectancy by one year 540
26. COMMITMENTS UNDER OPERATING LEASES
The Group as lessee
As at 30 September 2013, the Group had total commitments for future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases 
which fall due as follows:
 2013 2012
 £’000 £’000
Within one year 28 40
Within one to two years 10 18
In two to five years 21     31 
 59 89
The Group as lessor
As at 30 September 2013, the Group had contracted with tenants for the following future minimum lease payments which fall due as follows:
 2013 2012
 £’000 £’000
Within one year 8 8
27 . CONTINGENT LIABILITIES
Parent Company
The Parent Company has guaranteed the Industrial Development Loan and ‘Line of Credit’ for Treatt USA Inc. At the balance sheet date the 
liability covered by this guarantee amounted to US$2,070,000 (£1,279,000) (2012: US$2,325,000 (£1,440,000)).
The Parent Company has also guaranteed certain bank borrowings of its UK subsidiaries R C Treatt & Co. Limited and Earthoil Plantations 
Limited. At the year-end the liabilities covered by this guarantee amounted to £4,322,000 (2012: £9,089,000).
Parent Company and Group
As previously reported, the sellers of the Earthoil Group, which was wholly acquired in April 2008 (see note 12), have filed a claim in the 
Chancery Division of the High Court against the Parent Company for £1.8m which has subsequently been extended to £2.3m. The claim 
relates to various matters in respect of the earnout, being the deferred consideration payable to the sellers in respect of the acquisition of the 
Earthoil Group. Following the determination of some preliminary issues in November 2013, this matter may now proceed to be determined by 
an independent expert, although there are still matters to be determined by the Court and there can, therefore, be no certainty of the eventual 
outcome. The costs of resolving the dispute currently total £647,000, of which the current year’s costs of £634,000 have been included in 
exceptional items. The total eventual legal and professional fees of the dispute are currently unknown, but are likely to exceed £1m. TREATT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013   69
28. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
Parent Company and Group
Capital risk management
The Group and Parent Company manage their capital to ensure that entities in the Group will be able to continue as going concerns whilst 
maximising the return to stakeholders through the optimisation of the debt and equity balance. The capital structure of the Group consists of 
net debt and equity shareholders’ funds. The Group is not subject to any externally imposed capital requirements. Board policy is to operate 
with a mix of short and medium term borrowings. In recent years the Group have converted £3.25m of committed one year borrowings and 
$9m of overdraft in the UK into three year revolving credit facilities, and a $4m line of credit facility in the US into a four year facility. None of these 
facilities expire in the same financial years and all bank facilities are operated independently and are therefore not syndicated. The Group’s net 
debt position is monitored daily and reviewed by management on a weekly basis. Further details of the Group’s capital management are given 
in the Chairman’s Statement, CEO’s Report and Financial Review on pages 6 to 10.
Categories of financial instruments
In the following table those financial instruments which are measured subsequent to initial recognition at fair value are required to be grouped 
into levels 1 to 3 based on the degree to which the fair value is observable:
• level 1 – fair value measurements are those derived from quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities;
• level 2 – fair value measurements are those derived from inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1 that are observable for the 
asset or liability, either directly (i.e. as prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices); and
• level 3 – fair value measurements are those derived from valuation techniques that include inputs for the asset or liability that are not based 
on observable market data (unobservable inputs).
 Group Parent Company 
  2013 2012 2013 2012
 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Financial assets    
Redeemable loan notes receivable from subsidiaries — — 1,350 1,350
Trade receivables 11,448 12,368 — —
Cash and cash equivalents 1,117 927 — —
Derivative financial instruments – forward currency contracts (level 2) 219 — — —
 12,784 13,295 1,350 1,350
Financial liabilities    
Redeemable loan notes payable 675 675 675 675
Trade payables 7 ,434 5,275 — —
Bank borrowings 22 2,268 1,915 1,566
UK revolving credit facilities 6,793 8,731 — —
US term loans 2,596 2,878 — —
Derivative financial instruments – interest rate swap (level 2) 577 1,033 — —
 18,097 20,860 2,590 2,241
Fair values of financial assets and liabilities
The estimated fair values of financial assets and liabilities is not considered to be significantly different from their carrying values. 
Financial risk management objectives
The Group and Parent Company collate information from across the business and report to the Board on key financial risks. These risks 
include credit risk, liquidity risk, interest rate risk and currency risk. The Group has policies in place, which have been approved by the Board, 
to manage these risks. The Group does not enter into traded financial instruments as the costs involved currently outweigh the risks they seek 
to protect against. Speculative purchases of financial instruments are not made. 70   TREATT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013
Notes to the Financial Statements
for the year ended 30 September 2013 continued
28. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (continued)
Credit risk management
Credit risk refers to the risk that a counterparty will default on its contractual obligations resulting in financial loss to the Group or Parent 
Company. The Group’s credit risk is primarily attributable to its trade receivables and details of how this risk is managed are explained in note 
18. The credit risk on liquid funds is limited because the counterparties are banks with good credit ratings assigned by international credit 
rating agencies as outlined in note 19. The Directors are of the opinion that there are no significant concentrations of credit risk. The carrying 
amount of financial assets recorded in the financial statements, which is net of impairment losses, represents the Group and Parent Company’s 
maximum exposure to credit risk.
The loan notes receivable by the Parent Company are made up as follows:
 2013 2012
 £’000 £’000
Variable Rate Unsecured Loan Notes 2015 (A) 950  950
Variable Rate Unsecured Loan Notes 2015 (B) 400 400
 1,350 1,350
The loan notes are redeemable in full on 31 December 2015 or from 31 March 2009 on request from the issuer. Interest is receivable at 1% 
above UK base rate. As disclosed in note 29, the loan notes are receivable by the Parent Company from two of its wholly-owned subsidiaries, 
comprising the Earthoil Group. Although the Earthoil Group has access to the Group’s banking facilities, on a standalone basis there is 
technically a credit risk attaching to the loan notes. However, given that the Earthoil Group is now trading profitably and the Parent Company 
has control over when the loan notes are redeemed, this credit risk is not considered to be significant.
Further details of the Group’s credit risk management are given in notes 18 and 19.
Liquidity risk management
Liquidity risk refers to the risk that the Group may not be able to fund the day to day running of the Group. Liquidity risk is reviewed by the 
Board at all Board meetings. The Group manages liquidity risk by monitoring actual and forecast cash flows and matching the maturity profiles 
of financial assets and liabilities. The Group also monitors the drawdown of debt against the available banking facilities and reviews the level of 
reserves. Liquidity risk management ensures sufficient debt funding is available for the Group’s day to day needs. Board policy is to maintain a 
reasonable headroom of unused committed bank facilities.
The Group has a number of debt facilities, details of which, including their terms and maturity profile, are given in note 20.
The Board also monitors the Group’s banking covenants which are calculated under IFRS. There were no breaches during the year or prior 
period.
Interest rate risk management
The Group is exposed to interest rate risk on short to medium term borrowings primarily with three major institutions being HSBC, Lloyds 
Banking Group and Bank of America. The risk is managed by maintaining borrowings with several institutions across a number of currencies, 
principally US Dollar and Sterling. Long term financing is primarily used to finance long term capital investment.
The Group hedges a portion of its interest rate risk through an interest rate swap which has the effect of fixing the interest rate on a notional 
principal of US$9 million of borrowings. The interest rate swap is for a period of ten years ending in 2020 and swaps variable 3 month US LIBOR 
for a fixed rate of 5.68%. The Group has complied with the requirements of IAS39, ‘Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement’ and 
designated this interest rate swap as a cash flow hedge. The hedge was 100% effective during the period and is expected to be going forward, 
and consequently the carrying value (which is the same as the fair value) of the interest rate swap has been taken to the hedging reserve, 
and the corresponding liability as at 30 September 2013 of £577,000 (2012: £1,033,000) is shown under non-current liabilities – ‘Derivative 
Financial Instruments’. The fair value of the interest rate swap equates to the mark-to-market valuation of the swap provided by HSBC and 
represents the amount which the Group would expect to pay in order to close the swap contract at the balance sheet date. The gain for the 
period of £546,000 (2012: £169,000 loss) is shown in the ‘Statement of Comprehensive Income’. 
The derivative financial instrument for the interest rate swap described above is classified as level 2. TREATT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013   71
28. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (continued)
Interest rate risk management (continued)
Interest rate risk is further diversified by having a mix of fixed and floating rate borrowings, as well as holding borrowings in a range of currencies 
as follows:
 Floating rate Fixed rate
Group financial liabilities financial liabilities T otal
 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012
Financial liabilities £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Bank borrowings:      
US Dollars 6,062 6,052 2,596 8,309 8,658 14,361
Sterling* (106) (1,974) — — (106) (1,974)
Other* (258) 562 — — (258) 562
Total Net Debt 5,698 4,640 2,596 8,309 8,294 12,949
Loan notes payable:      
Sterling 675 675 — — 675 675
 6,373 5,315 2,596 8,309 8,969 13,624
* Bank borrowings are shown net of positive cash balances as rights of set-off exist.
The Parent Company bank borrowings were all held in Sterling.
Interest on floating rate bank deposits is based on UK base rates or currency LIBOR as applicable. Interest on bank overdrafts is charged at 
1.35%-2.75% above bank base or currency LIBOR rates. The terms of the loan notes receivable are shown within this note.
Fixed rate financial liabilities comprise the Industrial Development Loan of US$2,070,000 (2012: US$2,325,000), equipment financing term 
loans of $2,133,000 (2012: $2,093,000) and $9,000,000 revolving credit facility (see note 20). 
The loan notes payable by the Parent Company and Group are made up as follows:
 2013 2012
 £’000 £’000
Series A Variable Rate Unsecured Loan Notes 2015 475 475
Series B Variable Rate Unsecured Loan Notes 2015 200 200
 675 675
The loan notes are redeemable in full on 31 December 2015 or at an earlier date, once 50% of the corresponding loan notes receivable have 
been redeemed. Interest is payable at 1% above UK base rate. 
Interest rate sensitivity analysis has been performed on the floating rate financial liabilities to illustrate the impact on Group profits if interest 
rates increased or decreased. This analysis assumes the liabilities outstanding at the period end were outstanding for the whole period.  
A 100 bps increase or decrease has been used, comprising management’s assessment of reasonably possible changes in interest rates.  
If interest rates had been 100 bps higher or lower, then profit before taxation for the year ended 30 September 2013 would have decreased 
or increased as follows:
 Group Parent Company 
  2013 2012 2013 2012
 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Impact on profit before tax of 1% interest rate movement 101 146 12 9
It has been assumed that all other variables remained the same when preparing the interest rate sensitivity analysis and that floating rate short 
term bank borrowings in the same currency are netted against each other for the purpose of interest rate calculation. 72   TREATT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013
Notes to the Financial Statements
for the year ended 30 September 2013 continued
28. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (continued)
Foreign currency risk management
Foreign currency risk management occurs at a transactional level on revenues and purchases in foreign currencies and at a translational level 
in relation to the translation of overseas operations. The Group’ s main foreign exchange risk is the US Dollar. Board policy is for UK businesses 
to mitigate US Dollar transactional exposures by holding borrowings in US Dollars and Euros as well as by entering into forward currency 
contracts. Further details of the Group’s foreign currency risk management can be found in the Chairman’s Statement, CEO’s Report and 
Financial Review on pages 6 to 10.
At 30 September 2013, the notional principal amount of outstanding foreign currency contracts that are held to hedge the Group’ s transaction 
exposures was £6,361,000 (2012: £Nil). For accounting purposes, the Group has designated the foreign currency contracts as cash flow 
hedges. At 30 September 2013, the fair value of the contracts was £219,000 (2012: £Nil). During 2013, a gain of £90,000 (2012: £Nil) was 
recognised in other comprehensive income in respect of these contracts and a gain of £129,000 (2012: £Nil) was reclassified from equity to 
profit or loss and included in operating profit.
The derivative financial instrument for the foreign currency contracts described above is classified as level 2.
The Group’s currency exposure, being those exposures arising from transactions where the net currency gains and losses will be recognised 
in the income statement, is as follows:
Net foreign currency financial assets/(liabilities):
 US Dollar Other T otal
 £’000 £’000 £’000
At 30 September 2013 (5,056) 1,077 (3,979)
   
At 30 September 2012 (2,772) 335 (2,437)
   
A currency sensitivity analysis has been performed on the financial assets and liabilities to sensitivity of a 10% increase/decrease in the 
Pounds Sterling to US Dollar exchange rate. A 10% strengthening of the US Dollar has been used, comprising management’s assessment of 
reasonably possible changes in US Dollar exchange rates. The impact on profit for the period in the income statement would be a loss on net 
monetary assets or liabilities of £562,000 (2012: £308,000). In management’s opinion, the sensitivity analysis is unrepresentative of the inherent 
foreign exchange risk since it is limited to the year-end exposure and does not reflect the exposure during the year.
29. RELATED PARTY  TRANSACTIONS
The following transactions were carried out with related parties:
Group
Remuneration of key management personnel
The remuneration of the Directors, who are the key management personnel of the Group, is set out below in aggregate. Further information 
about the remuneration of individual Directors is provided in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 31 to 35.
 2013 2012
 £’000 £’000
Salaries and other short-term employee benefits 1,070 852
Termination benefits — 586
Employers’ social security costs 111 132
Pension contributions to money purchase schemes 42 12
Share-based payments 3 2
 1,226 1,584
  
During the year two Directors (2012: three) were members of a defined benefit pension scheme until the scheme was closed to future accrual 
with effect from 31 December 2012. The aggregate accumulated total pension as at 30 September 2013 was £64,000 (2012:£157,000). TREATT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013   73
29. RELATED PARTY  TRANSACTIONS (continued)
Director’s Loan
In 2010, two years before his appointment to the Board, Daemmon Reeve was granted an interest free loan of $50,000 (£31,000) by the Parent 
Company to assist with relocating to the US upon his appointment as CEO of Treatt USA. The loan is being repaid in equal monthly instalments. 
Having repaid $16,250 (£11,683) during the year, the balance outstanding at 30 September 2013 was $1,250 (£772).
 2013 2012
Parent Company £’000 £’000
Interest received from:  
  Earthoil Plantations Limited 14 31
  Earthoil Kenya PTY EPZ Limited 6 6
  
Dividends received from:  
  R C T reatt & Co Limited 948 1,491
  Treatt USA Inc 654 641
  
Redeemable loan notes receivable:  
  Earthoil Plantations Limited 950 950
  Earthoil Kenya PTY EPZ Limited 400 400
  
Amounts owed to/(by) Parent Company:  
  Earthoil Plantations Limited 157 45
  R C Treatt & Co Limited 297 (27)
 
The redeemable loan notes are redeemable in full on 31 December 2015 or from 31 March 2009 on request from the issuer. Interest is 
receivable at 1% above UK base rate. Amounts owed to the Parent Company are unsecured and will be settled in cash. 74   TREATT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013
Notice of Annual General Meeting
THIS DOCUMENT IS IMPORTANT AND REQUIRES YOUR IMMEDIATE ATTENTION. IF YOU ARE IN ANY DOUBT AS TO WHAT 
ACTION TO TAKE YOU ARE RECOMMENDED TO CONSUL T YOUR STOCKBROKER, SOLICITOR, ACCOUNTANT OR OTHER 
INDEPENDENT ADVISER AUTHORISED UNDER THE FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS ACT 2000.
If you have sold or transferred all of your ordinary shares in Treatt plc, you should pass this document, together with the accompanying  
form of proxy, to the person through whom the sale or transfer was made for transmission to the purchaser or transferee.
Notice of the Annual General Meeting which has been convened for 24 February 2014 at 10.30 am at Treatt plc, Northern Way, Bury St 
Edmunds, Suffolk, IP32 6NL is set out below. 
To be valid, forms of proxy must be completed and returned in accordance with the instructions printed thereon so as to be received by the 
Company’s registrars, Capita Asset Services, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent, BR3 4TU as soon as possible and in any 
event not later than 48 hours (excluding weekends and public holidays) before the time appointed for holding the meeting.
Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting of the Shareholders of Treatt plc (the “Company”) will be held at Treatt plc, Northern 
Way, Bury St Edmunds, Suffolk, IP32 6NL on 24 February 2014, at 10.30 am for the transaction of the following business:
Ordinary Business
1. To receive the accounts and the reports of the Directors and the Auditors for the year ended 30 September 2013.
2. To approve the Directors’ Remuneration Report.
3. To approve a final dividend of 13.0p per share on the ordinary shares of the Company for the year ended 30 September 2013.
4. To re-elect Jeff Iliffe as a Director of the Company.
5. To re-elect Anita Haines as a Director of the Company.
6. To re-elect David Johnston as a Director of the Company.
7. To re-appoint Baker Tilly UK Audit LLP as Auditors of the Company, to hold office from the conclusion of this meeting until the conclusion 
of the next Annual General Meeting. 
8. To authorise the Directors to determine the remuneration of the Auditors of the Company.
Special Business
To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following resolutions, of which Resolutions 9 to 13 will be proposed as Ordinary Resolutions and 
Resolutions 14 and 15, will be proposed as Special Resolutions.
9. Approval of Remuneration Policy
 THAT:
 The Remuneration Policy be and is hereby approved.
10. Authority to allot securities
 THAT:
(a)  In accordance with Section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 (the ‘Act’) the Directors be and are hereby generally and unconditionally 
authorised to exercise all the powers of the Company to allot shares in the Company and to grant rights to subscribe for, or to convert 
any security into, shares in the Company (Rights) within the terms of the restrictions and provisions following; namely:
(i) this authority shall (unless previously revoked, varied or renewed) expire on the earlier of the date of the next Annual General 
Meeting of the Company following the passing of this Resolution and 23 May 2015; and
(ii) this authority shall be limited to the allotment of shares and the granting of Rights up to an aggregate nominal amount of £345,850 
(representing approximately 33 per cent of the existing issued share capital of the Company).
(b) For the purpose of sub-paragraph (a) above:
(i) the said power shall allow and enable the Directors to make an offer or agreement which would or might require shares to be 
allotted or Rights to be granted after such expiry and the Directors may allot shares and grant Rights in pursuance of such an offer 
or agreement as if the power conferred hereby had not expired; and
(ii) words and expressions defined in or for the purpose of Part 17 of the Act shall bear the same meaning herein.
11. Increase in aggregate fees to Non-executive Directors
 THAT:
 the maximum aggregate fees permitted to be paid to the Non-executive Directors’ of the Company, pursuant to article 18.3 of the 
Company’s articles of association, be and is hereby increased from £150,000 to £225,000. TREATT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013   75
12. Approval of Long Term Incentive Plan
 THAT:
 The Treatt plc Long Term Incentive Plan, the main terms of which are summarised in the explanatory notes accompanying this notice of 
meeting, to be constituted by the rules produced to the meeting and signed by the Chairman for the purposes of identification, be and is 
hereby approved and adopted for five years from the date of approval by shareholders. 
13. Approval of Share Incentive Plan
 THAT:
 The T reatt plc Share Incentive Plan, the main terms of which are summarised in the explanatory notes accompanying this notice of meeting, 
to be constituted by the trust deed and rules produced to the meeting and signed by the Chairman for the purposes of identification, be 
and is hereby approved and adopted for ten years from the date of approval by shareholders and the Directors are hereby authorised:
(a)  to do all acts and things necessary to carry the same into effect, including the making of any changes to the trust deed and rules 
as may be necessary to obtain the approval of HM Revenue & Customs and/or such other approvals as the Directors may consider 
necessary or desirable to obtain; and
(b)  at their discretion, to adopt similar all-employee plans as they deem appropriate for the benefit of employees and Directors of the 
Company and its subsidiaries, on identical terms, which are located outside the United Kingdom. 
14. Disapplication of pre-emption rights for up to 5% of existing share capital
 THAT:
(a) Conditionally upon the passing of Resolution 10 above and in accordance with Section 570 of the Act, the Directors be and are hereby 
given power to allot equity securities pursuant to the authority conferred by Resolution 10 above as if Section 561 of the said Act did 
not apply to any such allotment provided that:
(i) the power hereby granted shall be limited:
(aa) to the allotment of equity securities in connection with or pursuant to an offer by way of rights to the holders of shares in the 
Company and other persons entitled to participate therein, in the proportion (as nearly as may be) to such holders’ holdings 
of such shares (or, as appropriate, to the number of shares which such other persons are for these purposes deemed to hold) 
subject only to such exclusions or other arrangements as the Directors may feel necessary or expedient to deal with fractional 
entitlements or legal or practical problems under the laws of or the requirements of any recognised regulatory body in any 
territory; and
(bb) to the allotment (otherwise than pursuant to sub-paragraph (i)(aa) of this proviso) of equity securities up to an aggregate 
nominal amount of £52,400 (representing approximately 5 per cent of the existing issued share capital of the Company);
(ii) the power hereby granted shall expire on the earlier of the date of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company following the 
passing of this Resolution and 23 May 2015;
 (b)  (i) the said power shall allow and enable the Directors to make an offer or agreement before the expiry of the said power which  
  would or might require securities to be allotted pursuant to the agreement as if the power conferred herein had not expired; and 
(ii)  words and expressions defined in or for the purpose of Part 17 of the Act shall bear the same meaning herein.
15. Authority to purchase own shares
 THAT:
 The Company is hereby generally and unconditionally authorised to make market purchases (within the meaning of Section 693 of the Act) 
of ordinary shares of 10p each in the capital of the Company (“ordinary shares”) provided that:
(a) the maximum number of ordinary shares authorised to be purchased is 1,048,000 (representing approximately 10 per cent of the 
present issued share capital of the Company);
(b) the minimum price (excluding stamp duty, dealing or other costs) which may be paid for an ordinary share so purchased is 10p;
(c) the maximum price which may be paid for an ordinary share so purchased is an amount equal to 5 per cent above the average of 
the middle market quotations shown for an ordinary share in The London Stock Exchange Daily Official List on the five business days 
immediately preceding the day on which that ordinary share is purchased;
(d) the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2015, unless 
such authority is renewed, varied or revoked prior to such time; and
(e) the Company may prior to the expiry of such authority make a contract to purchase ordinary shares under the authority hereby 
conferred which will or may be executed wholly or partly after the expiry of such authority, and may make a purchase of ordinary shares 
in pursuance of any such contract.
By order of the Board Registered Office:
Anita Steer Northern Way
Secretary Bury St Edmunds
 Suffolk
19 December 2013 IP32 6NL 
  
The note on voting procedures and general rights of shareholders, together with explanatory notes on the resolutions to be put to the meeting, 
which follow on pages 76 to 80 form part of this notice. 76   TREATT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013
Notice of Annual General Meeting
continued
NOTE ON VOTING PROCEDURES AND GENERAL RIGHTS OF SHAREHOLDERS:
Only those persons entered in the Register of Members of the Company (the Register) as at 6.00pm on 20 February 2014 (the Record Date) 
shall be entitled to attend or vote at the AGM in respect of the number of ordinary shares in the capital of the Company registered in their 
names at that time. Changes to entries on the Register for certificated or uncertificated shares of the Company after the Record Date shall be 
disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at the AGM. Should the AGM be adjourned to a time not more than 48 
hours after the Record Date, that time will also apply for the purpose of determining the entitlement of members to attend and vote (and for 
the purpose of determining the number of votes they may cast) at the adjourned AGM. Should the AGM be adjourned for a longer period, to 
be so entitled, members must have been entered on the Register by 6.00pm two days prior to the adjourned AGM (excluding weekends and 
public holidays) or, if the Company gives notice of the adjourned AGM, at the time specified in such notice.
Voting at the meeting will be conducted by poll rather than on a show of hands, which the Board believes provides a more accurate reflection 
of shareholder views and takes into account the number of shares held by each member. Those shareholders who are unable to attend the 
meeting should submit a form of proxy as detailed below. Shareholders attending the meeting may also wish to vote in advance of the meeting 
by submitting a form of proxy. Members who have done so will not need to vote at the meeting unless they wish to change their vote or the 
way in which the proxy is instructed to vote. 
 
A member entitled to attend and vote at this meeting may appoint a proxy or proxies to attend and vote instead of him or her. The proxy need 
not be a member of the Company. A form of proxy is provided with this notice and instructions for use are shown on the form. Additional forms 
of proxy can be obtained from the Company’s registrars on tel no 0871 664 0300 (calls cost 10p per minute plus network extras, lines are open 
8.30 a.m. to 5.30 p.m. Monday to Friday). Instruments appointing proxies must be lodged with the Company’s registrars not less than 48 hours 
before the time fixed for the meeting to be effective. Completion and return of a form of proxy will not preclude a member from attending and 
voting in person at the meeting or any adjournment of the meeting.
An abstention option is provided on the form of proxy to enable you to instruct your proxy to abstain on any particular resolution, however, it 
should be noted that an abstention in this way is not a ‘vote’ in law and will not be counted in the calculation of the proportion of the votes ‘For’ 
and ‘Against’ a resolution.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the Annual 
General Meeting to be held on 24 February 2014 and any adjournment(s) of the meeting by using the procedures described in the CREST 
Manual. CREST personal members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service 
provider(s), should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider(s), who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf. 
Please note the following:
a) In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message (a “CREST Proxy 
Instruction”) must be properly authenticated in accordance with Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited’s (“EUI”) specifications and must contain 
the information required for such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual. The message, regardless of whether it constitutes the 
appointment of a proxy or an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted 
so as to be received by the issuer’s agent (ID RA10) by the latest time(s) for receipt of proxy appointments specified in this notice of the 
Annual General Meeting. For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time (as determined by the timestamp applied to the 
message by the CREST applications host) from which the issuer’s agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner 
prescribed by CREST. After this time any change of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated to the 
appointee through other means.
b) CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers should note that EUI does not make available 
special procedures in CREST for any particular messages. Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation to the 
input of CREST Proxy Instructions. It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take (or, if the CREST member is a CREST 
personal member or sponsored member or has appointed a voting service provider(s), to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service 
provider(s) take(s)) such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any 
particular time. In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers are referred 
in particular to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
c) The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in regulation 35(5)(a) of the Uncertificated 
Securities Regulations 2001. TREATT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013   77
The right to appoint a proxy does not apply to persons whose shares are held on their behalf by another person and who have been nominated 
to receive communications from the company in accordance with section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 (“nominated persons”). Nominated 
persons may have a right under an agreement with the registered shareholder who holds the shares on their behalf to be appointed (or to have 
someone else appointed) as a proxy. Alternatively, if nominated persons do not have such a right, or do not wish to exercise it, they may have 
a right under such an agreement to give instructions to the person holding the shares as to the exercise of voting rights.
A member of the Company which is a corporation may authorise a person or persons to act as its representative(s) at the AGM. In accordance 
with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 (as amended by the Companies (Shareholders’ Rights) Regulations 2009), each such 
representative may exercise (on behalf of the corporation) the same powers as the corporation could exercise if it were an individual member 
of the Company, provided that they do not do so in relation to the same shares. It is therefore no longer necessary to nominate a designated 
corporate representative.
Pursuant to Section 319A of the Companies Act 2006, the Company must cause to be answered at the AGM any question relating to the 
business being dealt with at the AGM which is put by a member attending the meeting, except in certain circumstances, including if it is 
undesirable in the interests of the Company or the good order of the meeting that the question be answered or if to do so would involve the 
disclosure of confidential information. 
Members satisfying the thresholds in Section 338 of the Companies Act 2006 may require the Company to give, to members of the Company 
entitled to receive notice of the AGM, notice of a resolution which those members intend to move (and which may properly be moved) at the 
AGM. A resolution may properly be moved at the AGM unless (i) it would, if passed, be ineffective (whether by reason of any inconsistency with 
any enactment or the Company’s constitution or otherwise); (ii) it is defamatory of any person; or (iii) it is frivolous or vexatious. The business 
which may be dealt with at the AGM includes a resolution circulated pursuant to this right. A request made pursuant to this right may be in hard 
copy or electronic form, must identify the resolution of which notice is to be given, must be authenticated by the person(s) making it and must 
be received by the Company not later than 6 weeks before the date of the AGM.
Members satisfying the thresholds in Section 338A of the Companies Act 2006 may request the Company to include in the business to be 
dealt with at the AGM any matter (other than a proposed resolution) which may properly be included in the business at the AGM. A matter 
may properly be included in the business at the AGM unless (i) it is defamatory of any person or (ii) it is frivolous or vexatious. A request made 
pursuant to this right may be in hard copy or electronic form, must identify the matter to be included in the business, must be accompanied by 
a statement setting out the grounds for the request, must be authenticated by the person(s) making it and must be received by the Company 
not later than 6 weeks before the date of the AGM.
In accordance with Section 311A of the Companies Act 2006, the contents of this notice of meeting details the total number of shares in 
respect of which members are entitled to exercise voting rights at the AGM, the total voting rights members are entitled to exercise at the AGM 
and, if applicable, any members’ statements, members’ resolutions or members’ matters of business received by the Company after the date 
of this notice will be available on the Company’s website www.Treatt.com.
As at 19 December 2013 the Company’s issued share capital consists of 10,481,034 ordinary shares, The total number of voting rights in the 
Company as at 19 December 2013 (the latest practicable reporting date prior to publication of this document) is 10,264,523. 
A statement of Directors’ share transactions and copies of their service contracts and the letters of appointment of the Non-executive Directors 
are available for inspection during usual business hours at the registered office of the Company from the date of this notice until the date of the 
Annual General Meeting (Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays excluded) and will be available at the place of the meeting for fifteen minutes 
prior to and during the meeting.
Except as provided above, members who wish to communicate with the Company in relation to the meeting should do so using the following 
means:
Calling the Company Secretary on +44 1284 702500; 
Emailing the Company Secretary on cosec@treatt.com; or
Writing to: The Company Secretary, Treatt plc, Northern Way, Bury St Edmunds, Suffolk, IP32 6NL. 78   TREATT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013
Notice of Annual General Meeting
continued
EXPLANATORY NOTES
Report and Accounts (Resolution 1)
The Directors of the Company must present the accounts to the meeting.
Directors’ Remuneration Report (Resolution 2)
Changes to The Companies Act 2006, implemented by the Enterprise and Regulatory Reform Act 2013, provide that a quoted company may 
not make a remuneration payment to a Director of the company unless the payment is consistent with the Company’s Remuneration Policy, 
as approved by shareholders, or the payment is approved by a Shareholders’ Resolution. The legislation requires two resolutions to be put to 
shareholders on separate sections of the Directors’ Remuneration Report. The first of these is an advisory resolution on the Implementation 
Section of the Directors’ Remuneration Report, which details the remuneration packages paid to Directors during the year ended 30 September 
2013. You can find the Implementation Section of the Directors’ Remuneration Report on page 31.
Declaration of a dividend (Resolution 3)
A final dividend can only be paid after the Shareholders at a general meeting have approved it. A final dividend of 13.0p per ordinary share is 
recommended by the Directors for payment to Shareholders who are on the register of members at the close of business on 28 February 2014. 
If approved, the date of payment of the final dividend will be 4 April 2014. An interim dividend of 5.5 pence per ordinary share was paid on 18 
October 2013. This represents an increase of 3.0 pence per share, or 19.4 per cent, on the total 2012 dividend.
Re-election of Directors (Resolutions 4, 5 and 6)
In accordance with the Articles of Association, all Directors retire at least every three years and all newly appointed Directors retire at the first 
Annual General Meeting following their appointment. Furthermore, any Non-executive Director having been in post for nine years or more is 
subject to annual re-election.
At this meeting, Jeff Iliffe, Anita Haines and David Johnston will retire and stand for re-election as Directors. Short biographies of these Directors 
are given on page 15. Anita Haines will retire as an Executive Director at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting and is standing for 
re-election as a Non-executive Director. Having considered the performance of and contribution made by each of the Directors standing for 
re-election the Board remains satisfied that the performance of each of the relevant Directors continues to be effective and to demonstrate 
commitment to the role and, as such, recommends their re-election.
Reappointment and remuneration of auditors (Resolutions 7 and 8)
Resolutions 8 and 9 propose the reappointment of Baker Tilly UK Audit LLP as Auditors of the Company and authorise the Directors to set 
their remuneration.
Remuneration Policy Report (Resolution 9)
As referred to under Resolution 2 above, two resolutions are required to be put to Shareholders on separate sections of the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report. The second of these is a binding resolution, passed by a majority, to approve the Company’s Remuneration Policy. The 
policy, which is set out on pages 23 to 30, will apply to all payments made to Directors from the date the policy is approved by shareholders. 
Since the resolution is binding, it will be necessary for the Company to convene an Extraordinary General Meeting to put the resolution to 
Shareholders again, in the event that it is not passed at the Annual General Meeting. 
Directors’ authority to allot securities (Resolution 10)
Your Directors may only allot ordinary shares or grant rights over ordinary shares if authorised to do so by Shareholders. This resolution seeks 
to grant authority to the Directors to allot unissued share capital of the Company and grant Rights and will expire at the conclusion of the next 
Annual General Meeting of the Company in 2015 or, if earlier, on 23 May 2015 (the date which is 15 months after the date of passing of the 
resolution). There is no present intention of exercising this authority, which would give Directors authority to allot relevant securities up to an 
aggregate nominal value of £345,850 approximately 33 per cent of the Company’s issued ordinary share capital as at 19 December 2013.
Increase in aggregate fees payable to the Non-executive Directors’ (Resolution 11)
Article 18.3 provides that the ordinary remuneration of the Non-executive Directors shall not exceed £150,000 per annum in aggregate unless 
a higher sum is determined by ordinary resolution of the Company. The limit was last increased at the Annual General Meeting in 2009.
Although Anita Haines’ resignation as an Executive Director will not affect the overall number of Directors on the Board, her appointment as 
a Non-executive Director will have an effect on the aggregate fees of Non-executive Directors, taking them above the current maximum. The 
proposed increase in the maximum aggregate fees to £225,000, will provide the Board with sufficient flexibility to ensure that the skills, expertise 
and diversity of the Board remain appropriate for the future and that the Board is sufficiently balanced to enable it to fulfill its obligations to 
Shareholders.
Shareholders should note that increasing the maximum aggregate fees for Non-executive Directors does not mean that Shareholders are 
approving an increase in the fees payable to each current Non-Executive Director. Increases in individual Non-executive Directors fees will be 
subject to the Remuneration Policy detailed under Resolution 9 above.  TREATT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013   79
Approval of Long Term Incentive Plan (Resolution 12)
This resolution proposes the introduction of a Long T erm Incentive Plan (‘LTIP’) for employees and Directors. A summary of the proposed rules 
of the LTIP is provided in Appendix A below. A full copy of the rules is available on the Treatt website at www.Treatt.com and will be available 
for inspection at the Annual General Meeting.
One of the key principles of the Remuneration Policy is to link rewards to Directors and key employees to the creation of longer term value 
for Shareholders. Historically, few share-based incentives have been awarded to Directors but it is recognised that this is an important aspect 
of remuneration and it is therefore intended that the grant of appropriate awards of share-based incentives, with stretching performance 
conditions, will be considered annually. The Remuneration Committee believes that the introduction of the LTIP will:
• enhance the Group’s remuneration framework;
• assist in the retention and motivation of Directors and key employees who are focused on executing the business strategy;
• ensure that there is sufficient focus on driving Shareholder value by providing appropriate rewards for success; 
• align the interests of participants with those of Shareholders; and
• reflect developments in corporate governance and market practice.
Approval of Share Incentive Plan (Resolution 13)
This resolution proposes the introduction of a new Share Incentive Plan (‘SIP’) for employees and Directors. A summary of the proposed rules 
of the SIP is provided in Appendix B below. A full copy of the rules and trust deed are available on the Treatt website at www.Treatt.com and 
will be available for inspection at the Annual General Meeting.
The Company wishes to launch the SIP , which will run alongside the existing all employee Save As You Earn Share Option Scheme, under 
which shares are purchased at the end of a three year savings period, in order to align the interests of all employees with those of Shareholders 
and further foster employee share ownership. The Directors believe that the introduction of the SIP will provide employees with an opportunity 
to further invest in the Company’s shares.
Disapplication of pre-emption rights (Resolution 14)
Under Section 561 of the Act, if the Directors wish to allot any of the unissued shares or grant rights over shares or sell treasury shares for 
cash (other than pursuant to an employee share scheme) they must in the first instance offer them to existing Shareholders in proportion to 
their holdings. There may be occasions, however, when the Directors will need the flexibility to finance business opportunities by the issue of 
ordinary shares without a pre-emptive offer to existing Shareholders. This cannot be done under the Act unless the Shareholders have first 
waived their pre-emption rights.
Resolution 14 asks the Shareholders to do this and, apart from rights issues or any other pre-emptive offer concerning equity securities, the 
authority will be limited to the issue of shares for cash up to a maximum aggregate nominal value of £52,400 (which includes the sale on a 
non pre-emptive basis of any shares held in treasury), which is equivalent to approximately 5 per cent of the Company’s issued ordinary share 
capital as at 19 December 2013. Shareholders will note that this resolution also relates to treasury shares and will be proposed as a Special 
Resolution.
This resolution seeks a disapplication of the pre-emption rights on a rights issue so as to allow the Directors to make exclusions or such other 
arrangements as may be appropriate to resolve legal or practical problems which, for example, might arise with overseas Shareholders. If given, 
the authority will expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company in 2015 or, if earlier, 23 May 2015 (the date which 
is 15 months after the date of passing of the resolution).
Authority to purchase own shares (Resolution 15)
In certain circumstances, it may be advantageous for the Company to purchase its own shares and resolution 15 seeks the authority from 
Shareholders to continue to do so. The Directors will continue to exercise this power only when, in the light of market conditions prevailing 
at the time, they believe that the effect of such purchases will be to increase earnings per share and is in the best interests of Shareholders 
generally. Other investment opportunities, appropriate gearing levels and the overall position of the Company will be taken into account when 
exercising this authority.
Any shares purchased in this way will be cancelled and the number of shares in issue will be reduced accordingly, save that the Company 
may hold in treasury any of its own shares that it purchases pursuant to the Act and the authority conferred by this resolution. This gives the 
Company the ability to re-issue treasury shares quickly and cost-effectively and provides the Company with greater flexibility in the management 
of its capital base. It also gives the Company the opportunity to satisfy employee share scheme awards with treasury shares. Once held in 
treasury, the Company is not entitled to exercise any rights, including the right to attend and vote at meetings in respect of the shares. Further, 
no dividend or other distribution of the Company’s assets may be made to the Company in respect of the treasury shares. 80   TREATT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013
Notice of Annual General Meeting
continued
The resolution specifies the maximum number of ordinary shares that may be acquired (approximately 10 per cent of the Company’s issued 
ordinary share capital as at 19 December 2013) and the maximum and minimum prices at which they may be bought.
The total number of options to subscribe for ordinary shares that were outstanding at 19 December 2013 (the latest practicable reporting date 
prior to publication of this document) was 114,521. The proportion of issued share capital that they represented at that time was 1.09 per cent 
and the proportion of issued share capital that they will represent if the full authority to purchase shares (existing and being sought) is used is 
1.21 per cent.
Resolution 15 will be proposed as a Special Resolution to provide the Company with the necessary authority. If given, this authority will expire 
at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company in 2015 or, if earlier, 23 May 2015 (the date which is 15 months after the 
date of passing of the resolution).
The Directors intend to seek renewal of this power at subsequent Annual General Meetings. TREATT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013   81
APPENDIX A
SUMMARY OF PROVISIONS OF THE TREATT PLC LONG TERM INCENTIVE PLAN (“L TIP”) 
The Company proposes to introduce the LTIP to incentivise Directors and employees.
The LTIP is capable of making awards of share options (which are unapproved for tax purposes in the UK) and Restricted Stock Units in the US. 
It is intended that the LTIP will be used to make awards of “nil cost” share options to selected employees of the Company in the UK, and 
Restricted Stock Units, which may at the discretion of the Company be satisfied by the transfer of shares, or payment in cash of equivalent 
value, once vesting conditions have been met, to employees in the US, to allow them to share in the success of the Group and promote 
motivation and retention. 
All Awards will be made in accordance with the Company’s Remuneration Policy as approved by shareholders from time to time.
It is proposed that all options granted under the LTIP will have an exercise price equal to the nominal value of a share in the case of a 
subscription option, and nil in the case of an option to acquire existing shares held in the Treatt Employee Benefit Trust. Restricted Stock Units 
will similarly be awarded for the nominal value in the case of newly issued shares, and nil in the case of existing shares. 
Grants of Awards
Awards may be granted to eligible employees at the discretion of the Board. Awards may be granted only during the period of:-
i) 42 days following the date of adoption of the L TIP by the Company;
ii) 42 days following the announcement of yearly , half yearly or other period financial results of the Company;
iii) 28 days after the person to whom it is granted first becoming an Employee;
ii) subject to the Model Code, any other date on which the Dir ectors consider that exceptional circumstances justify the grant of options; or
iii) in the event that any statute, order or regulation prevents the Company from making Awards the Award will be made within the relevant 
period indicated above after that restriction is removed.
Eligibility
All full-time employees and Directors of the Group shall be eligible to participate in the LTIP at the discretion of the Board.
Performance Conditions
The Board will impose Performance Conditions applying over a period of at least three years that must be satisfied before Awards vest. The 
Performance Conditions, which will be determined at the time of grant to ensure that they are sufficiently stretching, will be set in accordance 
with the Remuneration Policy.
Clawback
In the event of a material misstatement of the Company’s published financial results used to determine the quantum of Awards granted or 
assess the satisfaction of performance conditions, or in the event of an error made in calculation or an Award holder’s gross misconduct, 
Awards may be reduced, adjusted or cancelled as determined by the Remuneration Committee (the ‘Committee’). To the extent that Awards 
have already been exercised, the Committee may (having considered all the circumstances) require the Award holder to return any shares 
received, or the amounts of any proceeds of sale of such shares (net of tax).
Limit of participation
The market value of shares over which Awards may be made under the LTIP, when added to the market value of shares, or rights or 
opportunities to acquire them, provided under any other employee share scheme of the Company (except a tax approved savings-related 
share option scheme), may not exceed 150% of the participant’ s salary for the financial year in which the Award is made or, if greater, 150% of 
the participant’s salary for the previous year. 
Salary for this purpose is basic gross salary excluding bonuses, company pension contributions and any other benefits in kind. This limit may 
be exceeded if the Committee considers that exceptional circumstances exist.
T otal number of shares available
The total number of shares that may be newly issued by the Company under Awards made under the LTIP on any day, when added to the 
total number of shares which remain issuable pursuant to rights or opportunities granted under any other employees’ share scheme in the 10 
years before that day, will not exceed 10% of the total share capital in issue on that day. 
For this purpose, newly issued shares will include shares issued out of treasury. It will not include rights or opportunities to subscribe for new 
shares which are in fact satisfied by the transfer of existing shares by another shareholder.
Vesting of Restricted Stock Units and exercise of options
Awards will vest once Performance Conditions have been either satisfied or waived or are treated as satisfied under the provisions described 
below.  82   TREATT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013
Notice of Annual General Meeting
continued
Options shall generally be exercisable after a period beginning with the date on which it is established that a Performance Condition has been 
satisfied and ending up to ten years from the date of grant. Restricted Stock Units may not be sold, exchanged, pledged or otherwise disposed 
of until they vest. To the extent that they do not vest, Awards will lapse.
In the case of a takeover, demerger or a statutory reconstruction, the Committee may at its discretion, and acting fairly and reasonably, 
determine the proportion or number of Awards that will vest, subject to whether and to what extent the Performance Conditions should be 
deemed to be satisfied. 
Award holders may be able to exchange their Awards under the LTIP for Awards over the shares of the company making any takeover or on 
an internal reconstruction involving the Company coming under the control of another but remaining under the control of the person or persons 
who had control of the Company before the reconstruction.
Employees leaving the company
If an Award holder ceases to hold office or employment with the Group as a Good Leaver, Awards shall vest at the date of cessation but shall 
be pro-rated by reference to the amount of the Performance Period completed and subject to satisfaction, or deemed satisfaction, of the 
Performance Conditions. 
A Good Leaver is any employee leaving by reason of injury or disability, redundancy, death in service, the transfer of the employment outside 
the Group, or the sale of a Company outside the Group. If an Award holder dies after having ceased to hold employment with the Group, the 
Committee may determine the extent to which any unvested Awards vest.
If an Award holder leaves for any other reason, all Awards which have not by then vested will vest only to the extent determined by the 
Committee, at its discretion, acting reasonably, shall determine. 
Variation of share capital
In the event of a variation of share capital the Directors may adjust the number of shares under the Award and, where appropriate, the exercise 
price to reflect such variation. This adjustment shall be subject to confirmation by the Auditors that such adjustment is fair and reasonable. 
Alteration of the L TIP
The Directors may at any time alter or amend the provisions of the LTIP provided that no alteration may be made to the advantage of existing 
or new Award holders without the approval of shareholders by ordinary resolution, except for any such alteration where the amendments are 
minor, to benefit the administration of the LTIP , to take account of a change in legislation or to obtain or maintain favourable tax treatment.
Pensions
Benefits under the LTIP will not be pensionable.
  TREATT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013   83
APPENDIX B
SUMMARY OF PROVISIONS OF TREATT PLC SHARE INCENTIVE PLAN (“SIP”)
It is proposed that the Company will introduce an H M Revenue & Customs approved Share Incentive Plan (the “SIP”) to provide all UK 
employees of the Group with the opportunity to acquire shares in the Company on a tax efficient basis. 
The terms of the SIP are set out in below. 
The SIP provides for the acquisition of shares. The SIP will be governed by a Trust Deed and Rules which will be submitted for approval to H 
M Revenue & Customs. The SIP will be operated through a UK resident trust (the “Trust”). The trustees of the Trust (the “Trustees”) will buy or 
subscribe for shares that are awarded to or acquired by employees under the SIP and will hold these shares in the Trust on their behalf under 
the terms of the SIP .
The main features of the SIP are as follows:
Eligibility
All employees of the Group who are resident and ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom and who are determined by the Company to be 
qualifying employees are eligible to participate in any offer made by the Company under the Plan. Non-UK resident employees may also be 
invited to participate in the SIP .
The Company may require employees to have completed a minimum qualifying period of employment before they are eligible to participate, 
but such period may not exceed 18 months ending on the date shares are awarded and/or purchased under the SIP . 
Basis for participation
The SIP provides for the acquisition by participating employees of one or more of four categories of shares: 
The Company may award “Free Shares” to participants and or allow participants to give up salary to purchase “Partnership Shares”, and to the 
extent that they do so, the Company may award up to two “Matching Shares” for each Partnership Share purchased. Any dividends arising on 
shares held in the SIP may also be reinvested to acquire further “Dividend Shares” under the SIP . 
The Directors will determine in any year whether participation in the SIP will be offered and, if so, the basis on which each of the above 
categories may be offered. 
Free Shares
The Company may award Free Shares to participating employees (subject to the annual statutory Individual Limits).
The number of Free Shares awarded to participants will be determined by the Directors on the basis of objective criteria and may also be 
subject to performance measures. Performance measures may be based on personal, team, or divisional targets and the relevant measure 
selected will be notified to all qualifying employees.
Partnership Shares
The Company may invite applications from qualifying employees to enter into a contract under the SIP to buy Partnership Shares by deduction 
from pre-tax salary (subject to the annual statutory Individual Limits). The Company may specify a maximum number of shares to be available 
for purchase as Partnership Shares under any particular invitation.
As determined by the Directors, deductions may either be:
a) transferred directly to the Trustees to be applied in the acquisition of Partnership Shares. Within 30 days of the deduction from salary, the 
Trustees will acquire Partnership Shares which will then be held in the Trust on the participant’s behalf. The purchase price paid for the 
Partnership Shares will be determined as the market value of the shares on the date of acquisition; or
b) accumulated over an accumulation period and held in an account until the end of an accumulation period not exceeding 12 months. Within 
30 days of the end of the accumulation period the Trustees shall apply the accumulated funds to acquire Partnership Shares and hold 
such Shares in the Trust on the participant’s behalf. The Directors will decide in respect of each offer whether the purchase price paid for 
the Partnership Shares will be determined as the market value of the shares at the start of the accumulation period or the market value on 
the day the shares are acquired or the lower of those two values. 
  84   TREATT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013
Notice of Annual General Meeting
continued
Matching Shares
Where the Company decides to offer the opportunity for the acquisition of Partnership Shares it may also offer Matching Shares to those 
participants who elect to buy Partnership Shares. Allocations of Matching Shares will be made on the same day as Partnership Shares are 
acquired on behalf of participants by the Trustees. 
The Company will decide the basis on which Matching Shares are allocated (subject to the statutory individual limits). Allocations of Matching 
Shares will be made to all participants on the same basis. The maximum permissible number of Matching Shares according to the law is two 
Matching Shares for each Partnership Share purchased.
Dividend Shares
Participants will be entitled to dividends paid on their Free Shares, Matching Shares and Partnership Shares while they are held in the Trust.
At the discretion of the Directors, dividends arising on shares held in the Trust under the SIP may either be paid directly to a participant in cash 
or reinvested, subject to the individual limits, for the acquisition of further shares under the SIP on behalf of the participant.
Individual Limits
The value of Free Shares which may be awarded to a participant under the SIP in any year shall not exceed the statutory maximum which, with 
effect from April 2014, will be £3,600 per annum. 
The maximum amount which can be deducted from a participant’s salary for the purpose of buying Partnership Shares shall not exceed the 
statutory maximum which, with effect from April 2014, will be the lower of 10% of salary or £1,800 per annum.
The number of Matching Shares which may be awarded to a participant purchasing Partnership Shares under the SIP shall not exceed the 
statutory maximum which is currently two Matching Shares for every one Partnership Share purchased. 
There is no limit on the number or value of shares that may be acquired in the Plan as Dividend Shares.
Holding Periods
Free Shares and Matching Shares must be held in the Trust by the Trustees for a holding period of between three and five years, or, if earlier, 
until the employee leaves the Group. The Directors shall determine the applicable holding period at the time the offer is made. 
Dividend Shares must be held in the Trust by the Trustees for a holding period of three years or, if earlier, until the employee leaves the Group.
Participants may withdraw their Partnership Shares from the SIP at any time.
T ermination of employment and forfeiture provisions
On termination of employment with the Company or any company within the Group, a participant is required to withdraw all shares from the 
SIP (other than those which are forfeited under the terms of any offer under the SIP). 
The SIP may provide for Free Shares and/or Matching Shares to be forfeited if an employee terminates employment with the Group within a 
specified period (the “Forfeiture Period”) unless the termination of employment is by reason of death, injury, disability or sale of the business for 
which the participant works out of the Group or the participant’s employment is transferred out of the Group. The Forfeiture Period may not 
exceed three years from the date the allocation of Free Shares/Matching Shares is made. 
In addition the Directors may provide that Matching Shares may be subject to forfeiture if the corresponding Partnership Shares are withdrawn 
within three years of purchase.
Voting Rights
The Directors will determine whether participants shall have the right to exercise any voting rights attaching to Shares held under the SIP . 
Limits on the issue of shares
The SIP will be subject to a limit on the number of new shares in the Company that may be issued. In any rolling ten-year period not more than 
10% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company may be issued or issuable pursuant to the rights acquired in total under the SIP , the 
Treatt plc Long Term Incentive Plan and any other employees’ share schemes adopted by the Company.
Adjustment of awards
On a variation of the capital of the Company, the number of Shares held under the SIP will be adjusted in such manner as the Directors 
determine, subject to written confirmation from the Company’s auditors that the adjustment is, in their opinion, fair and reasonable. TREATT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013   85
Reconstructions and takeovers
In the event of any reconstruction or change in control of the Company, shares must be either withdrawn from the SIP , or, if certain circumstances 
are met, exchanged for shares in the new holding which will continue to be held in the Trust under the SIP under the same terms and subject 
to the same rights and restrictions as the original shares. 
Alterations
The SIP may at any time be altered by the Directors in any respect, provided that the prior approval of the shareholders in general meeting 
will be obtained for alterations or additions to the advantage of participants, except for minor amendments to benefit the administration of the 
SIP , to take account of existing or proposed legislation or to obtain or maintain favourable tax, exchange control or regulatory treatment for 
participants in the SIP or for the Company and or any member of the Group. 
To the extent required by the law, H M Revenue & Customs approval will be sought in respect of any proposed amendment to a “key feature” 
of the SIP (ie, being a feature which is necessary to meet the requirements of the relevant legislation governing the SIP). 
Rights attaching to shares
Ordinary shares allotted under the SIP will rank equally with all other shares of the Company for the time being in issue and the Company will 
apply for admission of any new shares issued under the SIP to any relevant exchange. 
Funding the SIP
Each participating company within the Group may fund the Trustees of the Trust to subscribe for or buy shares in the market or privately. The 
Company may only fund the Trust at such time that it has sufficient distributable reserves to do so. The acquisition price for private purchases 
must not be materially more than the market price of a share at that time and the subscription of shares must be at market value or, if higher, 
at nominal value.
General
Benefits under the SIP are not pensionable. 86   TREATT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013
2012/13
Financial year ended  30 September 2013
Results for year announced  9 December 2013
Annual Report and Financial Statements published 19 December 2013
Annual General Meeting 24 February 2014
Final dividend for 2013 goes ‘ex-dividend’  26 February 2014
Record date for 2013 final dividend  28 February 2014
Last day for dividend reinvestment plan election 10 March 2014
Final dividend for 2013 paid  4 April 2014
2013/14
Interim results to 31 March 2014 announced  20 May 2014*
Interim dividend for 2014 goes ‘ex-dividend’ 10 September 2014*
Record date for 2014 interim dividend  12 September 2014*
Last day for dividend reinvestment plan election 22 September 2014*
Financial year ended  30 September 2014
Interim dividend for 2014 paid 17 October 2014*
Results for year to 30 September 2014 announced 9 December 2014*
Final dividend for 2014 paid  3 April 2015*
* These dates are provisional and may be subject to change
Financial Calendar TREATT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013   87
Directors Tim Jones (Chairman and Non-executive Director)
 Daemmon Reeve (Chief Executive Officer)
 Anita Haines (Human Resources Director)*
 Richard Hope (Finance Director)
 Jeff Iliffe (Non-executive Director – from 25 Feb 2013)
 David Johnston (Non-executive Director)
 Ian Neil (Non-executive Director)
 Peter Thorburn (Non-executive Director – until 25 Feb 2013)
 * Anita Haines will retire as an Executive Director with effect from 24 February 2014 but will continue  
  to serve as a Non-executive Director thereafter.
Secretary Anita Steer
Registered Office Northern Way, Bury St Edmunds, Suffolk, IP32 6NL.
 Tel: + 44 (0) 1284 702500. Email: cosec@treatt.com.
 Website: http://www.treatt.com
Registered Number 1568937
Audit Committee Ian Neil (Chairman until 25 Feb 2013)
 Jeff Iliffe (Chairman and committee member from 25 Feb 2013)
 Tim Jones
 David Johnston 
 Peter Thorburn (Until 25 Feb 2013) 
Remuneration Committee Ian Neil (Chairman)
 Jeff Iliffe (From 25 Feb 2013)
 Tim Jones
 David Johnston 
 Peter Thorburn (Until 25 Feb 2013)
Nomination Committee Tim Jones (Chairman)
 Daemmon Reeve
 Jeff Iliffe (From 25 Feb 2013)
 David Johnston 
 Ian Neil
 Peter Thorburn (Until 25 Feb 2013)
 
Brokers Investec Investment Banking, 2 Gresham Street, London, EC2V 7QP .
Auditors Baker Tilly UK Audit LLP
 Abbotsgate House, Hollow Road, Bury St Edmunds, Suffolk, IP32 7FA.
Solicitors Eversheds LLP , One Wood Street, London, EC2V 7QP .
 Greene and Greene, 80 Guildhall Street, Bury St Edmunds, Suffolk, IP33 1QB.
Bankers HSBC Bank plc, 140 Leadenhall Street, London, EC3V 4PS.
 Lloyds Banking Group, Black Horse House, Castle Park, Cambridge, CB3 0AR.
 Bank of America, 5th Floor , 101 E. Kennedy Boulevard, Tampa, FL 33602.
Registrars Capita Asset Services, The Registry , 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent, BR3 4TU.
Share Price  Treatt Plc’s share price is available on www.ft.com. Annual and interim reports are available on the 
Group’s website (www.treatt.com).  
Parent Company Information and Advisers 88   TREATT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013   About the
group
OVERVIEW
01 Group Strategy
02 What We Do
04 Highlights
05 Group Five Year Trading Record
06 Chairman’s Statement
07 Chief Executive Officer’s Report
09 Financial Review
11 Directors’ Report
16 Strategic Report
GOVERNANCE
18 Corporate Governance Statement
23 Directors’ Remuneration Report
36 Independent Auditor’s Report to  
 the Members of Treatt plc
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
38 Group Income Statement
39  Group Statement of Comprehensive Income
40  Group and Parent Company Statements  
of Changes in Equity
42  Group and Parent Company Balance Sheets
43  Group and Parent Company Statement  
of Cash Flows
44  Group Reconciliation of Net Cash Flow  
to Movement in Net Debt
45 Notes to the Financial Statements
74 Notice of Annual General Meeting
86 Financial Calendar
87 Parent Company Information and Advisers
TREATT IS A WORLD-LEADING  
INNOVATIVE INGREDIENT SOLUTIONS 
PROVIDER FOR THE FLAVOUR, FRAGRANCE 
AND CONSUMER GOODS INDUSTRIES
T reatt places great emphasis on investing resources into developing first-hand 
knowledge and relationships with growers and suppliers to ensure a sustainable,  
fair and rewarding future for all its stakeholders; investors, customers, growers  
and staff – across the globe.
The Group has manufacturing sites on three continents with sales offices in the  
UK, USA, France and China. Our manufacturing sites are certified to the Global  
Food Safety Initiative (GFSI) approved standard, which serves as a testament of  
our commitment to quality and safety , and allows T reatt to supply across the globe.
By developing innovative solutions for multi-national customers and providing 
unparalleled customer service, T reatt continues to create outstanding value for  
both its customers and its shareholders. TREATT PLC
Annual Report and  
Financial Statements 2013
A world of 
difference
in the world of ingredient solutions,  
we’re at the core of product innovation
Treatt plc  
Northern Way,  
Bury St Edmunds,  
Suffolk, IP32 6NL UK
Tel: 01284 702500   
Fax: 01284 703809 
Email: enquiries@treatt.com
www.treatt.com
www.earthoil.com
Treatt plc Annual Report and Financial Statements  2013
