 AFRICAN BARRICK GOLD 
ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2012 Forward-looking statements
This report includes ‘forward-looking statements’ that express or imply expectations of  
future events or results. Forward-looking statements are statements that are not historical 
facts. These statements include, without limitation, financial projections and estimates  
and their underlying assumptions, statements regarding plans, objectives and 
expectations with respect to future production, operations, costs, products and services, 
and statements regarding future performance. Forward-looking statements are generally 
identified by the words ‘plans, ’ ‘expects, ’ ‘anticipates, ’ ‘believes, ’ ‘intends, ’ ‘estimates’ and other 
similar expressions.
All forward-looking statements involve a number of risks, uncertainties and other factors. 
Although ABG’s management believes that the expectations reflected in such forward-
looking statements are reasonable, investors are cautioned that forward-looking information 
and statements are subject to various risks and uncertainties, many of which are difficult  
to predict and generally beyond the control of ABG, that could cause actual results and 
developments to differ materially from those expressed in, or implied or projected by, the 
forward-looking information and statements contained in this report. Factors that could 
cause or contribute to differences between the actual results, performance and achievements 
of ABG include, but are not limited to, political, economic and business conditions, 
industry trends, competition, commodity prices, changes in regulation, currency fluctuations 
(including the US dollar, South African rand and Tanzanian shilling exchange rates),  
ABG’s ability to recover its reserves or develop new reserves, including its ability to convert 
its resources into reserves and its mineral potential into resources or reserves, and to timely 
and successfully process its mineral reserves, risks of trespass, theft and vandalism, changes 
in its business strategy, as well as risks and hazards associated with the business of mineral 
exploration, development, mining and production. Accordingly, investors should not place 
reliance on forward-looking statements contained in this report.
The forward-looking statements in this report reflect information available at the time  
of preparing this report. Subject to the requirements of the Disclosure and Transparency  
Rules and the Listing Rules or applicable law, ABG explicitly disclaims any obligation or 
undertaking publicly to release the result of any revisions to any forward-looking statements 
in this report that may occur due to any change in ABG’s expectations or reflect events or 
circumstances after the date of this report. No statements made in this report regarding 
expectations of future profits are profit forecasts or estimates, and no statements made in  
this report should be interpreted to mean that ABG’s profits or earnings per share for any 
future period will necessarily match or exceed the historical published profits or earnings  
per share of ABG or any other level.
Full year highlights:
 – Attributable gold production of 626,212 
ounces and total cash costs of US$949  
per ounce sold
 – Revenue of US$1,087 million 
 – Continued progress on the Bulyanhulu 
CIL Expansion and Upper East Expansion, 
our  key brownfield projects at Bulyanhulu
 – Renewal of the North Mara Special  
Mining Licences 
 – Operational Review initiated to drive  
improved returns and free cash flow 
generation from the existing asset base
 – Total dividend for 2012 of US16.3  
cents per share
EBITDA of
US$331 million
Average realised gold 
price of
US$1,668 
per ounce
Net cash balance of
US$401 million
Final dividend of
US¢12.3
New country entry into
Kenya
Total community 
investment of
US$14.4 million 
These highlights include Non-IFRS performance measures. An explanation of Non-IFRS measures is provided as part of the glossary. Attributable gold production reflects equity ounces  
which exclude 30% of Tulawaka’s production base. Annual Report and Accounts 2012 1
Shareholder information Financial statements Overview Performance Governance
ABG is Tanzania’s largest gold 
producer and one of the ﬁve largest 
gold producers in Africa. We have 
four producing mines, all located in 
Northwest Tanzania, and several 
exploration projects at various stages 
of development in Tanzania and 
Kenya. With a high-quality asset base 
and solid growth opportunities we are 
executing a clear strategy to optimise, 
expand and grow our business.
ABG is a UK public company with its headquarters 
in London. We are listed on the Main Market of 
the London Stock Exchange under the symbol ABG 
and have a secondary listing on the Dar es Salaam 
Stock Exchange also under the symbol ABG. 
Historically and prior to our initial public offering 
(IPO), our operations comprised the Tanzanian 
gold mining business of Barrick Gold Corporation 
(Barrick), our majority shareholder.
ABG reports in US dollars (US$) and in accordance 
with IFRS as adopted by the European Union, 
unless otherwise stated in this report.
The Overview and Performance sections make up the Business Review 
in accordance with section 417 of the Companies Act 2006.
Overview
An introduction to our business and 
key performance data
Group at a glance 2
Performance highlights 4
Performance
Operational and financial review, strategic 
review, market review, sustainability and 
risk reviews
Chairman’s statement 6
Chief Executive Officer’s statement  8
Operational review  12
Strategy and business model 14
Strategy case studies  16
Operating review  24
Exploration and development review 28
Financial review 34
Corporate responsibility 42
Risk management 50
Governance
An explanation of our approach to corporate  
governance, remuneration policies and practices  
and the people who champion them
Board of Directors  56
Senior management 58
Corporate governance 59
Directors’ report 70
Directors’ responsibilities statement 75
Remuneration report 76
Reserves and resources 88
Financial statements
Detailed financial information for the year ended  
31 December 2012
Independent auditors’ report on the consolidated  
financial statements 93
Consolidated financial statements 94
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 98
Independent auditors’ report on the parent  
company financial statements 139
Parent company financial statements 140
Notes to the parent company financial statements 144
Shareholder information
Useful information for owners of ABG shares
Glossary of terms  155
Shareholder enquiries 160
 More information within this report
 Go online to find more information www.africanbarrickgold.com
PG 2 www.africanbarrickgold.com
Corporate headquarters,  
London, UK
Our office in London serves as ABG’s 
corporate headquarters and is the base 
for ABG’s Executive Directors and other 
members of the Senior Leadership Team, 
including the General Counsel and the 
Head of Corporate Development and 
Investor Relations.
Country office,  
Dar es Salaam, T anzania
Our office in Dar es Salaam serves as the 
primary interface with the government, 
in addition to being the logistical base in 
T anzania, which provides in-country support 
to our operations. Other functions located 
in this office include community relations, 
legal and communications.
Operations office,  
Johannesburg, South Africa
Our Johannesburg office is the regional 
base for capital projects, planning, technical 
services and administrative, finance, human 
resources and procurement functions for 
our operations.
Where we operate
Currently, all of ABG’ s mining operations are in T anzania. W e believe that T anzania 
possesses significant mining potential. Critically, it has an established legal and 
regulatory framework for mining companies and a history of political stability  
and democratically elected governments.
Group at a glance
A single focus: Gold in Africa
Bulyanhulu Buzwagi North Mara
Bulyanhulu is a high grade underground mine 
primarily accessed by a vertical shaft. The mine 
is a trackless operation using long-hole as its 
principal mining method, with alimak, 
conventional cut and fill and drift and fill the 
other primary mining methods. The process 
plant currently has the capacity to process 
an average of approximately 3,300 tonnes of 
ore per day (approximately 1.1 million tonnes 
per year) and produces both doré and copper/
gold concentrate. 
Bulyanhulu’ s life of mine is currently estimated 
to be over 25 years, based on its proven and 
probable gold reserves of 10,564,000 ounces.
Buzwagi is a low grade bulk deposit with a single 
large open pit. The mill is designed with a 
throughput capacity of 12,000 tonnes per day 
(approximately 4.4 million tonnes per year) and 
produces both doré and copper/gold concentrate. 
Buzwagi’s life of mine is currently estimated 
to be over 10 years, based on its proven and 
probable gold reserves of 2,697,000 ounces.
North Mara is a high grade open pit mine 
consisting of three open pit deposits: Nyabirama, 
Gokona and Nyabigena. The process plant has 
the capacity to process an average of 8,000 
tonnes per day (or approximately 2.8 million 
tonnes per year) and produces doré. 
North Mara’ s life of mine is estimated to be over 
10 years based on its proven and probable gold 
reserves of 3,012,000 ounces.
PG
 More information on page 24
PG
 More information on page 25
PG
 More information on page 26 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 3
Shareholder information Financial statements Overview Performance Governance
Tulawaka (70%) Tanzania exploration Kenya exploration
T ulawaka consists of a completed open pit with 
an underground access ramp located at the 
bottom of the pit. All capital and operating costs 
associated with the T ulawaka mine and net cash 
generated by the mine are divided on a 70:30 
basis between ABG and MDN Inc. The process 
plant started to operate using batch processing 
during 2012 and produces doré.
T ulawaka has proven and probable gold reserves 
of 16,000 ounces and is expected to close in 2013.
ABG’s Tanzanian exploration programme 
focuses primarily on advancing our organic 
growth projects in and around our existing 
operations, as well as advancing important 
regional exploration programmes at North Mara 
and Nyanzaga, our primary greenfield project in 
T anzania. Core brownfield exploration projects 
include: the Bulyanhulu CIL Expansion, 
Bulyanhulu Upper East Expansion, Gokona 
Expansion and Nyabirama Expansion. Where 
practicable, we also explore opportunities to 
develop satellite gold deposits, such as Golden 
Ridge, to increase production at our 
existing operations.
Through various joint venture arrangements, 
ABG holds an interest in a number of 
exploration licences over a land package in 
excess of 2,800km
2
 of the highly prospective 
Ndori Greenstone Belt in West Kenya. The 
licences contain multiple large-scale gold 
anomalies in areas of historic colonial mines 
and prospects. Sporadic historic and current 
exploration activities have identified a large 
number of targets that justify extensive 
follow-up. ABG intends to implement a 
systematic and focused gold exploration 
programme in 2013 and beyond to explore 
these opportunities.
PG
 More information on page 27
PG
 More information on page 28
PG
 More information on page 32
TANZANIA
UGANDA
Lake Victoria
Kampala
Tulawaka
Buzwagi
Bulyanhulu
Golden Ridge
Nyanzaga
West Kenya JV
Nairobi
Kisumu
Arusha
Mwanza
KENYA
North Mara 4 www.africanbarrickgold.com
Performance
Performance highlights
Measuring our performance
OPTIMISING
our operating efficiencies to optimise production  
from our existing asset base
EXPANDING
through near mine expansion and 
development of advanced-stage projects
Cash cost per tonne milled is calculated by 
dividing the aggregate of cash costs by attributed 
ore tonnes milled. We use it to track cash costs 
against productivity. 
Gross profit is calculated by taking our 
revenue and deducting cost of sales. It is used 
to help monitor costs associated with gold 
production and gold sales and our ability to 
manage such costs. It is also used to calculate 
gross profit margin.
EBITDA is the net profit or loss for the period 
excluding: income tax expense; finance expense; 
finance income; depreciation and amortisation; 
and impairment charges of goodwill and other 
long-lived assets. It is a valuable indicator of our 
ability to generate operating cash flow to fund 
working capital and capital expenditures and to 
service debt obligations. 
Cash cost per ounce sold is calculated by 
dividing the aggregate of cash costs by attributed 
gold ounces sold. It is one of the key indicators 
that we use to monitor and manage those factors 
that impact production costs on a monthly basis. 
Adjusted net earnings per share is 
calculated by dividing adjusted net earnings 
by the weighted average number of Ordinary 
Shares in issue. It serves as an indicator of our 
profitability and is often used to determine share 
price and value. 
Attributable gold production is the 
aggregate of the Group’ s equity interest in gold 
ounces produced from its mines and one of the 
key measures used to track progress made in 
increasing our production levels. 
KPIs and relevance to strategy
 EBITDA was US$331 million, a 39% decrease 
on 2011, driven by lower revenue and 
increases in direct mining costs. 
 Cash cost per ounce sold increased to US$949 
per ounce sold, 37% higher than 2011, as 
a result of lower production and increased 
direct mining costs.
 Cash cost per tonne milled increased to 
US$75 per tonne, a 15% increase on 2011, 
due to the same factors as those related to 
the increase in cash cost per ounce sold.
 Gross profit was US$285 million, a 45% 
decrease on 2011, as a result of lower 
revenue, increased direct mining costs 
and increased depreciation.
 Adjusted net earnings per share amounted 
to US25.7 cents, down from US67.0 cents 
in 2011.
 Attributable gold production was 626,212 
ounces, 9% below 2011 production, due to the 
lower grade mined at three of our operations 
when compared to 2011.
EBITDA
1
(US$’000)
US$330,869
12 11 10
CASH COST PER 
OUNCE SOLD
1
(US$/Oz)
US$949/ Oz
12 11 10
CASH COST PER 
TONNE MILLED
1
(US$/tonne)
US$75/ tonne
12 11 10 09 08
GROSS PROFIT
(US$’000)
US$284,630
12 11 10 09 08
ADJUSTED NET 
EARNINGS 
PER SHARE
1
(US¢/share)
US25.7 cents/share
12 11 10
ATTRIBUTABLE 
GOLD PRODUCTION
2
(Oz)
626,212Oz
12 11 10 09 08
1.  EBITDA, cash cost per ounce sold, cash cost per tonne milled, adjusted net earnings per share and operating cash flow per share are non-IFRS financial performance measures with no 
standard meaning under IFRS. Refer to Non-IFRS measures provided as part of the glossary for the full definitions of each measure.
With a high-quality asset base and solid growth opportunities we are executing a clear strategy of:  Annual Report and Accounts 2012 5
Shareholder information Financial statements Overview Performance Governance
RESPONSIBLE MINING
by maintaining our licence to operate through acting responsibly 
in relation to our people, the environment and the communities 
in which we operate is central to achieving our objectives
T otal community investment 
represents the amount of money 
that we invest across our corporate 
social responsibility programmes, 
including investments made under 
various mine site and regional 
initiatives, specific projects 
sponsored by the ABG Maendeleo 
Fund and investments under 
VBIAs/VBAs. It helps us to track 
progress made as regards our 
objective to support socio-
economic development in our 
operating environment. 
T otal reportable injury  
frequency rate (TRIFR) tracks all 
employee and contractor reported 
workplace injuries that require 
medical treatment, including lost 
time and restricted duty. We use it 
to measure progress towards our 
health and safety goal of ensuring 
that every employee goes home 
safe and healthy every day. It is 
calculated as total reportable injuries 
multiplied by 200,000 then divided 
by total number of hours worked.
Operating cash flow per share 
is the cash generated from, or 
utilised in, operating activities, 
divided by the weighted average of 
the number of Ordinary Shares in 
issue. It helps to measure our ability 
to generate cash from our business. 
T otal shareholder return is the 
return on investment a shareholder 
receives over a specified time 
frame based on our share price 
appreciation/depreciation and 
dividends received. It is used to 
compare our performance against 
industry peers.
T otal reserves and  
resources is calculated as the total 
of proven and probable reserves, 
plus measured, indicated and 
inferred resources expressed in 
contained ounces. It measures our 
ability to discover and develop new 
ore bodies and to replace and extend 
the life of our operating mines. 
GROWING
through organic greenfield growth  
and acquisitions in Africa
 Operating cash flow per share was US62.9 cents, down 48% on 2011, 
as a result of decreased revenue. 
 Total shareholder return in 2012 was -1.24%, due to the decrease in 
our share price over the year.
 Total reserves and resources increased to 32 million ounces of gold, 
an approximate 500 thousand ounce increase on 2011, as a result of 
continued progress across exploration drill programmes. 
 Total community investment was US$14.4 million, approximately 95% 
higher than in 2011, as a result of our enhanced community investment 
programme and the introduction of the ABG Maendeleo Fund.
 TRIFR for the year was 0.83, a 30% improvement on 2011, as a result 
of continuous improvement in our health and safety practices.
OPERATING CASH 
FLOW PER SHARE
1
(US¢/share)
US62.9cents/share
12 11 10 09 08
TOTAL
SHAREHOLDER 
RETURN (TSR)
(%)
-1.24%
12 11 10 09 08 10
0
TOTAL RESERVES
AND RESOURCES
(Moz)
32.0 Moz
12 11 10 09 08
TOTAL COMMUNITY 
INVESTMENT
(US$’000) 
12 11 10
US$14,440
TOTAL REPORTABLE 
INJURY FREQUENCY 
RATE
(frequency rate)
0.83
12 11 10 09 08
12 11 10
2. Production reflects equity ounces which exclude 30% of Tulawaka’s production base. 6 www.africanbarrickgold.com
Chairman’s statement
Navigating through challenges
Dear Shareholders,
The past year has been a period of change and readjustment for the Board 
and ABG as a whole. While the financial and operating results for the year 
were disappointing, the Board has approved a number of initiatives which 
should positively influence future performance. 
The year’s most notable event was the decision by Barrick to seek a 
purchaser for its shareholding in the Company. This process, and the 
associated due diligence, diverted a significant amount of Board and 
senior management time and also impacted relations with the Tanzanian 
government and local communities. Although the sale process was 
ultimately unsuccessful there were several positive outcomes. In particular, 
the intense due diligence process and associated learning have been 
incorporated into several initiatives which were underway prior to the 
Offer Period as part of a major review of the Company’s structure and 
costs, culminating in the Board’s request for management to perform an 
Operational Review. The key objectives of this are to drive improved 
returns from the asset base and enhance the certainty of performance 
delivery in the future. 
On the operations front, whilst we fell short of production targets for 
the year as a result of challenges faced in our operating environment, 
nevertheless we progressed certain key objectives. 
Throughout the year we increased our focus on upgrading the production 
potential at Bulyanhulu, with the advancement of the Bulyanhulu CIL 
Expansion project that will add a further 40-50 thousand ounces to annual 
production, as well as progressing plans for the development of the Upper 
East Zone, which has the potential to add a further 90 thousand ounces of 
production per annum. Though the poor performance at the end of the year 
associated with the paste backfill system and a loss of qualified personnel 
in the face of proposed pension legislation changes was disappointing, we 
are undertaking a number of actions to prevent a repeat of this and to 
progress this world class asset generally. 
New projects such as Buzwagi typically take some five years to consistently 
reach full nameplate capacity, so it was gratifying to see this mine really 
perform in the last quarter of the year after months of suffering regular 
power interruptions and lower recoveries.
North Mara experienced certain setbacks in its community engagement 
programme during the prolonged Offer Period, but at the end of the year 
and beginning of 2013, with strong support from local authorities, the 
situation improved markedly, allowing these programmes to regain 
traction. In this context, ABG is developing a multi-pronged social 
programme to improve the balance between the illegal miners, the local 
communities and the operating constraints of the mine. In future, this 
will be a key factor in determining the success of the mine, the creation 
of community wealth and associated stable employment and improved 
local infrastructure.
Our efforts to add meaningful reserves to Tulawaka during the year were 
unsuccessful and as a result of this we have taken the decision to phase out 
this operation in 2013. 
Lastly, from a growth perspective, we have continued to make good 
progress across our brownfield exploration programme and made 
significant additions to our greenfield projects through the acquisition 
of Aviva Mining (Kenya) Limited. Not only does this provide significant 
additions to our exploration pipeline, it also provides the opportunity 
to diversify both ABG’s geographical and political exposure.
Derek Pannell, 
Acting Chairman of the Board Annual Report and Accounts 2012 7
Shareholder information Financial statements Overview Performance Governance
Final dividend for 2012
While our operational and financial performance in 2012 has been lower 
than the previous year, we recognise the importance of rewarding ongoing 
support from our shareholder base. For this reason, the Board has 
recommended that the total dividend for 2012 be maintained at the 2011 
level, comprising a final dividend of US12.3 cents per share, such that the 
total dividend payable in respect of 2012 is US16.3 cents per share.
Board composition
We saw a number of further changes to the Board through the year with 
Aaron Regent and James Cross retiring as Non-Executive Directors and 
Kelvin Dushnisky, Senior Executive Vice President, and Rick McCreary, 
Senior Vice President, Corporate Development, joining as Barrick 
nominee Non-Executive Directors mid-year. 
Following the expiry of the Offer Period to which ABG was subject during 
the latter half of the year, the Company is now in a position to review 
Board composition generally in order to build on the strengths and calibre 
of our existing Board members. In this regard, for a variety of personal 
reasons I have, after three years with ABG, decided not to stand for 
re-election as a Director at the forthcoming AGM and therefore will also 
step down as Acting Chairman. I would like to thank my fellow Directors 
and ABG management for their support and friendship during my time 
with ABG. Mr Dushnisky will succeed me as Chairman to lead the Board 
and I am confident that he will provide strong leadership going forward.
Outlook
Looking forward to 2013, ABG will continue to look to optimise its 
portfolio and drive returns for all stakeholders through the implementation 
of the Operational Review. Undoubtedly the year will bring new 
challenges, but I am confident that the Company will meet any such 
challenges head on. Finally, on behalf of the Board I extend my gratitude 
to all of our employees for their hard work and commitment over the past 
12 months.
Derek Pannell, 
Acting Chairman of the Board
12 11 10 09 08 07 06 05 04 03 02 01 00 99 98 97 96 95 94 93 92 91 90
Source: GFMS
INDUSTRY GOLD PRODUCTION
(metric tonnes)
2,000
2,200
2,400
2,600
2,800
3,000
Attributable gold 
production (Oz)
626,212  
Revenues (US$m) 
US$1,087  
Total dividend (US¢) 
US16.3 cents   8 www.africanbarrickgold.com
Chief Executive Officer’s statement
Focused on improving returns
“Cash flow generation and improving returns 
from our assets form a key part of our 
Operational Review and we will update on our 
progress throughout the course of 2013. We 
have maintained the 2012 dividend at the 2011 
level, reflecting our confidence in the business 
and our commitment to shareholder returns. ”
CAPITAL ALLOCATION
(US$m)
0
100
200
300
400
FY2010 FY2011 FY2012
Dividend payments Acquistion spend Exploration spend
0
Overall for ABG, 2012 was a year where we realised good progress in 
several areas but where we did not meet our core production and cost 
targets. W e continued to invest in the ongoing stability of the business and 
our licence to operate. This was rewarded with increasing consistency 
in the operational performance at Buzwagi as the year progressed, and 
improvements in the grade profile at North Mara where we also received 
confirmation of the renewal of our mining licences and signed the Village 
Benefit Implementation Agreements. Overall, our mining rates for the 
year increased, we processed 4% more tonnes through our plants and 
we improved the recovery profile of our operations despite the expected 
decrease in grade. We also significantly enhanced our early stage 
exploration portfolio with the acquisition of Aviva Mining (Kenya) 
Limited (“ AMKL ”).
Our Group production for the year was 9% lower than 2011, with the 
grade driven increase at North Mara offset by declines of similar levels 
at our other three operations. Bulyanhulu was impacted by paste fill and 
equipment availability issues together with the loss of skilled employees 
due to proposed government pension law changes; Buzwagi saw an 
expected reduction in grade to around its reserve grade although it did 
benefit from improved plant performance later in the year; and Tulawaka 
operated under batch processing following the exhaustion of surface 
stockpiles. These lower production levels, together with higher energy and 
maintenance expenses, resulted in our cash costs for the year reaching 
US$949 per ounce sold. As we move into 2013, we start from a strong 
platform with a net cash position of US$401 million, but we nonetheless 
need to strengthen our focus on reducing costs in order to ensure the 
business can deliver attractive levels of free cash flow generation. This will 
form a key part of our ongoing Operational Review. 
Greg Hawkins,
Chief Executive Officer Annual Report and Accounts 2012 9
Shareholder information Financial statements Overview Performance Governance
Beyond the day to day operational challenges of our business, for a large 
part of the second half of the year we also dealt with several additional 
factors resulting from the discussions between Barrick and China National 
Gold with respect to Barrick’s majority stake in ABG. These included a 
detailed due diligence process and site visits as well as other factors such 
as dealing with the uncertainty caused among our employees and also the 
communities in which we operate. We implemented a range of measures 
to deal with these additional challenges and were largely successful in 
limiting the disruption to our business. With the discussions now 
terminated, we need to ensure everyone in the business remains focused 
on delivering the significant potential of our asset base.
Our share price performance in 2012 was set against a backdrop of 
continuing underperformance by gold equities relative to the underlying 
commodity. The key focus from investors has centred on the lack of free 
cash flow leverage in the industry to the gold price, either through rising 
operational costs or increasing investment in new projects which do 
not meet hurdle return rates. In the three years since ABG listed as an 
independent company we have been successful in generating substantial 
free cash flow and have maintained the view that capital returns to 
shareholders are of critical importance: with the proposed final dividend 
for 2012, we will have returned in excess of US$150 million to shareholders 
over that period and have also invested in two early stage projects which 
we believe have the potential to deliver significant long-term value to the 
business. Nonetheless, during 2012 the increases in our operating expenses 
and in the level of capital we invested in our assets meant that the business 
consumed capital, which is not sustainable over the longer term. As such, 
the Board of ABG has asked management to conduct a full Operational 
Review of the business with the aim of recalibrating our operations so as to 
drive improved returns from the asset base whilst enhancing the certainty 
of delivery. The review commenced in January 2013.
More recently, Kevin Jennings, our Chief Financial Officer, has given 
notice that he intends to leave ABG in order to take up a similar role at 
another mining company. Whilst we are naturally disappointed to see 
Kevin leave us, we understand his wish to pursue this new opportunity 
and wish him the very best for his new venture.
Operating performance
At an individual mine level, Bulyanhulu remained our largest producing 
asset and is set to remain so with the existing mine plan and the growth 
projects being advanced. In 2012, production was 10% lower than in 2011 
as we experienced power supply issues earlier in the year which impacted 
on hoisting capacity, while later in the year the delivery of ore to surface 
was reduced by a lack of paste fill availability which led to increased reliance 
on lower grade stopes and a shortage of skilled personnel resulting from 
resignations in the face of proposed changes to pension fund legislation in 
Tanzania. We have several initiatives in place to deal with these short-term 
factors in order for Bulyanhulu to get back to its expected run rate as 
2013 progresses.
At North Mara, it was pleasing to see the expected increase in production 
levels on the prior year as we accessed the higher grade zones in the 
Gokona pit in the second half of the year. This reduced the reliance on 
lower grade stockpiles to provide feed to the mill and led to increased head 
grade and a 13% increase in production compared to 2011. Operations 
saw some impact from an increase in illegal mining activity during the 
second half of the year but this has now subsided and returned to more 
normalised levels. Production during 2012 was from the Gokona and 
Nyabigena pits, with operations at the Nyabirama pit subject to the 
necessary land acquisitions and relocations which are a key focus for mine 
management in 2013.
At Buzwagi, significant progress was made across both mining and 
processing activities during the year. Production was 16% below the level 
of 2011, a result of the expected 30% decline in grade as the mine operated 
at close to its reserve grade. This impact was slightly offset by operational 
improvements, with a 33% increase in total tonnes mined, which includes 
a 19% increase in ore tonnes, and a throughput increase of 24%. Site 
management are now firmly focused on ensuring these improvements 
are maintained during 2013.
At Tulawaka, the processing plant operated on batch milling due to the 
lack of sufficient ore to run it full time, which was a consequence of relying 
on underground material during 2012. As a result, throughput was down 
substantially on 2011 with a corresponding fall in production levels. We 
have successfully extended the life of this operation consistently in the last 
three years; however, as a part of the Operational Review we have taken 
the decision not to further extend the mine life and to phase out the 
operation in 2013. We are currently starting to implement our closure plan 
for the operation and will engage with our employees as we move through 
this process. As a result of this, and in combination with the downward 
revision of reserves, we have incurred a non-cash impairment charge at 
the mine of US$44.5 million for 2012.
Growth projects
We have continued to make very good progress on our growth projects 
over the year: we are progressing the construction of the Bulyanhulu CIL 
Expansion project, and the Board has approved the ordering of certain 
long lead items required for the acceleration of mining at the Upper East 
Expansion project at Bulyanhulu. These two projects will add meaningful 
long-term production to our core operating asset. 10 www.africanbarrickgold.com
Chief Executive Officer’s statement continued
Key challenges 
and mitigants Challenges Mitigants
Power supply
 Unreliable grid power Optimising use of back-up power
 Ongoing review of alternative sources for  
power generation
Security , trespass  
and vandalism
 Incidences of trespass, theft, corruption  
and vandalism at operations
 Upgrading security infrastructure
 Development of security personnel
 Progressing dialogue on law and order
Community relations
 Operational and reputational impact of  
legacy issues as a result of prior management  
of relations with local communities
 Continue to build on existing community 
relationships
 ABG Maendeleo Fund
 Development of social management plans
Land acquisition
 Impact of land acquisition cost and delays in 
completing such acquisitions on current mining 
activities, particularly at North Mara
 Engagement with local and central government  
to address land speculation
Developing commercial 
mining industry
 Challenge of developing and retaining  
a skilled workforce
 Continuing investment in training and development
 Continued progression of programmes for 
workforce localisation
On our greenfield exploration portfolio we continued to increase the size 
of the Nyanzaga resource, which now has an in-pit resource of over 4.6 
million ounces (“Moz”) of gold (“ Au”) consisting of 3.75 Moz at 1.42 g/t 
Au Indicated and 0.85 Moz at 1.81 g/t Au Inferred. We are currently 
finalising the pre-feasibility study and expect to take a decision on whether 
to progress to a full feasibility study by the middle of the year.
We also acquired an interest in over 2,800 square kilometres of under 
explored, highly prospective licence areas in Kenya for an initial 
consideration of US$22 million, including exploration funding. The 
licences add more than 20 existing targets from grassroots through to the 
drill testing stage into the exploration and development pipeline and will 
be the focus for a significant proportion of our exploration budget in 2013.
Drilling at North Mara has continued to highlight the potential for 
underground development at both the Gokona and Nyabirama pits and 
we are undertaking the technical trade-off analysis in order to establish 
how best to sequence the underground potential with the existing open pit 
operations in order to maximise the life of mine return from the mine.
Government relations
Notwithstanding the acquisition of AMKL in 2012, the majority of our 
assets and our cash flow remain in Tanzania. During 2012, we continued 
to build on the constructive dialogue we enjoy with the Tanzanian 
government as our operations delivered significant benefits and value to 
our host communities. The decision to voluntarily move to a royalty rate 
of 4% from 3% was one that ABG instigated but it was also recognition of 
the improved level of cooperation we saw from the Tanzanian authorities 
as we solved a range of taxation, permitting and licensing issues, some 
of which dated from several years back.
As we move into 2013 there remains much to be done and it is vital we 
enjoy the ongoing support of the government in these areas. Across our 
asset base, the lack of availability of reliable power is a key issue for us and 
one which is receiving attention at the highest levels within the Tanzanian 
government, and we look forward to the government delivering on its 
initiatives to alleviate this issue. At North Mara, we have seen good 
support over the last few months in relation to improving law and order 
but need to resolve a number of land access issues to ensure we have the 
appropriate footprint for our operations and we look forward to the 
government’ s support in achieving this. Elsewhere, we are encouraging the 
government to help resolve the pension fund issue which has impacted 
our workforce. From a taxation perspective, we are working closely with 
the appropriate authorities to ensure we minimise the level of working 
capital tied up in indirect tax payments which are recoverable under the 
terms of our Mineral Development Agreements.
Licence to operate
From an operational perspective, ABG has a high quality and well 
invested portfolio of assets which positions us strongly for the long term. 
However, without the accompanying licence to operate and a stable 
working relationship with all stakeholders, the quality of our assets could 
be significantly impacted. For this reason, the achievements we have made 
with the government and with our host communities on issues relating to 
our operating environment are of key importance. We have benefited from 
a full year of operation of the ABG Maendeleo Fund which has supported 
a range of projects across our operations throughout the year. Annual Report and Accounts 2012 11
Shareholder information Financial statements Overview Performance Governance
In terms of the individual operations, the key challenges are centred on 
North Mara and we have made significant progress in 2012 in order to 
secure the long-term future of the mine. In addition to the signing of 
VBIAs with the local communities, we have invested 39% of the ABG 
Maendeleo Fund’ s annual expenditure towards new infrastructure around 
North Mara, including rehabilitating the local health clinic, the provision 
of clean water and the launch of a major school desk programme. 
W e were also pleased to receive the renewal of the special mining licences 
(“SMLs”) at North Mara. The renewals are on the same terms and 
conditions as the previous licences and are both for a period of 15 years. 
The original SMLs were issued in February 2000 and had expired in 
September 2011, since which time the mine continued to operate on the 
same basis due to the rollover provisions contained in the Tanzanian 
Mining Act.
The life of mine footprint continues to be a challenge at North Mara 
as land acquisition is increasingly expensive due to the high levels of 
speculation. This has led to the ongoing suspension of operations in the 
Nyabirama pit. We are engaging with local and central government in 
order to find a solution. During the year we received waste rock permits 
necessary for the immediate operations of the site and we continue to 
apply for permits to meet ongoing requirements.
We continue to work with the relevant authorities to progress the lifting of 
the Environmental Protection Order at North Mara in order to be able to 
discharge water. NEMC, the environmental regulator, has recently visited 
the operation for a final review and we are now awaiting their approval.
Outlook
ABG enters 2013 with a high-quality portfolio of assets and significant 
financial strength as a result of our net cash position of over US$400 
million. However, we did not generate acceptable returns from the 
business in 2012 and with the production level forecast for this year we 
need to implement efficiencies in our operating cost base as well as 
applying capital more selectively to the business following the heavy 
investment made over the past three years. These objectives will form the 
key pillars of our Operational Review, together with a detailed assessment 
of our life of mine plans to establish the optimal mining rates as we move 
forward. Our operating environment has evolved substantially in recent 
years, as have our assets, and we need to ensure the organisation is 
properly set to maximise returns against this backdrop.
At the mine level, our expectation is for broadly similar production levels 
to 2012 at our Buzwagi and North Mara operations, with lower production 
at Bulyanhulu as we implement our recovery plan at the mine through the 
first half of the year and Tulawaka as it comes to the end of its life in the 
second quarter of the year.
As a result of our Operational Review, we are targeting reductions to our 
cash cost per ounce as we go through the year. While we estimate the cash 
cost per ounce for the year, including royalties, will be between US$925-
975 per ounce sold (including a reduction of US$120 per ounce sold due 
to a change in accounting for waste stripping (IFRIC 20)), we anticipate 
the run rate will be below this level by the end of the year. 
With US$135 million of capital being allocated to expansion projects, 
principally at Bulyanhulu, we have set our sustaining capital budget at 
US$100 million, including land, and we have allocated US$210 million to 
capital development inclusive of deferred stripping. The adoption of IFRIC 
20, which recognises eligible production phase deferred waste stripping 
costs as assets on a stage-by-stage basis as opposed to the previous single 
pit basis, will increase our deferred stripping capitalisation by 
approximately US$70 million over 2012.
Overall, our key objectives for 2013 are:
 achieving attributable Group production of between 540,000–
600,000 ounces;
 maintaining total cash cost including royalties of between US$925–
US$975 per ounce sold;
 total capital expenditure of US$445 million, comprising US$100 million 
of sustaining capital, US$210 million of capital development inclusive 
of deferred stripping and US$135 million of expansion capital;
 completing the Operational Review and implementing outcomes from 
the process;
 substantially completing construction planned for the Bulyanhulu 
CIL Expansion;
 obtaining Board approval for the Bulyanhulu Upper East Expansion;
 optimising Group throughput and recoveries;
 achieving growth in our overall resource base;
 improving further our safety record;
 continuing the development of our sustainability practices; and
 continuing our disciplined focus on opportunities for strategic 
acquisitions throughout Africa.
Finally, I would like to thank all of my colleagues for their commitment, 
enthusiasm and hard work throughout what has been an important year 
in the development of our business. I would also like to thank our Board 
for their unwavering support, their wise counsel and their commitment 
throughout the year.
Greg Hawkins, 
Chief Executive Officer 12 www.africanbarrickgold.com
Operational Review
Over the past three years our operating environment has seen significant change, which has had an impact both on the production 
levels at our operating mines as well as on our overall cost of production. As a result, we have commenced a full Operational 
Review of the business and have identified a number of areas where we can improve both the cost profile as well as the deliverability 
of production. T ogether with a reduction in the overall level of capital applied to the business, we believe that the current base 
of production can deliver attractive returns, which will be enhanced by our portfolio of organic growth projects which will start 
delivering incremental production from next year. W e will periodically report on the progress of the Operational Review throughout 
the year, as a part of our results releases. 
The specific initiatives which will form th e core of the Operational Review are: 
3. ORGANISATIONAL STRUCTURE
Initial results available in 6 months
Our production and cost profile have changed significantly and we will 
now ensure that we right-size the business in order to fit our anticipated 
production levels and new operating paradigm. With this in mind, a zero 
based review is being undertaken of the entire organisation, in order to 
ensure that we have the appropriate staffing levels, mix of employees and 
contractors and the optimal combination of international and national 
employees in order to meet our objectives without impacting production. 
Further to this we will also simplify the corporate structure in order to 
improve the responsiveness of the organisation.
4. CORPORATE OVERHEAD COST REDUCTIONS 
Initial results available in 3 months
As a part of the review of our organisational structure we are reviewing 
opportunities to reduce our corporate overheads as we align the corporate 
support and service model to match the business model to take forward 
into 2014. Aside from labour efficiencies, we see key opportunities for 
improved efficiencies within our Community, Health, Environment, 
Safety and Security function model and in a reduction in travel and 
accommodation expenses.
1. OPERATING COST REDUCTIONS 
Initial results available in 6 months
Aside from labour, our key costs drivers over the past few years have been 
power, maintenance and consumable usage. Whilst the increase in diesel 
usage across the Group has been necessary to ensure production outcome, 
it has led to increased cost, specifically at Buzwagi. We continue to 
investigate opportunities to reduce the impact of our reliance on the 
electricity grid, including short-term opportunities such as the installation 
of capacitors to reduce dips and voltage swings and longer-term alternative 
energy solutions. Optimisation of management operating systems and 
supply chain practices are expected to provide further reductions in our 
maintenance and consumable cost levels.
2. CAPITAL DISCIPLINE
Over US$50 million reduction achieved in 2013 
We have maintained a disciplined approach to capital expenditure over 
the past three years, but have still invested over US$750 million into the 
business in order to optimise our asset base. This investment provides 
us with well-invested, modern mines, such that we should be able to 
substantially lower our capital budget going forward. Our 2013 capital 
expenditure guidance indicates an initial reduction of over US$50 million 
from 2012 sustaining capital levels. We are reassessing all of our future 
capital expenditure to identify further opportunities to cut capital 
expenditure further into 2014 and beyond.  Financial statements Overview Performance Governance Shareholder information
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13
5. MINE PLANNING DELIVERABILITY
Initial results available in 6 months
On a mine site level, we are in the early stages of the review process. As 
part of this process we are reviewing and optimising the life of mine plans 
at each of the assets to prioritise driving returns and cash flow and are 
seeking to improve both productivity and efficiency at each of the assets 
through improved organisational structure and training. 
Key focus areas for further asset optimisation are: 
 At our flagship asset Bulyanhulu, we are conducting a number of 
studies to optimise the ore extraction schedule, plan for the right 
infrastructure to support the ore extraction and transport and, 
importantly, make sure we have a clear understanding of the most 
efficient mining method to be deployed for the life of mine. Whilst we 
have some temporary issues to resolve, the mine represents our best 
leverage to generate high return ounces, given the scale and quality 
of its resources. 
 At North Mara, as a part of the review we are assessing all options for 
future development of the mine, including the potential for underground 
development. W e have overcome significant legacy issues and our social 
licence to operate has been regained, but as part of this exercise we will 
assess a range of potential mine plans based around the ability to access 
land in order to satisfy the life of mine requirements for the existing three 
open pits. In conjunction with the mine development review, we will 
continue to work with regional and governmental departments in order 
to build on the actions we have implemented over the course of 2011 and 
2012 to strengthen further our social licence to operate. 
 At Buzwagi, now that we have stabilised mining and processing rates 
we are continuing to review options to improve operating efficiencies 
and thereby the profitability of this operation. Our key focus in this 
regard is to review ways in which we can reduce Buzwagi’s reliance on 
diesel power, which results in high operating costs, and the reduction 
of required levels of sustaining capital. There are clear opportunities 
to improve sustaining capital investment levels, given that we are now 
through the bulk of the catch up capital investment required in order 
to stabilise production levels over the past three years.
 At Tulawaka, as a result of our renewed focus on generating returns 
rather than ounces, we have decided not to further extend the life of 
the mine beyond 2013. Engagement with our employees will be 
undertaken as we embark on this process and we will focus efforts on 
the redeployment of the mine’s skilled workforce to our other assets 
and the progression of closure planning. Options for divestment will 
also be considered.  14 www.africanbarrickgold.com
Our business model focuses on the creation of a high performance organisation,  
something that is fundamental for the realisation of our long-term strategy.
A model to deliver performance
EXPAND
through near mine projects
GROW
through greenfield opportunities
OPTIMISE
our asset base
PEOPLE & 
MANAGEMENT
INDUSTRY 
EXPERTISE
QUALITY 
ASSET BASE
GOVERNANCE & 
RISK MANAGEMENT
LICENCE
TO OPERATE
RESPONSIBLE MINING
STRONG FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE
Strategy and business model Annual Report and Accounts 2012 15
Establishing solid foundations
At the heart of our business model lie the foundations which 
we believe embody our commitment to excellence. T ogether, 
these foundations form the base structure for the creation of 
a high performance organisation.
Industry expertise
We believe that industry and regional knowledge and expertise are 
critical in order to drive performance. As such we place a premium on 
our existing experience of acquiring, financing and building mines in 
T anzania and the collective experience of the mining industry and the 
African region held between our Board members and 
management team.
Quality asset base
Our long-life, high-grade reserve and resource base and the expansion 
opportunities that are available through near mine projects at our 
existing operations provide us with a solid basis on which to develop 
and grow our business within the African gold mining industry.
Governance and risk management
Effective governance and controls are crucial for the realisation of 
our business strategy. For this reason our business management 
framework allocates responsibilities for the monitoring, review 
and management of our business and strategy throughout our 
organisational structure, ensuring that accountability for performance 
is shared across our governance functions. W e use the same approach 
for risk management to ensure that business risks are identified, 
mitigated and controlled as appropriate for our operating environment.
Licence to operate
Our business conduct reflects our commitment to excellence, for the 
benefit of all stakeholders as a whole. We ensure that our community 
relations, environmental, health and safety, human resources and 
security functions work closely together and with the management 
teams at each of our operations to ensure that all key components of 
responsible mining are addressed throughout the exploration and 
mining cycle and across all of our locations.
People and management
An organisation is only as good as its people. It is for this reason that  
we are committed to promoting and developing the skill set of our 
workforce for the benefit of our business and our industry in general. We 
ensure that we fairly compensate our employees for their contributions, 
provide meaningful performance feedback to them and offer them 
professional development and training opportunities to develop employee 
potential and reward best performance.
Developing key strengths
When combined, the foundations of our organisation create 
our core standards, which in turn create and develop key 
strengths in operational and financial performance. They 
also safeguard and help to promote our responsible mining 
practices. All of these factors are fundamental qualities of  
a high performance organisation.
Operational excellence
We believe that the alignment of our operational and governance 
standards with industry and peer group best practice provides us with the 
framework to achieve the highest possible levels of productivity, safety and 
efficiency within our operations, all being components of operational 
excellence that drives business performance.
Strong financial performance
Our business and operational processes are focused on the achievement 
of targets while maintaining a strict cost discipline, optimising capital 
efficiency and maintaining a conservative balance sheet. This supports 
the production of strong financial results required for the development 
of our business.
Responsible mining
By mining in a responsible manner for the benefit of our people, the 
environment and the host countries in which we work, we are able to 
maintain our reputation as a good corporate citizen in the eyes of all 
relevant stakeholders. In turn, this allows us to progress our business  
on the basis of common expectations and objectives.  ABG Group progress in 2012
 Increased production levels and improvements in the grade profile at 
North Mara, following the access to higher grade zones in the Gokona 
pit in the second half of the year
 Improvements in recovery rates at North Mara, as a result of the positive 
impact of the gold plant upgrade
 Continued progress in mining and processing activities at Buzwagi, 
increasing consistency in the operational performance of this operation, 
particularly during the second half of the year
 Commencement of operational initiatives at Bulyanhulu to address 
paste fill delays, lower than planned availability of high grade stopes and 
lower equipment availabilities
ABG Group priorities for 2013
 Finalising and implementing our Operational Review 
 Resolve paste fill plant issues, increase availability of higher grade stopes 
and stabilise workforce at Bulyanhulu 
 Sustain increased level of mining rates and continue to operate at 
nameplate capacity in the process plant at Buzwagi
 Maintain increased mining rates, continue to deliver improved 
recoveries and progress land acquisitions and relocations at North Mara 
 Harvest high grade pillars, progress discussions on closure/divestment 
options for Tulawaka 
OPTIMISE
THE EXISITING ASSET BASE
16 www.africanbarrickgold.com Case study: Gold Plant Project at North Mara
North Mara has been undergoing a substantial optimisation programme 
both in the mining operations and in the process plant. Improvements in 
our mining fleet and practices have positioned us to be able to efficiently 
move increased volumes of tonnes in 2013. In tandem with this, we have 
invested over US$25 million into process plant infrastructure in order to 
improve recovery rates, something which should increase production and 
help to mitigate cash cost increases. 
The gold plant upgrade has involved improving the grinding efficiency of 
the mills and adding oxygen into the circuit to improve the responsiveness 
of ore to cyanide leaching. We have converted two tailings thickeners into 
pre-leach thickeners and have also installed additional leach tanks so that 
ore may be exposed to cyanide for a longer time period as part of 
processing and treatment procedures. The increased residence time will 
allow for improved recoveries and a reduction of gold residue in tailings.
We expect the project to increase gold recoveries by up to 4% as a result 
of the combined measures. In addition to the improved recovery rates,  
as a part of the project we installed further cyanide detoxification capacity 
in line with compliance standards under the International Cyanide Code 
and our commitment to manage our tailings responsibly.
  Go online to find more information www.africanbarrickgold.com
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 17 18 www.africanbarrickgold.com
ABG Group progress in 2012
 Engineering, procurement and construction contract awarded and 
project financing arranged for Bulyanhulu CIL Expansion project
 Expansion of the scope of the Bulyanhulu Upper East Expansion 
project to include Reef 2 as well as Reef 1
 Continued progress of drill programmes around the Nyabirama 
open pit at North Mara 
 Gokona underground resource at North Mara increased to 
approximately 900 thousand ounces of gold
ABG Group priorities for 2013
 Substantially complete construction of Bulyanhulu CIL 
Expansion project 
 Receive Board approval to proceed with Bulyanhulu Upper 
East Expansion project and continue exploration drilling to expand 
Reef 2 resource
 Complete feasibility study for the Gokona Expansion at North Mara
 Complete the Nyabirama resource update at North Mara
EXPAND
THROUGH NEAR MINE PROJECTS Annual Report and Accounts 2012 19
Case study: Bulyanhulu Upper East Expansion
As part of our drive to expand our assets, ABG has been examining 
options to increase mining rates at the Bulyanhulu mine to bring 
production more into line with the scale of its resource base. The 
acceleration of mining from the Upper East Zone is one of our key 
expansion projects aimed at achieving this. 
Previously, the Bulyanhulu Upper East Expansion project was solely based 
on the 1.2 million ounces of gold reserves located in Reef 1 of the Upper 
East Zone. W e have now completed a positive scoping study to incorporate 
an additional 900 thousand ounces of gold which currently sit in reserves 
in Reef 2 of the Upper East Zone. We have ordered certain long lead items 
and are now progressing with further technical studies to explore this 
opportunity. If these studies are successful, we should be able to progress 
the project so as to commence gold production from the Upper East Zone 
in late 2014.
The incorporation of Reef 2 significantly enhances the Bulyanhulu Upper 
East Expansion project, which is now expected to produce 90 thousand 
ounces of gold per annum once fully ramped up and will deliver life of 
mine production of 1.9 million ounces of gold over the next 20 years. 
The project is expected to require approximately US$100 million of 
pre-production capital, to be spent in 2013 and 2014.
  Go online to find more information www.africanbarrickgold.com GROW
ABG Group progress in 2012
 Completion of the West Kenya JV project acquisition
 Expansion of Nyanzaga in-pit resource to in excess of 4.6 million ounces 
of gold and successful completion of scoping study for the project 
 Completion of metallurgical drilling programme to update resource 
model at Golden Ridge 
 Progression of exploration drill programme at Dett prospect
ABG Group priorities for 2013
 Continue regional grassroots exploration across West Kenya JV project
 Advance drill testing stage targets around the Kakamega Dome Camp 
of the West Kenya JV Project
 Delineate potential for new discoveries around the Lake Zone Camp of 
the West Kenya JV Project
 Complete the pre-feasibility study for the Nyanzaga project and continue 
drill programmes to explore underground potential for this project
THROUGH GREENFIELD OPPORTUNITIES AND ACQUISITIONS IN AFRICA
20 www.africanbarrickgold.com Case study: West Kenya Joint Venture Project
In late 2012 we acquired the entire issued share capital of Aviva Mining 
(Kenya) Limited (“ AMKL ”), the assets of which include a 51% interest in 
a joint venture with Lonmin plc, which may be increased to 75% subject to 
satisfaction of certain conditions, and a right to earn up to a 75% interest 
in a second joint venture with Advance Gold Corporation. Together, these 
joint venture arrangements provide ABG with an interest in a number of 
exploration licences located within the Ndori Greenstone Belt in West 
Kenya. This acquisition represents our first step in expanding our footprint 
outside of Tanzania and is an important addition to the grassroots and 
target delineation segments of our exploration pipeline as we look to 
secure medium to long-term growth and diversification of our asset base.
The Ndori Greenstone Belt is a highly prospective area and one of several 
greenstone belts in Kenya. It has multiple styles and types of gold prospects 
that are comparable to those found in the Lake Victoria Greenstone belts 
in Tanzania. The licences held under the Kenyan joint venture structures 
contain multiple large-scale gold anomalies in areas of historic colonial 
mines and prospects, and cover a land package in excess of 2,800 square 
kilometres. Sporadic, historic and current exploration activities have 
identified a large number of targets that justify follow-up and we intend to 
implement a systematic and focused gold exploration programme in 2013 
and beyond.
In addition to the interests in the exploration licences and properties, the 
acquisition of AMKL provides ABG with a strong Kenyan based exploration 
team, continuity of project history and knowledge, as well as existing local 
and country government and ministry relationships.
  Go online to find more information www.africanbarrickgold.com
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 21 22 www.africanbarrickgold.com
RESPONSIBLE MINING
ABG Group progress in 2012
 Achieving a 30% improvement in our Group T otal Reportable Injury 
Frequency Rate (“TRIFR ”) 
 Obtaining Bulyanhulu’ s recertification under the International Cyanide 
Management Code 
 Execution of Village Benefit Agreements and Village Benefit Implementation 
Agreements with North Mara local communities 
 Improving national employment levels by 2%, to 91% of our 
operations’  workforce 
 Increasing training on V oluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights 
across ABG stakeholders
ABG Group priorities for 2013
 Achieving a further 10% improvement in Group TRIFR 
 Completing the commissioning of the North Mara W ater Treatment 
Plant for the lifting of the Environment Protection Order and obtaining 
a discharge permit for the site 
 Implementation of social management plans at Buzwagi and North 
Mara and development of a social management plan for Bulyanhulu
 Achieving a workforce localisation target of 93% across our operations
 Progressing dialogue on law and order, particularly at North Mara, 
with our wider stakeholder group
MAINTAINING OUR LICENCE TO OPERATE Annual Report and Accounts 2012 23
Case study: Sungu-Sungu Clinic
North Mara is located in a remote part of Tanzania and as such 
infrastructure in the region is limited. In line with our commitment to 
community development, throughout the year we have continued to invest 
in upgrading local infrastructure to help improve transportation links and 
access to water, education and healthcare. One of our core community 
infrastructure projects is the rehabilitation of the Sungu-Sungu Clinic in 
Nyamongo, one of the villages located in the vicinity of the North Mara 
mine. The clinic is the sole source of local medical care outside of the mine 
for those living in the mine’s seven local communities. Unfortunately, the 
clinic is not currently eligible for central government funding due to its 
size, so ABG’s support is critical.
As the first phase of the upgrade, ABG has invested approximately 
US$350,000 in the clinic in order to refurbish maternity and paediatric 
wards, laundry facilities and basic amenities and to construct an outpatient 
block and further wards. In addition to this, we are improving access to 
power and water by installing additional water wells and a connection to 
the national electricity grid. For the time being, we have installed a diesel 
generator and we are trucking clean water from the mine to the clinic to 
provide for key utilities while we complete these elements of the project.
In early 2013 we will commence the second phase of the clinic upgrade, for 
which we aim to invest a further US$200,000 in clinic improvements. The 
investment will principally be used to further equip the hospital with vital 
diagnostic equipment, with the aim of bringing the clinic up to a national 
standard in order for it to receive ongoing government funding and provision 
of healthcare professionals.
  Go online to find more information www.africanbarrickgold.com Operating review
Contribution to  
Group ounces
38
% 
TRIFR
1.02
Total reserves and 
resources (Moz)
17 .45
Bulyanhulu
Operating performance 
Bulyanhulu produced 236,183 ounces in 2012, 10% lower than in 2011, 
as a result of paste fill delays, lower than planned availability of high grade 
stopes and lower equipment availabilities resulting in reductions to ore 
tonnes hoisted and head grade mined. Whilst corrective actions are 
underway, progress has been slowed by potential changes to Tanzanian 
pension legislation which has led to significant numbers of long serving 
Tanzanian employees resigning. These included a number of skilled 
underground mining personnel as well as maintenance staff dealing with 
improving mobile equipment availabilities. With the end of the Offer 
Period we are now actively hiring as well as rotating staff from elsewhere 
in our operations, in order to minimise further impacts in 2013.
Head grade of 8.0 g/t was lower than in 2011 (8.5 g/t) as a result of paste 
fill delays limiting access to the primary long hole stopes leading to 
increased tonnes being mined from lower grade stopes. The lower mined 
grade together with lower recoveries in the CIL circuit led to a recovery 
rate of 90.6%. 
Gold ounces sold for the year were 235,410 ounces, which was broadly 
in line with the production figure, but 13% lower than in 2011. 
Copper production for the year of 6.1 million pounds was 20% lower than 
in 2011. This was primarily due to mining of lower copper grade areas and 
lower recoveries. 
Cash costs for the year of US$803 per ounce sold were 32% higher than in 
2011 (US$610). Cash costs were negatively impacted by lower production 
levels and the resultant lower co-product revenue; increased maintenance 
costs driven by an increase in unplanned mining and processing related 
breakdowns; increased energy costs due to increased Tanesco rates and 
consumption; and increased G&A charges driven by higher camp costs 
and aviation charges. This was slightly offset by increased capitalised 
mining expenditure. Cash cost per tonne milled increased to US$187 
in 2012 (US$156 in 2011) as a result of the costs increase outlined above.
Capital expenditure for the year of US$117.6 million was 23% higher 
than in 2011 (US$95.4 million), mainly driven by expansion capital and 
increased underground development. Key capital expenditure for 2012 
included: capitalised underground development (US$45.6 million); the 
CIL Expansion project (US$26.1 million); and mining equipment 
(US$10.6 million). 
Key mine statistics
Y ear ended 31 December
2012 2011
Underground ore tonnes hoisted (Kt) 959 1,048
Ore milled (Kt) 1,012 1,056
Head grade (g/t) 8.0 8.5
Mill recovery (%) 90.6% 91.2%
Ounces produced (Oz) 236,183 262,034
Ounces sold (Oz) 235,410 269,981
Cash cost per ounce sold (US$/Oz) 803 610
Cash cost per tonne milled (US$/t) 187 156
Copper production (Klbs) 6,102 7,675
Copper sold (Klbs) 5,895 7,716
Capital expenditure (US$’000) 117,569 95,432
The statistical information presented includes Non-IFRS measures. An explanation of 
Non-IFRS measures is included as part of the glossary.
2013 Priorities
 Resolve paste fill plant issues 
 Increase availability of higher grade stopes 
 Stabilise and rebuild national workforce
 Progress CIL Expansion and Upper East 
Expansion projects
24 www.africanbarrickgold.com Contribution to  
Group ounces
26
% 
TRIFR
0.57
Total reserves and 
resources (Moz)
3.44
Buzwagi
Operating performance 
Buzwagi produced 165,770 ounces in 2012, 16% lower than in 2011, as a 
result of the reversion to mining at reserve grade for a significant part of 
the year, with production further impacted by plant operational factors 
leading to decreased processing rates in the first half of the year. With the 
installation of diesel back-up power and improved plant operational 
availability and efficiencies in the second half of the year, 2012 mill 
throughput increased by 24% compared to 2011. In addition, there was 
a significant increase in tonnes mined compared to 2011, as a result of a 
larger mobile fleet and improved equipment availability. We expect the 
improvement in both mining and milling rates to continue through 2013. 
Gold ounces sold decreased by 23% to 155,322 ounces (200,518 ounces in 
2011), falling below production by 6% due to a delay in sales as a result of 
the back-ended nature of production in the fourth quarter.
Copper production for the year of 6.8 million pounds was 6% lower than in 
2011. This was primarily due to the mining of lower copper grades in 2012. 
Cash costs for the year were US$1,087 per ounce sold (US$691 in 2011). 
Cash costs have been affected by lower production and resultant lower 
co-product revenue and increased diesel consumption driven by a 
requirement to self generate electricity. Increased consumable usage 
and contract services costs, due to increased maintenance and repair 
contractor (“MARC”) charges were offset by increased capitalised 
stripping costs due to the waste stripping undertaken.
Cash cost per tonne milled of US$45 decreased slightly from 2011 as 
increased throughput was offset by an increase in the direct mining 
cost base. 
Capital expenditure of US$98.1 million was 18% higher than in 2011 
(US$83.2 million), primarily due to deferred stripping. Key capital 
expenditure for 2012 included: capitalised deferred stripping (US$31.1 
million); mine fleet investments (US$19.8 million); and investments in 
the process plant’s detoxification process (US$17.2 million). Included in 
capital expenditure is a non-cash reclamation adjustment which amounted 
to US$10.5 million.
Key mine statistics
Y ear ended 31 December
2012 2011
Tonnes mined (Kt) 28,563 21,534
Ore tonnes mined (Kt) 4,223 3,545
Ore milled (Kt) 3,715 2,993
Head grade (g/t) 1.6 2.3
Mill recovery (%) 87.3% 88.0%
Ounces produced (Oz) 165,770 196,541
Ounces sold (Oz) 155,322 200,518
Cash cost per ounce sold (US$/Oz) 1,087 691
Cash cost per tonne milled (US$/t) 45 46
Copper production (Klbs) 6,773 7,201
Copper sold (Klbs) 5,628 7,353
Capital expenditure (US$’000) 98,054 83,203
The statistical information presented includes Non-IFRS measures. An explanation of 
Non-IFRS measures is included as part of the glossary.
2013 Priorities
 Continue to operate at nameplate 
capacity in the process plant 
 Sustain increased level of mining rates
 Optimise the power mix for the mine
 Minimise additional capital investment
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 25
Shareholder information Financial statements Overview Performance Governance Contribution to  
Group ounces
31
% 
TRIFR
0.71
Total reserves and 
resources (Moz)
5.55
Operating performance 
North Mara produced 193,231 ounces in 2012, an increase of 13% on 
2011, as a result of improved grade and recoveries partially offset by 
ore milled being 9% lower than in 2011, as throughput was negatively 
impacted by unplanned maintenance in the second quarter of 2012. Gold 
ounces sold amounted to 186,600 ounces for the year, 9% higher than in 
2011, due to the increase in production, but trailing production by 3% due 
to the back-ended nature of production in the fourth quarter of the year.
Head grade of 2.5 g/t improved by 19% on 2011, as a result of increased ore 
tonnes mined and mine grade during the second half of the year, leading to 
a reduction in mill feed from the lower grade stockpiles. Recoveries of 85.4% 
increased 6% on 2011, primarily as a result of the positive impact from the 
completed gold plant upgrade. 
We focused on the continuation of the substantial waste stripping 
programme in both the Gokona and Nyabirama pits throughout the year 
in order to open up higher grade zones for future years. Mining in the 
Gokona pit was adversely impacted by delays in the issuing of PAF waste 
dumping permits during the first half of the year, and delays in relocating 
villagers surrounding the Nyabirama pit led to the suspension of mining 
in the pit from the second quarter. As a result, total tonnes mined of 18.4 
million tonnes were 16% lower than in 2011. Ore tonnes mined amounted 
to 1.7 million tonnes, a reduction of 24% on 2011 (2.3 million tonnes). 
Cash costs for the year were US$965 per ounce sold compared to US$810 
in 2011. Direct mining costs were in line with 2011, with increases in 
labour, G&A and maintenance offset by lower contracted services charges 
due to the move from a MARC to an owner maintenance model. However, 
lower than planned capitalised mining and negative inventory valuation 
changes drove an increase in overall cash costs. Cash cost per tonne milled 
increased to US$65 in 2012 (US$45 in 2011), mainly as a result of the 
decrease in throughput. Capital expenditure for the year of US$91.1 
million was 26% lower than in 2011 (US$123.1 million), due to lower 
expansion capital. Key capital expenditure for 2012 included: capitalised 
deferred stripping (US$25.7 million); mine equipment (US$10.5 million); 
infrastructure investment (US$14.5 million); and capitalised exploration 
drilling costs (US$5.2 million). Included in capital expenditure is a 
non-cash reclamation adjustment which amounted to US$7.5 million.
The Special Mining Licences for North Mara were renewed during the 
fourth quarter, on the existing terms for a 15 year period. This renewal 
supports our long-term planning and will assist in unlocking value from 
the asset base. 
The life of mine footprint continues to be a challenge at North Mara due 
to increases in land acquisition costs driven by high levels of speculation. 
This has led to the ongoing suspension of operations in the Nyabirama pit. 
We are engaging with local and central government in order to find a 
solution. During the year we received PAF waste dump permits necessary 
for the immediate operations of the site and we continue to apply for 
permits to meet ongoing requirements.
We continue to work with the relevant authorities to progress the lifting of 
the Environmental Protection Order at North Mara in order to be able to 
discharge water. NEMC, the environmental regulator, has recently visited 
the operation for a final review and we are now awaiting their approval.
North Mara
Operating review continued
Key mine statistics
Y ear ended 31 December
2012 2011
Tonnes mined (Kt) 18,391 21,808
Ore tonnes mined (Kt) 1,711 2,254
Ore milled (Kt) 2,786 3,070
Head grade (g/t) 2.5 2.1
Mill recovery (%) 85.4% 80.6%
Ounces produced (Oz) 193,231 170,832
Ounces sold (Oz) 186,600 170,625
Cash cost per ounce sold (US$/Oz) 965 810
Cash cost per tonne milled (US$/t) 65 45
Capital expenditure (US$’000) 91,096 123,146
The statistical information presented includes Non-IFRS measures. An explanation of 
Non-IFRS measures is included as part of the glossary.
2013 Priorities
 Maintain increased mining rates 
 Continue to deliver improved recoveries
 Progress land acquisitions and relocations
 Finalise lifting of Environmental  
Protection Order
 Continue to improve social licence  
to operate
26 www.africanbarrickgold.com Contribution to  
Group ounces
5
% 
TRIFR
1.38
Total reserves and 
resources (Koz)
175
Operating performance 
Tulawaka’s attributable gold production for the year was 31,028 ounces, 
compared to 58,871 ounces in 2011. The decreased gold production 
level resulted from lower mined grade from underground stopes and 
the application of batch milling in order to drive plant efficiencies. Gold 
ounces sold were broadly in line with production. 
Cash costs for the year were US$1,269 per ounce sold, compared 
to US$727 in 2011. This cost increase was mainly due to the lower 
production base and the impact of lower capitalised mining. These were 
slightly offset by lower sales related costs due to lower sales ounces.
Cash cost per tonne milled increased to US$219 in 2012 (US$146 in  
2011), primarily as a result of a lower mill throughput due to the batch 
milling campaign. 
Capital expenditure for the year of US$24.6 million was 22% lower than 
in 2011 (US$31.7 million). Key capital expenditure for 2012 included: 
capitalised exploration drilling and underground development costs 
(US$10.2 million), relating to mine life extension evaluations; and 
infrastructure investments into the tailings storage facility, security and 
accommodation (US$4.2 million), which will form part of the closure 
plan. Included in capital expenditure is a non-cash reclamation adjustment 
which amounted to US$1.3 million.
Following the decision to phase out this operation in 2013, and in 
combination with the downward revision of reserves, we have recognised 
a non-cash impairment charge of US$44.5 million in respect of Tulawaka, 
given the current mine plan and limited mine life. This is a result of the 
mine life net carrying value exceeding the recoverable amount by US$41.0 
million and the impairment of capitalised exploration costs relating to the 
Moja-Moja project of US$3.5 million.
Tulawaka
Key mine statistics (70%)
Y ear ended 31 December
2012 2011
Underground ore tonnes hoisted (Kt) 124 144
Open pit ore tonnes mined (Kt) 43 22
Open pit waste tonnes mined (Kt) 222 497
Ore milled (Kt) 185 291
Head grade (g/t) 5.5 6.6
Mill recovery (%) 95.5% 95.1%
Ounces produced (Oz) 31,028 58,871
Ounces sold (Oz) 31,920 58,415
Cash cost per ounce sold (US$/Oz) 1,269 727
Cash cost per tonne milled (US$/t) 219 146
Capital expenditure (US$’000) (100%) 24,588 31,652
The statistical information presented includes Non-IFRS measures. An explanation of 
Non-IFRS measures is included as part of the glossary.
2013 Priorities
 Harvest high grade pillars and close/
divest operation
 Implement closure plan in conjunction 
with the Tanzanian government
 Redeploy employees within our 
other operations 
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 27
Shareholder information Financial statements Overview Performance Governance Exploration and development review
At Bulyanhulu, Board approval was granted for the CIL Expansion project. 
The project has progressed well with site works now underway. Project 
commissioning is targeted for early 2014. Additionally, the Bulyanhulu 
Upper East Expansion project has now been expanded in scope to include 
both of Reef 1 and Reef 2 and has the potential to add an average of 90 
thousand ounces of gold per year to production over the life of mine.
Greenfield exploration
Greenfield exploration is a key value driver, and when successful, it enables 
the business to generate future production ounces at competitive cost. 
Therefore, significant focus in 2012 has been placed on identifying new 
greenfield exploration opportunities throughout Africa to strengthen our 
exploration portfolio. Collectively, the greenfield exploration programmes 
we have undertaken have further strengthened our portfolio of exploration 
projects, with the potential to add significantly to our production profile 
over the medium term.
We have made good progress at our Nyanzaga project throughout the 
year as noted above. Elsewhere in Tanzania, during the year wide zones 
of lower grade mineralisation have been intersected at the Dett prospect 
45 kilometres west of the North Mara mine. Current drilling is targeting 
higher grade zones within this mineralised system in order to further 
explore its potential. 
RESOURCE GROWTH
Total Gold Reserves and Resources (Moz)
2010
2011
2012
Exploration
and evaluation 
costs (US$m)
45.6
48.1
27.1
0 30 35 25 20 15 10 5
Bulyanhulu Buzwagi North Mara Tulawaka Nyanzaga Golden Ridge
Progressing growth opportunities
Overview of 2012 activities 
During 2012, US$29.0 million of exploration and evaluation activities were 
expensed, with a further US$16.6 million of capitalised exploration and 
evaluation activities taking place. Key highlights include the addition of 
significant resource ounces at Nyanzaga, successful drilling results from 
brownfield exploration programmes at North Mara and the acquisition 
of the West Kenya JV project. 
In early 2012 we announced an increase of over 3 million ounces of 
Indicated and Inferred in-pit resources at Nyanzaga and in April, following 
further successful drilling of the Kilimani Zone, we added approximately 
500 thousand ounces of gold to this resource. The project subsequently 
returned a positive scoping study and has been moved into a pre-feasibility 
study. Exploration drilling in 2013 at Nyanzaga will continue to target the 
extensions of high grade zones intersected by deep drilling.
At the North Mara mine, brownfield exploration drilling programmes 
were completed below the Gokona and Nyabirama open pits targeting 
significant resource expansions with the aim of expanding the current 
open pits and/or developing underground resources. Both programmes 
achieved their aims, with a trade-off analysis being completed to 
determine how we proceed with scheduling and mining the expanded 
resources at Gokona and a scoping study now underway at Nyabirama. 
Overall, 2012 was a successful year of execution and delivery for both the Exploration and Projects teams 
across our greenfield and brownfield exploration and development projects.
ONGOING PROJECTS
Greenfield
 Nyanzaga
 Dett
 West Kenya JV
Brownfield
 Bulyanhulu
 – Upper East Expansion
 –  Buly Reef Extensions  
(East & West)
 North Mara
 – Gokona Expansion
 –  Nyabirama Expansion
28 www.africanbarrickgold.com In addition, initial exploration programmes conducted on the West Kenya 
JV Project following completion of our acquisition of AMKL have already 
started to yield positive results at several prospects within the 2,800 square 
kilometre land package. In 2013, we will continue our focus on advancing 
grassroots and other early stage prospects on this project to drill ready 
status. At the same time, we will continue to advance opportunities at drill 
testing and advanced exploration stages of the exploration pipeline toward 
tangible resource projects. 
Brownfield exploration
In 2012, near mine brownfield exploration successfully identified 
extensions to known resources. The main focus was Gokona and Nyabirama 
depth extensions at North Mara where drilling returned excellent results 
from infill and step-out resource drilling. At Gokona, we intersected 
significant high grade mineralisation up to 300 metres below the current 
final open pit depth, further supporting the opportunity for a significant 
high grade underground resource. 
At Bulyanhulu, we undertook a small programme of infill drilling around 
the planned Reef 2 Upper East underground. The drilling was successful at 
delineating extensions to known high grade shoots around the margins of 
the existing resource as well as confirming grade continuity within 
reserve areas. Further drilling is scheduled for 2013 to expand the Reef 2 
resource in deeper areas of the mine to enhance future planning and life 
of mine scheduling. 
In 2013 there will be a significant focus on realising resource expansions 
around our Bulyanhulu and North Mara operations.
EXPLORATION PIPELINE
Production
8
1
2
6
2
26
10
7
1
Grassroots Programme
T arget Delineation
Drill T esting
Advanced Exploration 
& Resource Development
Scoping & Feasibility Studies
T a nza nia  
(5,969 km
2
)
Kenya  
(2,833 km
2
)
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 29
Shareholder information Financial statements Overview Performance Governance Core growth projects
Exploration and development review continued
Growth project Progress in 2012 Priorities for 2013
Bulyanhulu CIL Expansion
This project will expand the current CIL circuit at Bulyanhulu to 2.4 million metric tonnes 
per annum in order to re-treat historic tailings, and increase production by approximately 
40 thousand ounces of gold per annum for the first six years of operation. The project 
has been progressing according to plan, with commissioning on track for early 2014. 
In conjunction with this, we have now submitted the Environmental and Social Impact 
Assessment to the Tanzanian Government, as required for the extension of the existing 
tailings storage facility at Bulyanhulu.
 Detailed engineering design  
85% complete
 EPC contract awarded to 
MDM Engineering to 
manage the project
 Project financing arranged 
for the provision of an 
export credit facility for 
US$142 million
 Completion of 
engineering design
 Receipt of approvals for 
the life of mine tailing 
storage facility
 Substantial completion 
of construction ahead of 
commissioning in early 2014
Bulyanhulu Upper East Expansion
This project was previously solely based on the 1.2 million ounces of gold reserves located 
in Reef 1 of the Upper East Zone; we have now completed a positive scoping study to 
incorporate the 900 thousand ounces of gold which currently sit in reserves in Reef 2. 
We are progressing pre-feasibility and feasibility work on Reef 2 with the aim of 
completing a combined feasibility study for both reefs. Production from the Upper East 
Zone is targeted to commence in late 2014 and is expected to average in excess of 90 
thousand ounces of gold per annum over the life of mine.
 Expansion of the scope of 
the project to include Reef 2 
as well as Reef 1
 Development of test 
stope and completion 
of rehabilitation of 
main decline 
 Board approval to order 
certain long lead items
 Complete the development 
of a test stope and successful 
completion of trial mining
 Receipt of Board approval 
to proceed with project 
execution
 Continue exploration drilling 
to expand Reef 2 resource
Gokona Expansion, North Mara
Drilling programmes in 2012 targeted extensions to the Gokona mineralised system 
at depths below the current planned open pit. The aim of the drill programmes was to 
expand the potential underground resource in order to complete a detailed feasibility 
study. Drilling has been successful in demonstrating that high grade mineralisation 
extends to significant depths below the Gokona pit and studies are currently underway 
to determine the optimal way of integrating the underground and surface resources 
in order to maximise the life of mine return at North Mara. 
 Significant exploration 
intersections demonstrating 
good grade continuity 
 Gokona underground 
resource increased to 
approximately 900 
thousand ounces
 Complete feasibility study
Golden Ridge
Golden Ridge is a satellite deposit, approximately 35km from Bulyanhulu. During 2012 
we completed a metallurgical drilling programme and incorporated the findings into our 
existing model. We continue to examine the opportunity to use Bulyanhulu as a potential 
processing facility and this will progress on completion of the technical review process 
currently being conducted at Bulyanhulu as a part of the Operational Review. 
 Completion of metallurgical 
drilling programme to update 
resource model
 Initiation of study into toll 
milling ore at Bulyanhulu
 Completion of study into 
incorporating Golden Ridge 
into the Bulyanhulu life 
of mine
Nyabirama Expansion, North Mara
Brownfields exploration drilling around the Nyabirama open pit during 2012 has targeted 
opportunities for open pit expansions and underground extensions. Drill results during 
2012 demonstrated that gold mineralisation continues to significant depths below current 
and future open pit depths and that further drilling is warranted to assess the size potential 
of the Nyabirama system. The results from the 2012 drilling have been incorporated into 
a scoping study that is expected to be completed in early 2013. 
 Exploration drilling 
intersected extensions to 
current resources indicating 
the system is robust at depth
 Complete the Nyabirama 
resource update
 Complete scoping study 
on pit expansion and 
underground potential
Nyanzaga
Following a highly successful drilling programme we were able to increase the size of the 
in-pit resource at Nyanzaga by more than 3.5 million ounces and it now stands in excess 
of 4.6 million ounces of gold. We have successfully completed the scoping study for the 
project and have now moved into the pre-feasibility stage where we will examine different 
options for developing the in-pit resource. In order to ensure an appropriate mix of 
upfront capital and future cash flows we will examine a range of options for the size of 
the process plant up to 8 million metric tonnes per annum.
 Expansion of in-pit 
resource to in excess of 
4.6 million ounces
 Positive exploration results 
showing higher grade zones 
both at surface and depth
 Project moved from 
scoping into pre-feasibility 
study stage
 Successful completion of the 
pre-feasibility study in the 
first half of 2013
 Optimisation of the capital 
and operating costs if moved 
into a feasibility study
 Drilling of deep 
exploration holes to target 
underground potential
30 www.africanbarrickgold.com TANZANIA
KENYA
UGANDA
Lake Victoria
Kampala
Tulawaka
Buzwagi
Bulyanhulu
Golden Ridge
Nyanzaga
Mwanza
West Kenya JV
Kisumu
North Mara
Key
 Mine location Feasibility study
 Scoping/Pre-feasibility study Brownfield
 Project execution Greenfield
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 31
Shareholder information Financial statements Overview Performance Governance Entry into Kenya
Exploration and development review continued
W est Kenya Joint V enture Project 
In October 2012 we announced the acquisition of AMKL from Aviva 
Corporation. Through the acquisition of AMKL, ABG now owns a 51% 
interest, with the potential to move to 75% in a joint venture with Lonmin 
plc, and AMKL ’s right to earn up to a 75% interest in a second joint 
venture with Advance Gold Corporation. The acquisition of the interests 
provides an opportunity for ABG to enter an under-explored region with 
multiple styles and types of gold prospects in a country with solid transport 
infrastructure and synergies with Tanzania. 
The licence areas, which have only seen limited previous exploration, 
contain multiple large-scale gold anomalies and cover five contiguous 
licences over a land package in excess of 2,800 square kilometres of the 
highly prospective Ndori Greenstone Belt in Kenya, which forms part of 
the Tanzanian Archaean Craton. The Ndori Greenstone Belt has all the 
geological characteristics of the highly productive greenstone belts of the 
Abitibi region of Canada and the Eastern Goldfields of Western Australia. 
Colonial and artisanal mining and prospecting has identified in excess 
of 130 prospects and targets across the licensed properties. Sporadic 
historic and current exploration activities have identified a large number 
of targets that justify extensive follow-up, and ABG intends to implement 
a systematic and focused gold exploration programme. These targets 
represent a significant addition to the grassroots and target delineation 
segments of our exploration pipeline.
During 2013 we will focus on advancing our knowledge of the Ndori 
Greenstone Belt geology and structure through regional programmes, 
including drill testing of the more advanced stage targets. The initial aim 
2012 Progress


 2013 Priorities

 TANZANIA
KENYA
UGANDA
Lake Victoria
32 www.africanbarrickgold.com for 2013 is to drill up to 50,000 metres of aircore, reverse circulation and 
diamond drill core, and to collect more than 15,000 auger and soil samples 
throughout the properties.
Generally, we expect to see the West Kenya JV project develop over 
the coming year through an expansive programme of early stage 
reconnaissance work and later stage drill testing with the aim of 
identifying several projects to move into resource definition drilling.
To take this forward, we have divided the licensed properties into two 
large-scale gold camps, the Kakamega Dome Camp in the east and the 
Lake Zone Camp to the west, in order to focus our exploration activities 
and teams to ensure we are advancing the best targets.
Kakamega Dome Camp 
The Kakamega Dome Camp has over 70 known gold occurrences from 
historic exploration and prospecting activities. 
Exploration over the past ten years has focused on soil sampling, ground 
geophysics and drilling. The majority of recent exploration activity 
undertaken prior to ABG’s acquisition of AMKL was focused on the 
Bumbo VMS Cu-Zn-Ag-Au deposit in the south of the camp and at the 
Bushiangala and Kimingini prospects on the south side of the interpreted 
Kakamega Dome.
Reconnaissance aircore drilling in 2013 will focus on the Liranda 
Lineament on the south side of the Kakamega Dome, which is a feature 
observed in airborne magnetic surveys, and is co-incident with a 15-20 
kilometre roughly east-west corridor of gold in soil anomalies. This 
programme will be aimed at delineating targets for deeper drill testing. 
Drilling to date has revealed excellent results, indicating that the 
systems remain open at depth and that strike extensions can be expected. 
Additional deeper drilling will be undertaken at Bushiangala and Kimigini 
to further explore this opportunity. 
Lake Zone Camp 
The Lake Zone Camp has over 60 gold occurrences from historic 
exploration and prospecting activities. Exploration over the past ten years 
has included soil sampling, ground and airborne geophysical surveys and 
limited shallow percussion drilling. 
Activities in the Lake Zone Camp during 2012 focused on core drilling of 
several projects to investigate the style and controls on gold mineralisation 
at several prospects. At one such prospect, known as Ramula, results from 
drill programmes have been positive and we have already intersected 
significant gold mineralisation in diamond drill core when testing a 600 
by 400 metre gold in soil anomaly with some associated artisanal mining 
activity. Drilling on the project will be accelerated in early 2013 and a 
second rig will be brought in to test greater depths.
Ongoing exploration programmes in the Lake Zone Camp will focus 
on developing a number of drill ready targets, while at the same time 
completing extensive regional programmes to generate new targets for 
prospecting activities.
KITSON
ABIMBO
NAIROBI HILL
MASUMBI
RAMULA
BUSHIANGALA
ROSTERMAN
KAKAMEGA DOME CAMP
LAKE ZONE CAMP
KIMINGINI
BUMBO
SL213 - SIAYA
SL123 - NDORI
Key
  Major reactivated/syn 
-tectonic extensional faults
 Anticline
 Syncline
 Late faults
  Artisanal/Colonial 
workings
 Prospects
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 33
Shareholder information Financial statements Overview Performance Governance Financial review
Increasing focus on cost control
“Operational challenges were reflected in our 
financial results for the year. ”
Kevin Jennings,
Chief Financial Officer
Overview of 2012 financial performance
Overall, challenges to operating performance negatively impacted 
the Group’s financial results for the year:
 Revenue of US$1,087.3 million was 11% lower than in 2011;
 Cash costs increased to US$949 per ounce sold (US$692 in 2011);
 EBITDA decreased by 39% to US$330.9 million;
 Adjusted net earnings decreased by 62% to US$105.5 million;
 Adjusted earnings per share amounted to US25.7 cents, down from 
US67.0 cents in 2011; and
 Operational cash flow of US$257.9 million was 48% lower than 2011.
Notwithstanding our financial performance we have maintained a strong 
financial position with a net cash balance of US$401 million at year end, 
and we have maintained the full year dividend at the same level as 2011. 
In line with the Operational Review, the 2013 key finance initiatives 
will be:
 Conducting a cost and organisational structure review to align 
our current cost profile with the scale of the business;
 Continuing our focus on working capital optimisation; and
 Continuing our focus on capital prioritisation and optimisation.
The following review provides a detailed analysis of our consolidated 
financial results and the main factors affecting financial performance in 
2012. It should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial 
statements and accompanying notes to the consolidated financial 
statements, which have been prepared in accordance with International 
Financial Reporting Standards as adopted for use in the European 
Union (“IFRS”).
Y ear ended 31 December
2012 2011
Attributable gold production (Oz)
1
626,212 688,278
Attributable gold sold (Oz)
1
609,252 699,539
Cash cost per ounce sold (US$/Oz)
2
949 692
Average realised gold price (US$/Oz)
2
1,668 1,587
Revenue (US$’000) 1,087,339 1,217,915
EBITDA (US$’000)
2
330,869 545,448
Cash generated from operating activities 
(US$’000) 257,903 498,323
Net earnings (US$’000) 59,471 274,895
Net earnings per share (US cents) 14.5 67.0
Adjusted net earnings (US$’000)
2
105,484 274,895
Adjusted net earnings per share (US cents) 25.7 67.0
Dividend per share (US cents)
3
16.3 16.3
Operating cash flow per share (US cents)
2
62.9 121.5
1.  Attributable production and sold ounces reflects equity ounces which excludes 30% of 
Tulawaka’s production and sales base. 
2.  Cash cost per ounce sold, cash margin, average realised gold price, EBITDA, operating 
cash flow per share, adjusted net earnings per share and adjusted net earnings are 
non-IFRS financial performance measures with no standard meaning under IFRS. Refer 
to Non-IFRS measures provided as part of the glossary for the definitions of each measure. 
3. Includes final recommended dividend to be paid in 2013.
34 www.africanbarrickgold.com SPOT GOLD PRICES VS. DXY INDEX
1,500
1,550
1,600
1,650
1,700
1,750
1,800
76
77
78
79
80
81
82
83
84
Dec Nov Oct Sep Aug Jul Jun May Apr Mar Feb Jan
Monthly Average Spot Price (US$/Oz) DXY Index
Financial performance
Revenue for the year of US$1,087.3 million was 11% lower than in 2011 
(US$1,217.9 million) due to decreases in our production levels and gold sales. 
Y ear on year Group gold sales volume decreased by 13.1%, while gold revenue 
benefited from higher average realised gold prices. The decrease in gold sales 
was primarily due to the lower production base and the back-ended nature of 
production in December 2012, which deferred sales into 2013. The average 
realised gold price was US$1,668 per ounce in 2012 compared to US$1,587 
per ounce in 2011. Co-product revenue amounted to US$48.0 million for 
2012, a 29% decrease on 2011 (US$67.9 million) due to lower sales volumes 
and prices. The decrease in the production of gold/copper concentrate at 
Bulyanhulu and Buzwagi resulted in the decrease in copper sales volumes. 
The 2012 average realised copper price of US$3.57 per pound compared 
unfavourably to 2011 (US$3.82 per pound), and was driven by global market 
factors regarding supply and demand.
REVENUE
(US$’000)
US$1,087 ,339
12 11 10
EBITDA
2
(US$’000)
US$330,869
12 11 10
CASH MARGINS
2
(US$/Oz)
US$719/Oz
12 11 10
a de facto global currency. Investor interest in gold as an asset class has 
increased greatly as a result of this.
ABG also produces copper as a co-product which is recognised as part of 
revenue. Copper prices traded in a wide range of US$3.29 to US$3.93 per 
pound and averaged US$3.61 per pound (compared to US$4.00 per pound 
in 2011). Copper’s fall during the second half of 2012 occurred mainly due 
to uncertainty regarding the global economic recovery, and softer demand 
from emerging markets, especially China. We expect copper to benefit as 
the US domestic recovery accelerates and the effects of the European 
financial crisis become clearer. Copper prices will likely also be boosted 
by a resurgence of Asian demand, and by the limited availability of scrap 
metal and lower production levels of mines and smelters.
We will continue to monitor prices and take advantage of opportunities 
to hedge the copper price at acceptable price levels.
Market overview
The key external drivers of our financial results are 
commodity prices, exchange rates and the price of oil. Their 
impact in 2012 and our positioning going into 2013 are set 
out below.
Commodity prices
Gold prices have a significant impact on ABG’s operating earnings 
and its ability to generate cash flows. In 2012 the price of gold traded 
in a range of US$1,540 to US$1,790 per ounce and closed at 
US$1,675 per ounce. Gold prices averaged US$1,669 per ounce in 
2012, a new record average and a US$97 per ounce improvement on 
the US$1,572 per ounce average in the prior year period. 
The market price of gold has been positively influenced by low US 
dollar interest rates, sovereign debt concerns, investment demand 
and the monetary policies put in place by the world’s most prominent 
central banks. As a result of the global easing of monetary policy, as 
well as large fiscal deficits incurred in the US and other major 
developed economies, there is a possibility that both inflation and US 
dollar depreciation could emerge in the coming years. Gold is viewed 
as a hedge against inflation and has historically been inversely 
correlated to the US dollar. Therefore, higher inflation and/or 
depreciation in the US dollar should be positive for the price of gold. 
Gold prices also continue to be influenced by the impact of central 
bank gold purchases and investor interest in owning gold. In 2012, 
central banks purchased an estimated 536 metric tonnes of gold, and 
investor interest led holdings by major global exchange traded funds to 
increase by 10 million ounces in the year to total 89 million ounces at 
the end of the period. Historically, gold has been viewed as a reliable 
store of value in times of financial uncertainty and inflation and as  
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 35
Shareholder information Financial statements Overview Performance Governance Financial review continued
Market review continued
Fuel 
During 2012, Brent crude oil traded between US$126 and 
US$89 per barrel and averaged US$112 per barrel. We 
consume approximately 625 thousand barrels of diesel 
fuel annually across all our mines. Diesel fuel is refined 
from crude oil and is therefore subject to the same price 
volatility affecting crude oil prices. Volatility in crude 
prices has a significant direct and indirect impact on our 
production costs. 
Using three-way option strategies, we have put in place 
ceiling protection on approximately 40% of our expected 
oil exposure for 2013. The hedges cap our oil exposure at 
US$110 per barrel should oil trade between US$110 and 
US$135 per barrel. Should the price of oil fall, we will 
participate in the lower price to a floor of US$85 per barrel.
Currency exchange rates
A portion of the Company’ s costs are incurred in currencies 
other than US dollars. The exposure relating to other 
currencies is approximately 28% of the Company’ s total 
expenditure, of which the main contributing currencies are 
the T anzanian shilling and the South African rand. In 2012, 
the rand declined significantly against the US dollar as 
investors shunned riskier rand-denominated assets in 
favour of alternative investments.
Using collar option strategies, we have put in place floor 
protection on approximately 74% of our expected rand 
operating expenditures for 2013 at average floor prices 
of ZAR8.31. 
We have also used collar option strategies to put in place 
floor protection on approximately 84% of our expected 
rand-denominated capital expenses relating to the 
Bulyanhulu CIL Expansion project, for 2013 and 2014, at 
average floor prices of ZAR8.70 and ZAR8.90 respectively. 
We participate in rand weakness up to average ceilings of 
ZAR9.59 and ZAR9.80, for 2013 and 2014 respectively.
BRENT CRUDE
(US$ per barrel)
0
20
40
60
80
100
120
140
Dec Nov Oct Sep Aug Jul Jun May Apr Mar Feb Jan
Source: Bloomberg (Monthly Average)
TANZANIAN SHILLING
(Shillings per US$)
1,560
1,565
1,570
1,575
1,580
1,585
1,590
1,595
1,600
1,605
Dec Nov Oct Sep Aug Jul Jun May Apr Mar Feb Jan
Source: Bloomberg (Monthly Average)
SOUTH AFRICAN RAND
(Rand per US$)
6.8
7.0
7.2
7.4
7.6
7.8
8.0
8.2
8.4
8.6
8.8
9.0
Dec Nov Oct Sep Aug Jul Jun May Apr Mar Feb Jan
Source: Bloomberg (Monthly Average)
36 www.africanbarrickgold.com Cost of sales equalled US$802.7 million for the year, a 14% increase on 
2011 (US$704.1 million), primarily as a result of increases in direct mining 
costs and increased depreciation due to the increased asset base employed 
and depreciated and increased capital expenditure during the year. The 
table below provides a breakdown of cost of sales:
Y ear ended 31 December
(US$’000) 2012 2011
Cost of Sales
Direct mining costs 581,483 510,465
Third party smelting and refining fees 18,574 21,400
Royalty expense 43,769 38,100
Depreciation and amortisation 158,883 134,149
Total 802,709 704,114
Overall, direct mining costs increased by 14% during 2012, when compared 
to 2011. The key factors for this increase include: labour costs of US$177.9 
million, an increase of 5% on 2011, due to increases in inflation and 
employee headcount at Buzwagi and North Mara; energy and fuel expenses 
of US$138.2 million, an increase of 31% on 2011, primarily due to increased 
reliance on diesel generated power at Buzwagi; consumables costs of 
US$105.8 million, a 13% increase on 2011, as a result of increased mining 
and processing activities and a change in processing mix at Buzwagi due to 
the mining of lower grade material; maintenance costs of US$98.4 million, 
a 24% increase on 2011, primarily due to North Mara’ s transition from a 
MARC to an owner maintenance model; general administrative costs of 
US$91.0 million, which after allowing for certain cost reallocations equalled 
a 9% increase on 2011, primarily driven by increases in camp and security 
costs; and capitalised direct mining costs of US$119.5 million, an 11% 
increase on 2011, due to increased deferred stripping costs at Buzwagi and 
higher capitalised development costs at Bulyanhulu.
Corporate administration costs totalled US$51.6 million for the year, a 5% 
increase on 2011 (US$49.1 million), primarily due to inflationary increases 
which drove labour costs higher and increased share based payment 
expenses as a result of our share price performance. 
Exploration and evaluation costs equalled US$29.0 million for the year, 
a 5% decrease on 2011 (US$30.3 million). Key expenses included 
exploration drilling at Nyanzaga (US$5.6 million); drilling along the North 
Mara corridor (US$4.7 million); metallurgical sampling and modelling at 
Golden Ridge (US$1.6 million); and the Nyanzaga scoping study (US$1.3 
million). An additional US$1.1 million of exploration costs were incurred 
following the AMKL acquisition. Exploration funding provided to AMKL 
prior to completion of the acquisition of US$1.3 million has been treated 
as part of the acquisition cost. 
Corporate social responsibility expenses amounted to US$14.4 million 
for the year, approximately 95% higher than in 2011 (US$7.4 million). 
The increase was driven by VBIA project costs at North Mara and larger 
contributions to general community projects funded by the ABG 
Maendeleo Fund. 
Other charges amounted to US$17.7 million for the year, 13% higher than 
in 2011 (US$15.6 million). The main contributors to this increase were: 
(i) expenses incurred as a part of the CNG offer process, including adviser 
fees and workforce retention accruals totalling US$6.7 million; (ii) 
disallowed indirect tax claims of US$3.0 million (US$7.1 million in 2011) 
relating to ongoing discussions with the TRA on outstanding refunds and 
retrospective legislation changes; (iii) legal costs of US$1.7 million; 
(iv) ABG’s entry into zero cost collar contracts as part of hedging 
arrangements to address copper, silver, rand and fuel cost volatility, 
resulting in a combined mark-to-market revaluation loss of US$1.7 
million (US$7.9 million gain in 2011); (v) discounting adjustments of 
long-term indirect taxes of US$4.2 million; and (vi) foreign exchange 
gains of US$4.3 million (US$6.0 million loss in 2011), arising mainly 
from the devaluation of the ZAR against the US dollar. Refer to Note 8 
to the consolidated financial statements for further detail.
Finance expenses of US$10.3 million remained in line with 2011. Key 
financing expenses included US$3.0 million for the servicing of our 
US$150 million undrawn revolving credit facility (US$4.6 million in 
2011), and increased accretion expenses relating to the discounting of the 
environmental reclamation liability (US$4.0 million). Other costs include 
bank charges and interest paid on the factoring of concentrate receivables 
and finance leases. At year end, ABG had no external debt. Finance 
income earned during the year related predominantly to interest charged 
on non-current receivables and interest received on time deposits. Refer 
to Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements for further detail.
Impairment charges of US$44.5 million (US$ nil in 2011) were recorded 
against Tulawaka, as a result of the annual impairment review of goodwill 
and other long-lived assets, when comparing the recoverable amount to 
the net carrying value of Tulawaka. A review of Tulawaka’s mine plan 
resulted in the downward revision of reserves from the high grade crown 
pillars due to geotechnical and recovery concerns. As a result the net 
carrying value exceeded the recoverable amount by US$41.0 million. 
Also included in the impairment charge is the writedown of capitalised 
exploration costs of US$3.5 million relating to the unlikelihood of mining 
the Moja-Moja project near Tulawaka. Refer to Notes 18 and 19 to the 
consolidated financial statements for details.
T axation expense decreased to US$71.1 million for the year, compared to 
US$117.9 million in 2011. The 2012 expense consists predominantly of 
deferred tax. The lower tax expense was driven by lower profits before tax. 
The effective tax rate in 2012 amounted to 60%, compared to 29% in 2011. 
The increase was mainly driven by tax losses of US$23.7 million for which 
no deferred income tax assets were recognised in respect of Tulawaka, 
ABG Exploration Ltd and ABG Plc stand alone assessed losses; and a 
charge of US$8.9 million relating to disallowed tax deductions from the 
results of a tax assessment completed by the TRA on Bulyanhulu historical 
tax returns. This was further adversely impacted by a goodwill impairment 
charge that is not tax deductible. Refer to Note 11 of the consolidated 
financial statements for details.
Net earnings were US$59.5 million for the year as a result of decreased 
revenue, increases in our cost base and the Tulawaka impairment charge. 
This represents a decrease of 78% from 2011 earnings levels (US$274.9 
million). Net earnings per share for the year amounted to US14.5 cents, 
a decrease of 78% from 2011 (US67.0 cents), as a result of the decrease 
in net earnings. 
Adjusted net earnings per share for the year amounted to US25.7 cents, 
compared to US67.0 cents in 2011. For 2012, we have calculated adjusted 
net earnings by excluding one off costs or credits relating to non-routine 
transactions from net profit attributed to owners of the parent. Further 
details regarding the calculation of adjusted net earnings and adjusted 
net earnings per share are provided as part of the Non-IFRS measures 
definitions provided as part of the glossary.
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 37
Shareholder information Financial statements Overview Performance Governance Financial review continued
Financial position
At year end, ABG had cash and cash equivalents of US$401.3 million 
(US$584.2 million in 2011). The Group’s cash and cash equivalents are 
with counterparties whom the Group considers to have an appropriate 
credit rating. Location of credit risk is determined by physical location of 
the bank branch or counterparty. Investments are held mainly in United 
States dollars and cash and cash equivalents in other foreign currencies 
are maintained for operational requirements.
During the year we progressed the negotiation of project financing for 
the Bulyanhulu CIL Expansion (“Project”) with a commercial banking 
syndicate (Standard Bank, Standard Chartered and ABSA) for the 
provision of a US$142 million export credit backed term loan facility 
(“Facility”), and concluded this exercise in January 2013. The Facility has 
been put in place to fund a substantial portion of the Project construction 
costs, is secured upon the Project and has a term of seven years. When 
drawn, the spread over LIBOR will be 250 basis points. The Facility is 
repayable in equal instalments over its term, after a two-year repayment 
holiday period. This financing complements our existing revolving credit 
facility of US$150 million which runs until 2014 and remains undrawn. 
At year end, debt remained at zero. 
Goodwill and intangible assets increased by US$19.7 million from 2011, 
primarily as a result of the acquisition of intangible assets and goodwill 
from our acquisition of AMKL. This increase has been partially offset by 
the Tulawaka impairment charge. Refer to Note 19 to the consolidated 
financial statements for further detail. 
DIRECT MINING COST BREAKDOWN
(US$m)
-150
-100
-50
0
50
100
150
200
Contracted
services
General
administration
costs
Capitalised
mining
Consumables
Energy/fuel
costs
Maintenance
Labour
2011
2012
CASH COST RECONCILIATION
(US$/Oz)
750
700
800
850
900
950
650
Production/
inventory valuation
movement
Direct mining
costs
Co-product
revenue
Cash cost 2012
Cash cost 2011
Sales related costs
Key financial highlights
The net book value of Group property, plant and equipment increased 
from US$1.82 billion in 2011 to US$1.96 billion in 2012. The main capital 
expenditure drivers have been explained in the section entitled cash flow 
used in investing activities below, and have been offset by depreciation 
charges of US$164.9 million and impairment charges of US$30.7 million 
at Tulawaka. Refer to Notes 18 and 19 to the consolidated financial 
statements for further detail.
Total indirect tax receivables, net of a discount provision applied to the 
non-current portion, increased from US$85.3 million in 2011 to US$98.8 
million in 2012. The increase was mainly due to the impact of V AT relief 
abolishment in the last quarter of 2012, offset by US$4.5 million in refunds 
received by ABG during the year. The net deferred tax position increased 
from a net deferred tax liability of US$94.0 million in 2011 to a net 
deferred tax liability of US$171.2 million. This was driven by taxable 
income generated during 2012 and the prior year adjustment relating to 
Bulyanhulu’s corporate tax position (US$8.9 million). Tax losses carried 
forward have reduced from US$384.5 million in 2011 to US$321.0 million 
in 2012. US$88.9 million of deferred tax assets were not recognised as at 
31 December 2012.
Net assets attributable to owners of the parent decreased from US$2.76 
billion in 2011 to US$2.75 billion in 2012. The decrease reflects the current 
year profit attributable to owners of the parent of US$59.5 million, which 
was offset by the aggregate amount of the final 2011 and interim 2012 
dividends (US$70.1 million) paid to shareholders during 2012.
38 www.africanbarrickgold.com EBITDA RECONCILIATION
(US$m)
300
400
500
600
200
Gold price
Gold volume
Co-product
revenue
EBITDA 2012
EBITDA 2011
Direct mining cost
Other
 Corporate social
responsibility
expenses
CASHFLOW RECONCILIATION – 2011 VS. 2012    
(US$m)  
-100
-150
-50
0
100
50
150
200
-200
Investment in
other assets
Dividends
Other financing
Acquisition of
subsidiaries
Working capital
Other operational
Capital expenditure
Net cashflow 2012
EBITDA
Net cashflow 2011
Cash flow generation 
Y ear ended 31 December
(US$’000) 2012 2011
Cash flow from operating activities 257,903 498,323
Cash used in investing activities (360,655) (281,532)
Cash used in financing activities (79,439) (32,682)
(Decrease)/increase in cash (182,191) 184,109
Foreign exchange difference on cash (615) (967)
Opening cash balance 584,154 401,012
Closing cash balance 401,348 584,154
Cash flow from operating activities was US$257.9 million for the year, a 
decrease of US$240.4 million from 2011. The decrease primarily related to 
decreased EBITDA combined with an outflow associated with working 
capital (US$80.3 million). Working capital movements primarily related 
to: increased investment in critical spares for major fleet overhauls at 
Buzwagi and North Mara and the impact of long lead times on 
consumable inventory levels (US$42.5 million); an increase in trade 
receivables (US$14.4 million), mainly due to the timing of shipments at 
year end; an increase in gold inventory on hand (US$16.6 million), mainly 
due to sales delays and increased ore valuation; and an increase in other 
current assets (US$21.3 million), mainly driven by high V AT receivables 
owed by the Tanzanian government. 
Cash flow used in investing activities was US$360.7 million for the year. 
Total cash capital expenditure for the year was US$312.7 million, a 14% 
increase on 2011 (US$273.2 million) driven by both increased sustaining 
and capitalised development expenditure, slightly offset by lower 
expansionary capital expenditure.
A breakdown of total capital and other investing capital activities for the 
year is provided below: 
Y ear ended 31 December
(US$’000) 2012 2011
Sustaining capital 153,160 125,945
Expansionary capital 49,889 63,273
Capitalised development 109,626 83,990
Total cash capital 312,675 273,208
Non-cash rehabilitation asset adjustment 19,242 52,761
Non-cash sustaining capital
3
8,378 19,266
Total capital expenditure 340,295 345,235
Other investing capital
 – AMKL acquisition
1
22,039 –
 – Non-current asset movement
2
25,941 8,325
1  AMKL acquisition relates to the acquisition of the subsidiary, net of cash, for US$22.0 
million (inclusive of exploration funding US$1.3 million).
2  Non-current asset movements relates to the investment in land acquisitions reflected as 
prepaid operating leases, Tanzanian government receivables and the settlement of a 
historical exploration acquisition liability at Buzwagi of US$6.6 million.
3  Total non-cash sustaining relates to the capital finance lease at Buzwagi for drill rigs in 
2012 and the back-up power generators in 2011 and also includes capital accruals excluded 
from cash sustaining capital.
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 39
Shareholder information Financial statements Overview Performance Governance Financial review continued
CASH COST PER 
OUNCE SOLD
1
(US$/Oz)
US$949/ Oz
ADJUSTED NET 
EARNINGS 
PER SHARE
1
(US¢/share)
12 11 10
OPERATING CASH 
FLOW PER SHARE
1
(US¢/share)
US62.9cents/share US25.7 cents/share
12 11 10 12 11 10
EBITDA BY MINE SITE
1
(US$’000)
 2012 2011
Bulyanhulu 204,348  256,504
Buzwagi 86,155 166,113
North Mara 117,576 128,627 
Tulawaka 15,614 67,973
Other (92,824) (73,769)
$330,869
Sustaining capital expenditure included the renewal of mine equipment 
across our three main operations (US$50.0 million); investment in 
underground, camp and building infrastructure at Bulyanhulu (US$6.1 
million), North Mara (US$14.5 million) and Tulawaka (US$1.2 million); 
process plant and tailings storage facility expansion expenditure at 
Buzwagi (US$3.8 million), Bulyanhulu (US$17.2 million), North Mara 
(US$2.5 million) and Tulawaka (US$3.0 million); and costs relating to 
the North Mara gold plant upgrade (US$4.1 million).
Expansionary capital expenditure consisted of the Bulyanhulu CIL 
Expansion (US$26.1 million) and capitalised exploration and evaluation 
costs of US$16.6 million. Capitalised exploration and evaluation costs 
predominantly relate to the Bulyanhulu Upper East Zone resource definition 
drilling (US$5.2 million); Gokona and Nyabirama underground drilling 
projects at North Mara (US$5.3 million); Nyanzaga pre-feasibility costs 
(US$3.2 million); and Tulawaka underground drilling (US$2.9 million).
Capitalised development capital includes capitalised deferred stripping 
at North Mara (US$25.7 million) and Buzwagi (US$31.1 million) and 
Bulyanhulu and Tulawaka capitalised underground development of 
US$45.6 million and US$7.3 million respectively.
Non-cash capital for the year totalled US$27.6 million and consisted 
mainly of reclamation asset adjustments (US$19.2 million) and the impact 
of sustaining capital accruals (US$6.8 million). Reclamation adjustments 
were driven by increased contractor equipment rates, additional disturbance 
caused by the expansion of mine sites and a change in discount rate. 
Other investing capital included the acquisition cost of AMKL (US$22.0 
million) net of cash and inclusive of US$1.3 million exploration funding. 
During the year North Mara incurred land purchases totalling US$25.9 
million which was slightly offset by cash proceeds on the sale of assets 
(US$4.6 million). We have also settled the historical exploration 
acquisition liability of US$6.6 million at Buzwagi.
Cash used in financing activities was US$79.4 million for the year, an 
increase on 2011 (US$32.7 million). The outflow primarily relates to the 
payment of the 2011 final and 2012 interim dividends. Finance lease 
liabilities amounted to US$5.7 million, an increase of US$3.5 million on 
2011, as a result of payments required for a full year of financing leasing. 
MDN contribution payments in respect of Tulawaka for 2012 amounted 
to US$3.6 million. 
Final dividend of US12.3 cents per share has been recommended by 
the Directors for 2012, subject to the shareholders approving this 
recommendation at the AGM. An interim dividend of US4.0 cents per 
share was paid to shareholders on 24 September 2012.
Significant judgements in applying accounting policies and key sources of 
estimation uncertainty Many of the amounts included in the consolidated 
financial statements require management to make judgements and/or 
estimates. These judgements and estimates are continuously evaluated and 
are based on management’s experience and best knowledge of the relevant 
facts and circumstances; nevertheless, actual results may differ. Information 
about such judgements and estimation is included in the accounting 
policies and/or notes to the consolidated financial statements. Key areas of 
judgement and key sources of estimation uncertainty that have the most 
significant effect on the amounts recognised in the consolidated financial 
statements include:
1  Cash cost per ounce sold, EBITDA, adjusted net earnings per share and operating cash 
flow per share are non-IFRS financial performance measures with no standard meaning 
under IFRS. Refer to Non-IFRS measures provided as part of the glossary for the full 
definitions of each measure.
Key financial highlights
40 www.africanbarrickgold.com NET WORKING CAPITAL BREAKDOWN
(US$m)
0
-100
-200
100
200
300
700
600
500
400
-300
150
100
50
200
250
300
500
450
400
350
0
2010 2011 2012
Gold inventory
Receivables
Net working capital position (RHS)
Supplies inventory
Indirect taxes
Other
Payables
Related party payables
CAPEX BY MINE SITE 
(US$m)
60
40
20
80
100
120
140
0
2012
Bulyanhulu Buzwagi North Mara Tulawaka
2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011
Sustaining Reclamation asset Expansion Capitalised development
 Estimates of the quantities of proven and probable gold reserves;
 The capitalisation of production stripping costs;
 The capitalisation of exploration and evaluation expenditures;
 Review of goodwill, tangible and intangible assets carrying value, 
the determination of whether these assets are impaired and the 
measurement of impairment charges or reversals;
 The estimated fair values of cash generating units for impairment 
tests, including estimates of future costs to produce proven and 
probable reserves, future commodity prices, foreign exchange rates 
and discount rates;
 The estimated useful lives of tangible and long-lived assets and the 
measurement of depreciation expense;
 Property, plant and equipment held under finance leases; 
 Recognition of a provision for environmental rehabilitation and the 
estimation of the rehabilitation costs and timing of expenditure;
 Whether to recognise a liability for loss contingencies and the amount 
of any such provision;
 Whether to recognise a provision for accounts receivable and the 
impact of discounting the non-current element;
 Recognition of deferred income tax assets, amounts recorded for 
uncertain tax positions, the measurement of income tax expense and 
indirect taxes;
 Determination of the cost incurred in the productive process of ore 
stockpiles, gold in process, gold doré/bullion and concentrate, as well as 
the associated net realisable value and the split between the long-term 
and short-term portions;
 Determination of fair value of derivative instruments; and
 Determination of fair value of stock options and cash-settled share 
based payments.
Going concern statement The ABG Group’s business activities, together 
with factors likely to affect its future development, performance and 
position, are set out in the operational and financial review sections of this 
report. The financial position of the ABG Group, its cash flows, liquidity 
position and borrowing facilities are described in the preceding 
paragraphs of this financial review. 
In assessing the ABG Group’s going concern status the Directors have 
taken into account the above factors, including the financial position of the 
ABG Group and in particular its significant cash position, the current gold 
and copper price and market expectations for the same in the medium 
term, and the ABG Group’s capital expenditure and financing plans. After 
making appropriate enquiries, the Directors consider that ABG and the 
ABG Group as a whole has adequate resources to continue in operational 
existence for the foreseeable future and that it is appropriate to adopt the 
going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Kevin Jennings, 
Chief Financial Officer
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 41
Shareholder information Financial statements Overview Performance Governance Corporate responsibility
Responsible mining
We progressed our environmental compliance programme throughout the 
year, primarily as a result of continued progress in the implementation of 
Group environmental management systems, enhancements made to the 
processes and procedures used to monitor environmental impacts at our 
operations and further improvements made to permitting processes. 
There are no new material adverse developments in the context of business 
governance and ethics for 2012. The majority of reports submitted in 
connection with our Business Ethics incident reporting procedures during 
the year related to employee matters at our operations. None of the reports 
submitted are expected to have a significant effect on ABG. 
Core health and safety activities for the year focused on the continual 
progression of improvements in our Group total reportable injury 
frequency rate, which at 0.83 for the year is a 30% improvement on 2011, 
further implementation of critical risk standards, ABG health standards 
and key health and safety governance initiatives, namely our Visible Felt 
Leadership and Courageous Leadership training programmes. However, 
despite progress made in these areas, regretfully we suffered two fatalities 
during the year. 
We continued to progress enhancements to our security function and 
compliance with our human rights commitments throughout the year. 
Key achievements include the further enhancements of security 
infrastructure across our operations and increased participation in 
safety, security and human rights training programmes, involving 
participants from the ABG security function, the Tanzanian police force 
and local communities. 
Further details on 2012 performance and 2013 targets for each material 
component of our sustainability programme are provided below.
“Responsible mining means conducting our 
business in a way that reflects our commitment 
to excellence, to the benefit of all stakeholders 
as a whole. ”
Overview of 2012 activities 
Responsible mining has remained a key objective for our business in 2012. 
In this regard, we have made a number of developments within our 
sustainability programme, resulting in the achievement of a positive level 
of overall performance across this programme. The material components 
of our sustainability programme for 2012 remained the same as those 
identified in 2011, these being: Community Relations, Employees, 
Environment, Governance and Ethics, Health and Safety and Security 
and Human Rights. 
In the context of community relations, efforts for the year focused on the 
progression of community stakeholder engagement procedures, further 
implementation of ABG social incident reporting procedures, the 
continued implementation of the North Mara Co-Existence Plan, the 
development of social management plans to support our operations and 
further enhancements to our community relations management system. 
We have made a number of positive developments throughout the year 
in our employee recruitment, retention, training and development 
programmes. We have also been successful in the progression of employee 
localisation targets, whilst making improvements in ABG Group turnover 
rates overall. 
Our material areas
RESPONSIBLE 
MINING
COMMUNITY
RELATIONS
ENVIRONMENT
HEALTH
&
SAFETY
EMPLOYEES
GOVERNANCE 
& ETHICS
SECURITY
&
HUMAN 
RIGHTS
Community Relations
 Stakeholder Engagement
 Social Impacts
 Community Development
 Resettlement
Employees
 Labour Practices
 Local Employment
 Employment Development
 Talent Retention
Environment
 Conservation and Protection
 Biodiversity
 Climate Change
 Management of 
Hazardous Materials
Health & Safety
 Operational Health & Safety
 Emergency Preparedness
 Community Wellbeing 
 Incident Reporting
Security & Human Rights
 Stakeholder Engagement
 Training & Development
 Emergency Preparedness
 Incident Reporting
Governance & Ethics
 Business Ethics
 Code of Conduct
 Corporate Governance
42 www.africanbarrickgold.com ABG’s economic contribution
Direct economic contribution
Direct economic contribution is made up of the economic value we add by 
paying our employees, governments, suppliers, shareholders, contractors 
and communities. However, our true economic contribution is far greater 
once the greater effects of our presence is considered. These include the 
indirect effects of people spending their wages, governments distributing 
tax and royalty revenues, and neighbouring communities using the 
infrastructure developed for our operations. 
We contribute to the economic growth of our host communities, regions and countries 
in a number of ways to assist the progression of sustainable socio-economic development. 
DIRECT ECONOMIC CONTRIBUTION
%
-40
-20
0
20
40
60
80
100
Employees
(net of tax)
Available for
reinvestment
Suppliers,
contractors and
communities
Dividends
Interest and
non-controlling
shareholders
Taxes and
government
royalties
2011
2012
T axation contribution
The table below shows the total of all tax payments for each of the main 
countries where we have operations or projects. The distribution of taxes 
paid by the Group reflects the geographical spread of our business. The 
majority of our taxes are paid in Tanzania, this being the location of our 
operating mines, followed by South Africa. Although ABG’s headquarters 
are in London, only a small proportion of our operations are located in 
the UK. A large proportion of our administrative, finance and technical 
support functions are located in South Africa. Please refer to the 
government relations discussion provided as part of the Chief Executive 
Officer’s statement for information regarding developments affecting 
royalty payments during the year. 
(US$’000) Taxes borne
Taxes 
collected Subtotal
Taxes 
refunded 
Net 
payments to 
governments 
Tanzania 99,658 54,991 154,649 (4,500) 150,149
South Africa 1,541 5,712 7,253 (1,146) 6,107
Other 1,656 2,381 4,037 (868) 3,169
Total 102,85563,084165,939(6,514)159,425
2011 NET TAX CONTRIBUTION
(US$m)
Corporate income tax 39
Royalty – government 33
Indirect taxes (VAT and fuel levies) (15)
Payroll taxes (inc. social security) 72
Other taxes (inc. WHT, stamp duties,
environmental levies 15
$144
2012 NET TAX CONTRIBUTION
(US$m)
Corporate income tax 0
Royalty – government 40
Indirect taxes (VAT and fuel levies) 17
Payroll taxes (inc. social security) 75
Other taxes (inc. WHT, stamp duties,
environmental levies 27
$159
ABG’s total direct economic contribution was US$1,073 million in 2012 (US$1,063 million in 2011).
Of this, our net taxation contribution was US$159 million (US$144 million in 2011).
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 43
Shareholder information Financial statements Overview Performance Governance Progress made under the  
ABG Maendeleo Fund
Education
Supporting projects that increase access to 
education is a primary objective of the ABG 
Maendeleo Fund. Our core projects focus on 
increasing educational infrastructure, through 
the building and renovation of schools, 
providing core supplies, such as books and 
equipment, and providing scholarships and 
training opportunities for students and 
members of the teaching profession. 
Key projects 
supported in 2012
10
Key projects 
supported in 2012
16
Key projects 
supported in 2012
11
Amount invested  
in 2012
US$0.6million
Amount invested  
in 2012
US$1.5million
Amount invested  
in 2012
US$1.5million
Community development 
We support community economic development 
through training and employment initiatives 
and local trading arrangements. We use local 
suppliers and businesses wherever possible 
for our operations, and support training 
programmes that aim to enhance skill sets 
within communities. 
Healthcare 
We support access to healthcare through 
investment in a wide range of projects, including 
projects that build and strengthen local healthcare 
infrastructure, projects that increase healthcare 
capacities through training and development, the 
sponsorship of international surgical missions 
and by supporting a range of initiatives aimed 
at helping to combat core infectious diseases, 
namely malaria, HIV/AIDs, and tuberculosis.
We established the ABG Maendeleo Fund in 2011 as part of 
our commitment to promoting sustainable development in 
Tanzania. ABG aims to commit US$10 million per year to 
the fund, making it the largest community development fund 
of its kind in Tanzania. We use the fund to support all of our 
community investment programmes. Funding priority is 
given to investments that support community development 
and capacity building, access to health, education and water 
and environment projects within communities surrounding 
our operations. 
Since its inception in 2011, the ABG Maendeleo Fund has approved 
funding for projects amounting to approximately US$7.4 million. Of this 
amount, US$3.6 million was invested in projects during 2012. We invested 
US$1.4 million for projects supporting North Mara local communities, 
US$0.5 million for projects supporting Buzwagi local communities, 
US$0.1 million in projects that support Bulyanhulu local communities 
and US$0.3 million for projects supporting communities in the vicinity 
of Tulawaka. We also invested US$1.3 million in projects sponsored at 
a corporate level. The majority of commitments relate to projects that 
support community development and access to healthcare and education.
In addition to local initiatives, during the year we commenced sponsorship 
of a regional programme to fund the provision of additional school desks 
and other equipment to schools. The project entitled “ A desk for every 
child” , aims at increasing school capacities to ultimately increase 
opportunities for access to education in ABG local communities. 
Ultimately, we aim to contribute 5,000 new school desks to this project. 
Go online to find all the projects www.africanbarrickgold.com
Corporate responsibility continued
44 www.africanbarrickgold.com Community relations
The development of social management plans, which will 
act as the principal tool for the management of social 
performance across all ABG operations going forward, was 
a core focus for 2012. During the year we agreed the form of 
social management plan for use at North Mara and Buzwagi, 
both of which will be implemented in 2013. The social 
management plan for Bulyanhulu will be developed in 2013. 
Relevant components of a social management plan for 
Tulawaka will be included in the closure plan for this mine, 
given the current status of its mine life. 
We continued to progress objectives under the North Mara 
Co-Existence Plan throughout the year. The execution of 
Village Benefit Agreements and Village Benefit Implementation 
Agreements with all seven villages surrounding the mine 
during the first half of the year represented a significant step 
in the agreement and identification of key social legacy issues 
with these communities. The initial investment under these 
agreements was estimated at US$8.5 million over the first 
three years, and we estimate that it could take a further three 
years to fully implement them, with a similar financial 
commitment over the second three-year period. The form of 
investment in each of the villages differs, but includes the 
development of school infrastructure, improvements in 
access to water supply, the upgrading of the Sungu-Sungu 
Clinic, so that it may qualify for ongoing government hospital 
funding, rehabilitation of village offices, and improvements to 
road and electricity supply infrastructure. In addition to this, 
we have also committed approximately 51% of ABG’s total 
community investment for 2012 to projects in North Mara’s 
surrounding areas. The remaining components of the North 
Mara Co-Existence Plan have been combined with the North 
Mara social management plan and will be taken forward as 
part of this plan. 
Group-wide community investments in 2012 amounted to 
approximately US$14.4 million, almost a 95% increase on 
2011. Approved community investment projects principally 
focus on access to education, healthcare, water and the 
development of local infrastructure. 
We continued our support for CanEducate in 2012, which 
raised total funds of approximately CAD$127,000. These 
funds will be used to support approximately 1,461 students in 
local communities around Bulyanhulu, Buzwagi and, following 
extension of the programme during the year, North Mara, as 
well as an orphanage in Dar es Salaam. 
As part of our plans to enhance our social incident reporting 
practices, we developed new procedures for social and 
security risk assessments during the year. These procedures 
will be used to help to identify potential incidents, which 
pose significant social and security risks to our operating 
environment. Procedures are now at implementation stage 
and we aim to complete this across all operations by the 
end of 2013. 
A total of 443 new grievances were lodged under the ABG 
community grievance management and resolution procedure 
in 2012. The majority of new grievances continue to relate to 
historic land compensation matters at North Mara. 
Progress in 2012
 Execution of Village Benefit Agreements and 
Village Benefit Implementation Agreements 
with local communities at North Mara
 Development of social management plans  
for Buzwagi and North Mara
 Development of social and security  
risk assessments
Priorities for 2013
 Implementation of social management plans 
at Buzwagi and North Mara
 Development of a social management plan  
for Bulyanhulu 
 Further progression of social incident 
reporting, grievance and risk identification
BREAKDOWN OF NEW 
GRIEVANCES LODGED
(total number) 
 
12 11 10
Bulyanhulu 21
Buzwagi 23
North Mara 396
Tulawaka 3
443
TOTAL COMMUNITY 
INVESTMENT
(US$m) 
12 11 10
Bulyanhulu US$1.2
Buzwagi US$1.2
North Mara US$7.3
Tulawaka US$1.3
Corporate US$3.4
US$14.4
Case study: ABG social management plans
Social management plans, or SMPs as they are commonly referred to, are 
site specific framework plans that identify execution strategies for all social 
commitments identified and agreed for implementation as part of ABG’s 
community investment and development commitments. The formulation of 
SMPs seeks to ensure that social obligations assumed by each ABG operation 
are identified and agreed in a transparent manner to appropriately balance 
commitments and the requirements of our operating environment. SMPs are 
developed by each site in collaboration with a wide range of stakeholders, 
including local communities and government departments, in order to ensure 
that plans are objectively formulated. Once agreed, SMP implementation 
is monitored against specified key performance indicators and project 
implementation timetables. Compliance with SMPs is also evaluated as  
part of a social monitoring process conducted by government bodies.
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 45
Shareholder information Financial statements Overview Performance Governance Corporate responsibility continued
Employees
Turnover rates for our operations stabilised in 2012 at 14%, 
an improvement of 3% on 2011 turnover levels, and a notable 
achievement given the continued competition for qualified 
personnel across the mining industry generally. During the 
latter half of the year we experienced a spike in resignations, 
notably at Bulyanhulu, as a result of potential changes to 
Tanzanian pension legislation. We will continue to monitor 
developments in this area in 2013. We have continued to 
progress our commitment to the localisation of our 
workforce, with national employment levels amounting to 
91% of our operations’ workforce in 2012, a 2% improvement 
on 2011. 
We have further progressed training and development 
programmes throughout the year, increasing front line 
supervisor participation in our Supervisory Development 
Programme and high potential individuals’ participation in 
our Management Development Programme. Overall, 59% of 
Group employees participated in technical training courses 
during the year, compared to 56% in 2011. 
We employed 30 graduates from the Integrated Mining 
Technical Training (“IMTT”) programme in 2012, this being 
a vocational training programme developed by ABG in 
conjunction with other stakeholders within the Tanzanian 
commercial mining industry, in order to support and 
progress technical training for the mining sector. ABG 
currently sponsors 126 participants in the IMTT programme 
and reviews employment opportunities for programme 
graduates each year.
The industrial relations climate has been stable across our 
operations and we ended 2012 without any new material 
industrial relations actions being commenced at any of our 
operations. Overall approximately 41% of our national 
employees held union membership at year end, compared to 
48% in 2011. We continue to foster good relationships with 
the Tanzanian Mining and Construction Workers’ Union 
(“TAMICO”) at all of our operations and we are further 
progressing employee consultation initiatives as part of our 
employee communications practices. 
Progress in 2012
 The establishment of the ABG Talent Council to review 
succession planning and employee development requirements
 Progression of ABG capacity building initiatives to support 
employee localisation targets, particularly at senior level
 Improved employee consultation practices, including the 
establishment of workplace communication forums
Priorities for 2013
 Achieving a localisation target of 93% across our operations 
 Stabilising turnover of high potential individuals at 5% across 
our operations
 Making further enhancements to employee and industrial 
relations engagement processes
Case study:  
Supporting professional development
ABG operates a professional development 
education programme which provides 
sponsorship to individuals for professional 
studies. Richard Ojendo, Construction Manager 
at Buzwagi Mine, participated in this 
programme, receiving sponsorship for an MSc 
in Construction Project Management from 
Heriot-W att University, Edinburgh. He 
graduated with a master’s degree in November 
2012. The master’s programme focused on 
international best practice as regards the 
management of construction projects, helping 
Richard to further develop his knowledge and 
skills in this area, skills that will now be 
employed in the performance of his 
responsibilities at ABG.
GROUP WIDE 
TURNOVER
(percentage within 
operations) 
12 11 10
Bulyanhulu 12%
Buzwagi 15%
North Mara 13%
Tulawaka 24%
14%
91%
LOCALISATION OF 
WORKFORCE
(percentage of national 
workforce) 
12 11 10
Bulyanhulu 94%
Buzwagi 91%
North Mara 86%
Tulawaka 87%
UNION MEMBERSHIP
(percentage of national 
workforce) 
12 11 10
Bulyanhulu 46%
Buzwagi 31%
North Mara 34%
Tulawaka 54%
41%
46 www.africanbarrickgold.com Environment
We continued to enhance the ABG Group’s environmental 
and permitting management systems throughout the year in 
order to improve alignment with operational objectives. 
GHG emissions for the year equalled 359,458 metric tonnes 
of which 71,010 metric tonnes represented indirect emissions 
and 288,448 metric tonnes represented direct emissions. 
Overall, this is a 24% increase on GHG emissions from 2011. 
The increase is primarily due to increased self generation of 
power at each of our sites, notably at Buzwagi, and increases 
in the size of mobile fleet across our operations. We continue 
to review feasible options to improve GHG emission levels in 
the context of the reliability of grid power supply. In addition, 
we are in the process of reviewing appropriate targets in the 
context of the new mandatory GHG emission reporting 
requirements that will be introduced in 2013 for UK listed 
companies and will provide an update on this in due course. 
Our ability to progress efficiencies in energy use and 
conservation initiatives continues to be impacted by ongoing 
interruptions to electricity supply in Tanzania. In 2012 we 
used 592 megajoules of energy per tonne of ore processed, 
a 17% increase on 2011 levels. Our energy profile for the year 
comprised 82% diesel use, 17% electricity use, with our use of 
explosives, propane, petrol and other fuels remaining largely 
equivalent to 2011. Key energy conservation projects 
implemented in 2012 included the installation of a plant 
efficiency programme at Bulyanhulu. 
In 2012 we used 7.4 million cubic metres of water across our 
operations, of which 4.3 million cubic metres represents fresh 
water. Overall our use of fresh water remained in line with 
2011 (4.3 cubic meters in 2011). In addition, we improved 
efficiencies in water use generally in 2012, using 550 litres of 
water per tonne of ore milled, a decrease of 3% on 2011 levels 
(568 litres of water per tonne milled). 
We continued to progress our hazardous materials 
management practices throughout the year with the 
development of non-mineral waste management plans for all 
of our operations. These plans will advise sites on actions 
required in order to comply with Tanzanian legislation and 
satisfy good waste management practices. In addition, 
Bulyanhulu obtained full recertification under the 
International Cyanide Management Code, in line with key 
priorities set for the year. We have also continued to progress 
Buzwagi’s initial certification under this code, in conjunction 
with the ongoing commissioning of the Buzwagi detoxification 
plant. We now aim to complete this certification process in 
the first half of 2013.
We are continuing to work with the relevant authorities to 
progress the lifting of the Environmental Protection Order 
(“EPO”) at North Mara in order to be able to discharge water. 
NEMC, the Tanzanian environmental regulator, has recently 
visited the operation for a final review and we are now 
awaiting their approval.
ENERGY USED PER 
TONNE OF ORE 
PROCESSED
(Megajoules)
12 11 10
Bulyanhulu 797
Buzwagi 542
North Mara 507
Tulawaka 1,412
592
TOTAL WATER USED
(in litres used per tonne 
of ore produced)
12 11 10
Bulyanhulu 973
Buzwagi 479
North Mara 459
Tulawaka 896
550
Progress in 2012 
 Obtaining Bulyanhulu’s recertification under the International Cyanide 
Management Code 
 Improving water usage efficiencies by 3%
 Completion of closure plan for Tulawaka
Priorities for 2013
 Obtaining initial certification of Buzwagi under the International Cyanide 
Management Code
 Completing the commissioning of the North Mara W ater Treatment Plant 
for the lifting of the EPO and obtaining a discharge permit for the site
 Completing the implementation of all non-mining waste management plans.
Case study: Environmental rehabilitation
The Gonzara area is a natural wetland area in 
the vicinity of the North Mara mine. This area 
was adversely affected by soil contamination 
in 2009 as a result of acid rock drainage and 
discharge from seepage containment ponds 
which occurred after trespassers entered the 
mine premises, vandalised, and in some cases 
stole, the plastic pond liners designed to prevent 
such seepage occurring. ABG rectified this by 
excavating and replacing the contaminated soils, 
lime dosing the wetland area, installing 
defensive trenches and sumps to cut off any 
further acid drainage or seepage and concluding 
a re-vegetation exercise of the affected areas. The 
results of this exercise were monitored from 
2009 to 2012 and showed ongoing restoration 
of vegetation, the return of native wildlife to 
the area and, ultimately, the restoration of a 
functioning ecosystem.
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 47
Shareholder information Financial statements Overview Performance Governance Health and safety
We achieved an ABG Group-wide total reportable injury 
frequency rate (“TRIFR”) of 0.83 for 2012, a 30% improvement 
on 2011, far exceeding the 10% improvement target set for 
the year. We will look to further progress this in 2013 and aim 
to improve 2012 achievements by an additional 10%. As part 
of our review of health and safety metrics, we have decided to 
focus solely on TRIFR going forward, given that this captures 
all injuries in the workplace and thus a wider range of 
incidents than those captured by monitoring lost time injury 
frequency rates alone. Despite improvements made overall 
in ABG Group TRIFR, we regretfully suffered two fatalities 
across our operations in 2012. The first involved a contractor 
employee at Buzwagi who was involved in a vehicle related 
incident. The second involved an ABG employee at Tulawaka 
who was involved in a mobile equipment accident. Both of 
these incidents have been investigated and the necessary 
corrective action taken. 
We continued to develop and implement critical risk 
standards throughout the year, focused on the promotion 
of health and safety best practice across specific mining 
processes and procedures. For 2012 we developed five new 
critical risk standards in the following areas: Vehicles and 
Driving, Confined Space Entry, Hazardous Energy Isolation, 
Working at Heights, and Ground Control. The Ground 
Control standard was fully implemented during the year. In 
2013 we will look to complete the implementation of the 
remaining standards and will look to develop additional 
standards for Contractor Safety Management, Cranes and 
Lifting, and Critical Infrastructure Maintenance. 
We continued to develop ABG health standards throughout 
the year, which are designed to prevent industrial illness 
across our operations. In 2012 we developed health standards 
for the treatment of silicosis, cyanide poisoning and 
anaphylaxis, all of which are currently under implementation. 
In 2013 we will look to complete implementation of these 
standards and develop additional standards for the treatment 
of noise induced hearing loss and respiratory protection. 
We also continued to progress community health impact 
assessments, which assess the potential impact of our 
operations on public health, throughout the year. Ultimately, 
this process aims to create community health management 
plans for all of our operations. In 2012 we completed 
consultation processes for the creation of a community health 
management plan for Buzwagi and we are in the process of 
finalising plans for North Mara and Tulawaka. We will look 
to complete these processes in 2013. Community health 
impact assessments for Bulyanhulu are scheduled to 
commence in 2014. 
Corporate responsibility continued
Progress in 2012 
 Achieving a 30% improvement in ABG 
Group TRIFR
 Developing five critical risk standards to 
support mining processes and procedures
 Developing three health standards to combat 
occupational illness in the workplace
 Creating a community health management 
plan for Buzwagi
Priorities for 2013
 Achieving a further 10% improvement in  
ABG Group TRIFR
 Completing the implementation of our existing 
five critical risk standards and developing three 
new critical risk standards
 Developing two new health standards to combat 
occupational illness in the workplace
 Completing the creation of community health 
management plans for North Mara and T ulawaka
Case study: Visible Felt Leadership and Courageous Leadership
The Visible Felt Leadership and Courageous Leadership programmes are the 
primary training tools used throughout our organisation to promote health and 
safety practices. Programme objectives focus on ways in which leaders within 
our organisation can improve interactions with employees in the workplace 
in order to promote and teach ABG’s vision and values to help drive health 
and safety performance. In 2012 we set minimum targets for management 
interaction across the workforce in order to promote the standards set by these 
programmes, all of which were largely exceeded. 
TOTAL REPORTABLE
INJURY FREQUENCY 
RATE
(frequency rate)
12 11 10
Bulyanhulu 1.02
Buzwagi 0.57
North Mara 0.71
Tulawaka 1.38
0.83
48 www.africanbarrickgold.com Security and Human Rights
We made a number of enhancements to security and safety infrastructure 
across our operations during the year, further improving our operating 
environment. At North Mara we completed the installation of the safety 
wall at the Nyabirama pit and upgrades to gold plant security mechanisms 
and security personnel accommodation. At Bulyanhulu we commenced 
security compliance reviews against our Gold Security Standard and 
completed the installation of new security premises for security personnel. 
At Buzwagi we commenced the installation of additional surveillance 
equipment, something which will continue into 2013, and completed the 
installation of crisis control centres. We also installed additional 
surveillance equipment at Tulawaka. 
We continued to progress training as regards our security practices and 
expectations for individual performance of security related duties 
throughout the year. Overall we assisted with the training of approximately 
6,367 individuals on the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human 
rights, 6,569 individuals on use of force practices, and 5,927 individuals on 
the detection and prevention of sexual harassment. Participants in ABG 
training programmes included members of the Tanzanian Policing Unit 
assigned to provide security to our operations, ABG security employees 
and contractors and community watchmen. 
From a governance perspective, we saw a noticeable improvement across 
a number of areas relevant to operational security risk assessments and 
audits, including compliance with our Gold Security Standards, the 
Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights, use of force 
protocols, investigations and use of personal protective equipment. 
During the year we decided to report security related total reportable 
injury frequency rate as a subsection of overall total reportable injury 
frequency rate, as part of increased focus on the monitoring of security 
incidents impacting our operations. For the year, the security related total 
reportable injury frequency rate was 0.16. In this regard, the majority of 
security incidents continue to occur at North Mara. We experienced a 
spike in illegal mining activity and related incidents of trespass during the 
year, particularly at North Mara in the latter half of the year; however, this 
has now returned to normalised levels.
In the context of human rights, in addition to Voluntary Principles 
training, we continued to progress the roll out of our human rights policy 
and compliance programme, notably with the further implementation 
of reporting and investigations procedures for suspected human 
rights violations. 
In conjunction with ABG training initiatives, Search for Common Ground 
(“SFCG”) continued to progress its human rights training and conflict 
resolution programme, building on progress made in 2011. During the 
year, SFCG held 95 training sessions with communities surrounding ABG 
mine sites, involving 1,428 community members overall, in order to 
progress understanding of the Voluntary Principles on Security and 
Human Rights. In addition to this, SFCG held 60 youth conflict 
management sessions, in which 1,868 community members participated, 
55 sessions focused on conflict management as it affects women, in which 
1,570 individuals participated, and 76 participatory theatre productions. 
A number of football tournaments, aimed at relationship building across 
ABG’s stakeholder base, were also held. All of these initiatives aim to 
progress discussion, communication and understandings as regards the 
effect of conflict and conflict related issues within communities. 
In 2013, we will continue to develop our security and safety training and 
systems. In addition, we aim to progress wider stakeholder engagement on 
the development of enhanced law and order frameworks for our operating 
environment, in particular with regional and national Tanzanian 
authorities and law enforcement bodies.
Progress in 2012
 Completing enhancements to security systems across all 
ABG operations
 Increasing training on the Voluntary Principles on Security 
and Human Rights across ABG stakeholders
 Progressing implementation of our human rights 
compliance programme
Priorities for 2013
 Maintaining training levels on the Voluntary Principles on 
Security and Human Rights
 Progressing dialogue on law and order, particularly at North Mara, 
with our wider stakeholder group
Case study: W orking towards effective conflict management
In 2011 we established a partnership with Search for Common Ground, 
an internationally recognised NGO in the field of conflict resolution, to 
help strengthen trust and improve collaboration between ABG operations 
and local communities in the context of conflict management, particularly 
at North Mara. The ultimate objective of our partnership is to find 
culturally appropriate ways to constructively deal with conflicts in order to 
mitigate conflict escalation. SFCG use a number of methods of community 
engagement in order to progress understanding of conflict resolutions. In 
addition to general community training programmes, SFCG’s activities 
include youth conflict training management sessions aimed at younger 
members of communities, which focus on the dangers of illegal mining 
and mine site intrusions; and training sessions specifically for women, 
focused on identifying pertinent issues such as harassment and other 
unacceptable actions against women. Other engagement tools include 
the creation and distribution of educational materials, such as comics, to 
discuss topics including the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human 
Rights, UN guidelines on use of force by law enforcement officials, 
universal human rights and sexual harassment. SFCG also uses theatre 
productions in order to highlight conflict scenarios in context and 
sporting activities, such as football tournaments involving players from 
local communities, the authorities and members of the ABG workforce, 
which aim to build relations and teamwork.
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 49
Shareholder information Financial statements Overview Performance Governance RISK MANAGEMENT ACROSS THE BUSINESS
BOARD
Ultimately responsible for effectiveness of internal control systems
AUDIT COMMITTEE 
Plays a key role in reviewing effectiveness
defines ABG’s risk 
appetite and tolerance
has overall responsibility 
for risk management compliance  
approves all key components 
of risk management and internal 
control systems
reviews effectiveness of internal control systems
reviews all material findings of the internal 
and external audit functions
approves the annual internal and external audit plan
reviews effectiveness of financial reporting risk 
management systems
a critical role in advising 
and producing guidance 
on risk-related matters
assists management 
in conducting risk studies
reviews risk 
profiles
interpretation 
of risk data
SENIOR LEADERSHIP TEAM
Accountable for the design and implementation of risk management processes and 
the consistent application of risk management systems
GENERAL MANAGERS AND FUNCTIONAL HEADS
Ensure risk management compliance is embodied in ABG’s culture, practices and operations
INTERNAL AUDIT FUNCTION 
Assists the Board and Management in executing their responsibilities
EHS&S COMMITTEE 
Responsible for environmental, security, 
health & safety systems
reviews the effectiveness of ABG’s environmental management 
programmes and systems, security systems, health and 
safety systems and social performance
Risk management
Effective risk management requires collective responsibility and engagement across our organisation. For this reason, our risk 
management practices are structured across our governance framework to ensure that the Board, certain Board committees, 
the Senior Leadership T eam, General Managers and Functional Heads are accountable for identifying, mitigating and managing 
risk in accordance with the responsibilities of their function and their role within our organisation. 
Committed to effective risk management
50 www.africanbarrickgold.com Risk management 
The successful delivery of ABG’s strategy depends on our ability to tolerate 
and manage risks appropriately in a manner that does not jeopardise the 
interests of our stakeholders. 
For this reason, we conduct risk assessments throughout the year as part 
of business performance and operational reviews, including:
 Quarterly business reviews
 Group level risk workshops to consider overall strategic risks to 
the business
 Operational risk workshops focused on specific operational risks 
in the context of each of our operations
 Functional risk workshops to assess key matters which could affect 
underlying support functions, such as treasury, tax and technical 
services, required for our long-term business plans
 Monthly operational and financial performance reporting
Our annual business plan and budgeting process incorporate risks 
identified through the above reviews. Residual risks are then identified 
based on the effectiveness of existing controls and mitigating action plans 
prepared for all high impact areas. When compiled, all risk assessments 
are assessed by the Senior Leadership Team in the first instance, the Audit 
and EHS&S committees, where relevant, and ultimately form the basis of 
a detailed Board review. Further details as regards the outcome of the 
Board’s internal control and risk management review for the year is 
provided on page 63.
2012 Risk Review 
Generally, the overall makeup of our principal risks has not significantly 
changed from 2011. However, during the year there have been changes 
in certain risk profiles as a result of developments in our operating 
environment and continuing uncertainties and trends within the wider 
global economy and/or the mining industry. Where appropriate, risk 
ratings have been reviewed against risk management controls and other 
mitigating factors. In this regard, we have removed risks relating to health 
and infectious diseases from the 2012 principal risks table, given that our 
controls in these areas continue to mitigate potential impacts of such risks 
to an acceptable level. In addition: 
 Increases in operating costs and capital expenditure: due to continued 
industry cost pressures and increased cash costs at our operations, risks 
relating to increases in capital expenditure as well as increases in 
operating costs, principally labour, capital equipment and energy costs, 
remain high. However, as a result of the ongoing implementation of cost 
controls and the intended cost control plans contained within the 
ongoing Operational Review our overall risk rating for these areas 
remains unchanged. 
 Power supply: we have continued to invest in power generation 
capabilities throughout the year to help mitigate the effects of stoppages 
and interruptions. Therefore, although we have continued to experience 
issues in electricity supply during the year as a result of ongoing supply 
issues throughout Tanzania, our risk rating as regards interruptions in 
key utilities remains unchanged.
 Recruitment and retention of qualified personnel: as a result of 
continued competition for qualified personnel across the mining 
industry and the uncertainty created within our workforce as a result 
of Barrick’s discussions with China National Gold, we have decided to 
maintain a high risk rating for the retention and recruitment of our 
skilled workforce. In addition, further developments affecting pension 
practices in Tanzania could produce further adverse effects on the 
retention of certain long-term employees.
 Political, legal and regulatory developments: we achieved a number 
of positive outcomes as regards our operating framework in Tanzania, 
namely our adoption of an additional voluntary 1% royalty going 
forward, the renewal of our Special Mining Licences at North Mara and 
the grant of certain PAF permits to support this operation. However, 
our ability to progress our government relations strategy over the latter 
half of the year was impeded, and in certain instances negatively 
impacted, by the prolonged Offer Period to which ABG was subject. 
We have now resumed efforts in this area, such that our risk outlook for 
political and regulatory developments currently remains unchanged.
 Risks relating to security, trespass and vandalism: we have continued 
to strengthen our security systems throughout the year and refine our 
security plans. Although we experienced a spike in illegal mining 
activity and related incidents of trespass during the latter half of the 
year, particularly at North Mara, this has now returned to normalised 
levels, such that our outlook on security risks remains largely unchanged. 
 Taxation: During the year a revised Finance Act was introduced in 
Tanzania that is inconsistent with previous agreements reached between 
us and the Tanzanian authorities on the treatment of V AT relief. We 
continue to progress discussions on these inconsistencies in order to 
achieve a resolution in line with what we had previously agreed under 
a memorandum of settlement with the Tanzanian Revenue Authority 
for the treatment of certain outstanding indirect tax refunds in respect 
of fuel levies and value added tax. ABG’s financial condition may be 
adversely affected if we do not achieve a successful resolution to 
these discussions.
We have also noted the following as additional risks to the 2012 principal 
risks table, following certain strategic and operational developments and/
or continuing developments in the mining industry: 
 Land acquisitions: due to the potential ramifications of increases in the 
cost of land acquisitions to support the expansion and continuation of 
our current mining activities and the potential impacts that delays in 
completing such acquisitions may have on our operations, particularly 
at North Mara, we have decided to introduce land acquisitions as a 
stand-alone principal risk.
 Changes affecting the majority shareholding: although discussions 
between Barrick and China National Gold did not ultimately result in 
any transaction affecting ABG shares, we are mindful of the impact 
that uncertainty created in the context of any change in the majority 
ownership structure could have on ABG and its operations and the 
need to flag this risk to our wider stakeholder base.
The following table sets out the principal risks affecting the ABG Group in 
more detail. In addition to those risks stated, there may be additional risks 
unknown to ABG and other risks, currently believed to be immaterial, that 
could turn out to be material to the Group. These risks, whether they 
materialise individually or simultaneously, could significantly affect the 
Group’s business and financial results. In addition, ABG could also be 
affected by risks relating to the gold mining industry generally and the 
risks and hazards involved in the business of mining metals, which are 
largely outside its control. Lastly, due to the very nature of risks, mitigating 
factors stated should not be viewed as assurances that actions taken or 
planned will be wholly effective. Additional discussions of certain trends 
and uncertainties that may affect our operations are provided as part of 
our Operating review.
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 51
Shareholder information Financial statements Overview Performance Governance Risk Key management responsibility 
Strategic risks
Single country risk
All of the ABG Group’s revenue is derived from production at its four facilities in Tanzania. In order to ensure continued growth, the 
Group needs to identify new resources and development opportunities through exploration and acquisition targets.
Vice President, Exploration and  
Head of Corporate Development  
and Investor Relations
Reserves and resources estimates
The ABG Group’s stated mineral reserves and resources are estimates based on a range of assumptions, including geological, metallurgical  
and technical factors; there can be no assurance that the anticipated tonnages or grades will be achieved.
Chief Operating Officer and 
Vice President, Exploration
Changes affecting the majority shareholding
Members of the Barrick Group hold approximately 74% of the issued share capital of ABG, making Barrick the majority shareholder of 
the ABG Group. As a result of this shareholding, Barrick is able to exercise significant influence over all matters requiring shareholder 
approval, including the election of Directors, the approval of corporate transactions, the issuance of Ordinary Shares and other equity 
securities and the payment of dividends. Furthermore, the concentration of ownership may: (i) delay or deter a change of control of the 
ABG Group; (ii) deprive shareholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their shares as part of a sale of the ABG Group; and (iii) 
affect the market price and liquidity of the shares of ABG.
Chief Executive Officer
Financial risks
Commodity prices
The ABG Group’s financial performance is highly dependent upon the price of gold and, to a lesser extent, the price of copper and silver.  
The prices of these commodities are affected by a number of factors beyond ABG’s control. Rapid fluctuations in pricing of these 
commodities will have a corresponding impact on ABG’s financial position.
Chief Financial Officer and  
Vice President, Finance
Costs and capital expenditure
ABG operates a cyclical business where fluctuations in operating cash flow and capital expenditure may adversely affect ABG’s financial 
position. In addition, industry cost pressures, notably as regards labour, capital equipment and energy, may affect ABG’s cash flow and 
capital expenditure.
Chief Financial Officer and  
Vice President, Finance
External risks
Political, legal and regulatory developments
The ABG Group’s exploration, development and operational activities are subject to extensive laws and regulations governing various 
matters in the jurisdictions in which it operates. Changes to existing law and regulations, or more stringent application or interpretation 
of current laws and regulations by relevant government authorities, could adversely affect the ABG Group’s operations and development 
projects. In particular, as ABG’s revenue is currently derived exclusively from the production from its facilities in Tanzania, its business 
operations and financial condition may be adversely affected by legal and regulatory changes and developments in Tanzania, or if existing 
mineral development agreements are not honoured by the Tanzanian government.
The Group may also be adversely affected by changes in global economic conditions, political and/or economic instability in Tanzania or 
any of its surrounding countries.
Vice President, Corporate Affairs 
and General Counsel
T axation reviews
The ABG Group’s financial condition may be adversely affected in the event of the introduction of revised royalty or corporate tax 
regimes in Tanzania that go beyond agreements reached and contained in ABG’s Mineral Development Agreements.
ABG’s financial condition may also be adversely affected if it is unsuccessful in its current appeals and/or discussions with the TRA and/
or the Ministry of Finance regarding outstanding tax assessments and unresolved tax disputes, particularly as regards the application of 
V AT relief to the Group’s operations.
Chief Financial Officer and  
Vice President, Finance
Risk management continued
52 www.africanbarrickgold.com Mitigation/comment Progress made in 2012
Potential 
impact
Change  
from 2011 Further information
ABG assesses a wide range of potential growth opportunities to build  
on its existing portfolio, including external acquisition and development 
opportunities outside Tanzania to maximise growth potential.
 Continuing evaluation of corporate 
development opportunities across  
the region
 Completion of acquisition of Aviva Mining 
(Kenya) Limited
High A review of exploration activities 
is set out in the Exploration review 
on pages 28 to 33.
ABG management has implemented a number of processes to 
continuously monitor and evaluate the Company’s life of mine plans 
and production targets. The ABG Group’s resources and reserves are 
updated annually. ABG follows NI 43-101 of the Canadian Institute of 
Mining Metallurgy and Petroleum when calculating its mineral reserves 
and resources.
 Reserves and Resources committee in 
place to support Senior Leadership Team 
and Board
 Commencement of Operational Review, 
including review of management processes 
for the monitoring of production targets 
and long-term life of mine planning
High Details of the ABG Group’s 
reserves and resources are set out 
on pages 88 to 91.
Details of ABG’s management 
committees are provided on  
page 61. 
As part of arrangements entered into prior to ABG’s IPO, ABG entered 
into agreements with Barrick for the management of relationships 
between the ABG Group and the Barrick Group. Key to this is the 
relationship agreement, the principal purpose of which is to ensure that 
ABG is capable of carrying on its business independently of the Barrick 
Group and that transactions and relationships with the Barrick Group 
are conducted at arm’s length and on normal commercial terms.
 Establishment of temporary Transaction 
committee of the Board in connection with 
the Offer Period applied to the Company in 
connection with Barrick’s discussions with 
China National Gold
High Further details as regards 
discussions relating to the majority 
shareholding are provided as part of 
the Chairman and Chief Executive 
Officer’s statements. Details 
regarding the relationship agreement 
are provided within the Corporate 
governance report on page 63.
ABG’s strategic objective is to provide maximum exposure to the price  
of gold. As such, a no-gold-hedging policy has been adopted. ABG  
has implemented a number of processes to assess its exposure to other 
commodity price fluctuations. ABG has also entered into hedging 
facilities in connection with copper, silver and diesel price fluctuations 
and is reviewing appropriate hedging facilities to assist in the 
management of exposure to other commodities.
 Entry into hedging facilities for copper, 
silver and diesel
High Further information is set out 
in the market overview provided 
as part of the Financial review on 
pages 35 to 36.
ABG management continuously monitors operational costs and capital 
expenditure. It holds a conservative balance sheet and has a rigorous  
cash flow planning process to mitigate liquidity risks. It also has a 
commercial credit facility to support general working capital purposes, 
which remains undrawn.
 Availability of revolving credit facility 
for working capital purposes
 Arrangements in place to hedge South 
African rand exposure
 Completed project financing for 
Bulyanhulu CIL Expansion project
High Further information is set out in 
the Financial review generally and 
as part of the Chief Executive 
Officer’s statement.
The Group assesses legal and political risks as part of its evaluation of 
potential projects. It actively monitors legal and political developments  
in countries in which its existing operations are located.
The Group actively engages in dialogue with the Tanzanian  
government and legal policy makers to discuss all key legal and  
regulatory developments applicable to its operations, in particular 
developments in connection with the Tanzanian Mining Act and 
applicable environmental legislation.
 Renewal of Special Mining Licences 
at North Mara
 Grant of certain waste rock permits 
at North Mara
 Grant of all government approvals for 
Bulyanhulu CIL Expansion Project
High Further information is provided 
on page 10.
The ABG Group has entered into a series of ongoing discussions with  
the Tanzanian government with the goal of resolving outstanding tax 
disputes and recovering amounts owed and continues to review taxation 
matters generally on an ongoing basis.
 Movement to additional voluntary 1% 
royalty rate
 Memorandum of Understanding executed 
for the treatment of certain outstanding 
indirect tax refunds in respect of fuel levies 
and V AT
High Further information is provided as 
part of the Financial review.
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 53
Shareholder information Financial statements Overview Performance Governance Risk Key management responsibility 
External risks continued
Utilities supply
Power stoppages, fluctuations and disruptions in electrical power supply or other utilities could adversely affect Group operations and 
impact its financial condition. In addition, an increase in power costs would make production more costly and alternative power sources 
may not be available. 
Chief Executive Officer,  
Chief Operating Officer  
and General Managers
Community relations
A failure to adequately engage or manage relations with local communities and stakeholders could have a direct impact on the ABG 
Group’s ability to operate at its existing operations.
Chief Operating Officer,  
General Counsel,  
Vice President, Corporate Affairs,  
Senior Director for Environment  
and Community Relations
Land acquisitions
Progression of the ABG Group’s mining activities is, in certain instances, dependent upon the ability of the Group to complete additional 
land acquisitions required to support current mine plans. Increases in the cost of land acquisitions required to support the expansion and 
continuation of our current mining activities and/or delays in completing such acquisitions could have a material adverse effect on 
operating conditions, particularly at North Mara.
Chief Executive Officer, Chief Operating 
Officer, Vice President, Corporate Affairs 
and General Counsel
Operational risks
V ariations to production and cost estimates
The ABG Group’s actual production and costs may vary from estimates of future production, cash costs and capital costs for a variety 
of reasons, including actual ore mined varying from estimates of grade, tonnage, dilution and metallurgical and other characteristics; 
short-term operating factors relating to ore reserves; revisions to mine plans; risks and hazards associated with mining; natural 
phenomena; and unexpected labour shortages or strikes. Costs of production may also be affected by a variety of factors, including: 
changing waste-to-ore ratios; ore grade metallurgy; labour costs; the cost of commodities; general inflationary pressures; and currency 
exchange rates. Failure to achieve production or cost estimates could have an adverse impact on the ABG Group’s future business, 
cash flows, profitability, results of operations and financial condition.
Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial 
Officer, Chief Operating Officer and 
General Managers
Loss of critical processes
The ABG Group’s mining, processing, development and exploration activities depend on the continuous availability of its operational  
infrastructure, in addition to reliable utilities and water supplies and access to roads. Any failure or unavailability of operational 
infrastructure, for example through equipment failure or disruption, could adversely affect production output and/or impact exploration 
and development activities. Deficiencies in core supply chain availability could also adversely affect Group operations.
Chief Operating Officer  
and General Managers
Environmental hazards and rehabilitation
The ABG Group’s activities are subject to environmental hazards as a result of the processes and chemicals used in its extraction and 
production methods. The Group may be liable for losses and costs associated with environmental hazards at its operations, have its 
licences and permits withdrawn or suspended as a result of such hazards, or may be forced to undertake extensive clean-up and 
remediation action in respect of environmental hazards and incidents relating to its operations. Any such action could have a material 
adverse effect on the Group’s business, operations and financial condition.
Chief Operating Officer, Senior Director 
for Environment and Community 
Relations, and General Managers
Employee, contractor and industrial relations
The ABG Group’ s business significantly depends upon its ability to recruit and retain qualified personnel, in particular members o f the 
Senior Leadership T eam and its skilled team of engineers and geologists. The loss of skilled workers and a failure to recruit and train 
equivalent replacements may negatively impact on ABG’ s operations and production. The ABG Group’ s business also depends on good 
relations generally with its employees and employee representative groups, such as trade unions. A breakdown in these relations could 
result in a decrease in production levels and/or increased costs, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on the Group’ s business, 
results of operations and financial condition. 
In addition to employees, ABG depends on certain key contractors. Interruptions in contracted services could result in production 
slowdowns and/or stoppages.
Vice President, 
Organisational Effectiveness
Security , trespass and vandalism
ABG faces certain risks in dealing with trespass, theft, corruption and vandalism at its mines and unauthorised small-scale mining in 
proximity to and on specific areas covered by ABG’s exploration and mining licences. The impact of such risks may have an adverse effect 
upon ABG’s operations and financial condition.
Chief Operating Officer, General 
Counsel and Director of Security
Risk management continued
54 www.africanbarrickgold.com Mitigation/comment Progress made in 2012
Potential 
impact
Change  
from 2011 Further information
Capacity of back-up or alternative power generation at all of our 
operations has been increased to maintain critical systems.
 Continuing upgrades to back-up power  
at operations.
 Ongoing review of alternate power supplies.
High Further information on the status 
of power supply is provided as 
part of the Chief Executive 
Officer’s statement and the 
Operating review. 
In addition to existing corporate social responsibility programmes,  
the Group is implementing a number of initiatives to improve and  
build on local community relations, and continues to assess and, where 
necessary, increase its social management team’s capacity generally.
 Development of social management plans 
for Buzwagi and North Mara.
 Progression of funding initiatives under 
the ABG Maendeleo Fund.
High Details of the Group’s community 
relations activities and community 
investments are set out in the 
Corporate responsibility section.
The ABG Group assesses land acquisition requirements as part of its 
review of life of mine planning and reviews conducted as part of 
regulatory and legal matters.
 Establishment of land acquisition 
working group.
High A discussion of land acquisition 
requirements in the context 
of North Mara is provided as 
part of the Chief Executive 
Officer’s statement.
ABG’s management has implemented a number of processes to 
continuously monitor and evaluate ABG’s production and cost  
estimates and targets.
 Commencement of Operational Review, 
including a review of management  
processes for the monitoring of production 
targets and long-term life of mine planning.
High Further discussion regarding 
production and cost estimates 
and the objectives of the 
Operational Review is provided 
as part of the Chief Executive 
Officer’s statement.
Management assesses the critical components of ABG’ s operational 
infrastructure on a continuous basis. In addition to external resources 
and, when required, ABG has established channels through the support of 
the Barrick Group network to address critical disruptions to its technical 
services and plant equipment. Supply chain management and support are 
assessed and reviewed against business requirements on a regular basis.
 Further upgrades to inventory management 
procedures and critical spares procedures.
High Further discussion regarding 
inventory movements during the 
year are provided as part of the 
Financial and Operating reviews.
The Group has committed itself to the application of global standards  
and implementing relevant International Council on Mining and  
Metal practices, and the International Cyanide Code standards. 
Compliance with applicable environmental standards is assessed  
on a continuous basis. Remediation and rehabilitation costs are  
assessed and reviewed annually.
 Bulyanhulu re-certification under the 
International Cyanide Code.
 Development of non-mineral waste 
management plans.
 Continuing development of actions  
for discharge of EPO at North Mara.
High Details of the ABG Group’s 
environmental activities and 
compliance programmes are 
set out in the Corporate 
responsibility section. 
ABG regularly assesses its staff recruitment and retention policies to  
assist with labour stability, and maintains appropriate investment in 
training and development to safeguard the skills of its workforce. It is  
also focused on furthering the nationalisation of its workforce in 
Tanzania and participates in a number of training programmes to 
help develop local industry expertise. Assessments of employee and 
key contractor relationships are undertaken on a regular basis to 
ensure that the relevant support balances business requirements and 
wider expectations.
 Continued progression of programmes for 
workforce localisation.
 Further progression of industrial relation 
and employee consultation initiatives.
High Further details on employment 
practices and related  
initiatives are provided in the 
Corporate responsibility section.
Measures have been taken to protect employees, mines and production 
facilities from various security and theft risks. Steps include increasing 
existing security personnel, the installation of additional perimeter 
fencing, surveillance equipment and the imposition of additional 
security checks and procedures. Where appropriate, the Group 
continues to work in collaboration with local law enforcement to address 
security-related matters. In addition, ABG adheres to the Voluntary 
Principles as part of its membership of the Barrick Group.
 Further upgrades to security infrastructure.
 Increased training of security  
personnel across all operations.
 Progression of initiatives launched by 
Search for Common Ground.
High Further information on security 
developments and initiatives 
can be found in the Corporate 
responsibility section.
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 55
Shareholder information Financial statements Overview Performance Governance 56 www.africanbarrickgold.com
Board of Directors
Director biographies
1. Derek Pannell, age 66  
(Acting Chairman of the Board)
Skill and Experience: For the reporting period, 
Mr Pannell was Acting Chairman of the Board. 
Mr Pannell is a metallurgical engineer with over 
40 years of experience in the mining and metals 
industry. He is former Chair of the Mining 
Association of Canada and a Board member of 
the International Council on Mining and Metals. 
He holds several other Board appointments, 
including Agrium Inc, and is Chairman of the 
Board of Directors of Brookfield Infrastructure 
Partners LP . Mr Pannell was formerly President, 
Chief Operating Officer and Chief Executive 
Officer of Noranda Inc, and Falconbridge Ltd. 
Mr Pannell holds a Bachelor of Science Degree 
in Engineering from Imperial College London, 
England, and is a professional engineer 
registered in Quebec and Peru. He is also an 
Associate of the Royal School of Mines and a 
Fellow of the Canadian Academy of Engineers.
Executive Directors
2. Greg Hawkins, age 44 
(Chief Executive Officer)
Skill and Experience: Mr Hawkins is the Chief 
Executive Officer of the ABG Group. He was 
previously employed by Barrick, where since 
June 2006 he served as Chief Financial Officer 
of the Australia Pacific Business Unit. From 
1999 to 2006, Mr Hawkins served in finance 
management roles for Barrick Australia/Africa 
and for Homestake Mining before its acquisition 
by Barrick. Mr Hawkins also previously held 
roles as the Finance Manager for Normandy 
Mining and as an Audit Manager for Deloitte. 
He holds a Bachelor of Commerce Degree from 
the University of Western Australia. He is a 
Chartered Accountant and a member of the 
Australian Institute of Company Directors.
3. Kevin Jennings, age 43 
(Chief Financial Officer)
Skill and Experience: For the reporting period, 
Mr Jennings was the Chief Financial Officer of 
the ABG Group. He was previously employed by 
Barrick, where he served from August 2009 as 
Vice-President of Corporate Development. Mr 
Jennings has held a variety of senior 
management positions in the mining industry 
over the last 14 years, including Director, 
Business Optimisation at Xstrata plc, Director, 
Strategic Business Analysis at Falconbridge Ltd, 
1.
3.
5.
7.
9.
2.
4.
6.
10.
8. Annual Report and Accounts 2012 57
Shareholder information Financial statements Performance Overview Governance
and Chief Financial Officer at American Racing 
Equipment Inc, a wholly owned subsidiary of 
Falconbridge. Mr Jennings holds a Bachelor of 
Arts Degree in Economics from the University 
of Western Ontario and a Bachelor of 
Administrative Studies, with Honours in 
Accounting from Y ork University. He is a 
Chartered Accountant.
Non-Executive Directors
4. Andre Falzon, age 58 
(Independent Non-Executive Director)
Skill and Experience: Mr Falzon is an 
independent Non-Executive Director of the 
ABG Group. He is a senior financial executive 
with over 25 years of financial and management 
experience within the mining industry, 
including a period as Vice President and 
Controller at Barrick between 1994 and 2006. 
He is a Director of Aurizon Mines Ltd. He holds 
a Bachelor of Commerce Degree from the 
University of Toronto, Canada and is a CGA 
(Canada) and a CPA, CA (Canada).
5. Ambassador Juma V . Mwapachu, age 70 
(Independent Non-Executive Director)
Skill and Experience: Ambassador Mwapachu is 
an independent Non-Executive Director of the 
ABG Group. Ambassador Mwapachu has held 
a number of senior positions in both the public 
and private sector of Tanzania and was 
appointed as Tanzania’s Ambassador to France 
from 2002 to 2006. He was the founding 
Secretary General of the Chamber of 
Commerce, Industry and Agriculture and has 
served as Chairman of the Confederation of 
Tanzania Industries and Chairman of the East 
African Business Council. He has played a 
leading role in the regional integration of East 
Africa, holding the position of Secretary General 
of the East African Community prior to his 
appointment to the Board and currently holds 
the position of Global President of the Society 
for International Development. Ambassador 
Mwapachu holds a Bachelor of Laws Degree 
with Honours from the University of East 
Africa, a post graduate Degree in International 
Law from the Indian Academy, Doctorates in 
Literature (Honoris Causa) from the University 
of Dar es Salaam, and Political Sciences 
(Honoris Causa) from the National University 
of Rwanda.
6. David Hodgson, age 65 
(Independent Non-Executive Director)
Skill and Experience: Mr Hodgson is an 
independent Non-Executive Director of the 
ABG Group. He was previously employed by 
the Anglo American and De Beers group of 
companies for over 30 years and from 
November 2001 through to his retirement in 
April 2005, he served as the Chief Operating 
Officer of AngloGold Ashanti. He has also held 
a number of previous non-executive public 
company directorships at Auryx Gold Mines, 
Moto Gold Mines Limited, Uranium One Inc 
and Goliath Gold Mining Limited. Mr Hodgson 
is currently a non-executive director of Montero 
Mining, a rare earth company. Mr Hodgson 
holds a BSc in Civil Engineering from the 
University of Witwatersrand in Johannesburg, 
South Africa, a BSc Mining (Honours) from the 
Royal School of Mines in London, and B Comm 
(majors in Economics and Business Economics) 
from UNISA in South Africa. He also attended 
an Advanced Management Program at Harvard 
University in the USA.
7. Michael Kenyon, age 63 
(Independent Non-Executive Director)
Skill and Experience: Mr Kenyon is an 
independent Non-Executive Director of the 
ABG Group. Mr Kenyon has more than 35 years 
of experience in the mining industry and is a 
geologist by training. He is Executive Chairman 
of the Board of Directors at Detour Gold 
Corporation and Chairman of the Board of 
Directors at Troon Ventures Ltd. He has 
previously been President and Chief Executive 
Officer at both Canico Resource Corp and 
Sutton Resources Ltd, and a Director of 
Cumberland Resources Ltd. He holds a Master 
of Science (Geology) Degree from the University 
of Alberta in Canada. He was also the recipient 
of the 2005 Developer of the Y ear award from 
the Prospector and Developers Association of 
Canada in recognition of his accomplishments.
8. Stephen Galbraith, age 41 
(Non-Executive Director)
Skill and Experience: Mr Galbraith is a 
Non-Executive Director of the ABG Group. 
He has been employed by Barrick since August 
2000 in treasury and finance functions, and 
is currently Managing Director of Barrick 
International (Barbados) Corporation. Mr 
Galbraith previously held the role of Audit 
Manager for PricewaterhouseCoopers. He 
holds a Bachelor of Arts Degree in Accountancy 
from Strathclyde University, is a member of 
the Institute of Chartered Accountants of 
Scotland and is a Chartered Financial Analyst 
Charter holder.
9. Rick McCreary , age 50 
(Non-Executive Director)
Skill and Experience: Mr McCreary is a 
Non-Executive Director of the ABG Group and 
Senior Vice President, Corporate Development 
of Barrick. He joined Barrick in April 2011 and 
has overall responsibility for Barrick’s global 
Corporate Development activities, including 
Corporate Development, Evaluations and 
Special Projects. Prior to joining Barrick, Mr 
McCreary worked in mining investment 
banking for over 14 years culminating as Head 
of CIBC World Markets’ Global Mining 
investment banking group. Prior to his career in 
mining investment banking, he worked in the 
Noranda/Falconbridge organisation for 8 years 
in various areas, including metals marketing, 
geophysics, geological engineering and 
technology development. Mr McCreary holds 
an M.B.A. in Finance and Strategy from McGill 
University, and a M.Sc. and B.Sc.Eng.Hons in 
Geological Engineering from Queen’ s University.
10. Kelvin Dushnisky , age 49 
(Non-Executive Director)
Skill and Experience: Mr Dushnisky is a 
Non-Executive Director of the ABG Group and 
Senior Executive Vice President of Barrick. Mr 
Dushnisky joined the legal department of 
Barrick in April 2002 and presently has global 
responsibility for the Government Relations, 
Permitting and Approvals, Corporate 
Responsibility, Investor Relations and 
Communications functions. Prior to joining 
Barrick, Mr Dushnisky was a Managing 
Director at Altara Securities Inc. and has also 
served as Vice President of Sutton Resources 
Limited and Vice Chair, General Counsel and 
a founding Director of EuroZinc Mining 
Corporation. He has served on the boards of 
directors of a number of publicly listed 
companies and trade associations. Mr. 
Dushnisky holds a B.Sc. (Hon.) degree from 
the University of Manitoba and M.Sc. and J.D. 
degrees from the University of British Columbia. 58 www.africanbarrickgold.com
Senior management
Senior management biographies
Marco Zolezzi, age 57  
(Chief Operating Officer)
Skill and Experience: Mr Zolezzi was previously 
employed as Director of Technical Services for 
Barrick’s Australia Pacific Region. Prior to that, 
Mr Zolezzi held a number of senior project roles 
in the industry, including five years with Newcrest 
Mining, where he was General Manager at the 
Telfer Mine, taking it from the project stage 
through to full production, as well as 13 years 
with WMC Resources in a number of senior 
operational and technical roles. In total, Mr 
Zolezzi has over 30 years of experience in 
complex open pit and underground operations 
in Australia and South Africa, with a variety of 
operational, technical and project management 
roles. In addition to Diplomas in Mining and 
Mechanical Engineering from Witwatersrand 
Institute of Technology in South Africa, Mr 
Zolezzi holds Bachelor Degrees in Applied 
Science, Mechanical from the New South W ales 
Institute of Technology and in Applied Science, 
Mining from the Western Australian Institute 
of Technology.
Deodatus Mwanyika, age 50  
(Vice President, Corporate Affairs)
Skill and Experience: Mr Mwanyika was 
previously employed by Barrick, which he 
joined in 1999 as a Legal Consultant and where 
he occupied various managerial positions over 
the last 12 years, culminating in his appointment 
in 2008 as Executive General Manager, 
Tanzania. Mr Mwanyika holds a Bachelor of 
Law Degree with Honours from the University 
of Dar es Salaam and a Masters in Law from the 
University of Cambridge. Mr Mwanyika is a 
member of the T anganyika Law Society and the 
East African Law Society.
Peter Spora, age 43  
(Vice President, Exploration)
Skill and Experience: Mr Spora was previously 
employed by Barrick, where he served as 
Principal Geologist, Africa, from 2006 to 2008 
and Exploration Manager, Africa, from 2008 to 
2010. Mr Spora has over 18 years of experience 
as a geologist in Australia and Africa. He holds 
a Bachelor of Applied Science in Geology 
Degree from the University of Technology, 
Sydney, Australia. He is a member of the 
Australian Institute of Mining and Metallurgy 
(AusIMM), a member of the Tanzanian 
Chamber of Minerals and Energy, a member of 
the Kenyan Chamber of Mines, and is a member 
of the Society of Economic Geologists.
Katrina White, age 37  
(General Counsel and Company Secretary)
Skill and Experience: Ms White was previously 
employed by Barrick, where she served as 
Regional General Counsel and Company 
Secretary for Barrick Australia Africa, 
subsequently Barrick Australia Pacific from 
2005 to 2010. Prior to joining Barrick, Ms White 
was employed as a senior associate at Hunt & 
Humphry in Australia. Ms White has an 
Honours Degree in Law from the University of 
Western Australia. She is admitted to practice 
as a barrister and solicitor in Western Australia, 
the High Court of Australia and the Federal 
Court of Australia. 
Andrew W ray , age 49  
(Head of Corporate Development 
and Investor Relations) 
Skill and Experience: Mr Wray was previously 
employed by JP Morgan Cazenove, where he 
was a Director in the Corporate Finance team. 
Mr Wray has over 14 years of experience in 
advising a range of mining and other companies 
in their capital-raising activities and in other 
strategic objectives. Prior to joining JP Morgan, 
Mr Wray worked for the Kuwait Investment 
Office in London, dealing with their portfolio of 
investments in Spain. Mr Wray holds a Bachelor 
of Arts Honours Degree in Modern Languages 
from University College London.
Peter Geleta, age 49  
(Vice President Organisational 
Effectiveness) 
Skill and Experience: Mr Geleta has extensive 
experience on the African continent, having 
worked across a number of African countries 
in various operational and corporate roles. He 
joined Barrick in 2007, holding a number of 
roles across the organisation, including 
Organisational Effectiveness Director for 
Barrick Africa, Human Resources Director for 
the Australia Pacific Region and General 
Manager for Barrick’s Cowal Gold Mine in New 
South W ales. Before joining Barrick, Mr Geleta 
worked for AngloGold Ashanti for 25 years, 
where he held a number of roles including Head 
of Human Resources and Sustainability for 
AngloGold Ashanti’s Africa Operations and 
General Manager of the Navachab Mine in 
Namibia. Mr Geleta holds an Executive MBA 
qualification from the University of Cape Town.
In addition to ABG’s Executive Directors listed on the previous page, 
the Senior Leadership T eam includes the following:  Annual Report and Accounts 2012 59
Shareholder information Financial statements Performance Overview Governance
Corporate governance
Effective Governance
Dear Shareholders,
As previously noted, 2012 has been a challenging year for ABG, the latter 
half of which being impacted by the prolonged Offer Period applicable to 
the Company as a result of discussions between China National Gold and 
Barrick. Whilst this predominantly impacted the workload of management, 
it also required a refocusing of Board and certain committee activities, 
notably the Transaction committee of which I formed part. Although the 
sale process was ultimately unsuccessful there were several positive 
outcomes. In particular, the intense due diligence process and associated 
learning have been incorporated into several initiatives which were 
underway prior to the Offer Period as part of a major review of the 
Company’s structure and costs, culminating in the Board’s request for 
management to perform an Operational Review. The key objectives of 
this are to drive improved returns from the asset base and enhance the 
certainty of performance delivery in the future. 
In addition to this, throughout the year we have continued to refine our 
governance and controls processes and achieved a satisfactory conclusion 
to our overall annual risk management and internal controls assessment. 
We also completed a performance and effectiveness evaluation for the 
reporting period, in order to satisfy requirements for annual performance 
evaluation under the UK Corporate Governance Code. 
“ A commitment to progressing effective leadership 
and controls for our business environment. ”
Derek Pannell, 
Acting Chairman of the Board
During the year Mr Dushnisky and Mr McCreary were appointed to the 
Board following the departures of Mr Cross and Mr Regent, both of whom 
we thank for their guidance and support in the development of ABG as a 
public company. Following the expiry of the Offer Period, ABG is in a 
position to review options for additional Director appointments to build 
on the strengths and calibre of our existing Board members. In this regard 
it should be noted that neither I, nor Mr Jennings, will seek re-election 
at the forthcoming AGM. Mr Dushnisky will succeed me as Chairman 
of Board.
Looking forward, in 2013 the Board will seek to build upon the progress 
made in ABG’s governance and controls environment, notably through 
the implementation of further measures and procedures to address the 
salient aspects of ongoing operational and strategic reviews. In connection 
with this, the Board has recently decided to form a Technical committee, 
the principal purpose of which will be to supervise and review ABG’s 
planning and capital allocation procedures, the procedures underpinning 
ABG’s Reserves and Resources committee and ABG’s exploration 
programmes. The Board, under the guidance of Mr Dushnisky, will 
also review additional requirements introduced by the new edition of 
the UK Corporate Governance Code, which will apply to the 2013 
reporting process.
2012 key activities
 Formation of Transaction committee to oversee matters relating to 
any potential offer for the Company by China National Gold. 
 Review of key requirements and measures for the maintenance of 
ordinary business throughout a prolonged Offer Period.
 Review of core retention requirements for ABG personnel during 
a prolonged Offer Period.
 Commencement of strategy and risk profile reviews as part of the 
Operational Review. 
 Further review of requirements for risk management and operational 
processes to support business objectives. 
 Annual performance evaluation and effectiveness review.  60 www.africanbarrickgold.com
Board composition
Board balance
As at 31 December 2012, the Board comprised a Non-Executive Acting 
Chairman, two Executive Directors and seven Non-Executive Directors, 
of whom four were independent. 
Skills and experience
The majority of our Directors have considerable knowledge and experience 
of the mining industry and bring other relevant experience to the Board 
to assist ABG in achieving its strategic goals. Director biographies are 
provided on pages 56 and 57. An overview of the composition of Board 
skills is provided opposite. We review Board composition regularly to 
ensure the range and breadth of skills provided as a result of Director 
appointments remains appropriate for our business. 
Diversity
ABG strives to attract a broad mix of individuals from both the traditional 
and non-traditional mining labour markets in order to create a diverse 
workgroup and maintain a unique company culture. Generally, it is ABG’s 
policy to hire the best candidates for all positions at all levels, irrespective 
of gender. We assess all candidates or positions in this context, including 
candidates for Board appointments.
Board changes during 2012
As previously noted, Mr Dushnisky and Mr McCreary were appointed 
during the year following Mr Regent’s departure in June 2012. In addition 
Mr Cross stepped down from his position as a Director in March 2012. 
Corporate governance continued
ABG BUSINESS MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK
Values & Code 
of Conduct
Business 
Management 
Framework
Group Policies, 
Procedures 
& Standards
Departments/ 
Mine Site Rules 
& Requirements
Group Policy 
Guidelines
Mandatory
Mandatory
ABG
COMPLIANCE 
REQUIREMENT
Mandatory
For use in understanding 
and implementing 
compliance obligations
Mandatory
Dictated in accordance 
with stated functional and 
mine site requirements
BOARD SKILLS
(as at 31 December 2012)
 
Geology   
Engineering  
Financial   
African and regional affairs  
BOARD COMPOSITION
(as at 31 December 2012)
 
 
Executive    
Non-executive   
BOARD INDEPENDENCE
(as at 31 December 2012)
 
Non-independent   
Independent 
ABG’s Business Management Framework forms an integral 
part of our global compliance programme. It sets out the key 
corporate policies, procedures, standards and practices that 
apply to the ABG Group and its business for the management 
of economic, social, political, environmental, legal and 
governance factors affecting our operations.
All members of the ABG Group, our material operations, 
support functions, and every ABG Director, officer, employee 
and all other members of ABG personnel are required to 
comply with the ABG Business Management Framework and 
all other guidance and standards that apply to their respective 
roles and positions. Specific obligations also extend to ABG 
contractors, other associated parties and members of ABG 
supply chains. Annual Report and Accounts 2012 61
Shareholder information Financial statements Performance Overview Governance
BOARD
Responsible for the overall management of our organisation and our business
SENIOR LEADERSHIP TEAM
Day to day management of our business and operations, and responsibility for monitoring detailed 
performance of all aspects of our business 
 
MANAGEMENT COMMITTEES
Further support the Board and Senior Leadership Team
GENERAL MANAGERS AND FUNCTIONAL HEADS
Work with the Senior Leadership Team to manage our operations and business and to progress business goals
 
sets standards, values, policies 
and strategic aims
ensures we have the resources in 
place to meet our objectives
monitors and reviews:
– material strategic issues
– financial performance
– risk management
BOARD COMMITTEES
Specific review and oversight functions
 
–  reviews and monitors
 financial statements
–  oversees relationships 
 with external auditors
– oversees external 
 audit process
–  reviews internal 
 audit plans  
 
 
 
–  oversees the development
 of strategy and policy on
 environmental, CSR and 
 security matters
–  reviews effectiveness of
 environmental, CSR and 
 security management 
 programmes and systems    
 
 
– sets, reviews and 
 recommends overall 
 compensation 
 policy and strategy
–  reviews and 
 approves compensation 
 arrangements for 
 Executive Directors 
 and senior management    
 
 
– makes recommendations
 to the Board on its
 composition and that 
 of its committees   
RESERVES & RESOURCES
COMMITTEE
EXECUTIVE INVESTMENT
COMMITTEE
 
AUDIT
COMMITTEE
COMPENSATION
COMMITTEE 
EHS&S
COMMITTEE
NOMINATION
COMMITTEE
TRANSACTION
COMMITTEE
THE DISCLOSURE
PANEL
 
COMMUNITY INVESTMENT
COMMITTEE
 
Supported by Senior Leadership Team
– reviewed and monitored  
 matters in the context  
 of any potential transaction  
 relating to ABG shares  
 as a result of Barrick   
 discussions with 
 China National Gold  
RESPONSIBILITIES ACROSS OUR GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK
ABG’s corporate governance structure is founded on the basis of sound business practice and in accordance with applicable 
corporate governance standards. Accordingly, responsibilities are allocated between our Board, its committees, our Senior 
Leadership T eam and other members of senior management to ensure that our business operates as it should on a day to day basis. 62 www.africanbarrickgold.com
Retirement and re-election
Directors appointed by the Board since the 2012 AGM are required to 
offer themselves for re-election by the shareholders at the 2013 AGM 
under the Company’s articles of association and we are mindful of 
requirements for annual re-election under the UK Corporate Governance 
Code. With the exception of Mr Pannell and Mr Jennings, all Directors 
will offer themselves for re-election at the forthcoming AGM. The Board 
determines that all of these Directors are eligible for re-election.
Board leadership
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
In line with best practice, the roles of Chief Executive Officer and 
Chairman, and their related responsibilities, are separated. The divisions 
of responsibilities have been set out in writing and agreed by the Board.
ABG’s Chairman and any Acting Chairman is principally responsible for 
the leadership of the Board and ensuring that the Board plays a full and 
constructive part in the development and determination of the Company’s 
strategy and overall commercial objectives. 
ABG’s Chief Executive Officer is primarily responsible for all executive 
management matters affecting ABG and is principally responsible for 
running the Company’s business. All members of executive management 
report directly to him. 
Senior Independent Director
As noted below, the position of Senior Independent Director (“SID”) 
remained vacant during the latter part of the year as a result of the 
prolonged Offer Period. We will look to recruit for this position in 2013. 
Board effectiveness
Board meetings and attendance
Board decisions are predominantly made by achieving a consensus at 
Board meetings. In exceptional circumstances, decisions may be taken 
by the majority of Board members. Questions arising at any meeting are 
determined by a majority of votes. In the case of an equality of votes, 
ABG’s articles of association do not provide the Chairman with a second 
Corporate governance continued
or casting vote. All Directors are required to take decisions objectively 
and in the best interests of the Company.
As part of their duties as Directors, ABG’s Non-Executive Directors are 
expected to apply independent judgement to contribute to issues of 
strategy and performance and to scrutinise the performance of 
management.
The Board is scheduled to meet at least four times a year, and at such other 
times as are necessary to discharge its duties. The Board met a total of eight 
times in 2012. Five meetings were held in person at the Company’ s London 
offices. Three meetings were held by teleconference. Details of individual 
attendance are provided below. Meetings included a formal strategy review 
with senior management. Going forward, the Board aims to schedule 
meetings to allow for at least one scheduled meeting per year to be held in 
T anzania so as to provide the Board with an opportunity to further develop 
its relationship with senior managers and the wider ABG workforce.
Board briefings and development
The Board receives monthly management reports and quarterly reports 
outlining all material operational, financial and strategic developments. 
These ensure that Board members remain properly briefed on the 
performance and financial position of the ABG Group. Board and 
committee papers are circulated prior to all meetings to allow Directors 
to be briefed in advance of discussions. All Board meetings include a 
quarterly business and financial review to ensure that, in addition to 
specific scheduled matters and any other business, core operational 
matters are reviewed on a continuous basis.
In addition to scheduled Board meetings, all Directors have access 
to members of the Senior Leadership Team and to whatever further 
information they need to perform their duties and to satisfy their 
responsibilities. ABG’s independent Non-Executive Directors and 
committee Chairmen meet with members of the Senior Leadership Team 
to receive more in-depth briefings on Board and committee matters, 
whenever required or requested. In addition, all Directors continue to have 
free access to visit operations outside scheduled Board arrangements. 
Board and Committee attendance
Board 
meetings
Audit 
committee
Compensation 
committee
Nomination 
committee
EHS&S 
committee
Transaction 
committee
Number 
attended
Maximum 
possible
Number 
attended
Maximum 
possible
Number 
attended
Maximum 
possible
Number 
attended
Maximum 
possible
Number 
attended
Maximum 
possible
Number 
attended
Maximum 
possible
Aaron Regent** 280 N/A26110 N/A 0 N/A
Greg Hawkins 8 8 5 N/A 5 N/A 1 N/A 5 N/A 13 13
Kevin Jennings 8 8 5 N/A 0 N/A 0 N/A 0 N/A 13 13
Derek Pannell 8 8552 N/A 1155 13 13
Andre Falzon 8855660 N/A 0 N/A 0 N/A
Stephen Galbraith 8 8 3 N/A 1 N/A 0 N/A 5 N/A 0 N/A
Michael Kenyon 7845560 N/A 0 N/A 13 13
Ambassador Juma V . Mwapachu 7 8 0 N/A 0 N/A11550 N/A
David Hodgson 8 8 0 N/A 4 6 0 N/A 5 5 12 13
Kelvin Dushnisky* 480 N/A2600030 N/A
Richard McCreary* 4 8 0 N/A 0 N/A 0 N/A 0 N/A 0 N/A
* Directors appointed mid-year. ** Director resigned mid-year. Annual Report and Accounts 2012 63
Shareholder information Financial statements Performance Overview Governance
Board training and development needs are reviewed on an ongoing basis. 
Ordinarily, training standards and requirements form part of Board 
evaluation criteria. 
Directors may take independent professional advice, as necessary, at ABG’s 
expense in the furtherance of their duties. In addition to this, each Board 
committee is entitled to seek independent professional advice at ABG’s 
expense, where necessary, to assist or guide the committee in the 
performance of its functions.
Summary of the Board’ s work in 2012
The Board focused on the following areas in 2012:
 Strategy management
 Operational and financial performance reviews
 Corporate policy and compliance review
 Growth opportunities and exploration project reviews
As part of the corporate policy and compliance reviews the Board, in 
collaboration with its committees, commenced a review of specific 
compliance standards in order to progress standards that provide for 
improved alignment with the Company’s operating environment and risk 
appetite. This work will continue into 2013. In addition, as part of strategy 
and growth reviews, the Board commenced a further evaluation process 
of all of the Company’s growth projects to ensure prioritisation of projects 
that will drive profitable returns and production levels. Again, reviews in 
this area will continue into 2013 as part of ongoing operational and 
strategy reviews. Succession planning, which was previously affected by 
the prolonged Offer Period, will also be progressed further in 2013. 
Findings from the 2012 annual performance review will help us to further 
refine Board targets for 2013. 
Internal control
The Board is responsible for the ABG Group’s system of internal control 
and risk management and for reviewing its effectiveness. In line with this 
responsibility, the Board has established ongoing processes and systems 
for identifying, evaluating and managing those significant risks that the 
Group faces. ABG’s system of internal controls and risk management takes 
into account the recommendations contained in the Turnbull Guidance 
on Internal Systems and Controls published by the Financial Reporting 
Council in October 2005 (the “Turnbull Guidance”). The system is 
designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve 
ABG’s business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not 
absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board principally bases its monitoring of internal controls on its review 
of management reports and assessments and on the quarterly reports it 
receives on the status of ABG’s internal control environment. This is 
supported by the risk profile reviews that ABG’s Internal Audit function 
carries out to help the Board identify and manage the most significant risks 
and events that could affect the Company’s operations, financials and 
performance. Where necessary, the Board is assisted by its committees in 
reviewing internal systems and controls, particularly the Audit committee, 
which is responsible for reviewing the effectiveness of the Group’s internal 
control and financial risk management systems. An overview of the 
governance structure used for ABG’s approach to risk management and 
the processes and procedures used in the context of risk management is 
provided as part of the risk management section of this report.
In compliance with its obligations, the Board conducted an annual 
assessment of the effectiveness of the Company’s risk management and 
internal control systems for the reporting period. The review covered 
all material controls, including financial, operational and compliance 
controls. In conjunction with ABG’s Internal Audit function and members 
of the Senior Leadership Team, the Board conducted a specific assessment 
of internal controls, which considered all significant aspects of internal 
control for the reporting period. During the course of its review of the 
system of internal control, the Board did not identify or hear of any 
failings or weaknesses that it determined to be material. Therefore a 
confirmation of any necessary actions undertaken is not required.
Relationship with shareholders
Dialogue with the investment community
ABG has a designated investor relations team, which acts as the primary 
point of contact with the investment community and is responsible for 
maintaining ABG’s ongoing relations with investors and shareholders. 
Generally, ABG aims to meet with investors and analysts at least twice 
a year to discuss Group performance and respond to queries. ABG also 
conducts periodic telephone calls and meetings with the investment 
community to discuss results, and participates in mining conferences to 
meet with current and prospective investors. In addition to its annual and 
half-year reports, ABG publishes quarterly reports to the market, which 
provide further information on production and financial results, and 
updates on its business and operations.
ABG’s investor relations programme was impacted by certain regulatory 
restrictions imposed as a result of a prolonged Offer Period during the 
second half of 2012. 
Majority shareholder
ABG was a wholly owned subsidiary of Barrick prior to its IPO in March 
2010. Barrick continues to hold approximately 74% of ABG, making it the 
Group’s majority shareholder. As a result of this, ABG continues to have 
access to the Barrick Group for a number of support services and receives 
strategic shareholder support for its initiatives and goals. ABG’ s relationship 
with Barrick is governed by the terms of a relationship agreement, the 
principal purpose of which is to ensure that ABG is capable of carrying on 
its business independently of the Barrick Group and that transactions and 
relationships with the Barrick Group are conducted at arm’s length and on 
normal commercial terms. The relationship agreement will continue for so 
long as ABG is listed on the London Stock Exchange and Barrick owns or 
controls at least 15% of ABG’s issued share capital or voting rights. 64 www.africanbarrickgold.com
Corporate governance continued
 DISCUSSION WITH COMPANY SECRETARY
Each Director specifically discussed his evaluation feedback with the 
Company Secretary for purposes of discussing individual performance 
and future development needs.
 
ASSESSMENT FOR THE COMMITTEES 
The evaluation results were used to produce a performance report for 
discussion and debate, in order to agree work plans and actions for 2013.
 
ASSESSMENT FOR THE BOARD
Board evaluation results were used to produce a performance report 
for presentation to the Board, for purposes of discussion and debate, 
in order to agree work plans and actions for 2013.  
 KEY PERFORMANCE TARGETS AND ACTIONS FOR 2013
–  Assessment of terms of reference, effectiveness of members’ skills, 
 experience and qualifications.
– Work plans and actions for 2013 individually set by each committee.
KEY PERFORMANCE TARGETS AND ACTIONS FOR 2013
– Development of succession planning.
– Further enhancement of risk management procedures.
– Progression of strategic and Operational Review.
– Review of requirements for ABG’s compliance and
 governance environment.
COMMITTEE EVALUATION FOCUS 
 Roles and responsibilities
 Composition, appointments,
 skills, experience and training
 Attendance, contribution,
 internal relationships
 Leadership
 Procedures and 
 internal controls
BOARD EVALUATION FOCUS 
 Establishment and role
 Compensation, appointments,
    skills, experience and training
 Attendance at meetings,
    contribution, internal 
 relationships
 Leadership
 Strategic aims and objectives
 Risk management
 Procedures and internal controls
 Communication with
    shareholders and others
PERFORMANCE EVALUATION
The annual performance evaluation of the Board and its committees was conducted under the guidance of the Company Secretary, 
 by way of anonymous questionnaires. The questionnaire focused on a range of key topics, the findings of which will be used to help 
 formulate key targets and actions for 2013. Annual Report and Accounts 2012 65
Shareholder information Financial statements Performance Overview Governance
The relationship agreement provides Barrick with certain Director 
appointment rights in line with a sliding scale, structured as follows:
Barrick Percentage Shareholding Barrick Director Appointment Rights
40% or more The higher of three Non-Executive 
Directors and the maximum that may 
be appointed under the UK Corporate 
Governance Code
25% up to 40% The higher of two Non-Executive 
Directors and one less than the 
maximum number of Non-Executive 
Directors that may be appointed under 
the UK Corporate Governance Code 
15% up to 25% The higher of one Non-Executive 
Director and two less than the 
maximum number of Non-
Executive Directors
In addition to Director appointment rights and subject to certain 
exceptions, as part of the terms of the relationship agreement, Barrick 
has undertaken that members of the Barrick Group will not carry on the 
exploration of gold or silver in Africa or acquire, whether through an asset 
purchase or the purchase of securities, a gold or silver mining business in 
Africa that competes with ABG without first giving ABG the option to 
exercise certain rights of first refusal for so long as Barrick holds 30% or 
more of the issued share capital or voting rights of ABG. ABG has given 
a reciprocal non-compete commitment to Barrick in this regard.
AGM
ABG’ s 2013 AGM will be held on 18 April 2013 at 2.00pm (UK time). The 
business of the meeting will be conducted in accordance with Companies 
Act 2006 requirements and standards promoted by the UK Corporate 
Governance Code. The Chairman and the chairmen of the Audit, 
Compensation and Nomination committees will be available to answer 
questions put to them by shareholders at the meeting. The AGM Notice 
is included in the documentation that has been provided with this report 
and is also available on the Company’s website. In accordance with best 
practice, the notice has been sent to shareholders at least 20 business days 
prior to the date of the meeting.
Conflicts of interest
Mr Dushnisky, Mr Galbraith and Mr McCreary are nominee Directors 
appointed by Barrick. These individuals hold a number of cross-
directorships with members of the Barrick Group, which give rise to 
situations in which these Directors could have a direct or indirect interest 
that conflicts, or possibly may conflict, with those of ABG. In addition, as 
a result of their employment within the Barrick Group, these individuals 
also hold interests under Barrick’s restricted stock unit plan and other 
employee incentive plans. 
Mr Hawkins, Mr Jennings and certain other members of ABG’s senior 
management hold interests under Barrick’s restricted stock unit plan. 
These interests were acquired prior to joining ABG as part of previous 
employment within the Barrick Group and are not deemed to be 
material interests. 
The Companies Act 2006 requires Directors to avoid situations where 
they have, or can have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or may 
possibly conflict, with Company interests. However, the Act does allow 
Directors of public companies to authorise conflicts and potential conflicts 
of interest where a company’s articles of association contain a provision 
to that effect. ABG’s articles of association contain such provision and a 
procedure for this. In accordance with this procedure, the conflicts outlined 
above were declared and authorised by the Board. 
The monitoring and, if appropriate, authorisation of any actual or potential 
conflict of interest is an ongoing process. Directors are required to notify 
the Company of any material changes in positions or situations that have 
already been considered and any new situations. In addition, Directors are 
required to declare interests in potential or actual transactions and are 
required to abstain from voting on such transactions, subject to permitted 
exceptions. If a question arises as to whether any interest of a Director 
prevents him or her from voting or being counted in a quorum in the 
context of a potential or actual transaction, the matter is referred to the 
Chairman, whose findings are final and conclusive. In the context of 
questions relating to any such conflict of the Chairman, the question may 
ultimately be decided by a resolution of the other Directors.
Specifically as regards nominee Directors appointed by Barrick, the 
relationship agreement provides that if any transaction or arrangement 
arises directly between a member of the Barrick Group and a member 
of the ABG Group and does or could, in the opinion of a majority of 
Directors (excluding any Director(s) appointed by Barrick), give rise to 
a conflict of interest between ABG and any Director appointed by Barrick, 
any such matter must be approved and authorised at a duly convened 
Board meeting or in writing by a majority of Directors (excluding any 
Director(s) appointed by Barrick) prior to the Company taking further 
action in relation to such matter. 
The Board reviews conflicts of interest on a periodic basis and maintains 
a record of all declared conflicts. During the Offer Period applicable to the 
Company in the latter half of 2012, the Board specifically reviewed the 
rules applicable to conflicts of interest, taking advice where necessary from 
external counsel, in the context of the discussions between China National 
Gold and Barrick and Barrick nominee Directors’ participation in 
Board meetings. 
Save for the matters set out above, no other conflicts of interest were 
disclosed to the Board during the reporting period. 66 www.africanbarrickgold.com
Corporate governance continued
Corporate governance compliance
For the year under review, as a UK company with a premium listing on 
the Main Market of the London Stock Exchange, ABG is required to make 
certain statements regarding the way it is governed, as required by the UK 
Corporate Governance Code. Accordingly, this report explains how ABG 
has applied and complied with the Main Principles of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code during 2012.
Generally, ABG seeks to apply the provisions of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code wherever possible. However, during the reporting 
period the structure of the Board and its committees was impacted by the 
departure of Mr Cross and Mr Regent and, more fundamentally, by the 
imposition of the Offer Period and related restrictions as a result of the 
discussions between China National Gold and Barrick, something which 
ultimately restricted the Company from recruiting additional independent 
Non-Executive Directors. In particular:
 Balance of Board appointments: During the second half of the year, 
less than half of the Board (excluding the Chairman) was comprised 
of independent Non-Executive Directors. We are currently exploring 
opportunities to appoint additional independent Non-Executive 
Directors to address this.
 Status of Chairman: For the first half of the year, the position of 
Chairman was held by Mr Regent, former President and Chief 
Executive Officer of Barrick. Though not determined to be independent 
on appointment for UK corporate governance purposes, Mr Regent’s 
appointment was deemed to be in the best interests of the Company 
given his industry expertise and his familiarity with the Company’s 
assets. Following his departure, Mr Pannell was appointed as Acting 
Chairman of the Company, satisfying initial independence 
requirements under the UK Corporate Governance Code. 
 Appointment of Senior Independent Director: Mr Pannell’s assumption of 
the role of Acting Chairman required him to step down from the position 
of Senior Independent Director. Recruitment for an appropriate 
replacement was impacted by the prolonged Offer Period. We are in the 
process of reviewing opportunities to appoint a replacement to this role. 
 Audit committee composition: Mr Pannell was appointed to the 
committee to replace Mr Cross in the first half of 2012, following which 
he assumed the position of Acting Chairman of the Board. Though UK 
corporate governance standards discourage the appointment of the 
Chairman as a member of audit committees of FTSE 350 companies, 
the Board felt it appropriate to maintain Mr Pannell’s Audit committee 
appointment in order to safeguard adequate representation and 
participation in Audit committee matters throughout the latter half 
of the year. 
 Nomination committee composition: The majority of members of the 
Nomination committee may not strictly be viewed as independent 
for UK corporate governance standards in light of Mr Pannell’s status 
as Acting Chairman. Nevertheless, the Board believed Mr Pannell’s 
continued committee appointment to be in the best interests of the 
Company given the importance of his role in the context of succession 
planning. Again, overall composition of the Nomination committee will 
be reviewed as part of wider Board and committee composition reviews 
to be conducted in 2013. 
In addition to reviewing the specific matters listed above and as previously 
indicated, overall composition of the Board and its committees will be 
reviewed in 2013 as part of governance reviews to ensure that the 
appropriate balance of responsibilities and skill sets is maintained. 
Furthermore, the Board and its committees will review the requirements 
of the new edition of the UK Corporate Governance Code which applies 
to all reporting periods from October 2012 onwards as part of its activities 
for 2013.
ABG’s external auditor has reviewed those parts of this statement, which 
it is required to review under the Listing Rules of the United Kingdom 
Listing Authority.
In addition to compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, as 
part of commitments given in connection with ABG’s secondary listing 
on the Dar es Salaam Stock Exchange, the Board has undertaken to 
comply with the Corporate Governance Guidelines issued by the 
Tanzanian Capital Markets and Securities Authority to the extent that 
these requirements are equivalent to applicable UK corporate governance 
standards. In the case of any conflict between the two, the requirements 
of the UK Corporate Governance Code prevail. Annual Report and Accounts 2012 67
Shareholder information Financial statements Performance Overview Governance
Audit committee
Andre Falzon, Audit committee chair
I am the chair of the committee and have over 25 years of financial 
and management experience within the mining industry. I am a CGA 
(Canada) and CPA, CA (Canada). Together, this provides me with the 
relevant financial experience required for my position under applicable 
governance standards. Michael Kenyon and Derek Pannell comprise the 
other committee members. James Cross stepped down from the 
committee following his resignation from the Board. Under the terms of 
reference, we are required to meet at least four times a year. The Chief 
Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, the ABG Group Financial 
Controller, members of the Treasury function, the Head of Risk and 
Internal Audit and the external auditors also attend committee meetings 
on a regular basis. We also hold individual meetings with ABG’s external 
auditors and the Head of Risk and Internal Audit without management 
present to discuss matters within our remit of responsibilities.
Our committees
Key responsibilities
Our key responsibilities include oversight of financial reporting and 
internal controls over financial reporting, overseeing the Group’s 
relationship with its external auditors and ABG’ s internal audit function, 
overseeing the external and internal audit processes generally and 
reviewing the effectiveness of the ABG Group’s systems of internal 
control and financial reporting risk management.
  Further details regarding the committee and its terms of reference 
are available for inspection on ABG’s website.
Activities in 2012 and plans for 2013
W e met five times during the year; members’ individual attendance is provided 
on page 62. The committee ’ s key activities focused on the following:
 Reviewing our terms of reference, effectiveness and the skills, 
experience and qualification of committee members in the context of 
committee composition reviews
 Reviewing the external auditor terms of engagement, plans and scope of 
work, compensation and the findings arising from all external audit work
 Reviewing ABG’s periodic financial reporting 
 Reviewing key accounting policies and developments in the financial 
reporting and regulatory environment
 Reviewing the internal audit plan, together with internal audit reports, 
findings and monitoring related action plans 
 Reviewing succession planning, compensation and remuneration for  
all direct reports to the CFO and the Head of Internal Audit
 Reviewing enterprise risk registers, tax disputes and other litigation
 Reviewing whistle blowing arrangements to support reporting 
requirements under ABG’s Code of Conduct and Anti-Fraud and 
Anti-Corruption policies 
 Identifying and reviewing specific focus areas, including: Non-IFRS 
measurements, segment accounting and disclosure, impairment testing 
and deferred stripping accounting matters 
All of the above areas will be further progressed in 2013; these being  
the priority areas identified within the wider remit of the committee’s 
responsibilities. In addition to this we will continue to review the 
requirements of the new editions of the UK Corporate Governance Code 
and the revised FRC Guidance on Audit Committees, specifically in the 
context of enhanced public reporting requirements for Audit committees 
and matters relevant to the appointment and review of external auditors. 68 www.africanbarrickgold.com
EHS&S committee
David Hodgson, EHS&S committee chair
I act as chairman of the committee as a result of my years of experience 
within the operating environment of the African mining industry. Derek 
Pannell, Ambassador Mwapachu and Kelvin Dushnisky comprise the 
other members of the committee. Stephen Galbraith stepped down from 
the committee during the reporting period. Under the terms of reference, 
we are required to meet at least twice a year. The Chief Executive Officer, 
Chief Operating Officer and members of senior management within our 
security, environmental and community relations teams also attend 
committee meetings on a regular basis to discuss matters within our remit 
of responsibilities.
Key responsibilities
Our key responsibilities focus on the oversight and review of ABG 
activities that are of core importance to ABG’s social licence to operate 
and responsible mining practices. These include ABG’s strategy and 
policy on environmental, occupational health and safety, corporate social 
responsibility (CSR) and security matters; reviewing the effectiveness of 
Group environmental, health and safety and security (“EHS&S”) systems 
and controls and generally overseeing management’s monitoring and 
evaluation of emerging CSR issues to assess the potential impact on ABG’s 
business and operations.
  Further details regarding the committee and its terms of reference 
are available for inspection on ABG’s website.
Corporate governance continued
Activities in 2012 and plans for 2013
We met five times during the year; members’ individual attendance 
is provided on page 62. The committee’s key activities focused on 
the following:
 Reviewing our terms of reference, effectiveness and the skills, 
experience and qualification of committee members in the context 
of committee composition reviews
 Reviewing EHS&S and CSR strategy and priorities, performance, 
metrics, trends and incident reports
 Reviewing key risks in ABG’s operating environment as regards EHS&S 
and CSR
 Reviewing ABG management systems and processes as regards EHS&S 
and CSR 
 Reviewing key regulatory and other developments relevant to the 
EHS&S and CSR operating environment
 Identifying and reviewing specific focus areas, including: ABG’s 
permitting management systems, environmental management system, 
security systems, procedures and controls, illegal mining strategies, 
government and public relations strategies and closure planning
 Reviewing and monitoring the status of occupational, health and safety 
targets and systems
 Further refining the framework for the committee’s review of areas 
of focus 
All of the above areas will be further progressed in 2013; these being 
the priority areas identified within the wider remit of the committee’s 
responsibilities.  Annual Report and Accounts 2012 69
Shareholder information Financial statements Performance Overview Governance
Nomination committee Transaction committee
Derek Pannell, Nomination committee chair
I act as chairman of the committee. Kelvin Dushnisky and Ambassador 
Mwapachu comprise the other committee members, Mr Dushnisky having 
replaced Mr Regent following his departure from the Board. 
Michael Kenyon, T ransaction committee chair
The committee was formed during the latter half of the year to oversee 
matters relating to any potential transaction that could have resulted from 
the discussions between China National Gold and Barrick. I acted as 
Chairman of the committee, with David Hodgson and Derek Pannell 
comprising the other members of the committee. 
Activities in 2012 and plans for 2013
We met 13 times during the year; members’ individual attendance is 
provided on page 62. Our remit of responsibilities and key activities focused 
on the following:
 Determining the terms of engagement for the professional advisers 
appointed to act for ABG in the context of any potential transaction
 Taking advice from our professional advisers as regards the duties and 
responsibilities of the Company and the Board in the context of it being 
a potential target for UK takeover rule purposes 
 Overseeing and supporting management in the conduct of due 
diligence exercises and other matters relating to Barrick’s discussions 
with China National Gold 
 Assisting management in the evaluation and referral to the Board 
of matters affecting the ordinary course of business as a result of the 
imposition of the Offer Period 
 Providing regular and timely updates to the Board on the status of any 
potential transaction, developments and requirements imposed during 
the Offer Period
The committee has now been dissolved, following termination of the Offer 
Period and will be replaced by the newly constituted Technical committee.
Key responsibilities
We play a leading role in reviewing the structure, size and composition of 
the Board and in reviewing prospective new Board appointments. We have 
primary responsibility for making recommendations to the Board on its 
composition and the composition of Board committees generally. We also 
manage recommendations for the retirement and replacement of 
Directors. Under the terms of reference, we are required to meet at least 
once a year.
  Further details regarding the committee and its terms of reference 
are available for inspection on ABG’s website.
Activities in 2012 and plans for 2013
W e met once during the year; members’ individual attendance is provided on 
page 62. The committee’ s key activities were impacted in the latter half of the 
year as a result of the uncertainty surrounding the requirements for Board 
succession and composition planning as a result of the prolonged Offer Period. 
During the year we focused on the following key areas within our remit of 
responsibilities, all of which will be further progressed in 2013: 
 Reviewing the Board’s structure, size and composition in the context 
of the Company’s position and strategy
 Developing recommendations for Board appointments and the 
reappointment of Directors in accordance with the Board assessment 
and skills matrix
 Identifying candidates for Board appointments 
 Reviewing the performance of the committee, its composition and 
terms of reference
 Reviewing key regulatory and other developments relevant to the 
committee’s role and responsibilities
 Developing formal succession planning procedures for Directors 
and senior management 70 www.africanbarrickgold.com
ABG is incorporated and registered as a public limited company 
in England and W ales. Its headquarters are in London and it is 
listed on the Main Market of the London Stock Exchange and 
the Dar es Salaam Stock Exchange under the symbol ABG.
Principal activities
ABG is Tanzania’s largest gold producer and one of the five largest gold 
producers in Africa. We have four producing mines, all located in 
Northwest Tanzania, and several exploration projects at various stages of 
development. W e have a high quality asset base, solid growth opportunities 
and a clear strategy to optimise, expand and grow our business.
Our four mines are:
 Bulyanhulu: an underground gold mine, which began production in 
April 2001;
 Buzwagi: an open pit gold mine, which began production in May 2009;
 North Mara: an open pit gold mine consisting of three open pit deposits, 
which began production in April 2002; and
 Tulawaka: an open pit gold mine, which has transitioned to an 
underground operation. It began production in June 2005 and is 
scheduled to close in 2013. 
Further details of ABG Group’s activities are provided in the Overview and 
Performance sections of this report. Details of ABG’s registered office and 
business locations are provided on the back cover.
Business review
The requirements of the business review are contained in the Overview 
and Performance sections of this report.
An overview of the principal risks and uncertainties faced by the ABG 
Group is provided as part of the risk management section of this report.
See the corporate responsibility section for information on 
environmental, employee, social and community matters.
All of the matters above are incorporated by reference in this 
Directors’ report.
Directors
The names and biographies of the Directors serving as at 31 December 
2012 are provided on pages 56 and 57.
An overview of Directors’ appointments for the duration of the year under 
review is provided below:
Date of appointment Date of termination
Aaron Regent 15 February 2010 6 June 2012
Greg Hawkins 15 February 2010 N/A
Kevin Jennings 12 January 2010 N/A
James Cross 15 February 2010 8 March 2012
Andre Falzon 15 February 2010 N/A
Stephen Galbraith 19 January 2010 N/A
David Hodgson 19 October 2011 N/A
Ambassador Juma V . Mwapachu 14 July 2011 N/A
Michael Kenyon 15 February 2010 N/A
Derek Pannell 15 February 2010 N/A
Rick McCreary 19 July 2012 N/A
Kelvin Dushnisky 6 June 2012 N/A
Save for Mr Pannell and Mr Jennings, all Directors appointed as at year 
end will put themselves forward for re-election at the forthcoming AGM. 
Details of Director re-election requirements are provided on page 62.
Directors’ indemnity insurance
In accordance with ABG’s articles of association and to the extent 
permitted by the Companies Act 2006, ABG may indemnify its Directors 
out of its own funds to cover liabilities incurred as a result of their office. 
The relevant provision contained in the Articles can be categorised as a 
“qualifying third party indemnity provision” under the Companies Act 
2006. ABG has adopted Directors’ and Officers’ liability insurance. This 
provides insurance cover for any claim brought against Directors or 
officers for wrongful acts in connection with their positions. The insurance 
provided does not extend to claims arising from fraud or dishonesty and 
it does not provide cover for civil or criminal fines or penalties imposed 
by law.
Directors’ interests
Details of the interests of Directors and their connected persons in ABG’s 
shares or in related derivatives or financial instruments are outlined in the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report.
Employee share schemes
Details of ABG’s employee share plans and long-term incentive plans are 
contained on pages 80 and 81.
Employees
Information relating to employees is contained on page 115 in Note 6 to 
the consolidated financial statements and the corporate responsibility 
section. ABG abides by anti-discrimination legislation in all jurisdictions 
in which it operates. These principles are also set out in ABG’s Business 
Management Framework and Code of Conduct, which set out the 
framework in which ABG expects all staff to operate. This is supported by 
anti-discrimination standards and training in offices and mine sites which 
identify the required standards and provide mechanisms to raise any 
concerns with management.
Directors’ report Annual Report and Accounts 2012 71
Shareholder information Financial statements Performance Overview Governance
Dividends
An interim dividend of US4.0 cents per share was paid to shareholders 
on 24 September 2012. The Directors recommend the payment of a final 
dividend of US12.3 cents per Ordinary Share. This represents a total 
dividend of US16.3 cents for 2012. Subject to the shareholders approving 
this recommendation at the AGM, the final dividend will be paid on 24 
May 2013 to shareholders on the register at 3 May 2013. The ex-dividend 
date is 1 May 2013. ABG will declare the final dividend in US dollars. 
Unless a shareholder has elected or elects to receive dividends in US 
dollars, dividends will be paid in pounds sterling with the US dollar 
amount being converted into pounds sterling at exchange rates prevailing 
on or around 8 May 2013. Currency elections must be made by return of 
currency election forms. The deadline for the return of currency election 
forms is 7 May 2013.
Annual General Meeting
ABG’s AGM will be held on 18 April 2013 at 2.00pm (UK Time). The 
notice of AGM and all accompanying details of business to be conducted 
there are included in a separate document accompanying this report; they 
are also available on ABG’s website: www.africanbarrickgold.com.
The right of a shareholder to participate in the business of the AGM shall 
include without limitation the right to speak, vote on a show of hands, 
vote on a poll, be represented by a proxy and have access to all documents 
which are required by the Companies Act 2006 or the articles of 
association will be made available to the meeting.
Share capital
As at 31 December 2012, ABG’s issued share capital comprised 
410,085,499 Ordinary Shares of 10 pence each. The voting rights of all 
ABG shares are identical, with each share carrying the right to one vote. 
ABG holds no Ordinary Shares in Treasury and does not have any class of 
share other than its Ordinary Shares. Further details on voting rights and 
rights relating to the transfer of shares are provided below.
ABG’s articles of association provide the authority for ABG to purchase its 
own shares (including any redeemable preference shares), provided that it 
complies with any applicable requirements contained in the Companies 
Act 2006, the CREST regulations or any other applicable law. As part of 
resolutions passed at the 2013 AGM, ABG obtained shareholder approval 
to make market purchases of up to 41,008,550 of its Ordinary Shares, 
equivalent to 10%, of the issued share capital at the time of approval. The 
authority was granted subject to stated upper and lower limits in accordance 
with Listing Rule requirements and expires at the forthcoming AGM. The 
authority was not exercised during the year under review. An equivalent 
shareholder resolution will be sought as a matter of ordinary business at 
the forthcoming AGM. 
Details of ABG’s issued share capital and any movements during the year 
are included on page 126 in Note 23 to the consolidated financial statements.
Major shareholdings
The following persons as at 1 March 2013 are interested in the following 
percentages of ABG’s issued ordinary share capital.
Name
Number of 
shares
Percentage of 
issued share 
capital
Barrick International (Barbados) Corp. 179,609,530 43.80
PDG Bank Limited 37,378,450 9.11
PDG Sona (Cayman) Ltd. 86,258,970 21.03
T otal 303,246,950 73.94
All of these shareholders are members of the Barrick Group.
Relationship with major shareholder
An overview of ABG’s relationship with Barrick and the relationship 
agreement that has been executed in respect of their ongoing relationship 
is provided on page 63.
Political and charitable donations
ABG does not make political donations. Information as regards ABG’s 
social and community contributions for the year is provided on pages 44 
and 45 and as part of our Financal review.
Creditor payment policy
It is ABG policy to settle all debts with creditors on a timely basis and 
in accordance with terms and conditions agreed in advance with each 
creditor. Further details on trade creditors are provided on page 128 
in Note 25 to the consolidated financial statements.
Suppliers
It is ABG’s policy that, subject to compliance with trading terms by the 
supplier, payments are made in accordance with terms and conditions 
agreed in advance with the supplier.
As at 31 December 2012 the ABG Group had an average of 59 creditor 
days compared to 58 in 2011.
Policy on derivatives, financial instruments and financial  
risk management
ABG’s policies on financial risk management, derivatives, financial 
instruments and information on its exposures to foreign currency, 
commodity prices, credit, equity, liquidity and interest rates can be found 
in Notes 2, 25 and 29 to the consolidated financial statements contained 
on pages 98 to 138 of this report. 72 www.africanbarrickgold.com
Material agreements containing change of control provisions
The Directors consider the following as material agreements and 
arrangements for ABG’s business and operations, which contain provisions 
which alter or terminate on a change of control of ABG:
 Services Agreement: as part of its IPO preparations, ABG entered into 
a services agreement with Barrick under which Barrick provides certain 
services to ABG and the other members of the ABG Group for the 
ongoing operation of the business. These services include support for 
information technology, technical services, security and other 
administrative and corporate functions. The services agreement 
provides that the services were to be provided to the ABG Group for an 
initial period of 12 months and will continue in force unless terminated. 
The agreement’s termination events include a basis for either party to 
terminate the agreement with immediate effect in the event of specified 
breaches of the agreement, insolvency or analogous events or a change 
of control.
 Relationship Agreement: see page 63 of this report for an overview of 
the Relationship Agreement.
 Credit Agreement: an overview of the credit agreement between, among 
others, ABG and Citibank International plc as administrative agent, is 
provided on page 130, Note 28 to the consolidated financial statements. 
A change of control of ABG is a mandatory prepayment event under the 
credit agreement and, subject to certain exceptions, a termination event.
ABG’s mining concessions are held by its operating companies in 
Tanzania. Under applicable law, a change of control of the operating 
companies requires the consent of the Minister of Energy and Minerals 
in Tanzania.
An overview of the provisions contained in Executive Director service 
agreements as regards change of control is provided with the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report. Special provisions also allow the early exercise of 
awards made under ABG’s Stock Option Plan and early vesting of awards 
made under ABG’s Long-Term Incentive Plan (‘LTIP’), in the event of 
a takeover, reconstruction or winding up. In such circumstances, the 
Compensation committee determines whether and to what extent options 
or awards become exercisable, by taking into account all relevant facts and 
circumstances including, but not limited to, satisfaction of any applicable 
performance condition.
When determining the vesting of LTIP awards or options, the 
Compensation committee may proportionately reduce the award 
depending on the time which has elapsed between the first day of the 
performance period and the date of change of control. Alternatively, 
awards may be exchanged for new equivalent awards where appropriate.
Significant relationships
ABG’s relationship with Barrick as its majority shareholder is summarised 
on page 63 of this report. In addition to this relationship, the Directors 
consider the following contractual relationships and arrangements as 
essential for the conduct of ABG’s business:
 Tulawaka Agreement: although the Tulawaka mine is 100% owned and 
operated by Pangea Minerals Limited, the economic interest in the mine 
is divided on a 70:30 basis following a 1998 contractual joint venture 
agreement between Pangea Goldfields Inc, an ABG Group company, 
(PGI) and MDN Inc (MDN). The Tulawaka Agreement provides that 
all capital and operating costs associated with the Tulawaka mine are 
funded by PGI and MDN on a 70:30 basis, and that PGI is contractually 
obligated to pay MDN an amount equal to 30% of the net cash 
generated by the Tulawaka mine, less any applicable withholding.
 Mineral Development Agreements: each ABG Group operating mine 
has a Mineral Development Agreement (MDA) with the Tanzanian 
government. The material terms and conditions of each MDA 
are substantially similar and include provisions governing royalty 
payments, taxes and other charges, banking arrangements, local 
procurement obligations, and import rights. The MDAs also provide 
for no expropriation or nationalisation rights. Broadly these rights 
provide that the Tanzanian government will not nationalise or 
compulsorily acquire the whole or any part of ABG’s interest in 
the applicable special mining licences or any of its property or its 
contractors’ or subcontractors’ property used for the purpose of 
mining operations or in relation to the applicable special mining 
licences, without adequate compensation. Each MDA is governed by 
Tanzanian law. Adherence to the terms and conditions of the MDAs 
is of significant importance to ABG’s business, given the agreements’ 
overall importance to our operations.
 TANESCO relationship: the North Mara, Buzwagi and Bulyanhulu 
mines rely upon electrical power generated by the state power utility 
company, TANESCO. ABG has entered into a number of agreements 
and arrangements with TANESCO in respect of power supply and 
purchase prices. These agreements are reviewed on a regular basis. 
As national electricity generation and transmission systems in 
Tanzania are limited, ABG’s ongoing relationship with TANESCO 
is of significant importance to its operations and business. Any 
adverse change or development in this relationship could produce 
a material adverse effect on ABG’s operations, performance and 
financial condition.
All other material contracts and arrangements are summarised above, 
under “Material agreements containing change of control provisions” .
Going concern
The Directors’ statement on going concern is contained on page 41 
of this report.
Corporate governance compliance
The statement on compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code 
for the reporting period is contained on page 66 of this report. 
Articles of association
The Company’s articles of association may be amended by special 
resolution of the shareholders.
Shareholder rights
The rights and obligations attaching to the Ordinary Shares contained 
in ABG’s articles of association are as follows:
V oting rights
Subject to any special rights or voting restrictions contained in the articles 
of association for any class of share, at any general meeting every member 
who is present in person or by proxy shall on a show of hands have one 
vote and every member present in person or by proxy shall on a poll have 
one vote for each share of which he or she is the holder.
Directors’ report continued Annual Report and Accounts 2012 73
Shareholder information Financial statements Performance Overview Governance
A resolution put to a vote of the meeting shall be decided on a show of 
hands, unless a poll is duly demanded. Subject to the provisions of the 
Companies Act 2006, a poll may be demanded by the Chairman, by at 
least five members who have the right to vote at the meeting, by a member 
or members representing not less than one-tenth of the total voting rights 
of all the members having the right to vote at the meeting, or by a member 
or members holding shares conferring a right to vote at the meeting, being 
shares on which an aggregate sum has been paid up equal to not less than 
one-tenth of the total sum paid up on all the shares conferring that right.
Unless the Directors otherwise determine, a shareholder is not entitled to 
vote at a shareholders’ meeting, either in person or by proxy, or to exercise 
any other right conferred by membership in relation to a shareholders’ 
meeting, unless and until all calls or other sums presently payable by him 
in respect of that share with interest and expenses (if any) have been paid 
to ABG or if he or any other person appearing to be interested in shares 
has been issued with a notice pursuant to Section 793 of the Companies 
Act 2006 (requiring disclosure of interest in shares) and has failed to 
provide the required information within 14 days from the service of 
the notice.
Dividend rights
The Board may declare and pay dividends on any class of shares carrying 
a fixed dividend expressed to be payable on fixed dates and may from time 
to time pay interim dividends as it thinks fit. Final dividends shall be 
declared by ordinary shareholder resolution, in accordance with Board 
recommendations. No dividend declared by shareholders shall exceed the 
amount recommended by the Board.
Provided that the Board acts in good faith, it shall not incur any liability to 
shareholders for any loss that they may suffer by the lawful payment of any 
fixed or interim dividend on any shares ranking after or pari passu with 
those shares.
Except as otherwise provided by the rights attached to shares, all dividends 
shall be apportioned and paid proportionately to the amounts paid up on 
the shares during any portion or portions of the period in respect of which 
the dividend is paid, but if any share is issued on terms providing that it 
shall rank for dividend as from a particular date, it shall rank for dividend 
accordingly. No amount paid up on a share in advance of the date on which 
a call is payable shall be treated as paid up on the share.
Payment of any dividend declared may be satisfied wholly or partly by 
the distribution of specific assets, and in particular of paid up shares or 
debentures of ABG, with shareholder approval.
The Directors may retain any dividend or other money payable on or 
in respect of a share on which ABG has a lien and may apply the same 
towards satisfaction of the monies payable to ABG in respect of that share.
Unless the Directors otherwise determine, the payment of any dividend or 
other money that would otherwise be payable in respect of shares will be 
withheld, and ABG shall have no obligation to pay interest on it, if such 
shares represent at least 0.25% of the nominal value of the issued share 
capital of their class and the holder, or any other person appearing to be 
interested in those shares, has been issued with a Section 793 notice and 
has failed to supply the information required by such notice within 14 
days. Furthermore, such a holder shall not be entitled to elect to receive 
shares instead of a dividend.
The payment by the Board of any unclaimed dividend or other monies on 
or in respect of a share into a separate account shall not constitute ABG a 
trustee in respect thereof. All dividends unclaimed for a period of 12 years 
after having been declared or become due for payment shall be forfeited 
and shall revert to ABG.
T ransfer of shares
Subject to any applicable restrictions, each member may transfer all or 
any of his or her shares, which are in certificated form, by instrument of 
transfer in writing in any usual form or in any other form acceptable to the 
Board and may be under hand only. Such instrument shall be executed by 
or on behalf of the transferor and (in the case of a transfer of a share which 
is not fully paid up) by or on behalf of the transferee. The transferor shall 
be deemed to remain the holder of such share until the name of the 
transferee is entered in the register in respect of it.
All transfers of shares which are in uncertificated form shall, unless the 
CREST regulations otherwise provide, be effected on a relevant system.
The Directors may, in their absolute discretion and without giving any 
reason, refuse to register any transfer of a share in certificated form (or 
renunciation of a renounceable letter of allotment) unless:
(i) it is in respect of a share which is fully paid up;
(ii) it is in respect of only one class of shares;
(iii) it is in favour of not more than four joint transferees;
(iv) it is lodged duly stamped (if so required) at the transfer office;
(v) it is accompanied by the relevant certificate for the shares to which 
it relates and such other evidence as the Directors may reasonably 
require to prove the title of the transferor and the due execution of 
the transfer or, if the transfer is executed by some other person on his 
behalf, the authority of that person to do so; and
(vi) in the case of partly paid shares listed on the London Stock Exchange, 
such refusal would prevent dealings in such shares from taking place 
on an open and proper basis.
Unless the Board otherwise determines, a transfer of shares will not be 
registered if the transferor or any other person appearing to be interested 
in the transferor’s shares has been issued with Section 793 shares in 
respect of shares representing at least 0.25% of their class and the relevant 
information has not been supplied within 14 days. This restriction on 
transfer will not automatically apply if the member is not personally in 
default as regards supplying the information required and the proposed 
transfer is only part of the member’s holding, provided that certain 
requirements are satisfied at the time of presenting the transfer 
for registration.
Division of ABG assets on a winding up
If ABG is wound up, the liquidator may, with the sanction of a shareholder 
special resolution, divide the whole or any part of ABG’s assets between 
shareholders. In such circumstances the liquidator may value any assets 
and determine how the division shall be carried out as between the 
shareholders or different classes of shareholder. Subject to certain 
requirements, the liquidator may also vest any part of the assets in trustees 
on such trusts for the benefit of the shareholders, but no shareholder shall 
be compelled to accept any assets on which there is a liability. 74 www.africanbarrickgold.com
V ariation of rights
If at any time the share capital of ABG is divided into shares of different 
classes, rights attached to a class may only be varied in such manner (if 
any) as may be provided by prescribed rights or, in the absence of any such 
provision, either with the consent in writing of the holders of not less than 
three-quarters in nominal value of the issued shares of the class or with the 
sanction of a special resolution passed at a separate general meeting of the 
holders of shares of the class duly convened and held.
Powers of Directors
Managing the business
ABG’s business is managed by the Board, and the articles of association 
permit the Board to exercise all of ABG’s powers in this regard. These 
powers may be exercised by any meeting of the Board at which a quorum 
of two Directors is present. The power of the Board to manage the business 
is subject to any limitations imposed by the Companies Act, the articles of 
association or any directions given by special resolution of the 
shareholders applicable at a relevant time.
The articles contain an express authority for the appointment of Executive 
Directors and provide the Directors with the authority to delegate or 
confer upon such Directors any of the powers exercisable by them upon 
such terms and conditions and with such restrictions as they see fit. The 
articles contain additional authorities to delegate powers and discretions 
to committees and subcommittees.
Borrowing powers
Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006, the CREST 
regulations and any other applicable law, the Directors may exercise all 
the powers of ABG to borrow money, guarantee, indemnify, mortgage or 
charge its undertaking, property (present and future) and uncalled capital 
or any part or parts thereof and issue debentures and other securities, 
whether outright or as collateral security for any debt, liability or obligation 
of ABG or of any third party up to a maximum amount of two times the 
aggregate of the ABG Group’s adjusted total equity, calculated in 
accordance with the procedure contained in the articles of association. 
Borrowings in excess of this amount require prior shareholder approval.
New issues of shares
Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006, the CREST 
regulations and every other enactment for the time being in force relating 
to the Directors’ authority to allot shares and/or the disapplication of 
pre-emption rights and to any resolution of the Company in general 
meeting regarding the same, the Directors may allot (with or without 
conferring a right of renunciation), grant options over or otherwise 
dispose of them to such persons, at such times and on such terms as they 
think proper.
ABG’s shareholders passed the following resolutions relating to the 
allotment and pre-emption right disapplications at the 2012 AGM:
(i) The Directors have been granted an authority to allot new shares and 
to grant rights to subscribe for or convert any security into shares up 
to a nominal value of £13,532,821, which was equivalent to 
approximately 33% of the total issued ordinary share capital of ABG 
at the time of passing the resolution, exclusive of treasury shares.
(ii) Pre-emption rights were disapplied over new shares allotted for 
cash pursuant to the authority granted at (i) above but only: (a) in 
connection with a pre-emptive offer or rights issue; or (b) otherwise 
up to a nominal value of £2,050,427 equivalent to approximately 
5% of the total issued ordinary share capital of ABG at the time of 
passing the resolution.
These authorities have not been exercised during the reporting period and 
will expire on the date of the forthcoming AGM. Equivalent resolutions 
for a renewal of these authorities will be put to the shareholders at the 
forthcoming AGM.
Appointment and replacement of Directors
Shareholders may appoint any person who is willing to act as a Director by 
ordinary resolution and may remove any Director by ordinary resolution. 
The Board may appoint any person to fill any vacancy or as an additional 
Director, provided that they are submitted for re-election by the 
shareholders at the AGM following their appointment.
Specific conditions apply to the vacation of office, including cases where 
a Director becomes prohibited by law or regulation from holding office, 
or is persistently absent from Directors’ meetings, or if three-quarters of 
appointed Directors request his or her resignation or in the case of mental 
incapacity or bankruptcy.
Barrick’s rights to appoint Directors are summarised on page 65.
Related party transactions
Details of related party transactions undertaken during the year are 
contained in Note 32 on page 136 of the consolidated financial statements.
Post balance sheet events
Particulars of any important events affecting the Company or the ABG 
Group since the year-end are contained in Note 34 on page 138 of the 
consolidated financial statements.
Audit information
Having made the requisite enquiries, so far as the Directors are aware 
there is no relevant audit information (as defined by Section 418(3) of the 
Companies Act 2006) of which the auditors are unaware and each Director 
has taken all steps that he or she ought to have taken as a Director to make 
himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the 
auditors are aware of that information.
Auditors
ABG’s auditors are PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (PwC). A resolution to 
reappoint PwC as auditors will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM. 
Refer to page 93 as part of the consolidated financial statements for the 
Independent Auditors’ report.
Directors’ report continued Annual Report and Accounts 2012 75
Shareholder information Financial statements Performance Overview Governance
Under applicable UK law, the Directors are responsible for preparing the 
Annual Report, the Directors’ Report, the Remuneration Report and the 
financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulation.
Responsibility for financial statements
The Companies Act 2006 requires the Directors to prepare financial 
statements for each financial year. Under that law the Directors have 
prepared the Group and parent company financial statements in 
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as 
adopted by the European Union. Under company law the Directors must 
not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they 
give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the ABG Group and 
the Company and of the profit or loss of the ABG Group for that period. 
In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are required to:
 Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
 Make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable 
and prudent;
 State whether applicable IFRS as adopted by the European Union have 
been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and 
explained in the financial statements; and
 Prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is 
inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records 
that are sufficient to show and explain the Company’s transactions and 
disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of 
the Company and the ABG Group and enable them to ensure that the 
financial statements and the Directors’ Remuneration Report comply 
with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the ABG Group’s financial 
statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. They are also responsible for 
safeguarding the assets of the Company and the ABG Group and hence 
for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and 
other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the 
Company’s website and legislation in the United Kingdom governing the 
preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from 
legislation in other jurisdictions.
Responsibility statement required by Disclosure and T ransparency Rules
The Directors confirm to the best of their knowledge that:
 The financial statements, prepared in accordance with applicable 
accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, 
financial position and profit or loss of ABG and the undertakings 
included in the consolidation as a whole; and
 The management report, which is incorporated into the Directors’ 
Report, includes a fair review of the development or performance of the 
business and the position of ABG and the undertakings included in the 
consolidation as a whole, together with a description of the principal 
risks and uncertainties that they face.
Approval of Directors’ report
This report has been approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by
Katrina White, 
Company Secretary
Directors’ responsibilities statement 76 www.africanbarrickgold.com
Remuneration report
Continued development of  
our compensation practices 
Dear Shareholders,
Overall, 2012 has been an unusual year for ABG, notably as a result of 
a number of key developments in our operating environment and the 
impact of discussions between China National Gold and Barrick, both of 
which required a refocusing of committee activities. In particular, much 
of the committee’s work in the latter half of 2012 focused on ensuring we 
had appropriate retention and compensation arrangements in place in 
order to maintain workforce levels to provide for business continuation 
during a prolonged period of uncertainty. As we emerge from this, the 
committee will resume its focus on developing our compensation practices 
in line with our strategic business objectives, in order to support long-term 
growth and returns. 
Generally, compensation practices throughout the global mining sector 
have remained highly competitive throughout the year. It is important that 
we ensure our approach to compensation and incentives remains broadly 
competitive within this sector in order to attract and retain the talent 
required to drive our business. In conjunction with this, we are mindful of 
the evolving trends and practices applicable to compensation generally. 
In 2012, the committee decided to replace awards under the Company’s 
Share Option Plan with awards of commensurate fair value under the 
Long-Term Incentive Plan (“LTIP”). LTIP awards will continue to be 
subject to the Total Shareholder Return (“TSR”) performance condition 
established for this plan. In addition, the committee has approved the 
introduction of Executive Director shareholding guidelines, pursuant 
to which Executive Directors will be required to establish a minimum 
shareholding in the Company equal to two times base salary over a period 
of 5 years. The committee will continue to review developments in 
remuneration in order to ensure appropriate alignment between the 
interests of executives and shareholders in the context of compensation 
and performance. 
More generally, ongoing regulatory developments in the context of 
executive compensation and content requirements for the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report have remained a key focus for the committee in 
2012. We continue to monitor the proposals and await the ultimate 
outcome of requirements under the Enterprise and Regulatory Reform 
Bill and the effects that this will have on future reporting periods and 
the formulation of the Company’s remuneration policy going forward.
“Maintaining compensation arrangements 
to support business continuity and retention 
of talent. ” 
Michael Kenyon, 
Chairman of the Compensation committee
7 March 2013  Annual Report and Accounts 2012 77
Shareholder information Financial statements Performance Overview Governance
Summary of Executive Director remuneration policy and structure
Component Objective Details
Base salary To provide appropriately competitive level of 
base salary with due regard to the size and nature 
of the responsibilities of each role, as well as an 
individual executive’s experience
Any adjustments effective 1 January
Benchmarked against international gold mining, general mining 
and FTSE-listed companies of similar size and complexity
The committee also takes into account corporate and individual 
performance and experience; general market conditions; and salary 
increases applied within the Company as a whole
Short-Term Incentive To align annual reward with annual performance, 
i.e. reinforce the delivery of key short-term 
operational objectives
Annual opportunity of up to 150% of salary; with 75% of salary 
payable for target performance
Based on performance against a balanced scorecard of Group targets 
and individual objectives together with the committee’s view of the 
overall performance of the business
Long-Term Incentive To provide strong alignment with shareholders’ 
long-term interests, i.e. reward good long-term 
decisions that help deliver outperformance, 
absolute share price growth and support the 
retention of critical executives
(a) Long-Term Incentive Plan (“LTIP”)
Annual award of restricted stock units (“RSUs”) up to 200% of salary
RSUs vest based on ABG’s three-year TSR outperformance of 
international gold mining sector peers 
(b) Share Option Plan (“SOP”)
Annual award of options up to 200% of salary
Options vest annually over four years, in equal tranches based on 
continued employment
Pension To help provide for an appropriate 
retirement benefit
Executive Directors receive contributions of 25% of base salary into 
a personal pension scheme of the Executive Director’s choice, or a 
cash supplement of commensurate value
Audit notes
In accordance with Section 421 of the Companies Act 2006 and Schedule 
8 of the Large and Medium Sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and 
Reports) Regulations 2008 (the “Regulations”), the following sections 
of the Annual Report have been audited: Directors’ Remuneration; 
Directors’ Interests in Shares under the ABG Long-Term Incentive Plan; 
Directors’ Interests in options under the ABG Share Option Plan; 
Non-Executive Directors’ Interests in units under the ABG Deferred 
Share Unit Plan. The remaining sections are not subject to audit.
Compensation committee
The committee’s principal responsibilities are:
 Setting, reviewing and recommending to the Board for approval 
the Company’s overall remuneration policy and strategy;
 Setting, reviewing and approving individual remuneration 
arrangements for the Chief Executive Officer and Chief 
Financial Officer;
 Setting, reviewing and approving individual remuneration 
arrangements for the senior management team, after considering 
the recommendations of the Chief Executive Officer;
 Approving the rules, and launch, of any Company share, share option 
or cash-based incentive scheme and the grant, award, allocation or issue 
of shares, share options or payments under any such scheme;
 Setting, reviewing and approving the corporate and individual 
performance goals for the Chief Executive Officer and Chief 
Financial Officer;
 Setting, reviewing and approving the corporate and individual 
performance goals for the senior management team based on the 
Chief Executive Officer’s recommendations;
 Assessing the achievement of corporate and individual performance 
goals of the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and 
senior managers;
 Ensuring that all provisions regarding disclosure of remuneration, 
including pensions, as set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code 
and the Listing Rules and as required in connection with the preparation 
of the Directors’ Remuneration Report, are fulfilled; and
 Establishing selection criteria for the selection, appointment and the 
terms of reference for any remuneration consultants who advise the 
committee, and obtaining reliable, up-to-date information about 
remuneration in other peer group and FTSE companies. 78 www.africanbarrickgold.com
Remuneration report continued
The full terms of reference of the Compensation committee can be 
found on the ABG website and copies are available on request. As of 
31 December 2012, the committee comprised the following:
 Michael Kenyon (Chairman)
 Andre Falzon
 David Hodgson
 Kelvin Dushnisky
Mr Dushnisky was appointed mid-year, following Mr Regent’s departure 
from the committee and Mr Hodgson was appointed to the committee 
to fill independent Non-Executive Director vacancies. The following 
individuals attended meetings by invitation during the year and provided 
advice to the committee to enable it to make informed decisions;
 Greg Hawkins, Chief Executive Officer;
 Peter Geleta, Vice President Organisational Effectiveness; and
 Kobus van Vuuren, Head of Human Resources
No Director is present when his or her own remuneration is 
being determined.
The committee also meets without management and receives information 
and advice from Kepler Associates, an independent executive remuneration 
consultancy firm. During 2012, Kepler Associates provided advice to the 
committee on its review of market trends, remuneration benchmarking 
and remuneration issues in general. Kepler Associates does not advise 
the Company on any other issues. Kepler Associates is a member of the 
Remuneration Consultants Group and adheres to its code of conduct. 
The committee also received legal advice from Shearman & Sterling LLP 
during the year on specific matters relating to restrictions placed on the 
use of the Company’s long-term incentive schemes during the Offer Period 
and the adoption of the Executive Director retention arrangements during 
the Offer Period.
Remuneration policy
The Company’s remuneration policy is designed with the following 
objectives in mind:
 to align the interests of Executive Directors with the short- and 
long-term interests of shareholders;
 to link executive remuneration to the performance of the Company 
and the individual;
 to leverage performance through emphasis on variable remuneration 
to reinforce key business imperatives and strategy;
 to reinforce the key elements of the Company’s strategy and align the 
Senior Leadership Team with the strategy; and
 to remunerate the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and 
Senior Leadership Team at a level and in a manner that ensures that 
ABG is capable of attracting, motivating and retaining talent.
In defining the Company’s remuneration policy, the Compensation 
committee takes into account advice received from external consultants 
and also best practice guidelines set by institutional shareholder bodies, 
including the principles and guidelines on executive remuneration issued 
by the Association of British Insurers (ABI) and the provisions of the UK 
Corporate Governance Code. In 2013, the committee will continue its 
review of remuneration disclosure against the requirements of the 
Enterprise and Regulatory Reform Bill and the Company’s remuneration 
policy which, based on the current proposals, will be subject to a binding 
shareholder vote at the 2014 AGM.
To implement the policy, ABG has the option of using three performance-
related incentive schemes for the Senior Leadership Team:
 the Short-Term Incentive – is designed to focus executives on the 
business priorities of the financial year and to reinforce the individual 
and Company performance ethic;
 the Long-Term Incentive Plan – aims to motivate participants to 
maximise total shareholder return as measured against a comparator 
group of international gold mining companies over a period of three 
years; and
 the Stock Option Plan – aims to drive shareholder value over the long 
term and encourage retention.
The committee considers that the three-year vesting period for the LTIP is 
appropriate as a measure of long-term performance. In addition, historically, 
the phased vesting period over four years for the SOP was viewed as 
appropriate to encourage retention. In this regard, it should be noted that 
the committee has decided not to grant any awards under the SOP for 
2012 or any future periods. 
Activities in 2012
The Compensation committee met six times during the year. Details of 
members’ attendance at meetings are provided on page 62. As noted 
above, the focus of the committee activities in 2012 was impacted by the 
prolonged Offer Period imposed on the Company as a result of discussions 
between China National Gold and Barrick, which required consideration 
of appropriate employee and management retention plans during a period 
of ongoing uncertainty. As a result, principal committee activities focused 
on the following: 
 Reviewing and adopting appropriate retention packages for Company 
employees and management;
 Reviewing the Company’s redundancy policies;
 Review and approval of 2012 individual performance and pay 
recommendations for the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial 
Officer and other members of the Senior Leadership Team; and
 Approval of 2013 salary increases for the Chief Executive Officer, Chief 
Financial Officer, Senior Leadership Team and other senior functions. 
Ongoing reviews of compensation arrangements and market positioning 
of pay for the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Senior 
Leadership Team will continue into 2013, in conjunction with the 
outcomes and considerations relevant to the Operational Review.  Annual Report and Accounts 2012 79
Shareholder information Financial statements Performance Overview Governance
Components of remuneration
The current remuneration package for Executive Directors comprises 
performance-related and non-performance-related components. The 
performance-related components are the incentive schemes referred to 
above and the non-performance-related components are base salary, 
taxable benefits and pension entitlements. Pay and employment conditions 
elsewhere in the Group have been taken into account by the committee 
in determining the remuneration packages for Executive Directors. This 
includes the committee regularly reviewing information provided by the 
Human Resources function.
The proportion of each Executive Director’s total remuneration that is 
performance-related is significant even for target performance. For stretch 
performance, the proportion of total remuneration that is performance-
related is higher, as is the total amount of remuneration payable.
The average proportion of remuneration (including pension) that was 
performance-related in 2012 is illustrated by the following chart. In 
estimating the relative importance of those elements of remuneration that 
are, and those that are not, performance-related, a number of assumptions 
have had to be made about the Company’s share price growth and TSR, 
relative to the Company’s comparator group, over the next three years. 
Composition of remuneration package for Executive Directors
AS A % OF TOTAL REMUNERATION AT TARGET
AND STRETCH PERFORMANCE
CFO CEO
 
Fixed base salary, benefits and pension  
Variable cash and share-based incentives
stretch stretch
target target
Base salaries
Executive Directors’ salaries are reviewed each year with any changes 
normally taking effect from 1 January. This review takes into account 
individual performance and market competitiveness. Pensionable salary 
is derived from base salary only.
In line with our remuneration policy, the committee benchmarks 
Executive Directors’ salaries against comparator groups, which, for the 
2012 salary review, were international gold mining, general mining and 
FTSE-listed companies of similar size and complexity. In 2012, the 
committee noted the Chief Executive Officer’s salary was between lower 
quartile and median and the Chief Financial Officer’s salary was between 
median and upper quartile.
The Committee approved the following 2013 salary increases for 
Executive Directors:
2011 salary 2012 salary 2013 salary
Increase on 
2012 salary
Chief Executive Officer £450,000 £475,000 £490,000 3.16%
Chief Financial Officer £327,000 £359,700 £370,500 3%
The salary increases for 2013 are between lower quartile and median for 
the Company’s comparator groups. The average salary increase across the 
rest of the Group was 6.5%.
Short-T erm Incentive (STI)
The Group operates a cash-based STI, which in 2012 provided for an 
annual bonus opportunity in the range of 0% to 150% of base salary for 
Executive Directors. For 2013 the committee has approved the following 
STI opportunities for the Executive Directors, this being equal to that 
for 2012:
2013 target bonus 
opportunity
2013 maximum 
bonus opportunity
Chief Executive Officer 75% 150%
Chief Financial Officer 75% 150%
Awards under the STI are earned based on Group and individual 
performance. For the Executive Directors, the Group performance 
measures for the 2012 incentive year were based on five categories: 
financial, operations, growth and CSR (capturing safety, environment, 
security, government relations and community relations), and personnel. 
For each of the categories, the committee sets stretching targets for specific 
performance measures. The review of individual performance takes into 
consideration achievements against the individual’s personal performance. 
In 2012, the Group scorecard assessment reflected a mixed year. Targets 
for production, cost, cash flow and earnings performance were not met; 
however, growth was strong across exploration, notably with our entry 
into Kenya, and we continued to make good progress with capital projects. 
In the CSR areas, although we continued to make good progress in key 
areas, namely in the context of community relations, environmental, 
security and government relations, overall safety performance was marked 
with two fatalities. For the 2012 incentive year, taking into account overall 
business and individual performance, the committee has awarded the 
Chief Executive Officer an STI payment of approximately 64% of base 
salary and the Chief Financial Officer an STI payment of approximately 
71% of base salary. These payments reflect, not only the fair analysis of 
achievements when considering Group performance measures, but also 
the additional requirements placed on management as a result of the 
prolonged Offer Period applicable to the Company in the second half of 
2012. Entitlement to the STI may be forfeit if the individual is on notice 
at the time of payment. 
The Committee will continue to monitor trends and developments in 
corporate governance and market practice to ensure the bonus structure 
remains appropriate. 80 www.africanbarrickgold.com
Remuneration report continued
Long-term incentives
The Company operates two share schemes in which the Executive 
Directors, other members of senior management and high potential 
individuals within the organisation are eligible to participate: the LTIP and 
the SOP . The committee recognises that some of the features of the LTIP 
and SOP , which are based on the same structure of long-term incentive 
awards granted by Barrick, are not fully consistent with general UK market 
practice. Therefore, we adopted the following key amendments to the LTIP 
in 2012, in order to reach an appropriate compromise between UK market 
requirements for such awards and the need to ensure the competitiveness 
of the ABG LTIP relative to the incentives offered by many of our global 
sector peers:
 mechanics for the clawback of LTIP awards (or their proceeds) made 
to Executive Directors in the exceptional circumstances of individual 
misconduct or financial misstatement/misreporting; and
 mechanics that allow the committee to grant awards to participants who 
are not Executive Directors either: (a) without a performance condition 
or, (b) subject to a performance condition, which is measured over a 
performance period of less than three years.
The rules of the LTIP and SOP each permit a maximum award with a 
value equal to 200% of salary in each year under normal circumstances. 
The committee may exceed this limit in exceptional circumstances. The 
committee generally intends for awards to be delivered on a “fair value” 
basis. As a result of regulatory restrictions applicable to the Company as 
a result of the Offer Period, no awards were made under the SOP or LTIP 
in 2012. Following year end, and subsequent to the lifting of Offer Period 
related restrictions, the committee granted LTIP awards in respect of 2012 
equivalent to c.150% of base salary for the Chief Executive Officer and the 
Chief Financial Officer respectively. The Committee made these awards 
on the basis that both the LTIP should be looked at in overall terms of:  
(i) incentivisation; and (ii) retention. No awards have been made in respect 
of 2012 under the SOP . 
Long-T erm Incentive Plan (LTIP)
Under the LTIP , awards of conditional shares, options or restricted stock 
units (RSUs) may be granted. To date, only RSUs have been granted under 
the LTIP .
The Executive Directors and the other members of our Senior Leadership 
Team are eligible to receive annual awards under the LTIP . Awards vest on 
the Company’s TSR performance (share price and dividends) against the 
market cap-weighted average TSR of a comparator group of companies 
over a three-year performance period commencing on the date of grant. 
There is no retest provision. The committee considers that TSR is an 
appropriate performance measure for the LTIP because it captures the 
shareholder return delivered over the long term objectively and is less 
sensitive to short-term changes in the gold price than many alternative 
measures commonly used.
Achievement
Category Overall weight Measure
Below  
threshold
Between threshold 
and target At target
Between target  
and stretch
At or  
above stretch
Financial 20% Earnings   Cash flow   Operations 20% Production   Costs   Growth 25% Exploration   Capital projects   CSR 25% Community relations   Environment   Health & safety   Security   Government relations   Personnel 10% Capacity building   The following table illustrates the Group measures used to determine the achievement of the 2012 STI. Note, the exact targets themselves are not 
disclosed for reasons of commercial sensitivity but performance in relation to threshold, target and stretch levels is detailed below: Annual Report and Accounts 2012 81
Shareholder information Financial statements Performance Overview Governance
The committee reviews the comparator group against which TSR 
performance is measured from time to time to ensure it remains 
appropriate. During the year, the committee reviewed the existing 
comparator group and decided to replace Zijin Mining Group with 
New Gold Inc and to remove Polyus Gold International Limited from 
the comparator group for LTIP awards made in respect of 2012. 
Y ear of award 2012 2011
Agnico-Eagle Mines Ltd.     AngloGold Ashanti Ltd.     Buenaventura Mining Company*     Centamin plc     Centerra Gold Inc.     Eldorado Gold Corp.     Gold Fields Ltd.     Harmony Gold Mining Co. Ltd.     IAMGOLD Corp.     Kinross Gold Corporation     New Gold Inc.   Petropavlovsk PLC     Polyus Gold International Limited   Randgold Resources Ltd.     Semafo Inc.     Y amana Gold Inc.     Zijin Mining Group Co. Ltd.   * Translation of company name into English.
The committee has set the following performance conditions for 
allocations made under the LTIP:
ABG’s TSR % outperformance of comparator 
group weighted mean over three years % of allocated shares transferred
+20% 2x target
0% target
-12.5% 0.5x target
Below -12.5% All allocated shares are forfeited
Where performance is between the above levels, the percentage of shares 
to be transferred is determined on a proportionate basis.
This performance condition can be illustrated as follows: 
0
50
100
150
200
Comparator
average -12.5%
Comparator
average
Comparator
average +20%
LTIP PERFORMANCE CONDITIONS
% of allocated shares transferred
3-year TSR
For awards made in respect of 2012, the Executive Directors were granted 
RSUs with a value of 150% of salary, which will vest in full if the Company’ s 
TSR is in line with the comparator index.
Whilst permitting partial vesting for TSR performance below median is 
not consistent with UK market practice, we believe it is important to 
maintain this vesting schedule in order to balance disproportionate TSR 
volatility, resulting from the limited free float and thus liquidity in the 
Company’s shares.
Stock Option Plan (SOP)
Pursuant to the terms of the SOP , the Company may grant options over its 
shares with the option price set at least at the fair market value at the time 
of the grant. Grants vest in equal parts over four years and expire seven 
years from the date of grant. Initially, a four-year vesting period was 
selected to aid in the retention of key talent. In a recent review of 
appropriate incentive arrangements for Executive Directors and members 
of senior management, the committee has decided to replace awards under 
the SOP with awards of commensurate fair value under the Company’s 
LTIP . Historically, the committee considered time-only share option 
awards helpful in supporting retention and recruitment as well as 
providing alignment with shareholders’ long-term interests. However, 
following its recent review of compensation practices, the committee has 
decided that greater emphasis on the Company’s LTIP , which rewards 
ABG’s long-term outperformance, will be more motivational and further 
enhance alignment with shareholder interests. 
Legacy Barrick incentive plans
Many members of our Senior Leadership Team, who were previously 
employees of Barrick, retained stock options and restricted share units 
under Barrick’s remuneration arrangements on joining the Company. 
Further details of these plans and any holdings of Directors are disclosed 
on pages 85 and 86. ABG Executive Directors and management are no 
longer eligible for further awards under the Barrick incentive plans.
Pensions
Executive Directors receive contributions equal to 25% of gross base salary 
into a personal pension scheme of the Executive Director’s choice, or a 
cash supplement of commensurate value. It is separately identified in the 
emoluments table on page 83. The Group does not operate any defined 
benefit schemes.
Dilution
In the event of all options and shares outstanding as at 31 December 2012 
under ABG’s share-based schemes (which could be satisfied by the issue 
of new shares) becoming exercisable, the resulting issue of shares would 
represent approximately 0.5% of the issued share capital as at that date. As 
an alternative to satisfying the relevant awards by issuing new shares, the 
Company may enter into arrangements with the African Barrick Gold 
Employee Benefit Trust to satisfy awards using market purchase shares.
Executive retention arrangements
Given the uncertainty caused by the prolonged Offer Period imposed 
on the Company, an additional discretionary short-term performance 
incentive bonus was put in place in 2012 for the Executive Directors 
in order to appropriately incentivise these key staff to remain with the 
Company. The short-term incentive bonuses were subject to the  82 www.africanbarrickgold.com
Remuneration report continued
achievement of various performance criteria which were designed to 
ensure that the Executive Directors maintained the stability and morale 
of the workforce, assisted in the discussions between Barrick and China 
National Gold and maximised shareholder returns from any offer received 
for the Company. The amount of any award made to either Executive 
Director under these arrangements would be determined by the 
Compensation committee in its absolute discretion. The maximum 
potential payment under these arrangements was £2,125,000 for the Chief 
Executive Officer and £1,650,000 for the Chief Financial Officer. These 
retention arrangements were cancelled without payment to the Executive 
Directors in early 2013 following expiry of the Offer Period and replaced 
by virtue of the amendments made to Executive Director service contracts 
as regards change of control, explained below.
Service contracts
The Executive Directors’ service contracts, including arrangements for 
early termination, are carefully considered by the committee and are 
designed to recruit, retain and motivate directors of the quality required 
to manage the Company. The committee considers that appointments of 
indefinite term and with a notice period of one year to be appropriate.
The Executive Directors’ service contracts provide for compensation of 12 
months’ salary in the event of early termination. In addition, in early 2013 
the Board approved amendments to the Executive Director service 
contracts in connection with the cancellation of retention arrangements 
put in place during the prolonged Offer Period, in order to ensure that the 
Company maintains appropriate retention and compensation arrangements 
to support business continuity at this stage. The amendments provide for 
an entitlement to a severance payment in the event of an Executive 
Directors being dismissed without cause or resigning for good reason 
in the 12 months following a change of control of the Company. Such 
payment would be equal to two times the combined value of: an Executive 
Director’s base salary, one year of performance incentive; any Company 
pension contributions and a Company car allowance in each case. Any 
payment made under this arrangement would replace the entitlement to 
receive payment under the Executive Director’s 12 month notice period 
in each case.
Senior Leadership T eam (excluding Executive Directors)
The policy and practice with regard to the remuneration of senior 
employees below the Executive Directors is broadly consistent with that 
for the Executive Directors. These individuals all have a significant portion 
of their reward package linked to performance. They all qualify for annual 
bonus and LTIP and SOP awards, and their performance targets are the 
same as, or cascaded from, the targets for the Executive Directors. In 
addition, awards of time-vesting RSUs are granted to members of the 
Senior Leadership Team to help ensure their retention. The committee 
reviews and approves the individual remuneration packages for each 
member of the Senior Leadership Team in accordance with the overriding 
objectives of our remuneration policy. Their individual performance is 
reviewed and their base salary increases, annual bonus payments and LTIP 
and SOP awards are subject to approval by the committee each year.
Non-Executive Directors
The Board aims to recruit Non-Executive Directors of a high calibre with 
broad commercial, international and other experience relevant to mining 
operations. Non-Executive Directors are appointed by the Board on the 
recommendation of the Nomination committee. Their appointment is for 
an initial term of three years, subject to election by shareholders at each 
AGM in accordance with the requirements of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code. Upon the recommendation of the Nomination 
committee, they are reappointed for a second term of three years, again 
subject to annual re-election by shareholders. 
The terms of engagement of the Non-Executive Directors are set out in 
a letter of appointment. These letters do not contain any provision for 
compensation for early termination of office, nor do they contain any 
notice periods. 
The basic annual fee paid to Non-Executive Directors for 2012 was  
£65,000 per annum. Additional fees of £15,000 were also payable for acting 
as Senior Independent Director and £10,000 for acting as chairman of the 
Compensation committee or EHS&S committee, respectively. A fee of 
£20,000 was payable for acting as chairman of the Audit committee. In 
addition to this, during the year the Board approved the payment of a fee 
of £200,000 per annum to Mr Pannell for assuming the role of Acting 
Chairman. As regards the Transaction committee formed by the Board for 
purposes of overseeing matters relevant to the Company’s status as a 
potential target for UK takeover purposes, the Board approved additional 
fees of £1,500 and £2,600 payable per meeting of this committee to each 
member and the chairman respectively. The Board believes that such fees 
represented reasonable fees due in connection with the assumption of 
additional responsibilities arising from the appointment to this committee. 
Non-Executive Director fee levels for 2013 will be reviewed prior to the 
2013 AGM. Any changes will take effect from 1 April 2013. 
Non-Executive Directors are not entitled to participate under the 
Company’s SOP or LTIP . In 2012 the Company established a Deferred 
Share Unit Plan, pursuant to which Non-Executive Directors may elect to 
waive some or all of their annual fees in return for a deferred right to a 
cash payment, payable only after a participant ceases to hold office with 
the Company. Broadly, cash payments under this plan are calculated by 
reference to the fair market value of the Company’s shares at the time of 
payment and remain subject to market fluctuations in the context of the 
Company’s share price until the time of payment. This plan was adopted 
to address certain practices and trends of North American mining 
companies, which provide for similar elections to be made in order to 
ensure that our practices for non-executive compensation structures 
remain flexible and competitive against our global peers. Elections under 
the plan are made annually, usually in April of each year. Current 
outstanding awards are summarised in the table entitled Audited 
Non-Executive Directors’ Interests in units under the ABG Deferred 
Share Unit Plan below. 
Chairman
Mr Pannell was appointed as Acting Chairman following Mr Regent’s 
departure. The Company agreed to pay an additional fee of £200,000 per 
annum for the assumption of this role during 2012. Annual Report and Accounts 2012 83
Shareholder information Financial statements Performance Overview Governance
Performance graphs
The following graphs show: (i) ABG’ s TSR performance for the period from the IPO to 31 December 2012 (calculated in accordance with the regulations) 
against the FTSE 350 and ABG’s LTIP comparator group; and (ii) ABG’s TSR performance (calculated in accordance with the regulations) against the 
FTSE 350 and ABG’s LTIP comparator group during the reporting period. The FTSE 350 was chosen on the basis of it being a recognised broad equity 
market index, of which ABG was a member for the reporting period.
The following section of this report provides details of the remuneration, service contracts or letters of appointment and share interests of all the 
Directors for the year ended 31 December 2012.
This part of the Remuneration report has been audited by ABG’s external auditors.
HISTORICAL TSR PERFORMANCE 
Growth in the value of a hypothetical £100 holding from IPO to 31 December 2012
31 December
2011
31 December
2010
31 December
2012
18 March
2010
African Barrick Gold 2012 LTIP comparator group FTSE350
50
60
70
80
90
100
110
120
130
Value of £100 invested at IPO
Assumptions:
LTIP comparator group is based on a weighted mean, with weightings calculated based 
on spot market cap at 18 March 2010.
All data is based on spot share prices, i.e. no averaging is used.
HISTORICAL TSR PERFORMANCE 
Growth in the value of a hypothetical £100 holding from 31 December 2011 to
31 December 2012
31 December
2012
31 December
2011
African Barrick Gold 2012 LTIP comparator group FTSE350
60
70
80
90
100
110
120
Value of £100 invested at 31 December 2011
Assumptions:
LTIP comparator group is based on a weighted mean, with weightings calculated based 
on spot market cap at 31 December 2011.
All data is based on spot share prices, i.e. no averaging is used.
Salary/fees Pension Taxable benefits
(a)
Bonus
(b)
 Total
(c)
2012  
£
2011  
£
2012  
£
2011  
£
2012  
£
2011  
£
2012  
£
2011 
£
2012 
£
2011 
£
Derek Pannell 165,890 75,000 – – – – – – 165,890 75,000
Greg Hawkins 475,000 450,000 118,750 112,500 385,790 35,543 302,813 337,500 1,282,353 935,540
Kevin Jennings 359,700 327,000 89,925 81,750 127,710 35,544 256,286 245,520 833,621 689,810
Andre Falzon 85,000 70,000 – – – – – – 85,000 70,000
Stephen Galbraith – – – – – – – – – –
David Hodgson 96,000 13,886 – – – – – – 96,000 13,886
Ambassador  
Juma V . Mwapachu 65,000 26,087 – – – – – – 65,000 26,087
Michael Kenyon 116,600 70,000 – – – – – – 116,600 70,000
Kelvin Dushinsky – – – – – – – – – –
Rick McCreary – – – – – ––– –
Former Directors
Aaron Regent – – – – – ––– –
James Cross 12,097 60,000 – – – – – – 12,097 60,000
(a) Taxable benefits include car allowance, private medical insurance, RSU related payments and outstanding relocation expenses.
(b) Payment of Greg Hawkins’ bonus for 2012 is deferred to April 2013. Payment of this bonus is subject to being in continued employment at the time of payment. 
(c) Certain independent Non-Executive Directors elected to covert a proportion of their annual fee for 2012 into deferred share units, pursuant to the terms of the Company’s Deferred Share 
Unit Plan as follows: Derek Pannell elected to convert an amount of approximately £40,000 of the total of his fee for 2012 into deferred share units; Andre Falzon elected to convert an 
amount of approximately £21,720 of the total of his fee for 2012 into deferred share units; David Hodgson elected to convert an amount of approximately £37,500 of the total of his fee for 
2012 into deferred share units; and Michael Kenyon elected to convert an amount of approximately £75,000 of the total of his fee for 2012 into deferred share units. The number of share 
units granted and market price of Ordinary Shares at the date of grant are summarised in the table below entitled Audited Non-Executive Directors’ interests in units under the ABG 
Deferred Share Unit Plan.  84 www.africanbarrickgold.com
Remuneration report continued
Directors’ service contracts
Executive Directors
Details of the service contracts of the Executive Directors who served during the year are set out below:
Contract date Unexpired term Notice period
Greg Hawkins 23-Mar-10 indefinite 12 months
Kevin Jennings 23-Mar-10 indefinite 12 months
The Executive Directors’ service contracts provide for compensation of 12 months’ salary in the event of early termination. A summary of payments due 
under these service contracts on a change of control is provided on page 82. 
Chairman and Non-Executive Directors
Details of the service contracts of the Non-Executive Directors who served during the year are set out below:
Contract  
commencement date
Expiry of 
current term
Derek Pannell 01-Feb-10 18- Apr-13
Andre Falzon 01-Feb-10 18- Apr-13
Stephen Galbraith 01-Feb-10 18-Apr-13
David Hodgson 20-Oct-11 19-Oct-14
Ambassador Juma V . Mwapachu 14-Jul-11 13-Jul-14
Michael Kenyon 01-Feb-10 18-Apr-13
Rick McCreary 19-Jul-12 18-Jul-15
Kelvin Dushinsky 06-Jun-12 05-Jun-15
Aaron Regent left the Board on 6 June 2012. James Cross left the Board on 8 March 2012.
Audited Directors’ interests in shares under the ABG Long-T erm Incentive Plan
Award date
Shares over  
which awards 
held as at  
01-Jan-12
Shares over  
which awards 
granted during  
the year
Market price  
at date of  
award
End of  
performance period Vesting date
Shares over  
which awards 
held as at  
31-Dec-12
Greg Hawkins
25-Nov-10 40,219 – £5.12 24-Nov-13 24-Nov-13 41,357
30-Nov-11 90,543 – £4.97 29-Nov-14 29-Nov-14 93,105
Kevin Jennings
25-Nov-10 22,482 – £5.12 24-Nov-13 24-Nov-13 23,119
30-Nov-11 65,795 – £4.97 29-Nov-14 29-Nov-14 67,657
The shares over which awards held listed in the table represent the target award at the date of grant. Additional RSUs are credited to reflect dividends 
paid on ABG Ordinary Shares prior to the vesting date. Such additional RSUs are subject to the same vesting provisions as the underlying RSUs that were 
actually granted. Following year end, the following RSU awards were granted to Executive Directors representing RSU awards for 2012: Greg Hawkins 
received awards equal to 235,099 Ordinary Shares and Kevin Jennings received awards equal to 178,808 Ordinary Shares on 13 February 2013. The 
market price of Ordinary Shares at the time of these awards was £3.02. The end of the applicable performance period and the vesting date for these 
awards is 12 February 2016. 
Audited Directors’ interests in options under the ABG Share Option Plan
Award date
Shares over 
which awards 
held as at 
01-Jan-12 
Shares over  
which awards 
granted during 
the year Exercise price
Exercised/ 
(lapsed) during 
the year
Market price 
at date of 
exercise Expiry date
Earliest 
vesting date
Final 
vesting date
Shares over 
which awards 
held as at 
31-Dec-12
Greg Hawkins
27-Apr-10 125,000 – £5.68 – N/A 26-Apr-17 27-Apr-11 27-Apr-14 125,000
25-Nov-10 142,501 – £5.12 – N/A 24-Nov-17 25-Nov-11 25-Nov-14 142,501
29-Nov-11 135,202 – £4.97 – N/A 29-Nov-18 29-Nov-12 29-Nov-15 135,202
Kevin Jennings
27-Apr-10 100,000 – £5.68 – N/A 26-Apr-17 27-Apr-11 27-Apr-14 100,000
25-Nov-10 79,659 – £5.12 – N/A 24-Nov-17 25-Nov-11 25-Nov-14 79,659
29-Nov-11 98,247 – £4.97 – N/A 29-Nov-18 29-Nov-12 29-Nov-15 98,247
No awards were made under the SOP for 2012. Annual Report and Accounts 2012 85
Shareholder information Financial statements Performance Overview Governance
Audited Non-Executive Directors’ interests in units under the ABG Deferred Share Unit Plan 
Award date
Units over 
which awards 
held as at 
01-Jan-12
Units over 
which awards 
granted  
during the 
year
Market price  
at date of  
award
Units over 
which awards 
held as at 
31-Dec-12
Andre Falzon
27-Apr-12 – 6,000 £3.62 6,034
David Hodgson
04-May-12 – 10,684 £3.51 10,744
Michael Kenyon
01-May-12 – 20,604 £3.64 20,720
Derek Pannell
01-May-12 – 10,989 £3.64 11,051
Awards granted under the Deferred Share Unit Plan are not allocated vesting dates. In accordance with the terms of the plan, awards may only vest 
following the date on which a plan participant’s appointment ends. Following this, payment under the plan is made at any time until 31 December of 
the year following the appointment termination date. Additional DSUs are credited to reflect dividends paid on ABG Ordinary Shares. 
Share price information
The mid-market price for the Company’s Ordinary Shares at 31 December 2012 was £4.406. The range during the year was £3.098 to £5 .315.
Directors’ interests in options under the Barrick Share Option Plan 
Award date
Shares over 
which awards 
held as at 
01-Jan-12
Shares over 
which awards 
granted during 
the year Exercise price
Exercised/ 
(lapsed) during 
the year
Market price 
at date of 
exercise Expiry date
Earliest 
vesting date
Final 
vesting date
Shares over 
which awards 
held as at 
31-Dec-12
Rick McCreary 
26-April-11 88,595 – US$51.86 N/A N/A 25-Apr-18 26-Apr-12 26-Apr-15 88,595
14 Feb 2012 – 33,276 US$48.45 N/A N/A 13-Feb-19 14-Feb-13 14 Feb-16 33,276
Kelvin Dushnisky
04-Dec-07 84,515 –US$41.08 N/A N/A03-Dec-1404-Dec-0804-Dec-11 84,515
09-Dec-08 86,169 – US$27.25 N/A N/A 08-Dec-15 09-Dec-09 09-Dec-12 86,169
08-Dec-09 68,494 –US$42.44 N/A N/A 07-Dec-1608-Dec-1008-Dec-13 68,494
07-Dec-10 74,758 –US$54.83 N/A N/A 06-Dec-1707-Dec-1107-Dec-14 74,758
14-Feb-12 – 102,414US$48.45 N/A N/A 13-Feb-1914-Feb-1314 Feb-16 102,414
07-Aug-12 – 56,408US$33.36 N/A N/A 06-Aug-1907-Aug-1307-Aug-16 56,408
Stephen Galbraith
30-Jul-08 7,500 – US$42.58 N/A N/A 29-Jul-15 30-Jul-09 30-Jul-12 7,500
07-Dec-10 5,000 – US$54.83 N/A N/A 06-Dec-17 07-Dec-11 07-Dec-14 5,000
Kevin Jennings
08-Dec-09 21,215 – US$42.44 N/A N/A 07-Dec-16 08-Dec-10 08-Dec-13 21,215
Following year end, the following Barrick share option awards were granted to representing share option awards for 2012: Rick McCreary received 
awards equal to 54,193 Barrick common shares and Kelvin Dushnisky received awards equal to 113,685 Barrick common shares on 12 February 2013 
The exercise price for these awards is US$32.30. The expiry date for these awards is 11 February 2020, the earliest vesting date is 12 February 2014 and 
the final vesting date is 12 February 2017. 
Barrick Stock Options
Grants vest in equal parts over four years and expire seven years from the date of grant subject to continued employment, commensurate with 
competitive practice in North America. 86 www.africanbarrickgold.com
Remuneration report continued
Directors’ interests in Barrick Restricted Share Unit Plan (PRSU and RSU) 
Award date
Incentive 
plan
Shares over 
which awards 
held as at 
01-Jan-12
Shares over 
which awards 
granted  
during the 
year
Market price 
at date of 
award
End of 
performance 
period Vesting date
Vested during 
the year
Market price 
at date of 
vesting
Lapsed 
during the 
year
Shares over 
which awards 
held as at 
31-Dec-12
Rick McCreary
14-Feb-12 PRSUs – 4,519 C$47.97 14-Feb-15 14-Feb-15 – N/A N/A 4,606
26-Apr-11 RSUs 25,015 – C$50.39 N/A 26-Oct-13 – N/A N/A 25,497
14-Feb-12 RSUs – 4,519 C$47.97 N/A 14-Aug-14 – N/A N/A 4,606
Kelvin Dushnisky
08-Dec-09* PRSUs 10,135 – C$44.63 08-Dec-12 08-Dec-12 10,330 C$33.41 N/A –
07-Dec-10 PRSUs 10,579 C$55.25 07-Dec-13 07-Dec-13 – N/A N/A 10,783
14-Feb-12 PRSUs – 13,907 C$47.97 14-Feb-15 14-Feb-15 – N/A N/A 14,175
08-Dec-09 RSU 10,135 – C$44.63 N/A 08-June-12 10,222 C$42.49 N/A –
28-Jul-10 RSU 24,461 –C$42.46 N/A28-Jan-13 – N/A N/A 24,932
07-Dec-10 RSU 10,579 C$55.25 N/A 07-Jun-13 – N/A N/A 10,783
14-Feb-12 RSU – 13,907 C$47.97 N/A 14-Aug-14 – N/A N/A 14,175
07-Aug-12 RSU – 15,230 C$32.83 N/A 07-Feb-15 – N/A N/A 15,390
Stephen Galbraith 
08-Dec-09 RSUs 2,427 – C$44.63 N/A 08-Jun-12 2,448 C$42.49 N/A –
07-Dec-10 RSUs 1,805 – C$55.25 N/A 07-Jun-13 – N/A N/A 1,840
09-Dec-11 RSUs 2,957 – C$50.82 N/A 09-Jun-14 – N/A N/A 3,014
Greg Hawkins
08-Dec-09 RSUs 4,627 – C$44.63 N/A 08-Jun-12 4,667 C$42.49 N/A –
Kevin Jennings 
08-Dec-09 RSUs 2,452 – C$44.63 N/A 08-Jun-12 2,473 C$42.49 N/A –
Note*: The payout for the December 2009 PRSU award, which vested in 2012, was calculated based on a payout percentage of 112.35% of the 
outstanding units (number of units granted plus accumulated dividend equivalents) and an average closing share price of C$33.41.
Following year end, the following awards were made under Barrick’s RSU plan representing awards for 2012: Rick McCreary received an RSU award 
equal to 13,007 Barrick common shares and a PRSU award equal to 26,013 Barrick common shares, Kelvin Dushnisky received an RSU award equal to 
27,285 Barrick common shares and a PRSU award equal to 54,569 Barrick common shares and Stephen Galbraith received an RSU award equal to 3,424 
Barrick common shares and a PRSU award equal to 1,142 Barrick common shares. These awards were granted on 12 February 2013. The m arket price of 
a Barrick common share at the time of these awards was C$32.34. 
Barrick Restricted Share Units (RSUs)
RSUs vest and are paid out in cash 30 months after the date of grant. Pursuant to the RSU plan, at vesting, each RSU will have a value equal to the then 
current average closing market price in Canadian dollars of one Barrick common share on the Toronto Stock Exchange on the five trading days prior 
to the vesting date, converted to U.S. dollars based on the Bank of Canada noon rate of exchange on the day preceding the vesting date. Additional 
RSUs are credited to reflect dividends paid on Barrick common shares and are subject to the same vesting provisions as the underlying RSUs that were 
actually granted. Annual Report and Accounts 2012 87
Shareholder information Financial statements Performance Overview Governance
Barrick Performance Restricted Share Units (PRSUs)
Vesting of PRSUs is determined by reference to the achievement of specific 
performance conditions over a three-year performance period. Following 
the application of the relevant performance condition, the value of vested 
PRSUs is determined by multiplying the number of PRSUs that vested by 
the average of the closing share price of Barrick common shares on the 
Toronto Stock Exchange on the five trading days prior to the vesting date, 
converted to U.S. dollars based on the Bank of Canada noon rate of 
exchange on the day preceding the vesting date. Additional PRSUs are 
credited to reflect dividends paid on Barrick common shares during the 
performance period. PRSUs resulting from dividend equivalent credits are 
subject to the same vesting provisions as the underlying PRSUs that were 
actually granted.
The performance condition for PRSU awards granted prior to February 
2013 was based solely on Barrick’s total shareholder return (share price 
appreciation plus reinvested dividends) over the three-year period 
(beginning the date of the grant and ending on the third anniversary) 
compared to the total shareholder return performance for a selected 
peer group. 
For awards made in February 2013, Barrick has amended the performance 
condition applicable to its PRSUs as follows:
 50% of the performance condition is based on Barrick’s total 
shareholder return (share price appreciation plus reinvested dividends), 
relative to that of its selected peer group;
 25% of the performance condition is based on Barrick’s adjusted annual 
earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization (“ Adjusted 
EBITDA ”) performance as at 31 December of each year measured 
against EBITDA performance forecasted at the beginning of each year 
(1 January), controlling for average gold and copper prices in the period, 
with each year’s performance contributing one-third of the target; and 
 25% of the performance condition is based on Barrick’s adjusted annual 
free cash flow (“ Adjusted FCF”) performance as at 31 December of each 
year measured against adjusted FCF performance forecasted at the 
beginning of each year (1 January), controlling for average gold and 
copper prices in the period, with each year’s performance contributing 
one-third of the target. 
To align with Barrick’s financial reporting timeframe for the EBITDA 
and FCF metrics, performance for the PRSU awards granted in February 
2013 will be evaluated over three calendar years, as opposed to a three-
year performance period beginning from the date of grant. Accordingly, 
performance for the PRSU awards granted on 12 February 2013 will 
be measured over the three-year period from 1 January 2013 to 
31 December 2015.
As regards the total shareholder return component of the performance 
condition, the following gold mining companies comprise the Barrick 
peer group:
Y ear in respect of which award was granted 2012 2011
AngloGold Ashanti Ltd.     Eldorado Gold Corp.   Goldcorp Inc     Gold Fields Ltd.   Kinross Gold Corporation     Newcrest Mining Limited     Newmont Mining Corporation     Y amana Gold Inc.     Directors’ interests in ABG Ordinary Shares or derivatives or financial 
instruments relating to such shares
As at 
31-Dec-12
As at 
01-Jan-12
Derek Pannell 20,000 15,000
Greg Hawkins N/A N/A
Kevin Jennings 44,000 44,000
Andre Falzon 9,000 9,000
Stephen Galbraith N/A N/A
David Hodgson 13,000 N/A
Ambassador Juma V . Mwapachu N/A N/A
Michael Kenyon N/A N/A
Kelvin Dushnisky N/A N/A 
Rick McCreary N/A N/A
Aaron Regent did not acquire any interests in ABG shares whilst 
appointed as a Director. James Cross held interests in 20,000 ABG 
Ordinary Shares prior to his departure from the Board. Information 
regarding Non-Executive Directors’ interests held under ABG’s Deferred 
Share Unit Plan is provided above. 
There have been no other changes in Directors’ shareholdings between 
31 December 2012 and 7 March 2013.
External appointments
None of the Executive Directors currently holds an appointment as 
a non-executive of another FTSE 350 company.
By order of the Board
Michael Kenyon, 
Chairman of the Compensation committee
7 March 2013
Registered office: 
6 St James’s Place 
London 
SW1A 1NP 
United Kingdom Reserves and resources 
 www.africanbarrickgold.com 88 
Mineral reserves and mineral resources estimates contained in this 
report have been calculated as at 31 December 2012 in accordance 
with National Instrument 43-101 as required by Canadian securities 
regulatory authorities, unless otherwise stated. Canadian Institute of 
Mining, Metallurgy and Petroleum (CIM) definitions were followed 
for mineral reserves and resources. Calculations have been reviewed, 
verified (including estimation methodology, sampling, analytical and 
test data) and compiled by ABG personnel under the supervision of 
ABG Qualified Persons: Nic Schoeman, Director Operations Support, 
Eric Acheampong, Corporate Manager, Geology and Samuel Eshun, 
Corporate Manager, Mine Planning. However, the figures stated are 
estimates and no assurances can be given that the indicated quantities 
of metal will be produced. In addition, totals stated may not add up 
due to rounding. 
Mineral reserves have been calculated using an assumed long-term 
average gold price of US$1,500.00 per ounce, a silver price of 
US$28.00 per ounce and a copper price of US$3.00 per pound. 
Reserve calculations incorporate current and/or expected mine plans 
and cost levels at each property.  
Mineral resources at our mines have been calculated using an assumed 
long-term average gold price of US$1,650.00 per ounce, a silver price 
of US$30.00 per ounce and a copper price of US$3.50 per pound while 
mineral resources for our exploration properties have been calculated 
using an assumed long-term average gold price of US$1,400.00 per 
ounce. Resources have been estimated using varying cut-off grades, 
depending on the type of mine or project, its maturity and ore types 
at each property. Reserve estimates are dynamic and are influenced 
by changing economic conditions, technical issues, environmental 
regulations and any other relevant new information and therefore 
these can vary from year to year. Resource estimates can also change 
and tend to be influenced mostly by new information pertaining to 
the understanding of the deposit and secondly the conversion to ore 
reserves. In addition, estimates of inferred mineral resources may not 
form the basis of an economic analysis and it cannot be assumed that 
all or any part of an inferred mineral resource will ever be upgraded 
to a higher category. Therefore, investors are cautioned not to assume 
that all or any part of an inferred mineral resource exists, that it can 
be economically or legally mined, or that it will ever be upgraded to 
a higher category. Likewise, investors are cautioned not to assume 
that all or any part of measured or indicated mineral resources will 
ever be upgraded to mineral reserves. 
Tulawaka mineral reserves and resources are stated as ABG’s 70% 
attributable portion.  
Definitions 
A mineral resource is a concentration or occurrence of diamonds, 
natural solid inorganic material, or natural solid fossilised organic 
material including base and precious metals, coal, and industrial 
minerals in or on the Earth’s crust in such form and quantity and  
of such a grade or quality that it has reasonable prospects for economic 
extraction. The location, quantity, grade, geological characteristics and 
continuity of a mineral resource are known, estimated or interpreted 
from specific geological evidence and knowledge. Mineral resources are 
sub-divided, in order of increasing geological confidence, into inferred, 
indicated and measured categories. 
An inferred mineral resource is that part of a mineral resource for 
which quantity and grade or quality can be estimated on the basis  
of geological evidence and limited sampling and reasonably assumed, 
but not verified, geological and grade continuity. The estimate is based 
on limited information and sampling gathered through appropriate 
techniques from locations such as outcrops, trenches, pits, workings 
and drill holes. 
An indicated mineral resource is that part of a mineral resource 
for which quantity, grade or quality, densities, shape and physical 
characteristics, can be estimated with a level of confidence sufficient 
to allow the appropriate application of technical and economic 
parameters, to support mine planning and evaluation of the economic 
viability of the deposit. The estimate is based on detailed and reliable 
exploration and testing information gathered through appropriate 
techniques from locations such as outcrops, trenches, pits, workings 
and drill holes that are spaced closely enough for geological and grade 
continuity to be reasonably assumed. 
A measured mineral resource is that part of a mineral resource  
for which quantity, grade or quality, densities, shape and physical 
characteristics are so well established that they can be estimated with 
confidence sufficient to allow the appropriate application of technical 
and economic parameters, to support production planning and 
evaluation of the economic viability of the deposit. The estimate  
is based on detailed and reliable exploration, sampling and testing 
information gathered through appropriate techniques from locations 
such as outcrops, trenches, pits, workings and drill holes that are  
spaced closely enough to confirm both geological and grade continuity. 
Mineral resources which are not mineral reserves do not have 
demonstrated economic viability. 
A mineral reserve is the economically mineable part of a measured  
or indicated mineral resource demonstrated by at least a preliminary 
feasibility study. This study must include adequate information  
on mining, processing, metallurgical, economic and other relevant 
factors that demonstrate, at the time of reporting, that economic 
extraction can be justified. A mineral reserve includes diluting  
materials and allowances for losses that may occur when the material  
is mined. Mineral reserves are subdivided in order of increasing 
confidence into probable mineral reserves and proven mineral reserves.  
A probable mineral reserve is the economically mineable part of an 
indicated and, in some circumstances, a measured mineral resource 
demonstrated by at least a preliminary feasibility study. This study  
must include adequate information on mining, processing, 
metallurgical, economic and other relevant factors that demonstrate,  
at the time of reporting, that economic extraction can be justified. 
A proven mineral reserve is the economically mineable part of a 
measured mineral resource demonstrated by at least a preliminary 
feasibility study. This study must include adequate information on 
mining, processing, metallurgical, economic and other relevant factors 
that demonstrate, at the time of reporting, that economic extraction  
is justified.
88 www.africanbarrickgold.com  
 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 
89
Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 
Mine gold reserves and resources 
  2012 2011 
Mine Classification Tonnes (000’s) Grade Au (g/t) Ounce (000’s) Tonnes (000’s) Grade Au (g/t) Ounce (000’s)
Bulyanhulu – Underground Proven and probable 28,990 11.335 10,564  28,189  11.731 10,632 
Mineral Resource 10,672 9.675 3,320  9,792  8.585 2,703 
 Inferred 8,465 11.949 3,252  8,318  12.003 3,210 
Bulyanhulu – Tailings Proven and probable 7,974 1.229 315  –  – –
Mineral Resource –– – 7,974  1.229 315 
 Inferred –– – –  – –
Buzwagi Proven and probable 63,333 1.325 2,697  61,424  1.476 2,915 
Mineral Resource 14,875 1.019 487  35,490  1.124 1,282 
 Inferred 7,211 1.101 255  10,299  1.156 383 
North Mara Proven and probable 34,207 2.739 3,012  35,596  3.045 3,485 
Mineral Resource 19,117 3.921 2,410  15,990  2.800 1,440 
 Inferred 1,077 3.663 127  1,558  2.557 128 
Tulawaka (70%) Proven and probable 29 16.814 16  166  12.018 64 
Mineral Resource 663 6.580 140  613  5.458 108 
 Inferred 129 4.671 19  116  5.723 21 
Total Proven and probable 134,533 3.839 16,604  125,375  4.241 17,095 
Mineral Resource 45,327 4.362 6,357  69,859  2.603 5,847 
 Inferred 16,882 6.731 3,654  20,292  5.736 3,742 
Exploration property gold reserves and resources 
Mine Classification Tonnes (000’s) Grade Au (g/t) Ounce (000’s) Tonnes (000’s) Grade Au (g/t) Ounce (000’s)
Tusker (Nyanzaga) Proven and probable –– – –  – –
Mineral Resource 78,163 1.443 3,627  73,884  1.465 3,481 
 Inferred 13,003 1.912 799  9,061  2.054 598 
Kilimani (Nyanzaga) Proven and probable –– – –  – –
Mineral Resource 3,753 0.998 120 –  – –
 Inferred 1,661 0.992 53 –  – –
Golden Ridge Proven and probable –– – –  – –
Mineral Resource 7,417 2.837 677  7,417  2.837 677 
 Inferred 1,221 2.371 93  1,221  2.371 93 
Total Exploration Proven and probable –– – –  – –
Mineral Resource 89,333 1.540 4,424  81,301  1.591 4,157 
 Inferred 15,885 1.851 945  10,282  2.092 691 
Total ABG Proven and probable 134,533 3.839 16,604  125,375  4.241 17,095 
Mineral Resource 134,660 2.490 10,782  151,160  2.059 10,005 
 Inferred 32,767 4.365 4,599  30,574  4.511 4,434 
Contained copper reported within gold reserves and resources 
Mine Classification Tonnes (000’s) Grade Cu (%) Pounds (000’s) Tonnes (000’s) Grade Cu (%) Pounds (000’s)
Bulyanhulu – Underground Proven and probable 28,990 0.655 418,703  28,189  0.669 415,958 
Mineral Resource 10,672 0.614 144,480  9,792  0.543 117,221 
 Inferred 8,465 0.716 133,681  8,318  0.717 131,535 
Bulyanhulu – Tailings Proven and probable 7,974 0.036 6,329 –  – –
Mineral Resource –– – 7,974  0.036 6,329 
 Inferred –– – –  – –
Buzwagi Proven and probable 63,333 0.104 144,752  61,424  0.114 154,082 
Mineral Resource 14,875 0.083 27,172  35,490  0.099 77,090 
 Inferred 7,211 0.075 11,979  10,299  0.089 20,119 
Total Proven and probable 100,297 0.258 569,784  89,613  0.289 570,040 
Mineral Resource 25,547 0.305 171,652  53,256  0.171 200,640 
 Inferred 15,676 0.421 145,660  18,617  0.369 151,654 
  
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 89
Performance Financial statements Shareholder information Overview Governance Reserves and resources continued 
 www.africanbarrickgold.com 90 
Contained silver reported within gold reserves and resources 
  2012 2011 
Mine Classification Tonnes (000’s) Grade Ag (g/t) Ounce (000’s) Tonnes (000’s) Grade Ag (g/t) Ounce (000’s)
Bulyanhulu – Underground Proven and probable 28,990 9.159 8,537 28,189   9.385 8,506 
 Mineral Resource  10,672  8.149  2,796  9,792   7.545  2,375 
 Inferred  8,465  9.837  2,677  8,318   9.859  2,637 
Bulyanhulu – Tailings Proven and probable 7,974 3.848 987 –  – –
 Mineral Resource – – –  7,974   3.848  987 
 Inferred – – – –  – – 
Total Proven and probable  36,964 8.013 9,523  28,189  9.385 8,506 
 Mineral Resource 10,672 8.149 2,796 17,766  5.886 3,362 
 Inferred  8,465 9.837 2,677  8,318  9.859 2,637
Mine gold reserves 
Mine Classification Tonnes Grade Au (g/t) Contained Au (oz)
Bulyanhulu – Underground Proven 827,129  10.013  266,261 
 Probable  28,162,758  11.373   10,298,162 
 Total (P+P)  28,989,887  11.335   10,564,423 
Bulyanhulu – Tailings Proven  –  –   – 
 Probable 7,974,020  1.229  315,080 
 Total (P+P)  7,974,020  1.229   315,080 
Buzwagi Proven  5,874,720  1.079   203,827 
 Probable  57,458,687  1.350   2,493,423 
 Total (P+P) 63,333,407  1.325  2,697,250 
North Mara Proven 11,324,467  2.624  955,257 
 Probable  22,882,035  2.795   2,056,478 
 Total (P+P)  34,206,502  2.739   3,011,735 
Tulawaka (70%) Proven  6,868  2.200   486 
 Probable 22,541  21.267  15,412 
 Total (P+P)  29,408  16.814   15,898 
Total mine gold reserves Proven  18,033,184  2.459   1,425,831 
 Probable  116,500,041  4.052   15,178,555 
 Total (P+P) 134,533,224  3.839  16,604,386 
Contained copper reported within gold reserves 
Mine Classification Tonnes Grade Cu (%) Contained Cu (lbs)
Bulyanhulu – Underground Proven  827,129  0.325   5,934,565 
 Probable 28,162,758  0.665  412,768,864 
 Total 28,989,887  0.655  418,703,429 
Bulyanhulu – Tailings Proven  –  –   – 
 Probable  7,974,020  0.036   6,328,629 
 Total  7,974,020  0.036   6,328,629 
Buzwagi Proven 5,874,720  0.074  9,608,881 
 Probable  57,458,687  0.107   135,143,305 
 Total  63,333,407  0.104   144,752,186 
Total copper reported within gold reserves Proven  6,701,849  0.105   15,543,446 
 Probable 93,595,465  0.269  554,240,798 
 Total 100,297,314  0.258  569,784,244 
  
90 www.africanbarrickgold.com  
 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 
91
Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 
Contained silver reported within gold reserves 
Mine Classification Tonnes Grade Ag (g/t) Contained Ag (oz)
Bulyanhulu – Underground Proven 827,129   6.807 181,020 
Probable 28,162,758   9.228 8,355,749 
 Total (P+P) 28,989,887   9.159 8,536,769 
Bulyanhulu – Tailings Proven –  – –
Probable 7,974,020   3.848 986,514 
Total (P+P) 7,974,020   3.848 986,514 
Total silver reported within gold reserves Proven 827,129   6.807 181,020 
Probable 36,136,778   8.041 9,342,263 
 Total 36,963,907   8.013 9,523,283 
Mine resource (Measured & Indicated, exclusive of reserves) 
Mine Classification Tonnes Grade Au (g/t) Contained Au (oz)
Bulyanhulu – Underground Measured –  – –
Indicated 10,672,358   9.675 3,319,673 
 Total (M+I) 10,672,358   9.675 3,319,673 
Bulyanhulu – Tailings Measured –  – –
Indicated –  – –
 Total (M+I) –  – –
Buzwagi Measured 74,074   1.219 2,903 
Indicated 14,800,514   1.018 484,220 
 Total (M+I) 14,874,588   1.019 487,123 
North Mara Measured 3,030,080   4.100 399,443 
Indicated 16,087,187   3.888 2,010,797 
 Total (M+I) 19,117,267   3.921 2,410,240 
Tulawaka (70%) Measured –  – –
Indicated 662,643   6.580 140,174 
 Total (M+I) 662,643   6.580 140,174 
Total Mine Resource (M+I) Measured 3,104,154   4.031 402,346 
Indicated 42,222,702   4.387 5,954,864 
 Total (M+I) 45,326,856   4.362 6,357,210 
Contained Copper within gold resources 
Mine Classification Tonnes Grade (%)Pounds
Bulyanhulu – Underground Measured –  – –
Indicated 10,672,358   0.614 144,480,118 
 Total (M+I) 10,672,358   0.614 144,480,118 
Bulyanhulu – Tailings Measured –  – –
Indicated –  – –
 Total (M+I) –  – –
Buzwagi Measured 74,074   0.098 159,427 
Indicated 14,800,514   0.083 27,012,590 
 Total (M+I) 14,874,588   0.083 27,172,017 
Total Copper within gold resource Measured 74,074   0.098 159,427 
Indicated 25,472,872   0.305 171,492,708 
 Total (M+I) 25,546,946   0.305 171,652,135 
Contained Silver within gold resources 
Mine Classification Tonnes Grade Ag (g/t) Contained Au (oz)
Bulyanhulu – Underground Measured –  – –
Indicated 10,672,358   8.149 2,796,104 
 Total (M+I) 10,672,358   8.149 2,796,104 
 
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 91
Performance Financial statements Shareholder information Overview Governance Financial statements 
 www.africanbarrickgold.com 92 
Detailed financial information for the year ended 31 December 2012 
 
Independent auditors’ report on the consolidated 
financial statements 93 
Independent auditors’ report on the parent company 
financial statements 139
Consolidated financial statements 94 Parent company financial statements 140
Consolidated income statement 94 Parent company income statement 140
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 94 Parent company statement of comprehensive income 140
Consolidated balance sheet 95 Parent company balance sheet 141
Consolidated statement of changes in equity 96 Parent company statement of changes in equity 142
Consolidated cash flow statement 97 Parent company cash flow statement 143
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 98 Notes to the parent company financial statements 144
General information 98
Significant accounting policies 99   
Segment reporting 112   
Revenue 114
Cost of sales 114   
Employee benefits 115   
Exploration and evaluation costs 115
Other charges 116   
Auditors’ remuneration 116   
Finance income and finance expense 117
Tax expense 117   
Earnings per share 118   
Dividend 118
Cash flow – other items 119   
Inventories 120   
Trade and other current assets 120
Cash and cash equivalents 121   
Property, plant and equipment 121   
Goodwill and intangible assets 122
Deferred tax assets and liabilities 124   
Other assets 125   
Business combination 125
Share capital and share premium 126   
Stock-based compensation 126   
Trade and other payables 128
Provisions 128   
Other liabilities 129   
Financial assets and liabilities 129
Financial risk management 130   
Operating lease arrangements 135   
Commitments and contingencies 135
Related party balances and transactions 136   
Prospecting licences 137   
Post balance sheet events 138
 
92 www.africanbarrickgold.com Independent auditors’ report to the members of African Barrick Gold plc 
 
 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 
93
Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 
We have audited the group financial statements of African Barrick 
Gold plc for the year ended 31 December 2012 which comprise the 
Consolidated income statement, the Consolidated statement of 
comprehensive income, the Consolidated balance sheet, the 
Consolidated statement of changes in equity, the Consolidated 
cashflow statement and the related notes. The financial reporting 
framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law 
and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted 
by the European Union. 
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors  
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement set 
out on page 75, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the 
group financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true 
and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion 
on the group financial statements in accordance with applicable law 
and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those 
standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s 
Ethical Standards for Auditors.  
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only 
for the company’s members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 
of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose. We 
do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for 
any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is 
shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed 
by our prior consent in writing. 
Scope of the audit of the financial statements  
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and 
disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable 
assurance that the financial statements are free from material 
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an 
assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to 
the group’s circumstances and have been consistently applied and 
adequately disclosed; the reasonableness of significant accounting 
estimates made by the directors; and the overall presentation of the 
financial statements. In addition, we read all the financial and non-
financial information in the Annual Report to identify material 
inconsistencies with the audited financial statements. If we become 
aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we 
consider the implications for our report. 
Opinion on financial statements  
In our opinion the group financial statements:  
 give a true and fair view of the state of the group’s affairs as at 
31 December 2012 and of its profit and cash flows for the year 
then ended;  
 have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted 
by the European Union; and  
 have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the 
Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.  
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies  
Act 2006  
In our opinion: 
 the information given in the Directors’ Report for the financial year 
for which the group financial statements are prepared is consistent 
with the group financial statements. 
Matters on which we are required to report by exception  
We have nothing to report in respect of the following:  
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, 
in our opinion:  
 certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law 
are not made; or  
 we have not received all the information and explanations we 
require for our audit. 
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: 
 the Directors’ statement, set out on page 72, in relation to 
going concern;  
 the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the 
company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the ‘UK 
Corporate Governance Code’ specified for our review; and 
 certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on 
directors’ remuneration. 
Other matter  
We have reported separately on the parent company financial 
statements of African Barrick Gold plc for the year ended 
31 December 2012 and on the information in the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.  
 
 
 
Jason Burkitt, 
Senior Statutory Auditor 
for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors 
London 
7 March 2013 
Notes: 
(a) The maintenance and integrity of the African Barrick Gold plc website is the responsibility of the 
directors; the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, 
accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the 
financial statements since they were initially presented on the website. 
(b) Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial 
statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions. 
Shareholder information Financial statements Overview Performance Governance
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 93 Consolidated income statement 
 www.africanbarrickgold.com 94 
  
(in thousands of United States dollars) Notes 
For the 
year ended 
31 December
2012
For the 
year ended 
31 December
2011
Revenue 4 1,087,339 1,217,915
Cost of sales 5 (802,709) (704,114)
Gross profit   284,630 513,801
Corporate administration 2a  (51,567) (49,148)
Exploration and evaluation costs 7 (28,961) (30,339)
Corporate social responsibility expenses   (14,445) (7,376)
Impairment charges 19 (44,536) –
Other charges 8 (17,671) (15,639)
Profit before net finance expense and taxation   127,450 411,299
Finance income 10 2,102 1,484
Finance expense  2a,10 (10,305) (10,082)
    (8,203) (8,598)
Profit before taxation   119,247 402,701
Tax expense 11 (71,063) (117,924)
Net profit for the period   48,184 284,777
Net profit/(loss) attributable to:   
– Non-controlling interests   (11,287) 9,882
– Owners of the parent    59,471 274,895
 
Earnings per share:   
– Basic earnings per share (cents) 12 14.5 67.0 
– Diluted earnings per share (cents) 12 14.5 67.0 
 
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 
 
(in thousands of United States dollars) 
For the 
year ended 
31 December
2012
For the 
year ended 
31 December
2011
Net profit for the period 48,184 284,777
Changes in fair value of cash flow hedges 363 –
Total comprehensive income for the period 48,547 284,777 
Attributed to: 
– Non-controlling interests (11,287) 9,882
– Owners of the parent 59,834 274,895
The notes on pages 98 to 138 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 
 
 
94 www.africanbarrickgold.com Consolidated balance sheet 
 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 
95
Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 
(in thousands of United States dollars) Notes 
As at 31
December
2012
As at 31 
December
2011
Assets  
Non-current assets   
Goodwill and intangible assets 19 278,221 258,513
Property, plant and equipment 18 1,963,924 1,823,247
Deferred tax assets 20 2,399 55,529
Non-current portion of inventory 15 118,554 78,022
Derivative financial instruments  467 213
Other assets 21 137,565 110,658
    2,501,130 2,326,182
Current assets   
Inventories 15 335,497 316,947
Trade and other receivables 16 44,227 29,858
Derivative financial instruments  2,207 4,050
Other current assets 16 44,314 33,271
Cash and cash equivalents 17 401,348 584,154
    827,593 968,280
Total assets   3,328,723 3,294,462
    
Equity and liabilities     
Share capital and share premium 23 929,199 929,199 
Other reserves   1,823,202 1,832,032 
Total owners’ equity   2,752,401 2,761,231
Non-controlling interests   22,580 37,473
Total equity   2,774,981 2,798,704
    
Non-current liabilities   
Deferred tax liabilities 20 173,574 149,544
Derivative financial instruments  294 56
Provisions 26 180,548 157,582
Other non-current liabilities 27 21,064 18,988
    375,480 326,170
    
Current liabilities   
Trade and other payables 25 169,904 161,916
Derivative financial instruments  429 58
Provisions 26 1,040 1,034
Other current liabilities 27 6,889 6,580
    178,262 169,588
Total liabilities   553,742 495,758
Total equity and liabilities   3,328,723 3,294,462
The notes on pages 98 to 138 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 
The consolidated financial statements on pages 94 to 138 were authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 7 March 2013 and were signed 
on its behalf: 
 
 
 
Greg Hawkins  
Chief Executive Officer 
Shareholder information Financial statements Overview Performance Governance
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 95 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 
 www.africanbarrickgold.com 96 
 
(in thousands of United States dollars) Notes Share capital 
Share 
premium
Contributed 
surplus/ 
Other reserve
Cash flow
hedging 
reserve
Stock 
option 
reserve
Retained 
earnings
Total  
owners’ 
equity 
Total 
non-controlling 
interests Total equity
Balance at 1 January 2011   62,097 867,102 1,368,774 – 640 214,711 2,513,324 29,761 2,543,085
Total comprehensive income 
for the period   – – – – – 274,895 274,895 9,882 284,777
Conversion to contributed 
surplus   – – (61) – – – (61) – (61)
Stock option grants   – – – – 1,401 – 1,401 – 1,401
Dividends to equity holders 
of the Company  – – – – –(28,328)(28,328) –(28,328)
Distributions to non-
controlling interests   – – – – – – – (2,170) (2,170)
Balance at 31 December 2011   62,097 867,102 1,368,713 – 2,041 461,278 2,761,231 37,473 2,798,704
Total comprehensive income 
for the period   – – – 363 – 59,471 59,834 (11,287) 48,547
Stock option grants   – – – – 1,461 – 1,461 – 1,461
Dividends to equity holders 
of the Company 13 – – – – – (70,125) (70,125) – (70,125)
Distributions to non-
controlling interests   – – – – – – – (3,606) (3,606)
Balance at 31 December 2012   62,097 867,102 1,368,713 363 3,502 450,624 2,752,401 22,580 2,774,981
The notes on pages 98 to 138 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
96 www.africanbarrickgold.com Consolidated cash flow statement 
 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 
97
Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 
(in thousands of United States dollars) Notes 
For the year
ended 
31 December
2012
For the year 
ended 
31 December
2011
Cash flows from operating activities     
Net profit for the period   48,184 284,777
Adjustments for:     
Taxation 11  71,063 117,924
Depreciation and amortisation   168,514 135,683
Finance items  2a,10  8,203 8,598
Impairment charges 19 44,536 –
(Profit)/loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 8  (616) 179
Working capital adjustments 14 (80,336) (42,880)
Other non-cash items 14 3,088 (704)
Cash generated from operations before interest and tax   262,636 503,577
Finance income  10 2,102 1,484
Finance expenses  2a,10 (6,284) (6,738)
Income tax paid  (551) –
Net cash generated by operating activities   257,903 498,323
    
Cash flows used in investing activities     
Purchase of property, plant and equipment  (312,675) (273,207)
Investments in other assets   (24,473) (8,645)
Acquisition of subsidiary, net of cash acquired 22 (22,039) –
Other investing activities 14 (1,468) 320
Net cash used in investing activities   (360,655) (281,532)
   
Cash flows used in financing activities     
Dividends paid 13 (70,125) (28,328)
Distributions to non-controlling interest holders   (3,606) (2,170)
Finance lease instalments  (5,708) (2,184)
Net cash used in financing activities   (79,439) (32,682)
      
Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents   (182,191) 184,109
Net foreign exchange difference 14 (615) (967)
Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January  584,154 401,012
Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 17  401,348 584,154
The notes on pages 98 to 138 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
Shareholder information Financial statements Overview Performance Governance
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 97 Notes to the consolidated financial statements  
 www.africanbarrickgold.com 98 
1. General information 
African Barrick Gold plc (the “Company”, “ABG” or collectively with its subsidiaries “the Group”) was incorporated on 12 January 2010 and re-
registered as a public limited company on 12 March 2010 under the Companies Act 2006. It is registered in England and Wales with registered 
number 7123187. 
On 24 March 2010 the Company’s shares were admitted to the Official List of the United Kingdom Listing Authority (“UKLA”) and to trading 
on the Main Market of the London Stock Exchange, hereafter referred to as the Initial Public Offering (“IPO”). The address of its registered 
office is 6 St James’s Place, London SW1A 1NP, United Kingdom. 
Barrick Gold Corporation (“BGC”) currently owns approximately 73.9% of the shares of the Company and is the ultimate parent and 
controlling party of the Group. 
The consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2012 were approved for issue by the Board of Directors of the Company 
on 7 March 2013. 
The principal activities of the subsidiaries and joint ventures included in the consolidated financial statements are as follows: 
Company Principal activity Country of Incorporation Relationship 
Equity interest at  
31 December 
2012 
Equity interest at 
31 December
2011
African Barrick Gold plc Holding Company UK  100% 100%
BUK HoldCo Ltd Holding Company UK Subsidiary 100% 100%
BUK East Africa Limited Holding Company UK Subsidiary 100% –
1816962 Ontario Inc Holding Company Canada Subsidiary 100% 100%
African Barrick (Barbados) Corp Ltd** Group Finance Company Barbados Subsidiary 100% 100%
BAPL Holding Ltd Holding Company Mauritius Subsidiary 100% 100%
Aviva Mining (Kenya) Ltd* Exploration  Kenya Subsidiary 100% –
CayCo Tz Ltd Holding Company Cayman Islands Subsidiary 100% 100%
ABG Exploration Africa Limited*** Exploration Tanzania Subsidiary 100% 100%
Matinje Exploration Ltd Exploration Tanzania Subsidiary 75% 75%
Itobo Exploration Ltd Exploration Tanzania Subsidiary 75% 75%
Mkumi Exploration Ltd  Exploration Tanzania Subsidiary 80% 80%
Sekenke Exploration Ltd Exploration Tanzania Associate – 20%
Nyanzaga Exploration Company Ltd Exploration Tanzania Subsidiary 100% 100%
Barrick Tanzanian Holdings Ltd Exploration Cayman Islands Subsidiary 100% 100%
Barisun Exploration Ltd  Exploration Tanzania Subsidiary – 75%
Safari Exploration Ltd  Exploration Tanzania Subsidiary – 75%
Prime Gold Exploration Ltd Exploration Tanzania Subsidiary 75% 75%
Kasubuya Exploration Company Ltd Exploration Tanzania Subsidiary 60% 60%
KMCL Holdings Ltd Exploration Cayman Islands Subsidiary 100% 100%
Bulyanhulu Gold Mine Ltd  Operating Gold Mine Tanzania Subsidiary 100% 100%
North Mara Gold Mine Ltd  Operating Gold Mine Tanzania Subsidiary 100% 100%
Pangea Goldfields Inc.  Holding Company Canada Subsidiary 100% 100%
Pangea Minerals Ltd Operating Gold Mine Tanzania Subsidiary 100% 100%
1051694 Ontario Inc Holding Company Canada Subsidiary 100% 100%
Barrick Africa (Proprietary) Ltd  Shared Services South Africa Subsidiary 100% 100%
East Africa Gold Mines Ltd  Holding Company Australia Subsidiary 100% 100%
Tusker Gold Ltd Holding Company Australia Subsidiary 100% 100%
Indago Autan (Proprietary) Ltd* Holding Company Australia Subsidiary 100% 100%
IDG Aurum Tanzania Ltd* Holding Company Tanzania Subsidiary 100% 100%
   
98 www.africanbarrickgold.com  
 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 
99
Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 
Company Principal activity Country of Incorporation Relationship 
Equity interest at 
31 December
2012
Equity interest at 
31 December
2011
IDG Aurum Holdings Ltd* Holding Company Tanzania Subsidiary 100% 100%
IDG Kitongo Tanzania Ltd* Dormant Company Tanzania Subsidiary 100% 100%
Vulcan Resources Tanzania Ltd* Dormant Company Tanzania Subsidiary 100% 100%
Aptian Resources Tanzania Ltd* Dormant Company Tanzania Subsidiary 100% 100%
Sub-Sahara Resources Tanzania Ltd* Exploration Tanzania Subsidiary 100% 100%
Kahama Project Joint Venture Exploration Tanzania Joint Venture 49% 49%
Nyakafuru Project Joint Venture Exploration Tanzania Joint Venture 51% 51%
*  June year-end. 
**  The Company changed its name during the year from Barbco One Ltd to African Barrick (Barbados) Corp Ltd. 
*** The Company changed its name during the year from Barrick Exploration Africa Ltd to ABG Exploration Africa Limited. 
There are no restrictions on the ability of subsidiaries to transfer funds to the parent in the form of cash dividends or to repay loans or advances. 
The joint ventures included in the table above are currently immaterial to the Group. 
 
2. Significant accounting policies 
The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these 
consolidated financial statements are set out below. These policies 
have been consistently applied to all the years presented, unless 
otherwise stated. 
a) Basis of preparation 
The Group’s consolidated financial statements have been prepared 
in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as 
adopted by the European Union (“IFRS”), IFRS Interpretations 
Committee (“IFRS IC”) interpretation and those parts of the 
Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS. 
The financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis. 
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the 
historical cost convention basis, as modified by the revaluation of 
financial assets and financial liabilities (including derivative 
instruments) at fair value through profit or loss.  
The consolidated financial statements are presented in United States 
dollars (US$) and all values are rounded to the nearest thousand 
(US$’000) except when otherwise indicated.  
The Group’s primary business is the mining, processing and sale of gold. 
The Group has four operating mines located in Tanzania. The Group 
also has a portfolio of exploration projects located across Africa. 
Where a change in the presentational format between the prior year 
and current year financial statements has been made during the 
period, comparative figures have been restated accordingly. The 
following presentational changes were made during the current year: 
 Bank charges previously included in corporate administration 
expenses have been reclassified to finance expense (2012: US$1.2 
million; 2011: US$1.4 million). 
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS 
requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates. It also 
requires management to exercise its judgement in the process of 
applying the Group’s accounting policies. The areas involving a higher 
degree of judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions and 
estimates are significant to the consolidated financial statements are 
disclosed in Note 2d. 
b) New and amended standards adopted by the Group 
There are no new IFRSs or IFRIC interpretations that are effective for 
the first time for the financial year beginning on or after 1 January 
2012 that would be expected to have a material impact on the Group. 
c) New and amended standards and interpretations not yet adopted  
A number of new standards and amendments to standards and 
interpretations are effective for annual periods beginning after 1 
January 2012, and have not been applied in preparing these 
consolidated financial statements. None of these are expected to have 
a significant effect on the consolidated financial statements of the 
Group, except the following set out below: 
 IFRIC 20, “Stripping costs in the production phase of a surface 
mine”. This interpretation addresses the following issues: 
recognition of production stripping costs as an asset; initial 
measurement of the stripping activity asset; and subsequent 
measurement of the stripping activity asset. This interpretation 
considers when and how to account for the benefit arising from the 
stripping activity, as well as how to measure these benefits both 
initially and subsequently. The interpretation is effective from 1 
January 2013. When published in the Group’s 2013 annual report, 
the Group’s restated 2012 financial statements are expected to show 
an increase in mineral properties and mine development costs of 
US$11 million, a decrease in inventory of US$6 million and an 
increase in net income of US$5 million and a decrease of US$9 per 
ounce in total cash costs. There will be no transitional adjustment as 
a result of applying IFRIC 20. The Group expects the impact to be 
more significant in 2013. 
 Amendments to IAS 1, “Financial statement presentation” 
regarding other comprehensive income. The main change resulting 
from these amendments is a requirement for entities to group items 
presented in “other comprehensive income” (“OCI”) on the basis of  
Shareholder information Financial statements Overview Performance Governance
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 99 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
 www.africanbarrickgold.com 100 
2. Significant accounting policies continued 
whether they are potentially reclassifiable to profit or loss 
subsequently (reclassification adjustments). The amendments do 
not address which items are presented in OCI. 
 Amendments to IFRS 7, “Financial instruments: Disclosures” on 
derecognition. This amendment will promote transparency in the 
reporting of transfer transactions and improve users’ understanding 
of the risk exposures relating to transfers of financial assets and the 
effect of those risks on an entity’s financial position, particularly 
those involving securitisation of financial assets. 
 IFRS 9, “Financial instruments”, addresses the classification, 
measurement and recognition of financial assets and financial 
liabilities. IFRS 9 was issued in November 2009 and October 2010. 
It replaces the parts of IAS 39 that relate to the classification and 
measurement of financial instruments. IFRS 9 requires financial 
assets to be classified into two measurement categories: those 
measured at fair value and those measured at amortised cost. The 
determination is made at initial recognition. The classification 
depends on the entity’s business model for managing its financial 
instruments and the contractual cash flow characteristics of the 
instrument. For financial liabilities, the standard retains most of the 
IAS 39 requirements. The main change is that, in cases where the 
fair value option is taken for financial liabilities, the part of a fair 
value change due to an entity’s own credit risk is recorded in other 
comprehensive income rather than the income statement, unless 
this creates an accounting mismatch. The Group is yet to assess 
IFRS 9’s full impact and intends to adopt IFRS 9 no later than the 
accounting period beginning on or after 1 January 2015, subject 
to endorsement by the EU. The Group will also consider the 
impact of the remaining phases of IFRS 9 when completed by 
the International Accounting Standards Board. 
 IFRS 10, “Consolidated financial statements”, builds on existing 
principles by identifying the concept of control as the determining 
factor in whether an entity should be included within the 
consolidated financial statements of the parent company. The 
standard provides additional guidance to assist in the determination 
of control where this is difficult to assess. The Group is yet to assess 
IFRS 10’s full impact and intends to adopt IFRS 10 no later than the 
accounting period beginning on or after 1 January 2013, subject to 
endorsement by the EU. 
 IFRS 11, “Joint arrangements”, is a reflection of joint arrangements 
which focuses on the rights and obligations of the parties to the 
arrangement rather than its legal form. There are two types of joint 
arrangements: joint operations and joint ventures. Joint operations 
arise where a joint operator has rights to the assets and obligations 
relating to the arrangement and therefore accounts for its share of 
assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses. Joint ventures arise where 
the joint venture has rights to the net assets of the arrangement and 
therefore equity accounts for its interest. Proportional consolidation 
of joint ventures is no longer allowed. The Group is yet to assess 
IFRS 11’s full impact and intends to adopt IFRS 11 no later than the 
accounting period beginning on or after 1 January 2013, subject to 
endorsement by the EU. 
 IFRS 12, “Disclosures of interests in other entities”, includes the 
disclosure requirements for all forms of interests in other entities, 
including joint arrangements, associates, special purpose vehicles 
and other off balance sheet vehicles. The Group is yet to assess IFRS 
12’s full impact and intends to adopt IFRS 12 no later than the 
accounting period beginning on or after 1 January 2013, subject to 
endorsement by the EU. 
 IFRS 13, “Fair value measurement”, aims to improve consistency 
and reduce complexity by providing a precise definition of fair 
value and a single source of fair value measurement and disclosure 
requirements for use across IFRSs. The requirements, which are 
largely aligned between IFRSs and US GAAP, do not extend the use 
of fair value accounting but provide guidance on how it should be 
applied where its use is already required or permitted by other 
standards within IFRSs or US GAAP. 
 Amendment to IAS 32, “Financial Instruments: Presentation”, 
clarifies some of the requirements for offsetting financial assets and 
financial liabilities on the balance sheet.  
There are no other IFRSs or IFRIC interpretations that are not yet 
effective that would be expected to have a material impact on the Group. 
d) Significant judgements in applying accounting policies and key sources 
of estimation uncertainty 
Many of the amounts included in the consolidated financial 
statements require management to make judgements and/or 
estimates. These judgements and estimates are continuously evaluated 
and are based on management’s experience and best knowledge of the 
relevant facts and circumstances, but actual results may differ from 
the amounts included in the consolidated financial statements. The 
Life of Mine plans are central to a number of key estimates. 
Information about such judgements and estimations are included in 
the accounting policies and/or notes to the consolidated financial 
statements, and the key areas are summarised below. 
Areas of judgement and key sources of estimation uncertainty that 
have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the 
consolidated financial statements include: 
 Estimates of the quantities of proven and probable gold reserves – 
Note 2h); 
 The capitalisation of production stripping costs – Note 2i); 
 The capitalisation of exploration and evaluation expenditures – 
Notes 2l) and 7; 
 Review of goodwill, property, plant and equipment and intangible 
assets’ carrying value, the determination of whether these assets are 
impaired and the measurement of impairment charges or reversals 
– Notes 2o), 2p), 2q), 2r), 18 and 19; 
 The estimated fair values of cash generating units for impairment 
tests, including estimates of future costs to produce proven and 
probable reserves, future commodity prices, foreign exchange rates 
and discount rates – Notes 2r) and 19; 
 The estimated useful lives of property, plant and equipment and the 
measurement of depreciation expense – Notes 2o) and 18; 
100 www.africanbarrickgold.com  
 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 
101
Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 
 Property, plant and equipment held under finance leases – Notes 
2o) and 18; 
 Recognition of a provision for environmental rehabilitation and the 
estimation of the rehabilitation costs and timing of expenditure – 
Notes 2u) and 26; 
 Whether to recognise a liability for loss contingencies and the 
amount of any such provision – Notes 2u), 26 and 31; 
 Whether to recognise a provision for accounts receivable – Notes 
2w), 16 and 21; 
 Recognition of deferred income tax assets, amounts recorded for 
uncertain tax positions, the measurement of income tax expense 
and indirect taxes – Notes 2y), 11 and 20; 
 Determination of the cost incurred in the productive process of ore 
stockpiles, gold in process, gold doré/bullion and concentrate, as 
well as the associated net realisable value and the split between the 
long-term and short-term portions – Note 2n) and 15; 
 Determination of fair value of derivative instruments – Note 2w) 
and 29; and 
 Determination of fair value of stock options and cash-settled  
share-based payments – Note 2v) and 24. 
e) Basis of consolidation 
The consolidated financial statements set out the Group’s financial 
position as at 31 December 2012 and 2011, and operating results and 
cash flows for the years then ended. The consolidated financial 
statements of the Group incorporate the financial statements of the 
Company and companies controlled by the Company (its subsidiaries). 
Subsidiaries are entities over which the Company has the control, 
directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies in 
order to obtain benefits from their activities. Control is presumed to 
exist where the Company has more than one half of the voting rights 
unless it can be demonstrated that ownership does not constitute 
control. Control does not exist where other parties hold veto rights 
over significant operating and financial decisions. In assessing control, 
potential voting rights that are currently exercisable or convertible as 
well as other contractual arrangements that enable the Company to 
exercise control are taken into account. The consolidated financial 
statements include all of the assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses and 
cash flows of the Company and its subsidiaries after eliminating 
intercompany transactions as noted above. Accounting policies of 
subsidiaries have been changed where necessary to ensure consistency 
with the policies adopted by the Group. Subsidiaries are included in 
the consolidated financial statements from the date on which control 
passed to the Group, and have been excluded from the date on which 
control transferred out of the Group. For partly-owned subsidiaries, the 
net assets and net earnings attributable to non-controlling interests are 
presented as “Equity attributable to non-controlling interests” in the 
consolidated balance sheet and “Profit attributable to non-controlling 
interests” in the consolidated income statement, respectively. 
f) Business combinations 
On acquiring a business, the acquisition method of accounting is used, 
whereby the purchase consideration is allocated to the identifiable net 
assets on the basis of fair value at the date of acquisition. Provisional 
fair values allocated at a reporting date are finalised within 12 months 
of the acquisition date. Acquisition costs are expensed.  
When purchase consideration is contingent on future events, the 
initial cost of the acquisition recorded includes an estimate of the fair 
value of the contingent amounts expected to be payable in the future. 
The cost of the acquisition is adjusted when revised estimates are 
made, with corresponding adjustments made to goodwill. 
When the cost of acquisition exceeds the fair values of the identifiable 
net assets, the difference is treated as purchased goodwill, which is 
reviewed for impairment annually or when there is an indication of 
impairment. If the fair value attributable to the Group’s share of the 
identifiable net assets exceeds the cost of acquisition, the difference is 
recognised in the consolidated income statement. 
g) Foreign currency translation 
The Group’s transactions are denominated in a number of different 
currencies (primarily US dollars, Tanzanian Shillings (“Shillings”), 
South African Rands (“Rands”), UK pounds sterling (“Pounds”) and 
Australian dollars. The Group has liabilities that are primarily 
denominated in US dollars. The US dollar is the Company’s (and its 
main subsidiaries’) functional currency, as well as the Group’s 
presentation currency. Transactions in currencies other than the US 
dollar are translated at the exchange rates as at the date of transaction. 
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the 
US dollar are translated to US dollars at year-end exchange rates. All 
differences that arise are recorded in the income statement. Non-
monetary assets measured at historical cost in a currency other than US 
dollars are translated using the exchange rates at the date of the initial 
transactions. Where non-monetary assets are measured at fair value in a 
currency other than US dollars they are translated into US dollars using 
the exchange rates on the date when the fair value was determined.  
The following exchange rates to the US dollar have been applied: 
 
As at
31 December 
2012
Average  
Year ended 
31 December  
2012 
As at 
31 December
2011
Average 
Year ended
31 December
2011
South African Rand (US$ : ZAR) 8.5 8.2 8.08 7.23
Tanzanian Shilling (US$ : TZS) 1,572 1,572 1,582 1,558
Australian Dollar (US$ : AUD) 0.96 0.97  0.98 0.97
UK Pound (US$ : GBP) 0.62 0.63 0.64 0.62
 
Shareholder information Financial statements Overview Performance Governance
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 101 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
 
 www.africanbarrickgold.com 102 
2. Significant accounting policies continued 
h) Determination of ore reserves 
The Group estimates its ore reserves and mineral resources based on 
information compiled by Competent Persons as defined in accordance 
with the Canadian Securities Administrators’ National Instrument  
43-101 “Standards of Disclosure for Mineral Projects” requirements. 
Reports to support these estimates are prepared each year. Proven and 
probable (2P) reserves, and for certain mines other mineral resources, 
determined in this way are used in the calculation of depreciation, 
amortisation and impairment charges, the assessment of life of mine 
stripping ratios and for forecasting the timing of the payments related 
to the environmental rehabilitation provision. 
In assessing the life of a mine for accounting purposes, mineral 
resources are only taken into account where there is a high degree 
of confidence of economic extraction.  
There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating ore reserves, 
and assumptions that are valid at the time of estimation may change 
significantly when new information becomes available. Changes in the 
forecast prices of commodities, exchange rates, production and capital 
costs, grades or recovery rates may change the economic status of 
reserves and may, ultimately, result in the reserves being revised. 
i) Stripping costs 
In open pit mining operations, it is necessary to remove overburden 
and other waste materials to access ore from which minerals can be 
extracted economically. The process of mining overburden and waste 
materials is referred to as stripping. Stripping costs incurred in order 
to provide initial access to the ore body (referred to as pre-production 
stripping) are capitalised as mine development costs. 
Stripping costs incurred during the production stage of a pit are 
accounted for as the costs of the inventory produced during the period 
that the stripping costs were incurred, unless these costs provide a 
future economic benefit. Production phase stripping costs generate 
a future economic benefit when the related stripping activity: (i) 
provides access to ore to be mined in the future, (ii) increases the fair 
value of the mine (or pit) as access to future mineral reserves becomes 
less costly; (iii) increases the productive capacity or extends the 
productive life of the mine (or pit). For production phase stripping 
costs that generate a future economic benefit, the current period 
stripping costs are capitalised as open pit mine development costs.  
Where a mine operates several open pits that are regarded as separate 
operations for the purpose of mine planning, stripping costs are 
accounted for separately by reference to the ore reserves from each 
separate pit (i.e. the initial stripping of the second and subsequent 
pits is considered to be pre-production stripping). If, however, the 
pits are highly integrated for the purpose of mine planning, the second 
and subsequent pits are regarded as extensions of the first pit in 
accounting for stripping costs. In such cases, the initial stripping of 
the second and subsequent pits is considered to be production 
stripping relating to the combined operation. 
Capitalised open mine development costs are depreciated on a units 
of production basis whereby the denominator is the estimated ounces 
of gold in the associated open pit in proven and probable reserves and 
the portion of resources considered probable of being extracted 
economically. Capitalised open pit mine development costs are 
depreciated once the open pit has entered production and the future 
economic benefit is being derived. 
j) Revenue recognition 
Revenue is recognised when persuasive evidence exists that all of the 
following criteria are met: 
 the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the product have 
been transferred to the buyer; 
 neither continuing managerial involvement to the degree usually 
associated with ownership, nor effective control over the goods sold 
has been retained; 
 the amount of revenue can be measured reliably;  
 it is probable that the economic benefits associated with the sale will 
flow to the Group; and 
 the costs incurred or to be incurred in respect of the sale can be 
measured reliably. 
Gold doré sales 
Gold doré is unrefined gold bullion bars usually consisting of 90% 
gold that is refined to pure gold bullion prior to sale to our customers. 
Revenue from gold doré sales is recognised either at the time of sale to 
a third party or, in relation to quarter end settlements, at the time of 
shipment should the Group have received confirmation of sale to the 
third party. The sales price is based on the gold spot price at the time 
of sale. 
Concentrate sales 
Concentrate is a processing product containing the valuable ore 
mineral gold, copper and silver from which most of the waste mineral 
has been eliminated, that undergoes a smelting process to convert it 
into gold bullion, copper and silver concentrate. Under the terms of 
concentrate sales contracts with independent smelting companies, 
gold, copper and silver in concentrate is sold at trailing monthly 
average spot prices based on contract quotational periods. 
Revenue is recorded, net of selling costs, at the shipped on board date, 
which is also when risks and rewards pass to the smelting companies, 
using market prices on the expected date that final sales prices will be 
fixed. Variations between the price recorded at the shipment date and 
the actual final price set under the smelting contracts are caused by 
changes in market prices, and result in an embedded derivative in 
accounts receivable. The embedded derivative is recorded at fair value 
each period until final settlement occurs, with changes in fair value 
classified as provisional price adjustments and included as a 
component of revenue. Co-product revenues from the sale of other 
products, such as copper and silver, contained in the concentrate are 
recognised in revenue.  
Co-products 
Revenue from the sale of co-products, such as copper and silver, 
contained in concentrates are recognised in revenue.  
k) Cost of sales 
Cost of sales consists of direct mining costs (which include personnel 
costs, general and administrative costs, energy costs (principally diesel 
fuel and electricity), maintenance and repair costs, operating supplies, 
102 www.africanbarrickgold.com  
 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 
103
Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 
external services); third party smelting, refining and transport fees; 
and depreciation related to sales as well as production taxes and 
royalty expenses for the period. Cost of sales is based on average 
costing for contained or recoverable ounces sold as well as production 
taxes and royalty expense for the period. All costs are net of any 
impairment to reduce inventory to its net realisable value. 
l) Exploration and evaluation  
Exploration expenditures 
Exploration expenditures relate to the initial search for mineral 
deposits with economic potential as well as expenditures incurred for 
the purposes of obtaining more information about existing mineral 
deposits. Exploration expenditures typically comprise costs that are 
directly attributable to:  
 researching and analysing existing exploration data;  
 conducting geological studies;  
 exploratory drilling and sampling for the purposes of obtaining core 
samples and the related metallurgical assay of these cores; and  
 drilling to determine the volume and grade of deposits in an area 
known to contain mineral resources or for the purposes of 
converting mineral resources into proven and probable reserves. 
Exploration expenditures incurred at greenfield sites (sites where 
the Group does not have any mineral deposits that are already being 
mined or developed) are typically expensed as incurred, unless it can 
be demonstrated that the related evaluation expenditures will generate 
a future economic benefit. Exploration expenditures incurred at 
brownfield sites (sites that are adjacent to a mineral deposit that is 
classified within proven and probable reserves and are already being 
mined or developed) are capitalised if the following criteria are met: 
 the drilling is being done in an inferred or measured and indicated 
resource; and  
 there is an existing proven and probable reserve that is contiguous 
or adjacent to where the drilling is being done; and  
 it is probable that the resource will be converted to a proven and 
probable reserve.  
The assessment of probability is based on the following factors: results 
from previous drill programmes; results from a geological study; 
results from a mine scoping study confirming economic viability of 
the resource; and preliminary estimates of the volume and grade of 
the deposit, and the net cash flows expected to be generated from its 
development. Costs incurred at brownfield sites that meet the above 
criteria are capitalised as a component of property, plant and 
equipment (“mine development costs”) pursuant to IAS 16, “Property, 
Plant and Equipment”. All other drilling and related exploration costs 
incurred at these sites are expensed as mine site exploration. 
Exploration expenditures incurred for the purposes of determining 
additional information on a mineral deposit that is classified within 
proven and probable reserves or for the purposes of extending an 
existing mineral deposit that is classified within proven and probable 
reserves and is already being mined or developed are also capitalised 
as mine development costs.  
Evaluation expenditures 
Evaluation expenditures arise from a detailed assessment of deposits or 
other projects that have been identified as having economic potential in 
order to determine their technical feasibility and commercial viability. 
They typically include costs directly attributable to: 
 detailed engineering studies; 
 examination and testing of extraction methods and 
metallurgical/treatment processes; 
 surveying transportation and infrastructure requirements;  
 permitting activities; and 
 detailed economic evaluations to determine whether development 
of the reserves is commercially justified, including the preparation 
of scoping, pre-feasibility and final feasibility studies. 
Evaluation expenditures incurred at greenfield and brownfield sites are 
expensed as incurred, unless it can be demonstrated that the related 
evaluation expenditures will generate a future economic benefit.  
Evaluation expenditures incurred at operating mines/development 
projects are capitalised as a component of property, plant and equipment, 
“Mineral properties and mine development costs”, respectively.  
Acquired exploration and evaluation properties 
Exploration and evaluation stage properties acquired either as an 
acquisition of individual assets or as part of a business combination are 
capitalised as an intangible asset, “Acquired exploration and evaluation 
properties”. Exploration and evaluation stage properties represent 
interests in properties that do not have mineralised material classified 
within proven and probable reserves. The value of such properties is 
primarily driven by the nature and amount of mineralised material 
contained in such properties, including value attributable to the rights to 
explore or develop: i) a property containing mineralised material 
classified as a measured, indicated or inferred resource; or ii) a 
prospective greenfield property with significant exploration potential. 
Exploration and evaluation expenditures incurred on such properties 
subsequent to their acquisition are expensed as incurred until the 
technical and commercial viability of developing the property has been 
demonstrated under the same criteria described above for exploration 
and evaluation expenditures. 
m) Earnings per share 
Basic earnings per share is computed by dividing net profit for the 
period attributable to the owners of the Company by the weighted 
average number of Ordinary Shares outstanding for the period. 
Diluted earnings per share reflect the potential dilution that could 
occur if additional Ordinary Shares are assumed to be issued under 
securities that entitle their holders to obtain Ordinary Shares in the 
future. For stock options, the number of additional shares for 
inclusion in diluted earnings per share calculations is determined 
using the treasury stock method. Under this method, stock options, 
whose exercise price is less than the average market price of our 
Ordinary Shares, are assumed to be exercised and the proceeds are 
used to repurchase Ordinary Shares at the average market price for the 
period. The incremental number of Ordinary Shares issued under  
Shareholder information Financial statements Overview Performance Governance
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 103 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
 www.africanbarrickgold.com 104 
2. Significant accounting policies continued 
m) Earnings per share continued 
stock options and repurchased from proceeds is included in the 
calculation of diluted earnings per share.  
n) Inventory 
Material extracted from the Group’s mines is classified as either ore 
or waste. Ore represents material that, at the time of extraction, is 
expected to be processed into a saleable form and sold at a profit. 
Waste represents material that is required to be removed to access ore 
bodies. Ore is recorded as an asset that is classified within inventory as 
material is extracted from the open pit or underground mine. Ore is 
accumulated in stockpiles that are subsequently processed into gold 
in a saleable form under a mine plan that takes into consideration 
optimal scheduling of production of our reserves, present plant 
capacity, and the market price of gold and copper. Work in process 
inventory represents gold, copper and silver in the processing circuit 
that has not completed the production process, and is not yet in a 
saleable form. Finished goods inventory represents gold in saleable 
form that has not yet been shipped. Mine operating supplies represent 
commodities and other raw materials consumed in the production 
process, as well as spare parts and other maintenance supplies that are 
not classified as capital items. Inventories are valued at the lower 
of cost and net realisable value, with cost being determined on a 
weighted average cost basis. Average costs are calculated by reference 
to the cost of inventory at the beginning of the period together with 
the cost of inventory produced in a period.  
Gold, copper and silver ore contained in stockpiles is measured by 
estimating the number of tonnes added and removed from the 
stockpile, and the associated estimate of gold contained therein (based 
on assay data) and applying estimated metallurgical recovery rates 
(based on the expected processing method). Stockpile ore tonnages 
are verified by periodic surveys. Costs are allocated to ore stockpiles 
based on quantities of material stockpiled using current mining costs 
incurred up to the point of stockpiling the ore and include: direct 
labour costs; materials and contractor expenses which are directly 
attributable to the extraction of ore, including an allocation of 
stripping costs attributable to current period production; an allocation 
of mine site overhead costs; and depreciation of mining properties and 
property, plant and equipment used in the extraction of ore, reduced 
by an allocation of capitalised stripping costs. As ore is processed, 
costs are removed based on recoverable quantities of gold and the 
stockpile’s average cost per unit. Ore that is not expected to be 
processed in the 12 months following the balance sheet date is 
classified as non-current.  
Costs capitalised in process and finished goods inventory include: 
the cost of stockpiles processed; the cost of commodities and raw 
materials consumed in the production process; direct labour; repair 
and maintenance costs; energy costs; depreciation of property, plant 
and equipment used in the production process; and an allocation of 
mine site overhead costs. Costs are removed from finished goods 
inventory and recorded in cost of sales based on the average cost 
per ounce of gold, copper and silver sold in the period. 
Cost of mine operating supplies is the purchase cost, including 
allocated freight costs where applicable. 
Provisions are recorded to reduce ore stockpiles, work in process 
and finished goods inventory to net realisable value where the net 
realisable value of the inventory is lower than its cost at each balance 
sheet date. Net realisable value is determined with reference to 
relevant market prices less applicable variable selling expenses. 
Provisions recorded also reflect an estimate of the remaining costs of 
completion to bring the inventory into its saleable form. Provisions 
are recorded to reduce mine operating supplies to net realisable value, 
which is generally calculated by reference to its salvage or scrap value, 
when it is determined that the supplies are slow moving and/or 
obsolete. Provisions are reversed to reflect subsequent recoveries in 
net realisable value where the inventory is still on hand at the balance 
sheet date.  
o) Property, plant and equipment 
Mineral properties and mine development costs 
Mineral properties and mine development costs are stated at cost, 
less accumulated depreciation and applicable accumulated 
impairment losses. The acquisition cost of a mineral property is the 
estimated fair value of proven and probable reserves acquired as a 
result of a business combination or asset acquisition. Capitalised 
mine development costs include: pre-production stripping costs; 
production stripping costs that result in a future economic benefit 
(refer to Note 2i) for capitalisation criteria for stripping costs); costs 
incurred to access reserves at underground mining operations; and 
exploration and evaluation expenditures that result in a probable 
future economic benefit (refer to Note 2l) for capitalisation criteria 
for exploration and evaluation expenditures).  
Development costs incurred at underground mines to build new shafts, 
drifts and ramps that provide physical access to the underground ore are 
capitalised as incurred. These costs can be incurred throughout the life 
of the underground mine.  
Plant and equipment 
Plant and equipment is recorded at cost, less accumulated 
depreciation and applicable impairment losses. Cost includes all 
expenditures incurred to prepare an asset for its intended use 
including: the purchase price; brokers’ commissions; capitalised 
borrowing costs and installation costs including architectural, 
design and engineering fees, legal fees, survey costs, site preparation 
costs, freight charges, transportation insurance costs, and duties. 
Costs that extend the productive capacity or useful economic life of an 
asset are capitalised. Costs incurred that do not extend the productive 
capacity or useful economic life of an asset are considered repairs and 
maintenance and expensed as incurred.  
The Group enters into leasing arrangements and arrangements that 
are in substance leasing arrangements. The determination of whether 
an arrangement is, or contains, a lease is based on the substance of 
the arrangement at inception date, including whether the fulfilment 
of the arrangement is dependent on the use of a specific asset or 
assets or whether the arrangement conveys a right to use the asset. 
A reassessment after inception is only made in specific circumstances. 
Leasing arrangements that transfer substantially all the risks and 
rewards of ownership of the asset to the Group are classified as 
finance leases.  
104 www.africanbarrickgold.com  
 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 
105
Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 
Finance leases are recorded as an asset with a corresponding liability 
at an amount equal to the lower of the fair value of the leased property 
and the present value at the beginning of the lease term of the 
minimum lease payments over the term of the lease. Each lease 
payment is allocated between the liability and finance costs using the 
effective interest method, whereby a constant rate of interest expense 
is recognised on the balance of the liability outstanding. The interest 
element of the lease is charged to the income statement as a finance 
expense. The property, plant and equipment assets acquired under 
finance leases are depreciated over the shorter of the useful life of the 
asset and the lease term.  
All other leases are classified as operating leases. Operating lease 
payments are recognised as an expense in the income statement on 
a straight-line basis over the lease term.  
Assets under construction 
Assets in the course of construction at both our development projects 
and operating mines are capitalised in the “assets under construction” 
account. The cost of property, plant and equipment comprises its 
purchase price and any costs directly attributable to bringing it into 
working condition for its intended use, at which point it is transferred 
to property, plant and equipment and depreciation commences. 
Development projects are recorded at cost, less applicable accumulated 
impairment losses. Development projects represent interests in 
properties that contain proven and probable reserves and where 
development activities are ongoing. The cost of development projects 
is composed of: the estimated fair value of development stage assets 
acquired as a result of a business combination or an asset acquisition; 
and costs associated with the construction of tangible assets, such as 
processing plants, permanent housing facilities and other tangible 
infrastructure associated with the project. Assets under construction 
also contains deposits on long lead items. Assets under construction 
are not depreciated. 
Depreciation  
Property, plant and equipment is depreciated, net of residual value, 
over its useful life, or over the remaining life of the mine if shorter on a 
straight-line basis. For mineral properties and mine development costs, 
the economic benefits of the assets are consumed in a pattern which is 
linked to the production level. Such assets are depreciated on a unit of 
production basis. Depreciation commences when assets are available 
for their intended use. In applying the units of production method, 
depreciation is normally calculated using the quantity of gold extracted 
from the mine (or pit) in the period as a percentage of the total quantity 
of material expected to be extracted in current and future periods based 
on estimates of recoverable proven and probable reserves and, for some 
mines, mineral resources. Such non-reserve material may be included in 
the depreciation calculations where there is a high degree of confidence 
in its economic extraction and the production of the non-reserve 
material is reflected in the life of mine plan.  
Development costs that relate to a discrete section of an ore body 
and which only provide benefit over the life of those reserves are 
depreciated over the recoverable proven and probable reserves of that 
discrete section. Discrete sections include capitalised underground 
development costs or production stripping costs incurred for the 
purposes of providing access to specific ore blocks or areas of the mine 
and which only provide an economic benefit over the period of 
mining that ore block or area. Development costs incurred which 
benefit the entire ore body are depreciated over the recoverable 
proven and probable reserves of the entire ore body.  
The expected depreciation rates of the major categories of assets are 
as follows: 
Mineral properties and mine development costs  UOP*
Plant and equipment 4% – 25%
Underground mobile equipment  14.3% – 20%
Light vehicles and other mobile equipment 33.3% – 50%
Furniture, computer and office equipment  33.3% – 50%
* UOP indicates assets which are depreciated on the basis of units of production (“UOP”), in this case 
ounces of gold produced in a period divided by the total recoverable reserves and resources of gold 
expected to be mined based on the current life of mine plans. 
Each asset’s estimated residual value and useful life are reviewed, and 
adjusted if appropriate, on an annual basis. The estimate of residual 
value and useful life is based on the physical condition and life 
limitations of buildings, plant and equipment and the present 
assessment of economically recoverable reserves of the mine for the 
mining property and development cost asset. Changes to the estimated 
residual values or useful lives are accounted for prospectively. 
p) Goodwill  
Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair 
value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities 
acquired at the date of acquisition. Goodwill is initially determined 
based on provisional fair values. Fair values are finalised within 12 
months of the acquisition date. For non-wholly-owned subsidiaries, 
non-controlling interests are initially recorded based on the non-
controlling interests’ proportion of the fair values for the assets and 
liabilities recognised at acquisition.  
Goodwill that is acquired through business combinations is allocated to 
cash generating units (“CGUs”), or groups of CGUs, that are expected 
to benefit from the synergies of the business combination. Each of the 
Group’s CGUs that has an allocation of goodwill is also an operating 
segment as defined by IFRS 8. Consequently, goodwill is tested for 
impairment at the individual CGU level. 
Goodwill is not amortised; rather it is tested annually for impairment 
in accordance with accounting policy Note 2r). Goodwill is stated at 
cost less accumulated impairment losses. Goodwill impairments are 
not reversible.  
q) Intangible assets 
Intangible assets acquired by way of an asset acquisition or business 
combination are recognised if the asset is separable or arises from 
contractual or legal rights and the fair value can be measured reliably 
on initial recognition. On acquisition of a mineral property in the 
exploration stage, an estimate of the fair value attributable to the 
exploration potential is prepared, including mineral resources, if any, 
of that property. The fair value of the exploration potential is recorded 
as an intangible asset (acquired exploration potential) as at the date 
of acquisition. When an exploration stage property moves into 
development, any acquired exploration intangible asset balance  
Shareholder information Financial statements Overview Performance Governance
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 105 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
 www.africanbarrickgold.com 106 
2. Significant accounting policies continued 
attributable to that property is transferred to mineral properties 
within property, plant and equipment. 
Impairment testing and the reversal of impairments are conducted 
in accordance with accounting policy Note 2r).  
r) Impairment of non-current assets  
Goodwill is reviewed for impairment annually or at any time during 
the year if an indicator of impairment is considered to exist.  
We review and test the carrying amounts of intangible assets when 
events or changes in circumstances suggest that the carrying amount 
may not be recoverable. 
Property, plant and equipment is reviewed for impairment if there is 
any indication that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.  
An impairment loss shall be recognised for a CGU if, and only if, the 
recoverable amount of the unit is less than the carrying amount of the 
unit. The impairment loss shall first be allocated to reduce the carrying 
amount of any goodwill allocated to the CGU and then to the other 
assets of the unit pro rata on the basis of the carrying amount of each 
asset in the unit. 
An impairment loss recognised in prior years for non-financial assets 
other than goodwill shall be reversed if, and only if, there has been a 
change in the estimates used to determine the asset’s recoverable 
amount since the last impairment loss was recognised. This reversal is 
recognised in the consolidated statement of income and is limited to 
the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of any 
depreciation, had no impairment been recognised in prior years. After 
such a reversal, any depreciation charge is adjusted prospectively. 
The recoverable amount of an asset is assessed by reference to the 
higher of value in use (“VIU”), being the net present value (“NPV”) of 
future cash flows expected to be generated by the asset, and fair value 
less costs to sell (“FVLCS”). Impairment assessments are conducted at 
the level of CGUs, which is the lowest level for which identifiable cash 
flows are largely independent of the cash flows of other assets. Each 
operating mine and development project represents a CGU for 
impairment testing purposes. An impairment loss is recognised for 
any excess of carrying amount of a CGU over its recoverable amount.  
The FVLCS of a CGU is based on an estimate of the amount that the 
Group may obtain in a sale transaction on an arm’s length basis. There 
is no active market for the Group’s CGUs. Consequently, FVLCS is 
derived using discounted cash flow techniques (NPV of expected 
future cash flows of a CGU), which incorporate market participant 
assumptions. Cost to sell is based on management’s best estimates of 
future selling costs at the time of calculating FVLCS. Costs attributable 
to the sale of a CGU are not considered significant. 
The expected future cash flows utilised in the NPV model are derived 
from estimates of projected future revenues, future cash costs of 
production and capital expenditures contained in the life of mine 
(“LOM”) plan for each CGU, which are generally updated in the 
fourth quarter of each fiscal year. The Group’s LOM plans reflect 
proven and probable reserves and convertible resources and are based 
on detailed research, analysis and modelling to optimise the internal 
rate of return for each CGU. As such, these plans consider the optimal 
level of investment, overall production levels and sequence of extraction 
taking into account all relevant characteristics of the ore body, 
including waste-to-ore tonnes, ore grades, haul distances, chemical 
and metallurgical properties impacting process recoveries and 
capacities of available extraction, haulage and processing equipment.  
Projected future revenues reflect the forecasted future production 
levels at each CGU as detailed in the LOM plans. Included in these 
forecasts is the production of mineral resources that do not currently 
qualify for inclusion in proven and probable ore reserves where there 
is a high degree of confidence in their economic extraction. This is 
consistent with the approach that a market participant would utilise 
in preparing a forecast of expected production levels. Projected future 
revenues also reflect the Group’s estimate of long-term gold prices, 
which is determined based on current prices, an analysis of the 
expected total production costs of producers and forward pricing 
curves and forecasts of expected long-term prices prepared by 
research analysts. These estimates often differ from current price 
levels, but this methodology is consistent with how a market 
participant would assess long-term gold prices.  
The estimates of future cash costs of production and capital 
expenditures are derived from the LOM plans for each CGU. Costs 
incurred in currencies other than the US dollar are translated to US 
dollars using expected long-term exchange rates based on the relevant 
forward pricing curve for that currency. Oil prices are a significant 
component, both directly and indirectly, of the expected cash costs of 
production. Estimates for long-term oil prices used in the LOM plans 
are based on the current spot price, the forward pricing curve and 
long-term oil price forecasts prepared by analysts. 
The discount rate applied to present value is based upon the real 
weighted average cost of capital applicable to the CGU. The discount 
rate reflects equity risk premiums over the risk-free rate, the impact of 
the remaining economic life of the CGU and the risks associated with 
the relevant cash flows based on the country in which the CGU is 
located. These risk adjustments are based on observed equity risk 
premiums, historical country risk premiums and average credit 
default swap spreads for the period. 
In determining FVLCS, a market multiple is applied to the NPV of 
each CGU. Gold companies typically trade at a market capitalisation 
that is based on a multiple of their underlying NPV. Consequently, 
a market participant would generally apply an NPV multiple when 
estimating the fair value of a gold property. The NPV multiples 
utilised in the determination of the FVLCS of a CGU consider the 
NPV multiples observed in comparable companies. These observed 
multiples are primarily derived from research analyst reports and 
take into consideration the following: i) estimate of underlying NPV 
prepared by the analyst; ii) estimate of target market capitalisation 
prepared by the analyst; iii) market capitalisation on the date of the 
analyst report; and iv) market capitalisation on the date of the 
impairment test. The NPV multiple applied also takes into 
consideration the remaining economic life of the CGU.  
106 www.africanbarrickgold.com  
 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 
107
Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 
The VIU of a CGU is generally lower than its FVLCS, due primarily to 
the application of a market multiple to the underlying NPV of a CGU 
when determining its FVLCS. Consequently, the recoverable amount 
of a CGU for impairment testing purposes is determined based on 
its FVLCS.  
s) Contributed surplus 
The Company did not exist until 12 January 2010, and did not become 
the parent company for the Group until 22 February 2010 when the 
transfer of the members of the Group pursuant to the Pre-IPO 
Reorganisation was completed. Contributed surplus represents the 
difference between the cumulative investment in the entities and 
businesses which form part of the consolidated African Barrick Gold 
plc Group and non-controlling interests. 
t) Share capital 
Ordinary Shares are classified as equity. Incremental costs directly 
attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in equity 
as a deduction from the proceeds. 
u) Provisions 
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation 
(legal or constructive) as a result of a past event, it is probable that 
an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and 
a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation. If the 
effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are determined 
by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that 
reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and, 
where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability. Where discounting 
is used, the increase in the provision due to the passage of time is 
recognised as a finance cost. 
Rehabilitation costs 
The mining, extraction and processing activities of the Group 
normally give rise to obligations for environmental rehabilitation. 
Rehabilitation works can include facility decommissioning and 
dismantling; removal or treatment of waste materials; site and land 
rehabilitation. The extent of work required and the associated costs 
are dependent on the requirements of relevant authorities and the 
Group’s environmental policies. 
Provisions for the cost of each rehabilitation programme are 
recognised at the time that environmental disturbance occurs. When 
the extent of disturbance increases over the life of an operation, the 
provision is increased accordingly. The major parts of the carrying 
amount of provisions relate to tailings pond closure/rehabilitation; 
demolition of buildings/mine facilities; ongoing water treatment; and 
ongoing care and maintenance of closed mines. Costs included in the 
provision encompass all closure and rehabilitation activity expected 
to occur progressively over the life of the operation and at the time 
of closure in connection with disturbances at the reporting date. 
Estimated costs included in the determination of the provision 
reflect the risks and probabilities of alternative estimates of cash 
flows required to settle the obligation at each particular operation. 
Routine operating costs that may impact the ultimate closure and 
rehabilitation activities, such as waste material handling conducted 
as an integral part of a mining or production process, are not included 
in the provision. Costs arising from unforeseen circumstances, such 
as the contamination caused by unplanned discharges, are recognised 
as an expense and liability when the event occurs that gives rise to an 
obligation and reliable estimates of the required rehabilitation costs 
can be made. 
The timing of the actual rehabilitation expenditure is dependent 
upon a number of factors such as the life and nature of the asset, the 
operating licence conditions and the environment in which the mine 
operates. Expenditure may occur before and after closure and can 
continue for an extended period of time depending on rehabilitation 
requirements. The majority of the expenditure is expected to be paid 
over periods of up to 30 years with some payments into perpetuity. 
Rehabilitation provisions are measured at the expected value of future 
cash flows, discounted to their present value using a current, market-
based estimate of the real risk-free pre-tax discount rates. The 
unwinding of the discount is included in finance expense and results 
in an increase in the amount of the provision. Provisions are updated 
each reporting period for the effect of a change in the discount rate 
and the change in estimate is added or deducted from the related asset 
and depreciated prospectively over the asset’s useful life. 
Significant judgements and estimates are involved in forming 
expectations of future activities and the amount and timing of the 
associated cash flows. Those expectations are formed based on 
existing environmental and regulatory requirements or, if more 
stringent, Group environmental policies which give rise to a 
constructive obligation. 
When provisions for closure and rehabilitation are initially recognised, 
the corresponding cost is capitalised as an asset, representing part of 
the cost of acquiring the future economic benefits of the operation. 
The capitalised cost of closure and rehabilitation activities is recognised 
in property, plant and equipment and depreciated accordingly.  
It is possible that management’s estimates of provisions could change 
as a result of changes in regulations, the extent of rehabilitation 
required, and the means of reclamation or cost estimates. 
Rehabilitation provisions are adjusted as a result of changes in 
estimates. Those adjustments are accounted for as a change in the 
corresponding value of the related asset, except where a reduction 
in the provision is greater than the remaining net book value of 
the related assets, in which case the value is reduced to nil and the 
remaining adjustment is recognised in the income statement. In 
the case of closed sites, changes to estimated costs are recognised 
immediately in the income statement. Changes to the capitalised cost 
result in an adjustment to future depreciation and finance expense. 
On an annual basis, the Group reviews for changes in cost estimates, 
discount rates or life of operations.  
v) Employee benefits 
The Group operates an equity-settled, share-based compensation 
plan (the “Stock Option Plan”), a long-term incentive plan (the 
“LTIP”), a legacy restricted share unit plan (the “Legacy RSU Plan”) 
and a deferred share unit plan (the “DSU” Plan).  
  
Shareholder information Financial statements Overview Performance Governance
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 107 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
 www.africanbarrickgold.com 108 
2. Significant accounting policies continued 
Share-based compensation 

Stock options can be granted under either the Company LTIP or the 
Stock Option Plan. The Company receives services from employees as 
consideration for equity instruments (options) of the Group. The fair 
value of the employee services received in exchange for the grant of the 
options is recognised as an expense. The total amount to be expensed 
is determined by reference to the fair value of the options granted: 
 including any market performance conditions;  
 excluding the impact of any service and non-market performance 
vesting conditions (for example, profitability, sales growth targets 
and remaining an employee of the entity over a specified time 
period); and  
 excluding the impact of any non-vesting conditions (for example, 
the requirement for employees to save). 
Non-market vesting conditions are included in assumptions about 
the number of options that are expected to vest. The total expense is 
recognised over the vesting period, which is the period over which all 
of the specified vesting conditions are to be satisfied. At the end of 
each reporting period, the Company revises its estimates of the 
number of options that are expected to vest based on the non-market 
vesting conditions. It recognises the impact of the revision to original 
estimates, if any, in the income statement, with a corresponding 
adjustment to equity. 
When the options are exercised, the Company may issue new shares 
or procure the transfer of existing shares to satisfy the exercise. Where 
shares are issued, the proceeds received net of any directly attributable 
transaction costs are credited to share capital (nominal value) and 
share premium when the options are exercised. The grant by the 
Company of options over its equity instruments to the employees 
of subsidiary undertakings in the Group is treated as a capital 
contribution. The fair value of employee services received, measured 
by reference to the grant date fair value, is recognised over the vesting 
period as an increase to investment in subsidiary undertakings, with 
a corresponding credit to equity.  
LTIP 
The Company has a cash-settled, Restricted Share Unit (“RSU”) plan for 
select employees. Under the terms of the RSU plan, selected employees 
are granted RSUs where each RSU has a value equal to one Ordinary 
Share of the Company. RSUs granted to Executive Directors and the 
other members of the Senior Leadership Team vest based on the 
Company’s Total Shareholder Return (“TSR”) performance against the 
market cap-weighted TSR of a comparator group of companies over the 
vesting period (referred to as Performance RSUs). RSUs vest over a two-
and-a-half or three-year period and are settled in cash. Additional RSUs 
are credited to reflect dividends paid on Ordinary Shares of the 
Company during the vesting period with a corresponding charge to the 
compensation expense. A liability for RSUs is measured at fair value on 
the grant date and is recognised on a straight-line basis over the vesting 
period, with a corresponding charge to the compensation expense. At 
the grant date the fair value of the awards is determined from the market 
value of the shares at the date of award and adjusted for any market 
based vesting conditions attached to the award e.g. relative TSR 
performance. Changes in the fair value of the RSU liability, due to 
changes in the price of Ordinary Shares of the Company, are recorded 
each period, with a corresponding charge to the compensation expense. 
Compensation expenses recognised for RSUs incorporate an estimate 
for expected forfeiture rates. The expected forfeiture is estimated based 
on historical forfeiture rates of the Group and expectations of future 
forfeiture rates. Adjustments to compensation expense are recognised 
in periods where the actual forfeiture rate differs from the expected rate.  
Legacy RSU Plan 
Historically, the Barrick Group has maintained a Restricted Share 
Unit (“RSU”) plan for select employees who now work for the Group. 
This plan operates in an incidental manner to the Company RSU plan. 
These existing legacy restricted share units will continue to be 
administered and accounted for based on the movement of the fair 
value of the Barrick Ordinary Share for recording of liabilities and 
compensation expense.  
Deferred share units 
Under the Deferred Share Unit (“DSU”) plan, the Non-Executive 
Directors can elect to receive all or a part of their annual Director fees 
in DSUs. Each DSU has the same value as one ABG Ordinary Share. 
DSUs must be retained until the Director leaves the Board, at which 
time the cash value of the DSU is paid out. Additional DSUs are 
credited to reflect dividends paid on ABG Ordinary Shares. A liability 
for DSUs is measured at fair value on the grant date and is recognised 
on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, with a corresponding 
charge to the Directors’ compensation expense. At the grant date, the 
fair value of the awards is determined from the market value of the 
shares at the date of the award. Changes in the fair value of the DSU 
liability, due to changes in the price of Ordinary Shares of the 
Company, are recorded each period, with a corresponding charge 
to the Directors’ compensation expense. 
Defined contribution plan 
The Group’s Tanzanian employees are members of primarily either 
the National Social Security Fund (“NSSF”) or of the Parastatal 
Pension Fund (“PPF”), which are defined contribution plans. A defined 
contribution plan is a plan under which the Group pays fixed 
contributions into a separate entity. The Group has no legal or 
constructive obligation to pay further contribution if the fund does 
not hold sufficient assets to pay all employees the benefits relating 
to the employee service in the current and prior periods. The Group 
and employees both contribute 10% of the employees’ gross salaries to 
the schemes. The contributions are charged to the income statement 
when they are due. 
Termination benefits 
Termination benefits are payable when employment is terminated by 
the Group before the normal retirement date, or whenever an employee 
accepts voluntary redundancy in exchange for these benefits. The 
Group recognises termination benefits when it is demonstrably 
committed to either: terminating the employment of current 
employees according to a detailed formal plan without possibility of 
withdrawal; or providing termination benefits as a result of an offer 
made to encourage voluntary redundancy. Benefits falling due more 
than 12 months after the balance sheet date are discounted to their 
present value. 
108 www.africanbarrickgold.com  
 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 
109
Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 
Bonus plans 
The Group recognises a liability and an expense for bonuses where 
it is contractually obliged or where there is a past practice that has 
created a constructive obligation. 
Other entitlements 
The estimated monetary liability for employees’ accrued annual leave 
entitlement at the balance sheet date is recognised as an expense accrual. 
w) Financial instruments 
Cash and cash equivalents 
Cash and cash equivalents are carried in the balance sheet at fair value. 
For the purposes of the balance sheet, cash and cash equivalents 
include cash, and money market funds. For the purposes of the cash 
flow statement, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and cash 
equivalents as defined above. 
Loans and receivables 
Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed 
or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market, 
do not qualify as trading assets and have not been designated as 
either fair value through profit and loss or available for sale. These 
are initially recognised at fair value, and are subsequently stated at 
amortised cost using the effective interest method. They are included 
in current assets, except for maturities greater than 12 months 
after the balance sheet date. These are classified as non-current 
assets, where the receivables are discounted and held at their net 
present value. 
Loans and receivables comprise trade and other receivables, other 
assets and cash and cash equivalents at the balance sheet date.  
A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when 
there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect 
all amounts due according to the original terms of receivables. The 
amount of the provision is the difference between the carrying 
amount and the expected cash flows discounted at the effective 
interest rate. The carrying amount of the asset is reduced through use 
of an allowance account. The amount of the provision is recognised 
in the income statement. 
Derivatives 
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date a 
derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently re-measured 
at their fair value. The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss 
depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging 
instrument, and if so, the nature of the item being hedged. The Group 
designates certain derivatives as: 
a) hedges of the fair value of recognised assets or liabilities  
or a firm commitment (fair value hedge); 
b) hedges of the income/cost of a highly probable forecast  
transaction or commitment (cash flow hedge); or 
c) hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation  
(net investment hedge). 
The Group documents at inception of the transaction the relationship 
between hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as its risk 
management objectives and strategy for undertaking various hedging 
transactions. The Group also documents its assessment, both at hedge 
inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives that are 
used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes 
in fair values or cash flows of hedged items. 
The fair values of various derivative instruments used for hedging 
purposes are disclosed in Note 29. Movements in the hedging reserve 
are shown in other comprehensive income. The full fair value of a 
hedging derivative is classified as a non-current asset or liability when 
the remaining maturity of the hedged item is more than 12 months, 
and as a current asset or liability when the remaining maturity of the 
hedged item is less than 12 months. Trading derivatives are classified 
as a current asset or liability. 

Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify 
as fair value hedges are recorded in the income statement, together 
with any changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability that 
are attributable to the hedged risk. The gain or loss relating to the 
effective portion is recognised in the income statement within 
“finance costs”. The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is 
recognised in the income statement within “other gains/(losses) – 
net”. Changes in the fair value of the hedge attributable to interest rate 
risk are recognised in the income statement within “finance costs”. 
If the hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, the 
adjustment to the carrying amount of a hedged item for which the 
effective interest method is used is amortised to profit or loss over 
the period to maturity. 

The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that 
are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges is recognised in other 
comprehensive income. The gain or loss relating to the ineffective 
portion is recognised immediately in the consolidated income 
statement within “Non-hedge derivative gains/(losses) – net”. 
Amounts accumulated in equity are reclassified to profit or loss in the 
periods when the hedged item affects profit or loss (for example, when 
the forecast sale that is hedged takes place). The gain or loss relating to the 
effective portion is recognised in the income statement. However, when 
the forecast transaction that is hedged results in the recognition of a non-
financial asset (for example, inventory or fixed assets), the gains and losses 
previously deferred in equity are transferred from equity and included in 
the initial measurement of the cost of the asset. The deferred amounts are 
ultimately recognised in cost of goods sold in the case of inventory or in 
depreciation in the case of property, plant and equipment. 
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no 
longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or 
loss existing in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised 
when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in the income 
statement. When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, 
the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in equity is immediately 
transferred to the income statement within “other gains/(losses) – net”. 
Shareholder information Financial statements Overview Performance Governance
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 109 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
 www.africanbarrickgold.com 110 
2. Significant accounting policies continued 

Hedges of net investments in foreign operations are accounted for 
similarly to cash flow hedges. 
Any gain or loss on the hedging instrument relating to the effective 
portion of the hedge is recognised in other comprehensive income. 
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised in 
the income statement. 
Gains and losses accumulated in equity are included in the income 
statement when the foreign operation is partially disposed of or sold. 
Embedded derivatives 
Contracts are assessed for the existence of embedded derivatives at 
the date that the Group first becomes party to the contract, with 
reassessment only if there is a change to the contract that significantly 
modifies the cash flows. Embedded derivatives which are not clearly 
and closely related to the underlying asset, liability or transaction are 
separated and accounted for as stand-alone derivatives. 
Financial liabilities 
Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction 
costs incurred. Borrowings are subsequently carried at amortised cost; 
any difference between the proceeds (net of transaction costs) and the 
redemption value is recognised in the income statement over the 
period of the borrowings using the effective interest method. Fees paid 
on the establishment of loan facilities are recognised as transaction 
costs of the loan to the extent that it is probable that some or all of the 
facility will be drawn down. In this case, the fee is deferred until the 
draw-down occurs. To the extent there is no evidence that it is 
probable that some or all of the facility will be drawn down, the fee is 
capitalised as a pre-payment for liquidity services and amortised over 
the period of the facility to which it relates. Borrowings are classified 
as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to 
defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after the balance 
sheet date. 
x) Finance income and finance expense 
Interest income is recognised on a time-proportion basis using the 
effective interest method. When a receivable is impaired, the Group 
reduces the carrying amount to its recoverable amount, being the 
estimated future cash flow discounted at the original effective interest 
rate of the instrument, and continues unwinding the discount as 
interest income. 
Interest is recognised as a borrowing cost on a time proportion basis 
using the effective interest method. Borrowing costs that relate 
directly to the construction of property, plant and equipment during 
the time that it is required to complete and prepare the asset for its 
intended use are capitalised as part of the cost of the asset.  
y) Taxes 
The tax expense for the period comprises current and deferred tax. 
Tax is recognised in the income statement, except to the extent that it 
relates to items recognised in other comprehensive income or directly 
in equity. In this case the tax is also recognised in other comprehensive 
income or directly in equity, respectively. 
Current income tax 
Current income tax assets and liabilities for the current and prior 
periods are measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or 
paid to the taxation authorities. Management periodically evaluates 
positions taken in tax returns with respect to situations in which 
applicable tax regulation is subject to interpretation. It establishes 
provisions where appropriate on the basis of amounts expected to be 
paid to the tax authorities. The tax rates and tax laws used to compute 
the amount are those that are enacted or substantively enacted by the 
balance sheet date. 
Deferred income tax 
Deferred income tax is provided using the liability method on 
temporary differences at the balance sheet date between the tax bases 
of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts for financial 
reporting purposes. Deferred income tax is determined using tax rates 
enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date and are 
expected to apply when the related deferred income tax liability is 
settled. Deferred income tax assets are recognised only to the extent 
that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against 
which the temporary differences can be utilised. 
Deferred income tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary 
differences, except: 
 where the deferred income tax liability arises from the initial 
recognition of goodwill or of an asset or liability in a transaction 
that is not a business combination and, at the time of transaction, 
affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit/loss; and 
 in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with 
investments in subsidiaries where the timing of the reversal of the 
temporary differences can be controlled and it is probable that the 
temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future. 
Deferred income tax assets are recognised for all deductible 
temporary differences, carry forward of unused tax credits and 
unused tax losses, to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit 
will be available against which the deductible temporary differences 
and the carry forward of unused tax credits and unused tax losses 
can be utilised except: 
 where the deferred income tax asset relating to deductible 
temporary differences arises from the initial recognition of an asset 
or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, 
at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit 
nor taxable profit or loss; and  
 in respect of deductible temporary differences associated with 
investments in subsidiaries deferred income tax assets are 
recognised only to the extent that it is probable that the temporary 
differences will reverse in the foreseeable future and taxable profit 
will be available against which the temporary differences can 
be utilised.  
The carrying amount of deferred income tax assets is reviewed at 
each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer 
probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all 
or part of the deferred income tax asset to be utilised.  
110 www.africanbarrickgold.com  
 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 
111
Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 
Unrecognised deferred income tax assets are reassessed at each 
balance sheet date and are recognised to the extent that it has become 
probable that future taxable profit will allow the deferred tax asset to 
be recovered. 
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates 
that are expected to apply to the year when the asset is realised or the 
liability is settled, based on tax rates (and tax laws) that have been 
enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date. 
Uncertainties regarding availability of tax losses, in respect of 
enquiries raised and additional tax assessments issued, have been 
measured using the single best estimate of likely outcome approach. 
Deferred income tax relating to items recognised directly in equity is 
recognised in equity and not in the income statement. 
Deferred income tax assets and deferred income tax liabilities are 
offset, if a legally enforceable right exists to set off current income tax 
assets against current income tax liabilities and the deferred income 
taxes relate to the same taxable entity and the same taxation authority. 
Indirect tax 
Indirect tax assets and liabilities for the current and prior periods are 
measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid to the 
taxation authorities. Management periodically evaluates positions 
taken in indirect tax returns with respect to situations in which 
applicable tax regulation is subject to interpretation. It establishes 
provisions or receivables where appropriate on the basis of amounts 
expected to be paid to or received from the tax authorities. The tax 
rates and tax laws used to compute the amount are those that are 
enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date. If the 
receivable is expected to be received in more than 12 months from 
year-end, the receivable is discounted and held at its present value. 
Amounts expected to be payable or receivable in more than 12 months 
are classified as non-current assets or liabilities in the balance sheet, 
as appropriate. 
z) Royalties 
Royalty arrangements based on mineral production are in place at 
each operating mine. The primary type of royalty is a net smelter 
return (“NSR”) royalty. Under this type of royalty the Group pays the 
holder an amount calculated as the royalty percentage multiplied by 
the value of gold production at market gold prices less selling costs.  
The North Mara mine is also subject to a land royalty (land tenements 
(“LT”)) based on the net revenue derived from the open pit mines. 
Royalty expense is recorded when revenue from the sale of gold, 
copper and silver production is recognised. 
The following percentages apply: 
Bulyanhulu 4% NSR**
Tulawaka 4% NSR**
North Mara – Nyabirama and 
Nyabigena pits 4% NSR**, 1% LT
North Mara – Gokona pit 4% NSR**, 1.1% LT
Buzwagi 4% NSR**, 30%NPI*
* The NPI is calculated as a percentage of profits realised from the Buzwagi mine after all capital, 
exploration and development costs and interest incurred in relation to the Buzwagi mine have been 
recouped and all operating costs relating to the Buzwagi mine have been paid. No amount is 
currently payable. 
** The Group agreed to a voluntary 1% increase in the NSR royalty rate in 2012. 
aa) Leases 
Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of 
ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases. 
Payments made under operating leases (net of any incentives received 
from the lessor) are charged to the income statement on a straight-line 
basis over the period of the lease. 
The Group leases certain property, plant and equipment. Leases of 
property, plant and equipment where the Group has substantially 
all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases. 
Finance leases are capitalised at the lease’s commencement at the 
lower of the fair value of the leased property and the present value 
of the minimum lease payments. 
Each lease payment is allocated between the liability and finance 
charges. The corresponding rental obligations, net of finance charges, 
are included in other liabilities. The interest element of the finance 
cost is charged to the income statement over the lease period so as to 
produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance 
of the liability for each period. The property, plant and equipment 
acquired under finance leases is depreciated over the shorter of the 
useful life of the asset and the lease term. 
bb) Dividend distribution 
Dividend distribution to the Company’s shareholders is recognised 
as a liability in the consolidated financial statements in the period in 
which the dividends are approved by the Company’s shareholders. 
 
Shareholder information Financial statements Overview Performance Governance
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 111 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
 www.africanbarrickgold.com 112 
3. Segment reporting 
The Group has only one primary product produced in a single geographic location, being gold produced in Tanzania. In addition the Group 
produces copper and silver as a co-product. Reportable operating segments are based on the internal reports provided to the Chief Operating 
Decision Maker (“CODM”) to evaluate segment performance, decide how to allocate resources and make other operating decisions. After 
applying the aggregation criteria and quantitative thresholds contained in IFRS 8, the Group’s reportable operating segments were determined 
to be: North Mara gold mine; Tulawaka gold mine; Bulyanhulu gold mine; Buzwagi gold mine; and a separate Corporate and Exploration 
segment, which primarily consists of costs related to corporate administration and exploration and evaluation activities (“Other”).  
Segment results and assets include items directly attributable to the segment as well as those that can be allocated on a reasonable basis. Segment 
assets consist primarily of property, plant and equipment, inventories, other assets and receivables. Capital expenditures comprise additions to 
property, plant and equipment. Segment liabilities are not reported since they are not considered by the CODM as material to segment 
performance. The Group has also included segment cash costs.  
Segment information for the reportable operating segments of the Group for the years ended 31 December 2012 and 31 December 2011 is set 
out below. 
 For the year ended 31 December 2012 
(in thousands of United States dollars except references to ounces) North Mara Tulawaka Bulyanhulu Buzwagi Other Total
Gold revenue 310,549 75,458 393,347 259,954 – 1,039,308
Co-product revenue 549 143 24,311 23,028 – 48,031
Total segment revenue 311,098 75,601 417,658 282,982 – 1,087,339
Segment cash operating cost¹
,5
 (180,601)(57,992)(213,350)(191,883) (80,528)(724,354)
Other charges and corporate social responsibility expenses (12,921) (1,995) 40 (4,944) (12,296) (32,116)
EBITDA
2
 117,576 15,614 204,348 86,155 (92,824) 330,869
Impairment charges – (44,536) – – – (44,536)
Depreciation and amortisation (54,958) (19,831) (33,064) (47,387) (3,643) (158,883)
EBIT
2
 62,618 (48,753) 171,284 38,768 (96,467) 127,450
Total segment finance income  2,102
Total segment finance expense
5
  (10,305)
Profit before taxation  119,247
Tax expense  (71,063)
Net profit for the period  48,184
  
Capital expenditure:  
Sustaining 47,75913,15735,19356,441 8,988161,538
Expansionary 10,0912,92236,81462 –49,889
Capitalised development 25,706 7,258 45,605 31,057 – 109,626
Rehabilitation asset addition/(reduction) 7,540 1,251 (43) 10,494 – 19,242
Total capital expenditure 91,096 24,588 117,569 98,054 8,988 340,295
   
Cash costs:  
Segment cash operating cost
1
 180,60157,992213,350191,883 –643,826
Deduct: Co-product revenue (549) (143) (24,311) (23,028) – (48,031)
Total cash costs 180,052 57,849 189,039 168,855 – 595,795
Sold ounces
3
 186,60045,600235,410155,322 –622,932
Cash cost per ounce sold
2
 965 1,269 803 1,087 – 956
Equity ounce adjustment
4
  (7)
Attributable cash cost per ounce sold
2
  949
 
  
112 www.africanbarrickgold.com  
 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 
113
Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 
 
 For the year ended 31 December 2011 
(in thousands of United States dollars except references to ounces) North Mara TulawakaBulyanhulu Buzwagi Other Total
Gold revenue 272,026 131,435 429,528 317,036 – 1,150,025
Co-product revenue 917 316 35,509 31,148 – 67,890
Total segment revenue 272,943 131,751 465,037 348,184 – 1,217,915
Segment cash operating cost
1,5
 (139,204)(60,952)(200,072)(169,737) (79,487)(649,452)
Other charges and corporate social responsibility expenses (5,112) (2,826) (8,461) (12,334) 5,718 (23,015)
EBITDA
2
 128,627 67,973 256,504 166,113 (73,769) 545,448
Depreciation and amortisation (34,724) (17,251) (32,320) (46,029) (3,825) (134,149)
EBIT
2
 93,903 50,722 224,184 120,084 (77,594) 411,299
Total segment finance income  1,484
Total segment finance expense
5
  (10,082)
Profit before taxation  402,701
Tax expense  (117,924)
Net profit for the period  284,777
   
Capital expenditure:  
Sustaining 30,5673,10142,74956,992 11,802145,211
Expansionary 47,3818,3466,626920 –63,273
Capitalised development 26,407 9,252 32,748 15,583 – 83,990
Rehabilitation asset addition 18,791 10,953 13,309 9,708 – 52,761
Total capital expenditure 123,146 31,652 95,432 83,203 11,802 345,235
   
Cash costs:  
Segment cash operating cost
1
 139,20460,952200,072169,737 –569,965
Deduct: Co-product revenue (917) (316) (35,509) (31,148) – (67,890)
Total cash costs 138,287 60,636 164,563 138,589 – 502,075
Sold ounces
3
 170,62583,450269,981200,518 –724,574
Cash cost per ounce sold
2
 810 727 610 691 – 693
Equity ounce adjustment
4
  (1)
Attributable cash cost per ounce sold
2
  692
1 The Chief Operating Decision Maker reviews cash operating costs for the four operating mine sites separately from corporate administration costs and exploration costs. Consequently, the Group has reported 
these costs in this manner. 
2 These are non-IFRS financial performance measures with no standard meaning under IFRS. Refer to “Non-IFRS measures” on page 157 for definitions. 
3 Reflects 100% of ounces sold. 
4 Reflects the adjustment for non-controlling interest at Tulawaka. 
5 Restated due to reclassification of bank charges from corporate administration to finance expense. 
(in thousands of United States dollars) 
As at
31 December
2012
As at
31 December
2011
Segment assets   
North Mara 772,819 727,552
Tulawaka 58,060 131,193
Bulyanhulu 1,130,728 1,128,992
Buzwagi 931,607 830,790
Other
6
 435,509 475,935
Total segment assets 3,328,723 3,294,462
6 In the current year, assets to the value of US$33.6 million were acquired in the purchase of Aviva Mining (Kenya) Limited (“AMKL”). Refer to Note 22 for further details. 
Shareholder information Financial statements Overview Performance Governance
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 113 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
 www.africanbarrickgold.com 114 
4. Revenue 
(in thousands of United States dollars) 
For the 
year ended 
31 December 
2012
For the 
year ended 
31 December 
2011
Gold doré sales  709,821 699,843
Gold concentrate sales
1
 329,487 450,182
Copper concentrate sales
1
 41,123 57,529
Silver sales 6,908 10,361
Total 1,087,339 1,217,915
1 Gold and copper concentrate sales includes provisional price adjustments to the accounts receivable balance due to changes in market prices for gold and copper prior to final settlement as follows: US$4.1 million 
for the year ended 31 December 2012 (US$5.5 million for the year ended 31 December 2011).  
 
(in thousands of United States dollars) 
For the 
year ended 31 
December
2012
For the 
year ended 
31 December
2011
Revenue by location of customer
2
    
Europe 
Switzerland 568,061 702,563
Germany 114,471 88,054
Asia 
China 162,140 290,469
Japan 98,871 136,829
India 143,796 –
Total revenue 1,087,339 1,217,915
2 Revenue by location of customer is determined based on the country to which the gold is delivered. 
Included in revenues for the year ended 31 December 2012 are revenues of approximately US$927 million (2011: US$1,130 million) which arose 
from sales to four of the Group’s largest customers. No other customers individually account for more than 10% of the Group’s revenues. 
5.  Cost of sales 
(in thousands of United States dollars) 
For the 
year ended 
31 December
2012
For the 
year ended
31 December
2011
Direct mining costs 581,483 510,465 
Third party smelting fees 18,574 21,400 
Depreciation and amortisation
1
 158,883 134,149 
Royalty expense 43,769 38,100 
Total
2
 802,709 704,114
1 Depreciation and amortisation includes the depreciation and amortisation component relating to the cost of inventory sold.  
2 Cost of sales less depreciation and amortisation equals cash operating costs. 
 
114 www.africanbarrickgold.com  
 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 
115
Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 
6. Employee benefits 
(in thousands of United States dollars) 
For the 
year ended
31 December
2012
For the 
year ended
31 December
2011
Wages and salaries
3
 142,100 134,624
Other employee benefits
1,3
 92,445 87,582
Stock-based compensation charge
2
 4,668 1,735
Total 239,213 223,941
1 Other employee benefits include bonuses, leave pay, pensions, medical expenses, severance costs and other benefits. 
2 Further details of the Group’s stock options and other stock-based compensation plans are provided in Note 24. 
3 The prior year wages and salaries and other employee benefits has been restated due to a change in the other employee benefits definition. 
Average number of employees 
(in thousands) 
For the 
year ended
31 December
2012
For the 
year ended
31 December
2011
Operations 5,230 4,815
Exploration 80 64
Administration 358 303
Total average headcount 5,668 5,182
7. Exploration and evaluation costs 
The following represents a summary of exploration and evaluation expenditures incurred at each mine site and significant exploration targets  
(if applicable). 
(in thousands of United States dollars) 
For the 
year ended 
31 December
2012
For the 
year ended
31 December
2011
Expensed during the year: 
North Mara 5,814 4,543
Buzwagi 967 934
Tulawaka 2,208 531
Bulyanhulu 2,215 1,250
Other
1
 17,757 23,081
Total expensed 28,961 30,339
Capitalised during the year: 
North Mara 5,259 14,329
Buzwagi – 314
Tulawaka 2,883 2,880
Bulyanhulu 5,191 231
Nyanzaga 3,241 –
Total capitalised 16,574 17,754
Total 45,535 48,093
1 Included in “other” are the exploration activities conducted through ABG Exploration Africa Limited. All primary greenfield exploration and evaluation activities are conducted in this Company.  
 
Shareholder information Financial statements Overview Performance Governance
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 115 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
 www.africanbarrickgold.com 116 
8. Other charges 
(in thousands of United States dollars) 
For the 
year ended 
31 December
2012
For the 
year ended
 31 December
2011
Other expenses   
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment  – 179
Discounting of indirect tax receivables  4,185 –
Severance payments  400 1,646
Foreign exchange losses (net)  – 6,001
Non-hedge derivative losses (net) 1,719 –
Construction and consumable inventory write-down  1,461 4,684
Bad debt expense  740 1,098
Disallowed indirect taxes  2,952 7,123
Legal costs for litigation 1,655 –
Asset write-downs  897 1,252
CNG related costs
1
 6,676 –
Other  1,945 1,696
Total  22,630 23,679
  
Other income 
Profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment  (616) –
Foreign exchange gains (net)  (4,343) –
Non-hedge derivative gains (net) – (7,901)
Other  – (139)
Total  (4,959) (8,040)
  
Total other charges 17,671 15,639
1 Costs incurred as a direct result of the China National Gold interest in ABG were included in other charges. These costs include advisory fees, travel and accommodation costs and retention scheme provisions. 
9. Auditors’ remuneration 
During the year the Group (including its subsidiaries) obtained the following services from the Company’s auditor(s): 
(in thousands of United States dollars) 
For the 
year ended
31 December
2012
For the 
year ended
31 December
2011
Audit fees 
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor and its associates for the audit of the parent company and consolidated 
financial statements 396 464
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor and its associates for other services: 
Audit of the Company’s subsidiaries  489 518
Audit related assurance services 360 309
Other assurance services 100 87
Tax compliance services 214 157
Other services 12 4
Total 1,571 1,539
 
116 www.africanbarrickgold.com  
 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 
117
Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 
10. Finance income and finance expense 
a) Finance income 
(in thousands of United States dollars) 
For the 
year ended
31 December
2012
For the 
year ended
31 December
2011
Interest on time deposits 1,231 1,030
Other 871 454
Total 2,102 1,484
b)  Finance expense 
(in thousands of United States dollars) 
For the 
year ended
31 December
2012
For the 
year ended
31 December
2011
Unwinding of discount
1
 4,021 3,344
Interest on bank overdraft 12 199
Revolving credit facility charges
2
 3,014 4,570
Interest on finance leases 841 210
Bank charges
3
 1,216 1,357
Other 1,201 402
Total
4
 10,305 10,082
1 The unwinding of discount is calculated on the environmental rehabilitation provision presented in Note 26. 
2 Included in credit facility charges are the amortisation of the fees related to the revolving credit facility as well as the monthly interest and facility fees, refer to Note 28. 
3 Bank charges previously included in corporate administration expenses have been reclassified to finance expense. 
4  For cash flow purposes unwinding of discount is excluded from the finance expense movement. 
11. Tax expense 
(in thousands of United States dollars) 
For the 
year ended
31 December
2012
For the 
year ended
31 December
2011
Current tax:   
Current tax on profits for the year – 10,162 
Adjustments in respect of prior years
1
 120 28,663 
Total current tax 120 38,825 
Deferred tax:   
Origination and reversal of temporary differences 70,943 79,099 
Total deferred tax 70,943 79,099 
Income tax expense 71,063 117,924 
1 During 2011, a binding Memorandum of Settlement (“MOS”) with the Tanzanian Revenue Authority (“TRA”) was executed to address the treatment of certain outstanding indirect tax refunds in respect of fuel 
levies and value added taxation (“VAT”). The terms of the MOS allow the Group to offset income tax payable against outstanding refunds for VAT and fuel levies. As a result of these changes, PML, which is the 
taxpaying entity holding Tulawaka and Buzwagi, has agreed to treat both mines as separate tax entities. There was no offset of indirect tax receivables in 2012 due to assessed losses carried forward and taxable 
losses incurred at Tulawaka. 
 
  Shareholder information Financial statements Overview Performance Governance
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 117 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
 www.africanbarrickgold.com 118 
11. Tax expense continued 
The tax on the Group’s profit before tax differs from the theoretical amount that would arise using the weighted average tax rate applicable to 
the profits of the consolidated entities as follows: 
(in thousands of United States dollars) 
For the 
year ended
31 December
2012
For the 
year ended
31 December
2011
Profit before taxation 119,247 402,701
Tax calculated at domestic tax rates applicable to profits in the respective countries 36,849 114,199
Tax effects of: 
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes/(non-taxable income) 5,483 (1,219)
Tax losses for which no deferred income tax asset was recognised 23,660 7,302
Prior year adjustments 8,258 (2,391)
Effect of tax rates in foreign jurisdictions (3,187) 33
Tax charge 71,063 117,924
The tax rate in Tanzania is 30% and in South Africa 28% for both years presented. 
Tax periods remain open to review by the TRA in respect of income taxes for five years following the date of the filing of the corporate tax 
return, during which time the authorities have the right to raise additional tax assessments including penalties and interest. Under certain 
circumstances the reviews may cover longer periods. Because a number of tax periods remain open to review by tax authorities, there is a risk 
that transactions that have not been challenged in the past by the authorities may be challenged by them in the future, and this may result in 
the raising of additional tax assessments plus penalties and interest.  
12. Earnings per share 
Basic earnings per share (“EPS”) is calculated by dividing the net profit for the period attributable to owners of the Company by the weighted 
average number of Ordinary Shares in issue during the period. 
Diluted earnings per share is calculated by adjusting the weighted average number of Ordinary Shares outstanding to assume conversion of all 
dilutive potential Ordinary Shares. The Company has dilutive potential Ordinary Shares in the form of stock options. The weighted average 
number of shares is adjusted for the number of shares granted assuming the exercise of stock options. 
At 31 December 2012 and 31 December 2011, earnings per share have been calculated as follows:  
(in thousands of United States dollars) 
For the 
year ended
31 December
2012
For the 
year ended
31 December
2011
Earnings   
Net profit from continuing operations attributable to owners of the parent 59,471 274,895
    
Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares in issue 410,085,499 410,085,499
Adjusted for dilutive effect of: 
– Stock options – 10,606 
Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares for diluted earnings per share 410,085,499 410,096,105
  
Earnings per share 
Basic earnings per share from continuing operations (cents) 14.5 67.0
Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations (cents) 14.5 67.0
13. Dividend 
The final dividend declared in respect of the year ended 31 December 2011 of US$53.7 million (US13.1 cents per share) and the 2012 interim 
dividend of US$16.4 million (US4.0 cents per share) were paid during 2012 and recognised in the financial statements. Refer to Note 34 for 
details of the final dividend declared subsequent to year-end. 
  
118 www.africanbarrickgold.com  
 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 
119
Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 
14. Cash flow – other items 
a) Operating cash flows – other items 
Adjustments for working capital items: 
(in thousands of United States dollars) 
For the 
year ended
31 December
2012
For the 
year ended
31 December
2011
Trade and other receivables (14,368) 29,356
Inventories
1
 (59,081) (97,873)
Other current assets
2
 (21,259) (7,238)
Other liabilities
3
 1,157 (3,924)
Trade and other payables
4
 8,257 41,833
Other working capital items
5
 4,958 (5,034)
Total (80,336) (42,880)
1 The inventory adjustment includes the movement in current as well as the non-current portion of inventory.  
2 In September 2011, a MOS was agreed with the Tanzanian government regarding the recovery of indirect tax receivable. The settlement agreement allows for the offset of income taxes payable from the indirect 
taxes receivable. During 2012 the Tanzanian government abolished the VAT relief practice resulting in an increase in VAT receivables from the government of US$17.6 million. 
3 The other liabilities adjustment includes the movement in both other current and other non-current liabilities but excludes finance lease instalments.  
4 The trade and other payables adjustment excludes statutory liabilities in the form of income tax payable.  
5 Other working capital items include exchange losses associated with working capital. 
Other non-cash items 
(in thousands of United States dollars) 
For the 
year ended
31 December
2012
For the 
year ended
31 December
2011
Adjustments for non-cash income statement items: 
Foreign exchange (gains)/losses (net) (4,958) 5,034
Discounting of indirect tax receivables 4,185 –
Provision added 6 –
Loss/(gain) on non-hedge derivatives (net) 1,719 (7,901)
Stock option expense 1,461 1,401
Other non-cash items 60 (205)
Exchange loss on revaluation of cash balances 615 967
Total 3,088 (704)
b) Investing cash flows – other items 
(in thousands of United States dollars) 
For the 
year ended
31 December
2012
For the 
year ended
31 December
2011
Proceeds on sale of property, plant and equipment 4,607 1,602
Other long-term receivables 746 2,103
Village housing receivable 70 145
Rehabilitation expenditure (297) –
Settlement of long-term liabilities (6,594) (3,530)
Total (1,468) 320
 
Shareholder information Financial statements Overview Performance Governance
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 119 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
 www.africanbarrickgold.com 120 
15. Inventories 
(in thousands of United States dollars) 
As at
31 December
2012
As at
31 December
2011
Raw materials 
Ore in stockpiles 21,202 56,052
Mine operating supplies 258,214 215,733
Work in process 31,307 30,397
Finished products   
Gold doré/bullion 19,592 9,912
Gold, copper and silver concentrate 5,182 4,853
Total current portion of inventory
1
 335,497 316,947
Non-current ore in stockpiles
2
 118,554 78,022
Total 454,051 394,969
1 During the year a write-down of inventory to net realisable value was recognised at Tulawaka (US$2.7 million). 
2 During 2012 US$118.6 million (2011: US$78.0 million) of ore at Buzwagi and North Mara was classified as long term following management’s assessment that these stockpiles will be processed after 2013. 
The cost of inventories recognised as an expense and included in the cost of sales amounted to US$198.5 million (2011: US$152.7 million). 
16. Trade and other current assets 
(in thousands of United States dollars) 
As at
31 December
2012
As at
31 December
2011
Trade and other receivables:   
Amounts due from doré and concentrate sales 33,103 21,053
Other receivables
1
 12,079 9,157
Due from related parties (Note 32) 393 354
Less: Provision for doubtful debt on other receivables (1,348) (706)
Total 44,227 29,858
1 Other receivables relates to supplier backcharge-related and employee receivables. 
Trade receivables other than concentrate receivables are non-interest bearing and are generally on 30-90 day terms. Concentrate receivables are 
generally on 60-120 day terms depending on the terms per contract. Trade receivables are amounts due from customers in the ordinary course 
of business. If collection is expected in one year or less, they are classified as current assets. If not, they are presented as non-current assets. The 
carrying value of trade receivables recorded in the financial statements represents the maximum exposure to credit risk. The Group does not 
hold any collateral as security. 
(in thousands of United States dollars) 
As at
31 December
2012
As at
31 December
2011
Other current assets: 
Current portion of indirect tax receivables
2
 26,023 22,370
Other debtors and advance payments
3
 18,291 10,593
Insurance receivable – 308
Total 44,314 33,271
2  The total indirect tax receivable is US$98.7 million of which US$72.7 million is included in non-current assets. This receivable is due from the TRA and it is anticipated to be offset against future corporation tax 
payments. To reflect the time value of money the long-term portion of this receivable has been discounted at a rate of 5% (2011: 5%). 
3  Other debtors and advance payments relate to prepayments for insurance; income taxes offset against outstanding refunds for VAT and fuel levies and current amounts receivable from the NSSF of US$6.4 million 
(2011: nil). 
 
120 www.africanbarrickgold.com  
 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 
121
Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 
17. Cash and cash equivalents 
(in thousands of United States dollars) 
As at
31 December
2012
As at
31 December
2011
Cash at bank and on hand 186,530 252,988
Money market funds 214,818 331,166
Total 401,348 584,154
18. Property, plant and equipment 
For the year ended 31 December 2012 
(in thousands of United States dollars)  
Plant and 
equipment 
 Mineral 
properties  
and mine 
development 
costs  
 Assets under  
construction
1
  Total 
At 1 January 2012, net of accumulated depreciation 894,869765,519 162,8591,823,247
Additions – – 340,295 340,295
Disposals (4,028) – – (4,028)
Impairments
2
 (16,714)(14,016) –(30,730)
Depreciation (99,359)(65,501) –(164,860)
Transfers between categories 170,350 121,945 (292,295) –
At 31 December 2012 945,118 807,947 210,859 1,963,924
  
At 1 January 2012  
Cost 1,316,602 1,117,311 162,859 2,596,772
Accumulated depreciation (421,733) (351,792) – (773,525)
Net carrying amount 894,869 765,519 162,859 1,823,247
  
At 31 December 2012  
Cost 1,475,374 1,239,256 210,859 2,925,489
Accumulated depreciation and impairment (530,256) (431,309) – (961,565)
Net carrying amount 945,118 807,947 210,859 1,963,924
 
For the year ended 31 December 2011 
(in thousands of United States dollars)  
Plant and 
equipment 
 Mineral 
properties  
and mine 
development 
costs  
 Assets under  
construction
1
  Total 
At 1 January 2011, net of accumulated depreciation 796,999693,834 124,2851,615,118
Additions – – 345,235 345,235
Disposals (1,423) – – (1,423)
Depreciation (95,336)(40,347) –(135,683)
Transfers between categories 194,629 112,032 (306,661) –
At 31 December 2011 894,869 765,519 162,859 1,823,247
  
At 1 January 2011  
Cost 1,125,072 1,005,279 124,285 2,254,636
Accumulated depreciation (328,073) (311,445) – (639,518)
Net carrying amount 796,999 693,834 124,285 1,615,118
  
At 31 December 2011  
Cost 1,316,602 1,117,311 162,859 2,596,772
Accumulated depreciation (421,733) (351,792) – (773,525)
Net carrying amount 894,869 765,519 162,859 1,823,247
1 Assets under construction represents (a) sustaining capital expenditures incurred constructing tangible fixed assets related to operating mines and advance deposits made towards the purchase of tangible fixed 
assets; and (b) expansionary expenditure allocated to a project on a business combination or asset acquisition, and the subsequent costs incurred to develop the mine. Once these assets are ready for their intended 
use, the balance is transferred to plant and equipment, and/or mineral properties and mine development costs. 
2 The impairment relates to non-current assets at Tulawaka. Refer to Note 19 for further details. 
  
Shareholder information Financial statements Overview Performance Governance
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 121 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
 www.africanbarrickgold.com 122 
18. Property, plant and equipment continued 
Leases 
Property, plant and equipment includes assets relating to the design and construction costs of power transmission lines and related 
infrastructure. At completion ownership was transferred to TANESCO in exchange for amortised repayment in the form of reduced electricity 
supply charges. No future lease payment obligations are payable under these finance leases.  
Property, plant and equipment also includes emergency back-up generators leased at Buzwagi mine under a three-year lease agreement, with an 
option to purchase the equipment at the end of the lease term. The lease has been classified as a finance lease. 
Property, plant and equipment further includes spinning power generators leased at Buzwagi mine under a one-year lease agreement, with an 
option to extend the lease for 36 months and an option to purchase the equipment at the end of the lease term. The lease has been classified as 
a finance lease. 
Property, plant and equipment includes two drill rigs purchased under a short-term finance lease. The drill rigs have been paid in full. 
The following amounts were included in property, plant and equipment where the Group is a lessee under a finance lease: 
(in thousands of United States dollars) 
As at
31 December
2012
As at
31 December
2011
Cost – capitalised finance leases  68,846 67,223
Accumulated depreciation  (14,603) (7,582)
Net carrying amount  54,243 59,641
19. Goodwill and intangible assets 
For the year ended 31 December 2012 
(in thousands of United States dollars) Goodwill 
Acquired 
exploration and 
evaluation 
properties Total
At 1 January, net of accumulated impairment
1
 178,420 80,093258,513
Additions
2
 6,216 27,297 33,513
Impairment
3
 (13,805) – (13,805)
At 31 December 2012 170,831 107,390 278,221
  
At 31 December 2012  
Cost  401,114 107,390 508,504
Accumulated impairment (230,283) – (230,283)
Net carrying amount 170,831 107,390 278,221
 
For the year ended 31 December 2011 
(in thousands of United States dollars) Goodwill 
Acquired 
exploration and 
evaluation 
properties Total
At 1 January, net of accumulated impairment 178,420 80,093 258,513
Additions – – –
At 31 December 2011 178,420 80,093 258,513
  
At 31 December 2011  
Cost  394,898 80,093 474,991
Accumulated impairment (216,478) – (216,478)
Net carrying amount 178,420 80,093 258,513
1 The Group’s opening goodwill arose from Pre-IPO acquisitions by Barrick Gold Corporation and African Barrick Gold’s acquisition of Tusker Gold Ltd on 27 April 2010. The goodwill allocated to the Group has 
been presented as if the Group acquired this business as of the acquisition date. 
2 Additions to acquired exploration and evaluation properties and goodwill relate to the acquisition of AMKL and are provisional pending receipt of the final valuation. Refer to Note 22 for further details. 
3 The annual impairment review resulted in an impairment of US$13.8 million to goodwill in Tulawaka (2011: no impairment charge).  
  
122 www.africanbarrickgold.com  
 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 
123
Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 
Goodwill and accumulated impairment losses by operating segments: 
(in thousands of United States dollars)  North Mara Bulyanhulu Tulawaka Other Total
At 1 January 2011 21,046 121,546 13,805 22,023 178,420
At 1 January 2012 21,046 121,546 13,805 22,023 178,420
Additions ––– 6,2166,216
Impairments ––(13,805) –(13,805)
At 31 December 2012 21,046 121,546 – 28,239 170,831
Cost  237,524 121,546 13,805 28,239 401,114
Accumulated impairments (216,478) – (13,805) – (230,283)
Annual impairment review 
In accordance with IAS 38 “Intangible Assets” a review for impairment of goodwill was undertaken. The review compared the recoverable 
amount of goodwill for each cash generating unit (“CGU”) to the carrying value of the CGU including goodwill. The key economic assumptions 
used in this review were: 
 
As at
31 December
2012
As at
31 December
2011
Gold price per ounce US$1,700 US$1,600
South African Rand (US$:ZAR) 8.00 7.00
Tanzanian Shilling (US$:TZS) 1,600 1,600
Long-term oil price per barrel US$90 US$90
Discount rates 4.16%-5.66% 5.02%–5.96%
NPV multiples 0.90–1.30 1.00–1.40
The annual goodwill impairment review resulted in an impairment of US$13.8 million to the goodwill of Tulawaka using the methodology and 
assumptions described above due to a review of Tulawaka’s mine plan, which resulted in the downward revision of reserves. Non-current assets 
are tested for impairment when events or changes in circumstances suggest that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. For the year 
ended 31 December 2012, impairment charges of US$30.7 million were recorded for non-current assets at Tulawaka as a result of the short 
remaining life of the mine, resulting in a total impairment charge of US$44.5 million. Refer to Note 18 for further details. 
For purposes of testing for impairment of non-current assets of the Group’s operating mines, a reasonably possible change in the key 
assumptions used to estimate the recoverable amount could result in an impairment charge. The carrying value of the net assets of Buzwagi are 
most sensitive to changes in key assumptions in respect of gold price, cash costs and discount rate. Based on the assessment of fair value less 
costs to sell, the recoverable amount exceeds the carrying value by approximately US$165 million (23%). The calculation is highly sensitive to 
changes in the key assumptions, and a 5% decrease in the long-term gold price or a 9% increase in cash costs or a 3% increase in discount rate, 
in isolation, would lead to the recoverable amount of Buzwagi being equal to its carrying amount. 
  
Shareholder information Financial statements Overview Performance Governance
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 123 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
 www.africanbarrickgold.com 124 
20. Deferred tax assets and liabilities 
Unrecognised deferred tax assets 
Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of the following items: 
(in thousands of United States dollars) 
As at
31 December
2012
As at
31 December
2011
Tax losses 304,324 218,455
Total 304,324 218,455
The above tax losses which translate into deferred tax assets of approximately US$89 million (2011: US$65 million) have not been recognised in 
respect of these items due to uncertainties regarding availability of tax losses, or there being uncertainty regarding future taxable income against 
which these assets can be utilised. 
Recognised deferred tax assets and liabilities 
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are attributable to the following: 
Balance sheet classifications 
(in thousands of United States dollars) 
Assets Liabilities Net
2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011
Property, plant and equipment – – 498,790 475,834 498,790 475,834
Provisions (11,244) (6,342) – – (11,244) (6,342)
Interest deferrals (19,494) (12,999) 562 – (18,932) (12,999)
Tusker acquisition – – 17,313 22,023 17,313 22,023
Aviva acquisition – – 6,216 – 6,216 –
Tax loss carry-forwards (320,968) (384,501) – – (320,968) (384,501)
Net deferred tax (assets)/liabilities (351,706) (403,842) 522,881 497,857 171,175 94,015
 
 
Legal entities 
(in thousands of United States dollars) 
Assets Liabilities Net
2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011
North Mara Gold Mine Ltd – – 53,958 36,404 53,958 36,404
Bulyanhulu Gold Mine Ltd (383) (54,974) – – (383) (54,974)
Pangea Minerals Ltd – – 97,807 95,828 97,807 95,828
Other (2,016) (555) 21,809 17,312 19,793 16,757
Net deferred tax (assets)/liabilities (2,399) (55,529) 173,574 149,544 171,175 94,015
Uncertainties regarding availability of tax losses, in respect of enquiries raised and additional tax assessments issued by the TRA, have been 
measured using the single best estimate of likely outcome approach resulting in the recognition of substantially all the related deferred tax assets 
and liabilities. Alternative acceptable measurement policies (e.g. on a weighted average expected outcome basis) could result in a change to 
deferred tax assets and liabilities being recognised, and the deferred tax charge in the income statement. 
No deferred tax has been recognised in respect of temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, where the Group is in a 
position to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences and it is probable that such differences will not reverse in the foreseeable 
future. The aggregate amount of temporary differences associated with such investments in subsidiaries is represented by the contribution of 
those investments to the Group’s retained earnings and amounted to US$134 million (2011: US$141 million). 
  
124 www.africanbarrickgold.com  
 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 
125
Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 
21. Other assets 
(in thousands of United States dollars) 
As at
31 December
2012
As at
31 December
2011
Amounts due from government
1
 23,426 28,211
Operating lease prepayments – TANESCO powerlines 2,512 2,643
Prepayments – Acquisition of rights over leasehold land
2
 37,248 14,289
Non-current portion of indirect tax receivable
3
 72,655 62,976
Village housing 250 320
Deferred finance charges 1,474 2,219
Total 137,565 110,658
1 Included in this amount are amounts receivable from the NSSF of US$7.3 million (2011: US$12.0 million) as well as amounts due from TANESCO of US$10.6 million (2011: US$12.3 million). 
2 Prepayment made to the landowners in respect of acquisition of the rights over the use of leasehold land. 
3 The non-current portion of the indirect tax receivables has been discounted to its current value using an effective interest rate of 5% (2011: 5%). This resulted in a discounting charge of US$4.2 million (2011: 
US$nil) to the income statement, refer to Note 8. 
22. Business combination 
On 26 October 2012, the Company, through BUK Holdco Ltd and BUK East Africa Ltd, immediate subsidiaries, purchased 100% of the issued 
share capital of Aviva Mining (Kenya) Ltd (“AMKL”) by way of a takeover offer for an initial consideration of US$22 million. AMKL is a 
Kenyan based exploration company with a focus on gold. All of AMKL’s assets are located in Kenya and consist of exploration ground and 
interests in two joint venture agreements. 
Details of the purchase consideration, the net assets acquired and goodwill are as follows: 
(in thousands of United States dollars) 2012
Contractual purchase price 20,700
Exploration funding advanced prior to acquisition date 1,340
Contingent consideration 5,312
Total purchase consideration 27,352
The assets and liabilities as of 26 October 2012 recognised as a result of the acquisition are as follows: 
(in thousands of United States dollars) Fair value
Acquiree’s 
carrying amount
Cash and cash equivalents 11
Current assets 36 36
Property, plant and equipment  32 32
Exploration intangible asset 27,297 6,576
Liabilities (14) (14)
Deferred tax (6,216) –
Fair value of net assets 21,136 6,631
Goodwill 6,216
Total purchase consideration 27,352
Total purchase consideration 27,352
Contingent consideration not yet payable (5,312)
Cash and cash equivalent in subsidiary acquired (1)
Net cash outflow on acquisition 22,039
The goodwill arose after the application of IAS 12 “Income taxes” and is attributable principally to expanding growth opportunities in Africa. 
None of the goodwill is expected to be deductible for tax purposes. The fair value of the acquired identifiable intangible assets, goodwill and 
deferred tax liability is provisional pending receipt of the final valuations for those assets.  
Included in total purchase consideration is the fair value of a contingent consideration payable of US$5.3 million. This relates to a US$10.4 million 
payment required to be made to Aviva Corporation upon declaration of a N143-101 compliant indicated resource of at least three million ounces 
of gold from the mining areas.  
Shareholder information Financial statements Overview Performance Governance
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 125 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
 www.africanbarrickgold.com 126 
22. Business combination continued 
Included in exploration and evaluation costs in the consolidated income statement is acquisition costs incurred relating to the Aviva acquisition 
amounting to US$0.5 million. 
Expenses  
The acquired business contributed expenses of US$1.1 million to the Group for the period from 27 October 2012 to 31 December 2012. If the 
acquisition had occurred on 1 January 2012, pro-forma consolidated profit for the year ended 31 December 2012 would have been US$47.7 million. 
These amounts have been calculated using the Group’s accounting policies. 
23. Share capital and share premium 
 
Number £’000 
Share capital 
US$’000
Share premium 
US$’000
At 1 January 2011 410,085,499 41,009 62,097 867,102
At 31 December 2011 410,085,499 41,009 62,097 867,102
At 31 December 2012 410,085,499 41,009 62,097 867,102
The nominal value of each Ordinary Share is 10 pence. No share movements have taken place in the current year. 
24. Stock-based compensation 
a) Stock options 
Stock options are granted to Executive Directors and to selected employees. The exercise price of the granted options is determined by the 
Compensation committee before the grant of an option provided that this price cannot be less than the average of the middle-market quotation 
of such shares (as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List) for the three dealing days immediately preceding the date of 
grant. All options outstanding at the end of the year expire in 2017 and 2018. 723,674 of the options granted were exercisable at 31 December 
2012 at an average exercise price of 529 pence per share. The vesting period of the options is four years, with an exercise period of seven years 
from the date of grant. 
Movements in the number of options outstanding and their related weighted average exercise prices are reflected in pence as follows: 
 2012 2011 
For the year ended 31 December 
Average exercise 
price in pence 
per share Options 
Average exercise 
price in pence 
per share Options
At 1 January 524 1,710,628 536 1,221,459
Granted – – 497 511,669
Forfeited – – 568 (22,500)
Expired 568 (7,500) ––
At 31 December 524 1,703,128 524 1,710,628
A summary of the awards of the Group’s equity-settled stock options at 31 December 2012 is presented below. 
 
Number
Weighted 
average exercise 
price in pence 
per share 
Weighted 
average 
remaining 
contractual life
Weighted 
average fair 
value in pence 
per share
Awards made in 2011  
29 November 511,669 497  6.9 166
Awards made in 2012  
None –– ––
The fair value of each award on the day of grant was estimated using a Lattice valuation approach. The expected future volatility has been 
determined by reference to the historical volatility.  
  
126 www.africanbarrickgold.com  
 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 
127
Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 
b) LTIP – Restricted Share Units 
Included in other non-current liabilities is RSUs with a fair value of US$2.2 million as at 31 December 2012 (2011: US$3.5 million). 
 
Number of 
RSUs
Fair value 
US$’000
At 1 January 2011 569,037 7,694
Settled for cash (93,223) (4,259)
Forfeited (1,121) (5)
Granted 410,415 109
Credits for dividends 2,894 54
Change in value – (116)
At 31 December 2011 888,002 3,477
Settled for cash (49,479) (2,050)
Forfeited (324,766) (236)
Granted 65,857 55
Credits for dividends 21,803 54
Change in value – 929
At 31 December 2012 601,417 2,229
This table shows both the Legacy RSU and RSU plans. The units granted during the year were solely as part of the RSU plan based on ABG shares. 
c) LTIP – Performance Restricted Share Units 
Included in other non-current liabilities are PRSUs with a fair value of US$2.5 million as at 31 December 2012 (2011: US$0.4 million). 
 Number of 
PRSUs
Fair value 
US$’000
At 1 January 2011 144,612 109
Granted 389,366 112
Credits for dividends 929 2
Change in value – 179
At 31 December 2011 534,907 402
Credits for dividends 15,217 39
Change in value – 2,105
At 31 December 2012 550,124 2,546
d) LTIP – Deferred Share Units 
Included in other non-current liabilities are DSUs with a fair value of US$0.3 million as at 31 December 2012 (2011: US$nil). 
 Number of 
DSUs
Fair value 
US$’000
At 31 December 2011 – –
Granted 48,283 260
Credits for dividends 272 1
At 31 December 2012 48,555 261
 
  
Shareholder information Financial statements Overview Performance Governance
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 127 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
 www.africanbarrickgold.com 128 
25. Trade and other payables 
(in thousands of United States dollars) 
As at
31 December
2012
As at
31 December
2011
Trade payables 83,038 55,790
Accrued expenses 43,377 71,357
Payroll-related payables 26,539 19,854
Contract retentions 414 1,056
Royalty payable 3,771 9,438
Income tax payable – 431
Trade payables to related parties (Note 32) 12,765 3,990
Total 169,904 161,916
Trade payables are obligations to pay for goods or services that have been acquired in the ordinary course of business from suppliers. Trade 
payables are classified as current liabilities if payment is due within one year or less. If not, they are presented as non-current liabilities.  
Terms and conditions of the above payables liabilities: 
 Trade payables are non-interest bearing and are normally settled on 30-day of statement terms. 
 Accruals and other payables are non-interest bearing and have an average term of 30–60 days. 
26. Provisions 
 Rehabilitation
1
Other
2
Total
(in thousands of United States dollars) 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011
At 1 January 157,582 101,477 1,034 11,467 158,616 112,944
Change in estimate 19,242 52,761 6 (2,904) 19,248 49,857
Utilised during the year (297) – – (7,529) (297) (7,529)
Unwinding of discount 4,021 3,344 –– 4,021 3,344
At 31 December 180,548 157,582 1,040 1,034 181,588 158,616
Current portion –– (1,040) (1,034) (1,040) (1,034)
Non-current portion 180,548 157,582 –– 180,548 157,582
1 Rehabilitation provisions relate to the decommissioning costs expected to be incurred for the operating mines. This expenditure arises at different times over the life of mine for the different mine sites and is 
expected to be utilised in terms of cash outflows between years 2014 and 2050 and beyond, varying from mine site to mine site. 
2 Other provisions relate to provisions for legal and tax-related liabilities where the outcome is not yet certain but it is expected that it will lead to a probable outflow of economic benefits in future.  
Rehabilitation obligations arise from the acquisition, development, construction and normal operation of mining property, plant and equipment, 
due to government controls and regulations that protect the environment on the closure and reclamation of mining properties. The major parts of 
the carrying amount of the obligation relate to tailings and heap leach pad closure/rehabilitation; demolition of buildings/mine facilities; ongoing 
water treatment; and ongoing care and maintenance of closed mines. The fair values of rehabilitation provisions are measured by discounting the 
expected cash flows using a discount factor that reflects the credit-adjusted risk-free rate of interest. We prepare estimates of the timing and amount 
of expected cash flows when an obligation is incurred. We update expected cash flows to reflect changes in facts and circumstances. The principal 
factors that can cause expected cash flows to change are: the construction of new processing facilities; changes in the quantities of material in 
reserves and a corresponding change in the life of mine plan; changing ore characteristics that impact required environmental protection measures 
and related costs; changes in water quality that impact the extent of water treatment required; and changes in laws and regulations governing the 
protection of the environment. 
Each period we assess cost estimates and other assumptions used in the valuation of the rehabilitation provision at each of our mineral 
properties to reflect events, changes in circumstances and new information available. Changes in these cost estimates and assumptions are 
recorded as an adjustment to the carrying amount of the corresponding asset. Rehabilitation provisions are adjusted to reflect the passage of 
time (accretion) calculated by applying the discount factor implicit in the initial fair value measurement to the beginning-of-period carrying 
amount of the provision. Settlement gains/losses will be recorded in other (income)/expense. 
Other environmental remediation costs that are not rehabilitation provisions are expensed as incurred. 
  
128 www.africanbarrickgold.com  
 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 
129
Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 
27. Other liabilities 
(in thousands of United States dollars)  
As at
31 December
2012
As at
31 December
2011
Finance lease liabilities 14,133 18,217
Employee benefit RSU liability 5,036 3,879
Other
1
 8,784 3,472
Total 27,953 25,568
Current portion 6,889 6,580
Non-current portion 21,064 18,988
1 Included in other liabilities is the contingent consideration liabilities recognised in the current year on the acquisition of Aviva Mining (Kenya) Limited (US$5.3 million) and the 2010 acquisition of Tusker Gold 
Ltd (US$3.5 million). 
Finance lease liabilities are capitalised at an effective interest rate of 5% per annum. The lease terms are three and four years, with purchase 
options at the end of the term. Instalments are payable weekly. Lease liabilities are effectively secured as the rights to the leased asset revert to 
the lessor in the event of default. 
(in thousands of United States dollars) 
As at
31 December
2012
As at
31 December
2011
Gross finance lease liabilities – minimum lease payments: 
– No later than 1 year  4,645 4,711
– Between 1 and 3 years  10,487 13,113
– Between 3 and 5 years  – 2,380
  15,132 20,204
Future finance charges on finance leases  (999) (1,987)
Present value of finance lease liabilities  14,133 18,217
 
(in thousands of United States dollars) 
As at
31 December
2012
As at
31 December
2011
Present value of finance lease liabilities: 
– No later than 1 year  4,030 3,862
– Between 1 and 3 years  10,103 12,028
– Between 3 and 5 years  – 2,327
Present value of finance lease liabilities 14,133 18,217
28. Financial assets and liabilities 
a) Financial assets 
  Carrying value Fair value 
(in thousands of United States dollars) 2012 2011 2012 2011
Cash and cash equivalents 401,348 584,154 401,348 584,154
Trade and other receivables 44,227 29,858 44,227 29,858
Derivative financial instruments 2,674 4,263 2,674 4,263
Total other assets 181,879 143,929 181,879 143,929
Total financial assets 630,128 762,204 630,128 762,204
Less: Current financial assets  
Cash and cash equivalents (401,348) (584,154) (401,348) (584,154)
Trade and other receivables (44,227) (29,858) (44,227) (29,858)
Derivative financial instruments (2,207) (4,050) (2,207) (4,050)
Other current assets (44,314) (33,271) (44,314) (33,271)
Total other non-current financial assets 138,032 110,871 138,032 110,871
The fair value of financial assets, excluding other assets, equal their carrying amount as the impact of discounting is not significant. Included in 
other assets are indirect tax receivables from the Tanzanian Revenue Authority, which have been discounted to their present value, refer to Note 
16 and Note 21. 
Shareholder information Financial statements Overview Performance Governance
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 129 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
 www.africanbarrickgold.com 130 
28. Financial assets and liabilities continued 
b) Financial liabilities 
  Carrying value Fair value 
(in thousands of Unites States dollars) 2012 2011 2012 2011
Derivative financial instruments 723 114 723 114
Trade and other payables 169,904 161,916 169,904 161,916
Other liabilities 27,953 25,568 27,953 25,568
Total  198,580 187,598 198,580 187,598
Less: Current financial liabilities  
Derivative financial instruments (429) (58) (429) (58)
Trade and other payables (169,904) (161,916) (169,904) (161,916)
Other current liabilities (6,889) (6,580) (6,889) (6,580)
Total non-current portion of financial liabilities 21,358 19,044 21,358 19,044
Other liabilities relate to cash-settled share-based plans and their valuation is based on unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical 
financial instruments. Also included in other liabilities are the finance lease liabilities and their valuation is based on observable market data. 
Derivative financial instruments are valued based upon inputs that are observable for the financial instruments which includes quoted prices for 
similar instruments or identical instruments in markets which are not considered to be active or either directly or indirectly based on observable 
markets data.  
Revolving credit facility 
On 24 November 2010, the Group concluded negotiations with a syndicate of commercial banks, led by Citibank, for the provision of a 
revolving credit facility in a maximum aggregate amount of US$150 million. The facility has been provided to service the general corporate 
needs of the Group and to fund potential acquisitions. All provisions contained in the credit facility documentation have been negotiated on 
normal commercial and customary terms for such finance arrangements. The term of the facility was extended to 2014 and when drawn the 
spread over LIBOR will be 350 basis points. At 31 December 2012, none of the funds were drawn under the facility. The shares of all significant 
subsidiaries have been pledged as security for the loan. Costs associated with the revolving credit facility have been included in finance expenses. 
Refer to Note 10. 
29. Financial risk management 
The Group has exposure to the following risks through its commercial and financial operations: 
a) market risk, including commodity price, foreign currency and interest rate risks; 
b) credit risk; and 
c) liquidity risk. 
This note presents information about the Group’s exposure to each of the above risks and the Group’s objectives, policies and processes for 
assessing and managing risk. Further quantitative disclosures are included throughout the financial statements. 
The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the establishment and oversight of the Group’s risk management framework.  
The Group’s risk management policies are established to identify and analyse the risks faced by the Group, to set appropriate risk limits and 
controls, and to monitor risks and adherence to limits. Risk management policies and systems are reviewed regularly to reflect changes in market 
conditions and the Group’s activities. The Group, through its training and management standards and procedures, aims to maintain a disciplined 
and constructive control environment in which all employees understand their roles and obligations. 
The Board of Directors has responsibility for overseeing how management monitors compliance with the Group’s risk management policies and 
procedures and reviews the adequacy of the risk management framework in relation to the risks faced by the Group. The Audit committee is 
assisted in its oversight role by Internal Audit which undertakes both regular and ad hoc reviews of risk management controls and procedures, 
the results of which are reported to the Audit committee. 
  
130 www.africanbarrickgold.com  
 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 
131
Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 
a) Market risk, including commodity price, foreign currency and interest rate risks 
Market risk is the risk that changes in market factors, such as commodity prices, foreign exchange rates or interest rates will affect the Group’s 
income or the value of its financial instruments. 
Gold price  
The market price of gold is one of the most significant factors in determining the profitability of the Group’s operations. The price of gold is 
subject to volatile price movements over short periods of time, especially in the current market environment, and is affected by numerous 
industry and macro-economic factors that are beyond the Group’s control. In 2012 the price ranged from US$1,540 to US$1,790 per ounce, 
with an average market price of US$1,669 per ounce (2011: US$1,572 per ounce). The Group’s policy is to sell gold at prevailing market prices. 
The table below summarises the impact of changes in the market price on gold. The impact is expressed in terms of the resulting change in the 
Group’s profit after tax for the year or, where applicable, the change in equity. The sensitivities are based on the assumption that the market 
price changes by 10% with all other variables held constant. The impact of a similar change in copper and silver is not material to the Group’s 
profit after tax. 
 Effect on profit after tax 
Gain/loss associated with 10% increase/decrease from year-end price 
(in thousands of United States dollars) 
For the year
ended
31 December
2012
For the year 
ended
31 December
2011
Gold 69,841 78,087
Copper price  
The market price of copper impacts on co-product revenue included in total revenue and cash costs. In 2012 the price ranged from US$3.29 
to US$3.93 per pound, with an average market price of US$3.61 per pound (2011: US$4.00 per pound) and closing at US$3.59 per pound. 
Silver price 
The market price of silver impacts on co-product revenue included in total revenue and cash costs. In 2012 the silver price ranged from 
US$26.38 to US$36.91 per ounce, with an average market price of US$31.17 per pound. 
In 2011, the Group entered into zero cost collars to manage the impact of copper and silver price fluctuations. The Group does not use such 
derivative instruments for speculative trading purposes. These contracts had maturity dates in 2011, 2012 and 2013. These transactions are 
economic hedges and do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment. Changes in the fair value of these options are recorded as a component 
of other income/expense in the income statement. 
At 31 December 2012, the Group had no copper collar contracts outstanding (2011: 10,582 thousand pounds of collar contracts outstanding 
containing purchased put and call options with an average strike price of US$3.34 per pound and US$4.84 per pound respectively). 
At 31 December 2012, the Group had 24 thousand ounces of silver collar contracts outstanding containing purchased put and sold call options 
with strike prices of US$31 per ounce and US$55 per ounce respectively (2011: 216 thousand ounces of purchased put and sold call options with 
average strike prices of US$28 per ounce and US$49 per ounce respectively). These contracts mature in 2013. 
Oil price 
Diesel fuel is refined from crude oil and is therefore subject to the same price volatility affecting crude oil prices. During 2011 and 2012 the 
Group entered into Brent oil option contracts to manage the impact of oil price fluctuations. In 2012, oil prices traded between US$89 and 
US$126 per barrel with an average market price of US$112 per barrel. 
The table below summarises the impact of changes in the market prices of crude oil. The impact is expressed in terms of the resulting change in 
the Group’s profit after tax for the year ended 31 December 2012. The sensitivities are based on the assumption that the market price changes by 
US$10 per barrel with all other variables held constant. The effect on profit after tax (before hedging) is calculated based on actual consumption 
for the year and does not address the indirect impact of a change in the oil price on other costs. 
 Effect on profit after tax 
Gain/loss associated with US$10 decrease/increase from year-end price 
(in thousands of United States dollars) 
For the 
year ended
31 December
2012
For the 
year ended
31 December
2011
Oil 4,231 3,098
During the year, the Group added 144 thousand barrels of Brent oil three-way option contracts for calendar year 2013. The designated contracts 
act as a hedge against variability in market prices, in a pre-defined range, of the cost of future fuel purchases over the next year. At 31 December 
2012, the Group had a total of 234 thousand barrels of Brent crude oil net purchase options outstanding. All of the contracts mature in 2013.  
Shareholder information Financial statements Overview Performance Governance
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 131 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
 www.africanbarrickgold.com 132 
29. Financial risk management continued 
Each contract consists of sold put options, bought call options and sold call options with average strike prices of US$85 per barrel, US$110 per 
barrel and US$135 per barrel respectively. 
These transactions are economic hedges and do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment. Changes in the fair value of these options are 
recorded as a component of other income/expense in the income statement. 
Risks relating to the use of derivatives 
By using derivatives, in addition to credit risk, we are affected by market risk. Market risk is the risk that the fair value of a derivative might be 
adversely affected by a change in commodity prices, interest rates, or currency exchange rates, and that this in turn affects our financial condition. 
We manage market risk by establishing and monitoring parameters that limit the types and degree of market risk that may be undertaken.  
Foreign currency risk 
The Group’s transactions are denominated in a number of different currencies (primarily US dollars, Tanzanian Shillings, and South African 
Rands). The Group has liabilities that are primarily denominated in US dollars. The US dollar is the Company’s (and its subsidiaries’) functional 
currency, as well as the Group’s presentation currency. Therefore, transactions in currencies other than the US dollar give rise to foreign currency 
translation risk. The Group’s primary exposure to this risk arises from direct mine operating costs and corporate administration costs that are 
transacted in Shillings and Rands, respectively. Consequently, fluctuations in the US dollar: Shilling/Rand exchange rates increase the volatility 
of cost of sales, corporate administration costs and overall net earnings, which are reported in US dollars. The vast majority of all direct mining 
costs and corporate administration costs are denominated and settled in US dollars. Consequently, the effect of foreign exchange fluctuations 
on the Group’s reported direct mining and corporate administration costs is not significant.  
The exchange rates at the end of each financial year are detailed in Note 2g). 
Historically, the relationship between the gold price and the value of the Shilling and Rand provide a natural hedge against fluctuations in the 
exchange rate of these currencies against the US dollar. Generally, a strengthening of the Shilling/Rand, which would cause an increase in reported 
US dollar operating costs, corresponds with an increase in the US dollar gold price, which results in an increase in reported US dollar revenues.  
During 2011 and 2012 the Group entered into Rand/US dollar collar contracts to manage the impact of currency fluctuations on Rand-denominated 
operating and capital expenditures. In 2012, the Rand traded between R7.40 and R8.90 per US dollar, and averaged R8.20 per US dollar. 
During the year the Group added R515 million of Rand collar contracts to hedge forecasted Rand-denominated capital spend in 2012, 2013 and 
2014. Each contract consists of a bought put option and a sold call option with average strike prices of R8.50 and R9.33 respectively (2011: there 
were no Rand capital hedges outstanding). The contracts act as a hedge against the variability in the Rand/US dollar exchange range over the 
period. These contracts are treated as accounting hedges in accordance with IAS 39. Hedged items are identified as the first stated quantity of 
Rand spent during the month. Hedge effectiveness is assessed using regression analysis utilising the concept of the hypothetical derivative 
method. The effective portion of changes in intrinsic value of the currency contracts is recorded in other comprehensive income until the 
forecasted expenditure impact occurs. 
During the year the Group also added US$56 million of Rand collar contracts to hedge forecasted Rand denominated operating expenditures. 
The transactions are economic hedges, and do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment. Changes in fair value of these options are recorded 
as a component of other income/expense in the income statement.  
At 31 December 2012, the Group had US$57 million of Rand collar contracts outstanding containing purchased put options and sold call 
options with average strike prices of R8.31 and R9.26 respectively (2011: US$63 million of Rand collar contracts with purchased put and sold 
call options with average strike prices of R8.10 and R9.10 respectively). The contracts mature in 2013. 
The Group does have significant financial assets denominated in a currency other than US dollars. These financial assets are as follow: 
(in thousands of United States dollars) 
As at
31 December
2012
As at 
31 December
2011
Indirect tax receivables (denominated in Tanzanian Shillings) 98,678 85,347
Total 98,678 85,347
  
132 www.africanbarrickgold.com  
 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 
133
Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 
The following sensitivity analyses give the estimated effect of a reasonably possible change in the full year closing US dollar exchange rate on 
the value of the financial assets. 
 Effect on profit after tax 
Increase/(decrease) associated with 10% change of the US dollar as at 31 December 2012 and 31 December 2011 
(in thousands of United States dollars) 
For the 
year ended
31 December
2012
For the 
year ended
31 December
2011
Increase/(decrease) associated with 10% change of the US dollar 
US dollar strengthens by 10% to the Tanzanian Shilling
Increase in total indirect tax receivables 10,964 9,483
US dollar weakens by 10% to the Tanzanian Shilling 
Decrease in total indirect tax receivables (8,971) (7,759)
Interest rate risk 
Interest rate risk refers to the risk that the value of a financial instrument or cash flows associated with the instruments will fluctuate due to 
changes in market interest rates. Borrowings issued at variable rates expose the Group to cash flow interest rate risk. Borrowings issued at fixed 
rates expose the Group to fair value interest rate risk. The Group is also exposed to interest rate risk on its cash and cash equivalents. 
At present, available funds are held with financial institutions at variable rates and primarily denominated in US dollars, interest income is not 
materially affected by changes in short-term interest rates. The amount of interest expense recorded in the Group’s consolidated income statement 
is not materially impacted by changes in short-term interest rates, due to the Group’s low levels of interest-bearing debt at present. If drawn, 
the revolving credit facility’s spread over LIBOR will be 350 basis points. Group debt levels are impacted by the amount of operating cash flow 
generated by its operating mines, as well as capital expenditure requirements related to existing operations and development projects. The 
Group currently has no interest rate hedging in place as the interest income is not materially affected by changes in short-term interest rates.  
b) Credit risk 
Credit risk is the risk that a third party might fail to fulfil its performance obligations under the terms of a financial instrument. For cash and 
cash equivalents and trade and other receivables, credit risk represents the carrying amount on the balance sheet, net of any overdraft positions. 
Credit risk arises from cash and cash equivalents, and deposits with banks, as well as trade and other receivables. The Group’s financial assets 
are held with counterparties whom the Group considers have an appropriate credit rating. Location of credit risk is determined by physical 
location of the bank branch, customer or counterparty. The maximum allowable term of maturity for any individual security is three months. 
Investment counterparties must have a credit rating of at least Baa1 or better by Moody’s Investor Services or BBB+ by Standard and Poor’s. 
No more than 25% of the aggregate market value of the investment portfolio is maintained in any one country, with the exception of the United 
States of America or the United Kingdom, or in any one industry group. Investments are held mainly in United States dollars. Cash and cash 
equivalents in other foreign currencies are maintained for operational requirements. 
With respect to other receivables, the most significant debtor is the TRA. Throughout the past three years, ABG has been actively involved in 
discussions with the Tanzanian government and the TRA to resolve the status of fuel excise levies and VAT refunds for its operations. These 
issues have been outstanding for some time and were further complicated by amendments made to certain tax laws which were passed in 2009. 
The amendments conflicted with certain provisions contained in the Group’s existing Mineral Development Agreements (“MDAs”) which 
guarantee the fiscal stability of its operations. The government has adopted legislation to reverse the amendments, which should allow for 
the fiscal and tax terms of our MDAs to be honoured. As at 31 December 2012, the discounted outstanding amounts due to the Group were 
approximately US$98.7 million. During the third quarter of 2011, the Group signed a MOS with the TRA to address the treatment of certain 
outstanding indirect tax refunds in respect of fuel levies and value added taxation. The terms of the Memorandum of Settlement allow ABG to 
offset income tax payable against outstanding refunds for VAT and fuel levies as it becomes payable. As a result of these changes, Tulawaka 
and Buzwagi will effectively be treated as two separate entities for tax purposes, with effect from 2007. Further detail is included in Notes 16, 
21 and 31b). 
Group policies are aimed at minimising losses as a result of counterparty’s failure to honour its obligations. Individual exposures are monitored 
with trade customers subject to credit limits to ensure that the Group’s exposure to bad debts is not significant. The Group’s exposure to credit 
risk is influenced mainly by the individual characteristics of each of the counterparties. The Group’s financial assets are with counterparties who 
the Group considers have an appropriate credit rating. During the year, receivables to the value of US$149 million were advanced by a financial 
institution under a factoring agreement. This agreement reduces the risk of default of receivables.  
Maximum exposure to credit risk at each reporting date is the carrying value of each class of financial assets in Note 28. The Group does not 
hold collateral as security for any trade receivables. The Group does not grade the credit quality of receivables.  
Shareholder information Financial statements Overview Performance Governance
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 133 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
 www.africanbarrickgold.com 134 
29. Financial risk management continued 
c) Liquidity risk 
Liquidity risk is the risk of loss from not having access to sufficient funds to meet both expected and unexpected cash demands. The Group 
manages its exposure to liquidity risk by ensuring that its operating and strategic liquidity levels are well above minimum internal requirements. 
Prudent liquidity risk management includes maintaining sufficient cash balances, and the availability of funding from an adequate amount of 
committed credit facilities. At the end of both 2012 and 2011 the Group was in a positive net cash position, as disclosed in Note 17. Details of 
the undrawn revolving credit facility are given in Note 28. 
In the ordinary course of business, the Group receives cash proceeds from its operations and is required to fund working capital and capital 
expenditure requirements. The cash is managed to ensure surplus funds are invested to maximise returns while ensuring that capital is 
safeguarded to the maximum extent possible by investing only with financial institutions with a strong credit rating. Insignificant uncommitted 
overdraft facilities are maintained with several banking counterparties to meet the Group’s normal funding requirements. The Group’s primary 
source of liquidity is operating cash flow, and over the past two years the Group has generated an average of about US$378 million per year. 
The principal risk factor affecting operating cash flow is market gold prices.  
The principal uses of liquidity are sustaining capital expenditures at existing operating mines, construction activities at development projects, 
and interest payments. Sustaining capital expenditures have averaged about US$153 million per year over the past two years.  
The following table outlines the expected maturity of the Group’s significant financial assets into relevant maturity groupings based on the 
remaining period from the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date. As the amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual 
undiscounted cash flows, these balances may not agree with the amounts disclosed in the balance sheet. 
For the year ended 31 December 2012  
(in thousands of United States dollars) Less than 1 year 1 to 3 years 3 to 5 years Over 5 years Total
Cash and cash equivalents 401,348 – – – 401,348
Accounts receivable 44,227 – – – 44,227
Derivative financial instruments 2,207 467 – – 2,674
Other receivables 44,314 18,824 122,926 – 186,064
Total 492,096 19,291 122,926 – 634,313
 
For the year ended 31 December 2011  
(in thousands of United States dollars) Less than 1 year 1 to 3 years 3 to 5 years Over 5 years Total
Cash and cash equivalents 584,154 – – – 584,154
Accounts receivable 29,858 – – – 29,858
Derivative financial instruments 4,050 213 – – 4,263
Other receivables 33,271 80,326 30,332 – 143,929
Total 651,333 80,539 30,332 – 762,204
The following table outlines the expected maturity of the Group’s significant financial liabilities into relevant maturity groupings based on 
the remaining period from the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date. As the amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual 
undiscounted cash flows, these balances may not agree with the amounts disclosed in the balance sheet. 
For the year ended 31 December 2012  
(in thousands of United States dollars) Less than 1 year 1 to 3 years 3 to 5 years Over 5 years Total
Derivative liabilities 429 294 – – 723
Other liabilities 6,889 12,280 8,784 – 27,953
Trade and other payables
1
 169,904–– –169,904
Total 177,222 12,574 8,784 – 198,580
 
For the year ended 31 December 2011  
(in thousands of United States dollars) Less than 1 year 1 to 3 years 3 to 5 years Over 5 years Total
Derivative liabilities 58 56 – – 114
Other liabilities 6,580 13,188 5,800 – 25,568
Trade and other payables 161,485 – – – 161,485
Total 168,123 13,244 5,800 – 187,167
1 Trade and other payables exclude statutory liabilities in the form of income tax payable.  
134 www.africanbarrickgold.com  
 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 
135
Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 
Management considers that the Group has adequate current assets and forecast cash flow from operations to manage liquidity risks arising 
from settlement of current liabilities and non-current liabilities. 
Capital risk management 
The primary objective of the Group’s capital management is to ensure that it maintains a strong balance sheet and low gearing ratio to support 
its business and provide financial flexibility in order to maximise shareholder value. In order to ensure a strong balance sheet and low gearing 
ratio, management thoroughly evaluates all material projects and potential acquisitions and is approved by the Senior Leadership Team before 
submission to the Board for ultimate approval, where applicable.  
30. Operating lease arrangements 
(in thousands of United States dollars) 
For the 
year ended 
31 December
2012
For the 
year ended 
31 December
2011
Minimum lease payments under operating leases recognised in income for the period 2,197 1,736
Total 2,197 1,736
At the balance sheet date, the Group had outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating 
leases, which fall due as follows: 
(in thousands of United States dollars) 
As at
31 December
2012
As at
31 December
2011
Within one year 4,137 1,442
In the second to fifth years inclusive 7,733 3,701
After five years 691 1,188
Total 12,561 6,331
Operating lease payments relate mainly to rental of office space by regional business units of the Group. 
31. Commitments and contingencies 
The Group is subject to various laws and regulations which, if not observed, could give rise to penalties. As at 31 December 2012, the Group has 
the following commitments and/or contingencies: 
a) Legal contingencies 
As at 31 December 2012, the Group was a defendant in approximately 235 lawsuits. The plaintiffs are claiming damages and interest thereon for 
the loss caused by the Group due to one or more of the following: unlawful eviction, termination of services, wrongful termination of contracts 
of service, non-payment for services, defamation, and negligence by act or omission in failing to provide a safe working environment, unpaid 
overtime and public holiday compensation.  
The total amounts claimed from lawsuits in which specific monetary damages are sought amounted to US$51.6 million. The Group’s Legal 
Counsel is defending the Group’s current position, and the outcome of the lawsuits cannot presently be determined. However, in the opinion of 
the Directors and Group’s Legal Counsel, no material liabilities are expected to materialise from these lawsuits. Consequently no provision has 
been set aside against the claims in the books of account. 
Included in the total amounts claimed of US$51.6 million is an appeal by the TRA intended for the tax assessment of US$21.3 million in respect 
of the acquisition of Tusker. The case was awarded in favour of ABG however the TRA have served a notice of appeal. The calculated tax 
assessment is based on the sales price of Nyanzaga property of US$71 million multiplied by the tax rate of 30%. Management are of the opinion 
that the assessment is invalid due to the fact that the acquisition was for Tusker Gold Limited, a company incorporated in Australia. The 
shareholding of the Tanzanian related entities did not change and the Tusker Gold Limited Group remains the same as prior to the acquisition. 
Also included in the total amounts claimed of US$51.6 million is a claim of US$2.8 million against North Mara Gold Mine being compensation 
for uncaused improvements, disturbance and accommodation allowance, rich gold land current value, interest and costs. Management are of 
the opinion that the defence is likely to succeed. 
 
  
Shareholder information Financial statements Overview Performance Governance
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 135 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
 www.africanbarrickgold.com 136 
31. Commitments and contingencies continued 
b) Other tax-related contingencies 
i. On 26 October 2009, the TRA issued a demand notice against the Group for an amount relating to withholding tax on technical services 
provided to Bulyanhulu Gold Mine Ltd. The claim amounts to US$5.4 million. Management is of the opinion that the Group complied with 
all of the withholding tax requirements, and that there will be no amount payable. Therefore no provision has been raised. 
ii. The TRA has issued a number of tax assessments to the Group relating to past taxation years from 2002 onwards. The Group believes that 
these assessments are incorrect and has filed objections to each of them. The Group is attempting to resolve these matters by means of 
discussions with the TRA. Management is of the opinion that this will not result in any material liabilities to the Group. 
c) Exploration and development agreements – Mining Licences 
Pursuant to agreements with the Government of the United Republic of Tanzania, the Group was issued Mining Licences for Bulyanhulu, 
Buzwagi, North Mara and Tulawaka mines and Mining Licenses for building materials at Bulyanhulu and Buzwagi Mines. The agreement 
requires the Group to pay to the Government of Tanzania annual rents of US$5,000 per annum per square kilometre for as long as the Group 
holds the Special Mining Licences and US$2,000 per annum per square kilometre for so long as the Group holds the Mining Licences for Building 
Materials. The total commitment for 2013 based on Mining Licences held as at 31 December 2012 is US$0.8 million (2011: US$0.8 million). 
d) Purchase commitments 
At 31 December 2012, the Group had purchase obligations for supplies and consumables of approximately US$65 million (2011: US$31 million). 
e) Capital commitments 
In addition to entering into various operational commitments in the normal course of business, the Group entered into contracts for capital 
expenditure for approximately US$51 million (2011: US$32 million). 
32. Related party balances and transactions 
The Group had the following related party balances and transactions during the years ended 31 December 2012 and 31 December 2011. 
Related parties are those entities owned or controlled by BGC, which is the ultimate controlling party of the Group. 
Transactions with related parties are as follows: 
a) Transactions 
(in thousands of United States dollars) 
For the 
year ended
31 December
2012
For the
year ended
31 December
2011
Provision of goods and services 273 507
Purchase of goods and services (10,177) (8,426)
Dividend payments (51,822) (20,924)
Total (61,726) (28,843)
Provision and purchase of goods and services to/from related parties are on normal commercial terms and conditions. Provision of services relates 
to cost incurred by the Group and recharged to related parties. Purchase of goods and services relates to cost incurred by related parties and 
recharged to the Group. Services purchased relate mainly to insurance and software licences. Goods purchased relate mainly to consumables and 
capital equipment. 
b) Balances due from related parties 
(in thousands of United States dollars) 
As at
31 December
2012
As at
31 December
2011
Due from fellow subsidiaries: 
Placer Dome Exploration 247 247
Placer Dome Technical Services 37 37
Other 109 70
Total 393 354
The receivables are unsecured in nature and bear no interest. There are no provisions held against receivables from BGC.  
  
136 www.africanbarrickgold.com  
 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 
137
Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 
c) Balances due to related parties 
(in thousands of United States dollars) 
As at
31 December
2012
As at
31 December
2011
Due to Holding Company: 
Barrick Gold Corporation 11,962 3,638
Due to fellow subsidiaries: 
BIBC 15 3
Barrick Gold Australia Ltd 293 –
Barrick Gold North America 188 203
Other 307 146
Total 12,765 3,990
The payables to Barrick arise mainly from purchase transactions noted above. The payables are unsecured and bear no interest.  
d) Remuneration of key management personnel 
Key management personnel include the members of the Board of Directors and the Senior Leadership Team who receive remuneration. 
Compensation for key management personnel (including Directors) was as follows: 
(in thousands of United States dollars) 
For the 
year ended 31 
December
2012
For the 
year ended  
31 December
2011
Short-term employee benefits 8,724 10,647
Post-employment benefits 746 1,103
Other long-term benefits – –
Stock-based compensation 1,029 2,114
Total 10,499 13,864
33. Prospecting licences 
The Group holds exploration mineral rights in the United Republic of Tanzania. These rights are held in the form of prospecting licences issued 
by the Ministry of Energy and Minerals and are held either directly by the Group or indirectly pursuant to third party agreements. The licences 
held by the Group as at 31 December 2012 are summarised in the following table. The total commitment to exploration expenditure on these 
licences for 2013 is US$2.5 million. 
Prospecting licences 
Number of 
licences
Approximate
Km²
Held by ABG Exploration Africa Limited 105 1,296.80 
Held by Mkumi Exploration Ltd 2 18.20
Held by North Mara Gold Mine Ltd 5 57.87 
Held by Nyanzaga Exploration Company Ltd 5 91.52 
Held by Pangea Minerals Ltd 80 743.94
Held by Prime Gold Exploration Ltd 3 42.82 
Held by Sub-Sahara Resources Tanzania Ltd 2 15.34 
Held by Vulcan Resources Tanzania Ltd 15 237.26
Prospecting licences – indirectly held
1
 7 29.70 
Total 224 2,533.45 
1 Via exploration joint venture with third parties. 
  
Shareholder information Financial statements Overview Performance Governance
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 137 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
 www.africanbarrickgold.com 138 
34. Post balance sheet events 
A final dividend of US12.3 cents per share has been proposed, which will result in a total dividend of US16.3 cents per share for 2012. The final 
dividend is to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting on 18 April 2013. These financial statements do not reflect this dividend payable. 
ABG announced on 22 January 2013 that it concluded negotiations with a syndicate of commercial banks, led by Standard Bank, for the 
provision of an export credit backed term loan facility (“Facility”) for the amount of US$142 million. The Facility has been put in place to fund 
the bulk of the costs of the construction of one of our key growth projects, a new Carbon in Leach circuit at the process plant at Bulyanhulu 
(“Project”). The Facility is secured upon the Project, has a term of seven years and when drawn the spread over LIBOR will be 250 basis points. 
The Facility is repayable in equal instalments over the term of the Facility, after a two-year repayment holiday period. 
Subsequent to year end, a legal claim was instituted against ABG in relation to the termination of a lease agreement in Dar es Salaam. The 
plaintiffs claim payment of US$11.4 million purportedly being rent for the remainder of the lease period, rent that they would have received 
from other prospective tenants, costs incurred for alterations made on ABG’s instructions and general damages. Management are of the opinion 
that the defence is likely to succeed. 
ABG announced on 8 January 2013 that Barrick had ended discussions with CNG over the potential sale of its 73.9% stake in ABG. As a result, 
ABG is no longer in an Offer Period under the Takeover Code. Management has initiated a full Operational Review with the aim of recalibrating 
operations so as to drive improved returns from the asset base whilst enhancing the certainty of delivery and initial detail on specific initiatives 
has been provided within these results. 
138 www.africanbarrickgold.com Independent auditors’ report to the members of African Barrick Gold plc 
 
 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 139
Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 
We have audited the parent company financial statements of 
African Barrick Gold plc for the year ended 31 December 2012 which 
comprise the parent company income statement, parent company 
statement of comprehensive income, parent company balance sheet, 
parent company statement of changes in equity, parent company 
cash flow statement and the related notes. The financial reporting 
framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law 
and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted 
by the European Union.  
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors  
As explained more fully in the Directors’ responsibilities statement set 
out on page 75, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of 
the parent company financial statements and for being satisfied that 
they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit and 
express an opinion on the parent company financial statements in 
accordance with applicable law and International Standards on 
Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards require us to comply 
with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors.  
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only 
for the Company’s members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 
of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose. We 
do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for 
any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is 
shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed 
by our prior consent in writing. 
Scope of the audit of the financial statements  
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and 
disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable 
assurance that the financial statements are free from material 
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an 
assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the 
parent Company’s circumstances and have been consistently applied 
and adequately disclosed; the reasonableness of significant accounting 
estimates made by the Directors; and the overall presentation of the 
financial statements. In addition, we read all the financial and non-
financial information in the annual report to identify material 
inconsistencies with the audited financial statements. If we become 
aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies 
we consider the implications for our report. 
Opinion on financial statements  
In our opinion the parent company financial statements:  
 give a true and fair view of the state of the Company’s affairs as 
at 31 December 2012 and of its loss and cash flows for the year 
then ended;  
 have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted 
by the European Union; and  
 have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the 
Companies Act 2006.  
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies 
Act 2006  
In our opinion:  
 the part of the Remuneration report to be audited has been 
properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006; and 
 the information given in the Directors’ report for the financial year 
for which the parent company financial statements are prepared is 
consistent with the parent company financial statements. 
Matters on which we are required to report by exception  
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where the 
Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion:  
 adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent 
company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received 
from branches not visited by us; or  
 the parent company financial statements and the part of the 
Remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the 
accounting records and returns; or  
 certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law are 
not made; or  
 we have not received all the information and explanations we 
require for our audit. 
Other matter  
We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of 
African Barrick Gold plc for the year ended 31 December 2011.  
 
 
 
Jason Burkitt, 
Senior Statutory Auditor 
For and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors 
London 
7 March 2013 
Notes: 
(a) The maintenance and integrity of the African Barrick Gold plc website is the 
responsibility of the Directors; the work carried out by the auditors does not involve 
consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for 
any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially 
presented on the website. 
(b) Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of 
financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions. 
 
Shareholder information Financial statements Overview Performance Governance
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 139 Parent company income statement 
 www.africanbarrickgold.com 140 
 
(in thousands of United States dollars) Notes 
For the 
year ended 
31 December 
2012
For the 
year ended 
31 December 
2011
Corporate administration 3 (12,923) (18,990)
Project evaluation costs  (454) –
Other (charges)/income   (5,674) 177
Finance income  4 162 193
Finance expense 4 (6) (6)
Loss before taxation   (18,895) (18,626)
Income tax 5 – –
Net loss for the period   (18,895) (18,626)
 
 
 
Parent company statement of comprehensive income 
(in thousands of United States dollars) 
For the 
year ended 
31 December 
2012
For the 
year ended 
31 December 
2011
Net loss for the period (18,895) (18,626)
Other comprehensive income for the period – –
Total comprehensive loss for the period (18,895) (18,626)
The notes on pages 144 to 154 are an integral part of these financial statements. 
 
140 www.africanbarrickgold.com Parent company balance sheet 
 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 141
Overview Performance Governance Financial Statements Shareholder information 
 
(in thousands of United States dollars) Notes 
As at
31 December 
2012
As at
31 December 
2011
Assets  
Non-current assets  
Property, plant and equipment  7 373 370
Investment in subsidiaries 8 1,346,608 1,324,568
Non-current receivables 18 772,694 772,680
    2,119,675 2,097,618
Current assets  
Other receivables  9 3,444 663
Cash and cash equivalents 10 36,525 145,870
   39,969 146,533
Total assets   2,159,644 2,244,151
 
Equity and liabilities  
Share capital and share premium 11 929,199 929,199
Other reserves  1,221,897 1,309,391
Total equity   2,151,096 2,238,590
  
Non-current liabilities  
Other non-current liabilities  2,230 1,197
    2,230 1,197
 
Current liabilities  
Other current liabilities  14 6,318 4,364
    6,318 4,364
Total liabilities   8,548 5,561
Total equity and liabilities   2,159,644 2,244,151
The notes on pages 144 to 154 are an integral part of these financial statements.  
The financial statements on pages 140 to 154 were authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 7 March 2013 and were signed on its behalf: 
 
 
 
Greg Hawkins, 
Chief Executive Officer 
 
Shareholder information Financial statements Overview Performance Governance
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 141 Parent company statement of changes in equity 
 www.africanbarrickgold.com 142 
  
(in thousands of United States dollars) Notes Share capital Share premium
Contributed 
surplus/Other 
reserves
Stock  
option reserve 
Retained 
earnings  Total equity 
Balance at 1 January 2011  62,097 867,102 1,368,774 640 (14,406) 2,284,207
Net loss for the period  – – – – (18,626) (18,626)
Dividends to shareholders 13 – – – – (28,328) (28,328)
Stock options   – – – 1,337 – 1,337
Balance at 31 December 2011  62,097 867,102 1,368,774 1,977 (61,360) 2,238,590
Net loss for the period  – – – – (18,895) (18,895)
Dividends to shareholders 13 – – – – (70,125) (70,125)
Stock options   – – – 1,526 – 1,526
Balance at 31 December 2012  62,097 867,102 1,368,774 3,503 (150,380) 2,151,096
The notes on pages 144 to 154 are an integral part of these financial statements.  
 
142 www.africanbarrickgold.com Parent company cash flow statement 
 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 143
Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Financial Statements Shareholder information 
 
(in thousands of United States dollars) Notes 
Forthe 
year ended 
31 December 
2012
For the 
year ended 
31 December 
2011
Cash flows used in operating activities  
Net loss for the period  (18,895) (18,626)
Adjustments for:  
Depreciation and amortisation 7 146 134
Finance items 4 (156) (187)
Working capital adjustments  6 408 3,941
Other  6 1,277 1,248
Cash used by operations before interest and tax  (17,220) (13,490)
Finance income   162 193
Finance expense  (6) (6)
Net cash used in operating activities   (17,064) (13,303)
 
Cash flows used in investing activities  
Purchase of property, plant and equipment  7 (149) (79)
Investment in subsidiary 8 (22,039) –
Net cash used in investing activities   (22,188) (79)
  
Cash flows used in financing activities  
Dividends paid 13 (70,125) (28,328)
Net cash used in financing activities   (70,125) (28,328)
  
Net decrease in cash and equivalents   (109,377) (41,710)
Net foreign exchange difference  32 89
Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January  145,870 187,491
Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December   36,525 145,870
The notes on pages 144 to 154 are an integral part of these financial statements.  
 
Shareholder information Financial statements Overview Performance Governance
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 143 Notes to the company financial statements 
 
 
 www.africanbarrickgold.com 144 
1. Corporate information 
African Barrick Gold plc (the “Company”) was incorporated on 
12 January 2010 and re-registered as a public limited company on 
12 March 2010 under the Companies Act 2006. It is registered in 
England and Wales with registered number 7123187. 
On 24 March 2010 the Company’s shares were admitted to the Official 
List of the United Kingdom Listing Authority (“UKLA”) and to trading 
on the main market of the London Stock Exchange, hereafter referred 
to as the Initial Public Offering (“IPO”). The address of its registered 
office is 6 St James’s Place, London SW1A 1NP, United Kingdom. 
Barrick Gold Corporation (“BGC”) currently owns approximately 
73.9% of the shares of the Company and is the ultimate controlling 
party of the Group. 
The financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2012 
were approved for issue by the Board of Directors of the Company 
on 7 March 2013.  
The primary activity of the Company is as holding company for the 
African Barrick Gold Group of companies. 
2. Significant accounting policies 
The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these 
financial statements are set out below.  
a) Basis of preparation 
The Company’s financial statements have been prepared in accordance 
with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the 
European Union (“IFRS”s), IFRIC interpretations and those parts of 
the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS. 
The financial statements of the Company have been prepared on a 
historical cost basis.  
The Company’s forecasts and projections, taking account of reasonably 
possible changes in trading performance, show that the Company 
should be able to operate within the level of its current financing. 
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation 
that the Company has adequate resources to continue in operational 
existence for the foreseeable future. The Company therefore adopts 
the going concern basis in preparing its financial statements. 
The financial statements are presented in US dollars (US$) and all 
values are rounded to the nearest thousand (US$’000) except when 
otherwise indicated.  
Where a change in the presentational format between the prior year 
and current year financial statements has been made during the 
period, comparative figures have been restated accordingly. The 
following presentational changes were made during the current year: 
 Bank charges previously included in corporate administration 
expenses have been reclassified to finance expense (2012: US$6 
thousand; 2011: US$6 thousand). 
 Management fees previously included in travel and administration 
costs have been reclassified and separately disclosed in the 
corporate administration note (2012: gain of US$3.5 million; 2011: 
expense of US$2.4 million). 
The basis of preparation and accounting policies used in preparing the 
financial statements are set out below. 
b) New and amended standards adopted by the Company 
There are no new IFRSs or IFRIC Interpretations that are effective for 
the first time for the financial year beginning on or after 1 January 
2012 that would be expected to have a material impact on the Company. 
c) New and amended standards, and interpretations not yet adopted  
A number of new standards and amendments to standards and 
interpretations are effective for annual periods beginning after 
1 January 2012, and have not been applied in preparing these 
consolidated financial statements. None of these are expected to 
have a significant effect on the consolidated financial statements of 
the Group, except the following set out below: 
 Amendments to IAS 1, “Financial statement presentation” 
regarding other comprehensive income. The main change resulting 
from these amendments is a requirement for entities to group items 
presented in “other comprehensive income” (“OCI”) on the basis of 
whether they are potentially reclassifiable to profit or loss 
subsequently (reclassification adjustments). The amendments do 
not address which items are presented in OCI. 
 Amendments to IFRS 7, “Financial instruments: Disclosures” on 
derecognition. This amendment will promote transparency in the 
reporting of transfer transactions and improve users’ understanding 
of the risk exposures relating to transfers of financial assets and the 
effect of those risks on an entity’s financial position, particularly 
those involving securitisation of financial assets. 
 IFRS 9, “Financial instruments”, addresses the classification, 
measurement and recognition of financial assets and financial 
liabilities. IFRS 9 was issued in November 2009 and October 2010. 
It replaces the parts of IAS 39 that relate to the classification and 
measurement of financial instruments. IFRS 9 requires financial 
assets to be classified into two measurement categories: those 
measured at fair value and those measured at amortised cost. The 
determination is made at initial recognition. The classification 
depends on the entity’s business model for managing its financial 
instruments and the contractual cash flow characteristics of the 
instrument. For financial liabilities, the standard retains most of the 
IAS 39 requirements. The main change is that, in cases where the 
fair value option is taken for financial liabilities, the part of a fair 
value change due to an entity’s own credit risk is recorded in other 
comprehensive income rather than the income statement, unless 
this creates an accounting mismatch. The group is yet to assess 
IFRS 9’s full impact and intends to adopt IFRS 9 no later than the 
accounting period beginning on or after 1 January 2015, subject to 
endorsement by the EU. The group will also consider the impact of 
the remaining phases of IFRS 9 when completed by the 
International Accounting Standards Board. 
 
144 www.africanbarrickgold.com  
 
 
 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 145
Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 
 IFRS 13, “Fair value measurement”, aims to improve consistency 
and reduce complexity by providing a precise definition of fair 
value and a single source of fair value measurement and disclosure 
requirements for use across IFRSs. The requirements, which are 
largely aligned between IFRSs and US GAAP, do not extend the use 
of fair value accounting but provide guidance on how it should be 
applied where its use is already required or permitted by other 
standards within IFRSs or US GAAP. 
 Amendment to IAS 32, “Financial Instruments: Presentation”, 
clarifies some of the requirements for offsetting financial assets 
and financial liabilities on the balance sheet.  
There are no other IFRSs or IFRIC interpretations that are not yet 
effective that would be expected to have a material impact on the Group. 
d) Significant judgements in applying accounting policies and key 
sources of estimation uncertainty 
Many of the amounts included in the parent company financial 
statements require management to make judgements and/or estimates. 
These judgements and estimates are continuously evaluated and are 
based on management’s experience and best knowledge of the relevant 
facts and circumstances, but actual results may differ from the 
amounts included in the parent company financial statements. 
Information about such judgements and estimation is included in the 
accounting policies and/or notes to the financial statements, and the 
key areas are summarised below. 
Areas of judgement and key sources of estimation uncertainty that have 
the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the parent 
company financial statements include: 
 Whether to recognise a provision for accounts receivable – Notes 
2h) and 9;  
 Recognition of deferred income tax assets, amounts recorded for 
uncertain tax positions, the measurement of income tax expense 
and indirect taxes – Notes 2j) and 5; and 
 Review of property, plant and equipment and investments in 
subsidiaries, the determination of whether these assets are impaired 
and the measurement of impairment charges or reversals – Notes 
2f), 7 and 8. 
e) Foreign currency translation 
The Company’s transactions are denominated in a number of different 
currencies (primarily US dollars and UK pounds sterling). The 
Company has liabilities that are primarily denominated in US dollars. 
The US dollar is the Company’s functional currency, as well as the 
Company’s presentation currency. Transactions in currencies other 
than the US dollar are translated at the exchange rates as at the date of 
transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in currencies 
other than the US dollar are translated to US dollars at year-end 
exchange rates. All differences that arise are recorded in the income 
statement. Non-monetary assets measured at historical cost in a 
currency other than US dollars are translated using the exchange rates 
at the date of the initial transactions. Where non-monetary assets are 
measured at fair value in a currency other than US dollars they are 
translated into US dollars using the exchange rates on the date when 
the fair value was determined.  
The following exchange rates to the US dollar have been applied: 
 
As at  
31 December  
2012 
Average  
Year ended  
31 December  
2012 
As at 
31 December 
2011
Average 
Year ended 
31 December 
2011
UK pound (US$ : GBP) 0.62 0.63 0.64 0.62
f) Investment in subsidiaries 
Subsidiaries are entities over which the Company has the power, 
directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies in 
order to obtain benefits from their activities. Control is presumed to 
exist where the Company has more than one half of the voting rights 
unless it can be demonstrated that ownership does not constitute 
control. Control does not exist where other parties hold veto rights 
over significant operating and financial decisions. In assessing control, 
potential voting rights that are currently exercisable or convertible as 
well as other contractual arrangements that enable the Company to 
exercise control are taken into account. 
At each reporting date, an assessment is made to determine whether 
there are any indicators of impairment. Where an indicator of 
impairment exists, a formal estimate of the recoverable amount of the 
investment in subsidiary is made, which is considered to be the higher 
of the fair value less costs to sell and the value in use. Fair value is 
determined as the amount that would be obtained from the sale of the 
investment in an arm’s length transaction between knowledgeable and 
willing parties. If the carrying amount of an investment exceeds the 
recoverable amount, a provision is recorded in the income statement 
to reflect the investment at the recoverable amount. 
Where an impairment charge has previously been recognised, an 
assessment is made at the end of each reporting period whether there 
is any indication that the impairment loss may no longer exist or may 
have decreased. If any such indication exists, an estimate of the 
recoverable amount is made. An impairment loss is reversed to the 
income statement to the extent that the increased carrying value of the 
investment in subsidiary does not exceed the original carrying value. 
g) Share capital 
Ordinary Shares are classified as equity. Incremental costs directly 
attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in equity 
as a deduction from the proceeds. 
h) Financial instruments 
Cash and cash equivalents 
Cash and cash equivalents are carried in the balance sheet at fair value. 
For the purposes of the balance sheet, cash and cash equivalents 
include cash, and money market funds. For the purposes of the cash 
flow statement, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and cash 
equivalents as defined above. 
 
 
  
Shareholder information Financial statements Overview Performance Governance
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 145 Notes to the company financial statements continued 
 www.africanbarrickgold.com 146 
2. Significant accounting policies continued 
Loans and receivables 
Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or 
determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market, do not 
qualify as trading assets and have not been designated as either fair 
value through profit and loss or available for sale. These are initially 
recognised at fair value, and are subsequently stated at amortised cost 
using the effective interest method. They are included in current 
assets, except for maturities greater than 12 months after the balance 
sheet date, which are classified as non-current assets. 
Loans and receivables comprise other receivables and cash and cash 
equivalents at the balance sheet date.  
A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there 
is objective evidence that the Company will not be able to collect all 
amounts due according to the original terms of receivables. The carrying 
amount of the asset is reduced through use of an allowance account. 
The amount of the provision is recognised in the income statement. 
Financial liabilities 
Other payables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently 
measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.  
i) Finance income and finance expense 
Interest income is recognised on a time-proportion basis using the 
effective interest method. When a receivable is impaired, the 
Company reduces the carrying amount to its recoverable amount, 
being the estimated future cash flow discounted at the original 
effective interest rate of the instrument, and continues unwinding 
the discount as interest income. 
j) Taxes 
The tax expense for the period comprises current and deferred tax. 
Tax is recognised in the income statement, except to the extent that it 
relates to items recognised in other comprehensive income or directly 
in equity. In this case the tax is also recognised in other 
comprehensive income or directly in equity, respectively. 
Current income tax 
Current income tax assets and liabilities for the current period are 
measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid to the 
taxation authorities. Management periodically evaluates positions taken 
in tax returns with respect to situations in which applicable tax regulation 
is subject to interpretation. It establishes provisions where appropriate 
on the basis of amounts expected to be paid to the tax authorities. The 
tax rates and tax laws used to compute the amount are those that are 
enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date. 
Deferred income tax 
Unrecognised deferred income tax assets are reassessed at each balance 
sheet date and are recognised to the extent that it has become probable 
that future taxable profit will allow the deferred tax asset to be recovered. 
Indirect tax 
Indirect tax assets and liabilities for the current and prior periods are 
measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid to the 
taxation authorities. Management periodically evaluates positions 
taken in indirect tax returns with respect to situations in which 
applicable tax regulation is subject to interpretation. It establishes 
provisions or receivables where appropriate on the basis of amounts 
expected to be paid to or received from the tax authorities. The tax 
rates and tax laws used to compute the amount are those that are enacted 
or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date. If the receivable is 
expected to be received in more than 12 months from year-end, the 
receivable is discounted and held at its present value. Amounts expected 
to be payable or receivable in more than 12 months are classified as 
non-current assets or liabilities in the balance sheet, as appropriate. 
k) Dividend distribution 
Dividend distribution to the Company’s shareholders is recognised 
as a liability in the Company’s financial statements in the period in 
which the dividends are approved by the Company’s shareholders. 
 
146 www.africanbarrickgold.com  
 
 
 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 147
 Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 
3. Corporate administration 
Included in corporate administration costs are the following: 
(in thousands of United States dollars) 
For the 
year ended 
31 December 
2012
For the 
year ended 
31 December 
2011
Salaries 4,061 3,941
Other employee benefits 2,651 1,767
Stock-based compensation 2,923 2,739
Directors’ fees 685 580
Professional and consultancy fees 2,936 4,298
Foreign exchange gain (249) (103)
Travel and administration
1
 2,012 1,802
Net management fees
1
 (3,454) 2,446
Depreciation 146 134
Audit fees
2
 396 464
Other 816 922
  12,923 18,990
1 Management fees previously included in travel and administration costs have been reclassified and separately disclosed.  
2 Audit fees relating to the audit of the Company for the year ended 31 December 2012 amounted to US$55 thousand (2011: US$50 thousand). The difference relates to audit fees incurred for the audit of other 
Group companies.  
Details of Directors’ remuneration can be found in the Remuneration report on pages 76 to 87. Details of the auditors’ remuneration can be 
found in Note 9 of the Group financial statements. 
Average number of employees 
 
For the 
year ended 
31 December 
2012
For the 
year ended 
31 December 
2011
Administration 9 6
Total average headcount 9 6
4.  Finance income and finance expense 
a) Finance income 
(in thousands of United States dollars) 
For the 
year ended 
31 December 
2012
For the 
year ended 
31 December 
2011
Interest on time deposits 162 193
Total 162 193
b) Finance expense 
(in thousands of United States dollars) 
For the 
year ended 
31 December 
2012
For the 
year ended 
31 December 
2011
Bank charges 6 6
Total 6 6
  
Shareholder information Financial statements Overview Performance Governance
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 147 Notes to the company financial statements continued 
 www.africanbarrickgold.com 148 
5. Income tax 
(in thousands of United States dollars) 
For the 
year ended 
31 December 
2012
For the 
year ended 
31 December 
2011
Corporation taxes – –
Total  – –
The statutory income tax rate in the United Kingdom is 24% for 2012. The tax on the Company’s profit before tax differs from the theoretical 
amount that would arise using the statutory tax rate as follows: 
(in thousands of United States dollars) 
For the 
year ended 
31 December 
2012
For the
year ended 
31 December 
2011
Loss before tax (18,895) (18,626)
Tax calculated at statutory tax rates  4,535 5,215
Tax effects of: 
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes – –
Tax losses for which no deferred income tax asset was recognised (4,535) (5,215)
Tax charge – –
Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of the tax losses amounting to US$40.5 million as at 31 December 2012 (2011: US$23 million), 
as there is not sufficient certainty over future profits. 
6. Cash flow – other items 
a) Operating cash flows – other items 
(in thousands of United States dollars) 
For the 
year ended 
31 December 
2012
For the 
year ended 
31 December 
2011
Adjustments for non-cash income statement items:  
Foreign exchange gains (217) (192)
Exchange (gain)/loss on revaluation of cash balances (32) 89
Other expenses 1,526 1,351
Total 1,277 1,248
Adjustments for working capital items:  
(in thousands of United States dollars) 
For the 
year ended 
31 December 
2012
For the 
year ended 
31 December 
2011
Other receivables (2,794) 361
Other current liabilities 2,169 2,710
Other non-current liabilities 1,033 870
Total 408 3,941
 
  
148 www.africanbarrickgold.com  
 
 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 149
Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Financial Statements Shareholder information 
7.  Property, plant and equipment 
For the year ended 31 December 2012 
(in thousands of United States dollars) 
 Furniture and 
equipment  Total 
At 1 January 2012, net of accumulated depreciation 370 370
Additions 149 149
Depreciation (146) (146)
At 31 December 2012 373 373
 
At 1 January 2012 
Cost 545 545
Accumulated depreciation (175) (175)
Net carrying amount 370 370
 
At 31 December 2012, net of accumulated depreciation
Cost 694 694
Accumulated depreciation (321) (321)
Net carrying amount 373 373
 
For the year ended 31 December 2011 
(in thousands of United States dollars) 
Furniture and 
equipment  Total 
At 1 January 2011, net of accumulated depreciation 425425
Additions 79 79
Depreciation (134) (134)
At 31 December 2011 370 370
 
At 1 January 2011 
Cost 466 466
Accumulated depreciation (41) (41)
Net carrying amount 425 425
 
At 31 December 2011, net of accumulated depreciation
Cost 545 545
Accumulated depreciation (175) (175)
Net carrying amount 370 370
8. Investment in subsidiaries 
(in thousands of United States dollars) 
For the 
year ended 
31 December 
2012
For the 
year ended 
31 December 
2011
Opening balance 1,324,568 1,324,568
Additions 22,040 –
Closing balance 1,346,608 1,324,568
The subsidiaries in which investments are held as at 31 December 2012 are as follows: 
Company  Principal activity  Country of incorporation 
Equity interest
2012
Equity interest
2011
BUK Holdco Ltd
1
  Holding Company UK 100% 100%
1816962 Ontario Inc  Holding Company Canada 100% 100%
Aviva Mining (Kenya) Ltd
2
  Exploration Kenya 1% –
1 BUK Holdco Ltd and BUK East Africa Ltd are exempt from the requirements of the Companies Act relating to the audit of individual accounts by virtue of SI 2012/2301. 
2 On 26 October 2012, the Company, in conjunction with BUK East Africa Ltd purchased 100% of the issued share capital of Aviva Mining (Kenya) Ltd (“AMKL”) by way of a takeover offer for an initial 
consideration of US$22 million. The full investment value was incurred by the Company. AMKL is a Kenyan based exploration company with a focus on gold. All of AMKL’s assets are located in Kenya and 
consist of exploration ground and interests in two joint venture agreements. Refer to note 22 of the Group financial statements for further details. 
Shareholder information Financial statements Overview Performance Governance
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 149 Notes to the company financial statements continued 
 www.africanbarrickgold.com 150 
9. Other receivables 
(in thousands of United States dollars) 
As at 
31 December 
2012
As at 
31 December 
2011
Indirect tax receivables 348 129
Advance payments 271 177
Other receivables 169 103
Due from related parties (Note 18) 2,656 254
Total 3,444 663
At 31 December 2012, no other receivables were either past due or impaired. In determining the recoverability of a receivable, the Company 
performs a risk analysis. 
10. Cash and cash equivalents 
(in thousands of United States dollars) 
As at 
31 December 
2012
As at 
31 December 
2011
Cash at bank and on hand 14,864 2,007
Money market funds 21,661 143,863
Total 36,525 145,870
Short-term deposits are made for varying periods of between one day and three months, depending on the immediate cash requirements of the 
Company, and earn interest at the respective short-term deposit rates.  
11. Share capital and share premium 
  Number
Share capital  
£’000 
Share capital 
US$’000
Share premium
US$’000
At 1 January 2011 410,085,499 41,009 62,097 867,102
At 31 December 2011 410,085,499 41,009 62,097 867,102
At 31 December 2012 410,085,499 41,009 62,097 867,102
12. Stock-based compensation 
Stock options are granted to Executive Directors and to selected employees. The exercise price of the granted options is determined by the 
Remuneration committee before the grant of an option provided that this price cannot be less than the average of the middle-market quotation 
of such shares (as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List) for the three dealing days immediately preceding the date of 
grant. All options outstanding at the end of the year expire in 2017 and 2018. 424,049 of the options granted were exercisable at 31 December 
2012. The vesting period of the options is four years, with an exercise period of three years. 
Movements in the number of options outstanding and their related weighted average exercise prices in pence are as follows: 
For the period ended 31 December 
Average exercise 
price in pence 
per share
2012
Options  
2012 
Average exercise 
price in pence 
per share
2011
Options 
2011
At 1 January 522 943,006 532 676,075
Granted – – 497 266,931
At 31 December 522 943,006 522 943,006
There were no options granted during the current year. 
13. Dividends paid 
The final dividend declared in respect of the year ended 31 December 2011 of US$53.7 million (US13.1 cents per share) and the 2012 interim 
dividend of US$16.3 million (US4.0 cents per share) were paid during 2012 and recognised in the financial statements. Refer to Note 19 for 
details of the final dividend declared subsequent to year-end. 
150 www.africanbarrickgold.com  
 
 
 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 151
Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 
14. Other current liabilities 
(in thousands of United States dollars) 
As at 
31 December 
2012
As at 
31 December 
2011
Trade and other payables 2,882 1,647
Accrued expenses and taxes 1,647 156
Payables to related parties (Note 18) 1,789 2,561
Total 6,318 4,364
15. Financial assets and liabilities 
a) Financial assets 
(in thousands of United States dollars) 
Carrying value
2012
Fair value 
2012 
Carrying value
2011
Fair value
2011
Cash and cash equivalents 36,525 36,525 145,870 145,870
Other receivables 3,444 3,444 663 663
Non-current receivables
1
 772,694 772,694 772,680 772,680
Total financial assets 812,663 812,663 919,213 919,213
Less: Current financial assets  
Cash and cash equivalents (36,525) (36,525) (145,870) (145,870)
Other receivables (3,444) (3,444) (663) (663)
Total non-current portion of receivables 772,694 772,694 772,680 772,680
1 Related party loans are interest-free and have no fixed repayment terms.  
The fair value of financial assets equal their carrying amount as they were repayable on demand.  
b) Financial liabilities 
Revolving credit facility 
On 24 November 2010, the Group concluded negotiations with a syndicate of commercial banks, led by Citibank, for the provision of a revolving 
credit facility in a maximum aggregate amount of US$150 million. The facility has been provided to service the general corporate needs of the 
Group and to fund potential acquisitions. All provisions contained in the credit facility documentation have been negotiated on normal commercial 
and customary terms for such finance arrangements. The term of the facility was extended to 2014 and when drawn the spread over LIBOR will 
be 350 basis points. At 31 December 2012, none of the funds were drawn under the facility. The shares of all significant subsidiaries have been 
pledged as security for the loan. 
16. Financial risk management 
The Company has exposure to the following risks through its commercial and financial operations: 
a) credit risk; and 
b) liquidity risk. 
This note presents information about the Company’s exposure to each of the above risks and the Company’s objectives, policies and processes 
for assessing and managing risk. Further quantitative disclosures are included throughout the financial statements. 
The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the establishment and oversight of the Company’s risk management framework.  
The Company’s risk management policies are established to identify and analyse the risks faced by the Company, to set appropriate risk limits 
and controls, and to monitor risks and adherence to limits. Risk management policies and systems are reviewed regularly to reflect changes in 
market conditions and the Company’s activities. The Company, through its training and management standards and procedures, aims to maintain 
a disciplined and constructive control environment in which all employees understand their roles and obligations. 
a) Credit risk 
Credit risk is the risk that a third party might fail to fulfil its performance obligations under the terms of a financial instrument. For cash and 
cash equivalents and other receivables, credit risk represents the carrying amount on the balance sheet. 
  
Shareholder information Financial statements Overview Performance Governance
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 151 Notes to the company financial statements continued 
 www.africanbarrickgold.com 152 
16. Financial risk management continued 
Credit risk arises from loans to two subsidiaries, receivables, cash and cash equivalents, and deposits with banks. The Company’s financial assets 
are with counterparties whom the Company considers to have an appropriate credit rating. Location of credit risk is determined by physical location 
of the bank branch, customer or counterparty. The maximum allowable term of maturity for any individual security is 12 months. Investment 
counterparties must have a credit rating of at least Baa2 or better by Moody’s Investor Services or BBB by Standard and Poor’s. No more than 
25% of the aggregate market value of the investment portfolio is maintained in any one country, with the exception of the United States of 
America, United Kingdom and Barbados, or in any one industry group. Investments are held mainly in United States dollars and cash and cash 
equivalents in other foreign currencies are maintained for operational requirements. 
Company policies are aimed at minimising losses as a result of a counterparty’s failure to honour its obligations. The Company’s exposure to 
credit risk is influenced mainly by the individual characteristics of each counterparty. The Company’s financial assets are with counterparties 
whom the Company considers to have an appropriate credit rating.  
Maximum exposure to credit risk at each reporting date is the carrying value of each class of financial assets in Note 15. The Company does not 
hold collateral as security for any receivables. The Company does not grade the credit quality of receivables.  
b) Liquidity risk 
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Company will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due. The Company monitors its risk of 
a shortage of funds using projected cash flows and by monitoring the maturity of both its financial assets and liabilities. 
The following table outlines the expected maturity of the Company’s significant financial liabilities into relevant maturity groupings based on 
the remaining period from the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date. As the amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual 
undiscounted cash flows, these balances may not agree with the amounts disclosed in the balance sheet. 
For the period ended 31 December 2012  
(in thousands of United States dollars) Less than 1 year 1 to 3 years 3 to 5 years Over 5 years Total
Other non-current liabilities – 2,230 – – 2,230
Other current liabilities 6,318 –– – 6,318
Total 6,318 2,230 – – 8,548
      
For the period ended 31 December 2011 
(in thousands of United States dollars) Less than 1 year 1 to 3 years 3 to 5 years Over 5 years Total
Other non-current liabilities – 1,197 – – 1,197
Other current liabilities 4,364 – – – 4,364
Total 4,364 1,197 – – 5,561
Management considers that the Company has adequate current assets and forecast cash flow from operations to manage liquidity risks arising 
from settlement of current liabilities and non-current liabilities. 
Capital risk management 
The primary objective of the Company’s capital management is to ensure that it maintains a strong balance sheet and low gearing ratio to 
support its business and provide financial flexibility in order to maximise shareholder value. In order to ensure a strong balance sheet and low 
gearing ratio, management thoroughly evaluates all material projects and potential acquisitions and approves them at its Executive committee 
before submission to the Board for ultimate approval, where applicable.  
  
152 www.africanbarrickgold.com  
 
 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 153
Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Financial Statements Shareholder information 
17. Operating lease arrangements 
(in thousands of United States dollars) 
For the year 
ended 
31 December 
2012
For the year
ended 
31 December 
2011
Minimum lease payments under operating leases recognised in income for the period 276 264
Total 276 264
At the balance sheet date, the Company had outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating 
leases, which fall due as follows: 
(in thousands of United States dollars) 
As at
31 December 
2012
As at
31 December 
2011
Within one year 276 264
In the second to fifth years inclusive 1,106 1,056
After five years 691 1,188
Total 2,073 2,508
18. Related party balances and transactions 
The Company had the following related party balances and transactions during the year ended 31 December 2012. Related parties are those 
entities owned or controlled by Barrick, which is the ultimate controlling party of the Company. 
Transactions with related parties are as follows: 
a) Transactions 
(in thousands of United States dollars) 
For the year 
ended 
31 December 
2012
For the year
ended 
31 December 
2011
Management fees 3,454 1,503
Provision of goods and services  1,005 663
Purchase of goods and services (2,085) (6,224)
Dividends paid (51,822) (20,924)
Total (49,448) (24,982)
Management fees relate to an allocation of cost incurred based on time spent by management for the benefit of the related party, a 5% mark-up 
is applied to these costs. Provision and purchase of goods and services to/from related parties are on normal commercial terms and conditions. 
Provision of services relates to costs incurred by the Company and recharged to related parties with no mark-up. Purchase of goods and services 
relates to costs incurred by related parties and recharged to the Company with no mark-up. Services purchased relate mainly to insurance, 
software licences and professional services. 
b) Balances due from related parties 
(in thousands of United States dollars) 
As at 
31 December 
2012
As at 
31 December 
2011
Due from subsidiaries: 
Bulyanhulu Gold Mine Ltd 363 36
Pangea Minerals Ltd 391 140
North Mara Gold Mine Ltd 260 36
Barrick Africa (Pty) Ltd 772 –
Aviva Mining (Kenya) Ltd 815 –
African Barrick (Barbados) Corp Ltd 33 28
Other 22 14
Total 2,656 254
The receivables from related parties arise mainly from the provision of goods and services. The receivables are unsecured in nature and bear no 
interest. There are no provisions held against receivables from related parties.  
  
Shareholder information Financial statements Overview Performance Governance
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 153 Notes to the company financial statements continued 
 www.africanbarrickgold.com 154 
18. Related party balances and transactions continued 
c) Balances due to related parties 
(in thousands of United States dollars) 
As at 
31 December 
2012
As at 
31 December 
2011
Due to Holding Company: 
Barrick Gold Corporation 1,789 191
Due to fellow subsidiaries: 
Barrick Africa (Pty) Ltd – 2,356
Barrick Gold of North America Inc – 14
Total 1,789 2,561
The payables to Barrick arise mainly from purchase transactions, noted above. The payables are unsecured and bear no interest.  
d) Balances due from related parties (funding in nature) 
(in thousands of United States dollars) 
As at 
31 December 
2012
As at 
31 December
2011
BUK (Subsidiary) 772,694 772,680
Total 772,694 772,680
Related party borrowings relate to amounts due from BUK Holdco Ltd. These amounts are interest free and have no fixed repayment terms but 
are treated as long-term loans as there is no intention to recall the loan within 12 months.  
19. Post balance sheet events 
A final dividend in respect of the year ended 31 December 2012 of US12.3 cents per share has been proposed, which will result in a total dividend of 
US16.3 cents per share for 2012. The final dividend is to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting on 18 April 2013. These financial statements do 
not reflect this dividend payable. 
ABG announced on 8 January 2013 that Barrick had ended discussions with CNG over the potential sale of its 73.9% stake in ABG. As a result, ABG is 
no longer in an offer period under the Takeover Code. Management has initiated a full Operational Review with the aim of recalibrating operations so 
as to drive improved returns from the asset base whilst enhancing the certainty of delivery and initial detail on specific initiatives has been provided 
within these results. 
154 www.africanbarrickgold.com Annual Report and Accounts 2012 155
Financial statements Performance Shareholder information Overview Governance
Glossary of terms
The following definitions and terms are used throughout this report. 
In addition, specific terms and definitions relating to mineral reserves 
and resources can be found on page 88.
ABG or the Company African Barrick Gold plc, a company incorporated under 
the Companies Act 2006 and registered in England and 
W ales with registered number 7123187
ABG Group  
or the Group
the Company and its subsidiary undertakings
AGM annual general meeting
AMKL Aviva Mining (Kenya) Limited
Amortisation and 
other costs per 
ounce sold 
has the meaning given to it on page 158
Articles the articles of association of the Company
Assay a chemical test performed on a sample of  
ores or minerals to determine the amount  
of valuable metals contained
Au gold
Average head grade average ore grade fed into the mill
Average realised gold 
price per ounce sold
has the meaning given to it on page 157
Barrick Barrick Gold Corporation, a company existing under the 
laws of the Province of Ontario, Canada
Barrick Group Barrick and its subsidiary undertakings
Board the board of directors of ABG
Cash cost per  
ounce sold
has the meaning given to it on page 157
Cash cost per  
tonne milled
has the meaning given to it on page 158
China National Gold 
or CNG
means China National Gold Group Corporation
CIL carbon in leach, a method of recovering gold and silver,  
in which a slurry of gold/silver bearing ore, carbon and 
cyanide are mixed together. The cyanide dissolves the 
gold, which is subsequently absorbed by the activated 
carbon whose base is usually ground coconut shells
CIM the Canadian Institute of Mining, Metallurgy  
and Petroleum
Code of Conduct ABG’ s Code of Business Conduct and Ethics
Companies Act 2006 the Companies Act 2006 of England and W ales,  
as amended
Concentrate a fine, powdery product of the milling process containing 
a high percentage of valuable metal
Contained ounces represents total ounces in a mineral reserve before 
reduction to account for ounces not able to be recovered 
by the applicable metallurgical process
Co-product a secondary metal or mineral product recovered in the 
milling process such as copper and silver
CREST the computerised settlement system operated by Euroclear 
UK & Ireland Limited to facilitate the transfer of title to 
shares in uncertificated form
Crushing breaking of ore from the size delivered from the mine into 
smaller and more uniform fragments to be then fed to 
grinding mills or to a leach pad
CSR corporate social responsibility
Cu copper
Cut-off grade the minimum metal grade at which material can 
be economically mined and processed (used in the 
calculation of ore reserves)
Development work carried out for the purpose of opening up a mineral 
deposit. In an underground mine this includes shaft 
sinking, crosscutting, drifting and raising. In an open pit 
mine, development includes the removal of overburden
Directors the directors of ABG for the reporting period, details of 
whom are set out on pages 56 and 57 of this report
Disclosure and 
Transparency Rules
the disclosure and transparency rules made by the FSA 
under Part VI of FSMA
Dollar or US$ or $ United States dollars
Doré doré bullion is an impure alloy of gold and silver and is 
generally the final product of mining and processing; the 
doré bullion will be transported to be refined to high 
purity metal
Drift a horizontal underground opening that follows along the 
length of a vein or rock formation as opposed to a crosscut 
which crosses the rock formation
Drift-and-fill a method of underground mining used for flat-lying 
mineralisation or where ground conditions are 
less competent
Drilling: core drilling with a hollow bit with a diamond cutting rim to 
produce a cylindrical core that is used for geological study 
and assays. Used in mineral exploration
Drilling: in-fill any method of drilling intervals between existing holes, 
used to provide greater geological detail and to help 
establish reserve estimates
Drilling: reverse 
circulation
drilling method that uses a rotating cutting bit within a 
double-walled drill pipe and produces rock chips rather 
than core. Air or water is circulated down to the bit 
between the inner and outer wall of the drill pipe. The 
chips are forced to the surface through the centre of the 
drill pipe and are collected, examined and assayed
EBITDA has the meaning given to it on page 158
EPO Environmental Protection Order
Executive Directors the executive directors of the Company,  
Greg Hawkins and Kevin Jennings
Exploration prospecting, sampling, mapping, diamond drilling and 
other work involved in searching for ore 156 www.africanbarrickgold.com
Financial Services 
Authority or FSA
the Financial Services Authority of the United Kingdom
Flotation a milling process in which valuable mineral particles 
are induced to become attached to bubbles and float as 
others sink
FSMA the UK Financial Services and Markets Act 2000  
(as amended)
Grade the amount of metal in each tonne of ore, expressed as 
troy ounces per tonne or grams per tonne for precious 
metals and as a percentage for most other metals
g/t grams per metric tonne
IAS International Accounting Standards
IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards,  
as adopted for use in the European Union
IPO ABG’ s initial public offering on the Main Market of the 
London Stock Exchange
ISO International Standards Organisation
Koz thousand ounces
KPIs key performance indicators
Kt thousand metric tonnes
LIBOR The British Bankers’ Association Interest Settlement Rate 
for the relevant currency and period displayed on the 
appropriate page of the Reuters’ screen
Listing Rules the rules relating to admission to the Official List made 
in accordance with section 73A(2) of FSMA
London Stock 
Exchange or LSE
London Stock Exchange plc
Majority Shareholder Barrick
MDA a mineral development agreement
MDN MDN Inc., a company existing under the laws of the 
Province of Québec 
Mill a plant in which ore is treated and metals are recovered or 
prepared for smelting; also a revolving drum used for the 
grinding of ores in preparation for treatment
Moz million ounces
Mt million metric tonnes
NAF dump Non Acid Forming waste rock dump
NGOs non-governmental organisations
NI 43-101 Canadian National Instrument 43-101
Non-Executive 
Directors
the Non-Executive Directors of the Company being as at 
year end Derek Pannell, Andre Falzon, Stephen Galbraith, 
David Hodgson, Michael Kenyon, Ambassador 
Mwapachu, Rick McCreary and Kelvin Dushnisky
Offer Period means the period of time during which an offer or a 
possible offer for a company may be made under the UK 
T akeover Code, commencing from the announcement 
of a possible offer and ending on the date of one of the 
following: (i) following the announcement of an offer, an 
acquisition is declared unconditional as to acceptances; 
(ii) an announcement that all offers have been withdrawn 
or have lapsed; or (iii) following certain other 
announcements having been made, such as an 
announcement that no offer will be made or discussions/
negotiations in connection with a potential offer have 
been terminated
Official List the Official List of the Financial  
Services Authority
Open pit a mine where the minerals are mined entirely from  
the surface
Operational cash 
flow per share
has the meaning given to it on page 158
Ordinary Shares Ordinary Shares of 10 pence each in the capital of  
the Company
Ore rock, generally containing metallic or non-metallic 
minerals, which can be mined and processed at a profit
Ore body a sufficiently large amount of ore that can be  
mined economically
Over burden is the material that lies above the area of economic 
interest, such as soil and ancillary material, that is 
removed during surface mining
Oxide ore mineralised rock in which some of the original minerals 
have been oxidised. Oxidation tends to make the ore more 
amenable to cyanide solutions so that minute particles of 
gold will be readily dissolved
Oz troy ounce (31.1035g)
PAF dump Potential Acid Forming waste rock dump
PGI Pangea Goldfields Inc., a Canadian subsidiary of ABG
Pre-IPO 
Reorganisation
the reorganisation of the companies comprising the ABG 
Group into a separate corporate group prior to the IPO
Reclamation the process by which lands disturbed as a result of mining 
activity are modified to support beneficial land use. 
Reclamation activity may include the removal of 
buildings, equipment, machinery and other physical 
remnants of mining, closure of tailings storage facilities, 
leach pads and other mine features, and contouring, 
covering and re-vegetation of waste rock and other 
disturbed areas
Glossary of terms continued Annual Report and Accounts 2012 157
Financial statements Performance Shareholder information Overview Governance
Recovery rate a term used in process metallurgy to indicate the 
proportion of valuable material physically recovered in 
the processing of ore. It is generally stated as a percentage 
of the material recovered compared to the total material 
originally present
Refining the final stage of metal production in which impurities are 
removed from the molten metal
Relationship 
Agreement
the relationship agreement between Barrick and ABG
ROM run-of-mine, a term used loosely to describe ore of 
average grade
Services Agreement the services agreement between Barrick and ABG 
Senior Leadership 
T eam or Senior 
Management
the individuals listed on page 58
Shaft a vertical or inclined excavation in rock for the purpose of 
providing access to an ore body. Usually equipped with a 
hoist at the top, which lowers and raises a conveyance for 
handling workers and materials
Shareholders holders of Ordinary Shares
Spot or  
spot price
the purchase price of a commodity at the current price, 
normally this is at a discount to the long-term contract price
Stripping removal of overburden or waste rock overlying an ore 
body in preparation for mining by open pit methods
T ailings the material that remains after all economically and 
technically recoverable precious metals have been 
removed from the ore during processing
T ailings storage 
facility
a natural or man-made confined area suitable for 
depositing the material that remains after the treatment  
of ore
TANESCO T anzanian Electric Supply Company Limited
TRA T anzanian Revenue Authority
TRIFR total reportable injury frequency rate
Tulawaka Agreement the joint venture agreement dated 15 September 1998 
(as amended from time to time) between PGI and MDN
TZS T anzanian shilling
UK Corporate 
Governance Code
the UK Corporate Governance Code dated June 2010 
issued by the UK Financial Reporting Council 
UK T akeover Code means the City Code on T akeovers and Mergers
United Kingdom or 
UK
the United Kingdom of Great Britain and  
Northern Ireland
United States or US the United States of America, its territories and 
possessions, any state of the United States of America 
and the District of Columbia
VA T value-added tax
VBIAs village benefit implementation agreements
VBAs village benefit agreements
V oluntary Principles means the V oluntary Principles on Security  
and Human Rights
Non-IFRS measures
ABG has identified certain measures in this report that are not measures 
defined under IFRS. Non-IFRS financial measures disclosed by management 
are provided as additional information to investors in order to provide 
them with an alternative method for assessing ABG’s financial condition 
and operating results. These measures are not in accordance with, or 
a substitute for, IFRS, and may be different from or inconsistent with 
non-IFRS financial measures used by other companies. These measures 
are explained further below.
Average realised gold price per ounce sold is a non-IFRS financial 
measure which excludes from gold revenue:
 Unrealised gains and losses on non-hedge derivative contracts;
 Unrealised mark to market gains and losses on provisional pricing 
from copper and gold sales contracts; and
 Export duties.
Cash cost per ounce sold is a non-IFRS financial measure. Cash costs 
include all costs absorbed into inventory, as well as royalties, by-product 
credits and production taxes, and exclude capitalised production stripping 
costs, inventory purchase accounting adjustments, unrealised gains/losses 
from non-hedge currency and commodity contracts, depreciation and 
amortisation and corporate social responsibility. Cash cost is calculated 
net of co-product revenue.
The presentation of these statistics in this manner allows ABG to monitor 
and manage those factors that impact production costs on a monthly basis. 
ABG calculates cash costs based on its equity interest in production from 
its mines. Cash costs per ounce sold are calculated by dividing the 
aggregate of these costs by gold ounces sold. Cash costs and cash cost per 
ounce sold are calculated on a consistent basis for the periods presented.  158 www.africanbarrickgold.com
The table below provides a reconciliation between cost of sales and total 
cash cost to calculate the cash cost per ounce sold.
(US$’000)
Y ear ended 31 December
2012 2011
Total cost of sales 802,709 704,114
Deduct: Depreciation and amortisation (158,883) (134,149)
Deduct: Co-product revenue (48,031) (67,890)
Total cash cost 595,795 502,075
Total ounces sold1 622,932 724,574
Consolidated cash cost per ounce 956 693
Equity ounce adjustment2 (7) (1)
Attributable cash cost per ounce sold 949 692
1 Reflects 100% of ounces sold.
2 Reflects the adjustment for non-controlling interests at Tulawaka.
EBITDA is a non-IFRS financial measure. ABG calculates EBITDA  
as net profit or loss for the period excluding:
 Income tax expense;
 Finance expense;
 Finance income;
 Depreciation and amortisation; and
 Impairment charges of goodwill and other long-lived assets.
EBITDA is intended to provide additional information to investors and 
analysts. It does not have any standardised meaning prescribed by IFRS 
and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for measures 
of performance prepared in accordance with IFRS. EBITDA excludes the 
impact of cash costs of financing activities and taxes, and the effects of 
changes in operating working capital balances, and therefore is not 
necessarily indicative of operating profit or cash flow from operations  
as determined under IFRS. Other companies may calculate EBITDA 
differently. Prior year EBITDA was restated by US$1.4 million to reflect 
the reclassification of back charges from corporate administration charges 
to finance expenses.
A reconciliation between net profit for the period and EBITDA  
is presented below:
(US$’000)
Y ear ended 31 December
2012 2011
Net profit for the period 48,184 284,777
Plus income tax expense 71,063 117,924
Plus depreciation and amortisation 158,883 134,149
Plus impairment charges 44,536 –
Plus finance expense 10,305 10,082
Less finance income (2,102) (1,484)
EBITDA 330,869545,448
EBIT is a non-IFRS financial measure and reflects EBITDA adjusted  
for depreciation and amortisation and goodwill impairment charges.
Adjusted net earnings is a non-IFRS financial measure. It is calculated 
by excluding one-off costs or credits relating to non-routine transactions 
from net profit attributed to owners of the parent. It includes other credit 
and charges that individually or in aggregate, if of a similar type, are of 
a nature or size that requires explanation in order to provide additional 
insight into the underlying business performance.
Adjusted net earnings per share is a non-IFRS financial measure and 
is calculated by dividing adjusted net earnings by the weighted average 
number of Ordinary Shares in issue.
Adjusted net earnings and adjusted earnings per share have been 
calculated by excluding the following:
(US$’000)
Y ear ended 31 December
2012 2011
Net earnings 59,471 274,895
Adjusted for:
Impairment charges 44,536 –
Prior year Bulyanhulu tax positions recognised 8,855 –
CNG related costs 6,676 –
Discounting of indirect taxes 4,185 –
T ax and minority interest impact of the above (18,239) –
Adjusted net earnings 105,484 274,895
Amortisation and other costs per ounce sold is a non-IFRS financial 
measure. Amortisation and other costs include amortisation and 
depreciation expenses and the inventory purchase accounting adjustments 
at ABG’s producing mines. ABG calculates amortisation and other costs 
based on its equity interest in production from its mines. Amortisation 
and other costs per ounce sold is calculated by dividing the aggregate of 
these costs by ounces of gold sold. Amortisation and other cost per ounce 
sold are calculated on a consistent basis for the periods presented.
Cash cost per tonne milled is a non-IFRS financial measure. Cash costs 
include all costs absorbed into inventory, as well as royalties, by-product 
credits and production taxes, and exclude capitalised production stripping 
costs, inventory purchase accounting adjustments, unrealised gains/losses 
from non-hedge currency and commodity contracts, depreciation and 
amortisation and corporate social responsibility charges. Cash cost is 
calculated net of co-product revenue. ABG calculates cash costs based on 
its equity interest in production from its mines. Cash cost per tonne milled 
are calculated by dividing the aggregate of these costs by total tonnes milled.
Cash margin is a non-IFRS financial measure. The cash margin is the 
average realised gold price per ounce less the cash cost per ounce sold.
Operating cash flow per share is a non-IFRS financial measure and is 
calculated by dividing net cash generated by operating activities by the 
weighted average number of Ordinary Shares in issue.
Glossary of terms continued Annual Report and Accounts 2012 159
Financial statements Performance Shareholder information Overview Governance
Mining statistical information
The following describes certain line items used in the ABG Group’s 
discussion of key performance indicators:
 Open pit material mined – measures in tonnes the total amount  
of open pit ore and waste mined.
 Underground ore tonnes hoisted – measures in tonnes the total amount 
of underground ore mined and hoisted.
 Total tonnes mined includes open pit material plus underground  
ore tonnes hoisted.
 Strip ratio – measures the ratio of waste to ore for open pit 
material mined.
 Ore milled – measures in tonnes the amount of ore material processed 
through the mill.
 Head grade – measures the metal content of mined ore going into  
a mill for processing.
 Milled recovery – measures the proportion of valuable metal physically 
recovered in the processing of ore. It is generally stated as a percentage 
of the metal recovered compared to the total metal originally present.
 Total production costs – measures the total cost of production and  
is an aggregate of total cash costs as well as production specific 
depreciation and amortisation.
Basis of preparation for the reporting of tax data
This basis of preparation supports the reporting of tax data contained 
on page 43 of this report. Generally the references to “Tax” in this context 
means any amount of money required to be paid to, or repaid by, 
a government.
In overview, the key information presented as regards Tax is as follows: 
Taxes borne – these are taxes that the ABG Group is obliged to pay to a 
government on its own behalf, or taxes that it is obliged to pay to a third 
party and that can/cannot be recovered from a government. The main 
taxes that we have included in this category are:
Government royalties – these comprise payments made to governments 
in the form of royalties. Typically these tend to become payable, and 
are paid, in the year to which they relate. These taxes form part of our 
operating costs. 
Corporate income tax – this comprises any tax on the business calculated 
on the basis of its profits, income or capital gains. Typically, these taxes 
would be reflected in corporate income tax returns made to governments. 
Customs duties – these comprise all customs/excise/import and export 
duties. Typically, these taxes tend to become payable and are paid to 
governments at the point where goods are imported and exported 
from territories. These taxes form part of our operating and capital 
incurred costs.
Employer payroll taxes – these comprise payroll and employer taxes 
payable as a result of a company’s capacity as an employer. Typically, 
these taxes would be reflected in payroll tax returns made to governments 
and tend to be payable, and are paid, on a regular basis (often monthly) 
throughout the year shortly after the submission of the return. These taxes 
form part of our operating costs. 
Environmental taxes – these comprise levies or other payments  
to governments relating to environmental policy. Typically, these taxes 
tend to be payable on an annual basis. These taxes are also included 
in our operating costs. 
Indirect taxes – these comprise V AT and other fuel levies that arise on 
the purchase of goods and services and are paid to third parties, to be 
refunded by governments. Typically, these taxes would form part of a 
sales tax return made to governments. Refunds received are included  
in the taxes refunded category. 
Stamp duty – this comprises taxes that arise on transfers of assets or 
capital. Typically, these taxes would be reflected in stamp duty returns 
made to governments and tend to become payable, and are paid, 
to governments shortly after capital or assets are transferred. 
Taxes collected – these are taxes that a company is obliged to collect 
from others and pay to government. The main taxes that we have included 
in this category are:
Employee payroll taxes – these comprise payroll and employee taxes 
withheld from employee remuneration and paid to governments,  
i.e. taxes collected by ABG and remitted to governments on behalf of 
employees under arrangements such as PAYE schemes. Typically, these 
taxes would be reflected in payroll tax returns made to governments  
and tend to be payable, and are paid, on a regular basis (often monthly) 
throughout the year, shortly after submission of the return. 
Withholding taxes collected from suppliers – these comprise taxes that 
are required to be withheld in advance on payments made to suppliers. 
Typically, these taxes would be reflected in income tax returns made  
to governments and tend to be payable, and are paid, on a regular  
basis (often monthly) throughout the year shortly after the submission 
of the return. 
Taxes refunded – these are taxes that are refunded by governments  
to ABG. These mostly comprise the following:
Indirect taxes (mainly V AT and fuel levies) – typically, indirect taxes  
would tend to become repayable and are repaid by governments regularly 
(often quarterly) throughout the year, shortly after the submission of 
relevant sales tax returns. Also included are other refunds received. 160 www.africanbarrickgold.com
All enquiries concerning shareholdings including notification of  
change of address or dividend payments should be made to ABG’s 
registrars, Computershare Investor Services PLC, whose contact  
details are as follows:
Computershare Investor Services PLC 
The Pavilions 
Bridgwater Road 
Bristol 
BS99 6ZZ
Helpline number: +44 (0) 870 707 1895
Computershare online enquiry service
Computershare provides a range of services through its online  
portal, Investor Centre, which can be accessed free of charge at  
www.investorcentre.co.uk. This service enables shareholders to check 
details of their shareholdings or dividends, download forms to notify 
changes in personal details and access other relevant information.
Payment of dividends
Details of dividends proposed in relation to the year are contained  
in the Directors’ Report on page 71. Shareholders may elect to receive 
payment of the 2012 final dividend and any future dividend in pounds 
sterling directly to a Bank or Building Society account. Payments of 
amounts in US dollars shall be made by cheque and sent by post to 
shareholders registered addresses on 24 May 2013. Any shareholders 
who elect to receive a dividend in pounds sterling but who do not provide 
a direct credit mandate will receive their dividend by cheque, which will 
be sent to shareholders registered addresses on 24 May 2013.
If you wish to receive the 2012 final dividend and any future dividend  
by direct credit and have not already made a payment election, please 
request a dividend mandate form from the shareholder helpline and return 
it to Computershare at the address above by no later than 7 May 2013. 
Alternatively, direct credit mandate instructions can be updated online at 
www.investorcentre.co.uk.
Currency Election forms can be returned using the pre-paid envelope 
provided with the materials accompanying this report. Elections made 
after 7 May 2013 will be applied to subsequent dividends only.
Should you have any queries relating to the payment of  
dividends, please call Computershare’s shareholder helpline  
on +44 (0) 870 707 1895.
Electronic communications
ABG has obtained shareholders’ consent to send and supply documents 
and information to shareholders in electronic form and via ABG’s website, 
in accordance with provisions contained in ABG’s articles of association.
Increased use of electronic communications will deliver additional savings 
to ABG in terms of administration, printing and postage costs, as well as 
speeding up the provision of information to shareholders. The reduced use 
of paper will also have environmental benefits.
Shareholder security
Shareholders should be cautious of any unsolicited financial advice, 
offers to buy shares at a discount or any other unsolicited advice regarding 
investment matters. More detailed information can be provided at  
www.moneymadeclear.fsa.gov.uk.
Financial calendar
Financial year end 31 December 2012
Preliminary results for 2012 13 February 2013
Annual General Meeting 18 April 2013
Quarterly results Q1 2013 18 April 2013
Payment date for 2012 final dividend 24 May 2013
Half year report 2013 July 2013
Quarterly results Q3 2013 October 2013
Quarterly results Q4 2013 January 2014
Shareholder enquiries This report has a cover printed on Hello Silk and text pages printed 
on Soporset Premium Offset paper. The paper has been independently 
certified according to the rules of the Forest Stewardship Council™ (FSC). 
All pulps used are mix elemental chlorine free (ECF) and totally chlorine 
free (TCF). The inks used are all vegetable oil based.
Printed at Pureprint Group Limited, ISO14001, FSC certified and 
CarbonNeutral®
Consultancy, design and production by Black Sun Plc  
www.blacksunplc.com Contact details
ABG offices
Registered office
African Barrick Gold plc  
6 St James’s Place 
London SW1A 1NP 
United Kingdom
Registered number: 7123187
Business address
5th Floor 
No. 1 Cavendish Place 
London W1G 0QF 
United Kingdom 
Johannesburg office
2nd Floor 
Bedford Square Offices Suite 
Bedford Gardens 
Bedfordview 
2007 
South Africa
Dar Es Salaam office
Plot 1736, Hamza Aziz Road,  
Msasani Peninsula,  
P .O. Box 1081, Dar es Salaam,  
Tanzania
Contacts
ABG Investor Relations
Andrew Wray, Head of Corporate Development 
and Investor Relations  
Phone: +44 (0) 207 129 7150 
E-mail: awray@africanbarrickgold.com
Giles Blackham  
Investor Relations Manager 
Phone: +44 (0) 207 129 7150 
E-mail: gblackham@africanbarrickgold.com
ABG Registrars
Computershare Investor Services PLC  
The Pavilions 
Bridgwater Road 
Bristol BS99 6ZZ 
United Kingdom
ABG Corporate Brokers
J.P . Morgan Securities Ltd.  
25 Bank Street 
Canary Wharf 
London E14 5JP 
United Kingdom
RBC Capital Markets 
Thames Court 
One Queenhithe 
London EC4V 4DE 
United Kingdom
Auditors
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
1 Embankment Place 
London WC2N 6RH 
United Kingdom
Legal Advisers
Shearman & Sterling LLP
Broadgate West 
9 Appold Street 
London EC2A 2AP 
United Kingdom
Additional information
Additional information regarding  
ABG can be found on the website: 
www.africanbarrickgold.com
