 Annual Report & Accounts for the year ended 30 September 2010 TUI Travel PLC
TUI Travel House
Crawley Business Quarter
Fleming Way
Crawley
West Sussex
RH10 9QL
T elephone: 0044 (0)1293 645700
www.tuitravelplc.com
TUI Travel PLC  Annual Report & Accounts for the year ended 30 September 2010
We’re on a journey.  
Focused on delivery.
http://ara2010.tuitravelplc.com Delivered by global3digital
Print managed by urban life support  
www.urbanlifesupport.co.uk
This document is printed on Chorus Silk, a paper containing 
100% virgin fibre sourced from well-managed, sustainable,  
FSC certified forests. Printed by Park Communications on  
FSC
®
 certified paper.
Park is an EMAS certified CarbonNeutral
®
 Company and its 
Environmental Management System is certified to ISO 14001.
100% of the inks used are vegetable oil based, 95% of press 
chemicals are recycled for further use and, on average, 99%  
of any waste associated with this production will be recycled.
Photography supplied by TUI Travel businesses.
 
www.tuitravelplc.com
The investment case
Reasons to invest in TUI Travel PLC (London Stock Exchange ticker code TT.)
Experienced management team
Each of our businesses is led by highly experienced management teams giving us real strength and depth  
of leadership.  Our leaders have demonstrated excellent track records of building strong businesses and 
creating value.
Market-leading brands
We have some of the most recognised and highly trusted brands in the industry, which reduces the  
cost of customer acquisition and means we are highly attractive to our accommodation providers and 
distribution partners.
Market-leading positions
We are either the number one or number two tour operator in almost all of our mainstream source 
markets, including leadership positions in the UK, Germany, France, Belgium and the Netherlands.
Market consolidation
Consolidation in some of our key markets has improved the structure of the industry, helping to remove 
excess supply from the market.  
Economies of scale
We buy over 150 million bednights per year, making us one of the largest distributors of accommodation 
globally.  Our scale gives us a competitive advantage when negotiating with suppliers, allowing us to offer 
excellent value to our customers.
Turnaround potential
In 2009, we identified £142m of turnaround opportunities as we took strategic actions to improve margins 
in a number of underperforming businesses.  After delivering £53m of these in 2010, a further £89m of 
opportunities for margin improvement remains.  
Exposure to higher growth specialist travel
Almost one third of our profits are generated by our portfolio of specialist businesses which enjoy high 
growth and margin characteristics, including specialist tour operators offering unique, experiential travel 
experiences and online accommodation providers.  
Emerging markets
We have established a significant presence in the fast-growing Russian and Ukrainian source markets, 
leaving us well positioned to take advantage of the potential in these markets.  We have an existing 
presence in Brazil, China and India and are investigating the opportunities in these exciting markets. www.tuitravelplc.com
Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 01
Group at a glance
ifc Group at a glance
ifc The investment case
02 TUI Travel overview
04 Our structure
07 Financial highlights 
08 Strategic overview
08 Chairman’s statement
09 Chief Executive’s statement
10 Chief Executive’s interview
12 Market overview
14 Our strategy
18 Key performance indicators
20 Principal risks
24 People
27 Health and safety
28 Sustainable development
32 Business performance
32 Group performance
33 Segmental performance
40 Current trading
42 Governance
42 Board of Directors
44 Directors’ report
47 Statement of Directors’ responsibilities
48 Corporate Governance report
53 Remuneration report
63 Independent Auditors’ report
64  Financial statements
64 Consolidated income statement
65  Consolidated statement of  
comprehensive income 
66  Consolidated balance sheet
67  Consolidated statement of changes in equity
68  Consolidated statement of cash flows
69  Notes to the consolidated financial statements
136  Company balance sheet
137  Notes to the Company’s financial statements
142 Shareholder information
142 Shareholder profiles
142 Contacts and advisers
143 Shareholder discount
144 Index
Contents
TUI Travel PLC is the  
world’s leading leisure  
travel company. 
Find our 2010 Annual  
Report online at  
http://ara2010.tuitravelplc.com
The Annual Report contains forward-looking statements that are subject to  
risk factors associated with, amongst other things, the economic and business 
circumstances occurring from time to time in countries and Sectors in which  
the Group operates.  It is believed that the expectations reflected in these 
statements are reasonable but they may be affected by a wide range of variables 
which could cause actual results to differ from those currently anticipated. www.tuitravelplc.com
02 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010
Group at a glance
TUI Travel overview
Who we are
TUI Travel PLC (TUI Travel PLC group of companies or the Group)  
is the world’s leading leisure travel company operating in over  
180 countries with more than 30 million customers in 27 key  
source markets.  
TUI Travel has over 200 brands which are comprised of market-
leading mainstream brands (reported under Mainstream Sector)  
and specialist travel businesses (reported under Specialist Sectors).  
TUI Travel is focused on providing customers with a wide choice of 
differentiated and flexible travel experiences.  
TUI Travel is headquartered in the UK and employs approximately 
49,000 people.  It is listed in the FTSE 100 and has the ticker code TT.
Making travel 
experiences special
Creating superior shareholder value by
being the leading global leisure travel group
providing customers with a wide choice
of differentiated and flexible travel
experiences to meet their changing needs
Product 
& Content
Distribution
& Brands
People &
Operational
Effectiveness
Growth & 
Capital
Allocation
Customer obsessed Value driven Playing to win Responsible leadership
vision
Go to
page 14
Go to
page 25
strategic goal
strategic
imperatives
values
Our strategy www.tuitravelplc.com
Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 03
Where we operate
TUI Travel is a truly global player operating  
in 27 key source markets.  
Our 27 key source markets:
Australia
Austria
Belgium
Canada
China
Czech Republic
Denmark
Finland
France
Germany
Hungary
India
Ireland
Italy
Luxembourg
Netherlands
New Zealand
Norway
Poland
Russia
Slovenia
Spain
Sweden 
Switzerland
Ukraine
United Kingdom
United States
Our key brands
TUI Travel operates under more than 200 brands.  A selection of our well-known  
brands includes:
TUI operates in the German source 
market and is the market-leading tour 
operator brand.
www.tui.com 
 
 
Thomson is a leading UK tour operator 
which also offers flights and 
accommodation.
www.thomson.co.uk 
 
Fritidsresor is a tour operator and  
retail business in the Swedish source 
market offering package tours to the 
Mediterranean and destinations 
worldwide.
www.fritidsresor.se
Marmara is the leading tour operator 
in France that provides exclusive 
package holidays to Mediterranean 
destinations.  
www.marmara.com 
 
The Moorings is the world’s premier 
yacht charter company and offers hire  
of its custom-designed yachts in North 
America, UK, France and Germany.
www.moorings.com 
Quark Expeditions is the world’s 
leading operator of expedition cruise 
voyages to the Polar Regions.
www.quarkexpeditions.com
LateRooms is the UK’s leading online 
accommodation site offering late 
availability deals in over 44,000 
properties worldwide.
www.laterooms.com 
 
Hotelbeds is a leading business-to-
business provider of destination 
services and accommodation online  
to wholesalers, travel operators and 
travel organisers.
www.hotelbeds.com
Hayes & Jarvis operates in the UK 
source market and creates specialist 
holiday itineraries for discerning 
travellers to 55 destinations worldwide.  
www.hayesandjarvis.co.uk 
 
Mostravel is one of TUI Russia’s  
tour operating and retail businesses.   
It specialises in the destinations of 
Turkey and Egypt. 
www.mostravel.com www.tuitravelplc.com
04 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010
Mainstream is the largest Sector in terms of size, financial performance and employee numbers.  It 
comprises leading tour operators and ‘power’ brands and operates a fleet of 143 aircraft and circa 3,500 
retail shops.  There are three divisions: 
Group at a glance
Our structure
In the financial year ended 30 September 2010 TUI Travel was organised and managed through four 
Sectors – Mainstream, Activity, Specialist & Emerging Markets and Accommodation & Destinations.  
Mainstream Sector
For further information  
see page 33
Key activities
Northern Region
The Northern Region comprises the distribution, 
tour operating businesses and airlines in the UK 
and Ireland, the Nordic countries and Canada.   
The UK operates some of the best known and 
loved travel brands including the UK’s third largest 
airline, Thomson Airways.  The Nordics comprises 
the markets of Sweden, Norway, Denmark and 
Finland.  The Nordics has number one brands in all 
markets, except Finland where it is number two.  
Top selling brands*
Thomson, First Choice 
and Fritidsresor
Customer numbers
6.6m (excluding Canada)
Top three destinations*
Balearics, Greece and Turkey
Central Europe
Central Europe comprises the distribution, tour 
operating businesses and airline in the source 
markets of Germany, Austria, Switzerland and 
Poland.  Germany is our largest source market*.   
In Germany and Austria, TUI is the market-leading 
brand.  The businesses are focused on providing a 
unique service and great products at the best value 
to our customers.  
Top selling brands*
TUI, 1-2-Fly and l’tur
Customer numbers
7.9m
Top three destinations*
Spain, Germany and Turkey
Western Europe
Western Europe comprises the distribution, tour 
operating businesses and airlines in France, 
Belgium and the Netherlands.  In each country the 
brands have market-leading positions.  
Top selling brands*
Jetair, Holland International  
and Marmara
Customer numbers
5.1m
Top three destinations*
Spain, Greece and Turkey
*By customer numbers. www.tuitravelplc.com
Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 05
Key activities
Specialist & 
Emerging Markets 
Sector
For further information  
see page 39
The Specialist & Emerging Markets Sector is  
an international portfolio of travel businesses 
focusing on specific destinations, premium travel 
experiences or particular customer demographic 
segments often with differentiated and exclusive 
product.  The Sector consists of 40 businesses 
operating from North America, Europe and, most 
recently, emerging markets such as Russia and 
Ukraine.  
Top selling brands*
Mostravel, Turchese and  
Hayes & Jarvis
Customer numbers
0.8m  
(excluding Russia & Ukraine)
Top three destinations*
US, Egypt and Italy
Accommodation & 
Destinations Sector
For further information  
see page 37
The Accommodation & Destinations Sector (A&D) 
sells and provides a range of services in destination 
to tour operators, travel agents, corporate clients, 
and direct to the consumer worldwide.  Services 
include hotel accommodation, transfers, excursions, 
round trips, organising meetings, incentives, 
conferences and events (MICE), cruise handling  
as well as integrated website solutions for our 
customers.  A&D is structured along key business 
lines – Business to Business, Business to Consumer 
and Specialist.
Top selling brands*
World of TUI (umbrella brand for 
Group customers) including TUI España 
and TUI Hellas.  Hotelbeds.com and 
LateRooms.com
Customer numbers/roomnights
29m (offline passengers 12.5m, room 
nights 16.8m)
Top three destinations*
Spain, UK and Portugal
*By customer numbers.
68%
13%
4%
15% Mainstream Sector
Activity Sector
Specialist & Emerging Markets Sector
Accommodation & Destinations Sector
The chart below illustrates the underlying operating profit mix** by Sector
**Before central costs.
The Specialist Sectors for the year ended 30 September 2010 included Accommodation & Destinations, 
Activity and Specialist & Emerging Markets.
Specialist Sectors
This Sector has over 40 activity travel businesses 
that operate under five divisions – Marine, 
Adventure, Ski, Student and Sport.  Each of  
these divisions has market-leading positions.   
The Adventure businesses take more customers  
to iconic adventure destinations than any other 
operator.  The Sport businesses are leaders in 
supporter-led cricket and rugby tours in the UK 
and Australia, while the Student businesses 
encompass everything from the traditional school 
trip to France, to trek holidays for groups of young 
adults in the Himalayas.  This Sector also includes 
the leading yacht brands in Europe and the US and 
the world’s largest ski operator.  
Top selling brands*
Crystal Ski, The Moorings and Le Boat
Customer numbers
1.1m
Top three destinations*
France, Austria and Italy
Activity Sector
For further information  
see page 38 www.tuitravelplc.com
06 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010
Key activities
Accommodation & Destinations
The A&D Sector is a leading player in the 
accommodation and destination services industry, 
competing in four key business lines:
Accommodation wholesaler – worldwide online 
hotel intermediary offering over 34,000 hotels, via 
the brands Hotelbeds, Bedsonline and Hotelopia.
Accommodation online travel agent – providing 
hotel rooms to the final customer through popular 
online brands LateRooms and AsiaRooms.
Destination services – providing services to 
customers when they arrive in-destination such as 
airport transfers, excursions or tour trips.  These 
services are provided in 42 countries both to leisure 
travellers and to corporations.  The brands include 
TUI España, TUI Hellas and Pacific World.
Cruise handling – offering turnaround services, 
excursions and port agency services to the main 
cruise lines on a global scale through the 
Intercruises brand.  
Top selling brands*
World of TUI (umbrella brand for 
Group customers) including TUI España 
and TUI Hellas.  Hotelbeds.com and 
LateRooms.com
Customer numbers/roomnights
29m (offline passengers 12.5m, room 
nights 16.8m) 
Top three destinations*
Spain, UK and United States of 
America
Specialist & Activity
This Sector is the world’s leading provider of 
specialist and experiential travel.  It has over 100 
specialist and activity brands delivering a range of 
unique customer experiences with the ethos of  
‘if you can dream it, we can take you there.’  The 
Sector operates under six divisions – Adventure, 
Education, Marine, North American Specialist, 
Sport and Specialist Holiday Group.
Top selling brands*
Crystal, The Moorings and  
Hayes & Jarvis
Customer numbers
1.6m
Top three destinations*
France, Austria and Italy
Emerging Markets
Emerging Markets is a Sector in development  
at TUI Travel.  It is a growing portfolio of travel 
businesses focusing on the specific source  
markets of Brazil, Russia and CIS, India and China.  
TUI Travel is the first international tour operator  
to build a presence in Russia and CIS.  The TUI 
Russia & CIS brand was launched in March 2010.  
TUI Travel continues to investigate its optimal 
participation strategy for Brazil, India and China.
Russia & CIS division: 
Top selling brands*
Mostravel, VKO Travel and Voyage Kiev
Customer numbers
0.5m
Top three destinations*
Turkey, Egypt and Greece
Group at a glance
Our structure (from 1 October 2010)
TUI Travel PLC will continue to report in four Sectors.  The Mainstream Sector remains unchanged.   
The remaining Sectors have been refined and renamed to reflect the strategic priorities of TUI Travel 
as it develops.  These Sectors are now called Accommodation & Destinations, Specialist & Activity 
and Emerging Markets.  
*By customer numbers. www.tuitravelplc.com
Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 07
Revenue
10  £13,525m
 -2%
09 restated £13,851m
Underlying operating profit
10  £447m
 +11%
09 restated  £401m
Underlying profit before tax
10  £337m
 +4% 
09 restated £324m
Underlying earnings per share
10 22.0p
 +10% 
09 restated  20.0p
Dividend per share
10 11.0p
 +3% 
09  10.7p
Underlying operating profit and underlying profit before tax are from continuing operations and exclude 
separately disclosed items, amortisation of acquisition related expenses, goodwill impairment and interest and 
taxation on the Group’s share of the results of joint ventures and associates.  Underlying profit before tax also 
excludes separately disclosed financial expenses.  Underlying earnings per share excludes the same items, net 
of related taxation.
The references to the financial results contained in pages 2 to 63 are unaudited pro forma results for the 
year, reported before the estimated financial impact of the closures of European airspace as a result of 
volcanic ash.  See Note 1(B)(iii) on page 71 for basis of preparation of the pro forma financial information.
Group at a glance
Financial highlights www.tuitravelplc.com
During the year we increased progress on the 
delivery of our synergy target of £200m and 
delivered £75m of incremental benefit in the full 
year.  This has given us a total delivered benefit  
of £195m since the merger in September 2007.  
Progress on turning around some of our 
underperforming businesses in Mainstream is 
taking longer than originally anticipated but we 
remain confident that the drivers we have in place 
will deliver the targeted outcome.  Overall growth 
in our Specialist Sectors remains strong and our 
joint venture in Russia and Ukraine has performed 
in line with our expectations.
Results
The Group has achieved an 11% increase in 
underlying operating profit of £447m (2009 restated: 
£401m) on revenue of £13,525m (2009 restated: 
£13,851m).  Underlying profit before tax is up 4% to 
£337m (2009 restated: £324m).  Underlying earnings 
per share increased 10% to 22.0p (2009 restated: 
20.0p).  The Group statutory loss before taxation 
was £36m (2009 restated: £94m).
Dividends
The Board is recommending a final dividend  
of 7.8p per share.  On 11 May 2010, the Board 
recommended an interim dividend of 3.2p per 
share, thereby resulting in a full year dividend of 
11.0p per share (2009: 10.7p).  The Group has a 
progressive dividend policy and will look to maintain 
underlying dividend cover at just over two times.
Board
Post year end, on 21 October 2010, the Group 
announced that Paul Bowtell, Chief Financial 
Officer will leave the Board on 31 December 2010.  
08 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010
Strategic overview
Chairman’s statement
We have delivered results in line with our expectations after experiencing another year of challenges.  
Not least, the closure of much of Northern Europe’s airspace in April when the Icelandic volcano, 
located below the Eyjafjallajoekull Glacier, erupted and created an enormous ash cloud in the 
atmosphere.  This closure cost our Group £104m and affected some 400,000 of our customers.   
At a macro level, economic uncertainty and concern about how Governments are seeking to tackle 
deficits were also factors that we faced during the year.  
On 30 November 2010, the appointment of Will 
Waggott as Chief Financial Officer of the Group 
was announced with immediate effect.  Will is 
already a TUI Travel PLC Board member and was 
the Group’s Commercial Director.  
Sustainable development
For TUI Travel, sustainability is an important 
business issue and opportunity.  Our vision for 
sustainable development is to ‘make travel 
experiences special’ whilst minimising our 
environmental impact, respecting the culture  
and people in our destinations and offering real 
economic benefit to local communities.  As a 
leading tour operator, our challenge is to prepare 
for a low-carbon society by further reducing our 
environmental impacts and as a business we are 
monitoring and preparing for regulatory proposals 
on climate change that could have a fiscal impact 
on our Group.
Colleagues
As a Group we have circa 49,000 colleagues located 
across the world.  Their hard work and dedication  
is much appreciated and, this year, our value of 
‘customer obsessed’ was well and truly 
demonstrated by their actions throughout the 
closure of airspace in April.  We received many 
communications from our customers about their 
outstanding efforts and, on behalf of the Board,  
I would like to thank them for their valued 
contribution to making our customers’ holiday 
experiences special.
Dr Michael Frenzel
Non-Executive Chairman Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
www.tuitravelplc.com
TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 09
new structure of the Group (see page 6) and 
succession planning.
We operate in a highly regulated industry and 
dialogue at both a national Government and 
European Commission level is an important aspect 
of our daily lives both at TUI Travel and as 
members of various industry and trade bodies.   
We believe that it is important that there is a level 
playing field across leisure travel companies, airlines 
and intermediaries and we work to ensure that our 
views are heard and understood not only in our 
source markets but also in the destinations we 
operate in.  For more information see page 12.
This year we have made progress on delivering our 
strategic imperatives, albeit not as great as we would 
have wished.  We know what we need to do to 
deliver long-term sustainable growth and have 
identified the levers with which to do that (see 
strategic imperatives page 14).  Trading in the new 
financial year has started well but we believe that, 
given that it is so early in the year and economic 
uncertainty remains, it is prudent to be cautious 
about our outlook.
In a year when our 49,000 colleagues have dealt with 
so many external and internal challenges, I would like 
to thank them personally for all their efforts.  We 
have an outstanding team that delivers day-in day-
out and I am extremely proud of what they achieve 
and of all the businesses that make up TUI Travel.  
Peter Long
Chief Executive
As the world’s leading leisure travel company, this 
financial year we have faced headwinds both within 
and outside of our control including volcanic ash, 
economic uncertainty (see page 10) and one 
instance of our own making.  
We identified that, over a number of years, within 
TUI UK & Ireland, there was a failure to reconcile 
balances adequately in legacy systems in the retail 
and tour operator businesses.  This has resulted  
in us having to write off £117m of irrecoverable 
balances.  We are, therefore, restating our 2009  
full year results with a reduction of underlying 
operating profit of £42m to £401m and a reduction 
in the underlying earnings per share of 3.8p from 
23.8p to 20.0p.  We have also reduced our opening 
reserves at 1 October 2008 by £70m from £2,596m 
to £2,526m.  A full and detailed audit and business 
review has been undertaken and we are confident 
that we have now rectified the weaknesses.
Having experienced some exceptional external 
challenges, the Summer season traded out strongly 
across the Group.  It was, however, not sufficient to 
recover the increased losses and costs from earlier in 
the year.  We have experienced a later booking curve 
due, in principle, to the economic uncertainties that 
our customers have continued to face.  This is one of 
the reasons why it is so important that we relentlessly 
focus on our strategic imperatives to ensure that we 
are able to deliver on our strategic goal.  
As part of the focus during the year we made a 
number of changes to our Group Management 
Board (see page 24).  These changes reflect the 
View the CEO’s interview online
Watch the CEO’s interview online at  
http://ara2010.tuitravelplc.com
Strategic overview
Chief Executive’s statement 
Following the success last year of launching our Annual Report & Accounts fully online we are doing 
the same this year with improvements to the functionality of the website and to the content.  
Reducing our environmental impact is important to us and the fact that more than 70% of our 
shareholders elect to receive the Annual Report & Accounts online proves that it is important for  
our stakeholders as well. www.tuitravelplc.com
10 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010
This year has been a difficult one for TUI 
Travel.  Could you sum it up for us?
We started the year off well in terms of trading 
despite the fact that there was some bad weather 
in January which disrupted our programme.   
That was nothing compared to what we then had 
to deal with during April when we had the closure 
of airspace and all of our 143 aeroplanes were 
grounded for over a week.  Circa 400,000 guests 
were affected either by cancellations or having  
to be repatriated from their holidays.  This was  
a huge level of disruption but I think what we 
demonstrated as an organisation was our absolute 
professionalism to repatriate all our customers 
whilst causing them the minimum amount of 
disruption.  Our customers were extremely grateful 
and had high regard for the professionalism of our 
staff within our Company.
After the General Election we had further closure 
of airspace and that really did start to spook our 
customers because they were unsure as to whether 
they could be stranded when they were on holiday.  
This clearly had a negative effect and a number  
of our customers took the decision to delay their 
bookings and that had a very adverse impact on 
our business.  
I think we then went on to have the perfect  
storm because of ash, the General Election, the 
emergency budget and the World Cup – all these 
elements caused disruption in terms of our 
customers’ normal booking patterns.  After the 
World Cup we saw a resumption in terms of 
demand and, as we went through the high season, 
we had very strong sales which I think confirmed 
the importance customers place on their main 
summer holiday and that it’s a must-have, but 
when they book depends on the circumstances 
prevailing at the time.  We were unable to recover 
the impact of this perfect storm during the months 
of May, June and particularly in early July.  
As we went through our audit process we also 
uncovered some control issues within the Group in 
our UK business.  We found that our tour operating 
and retail systems were not being properly 
reconciled and that there was an overstatement of 
revenue.  This has now been fully investigated and 
controls have been put in place to ensure that this 
will not reoccur again.  We have also undertaken a 
full review of financial controls across the Group 
and I am satisfied that this event has not occurred 
in any other part of our business.
We continue to see smaller tour operators and 
airlines across Europe going out of business.  
What does that say about the quality of the 
tour operating industry?
I think firstly it says that there has been weakness 
of demand and the smaller companies suffer more.  
Invariably the smaller companies that have failed 
have not had appropriate capital structures and,  
as a consequence, I think we will now be a major 
beneficiary as customers migrate away from the 
smaller companies to those larger international 
organisations which are well financed, have been 
trading for decades and have very strong 
reputations.  I believe, therefore, that we can 
capitalise on this and there is an important 
message that we give to our customers – when you 
book with us you have peace of mind.  We have the 
experience, we have the depth of management, the 
choice of holidays and most importantly, we have 
the financial strength to ensure that we will deliver 
you a great holiday.
You launched TUI Russia & CIS this year.   
How is that area of the business performing?
We’re very excited by the opportunity within 
Russia.  There is a huge emerging middle class who 
like to travel and they like to go to sun and beach 
destinations.  Obviously being geographically 
located in the Northern hemisphere where the 
weather, particularly in the Winter, is severe, it plays 
very much to our strengths in terms of selling and 
delivering sun and beach holidays to large volumes 
of customers in a very efficient way.  We have 
partnered with a Russian partner – we think this is 
very important as we get to know and understand 
the different culture that we operate in and we’re 
very happy in terms of the partnership that we have.  
We launched the TUI brand, bringing TUI as a 
consumer brand to Russia in March and that has 
been very well received within the Russian market.  
So we are excited by the opportunities but we are 
also realists and know that this is a market that is 
going to have very strong growth characteristics 
but it will be some time before we see the 
profitability that we enjoy within the European 
markets.  Our investment to date has been modest 
so the risk profile is right but we’re there, we have 
the platform and the Russian market could grow to 
be one of our biggest markets within our Group.
Strategic overview | Chief Executive’s interview
An interview with  
Chief Executive, Peter Long Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
www.tuitravelplc.com
TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 11
and First Choice, and that is where the bulk of the 
synergies have come from.  In terms of growth 
opportunities, there are a number of areas, firstly 
continuing to improve the underperforming 
businesses such as Corsair.  I am delighted that  
we have now agreed a new social plan with all our 
colleagues at Corsair to create a viable business 
going forward and we will implement that 
restructuring over the next 24 months.
We are also looking at further improvements within 
our German and UK businesses, particularly in the 
area of new systems which will improve the 
efficiency of our business.  The other key aspect  
of our business is having more unique holiday 
experiences, those differentiated holidays.  We will 
continue to introduce more concept hotels that will 
enable us to increase the number of customers 
going on holiday with us within our mainstream 
businesses.  Equally, we also have good growth 
opportunities across all our specialist businesses 
where there is now a growing demand for different 
types of holidays, the non-sun and beach.  That 
might be a sailing holiday, a walking holiday or a 
Polar expedition cruise.  Customers are looking to 
do different things and we have this very broad 
portfolio of unique specialist holidays within  
the Group.
One of your values is responsible leadership.  
How do you put this into practice in the Group?
We’re very focused on sustainable tourism and 
we’re looking constantly at ways of reducing the 
level of carbon emissions as we transport and take 
our customers on holiday.  One way we do this is 
by having one of the most modern aircraft fleets  
in the world.  We continue to invest in new aircraft 
types and we’re very excited about the delivery of 
our new 787 Dreamliners which come into the fleet 
in 2012.  They burn 20% less fuel than the 767 fleet 
we currently operate.
A very important part of our organisation, 
absolutely key, is our leadership and the senior 
management team that run and operate our 
businesses and motivate and manage our 
colleagues.  We continually also look to develop 
talent within the organisation because one of the 
critical success factors within our business is 
ensuring we have the right management in the right 
place to continue to build and grow our businesses.
Peter Long
Chief Executive
You have changed the structure of the Group 
(from 1 October 2010).  Why have you  
done that?
We’ve modified the structure.  We’ve got our three 
regional geographies for our mainstream business 
– no change at all.  I’ve taken the Specialist and 
Activity Sectors and merged them into one.   
The other part of the specialist business was 
Emerging Markets and that is now a Sector in  
its own right because we want to be focusing on 
the opportunities in Russia which I have already 
alluded to but we’re also looking at the other  
BRIC economies of India, China and Brazil.   
Our Accommodation & Destinations Sector 
remains unchanged.
Are you worried about the low-cost carriers 
becoming tour operators and how will you 
counter the threat of the online travel  
agents (OTAs)?
We continue to look at all our competition.  One of 
the greatest strengths that we have as an 
organisation is the fact a large proportion of the 
holidays we offer are unique experiences that our 
customers can only book with us and that gives us 
a platform to set us aside from the rest of our 
competitors.  With regard to the low-cost carriers, 
one of the areas implemented during Summer 2010 
was a greater choice for our customers in terms of 
the duration of holidays.  We’ve introduced 10 and 
11 nights on top of our existing seven and 14-night 
offerings.  They have proved to be very popular 
and we will continue to offer further different 
duration lengths in order to give our customers  
the greatest choice of holiday experiences.
With regard to online travel agents, I think we 
compete in two different ways within our 
mainstream businesses and, taking the UK as an 
example, 40% of our bookings are transacted 
online.  We are also in the online travel agent space 
in the specialist area which is accommodation only 
and we have two very important businesses within 
the Group which are LateRooms and AsiaRooms 
and these businesses are extremely successful and 
growing very rapidly.
You have all but delivered the synergies 
identified at the time of merger.  How are you 
going to grow the business going forward?
I am very pleased with the success of the 
integration of our two UK businesses, Thomson 
View the CEO’s interview online
Watch the CEO’s interview online at  
http://ara2010.tuitravelplc.com www.tuitravelplc.com
12 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010
TUI Travel participates 
in markets which 
account for £343bn of 
global travel spend
page 10).  Other significant events in destinations 
that impacted tourism included the civil unrest in 
Bangkok and the strikes and unrest in Greece.  
Despite a period of economic decline and industry 
turmoil, the overall travel market is expected to 
continue to grow.  UNWTO projects long-term 
growth for international tourism with international 
arrivals expected to reach 1.6 billion in 2020, nearly 
double 2010 figures (880 million 2010).
The package holiday remains an important part of 
the future of leisure travel but, as the traditional 
mainstream markets mature, we are continuing to 
offer greater choice of destinations, unique and 
differentiated products and look to new markets  
for growth.  We believe the BRIC (Brazil, Russia, 
India and China) countries represent a significant 
opportunity to participate in longer-term travel 
growth trends and have high growth potential.  
The fastest growing area of leisure travel continues 
to be independent travel (3% CAGR Euromonitor) 
which includes self-packaged holidays/component-
based packages, activity holidays and online travel 
agents.  The global online travel market is estimated 
to be worth £52bn (PhoCusWright) with online sales 
of travel retail products representing 34% of total 
travel sales in 2009 (Euromonitor).  
The political climate
Travel and tourism are heavily regulated industries.  
As a global organisation, TUI Travel has a public 
affairs team that works with governments and 
regulators across our key source markets to address 
issues that affect our industry and our customers.
The issue of air passenger rights has assumed 
particular importance, the European institutions 
having focused heavily on this issue during the year.  
Our public affairs team has engaged regularly with 
politicians and officials both in Brussels and in key 
source markets in order to ensure regulation that 
properly balances the needs and interests of 
customers and industry.
The economic environment
Following the international economic and financial 
crisis in 2008, the global recession impacted 
negatively on almost all major markets in 2009.  The 
GDP of our two largest source markets, Germany 
and UK, declined by 6% and almost 5% respectively 
(Euromonitor 2009).  The economic uncertainty 
continued into 2010 with concerns that there would 
be a double-dip recession and ongoing volatility in 
fuel prices and currency.
Despite this, as 2010 progressed there has been 
recovery.  GDP growth has taken place in most major 
source markets with Germany at 2.2% and the UK  
at 1.6% (June 2010 Trading Economics Statistics).  
However the levels of growth have not been enough 
to offset the global recessionary environment of 
2008 and 2009.  Unemployment has continued to 
rise with German and UK rates at 7.6% and 7.8% 
respectively (Trading Economics Statistics).  The 
economic outlook for 2011 remains uncertain with 
different markets at different points in the  
recovery cycle.
The leisure travel market
Travel and tourism remains the world’s largest 
export industry with the leisure travel market 
estimated to be worth £740bn (Euromonitor).  TUI 
Travel participates in markets which account for 
£343bn or 46% of global travel spend.  Our three 
largest markets combined (Germany, France and 
UK) contribute 70% of the £343bn.  
After 14 months of decline, which saw further tour 
operator and airline failures, growth returned to 
international tourism in the last quarter of 2009  
with an increase in international tourist arrivals of 
2% (United Nations World Tourism Organisation 
(UNWTO)).  This recovery continued into the early 
part of 2010 but the industry faced a significant 
setback in April/May 2010 with the closure of 
European airspace due to the volcanic ash cloud.  
This unprecedented event had a significant financial 
impact on both the industry and TUI Travel (see 
Strategic overview
Market overview
£317bn
£26bn
Our three largest markets
France
UK
Germany
£80bn
£57bn
£102bn
= TUI Relevant core Markets*
*UK, Sweden, Germany,
France, Belgium, Netherlands,
Austria, Poland, Switzerland
& Canada
(Euromonitor) Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
www.tuitravelplc.com
TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 13
All-inclusive packages and cruising proved 
particularly popular as consumers sought financial 
certainty of their total holiday spend.  
The destinations of Morocco, Egypt and Turkey 
continued to grow strongly in popularity due to 
favourable currency rates.  Departures to the 
Eurozone decreased but these destinations still 
attracted the largest percentage of mainstream 
package holidaymakers.  Long-haul destinations, 
including Thailand and Goa, remained popular  
and particularly those destinations offering all-
inclusive products.
With high internet penetration rates (UK, Nordics 
and Germany at 75%) consumers increasingly turned 
online to research and book their holiday.  Social 
media and customer travel review sites gained in 
popularity and prominence and are a key influencer 
on the consumer’s decision making process.
Despite the tough conditions, there is evidence that 
consumers are feeling more positive about their 
holiday plans for next year and demand for holidays 
remains healthy.  Increased flexibility in duration and 
ease of booking for consumers remain key factors  
in the holiday-making decision process.  Recent 
consumer research, commissioned by TUI Travel 
across its major source markets, shows planned 
holiday spending has either slightly increased or 
remained stable compared to consumer sentiment in 
September 2009 (TUI consumer sentiment monitor 
October 2010).  
Outlook, future trends and factors
TUI Travel has continued to prove resilient in  
these challenging times and maintains its market-
leading position.  TUI Travel has a 35% share of  
the European package holiday market and  
number one or two brand positions in its core 
mainstream markets.  
In the BRIC economies, TUI Travel’s participation 
strategy is most developed in Russia and Ukraine 
where it is the first international tour operator  
to build a presence.  TUI Travel continues to 
investigate its optimal participation strategy for 
Brazil, India and China.
In independent travel, TUI Travel has significant 
positions in a number of segments including online 
accommodation, marine, adventure, education, 
language travel, ski, sport and specialist holidays  
and plans to continue to grow this portfolio of 
businesses.  TUI Travel has a strong online presence 
for package holidays, independent travel and online 
accommodation sites and continues to review 
growth opportunities in the online arena.
Given the continued economic uncertainty we 
remain cautious about 2011.  That said, there is 
every reason to believe that the demand for 
international travel will continue to grow strongly  
in the long term.
The question of aviation taxation has also figured 
prominently in a number of jurisdictions and we 
have, together with trade associations and other 
industry partners, sought to press our case for  
a more equitable taxation regime that properly 
rewards and incentivises efficient use of aircraft.
Financial protection of air passengers continues to 
be an issue, particularly in the UK, and we have 
continued to lobby stakeholders to ensure a fair  
and affordable system of protection.
Finally, our work to influence the European 
Commission to extend the scope of the European 
Package Travel Directive in order to reflect the 
changes in the industry, since the inception of  
that regulation, has continued to gather pace.
The sustainability challenge
Travel and tourism accounts for 11% of the world’s 
GDP and 12% of its exports.
1
  Around 50 of the 
world’s least developed countries rely largely on 
tourism for economic development.  However,  
travel and tourism are responsible for around 5%  
of global carbon dioxide emissions
2
 and increasingly 
national and international carbon legislation is 
coming into force.
As a leading tour operator TUI Travel aspires to  
lead the travel and tourism sector and to lobby for 
sustainability to be embraced as a business issue on 
which the future health of the industry depends.   
As a tourism group we take our responsibilities very 
seriously and are working to ensure that sustainable 
development aligns with the Group’s key strategic 
imperatives.  Our challenge is to understand how  
our industry can optimise its social, economic and 
environmental benefits for all concerned.  TUI 
Travel’s goal in this respect is to make travel 
experiences special by providing holidays that cause 
minimal environmental impact, respect the culture 
and people of destinations and offer real economic 
benefit to local communities.  See Sustainable 
Development on page 28.
Consumer sentiment
The global recession and uncertain economic 
environment have had an effect on consumer travel 
spending habits in 2009/10, however, for most 
consumers holidays continue to be of considerable 
importance and a planned annual expense.  
Consumers are more discerning in their choice of 
holidays, looking for a greater variety of products 
and destinations, flexibility of duration and value for 
money.  Consumers prioritised their main summer 
holiday abroad and waited much later to book their 
trips to assess both the weather at home and their 
personal finances.  
The package holiday saw a resurgence, as consumers 
sought to de-risk their holidays and book with  
a company that provided financial protection.   
1
 United Nations World Tourism 
Organisation (UNWTO) Tourism Satellite 
Accounts (TSA).
2
 United Nations World Tourism 
Organisation (UNWTO), United Nations 
Environment Programme (UNEP) and 
World Meteorological Organization 
(WMO) (October 2007) Climate Change 
and Tourism: Responding to Global 
Challenges.  Madrid. www.tuitravelplc.com
14 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010
Summary
• Different products to our competitors 
and unique in the marketplace
• High customer retention and repeat 
booking rates
• Earlier booking trends
• Product innovation 
• Growth in the online accommodation 
market 
Differentiated content continues to be a central 
pillar of our product and content strategy.  We are 
developing a portfolio of exclusive products that  
no competitor can easily match or replicate and 
which is tailored to include additional services  
and facilities that customers want on their holiday.  
Every one of our businesses offer products that 
are tailored to meet the holiday needs and tastes 
of its customers.  
In the Mainstream Sector, the level of differentiated 
product has again increased over the last year and 
currently represents 38% of total holidays.  We 
have specific targets in each Sector to continue  
to increase this level of differentiation and are 
constantly reviewing and evolving product content.  
This year we have expanded our offering of 
Mainstream differentiated products.  In the UK, 
Sensatori Tenerife was opened following the 
successful introduction of this five-star concept in 
Crete and Mexico over the last two years and the 
First Choice Holiday Villages’ portfolio was also 
expanded by two further Holiday Villages.  In the 
Nordics three new family-focused Blue Villages 
were opened.  In Germany we continue to 
experience strong demand for our new hotel brand 
Sensimar, a five-star spa concept for couples and 
Robinson clubs for families.  In France, product 
differentiation continues with the launch of new 
Marmara Clubs in new destinations (e.g. Sardinia) 
and the roll-out of the new generation of Nouvelles 
Frontières hotel clubs.  
The portfolio of differentiated content not  
only increases our competitive advantage by 
distinguishing us from the competition, it also 
drives higher margins, underpinning our plans  
to improve underlying operating margins.  
Differentiated products have an earlier booking 
profile which increases yields and removes pressure 
in the lates market, while customers also benefit 
from a more added-value, unique experience.  
Feedback shows that customers appreciate the 
quality and value of these products and higher 
satisfaction levels drive repeat bookings and 
customer retention.  
There is also a huge demand from consumers  
for more experiential holidays.  In the Specialist 
Sectors product innovation continues to meet  
this demand.  We have created the world’s largest 
marine charter business and are developing a 
number of new yachts that are built exclusively for 
our marine businesses, including the new Sunsail 
384 Catamarans.  These new models create a 
leading and differentiated position in the fastest 
expanding section of the yacht charter market.  
There is also a strong focus in the Education 
division to develop new and differentiated 
products.  The purchase of Condover Hall, an 
education campus in the UK, provides our JCA 
business, a specialist in residential school trips,  
with a flagship centre for residential activity 
holidays for schools and will be utilised across  
the wider Education division.  
In the OTA market we are building on the success 
of LateRooms, our online accommodation business, 
by investing in increasing the product offering of 
our AsiaRooms brand.  We have increased our own 
hotel inventory in the Asian region by 62% (7,800 
hotels) and rebranded the website to capture the 
significant forecasted growth in this market.  
Strategic overview | Our strategy
Strategic imperatives
We have a clear strategic goal to create superior shareholder value by being the world’s leading 
leisure travel group providing customers with the widest choice of differentiated and flexible travel 
experiences to meet their changing needs.  To help achieve our goal, we are focused on four strategic 
imperatives – Product & Content, Distribution & Brands, People & Operational Effectiveness and 
Growth & Capital Allocation.  We continually evaluate the delivery of these four strategic imperatives 
which link through to our key performance indicators.  See KPIs on page 18.
Imperative 1: Product & Content Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
www.tuitravelplc.com
TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 15
Summary
• Highly trusted brands that provide  
value and quality
• Broadening customer choice 
• Building our customer relationships 
• Increasing controlled distribution 
Our highly trusted brands represent excellent value 
for money and drive customer loyalty and repeat 
bookings.  The advantages of travelling with a 
leading tour operator were highlighted during the 
April 2010 volcanic ash crisis when we prioritised 
the needs of our customers and provided industry-
leading levels of service and support.  We have 
market-leading brands in the Mainstream Sector 
including TUI, Thomson, First Choice, Jetairfly, 
Fritidsresor, Holland International, Arke, Nouvelles 
Frontières and Marmara.  In the Specialist Sectors 
we have well-known niche brands that have 
market-leading positions including Hayes & Jarvis, 
Sovereign, Citalia, The Moorings, Crystal Ski, 
LateRooms.com and Hotelbeds.com.
Our aim is to provide customers with a wide choice 
of holiday options that meet their preferences and 
a convenient range of booking options.  By securing 
direct access to customers, we can manage and 
deliver the whole holiday experience from booking 
with an agent in our travel shops, online or via one 
of our call centres, to in-resort and after-sales 
service, whilst driving customer satisfaction and 
ultimately customer loyalty.
In each source market the distribution of products 
is tailored to reflect different customer preferences 
and market dynamics.  Each source market has its 
own distribution strategy, which aims to reduce 
costs by building controlled distribution through 
the efficient operation of retail shops, the use of 
the internet as a research and booking tool and by 
the utilisation of call centres.
In the Mainstream businesses our leading brands 
drive bookings through controlled distribution 
capability which is made up of three main channels; 
a retail network of circa 3,500 shops, an online 
booking capability for all major brands and call 
centres.  In the UK and Nordics for instance, where 
there is a high propensity to purchase online, we 
have invested heavily in web capability.  In the 
Nordics we have ceased production of traditional 
brochures from Summer 2011 and are promoting 
online as the main distribution channel.  In the  
UK, the trend towards online booking continues, 
supported by improvements to the functionality  
of the Thomson and First Choice websites and  
the success of the ‘MyThomson’ portal allowing 
customers to manage bookings online.  In France, 
there is a higher propensity to purchase through 
more traditional travel agents and we are 
expanding our retail network both through owned 
and franchise agencies.  We have also increased 
controlled distribution for the Nouvelles Frontières 
and Marmara brands by building their internet 
offering and selling our Marmara brand through 
our network of Nouvelles Frontières shops and 
Havas Voyages retail stores.  
In the Specialist businesses, we are focusing on 
increasing the share of direct distribution to reduce 
distribution costs and to increase direct access to 
customers.  Our Adventure division is making wider 
use of our existing retail network and is cross-
selling product between brands.  New websites 
have been developed for a number of brands 
including The Moorings, Quark Expeditions and TUI 
Ski to further improve the customer experience 
and to increase the level of controlled distribution.  
The LateRooms brand has a strong leadership 
position in the UK OTA accommodation market 
(room night growth of 31% year-on-year) and we 
are starting to roll out our successful LateRooms 
model to Continental Europe and Australia.  
Imperative 2: Distribution & Brands www.tuitravelplc.com
16 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010
Summary
• Our colleagues are key to our success
• Development of sophisticated capacity 
and yield management systems
• Underlying operating profit margin up 40  
basis points from 2.9% (2009 restated) 
to 3.3%
• Integration progressing well with a total 
synergies target of £200m
The skills and expertise of our colleagues are  
the key to our success.  Across the Group we  
have a unique breadth and depth of experience 
with innovative entrepreneurs in our specialist 
businesses, skilled tour operators in Mainstream, 
functional experts at the centre and a highly 
experienced and respected international 
management team.  Our aim is to motivate and 
engage our teams to deliver outstanding customer 
experiences and results for our businesses.  Talent 
across the Group is reviewed regularly with a focus 
on retaining and developing individuals to drive the 
business forward (see page 24).
Our tour operators actively manage capacity 
through sophisticated capacity and yield 
management systems.  The UK Mainstream 
business has a market-leading yield system to  
plan and manage capacity allowing us to analyse 
profitability for Thomson and First Choice by 
creating a detailed picture of profitable capacity  
by individual flight.  This allows us to determine 
optimum seat capacity by each UK airport and  
to ensure that we maintain the most appropriate 
aircraft fleet size and type.  This has enabled us  
to leverage the strength of both these brands  
by improving efficiency with fewer aircraft and  
less risk.  Our other businesses are also beginning 
to implement this system; in the Activity Sector, 
the ski business has fully implemented the same 
yield management tool driving further 
improvements in margin.  
We have made excellent progress in delivering  
cost synergies with £195m achieved to date and 
maintaining our target of £200m by 2011.  In 
addition to the delivery of these cost synergies, the 
businesses are continually working to leverage their 
market-leading positions and scale to maximise 
their cost competitiveness and rationalise the cost 
base further through the continual improvement  
of business processes and systems.  We are also 
further reviewing options to reduce the number  
of reservation and back office systems in the 
Mainstream businesses.  
Strategic overview | Our strategy
Strategic imperatives continued
Imperative 3: People & Operational Effectiveness Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
www.tuitravelplc.com
TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 17
Summary
• Acquired six niche high-growth 
businesses in Specialist Sectors
• Creating a leading position in Russia  
and CIS
• Underlying operating profit up 11%  
to £447m
• Increase in return on invested capital  
to 9.9%
We have identified a number of market segments 
where we can allocate capital to drive growth.  
These target market segments, primarily within our 
Specialist Sectors, are high-growth and high-margin 
and present excellent opportunities for us to create 
leading positions in fragmented markets.  These 
segments offer significant potential for further 
growth and we are creating market-leading  
positions by a combination of the acquisition of 
complementary businesses and organic growth in 
our existing businesses.  We have completed eight 
acquisitions this year, six in the Specialist Sectors, 
and will continue to make bolt-on acquisitions in 
targeted Specialist businesses.  
Further organic long-term growth will be achieved 
through the continued introduction of some of our 
Specialist brands into new markets utilising our 
distribution strength, including our pan-European 
retail estate of circa 3,500 branches.  For example, 
we have launched the best of our Marine, Adventure 
and Polar Cruising products into Germany, Russia 
and Ukraine.  Following the successful launch of Le 
Boat within our German retail operation, we have 
positioned this customer offering in the Dutch and 
Belgian markets.  
As the leading international leisure travel group we 
are well placed to benefit from the strong increase in 
demand for leisure travel in emerging markets to 
generate long-term growth for the Group.  Our 
strategy within Russia and CIS has been the main 
area of focus and our growth plans are progressing 
well.  We entered the Russia and Ukraine markets 
through the establishment of a joint venture with 
S-Group Capital Management and have 
subsequently completed three acquisitions.  The 
acquisitions of VKO Group and Mostravel in Russia 
and Voyage Kiev in Ukraine have provided us with a 
strong entry point into this market.  TUI Travel is the 
first international tour operator to build a presence 
in Russia and CIS and we successfully launched the 
TUI brand into the market in March 2010.  We have 
an existing presence in Brazil, China and India, 
through our inbound and destination management 
companies in the A&D Sector, and continue to build 
our understanding of these leisure travel markets.  
We are currently evaluating our optimal participation 
strategy for each market and discussing future 
collaboration opportunities with potential partners.  
It is our intention to further expand in these markets 
to create long-term sustainable growth for TUI 
Travel on a global scale.  
We continue to believe that the Boeing 787 
Dreamliner represents a fantastic opportunity to 
deliver long-term growth for the Group.  Not only 
will it be able to fly greater distances, enabling us  
to offer a wider range of non-stop destinations to 
our customers than equivalent aircraft today, but it 
will do so with greater fuel efficiency and additional 
comfort.  As one of the first airlines to take delivery 
of these aircraft we plan to use the customer and 
operational benefits to position the long-haul 
offering as a key differentiator in Europe allowing us 
to develop a pre-eminent position in the long-haul 
charter market.  
We have an asset-right business model and typically 
only invest in assets such as yachts, inland waterway 
cruisers and expedition cruise ships that provide us 
with greater competitive advantage and enable us  
to earn premium margins.  As a result of our asset-
right business model, delivery against our strategic 
imperatives driving underlying margin enhancement 
and delivery of synergy benefits of £200m, we 
remain confident of delivering our medium-term 
margin targets.  Despite tough economic conditions 
and industry turmoil, we have made significant 
progress in realising these key objectives improving 
operating margins by 40 basis points to 3.3% (2009 
restated: 2.9%) and return on invested capital to 
9.9% (2009 restated: 8.6%).
 
Imperative 4: Growth & Capital Allocation www.tuitravelplc.com
18 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010
Strategic overview
Key Performance Indicators (KPIs)
Our main strategic objective is to improve the 
Group’s profitability and to deliver enhanced 
returns on investment.  We believe that improving 
our financial performance will allow us to invest in 
the future of our business for the benefit of 
shareholders, colleagues and customers.  
To measure our financial progress we have two 
Financial KPIs: (i) operating margin % and (ii) the 
return on invested capital (ROIC).  
In the year, margins improved by 40 basis points 
over the restated 2009 margin of 2.9%, primarily 
driven by the delivery of merger synergies and 
turnaround progress, partially offset by a weaker 
trading performance in the UK source market.
Increasing the proportion of our products that  
are different to those offered by our competitors  
is our most important strategic imperative.  
Differentiated products have earlier booking 
curves, higher customer satisfaction and retention 
and superior margins.  These products are difficult 
for competitors to replicate and we have a 
significant competitive advantage due to our 
existing brand loyalty and experience of designing 
and operating new concepts.
In the year, we increased the differentiated product 
mix by one percentage point across the total 
Mainstream Sector, although certain source 
markets made greater improvements, such as the 
Nordics (up six percentage points) and the UK  
(up three percentage points).  The overall increase 
was affected by a small reduction in France where 
we are re-mixing away from some of our older 
differentiated products (e.g. Club Paladien) to 
newer products (e.g. Nouvelles Frontières Hotel 
Clubs) and also growth in commodity product in 
Belgium where we increased our market share.
Increasing our direct distribution mix, with a focus 
on online sales, is a key driver of reducing our 
distribution costs and enhancing our customer 
relationships.  Direct distribution typically 
represents the most efficient distribution method 
and allows us to provide even better value to 
customers.  Importantly, selling directly to our 
customers means that we can further manage 
their end-to-end holiday experience and improve 
brand and product loyalty.
We have increased our controlled distribution mix 
in the year in all source markets, with the most 
significant increases in France and Germany.   
In France, the key driver of the increase has  
been the introduction of our Marmara products  
in our Nouvelles Frontières and Havas Voyages  
retail stores.  
The Specialist Sectors add significant value to the 
Group as they enjoy higher margins and growth 
characteristics, and are virtually impossible to 
replicate as we have crucial first mover advantage.  
Having a relevant position in non-mainstream 
markets is strategically important and is a key 
differentiator and growth driver for the Group.   
For these reasons, the generation of a substantial 
proportion of the Group’s operating profits from 
Specialist Sectors is an important objective.  
The proportion of operating profit contribution 
from the Specialist Sectors has decreased in the 
year as the Mainstream Sector profitability 
benefited from synergy delivery and turnaround 
progress, whereas operating profit in the Specialist 
& Emerging Markets Sector was lower due to start- 
up investment in Russia and reduced capacity in 
our private jet tours businesses.
We are experiencing greater consumer awareness  
of sustainability and believe that creating more 
sustainable holidays will help protect our product 
into the future and also support product 
differentiation, brand loyalty and competitive 
advantage.  
TUI Travel airlines’ performance measured in terms 
of carbon dioxide emissions per revenue passenger 
kilometre (CO
2
/RPK) makes our fleet one of the 
most efficient in Europe and beyond.
Financial
Product & Content
Distribution & Brands
Specialist Sectors
Responsible 
Leadership
Strategic imperative Performance Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
www.tuitravelplc.com
TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 19
In January 2008, we set out a roadmap to 
increase TUI Travel’s operating margins from 
2.0% to 4.7% and set out a target of doubling the 
Group’s ROIC to a level in excess of the Group’s 
cost of capital.  
We are targeting a differentiated product mix  
of over 50% in our Mainstream Sector.
We are targeting a controlled distribution mix of 
greater than two-thirds in our Mainstream Sector.  
We expect the mix of profits from the Specialist 
Sectors to increase in the medium term due to 
their superior underlying growth characteristics.
The Group has committed to reducing its airlines‘ 
direct carbon emissions by 6% by 2013/14 (against 
a baseline of 2007/08) in terms of total carbon 
emissions as well as relative carbon emissions, 
based on 2008/09 operational structure and plans. 
See Sustainable Development on page 28.
Target Key Performance Indicators
Operating margin %
2010 2009 
3.3% 2.9%
1
 
 
ROIC
2010 2009 
9.9% 8.6%
1
 
Aircraft carbon efficiency, measured through TUI Travel airlines’ fleet average CO
2
/RPK
2010 2009 2008
76.1g 78.1g 77.9g
CO
2
/RPK CO
2
/RPK CO
2
/RPK
Differentiated/exclusive product mix as a proportion of total Mainstream Sector holidays
2010 2009 2008
38% 37% 33%
Controlled distribution mix, as a proportion of total Mainstream Sector holidays
2010 2009 2008
62% 59% 53%
The proportion of Group operating profit generated by our Specialist Sectors
2
2010 2009 
32% 37%
1
 
1
 FY09 shown after the restatement.
2
 Before central costs. www.tuitravelplc.com
20 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010
Managing unprecedented 
disruption
The volcanic ash cloud caused 
unprecedented disruption in April 
2010 with circa 400,000 of our 
customers affected throughout 
Europe.  During the crisis, we 
prioritised the needs of our 
customers, providing industry-
leading levels of support and made 
enormous efforts to repatriate 
stranded customers by all methods 
at our disposal.  We firmly believe 
that our efforts further highlighted 
the advantages of travelling with a 
leading tour operator and that these 
benefits have resonated strongly 
with customers throughout our 
source markets.  The new approach 
to the imposition of airspace 
restrictions, now based on scientific 
observations and consultations with 
engine manufacturers, should mean 
that any future airspace closures 
are more tightly targeted and cause 
substantially less disruption.
The Group Risk Management Committee (GRMC), 
a sub-set of the GMB, is responsible for setting  
the ‘tone at the top’ and supports the continuous 
improvement that is needed for risk management 
to function effectively through ensuring 
management of risk is at the heart of our day-to-
day operations and considered during the business 
planning and strategy setting processes.  The 
GRMC is also responsible for identification of risks 
associated to the delivery our strategic imperatives 
from a Board perspective and ensuring that these 
‘Top-Down’ risks are owned and appropriately 
mitigated across the Group or managed at Board 
level where required.
Recognising that implementing and embedding 
ERM is a journey, two years in, efforts are now 
focused on further enhancing risk management 
capabilities across the Group.  Plans are in place  
to deliver improvements to existing processes by 
introducing new methods which will be supported 
by the implementation of a more sophisticated risk 
management solution.  Another key development 
will be the formalisation of the Group Risk appetite 
which is seen as critical to managing risks to within 
the right levels and in enhancing overall business 
performance. 
Finally, in preparation for the Bribery Act which 
comes into force in April 2011, we are currently 
developing a more comprehensive compliance 
framework which will be applied across the  
whole Group.
A summary of the principal risks faced by the 
Group, along with the associated mitigation 
strategies, are contained in the following table.  
However, this is not intended to be a complete  
list of all possible risks that could occur.  The 
Group’s key financial risks are included in  
Note 25 of the accounts (see page 117).
Risk management
Effective and appropriate enterprise-wide risk 
management remains key to the delivery of our 
business objectives and strategic goals.  Our 
established framework is designed to facilitate  
the early identification and evaluation of risks to 
ensure challenges are prioritised and managed 
accordingly.  Clearly we have experienced some 
failures in internal control and procedures this  
year (see page 50).  Whilst we have taken short-
term actions to address the specific weaknesses  
we are reviewing the effectiveness of the risk 
management framework.
The framework strives to improve operational 
performance, reduce losses and protect and 
enhance shareholder value in the pursuit of the 
Groups’ strategic imperatives.  It can only seek  
to provide reasonable comfort that potential 
significant exposures to the Group are identified 
and appropriate mitigation plans developed and 
implemented.  Risks by nature are uncertainties  
or unforeseen events as evidenced this year by  
the volcanic ash cloud.  
Responsibility for managing risk should clearly 
reside within the businesses themselves.  All  
key areas of the business adopt the Group’s 
uniform enterprise-wide risk management (ERM) 
approach, which is closely linked to the strategic 
planning process.  It is the responsibility of senior 
management teams and Sector Boards across  
the Group to review, challenge and agree the risk 
profile for their area of responsibility and to ensure 
resource is allocated effectively to manage risk and 
maximise opportunities.  Group Risk Management 
consolidates all risks identified by the businesses to 
create the Group ‘Bottom-Up’ Risk Profile which is 
presented to the Audit Committee on a half-year 
basis.  In addition to Group Risk Management, the 
Audit Committee is also responsible for monitoring 
and challenging the Group’s risk response 
strategies.  For further information see page 50.
Strategic overview
Principal risks Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
www.tuitravelplc.com
TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 21
Specific Risk Mitigation
Global Financial Factors 
Context – External Environment
Cross-border element of trading exposes the business to fluctuations in exchange rates and complex 
and technical tax laws.  A significant proportion of operating expenses are in relation to aircraft fuel 
which is also unstable 
Risk
Volatility of exchange rates and fuel prices may have a negative impact on unhedged balances;  
rising input costs could increase cost of product offering and leave the Group competitively 
disadvantaged; increase in tax authorities taking more frequent and intrusive tax audits of the  
Group’s business operations
Possible Impact
Reduced demand due to increased costs, lower short-term growth rates, reduced margins, impact on 
cash flow, lengthy tax litigation processes, possible reduction in Group’s after-tax earnings
Strategic Focus
• High customer retention to deliver repeat booking rates and earlier booking trends
• Highly trusted brands providing value and quality and broadening customer choice
• Our colleagues are key to our success
• Hedging policies in place across all source markets, 
controlled and monitored by Group Treasury with hedging 
cover taken out ahead of customer booking profile
• Continuous monitoring of foreign exchange and fuel 
markets to ensure most up-to-date market intelligence  
on commodity movements and products
• Source markets abreast of regulatory environment and 
known competitor behaviour
• Strong focus on fixed cost reduction and transition of fixed 
to variable costs where possible
• Ensuring compliance with all relevant tax laws and practice
• Ensuring high-quality advice is sought to structure the 
Group’s operations appropriately
• Ensuring uncertainty is minimised and recording provisions 
to reflect potential tax exposures
• Development and maintenance of high-quality 
relationships with tax authorities and educating them  
on the Group’s business operations
Political Volatility, Natural Catastrophes, Outbreaks
Context – External Environment
Providers of holiday and travel services are exposed to the inherent risk of domestic and/or 
international incidents affecting some of the countries/destinations within its operations
Risk
Large scale events causing operational disruption; future reduction in destination desirability; 
inability to operate efficiently
Possible Impact
Significant consequential losses, holiday cancellations and decline in consumer demand, possible 
increase in insurance premiums
Strategic Focus
• High customer retention to deliver repeat booking rates and earlier booking trends
• Building customer relationships
• Our colleagues are key to our success
• Balance of destination mix to minimise concentration and 
flexible supplier agreements in place to allow for capacity  
to be switched if required
• Established incident management policy and experienced 
leadership teams to support and repatriate stranded 
customers to minimise effects of negative events
• Increased awareness of the additional benefits of travelling 
with a recognised and leading tour operator, strongly 
increasing consumer confidence throughout source markets 
• Strong relationships with local tourism bodies and travel 
industry associations with government guidance obtained 
and used as required
• Ongoing liaison with aviation industry stakeholders and 
meteorology service providers to improve the accuracy of 
ash concentration modelling and understanding of aircraft 
tolerance to ash
Regulatory Environment
Context – External Environment 
Industries in which the Group operates are heavily regulated, particularly in relation to aviation 
taxation and environmental and consumer protection 
Risk 
Non-compliance to applicable regulations; negative perception of product offering due to increased 
costs and/or increase in awareness of environmental issues.  Failure in safety due diligence processes
Possible Impact 
Limitations on operational flexibility, possible exposure to legal or regulatory sanctions, harm or injury 
to customers, associated reputational damage and increased costs
Strategic Focus
• Highly trusted brands providing value and quality and broadening customer choice
• Building customer relationships 
• Our colleagues are key to our success
• Experienced public affairs team that works with 
governments and regulators to address issues affecting  
the industry and its customers
• Striving to reduce the environmental impact at each stage 
of the customer’s journey through creation of more 
sustainable holidays 
• Carbon management strategy in place with a commitment 
to reduce CO
2
 emissions by 6% by 2013/14 (against a 
baseline of 2007/08) and significant investment in Boeing 
787 aircraft with greater fuel efficiency
• Our airlines are preparing for the EU Emissions Trading 
Scheme and reporting requirements (applicable from 
January 2012) and working with PwC on a readiness review
• Customer and employee safety is paramount.  Industry- 
leading expertise employed at the centre to set policy, 
tailored by source market, to provide guidance, monitor 
compliance and remain up to date with changes in regulations www.tuitravelplc.com
22 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010
Strategic overview
Specific Risk Mitigation
Economic Conditions 
Context – External Environment
Spending on travel and tourism is discretionary and price sensitive.  The economic outlook remains 
uncertain with different markets at different points in the recovery cycle.  Consumers are also waiting 
later to book their trips in order to assess their financial situation
Risk
Sustained decline in consumers‘ propensity to travel; continuation of later booking patterns, inability 
to respond to short-term changes in consumer demand
Possible Impact 
Lower short-term growth rates and reduced margins
Strategic Focus
• Different products to our competitors and unique in the marketplace
• High customer retention to deliver repeat booking rates and earlier booking trends
• Highly trusted brands providing value and quality, broadening customer choice
• Increasing controlled distribution
• Development of sophisticated capacity and yield management systems
• Developing a portfolio of products that no competitor can 
easily match or replicate
• Differentiated content increases competitive advantage, 
drives higher margins and has an earlier booking profile
• Reducing costs by building controlled distribution and 
maximising efficiency through various booking channels 
• Actively managing capacity through use of sophisticated 
capacity and yield management systems to improve 
efficiency and drive margin improvements
Consumer Preferences
Context – Strategic and Emerging
Consumers are increasingly turning online to research and book holidays.  Social media and price  
play a key part in the decision-making process.  In some cases consumers are moving towards more 
component-based packages including use of low-cost carriers as opposed to integrated tour packages 
Risk 
Inability to anticipate changes in consumer preferences; impact on efficiency of seasonal planning; 
challenges in delivering a competitive cost base
Possible Impact
Market positions come under pressure, lower short to medium-term growth rates, reduced margins
Strategic Focus
• High customer retention, repeat booking rates and earlier booking trends
• Growth in online accommodation market
• Highly trusted brands providing value and quality and broadening customer choice
• Building customer relationships
• Increasing controlled distribution
• Development of sophisticated capacity and yield management systems
• Developing a portfolio of products that no competitor  
can easily match or replicate and delivery of exceptional 
customer service
• Maximising efficiency and enhancing internet as a  
research and booking tool
• Development of in-house social media channel  
www.cheqqer.com 
• Building on success of OTA accommodation business  
by investing in increasing the product offering
• Promoting online as the main distribution channel  
and improving website functionality
• Actively managing capacity through use of sophisticated 
capacity and yield management systems to improve 
efficiency and drive margin improvements
T echnology Systems
Context – Internal Operations
The Group is heavily reliant on IT systems to provide holiday and travel services.  Such activities 
include yield management, provision of central administration, the web and reservations.  The Group 
is also vulnerable to rapid changes in technology standards
Risk 
Sustained failure in systems causing operational disruption; weaknesses or inefficiencies in IT and 
financial control processes; inability to keep up with latest IT developments
Possible Impact 
Significant impact on operations, reduced revenue and increased costs, unforeseen losses, higher 
levels of expenditure in order to keep up with competitors
Strategic Focus
• Growth in online accommodation market
• Increased controlled distribution
• Development of sophisticated capacity and yield management systems
• Business continuity policy defined.  Project now focused  
on raising awareness and capability across the Group to 
improve continuity provisions and reduce exposure and 
associated insurance premiums
• Continually working to leverage scale to maximise cost 
competitiveness through continuous improvement in 
business systems and processes
• Reviewing options to reduce number of reservation  
and back office systems
• Heavily invested in web capability in source markets  
where there is a high propensity to purchase online
• Defined strategy to ensure maximisation of new 
technologies in order to compete with key industry players Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
www.tuitravelplc.com
TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 23
Specific Risk Mitigation
Niche Businesses and Emerging Markets
Context – Strategic and Emerging
The Group continues to look into new markets as the traditional mainstream markets mature.   
Niche businesses and the BRIC countries represent a significant opportunity to participate in  
longer-term travel growth trends and have higher growth potential
Risk 
Inability to identify appropriate opportunities; failure of acquisitions to deliver expectations; limited 
experience in new markets; possible difficulty in integrating operations and systems
Possible Impact 
Potential lower long-term growth and reduced margins, impact on anticipated cash flows, significant 
diversion of management time
Strategic Focus
• Our colleagues are key to our success
• Acquire niche high-growth businesses in Specialist Sectors
• Create a leading position in Russia and CIS
• Increase return on invested capital
• Identified a number of market segments to allocate capital 
to drive high-growth and high-margin product offering
• Completed six successful acquisitions in 2009/10 and will 
continue to make bolt-on acquisitions during 2010/11
• Appointed highly skilled tour operator to manage Russia 
and Ukraine businesses with integration and growth plans 
progressing well
• Investments in Russia and CIS by way of a joint venture 
with a local partner
• Currently investigating optimal participation strategy for 
Brazil, China and India and discussing future collaboration 
opportunities with potential partners
• Consideration payable for businesses directly linked to 
post-acquisition performance
Supply Chain
Context – External Environment
The Group is dependent on the provision of services by third parties, such as hotel operators, airline 
services and manufacturers and other third-party providers
Risk 
Over-reliance and possible failure of key suppliers; withdrawal of certain products or services;  
poor commercial terms; lack of efficiency and quality of contract performance; exposure to 
counterparty risk
Possible Impact 
Reduction in operational performance, inability to offer reliable products and services, deterioration  
in consumer confidence, consequential losses
Strategic Focus
• Highly trusted brands providing value and quality and broadening customer choice
• Building our customer relationships 
• Our colleagues are key to our success
• Spread of financial commitments across key value chain 
suppliers
• Well-established relationships with key suppliers with 
service levels monitored and managed accordingly
• Centralised purchasing functions for key procurement areas
• Regular review of key service providers to assess financial 
standing and levels of health and safety, quality and 
sustainability standards
• Process in place to monitor and minimise levels of  
pre-payments to hoteliers and other third-party  
service providers www.tuitravelplc.com
24 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010
Our colleagues
As the world’s leading international travel group  
we have a workforce of approximately 49,000 
colleagues.  At TUI Travel there is a clear link 
between the Group’s overall strategy and the role 
that our people play.  We recognise that by building 
the most capable and engaged teams we can 
deliver optimum business performance.
Strength in diversity
An important strength of TUI Travel is our  
diversity.  We operate in approximately 180 
countries worldwide and as a result have a  
highly diverse workforce.
The composition of our top 250 senior leadership 
team highlights some demographical aspects of  
our Group.  Over a quarter of our senior leadership 
team is female and the team is based in 24 
different countries around the world.  Out of  
our Group’s total workforce, 41% of our managers 
are female.
We uphold diversity as a core tenet of our success.  
We do not tolerate discrimination on any grounds 
and our ethos is that opportunities should be 
available to everyone.  We have principles and 
guidelines in place, both Group-wide and more 
locally, to actively support this.
Engaging our colleagues
We believe employees who are engaged with  
our business will deliver the best performance.   
It’s important that we engage our people in  
the strategy and goals of TUI Travel so they 
understand how they contribute to our success.  
Group Management Board
The strategic direction of the Group is set by the 
Group Management Board (GMB) in conjunction 
with the Board (see page 42).  The GMB consists  
of tour operating and function experts drawn  
from across the Group.  This highly experienced 
international team manages and executes TUI 
Travel’s day-to-day operations and is responsible 
for the overall performance of the Group.  
During the year, and post-year end, there have 
been changes.  Richard Prosser left the GMB in 
July 2010 following the decision to restructure  
the Specialist & Emerging Markets Sector.  On  
1 October 2010, John Wimbleton was appointed 
Managing Director for the newly combined 
Specialist & Activity Sector.
Dermot Blastland, Managing Director, UK & Ireland, 
retired with effect from 1 October 2010.  Johan 
Lundgren, Managing Director, Northern Region, 
also took responsibility as Managing Director UK & 
Ireland from that date.  
Jacky Simmonds was appointed Group HR  
Director from 1 October 2010 replacing  
Bill Logan.  Bill Logan will remain with the Group  
in an advisory role to both Peter Long and the  
GMB throughout 2011.  
Paul Bowtell*, Chief Financial Officer, resigned on  
21 October 2010 and will step down from the GMB 
and the Board with effect from 31 December 2010.  
William Waggott’s** appointment as Chief Financial 
Officer of TUI Travel PLC was announced on  
30 November 2010.
Strategic overview
People
Our team
1. Peter Long
Chief Executive
2. Paul Bowtell*
Chief Financial Officer
3. Dr Volker Böttcher
Managing Director, Central Europe
4. Bart Brackx
Managing Director, Western Europe
5. Andrew John
Group Legal Director 
and Company Secretary
6. Jacky Simmonds
Group Human Resources Director
7. Johan Lundgren
Managing Director, Northern Region
8. Joan Vilà
Managing Director, 
Accommodation & Destinations
9. William Waggott**
Commercial Director
10. John Wimbleton
Managing Director, Specialist & Activity 
  
1 2 3 4 5 Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
www.tuitravelplc.com
TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 25
Involving our colleagues
In the past year, a significant number of colleagues 
in the Group have taken part in one of our 
employee surveys.  Our colleagues’ opinions have 
given us an insight into what we are doing well and 
highlighted areas of focus so that we can continue 
to improve.  It is not just about listening, it is about 
acting too, which is why there is ongoing activity 
within our businesses to address the findings and 
involve our people when making improvements.
In the latter part of 2009 we conducted the second 
Leadership Voice survey, which comprised 827 
respondents from our leadership population 
(leaders).  We wanted to track progress since 2008 
and set a new benchmark for an extended manager 
population.  The overall results confirmed that we 
have some great strengths that are common across 
the Group.
Some of the results highlights included:
• 95% of our leaders feel personally motivated 
to help TUI Travel be successful
• 94% of our leaders feel well informed about 
the performance of our business
• 93% of our leaders are proud to work for  
TUI Travel
• 93% of our leaders feel their business looks  
for new opportunities to deliver profit
The results were particularly strong in the  
category focusing on profitability, commercial 
advantage and how we add value to customer 
experience, highlighting our commitment in this 
field and the success of our responsive and flexible 
Measuring and monitoring this is a key way to 
identify how we can improve high performance.  
This is why we measure engagement levels and 
benchmark ourselves against organisations in the 
UK and globally as we want to understand how  
we perform against national, global and high-
performance norms.  
As an organisation operating in a large number  
of countries, with a large workforce and multiple 
brands, it is key that we can engage our colleagues 
so they deliver a great customer experience no 
matter where in the world they work.
At TUI Travel it is not just about what we do, it  
is about how we do it.  In 2008 we developed the 
TUI Spirit with a number of colleagues across the 
Group to build our culture.  These values underpin 
our strategy, give our people a common purpose 
and help us to achieve our vision of making travel 
experiences special.
Our values are:
• Customer obsessed
• Responsible leadership
• Value driven
• Playing to win
The values are supported by ‘Winning Behaviours’ 
that clearly illustrate what it looks like when we live 
our values at TUI Travel.  We continuously look  
to ensure that what we do is aligned to our vision  
and values, both on a global and more local level, 
particularly by working with managers throughout 
our organisation.
6 7 8 9 10
Launching our values in 
Russia and CIS 
In Spring 2010, when launching TUI 
Travel in Russia and Ukraine, it was 
pivotal that our values became part 
of everyday life as early as possible.
We ensured that leaders of our 
businesses could relate to our values 
and we tailored them to suit the 
Russian and Ukrainian local cultures.  
The values were also aligned to 
the brand values and adapted to: 
Reliable, Inspiring and Responsible.  
These values incorporate our Group-
wide aspirations and are aligned with 
what we are delivering for customers 
in these new markets.  The launch 
of the values included a series of 
face-to-face presentations, inclusion 
in Day-One activities and launch 
communication literature delivered 
in local languages.
Training for key customer-facing 
teams in the local retail networks 
and destinations was based around 
the values.  The values are now an 
important part of everyday life in 
our businesses in Russia and Ukraine 
– helping us to make our customers 
and our teams smile as TUI Travel 
develops in this region. www.tuitravelplc.com
26 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010
Strategic overview
People continued
are also a vast number of tailored initiatives in our 
Sectors and businesses to build our colleagues’ skills.
We have continued our commitment to attract 
talent and find our leaders of tomorrow.  We  
have a range of national graduate schemes in  
place in our Sectors and businesses and we also 
offer a Group-wide International Management 
Trainee Programme.
The objective is to attract and develop high-quality 
people to be future commercial leaders in our 
business.  The programme stretches over 18 months 
and includes five work assignments in different 
businesses and countries to ensure a full overview  
of the Group.  In the past year, we had an intake of 
11 international management trainees, all high-calibre 
candidates with solid academic results and excellent 
language skills.
Driving high performance
One of the main responsibilities of our leaders and 
managers is to drive performance and develop, 
coach and motivate their people to achieve success.  
It’s essential that our colleagues are provided with 
regular feedback on their performance.  Our people 
need to understand what needs to be achieved  
and how that links to the overall strategy as an 
organisation.
In line with the TUI Spirit, we don’t just have 
performance reviews to evaluate what our people 
do – how they achieve is equally important.  It is 
our objective to reward and encourage absolute 
commitment to providing our customers with 
quality service as well as encouraging a team-
oriented environment where our people are  
free to innovate and collaborate.
business model.  It is also clear that our significant 
efforts to develop our leaders are both valued and 
of high impact.
In addition to surveys, we have a range of  
proactive employee forums in place to ensure we 
have an ongoing dialogue and involve colleagues 
with matters that are important to them, both 
through elected employee representatives and 
directly with teams in meetings.
Attracting and developing talent
As a large, international organisation we can offer 
exciting career prospects for many of those who join 
us.  However we don’t just want to attract talent, we 
want to ensure that we develop our people too so 
that we can build our capability internally.
At TUI Travel we put significant effort into ensuring 
that we develop our talent pipeline for the future 
and talent is reviewed at Board level regularly.   
We have Group-wide leadership development 
programmes designed for senior leaders,  
providing a great opportunity to enhance skills  
and to network with colleagues from across  
our businesses.
This includes our very successful TUI Horizons 
Programme, aimed at high-potential middle 
managers in the talent pool who have been 
identified as our future leaders.  The aim of the 
programme, which is delivered by internal as well  
as external experts, is to develop numerate, 
analytical leaders who engage with their people  
to drive high performance in their businesses.   
We have extended this initiative to cover a Horizons 
Master Class aimed at Horizons alumni.  The format 
is short, targeted workshops designed according to 
business and personal development needs.  There 
People and
Operational Effectiveness
Building the most capable
and engaged teams to
deliver optimum
business performance
Engage our
colleagues
Build leadership
capability
Effective
Organisation
design
Effective and Efficient HR Operations
imperative
aim
priorities
underpin
HR strategy
Blue Voice success 
When TUI Nordic asked their 
colleagues in Sweden, Norway, 
Denmark and Finland to complete 
their annual employee survey, Blue 
Voice, their aim was to ensure they 
were on the right track to success  
in the eyes of their people.
The results were very positive.   
Not only was there a high response 
rate but results had significantly 
improved in the majority of 
categories from the previous year.  
Progress had also been made on 
KPIs linked to key strategic areas 
of leadership, engagement and 
effectiveness.  The results showed a 
strong link between having attended 
the values training and living the  
new values.
In TUI Nordic, Blue Voice is more 
than just a way to find out what 
colleagues are thinking at a certain 
point in time, it provides a strategic 
tool for managers which is linked to 
both organisational and personal 
long-term goals.  It helps managers 
focus on the right things, make 
improvements and act, all key 
aspects of being an organisation  
that drives high performance and 
rewards ‘Winning Behaviours’. Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
www.tuitravelplc.com
TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 27
From management trainee  
to business development 
With a Masters in International 
Tourism Management, excellent 
language skills and a real passion  
for the leisure travel industry,  
Olga Kaidala was well placed to  
join the TUI Travel PLC International 
Management Trainee programme  
in April 2009.  
Thanks to the diverse nature  
of our business, Olga had the 
opportunity to gain broad 
commercial experience during her 
traineeship.  First, she worked on 
KPI reporting and hotels and resorts 
projects in the UK.  During her 
placement in Germany, she looked  
at website usability optimisation  
for Carhiremarket.com and got  
involved with the brand new  
Cheqqer project.  Her next 
assignment took her to Poland, 
where she worked on ‘Managing 
for Value’ implementation and the 
sales reporting tool before joining 
the Accommodations & Destinations 
Sector for her last placement, 
focusing on strategic projects.
Having gained a comprehensive 
overview of our businesses’ 
commercial opportunities and 
challenges, Olga joined the business 
development department of our 
Accommodation & Destinations 
Sector in a permanent role as a 
business development executive, 
based in Majorca, Spain.  In her 
role she contributes to shaping a 
competitive strategy for mergers  
and acquisitions for the Sector. 
UK employee incident data October 2009 – September 2010
  Airline  Crawley 
INCIDENT CATEGORY Airline equivalent* UK & Ireland businesses T otal
Number of incidents 464  49 22 535
Number of RIDDOR over 3-day incidents  14 26 4 0 44
Number of RIDDOR major incidents 4 3 2 0 9
Number of RIDDOR fatalities 0 0 0 0 0
*Where an incident occurs outside of the UK it is not reportable under the RIDDOR legislation, but the business reports them as a  
‘RIDDOR equivalent’.
(Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous 
Occurrences Regulations).  Below are the incidents 
statistics for 2009/10.
Local and national authorities continue to visit 
various premises owned by the Group offering 
advice and alerting us to issues.  No enforcement 
notices or convictions have occurred within the 
2009/10 financial year.
Customer safety
During 2010 the Group Health & Safety function 
was further developed and deployed.  A UK team 
of 20 staff, managing an overseas team of 65, 
continued to provide support to all Sectors,  
with extensive checks and audits carried out on 
accommodation, transport and activity suppliers.  
There was also an increased focus on identifying 
and managing sickness and illness outbreaks in our 
overseas destinations, with additional training and 
external intervention through the use of ‘Preverisk’ 
– a third-party hygiene consultancy.  
Group Health & Safety continues to facilitate  
the ever-increasing level of cooperation and 
coordination on Health & Safety issues facing our 
high-volume packaged product businesses in the 
Mainstream source markets.
The Specialist & Emerging Markets and Activity 
Sectors continue to receive guidance, support, 
tools and resources to ensure appropriate bespoke 
safety management systems are implemented at 
business unit level within each Sector.  This year a 
number of the Safety Management Systems have 
reached maturity – evidenced by audits carried out 
by Group Health & Safety across all Sectors.
Group Health & Safety has coordinated and 
managed with the A&D Sector, the growth and 
development of the ‘Sure2Care’ online due 
diligence system.  A&D continues to be a major 
user of this system with over 25,000 of its suppliers 
being captured.  In total, the system is in use by 
some 45 brands across the Group, with all  
Sectors represented.  
The health and safety of our employees and 
customers is of great importance to TUI Travel.   
The Group Health & Safety department sets a clear 
direction for the Group to follow, founded on the  
TUI Travel Health & Safety policy statement signed 
by Peter Long.  The department actively directs  
and supports all Sectors in the design and 
implementation of comprehensive safety 
management systems.
Employee safety 
The risks faced by employees across the  
business vary enormously; from a low-risk office 
environment to the high-risk airline engineering 
environment and everything in between.  The 
majority of incidents that occur still remain in the 
slip, trip, fall and manual handling categories which, 
although not necessarily major, can lead to long-
term injury.
Workplace risk assessments continue to be 
conducted, highlighting areas where additional 
control measures need to be implemented.   
Where significant risk exists, risk assessments are 
used as the means of understanding the various 
hazards involved and identifying and implementing 
appropriate control measures, whether this be 
additional training, personal protective equipment 
or a change in the work process.  
Individual businesses within the Group continue  
to develop their own safety management systems, 
receiving assistance and advice from the Group 
Health & Safety function.  For example, in the  
UK employees continue to undertake the baseline 
health and safety induction training, ‘Safety in  
Your Workplace’.  This e-learning programme 
provides a consistent level of training, alerting 
employees to the different types of hazards  
they may find in their workplace.  Additional 
programmes are being developed including one  
for noise awareness which is specifically aimed  
at airline employees.
Within the UK, the Group continues to report  
any relevant injuries, diseases or dangerous 
occurrences under the RIDDOR regulations 
Strategic overview
Health and safety www.tuitravelplc.com
28 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010
Sustainability is regarded as a serious business 
issue across TUI Travel, with many brands making  
it an integral part of business processes, supplier 
operating standards and performance metrics.   
We have already experienced a range of business 
benefits, including cost efficiencies, quality 
improvements and the enhanced engagement  
of customers, colleagues and suppliers.  
In 2009/10 we were pleased that our performance 
was recognised as follows:
• For the third consecutive year TUI Travel was 
featured in the Carbon Disclosure Leadership 
Index and was ranked 6th in the FTSE 350  
for its approach to carbon disclosure  
www.cdproject.net
• TUI Travel continues to be listed on the 
FTSE4Good Index in recognition of its 
transparency and for meeting strict social, 
environmental and governance standards.  
• TUI Travel was awarded the World’s 
Responsible Tourism Award in 2009  
www.worldtravelawards.com
For further details on awards and our latest 
Sustainable Development Report, see  
www.tuitravelplc.com/sustainable development
Sustainable development strategy
TUI Travel’s sustainable development strategy is 
based on consideration of the key issues affecting 
the Company, now and in the future.  It is regularly 
reviewed in consultation with internal and external 
stakeholders.  Our four strategic priorities for 
sustainable development align with TUI Travel’s 
strategic imperatives.  
We encourage all TUI Travel businesses to  
develop their own strategies, aligning with  
Group and Sector priorities and the related  
targets, where appropriate.  
Our sustainable development goal is to minimise 
our environmental impact, respect the culture and 
people in our destinations and offer real economic 
benefit to local communities.  
Strategic overview
Sustainable development
A sustainable future 
TUI Travel PLC works with Forum 
for the Future, a UK sustainable 
development NGO.  We are a 
core partner in the Tourism 2023 
project which sets out to help the 
UK outbound travel and tourism 
industry understand the challenges 
it faces and plans for a sustainable 
future.
Our four strategic priorities
for sustainable development are:
Carbon management
Goal: To reduce TUI Travel’s airlines’ direct 
carbon emissions by 6% by 2013/14 (against 
a baseline of 2007/08) in terms of total 
carbon emissions as well as relative carbon 
emissions, based on 2008/09 operational 
structure and plans.
Destinations
Supplier Management Goal: All suppliers in 
our destinations follow sustainability practices 
and have continuous improvement 
programmes in place.
Destination Projects Goal: TUI Travel, working 
with partners, will make measurable improve-
ments to local livelihoods and environmental 
protection in destinations.
Our colleagues
Goal: TUI Travel colleagues are engaged and 
empowered to take action on sustainability 
for the future success of the Company. 
Our customers
Goal: TUI Travel businesses deliver quality 
communications designed to raise customer 
interest and demand for sustainable holidays.  Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
www.tuitravelplc.com
TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 29
Our key achievements in 2009/10 include: 
• Our CO
2
 per Revenue Passenger Kilometre 
(RPK) across TUI Travel airlines in 2009/10 is 
76.1g (an improvement of 2.6% since 2008/09) 
– making us one of the most efficient airlines  
in Europe and beyond.
• In 2009/10, TUI Travel’s airlines carbon 
footprint was 5,260,500* tonnes, saving more 
than 500,000 tonnes of carbon dioxide.  
• Out of the 500,000 tonnes of CO
2
 saved, 
26,000 was due to TUI Travel airlines’ fuel 
conservation programmes.
• We established a TUI Airlines Biofuel  
Working Group.
• 76% of TUI Travel airlines aircraft are now 
fitted with fuel-saving winglets.
• Our airlines are preparing for the EU Emission 
Trading Scheme and reporting requirements 
(applicable from January 2012) and are working 
with PwC on a readiness review.
• TUIfly Nordic was awarded ISO 14001 (certified 
Environmental Management System) and 
Thomson Airways and Jetairfly are working 
towards ISO 14001 certification in 2010/11.
• Our UK businesses have prepared a strategy  
to comply with the UK Government’s Carbon 
Reduction Commitment legislation – to date 
71% of TUI UK’s Retail Estate has implemented 
Automatic Meter Readers to improve day-to-
day energy management.  
We have developed collaborative partnerships  
with many stakeholders whose insight and 
guidance is helping us to develop our position  
on aviation and climate change.  Examples include: 
Forum for the Future, EU Cleansky project, UK 
Sustainable Aviation and Sustainable Aviation  
Fuel Users Group.
Managing sustainable development
This year, the Group has maintained and  
enhanced its governance structure for  
sustainable development.  Johan Lundgren, 
Managing Director of the Mainstream Sector, 
Northern Region, is responsible for reporting  
on sustainable development to the Group 
Management and TUI Travel PLC Boards.   
Dermot Blastland, Managing Director of TUI UK & 
Ireland was recognised at the TTG Travel Awards 
2010 and by the British Travel & Hospitality 
Industry 2010 for outstanding contribution to 
sustainable tourism.  The Group Management 
Board acts as the Steering Committee and sets  
the strategic direction and long-term objectives  
for sustainable development.  Members of the 
Board have been working with PwC to prioritise 
sustainable development risks and opportunities.  
Each strategic priority has a Board-level sponsor 
and is underpinned by our commitment to 
integrate sustainable development into the  
way TUI Travel operates.
The Group Sustainable Development department’s 
role is to drive change towards a more sustainable 
company and to forge Sector leadership.  Our 
Group-wide workstreams meet regularly to tackle 
issues and develop programmes of work.  Each 
Sector of our Group has a sustainable development 
coordinator or team with a remit to develop and 
implement sustainable development strategy 
supported by a network of champions.  
Carbon management
Travel and tourism are responsible for around 5% 
of global CO
2
 emissions (UNWTO, 2007).  As a 
leading tour operator, our challenge is to prepare 
for a low-carbon society by further reducing our 
environmental impacts.  We have committed to 
reduce TUI Travel’s airlines’ direct carbon emissions 
by 6% by 2013/14 (against a baseline of 2007/08) in 
terms of total carbon emissions as well as relative 
carbon emissions based on 2008/09 operational 
structure and plans.  See page 18 for our progress.
TUI Travel has a carbon management strategy in 
place covering aviation, water transport, major 
premises, ground transport and flagship hotel 
properties.  We are monitoring and preparing  
for regulatory proposals on climate change that 
could have a fiscal impact.  
In 2008/09 the carbon emissions from our  
airlines accounted for 89.6% of TUI Travel’s  
carbon footprint.  We are making reductions in 
these emissions through the strategic venture with 
Air Berlin, ongoing aircraft fleet replacement, and 
fuel conservation measures.  
Eco vessel for European 
waterways 
Inland Waterways have circa 1,000 
craft throughout the European 
inland waterways.  We plan to 
introduce a new environmentally 
friendly hybrid eco vessel which 
operates with a combination of solar 
and diesel power.  Over the course of 
the next five years, 500 craft will be 
introduced into the fleet.  
*In 2009/10, there has been a circa 1% 
incremental reduction in absolute TUI Travel 
airline emissions against the previous year.   
This achievement has excluded the significant 
emission reductions achieved by TUIfly 
following the strategic venture with Air Berlin 
(whereby Air Berlin took on the scheduled 
flying business of TUIfly). www.tuitravelplc.com
30 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010
Strategic overview
Sustainable development continued
• Several businesses supported reforestation 
projects including TUI Central Europe 
(committed to planting 57,600 wild olive and 
pine trees in a nature reserve in Majorca) and 
Nouvelles Frontières (committed to planting 
15,000 trees in Madagascar).  
• TUI UK & Ireland worked with the Overseas 
Development Institute to better understand 
the socio-economic impact of an all-inclusive 
Holiday Village hotel in Turkey – we are putting 
what we have learnt into operation.
We are conscious of the pressures that tourism  
can place on local populations and resources and 
therefore work collaboratively with communities, 
local and national governments, NGOs and trade 
associations to support sustainable management  
of destinations and to shape our strategy in this 
area.  Examples include: Dutch Association of 
Travel Agents and Tour Operators, Deutscher 
ReiseVerband, Association of British Travel Agents, 
The Tour Operators Initiative, Forum for the 
Future, The Overseas Development Institute,  
Born Free and The Travel Foundation.  
Charitable giving
In the last year, our businesses supported many 
source market and destination charities.  Our 
Group-wide charity policy and guidelines help 
businesses to ensure transparency, report annual 
monies collected and manage charity relationships 
(see page 44).  
Our key achievements in 2009/10 include: 
• Ongoing support for the Family Holiday 
Association (FHA) which is the TUI Travel PLC 
Board’s nominated charity providing holidays 
to disadvantaged children and their families.  
• Thomson Sport was one of the official partners 
for Sports Relief 2010, a charity that helps 
vulnerable people both in the UK and overseas.  
• Across the Group businesses supported the 
Haiti earthquake aid effort through colleague 
fundraising activities, corporate donations, 
cargo space and seats on TUI Travel aircraft 
and support for those colleagues who had lost 
family members.  TUI Central Europe has 
launched a five-year project to support the 
reconstruction of homes and a school in Haiti.
Destinations 
We know that the leisure travel industry can have 
both positive and negative impacts on communities 
and the natural environment, depending on how 
these impacts are managed.  We are committed to 
learning more about how our holidays can benefit 
local livelihoods and protect the environment –  
and putting this into practice.  This is fundamental 
to preserving the quality of our product in years  
to come.
Supplier management
TUI Travel has an extensive supply chain operating 
across the globe (see page 44).  These businesses 
are the gatekeepers to TUI Travel’s sustainability 
performance in our destinations.  By focusing on 
sustainability our suppliers are able to achieve cost 
efficiency savings which ultimately give customers 
better value for money.  Our challenge is to extend 
the reach of our influence to all suppliers and to 
monitor their progress.  
Our key achievements in 2009/10 include: 
• Environmental and social contractual minimum 
standards for accommodation suppliers and 
the Travelife Sustainability System have been 
adopted by our Mainstream tour operating 
businesses and some of the Activity and 
Specialist & Emerging Markets businesses – 
www.its4travel.com.
• Over 400 hotels achieved Travelife awards by 
the end of Summer 2010.
• 27% of TUI UK & Ireland’s customers stayed  
in Travelife-awarded hotels and they launched 
new build and operational environmental 
guidelines for flagship hotel properties.  
• The source markets in Mainstream Central 
Europe organised a destination sustainability 
supplier conference in Turkey.  
• 8 TUI Nordic Blue Village flagship properties  
in Europe and Turkey were ISO 14001 certified.
• We have implemented a Travelife animal 
attraction audit programme for major animal 
attraction excursion venues.
Destination projects
TUI Travel is involved in hundreds of projects 
designed to improve the livelihoods of local people 
in destinations and protect the environment.  
Our key achievements in 2009/10 include: 
• TUI Travel’s Mainstream businesses signed  
up to the Child Protection Code, committing 
the businesses to the six criteria of The Code 
www.thecode.org and TUI Nederland began  
a three-year child protection project in Brazil.  
British Travel Awards 
In 2010, Thomson Airways was 
awarded ‘Environmentally and 
Socially Responsible Airline’ for 
the fifth consecutive year and First 
Choice won the ‘Environmentally 
and Socially Responsible Large Tour 
Operator’ for the fourth consecutive 
year.  Exodus won a silver award for 
the ‘Environmentally and Socially 
Responsible Small Tour Operator’ 
category.   Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
www.tuitravelplc.com
TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 31
Our customers 
Across the business we have been proactive in 
raising awareness of sustainability issues with our 
customers.  To achieve many of our goals we need 
customers’ support both through the purchases 
they make and the personal actions they take.  We 
are working to raise awareness, influence choice, 
change behaviour, and develop and promote new 
products to encourage responsible holiday choices.
Our key achievements for 2009/10 include: 
• TUI Travel businesses are communicating with 
customers on sustainable development issues 
and have launched many brochures dedicated 
to greener products.  
• Holidays Forever was launched in 2010, a 
sustainable tourism campaign and microsite 
giving visitors information on Thomson and 
First Choice’s sustainable tourism activities.  
For details, see www.holidaysforever.co.uk 
• Many of our businesses offer customers the 
opportunity to carbon offset.  TUI Travel, in 
partnership with ClimateCare, has invested  
in five exclusive renewable energy projects in 
destinations important to our business, that 
are scheduled to deliver in excess of 400,000 
tonnes of CO
2
 reductions by the end of 2012.  
TUI Travel businesses request feedback from 
customers regularly and some offer the opportunity 
to comment on the environmentally and socially 
responsible aspects of their holiday.  In 2009/10  
we commissioned international consumer research 
into holidaymakers’ perceptions of sustainability to 
inform our work programme.  The study involved 
almost 4,000 online interviews in eight of our key 
source markets.  The findings revealed that:
• 70% believe holiday companies should be 
committed to preserving natural environments 
and 55% fair working conditions.
• 46% would book a more sustainable holiday  
if they were more readily available.
• 66% would change their behaviour on holiday  
if it helps the environment.
For details of the research, see  
http://www.tuitravelplc.com/reportingcentre
Our colleagues 
Our aim is to make sustainable development 
tangible to each and every colleague within our 
business.  We communicate regularly about the 
progress we have made on our journey towards 
securing a sustainable future for our industry and 
continue to build sustainability into our colleague 
inductions and training programmes, including 
development programmes for managers.  
We have a Group Code of Conduct which covers  
a wide range of sustainability issues, including 
human rights, business ethics and transparency 
and commits TUI Travel to upholding the principles 
of the UN Global Compact.  
Our key achievements for 2009/10 include:
• We organised sustainability awareness-raising 
initiatives at head offices and overseas, during 
which TUI UK & Ireland overseas colleagues 
celebrated World Environment Day through  
a variety of environmental themed children’s 
entertainment, green competitions and beach 
clean-ups and 2,000 colleagues attended TUI 
Deutschland’s Green Day.
• The Activity Sector re-launched its charity  
day scheme – giving every colleague a day  
to volunteer for a chosen charity.  
• TUI Travel’s senior management were regular 
public advocates for more sustainable tourism 
in the media, at industry and governmental 
events.  For example, Peter Long, Chief 
Executive of TUI Travel, took part in a ‘Hot 
Seat’ interview on World Responsible Tourism 
Day at the World Travel Market 2009 in London.
We have developed a number of core questions 
relating to Responsible Leadership and sustainable 
development that businesses and Sectors include 
in colleague opinion surveys.  Our 2009/10 
Leadership Voice survey confirmed that:
• 80% of leaders agreed that my business acts 
responsibly on environmental matters (73%  
in 2008/09).
• 83% of leaders agreed that my business acts 
responsibly in the local communities in which 
we operate (66% in 2008/09).
We also gather feedback from colleagues on 
sustainability issues through focus groups.  
Education project for girls  
in Brazil 
In 2010, TUI Nederland began a 
three-year child protection project 
in North East Brazil, working in 
collaboration with Plan Nederland 
and ECPAT Nederland.  The project 
aims to give vulnerable girls a good 
education and help finding a job in 
the tourism industry. www.tuitravelplc.com
32 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010
Business performance
Group performance
Group revenue was 2% lower than the prior year at 
£13,525m (2009 restated: £13,851m) driven by the 
impact of the strategic transactions in Canada and 
Germany scheduled flying which reduced revenue 
by 3%.  Revenue from acquisitions increased 
revenue by 1% over the prior year whilst organic 
revenue was flat and the impact of foreign currency 
translation was neutral.
The Group achieved a £46m improvement in 
underlying operating profit to £447m in 2010 (2009 
restated: £401m).  This improvement has primarily 
been achieved through the delivery of integration 
synergies, the recovery of scheduled flying losses  
in Germany and the strategic venture in Canada, 
partially offset by weaker trading.  The trading 
performance was driven by increased Winter 
losses, especially in the UK source market following 
capacity-led volume reductions.  Improved Summer 
trading, including strong performances in Belgium 
and the Nordic region, was not enough to offset 
the increased Winter losses.
The main drivers of the year-on-year improvement 
in underlying operating profit are:
  £m
2009 underlying operating profit  401
Incremental synergies  75
Turnaround of underperforming businesses 53
Trading  (76)
Acquisitions (including Emerging Markets JV) 4
Foreign exchange translation  (10)
2010 underlying operating profit  447
Year ended 30 September 2010
 Underlying results
1
  Statutory results
 2010 pro 2009 Change 2010 2009
£m forma
2
 restated %  restated
Revenue 13,525 13,851 (2%)  13,400  13,851 
Operating profit/(loss) 447 401 11%  81  (5)
Profit/(loss) before tax 337 324 4%  (36) (94)
Basic eps (p) 22.0 20.0 10%  (7.8) (4.8)
Dividend per share (p) 11.0 10.7 3%  11.0 10.7
1 Underlying operating profit and underlying profit before tax are from continuing operations and exclude separately disclosed items, 
amortisation of acquisition related expenses, goodwill impairment and interest and taxation on the Group’s share of the results of joint 
ventures and associates.  Underlying profit before tax also excludes separately disclosed financial expenses.  Underlying earnings per share 
excludes the same items, net of related taxation.
2 Pro forma, unaudited results for the period, reported before the estimated financial impact of the closures of European airspace as a result of 
volcanic ash.  See Note 1(B)(iii) on page 71 for basis of preparation over the pro forma financial information.
A reconciliation of underlying operating profit to 
statutory operating profit/(loss) is as follows:
 2010 2009
Year ended 30 September £m £m
Underlying operating profit  447  401 
Separately disclosed items –  
operating (Note 3) (181) (340)
Volcanic ash impact (104) – 
Impairment of goodwill (12) (7)
Acquisition reIated expenses (63) (56)
Taxation on profits of joint  
ventures and associates (6) (3)
Statutory operating  
profit/(loss)  81  (5)
As previously announced and consistent with the 
adoption of IFRS 8, which requires that an entity’s 
operating segments are reported on the same 
basis as internally reported information, the results 
of joint ventures and associates are now reported 
within each relevant Sector’s result. Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
www.tuitravelplc.com
TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 33
Northern Region   2010 2009 Change %
Customers (’000)
1
 
UK & Ireland  5,399 5,687 (5%)
Nordic  1,224 1,177 4%
Total  6,623 6,864 (4%)
Revenue (£m)
UK & Ireland  3,392 3,245
2
 5%
Nordic  904 797 13%
Canada
1
  52 168 (69%)
Total  4,348 4,210 3%
Underlying operating  
profit/(loss) (£m)
UK & Ireland  127 142
2
 (11%)
Nordic  60 48 25%
Canada  (5) (24) 79%
Total  182 166 10%
Underlying operating  
margin % 
UK & Ireland  3.7% 4.4%
2
 (70bps)
Nordic  6.6% 6.0% 60bps
Canada  n/a n/a n/a
Total  4.2% 3.9% 30bps
1 From 14 January 2010, our Canadian operations have been 
accounted for under the equity method and Canadian customer 
numbers have been excluded.
2 Restated.
UK & Ireland
The UK & Ireland businesses delivered an 
underlying operating profit of £127m (2009 
restated: £142m).  
Summer trading was not strong enough to offset 
increased losses in the Winter season.  Winter 
losses increased largely due to planned capacity 
reductions which, whilst ensuring that supply and 
demand were in balance, removed holidays from 
the programme that had previously made a  
positive contribution.  
The Summer trading performance was affected  
by a slowdown in bookings following a downturn  
in consumer confidence in the early Summer.  
Consumer booking trends were affected by the 
recurrence of airspace closures caused by the 
volcanic ash, the emergency budget and 
subsequent austerity measures, and the better 
than average UK weather, combined with the 
expected quiet trading period during the World 
Cup.  The slowdown resulted in more stock left to 
sell in the lates period than expected and although 
this period traded well, margins were inevitably 
affected by this shift to later booking patterns.
Sector revenue
10 £11.7bn
09 £12.0bn
Northern Region
The Northern region achieved a 10% improvement 
in underlying operating profit to £182m in 2010 
(2009: £166m).  The improvement was largely 
driven by incremental merger synergies of £62m 
and an improved result in Canada following the 
strategic venture with Sunwing, partially offset by 
trading in the UK.  
Underlying operating profit bridge
 UK &    Northern 
£m Ireland Nordics Canada Region
2009 (excl. JVs  
& Associates) 142  46 (24) 164 
2009 JVs &  
Associates –  2  – 2 
2009 (incl. JVs  
& Associates) 142  48  (24) 166 
Synergies 62  – – 62 
Turnaround 2  –  19  21 
Trading (79) 7  – (72)
Acquisitions –  2  –  2 
FX translation –    3  – 3 
2010 (incl. JVs  
& Associates) 127  60  (5) 182 
Business performance
Segmental performance
Mainstream Sector
Sustainable holidays 
In 2010, TUI UK rolled out a 
Sustainable Development Contract 
Addendum to main hotel suppliers, 
making it compulsory for them to 
subscribe to and be audited by the 
Travelife Sustainability System.  
Hotels achieving a Travelife award are 
featured in First Choice and Thomson’s 
online ‘Greener Holidays’ brochures, 
making it easier for customers to 
identify a more sustainable break. 
www.its4travel.com www.tuitravelplc.com
34 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010
Business performance
Segmental performance continued
As a part of the Nordic business’ focus on 
sustainability, TUIfly Nordic became the first 
charter airline globally to achieve ISO 14001 
certification.  Furthermore, during 2010 all 
Mediterranean Blue Villages achieved this 
certification.
The business has also invested in multimedia 
content to improve online product presentation 
and this has further promoted the web as the  
main distribution channel.  Web sales increased to 
57% (2009: 52%).  From Summer 2011, traditional 
holiday brochures will no longer be produced, 
emphasising the online culture within the business.  
Total controlled distribution was flat at 85% as we 
reduced the number of owned stores.
Canada
Canada reported an underlying operating loss  
of £5m (2009: loss of £24m).  This represents a 
significant turnaround in our participation in 
Canada, and results from the completion of the 
strategic venture with Sunwing in January 2010.  
The transaction has strengthened our position in 
the Canadian market, providing the Group with a 
49% stake in the second largest tourism business.  
On an annualised basis, assuming the strategic 
venture was effective for the full financial year, 
Canada would have delivered a profit of £2m  
in 2010.  
We have identified opportunities to realise 
significant synergies in the venture, primarily 
though network planning benefits and actions to 
remove duplicated resources, such as migration to 
a single reservation system, integration of certain 
back office functions and consolidation of office 
premises.  We estimate that our share of the 
synergy benefits is worth at least £8m per  
annum, resulting in a target of £10m for our  
share of the venture’s profits.  
The expansion of unique products continued in 
2010, helping to mitigate margin pressure in 
commodity products, with the differentiated 
product mix increasing by three percentage points 
to 42%.  This included the opening of Sensatori 
Tenerife in May and the expansion of the First 
Choice Holiday Village portfolio with new units  
in Lanzarote and Rhodes.  
Controlled distribution increased by three 
percentage points to 81% in 2010, driven by  
the online channel.  This was supported by 
improvements in functionality to the Thomson  
and the First Choice websites and the success of 
personalised portals such as ‘MyThomson’, which 
allows customers to manage their bookings online.
Our business in Ireland delivered £2m of 
turnaround progress.  A rationalisation in capacity 
resulted in an improved trading performance, 
helped by the high-profile failure of a competitor.  
Furthermore, cost savings were achieved through 
back-office restructuring and optimisation of  
the distribution network, which included the 
introduction of a virtual call centre and a  
reduction in the number of retail shops.
Nordic region
The Nordic region, consisting of our operations in 
Sweden, Norway, Denmark and Finland, achieved 
an improved underlying operating profit of £60m 
(2009: £48m).
The profit improvement was largely driven by a 
sharp improvement in customer demand coupled 
with successful capacity planning.  The business is 
highly flexible as in-house flying accounts for only 
circa 60% of all packages sold, allowing capacity  
to be adjusted to meet market demand.  After 
reducing capacity in Summer 2009 and Winter 
2009/10 in response to lower demand, the business 
was able to add capacity when demand improved 
for Summer 2010.
Demand for TUI Nordics holidays outstripped that 
for competitors’ products as a result of multi-year 
investment in product and service differentiation 
which has contributed to strong improvements in 
customer satisfaction scores and repeat bookings.  
The range of unique products was further 
increased in 2010 with the opening of a Blue Village 
Exotic Aquamarine in Hurghada, the eco-friendly 
Blue Village Atlantica Caldera Creta Paradise and 
Blue Village Bellavista in Bulgaria.
Increasing differentiated 
products
During the year, TUI Nordic opened 
three additional Blue Village family 
concepts in Hurghada, Crete and 
Bulgaria.  In the UK, Thomson 
launched Thomson Couples, an 
adult-only experience designed 
to offer child-free holidays.  
Substantial work has been done 
in order to develop differentiated 
concepts that can work in several 
source markets.  The UK concepts 
– Thomson Couples, Splash (hotels 
with waterparks) and Holiday 
Villages (activity-focused family 
hotels) – were introduced in the 
Nordic market.   Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
www.tuitravelplc.com
TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 35
Germany
Underlying operating profit was £81m, an 
improvement of £11m (2009: £70m).  Underlying 
operating margins also improved by 40bps to 2.1% 
(2009: 1.7%).  This improvement was driven by the 
£20m benefit of exiting from scheduled flying 
operations.  This transaction was also the primary 
driver behind the 21% reduction in customers in 
the year.
Trading in the tour operator deteriorated by £6m 
versus the prior year.  This was largely as a result  
of weak trading in Q3 2010, with lower load factors  
in June, lost sales following the volcanic ash 
disruption, price pressure on commodity product 
and by a shift in mix towards lower margin holidays 
(such as overland tours).  Summer 2010 bookings 
improved significantly in the last quarter of 2010 
with volumes up 14% in Q4 2010 over the prior  
year, however the increased lates mix also led  
to a reduction in profitability.  The result was  
also affected by foreign exchange translation  
losses of £3m.  
Germany improved its controlled distribution by 
two percentage points to 51%.  During 2010 the 
online brand 1-2-FLY.com was launched, offering 
dynamically packaged flight and hotel content.
Austria
Austria reported underlying operating profits of 
£9m (2009: £8m) and an improvement of 80bps in 
underlying operating margin to 2.8% (2009: 2.0%).  
Underlying margins improved by £1m over the prior 
year, due to growth in demand for differentiated 
hotel content, such as Magic Life, Pegasos and the 
Blue Collection, and an increase in online volumes.  
Controlled distribution increased by 10 percentage 
points to 31%.  
Switzerland 
Switzerland reported underlying operating profits 
of £4m and an underlying operating margin of 
2.2%, a significant improvement over 2009’s 
breakeven result.  This was primarily as a result  
of margin improvement, driven by fewer holidays 
sold in the lates market versus prior year.  
Poland
Poland reported an underlying operating loss  
of £2m in 2010 (2009: loss of £7m).  Customer 
demand for the Summer 2010 programme was 
strong, with volumes up 24% over prior year in  
H2 10.  
Central Europe 
The Central Europe division reported an underlying 
operating profit of £92m in 2010, an improvement 
of £21m over the prior year (2009: £71m).  This 
improvement is principally due to the elimination  
of scheduled flying losses (£20m).
Underlying operating profit/(loss) bridge
   Switzer-  Central
£m Germany Austria land Poland Europe
2009 (excl.  
JVs & Ass.)  65 8 – (7) 66
2009 JVs & Ass.  5 – – – 5
2009 (incl.  
JVs & Ass.)  70 8 – (7) 71
Turnaround   20 – – 5 25
Trading   (6) 1 4 – (1)
Synergies  – 1 – – 1
FX Translation  (3) (1) – – (4)
2010 (incl.  
JVs & Ass.)  81 9 4 (2) 92
 
Central Europe  2010 2009 Change %
Customers (’000)
Germany  6,938 8,775 (21%)
Austria  558 565 (1%)
Switzerland  286 286 Flat
Poland  116 104 12%
Total  7,898 9,730 (19%)
Revenue (£m)
Germany  3,800 4,144 (8%)
Austria  324 405 (20%)
Switzerland  183 185 (1%)
Poland  68 62 10%
Total  4,375 4,796 (9%)
Underlying operating  
profit/(loss) (£m)
Germany  81 70 16%
Austria  9 8 13%
Switzerland  4 – n/a 
Poland  (2) (7) 71%
Total  92 71 30%
Underlying operating  
margin %
Germany  2.1%  1.7% 40bps
Austria  2.8%  2.0% 80bps
Switzerland  2.2% – 220bps
Poland  (2.9%) (11.3%) 840bps
Total  2.1%  1.5% 60bps
TUI Environmental 
Conference 
In June 2010, TUI Deutschland 
hosted an Environmental Conference 
for accommodation suppliers 
in Antalya, Turkey.  Almost 100 
hoteliers attended the event, learning 
about best practice environmental 
initiatives from TUI Deutschland’s 
‘Umwelt (Environmental) Champion’ 
hotels.  In 2011 a sustainability 
conference for hoteliers in the  
Canary Islands will be organised.  
Growth in river cruises
Following the continuously growing 
river cruise market and the success 
with the first river cruise ship 
‘Maxima’, TUI launched its second 
ship ‘Sonata’ in August 2010.  With 
a completely new product line, 
featuring modern design, diversified 
programme and excellent service 
and quality, the TUI river cruise fleet 
will address the increasingly younger 
river cruise customers. www.tuitravelplc.com
36 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010
France
Underlying operating profit bridge
 Nouvelles
£m Frontières Corsair Marmara France
2009 (13) (24) 18  (19)
Turnaround 6  – – 6 
Trading  – 1  1  2 
Synergies 2  – 1  3 
FX Translation (2) (1) (1) (4)
2010 (7) (24) 19  (12)
France reported an underlying operating loss of 
£12m in 2010 (2009: loss of £19m).  The £7m 
improvement was mainly due to continued 
turnaround in Nouvelles Frontières.  
Nouvelles Frontières benefited from reduced costs 
following the restructuring implemented last year 
and from the successful introduction of the new 
Nouvelles Frontières Hotel Clubs concept and the 
extended flight programme out of regional airports 
in France.  Online sales also increased by five 
percentage points to 17% of total bookings.  
Marmara increased its market share across all  
of its destinations in the year and also successfully 
added new medium and long-haul destinations.  
Controlled distribution increased by three 
percentage points to 41%.  
Collaboration between the two tour operators  
in France delivered incremental synergies of  
£3m in the year.
Corsair reported a flat underlying operating result.  
The scheduled flying market in France continues to 
be highly competitive and management is executing 
plans to make Corsair a viable airline in the future.
Netherlands
Netherlands reported an underlying operating 
profit of £7m (2009: £7m).  Underlying operating 
margins improved in 2010 by £1m, driven by  
a three percentage increase in controlled 
distribution to 60% (2009: 57%).  This was mainly 
due to strong online growth due to improved 
websites for Arke.nl and ArkeFly.nl.  However, 
foreign exchange translation adversely affected  
the result by £1m.  
Belgium
Belgium achieved a strong improvement in 
underlying operating profits to £56m (2009: £45m).  
Customer volumes increased by 4% over the prior 
year, driven by the launch of new destinations  
and growth in the offering from regional  
airports.  Margins also improved as a result of  
a five percentage point increase in controlled 
distribution to 55%, driven by the online channel.
Western Europe
Western Europe reported underlying operating 
profits of £51m in 2010, an improvement of  
£18m over the prior year (2009: £33m).  The 
improvement was largely driven by strong trading 
in Belgium and turnaround in Nouvelles Frontières.
Underlying operating profit/(loss) bridge
    Western 
£m France Netherlands Belgium Europe
2009 (19) 7  45  33 
Trading  2  – 13  15 
Turnaround 6  1  – 7 
Synergies 3  – – 3 
FX Translation (4) (1) (2) (7)
2010 (12) 7  56  51 
 
Western Europe  2010 2009 Change %
Customers (’000)
France  2,031  1,959  4%
Netherlands  1,211  1,274  (5%)
Belgium  1,861  1,790  4%
Total  5,103  5,023  2%
Revenue (£m)
France  1,244  1,228  1%
Netherlands  668  700  (5%)
Belgium  754  724  4%
Total  2,666  2,652  1%
Underlying operating  
(loss)/profit (£m) 
France  (12) (19) 37%
Netherlands  7  7  Flat
Belgium  56  45  24%
Total  51  33  55%
Underlying operating  
margin %
France  (1.0%) (1.5%) 50bps
Netherlands  1.0%   1.0%  Flat
Belgium  7.4%  6.2%  120bps
Total  1.9%  1.2%  70bps
Business performance
Segmental performance continued
Launch of differentiated 
products and new 
destinations 
Nouvelles Frontières and Marmara 
have been working closely together 
to develop two destinations with 
differentiated products for the 
French market.  They collectively 
launched Marbella as a new medium-
haul destination, each with their own 
club while sharing flight capacity.  
On long-haul, Marmara launched 
Mauritius as a new destination, 
capitalising on access to Nouvelles 
Frontières hotels and flight capacity 
with the in-house carrier Corsairfly.   Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
www.tuitravelplc.com
TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 37
Within the flat underlying trading result, the B2B 
and B2C online businesses have benefited from 
strong volume growth and improved conversion 
rates.  Profitability was offset, however, by start-up 
investment in new markets within the online 
businesses and the impact of reduced tour 
operator volumes in the incoming business and 
reduced activity in our Asian Meetings, Incentives, 
Conferences and Entertainment business which 
suffered from reduced corporate spending in the 
early part of the year.
Sector revenue
10 £760m
09 £719m
Accommodation & Destinations Sector
The A&D Sector reported underlying operating 
profits of £71m in 2010 (2009: £67m).  The 
underlying trading result was unchanged, with the 
increase driven by incremental merger synergies of 
£4m and a £1m contribution from the annualisation 
of prior year acquisitions, partially offset by foreign 
exchange translation losses of £1m.
Accommodation & Destinations 
    change %
Customers  
B2B roomnights    23%
B2C roomnights    17%
Incoming passenger volumes   (4%)
  2010 2009 Change %
Revenue (£m)  551 552 Flat
Underlying operating  
profit (£m)  71 67 6%
Underlying operating  
margin %  12.9% 12.1% 80bps
 
Investment in AsiaRooms
One of the key achievements 
during this year has been the 
investment made in the AsiaRooms 
brand.  We have increased our 
own hotel inventory in the region 
by 62% (7,800 hotels), rebranded 
the website and implemented a 
commissionable model with our  
hotel partners.  We believe we are 
now in a position to capture the 
tremendous growth expected in the 
Asian online travel market space in 
the coming years.
Accommodation & Destinations Sector
Giving back 
Businesses across this Sector 
support many charities.  For example, 
this year the Sector supported a 
charity local to its head office in 
Mallorca.  Over €10,000 was donated 
to the Allen Graham Charity 4 Kidz 
which supports children in need on 
the island. www.tuitravelplc.com
38 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010
The Adventure businesses reported underlying 
operating profits of £9m (2009: £13m).  The 
annualisation of acquisitions made in the prior  
year contributed £3m of profit in 2010.  However, 
underlying trading worsened by £7m despite  
higher earnings at small group adventure operator 
Exodus, mainly due to weak demand in Australian 
Adventure and Polar Cruising.  Our Australian 
businesses had a challenging time: Peregrine 
Adventures saw lower demand for higher priced 
long-haul travel; Adventure Tours Australia felt  
the effect of the strong Australian dollar which 
rendered outback experiences less affordable to 
their backpacker clients, although good progress 
has been made in extracting cost synergies 
following the combination of a number of similar 
businesses acquired in the last three years.  Polar 
expedition specialist Quark had a difficult year, with 
clients reluctant to commit to their higher priced, 
iconic cruises in the uncertain economic climate.
The Ski, Student and Sports divisions increased 
underlying operating profits by £9m to £36m 
(2009: £27m).  The divisions delivered strong 
trading growth of £3m, driven by growth in the 
Student businesses and a good year for the Sports 
division due to the Football World Cup, Vancouver 
Olympics and England’s cricket tour to South 
Africa.  Businesses acquired during the year, plus 
the annualisation of acquisitions made in the prior 
year, contributed £4m of incremental profit.  In the 
Student division, the integration of new acquisitions 
(Hampstead School of English and the Manchester 
Academy of English) with our existing business, 
EAC Language Centres, has created a strong brand 
presence in the English language teaching industry.  
In the Ski division, Crystal, the UK’s largest ski 
operator, experienced strong customer demand  
for its new Crystal Ski+ product which includes  
ski hire and lift pass in the package at highly 
competitive rates.  The business also delivered 
incremental synergies of £2m, through the 
integration of the former TUI and First Choice  
ski businesses.
Sector revenue
10 £868m
09 £816m
The Activity Sector delivered underlying operating 
profits of £61m in 2010 (2009: £59m), driven by 
£7m of profits from acquisitions and £2m of 
incremental synergies, offset by £6m due to 
weaker trading and a £1m loss from foreign 
exchange translation.
Activity   
  2010 2009 Change %
Revenue (£m) 
Marine  134 131 2%
Adventure   286 240 19%
Ski, Student and Sport 448 445 1%
Total  868 816 6%
Underlying operating  
profit (£m)
Marine  16 19 (16%)
Adventure   9 13 (31%)
Ski, Student and Sport 36 27 33%
Total  61 59 3%
Underlying operating  
margin %
Total  7.0% 7.2% (20bps)
The Marine division reported underlying profits  
of £16m, a decrease of £3m versus the prior year 
(2009: £19m), primarily due to weak demand for 
the Winter 2009/10 programme.
Business performance
Segmental performance continued
Thomson Sport wins 
Arsenal contract
Thomson Sport secured a three-year 
commercial partnership as Arsenal’s 
official UK travel agency partner 
which includes business travel (team 
travel supplier), official supporters’ 
travel, supplier marketing rights 
and access to over 250,000 Arsenal 
supporters to sell packages and 
holidays.  
Volunteering day 
In 2010, the Activity Sector  
re-launched its ‘Charity Day’  
scheme – giving over 4,900 
colleagues the opportunity to 
volunteer for a day at a chosen 
charity.  This opportunity was used 
to clean up local environments, work 
with sick children and raise money 
for key projects within the Sector.
Activity Sector Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
www.tuitravelplc.com
TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 39
US
The US division reported underlying operating 
profits of £8m (2009: £15m).  The reduction in 
profits was due to the circa 70% reduction in the 
number of tours operated by our US private jet 
tours business in Winter 2009/10, as the key 
booking period for this season was during the  
peak of the recession in the fourth quarter of  
2008.  Following a strong recovery in demand,  
we have increased the number of tours for the 
Winter 2010/11 season and the business is 
performing well.
Emerging Markets
This division reported underlying operating losses 
of £6m (2009 profit: £1m), due to our continued 
investment in market and product development in 
the businesses we acquired in Russia and the CIS.  
In 2010 the TUI brand was introduced into these 
markets, with the rebranding of the retail network, 
the launch of a TUI website and the co-branding  
of brochures.  The division now has 480,000 
customers and a retail estate of over 150 travel 
agencies.  The Russian and Ukrainian markets  
remain attractive, with the annual package  
market estimated to be between 8.5 million and  
10 million customers.
Strong macroeconomic conditions, positive 
consumer behaviour and a growing appetite  
for travel make the markets of Brazil, India and 
China particularly interesting.  The Group already 
has a presence in these markets, however we are 
currently evaluating our participation strategy 
across all three markets.
Sector revenue
10 £717m
09 £825m
The Specialist & Emerging Markets Sector reported 
underlying operating profits of £19m in 2010 (2009: 
£32m).  The decrease was driven by start-up losses 
of £6m in Emerging Markets, and capacity cuts in 
our private jet tours business in the US, partly 
offset by better trading in the UK division.
Specialist & Emerging Markets
  2010 2009 Change %
Customers (’000)
Europe  536  530  1%
US  267  290  (8%)
Total  803  820  (2%)
Revenue (£m)
Europe  547  584  (6%)
US  170  241  (29%)
Total  717  825  (13%)
Underlying operating  
profit/(loss) (£m)
Europe  17  16  6%
US  8  15  (47%)
Emerging Markets  (6) 1  n/a
Total  19  32  (41%)
Underlying operating  
margin %
Total  2.6% 3.9% (130bps)
Europe
Underlying operating profit was £17m (2009: 
£16m).  This was mainly as a result of margin 
improvement in some of the UK businesses, such 
as Hayes & Jarvis, Sovereign and Citalia, who were 
able to change the mix of holidays sold to a higher 
proportion of premium holidays in 2010.  
Staycation versus vacation
Hayes & Jarvis launched a 
‘Staycation/Vacation’ advertising 
and marketing campaign to challenge 
the publicity in the press that this 
was the summer for holidaying in 
the UK.  Hayes & Jarvis focused 
on sourcing very strong air and 
land offers from key suppliers, 
particularly for their four and five-
star products.  These were promoted 
in a slightly tongue-in-cheek fashion, 
comparing great value long-haul, 
luxury holidays in some of the more 
exotic destinations to a sample of 
British holiday resorts.  
Specialist & Emerging Markets Sector 
Sustainable development 
challenge 
Managing Directors in the Sector 
responded to a challenge to 
showcase how they had taken 
personal action or worked with 
their teams to bring the value of 
‘Responsible Leadership’ to life.   
UK Specialist long-haul brands 
donated over £34,000 for ‘Just a 
Drop’, a charity which works to 
deliver water to those who need  
it most. www.tuitravelplc.com
40 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010
In the UK, as previously reported, capacity for the 
season is 5% higher due to a change in the fleet 
mix in Canada from B757s to smaller B737s which 
results in a higher number of B757s in the UK.  
Trading remains positive, with booking increases  
in line with the capacity change and higher average 
selling prices.  Load factor is currently 47%.   
In November and December, two of Thomson  
Cruises’ five ships are in extended dry dock for 
routine maintenance and the resulting reduction  
in contribution will partially offset improved  
trading in the tour operator in that period.
In the Nordic region, cumulative bookings are now 
up 31% versus the prior year and the load factor is 
81%, up eight percentage points.  Demand for our 
market-leading portfolio of differentiated products, 
coupled with the successful use of an additional 
long-haul aircraft from our airline in France, is 
driving these strong booking volumes.  Our product 
offering has been enhanced for Winter 2010/11 and 
Summer 2011 through co-operation with the UK 
business to bring the Splash, Holiday Village and 
Sensatori concepts to the Nordic region.  
In Germany, booking volumes remain ahead of 
capacity with volumes up 9% versus the prior  
year.  Due to the late timing of Easter and in 
response to demand we are commencing certain 
Summer destinations earlier than usual and as 
these departure dates are reported as part of  
the Winter season, reported ‘Winter’ capacity is  
up 6%.  Adjusting for this effect, underlying Winter 
capacity is flat.  Our load factor in Germany is 
currently 57%.
In the Western Europe source markets, the strong 
booking activity experienced towards the latter 
part of the Summer season has continued into 
Winter.  In France, demand for our differentiated 
Nouvelles Frontières Hotel Clubs and Club Marmara 
products is a key driver of volume growth.
In the Specialist & Activity Sector, all divisions  
have experienced higher sales to date versus the 
prior year.  Our private jet tours businesses, TCS 
and Starquest, have seen a strong rebound in 
booking activity as the number of tours has 
increased following the reduction in 2009/10.  
There has also been good growth in our market-
leading ski brand, Crystal.
In A&D, the strong booking volumes for online 
accommodation experienced in 2010 has continued 
with booking volumes, transaction values and 
margins all higher than the prior year.
Winter 2010/11
We have continued to see positive recent trading 
trends across most source markets.  In line with our 
product strategy, we have expanded our portfolio 
of differentiated product and unique holiday 
experiences and this is driving booking activity.
   Bookings 
   since
  Cumulative  previous Cumulative
Year-on-year customer  bookings at  trading bookings
booking variation %  17 Oct  statement at 21 Nov
UK  6 2 5
Nordic region  32 27 31
Germany  10 9 9
France  13 (6) 8
Belgium  15 7 12
Netherlands  12 18 14
Business performance
Current trading
Current trading
1
 Winter 2010/11
 
    Risk only
 T otal T otal  T otal
Year-on-year variation % ASP
2
 Sales
2
 Customers
2
 Capacity
3
 Left to sell
3
Mainstream
UK 11 16 5 5 3
Nordic Flat 31 31 18 (18)
Northern Region  7 21 14  
Germany  2 11 9 6 Flat
Austria 7 6 Flat  
Switzerland (2) (4) (1)  
Poland (12) (2) 11  
Central Europe 1 10 8  
France 3 11 8  
Belgium (2) 11 12  
Netherlands  6 20 14  
Western Europe 2 13 11  
Specialist & Activity NA 4 NA  
Accommodation &  
Destinations
4
 7 33 25  
1 These statistics are up to 21 November 2010.
2 These statistics relate to all customers whether risk or non-risk.
3 These statistics include all risk capacity programmes.
4 These statistics refer to B2B Online businesses only and sales refer to total transaction value (TTV). Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
www.tuitravelplc.com
TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 41
We expect this restructuring programme to enable 
the airline to achieve at least a breakeven result.  
Material benefits from the programme are expected 
to start to come through in 2012 with the full 
benefits delivered in 2013.
Integration and cost efficiencies
The merger integration is now largely complete  
and we have delivered £195m of synergy benefit  
to date, with the remaining £5m expected to be 
delivered in 2011.  As part of the integration 
process, we have identified and removed areas  
of duplicated cost.  We are, however, continuing  
to review areas of our cost base to maintain 
competitiveness, especially in commodity 
segments.  These include cost reductions and 
productivity improvements in Group airlines, 
replacement of core reservation systems in the  
UK and Germany, and an overhead reduction 
programme throughout the business.
Outlook
Since July, we have experienced a sustained 
improvement in trading which resulted in  
Summer 2010 closing out well in all source  
markets and positive trends for the Winter  
2010/11 and Summer 2011 seasons.  Trading  
for our unique, differentiated product continues  
to outperform commodity segments and we  
are introducing new concepts in 2011 leaving  
us well placed to capitalise on this trend.   
Whilst encouraged by current trading, we  
remain cautious about 2011 given the continued 
economic uncertainty and the relatively early  
stage of the booking cycle.
Summer 2011
Trading for Summer 2011 remains good in those 
source markets currently on sale.  
In the UK, total booking volumes are up 7%  
versus the prior year, driven by demand for our 
differentiated product and increased duration 
flexibility.  Bookings for differentiated products  
are currently up 26% and we expect these products 
to represent half of all holidays sold over the full 
season.  We have increased the flexibility in holiday 
durations significantly and have experienced strong 
demand for nine to 12-night durations.
Average selling prices in the UK are currently up  
4% versus the prior year and given that Summer 
2011 is expected to have minimal cost inflation 
(based on achieved hedged rates and current 
forward rates), margins are currently ahead of  
the prior year.  
In the Nordic region, booking volumes are  
up 13%, again driven by our portfolio of 
differentiated products.  
Fuel/foreign exchange
We have hedged a significant proportion of our 
expected fuel and foreign exchange exposure 
for 2011:
   Winter Summer 
   2010/11  2011
Euro   87% 83%
USD   92% 85%
Jet Fuel   87% 86%
As at 25 November 2010.
Corsair 
After constructive and positive discussions, 
negotiations with employees and union 
representatives have been finalised, enabling 
Corsair to implement its turnaround plan.  
Employees have demonstrated strong support  
for the airline and a great willingness to deliver  
a successful turnaround.  Social plans have been 
signed with the required employee representatives.
Under the turnaround project, we plan to change 
the fleet to replace three of our B747 aircraft with 
two A330 aircraft which will optimise capacity and 
route planning.  Customers will enjoy a significantly 
improved onboard experience as we also reconfigure 
and update the cabins in the existing fleet.
We have agreed a number of significant productivity 
improvements with employee representatives, 
including a reduction in the number of employees 
by circa 25%, a freeze on salaries for a period of 
three years, a reduced cabin crew composition and 
rationalisation of allowances.  
Current trading
1
 Summer 2011
 
    Risk only
 T otal T otal  T otal
Year-on-year variation % ASP
2
 Sales
2
 Customers
2
 Capacity
3
 Left to sell
3
UK 4 11 7 1 Flat
Nordic 1 14 13 5 4
Northern Region  4 11 7  
1 These statistics are up to 21 November 2010.
2 These statistics relate to all customers whether risk or non-risk.
3 These statistics include all risk capacity programmes. 42  T U I  T r a v e l P L C A n n u a l  R e p o r t  & A c c o u n t s  2 0 1 0
Go v ernanc e
Board of Directors
1 2 3
4 5 6
7 8 9
10 11 12
13 14 15
16 17
www.tuitravelplc.com Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
 
www.tuitravelplc.com
T U I  T r a v e l P L C  A n n u a l R e p o r t  &  A c c o u n t s  2 0 1 0  43
fi n a n c e   d i r ec t o r ,   p r i o r   t o   j o i n i n g   T h o m s o n   T r a v e l   G r o u p  
i n   2 0 0 1 .     H e   t h e n   w e n t   o n   t o   b ec o m e   C h i e f   F i n a n c i a l  
O f fic e r   o f   T U I   T o u r i s m   i n   2 0 0 6 .
6. Dr Volker Böttcher
Managing Director, Central Europe (Age 51)
V o l k e r   B ö t t c h e r   j o i n ed   t h e   B o a r d   o f   T U I   T r a v e l   P L C   o n 
1 9   J u n e   2 0 0 7   a n d   i s   r e s p o n s i b l e   f o r   C e n t r a l   E u r o p e   i n  
t h e   M a i n s t r e a m   S ec t o r .     A f t e r   a n   e a r l y   c a r ee r   i n   la w , 
V o l k e r   j o i n ed   T o u r i s t i k   U n i o n   I n t e r n a t i o n a l   i n   1 9 8 7   a s 
a   l e g a l   a d v i s o r .     H a v i n g   o c c u p i ed   v a r i o u s   m a n a g e m e n t  
p os i t i o n s ,   h e   b ec a m e   h e a d   o f   T U I ’ s   S p ec i a l   P r o g r a m m e s  
D i v i s i o n   i n   1 9 96   w h i c h   i n c l u d ed   r e s p o n s i b i l i t y   f o r    
l o n g - h a u l   d e s t i n a t i o n s ,   c i t y   t o u r s   a n d   t h e   E a s t e r n  
M ed i t e r r a n e a n .     I n   2 0 0 3   V o l k e r   w a s   a p p o i n t ed   C h a i r m a n  
f o r   C e n t r a l   E u r o p e   f o r   T U I   A G ,   b e i n g   r e s p o n s i b l e   f o r   a l l 
t o u r i s m   a c t i v i t i e s   i n   t h e   s o u r c e   m a r k e t s   o f   G e r m a n y ,  
Au s t r i a ,   S w i t z e r la n d   a n d   P o la n d .     H e   w a s   a p p o i n t ed   t o  
t h e   b o a r d   o f   T U I   D e u t s c h la n d   G m b H   i n   A p r i l   2 0 0 0.    
F o l l o w i n g   t h e   r e s t r u c t u r i n g   o f   T U I ’ s   b u s i n e s s   m o d e l   i n 
G e r m a n y ,   h e   w a s   a p p o i n t ed   C E O   o f   T U I   D e u t s c h la n d  
G m b H   i n   J u l y   2 0 0 1 .      
7. Johan Lundgren
Managing Director, Northern Region (Age 44)
J o h a n   L u n d g r e n   w a s   a p p o i n t ed   t o   t h e   B o a r d   o f   T U I  
T r a v e l   P L C   o n   2 1   D ec e m b e r   2 0 0 7 .     H e   i s   r e s p o n s i b l e   f o r  
t h e   N o r t h e r n   R e g i o n   w h i c h   i n c l u d e s   a l l   M a i n s t r e a m  
t o u r i s m   s a l e s   i n   t h e   U K   &   I r e la n d ,   C a n a da ,   S w ed e n ,  
N o r w a y ,   D e n m a r k   a n d   F i n la n d .     J o h a n   h a s   w o r k ed   i n 
t h e   N o r d i c   t o u r i s m   i n d u s t r y   f o r   a l m os t   2 5   y e a r s ,   1 4   o f 
w h i c h   h a v e   b ee n   a s   a   M a n a g i n g   D i r ec t o r .     B e t w ee n   1 9 9 9  
a n d   2 0 0 1 ,   h e   w a s   P r e s i d e n t   o f   Su n q u e s t   V a c a t i o n s   i n 
C a n a da .     J o h a n   w e n t   o n   t o   b ec o m e   C h i e f   E x ec u t i v e   o f  
T U I   N o r d i c   a n d   a l s o   t o o k   r e s p o n s i b i l i t y   f o r   t o u r i s m   s a l e s  
i n   t h e   s o u r c e   m a r k e t s   o f   I t a l y   a n d   R u s s i a .   
8. Rainer Feuerhake
Non-Executive Director (Age 66)
R a i n e r   F e u e r h a k e   j o i n ed   t h e   P r e u s s a g   G r o u p   ( n o w   
T U I   A G )   i n   1 96 8   a n d   b y   1 9 8 0   w a s   r e s p o n s i b l e   f o r   g r o u p 
a c c o u n t i n g .     R a i n e r   w a s   a p p o i n t ed   a s   C h i e f   F i n a n c i a l 
O f fic e r   o f   P r e u s s a g   A G   i n   N o v e m b e r   1 9 8 8   a n d  
s u b s eq u e n t l y   T U I   A G   ( f o l l o w i n g   a   r e s o l u t i o n   t o   r e n a m e 
P r e u s s a g   A G   o n   1   J u l y   2 0 0 2 ) .     I n   t h i s   p os i t i o n   R a i n e r 
w a s   r e s p o n s i b l e   f o r   t h e   d e p a r t m e n t s   o f   A c c o u n t i n g   &  
R e p o r t i n g ,   F i n a n c e ,   I n v e s t o r   R e la t i o n s ,   T a x   A f f a i r s , 
M e r g e r s   &   A c q u i s i t i o n s ,   D e s t i n a t i o n   M a n a g e m e n t   a n d  
t h e   S h a r ed   S e r v i c e   C e n t r e .     H e   r e s i g n ed   a s   C h i e f  
F i n a n c i a l   O f fic e r   i n   F e b r ua r y   2 0 1 0   a n d   i s   n o w   a c t i n g   a s   
a   c o n s u l t a n t   f o r   T U I   A G .     H e   j o i n ed   t h e   B o a r d   o f   T U I  
T r a v e l   P L C   o n   2 8   J u n e   2 0 0 7 .
9. Tony Campbell
Non-Executive Director (Age 61)
T o n y   C a m p b e l l   b e c a m e   a   N o n - E x e c u ti v e   D i r e c t o r   
o f   F i r s t   C h o i c e   H o l i d a y s   P L C   i n   A p r i l   1 9 9 7   a n d   j o i n e d   th e 
B o a r d   o f   T U I   T r a v e l   P L C   o n   2 8   J u n e   2 0 0 7   a s   a   N o n -
E x e c u ti v e   D i r e c t o r .     T o n y   w a s   D e p u t y   C h i e f   E x e c u ti v e   o f 
A s d a   S t o r e s   L i m i t e d   u n ti l   M a r c h   2 0 0 1 .     H e   i s   c u r r e n tl y  
th e   C h a i r m a n   o f   H o b b s   H o l d i n g   N o   1   L i m i t e d ,   T   M   L e w i n 
G r o u p   L i m i t e d ,   T h e   W h i t e   C o m p a n y   ( U K )   L i m i t e d   a n d   a  
d i r e c t o r   o f   D a t a   T r a n s f e r   &   C o m m u n i c a ti o n s   L i m i t e d .
10. Clare Chapman
Non-Executive Director (Age 50)
C la r e   C h a p m a n   b ec a m e   a   N o n - E x ec u t i v e   D i r ec t o r   o f  
F i r s t   C h o i c e   H o l i da y s   P L C   i n   M a r c h   2 0 0 3   a n d   j o i n ed   t h e  
B o a r d   o f   T U I   T r a v e l   P L C   o n   2 8   J u n e   2 0 0 7 .     C la r e   i s   t h e  
D i r ec t o r   G e n e r a l   o f   W o r k f o r c e   f o r   N H S   a n d   S o c i a l   C a r e , 
D e p a r t m e n t   o f   H e a l t h .     P r i o r   t o   t h i s ,   s h e   w a s   G r o u p  
P e r s o n n e l   D i r ec t o r   a t   T e s c o .     I n   a d d i t i o n ,   C la r e   s e r v e s  
o n   t h e   Au d i t   C o m m i t t ee   o f   J o b c e n t r e   P l u s;   i s   a n  
a d v i s o r y   B o a r d   M e m b e r   f o r   t h e   J u d g e   I n s t i t u t e ,  
B u s i n e s s   S c h o o l   f o r   t h e   U n i v e r s i t y   o f   C a m b r i d g e ;   a n d    
a   F e l l o w   o f   t h e   I n s t i t u t e   o f   P e r s o n n e l .
11. Bill Dalton
Non-Executive Director (Age 66)
B i l l   D a l t o n   b ec a m e   a   N o n - E x ec u t i v e   D i r ec t o r   o f   F i r s t  
C h o i c e   H o l i da y s   P L C   i n   O c t o b e r   2 0 0 4   a n d   j o i n ed   t h e 
B o a r d   o f   T U I   T r a v e l   P L C   o n   1 9   M a r c h   2 0 0 7 .     H e   w a s 
p r e v i o u s l y   a n   e x ec u t i v e   d i r ec t o r   o f   H S B C   H o l d i n g s   p l c , 
C h i e f   E x ec u t i v e   o f   H S B C   B a n k   p l c   a n d   G l o b a l   H e a d   o f  
P e r s o n a l   F i n a n c i a l   S e r v i c e s   f o r   t h e   H S B C   G r o u p .     D u r i n g  
h i s   b a n k i n g   c a r ee r ,   h e   h a s   a m a s s ed   a   g r e a t   d e a l   o f  
i n t e r n a t i o n a l   e x p e r t i s e   a n d   i s   a l s o   a   n o n - e x ec u t i v e  
d i r ec t o r   o f   a   n u m b e r   o f   U K   a n d   N o r t h   A m e r i c a n  
c o m p a n i e s   i n c l u d i n g   A s s o c i a t ed   E l ec t r i c   &   G a s  
I n s u r a n c e   S e r v i c e s   ( A E G I S ),   A E G I S   M a n a g i n g   A g e n c y  
L i m i t ed   ( U K ),   H S B C   N o r t h   A m e r i c a   H o l d i n g   I n c , 
T a l i s m a n   E n e r g y   I n c   a n d   U S   C o l d   S t o r a g e   I n c .    
12. Jeremy Hicks
Non-Executive Director (Age 57)
J e r e m y   H i c k s   b ec a m e   a   N o n - E x ec u t i v e   D i r ec t o r   o f   F i r s t  
C h o i c e   H o l i da y s   P L C   i n   M a r c h   2 0 0 5   a n d   j o i n ed   t h e  
B o a r d   o f   T U I   T r a v e l   P L C   o n   2 8   J u n e   2 0 0 7 .     H e   i s   a 
C h a r t e r ed   A c c o u n t a n t   w i t h   a   n u m b e r   o f   b u s i n e s s  
i n t e r e s t s   p a r t i c u la r l y   i n   t h e   fie l d   o f   m a r k e t i n g   s e r v i c e s .    
H e   h a s   e x t e n s i v e   e x p e r i e n c e   i n   t h e   w o r l d   o f   fi n a n c e   
a s   a n   I n v e s t m e n t   B a n k e r   a n d   m os t   r ec e n t l y   a s   C h i e f  
F i n a n c i a l   O f fic e r   o f   A e g i s   G r o u p   p l c ,   a   l e a d i n g   U K - b a s ed  
m u l t i - n a t i o n a l   m a r k e t i n g   s e r v i c e s   g r o u p ,   f r o m   w h i c h   h e  
r e s i g n ed   i n   A p r i l   2 0 0 7 .
13. Giles Thorley
Non-Executive Director (Age 43)
G i l e s   T h o r l e y   b ec a m e   a   N o n - E x ec u t i v e   D i r ec t o r   o f   F i r s t  
C h o i c e   H o l i da y s   P L C   i n   F e b r ua r y   2 0 0 6   a n d   j o i n ed   t h e 
B o a r d   o f   T U I   T r a v e l   P L C   o n   1 9   M a r c h   2 0 0 7 .     G i l e s   i s 
N o n - E x ec u t i v e   C h a i r m a n   o f   T r a g u s   G r o u p   L i m i t ed ,    
a   l e a d i n g   r e s t a u r a n t   o p e r a t o r   i n   t h e   U K .     H e   w a s   C h i e f  
E x ec u t i v e   O f fic e r   o f   P u n c h   T a v e r n s   p l c ,   t h e   U K ’ s   la r g e s t  
p u b   o p e r a t o r ,   f r o m   2 0 0 1   t o   S e p t e m b e r   2 0 1 0.     A f t e r  
q ua l i f y i n g   a s   a   B a r r i s t e r ,   h e   h a d   a n   e a r l y   c a r ee r   a t 
N o m u r a   I n t e r n a t i o n a l   p l c .     G i l e s   i s   a l s o   a   d i r ec t o r   o f 
M a t t h e w   C la r k   H o l d i n g s   L i m i t ed ,   t h e   U K ’ s   la r g e s t   w i n e  
w h o l e s a l e r   a n d   a   t r u s t ee   o f   t h e   R o n a   S a i l i n g   P r o j ec t .
14. Harold Sher
Non-Executive Director (Age 63)
H a r o l d   S h e r   j o i n ed   t h e   B o a r d   o f   T U I   T r a v e l   P L C   a s    
a   N o n - E x ec u t i v e   D i r ec t o r   o n   2 9   O c t o b e r   2 0 0 7 .     H e  
s t u d i ed   c o m m e r c e   a t   u n i v e r s i t y   a n d   s t a r t ed   h i s   c a r ee r 
a s   a   C h a r t e r ed   A c c o u n t a n t .     H a r o l d   m o v ed   t o   i n d u s t r y 
e a r l y   i n   h i s   c a r ee r   h o l d i n g   a   r a n g e   o f   e x ec u t i v e   p os i t i o n s  
b e f o r e   b e i n g   a p p o i n t ed   C h i e f   E x ec u t i v e   o f   A m a l g a m a t ed  
M e t a l   C o r p o r a t i o n   P L C   i n   1 9 9 2 ,   a   p os i t i o n   h e   s t i l l   h o l ds .   
H e   h a s   s e r v ed   a s   p r e s i d e n t   o f   a   m a j o r   N o r t h   A m e r i c a n 
S t ee l   S e r v i c e s   G r o u p   a n d ,   t o g e t h e r   w i t h   h i s   r o l e   a t  
A m a l g a m a t ed   M e t a l   C o r p o r a t i o n ,   t h i s   h a s   p r o v i d ed   h i m  
w i t h   b r o a d   i n t e r n a t i o n a l   c o m m e r c i a l   e x p e r i e n c e .
15. Dr Albert Schunk
Non-Executive Director (Aged 69)
D r   A l b e r t   S c h u n k   j o i n ed   t h e   B o a r d   o f   T U I   T r a v e l   P L C   a s 
a   N o n - E x ec u t i v e   D i r ec t o r   o n   2 9   O c t o b e r   2 0 0 7 .     A l b e r t  
s t u d i ed   ec o n o m i c s   a t   u n i v e r s i t y   a n d   c a r r i ed   o u t   a  
r e s e a r c h   p r o j ec t   f o r   t h e   G e r m a n   G o v e r n m e n t   i n   L a t i n 
A m e r i c a .     A f t e r   j o i n i n g   I G - M e t a l l,   h e   h a s   s e r v ed   o n   t h e  
s u p e r v i s o r y   b o a r d   o f   V o l k s w a g e n   a n d   o t h e r   G e r m a n 
C o m p a n i e s   s i n c e   1 9 7 6 .     I n   1 9 9 4   h e   b ec a m e   a   m e m b e r   o f 
t h e   E u r o p e a n   E c o n o m i c   a n d   S o c i a l   C o u n c i l   i n   Br u s s e l s 
a n d   h a s   r ec e n t l y   b ee n   a d v i s i n g   t h e   R i u   G r o u p   i n   S p a i n .
16. Dr Erhard Schipporeit
Non-Executive Director (Age 61)
D r   E r h a r d   S c h i p p o r e i t   j o i n ed   t h e   B o a r d   o f   T U I   T r a v e l  
P L C   a s   a   N o n - E x ec u t i v e   D i r ec t o r   o n   2 9   O c t o b e r   2 0 0 7 .    
H e   s t a r t ed   h i s   c a r ee r   i n   1 9 7 9   i n   t h e   B os c h   G r o u p   a n d   i n  
1 9 8 1   h e   j o i n ed   V A RT A   A G / V A RT A   B a t t e r y   A G ,   a t   t h a t 
t i m e   a   l e a d i n g   E u r o p e a n   b a t t e r y   c o m p a n y ,   w h e r e   h e 
b ec a m e   C h i e f   F i n a n c i a l   O f fic e r   i n   1 9 9 0   a n d   C h i e f  
E x ec u t i v e   a n d   C h a i r m a n   o f   t h e   E x ec u t i v e   B o a r d   i n   1 9 9 3 .    
A f t e r   t h e   s u c c e s s f u l   r e s t r u c t u r i n g   o f   V A RT A   t h e   n e x t  
m o v e   i n   h i s   c a r ee r   b r o u g h t   h i m   t o   t h e   M u n i c h   b a s ed  
c o n g l o m e r a t e   c o m p a n y   V I A G   A G   a s   C F O .     V I A G   m e r g ed  
i n   2 0 0 0   w i t h   V E B A   A G   t o   f o r m   t h e   n e w   E . O N   A G ,   o n e   o f  
t h e   w o r l d ’ s   l e a d i n g   u t i l i t y   c o m p a n i e s .     E r h a r d   w a s   C F O 
a n d   E x ec u t i v e   B o a r d   M e m b e r   o f   E . O N   f r o m   2 0 0 0   u n t i l 
h i s   r e s i g n a t i o n   i n   N o v e m b e r   2 0 0 6 .     I n   2 0 0 7   h e   w a s  
a p p o i n t ed   S e n i o r   A d v i s o r   f o r   B N P   P a r i b a s   S A   a n d   i s   a l s o 
c u r r e n t l y   a   n o n - e x ec u t i v e   d i r ec t o r   o f   a   n u m b e r   o f  
c o m p a n i e s   i n c l u d i n g   S A P   A G ,   D e u t s c h e   B o e r s e   A G ,  
T a la n x   A G   a n d   H a n o v e r   R u ec k v e r s i c h e r u n g   A G .
17. Horst Baier 
Non-Executive Director (Age 54)
H o r s t   B a i e r   j o i n ed   t h e   B o a r d   o f   T U I   T r a v e l   P L C   a s    
a   N o n - E x ec u t i v e   D i r ec t o r   o n   1 3   O c t o b e r   2 0 0 9 .     H e  
c o m m e n c ed   h i s   p r o f e s s i o n a l   c a r ee r   i n   t h e   T r e a s u r y 
D e p a r t m e n t   o f   C o n t i n e n t a l   A G ,   t h e   G e r m a n   t y r e 
m a n u f a c t u r e r .     B e t w ee n   1 9 9 4   a n d   1 9 96   H o r s t   w a s 
r e s p o n s i b l e   f o r   G r o u p   F i n a n c i n g   f o r   t h e   F ü r t h - b a s ed  
S c h i c k eda nz   G r o u p .     I n   1 9 96 ,   h e   t o o k   o v e r   r e s p o n s i b i l i t y  
f o r   t h e   T r e a s u r y ,   A c c o u n t i n g   a n d   T a x   D e p a r t m e n t   a t   T U I  
A G .     Si n c e   2 0 0 1 ,   H o r s t   h a s   b ee n   r e s p o n s i b l e   f o r  
A c c o u n t i n g   &   R e p o r t i n g   f o r   T U I   A G   a n d ,   i n   N o v e m b e r  
2 0 0 7 ,   w a s   a p p o i n t ed   t o   t h e   E x ec u t i v e   B o a r d   o f   T U I   A G 
w i t h   r e s p o n s i b i l i t y   f o r   t h e   C o n t r o l l i n g   f u n c t i o n .     I n 
F e b r ua r y   2 0 1 0,   H o r s t   w a s   a p p o i n t ed   C h i e f   F i n a n c i a l 
O f fic e r   o f   T U I   A G .
1. Dr Michael Frenzel
Non-Executive Chairman (Age 63)
D r   M i c h a e l   F r e nz e l   j o i n ed   t h e   B o a r d   o f   T U I   T r a v e l   P L C 
o n   2 8   J u n e   2 0 0 7   a s   N o n - E x ec u t i v e   C h a i r m a n .     M i c h a e l 
s t u d i ed   la w   a t   R u h r   U n i v e r s i t y   i n   B o c h u m   a n d  
c o m p l e t ed   h i s   d o c t o r a t e   w h i l s t   w o r k i n g   a t   t h e   u n i v e r s i t y 
a s   a   s c i e n t i fic   a s s i s t a n t .     H e   j o i n ed   W e s t d e u t s c h e  
L a n d e s b a n k   ( W e s tL B ),   D ü s s e l d o r f ,   i n   1 9 8 1   w h e r e   h e 
w a s   p r o m o t ed   t o   v a r i o u s   m a n a g e r i a l   p os i t i o n s   a n d  
b ec a m e   m a n a g e r   o f   t h e   I n d u s t r i a l   H o l d i n g s   D e p a r t m e n t  
i n   1 9 8 3   a n d   o v e r a l l   m a n a g e r   o f   W e s tL B ’ s   E q u i t y  
H o l d i n g s   D i v i s i o n   i n   1 9 8 5   –   i n c l u d i n g   h o l d i n g s   i n 
b a n k i n g ,   l e a s i n g   a n d   r e a l   e s t a t e .
I n   1 9 8 8 ,   h e   b ec a m e   a   m e m b e r   o f   t h e   P r e u s s a g   A G  
e x ec u t i v e   b o a r d ,   b e i n g   r e s p o n s i b l e   f o r   T r a d i n g   a n d  
Lo g i s t i c s .     M i c h a e l   h a s   h e l d   t h e   p os i t i o n   o f   C h i e f 
E x ec u t i v e   a n d   C h a i r m a n   o f   t h e   E x ec u t i v e   B o a r d   o f 
T U I   A G   ( f o r m e r l y   P r e u s s a g   A G )   s i n c e   J a n ua r y   1 9 9 4 , 
o v e r s ee i n g   i t s   e x t e n s i v e   a c q u i s i t i o n   p r o g r a m m e   i n   
t h e   la t e   1 9 9 0 s ,   w h i c h   r e s u l t ed   i n   t h e   a c q u i s i t i o n s   o f   T U I 
A G ’ s   s t a k e   i n   H a p a g - L l o y d   a n d   o f   l e a d i n g   t o u r i s m  
b u s i n e s s e s   s u c h   a s   T h o m s o n   T r a v e l   a n d   N o u v e l l e s  
F r o n t i è r e s .     M i c h a e l   i s   a l s o   c u r r e n t l y   a   m e m b e r   o f   t h e  
s u p e r v i s o r y   b o a r d   o f   a   n u m b e r   o f   c o m p a n i e s   i n c l u d i n g  
A X A   K o nz e r n   A G ,   A W D   H o l d i n g   A G   a n d   V o l k s w a g e n   A G .
2. Sir Michael Hodgkinson 
Non-Executive Deputy Chairman and Senior 
Independent Director (Age 66) 
Si r   M i c h a e l   H o d g k i n s o n   j o i n ed   t h e   B o a r d   o f   F i r s t   C h o i c e 
H o l i da y s   P L C   a s   a   N o n - E x ec u t i v e   D i r ec t o r   i n   J a n ua r y  
2 0 0 4   a n d   b ec a m e   C h a i r m a n   i n   M a r c h   2 0 0 4 .     H e   j o i n ed 
t h e   B o a r d   o f   T U I   T r a v e l   P L C   o n   2 8   J u n e   2 0 0 7   a s   N o n -
E x ec u t i v e   D e p u t y   C h a i r m a n   a n d   i s   t h e   S e n i o r 
I n d e p e n d e n t   D i r ec t o r .     F o l l o w i n g   a n   e a r l y   c a r ee r   i n   t h e  
a u t o m o t i v e   i n d u s t r y ,   h e   w a s   a p p o i n t ed   C h i e f   E x ec u t i v e 
o f   G r a n d   M e t r o p o l i t a n ’ s   E u r o p e a n   F o o d   D i v i s i o n   i n   1 9 8 6 
a n d   i n   1 9 9 2   h e   j o i n e d   B A A   p l c ,   b e c o m i n g   C h i e f   E x e c u ti v e  
i n   1 9 9 9 ,   a   p os t   f r o m   w h i c h   h e   r e t i r ed   i n   J u n e   2 0 0 3 .   
Si r   M i c h a e l   w a s   S e n i o r   N o n - E x ec u t i v e   D i r ec t o r   a t    
R o y a l   M a i l   a n d   C h a i r m a n   o f   P os t   O f fic e   L i m i t ed   u n t i l 
S e p t e m b e r   2 0 0 7   a n d   i s   c u r r e n t l y   a   n o n - e x ec u t i v e  
d i r ec t o r   o f   T r a n s p o r t   f o r   Lo n d o n   L i m i t ed ,   D u b l i n 
A i r p o r t   a n d   C r os s r a i l   L i m i t ed .     H e   w a s   a l s o   a   D i r ec t o r    
o f   B a n k   o f   I r e la n d   p l c   f r o m   M a y   2 0 0 4   u n t i l   J u l y   2 0 0 6 .   
3. Peter Long
Chief Executive (Age 58)
P e t e r   Lo n g   j o i n ed   t h e   B o a r d   o f   T U I   T r a v e l   P L C   o n 
2 8   J u n e   2 0 0 7   a s   C h i e f   E x ec u t i v e .     I n   N o v e m b e r   1 9 96   h e 
w a s   a p p o i n t ed   G r o u p   M a n a g i n g   D i r ec t o r   o f   F i r s t   C h o i c e 
H o l i da y s   P L C   a n d   b ec a m e   C h i e f   E x ec u t i v e   i n   S e p t e m b e r  
1 9 9 9 .     P r i o r   t o   j o i n i n g   F i r s t   C h o i c e ,   h e   w a s   C h i e f 
E x ec u t i v e   o f   Su n w o r l d   H o l i da y s .
F r o m   F e b r u a r y   2 0 0 1   t o   J u n e   2 0 0 5   P e t e r   w a s   a   n o n -
e x e c u ti v e   d i r e c t o r   o f   R A C   p l c ,   a n d   f r o m   A p r i l   2 0 0 6   
t o   J u l y   2 0 0 9   h e   w a s   a   n o n - e x e c u ti v e   d i r e c t o r   o f  
D e b e n h a m s   p l c .     P e t e r   w a s   a p p o i n t e d   a s   a   n o n -e x e c u t i v e 
d i r e c t o r   o f   R e n t o k i l   I n i ti a l   P l c   i n   2 0 0 5   a n d   i s   c u r r e n t l y   t h e  
S e n i o r   I n d e p e n d e n t   N o n - E x e c u t i v e   D i r e c t o r .   
4. Paul Bowtell
Chief Financial Officer* (Age 42)
P a u l   B o w t e l l   j o i n ed   t h e   B o a r d   o f   T U I   T r a v e l   P L C   o n 
2 8   J u n e   2 0 0 7   a s   C h i e f   F i n a n c i a l   O f fic e r .     H e   w a s  
a p p o i n t ed   t o   t h e   B o a r d   o f   F i r s t   C h o i c e   H o l i da y s   P L C    
i n   S e p t e m b e r   2 0 0 4   a s   G r o u p   F i n a n c e   D i r ec t o r   a n d    
w a s   p r e v i o u s l y   t h e   F i n a n c e   D i r ec t o r   o f   Br i t i s h   G a s ,   
a   s u b s i d i a r y   o f   C e n t r i c a   p l c ,   w h e r e   h e   h a d   b ee n   s i n c e 
J a n ua r y   2 0 0 2 .     P r i o r   t o   t h a t ,   h e   w a s   w i t h   W   H   S m i t h   p l c 
w h e r e   h e   h e l d   a   n u m b e r   o f   c o r p o r a t e   c e n t r e   r o l e s  
b e f o r e   b ec o m i n g   t h e   F i n a n c e   D i r ec t o r   o f   t h e   U K   R e t a i l 
b u s i n e ss .     H e   i s   a n   A ss o c i a t e   o f   t h e   I n s t i t u t e   o f   C h a r t e r e d 
A c c o u n t a n t s   i n   E n g la n d   a n d   W a l e s .     I n   N o v e m b e r   2 0 0 7  
P a u l   w a s   a p p o i n t ed   a s   a   n o n - e x ec u t i v e   d i r ec t o r   o f 
S T h r ee   P L C .     P a u l   w i l l   b e   r e s i g n i n g   f r o m   t h e   T U I   T r a v e l  
P L C   B o a r d   w i t h   e f f ec t   f r o m   3 1   D ec e m b e r   2 0 1 0 * .
5. William Waggott
Commercial Director* (Age 47)
W i l l i a m   W a g g o t t   j o i n ed   t h e   B o a r d   o f   T U I   T r a v e l   P L C   
o n   2 8   J u n e   2 0 0 7   a s   C o m m e r c i a l   D i r ec t o r .     H e   w a s 
a p p o i n t ed   C h i e f   F i n a n c i a l   O f fic e r   o f   T U I   T r a v e l   P L C   
o n   3 0   N o v e m b e r   2 0 1 0 * .     W i l l   s p e n t   t h e   e a r l y   p a r t   o f   
h i s   c a r ee r   w i t h   C o o p e r s   &   L y b r a n d   a n d   C o u r t a u l ds 
T e x t i l e s   p l c ,   w h e r e   h e   p e r f o r m ed   v a r i o u s   s e n i o r   g r o u p 
fi n a n c e   a n d   d i v i s i o n a l   d i r ec t o r   r o l e s .     H e   e n t e r ed   t h e 
l e i s u r e   t r a v e l   i n d u s t r y   w h e n   h e   j o i n ed   A i r t o u r s   p l c   a n d  
h e l d   a   n u m b e r   o f   p os i t i o n s   i n c l u d i n g   U K   l e i s u r e   g r o u p  www.tuitravelplc.com
44  T U I T r a v e l  P L C  A n n u a l R e p o r t & A c c o u n t s  2 0 1 0
T h e   C o m p a n y   h ad   n o   t r ad e   c r e d i t o r s   a t   3 0   S e pt e m b e r   2 0 1 0   ( 2 0 0 9 : 
£ nil )   a n d   c o n s e q u e n t l y   c r e d i t o r   d a y s   h a v e   n o t   b e e n   p r e s e n t e d .      
W h e r e   t h e   C o m p a n y   i s   t h e   r e c ipi e n t   o f   g o o d s   o r   s e r v i c e s ,   p a y m e n t   o f 
s up p li e r s   i s   c o n d u c t e d   b y   o n e   o f   t h e   G r o up   c o m p ani e s   in   ac c o r d a n c e  
w i t h   t h e   p o li c y   s e t   o u t   a b o v e .
Charitable giving and political donations
W e   h a v e   d e v e l o p e d   a   G r o up - w i d e   c h ar i t y   p o li c y   an d   g ui d elin e s   t o 
e n s ur e   t r a n s p ar e n c y   in   o ur   c h ar i t ab l e   ac t i v i t i e s   a n d   t o   e n a b l e   u s   t o  
r e p o r t   a nn u a ll y   o n   T U I   T r a v e l ’ s   c h ar i t ab l e   g i v in g .     D ur in g   t h e   y ea r ,    
t h e   G r o up   m ad e   c h ar i t ab l e   d o n a t i o n s   o f   £ 4 7 5 , 2 7 7   ( 2 0 0 9 :   £ 2 9 0 , 7 9 9 ) .    
F o r   f ur t h e r   d e t a il s   s e e   p a g e   3 0 .     T h e   G r o up   m ad e   n o   p o li t i c a l  
c o n t r ib u t i o n s   d ur in g   t h e   y ea r   ( 2 0 0 9 :   £ nil ) .
Directors’ and Officers’ Insurance
T h e   C o m p a n y   h a s   p urc h a s e d ,   a n d   m a in t a in e d   t hr o u g h ou t   t h e   y ea r ,  
D ir e c t o r s ’   an d   O f fi c e r s ’   L i abili t y   in s ur an c e   a n d   t h e   l e v e l   o f   c o v e r   i s 
r e g ul ar l y   r e v i e w e d .
Significant agreements – change of control
T h e   C o m p a ni e s   A c t   2 0 0 6   r e q uir e s   u s   t o   d i s c l o s e   a n y   s i g ni fi c a n t  
a g r e e m e n t s   t h at   t a k e   e f f e c t ,   a l t e r   o r   t e r min at e   o n   a   c h an g e   o f   c o n t r o l 
o f   t h e   C o m p an y .
Relationship Agreement with TUI AG
T h e   R e l at i o n s hip   A g r e e m e n t   b e t w e e n   T U I   A G   a n d   T U I   T r a v e l ,   d a t e d  
2 9   J un e   2 0 0 7 ,   in c lu d e s   t h e   p r in c ip l e   t h at   T U I   T r a v e l   w ill   o p e r at e 
in d e p e n d e n t l y   o f   T U I   A G   a n d   r e c o r d s   t h e   un d e r s t a n d in g   b e t w e e n   T U I 
A G   a n d   T U I   T r a v e l   r e g a r d in g   t h e   r e l a t i o n s hip   b e t w e e n   t h e m   a n d   t h e 
g o v e r n a n c e   o f   T U I   T r a v e l .     T h e   R e l at i o n s hip   A g r e e m e n t   w ill   r e m a in   in  
f o rc e   un t il   e i t h e r   t h e   s h a r e s   in   T U I   T r a v e l   a r e   n o   l o n g e r   admi t t e d   t o 
t r ad in g   o n   t h e   L o n d o n   S t o c k   E x c h a n g e ,   o r   T U I   A G   h a s   l e s s   t h a n   1 0 % 
o f   t h e   r i g h t s   t o   v o t e   at   g e n e r a l   m e e t in g s .     In   ad d i t i o n ,   in   t h e   e v e n t   t h at  
a n o t h e r   p ar t y   ac q uir e s   c o n t r o l   o f   T U I   A G   d ur in g   t h e   t e r m   o f   t h e 
R e l at i o n s hip   A g r e e m e n t ,   T U I   A G   w ill   l o s e   c e r t a in   r i g h t s   un d e r   t h e 
R e l at i o n s hip   A g r e e m e n t   in c lu d in g   i t s   r i g h t s   in   r e s p e c t   o f   t h e  
c o m p o s i t i o n   o f   t h e   B o ar d .
T h e   R e l at i o n s hip   A g r e e m e n t   c o n t a in s   r e s t r i c t i o n s   o n   t h e   ac q ui s i t i o n 
b y   T U I   A G   o f   ad d i t i o n a l   s h a r e s   in   T U I   T r a v e l   w hi c h   r e s ul t   in   t h e 
in c r ea s e   o f   i t s   s h a r e h o l d in g   t o   m o r e   t h a n   5 5 %   o f   t h e   v o t in g   r i g h t s   
o n   a   f ull y - d ilu t e d   b a s i s   ( s a v e   w h e r e   T U I   A G   m a k e s   a   g e n e r a l   o f f e r   t o 
ac q uir e   a ll   T U I   T r a v e l   s h a r e s   in   i s s u e ) .     A   n um b e r   o f   b o n d s   a r e   h e l d   
o n   T U I   A G ’ s   b e h al f   a n d ,   i f   c o n v e r t e d   at   t h e   c o n v e r s i o n   p r i c e   s e t   o n    
t h e   l a un c h   d a t e ,   w o ul d   g i v e   r i s e   t o   5 2 , 3 0 9 , 4 6 3   n e w   s h a r e s .     O n   a   
f ull y - d ilu t e d   b a s i s   ( i f   s h a r e s   h e l d   b y   a ll   b o n dh o l d e r s   w e r e   c o n v e r t e d ) , 
T U I   A G   h ad   a   h o l d in g   o f   5 0 . 3 7 %   a s   at   3 0   S e pt e m b e r   2 0 1 0 .     A s   a 
p e rc e n t a g e   o f   s h a r e s   in   i s s u e ,   T U I   A G ’ s   h o l d in g   a s   at   3 0   S e pt e m b e r  
2 0 1 0   w a s   54 . 9 2 % .
T U I   A G   h a s   a n t i - d ilu t i o n   r i g h t s   in   r e s p e c t   o f   f ur t h e r   i s s u e s   o f   s h a r e s    
in   T U I   T r a v e l   o t h e r   t h a n   o n   a   p r e - e m pt i v e   b a s i s .     T U I   T r a v e l   h a s   a l s o  
a g r e e d   t h at   c e r t a in   m a t t e r s   w ill   r e q uir e   t h e   p r i o r   a p p r o v a l   o f   8 0 %   
o f   t h e   D ir e c t o r s   p r e s e n t   at   t h e   m e e t in g   o f   t h e   B o ar d   at   w hi c h   s u c h  
m a t t e r   i s   c o n s i d er e d ,   in c lu d in g   m a t e r i al   c h an g e s   t o   t h e   b u s in e s s    
o f   an y   G r o up   c o m p an y ,   ac q ui s i t i o n s   a n d   d i s p o s a l s   o f   a   v a lu e   w hi c h  
e x c e e d s   £ 1 0 m ,   t h e   e n t r y   in t o ,   v a r i at i o n   o r   r e d e m p t i o n   p r i o r   t o   
t h e ir   d u e   d a t e   o f   a n y   b o r r o w in g   f ac ili t i e s   a n d   t h e   a p p r o v a l   o f   t h e  
a nn u a l   b u d g e t .
£770m bank revolving credit facility agreement
A n   a g r e e m e n t   d a t e d   2 9   J un e   2 0 0 7   b e t w e e n   a   n um b e r   o f   r e l a t i o n s hip  
b ank s   a n d   t h e   C o m p a n y   r e l a t in g   t o   a   £ 7 7 0 m   b ank   r e v o l v in g   c r e d i t 
f ac ili t y   c ur r e n t l y   p r o v i d e d   t o   t h e   C o m p an y ,   c o n t a in s   t e r m s   w hi c h    
g i v e   t h e   l e n d in g   b ank s   t h e   r i g h t   t o   c an c e l   a ll   c o m mi t m e n t s   t o   t h e  
T h e   D ir e c t o r s   s ub mi t   t h e ir   r e p o r t   t o   t h e   m e m b e r s   o f   T U I   T r a v e l   P L C 
( t h e   C o m p a n y )   f o r   t h e   y ea r   e n d e d   3 0   S e pt e m b e r   2 0 1 0 .
Principal activity
T h e   p r in c ip al   ac t i v i t y   o f   t h e   T U I   T r a v e l   P L C   g r o up   o f   c o m p ani e s   ( t h e 
G r o up )   i s   t h at   o f   an   in t e r n a t i o n al   l e i s ur e   t r a v e l   b u s in e s s .     I t   p r o v i d e s    
a   b r o ad   a n d   d i v e r s e   r a n g e   o f   l e i s ur e   t r a v e l   e x p e r i e n c e s   t o   m o r e    
t h a n   3 0   milli o n   c u s t o m e r s   in   2 7   k e y   s o urc e   m a r k e t s .     F o r   f ur t h e r 
in f o r m a t i o n   s e e   T U I   T r a v e l   o v e r v i e w   p a g e   2 .
Annual General Meeting
T h e   A nn u a l   G e n e r al   M e e t in g   ( A G M )   w ill   b e   h e l d   o n   T h ur s d a y  
3   F e b r u ar y   2 0 1 1   at   1 0 . 3 0 a m   a t   t h e   o f fi c e s   o f   H e r b e r t   S mi t h ,   E x c h an g e  
H o u s e ,   P r im r o s e   S t r e e t ,   L o n d o n   E C 2 A   2 H S .     A n   e x p l an at i o n   o f   t h e 
b u s in e s s   t o   b e   t r a n s ac t e d   at   t h e   A G M   h a s   b e e n   c irc ul at e d   t o 
s h a r e h o l d e r s   a n d   c an   b e   f o un d   o n   t h e   w e b s i t e   w w w . t ui t r a v e lp l c . c o m .
Business performance
A   d e s c r ipt i o n   o f   t h e   B u s in e s s   p e r f o r m an c e   f o r   t h e   y ea r   e n d e d 
3 0   S e pt e m b e r   2 0 1 0 ,   p r e p a r e d   in   ac c o r d a n c e   w i t h   t h e   C o m p a ni e s   
A c t   2 0 0 6 ,   i s   s e t   o u t   o n   p a g e s   3 2   t o   4 1   a n d   f o r m s   p ar t   o f   t h e   
D ir e c t o r s ’   r e p o r t .    
Results and dividends
T h e   G r o up   l o s s   b e f o r e   t a x a t i o n   f o r   t h e   y ea r   e n d e d   3 0   S e pt e m b e r  
2 0 1 0   w a s   £ 3 6 m   ( 2 0 0 9   r e s t at e d :   £ 9 4 m ) .     T h e   D ir e c t o r s   r e c o m m e n d  
a   fi n a l   d i v i d e n d   o f   7 . 8 p   p e r   o r d in ar y   s h a r e   ( 2 0 0 9 :   7 . 7 p ) ,   p a y ab l e   o n 
1   M a rc h   2 0 1 1   t o   h o l d e r s   o n   t h e   r e g i s t e r   at   t h e   c l o s e   o f   b u s in e s s   o n 
4   F e b r u ar y   2 0 1 1 .     W h e n   t a k e n   w i t h   t h e   in t e r im   d i v i d e n d   o f   3 . 2 p   p e r  
o r d in ar y   s h a r e   p a i d   o n   1   O c t o b e r   2 0 1 0   ( 2 0 0 9 :   3 . 0 p ) ,   t hi s   g i v e s   a    
t o t a l   d i v i d e n d   o f   1 1 . 0 p   ( 2 0 0 9 :   1 0 . 7 p )   r e l a t in g   t o   t h e   y ea r   e n d e d  
3 0   S e pt e m b e r   2 0 1 0 .   
T h e   r e s ul t s   f o r   t h e   y ea r   e n d e d   3 0   S e pt e m b e r   2 0 0 9   h a v e   b e e n  
r e s t at e d ,   s e e   N o t e   1   o f   t h e   fi n a n c i a l   s t at e m e n t s .
Corporate Governance report
T h e   C o r p o r a t e   G o v e r n a n c e   r e p o r t   f o r   t h e   y ea r   e n d e d   3 0   S e pt e m b e r  
2 0 1 0 ,   p r e p a r e d   in   ac c o r d a n c e   w i t h   r ul e   7 . 2   o f   t h e   F S A ’ s   D i s c l o s ur e   a n d 
T r a n s p a r e n c y   R ul e s ,   i s   s e t   o u t   o n   p a g e s   4 8   t o   5 2   a n d   f o r m s   p ar t   o f 
t h e   D ir e c t o r s ’   r e p o r t .
Suppliers
T U I   T r a v e l   b e n e fi t s   f r o m   b o t h   i t s   s c a l e   an d   ap p li c at i o n   o f   ‘ b e s t   in 
c l a s s ’   p urc h a s in g .     O ur   p r in c ip al   s up p li e r s   a r e   h o t e l   o w n e r s   a n d  
o p e r at o r s   an d   a irc r af t   s up p li e r s .     A m o n g s t   o t h e r s ,   o ur   k e y   s t r at e g i c  
r e l a t i o n s hip s   a r e   w i t h   h o t e l   c h a in s   s u c h   a s   R I U ,   F i e s t a ,   A t l a n t i c a   a n d 
a irc r af t   p r o v i d e r s   s u c h   a s   B o e in g .     E ac h   s o urc e   m a r k e t   h a s   l o c al   a n d  
o v e r s ea s   t ea m s   t o   e n g a g e   in   e f f e c t i v e   p r o c ur e m e n t   s t r at e g i e s   t o  
d e li v e r   o pt imum   b e n e fi t s   t o   T U I   T r a v e l .     C o - o p e r a t i v e   w o r k in g   i s 
f un d am e n t a l   t o   o ur   r e l a t i o n s hip s   w i t h   k e y   s up p li e r s   t o   e n s ur e   t h at   
t h e   hi g h e s t   s t a n d ar d s   in   t e r m s   o f   h ea l t h   a n d   s af e t y   an d   q u ali t y   ar e 
m a in t a in e d .     S up p li e r s   f a llin g   b e l o w   t h e s e   e x p e c t at i o n s   w ill   b e 
r e m o v e d   f r o m   o ur   p r og r a m m e s .
T h e   o p e r at in g   uni t s   w i t hin   t h e   G r o up   a r e   r e s p o n s ib l e   f o r   a g r e e in g    
t h e   t e r m s   an d   c o n d i t i o n s   un d e r   w hi c h   b u s in e s s   t r a n s ac t i o n s   w i t h    
t h e ir   s up p li e r s   a r e   c o n d u c t e d .     D u e   t o   t h e   n at ur e   o f   t h e   G r o up ’ s 
o p e r at i o n s ,   a n d   in   c o m m o n   w i t h   t h e   in d u s t r y   a s   a   w h o l e ,   p a y m e n t s 
a r e   o f t e n   m ad e   in   ad v a n c e   f o r   t h e   p r o v i s i o n   o f   g o o d s   an d   s e r v i c e s .    
T h e   G r o up   d o e s   n o t   f o ll o w   a n y   c o d e   o r   s t at e m e n t   o n   p a y m e n t 
p r ac t i c e   b u t   i t   i s   G r o up   p o li c y   t h at   p a y m e n t s   t o   s up p li e r s ,   w h e t h e r   in 
ad v a n c e   o r   a f t e r   t h e   p r o v i s i o n   o f   t h e   g o o d s   o r   s e r v i c e s ,   a r e   m ad e   o n  
t h e   b a s i s   o f   t h e   t e r m s   t h at   h a v e   b e e n   a g r e e d   w i t h   t h e m .
Go v ernanc e
Directors’ report Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
 
www.tuitravelplc.com
T U I  T r a v e l P L C  A n n u a l R e p o r t  &  A c c o u n t s  2 0 1 0  45
a m oun t ,   t og e t h e r   w i t h   ac c r u e d   an d   unp a i d   in t e r e s t   up   t o   t h e   d a t e   
o f   r e d e m p t i o n ,   i f   a   c h an g e   o f   c o n t r o l   o c c ur s .     F o r   t h e   p ur p o s e   o f   t h e 
c o n v e r t ib l e   b o n d s   a   c h an g e   o f   c o n t r o l   o c c ur s   i f :
•     F o l l o w i n g   a   t a k e o v e r   o f f e r   t o   a c q u i r e   a l l   o r   a   m a j o r i t y   o f   t h e   s h a r e s  
in   t h e   C o m p a n y   b e in g   d e c l a r e d   un c o n d i t i o n a l   in   all   r e s p e c t s   o r 
b e c o min g   e f f e c t i v e ,   t h e   o f f e r o r   a n d / o r   i t s   a s s o c i at e s   h a v e   o r   w ill  
h a v e   m o r e   t h a n   5 0 %   o f   t h e   v o t in g   r i g h t s   in   t h e   C o m p a n y ;   o r 
•     T h e   F r e e   F l o at   o f   t h e   C o m p a n y   i s   l e s s   t h a n   3 0 %   o f   t h e   i s s u e d 
o r d in ar y   s h a r e s   f o r   at   l ea s t   f i v e   c o n s e c u t i v e   d ealin g   d a y s   ( w h e r e  
t h e   F r e e   F l o at   i s   ( a )   a ll   o u t s t a n d in g   o r d in ar y   s h a r e s   o f   t h e  
C o m p a n y   l e s s   t h o s e   h e l d   b y   o r   o n   b e h al f   o f   T U I   A G ,   i t s   a s s o c i at e s  
a n d   a n y   p e r s o n s   ac t in g   in   c o n c e r t   w i t h   i t   a n d   ( b )   t h e   o r d in ar y  
s h a r e s   un d e r l y in g   t h e   o u t s t a n d in g   s e c ur e d   e x c h an g ea b l e   b o n d s 
d u e   2 0 1 3   i s s u e d   b y   N e r o   F in an c e   L imi t e d   o n   1 6   Jan u a r y   2 0 0 8 ) .
T U I   A G   s ub s c r ib e d ,   at   t h e   i s s u e   p r i c e ,   f o r   5 0 %   o f   t h e   c o n v e r t ib l e   b o n d 
o f f e r in g   t o   p r e v e n t   t h e   p o t e n t i a l   d ilu t i o n   o f   i t s   m a j o r i t y   s h a r e h o l d in g .   
£100m bank revolving credit facility agreement
A n   a g r e e m e n t   d a t e d   2 1   A p r il   2 0 1 0   b e t w e e n   a   n um b e r   o f   r e l a t i o n s hip  
b ank s   a n d   t h e   C o m p a n y   r e l a t in g   t o   a   £ 1 0 0 m   b ank   r e v o l v in g   c r e d i t 
f ac ili t y   c ur r e n t l y   p r o v i d e d   t o   t h e   C o m p an y ,   c o n t a in s   t e r m s   w hi c h    
g i v e   t h e   l e n d in g   b ank s   t h e   r i g h t   t o   c an c e l   a ll   c o m mi t m e n t s   t o   t h e 
C o m p a n y   an d   t o   d e c l a r e   a ll   o u t s t a n d in g   c r e d i t s   a n d   ac c r u e d   in t e r e s t 
im m e d i at e l y   d u e   a n d   p a y ab l e   i f   a   c h an g e   o f   c o n t r o l   o c c ur s .     F o r   t h e 
p ur p o s e   o f   t hi s   a g r e e m e n t   a   c h an g e   o f   c o n t r o l   o c c ur s   i f :
•     A n y   p e r s o n   o r   g r o up   o f   p e r s o n s   ac t in g   in   c o n c e r t   g a in s   c o n t r o l   
o f   t h e   C o m p a n y ;   o r
•     T U I   A G   a n d   a n y   p e r s o n s   ac t in g   in   c o n c e r t   w i t h   i t   ac q uir e s   o r  
ac q uir e   7 5 %   o r   m o r e   o f   t h e   v o t in g   s h a r e s   in   t h e   C o m p a n y .
£50m bank revolving credit facility agreement
A n   a g r e e m e n t   d a t e d   2 7   A p r il   2 0 1 0   b e t w e e n   a   r e l a t i o n s hip   b ank   a n d  
t h e   C o m p a n y   r e l a t in g   t o   a   £ 5 0 m   b ank   r e v o l v in g   c r e d i t   f ac ili t y 
c ur r e n t l y   p r o v i d e d   t o   t h e   C o m p a n y ,   c o n t a in s   t e r m s   w hi c h   g i v e   t h e 
l e n d in g   b ank   t h e   r i g h t   t o   c an c e l   a ll   c o m mi t m e n t s   t o   t h e   C o m p a n y   a n d  
t o   d e c l a r e   a ll   o u t s t a n d in g   c r e d i t s   a n d   ac c r u e d   in t e r e s t   im m e d i at e l y 
d u e   an d   p a y ab l e   i f   a   c h an g e   o f   c o n t r o l   o c c ur s .     F o r   t h e   p ur p o s e   o f   t hi s  
a g r e e m e n t   a   c h an g e   o f   c o n t r o l   o c c ur s   i f :
•     A n y   p e r s o n   o r   g r o up   o f   p e r s o n s   ac t in g   in   c o n c e r t   g a in s   c o n t r o l   
o f   t h e   C o m p a n y ;   o r
•     T U I   A G   a n d   a n y   p e r s o n s   ac t in g   in   c o n c e r t   w i t h   i t   ac q uir e s   o r  
ac q uir e   6 0 %   o r   m o r e   o f   t h e   v o t in g   s h a r e s   in   t h e   C o m p a n y .
£50m bonding and letter of credit facility agreement
A n   a g r e e m e n t   d a t e d   2 7   S e pt e m b e r   2 0 1 0   b e t w e e n   a   r e l a t i o n s hip   b ank 
a n d   t h e   C o m p a n y   r e l a t in g   t o   a   £ 5 0 m   b o n d in g   an d   l e t t e r   o f   c r e d i t  
f ac ili t y   c ur r e n t l y   p r o v i d e d   t o   t h e   C o m p an y ,   c o n t a in s   t e r m s   w hi c h   g i v e 
t h e   l e n d in g   b ank   t h e   r i g h t   t o   c an c e l   a ll   c o m mi t m e n t s   t o   t h e   C o m p a n y 
a n d   t o   d e c l a r e   all   o u t s t an d in g   b o n d s   o r   l e t t e r s   o f   c r e d i t   t og e t h e r   w i t h 
ac c r u e d   i s s u an c e   f e e s   im m e d i at e l y   d u e   an d   p a y ab l e   i f   a   c h an g e   o f 
c o n t r o l   o c c ur s .     F o r   t h e   p ur p o s e   o f   t hi s   a g r e e m e n t   a   c h an g e   o f   c o n t r o l 
o c c ur s   i f :
•     A n y   p e r s o n   o r   g r o up   o f   p e r s o n s   ac t in g   in   c o n c e r t   g a in s   c o n t r o l   
o f   t h e   C o m p a n y ;   o r
•     T U I   A G   a n d   a n y   p e r s o n s   ac t in g   in   c o n c e r t   w i t h   i t   ac q uir e s   o r 
ac q uir e   7 5 %   o r   m o r e   o f   t h e   v o t in g   s h a r e s   in   t h e   C o m p a n y .
N o   o t h e r   a g r e e m e n t s   w hi c h   t a k e   e f f e c t ,   a l t e r   o r   t e r min at e   up o n   
a   c h an g e   o f   c o n t r o l   o f   t h e   C o m p a n y   f o ll o w in g   a   t a k e o v e r   bi d   a r e  
c o n s i d er e d   t o   b e   s i g ni fi c a n t   in   t e r m s   o f   t h e ir   p o t e n t i a l   im p ac t   o n   
t h e   b u s in e s s   o f   t h e   G r o up   a s   a   w h o l e .
C o m p a n y   a n d   t o   d e c l a r e   a ll   o u t s t an d in g   c r e d i t s   a n d   ac c r u e d   in t e r e s t  
im m e d i at e l y   d u e   a n d   p a y ab l e   i f   a   c h an g e   o f   c o n t r o l   o c c ur s .     F o r   t h e 
p ur p o s e   o f   t hi s   a g r e e m e n t   a   c h an g e   o f   c o n t r o l   o c c ur s   i f :
•     A n y   p e r s o n   o r   g r o up   o f   p e r s o n s   ac t in g   in   c o n c e r t   g a in s   c o n t r o l    
o f   t h e   C o m p a n y ;   o r
•     T U I   A G   a n d   a n y   p e r s o n s   ac t in g   in   c o n c e r t   w i t h   i t   ac q uir e s   o r 
ac q uir e   7 5 %   o r   m o r e   o f   t h e   v o t in g   s h a r e s   in   t h e   C o m p an y .
£140m bank revolving credit facility agreement
A n   a g r e e m e n t   d a t e d   2 9   S e pt e m b e r   2 0 0 9   b e t w e e n   a   n um b e r   o f 
r e l a t i o n s hip   b ank s   a n d   t h e   C o m p an y   r e l a t in g   t o   a   £ 1 4 0 m   b ank 
r e v o l v in g   c r e d i t   f ac ili t y   c ur r e n t l y   p r o v i d e d   t o   t h e   C o m p a n y ,   c o n t a in s  
t e r m s   w hi c h   g i v e   t h e   l e n d in g   b ank s   t h e   r i g h t   t o   c an c e l   a ll 
c o m mi t m e n t s   t o   t h e   C o m p an y   a n d   t o   d e c l a r e   all   o u t s t an d in g   c r e d i t s  
an d   ac c r u e d   in t e r e s t   im m e d i at e l y   d u e   a n d   p a y ab l e   i f   a   c h an g e   o f 
c o n t r o l   o c c ur s .     F o r   t h e   p ur p o s e   o f   t hi s   a g r e e m e n t   a   c h an g e   o f   c o n t r o l 
o c c ur s   i f :
•     A n y   p e r s o n   o r   g r o up   o f   p e r s o n s   ac t in g   in   c o n c e r t   g a in s   c o n t r o l   o f 
t h e   C o m p an y ;   o r
•     T U I   A G   a n d   a n y   p e r s o n s   ac t in g   in   c o n c e r t   w i t h   i t   ac q uir e s   o r 
ac q uir e   7 5 %   o r   m o r e   o f   t h e   v o t in g   s h a r e s   in   t h e   C o m p an y .
£40m bonding and letter of credit facility agreement
A n   a g r e e m e n t   d a t e d   2 9   S e pt e m b e r   2 0 0 9   b e t w e e n   a   r e l a t i o n s hip   b ank 
an d   t h e   C o m p a n y   r e l a t in g   t o   a   £ 4 0 m   b o n d in g   a n d   l e t t e r   o f   c r e d i t  
f ac ili t y   c ur r e n t l y   p r o v i d e d   t o   t h e   C o m p a n y ,   c o n t a in s   t e r m s   w hi c h   g i v e  
t h e   l e n d in g   b ank   t h e   r i g h t   t o   c an c e l   a ll   c o m mi t m e n t s   t o   t h e   C o m p an y  
an d   t o   d e c l a r e   a ll   o u t s t a n d in g   b o n d s   o r   l e t t e r s   o f   c r e d i t   t og e t h e r   w i t h  
ac c r u e d   i s s u an c e   f e e s   im m e d i at e l y   d u e   a n d   p a y ab l e   i f   a   c h an g e   o f 
c o n t r o l   o c c ur s .     F o r   t h e   p ur p o s e   o f   t hi s   a g r e e m e n t   a   c h an g e   o f   c o n t r o l 
o c c ur s   i f :
•     A n y   p e r s o n   o r   g r o up   o f   p e r s o n s   ac t in g   in   c o n c e r t   g a in s   c o n t r o l   o f 
t h e   C o m p an y ;   o r
•     T U I   A G   a n d   a n y   p e r s o n s   ac t in g   in   c o n c e r t   w i t h   i t   ac q uir e s   o r 
ac q uir e   6 0 %   o r   m o r e   o f   t h e   v o t in g   s h a r e s   in   t h e   C o m p an y .
£350m 6.0% Convertible Bonds
In   S e pt e m b e r   2 0 0 9 ,   t h e   C o m p an y   i s s u e d   £ 3 5 0 m   o f   6 . 0 %   C o n v e r t ib l e 
B o n d s   w i t h   a   c o n v e r s i o n   p r i c e   s e t   at   3 4 9 . 3 0 p   p e r   s h a r e .     T h e 
s e t t l e m e n t   t o o k   p l ac e   o n   5   O c t o b e r   2 0 0 9 .     T h e   c o n v e r t ib l e   b o n d s  
c o n t a in   t e r m s   w hi c h   g i v e   t h e   b o n dh o l d e r s   t h e   r i g h t   t o   r e d e e m   t h e 
b o n d s   at   t h e ir   p r in c ip al   a m oun t ,   t og e t h e r   w i t h   ac c r u e d   a n d   unp a i d 
in t e r e s t   up   t o   t h e   d a t e   o f   r e d e m p t i o n ,   i f   a   c h an g e   o f   c o n t r o l   o c c ur s .   
F o r   t h e   p u r p os e   o f   t h e   c o n v e r t i b l e   b o n d s   a   c h a n g e   o f   c o n t r o l   o c c u r s   i f :
•   F o ll o w in g   a   t a k e o v e r   o f f e r   t o   ac q uir e   a ll   o r   a   m a j o r i t y   o f   t h e 
s h a r e s   in   t h e   C o m p an y   b e in g   d e c l a r e d   un c o n d i t i o n a l   in   all 
r e s p e c t s   o r   b e c o min g   e f f e c t i v e ,   t h e   o f f e r o r   a n d / o r   i t s   a s s o c i at e s  
h a v e   o r   w ill   h a v e   m o r e   t h a n   5 0 %   o f   t h e   v o t in g   r i g h t s   in   t h e  
C o m p an y ;   o r  
•     T h e   F r e e   F l o at   o f   t h e   C o m p a n y   i s   l e s s   t h a n   3 0 %   o f   t h e   i s s u e d 
o r d in ar y   s h a r e s   f o r   at   l ea s t   f i v e   c o n s e c u t i v e   d ealin g   d a y s   ( w h e r e 
t h e   F r e e   F l o at   i s   ( a )   a ll   o u t s t an d in g   o r d in ar y   s h a r e s   o f   t h e 
C o m p an y   l e s s   t h o s e   h e l d   b y   o r   o n   b e h al f   o f   T U I   A G ,   i t s   a s s o c i at e s 
a n d   an y   p e r s o n s   ac t in g   in   c o n c e r t   w i t h   i t   a n d   ( b )   t h e   o r d in ar y 
s h a r e s   un d e r l y in g   t h e   o u t s t an d in g   s e c ur e d   e x c h a n g ea b l e   b o n d s  
d u e   2 0 1 3   i s s u e d   b y   N e r o   F in an c e   L imi t e d   o n   1 6   Jan u a r y   2 0 0 8 ) .
£400m 4.90% Convertible Bonds
In   A p r il   2 0 1 0 ,   t h e   C o m p a n y   i s s u e d   £ 4 0 0 m   o f   4 . 9 0 %   C o n v e r t ib l e   B o n d s 
w i t h   a   c o n v e r s i o n   p r i c e   s e t   at   3 8 2 . 3 4 p   p e r   s h a r e .     T h e   s e t t l e m e n t   t o o k  
p l ac e   o n   2 7   A p r il   2 0 1 0 .     T h e   c o n v e r t ib l e   b o n d s   c o n t a in   t e r m s   w hi c h 
g i v e   t h e   b o n dh o l d e r s   t h e   r i g h t   t o   r e d e e m   t h e   b o n d s   at   t h e ir   p r in c ip al  www.tuitravelplc.com
46  T U I T r a v e l  P L C  A n n u a l R e p o r t & A c c o u n t s  2 0 1 0
Go v ernanc e
Directors’ report c o n t i n u e d
Other information
O t h e r   in f o r m a t i o n   r e l e v an t   t o   t h e   D ir e c t o r s ’   r e p o r t   c an   b e   f o un d   in 
t h e   f o ll o w in g   s e c t i o n s   o f   t h e   A nn u a l   R e p o r t :
I n f o r m a t i o n   Loca tion  in Annual R eport
O u r p e o p l e   P age 24
S o c i a l r e s p o n s i b i l i t y   P age 26
S u s t a i n a b l e  d e v e l o p m e n t   P age 28
C h a r i t a b l e a n d  p o l i t i c a l d o n a t i o n s     P age 30
F u t u r e  d e v e l o p m e n t s  P age 41
B o a r d  a n d  C o m m i t t e e M e m b e r s h i p  P age 48
F i n a n c i a l  r i s k  m a n a g e m e n t     P ages  20 and  48
P o s t  b a l a n c e  s h e e t  e v e n t s  a f t e r
3 0  S e p t e m b e r  2 0 1 0   Financial  st a t ements – No t e  34
S h a r e  c a p i t a l  – a u t h o r i s e d  a n d i s s u e d  Financial st a t ements – No t e  23
S u b s t a n t i a l  s h a r e h o l d i n g s    P age 142
T h e   D ir e c t o r s ’   r e p o r t   w a s   a p p r o v e d   b y   a   d ul y   a u t h o r i s e d   C o m mi t t e e  
o f   t h e   B o ar d   o f   D ir e c t o r s   o n   1   D e c e m b e r   2 0 1 0   a n d   s i g n e d   o n   i t s  
b e h al f   b y   A n dr e w   Jo hn ,   t h e   C o m p a n y   S e c r e t a r y .
B y   O r d e r   o f   t h e   B o ar d
Andrew John
C o m p a n y   S e c r e t a r y 
1   D e c e m b e r   2 0 1 0 
C o m p a n y   Num b e r :   6 0 7 2 8 7 6
Going concern 
A f t e r   m a k in g   a p p r o p r i a t e   e n q uir i e s ,   t h e   D ir e c t o r s   h a v e   r ea s o n ab l e  
e x p e c t at i o n   t h at   t h e   C o m p a n y   a n d   G r o up   h a v e   ad e q u at e   r e s o urc e s   
t o   c o n t in u e   o p e r at i o n s   f o r   t h e   f o r e s e ea b l e   f u t ur e .     F o r   t hi s   r ea s o n , 
t h e y   c o n t in u e   t o   ad o pt   t h e   g oin g   c o n c e r n   b a s i s   in   p r e p a r in g   t h e 
fi n a n c i a l   s t at e m e n t s .
A   f ur t h e r   s um m ar y   o f   f un d in g   a n d   li q ui d i t y   i s   in c lu d e d   in   N o t e   1   t o 
t h e   c o n s o li d at e d   fi n a n c i a l   s t at e m e n t s .
Contractual arrangements
T h e   G r o up   h a s   c o n t r ac t u a l   ar r an g e m e n t s   w i t h   n um e r o u s   t hir d   p ar t i e s 
in   s up p o r t   o f   i t s   b u s in e s s   ac t i v i t i e s   ( s e e   p a g e s   3 0   a n d   4 4 ) .    
Auditors
T h e   a u d i t o r s   f o r   t h e   y ea r   e n d e d   3 0   S e pt e m b e r   2 0 1 0   w e r e   K P M G  
A u d i t   Pl c .
Statement of the Directors as to disclosure of 
information to auditors
T h e   D ir e c t o r s   c o n fi r m   t h at ,   s o   f a r   a s   t h e y   a r e   eac h   a w a r e ,   t h e r e   i s    
n o   r e l e v an t   a u d i t   in f o r m a t i o n   o f   w hi c h   t h e   C o m p a n y ’ s   a u d i t o r s   a r e 
un a w ar e ;   an d   eac h   D ir e c t o r   h a s   t a k e n   a ll   t h e   s t e p s   t h at   h e   o r   s h e  
o u g h t   t o   h a v e   t a k e n   a s   a   D ir e c t o r   t o   m a k e   him s e l f   o r   h e r s e l f   a w a r e    
o f   a n y   r e l e v an t   a u d i t   in f o r m a t i o n   a n d   t o   e s t a b li s h   t h at   t h e   C o m p a n y ’ s  
a u d i t o r s   a r e   a w a r e   o f   t h at   in f o r m a t i o n .     Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
www.tuitravelplc.com
T U I  T r a v e l P L C  A n n u a l R e p o r t  &  A c c o u n t s  2 0 1 0  47
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities 
in   r e s p e c t   o f   t h e   A nn u a l   R e p o r t   a n d   t h e   F in an c i a l   S t at e m e n t s 
Directors’ responsibility statement
E a c h   o f   t h e   D i r e c t o r s ,   t h e   n a m e s   o f   w h o m   a r e   s e t   o u t   o n   p a g e   4 3   o f    
t h i s   A n n u a l   R e p o r t ,   c o n fi r m s   t h a t   t o   t h e   b e s t   o f   h i s   o r   h e r   k n o w l e d g e :
•     t h e   f i n a n c i a l   s ta t e m e n t s ,   p r e p a r e d   i n   a c c o r d a n c e   w i t h   t h e   a p p l i c a b l e  
s e t   o f   a c c o u n t i n g   s ta n d a r d s ,   g i v e   a   t r u e   a n d   f a i r   v i e w   o f   t h e   a s s e t s ,  
l i a b i l i t i e s ,   f i n a n c i a l   p o s i t i o n   a n d   t h e   p r o f i t   o r   l o s s   o f   t h e   C o m p a n y  
a n d   t h e   u n d e r ta k i n g s   i n c l u d e d   i n   t h e   c o n s o l i d a t i o n   ta k e n   a s   a  
w h o l e ;   a n d
•     t h e   D i r e c t o r s ’   r e p o r t   i n c l u d e s   a   r e v i e w   o f   t h e   d e v e l o p m e n t   a n d  
p e r f o r m a n c e   o f   t h e   b u s i n e s s   a n d   t h e   p o s i t i o n   o f   t h e   i s s u e r   a n d    
t h e   u n d e r ta k i n g s   i n c l u d e d   i n   t h e   c o n s o l i d a t i o n   ta k e n   a s   a   w h o l e ,  
t o g e t h e r   w i t h   a   d e s c r i p t i o n   o f   t h e   p r i n c i p a l   r i s k s   a n d   u n c e r ta i n t i e s  
t h a t   t h e y   f a c e .
T h e   S ta t e m e n t   o f   D i r e c t o r s ’   r e s p o n s i b i l i t i e s   w a s   a p p r o v e d   b y   a   d u l y  
a u t h o r i s e d   C o m m i t t e e   o f   t h e   B o a r d   o f   D i r e c t o r s   o n   1   D e c e m b e r   2 0 1 0  
a n d   s i g n e d   o n   i t s   b e h a l f   b y   P a u l   B o w t e l l ,   C h i e f   F i n a n c i a l   O f fi c e r .
Paul Bowtell
C h i e f   F i n a n c i a l   O f fi c e r  
1   D e c e m b e r   2 0 1 0
T h e   D i r e c t o r s   a r e   r e s p o n s i b l e   f o r   p r e p a r i n g   t h e   A n n u a l   R e p o r t   a n d   t h e 
G r o u p   a n d   p a r e n t   c o m p a n y   fi n a n c i a l   s ta t e m e n t s   i n   a c c o r d a n c e   w i t h 
a p p l i c a b l e   l a w   a n d   r e g u l a t i o n s .
C o m p a n y   l a w   r e q u i r e s   t h e   D i r e c t o r s   t o   p r e p a r e   G r o u p   a n d   p a r e n t  
c o m p a n y   fi n a n c i a l   s ta t e m e n t s   f o r   e a c h   fi n a n c i a l   y e a r .     U n d e r   t h a t   l a w  
t h e y   a r e   r e q u i r e d   t o   p r e p a r e   t h e   G r o u p   fi n a n c i a l   s ta t e m e n t s   i n 
a c c o r d a n c e   w i t h   I n t e r n a t i o n a l   F i n a n c i a l   R e p o r t i n g   S ta n d a r d s   ( I F R S )    
a s   a d o p t e d   b y   t h e   E U   a n d   a p p l i c a b l e   l a w   a n d   h a v e   e l e c t e d   t o   p r e p a r e  
t h e   p a r e n t   c o m p a n y   fi n a n c i a l   s ta t e m e n t s   i n   a c c o r d a n c e   w i t h   U K  
A c c o u n t i n g   S ta n d a r d s   a n d   a p p l i c a b l e   l a w   ( U K   G e n e r a l l y   A c c e p t e d 
A c c o u n t i n g   P r a c t i c e ) .
U n d e r   c o m p a n y   l a w   t h e   D i r e c t o r s   m u s t   n o t   a p p r o v e   t h e   fi n a n c i a l 
s ta t e m e n t s   u n l e s s   t h e y   a r e   s a t i s fi e d   t h a t   t h e y   g i v e   a   t r u e   a n d   f a i r   v i e w  
o f   t h e   s ta t e   o f   a f f a i r s   o f   t h e   G r o u p   a n d   p a r e n t   c o m p a n y   a n d   o f   t h e i r  
p r o fi t   o r   l o s s   f o r   t h a t   p e r i o d .     I n   p r e p a r i n g   e a c h   o f   t h e   G r o u p   a n d   p a r e n t  
c o m p a n y   fi n a n c i a l   s ta t e m e n t s ,   t h e   D i r e c t o r s   a r e   r e q u i r e d   t o :
•     S e l e c t   s u i ta b l e   a c c o u n t i n g   p o l i c i e s   a n d   t h e n   a p p l y   t h e m   c o n s i s t e n t l y .
•     M a k e   j u d g e m e n t s   a n d   e s t i m a t e s   t h a t   a r e   r e a s o n a b l e   a n d   p r u d e n t .
•     F o r   t h e   G r o u p   f i n a n c i a l   s ta t e m e n t s ,   s ta t e   w h e t h e r   t h e y   h a v e   b e e n 
p r e p a r e d   i n   a c c o r d a n c e   w i t h   I F R S s   a s   a d o p t e d   b y   t h e   E U .
•     F o r   t h e   p a r e n t   c o m p a n y   f i n a n c i a l   s ta t e m e n t s ,   s ta t e   w h e t h e r  
a p p l i c a b l e   U K   A c c o u n t i n g   S ta n d a r d s   h a v e   b e e n   f o l l o w e d ,   s u b j e c t   
t o   a n y   m a t e r i a l   d e p a r t u r e s   d i s c l o s e d   a n d   e x p l a i n e d   i n   t h e   p a r e n t  
c o m p a n y   f i n a n c i a l   s ta t e m e n t s .
•     P r e p a r e   t h e   f i n a n c i a l   s ta t e m e n t s   o n   t h e   g o i n g   c o n c e r n   b a s i s   u n l e s s  
i t   i s   i n a p p r o p r i a t e   t o   p r e s u m e   t h a t   t h e   G r o u p   a n d   t h e   p a r e n t  
c o m p a n y   w i l l   c o n t i n u e   i n   b u s i n e s s .
T h e   D i r e c t o r s   a r e   r e s p o n s i b l e   f o r   k e e p i n g   a d e q u a t e   a c c o u n t i n g   r e c o r d s  
t h a t   a r e   s u f fi c i e n t   t o   s h o w   a n d   e x p l a i n   t h e   p a r e n t   c o m p a n y ’ s  
t r a n s a c t i o n s   a n d   d i s c l o s e   w i t h   r e a s o n a b l e   a c c u r a c y   a t   a n y   t i m e   t h e  
fi n a n c i a l   p o s i t i o n   o f   t h e   p a r e n t   c o m p a n y   a n d   e n a b l e   t h e m   t o   e n s u r e  
t h a t   i t s   fi n a n c i a l   s ta t e m e n t s   c o m p l y   w i t h   t h e   C o m p a n i e s   A c t   2 0 0 6 .      
T h e y   h a v e   g e n e r a l   r e s p o n s i b i l i t y   f o r   ta k i n g   s u c h   s t e p s   a s   a r e   r e a s o n a b l y  
o p e n   t o   t h e m   t o   s a f e g u a r d   t h e   a s s e t s   o f   t h e   G r o u p   a n d   t o   p r e v e n t   a n d 
d e t e c t   f r a u d   a n d   o t h e r   i r r e g u l a r i t i e s .
U n d e r   a p p l i c a b l e   l a w   a n d   r e g u l a t i o n s ,   t h e   D i r e c t o r s   a r e   a l s o   r e s p o n s i b l e  
f o r   p r e p a r i n g   a   D i r e c t o r s ’   R e p o r t ,   D i r e c t o r s ’   R e m u n e r a t i o n   R e p o r t   a n d  
C o r p o r a t e   G o v e r n a n c e   S ta t e m e n t   t h a t   c o m p l i e s   w i t h   t h a t   l a w   a n d   
t h o s e   r e g u l a t i o n s .
T h e   D i r e c t o r s   a r e   r e s p o n s i b l e   f o r   t h e   m a i n t e n a n c e   a n d   i n t e g r i t y   o f   t h e 
c o r p o r a t e   a n d   fi n a n c i a l   i n f o r m a t i o n   i n c l u d e d   o n   t h e   C o m p a n y ’ s   w e b s i t e .    
L e g i s l a t i o n   i n   t h e   U K   g o v e r n i n g   t h e   p r e p a r a t i o n   a n d   d i s s e m i n a t i o n   o f  
fi n a n c i a l   s ta t e m e n t s   m a y   d i f f e r   f r o m   l e g i s l a t i o n   i n   o t h e r   j u r i s d i c t i o n s . www.tuitravelplc.com
48  T U I T r a v e l  P L C  A n n u a l R e p o r t & A c c o u n t s  2 0 1 0
Board procedures/responsibilities
T h e   B o a r d   m e e t s   r e g u l a r l y ,   i n c l u d i n g   a w a y   da y s ,   t o   r e v i e w   t h e   s t r a t e g y 
o f   t h e   G r o up .     T h e   s c h e d ul e   o f   m a t t e r s   s p e c i fi c a ll y   r e s e r v e d   t o   i t   f o r  
d e c i s i o n   in c lu d e :   d e t e r minin g   t h e   s t r at e g y   a n d   c o n t r o l   o f   t h e   G r o up ; 
a m e n dm e n t s   t o   t h e   s t r u c t ur e   a n d   c api t a l   o f   t h e   G r o up ;   ap p r o v a l   o f 
fi n a n c i a l   r e p o r t in g   a n d   c o n t r o l s ;   o v e r s i g h t   o f   t h e   G r o up ’ s   in t e r n a l  
c o n t r o l s ;   a p p r o v a l   o f   c api t a l   an d   r e v e n u e   e x p e n d i t ur e   o f   a   s i g ni fi c a n t  
s i z e ;   ac q ui s i t i o n s ,   d i s p o s a l s   a n d   s h a r e   d ea lin g s ;   B o ar d   m e m b e r s hip 
a n d   a p p oin t m e n t s ;   a p p r o v a l   o f   r e mun e r a t i o n   o f   D ir e c t o r s   an d   c e r t a in 
s e ni o r   m a n a g e m e n t ;   c o r p o r at e   g o v e r n a n c e   m a t t e r s ;   a n d   a p p r o v a l   o f  
G r o up   p o li c i e s   an d   r i s k   m a n a g e m e n t   s t r at e g i e s .    
T h e   d i v i s i o n   o f   r e s p o n s ibili t i e s   b e t w e e n   t h e   C h a ir m an   a n d   C hi e f  
E x e c u t i v e   i s   c l ea r l y   e s t a b li s h e d ,   h a s   b e e n   a g r e e d   b y   t h e   B o ar d   a n d    
i s   r e v i e w e d   b y   t h e   C o m p a n y   S e c r e t a r y   o n   a   r e g ul ar   b a s i s .
A ll   D ir e c t o r s   h a v e   ac c e s s   t o   t h e   ad v i c e   a n d   s e r v i c e s   o f   t h e   C o m p a n y 
S e c r e t a r y   a n d   a ll   D ir e c t o r s   c an   t a k e   in d e p e n d e n t   p r o f e s s i o n al   ad v i c e , 
i f   n e c e s s a r y ,   at   t h e   C o m p a n y ’ s   e x p e n s e .     N o   s u c h   ad v i c e   w a s   s o u g h t  
b y   a n y   D ir e c t o r   d ur in g   t h e   y ea r .    
T h e   C o m p a n y   S e c r e t a r y   i s   r e s p o n s ib l e   f o r   e n s ur in g   B o ar d   p r o c e d ur e s 
a r e   f o ll o w e d   in c lu d in g   t h e   f o r m a l   min u t in g   o f   a n y   unr e s o l v e d   c o n c e r n s 
t h at   a n y   D ir e c t o r   m a y   h a v e   in   c o nn e c t i o n   w i t h   t h e   o p e r at i o n   o f   t h e 
C o m p a n y .     D ur in g   t h e   y ea r ,   t h e r e   w e r e   n o   s u c h   unr e s o l v e d   i s s u e s .
T h e   T e r m s   o f   R e f e r e n c e   f o r   t h e   B o ar d   a n d   i t s   C o m mi t t e e s   a r e  
a v a il ab l e   f o r   in s p e c t i o n   o n   t h e   G r o up ’ s   w e b s i t e   a n d   w ill   b e   a v a il ab l e    
at   t h e   A G M .
Directors’ conflicts of interests 
Un d e r   t h e   C o m p ani e s   A c t   2 0 0 6 ,   t h e   D ir e c t o r s   h a v e   a   s t at u t o r y   d u t y  
t o   a v oi d   a   s i t u at i o n   w h e r e   t h e y   h a v e ,   o r   c o ul d   h a v e ,   a   d ir e c t   o r   in d ir e c t  
in t e r e s t   t h at   c o n fl i c t s ,   o r   p o s s ib l y   m a y   c o n fl i c t ,   w i t h   t h e   in t e r e s t s   o f  
t h e   C o m p a n y .     D ir e c t o r s   o f   p ub li c   c o m p ani e s   m a y   a u t h o r i s e   c o n fl i c t s  
a n d   p o t e n t i a l   c o n fl i c t s   w h e r e   a p p r o p r i a t e ,   i f   t h e   ar t i c l e s   o f   a s s o c i at i o n 
c o n t a in   a   p r o v i s i o n   t o   t hi s   e f f e c t .    
T h e   C o m p a n y ’ s   a r t i c l e s   o f   a s s o c i at i o n   p e r mi t   t h e   B o ar d   t o   a u t h o r i s e  
ac t u al   o r   p o t e n t i a l   c o n fl i c t s   o f   in t e r e s t .     T h e   C o m p a n y   h a s   e s t a b li s h e d  
f o r m a l   p r o c e d ur e s   f o r   t h e   d i s c l o s ur e   a n d   r e v i e w   o f   a n y   c o n fl i c t s ,   o r 
p o t e n t i a l   c o n fl i c t s ,   o f   in t e r e s t   w hi c h   t h e   D ir e c t o r s   m a y   h a v e   a n d   f o r  
t h e   a u t h o r i s a t i o n   o f   s u c h   c o n fl i c t   m a t t e r s   b y   t h e   B o ar d .     In   d e c i d in g 
w h e t h e r   t o   a u t h o r i s e   a   c o n fl i c t   o r   p o t e n t i a l   c o n fl i c t   t h e   D ir e c t o r s   mu s t  
h a v e   r e g a r d   t o   t h e ir   g e n e r a l   d u t i e s   un d e r   t h e   C o m p a ni e s   A c t   2 0 0 6 .    
T h e   a u t h o r i s a t i o n   o f   a n y   c o n fl i c t   m a t t e r ,   a n d   t h e   t e r m s   o f  
a u t h o r i s a t i o n ,   m a y   b e   r e v i e w e d   at   a n y   t im e   a n d   w ill   b e   r e v i e w e d  
f o r m a ll y   b y   t h e   B o ar d   o n   a n   a nn u a l   b a s i s .     T h e   B o ar d   b e li e v e s   t h at  
t h e   p r o c e d ur e s   e s t a b li s h e d   t o   d eal   w i t h   c o n fl i c t s   o f   in t e r e s t   a r e 
o p e r at in g   e f f e c t i v e l y .
Board effectiveness and individual performance of Directors 
A   r e v i s e d   p r o c e s s   f o r   t h e   a s s e s s m e n t   o f   t h e   p e r f o r m a n c e   o f   t h e  
B o ar d   a n d   o f   in d i v i d u a l   D ir e c t o r s   w a s   im p l e m e n t e d   in   M a y   2 0 1 0 .      
T h e   B o ar d ’ s   e f f e c t i v e n e s s   w a s   a s s e s s e d   b y   m ea n s   o f   a   d e t a il e d  
q u e s t i o nn a ir e   w hi c h   w a s   d e s i g n e d   b y   t h e   C o m p a n y   S e c r e t a r y   a n d 
c o m p l e t e d   b y   eac h   D ir e c t o r .     T h e   q u e s t i o nn a ir e   c o v e r e d   3 4   a r ea s  
in c lu d in g   t h e   R o l e   o f   t h e   B o ar d ,   S t r at e g y ,   C o m p o s i t i o n ,   C o n d u c t    
o f   B u s in e s s ,   M a n a g e m e n t   S u c c e s s i o n ,   C o r p o r a t e   G o v e r n a n c e   a n d   
R i s k   M a n a g e m e n t .
T h e   r e s ul t s   w e r e   p r e s e n t e d   t o   t h e   B o ar d   in   J ul y   2 0 1 0   w h e r e   s p e c i fi c  
a r ea s   s u c h   a s   s t r at e g y ,   B o ar d   s k ill s   a n d   e x p e r i e n c e ,   d i s t r ib u t i o n   o f  
B o ar d   p ap e r s   a n d   b ac k g r o un d   in f o r m a t i o n ,   e x p o s ur e   t o   t h e   B o ar d    
o f   t h e   C o m p an y ’ s   s e ni o r   m a n a g e m e n t   a n d   e n v ir o nm e n t a l   i s s u e s   
w e r e   d e b at e d .
The Board 
T h e   C o m p a n y   i s   c o n t r o ll e d   t hr o u g h   i t s   B o ar d   o f   D ir e c t o r s   –   
t h e   D ir e c t o r s   at   t h e   d a t e   o f   t hi s   r e p o r t   ar e :
D i r e c t o r ’ s  n a m e   Title
H o r s t B a i e r   Non-Ex ecutiv e  Dir ect or
D r  V o l ke r B ö t t c h e r  Managing  Dir ect or ,  Centr al Eur ope
P a u l  B o w t e l l *   Chief   Financial Offic er
T o n y  C a m p b e l l   Non-Ex ecutiv e  Dir ect or
C l a r e  C h a p m a n   Non-Ex ecutiv e  Dir ect or
B i l l  D a l t o n   Non-Ex ecutiv e  Dir ect or
R a i n e r  F e u e r h a ke   Non-Ex ecutiv e  Dir ect or
D r  M i c h a e l  F r e n z e l  Non-Ex ecutiv e  Chairman
J e r e m y  H i c k s   Non-Ex ecutiv e  Dir ect or
S i r M i c h a e l H o d g k i n s o n     Non-Ex ecutiv e  Deputy   Chairman  
&  Senior   Independent Dir ect or
P e t e r L o n g   Chief  Ex ecutiv e
J o h a n  L u n d g r e n   Managing  Dir ect or ,  Northern  R egion
D r  E r h a r d  S c h i p p o r e i t   Non-Ex ecutiv e  Dir ect or
D r  A l b e r t S c h u n k   Non-Ex ecutiv e  Dir ect or
H a r o l d  S h e r  Non-Ex ecutiv e  Dir ect or
G i l e s  T h o r l e y  Non-Ex ecutiv e  Dir ect or
W i l l i a m W a g g o t t * *   Commer cial Dir ect or
A ll   D ir e c t o r s   d e t a il e d   a b o v e   s e r v e d   t hr o u g h ou t   t h e   y ea r   w i t h   t h e 
e x c e pt i o n   o f   H o r s t   B a i e r   w h o   w a s   a p p oin t e d   o n   1 3   O c t o b e r   2 0 0 9 .    
P a ul   B o w t e ll *   w ill   r e s i g n   f r o m   t h e   B o ar d   o n   3 1   D e c e m b e r   2 0 1 0 .    
W illi a m   W a g g o t t * * ,   G r o up   C o m m e rc i a l   D ir e c t o r ,   w a s   a p p oin t e d    
C hi e f   F in an c i a l   O f fi c e r   w i t h   e f f e c t   f r o m   3 0   N o v e m b e r   2 0 1 0 .   
A s   at   3 0   S e pt e m b e r   2 0 1 0 ,   t h e   B o ar d   c o m p r i s e d   fi v e   E x e c u t i v e  
D ir e c t o r s   a n d   1 2   N o n - E x e c u t i v e   D ir e c t o r s   ( in c lu d in g   t h e   C h a ir m an ) .   
O n   1 3   O c t o b e r   2 0 0 9   H o r s t   B a i e r   w a s   a p p oin t e d   a s   a   N o n - E x e c u t i v e  
D ir e c t o r .     B i og r ap hi c a l   d e t a il s   o f   a ll   t h e   D ir e c t o r s   a r e   s e t   o u t   o n 
p a g e   4 3 .
In   ac c o r d a n c e   w i t h   t h e   n e w   U K   C o r p o r a t e   G o v e r n an c e   C o d e  
g ui d elin e s ,   w i t h   e f f e c t   f r o m   t hi s   A nn u a l   G e n e r al   M e e t in g   ( A G M ) ,   a ll 
D ir e c t o r s   w ill   b e   s ubj e c t   t o   a nn u a l   r e - e l e c t i o n   b y   s h a r e h o l d e r s .     T o 
e n ab l e   s h a r e h o l d e r s   t o   m a k e   a n   in f o r m e d   d e c i s i o n ,   t h e   2 0 1 1   N o t i c e   o f  
t h e   A G M   in c lu d e s   bi og r ap hi c a l   d e t a il s   a n d   a   s t at e m e n t   a s   t o   w h y   t h e 
C o m p a n y   b e li e v e s   t h e   D ir e c t o r s   s h o ul d   b e   r e - e l e c t e d .     T h e   C h a ir m an  
in t e n d s   t o   c o n fi r m   at   t h e   A G M   t h at   t h e   p e r f o r m an c e   o f   eac h  
in d i v i d u a l   c o n t in u e s   t o   b e   e f f e c t i v e   an d   d e m o n s t r at e s   c o m mi t m e n t   
t o   t h e   r o l e .    
T h e   B o ar d   r e c o m m e n d s   t o   s h a r e h o l d e r s   t h e   r e - a p p oin t m e n t   o f   a ll 
D ir e c t o r s   r e t ir in g   at   t h e   m e e t in g   o n   t h e   b a s i s   t h at   t h e y   a r e   a ll 
e f f e c t i v e   D ir e c t o r s   o f   t h e   C o m p a n y   a n d   d e m o n s t r at e   t h e   a p p r o p r i a t e  
l e v e l   o f   c o m mi t m e n t   in   t h e ir   r e s p e c t i v e   r o l e s .   
T h e   t e r m s   o f   t h e   D ir e c t o r s ’   s e r v i c e   c o n t r ac t s   a r e   d i s c l o s e d   in   t h e 
R e mun e r at i o n   R e p o r t   c o m m e n c in g   o n   p a g e   5 3 .     D ir e c t o r s ’   in t e r e s t s   
in   t h e   s h a r e s   o f   t h e   C o m p an y   a r e   d i s c l o s e d   o n   p a g e   6 2 .    
D ir e c t o r s ’   s e r v i c e   c o n t r ac t s   a n d   t h e   l e t t e r s   o f   a p p oin t m e n t   o f   t h e  
N o n - E x e c u t i v e   D ir e c t o r s   a r e   a v a il ab l e   f o r   in s p e c t i o n   at   t h e   C o m p a n y ’ s  
r e g i s t e r e d   o f fi c e   a n d   w ill   b e   a v a il ab l e   at   t h e   A G M   w hi c h   i s   s c h e d ul e d 
t o   t a k e   p l ac e   o n   T h ur s d a y   3   F e b r u ar y   2 0 1 1 .    
F o ll o w in g   t h e   a p p oin t m e n t   o f   a n y   n e w   D ir e c t o r ,   t h e   C h a ir m an ,   in  
c o n j un c t i o n   w i t h   t h e   C o m p an y   S e c r e t a r y ,   e n s ur e s   t h at   a   f ull ,   f o r m a l  
a n d   t a il o r e d   in d u c t i o n   t o   t h e   C o m p a n y   i s   p r o v i d e d .     T h e   C o m p a n y  
S e c r e t a r y   i s   a v a il ab l e   t o   a n s w e r   a n y   q u e s t i o n s   w hi c h   m a y   a r i s e .     
A l l   D i r e c t o r s   h a v e   b e e n   g i v e n   a   d e t a i l e d   i n d u c t i o n   a n d   t r a i n i n g   m a n u a l .    
Go v ernanc e
Corporate Governance report Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
 
www.tuitravelplc.com
T U I  T r a v e l P L C  A n n u a l R e p o r t  &  A c c o u n t s  2 0 1 0  49
Independence of Non-Executive Directors
T h e   C h a ir m an ,   D r   M i c h ae l   F r e n z e l ,   d i d   n o t   m e e t   t h e   in d e p e n d e n c e  
c r i t e r i a   l a i d   o u t   in   t h e   p r o v i s i o n s   o f   t h e   C o m bin e d   C o d e   at   t h e   t im e   
o f   hi s   ap p oin t m e n t .     T hi s   i s   b e c a u s e   D r   F r e n z e l   i s   t h e   C hi e f   E x e c u t i v e  
o f   T U I   A G   –   a   54 . 9 2 %   s h a r e h o l d e r   o f   t h e   C o m p a n y   a s   at 
3 0   S e pt e m b e r   2 0 1 0 .
D e t a il s   o f   t h e   C h a ir m an ’ s   o t h e r   s i g ni fi c a n t   c o m mi t m e n t s   a r e   g i v e n   in 
hi s   bi og r ap h y   o n   p a g e   4 3 .     T h e   C h a ir m an   d o e s   h a v e   a   n um b e r   o f   o t h e r 
e x t e r n a l   r o l e s   b u t   t h e   B o ar d   i s   s at i s fi e d   t h at   t h e s e   d o   n o t   in t e r f e r e 
w i t h   t h e   p e r f o r m an c e   o f   hi s   d u t i e s   a s   C h a ir m an   o f   t h e   C o m p a n y .
O f   t h e   o t h e r   1 1   N o n - E x e c u t i v e   D ir e c t o r s ,   t w o   a r e   n o t   c o n s i d er e d   t o 
b e   in d e p e n d e n t   –   H o r s t   B a i e r   i s   a l s o   a n   E x e c u t i v e   D ir e c t o r   o f   T U I   A G  
a n d   R a in e r   F e u e r h a k e   w a s   a   m e m b e r   o f   T U I   A G ’ s   E x e c u t i v e   B o ar d  
un t il   hi s   r e s i g n at i o n   in   F e b r u ar y   2 0 1 0 .    
T h e   N o n - E x e c u t i v e   D ir e c t o r s   c o n s i d er e d   t o   b e   in d e p e n d e n t   a r e  
S ir   M i c h ae l   H o d g k in s o n ,   T o n y   C am p b e ll ,   C l a r e   C h ap m an ,   B ill   D a l t o n , 
J e r e m y   H i c k s ,   D r   E r h ar d   S c hip p o r e i t ,   D r   A lb e r t   S c h unk ,   H a r o l d   S h e r 
a n d   G il e s   T h o r l e y .    
T h e   B o ar d   r e c og ni s e s   t h at   t h e   C o m bin e d   C o d e   r e q uir e s   t h at   at   l ea s t  
h a l f   t h e   B o ar d ,   e x c lu d in g   t h e   C h a ir m an ,   s h o ul d   b e   in d e p e n d e n t   N o n -
E x e c u t i v e   D ir e c t o r s .     T h e   B o ar d   h ad   1 7   m e m b e r s   f r o m   1 3   O c t o b e r 
2 0 0 9   ( w h e n   H o r s t   B a i e r   w a s   a p p oin t e d )   o f   w h o m   nin e   w e r e   d e e m e d  
t o   b e   in d e p e n d e n t .     F r o m   3 0   S e pt e m b e r   2 0 0 9   t o   1 3   O c t o b e r   2 0 0 9 ,  
t h e   B o ar d   h ad   1 6   m e m b e r s   o f   w h o m   nin e   w e r e   a l s o   d e e m e d   t o   b e 
in d e p e n d e n t .     T h e r e f o r e   t h e   C o m p a n y   w a s   c o m p li a n t   w i t h   p r o v i s i o n  
B 1 . 1   o f   t h e   C o m bin e d   C o d e   t hr o u g h ou t   t h e   y ea r   e n d e d   3 0   S e pt e m b e r 
2 0 1 0 .     F o ll o w in g   t h e   a p p oin t m e n t   o f   H o r s t   B a i e r ,   t h e   B o ar d   r e v e r t e d 
t o   1 7   m e m b e r s   o f   w h i c h   n i n e   w e r e   d e e m e d   i n d e p e n d e n t .     T h e   B o a r d   i s 
c o m m i t t e d   t o   s e e k   t o   e n s u r e   t h a t   i t s   m e m b e r s h i p   i s   r e g u l a r l y   r e f r e s h e d .    
Meetings of the Non-Executive Directors
T h e   C h a ir m an   m e t   w i t h   t h e   N o n - E x e c u t i v e   D ir e c t o r s   t w i c e   d ur in g   t h e 
y ea r   –   in   M a y   a n d   S e pt e m b e r .     A   m e e t in g   h a s   b e e n   s c h e d ul e d   f o r 
2 0 1 1   an d   o t h e r s   w ill   b e   h e l d   a s   t h e   n e e d   ar i s e s .    
A   m e e t in g   o f   t h e   N o n - E x e c u t i v e   D ir e c t o r s ,   l e d   b y   t h e   S e ni o r  
In d e p e n d e n t   D ir e c t o r ,   t o o k   p l ac e   d ur in g   t h e   y ea r   a n d   in c lu d e d   o n   t h e  
a g e n d a   w a s   a n   a p p r a i s a l   o f   t h e   C h a ir m an ’ s   p e r f o r m an c e .     T h e r e   w a s  
g e n e r a l   a g r e e m e n t   t h at   t h e   C h a ir m an   p r o v i d e s   g o o d   l ead e r s hip   o f   t h e 
B o ar d   a n d   a ll o w s   a ll   d ir e c t o r s   t o   p ar t i c ip a t e   in   f r e e - fl o w in g   d e b at e   in  
o r d e r   t o   m a k e   an   e f f e c t i v e   c o n t r ib u t i o n   t o   t h e   s u c c e s s f ul   r unnin g   o f 
t h e   b u s in e s s .
TUI Travel PLC
Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee Audit Committee
Delegated authorities
Sets remuneration and incentives for the Executive 
Directors; approves and monitors remuneration and 
incentive plans for the Group.
Members
C M Chapman Chairman
L A Campbell
W R P Dalton
Dr M H F Frenzel
R Feuerhake
Delegated authorities
Ensures that the Board and Committee 
composition has the optimum balance of skills, 
knowledge and experience by nominating suitable 
candidates for approval by the Board to fill 
executive and non-executive vacancies.
Members
Sir Michael Hodgkinson Chairman
C M Chapman
J D Hicks 
Dr M H F Frenzel
R Feuerhake
Delegated authorities
Monitors the Group’s integrity in financial reporting 
and reviews the effectiveness of the risk 
management framework.
Members
J D Hicks Chairman
L A Campbell 
W R P Dalton
G A Thorley
Board governance structure
Attendance of Directors at meetings of the Board and its Committees
  Scheduled   Audit  R emuner a tion
  Boar d    Committ ee  Committ ee
  Meetings   Meetings   Meetings
H o r s t  B a i e r  ( N o n - E x e c u t i v e D i r e c t o r )   7(7)  N/ A   N/ A
D r V o l ke r  B ö t t c h e r ( M D C e n t r a l E u r o p e )   7(7)   N/ A   N/ A
P a u l  B o w t e l l ( C h i e f  F i n a n c i a l  O f fi c e r )   7(7)  N/ A   N/ A
T o n y C a m p b e l l ( N o n - E x e c u t i v e  D i r e c t o r )   6(7)   6(7)   3(4)
C l a r e C h a p m a n  ( N o n - E x e c u t i v e  D i r e c t o r )   5(7)  N/ A   4(4)
B i l l  D a l t o n ( N o n - E x e c u t i v e  D i r e c t o r )   7(7)   7(7)   4(4)
R a i n e r F e u e r h a ke  ( N o n - E x e c u t i v e  D i r e c t o r )   6(7)  N/ A   4(4)
D r M i c h a e l  F r e n z e l  ( C h a i r m a n )   7(7)   N/ A   4(4)    
J e r e m y  H i c k s ( N o n - E x e c u t i v e  D i r e c t o r )   7(7)  7(7)  N/ A
S i r  M i c h a e l  H o d g k i n s o n  ( D e p u t y C h a i r m a n )   7(7)   N/ A   N/ A
P e t e r  L o n g ( C h i e f E x e c u t i v e )  7(7)  N/ A   N/ A
J o h a n L u n d g r e n  ( M D N o r t h e r n R e g i o n )   7(7)   N/ A   N/ A
E r h a r d  S c h i p p o r e i t  ( N o n - E x e c u t i v e  D i r e c t o r )   6(7)  N/ A   N/ A
D r A l b e r t  S c h u n k  ( N o n - E x e c u t i v e D i r e c t o r )   7(7)  N/ A   N/ A
H a r o l d  S h e r ( N o n - E x e c u t i v e D i r e c t o r )   7(7)  N/ A   N/ A
G i l e s  T h o r l e y  ( N o n - E x e c u t i v e  D i r e c t o r )   4(7)   6(7)   N/ A
W i l l  W a g g o t t  ( C o m m e r c i a l  D i r e c t o r )   7(7)   N/ A   N/ A
F i g u r e s   i n   b r a c ke t s   i n d i c a t e   t h e   m a x i m u m   n u m b e r   o f   m e e t i n g s   d u r i n g   t h e   y e a r   i n   w h i c h   t h e  
i n d i v i d u a l   w a s   a   B o a r d   m e m b e r .     T h e   N o m i n a t i o n   C o m m i t t e e   d i d   n o t   m e e t   d u r i n g   t h e   y e a r .
D ur in g   t h e   y ea r ,   m e e t in g s   o f   P un c h   ( w h e r e   G il e s   T h o r l e y   w a s   C hi e f 
E x e c u t i v e   O f fi c e r )   a n d   T r a g u s   ( w h e r e   h e   i s   C h a ir m an )   c l a s h e d   o n   t hr e e  
o c c a s i o n s   w i t h   t h o s e   o f   T U I   T r a v e l   B o ar d   m e e t in g s ,   w hi c h   i s    
w h y   h e   w a s   un a b l e   t o   at t e n d .     C l a ir e   C h ap m an   w a s   un ab l e   t o   at t e n d 
t w o   B o ar d   m e e t in g s   d u e   t o   c l a s h e s   w i t h   NH S   m e e t in g s   ( w h e r e   s h e    
i s   D ir e c t o r   G e n e r al   o f   W o r k f o rc e ) .
Remuneration Committee
S e e   t h e   R e mun e r at i o n   R e p o r t   f o r   f ull   d e t a il s   o f   t h e   R e mun e r at i o n 
C o m mi t t e e ,   i t s   c o m p o s i t i o n   an d   w o r k   d ur in g   t h e   y ea r .
D ur in g   Jan u a r y   a n d   F e b r u ar y   2 0 1 0 ,   t h e   R e mun e r at i o n   C o m mi t t e e  
m e m b e r s   p ar t i c ip a t e d   in   a n   in d e p e n d e n t   s ur v e y   o f   C o m mi t t e e  
m e m b e r s ’   p e r f o r m a n c e ,   w h i c h   w a s   c o n d u c t e d   b y   D e l o i t t e .     A n   a n a l y s i s  
o f   t h e   r e s u l t s   w a s   p r o d u c e d   a t   t h e   e n d   o f   F e b r u a r y   2 0 1 0   a n d   c o n s i d e r e d  
at   a   m e e t in g   in   M a rc h   2 0 1 0 .     T h e r e   w a s   un anim o u s   s up p o r t   f o r   t h e 
o v e r a ll   e f f e c t i v e n e s s   o f   t h e   C o m mi t t e e .     T h e   a n al y s i s   in d i c at e d   t h at  
k e e pin g   c l o s e l y   in   t o u c h   w i t h   s h a r e h o l d e r   p e r s p e c t i v e s   a n d   t h e 
G r o up ’ s   c o s t   o f   p e n s i o n   p r o v i s i o n   s h o ul d   b e   o f   p ar t i c ul a r   f o c u s .      
T h e   C o m mi t t e e   c o n s i d e r e d   r e c e n t   s h a r e h o l d e r   f e e db ac k ,   a g r e e d    www.tuitravelplc.com
50  T U I T r a v e l  P L C  A n n u a l R e p o r t & A c c o u n t s  2 0 1 0
Go v ernanc e
Corporate Governance report c o n t i n u e d
t h at   t h e   C o m mi t t e e   C h a ir m an   s h o ul d   m e e t   w i t h   k e y   s h a r e h o l d e r s   t o 
d i s c u s s   p oin t s   r a i s e d   a n d   in   M a y   t h e   C o m mi t t e e   f ur t h e r   c o n s i d e r e d 
t h e   f e e db ac k   f r o m   t h o s e   m e e t in g s .     A   n e w   f ull   p e r f o r m an c e 
e v a lu at i o n   p r o c e s s   i s   s c h e d ul e d   t o   c o m m e n c e   in   Jan u a r y   2 0 1 1 .
Nomination Committee 
T h e   C o m mi t t e e   c o m p r i s e s   fi v e   N o n - E x e c u t i v e   D ir e c t o r s   a n d   i s   c h a ir e d  
b y   S ir   M i c h ae l   H o d g k in s o n   ( t h e   S e ni o r   In d e p e n d e n t   D ir e c t o r ) .   
In   r e l a t i o n   t o   t h e   a p p oin t m e n t   o f   H o r s t   B a i e r ,   w h o   w a s   a p p oin t e d   o n  
1 3   O c t o b e r   2 0 0 9 ,   a   d e s c r ip t i o n   o f   t h e   r o l e   an d   r e q uir e d   c ap a bili t i e s  
w a s   p r e p a r e d   p r i o r   t o   t h e   a p p oin t m e n t .     A   m e e t in g   o f   t h e   C o m mi t t e e  
–   c h a ir e d   b y   S ir   M i c h ae l   H o d g k in s o n   ( N o n - E x e c u t i v e   D e p u t y  
C h a ir m an )   –   c o n s i d er e d   H o r s t ’ s   s ui t a bili t y   f o r   t h e   r o l e ,   hi s   o t h e r 
s i g ni fi c a n t   c o m mi t m e n t s   an d   t h e   e x i s t in g   s k ill s   an d   k n o w l e d g e   o f   t h e 
B o ar d   a s   a   w h o l e .     A s   a   s i g ni fi c a n t   p e rc e n t a g e   o f   t h e   G r o up ’ s   t ur n o v e r  
i s   g e n e r at e d   in   G e r m an y ,   i t   w a s   b e li e v e d   t h at   ad d i t i o n a l   e x p e r t i s e   a n d 
e x p e r i e n c e   in   t h e   d i f f e r e n c e s   b e t w e e n   G e r m an   a n d   U K   ac c o un t in g 
p r ac t i c e s   w a s   r e q uir e d .     I t   w a s   f e l t   t h at   H o r s t ’ s   e x p e r i e n c e   in   t h e  
l e i s ur e   t r a v e l   in d u s t r y   a s   a n   e x e c u t i v e   d ir e c t o r   o f   T U I   A G ,   an d   hi s 
p r e v i o u s   e x p e r i e n c e   o v e r   a   l o n g   c ar e e r   in v o l v in g   w o r k   o f   a   fi n a n c i a l  
n at ur e ,   w o ul d   a s s i s t   t h e   B o ar d   an d   e n ab l e   him   t o   m a k e   a n   e x c e ll e n t  
c o n t r ib u t i o n   t o   i t s   d e lib e r a t i o n s .     F o r   t hi s   r ea s o n ,   i t   w a s   n o t   d e e m e d 
a p p r o p r i a t e   f o r   a n   e x t e r n a l   s ea rc h   c o n s ul t a n c y   o r   o p e n   ad v e r t i s in g   t o 
b e   u s e d   f o r   t hi s   a p p oin t m e n t   a s   t h e   B o ar d   w a s   o f   t h e   v i e w   t h at   n o 
o t h e r   c an d i d a t e   w o ul d   b e   a b l e   t o   m at c h   t h e   s p e c i fi c   k n o w l e d g e   a n d 
e x p e r t i s e   H o r s t   b r in g s   t o   t hi s   r o l e .
A t   t h e   m e e t in g   h e l d   in   O c t o b e r   2 0 0 9   t h e   c ur r e n t   m e m b e r s hip   a n d 
e f f e c t i v e n e s s   o f   t h e   C o m mi t t e e   w a s   al s o   d i s c u s s e d   a n d   i t   w a s   a g r e e d  
t h at   t h e   c o m p o s i t i o n   o f   t h e   C o m mi t t e e   r e m a in e d   ap p r o p r i at e   a n d  
e f f e c t i v e .     T h e   e f f e c t i v e n e s s   o f   t h e   C o m mi t t e e   w a s   a s s e s s e d   a g a in   in  
M a y   2 0 1 0   b y   m ea n s   o f   a   n e w l y - d e s i g n e d   a s s e s s m e n t   q u e s t i o nn a ir e .    
T h e   o nl y   s i g ni fi c a n t   p oin t s   r a i s e d   w e r e   in   r e s p e c t   o f   t h e   r e c e ip t   o f 
m o r e   t im e l y   an d   c l ear   s up p o r t in g   m a t e r i al s   a n d   a ll o w in g   m o r e   t im e   
f o r   c o n s i d e r at i o n   o f   s u c c e s s i o n   p l a nnin g   –   t hi s   l a t t e r   p oin t   w a s   t h e 
s ubj e c t   o f   a   f ull   m e e t in g   in   M a y   2 0 1 0 .
A t   t h at   m e e t in g ,   t h e   C o m mi t t e e ’ s   m a in   f o c u s   w a s   o n   t h e   C o m p a n y ’ s  
m a n a g e m e n t   c ap a bili t y   a n d   s u c c e s s i o n   p l a nnin g   p o li c i e s .     In   t h e 
c o n t e x t   o f   t h e   d e c e n t r a l i s e d   n a t u r e   o f   t h e   o r g a n i s a t i o n ,   t h e   C o m p a n y ’ s 
p o li c y   t o   ac t i v e l y   s e e k   a n d   i d e n t i f y   e m e r g in g   t a l e n t   an d   t h o s e  
in d i v i d u a l s   w h o   c an   m a k e   a   s i g ni fi c a n t   d i f f e r e n c e   t o   o r g a ni s a t i o n a l 
p e r f o r m an c e   w a s   d i s c u s s e d   an d   t h e   v a r i o u s   L ead e r s hip   S k ill s 
P r og r am m e s   w e r e   r e v i e w e d .     T h e   im p o r t an c e   o f   i d e n t i f y in g   b u s in e s s  
c r i t i c al   r o l e s ,   d e v e l o p m e n t   p r og r a m m e s   a n d   a   r e p l ac e m e n t   pip e lin e  
f o r   s e ni o r   r o l e s   w e r e   a l s o   d i s c u s s e d .
Audit Committee 
A ll   m e m b e r s   o f   t h e   C o m mi t t e e   a r e   c o n s i d e r e d   t o   b e   in d e p e n d e n t .      
In   ac c o r d a n c e   w i t h   t h e   C o m bin e d   C o d e ,   t h e   B o ar d   i s   s at i s fi e d   t h at 
J e r e m y   H i c k s   h a s   ‘ r e c e n t   a n d   r e l e v an t   fi n a n c i a l   e x p e r i e n c e ’ .
T h e   C hi e f   F in an c i a l   O f fi c e r ,   t h e   D ir e c t o r   o f   G r o up   A u d i t   S e r v i c e s   a n d 
t h e   e x t e r n a l   a u d i t o r s   ar e   n o r m a ll y   in v i t e d   t o   m e e t in g s   a n d   o t h e r 
D ir e c t o r s ,   in c lu d in g   t h e   C hi e f   E x e c u t i v e   a n d   t h e   N o n - E x e c u t i v e  
D ir e c t o r s ,   m a y   a l s o   at t e n d .     T h e   C h a ir m an   o f   t h e   C o m mi t t e e   al s o 
m e e t s   w i t h   t h e   e x t e r n a l   a u d i t o r s   w i t h ou t   m a n a g e m e n t   p r e s e n t .
T h e   C o m m i t t e e ’ s   d u t i e s ,   w h i c h   w e r e   d i s c h a r g e d   d u r i n g   t h e   y e a r ,   i n c l u d e :  
•     M o ni t o r in g   t h e   in t e g r i t y   o f   t h e   f in an c i al   s t at e m e n t s   o f   t h e  
C o m p a n y   a n d   f o r m a l   an n oun c e m e n t s   r e l a t in g   t o   t h e   C o m p an y ’ s 
f in an c i al   p e r f o r m an c e   an d   r e v i e w in g   t h e   s i g ni f i c a n t   f in an c i al 
r e p o r t in g   j u d g e m e n t s   c o n t a in e d   in   t h e m .
•     R e v i e w in g   t h e   C o m p a n y ’ s   in t e r n a l   f in an c i al   c o n t r o l s   a n d   t h e  
C o m p a n y ’ s   in t e r n a l   c o n t r o l   a n d   r i s k   m a n a g e m e n t   s y s t e m s .    
•     M o ni t o r in g   t h e   e f f e c t i v e n e s s   o f   t h e   C o m p an y ’ s   G r o up   A u d i t  
S e r v i c e s ’   f un c t i o n   t hr o u g h   m e e t in g s   w i t h   t h e   D ir e c t o r   o f   G r o up 
A u d i t   S e r v i c e s ,   t h e   a g r e e m e n t   in   ad v a n c e   o f   a nn u a l   w o r k   p l a n s 
a n d   t h e   r e v i e w   o f   t h e   r e s ul t s   o f   t h e   w o r k   un d e r t a k e n .
•   T h e   c o n s i d e r at i o n   o f   t h e   a p p oin t m e n t ,   r e - a p p oin t m e n t   a n d 
r e m o v a l   o f   t h e   e x t e r n a l   a u d i t o r s   a n d   t h e   a p p r o v a l   o f   t h e ir 
r e mun e r a t i o n   a n d   t e r m s   o f   t h e ir   e n g a g e m e n t .
•   A   p o li c y   f o r   t h e   e n g a g e m e n t   o f   t h e   e x t e r n a l   a u d i t o r s   t o   s up p l y 
n o n - a u d i t   s e r v i c e s   w a s   a p p r o v e d   in   2 0 0 7   a n d   r e m a in s   in   f o rc e .    
T h e   A u d i t   C o m mi t t e e   h a s   c o n c lu d e d   t h at ,   in   s o m e   c a s e s ,   t h e  
p r o v i s i o n   o f   n o n - a u d i t   s e r v i c e s   b y   t h e   in c um b e n t   a u d i t o r s ,    
w hi c h   d o e s   n o t   im p ac t   o n   t h e ir   in d e p e n d e n c e   in   p r o v i d in g   t h e ir 
p r im a r y   s t a t u t o r y   a u d i t   r o l e ,   i s   a p p r o p r i a t e   a n d   t h i s   h a s   b e e n 
c o m m u n i c a t e d   t o   t h e   B o ar d .     A u d i t o r   in d e p e n d e n c e   an d  
o bj e c t i v i t y   a r e   s af e g u ar d e d   b y   t h e   A u d i t   C o m mi t t e e   m o ni t o r in g  
a n d   a p p r o v in g ,   w h e r e   a p p r o p r i a t e ,   t h e   n at ur e   o f   t h e   w o r k   a n d   t h e 
l e v e l   o f   f e e s   p a i d   f o r   n o n - a u d i t   s e r v i c e s   a s   a   p r o p o r t i o n   o f   t h e 
t o t al   a u d i t   f e e s   p a i d .   
Audit Committee effectiveness review
A n   a s s e s s m e n t   o f   t h e   e f f e c t i v e n e s s   w a s   c o n d u c t e d   d ur in g   t h e   y ea r    
b y   a   q u e s t i o nn a ir e   s e n t   b y   t h e   C o m p a n y   S e c r e t a r y   t o   m e m b e r s   o f    
t h e   A u d i t   C o m mi t t e e   a n d   r e l e v an t   e x e c u t i v e s .     T h e   q u e s t i o nn a ir e  
c o n t a in e d   2 3   q u e s t i o n s   w hi c h   r e l a t e d   t o   t h e   A u d i t   C o m mi t t e e   an d ,   
o f   t h e s e ,   o nl y   t w o   r e c e i v e d   b e l o w - a v e r a g e   s c o r e s   –   o n e   r e l a t in g   t o   
t h e   G r o up ’ s   in t e r n a l   fi n a n c i a l   c o n t r o l   s y s t e m s   a n d   t h e   o t h e r   w i t h   i t s  
r i s k   m a n a g e m e n t   p r o c e s s e s .     R e s ul t s   f r o m   t h e   q u e s t i o nn a ir e s   w e r e  
p r e s e n t e d   t o   t h e   B o ar d   in   J ul y   2 0 1 0 .    
Internal control and risk
T h e   B o ar d   h a s   o v e r a ll   r e s p o n s ibili t y   f o r   t h e   G r o up ’ s   s y s t e m   o f   
in t e r n a l   c o n t r o l   a n d   f o r   r e v i e w in g   i t s   e f f e c t i v e n e s s ,   w hil e   t h e   r o l e    
o f   m a n a g e m e n t   i s   t o   im p l e m e n t   B o ar d   p o li c i e s   o n   r i s k   a n d   c o n t r o l .    
T h e   s y s t e m s   o f   in t e r n a l   c o n t r o l   a n d   r i s k   m a n a g e m e n t   h a v e   b e e n 
d e v e l o p e d   t o   e n s ur e   c o m p li a n c e   w i t h   t h e   C o m bin e d   C o d e   ( U K  
C o r p o r a t e   G o v e r n a n c e   C o d e   a s   a p p r o p r i a t e )   an d   T ur nb ull   G ui d a n c e  
o n   in t e r n a l   c o n t r o l   an d   r i s k   m a n a g e m e n t .
T h e   B o ar d   h a s   d e l e g a t e d   t h e   d a y - t o - d a y   m an a g e m e n t   o f   t h e 
C o m p a n y   t o   t h e   C hi e f   E x e c u t i v e   a n d ,   t hr o u g h   him ,   t o   t h e   o t h e r  
E x e c u t i v e   D ir e c t o r s   a n d   t h e   G MB .     T h e   s y s t e m   o f   in t e r n a l   c o n t r o l   i s 
d e s i g n e d   t o   m a n a g e   a n d   mi t i g a t e   r at h e r   t h a n   e limin at e   t h e   r i s k   o f 
f a ilur e   t o   ac hi e v e   b u s in e s s   o bj e c t i v e s .     In   p ur s uin g   t h e s e   o bj e c t i v e s , 
in t e r n a l   c o n t r o l s   –   w hi c h   in c lu d e   fi n a n c i a l ,   o p e r at i o n al   a n d   c o m p li a n c e  
c o n t r o l s   –   a n d   r i s k   m a n a g e m e n t   c an   o nl y   p r o v i d e   r ea s o n ab l e ,   an d   n o t  
a b s o lu t e ,   a s s ur an c e   a g a in s t   m a t e r i al   mi s s t at e m e n t   o r   l o s s .     T h e   B o ar d  
h a s   r e v i e w e d   t h e   e f f e c t i v e n e s s   o f   in t e r n a l   c o n t r o l s   d ur in g   t h e   y ea r .
C l ea r l y   t h e r e   h a s   b e e n   a   b r eak d o w n   in   in t e r n a l   c o n t r o l s   in   t h e   U K  
M a in s t r ea m   b u s in e s s   w hi c h   g a v e   r i s e   t o   t h e   ir r e c o v e r a b l e   b al a n c e 
w r i t e - o f f s   ( s e e   p a g e   7 0 ) .     T h e   A u d i t   C o m mi t t e e   c o m mi s s i o n e d   a   f ull  
a n d   t h o r ou g h   c o n t r o l s   a n d   c o m p li a n c e   r e v i e w   ac r o s s   t h e   o r g a ni s a t i o n ,  
c h a ir e d   b y   J e r e m y   H i c k s   ( H ead   o f   t h e   A u d i t   C o m mi t t e e )   a n d 
s up p o r t e d   b y   K P M G   an d   P w C .     T hi s   p r og r a m m e   o f   w o r k   c o n s i s t e d   
o f   s e v e r a l   f o c u s e d   w o r k s t r eam s ,   o n e   o f   w hi c h   w a s   d e d i c at e d   t o   t h e  
U K   M a in s t r ea m   c o n t r o l   e n v ir o nm e n t .     T hi s   in c lu d e d   t h e   f ull   a n d 
t h o r ou g h   r e v i e w   o f   t h e   t w o   r e s e r v at i o n   s y s t e m s   w hi c h   g a v e   r i s e   t o    
t h e   i s s u e s   an d   t h e   r e c o n c ili at i o n   o f   t h e s e ,   a n d   a n   o n g oin g   r e v i e w   o f 
b ac k - o f fi c e   fi n a n c e   p r o c e s s e s .     A   h ea v y   f o c u s   w a s   o n   r e v i e w in g 
e x i s t in g   c o n t r o l s   in   p l ac e   a n d   p r o v i d in g   r e c o m m e n d a t i o n s   o n   w h e r e  
t h e s e   c o ul d   b e   im p r o v e d   up o n .     T h e   o t h e r   w o r k s t r eam s   c o n s i d e r e d  
t h e   w h o l e   o r g a ni s a t i o n ,   c o n s i s t in g   o f   a n   e x t e n s i v e   b al a n c e   s h e e t   Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
 
www.tuitravelplc.com
T U I  T r a v e l P L C  A n n u a l R e p o r t  &  A c c o u n t s  2 0 1 0  51
r e v i e w   p r og r a m m e   a n d   o t h e r   c o n t r o l   r e v i e w s   l o o k in g   at   in t e rc o m p an y  
p o li c i e s   a n d   g e n e r a l   p e r i o d i c   fi n a n c e   c o n t r o l   p r o c e s s e s .     A s   a   r e s ul t   o f 
t hi s   pi e c e   o f   w o r k ,   n e w   p o li c i e s   a n d   p r o c e d ur e s   o n   k e y   a r ea s   o f 
fi n a n c i a l   c o n t r o l   h a v e   b e e n   d e v e l o p e d   in   c o n j un c t i o n   w i t h   s e ni o r 
fi n a n c e   t ea m s   ac r o s s   t h e   o r g a ni s a t i o n   a n d   h a v e   n o w   b e e n   p u t   in   p l ac e .    
T h e s e   w ill   b e   c o n t in u all y   d e v e l o p e d   a n d   im p r o v e d   up o n   t hr o u g h ou t 
t h e   n e x t   fi n a n c i a l   y ea r .
T h e   B o ar d   c o n fi r m s   t h at   t h e r e   i s   a n   o n g oin g   p r o c e s s   f o r   i d e n t i f y in g , 
e v a lu at in g   a n d   m a n a g in g   t h e   s i g ni fi c a n t   r i s k s   f ac e d   b y   t h e   G r o up ;   t h at  
t hi s   h a s   b e e n   in   p l ac e   f o r   t h e   y ea r   un d e r   r e v i e w   a n d   up   t o   t h e   d a t e   o f 
a p p r o v a l   o f   t h e   A nn u a l   R e p o r t   a n d   A c c o un t s ;   t h at   t hi s   p r o c e s s   i s  
r e g ul ar l y   r e v i e w e d   b y   t h e   B o ar d ;   a n d   t h at   t h e   p r o c e s s   ac c o r d s   w i t h  
t h e   T ur nb ull   G ui d a n c e .     T h e   k e y   e l e m e n t s   o f   t h e   c o n t r o l   f r a m e w o r k 
a n d   r e v i e w   p r o c e s s e s   in   p l ac e   ac r o s s   t h e   G r o up   a r e   a s   f o ll o w s : 
•     T h e   B o ar d   s e t s   c o r p o r at e   s t r at e g y   a n d   b u s in e s s   o bj e c t i v e s .      
T h e   G MB   a n d   S e c t o r   m a n a g e m e n t   in t e g r at e   t h e s e   o bj e c t i v e s    
in t o   t h e ir   o p e r a t i o n al   a n d   f in an c i al   b u s in e s s   p l a n s .     W h e r e   ar ea s 
f o r   im p r o v e m e n t   in   t h e   s y s t e m   o f   in t e r n a l   c o n t r o l   a r e   i d e n t i f i e d ,  
t h e   B o ar d   c o n s i d er s   t h e   r e c o m m e n d a t i o n s   m ad e   b y   t h e   G MB   a n d  
t h e   A u d i t   C o m mi t t e e .
•     T h e   G MB   m e e t s   r e g ul ar l y   t og e t h e r   w i t h   o t h e r   s e ni o r   e x e c u t i v e s    
t o   c o n s i d er   G r o up   o p e r at i o n al   a n d   f in an c i al   p e r f o r m an c e   a n d 
b u s in e s s   d e v e l o p m e n t .     T h e   C hi e f   E x e c u t i v e   r e p o r t s   t o   t h e   B o ar d  
o n   b e h al f   o f   t h e   G MB   o n   s i g ni f i c a n t   c h an g e s   in   t h e   b u s in e s s   a n d  
t h e   e x t e r n a l   e n v ir o nm e n t .     T h e   C hi e f   F in an c i a l   O f f i c e r   p r o v i d e s  
t h e   B o ar d   w i t h   f in an c i al   in f o r m a t i o n   w hi c h   in c lu d e s   k e y  
p e r f o r m an c e   a n d   r i s k   in d i c at o r s .
•     G r o up   R i s k   M a n a g e m e n t   h a s   d e s i g n e d   a   f r a m e w o r k   f o r   r i s k 
m a n a g e m e n t   f o r   T U I   T r a v e l   in   lin e   w i t h   T ur nb ull   G ui d a n c e , 
in t e g r at e d   w i t h   t h e   s h o r t   a n d   l o n g - t e r m   b u s in e s s   p l a nnin g  
p r o c e s s e s .     S e e   E n t e r p r i s e - w i d e   R i s k   M a n a g e m e n t .
•     T h e   A u d i t   C o m mi t t e e ,   w i t h   a s s i s t an c e   f r o m   c e r t a in   r e l a t e d  
m a n a g e m e n t   c o m mi t t e e s ,   o v e r s e e s   k e y   r i s k s ,   s u c h   a s   f in an c i al 
r i s k ,   h ea l t h   an d   s af e t y ,   c o r p o r at e   a n d   s o c i al   r e s p o n s ibili t y   an d   t h e 
e n v i r o n m e n t ,   w h e r e   s u c h   r i s k s   a p p l y   a c r os s   a l l   S e c t o r s .     T h e   B o a r d  
b e li e v e s   t h at ,   in   o r d e r   t o   b e   e f f e c t i v e ,   r i s k   m a n a g e m e n t   p r o c e s s e s 
mu s t   b e   dr i v e n   d o w n   t o   eac h   o p e r at in g   uni t .     A c c o r d in g l y ,   eac h 
S e c t o r   B o ar d   n o w   ad dr e s s e s   r i s k   m a n a g e m e n t   a s   a   s t a n d in g  
a g e n d a   i t e m   a n d   i s   r e s p o n s ib l e   f o r   e n s ur in g   t h at   t h e   r i s k s   f ac in g  
t h at   S e c t o r ’ s   b u s in e s s e s   a r e   i d e n t i f i e d   a n d   t h at   r e l a t e d   ac t i o n 
p l a n s   a r e   im p l e m e n t e d .     S e c t o r s   f o r m a ll y   r e p o r t   t h e ir   r i s k   p r o f il e  
o n   a   q u ar t e r l y   b a s i s .
•     T h e   G r o up   A u d i t   S e r v i c e s   f un c t i o n   in d e p e n d e n t l y   r e v i e w s   t h e   r i s k  
i d e n t i f i c at i o n   p r o c e d ur e s   an d   c o n t r o l   p r o c e s s e s ,   im p l e m e n t e d   b y 
m a n a g e m e n t   a n d   r e p o r t s   i t s   f in d in g s   at   eac h   A u d i t   C o m mi t t e e  
m e e t in g ,   o r   m o r e   f r e q u e n t l y   i f   a p p r o p r i a t e .
•     T h e   A u d i t   C o m mi t t e e   r e v i e w s   t h e   p r o p o s e d   w o r k   p l a n s   o f   t h e  
G r o up   A u d i t   S e r v i c e s   f un c t i o n ;   r e p o r t s   i s s u e d   b y   G r o up   A u d i t 
S e r v i c e s ;   p r og r e s s   m ad e   o n   ad dr e s s in g   f in d in g s   a r i s in g   f r o m   t h e s e  
r e p o r t s ;   a s   w e ll   a s   r e p o r t s   o n   s y s t e m s   a n d   c o n t r o l s   f r o m   t h e  
e x t e r n a l   a u d i t o r s   c o v e r in g   m a t e r i al   w ea k n e s s e s .     T h e   C h a ir m an   
o f   t h e   A u d i t   C o m mi t t e e   r e p o r t s   t o   t h e   B o ar d   o n   t h e   o u t c o m e   o f 
t h e   A u d i t   C o m mi t t e e   m e e t in g s   h e l d   a n d   t h e   B o ar d   r e c e i v e s   t h e 
min u t e s   o f   all   s u c h   m e e t in g s .
•     T h e   T r ea s ur y   p o s i t i o n   o f   t h e   G r o up ,   in c lu d in g   c a s h ,   f o r e i g n 
e x c h an g e   a n d   f u e l   h e d g in g   e x p o s ur e ,   i s   m a n a g e d   c e n t r a ll y   in  
ac c o r d a n c e   w i t h   p o li c i e s   ap p r o p r i at e   f o r   eac h   S e c t o r   a n d   i s   t h e 
r e s p o n s ibili t y   o f   t h e   C hi e f   F in an c i a l   O f f i c e r   a n d   G r o up   T r ea s ur e r .    
R e p o r t s   a n d   f o r e c a s t s   ar e   s ub mi t t e d   m o n t hl y   t o   t h e   G MB   a n d   at  
eac h   m e e t in g   o f   t h e   T U I   T r a v e l   P L C   B o ar d .     W e e k l y   m e e t in g s   o n 
li q ui d i t y   a n d   f u e l   h e d g in g   t a k e   p l ac e   a n d   a r e   at t e n d e d   b y   t h e 
C hi e f   E x e c u t i v e ,   C hi e f   F in an c i a l   O f f i c e r ,   G r o up   T r ea s ur e r   a n d 
o t h e r   s e ni o r   m a n a g e r s   a s   d e e m e d   n e c e s s a r y .
•     F in an c i a l   f o r e c a s t s ,   p r o v i d in g   p r e d i c t e d   r e s ul t s   w i t h   s e n s i t i v i t y 
a n al y s i s ,   a r e   p r e p a r e d   r o u t in e l y   t hr o u g h ou t   t h e   y ea r   f o r   r e v i e w   b y 
t h e   G MB   a n d   t h e   B o ar d .     T h e s e   f o r e c a s t s   a l s o   in c lu d e   d e t a il s   o f  
t h e   G r o up ’ s   o n g oin g   c o m p li a n c e   w i t h   i t s   r e g ul a t o r y   a n d   b ank in g 
r e q uir e m e n t s .     T h e   G r o up   h a s   e s t a b li s h e d   in v e s t m e n t   ap p r a i s a l  
a n d   a u t h o r i s a t i o n   p r o c e d ur e s   a n d   i t s   c api t a l   e x p e n d i t ur e   i s  
r e v i e w e d   a g a i n s t   b u d g e t s   w h i c h   h a v e   b e e n   a p p r o v e d   b y   t h e   B o a r d .
P r o c e s s e s   a r e   in   p l ac e   t o   e n s ur e   a p p r o p r i a t e   ac t i o n   i s   t a k e n   w h e r e  
n e c e s s a r y   t o   r e m e d y   a n y   d e fi c i e n c i e s   i d e n t i fi e d   t hr o u g h   t h e   G r o up ’ s 
in t e r n a l   c o n t r o l   a n d   r i s k   m a n a g e m e n t   p r o c e s s e s .
Group Risk Management Committee (GRMC)
T h e   GR MC   c o m p r i s e s   o f   m e m b e r s   o f   t h e   G r o up   M a n a g e m e n t   B o ar d  
( G MB )   ( e x c lu d in g   t h e   C hi e f   E x e c u t i v e ) ,   t h e   D ir e c t o r   o f   G r o up   A u d i t  
S e r v i c e s   a n d   t h e   G r o up   T r ea s ur e r .     M e m b e r s hip   i s   r e v i e w e d   a nn u a ll y 
b y   t h e   G MB .     T h e   GR MC ’ s   c o r e   r e s p o n s ibili t i e s   a r e   t o   a s s i s t   t h e   B o ar d  
b y   a s s e s s in g   an d   r e p o r t in g   t o   t h e   G MB   o n   t h e   e f f e c t i v e n e s s   o f   t h e 
C o m p a n y ’ s   in t e r n a l   c o n t r o l   s y s t e m s   in   m a n a g in g   r i s k s   a n d   in   f ul fi llin g  
i t s   r e s p o n s ibili t i e s   b y   p r o v i d in g   a n   o v e r s i g h t   o f   t h e   f r a m e w o r k   f o r  
m a n a g in g   r i s k s   t hr o u g h ou t   t h e   G r o up .
Enterprise-wide Risk Management (ERM)
T h e   o bj e c t i v e   o f   t h e   f r a m e w o r k   s t r i v e s   t o   im p r o v e   o p e r a t i o n al  
p e r f o r m an c e ,   r e d u c e   l o s s e s   a n d   t o   p r o t e c t   a n d   e nh an c e   s h a r e h o l d e r  
v a lu e   in   t h e   p ur s ui t   o f   t h e   G r o up ’ s   s t r at e g i c   im p e r at i v e s .     T h e   G r o up 
c o n s i d er s   f o ur   t y p e s   o f   r i s k   w h e n   i d en t i f y in g   p o t e n t i a l   e v e n t s   t h at 
c o ul d   af f e c t   t h e   d e li v e r y   o f   b u s in e s s   o bj e c t i v e s   a n d   s t r at e g i c   g o a l s .   
R i s k s   a r e   c o n s i d e r e d   in   t h e   c o n t e x t   o f   l o n g e r - t e r m   s t r at e g i c   a n d 
e m e r g in g   t hr eat s ;   m e d i um   c h all e n g e s   a s s o c i at e d   w i t h   b u s in e s s   c h a n g e 
p r og r a m m e s ;   s h o r t e r - t e r m   r i s k s   t r i g g e r e d   b y   t h e   c h an g in g   e x t e r n a l  
e n v ir o nm e n t ;   a n d   s h o r t e r - t e r m   r i s k s   in   r e l a t i o n   t o   in t e r n a l   o p e r at i o n s .
K e y   f eat ur e s   o f   t h e   G r o up ’ s   s y s t e m   o f   r i s k   m a n a g e m e n t   a r e :
•     E s t a b li s h e d   r i s k   m a n a g e m e n t   p o li c y .
•     O n g o i n g   p r o c e s s   f o r   r i s k   i d e n t i f i c a t i o n ,   e v a l u a t i o n   a n d   p r i o r i t i s a t i o n  
t h at   c o ul d   im p ac t   o n   b u s in e s s   o bj e c t i v e s   o r   s t r at e g i c   g o a l s .
•     M a n a g e m e n t   p r o c e s s e s   t o   mi t i g a t e   r i s k s   w i t hin   j u s t i f i a b l e   a n d  
t o l e r a b l e   l e v e l s .
•     V i s ibili t y   o f   e x i s t in g   c o n t r o l s   a l o n g   w i t h   a n y   f ur t h e r   ac t i o n   p l a n s    
t o   t r eat   t h e   r i s k   a p p r o p r i a t e l y .
•     Q u a r t e r l y   r e v i e w   a n d   up d at e   o f   r e p o r t in g   uni t s ’   r i s k   p r o f il e s .
•     H a l f - y ear l y   r e v i e w   o f   G r o up   r i s k   p r o f il e ,   r e p o r t e d   t o   t h e   A u d i t  
C o m mi t t e e   f o r   r e v i e w   a n d   c h all e n g e .
•     R e g ul a r   c o n s i d e r at i o n   o f   an y   in t e r n a l   a n d   e x t e r n a l   f ac t o r s   w hi c h  
c o ul d   im p ac t   t h e   G r o up   p o s i t i o n .
•     C o m p li an c e   p r o c e s s   an d   ad e q u ac y   o f   t h e   c o n t r o l s   r e v i e w e d   b y  
G r o up   A u d i t   S e r v i c e s .
In   ad d i t i o n ,   t h e r e   i s   r e g ul ar   r e p o r t in g   t o   t h e   B o ar d   t hr o u g h   t h e   A u d i t  
C o m mi t t e e   o n   k e y   ac t i v i t i e s   un d e r t a k e n   b y   G r o up   R i s k   M a n a g e m e n t  
a n d   t h e   s t at u s   o f   t h e   r i s k   m a n a g e m e n t   p r o c e s s .
Whistleblowing process
T h e r e   a r e   p o li c i e s   a n d   p r o c e d ur e s   f o r   t h e   r e p o r t in g   b y   e m p l o y e e s   a n d  
t h e   r e s o lu t i o n   o f   s u s p e c t e d   f r a u d ul e n t   ac t i v i t i e s .     I t   i s   t h e   p o li c y   o f   t h e 
G r o up   t o   e m p l o y   s t af f   a n d   m a n a g e m e n t   o f   hi g h   in t e g r i t y ,   t o   t r a in  
t h e m   a p p r o p r i a t e l y   a n d   t o   r e q uir e   c o m p li a n c e   w i t h   a ll   r e l e v an t   l a w s , 
r e g ul a t i o n s   a n d   in t e r n a l   p o li c i e s .     www.tuitravelplc.com
52  T U I T r a v e l  P L C  A n n u a l R e p o r t & A c c o u n t s  2 0 1 0
F o r   a ll   e m p l o y e e s   o n   a   U K   c o n t r ac t ,   w e   h a v e   b e e n   o p e r at in g   a 
c o n fi d e n t i al   e m p l o y e e   h o t lin e   f o r   s e v e r a l   y ea r s ,   u s in g   a   t hir d   p ar t y    
t o   e n s ur e   c o n fi d e n t i ali t y   a n d   a n o n y mi t y   w h e r e   t hi s   i s   r e q uir e d .    
E m p l o y e e s   c an   m a k e   c o n fi d e n t i al   r e p o r t s   a b o u t   a n y   i s s u e s   t h e y   w o ul d 
lik e   t o   r a i s e   w hi c h   t h e y   f e e l   t h e y   c ann o t   r e p o r t   t o   t h e ir   m a n a g e r .    
T h e   o p e r at o r   o f   o ur   h o t lin e   r e p o r t s   c all s   t o   n o min a t e d   r e c ipi e n t s   
in   o ur   G r o up   A u d i t   S e r v i c e s   D e p a r t m e n t   w h o   r e v i e w   t h e s e   a n d  
in v e s t i g at e   t h e m   a s   a p p r o p r i a t e .
In   t h e   fi n a n c i a l   y ea r   a   t o t al   o f   3 5   c all s   w e r e   m ad e   t o   t h e   h o t lin e ,   
t h e   m a j o r i t y   o f   w hi c h   r e s ul t e d   in   in t e r n a l   in v e s t i g at i o n s .
W i t hin   i t s   r e g ul ar   r e p o r t   t o   t h e   A u d i t   C o m mi t t e e ,   G r o up   A u d i t 
S e r v i c e s   p r o v i d e s   a   s um m ar y   o f   a n y   c o n fi d e n t i al   r e p o r t s   r e c e i v e d    
a n d   ac t i o n s   t a k e n .     A   m o n t hl y   r e p o r t   i s   a l s o   p r o d u c e d   w hi c h   in c lu d e s   
a   s um m ar y   o f   a ll   c all s   r e c e i v e d   hi g hli g h t in g   a n y   i s s u e s   r a i s e d .
Communication with shareholders
T h e   C hi e f   E x e c u t i v e ,   C hi e f   F in an c i a l   O f fi c e r   a n d   m e m b e r s   o f   t h e 
I n v e s t o r   R e l a t i o n s   t e a m   h o l d   r e g u l a r   m e e t i n g s   w i t h   m a j o r   s h a r e h o l d e r s  
t o   r e v i e w   t h e   G r o up ’ s   p e r f o r m an c e   an d   p r o s p e c t s .     T h e   v i e w s   o f 
s h a r e h o l d e r s   a r e   c o m m u n i c a t e d   t o   a l l   m e m b e r s   o f   t h e   B o a r d   f o l l o w i n g 
s u c h   m e e t in g s .     D ur in g   t h e   c o ur s e   o f   t h e s e   m e e t in g s   t h e   i s s u e   o f 
g o v e r n a n c e   i s   d i s c u s s e d .     P r e s e n t at i o n s   t o   m a j o r   s h a r e h o l d e r s   ar e 
m ad e   at   l ea s t   t w i c e   y ea r l y ,   af t e r   t h e   a nn oun c e m e n t   o f   t h e   in t e r im   
a n d   p r e limin ar y   r e s ul t s ,   d e t a il s   o f   w hi c h ,   t og e t h e r   w i t h   t h e   G r o up ’ s 
fi n a n c i a l   r e p o r t s   an d   o t h e r   a nn oun c e m e n t s ,   c an   b e   ac c e s s e d   v i a   t h e  
G r o up ’ s   w e b s i t e   w w w . t ui t r a v e lp l c . c o m .
T h e   C h a ir m an   o f   t h e   R e mun e r at i o n   C o m mi t t e e ,   C l a r e   C h ap m an ,    
m e t   w i t h   f o ur   m a j o r   s h a r e h o l d e r s   in   D e c e m b e r   2 0 0 9   a n d   h ad   t w o 
ad d i t i o n al   m e e t in g s   in   A p r il   2 0 1 0   w i t h   m a j o r   s h a r e h o l d e r s   c o n c e r nin g 
t h e   r e mun e r a t i o n   p o li c y .     F e e db ac k   f r o m   s h a r e h o l d e r s   o bt a in e d  
d ur in g   t h e s e   m e e t in g s   w a s   s h a r e d   w i t h   t h e   R e mun e r at i o n   C o m mi t t e e  
a n d   g i v e n   d u e   c o n s i d er at i o n .    
T h e   C o m bin e d   C o d e   r e c o m m e n d s   t h at   t h e   S e ni o r   In d e p e n d e n t  
D ir e c t o r   m e e t s   w i t h   a   r a n g e   o f   m a j o r   s h a r e h o l d e r s   t o   g a in   a n  
un d e r s t a n d in g   o f   t h e ir   v i e w s .     In   p r ac t i c e   a n d ,   a s   a   r e s ul t   o f   t h e  
e x t e n s i v e   in v e s t o r   f e e db ac k   p r o v i d e d   b y   t h e   C hi e f   E x e c u t i v e   an d   t h e 
C hi e f   F in an c i a l   O f fi c e r ,   t h e   S e ni o r   In d e p e n d e n t   D ir e c t o r   a n d   o t h e r  
N o n - E x e c u t i v e   D ir e c t o r s   b e li e v e   t h at   t h e y   a r e   k e pt   f ull y   up - t o - d at e 
a n d   w o ul d   b e   m ad e   a w a r e   s h o ul d   t h e r e   b e   a n y   i s s u e s .     T h e y   t h e r e f o r e  
c o n s i d er e d   t h at   i t   w a s   n o t   n e c e s s a r y   t o   a r r an g e   m e e t in g s   w i t h   m a j o r  
s h a r e h o l d e r s   f o r   t hi s   p ur p o s e   d ur in g   t h e   y ea r .     D ur in g   t h e   y ea r ,   n o 
s h a r e h o l d e r s   r e q u e s t e d   a n y   m e e t in g s   w i t h   t h e   S e ni o r   In d e p e n d e n t  
D ir e c t o r   o r   a n y   o t h e r   N o n - E x e c u t i v e   D ir e c t o r s .     H o w e v e r ,   s h o ul d   a  
r e q u e s t   f o r   a   m e e t in g   b e   m ad e ,   t h e y   w o ul d   m a k e   t h e m s e l v e s   a v a il ab l e  
i f   i t   w a s   ap p r o p r i at e   t o   d o   s o .    
T h e r e   i s   a n   o p p o r t uni t y   f o r   s h a r e h o l d e r s   t o   q u e s t i o n   t h e   C h a ir m an  
a n d   o t h e r   D i r e c t o r s   ( i n c l u d i n g   t h e   C h a i r m e n   o f   t h e   A u d i t ,   R e m u n e r a t i o n  
a n d   N o min a t i o n   C o m mi t t e e s )   at   t h e   A nn u a l   G e n e r al   M e e t in g   ( A G M ) .   
T h e   A G M   a l s o   p r o v i d e s   a   f o r um   f o r   t h e   N o n - E x e c u t i v e   D ir e c t o r s   t o 
d i s c u s s   t h e   v i e w s   o f   s h a r e h o l d e r s   w i t h   t h e m   d ir e c t l y .
In   r e s p e c t   o f   g e n e r a l   m e e t in g s   o f   t h e   C o m p a n y :
•     T h e   C o m p a n y   p r e p ar e s   s e p ar at e   r e s o lu t i o n s   o n   eac h   s ub s t a n t i all y  
s e p ar at e   i s s u e   a n d   d o e s   n o t   c o m bin e   r e s o lu t i o n s   t og e t h e r 
in ap p r o p r i at e l y .
•     P r o x y   a p p oin t m e n t   f o r m s   p r o v i d e   s h a r e h o l d e r s   w i t h   t h e   o pt i o n   
t o   v o t e   f o r ,   a g a in s t   o r   t o   w i t hh o l d   t h e ir   v o t e .     T h e   p r o x y   f o r m  
m a k e s   i t   c l ea r   t h at   a   ‘v o t e   w i t hh e l d ’   i s   n o t   a   v o t e   in   l a w   a n d   w ill 
n o t   b e   c o un t e d .
•     A ll   p o s t a l   p r o x y   v o t e s   ar e   r e t ur n e d   t o   E q uini t i   ( t h e   C o m p a n y ’ s 
R e g i s t r ar )   w h o   i s   r e s p o n s ib l e   t o   f o r   e n s ur in g   v o t e s   a r e   p r o p e r l y  
r e c e i v e d   a n d   c o un t e d .
•     P r o x y   c o un t s   a r e   d i s p l a y e d   at   t h e   c l o s e   o f   t h e   A G M   a n d   t h e 
r e s ul t s   p o s t e d   o n   t h e   C o m p a n y ’ s   w e b s i t e   w w w . t ui t r a v e lp l c . c o m 
f o ll o w in g   t h e   c l o s ur e   o f   t h e   m e e t in g .
•     T h e   A nn u a l   R e p o r t   a n d   A c c o un t s   i s   l a i d   b e f o r e   s h a r e h o l d e r s   
at   t h e   A G M .    
Combined Code Provisions
F o r   t h e   r ea s o n s   d i s c l o s e d   w i t hin   t hi s   A nn u a l   R e p o r t ,   d ur in g   t h e   y ea r  
t h e   C o m p a n y   d i d   n o t   f ull y   c o m p l y   w i t h   t h e   f o ll o w in g   p r o v i s i o n s :
•   C o d e   P r o v i s i o n   A 2 . 2 .     T h e   C h a ir m an   s h o ul d   o n   ap p oin t m e n t   m e e t 
t h e   in d e p e n d e n c e   c r i t e r i a   s e t   o u t   in   C o d e   A 3 . 1   ( s e e   p a g e   4 9 ) .  
•   C o d e   P r o v i s i o n   B 2 . 1 .     T h e   R e mun e r at i o n   C o m mi t t e e   s h o ul d   all   b e  
in d e p e n d e n t   N o n - E x e c u t i v e   D ir e c t o r s   ( s e e   p a g e   4 9 ) .
•   C o d e   P r o v i s i o n   D 1 . 1 .     T h e   S e ni o r   In d e p e n d e n t   D ir e c t o r   s h o ul d  
at t e n d   s u f f i c i e n t   m e e t in g s   w i t h   a   r a n g e   o f   m a j o r   s h a r e h o l d e r s   
t o   li s t e n   t o   t h e ir   v i e w s   in   o r d e r   t o   h e lp   d e v e l o p   a   b al a n c e d  
un d e r s t a n d in g   o f   t h e   i s s u e s   an d   c o n c e r n s   o f   m a j o r   s h a r e h o l d e r s 
( s e e   a b o v e ) .
T h e   n e w   U K   C o r p o r a t e   G o v e r n an c e   C o d e   p r o v i s i o n s   a p p l y   t o 
ac c o un t in g   p e r i o d s   b e g innin g   o n   o r   af t e r   2 9   J un e   2 0 1 0 .     A l t h o u g h   t h e 
C o m p a n y ’ s   r e p o r t in g   p e r i o d   b e g an   o n   1   O c t o b e r   2 0 0 9 ,   w e   h a v e   t a k e n  
t h e   d e c i s i o n   t o   s ub s t a n t i all y   c o m p l y   w i t h   t h e   n e w   p r o v i s i o n s   in   lin e 
w i t h   b e s t   p r ac t i c e   a n d   t o   e x p l a in   w h e n   w e   h a v e   n o t .     F o r   t h e   r ea s o n s  
d i s c l o s e d   w i t hin   t hi s   A nn u a l   R e p o r t   d ur in g   t h e   y ea r   t h e   C o m p a n y   
d i d   n o t   f ull y   c o m p l y   w i t h   t h e   f o ll o w in g   ad d i t i o n a l   p r o v i s i o n s   o f   t h e 
n e w   c o d e :
•   C o d e   P r o v i s i o n   C 1 . 2 .     T h e   D ir e c t o r s   s h o ul d   in c lu d e   in   t h e   A nn u a l 
R e p o r t   a n   e x p l a n at i o n   o f   t h e   b a s i s   o n   w hi c h   t h e   C o m p an y  
g e n e r at e s   o r   p r e s e r v e s   v a lu e   o v e r   t h e   l o n g e r   t e r m   ( t h e   b u s in e s s  
m o d e l )   a n d   t h e   s t r at e g y   f o r   d e li v e r in g   t h e   o bj e c t i v e s   o f   t h e 
C o m p a n y .     In f o r m a t i o n   o n   t h e   C o m p a n y ’ s   b u s in e s s   m o d e l   i s   g i v e n  
o n   p a g e s   2   t o   4 1   a n d   a   m o r e   d e t a il e d   b u s in e s s   m o d e l   w ill   b e 
p r o v i d e d   in   t h e   y ea r   e n d e d   S e pt e m b e r   2 0 1 1   in   ac c o r d a n c e   w i t h 
U K   C o r p o r a t e   G o v e r n an c e   C o d e   p r o v i s i o n s .    
Andrew John
C o m p a n y   S e c r e t a r y 
1   D e c e m b e r   2 0 1 0
Go v ernanc e
Corporate Governance report c o n t i n u e d Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
www.tuitravelplc.com
T U I  T r a v e l P L C  A n n u a l R e p o r t  &  A c c o u n t s  2 0 1 0  53
Remuneration report
B i l l   L o g a n   h a s   d i r e c t   a c c e s s   t o   t h e   C h a i r m a n   o f   t h e   C o m m i t t e e   a n d , 
t o g e t h e r   w i t h   D a v i d   H o u s e ,   t h e y   a d v i s e d   t h e   C o m m i t t e e   o n   a l l   a s p e c t s  
o f   t h e   G r o u p ’ s   r e w a r d   p o l i c i e s   a n d   s t r u c t u r e s   d u r i n g   t h e   y e a r .     P e t e r  
L o n g   a t t e n d s   m e e t i n g s   o f   t h e   C o m m i t t e e   t o   m a k e   r e c o m m e n d a t i o n s  
r e l a t i n g   t o   t h e   p e r f o r m a n c e   a n d   r e m u n e r a t i o n   o f   h i s   d i r e c t   r e p o r t s    
a n d   A n d r e w   J o h n   ( C o m p a n y   S e c r e t a r y )   a c t s   a s   S e c r e t a r y   t o   t h e 
C o m m i t t e e .     P e t e r   L o n g ,   P a u l   B o w t e l l ,   B i l l   L o g a n   a n d   A n d r e w   J o h n   
a r e   n o t   i n   a t t e n d a n c e   w h e n   t h e i r   o w n   r e m u n e r a t i o n   i s   c o n s i d e r e d .   
D e l o i t t e ,   a n   e x t e r n a l   c o n s u l t a n c y   o r g a n i s a t i o n ,   p r o v i d e d   i n d e p e n d e n t  
a d v i c e   o n   a l l   a s p e c t s   o f   s e n i o r   m a n a g e m e n t   r e m u n e r a t i o n .     D e l o i t t e   a l s o  
p r o v i d e s   s a l a r y   b e n c h m a r k i n g   i n f o r m a t i o n   a n d   t a x   s e r v i c e s   t o   t h e   G r o u p  
f r o m   t i m e   t o   t i m e   a n d   v e r i f i c a t i o n   o f   t h e   r e l a t i v e   p e r f o r m a n c e  
c o n d i t i o n s   a t t a c h e d   t o   t h e   P e r f o r m a n c e   S h a r e   P l a n   a n d   D e f e r r e d  
A n n u a l   B o n u s   S c h e m e .
H e r b e r t   S m i t h   a d v i s e d   o n   v a r i o u s   l e g a l   i s s u e s   r e l a t i n g   t o   t h e   C o m p a n y ’ s  
s h a r e   s c h e m e s   a n d   a l s o   p r o v i d e s   o t h e r   l e g a l   s e r v i c e s   t o   t h e   G r o u p .    
Policy on remuneration of Non-Executive Directors
N o n - E x e c u t i v e   D i r e c t o r s ,   i n c l u d i n g   t h e   C h a i r m a n ,   d o   n o t   h a v e   s e r v i c e  
c o n t r a c t s   a n d   d o   n o t   p a r t i c i p a t e   i n   t h e   G r o u p ’ s   p e n s i o n   s c h e m e ,   a n n u a l 
b o n u s   s c h e m e   o r   l o n g - t e r m   i n c e n t i v e   s c h e m e s .     N o n - E x e c u t i v e 
D i r e c t o r s   h a v e   s e c o n d - t e r m   l e t t e r s   o f   a p p o i n t m e n t   w h i c h   c a n   b e 
t e r m i n a t e d   b y   e i t h e r   p a r t y   s e r v i n g   t h r e e   m o n t h s ’   n o t i c e   ( w i t h   t h e 
e x c e p t i o n   o f   H o r s t   B a i e r   w h o s e   i n i t i a l   a p p o i n t m e n t   l e t t e r   h a s   n o t   y e t  
e x p i r e d   a n d ,   i n   c o m m o n   w i t h   a l l   i n i t i a l - t e r m   l e t t e r s ,   p r o v i d e s   f o r   s i x 
m o n t h s ’   n o t i c e ) .     I n   a c c o r d a n c e   w i t h   t h e   r e q u i r e m e n t s   o f   t h e   U K  
C o r p o r a t e   G o v e r n a n c e   C o d e   a l l   d i r e c t o r s   w i l l   b e   s u b j e c t   t o   r e - e l e c t i o n   a t  
t h e   A n n u a l   G e n e r a l   M e e t i n g   t o   b e   h e l d   o n   3   F e b r u a r y   2 0 1 1 .    
N o n - E x e c u t i v e   D i r e c t o r s   a r e   p a i d   a   f e e   w h i c h   i s   a p p r o v e d   b y   t h e   B o a r d  
o n   t h e   r e c o m m e n d a t i o n   o f   t h e   E x e c u t i v e   D i r e c t o r s ,   h a v i n g   t a k e n   a c c o u n t 
o f   t h e   f e e s   p a i d   i n   o t h e r   c o m p a n i e s   o f   a   s i m i l a r   c o m p l e x i t y   a n d   t h e   s k i l l s  
a n d   e x p e r i e n c e   o f   t h e   i n d i v i d u a l s .     T h e   b a s e   f e e   f o r   t h e   N o n - E x e c u t i v e  
D i r e c t o r s   i s   £ 5 5 , 0 0 0   b u t   t h e   C h a i r m a n   a n d   D e p u t y   C h a i r m a n   ( w h o   i s 
a l s o   t h e   S e n i o r   I n d e p e n d e n t   D i r e c t o r )   a r e   p a i d   h i g h e r   f e e s   t o   r e f l e c t  
t h e i r   a d d i t i o n a l   r e s p o n s i b i l i t i e s .     T h e   C h a i r m a n   r e c e i v e s   a   f e e   o f   £ 3 0 0 , 0 0 0  
a n d   t h e   D e p u t y   C h a i r m a n   r e c e i v e s   a   f e e   o f   £ 2 0 0 , 0 0 0 .     T h e   C h a i r m a n   o f 
t h e   A u d i t   C o m m i t t e e   a n d   t h e   C h a i r m a n   o f   t h e   R e m u n e r a t i o n   C o m m i t t e e 
r e c e i v e   a n   a d d i t i o n a l   f e e   o f   £ 1 5 , 0 0 0   a n d   £ 1 0 , 0 0 0   r e s p e c t i v e l y .
Policy on remuneration of Executive Directors  
and senior executives
T h e   C o m m i t t e e   a i m s   t o   e n s u r e   t h a t   r e m u n e r a t i o n   p a c k a g e s   a r e    
o f f e r e d   w h i c h :  
•     S t r u c t u r e   t h e   r e w a r d   o f   s e n i o r   m a n a g e m e n t   t o   a l i g n   t h e i r   i n t e r e s t s  
w i t h   t h o s e   o f   t h e   s h a r e h o l d e r s   o v e r   t h e   l o n g - t e r m ;
•     R e i n f o r c e   t h e   h i g h - p e r f o r m a n c e   c u l t u r e   t h r o u g h o u t   t h e   G r o u p ;
•   S e t   t h e   t o t a l   r e m u n e r a t i o n   p a c k a g e   a t   a n   a p p r o p r i a t e   l e v e l   t o   r e f l e c t  
t h e   c o m p e t i t i v e   m a r k e t   i n   w h i c h   t h e   G r o u p   o p e r a t e s ;   a n d
•     L i n k   a   s u b s t a n t i a l   p r o p o r t i o n   o f   t h e   t o t a l   r e m u n e r a t i o n   p a c k a g e   t o 
t h e   a c h i e v e m e n t   o f   d e m a n d i n g   f i n a n c i a l   p e r f o r m a n c e   t a r g e t s .
T h e   R e m u n e r a t i o n   C o m m i t t e e   ( t h e   C o m m i t t e e )   f o r m u l a t e s   a n d   
a p p l i e s   t h e   C o m p a n y   p o l i c y   a r o u n d   t h e   r e w a r d   o f   E x e c u t i v e   D i r e c t o r s .    
I t   o p e r a t e s   w i t h i n   t h e   s p i r i t   o f   T U I   T r a v e l ’ s   c o r e   v a l u e s   a n d   l o o k s   t o 
c u l t i v a t e   r e s p o n s i b l e   l e a d e r s h i p   i n   i t s   i n t e r n a l   a n d   e x t e r n a l   s o c i a l  
e n v i r o n m e n t .     C o n s e q u e n t l y   t h e   C o m m i t t e e   c l o s e l y   c o n s i d e r s   t h e 
C o m p a n y ’ s   s u s t a i n e d   p e r f o r m a n c e   i n   b u i l d i n g   b o t h   s h a r e h o l d e r   v a l u e 
a n d   a   s e c u r e   f u t u r e   f o r   a l l   i t s   s t a k e h o l d e r s .
T h i s   r e p o r t   h a s   b e e n   p r e p a r e d   b y   t h e   C o m m i t t e e   a n d   h a s   b e e n 
a p p r o v e d   b y   t h e   B o a r d .     I t   c o m p l i e s   w i t h   S c h e d u l e   8   o f   t h e   L a r g e    
a n d   M e d i u m   S i z e d   C o m p a n i e s   a n d   G r o u p s   ( A c c o u n t s   a n d   R e p o r t s )  
R e g u l a t i o n s   2 0 0 8 .     T h i s   r e p o r t   w i l l   b e   p u t   t o   s h a r e h o l d e r s   f o r   
a p p r o v a l   a t   t h e   A n n u a l   G e n e r a l   M e e t i n g   t o   b e   h e l d   o n   T h u r s d a y    
3   F e b r u a r y   2 0 1 1 .
Remuneration Committee
D u r i n g   t h e   y e a r ,   t h e   C o m m i t t e e   c o m p r i s e d   t h e   f o l l o w i n g    
N o n - E x e c u t i v e   D i r e c t o r s :
C l a r e   C h a p m a n   –   C h a i r m a n
T o n y   C a m p b e l l
B i l l   D a l t o n
D r   M i c h a e l   F r e n z e l
R a i n e r   F e u e r h a k e
T h r e e   o f   t h e   m e m b e r s   o f   t h e   C o m m i t t e e   a r e   i n d e p e n d e n t   N o n -
E x e c u t i v e   D i r e c t o r s .     D r   M i c h a e l   F r e n z e l   a n d   R a i n e r   F e u e r h a k e   a r e   
n o t   c o n s i d e r e d   b y   t h e   C o m p a n y   t o   b e   i n d e p e n d e n t .     D r   F r e n z e l   i s   
a   m e m b e r   o f   t h e   E x e c u t i v e   B o a r d   o f   T U I   A G   a n d   R a i n e r   F e u e r h a k e    
w a s   a   m e m b e r   o f   T U I   A G ’ s   E x e c u t i v e   B o a r d   u n t i l   h i s   r e s i g n a t i o n   i n  
F e b r u a r y   2 0 1 0 .     T U I   A G   i s   a   5 4 . 9 2 %   s h a r e h o l d e r   o f   T U I   T r a v e l   P L C    
a s   a t   3 0   S e p t e m b e r   2 0 1 0   a n d   t h e i r   a p p o i n t m e n t s   a r e   p u r s u a n t   t o   
t h e   R e l a t i o n s h i p   A g r e e m e n t   b e t w e e n   T U I   A G   a n d   t h e   C o m p a n y .
N o   m e m b e r   o f   t h e   C o m m i t t e e   h a s   a n y   p e r s o n a l   f i n a n c i a l   i n t e r e s t ,   o t h e r 
t h a n   a s   a   s h a r e h o l d e r   ( a s   d i s c l o s e d   i n   t h e   i n t e r e s t s   i n   s h a r e s   t a b l e   o n 
p a g e   6 2 ) ,   i n   t h e   m a t t e r s   t o   b e   d e c i d e d   b y   t h e   C o m m i t t e e .     T h e   t h r e e  
i n d e p e n d e n t   m e m b e r s   o f   t h e   C o m m i t t e e   h a v e   n o   c o n f l i c t s   o f   i n t e r e s t  
a r i s i n g   f r o m   C o m m i t t e e   m e m b e r s ’   c r o s s - d i r e c t o r s h i p s   a n d   n o n e   o f   t h e 
m e m b e r s   o f   t h e   C o m m i t t e e   p a r t i c i p a t e   i n   a n y   b o n u s   s c h e m e s ,   p e n s i o n  
p l a n s ,   s h a r e   a w a r d s   o r   a n y   e m p l o y e e   s h a r e   s c h e m e s   i n   r e s p e c t   o f   t h e 
C o m p a n y .     M e m b e r s   o f   t h e   C o m m i t t e e   h a v e   n o   d a y - t o - d a y  
i n v o l v e m e n t   i n   t h e   r u n n i n g   o f   t h e   C o m p a n y .
T h e   C o m m i t t e e   h a d   s i x   w o r k i n g   s e s s i o n s   d u r i n g   t h e   y e a r   ( w h i c h  
i n c l u d e d   f o u r   f o r m a l   m e e t i n g s ) .     T o n y   C a m p b e l l   w a s   u n a b l e   t o   a t t e n d    
o n   o n e   o c c a s i o n   d u e   t o   p r i o r   c o m m i t m e n t s .  
T h e   C o m m i t t e e   a d v i s e s   t h e   B o a r d   o n   o v e r a l l   r e m u n e r a t i o n   p o l i c y .      
T h e   C o m m i t t e e   a l s o   d e t e r m i n e s ,   o n   b e h a l f   o f   t h e   B o a r d ,   a n d   w i t h   t h e 
b e n e f i t   o f   a d v i c e   f r o m   e x t e r n a l   c o n s u l t a n t s   a n d   m e m b e r s   o f   t h e   H u m a n  
R e s o u r c e s   D e p a r t m e n t ,   t h e   r e m u n e r a t i o n   o f   t h e   E x e c u t i v e   D i r e c t o r s  
a n d   o t h e r   m e m b e r s   o f   t h e   G r o u p   M a n a g e m e n t   B o a r d .     T h e   a c t i v i t i e s   o f 
t h e   C o m m i t t e e   a r e   g o v e r n e d   b y   i t s   T e r m s   o f   R e f e r e n c e ,   w h i c h   h a v e  
b e e n   a p p r o v e d   b y   t h e   B o a r d   a n d   c a n   b e   f o u n d   o n   t h e   T U I   T r a v e l 
w e b s i t e   a t   w w w . t u i t r a v e l p l c . c o m
M a t e r i a l   a d v i c e   o r   s e r v i c e s   w e r e   p r o v i d e d   t o   t h e   C o m m i t t e e   d u r i n g    
t h e   y e a r   b y : 
D e l o i t t e   L L P   ( D e l o i t t e ) 
H e r b e r t   S m i t h   L L P   ( H e r b e r t   S m i t h ) 
P e t e r   L o n g   –   C h i e f   E x e c u t i v e 
P a u l   B o w t e l l   –   C h i e f   F i n a n c i a l   O f f i c e r 
B i l l   L o g a n   –   G r o u p   H u m a n   R e s o u r c e s   D i r e c t o r    
D a v i d   H o u s e   –   G r o u p   R e w a r d   D i r e c t o r www.tuitravelplc.com
54  T U I T r a v e l  P L C  A n n u a l R e p o r t & A c c o u n t s  2 0 1 0
Go v ernanc e
Remuneration report c o n t i n u e d
T h e   G r o u p   h a s   p e r f o r m a n c e - r e l a t e d   r e w a r d   p o l i c i e s .     T h e s e   a r e   d e s i g n e d  
t o   p r o v i d e   t h e   a p p r o p r i a t e   b a l a n c e   b e t w e e n   f i x e d   r e m u n e r a t i o n   a n d 
v a r i a b l e   ‘ a t - r i s k ’   r e w a r d   w h i c h   i s   l i n k e d   t o   t h e   p e r f o r m a n c e   o f   b o t h   t h e 
G r o u p   a n d   t h e   i n d i v i d u a l .     G r o u p   p e r f o r m a n c e - r e l a t e d   m e a s u r e s   a r e 
c h o s e n   c a r e f u l l y   t o   e n s u r e   a   s t r o n g   l i n k   b e t w e e n   r e w a r d   a n d   t r u e 
u n d e r l y i n g   f i n a n c i a l   p e r f o r m a n c e .     I n d i v i d u a l   p e r f o r m a n c e   i s   m e a s u r e d  
t h r o u g h   a n   a s s e s s m e n t   o f   c o m p r e h e n s i v e   b u s i n e s s   u n i t   d e l i v e r a b l e s ,  
m o d e l l i n g   t h e   G r o u p ’ s   v a l u e s   a n d   t h e   a c h i e v e m e n t   o f   s p e c i f i c   o b j e c t i v e s .    
A t   a   m i n i m u m ,   t h e   i n d i v i d u a l   p e r f o r m a n c e   o f   t h e   E x e c u t i v e   D i r e c t o r s   i s 
a s s e s s e d   o n   a n   a n n u a l   b a s i s .
I n   a s s e s s i n g   l e v e l s   o f   p a y   a n d   b e n e f i t s ,   T U I   T r a v e l   c o m p a r e s   t h e 
p a c k a g e s   o f f e r e d   b y   d i f f e r e n t   g r o u p s   o f   c o m p a r a t o r   c o m p a n i e s .      
T h e s e   g r o u p s   a r e   c h o s e n   h a v i n g   r e g a r d   t o :  
•   F i n a n c i a l   s i z e   –   t u r n o v e r ,   p r o f i t s   a n d   m a r k e t   c a p i t a l i s a t i o n ;
•   S c a l e   o f   b u s i n e s s   –   t h e   n u m b e r   o f   p e o p l e   e m p l o y e d ;
•   D i v e r s i t y   a n d   c o m p l e x i t y   o f   b u s i n e s s e s ;
•   G e o g r a p h i c a l   s p r e a d   o f   b u s i n e s s e s ;
•   I n d u s t r y   t y p e ;   a n d
•   R e l e v a n c e   a s :
  –   a   p o t e n t i a l   s o u r c e   f o r   c a n d i d a t e s   f o r   r o l e s   w i t h i n   t h e   G r o u p ;   a n d
  –   a   p o t e n t i a l   t h r e a t   i n   r e s p e c t   o f   a t t r a c t i n g   T U I   T r a v e l   e x e c u t i v e s .
E x t e r n a l   c o n s u l t a n t s   a r e   u s e d   t o   a d v i s e   t h e   C o m m i t t e e   o n   t h e   s t r u c t u r e  
a n d   l e v e l   o f   p a y   a n d   b e n e f i t s   i n   T U I   T r a v e l ’ s   m a r k e t s .
Fixed remuneration
Annual incentive
Long-term incentive
 
T h e   n o r m a l   p o l i c y   f o r   E x e c u t i v e   D i r e c t o r s   i s   t h a t ,   u s i n g   ‘ t a r g e t ’   o r  
‘ e x p e c t e d   v a l u e ’   c a l c u l a t i o n s ,   l o n g - t e r m   p e r f o r m a n c e   d r i v e s   6 0 %    
o f   t o t a l   a n n u a l   r e m u n e r a t i o n   ( e x c l u d i n g   b e n e f i t s )   a n d   t h e   t o t a l 
p r o p o r t i o n   o f   p e r f o r m a n c e - r e l a t e d   r e m u n e r a t i o n   ( i n c l u d i n g   a n n u a l 
b o n u s )   i s   7 0 % .
T h e   m a i n   c o m p o n e n t s   o f   r e m u n e r a t i o n   i n   t h e   C o m p a n y   a r e :
•   F i x e d   r e m u n e r a t i o n
  –   b a s e   s a l a r y
  –   b e n e f i t s
  –   p e n s i o n   c o n t r i b u t i o n
•   P e r f o r m a n c e - r e l a t e d   r e m u n e r a t i o n
  –   a n n u a l   b o n u s
  –   l o n g - t e r m   i n c e n t i v e s
Base salary
T h e   s a l a r y   f o r   e a c h   E x e c u t i v e   D i r e c t o r   i s   b a s e d   o n   i n d i v i d u a l 
p e r f o r m a n c e   a n d   o n   i n f o r m a t i o n   f r o m   i n d e p e n d e n t   p r o f e s s i o n a l 
s o u r c e s   o n   t h e   s a l a r y   l e v e l s   f o r   s i m i l a r   j o b s   i n   g r o u p s   o f   c o m p a r a b l e  
c o m p a n i e s .     T h i s   a p p r o a c h   i s   c o n s i s t e n t   w i t h   t h a t   u s e d   t o   d e t e r m i n e  
s a l a r y   a n d   b e n e f i t   l e v e l s   f o r   a l l   e m p l o y e e s   w i t h i n   t h e   G r o u p .     I n t e r n a l  
r e l a t i v i t i e s   a n d   s a l a r y   l e v e l s   i n   t h e   w i d e r   e m p l o y m e n t   m a r k e t   a r e   a l s o  
t a k e n   i n t o   a c c o u n t .
I n   a c c o r d a n c e   w i t h   a   d e c i s i o n   t a k e n   b y   t h e   C o m m i t t e e   l a s t   y e a r   b a s e d  
u p o n   t h e   e c o n o m i c   c l i m a t e ,   E x e c u t i v e   D i r e c t o r s ’   b a s e   s a l a r i e s   w e r e   n o t  
i n c r e a s e d   a t   t h e   n o r m a l   a n n u a l   r e v i e w   i n   O c t o b e r   2 0 0 9   o r   O c t o b e r  
2 0 1 0 .     T h e   C o m m i t t e e   d o e s   n o t   a n t i c i p a t e   u n d e r t a k i n g   t h e   n e x t   n o r m a l  
a n n u a l   r e v i e w   p r i o r   t o   1   O c t o b e r   2 0 1 1 .
B e n e f i t s   a r e   p r o v i d e d   t o   E x e c u t i v e   D i r e c t o r s   i n   a c c o r d a n c e   w i t h   t h e  
p r a c t i c e   a p p l y i n g   t o   o t h e r   e x e c u t i v e s   i n   t h e i r   g e o g r a p h i c   l o c a t i o n .
Annual performance bonus
W i t h i n   t h e   A n n u a l   B o n u s   P l a n ,   c h a l l e n g i n g   p e r f o r m a n c e   g o a l s   a r e   s e t 
a n d   t h e s e   m u s t   b e   a c h i e v e d   b e f o r e   t h e   m a x i m u m   b o n u s   b e c o m e s  
p a y a b l e .     T h e   A n n u a l   B o n u s   P l a n   m e a s u r e s   a r e   w e i g h t e d   h e a v i l y   t o   t h e  
G r o u p ’ s   f i n a n c i a l   p e r f o r m a n c e   a n d   t h e   b a l a n c e   t o   p e r s o n a l   o b j e c t i v e s .    
T h e   m a x i m u m   b o n u s   o p p o r t u n i t y   f o r   e a c h   E x e c u t i v e   D i r e c t o r   v a r i e s   b y 
i n d i v i d u a l   b u t   w i l l   n o t   e x c e e d   1 7 5 %   o f   a n n u a l   b a s e   s a l a r y .
T h e   a n n u a l   p e r f o r m a n c e   b o n u s   a w a r d   m a y   b e   s e t t l e d   b y   s h a r e s   o r   
c a s h .     A   r u l e   c h a n g e   d u r i n g   t h e   y e a r   a l l o w s   t h e   C o m m i t t e e ,   a t   i t s  
d i s c r e t i o n ,   t o   d e t e r m i n e   t h a t   a n y   a n n u a l   p e r f o r m a n c e   b o n u s   a w a r d   m a y  
b e   t r a n s f e r r e d   t o   t h e   p a r t i c i p a n t   o r   t o   a   G r o u p   p e n s i o n   s c h e m e   o r   t o 
t h e   T U I   T r a v e l   I n t e r n a t i o n a l   R e t i r e m e n t   S a v i n g   P l a n   o r   t o   a n y   o t h e r  
l o n g - t e r m   i n v e s t m e n t   p l a n   o r   a   c o m b i n a t i o n   o f   s o m e   o r   a l l   o f   t h e 
f o r e g o i n g .     T h e   q u a n t u m   o f   a n y   t r a n s f e r   o t h e r   t h a n   i n   c a s h   w i l l   b e 
s u b j e c t   t o   a d j u s t m e n t   f o r   t a x   o r   s o c i a l   s e c u r i t y   d i f f e r e n c e s ,   i f   a n y ,   t o  
e n s u r e   c o s t   n e u t r a l i t y   f o r   t h e   C o m p a n y .
Long-term incentives
Deferred Annual Bonus Scheme
A l l   E x e c u t i v e   D i r e c t o r s   a l s o   p a r t i c i p a t e   i n   t h e   D e f e r r e d   A n n u a l   B o n u s 
S c h e m e   ( D A B S )   w h i c h   r e q u i r e s   a   m i n i m u m   o f   2 5 %   a n d   a   m a x i m u m    
o f   5 0 %   o f   a n y   a n n u a l   p e r f o r m a n c e   b o n u s   a w a r d   t o   b e   d e f e r r e d   i n t o  
s h a r e s .     M a t c h i n g   s h a r e s   m a y   a l s o   b e   a w a r d e d   u p   t o   f o u r   t i m e s   t h e 
d e f e r r e d   a m o u n t   a n d   a r e   s u b j e c t   t o   t h e   a c h i e v e m e n t   o f   s t r e t c h i n g 
p e r f o r m a n c e   c o n d i t i o n s   o v e r   a   t h r e e - y e a r   p e r i o d .     A w a r d s   o f   d e f e r r e d  
a n d   m a t c h i n g   s h a r e s   a r e   s u b j e c t   t o   f o r f e i t u r e   c o n d i t i o n s   u n t i l   t h e 
r e l e a s e   d a t e .     T h e   e a r l i e s t   p o i n t   a t   w h i c h   t h e   s h a r e s   a r e   e l i g i b l e   f o r  
r e l e a s e   i s   a t   t h e   e n d   o f   t h r e e   y e a r s   f o l l o w i n g   d e f e r r a l .     F o l l o w i n g   a    
D A B S   r u l e   c h a n g e   d u r i n g   t h e   y e a r ,   t h e   a c t u a l   r e l e a s e   d a t e   f o r   a w a r d s  
m a d e   o n   o r   a f t e r   1   D e c e m b e r   2 0 0 9   i s   n o w   d e t e r m i n e d   b y   t h e  
R e m u n e r a t i o n   C o m m i t t e e   a t   i t s   d i s c r e t i o n .     P a r t i c i p a n t s   m a y   m a k e   a 
r e q u e s t   t o   t h e   C o m m i t t e e   f o r   a n   i s s u e   o r   t r a n s f e r   o f   t h e s e   a w a r d s   t w i c e  
p e r   y e a r   o n c e   p e r f o r m a n c e   c o n d i t i o n s   h a v e   b e e n   s a t i s f i e d   a n d   t h e  
a w a r d s   h a v e   v e s t e d ,   a l t h o u g h   t h e   C o m m i t t e e   i s   n o t   o b l i g e d   t o   c o m p l y  
w i t h   t h e s e   r e q u e s t s .     T h e   a c t u a l   r e l e a s e   d a t e   f o r   a w a r d s   m a y   b e   n o  
l a t e r   t h a n   t e n   y e a r s   f o l l o w i n g   d e f e r r a l . Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
 
www.tuitravelplc.com
T U I  T r a v e l P L C  A n n u a l R e p o r t  &  A c c o u n t s  2 0 1 0  55
F o r   a w a r d s   o f   m a t c h i n g   s h a r e s   m a d e   d u r i n g   t h e   y e a r ,   n o   s h a r e s   w i l l   v e s t  
u n l e s s   t h e   a n n u a l   a v e r a g e   o f   t h e   r a t i o   o f   t h e   G r o u p ’ s   r e t u r n   o n   i n v e s t e d  
c a p i t a l   ( R O I C )   t o   t h e   w e i g h t e d   a v e r a g e   c o s t   o f   c a p i t a l   ( W A C C )   m e e t s   o r 
e x c e e d s   o n e   o v e r   t h e   t h r e e - y e a r   p e r i o d .     A   h u r d l e   o f   R O I C ,   b e i n g   a t 
l e a s t   e q u a l   t o   W A C C ,   i s   u s e d   t o   e n s u r e   t h a t   t h e   r e l e v a n t   l o n g - t e r m 
i n c e n t i v e   a w a r d s   p a y   o u t   o n l y   w h e n   s h a r e h o l d e r   v a l u e   i s   b e i n g   c r e a t e d  
o v e r   t h e   p e r f o r m a n c e   p e r i o d s .     I f   t h e   R O I C / W A C C   h u r d l e   i s   m e t ,   s h a r e s  
w i l l   o n l y   v e s t   t o   t h e   e x t e n t   t o   w h i c h   t w o   f u r t h e r   p e r f o r m a n c e   c o n d i t i o n s  
a r e   s a t i s f i e d   o v e r   t h e   t h r e e - y e a r   p e r i o d   a s   f o l l o w s :
•   U p   t o   t h r e e - q u a r t e r s   o f   t h e   m a t c h i n g   s h a r e s   w i l l   v e s t   b a s e d   o n 
g r o w t h   i n   t h e   G r o u p ’ s   e a r n i n g s   p e r   s h a r e   ( E P S ) ,   b e f o r e   a m o r t i s a t i o n  
o f   m e r g e r   i n t a n g i b l e s ,   g o o d w i l l   i m p a i r m e n t   a n d   s e p a r a t e l y   d i s c l o s e d  
i t e m s ,   i n   r e l a t i o n   t o   t h e   g r o w t h   i n   t h e   U K   R e t a i l   P r i c e   I n d e x   ( R P I )   a s 
s h o w n   i n   t h e   t a b l e   b e l o w :
Average annual EPS  growth in excess of RPI growth   Proportion of  matching shares  vesting
Below 4%   0%
Between 4% and  13%    On a straightline basis   
between  10%  and 100%
13%  or  above   100%
•   U p   t o   o n e - q u a r t e r   o f   t h e   m a t c h i n g   s h a r e s   w i l l   v e s t   b a s e d   o n   t h e  
G r o u p ’ s   r a n k i n g   o f   t o t a l   s h a r e h o l d e r   r e t u r n   ( T S R )   p e r f o r m a n c e  
r e l a t i v e   t o   c o m p a n i e s   r a n k e d   3 0 t h   t o   1 0 0 t h   b y   m a r k e t   c a p i t a l i s a t i o n  
a s   a t   t h e   d a t e   o f   t h e   a w a r d   a s   s h o w n   i n   t h e   t a b l e   b e l o w :
TSR  Ranking  Proportion of  matching shares  vesting
Below median  0%
Between median  and upper quartile    On a straightline basis 
between 15%  and 100%
At  or above upper quartile  100%
M a t c h i n g   s h a r e   a w a r d s   l a p s e   i f   t h e   p e r f o r m a n c e   c o n d i t i o n s   a r e   
n o t   m e t .
Performance Share Plan
T h e   P e r f o r m a n c e   S h a r e   P l a n   ( P S P )   a l l o w s   E x e c u t i v e   D i r e c t o r s   a n d 
e l i g i b l e   p a r t i c i p a n t s   t o   r e c e i v e   s h a r e   a w a r d s ,   s u b j e c t   t o   t h e   s a t i s f a c t i o n  
o f   p e r f o r m a n c e   c o n d i t i o n s   s e t   b y   t h e   C o m m i t t e e ,   w h i c h   a r e   n o r m a l l y 
m e a s u r e d   o v e r   a   t h r e e - y e a r   p e r i o d .     O n c e   v e s t e d ,   P S P   s h a r e s   a r e 
s u b j e c t   t o   f o r f e i t u r e   c o n d i t i o n s   u n t i l   t h e   r e l e a s e   d a t e .     T h e   e a r l i e s t   p o i n t  
a t   w h i c h   t h e   s h a r e s   a r e   e l i g i b l e   f o r   r e l e a s e   i s   t h e   t h i r d   a n n i v e r s a r y   o f   t h e  
a w a r d   d a t e .     F o l l o w i n g   a   P S P   r u l e   c h a n g e   d u r i n g   t h e   y e a r ,   f o r   a w a r d s  
m a d e   o n   o r   a f t e r   1   D e c e m b e r   2 0 0 9 ,   t h e   a c t u a l   r e l e a s e   d a t e   i s 
d e t e r m i n e d   b y   t h e   R e m u n e r a t i o n   C o m m i t t e e   a t   i t s   d i s c r e t i o n .   
P a r t i c i p a n t s   m a y   m a k e   a   r e q u e s t   t o   t h e   C o m m i t t e e   f o r   a n   i s s u e   o r 
t r a n s f e r   o f   t h e s e   a w a r d s   t w i c e   p e r   y e a r   o n c e   p e r f o r m a n c e   c o n d i t i o n s  
h a v e   b e e n   s a t i s f i e d   a n d   t h e   a w a r d s   h a v e   v e s t e d ,   a l t h o u g h   t h e 
C o m m i t t e e   i s   n o t   o b l i g e d   t o   c o m p l y   w i t h   t h e s e   r e q u e s t s .     T h e   a c t u a l  
r e l e a s e   d a t e   f o r   a w a r d s   m a y   b e   n o   l a t e r   t h a n   1 0   y e a r s   f o l l o w i n g  
d e f e r r a l .     A w a r d s   a r e   n o r m a l l y   m a d e   a n n u a l l y   a n d ,   e x c e p t   i n   
e x c e p t i o n a l   c i r c u m s t a n c e s ,   w i l l   n o t   e x c e e d   t w o   t i m e s   a n n u a l   s a l a r y   
f o r   E x e c u t i v e   D i r e c t o r s .
F o r   a w a r d s   m a d e   d u r i n g   t h e   y e a r ,   n o   s h a r e s   w i l l   v e s t   u n l e s s   t h e   a n n u a l  
a v e r a g e   o f   t h e   r a t i o   o f   t h e   G r o u p ’ s   R O I C   t o   t h e   W A C C   m e e t s   o r  
e x c e e d s   o n e   o v e r   t h e   t h r e e - y e a r   p e r i o d .
I f   t h e   R O I C / W A C C   h u r d l e   i s   m e t ,   s h a r e s   w i l l   o n l y   v e s t   t o   t h e   e x t e n t   t o 
w h i c h   t w o   f u r t h e r   p e r f o r m a n c e   c o n d i t i o n s   a r e   s a t i s f i e d   o v e r   t h e   t h r e e -
y e a r   p e r i o d   a s   f o l l o w s :
•   U p   t o   h a l f   o f   t h e   s h a r e s   w i l l   v e s t   b a s e d   o n   g r o w t h   i n   t h e   G r o u p ’ s  
E P S ,   b e f o r e   a m o r t i s a t i o n   o f   m e r g e r   i n t a n g i b l e s ,   g o o d w i l l   i m p a i r m e n t  
a n d   s e p a r a t e l y   d i s c l o s e d   i t e m s ,   i n   r e l a t i o n   t o   t h e   g r o w t h   i n   t h e   U K 
R P I   a s   s h o w n   i n   t h e   t a b l e   b e l o w :
Average  annual EPS growth  in excess of RPI growth  Proportion  of  shares vesting
Below 4%  0%
Between  4%  and 13%    On  a  straightline basis 
between  10% and  100%
13%  or  above   100%
•   U p   t o   h a l f   o f   t h e   m a t c h i n g   s h a r e s   w i l l   v e s t   b a s e d   o n   t h e   G r o u p ’ s 
r a n k i n g   o f   t o t a l   s h a r e h o l d e r   r e t u r n   ( T S R )   p e r f o r m a n c e   r e l a t i v e   t o 
c o m p a n i e s   r a n k e d   3 0 t h   t o   1 0 0 t h   b y   m a r k e t   c a p i t a l i s a t i o n   a s   a t   t h e 
d a t e   o f   t h e   a w a r d   a s   s h o w n   i n   t h e   t a b l e   b e l o w :
TSR Ranking  Proportion  of  shares vesting
Below median  0%
Between  median and  upper quartile    On  a  straightline basis 
between  15% and  100%
At  or above upper  quartile  100%
A w a r d s   u n d e r   t h e   P e r f o r m a n c e   S h a r e   P l a n   l a p s e   i f   t h e   p e r f o r m a n c e  
c o n d i t i o n s   a r e   n o t   m e t .
T h e   C o m m i t t e e   c o n s i d e r s   t h a t   E P S   a n d   T S R   a r e   t h e   k e y   p e r f o r m a n c e  
c o n d i t i o n s   t h a t   a r e   m o s t   r e l e v a n t   t o   t h e   G r o u p .     E P S   i s   a   k e y   i n d i c a t o r    
o f   t h e   G r o u p ’ s   u n d e r l y i n g   f i n a n c i a l   p e r f o r m a n c e   w h i l s t   T S R   i s   a   r e l a t i v e  
m e a s u r e   o f   s h a r e h o l d e r   v a l u e   c r e a t i o n .     A   h u r d l e   o f   R O I C ,   b e i n g   a t   l e a s t  
e q u a l   t o   W A C C ,   i s   u s e d   t o   e n s u r e   t h a t   t h e   r e l e v a n t   l o n g - t e r m   i n c e n t i v e  
a w a r d s   p a y   o u t   o n l y   w h e n   s h a r e h o l d e r   v a l u e   i s   b e i n g   c r e a t e d   o v e r   t h e 
p e r f o r m a n c e   p e r i o d s .
A   f u r t h e r   r u l e   c h a n g e   d u r i n g   t h e   y e a r   a l l o w s   t h e   C o m m i t t e e   a t   i t s 
d i s c r e t i o n   t o   d e t e r m i n e   t h a t   a n y   D A B S   o r   P S P   a w a r d   m a d e   o n   o r   a f t e r  
1   D e c e m b e r   2 0 0 9   m a y   b e   s e t t l e d   o n   t h e   r e l e a s e   d a t e   b y   a   t r a n s f e r   o f 
s h a r e s   o r   c a s h   t o   t h e   p a r t i c i p a n t   o r   t o   a   G r o u p   p e n s i o n   s c h e m e   o r   t o 
t h e   T U I   T r a v e l   I n t e r n a t i o n a l   R e t i r e m e n t   S a v i n g   P l a n   o r   t o   a n y   o t h e r   
l o n g - t e r m   i n v e s t m e n t   p l a n   o r   a   c o m b i n a t i o n   o f   s o m e   o r   a l l   o f   t h e 
f o r e g o i n g .     T h e   q u a n t u m   o f   a n y   t r a n s f e r   o t h e r   t h a n   i n   s h a r e s   w i l l   b e 
e q u a l   t o   t h e   m a r k e t   v a l u e   o f   e a c h   v e s t e d   s h a r e   a s   a t   t h e   r e l e a s e   d a t e  
s u b j e c t   t o   a d j u s t m e n t   f o r   t a x   o r   s o c i a l   s e c u r i t y   d i f f e r e n c e s ,   i f   a n y ,   t o 
e n s u r e   c o s t   n e u t r a l i t y   f o r   t h e   C o m p a n y .
All-employee share schemes
E x e c u t i v e   D i r e c t o r s   b a s e d   i n   t h e   U K   a r e   e l i g i b l e   t o   p a r t i c i p a t e   i n    
t h e   H M R C - a p p r o v e d   S h a r e   I n c e n t i v e   P l a n   w h i c h   i s   a n   a l l - e m p l o y e e  
s h a r e   s c h e m e   e n a b l i n g   s t a f f   t o   a c q u i r e   s h a r e s   i n   t h e   C o m p a n y   o n 
p r e f e r e n t i a l   t e r m s .     T o   f u r t h e r   e n c o u r a g e   e m p l o y e e   s h a r e h o l d i n g   
i n   t h e   C o m p a n y ,   t h e   S h a r e   I n c e n t i v e   P l a n   p r o v i d e s   a   m a t c h i n g    
s h a r e   f o r   e v e r y   f o u r   s h a r e s   b o u g h t   b y   a   p a r t i c i p a n t   u n d e r   t h e   p l a n .    
M a t c h i n g   s h a r e s   a r e   n o t   s u b j e c t   t o   p e r f o r m a n c e   c o n d i t i o n s .
Shareholding guidelines
T h e   E x e c u t i v e   D i r e c t o r s   w i l l   b e   e x p e c t e d   t o   b u i l d ,   w i t h i n   f i v e   y e a r s    
o f   t h e i r   a p p o i n t m e n t ,   a n d   t h e n   m a i n t a i n ,   a   s h a r e h o l d i n g   e q u a l   i n   
v a l u e   t o   1 . 5   t i m e s   t h e i r   b a s i c   s a l a r y   o r   t w o   t i m e s   i n   t h e   c a s e   o f   t h e   
C h i e f   E x e c u t i v e .
N o   n e w   s h a r e s   w e r e   i s s u e d   d u r i n g   t h e   y e a r   a n d   t h e r e f o r e   t h e   C o m p a n y  
h a s   r e m a i n e d   w i t h i n   i t s   h e a d r o o m   l i m i t s   f o r   t h e   i s s u e   o f   n e w   s h a r e s  
u n d e r   s h a r e   i n c e n t i v e   s c h e m e s .     A l l   s h a r e   i n c e n t i v e   a w a r d s   m a d e ,   a n d    
a l l   f u t u r e   s h a r e   i n c e n t i v e   a w a r d s ,   w i l l   n o r m a l l y   b e   s e t t l e d   w i t h   s h a r e s  
p u r c h a s e d   i n   t h e   m a r k e t .
Policy on pensions
E a c h   o f   t h e   U K - b a s e d   E x e c u t i v e   D i r e c t o r s   a n d   s e n i o r   e x e c u t i v e s  
p a r t i c i p a t e s   i n   a   d e f i n e d   c o n t r i b u t i o n   r e t i r e m e n t   o r   l o n g - t e r m  
i n v e s t m e n t   s c h e m e . www.tuitravelplc.com
56  T U I T r a v e l  P L C  A n n u a l R e p o r t & A c c o u n t s  2 0 1 0
Go v ernanc e
Remuneration report c o n t i n u e d
T h e   G r o u p ’ s   p e n s i o n   p o l i c y   i s   t h a t ,   i n   t h e   e v e n t   t h a t   a   p a r t i c i p a n t    
i n   a   r e g i s t e r e d   p e n s i o n   s c h e m e   m a y   r e a c h   o r   e x c e e d   H M R C   l i f e t i m e    
o r   a n n u a l   t h r e s h o l d s ,   t h e y   h a v e   a   c h o i c e   n o t   t o   a c c e p t   f u r t h e r  
r e g i s t e r e d   p e n s i o n   c o n t r i b u t i o n s .     O n   m a k i n g   t h i s   c h o i c e   t h e   i n d i v i d u a l 
w i l l   b e   o f f e r e d   i n   l i e u   a   c o n t r i b u t i o n   t o   a n   u n r e g i s t e r e d   l o n g - t e r m  
i n v e s t m e n t   s c h e m e   o r   a   n o n - p e n s i o n a b l e   c a s h   p a y m e n t ,   e q u i v a l e n t   t o 
t h e   G r o u p ’ s   c o n t r i b u t i o n   t o   t h e   r e g i s t e r e d   p e n s i o n   s c h e m e .     P e n s i o n  
s c h e m e   p a r t i c i p a n t s   w i l l   n o t   b e   c o m p e n s a t e d   f o r   a n y   a d v e r s e   t a x  
c o n s e q u e n c e s   o f   e x c e e d i n g   t h e   H M R C   l i f e t i m e   a l l o w a n c e   l i m i t .
E x e c u t i v e   D i r e c t o r s ,   a n d   s e n i o r   e x e c u t i v e s   o u t s i d e   o f   t h e   U K ,   p a r t i c i p a t e  
i n   l o c a l   p e n s i o n   p l a n s .
Policy on external appointments
T h e   C o m p a n y   r e c o g n i s e s   t h a t   i t s   D i r e c t o r s   m a y   b e   i n v i t e d   t o   b e c o m e  
n o n - e x e c u t i v e   d i r e c t o r s   o f   o t h e r   c o m p a n i e s   a n d   t h a t   s u c h   d u t i e s   c a n  
b r o a d e n   e x p e r i e n c e   a n d   k n o w l e d g e   a n d   b e n e f i t   t h e   b u s i n e s s .     S u b j e c t   
t o   t h e   a p p r o v a l   o f   t h e   B o a r d ,   E x e c u t i v e   D i r e c t o r s   a r e ,   t h e r e f o r e ,   a l l o w e d 
t o   a c c e p t   n o n - e x e c u t i v e   a p p o i n t m e n t s   a n d   t o   r e t a i n   t h e   f e e s   r e c e i v e d  
( e x c l u d i n g   p o s i t i o n s   w h e r e   t h e   D i r e c t o r   i s   a p p o i n t e d   a s   t h e   C o m p a n y ’ s  
r e p r e s e n t a t i v e )   a s   l o n g   a s   t h i s   i s   n o t   l i k e l y   t o   l e a d   t o   a   c o n f l i c t   o f   i n t e r e s t .
F o r   t h e   y e a r   e n d e d   3 0   S e p t e m b e r   2 0 1 0 ,   P e t e r   L o n g   r e c e i v e d   a n d  
r e t a i n e d   n o n - e x e c u t i v e   d i r e c t o r s ’   f e e s   i n   r e s p e c t   o f   a n   a p p o i n t m e n t  
w i t h   R e n t o k i l   I n i t i a l   p l c   –   ( F T S E   1 0 0 )   o f   £ 7 5 , 0 0 0   ( 2 0 0 9 :   £ 9 7 , 5 0 0   –   h e 
r e s i g n e d   a s   a   d i r e c t o r   o f   D e b e n h a m s   P L C   i n   A u g u s t   2 0 0 9 ) .     P a u l   B o w t e l l  
r e c e i v e d   a n d   r e t a i n e d   n o n - e x e c u t i v e   d i r e c t o r   f e e s   i n   r e s p e c t   o f   h i s   t w o  
a p p o i n t m e n t s   –   C a p i t a   G r o u p   P l c   –   ( F T S E   1 0 0 )   f r o m   2 8   J u n e   2 0 1 0    
a n d   S T h r e e   p l c   ( a   s m a l l   c a p   c o m p a n y )   o f   £ 5 5 , 6 8 2   ( 2 0 0 9 :   £ 4 0 , 0 0 0 ) .
Performance graph
T U I   T r a v e l   s h a r e s   w e r e   l i s t e d   o n   t h e   L o n d o n   S t o c k   E x c h a n g e   o n   
3   S e p t e m b e r   2 0 0 7 .     S i n c e   D e c e m b e r   2 0 0 7 ,   t h e   C o m p a n y   h a s   b e e n    
a   m e m b e r   o f   t h e   F T S E   1 0 0   I n d e x .     T h e   g r a p h   b e l o w   m e a s u r e s   t h e 
p e r f o r m a n c e   o f   F i r s t   C h o i c e   H o l i d a y s   P L C   u p   t o   t h e   m e r g e r ,   a n d 
s u b s e q u e n t l y   t h e   p e r f o r m a n c e   o f   T U I   T r a v e l   P L C ,   a s s u m i n g   d i v i d e n d s 
a r e   r e i n v e s t e d ,   c o m p a r e d   w i t h   t h e   T S R   p e r f o r m a n c e   a c h i e v e d   a g a i n s t  
t h e   c o n s t i t u e n t   c o m p a n i e s   o f   t h e   F T S E   1 0 0   I n d e x   a n d   s e p a r a t e l y   
t h o s e   r a n k e d   3 0   t o   1 0 0   b y   m a r k e t   c a p i t a l i s a t i o n .     T h e   l a t t e r   I n d e x   i s 
c o n s i d e r e d   t o   b e   t h e   m o s t   a p p r o p r i a t e   b e n c h m a r k   f o r   c o m p a r i s o n 
p u r p o s e s   a n d   i s   u s e d   w i t h i n   t h e   p e r f o r m a n c e   m e a s u r e s   o f   t h e 
C o m p a n y ’ s   l o n g - t e r m   i n c e n t i v e   s c h e m e s .
Contracts of service
Executive Directors
T h e   R e m u n e r a t i o n   C o m m i t t e e ’ s   p o l i c y   i s   f o r   E x e c u t i v e   D i r e c t o r s   t o   h a v e  
r o l l i n g   c o n t r a c t s   w i t h   a   1 2 - m o n t h   n o t i c e   p e r i o d .    
V o l k e r   B ö t t c h e r ,   P a u l   B o w t e l l ,   P e t e r   L o n g ,   J o h a n   L u n d g r e n   a n d   W i l l i a m  
W a g g o t t   c u r r e n t l y   h a v e   s e r v i c e   a g r e e m e n t s   w i t h   a   1 2 - m o n t h   n o t i c e  
p e r i o d   a n d   i t   i s   i n t e n d e d   t h a t   a l l   n e w   a p p o i n t m e n t s   w i l l   a l s o   h a v e    
1 2 - m o n t h   n o t i c e   p e r i o d s .     H o w e v e r ,   o n   o c c a s i o n ,   t o   c o m p l e t e   a n 
e x t e r n a l   r e c r u i t m e n t   s u c c e s s f u l l y ,   a   l o n g e r   i n i t i a l   p e r i o d   m a y   b e   u s e d 
r e d u c i n g   t o   1 2   m o n t h s ,   f o l l o w i n g   g u i d a n c e   i n   t h e   C o m b i n e d   C o d e .    
N o   p r o v i s i o n s   f o r   c o m p e n s a t i o n   f o r   t e r m i n a t i o n   f o l l o w i n g   c h a n g e   o f 
c o n t r o l ,   o r   f o r   l i q u i d a t e d   d a m a g e s   o f   a n y   k i n d ,   a r e   i n c l u d e d   i n   t h e 
c u r r e n t   D i r e c t o r s ’   c o n t r a c t s .     I n   t h e   e v e n t   o f   a n y   e a r l y   t e r m i n a t i o n    
o f   a n   E x e c u t i v e   D i r e c t o r ’ s   c o n t r a c t ,   t h e   p o l i c y   i s   t o   s e e k   t o   m i n i m i s e   
a n y   l i a b i l i t y .    
  Effective date    
Executive  Director   of contract  Notice period
Dr Volker Böttcher  5 September  2007  12
Paul Bowtell  7  April 2008  12
Peter  Long  19  February  2008  12
Johan  Lundgren  20  March 2009  12
William  Waggott  22  April 2008  12
Non-Executive Directors
  Effective date   
Non-Executive  Director  of  appointment  Notice period
Horst  Baier   13 October 2009  6
Tony  Campbell  3 September  2010  3
Clare  Chapman   3 September  2010  3
Bill  Dalton   3 September  2010  3
Rainer  Feuerhake  3 September  2010  3
Dr  Michael Frenzel  3 September  2010  3
Jeremy Hicks  3 September  2010  3
Sir  Michael  Hodgkinson  3  September  2010  3
Giles  Thorley  3 September  2010  3
Dr  Erhard Schipporeit  29  October 2010  3
Dr  Albert Schunk  29  October 2010  3
Harold  Sher  29  October 2010  3
T h e   i n f o r m a t i o n   p r o v i d e d   i n   t h e   f o l l o w i n g   p a g e s   o f   t h i s   r e p o r t   h a s   b e e n 
a u d i t e d   b y   K P M G   A u d i t   P l c .
TUI Travel PLC
FTSE 100
FTSE 30-100
Total Shareholder Return
TUI Travel PLC v FTSE 100 & FTSE 30-300
200
150
100
50
TUI Travel PLC shares
listed 03.09.07
30.09.05 30.09.06 30.09.07 30.09.08 30.09.09 30.09.10  Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
 
www.tuitravelplc.com
T U I  T r a v e l P L C  A n n u a l R e p o r t  &  A c c o u n t s  2 0 1 0  57
Directors’ remuneration
      Total  remuneration  
    Performance payments   excluding  pensions
 
      Value     For the year   For the  year
      Creation    ended   ended
  Basic  salaries  Annual   Synergy     30 September   30  September
  and fees   Bonus
1
  Plan
2
  Benefits
3
  2010   2009
  £000  £000  £000  £000  £000   £000
Executive Directors
Dr Volker  Böttcher
4
  474  –   336  17 827   891 
Paul Bowtell  490  –  506  16 1,012   1,053 
Peter Long  850  –  1,200  16 2,066   2,122 
Johan Lundgren  605  –  618  183 1,406   1,437 
William Waggott
5
  460  –  639   16 1,115   881 
Non-Executive Directors      
Horst Baier  55   –    – 55   –  
Tony Campbell  55   –    – 55   55 
Clare Chapman   65   –    – 65   65 
Bill  Dalton  55   –    – 55   55 
Rainer  Feuerhake  55   –    – 55   55 
Dr Michael Frenzel (Chairman)  300  –    – 300   300  
Jeremy  Hicks  70  –    – 70  70 
Sir  Michael Hodgkinson (Deputy Chairman)   200  –    – 200   200 
Dr  Erhard  Schipporeit  55   –     – 55  55 
Dr  Albert Schunk   55   –     – 55  55 
Harold  Sher  55   –     – 55  55 
Giles Thorley   55   –     – 55  55 
Total   3,954  –  3,299   248 7,501   7,404
1     ‘ A n n u a l   B o n u s ’   f i g u r e s   i n c l u d e   b o n u s   a w a r d s   i n   c a s h   i n   r e s p e c t   o f   p a r t i c i p a t i o n   i n   t h e   A n n u a l   B o n u s   P l a n   b u t   e x c l u d e   b o n u s   a w a r d s   i n   d e f e r r e d   s h a r e s ,   d e t a i l s   o f   w h i c h   a r e   s e t   o u t   o n   p a g e   5 8 .     
I n   r e s p e c t   o f   t h e i r   p a r t i c i p a t i o n   i n   t h e   A n n u a l   B o n u s   P l a n ,   t h e   E x e c u t i v e   D i r e c t o r s   d i d   n o t   r e c e i v e   a   c a s h   b o n u s   f o r   t h e   y e a r .     N o t w i t h s t a n d i n g   t h e   f a c t   t h a t   t h e   u n d e r l y i n g   E B I T   a n d   c a s h - f l o w   m e a s u r e s  
w e r e   m e t   i n   f u l l ,   t h e   R e m u n e r a t i o n   C o m m i t t e e   d e c i d e d   t h a t ,   i n   t h e   c o n t e x t   o f   a n   a p p r o p r i a t e   c l a w - b a c k   o f   p r i o r   y e a r   b o n u s   d u e   t o   t h e   p r o f i t   r e s t a t e m e n t   a n d   s u b s t a n t i a l   o n e - o f f   c o s t s   d u r i n g   t h e   y e a r ,    
a   c a s h   b o n u s   w o u l d   n o t   b e   p a y a b l e .
2     ‘ V a l u e   C r e a t i o n   S y n e r g y   P l a n ’   f i g u r e s   r e l a t e   t o   t h e   t h i r d   a n d   f i n a l   a w a r d   f r o m   t h i s   o n e - o f f   t h r e e - y e a r   s c h e m e   w h i c h   i n   a c c o r d a n c e   w i t h   t h e   s c h e m e   d e s i g n   w a s   d u e   t o   b e   s e t t l e d   i n   c a s h .     F u r t h e r   d e t a i l s   
o f   t h i s   s c h e m e   a r e   s e t   o u t   o n   p a g e   6 1 .     S y n e r g y   p e r f o r m a n c e   a t   t h e   e n d   o f   t h e   t h i r d   y e a r   w a s   £ 1 9 5 m   c o m p a r e d   t o   t h e   t a r g e t   l e v e l   o f   £ 1 0 0 m   a n d   t h e   m a x i m u m   l e v e l   o f   £ 1 5 0 m .     F u r t h e r   d e t a i l s   a b o u t 
s y n e r g y   p e r f o r m a n c e   a r e   s e t   o u t   o n   p a g e   6 1 .     T h e   f i n a l   c a s h   a w a r d   w a s   t h e r e f o r e   m a d e   a t   t h e   m a x i m u m   l e v e l   f o r   M e s s r s   B ö t t c h e r ,   B o w t e l l ,   L o n g ,   L u n d g r e n   a n d   W a g g o t t .
3     ‘ B e n e f i t s ’   i n c o r p o r a t e   a l l   t a x   a s s e s s a b l e   b e n e f i t s   a r i s i n g   f r o m   t h e   i n d i v i d u a l ’ s   e m p l o y m e n t .     F o r   M e s s r s   B o w t e l l ,   L o n g   a n d   W a g g o t t ,   t h i s   r e l a t e s   i n   t h e   m a i n   t o   t h e   p r o v i s i o n   o f   a   f u l l y   e x p e n s e d   c o m p a n y   
c a r   o r   c a r   a l l o w a n c e   a n d   p r i v a t e   h e a l t h c a r e   c o v e r ,   a n d   f o r   M r   B ö t t c h e r   t h e   p r o v i s i o n   o f   a   f u l l y   e x p e n s e d   c o m p a n y   c a r   o r   c a r   a l l o w a n c e .     I n   a d d i t i o n   t o   t h e   p r o v i s i o n   o f   a   f u l l y   e x p e n s e d   c o m p a n y   c a r   o r   
c a r   a l l o w a n c e   a n d   p r i v a t e   h e a l t h c a r e   c o v e r ,   M r   L u n d g r e n   r e c e i v e d   h o u s i n g   a n d   e d u c a t i o n   b e n e f i t s   a s   p a r t   o f   t h e   o n g o i n g   s u p p o r t   r e l a t i n g   t o   h i s   r e l o c a t i o n   t o   t h e   U K   f r o m   S w e d e n   o n   1   A u g u s t   2 0 0 9 .
4     I n   c a l c u l a t i n g   r e m u n e r a t i o n   f o r   M r   B ö t t c h e r ,   p a y m e n t s   m a d e   d u r i n g   t h e   y e a r   i n   E U R   h a v e   b e e n   c o n v e r t e d   a t   1 . 1 5   t o   1   G B P ,   b e i n g   t h e   a v e r a g e   e x c h a n g e   r a t e   f o r   t h e   p e r i o d   1   O c t o b e r   2 0 0 9   t o 
3 0   S e p t e m b e r   2 0 1 0 .
5     O n   1   J a n u a r y   2 0 1 0   M r   W a g g o t t ’ s   s a l a r y   i n c r e a s e d   f r o m   £ 4 3 0 , 0 0 0   t o   £ 4 7 0 , 0 0 0   h o w e v e r   h i s   p e n s i o n   c o n t r i b u t i o n   r e d u c e d   f r o m   5 0 %   o f   b a s e   s a l a r y   t o   3 3 %   o f   b a s e   s a l a r y   a t   t h e   s a m e   t i m e .     
T h i s   c h a n g e   w a s   a s   a   r e s u l t   o f   h i m   t a k i n g   E x e c u t i v e   r e s p o n s i b i l i t y   f o r   t h e   A c c o m m o d a t i o n   &   D e s t i n a t i o n s   S e c t o r   a n d   r e s t r u c t u r i n g   h i s   o v e r a l l   p a c k a g e   i n   f a v o u r   o f   v a r i a b l e   p e r f o r m a n c e   r e l a t e d   p a y . www.tuitravelplc.com
58  T U I T r a v e l  P L C  A n n u a l R e p o r t & A c c o u n t s  2 0 1 0
Directors’ pensions
D u r i n g   t h e   y e a r   a   c o n t r i b u t i o n   e q u a l   t o   5 0 %   a n d   3 3 %   o f   b a s e   s a l a r y   h a s   b e e n   m a d e   i n t o   t h e   T U I   T r a v e l   I n t e r n a t i o n a l   R e t i r e m e n t   S a v i n g   P l a n   f o r  
t h e   b e n e f i t   o f   P e t e r   L o n g   a n d   J o h a n   L u n d g r e n   r e s p e c t i v e l y .     A   c o n t r i b u t i o n   e q u a l   t o   2 5 %   o f   b a s e   s a l a r y   h a s   b e e n   m a d e   i n t o   d e f i n e d   c o n t r i b u t i o n 
p e n s i o n   s c h e m e   f o r   t h e   b e n e f i t   o f   P a u l   B o w t e l l .
F o r   t h e   p e r i o d   1   O c t o b e r   2 0 0 9   t o   3 1   D e c e m b e r   2 0 0 9   a   c o n t r i b u t i o n   e q u a l   t o   5 0 %   o f   b a s e   s a l a r y   p r o   r a t a   a n d   f o r   t h e   p e r i o d   1   J a n u a r y   2 0 1 0   
t o   3 0   S e p t e m b e r   2 0 1 0   a   c o n t r i b u t i o n   o f   3 3 %   o f   b a s e   s a l a r y   p r o   r a t a   h a s   b e e n   m a d e   i n t o   a   d e f i n e d   c o n t r i b u t i o n   s c h e m e   f o r   t h e   b e n e f i t   o f    
W i l l i a m   W a g g o t t .
I n   a d d i t i o n ,   W i l l i a m   W a g g o t t   h a s   d e f e r r e d   p e n s i o n   e n t i t l e m e n t s   u n d e r   t h e   D e f i n e d   B e n e f i t   s e c t i o n   o f   t h e   T U I   P e n s i o n   S c h e m e   ( U K ) .     H e   c e a s e d    
t o   b e   a n   a c t i v e   m e m b e r   o f   t h e   D e f i n e d   B e n e f i t   s e c t i o n   o n   3   S e p t e m b e r   2 0 0 7   a n d ,   t h e r e f o r e ,   n o   i n c r e a s e   i n   a c c r u e d   b e n e f i t   h a s   o c c u r r e d   d u r i n g    
t h e   y e a r .
T h e   n o r m a l   r e t i r e m e n t   d a t e   f o r   t h e   U K - b a s e d   E x e c u t i v e   D i r e c t o r s   a n d   s e n i o r   e x e c u t i v e s   i s   6 5 .
I n   t h e   e v e n t   o f   d e a t h   i n   s e r v i c e ,   t h e   E x e c u t i v e   D i r e c t o r s ’   a n d   s e n i o r   e x e c u t i v e s ’   p e n s i o n   a r r a n g e m e n t s   p r o v i d e   l u m p   s u m s   f o r   t h e   p u r c h a s e   o f 
d e p e n d a n t s ’   p e n s i o n s   o f   t h e   g r e a t e r   o f   e i g h t   t i m e s   s a l a r y   o r   t h e   v a l u e   o f   t h e   p e n s i o n   f u n d   i n   a d d i t i o n   t o   w h i c h   a   l u m p   s u m   o f   f o u r   t i m e s   s a l a r y    
i s   p a y a b l e .     F o l l o w i n g   t h e   c h a n g e s   t o   t h e   t a x   r u l e s   f r o m   A p r i l   2 0 0 6 ,   a n y   d e p e n d a n t ’ s   p e n s i o n   m a y   b e   p a i d   a s   a n   a d d i t i o n a l   l u m p   s u m   s u b j e c t   t o 
H M R C   l i m i t s .
D r   V o l k e r   B ö t t c h e r   p a r t i c i p a t e s   i n   s e p a r a t e   p e n s i o n   a r r a n g e m e n t s   i n   G e r m a n y   a t   a   c o s t   o f   2 5 %   o f   b a s e   s a l a r y .
Pension contributions for Directors
          P e n s i o n   c o n t r i b u t i o n s   o r   a l l o w a n c e   f o r 
           the year ended 30  September  2010  
Executive  Director          £000
Dr Volker Böttcher             118
Paul  Bowtell             123
Peter  Long             425
Johan  Lundgren            200
William Waggott            170
Total             1,036
T o t a l   p e n s i o n   c o n t r i b u t i o n s   o r   a l l o w a n c e s   f o r   t h e   y e a r   e n d e d   3 0   S e p t e m b e r   2 0 1 0   w e r e   £ 1 . 0 3 6 m .     I n   c a l c u l a t i n g   t h i s   t o t a l ,   p a y m e n t s   m a d e   i n    
E U R   h a v e   b e e n   c o n v e r t e d   a t   1 . 1 5   t o   1   G B P ,   b e i n g   t h e   a v e r a g e   e x c h a n g e   r a t e   f o r   t h e   y e a r   e n d e d   3 0   S e p t e m b e r   2 0 1 0 .
Long-term incentives
Deferred Annual Bonus Scheme (DABS)
M e s s r s   B ö t t c h e r ,   B o w t e l l ,   L o n g ,   L u n d g r e n   a n d   W a g g o t t   p a r t i c i p a t e d   i n   t h e   D A B S   d u r i n g   t h e   y e a r   e n d e d   3 0   S e p t e m b e r   2 0 1 0   a n d ,   w i t h   t h e   e x c e p t i o n  
o f   M r   B o w t e l l ,   a r e   e x p e c t e d   t o   r e c e i v e   a n   a w a r d   o n   2   D e c e m b e r   2 0 1 0   a s   f o l l o w s :
          Estimated value of  award 
Director           £000
Dr Volker Böttcher             284
Peter  Long            744
Johan  Lundgren            363
William  Waggott            282
A w a r d s   m a d e   u n d e r   t h e   D A B S ,   a n d   w h i c h   r e m a i n   o u t s t a n d i n g   a t   3 0   S e p t e m b e r   2 0 1 0 ,   a r e   g i v e n   i n   t h e   t a b l e   o n   p a g e   5 9 .
Go v ernanc e
Remuneration report c o n t i n u e d Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
 
www.tuitravelplc.com
T U I  T r a v e l P L C  A n n u a l R e p o r t  &  A c c o u n t s  2 0 1 0  59
Deferred Annual Bonus Scheme (DABS)
                              M a x i m u m
        D A B S   s h a r e s         D A B S   s h a r e s         D A B S   s h a r e s           v a l u e
        a w a r d e d         v e s t e d         r e l e a s e d         M a x i m u m     b a s e d   o n
    D A B S   s h a r e s     d u r i n g   t h e       M a r k e t   p r i c e   d u r i n g   t h e   M a r k e t   p r i c e     P l a n n e d /   d u r i n g   t h e   M a r k e t   p r i c e       D A B S   s h a r e s     s h a r e   p r i c e
    h e l d   a t     y e a r   e n d e d       p e r   s h a r e   y e a r   e n d e d   p e r   s h a r e   M a r k e t   v a l u e   A c t u a l   y e a r   e n d e d   p e r   s h a r e   M a r k e t   v a l u e       h e l d   a t     o f   2 1 4 . 4 p   a t
D i r e c to r s     1 / 1 0 / 2 0 0 9     3 0 / 0 9 / 2 0 1 0     A w a r d   d a t e   a t   a w a r d   3 0 / 0 9 / 2 0 1 0   a t   v e s t i n g   a t   v e s t i n g     v e s t i n g   d a t e   3 0 / 0 9 / 2 0 1 0   a t   r e l e a s e   a t   r e l e a s e   R e l e a s e   d a t e   3 0 / 0 9 / 2 0 1 0     3 0 / 0 9 / 2 0 1 0
D r   V ol k e r  
B ö t t c he r     6 0 , 4 3 2
2
    1 9 . 1 2 . 0 7       2 7 0 . 4 0 p             1 9 . 1 2 . 1 0               6 0 , 4 3 2     1 2 9 , 5 6 6
    2 4 1 , 7 2 9
3
        1 9 . 1 2 . 0 7       2 7 0 . 4 0 p             1 9 . 1 2 . 1 0               2 4 1 , 7 2 9     5 1 8 , 2 6 7
    1 0 4 , 8 0 9
4
      2 8 . 1 1 . 0 8     2 0 5 . 2 5 p           2 8 . 1 1 . 1 1             1 0 4 , 8 0 9     2 2 4 , 7 1 0
    4 1 9 , 2 3 6
5
      2 8 . 1 1 . 0 8     2 0 5 . 2 5 p           2 8 . 1 1 . 1 1             4 1 9 , 2 3 6     8 9 8 , 8 4 2
          1 0 1 , 8 1 9
6
      0 2 . 1 2 . 0 9       2 4 3 . 3 0 p               0 2 . 1 2 . 1 2           1 0 1 , 8 1 9     2 1 8 , 3 0 0
          4 0 7 , 2 7 6
7
      0 2 . 1 2 . 0 9       2 4 3 . 3 0 p                 0 2 . 1 2 . 1 2           4 0 7 , 2 7 6     8 7 3 , 2 0 0
T o t a l     8 2 6 , 2 0 6     5 0 9 , 0 9 5                                     1 , 3 3 5 , 3 0 1     2 , 8 6 2 , 8 8 5
P a u l   B o w t e l l   1 5 6 , 9 2 3
1
    1 3 . 0 2 . 0 7       2 6 0 . 0 0 p   1 4 7 , 3 1 1     2 6 2 . 1 0 p   3 8 6 , 1 0 2       1 5 . 0 2 . 1 0       1 4 7 , 3 1 1   2 6 2 . 1 0 p   3 8 6 , 1 0 2       1 5 . 0 2 . 1 0   –     –  
    6 7 , 5 9 9
2
        1 9 . 1 2 . 0 7       2 7 0 . 4 0 p   6 7 , 5 9 9   2 4 3 . 3 0 p   1 6 4 , 4 6 8       0 2 . 1 2 . 0 9       2 7 , 7 1 6   2 4 3 . 3 0 p   6 7 , 4 3 3   0 2 . 1 2 . 0 9       3 9 , 8 8 3
8
  8 5 , 5 0 9
    2 7 0 , 3 9 4
3
        1 9 . 1 2 . 0 7       2 7 0 . 4 0 p             1 9 . 1 2 . 1 0               2 7 0 , 3 9 4     57 9 , 7 2 5  
    1 3 4 , 4 7 0
4
      2 8 . 1 1 . 0 8     2 0 5 . 2 5 p   1 3 4 , 4 7 0   2 4 3 . 3 0 p   3 2 7 , 1 6 6     0 2 . 1 2 . 0 9       5 5 , 1 3 3   2 4 3 . 3 0 p   1 3 4 , 1 3 9   0 2 . 1 2 . 0 9       7 9 , 3 3 7
8
  1 7 0 , 0 9 9  
    5 3 7 , 8 8 0
5
      2 8 . 1 1 . 0 8     2 0 5 . 2 5 p           2 8 . 1 1 . 1 1             5 3 7 , 8 8 0     1 , 1 5 3 , 2 1 5  
          1 2 0 , 8 3 8
6
      0 2 . 1 2 . 0 9       2 4 3 . 3 0 p   1 2 0 , 8 3 8   2 4 3 . 3 0 p   2 9 3 , 9 9 9       0 2 . 1 2 . 0 9   4 9 , 5 4 4   2 4 3 . 3 0 p   1 2 0 , 5 4 1   0 2 . 1 2 . 0 9       7 1 , 2 9 4
8
  1 5 2 , 8 5 4  
          4 8 3 , 3 5 2
7
      0 2 . 1 2 . 0 9       2 4 3 . 3 0 p                   0 2 . 1 2 . 1 2           4 8 3 , 3 5 2     1 , 0 3 6 , 3 0 7
T o t a l     1 , 1 6 7 , 2 6 6     6 0 4 , 1 9 0                             2 7 9 , 7 0 4     7 0 8 , 2 1 5     1 , 4 8 2 , 1 4 0     3 , 1 7 7 , 7 0 9
P e t e r   L on g     3 2 6 , 1 5 5
1
      1 3 . 0 2 . 0 7       2 6 0 . 0 0 p   3 0 6 , 1 7 8     2 6 2 . 1 0 p   8 0 2 , 4 9 3       1 5 . 0 2 . 1 0       3 0 6 , 1 7 8   2 6 2 . 1 0 p   8 0 2 , 4 9 3       1 5 . 0 2 . 1 0       –   –  
    1 3 8 , 2 8 8
2
      1 9 . 1 2 . 0 7     2 7 0 . 4 0 p   1 3 8 , 2 8 8   2 4 3 . 3 0 p   3 3 6 , 4 5 5     0 2 . 1 2 . 0 9       5 6 , 6 9 9   2 4 3 . 3 0 p   1 3 7 , 9 4 9   0 2 . 1 2 . 0 9       8 1 , 5 8 9
8
  1 7 4 , 9 2 7  
    5 5 3 , 1 5 0
3
      1 9 . 1 2 . 0 7     2 7 0 . 4 0 p           1 9 . 1 2 . 1 0             5 5 3 , 1 5 0     1 , 1 8 5 , 9 5 4  
    2 9 2 , 3 2 6
4
      2 8 . 1 1 . 0 8     2 0 5 . 2 5 p   2 9 2 , 3 2 6   2 4 3 . 3 0 p   7 1 1 , 2 2 9     0 2 . 1 2 . 0 9       1 1 9 , 8 5 4   2 4 3 . 3 0 p   2 91 , 6 0 5   0 2 . 1 2 . 0 9       1 7 2 , 4 7 2
8
  3 6 9 , 7 8 0  
    1 , 1 6 9 , 3 0 4
5
      2 8 . 1 1 . 0 8     2 0 5 . 2 5 p           2 8 . 1 1 . 1 1             1 , 1 6 9 , 3 0 4     2 , 5 0 6 , 9 8 8  
          2 6 2 , 0 2 2
6
      0 2 . 1 2 . 0 9       2 4 3 . 3 0 p   2 6 2 , 0 2 2   2 4 3 . 3 0 p   6 3 7 , 5 0 0       0 2 . 1 2 . 0 9       1 0 7 , 4 3 0   2 4 3 . 3 0 p   2 6 1 , 3 7 7   0 2 . 1 2 . 0 9       1 5 4 , 5 9 2
8
  3 3 1 , 4 4 5  
          1 , 0 4 8 , 0 8 8
7
      0 2 . 1 2 . 0 9       2 4 3 . 3 0 p                 0 2 . 1 2 . 1 2           1 , 0 4 8 , 0 8 8     2 , 2 4 7 , 1 0 1
T o t a l     2 , 4 7 9 , 2 2 3     1 , 3 1 0 , 1 1 0                         5 9 0 , 1 6 1     1 , 4 9 3 , 4 2 4     3 , 1 7 9 , 1 9 5     6 , 8 1 6 , 1 9 5
J oh a n   L u nd g re n   6 7 , 4 3 1
2
      1 9 . 1 2 . 0 7     2 7 0 . 4 0 p   6 7 , 4 3 1   2 4 3 . 3 0 p   1 6 4 , 0 6 0     0 2 . 1 2 . 0 9       2 7 , 6 4 7   2 4 3 . 3 0 p   6 7 , 2 6 5   0 2 . 1 2 . 0 9       3 9 , 7 8 4
8
  8 5 , 2 9 7  
    2 6 9 , 7 2 3
3
      1 9 . 1 2 . 0 7     2 7 0 . 4 0 p           1 9 . 1 2 . 1 0             2 6 9 , 7 2 3     57 8 , 2 8 6  
    1 3 5 , 4 4 6
4
      2 8 . 1 1 . 0 8     2 0 5 . 2 5 p   1 3 5 , 4 4 6   2 4 3 . 3 0 p   3 2 9 , 5 4 0   0 2 . 1 2 . 0 9       5 5 , 5 3 3   2 4 3 . 3 0 p   1 3 5 , 1 1 2   0 2 . 1 2 . 0 9       7 9 , 91 3
8
  1 7 1 , 3 3 3  
    5 4 1 , 7 8 4
5
      2 8 . 1 1 . 0 8     2 0 5 . 2 5 p           2 8 . 1 1 . 1 1             5 4 1 , 7 8 4     1 , 1 6 1 , 5 8 5  
          1 0 5 , 8 6 3
6
      0 2 . 1 2 . 0 9       2 4 3 . 3 0 p   1 0 5 , 8 6 3   2 4 3 . 3 0 p   2 57 , 5 6 5   0 2 . 1 2 . 0 9       4 3 , 4 0 4   2 4 3 . 3 0 p   1 0 5 , 6 0 2   0 2 . 1 2 . 0 9       6 2 , 4 5 9
8
  1 3 3 , 91 2  
        4 2 3 , 4 5 2
7
      0 2 . 1 2 . 0 9       2 4 3 . 3 0 p                 0 2 . 1 2 . 1 2           4 2 3 , 4 5 2     9 0 7 , 8 8 1
T o t a l     1 , 0 1 4 , 3 8 4     5 2 9 , 3 1 5                       1 2 6 , 5 8 4     3 0 7 , 9 7 9     1 , 4 1 7 , 1 1 5     3 , 0 3 8 , 2 9 4
W i l l i a m   W a g g o t t   7 3 , 5 5 8
2
    1 9 . 1 2 . 0 7     2 7 0 . 4 0 p   7 3 , 5 5 8   2 4 3 . 3 0 p   1 7 8 , 9 6 7     0 2 . 1 2 . 0 9       3 0 , 1 5 9   2 4 3 . 3 0 p   7 3 , 3 7 7   0 2 . 1 2 . 0 9       4 3 , 3 9 9
8
  9 3 , 0 4 7  
    2 9 4 , 2 3 0
3
      1 9 . 1 2 . 0 7     2 7 0 . 4 0 p           1 9 . 1 2 . 1 0             2 9 4 , 2 3 0     6 3 0 , 8 2 9  
    9 7 , 4 4 2
4
      2 8 . 1 1 . 0 8     2 0 5 . 2 5 p   9 7 , 4 4 2   2 4 3 . 3 0 p   2 3 7 , 0 7 6     0 2 . 1 2 . 0 9       3 9 , 9 5 2   2 4 3 . 3 0 p   9 7 , 2 0 3   0 2 . 1 2 . 0 9       57 , 4 9 0
8
  1 2 3 , 2 5 9  
    3 8 9 , 7 6 8
5
      2 8 . 1 1 . 0 8     2 0 5 . 2 5 p           2 8 . 1 1 . 1 1             3 8 9 , 7 6 8     8 3 5 , 6 6 3  
          8 8 , 3 6 8
6
      0 2 . 1 2 . 0 9       2 4 3 . 3 0 p   8 8 , 3 6 8   2 4 3 . 3 0 p   2 1 4 , 9 9 9   0 2 . 1 2 . 0 9       3 6 , 2 3 1   2 4 3 . 3 0 p   8 8 , 1 5 0   0 2 . 1 2 . 0 9       5 2 , 1 3 7
8
  1 1 1 , 7 8 2  
          3 5 3 , 4 7 2
7
      0 2 . 1 2 . 0 9       2 4 3 . 3 0 p                   0 2 . 1 2 . 1 2           3 5 3 , 4 7 2     7 57 , 8 4 4
T o t a l     8 5 4 , 9 9 8     4 4 1 , 8 4 0                       1 0 6 , 3 4 2     2 5 8 , 7 3 0     1 , 1 9 0 , 4 9 6     2 , 5 5 2 , 4 2 4
Grand Total 6,342,077  3,394,550          1,102,791   2,768,348   8,604,247  18,447,507
1     T h i s   ‘ r o l l - o v e r ’   a w a r d   i s   b a s e d   o n   a )   p e r f o r m a n c e   t o   3 0   S e p t e m b e r   2 0 0 9   w h e r e   t h e   p e r f o r m a n c e   m e a s u r e   r e l a t e s   t o   E P S   g r o w t h   i n   e x c e s s   o f   t h e   r a t e   o f   i n f l a t i o n   a n d   b )   p e r f o r m a n c e   t o   t h e   3 r d  
a n n i v e r s a r y   o f   t h e   a w a r d   d a t e   w h e r e   t h e   p e r f o r m a n c e   m e a s u r e   r e l a t e s   t o   t h e   C o m p a n y ’ s   T S R   r a n k i n g   a g a i n s t   t h e   c o n s t i t u e n t   c o m p a n i e s   o f   t h e   F T S E   M i d - 2 5 0   i n d e x   ( e x c l u d i n g   I n v e s t m e n t   T r u s t s )   
a s   c a l c u l a t e d   a t   t h e   A w a r d   d a t e .     A   p e r f o r m a n c e   h u r d l e   o f   t h e   R O I C   b e i n g   i n   e x c e s s   o f   t h e   W A C C   m u s t   a l s o   b e   a c h i e v e d   f o r   a n y   o f   t h e   a w a r d   t o   b e   r e l e a s e d .     T h e   n u m b e r   o f   s h a r e s   r e l e a s e d   i s   g r a d e d  
a c c o r d i n g   t o   a )   E P S   g r o w t h ,   w i t h   7 . 5 %   o f   t h e   a w a r d   b e i n g   r e l e a s e d   f o r   4 %   p e r   a n n u m   i n   e x c e s s   o f   i n f l a t i o n   a n d   7 5 %   o f   t h e   a w a r d   r e l e a s e d   f o r   1 3 %   p e r   a n n u m   i n   e x c e s s   o f   i n f l a t i o n   a n d   b )   r a n k i n g   
o f   t h e   C o m p a n y   a g a i n s t   t h e   c o m p a r a t o r   g r o u p ,   w i t h   2 . 5 %   o f   t h e   a w a r d   b e i n g   r e l e a s e d   f o r   m e d i a n   a n d   2 5 %   o f   t h e   a w a r d   b e i n g   r e l e a s e d   f o r   u p p e r   q u a r t i l e .     T h e   R O I C / W A C C   h u r d l e   w a s   a c h i e v e d ,    
E P S   g r o w t h   w a s   g r e a t e r   t h a n   1 3 %   p e r   a n n u m   i n   e x c e s s   o f   i n f l a t i o n   a n d   t h e   C o m p a n y   T S R   r a n k i n g   w a s   6 9 t h   p e r c e n t i l e   t h e r e f o r e   9 3 . 8 7 5 %   o f   t h e   a w a r d   w a s   r e l e a s e d   o n   1 5   F e b r u a r y   2 0 1 0 .
2       T h i s   a w a r d   i s   t h e   d e f e r r e d   e l e m e n t   o f   t h e   A n n u a l   B o n u s   e n t i t l e m e n t   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   Y e a r   2 0 0 6 / 0 7   a n d   i s   s u b j e c t   o n l y   t o   c o n t i n u e d   e m p l o y m e n t   t o   t h e   r e l e a s e   d a t e .
3       T h i s   m a t c h i n g   a w a r d   i s   b a s e d   o n   a )   p e r f o r m a n c e   t o   3 0   S e p t e m b e r   2 0 1 0   w h e r e   t h e   p e r f o r m a n c e   m e a s u r e   r e l a t e s   t o   ( E P S )   g r o w t h   i n   e x c e s s   o f   t h e   r a t e   o f   i n f l a t i o n   a n d   b )   p e r f o r m a n c e   t o   t h e   3 r d  
a n n i v e r s a r y   o f   t h e   a w a r d   d a t e   w h e r e   t h e   p e r f o r m a n c e   m e a s u r e   r e l a t e s   t o   t h e   C o m p a n y ’ s   T S R   r a n k i n g   a g a i n s t   t h e   c o n s t i t u e n t   c o m p a n i e s   o f   t h e   F T S E   1 0 0   i n d e x   r a n k e d   3 0   t o   1 0 0   b y   m a r k e t   c a p i t a l i s a t i o n  
a s   c a l c u l a t e d   a t   t h e   a w a r d   d a t e .     A   p e r f o r m a n c e   h u r d l e   o f   t h e   r e t u r n   o n   R O I C   b e i n g   i n   e x c e s s   o f   t h e   W A C C   m u s t   a l s o   b e   a c h i e v e d   f o r   a n y   o f   t h e   a w a r d   t o   b e   r e l e a s e d .     T h e   n u m b e r   o f   s h a r e s   r e l e a s e d   i s  
g r a d e d   a c c o r d i n g   t o   a )   E P S   g r o w t h ,   w i t h   7 . 5 %   o f   t h e   a w a r d   b e i n g   r e l e a s e d   f o r   1 2 %   i n   e x c e s s   o f   i n f l a t i o n   a n d   7 5 %   o f   t h e   a w a r d   r e l e a s e d   f o r   3 9 %   i n   e x c e s s   o f   i n f l a t i o n   a n d   b )   r a n k i n g   o f   t h e   C o m p a n y  
a g a i n s t   t h e   c o m p a r a t o r   g r o u p ,   w i t h   3 . 7 5 %   o f   t h e   a w a r d   b e i n g   r e l e a s e d   f o r   m e d i a n   a n d   2 5 %   o f   t h e   a w a r d   b e i n g   r e l e a s e d   f o r   u p p e r   q u a r t i l e .
4     T h i s   a w a r d   i s   t h e   d e f e r r e d   e l e m e n t   o f   t h e   A n n u a l   B o n u s   e n t i t l e m e n t   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   Y e a r   2 0 0 7 / 0 8   a n d   i s   s u b j e c t   o n l y   t o   c o n t i n u e d   e m p l o y m e n t   t o   t h e   r e l e a s e   d a t e .
5       T h i s   m a t c h i n g   a w a r d   i s   b a s e d   o n   a )   p e r f o r m a n c e   t o   3 0   S e p t e m b e r   2 0 1 1   w h e r e   t h e   p e r f o r m a n c e   m e a s u r e   r e l a t e s   t o   E P S   g r o w t h   i n   e x c e s s   o f   t h e   r a t e   o f   i n f l a t i o n   a n d   b )   p e r f o r m a n c e   t o   t h e   3 r d 
a n n i v e r s a r y   o f   t h e   a w a r d   d a t e   w h e r e   t h e   p e r f o r m a n c e   m e a s u r e   r e l a t e s   t o   t h e   C o m p a n y ’ s   T S R   r a n k i n g   a g a i n s t   t h e   c o n s t i t u e n t   c o m p a n i e s   o f   t h e   F T S E   1 0 0   i n d e x   r a n k e d   3 0   t o   1 0 0   b y   m a r k e t   c a p i t a l i s a t i o n  
a s   c a l c u l a t e d   a t   t h e   a w a r d   d a t e .     A   p e r f o r m a n c e   h u r d l e   o f   t h e   R O I C   b e i n g   i n   e x c e s s   o f   t h e   W A C C   m u s t   a l s o   b e   a c h i e v e d   f o r   a n y   o f   t h e   a w a r d   t o   b e   r e l e a s e d .     T h e   n u m b e r   o f   s h a r e s   r e l e a s e d   i s   g r a d e d 
a c c o r d i n g   t o   a )   E P S   g r o w t h ,   w i t h   7 . 5 %   o f   t h e   a w a r d   b e i n g   r e l e a s e d   f o r   1 2 %   i n   e x c e s s   o f   i n f l a t i o n   a n d   7 5 %   o f   t h e   a w a r d   r e l e a s e d   f o r   3 9 %   i n   e x c e s s   o f   i n f l a t i o n   a n d   b )   r a n k i n g   o f   t h e   C o m p a n y   a g a i n s t   
t h e   c o m p a r a t o r   g r o u p ,   w i t h   3 . 7 5 %   o f   t h e   a w a r d   b e i n g   r e l e a s e d   f o r   m e d i a n   a n d   2 5 %   o f   t h e   a w a r d   b e i n g   r e l e a s e d   f o r   u p p e r   q u a r t i l e .
6   T h i s   a w a r d   i s   t h e   d e f e r r e d   e l e m e n t   o f   t h e   A n n u a l   B o n u s   e n t i t l e m e n t   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   Y e a r   2 0 0 8 / 0 9   a n d   i s   s u b j e c t   o n l y   t o   c o n t i n u e d   e m p l o y m e n t   t o   t h e   r e l e a s e   d a t e .
7       T h i s   m a t c h i n g   a w a r d   i s   b a s e d   o n   p e r f o r m a n c e   t o   3 0   S e p t e m b e r   2 0 1 2   w h e r e   t h e   p e r f o r m a n c e   m e a s u r e   r e l a t e s   t o   a )   E P S   g r o w t h   i n   e x c e s s   o f   t h e   r a t e   o f   i n f l a t i o n   a n d   b )   t h e   C o m p a n y ’ s   T S R   r a n k i n g  
a g a i n s t   t h e   c o n s t i t u e n t   c o m p a n i e s   o f   t h e   F T S E   1 0 0   i n d e x   r a n k e d   3 0   t o   1 0 0   b y   m a r k e t   c a p i t a l i s a t i o n   a s   c a l c u l a t e d   a t   t h e   a w a r d   d a t e .     A   p e r f o r m a n c e   h u r d l e   o f   t h e   R O I C   b e i n g   i n   e x c e s s   o f   t h e   W A C C    
m u s t   a l s o   b e   a c h i e v e d   f o r   a n y   o f   t h e   a w a r d   t o   b e   r e l e a s e d .     T h e   n u m b e r   o f   s h a r e s   r e l e a s e d   i s   g r a d e d   a c c o r d i n g   t o   a )   E P S   g r o w t h ,   w i t h   7 . 5 %   o f   t h e   a w a r d   b e i n g   r e l e a s e d   f o r   1 2 %   i n   e x c e s s   o f   i n f l a t i o n    
a n d   7 5 %   o f   t h e   a w a r d   r e l e a s e d   f o r   3 9 %   i n   e x c e s s   o f   i n f l a t i o n   a n d   b )   r a n k i n g   o f   t h e   C o m p a n y   a g a i n s t   t h e   c o m p a r a t o r   g r o u p ,   w i t h   3 . 7 5 %   o f   t h e   a w a r d   b e i n g   r e l e a s e d   f o r   m e d i a n   a n d   2 5 %   o f   t h e   a w a r d 
b e i n g   r e l e a s e d   f o r   u p p e r   q u a r t i l e .
8       D u r i n g   t h e   y e a r   t h e   D i r e c t o r   a n d   t h e   C o m p a n y   a g r e e d   t o   e n t e r   i n t o   a   j o i n t   e l e c t i o n   p u r s u a n t   t o   s e c t i o n   4 3 1 ( 1 )   o f   t h e   I n c o m e   T a x   ( E a r n i n g s   a n d   P e n s i o n s )   A c t   2 0 0 3   i n   r e s p e c t   o f   t h i s   a w a r d .     C o n s e q u e n t l y , 
t h e   R e m u n e r a t i o n   C o m m i t t e e   a g r e e d   t o   v e s t   t h e s e   a w a r d s   e a r l y   a n d   r e l e a s e   s u f f i c i e n t   s h a r e s   t o   s a t i s f y   t h e   t a x   l i a b i l i t y   a r i s i n g   f r o m   t h e   j o i n t   e l e c t i o n .     T h e   r e m a i n i n g   s h a r e s ,   w h i c h   a r e   v e s t e d ,   a r e   h e l d   a s  
r e s t r i c t e d   s h a r e s   a n d   w i l l   n o t   b e   r e l e a s e d   b e f o r e   t h e   t h i r d   a n n i v e r s a r y   o f   t h e   o r i g i n a l   a w a r d   d a t e .     T h e s e   r e s t r i c t e d   s h a r e s   a r e   s u b j e c t   t o   c l a w - b a c k   c o n d i t i o n s   i n   a c c o r d a n c e   w i t h   t h e   s c h e m e   r u l e s . www.tuitravelplc.com
60  T U I T r a v e l  P L C  A n n u a l R e p o r t & A c c o u n t s  2 0 1 0
Go v ernanc e
Remuneration report c o n t i n u e d
Performance Share Plan (PSP)
A w a r d s   m a d e   u n d e r   t h e   P S P ,   a n d   w h i c h   r e m a i n   o u t s t a n d i n g   a t   3 0   S e p t e m b e r   2 0 1 0   a r e :
      M a x i m u m                           M a x i m u m
      P SP   s h a r e s         P SP   s h a r e s         P SP   s h a r e s           v a l u e
    M a x i m u m     v e s t e d           v e s t e d         r e l e a s e d         M a x i m u m   b a s e d   o n 
    P SP   s h a r e s     d u r i n g   t h e       M a r k e t   p r i c e   d u r i n g   t h e   M a r k e t   p r i c e     P l a n n e d /   d u r i n g   t h e   M a r k e t   p r i c e       P SP   s h a r e s   s h a r e   p r i c e
    h e l d   a t     y e a r   e n d e d       p e r   s h a r e   y e a r   e n d e d   p e r   s h a r e   M a r k e t   v a l u e     A c t u a l   y e a r   e n d e d   p e r   s h a r e   M a r k e t   v a l u e     h e l d   a t   o f   2 1 4 . 4 p   a t
D i r e c to r s     1 / 1 0 / 2 0 0 9     3 0 / 0 9 / 2 0 1 0     A w a r d   d a t e   a t   a w a r d   3 0 / 0 9 / 2 0 1 0   a t   v e s t i n g   a t   v e s t i n g   £   v e s t i n g   d a t e   3 0 / 0 9 / 2 0 1 0   a t   r e l e a s e   a t   r e l e a s e   R e l e a s e   d a t e   3 0 / 0 9 / 2 0 1 0   3 0 / 0 9 / 2 0 1 0
D r   V ol k e r 
B ö t t c he r     7 8 , 8 8 8
1
    0 3 . 0 9 . 0 7   2 8 5 . 5 0 p   7 8 , 8 8 8   2 6 2 . 1 0 p   2 0 6 , 7 6 5   1 5 . 0 2 . 1 0   7 8 , 8 8 8   2 6 2 . 1 0 p   2 0 6 , 7 6 5   1 5 . 0 2 . 1 0   –   –
    1 2 9 , 2 0 9
2
    1 3 . 0 9 . 0 7   2 7 3 . 0 0 p   –       0 2 . 1 2 . 1 0           1 2 9 , 2 0 9   2 7 7 , 0 2 4
    2 2 1 , 8 2 9
3
    2 8 . 1 1 . 0 8   2 0 5 . 2 5 p   –       2 8 . 1 1 . 1 1           2 2 1 , 8 2 9   4 7 5 , 6 0 1
        2 0 3 , 6 3 9
3
      0 2 . 1 2 . 0 9       2 4 3 . 3 0 p                 0 2 . 1 2 . 1 2           2 0 3 , 6 3 9   4 3 6 , 6 0 2
T o t a l     4 2 9 , 9 2 6     2 0 3 , 6 3 9                   7 8 , 8 8 8     2 0 6 , 7 6 5     5 5 4 , 6 7 7   1 , 1 8 9 , 2 2 7
P a u l   B o w t e l l   7 4 , 0 3 9
1
  –     1 3 . 0 2 . 0 7   2 6 0 . 0 0 p   7 4 , 0 3 9   2 6 2 . 1 0 p   1 9 4 , 0 5 6   1 5 . 0 2 . 1 0   7 4 , 0 3 9   2 6 2 . 1 0 p   1 9 4 , 0 5 6   1 5 . 0 2 . 1 0   –   –
    2 0 2 , 1 9 8
2
  –     1 3 . 0 9 . 0 7   2 7 3 . 0 0 p   –       0 2 . 1 2 . 1 0           2 0 2 , 1 9 8   4 3 3 , 5 1 3
    2 8 6 , 4 7 9
3
    2 8 . 1 1 . 0 8   2 0 5 . 2 5 p   –       2 8 . 1 1 . 1 1           2 8 6 , 4 7 9   6 1 4 , 2 1 1
        2 4 1 , 6 7 6
4
  0 2 . 1 2 . 0 9   2 4 3 . 3 0 p                 0 2 . 1 2 . 1 2           2 4 1 , 6 7 6   5 1 8 , 1 5 3
T o t a l     5 6 2 , 7 1 6     2 4 1 , 6 7 6                     7 4 , 0 3 9     1 9 4 , 0 5 6     7 3 0 , 3 5 3   1 , 5 6 5 , 8 7 7
P e t e r   L on g     1 7 3 , 0 7 8
1
  –     1 3 . 0 2 . 0 7   2 6 0 . 0 0 p   1 7 3 , 0 7 8   2 6 2 . 1 0 p   4 5 3 , 6 3 7   1 5 . 0 2 . 1 0   1 7 3 , 0 7 8   2 6 2 . 1 0 p   4 5 3 , 6 3 7   1 5 . 0 2 . 1 0   –   –
    5 8 6 , 0 8 1
2
  –     1 3 . 0 9 . 0 7   2 7 3 . 0 0 p   –       0 2 . 1 2 . 1 0           5 8 6 , 0 8 1   1 , 2 5 6 , 5 5 8
    8 2 8 , 2 5 8
3
    2 8 . 1 1 . 0 8   2 0 5 . 2 5 p   –         2 8 . 1 1 . 1 1             8 2 8 , 2 5 8   1 , 7 7 5 , 7 8 5
        6 9 8 , 7 2 5
4
      0 2 . 1 2 . 0 9       2 4 3 . 3 0 p                 0 2 . 1 2 . 1 2           6 9 8 , 7 2 5   1 , 4 9 8 , 0 6 6
T o t a l     1 , 5 8 7 , 4 1 7     6 9 8 , 7 2 5                   1 7 3 , 0 7 8     4 5 3 , 6 3 7     2 , 1 1 3 , 0 6 4   4 , 5 3 0 , 4 0 9
J oh a n   L u nd g re n   1 3 0 , 3 4 8
1
  –   0 3 . 0 9 . 0 7   2 8 5 . 5 0 p   1 3 0 , 3 4 8   2 6 2 . 1 0 p   3 4 1 , 6 4 2   1 5 . 0 2 . 1 0   1 3 0 , 3 4 8   2 6 2 . 1 0 p   3 4 1 , 6 4 2   1 5 . 0 2 . 1 0   –   –
    1 0 4 , 7 7 3
2
  –   1 3 . 0 9 . 0 7   2 7 3 . 0 0 p   –       0 2 . 1 2 . 1 0           1 0 4 , 7 7 3   2 2 4 , 6 3 3
    1 9 2 , 3 0 7
2
    1 9 . 1 2 . 0 7   2 7 0 . 4 0 p   –       1 9 . 1 2 . 1 0           1 9 2 , 3 0 7   4 1 2 , 3 0 6
    2 8 7 , 1 0 6
3
    2 8 . 1 1 . 0 8   2 0 5 . 2 5 p   –         2 8 . 1 1 . 1 1             2 8 7 , 1 0 6   6 1 5 , 5 5 5
        2 4 8 , 6 6 4
4
      0 2 . 1 2 . 0 9       2 4 3 . 3 0 p                 0 2 . 1 2 . 1 2           2 4 8 , 6 6 4   5 3 3 , 1 3 6
T o t a l     7 1 4 , 5 3 4     2 4 8 , 6 6 4                   1 3 0 , 3 4 8     3 4 1 , 6 4 2     8 3 2 , 8 5 0   1 , 7 8 5 , 6 3 0
W i l l i a m   W a g g o t t   2 4 4 , 6 8 5
1
  –   0 3 . 0 9 . 0 7   2 8 5 . 5 0 p   2 4 4 , 6 8 5   2 6 2 . 1 0 p   6 4 1 , 3 1 9   1 5 . 0 2 . 1 0   2 4 4 , 6 8 5   2 6 2 . 1 0 p   6 4 1 , 3 1 9   1 5 . 0 2 . 1 0   –   –
    1 4 6 , 5 2 0
2
  –   1 3 . 0 9 . 0 7   2 7 3 . 0 0 p   –       0 2 . 1 2 . 1 0           1 4 6 , 5 2 0   3 1 4 , 1 3 9
    2 0 9 , 5 0 0
3
    2 8 . 1 1 . 0 8   2 0 5 . 2 5 p   –         2 8 . 1 1 . 1 1             2 0 9 , 5 0 0   4 4 9 , 1 6 8
        1 7 6 , 7 3 6
4
  0 2 . 1 2 . 0 9       2 4 3 . 3 0 p             0 2 . 1 2 . 1 2           1 7 6 , 7 3 6   3 7 8 , 9 2 2
T o t a l     6 0 0 , 7 0 5     1 7 6 , 7 3 6                 2 4 4 , 6 8 5     6 4 1 , 3 1 9     5 3 2 , 7 5 6   1 , 1 4 2 , 2 2 9
Grand Total 3,895,298  1,569,440        701,038  1,837,419  4,763,700 10,213,372
1       T h i s   ‘ r o l l - o v e r ’   a w a r d   i s   b a s e d   o n   p e r f o r m a n c e   f r o m   1   N o v e m b e r   2 0 0 6   t o   3 0   S e p t e m b e r   2 0 0 9   w h e r e   t h e   p e r f o r m a n c e   m e a s u r e   r e l a t e s   t o   E P S   g r o w t h   i n   e x c e s s   o f   t h e   r a t e   o f   i n f l a t i o n   a n d   a   p e r f o r m a n c e 
h u r d l e   o f   t h e   R O I C   b e i n g   i n   e x c e s s   o f   t h e   W A C C .     T h e   n u m b e r   o f   s h a r e s   r e l e a s e d   i s   g r a d e d   a c c o r d i n g   t o   E P S   g r o w t h ,   w i t h   1 0 %   o f   t h e   a w a r d   b e i n g   r e l e a s e d   f o r   4 %   p e r   a n n u m   i n   e x c e s s   o f   i n f l a t i o n   a n d 
t h e   e n t i r e   a w a r d   r e l e a s e d   f o r   1 3 %   p e r   a n n u m   i n   e x c e s s   o f   i n f l a t i o n .     T h e   R O I C / W A C C   h u r d l e   w a s   a c h i e v e d   a n d   E P S   g r o w t h   w a s   g r e a t e r   t h a n   1 3 %   p e r   a n n u m   i n   e x c e s s   o f   i n f l a t i o n   t h e r e f o r e   t h e   e n t i r e  
a w a r d   w a s   r e l e a s e d   o n   1 5   F e b r u a r y   2 0 1 0 .
2       T h i s   a w a r d   i s   b a s e d   o n   a )   p e r f o r m a n c e   t o   3 0   S e p t e m b e r   2 0 1 0   w h e r e   t h e   p e r f o r m a n c e   m e a s u r e   r e l a t e s   t o   E P S   g r o w t h   i n   e x c e s s   o f   t h e   r a t e   o f   i n f l a t i o n   a n d   b )   p e r f o r m a n c e   t o   t h e   3 r d   a n n i v e r s a r y   o f   t h e 
a w a r d   d a t e   w h e r e   t h e   p e r f o r m a n c e   m e a s u r e   r e l a t e s   t o   t h e   C o m p a n y ’ s   T S R   r a n k i n g   a g a i n s t   t h e   c o n s t i t u e n t   c o m p a n i e s   o f   t h e   F T S E   1 0 0   i n d e x   r a n k e d   3 0   t o   1 0 0   b y   m a r k e t   c a p i t a l i s a t i o n   a s   c a l c u l a t e d   a t   t h e  
a w a r d   d a t e .     A   p e r f o r m a n c e   h u r d l e   o f   t h e   R O I C   b e i n g   i n   e x c e s s   o f   t h e   w e i g h t e d   a v e r a g e   c o s t   o f   c a p i t a l   ( W A C C )   m u s t   a l s o   b e   a c h i e v e d   f o r   a n y   o f   t h e   a w a r d   t o   b e   r e l e a s e d .     T h e   n u m b e r   o f   s h a r e s   r e l e a s e d 
i s   g r a d e d   a c c o r d i n g   t o   a )   E P S   g r o w t h ,   w i t h   5 %   o f   t h e   a w a r d   b e i n g   r e l e a s e d   f o r   1 2 %   i n   e x c e s s   o f   i n f l a t i o n   a n d   5 0 %   o f   t h e   a w a r d   r e l e a s e d   f o r   3 9 %   i n   e x c e s s   o f   i n f l a t i o n   a n d   b )   r a n k i n g   o f   t h e   C o m p a n y  
a g a i n s t   t h e   c o m p a r a t o r   g r o u p ,   w i t h   7 . 5 %   o f   t h e   a w a r d   b e i n g   r e l e a s e d   f o r   m e d i a n   a n d   5 0 %   o f   t h e   a w a r d   b e i n g   r e l e a s e d   f o r   u p p e r   q u a r t i l e .
3       T h i s   a w a r d   i s   b a s e d   o n   a )   p e r f o r m a n c e   t o   3 0   S e p t e m b e r   2 0 1 1   w h e r e   t h e   p e r f o r m a n c e   m e a s u r e   r e l a t e s   t o   E P S   g r o w t h   i n   e x c e s s   o f   t h e   r a t e   o f   i n f l a t i o n   a n d   b )   p e r f o r m a n c e   t o   t h e   3 r d   a n n i v e r s a r y   o f   t h e 
a w a r d   d a t e   w h e r e   t h e   p e r f o r m a n c e   m e a s u r e   r e l a t e s   t o   t h e   C o m p a n y ’ s   T S R   r a n k i n g   a g a i n s t   t h e   c o n s t i t u e n t   c o m p a n i e s   o f   t h e   F T S E   1 0 0   i n d e x   r a n k e d   3 0   t o   1 0 0   b y   m a r k e t   c a p i t a l i s a t i o n   a s   c a l c u l a t e d   a t   t h e  
a w a r d   d a t e .     A   p e r f o r m a n c e   h u r d l e   o f   t h e   R O I C   b e i n g   i n   e x c e s s   o f   t h e   W A C C   m u s t   a l s o   b e   a c h i e v e d   f o r   a n y   o f   t h e   a w a r d   t o   b e   r e l e a s e d .     T h e   n u m b e r   o f   s h a r e s   r e l e a s e d   i s   g r a d e d   a c c o r d i n g   t o   a )   E P S  
g r o w t h ,   w i t h   5 %   o f   t h e   a w a r d   b e i n g   r e l e a s e d   f o r   1 2 %   i n   e x c e s s   o f   i n f l a t i o n   a n d   5 0 %   o f   t h e   a w a r d   r e l e a s e d   f o r   3 9 %   i n   e x c e s s   o f   i n f l a t i o n   a n d   b )   r a n k i n g   o f   t h e   C o m p a n y   a g a i n s t   t h e   c o m p a r a t o r   g r o u p , 
w i t h   7 . 5 %   o f   t h e   a w a r d   b e i n g   r e l e a s e d   f o r   m e d i a n   a n d   5 0 %   o f   t h e   a w a r d   b e i n g   r e l e a s e d   f o r   u p p e r   q u a r t i l e .
4       T h i s   a w a r d   i s   b a s e d   o n   p e r f o r m a n c e   t o   3 0   S e p t e m b e r   2 0 1 2   w h e r e   t h e   p e r f o r m a n c e   m e a s u r e   r e l a t e s   t o   a )   E P S   g r o w t h   i n   e x c e s s   o f   t h e   r a t e   o f   i n f l a t i o n   a n d   b )   t h e   C o m p a n y ’ s   T S R   r a n k i n g   a g a i n s t   t h e 
c o n s t i t u e n t   c o m p a n i e s   o f   t h e   F T S E   1 0 0   i n d e x   r a n k e d   3 0   t o   1 0 0   b y   m a r k e t   c a p i t a l i s a t i o n   a s   c a l c u l a t e d   a t   t h e   a w a r d   d a t e .     A   p e r f o r m a n c e   h u r d l e   o f   t h e   R O I C   b e i n g   i n   e x c e s s   o f   t h e   W A C C   m u s t   a l s o   b e 
a c h i e v e d   f o r   a n y   o f   t h e   a w a r d   t o   b e   r e l e a s e d .     T h e   n u m b e r   o f   s h a r e s   r e l e a s e d   i s   g r a d e d   a c c o r d i n g   t o   a )   E P S   g r o w t h ,   w i t h   5 %   o f   t h e   a w a r d   b e i n g   r e l e a s e d   f o r   1 2 %   i n   e x c e s s   o f   i n f l a t i o n   a n d   5 0 %   o f   t h e   
a w a r d   r e l e a s e d   f o r   3 9 %   i n   e x c e s s   o f   i n f l a t i o n   a n d   b )   r a n k i n g   o f   t h e   C o m p a n y   a g a i n s t   t h e   c o m p a r a t o r   g r o u p ,   w i t h   7 . 5 %   o f   t h e   a w a r d   b e i n g   r e l e a s e d   f o r   m e d i a n   a n d   5 0 %   o f   t h e   a w a r d   b e i n g   r e l e a s e d   
f o r   u p p e r   q u a r t i l e . Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
 
www.tuitravelplc.com
T U I  T r a v e l P L C  A n n u a l R e p o r t  &  A c c o u n t s  2 0 1 0  61
Value Creation Synergy Plan (VCSP)
T h e   V a l u e   C r e a t i o n   S y n e r g y   P l a n   ( V C S P ) ,   w a s   a   o n e - o f f   t h r e e - y e a r   p l a n   a n d   E x e c u t i v e   D i r e c t o r s   r e c e i v e d   a n   a w a r d   w h i c h   w a s   t o   b e   s a t i s f i e d   b y   a 
c o m b i n a t i o n   o f   c a s h   a n d   s h a r e s   p r o v i d e d   t h a t   s t r e t c h i n g   p e r f o r m a n c e   t a r g e t s   w e r e   s a t i s f i e d .     T h e   p e r f o r m a n c e   t a r g e t s ,   s e t   b y   t h e   C o m m i t t e e ,   w e r e  
b a s e d   o n   t h e   a c h i e v e m e n t   o f   t h e   s y n e r g i s t i c   o b j e c t i v e s   o f   t h e   m e r g e r   o f   F i r s t   C h o i c e   H o l i d a y s   P L C   ( n o w   F i r s t   C h o i c e   H o l i d a y s   L i m i t e d )   a n d   t h e 
T o u r i s m   D i v i s i o n   o f   T U I   A G .
T h e   a w a r d s ,   b e i n g   a   c o m b i n a t i o n   o f   c a s h   a n d   s h a r e s ,   r e l a t e d   t o   p e r f o r m a n c e   o v e r   t h r e e   y e a r s ,   a s   s h o w n   b e l o w :
T r a n c h e   1   ( 2 0 0 7 / 2 0 0 8 ) :     5 0 %   c a s h   a n d   5 0 %   s h a r e s ; 
T r a n c h e   2   ( 2 0 0 8 / 2 0 0 9 ) :     5 0 %   c a s h   a n d   5 0 %   s h a r e s ;   a n d 
T r a n c h e   3   ( 2 0 0 9 / 2 0 1 0 ) :     1 0 0 %   c a s h .
C a s h   e n t i t l e m e n t s   w e r e   p a i d   i m m e d i a t e l y   f o l l o w i n g   c o n f i r m a t i o n   o f   a n n u a l   p e r f o r m a n c e   a c h i e v e m e n t ,   s h a r e s   w e r e   d e f e r r e d   u n t i l   t h e   e n d   o f   t h e  
t h r e e - y e a r   p e r i o d .     T h e   r e l e a s e   o f   t h e   d e f e r r e d   s h a r e s   e l e m e n t s   w a s   s u b j e c t   t o   a n   a d d i t i o n a l   o v e r a l l   t h r e e - y e a r   p e r f o r m a n c e   t a r g e t .
T h e   o v e r a l l   t h r e e - y e a r   p e r f o r m a n c e   t a r g e t   w a s   s e t   a t   £ 1 0 0 m   o f   s y n e r g i s t i c   v a l u e   ( b e l o w   w h i c h   n o   v e s t i n g   w o u l d   o c c u r )   w i t h   a   v e s t i n g   s c a l e   u p   
t o   a   ‘ s t r e t c h ’   l e v e l   o f   £ 1 5 0 m .     I n   a d d i t i o n ,   t h e   C o m m i t t e e   s e t   a n n u a l   p r o f i t   m a r g i n   t a r g e t s   b e l o w   w h i c h   n o   p a y m e n t   o r   v e s t i n g   w o u l d   o c c u r .
A t   t a r g e t   a n d   s t r e t c h   a n n u a l   p e r f o r m a n c e ,   t h e   p r o p o r t i o n   v e s t i n g   u n d e r   e a c h   a n n u a l   t r a n c h e   w a s   5 0 %   a n d   1 0 0 %   r e s p e c t i v e l y .     I n   t h e   e v e n t   o f   t h e 
o v e r a l l   t h r e e - y e a r   p e r f o r m a n c e   t a r g e t   n o t   b e i n g   a c h i e v e d ,   a n y   n e t   a m o u n t s   p r e v i o u s l y   p a i d   i n   r e l a t i o n   t o   t h e   c a s h   e l e m e n t s   o f   T r a n c h e s   1   a n d   2 
m u s t   b e   r e p a i d   t o   t h e   C o m p a n y .
T h e   o v e r a l l   s y n e r g y   v a l u e   a c h i e v e m e n t   o v e r   t h e   t h r e e - y e a r   p e r i o d   i s   £ 1 9 5 m   a s   d e s c r i b e d   i n   d e t a i l   o n   p a g e   4 1   o f   t h i s   r e p o r t .
Value Creation Synergy Plan (VCSP)
A w a r d s   m a d e   u n d e r   t h e   V C S P ,   a n d   w h i c h   r e m a i n   o u t s t a n d i n g   a t   3 0   S e p t e m b e r   2 0 1 0 ,   a r e   g i v e n   i n   t h e   t a b l e   b e l o w .
                              M a x i m u m
        V C SP   s h a r e s         V C SP   s h a r e s         V C SP   s h a r e s           v a l u e
        a w a r d e d         v e s t e d         r e l e a s e d         M a x i m u m     b a s e d   o n
    V C SP   s h a r e s     d u r i n g   t h e       M a r k e t   p r i c e   d u r i n g   t h e   M a r k e t   p r i c e     P l a n n e d /   d u r i n g   t h e   M a r k e t   p r i c e       V C SP   s h a r e s     s h a r e   p r i c e
    h e l d   a t     y e a r   e n d e d       p e r   s h a r e   y e a r   e n d e d   p e r   s h a r e   V a l u e   a t   A c t u a l   y e a r   e n d e d   p e r   s h a r e   M a r k e t   v a l u e       h e l d   a t     o f   2 1 4 . 4 p   a t
D i r e c to r s     1 / 1 0 / 2 0 0 9     3 0 / 0 9 / 2 0 1 0     A w a r d   d a t e   a t   a w a r d   3 0 / 0 9 / 2 0 1 0   a t   v e s t i n g   v e s t i n g   £     v e s t i n g   d a t e   3 0 / 0 9 / 2 0 1 0   a t   r e l e a s e   a t   r e l e a s e   R e l e a s e   d a t e   3 0 / 0 9 / 2 0 1 0     3 0 / 0 9 / 2 0 1 0
D r   V ol k e r  
B ö t t c he r     7 8 , 6 0 6
1
      2 8 . 1 1 . 0 8     2 0 5 . 2 5 p         0 2 . 1 2 . 1 0           7 8 , 6 0 6     1 6 8 , 5 3 1  
      7 2 , 1 6 1
2
  0 2 . 1 2 . 0 9   2 4 3 . 3 0 p         0 2 . 1 2 . 1 0           7 2 , 1 6 1     1 5 4 , 7 1 3
T o t a l     7 8 , 6 0 6     7 2 , 1 6 1                         1 5 0 , 7 6 7     3 2 3 , 2 4 4
P a u l   B o w t e l l   1 2 3 , 2 6 4
1
      2 8 . 1 1 . 0 8     2 0 5 . 2 5 p   1 2 3 , 2 6 4   2 4 3 . 3 0 p   2 9 9 , 9 0 1   0 2 . 1 2 . 0 9   5 0 , 5 3 9   2 4 3 . 3 0 p   1 2 2 , 9 6 1     7 2 , 7 2 5
3
  1 5 5 , 9 2 2
      1 0 3 , 9 8 6     0 2 . 1 2 . 0 9   2 4 3 . 3 0 p   1 0 3 , 9 8 6   2 4 3 . 3 0 p   2 5 2 , 9 9 8   0 2 . 1 2 . 0 9   4 2 , 6 3 5   2 4 3 . 3 0 p   1 0 3 , 7 3 1     6 1 , 3 5 1
3
  1 3 1 , 5 3 7
T o t a l     1 2 3 , 2 6 4     1 0 3 , 9 8 6                 9 3 , 1 7 4     2 2 6 , 6 9 2     1 3 4 , 0 7 6     2 8 7 , 4 5 9
P e t e r   L on g     2 9 2 , 3 2 6
1
      2 8 . 1 1 . 0 8     2 0 5 . 2 5 p   2 9 2 , 3 2 6   2 4 3 . 3 0 p   7 1 1 , 2 2 9   0 2 . 1 2 . 0 9   1 1 9 , 8 5 4   2 4 3 . 3 0 p   2 91 , 6 0 5     1 7 2 , 4 7 2
3
  3 6 9 , 7 8 0
      2 4 6 , 6 0 9     0 2 . 1 2 . 0 9   2 4 3 . 3 0 p   2 4 6 , 6 0 9   2 4 3 . 3 0 p   6 0 0 , 0 0 0   0 2 . 1 2 . 0 9   1 0 1 , 1 1 0   2 4 3 . 3 0 p   2 4 6 , 0 0 1     1 4 5 , 4 9 9
3
  3 1 1 , 9 5 0
T o t a l     2 9 2 , 3 2 6     2 4 6 , 6 0 9                 2 2 0 , 9 6 4     5 3 7 , 6 0 6     3 1 7 , 9 7 1     6 8 1 , 7 3 0
J o h a n   L u n d g r e n   1 4 8 , 9 9 0
1
      2 8 . 1 1 . 0 8     2 0 5 . 2 5 p   1 4 8 , 9 9 0   2 4 3 . 3 0 p   3 6 2 , 4 9 3   0 2 . 1 2 . 0 9   6 1 , 0 8 6   2 4 3 . 3 0 p   1 4 8 , 6 2 2     8 7 , 9 0 4
3
  1 8 8 , 4 6 6  
      1 2 7 , 0 3 0     0 2 . 1 2 . 0 9   2 4 3 . 3 0 p   1 2 7 , 0 3 0   2 4 3 . 3 0 p   3 0 9 , 0 6 4   0 2 . 1 2 . 0 9   5 2 , 0 8 3   2 4 3 . 3 0 p   1 2 6 , 7 1 8     7 4 , 9 4 7
3
  1 6 0 , 6 8 6
T o t a l     1 4 8 , 9 9 0     1 2 7 , 0 3 0                 1 1 3 , 1 6 9     2 7 5 , 3 4 0     1 6 2 , 8 5 1     3 4 9 , 1 5 2
W i l l i a m   W a g g o t t   1 0 7 , 1 8 6
1
      2 8 . 1 1 . 0 8     2 0 5 . 2 5 p   1 0 7 , 1 8 6   2 4 3 . 3 0 p   2 6 0 , 7 8 4   0 2 . 1 2 . 0 9   4 3 , 9 4 7   2 4 3 . 3 0 p   1 0 6 , 9 2 3     6 3 , 2 3 9
3
  1 3 5 , 5 8 4  
      9 0 , 4 2 3
2
  0 2 . 1 2 . 0 9   2 4 3 . 3 0 p   9 0 , 4 2 3   2 4 3 . 3 0 p   2 1 9 , 9 9 9   0 2 . 1 2 . 0 9   3 7 , 0 7 4   2 4 3 . 3 0 p   9 0 , 2 0 1     5 3 , 3 4 9
3
  1 1 4 , 3 8 0
T o t a l     1 0 7 , 1 8 6     9 0 , 4 2 3                 8 1 , 0 2 1     1 9 7 , 1 2 4     1 1 6 , 5 8 8     2 4 9 , 9 6 4
Grand Total 750,372  640,209        508,328  1,236,762  882,253  1,891,549
1       T h i s   a w a r d   i s   t h e   d e f e r r e d   e l e m e n t   o f   T r a n c h e   1   o f   t h e   V C S P   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   Y e a r   2 0 0 7 / 0 8 .     A   p r o f i t   m a r g i n   p e r f o r m a n c e   h u r d l e   m u s t   a l s o   b e   a c h i e v e d   f o r   a n y   o f   t h e   a w a r d   t o   v e s t .     T h e   v e s t i n g   o f   s h a r e s    
i s   g r a d e d   a c c o r d i n g   t o   s y n e r g i s t i c   v a l u e   a c h i e v e d   w i t h   n o n e   o f   t h e   a w a r d   v e s t i n g   f o r   s y n e r g i s t i c   v a l u e   b e l o w   £ 1 0 0 m   a n d   a l l   o f   t h e   a w a r d   v e s t i n g   f o r   £ 1 5 0 m   s y n e r g i s t i c   v a l u e   o r   m o r e .     T h e   p r o f i t   m a r g i n  
h u r d l e   w a s   e x c e e d e d   a n d   t h e   s y n e r g y   p e r f o r m a n c e   w a s   £ 1 9 5 m   t h e r e f o r e   a l l   o f   t h e   s h a r e s   v e s t e d .     F u r t h e r   d e t a i l s   r e g a r d i n g   t h e   s y n e r g y   p e r f o r m a n c e   a c h i e v e d   a r e   s e t   o u t   o n   p a g e   4 1 .
2       T h i s   a w a r d   i s   t h e   d e f e r r e d   e l e m e n t   o f   T r a n c h e   2   o f   t h e   V C S P   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   Y e a r   2 0 0 8 / 0 9 .     A   p r o f i t   m a r g i n   p e r f o r m a n c e   h u r d l e   m u s t   a l s o   b e   a c h i e v e d   f o r   a n y   o f   t h e   a w a r d   t o   v e s t .     T h e   v e s t i n g   o f   s h a r e s    
i s   g r a d e d   a c c o r d i n g   t o   s y n e r g i s t i c   v a l u e   a c h i e v e d   w i t h   n o n e   o f   t h e   a w a r d   v e s t i n g   f o r   s y n e r g i s t i c   v a l u e   b e l o w   £ 1 0 0 m   a n d   a l l   o f   t h e   a w a r d   v e s t i n g   f o r   £ 1 5 0 m   s y n e r g i s t i c   v a l u e   o r   m o r e .     T h e   p r o f i t   m a r g i n 
h u r d l e   w a s   e x c e e d e d   a n d   t h e   s y n e r g y   p e r f o r m a n c e   w a s   £ 1 9 5 m   t h e r e f o r e   a l l   o f   t h e   s h a r e s   v e s t e d .     F u r t h e r   d e t a i l s   r e g a r d i n g   t h e   s y n e r g y   p e r f o r m a n c e   a c h i e v e d   a r e   s e t   o u t   o n   p a g e   4 1 .
3       D u r i n g   t h e   y e a r   t h e   D i r e c t o r   a n d   t h e   C o m p a n y   a g r e e d   t o   e n t e r   i n t o   a   j o i n t   e l e c t i o n   p u r s u a n t   t o   s e c t i o n   4 3 1 ( 1 )   o f   t h e   I n c o m e   T a x   ( E a r n i n g s   a n d   P e n s i o n s )   A c t   2 0 0 3   i n   r e s p e c t   o f   t h i s   a w a r d .     C o n s e q u e n t l y ,  
t h e   R e m u n e r a t i o n   C o m m i t t e e   a g r e e d   t o   v e s t   t h e s e   a w a r d s   e a r l y   a n d   r e l e a s e   s u f f i c i e n t   s h a r e s   t o   s a t i s f y   t h e   t a x   l i a b i l i t y   a r i s i n g   f r o m   t h e   j o i n t   e l e c t i o n .     T h e   r e m a i n i n g   s h a r e s ,   w h i c h   a r e   v e s t e d ,   a r e   h e l d   a s 
r e s t r i c t e d   s h a r e s   a n d   w i l l   n o t   b e   r e l e a s e d   b e f o r e   t h e   t h i r d   a n n i v e r s a r y   o f   t h e   o r i g i n a l   a w a r d   d a t e .     T h e s e   r e s t r i c t e d   s h a r e s   a r e   s u b j e c t   t o   c l a w - b a c k   c o n d i t i o n s   i n   a c c o r d a n c e   w i t h   t h e   s c h e m e   r u l e s . www.tuitravelplc.com
62  T U I T r a v e l  P L C  A n n u a l R e p o r t & A c c o u n t s  2 0 1 0
Directors’ interests in ordinary shares of the Company
A s   a t   3 0   S e p t e m b e r   2 0 1 0 ,   t h e   D i r e c t o r s ’   i n t e r e s t s   i n   o r d i n a r y   s h a r e s   o f   t h e   C o m p a n y   w e r e :
          Ordinary  shares  of 10p each  
Director’s  name  Title         as  at  30  September  2010
Horst Baier  Non-Executive  Director           –
Dr  Volker Böttcher   Managing  Director, Central Europe           75,814
Paul  Bowtell*  Chief Financial  Officer          880,504
Tony  Campbell  Non-Executive  Director          44,863
Clare  Chapman  Non-Executive Director           10,000
Bill  Dalton  Non-Executive Director          10,000
Rainer  Feuerhake   Non-Executive  Director          –
Dr  Michael  Frenzel   Non-Executive Chairman           –
Jeremy  Hicks  Non-Executive  Director           –
Sir  Michael  Hodgkinson  Non-Executive  Deputy  Chairman and Se nior  Independent Director        20,000
Peter  Long*  Chief  Executive          3,154,859
Johan  Lundgren  Managing Director,  Northern  Region           430,000
Dr  Erhard   Schipporeit  Non-Executive  Director          –
Dr   Albert Schunk  Non-Executive Director           –
Harold  Sher  Non-Executive  Director           –
Giles  Thorley   Non-Executive  Director           25,000
William  Waggott*  Commercial  Director           389,237
* I n c l u d e s   s h a r e s   p u r c h a s e d   u n d e r   t h e   S h a r e   I n c e n t i v e   P l a n .
T h e   C o m p a n y ’ s   R e g i s t e r   o f   D i r e c t o r s ’   I n t e r e s t s ,   w h i c h   i s   o p e n   t o   i n s p e c t i o n   a t   t h e   R e g i s t e r e d   O f f i c e ,   c o n t a i n s   f u l l   d e t a i l s   o f   D i r e c t o r s ’    
s h a r e h o l d i n g s   a n d   w i l l   b e   a v a i l a b l e   f o r   i n s p e c t i o n   b e f o r e   a n d   d u r i n g   t h e   A n n u a l   G e n e r a l   M e e t i n g   t o   b e   h e l d   o n   T h u r s d a y   3   F e b r u a r y   2 0 1 1 .
D u r i n g   t h e   y e a r ,   t h e   p r i c e   o f   t h e   C o m p a n y ’ s   o r d i n a r y   s h a r e s   r a n g e d   b e t w e e n   1 9 0 . 0 p   a n d   3 0 8 . 4 p   a n d   t h e   m i d - c l o s i n g   p r i c e   o n   3 0   S e p t e m b e r   2 0 1 0  
w a s   2 1 4 . 4 p .
O n   1   O c t o b e r   2 0 1 0 ,   T o n y   C a m p b e l l   w a s   a l l o c a t e d   6 5 1   a d d i t i o n a l   s h a r e s   i n   r e s p e c t   o f   t h e   D i v i d e n d   R e i n v e s t m e n t   P l a n .
T h e   R e m u n e r a t i o n   r e p o r t   w a s   a p p r o v e d   b y   a   d u l y   a u t h o r i s e d   C o m m i t t e e   o f   t h e   B o a r d   o f   D i r e c t o r s   o n   1   D e c e m b e r   2 0 1 0   a n d   s i g n e d   o n   i t s    
b e h a l f   b y :
Clare Chapman
C h a i r m a n   o f   t h e   R e m u n e r a t i o n   C o m m i t t e e
1   D e c e m b e r   2 0 1 0
Go v ernanc e
Remuneration report c o n t i n u e d Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
www.tuitravelplc.com
T U I  T r a v e l P L C  A n n u a l R e p o r t  &  A c c o u n t s  2 0 1 0  63
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the 
Companies Act 2006
In   o ur   o pini o n :
•   t h e   p ar t   o f   t h e   D ir e c t o r s ’   R e mun e r at i o n   R e p o r t   t o   b e   a u d i t e d   h a s  
b e e n   p r o p e r l y   p r e p a r e d   in   ac c o r d a n c e   w i t h   t h e   C o m p a ni e s   A c t 
2 0 0 6;   a n d
•     t h e   in f o r m a t i o n   g i v e n   in   t h e   D ir e c t o r s ’   R e p o r t   f o r   t h e   f in an c i al  
y ea r   f o r   w hi c h   t h e   f in an c i al   s t at e m e n t s   a r e   p r e p a r e d   i s   c o n s i s t e n t  
w i t h   t h e   f in an c i al   s t at e m e n t s .
Matters on which we are required to report  
by exception
W e   h a v e   n o t hin g   t o   r e p o r t   in   r e s p e c t   o f   t h e   f o ll o w in g :
Un d e r   t h e   C o m p ani e s   A c t   2 0 0 6   w e   a r e   r e q uir e d   t o   r e p o r t   t o   y o u   i f ,   
in   o ur   o pini o n :
•     ad e q u a t e   ac c o un t in g   r e c o r d s   h a v e   n o t   b e e n   k e pt   b y   t h e   p ar e n t 
c o m p an y ,   o r   r e t ur n s   ad e q u a t e   f o r   o ur   a u d i t   h a v e   n o t   b e e n 
r e c e i v e d   f r o m   b r an c h e s   n o t   v i s i t e d   b y   u s ;   o r
•   t h e   p ar e n t   c o m p an y   f in an c i al   s t at e m e n t s   a n d   t h e   p ar t   o f   t h e 
D ir e c t o r s ’   R e mun e r at i o n   R e p o r t   t o   b e   a u d i t e d   a r e   n o t   in  
a g r e e m e n t   w i t h   t h e   ac c o un t in g   r e c o r d s   a n d   r e t ur n s ;   o r
•     c e r t a in   d i s c l o s ur e s   o f   D ir e c t o r s ’   r e mun e r a t i o n   s p e c i f i e d   b y   l a w   a r e  
n o t   m ad e ;   o r
•     w e   h a v e   n o t   r e c e i v e d   all   t h e   in f o r m a t i o n   a n d   e x p l an at i o n s   w e  
r e q uir e   f o r   o ur   a u d i t .
Un d e r   t h e   L i s t in g   R ul e s   w e   a r e   r e q uir e d   t o   r e v i e w :
•     t h e   D ir e c t o r s ’   s t at e m e n t ,   s e t   o u t   o n   p a g e   4 6 ,   in   r e l a t i o n   t o   g oin g  
c o n c e r n ;   a n d
•     t h e   p ar t   o f   t h e   C o r p o r a t e   G o v e r n a n c e   S t a t e m e n t   r e l a t in g   t o   t h e 
C o m p a n y ’ s   c o m p li a n c e   w i t h   t h e   nin e   p r o v i s i o n s   o f   t h e   J un e   2 0 0 8 
C o m bin e d   C o d e   s p e c i f i e d   f o r   o ur   r e v i e w .
Oliver Tant 
( S e ni o r   S t a t u t o r y   A u d i t o r )   f o r   a n d   o n   b e h al f   o f  
K P M G   A u d i t   Pl c ,   S t at u t o r y   A u d i t o r 
Chartered Accountants 
1 5   C an ad a   S q u ar e 
L o n d o n 
E 1 4   5 GL 
1   D e c e m b e r   2 0 1 0
W e   h a v e   a u d i t e d   t h e   fi n a n c i a l   s t at e m e n t s   o f   T U I   T r a v e l   P L C   f o r   t h e 
y ea r   e n d e d   3 0   S e pt e m b e r   2 0 1 0   s e t   o u t   o n   p a g e s   6 4   t o   1 4 1 .     W e   h a v e  
n o t   a u d i t e d   t h e   p r o   f o r m a   in f o r m a t i o n   o n   p a g e   6 4 .   T h e   fi n a n c i a l  
r e p o r t in g   f r a m e w o r k   t h at   h a s   b e e n   a p p li e d   in   t h e   p r e p ar at i o n   o f   
t h e   G r o up   fi n a n c i a l   s t at e m e n t s   i s   a p p li c a b l e   l a w   a n d   In t e r n a t i o n al 
F in an c i al   R e p o r t in g   S t an d ar d s   ( IF R S s )   a s   ad o pt e d   b y   t h e   E U .      
T h e   fi n a n c i a l   r e p o r t in g   f r a m e w o r k   t h at   h a s   b e e n   a p p li e d   in   t h e 
p r e p a r at i o n   o f   t h e   p ar e n t   c o m p an y   fi n a n c i a l   s t at e m e n t s   i s   a p p li c a b l e 
l a w   a n d   U K   A c c o un t in g   S t an d ar d s   ( U K   G e n e r all y   A c c e pt e d    
A c c o un t in g   P r ac t i c e ) .
T hi s   r e p o r t   i s   m ad e   s o l e l y   t o   t h e   C o m p a n y ’ s   m e m b e r s ,   a s   a   b o d y ,    
in   ac c o r d a n c e   w i t h   C h apt e r   3   o f   P a r t   1 6   o f   t h e   C o m p ani e s   A c t   2 0 0 6 .    
O ur   a u d i t   w o r k   h a s   b e e n   un d e r t a k e n   s o   t h at   w e   mi g h t   s t at e   t o   t h e 
C o m p a n y ’ s   m e m b e r s   t h o s e   m a t t e r s   w e   ar e   r e q uir e d   t o   s t at e   t o   t h e m 
in   a n   a u d i t o r s ’   r e p o r t   a n d   f o r   n o   o t h e r   p ur p o s e .     T o   t h e   f ull e s t   e x t e n t  
p e r mi t t e d   b y   l a w ,   w e   d o   n o t   ac c e pt   o r   a s s um e   r e s p o n s ibili t y   t o 
an y o n e   o t h e r   t h a n   t h e   C o m p a n y   a n d   t h e   C o m p an y ’ s   m e m b e r s ,    
a s   a   b o d y ,   f o r   o ur   a u d i t   w o r k ,   f o r   t hi s   r e p o r t ,   o r   f o r   t h e   o pini o n s    
w e   h a v e   f o r m e d .
Respective responsibilities of Directors and 
Auditors
A s   e x p l a in e d   m o r e   f ull y   in   t h e   D ir e c t o r s ’   R e s p o n s ibili t i e s   S t at e m e n t 
s e t   o u t   o n   p a g e   4 7 ,   t h e   D ir e c t o r s   a r e   r e s p o n s ib l e   f o r   t h e   p r e p ar at i o n  
o f   t h e   fi n a n c i a l   s t at e m e n t s   a n d   f o r   b e in g   s at i s fi e d   t h at   t h e y   g i v e   a  
t r u e   a n d   f a ir   v i e w .     O ur   r e s p o n s ibili t y   i s   t o   a u d i t   t h e   fi n a n c i a l 
s t at e m e n t s   in   ac c o r d a n c e   w i t h   a p p li c a b l e   l a w   a n d   Int e r n a t i o n a l 
S t an d ar d s   o n   A u d i t in g   ( U K   a n d   Ir e l a n d ) .     T h o s e   s t a n d ar d s   r e q uir e   
u s   t o   c o m p l y   w i t h   t h e   A u d i t in g   P r ac t i c e s   B o ar d ’ s   ( A P B ’ s )   E t hi c al 
S t an d ar d s   f o r   A u d i t o r s .
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
A   d e s c r ipt i o n   o f   t h e   s c o p e   o f   a n   a u d i t   o f   fi n a n c i a l   s t at e m e n t s   i s 
p r o v i d e d   o n   t h e   A P B ’ s   w e b s i t e   at   w w w . f rc . o r g . uk / ap b / s c o p e / U K P . 
Opinion on financial statements
In   o ur   o pini o n :
•   t h e   f in an c i al   s t at e m e n t s   g i v e   a   t r u e   a n d   f a ir   v i e w   o f   t h e   s t at e    
o f   t h e   G r o up ’ s   a n d   o f   t h e   p ar e n t   c o m p an y ’ s   a f f a ir s   a s   at  
3 0   S e pt e m b e r   2 0 1 0   a n d   o f   t h e   G r o up ’ s   l o s s   f o r   t h e   y ea r   t h e n 
e n d e d ;
•     t h e   G r o up   f in an c i al   s t at e m e n t s   h a v e   b e e n   p r o p e r l y   p r e p a r e d    
in   ac c o r d a n c e   w i t h   IF R S s   a s   ad o pt e d   b y   t h e   E U ;
•     t h e   p ar e n t   c o m p an y   f in an c i al   s t at e m e n t s   h a v e   b e e n   p r o p e r l y 
p r e p a r e d   in   ac c o r d a n c e   w i t h   U K   G e n e r all y   A c c e pt e d   A c c o un t in g  
P r ac t i c e ;
•   t h e   f in an c i al   s t at e m e n t s   h a v e   b e e n   p r e p a r e d   in   ac c o r d a n c e   w i t h 
t h e   r e q uir e m e n t s   o f   t h e   C o m p a ni e s   A c t   2 0 0 6;   a n d ,   a s   r e g a r d s   t h e 
G r o up   f in an c i al   s t at e m e n t s ,   A r t i c l e   4   o f   t h e   I A S   R e g ul at i o n .
Independent Auditors’ report to the members of TUI Travel PLC www.tuitravelplc.com
64  T U I T r a v e l  P L C  A n n u a l R e p o r t & A c c o u n t s  2 0 1 0
Financial statements
Consolidated income statement
f o r  t h e y e a r  e n d e d  3 0 S e p t e m b e r 2 0 1 0
    	 Y e a r 	 e n d e d 	 Y e a r 	 e n d e d 	
    	 3 0 	 S e p t e m b e r 	 3 0 	 S e p t e m b e r 	
    	 2 0 1 0 	 2 0 1 0     R e s t a t e d  
    	 U n a u d i t e d 	 U n a u d i t e d 	 Y e a r 	 e n d e d   Y e a r e n d e d  
    	 p r o 	 f o r m a 	 p r o 	 f o r m a 	 3 0 	 S e p t e m b e r 	 3 0  S e p t e m b e r  
    	 b e f o r e 	 i m p a c t 	 i m p a c t 	 o f 	 2 0 1 0   2 0 0 9
( A )
 
    	 o f 	 v o l c a n i c 	 a s h 	 v o l c a n i c 	 a s h
( A )
	 S t a t u t o r y   S t a t u t o r y
    No t e  £ m   £ m   £ m   £m
Continuing operations
	
R e v e n u e    2 	 13,525	 (125)	 13,400	 13,851 
C o s t  o f  s a l e s     	 (12,238)	 21	 (12,217)   (12,735)
G r o s s 	p r o fi t / ( l o s s )     	 1,287	 (104)	 1,183	 1,116 
A d m i n i s t r a t i v e  e x p e n s e s    	 (1,099)	 –	 (1,099)   (1,130)
S h a r e o f   ( l o s s e s ) / p r o fi t s  o f j o i n t v e n t u r e s  
a n d  a s s o c i a t e s    12 	 (3)	 –  (3)  9 
O p e r a t i n g 	p r o fi t / ( l o s s )     6 	 185	 (104)	 81	 (5)
Analysed as:
U n d e r l y i n g  o p e r a t i n g  p r o fi t / ( l o s s )     1, 2 	 447	 (35)	 412	 401 
S e p a r a t e l y d i s c l o s e d  i t e m s    3 	 (181)	 (69)	 (250)   (340)
A c q u i s i t i o n  r e l a t e d  e x p e n s e s     13(A) 	 (63)	 –	 (63)   (56)
I m p a i r m e n t o f  g o o d w i l l     10 	 (12)	 –	 (12)   (7)
T a x a t i o n  o n  p r o fi t s  a n d i n t e r e s t o f  j o i n t   
v e n t u r e s  a n d  a s s o c i a t e s     12 	 (6)	 –	 (6)   (3)
  	 	 185	 (104)	 81	 (5)
F i n a n c i a l  i n c o m e     4    	 69	 72 
F i n a n c i a l  e x p e n s e s     4    	 (186)  (161)
N e t 	fi n a n c i a l 	e x p e n s e s         	 (117)   (89)
L o s s	b e f o r e 	t a x         	 (36)   (94)
T a x a t i o n  ( c h a r g e ) / c r e d i t    7    	 (50)  42 
L o s s	f o r 	t h e 	y e a r 	f r o m 	c o n t i n u i n g 	o p e r a t i o n s         	 (86)  (52)
Discontinued operation
L o s s  f r o m  d i s c o n t i n u e d  o p e r a t i o n     8    	 (18)  (14)
L o s s	f o r 	t h e 	y e a r         	 (104)   (66)
Attributable to:
E q u i t y  h o l d e r s  o f t h e  p a r e n t         	 (104)  (67)
N o n - c o n t r o l l i n g i n t e r e s t s        	 –	 1 
L o s s 	f o r 	t h e 	y e a r         	 (104)   (66)
         	 P e n c e   P enc e  
B a s i c	a n d	d i l u t e d 	l o s s 	p e r	s h a r e 	( p e n c e )	f o r		
l o s s	a t t r i b u t a b l e 	t o	t h e	e q u i t y	h o l d e r s	 o f 	t h e 		
C o m p a n y	d u r i n g 	t h e 	y e a r
–  b a s i c a n d d i l u t e d :    
f r o m  c o n t i n u i n g  o p e r a t i o n s    33    	 (7.8)   (4.8)
–  b a s i c  a n d  d i l u t e d :   
f r o m  d i s c o n t i n u e d  o p e r a t i o n     33    	 (1.6)   (1.3)
( A )   R e f e r   t o   ‘ B a s i s   o f   P r e p a r a t i o n ’   w i t h i n   N o t e   1   o f   t h e   fi n a n c i a l   s t a t e m e n t s   f o r   d e t a i l s .
Non-GAAP measures
R e c o n c i l i a t i o n 	o f 	u n d e r l y i n g 	o p e r a t i n g 	p r o fi t 	t o	u n d e r l y i n g 	p r o fi t 	b e f o r e 	t a x
            R e s t a t e d
        	 Y e a r 	 e n d e d   Y e a r e n d e d
        	 3 0 	 S e p t e m b e r   3 0  S e p t e m b e r
        	 2 0 1 0   2 0 0 9  
          £ m   £m
U n d e r l y i n g 	o p e r a t i n g 	p r o fi t     1, 2    	 447 	 401 
N e t  u n d e r l y i n g fi n a n c i a l  e x p e n s e s     4    	 (110)  (77)
U n d e r l y i n g 	p r o fi t 	b e f o r e 	t a x         	 337	 324   www.tuitravelplc.com
Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
T U I  T r a v e l P L C  A n n u a l R e p o r t  &  A c c o u n t s  2 0 1 0  65
            R e s t a t e d
          Y e a r 	 e n d e d   Y e a r  e n d e d
          3 0 	 S e p t e m b e r   3 0  S e p t e m b e r
          2 0 1 0   2 0 0 9
        No t e  £ m   £m
L o s s	f o r	t h e 	y e a r        	 (104)  (66)
O t h e r 	c o m p r e h e n s i v e 	( e x p e n s e ) / i n c o m e
F o r e i g n e x c h a n g e  t r a n s l a t i o n        	 (88)  129  
A c t u a r i a l  l o s s e s  a r i s i n g  i n r e s p e c t  o f d e fi n e d  b e n e fi t  p e n s i o n s c h e m e s         5(C)   (42)   (271)
C a s h  fl o w  h e d g e s :
–  m o v e m e n t  i n f a i r  v a l u e        25(J) 	 33 	  (60)
– a m o u n t s  r e c y c l e d  t o  t h e  c o n s o l i d a t e d  i n c o m e s t a t e m e n t         25(J) 	 41    (81)
F o r e i g n  e x c h a n g e  g a i n s r e c y c l e d t h r o u g h  t h e  c o n s o l i d a t e d i n c o m e  s t a t e m e n t      	 (6)  – 
S h a r e o f o t h e r  m o v e m e n t s  i n r e s e r v e s  o f a s s o c i a t e s  a n d  j o i n t v e n t u r e s        	 2 	  –
C h a n g e s  i n t h e  f a i r  v a l u e  o f a v a i l a b l e  f o r  s a l e  fi n a n c i a l  a s s e t s          12 	 (4)  (1)
D e f e r r e d  t a x  o n  i t e m s  t a ke n d i r e c t l y  t o  e q u i t y         7(iii) 	 (9)  105 
O t h e r 	c o m p r e h e n s i v e 	e x p e n s e 	f o r 	t h e 	y e a r	n e t 	o f 	t a x         	 (73)  (179)
T o t a l 	c o m p r e h e n s i v e 	e x p e n s e 	f o r 	t h e 	y e a r         	 (177)   (245)
T o t a l 	c o m p r e h e n s i v e 	e x p e n s e 	f o r 	t h e 	y e a r
Attributable to:
E q u i t y  h o l d e r s  o f  t h e  p a r e n t         	 (177)   (247)
N o n - c o n t r o l l i n g i n t e r e s t s         	 –  2  
T o t a l         	 (177)   (245)
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
f o r t h e  y e a r  e n d e d  3 0  S e p t e m b e r  2 0 1 0 www.tuitravelplc.com
66  T U I T r a v e l  P L C  A n n u a l R e p o r t & A c c o u n t s  2 0 1 0
          R e s t a t e d    R e s t a t e d  
      	 3 0 	 S e p t e m b e r 	   3 0   S e p t e m b e r   1 O c t o b e r  
       	 2 0 1 0 	   2 0 0 9   2 0 0 8  
      No t e	 £ m   £m  £m  
N o n - c u r r e n t	a s s e t s
I n t a n g i b l e  a s s e t s       10  	 4,659	   4,737   4,429 
P r o p e r t y , p l a n t  a n d  e q u i p m e n t       11  	 1,012    964   926  
I n v e s t m e n t s  i n  j o i n t  v e n t u r e s  a n d a s s o c i a t e s      12  	 211    112   114  
O t h e r  i n v e s t m e n t s       12  	 79	  77   56  
T r a d e  a n d  o t h e r  r e c e i v a b l e s      16  	 156    194   210  
R e t i r e m e n t  b e n e fi t  a s s e t      5(C)  	 1   1    17 
D e r i v a t i v e  fi n a n c i a l  i n s t r u m e n t s      25(I)  	 21	  13   48  
D e f e r r e d  t a x  a s s e t s       14  	 114    211   205  
      	 6,253	   6,309   6,005  
C u r r e n t 	a s s e t s
I n v e n t o r i e s       15  	 49	  51   51  
O t h e r  i n v e s t m e n t s        17  	 – 	  36   29  
T r a d e  a n d  o t h e r  r e c e i v a b l e s      16  	 1,404    1,482   1,599  
I n c o m e  t a x  r e c o v e r a b l e       	 34 	  30    29  
D e r i v a t i v e  fi n a n c i a l  i n s t r u m e n t s       25(I)  	 144 	  271   273  
C a s h  a n d  c a s h e q u i v a l e n t s      17  	 1,304	   790   1,130 
A s s e t s  c l a s s i fi e d  a s  h e l d f o r  s a l e       18  	 57	  126   157  
      	 2,992 	   2,786    3,268  
T o t a l 	a s s e t s       	 9,245    9,095   9,273 
C u r r e n t	l i a b i l i t i e s        
I n t e r e s t - b e a r i n g  l o a n s  a n d  b o r r o w i n g s      19  	 (757)   (327)   (99)
R e t i r e m e n t  b e n e fi t s       5(C)  	 (5)  (3)  (2)
D e r i v a t i v e  fi n a n c i a l  i n s t r u m e n t s       25(I)  	 (122)  (284)  (178)
T r a d e  a n d  o t h e r  p a y a b l e s       20  	 (4,301)  (4,220)  (4,073)
P r o v i s i o n s       21  	 (236)  (189)  (235)
I n c o m e  t a x  p a y a b l e       	 (84)  (67)   (89)
L i a b i l i t i e s  c l a s s i fi e d  a s  h e l d f o r  s a l e       18  	 (31)  (59)   (22)
      	 (5,536)   (5,149)   (4,698)
N o n - c u r r e n t	l i a b i l i t i e s
I n t e r e s t - b e a r i n g  l o a n s  a n d  b o r r o w i n g s      19  	 (796)   (801)   (1,167)
R e t i r e m e n t  b e n e fi t s       5(C)  	 (489)  (498)  (268)
D e r i v a t i v e  fi n a n c i a l  i n s t r u m e n t s       25(I)  	 (23)  (18)   (50)
T r a d e  a n d  o t h e r  p a y a b l e s       22  	 (93)  (108)   (149)
P r o v i s i o n s       21  	 (307)   (250)   (180)
D e f e r r e d  t a x  l i a b i l i t i e s       14  	 (28)  (97)   (235)
      	 (1,736)   (1,772)  (2,049)
T o t a l 	l i a b i l i t i e s       	 (7,272)   (6,921)   (6,747)
N e t 	a s s e t s       	 1,973 	   2,174    2,526  
E q u i t y
S h a r e  c a p i t a l       23  	 112 	  112    112 
C o n v e r t i b l e  b o n d  r e s e r v e      24  	 83	  –    – 
O t h e r  r e s e r v e s       24  	 2,772    2,775   2,749 
R e t a i n e d  d e fi c i t       24  	 (995)    (716)   (340)
T o t a l 	e q u i t y 	a t t r i b u t a b l e 	t o	e q u i t y	h o l d e r s 	o f	t h e	p a r e n t       24  	 1,972	   2,171   2,521 
N o n - c o n t r o l l i n g 	i n t e r e s t s      24  	 1	  3    5 
T o t a l 	e q u i t y       24  	 1,973	   2,174   2,526 
T h e   fi n a n c i a l   s t at e m e n t s   w e r e   ap p r o v e d   b y   a   d ul y   a u t h o r i s e d   C o m mi t t e e   o f   t h e   B o ar d   o f   D ir e c t o r s   o n   1   D e c e m b e r   2 0 1 0   a n d   s i g n e d   o n   i t s    
b e h al f   b y :
P a u l 	B o w t e l l
C h i e f F i n a n c i a l  O f fi c e r  
Financial statements
Consolidated balance sheet
a t 3 0  S e p t e m b e r  2 0 1 0 www.tuitravelplc.com
Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
T U I  T r a v e l P L C  A n n u a l R e p o r t  &  A c c o u n t s  2 0 1 0  67
Consolidated statement of changes in equity
      C o n v e r t i b l e         	 E q u i t y   N o n - 
    S h a r e  b o n d   M e r g e r   T r a n s l a t i o n   H e d g i n g  R e t a i n e d	 h o l d e r s   c o n t r o l l i n g  
    c a p i t a l  r e s e r v e   r e s e r v e  r e s e r v e  r e s e r v e   d e fi c i t	 o f 	 p a r e n t   i n t e r e s t s	 T o t a l
    £m   £m  £m   £m   £m  £m 	 £ m 	   £m	 £ m	
A t  1 O c t o b e r  2 0 0 8  
( a s  p r e v i o u s l y r e p o r t e d )    112    –    2,490    232    27    (270) 	 2,591	   5  	 2,596  
R e s t a t e m e n t  ( N o t e 1 ( B ) ( i i ) )     –  –   –   –   –   (70) 	 (70)   –  	 (70)
R e s t a t e d   b a l a n c e  a t
1  O c t o b e r  2 0 0 8     112   –   2,490   232   27   (340) 	 2,521	   5  	 2,526 	
( L o s s ) / p r o fi t  f o r t h e y e a r  
( a s  p r e v i o u s l y r e p o r t e d )    –   –    –   –   –    (25)	 (25)  1  	 (24)
R e s t a t e m e n t  ( N o t e 1 ( B ) ( i i ) )     –   –   –   –    –   (42)	 (42)   – 	 (42)
R e s t a t e d  ( l o s s ) / p r o fi t  f o r  t h e  y e a r     –    –   –   –    –   (67)	 (67)  1  	 (66)
O t h e r 	c o m p r e h e n s i v e 		
i n c o m e / ( e x p e n s e ) 	f o r 	t h e 	y e a r
O t h e r  c o m p r e h e n s i v e  i n c o m e / ( e x p e n s e )    –    –   –   128    (102)  (206) 	 (180)     1 	 (179)
R e s t a t e d  t o t a l c o m p r e h e n s i v e   
i n c o m e / ( e x p e n s e )  f o r t h e y e a r     –   –   –   128   (102)   (273) 	 (247)  2  	 (245)
T r a n s a c t i o n s 	w i t h 	o w n e r s
S h a r e - b a s e d  p a y m e n t  
( n e t o f d e f e r r e d  t a x )    –    –    –    –    –    16  	 16	  –  	 16	
D i v i d e n d s     –   –   –   –   –   (107) 	 (107)   (3)	 (110)
A c q u i s i t i o n  o f n o n - c o n t r o l l i n g  i n t e r e s t s   –   –    –   –    –    (12)	 (12)   (1) 	 (13)
R e s t a t e d  b a l a n c e a t  
3 0  S e p t e m b e r  2 0 0 9       112   –    2,490    360    (75)   (716) 	 2,171	   3  	 2,174 	
      C o n v e r t i b l e         	 E q u i t y   N o n - 
    S h a r e  b o n d   M e r g e r   T r a n s l a t i o n   H e d g i n g  R e t a i n e d   h o l d e r s   c o n t r o l l i n g  
    c a p i t a l  r e s e r v e   r e s e r v e  r e s e r v e  r e s e r v e   d e fi c i t   o f 	 p a r e n t   i n t e r e s t s	 T o t a l
    £m    £m   £m   £m   £m  £m 	 £ m 	   £m	 £ m 	
A t  1 O c t o b e r  2 0 0 9  
( a s  p r e v i o u s l y r e p o r t e d )    112   –    2,490   360    (75)  (604) 	 2,283	   3 	 2,286 	
R e s t a t e m e n t  ( N o t e 1 ( B ) ( i i ) )     –   –   –   –   –   (112) 	 (112)   –  	 (112)
R e s t a t e d   b a l a n c e  a t  1  O c t o b e r  2 0 0 9     112    –    2,490    360    (75)   (716) 	 2,171	   3  	 2,174  
L o s s f o r  t h e y e a r    –    –    –    –    –    (104) 	 (104)   –  	 (104)
O t h e r	c o m p r e h e n s i v e		
( e x p e n s e ) / i n c o m e 	f o r	t h e 	y e a r
O t h e r c o m p r e h e n s i v e   
( e x p e n s e ) / i n c o m e  f o r t h e y e a r    –    –    –    (59)   56    (70) 	 (73)  –  	 (73)
T o t a l c o m p r e h e n s i v e   
( e x p e n s e ) / i n c o m e  f o r t h e y e a r    –    –    –    (59)   56    (174) 	 (177)   –  	 (177)
T r a n s a c t i o n s 	w i t h 	o w n e r s
S h a r e - b a s e d  p a y m e n t  
( n e t o f d e f e r r e d  t a x )    –    –    –    –    –    20 	 20	  –  	 20	
A c q u i s i t i o n  o f o w n  s h a r e s     –    –    –    –    –    (7) 	 (7)  –  	 (7)
D i v i d e n d s      –   –   –    –   –   (118) 	 (118)   (2)	 (120)
I s s u e  o f c o n v e r t i b l e  b o n d s
( n e t  o f d e f e r r e d  t a x )     –   83   –   –   –    –  	 83	  –	 83  
A t 	3 0 	S e p t e m b e r	2 0 1 0   	 112	 83 		 2,490		 301		 (19)		 (995)	 1,972 		 1 		 1,973	
D e t a il s   o f   r e s e r v e   m o v e m e n t s   a r e   s e t   o u t   in   N o t e   2 4   t o   t h e   c o n s o li d at e d   fi n a n c i a l   s t at e m e n t s . www.tuitravelplc.com
68  T U I T r a v e l  P L C  A n n u a l R e p o r t & A c c o u n t s  2 0 1 0
            R e s t a t e d
          Y e a r 	 e n d e d   Y e a r  e n d e d
          3 0 	 S e p t e m b e r   3 0  S e p t e m b e r
          2 0 1 0   2 0 0 9
        No t e  £ m   £m
L o s s	f o r 	t h e	y e a r        	 (104)   (66)
A d j u s t m e n t 	f o r :
D e p r e c i a t i o n  a n d a m o r t i s a t i o n        10,11 	 261	  287  
I m p a i r m e n t o f  i n t a n g i b l e  a s s e t s  a n d  p r o p e r t y ,  p l a n t a n d e q u i p m e n t         10,11 	 27 	  132  
E q u i t y - s e t t l e d  s h a r e - b a s e d  p a y m e n t  e x p e n s e s         5(D) 	 14 	  16 
L o s s / ( p r o fi t )  o n  s a l e  o f p r o p e r t y ,  p l a n t  a n d  e q u i p m e n t        6   	 1 	  (12)
S h a r e  o f  l o s s / ( p r o fi t )  o f  j o i n t  v e n t u r e s  a n d  a s s o c i a t e s        12   	 3 	  (9)
L o s s / ( g a i n )  o n  f o r e i g n  e x c h a n g e          6  	 14 	  (23)
C h a n g e  i n v a l u e  o f  t r a d e  i n v e s t m e n t        12   	 (30)   –  
D i v i d e n d s  r e c e i v e d  f r o m j o i n t v e n t u r e s a n d  a s s o c i a t e s         12  	 9	  10 
F i n a n c i a l  i n c o m e         4   	 (69)   (72)
F i n a n c i a l  e x p e n s e s         4   	 186	  161 
L o s s  f r o m  d i s c o n t i n u e d  o p e r a t i o n         8   	 18 	  14 
T a x a t i o n         7   	 50 		  (42)
O p e r a t i n g 	p r o fi t 	b e f o r e 	c h a n g e s	i n	w o r k i n g 	c a p i t a l 	a n d 	p r o v i s i o n s         	 380	  396  
D e c r e a s e / ( i n c r e a s e )  i n i n v e n t o r i e s         	 1	  (2)
D e c r e a s e  i n t r a d e  a n d  o t h e r  r e c e i v a b l e s        	 34	  93 
I n c r e a s e / ( d e c r e a s e ) i n t r a d e a n d  o t h e r  p a y a b l e s         	 100	  (141)
I n c r e a s e / ( d e c r e a s e ) i n p r o v i s i o n s  a n d  e m p l o y e e  b e n e fi t s         	 93	  (23)
C a s h 	fl o w s 	f r o m 	o p e r a t i o n s         	 608	  323  
I n t e r e s t  p a i d          	 (59)  (68)
I n t e r e s t  r e c e i v e d         	 2	  6  
I n c o m e  t a x e s  p a i d         	 (34)   (43)
C a s h 	fl o w s 	f r o m 	o p e r a t i n g 	a c t i v i t i e s         	 517    218  
I n v e s t i n g 	a c t i v i t i e s
P r o c e e d s  f r o m  s a l e  o f  p r o p e r t y , p l a n t   a n d  e q u i p m e n t        	 26 	  161  
P r o c e e d s  f r o m  d i s p o s a l  o f a s s o c i a t e d u n d e r t a k i n g s  n e t o f  c a s h d i s p o s e d  o f      	 	 1	  –  
A c q u i s i t i o n  o f  s u b s i d i a r i e s n e t  o f  c a s h  a c q u i r e d         13(B) 	 (51)   (48)
A c q u i s i t i o n  o f  n o n - c o n t r o l l i n g i n t e r e s t s         	 –	  (3)
P r o c e e d s  f r o m  o t h e r  i n v e s t m e n t s         	 9	  – 
I n v e s t m e n t  i n j o i n t  v e n t u r e s ,  a s s o c i a t e s  a n d  o t h e r  i n v e s t m e n t s         	 (90)  (51)
A c q u i s i t i o n  o f p r o p e r t y ,  p l a n t a n d  e q u i p m e n t  a n d  s o f t w a r e        	 (204)   (234)
C a s h 	fl o w s 	f r o m 	i n v e s t i n g 	a c t i v i t i e s         	 (309)   (175)
F i n a n c i n g 	a c t i v i t i e s
P r o c e e d s  f r o m  n e w l o a n s a n d  d e p o s i t s  t a ke n         	 768	  17  
R e p a y m e n t  o f  b o r r o w i n g s         	 (257)  (280)
R e p a y m e n t  o f  fi n a n c e  l e a s e l i a b i l i t i e s         	 (31)  (22)
D i v i d e n d s  p a i d  t o  o r d i n a r y  a n d  n o n - c o n t r o l l i n g i n t e r e s t s        24     (120)   (110)
A c q u i s i t i o n  o f s h a r e s  f o r  s h a r e - b a s e d  p a y m e n t s         24   	 (7)  –  
C a s h 	fl o w s 	f r o m 	fi n a n c i n g 	a c t i v i t i e s         	 353	 (395)
N e t 	i n c r e a s e / ( d e c r e a s e )	i n	c a s h	a n d 	c a s h	e q u i v a l e n t s         	 561	  (352)
C a s h  a n d  c a s h e q u i v a l e n t s  a t s t a r t o f  t h e y e a r         17  	 790	  1,130  
R e c l a s s i fi c a t i o n  o f c a s h  t o a s s e t s  c l a s s i fi e d  a s  h e l d  f o r s a l e         	 –	  (4)
E f f e c t  o f f o r e i g n  e x c h a n g e  o n c a s h  h e l d        	 (47)  16 
C a s h 	a n d 	c a s h 	e q u i v a l e n t s 	a t 	e n d 	o f 	t h e 	 y e a r	        17   	 1,304   790 
M o v e m e n t s   in   c a s h   a n d   n e t   d e b t   a r e   p r e s e n t e d   in   N o t e   2 6 .   
Financial statements
Consolidated statement of cash flows
f o r t h e y e a r  e n d e d  3 0  S e p t e m b e r  2 0 1 0 www.tuitravelplc.com
Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
T U I  T r a v e l P L C  A n n u a l R e p o r t  &  A c c o u n t s  2 0 1 0  69
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
1. Accounting policies
T h e   ac c o un t in g   p o li c i e s   ad o pt e d   in   t h e   p r e p ar at i o n   o f   t h e s e  
c o n s o li d at e d   fi n a n c i a l   s t at e m e n t s   a r e   c o n s i s t e n t   w i t h   t h o s e   f o ll o w e d  
in   t h e   p r e p ar at i o n   o f   t h e   G r o up ’ s   c o n s o li d at e d   fi n a n c i a l   s t at e m e n t s 
f o r   t h e   y ea r   e n d e d   3 0   S e pt e m b e r   2 0 0 9 ,   e x c e pt   f o r   t h e   ad o pt i o n   
o f   t h e   f o ll o w in g   n e w   Int e r n a t i o n a l   F in an c i a l   R e p o r t in g   S t an d ar d s    
( IF R S )   a n d   In t e r p r e t at i o n s   t h at   a r e   a p p li c a b l e   f o r   t h e   y ea r   e n d e d   
3 0   S e pt e m b e r   2 0 1 0 :
IAS 1 (revised) Presentation of financial statements
T h e   G r o up   h a s   p r e s e n t e d   f o r   t h e   fi r s t   t im e   a   c o n s o li d at e d   s t at e m e n t 
o f   c o m p r e h e n s i v e   in c o m e   a n d   a   c o n s o li d at e d   s t at e m e n t   o f   c h an g e s   
in   e q ui t y .     T h e   c o n s o li d at e d   s t at e m e n t   o f   c o m p r e h e n s i v e   in c o m e 
r e p l ac e s   t h e   c o n s o li d at e d   s t at e m e n t   o f   r e c og ni s e d   in c o m e   an d 
e x p e n s e   ( S O R IE ) .     T hi s   r e p r e s e n t s   a   c h an g e   f r o m   t h e   r e q uir e m e n t   t o 
p r e s e n t   o nl y   o n e   fi n a n c i a l   s t at e m e n t :   a   S O R IE   o r   a   s t at e m e n t   o f   a ll 
c h an g e s   in   e q ui t y   a s   a   p r im a r y   s t at e m e n t .     C o m p a r at i v e   in f o r m a t i o n  
h a s   b e e n   r e - p r e s e n t e d   s o   t h at   i t   i s   in   c o n f o r mi t y   w i t h   t h e   r e v i s e d 
s t a n d ar d .     T h e   r e v i s e d   s t a n d ar d   r e q uir e s   t hi s   s t at e m e n t   t o   p r e s e n t   
a ll   i t e m s   o f   r e c og ni s e d   in c o m e   a n d   e x p e n s e ,   e i t h e r   in   o n e   s in g l e  
s t at e m e n t   o r   in   t w o   link e d   s t at e m e n t s .     T h e   G r o up   h a s   e l e c t e d   t o 
p r e s e n t   t w o   s t at e m e n t s .
T h e   r e v i s e d   s t a n d ar d   p r o hibi t s   t h e   p r e s e n t at i o n   o f   i t e m s   o f   in c o m e 
a n d   e x p e n s e s   ( t h at   i s ,   ‘ n o n - o w n e r   c h an g e s   in   e q ui t y ’ )   in   t h e 
s t at e m e n t   o f   c h an g e s   in   e q ui t y ,   r e q uir in g   ‘ n o n - o w n e r   c h an g e s   in  
e q ui t y ’   t o   b e   p r e s e n t e d   s e p ar at e l y   f r o m   o w n e r   c h an g e s   in   e q ui t y   in    
a   c o n s o li d at e d   s t at e m e n t   o f   c o m p r e h e n s i v e   in c o m e .     A s   a   r e s ul t   t h e 
G r o up   p r e s e n t s   in   t h e   c o n s o li d at e d   s t at e m e n t   o f   c h an g e s   in   e q ui t y    
a ll   o w n e r   c h an g e s   in   e q ui t y ,   w h e r ea s   a ll   n o n - o w n e r   c h an g e s   in   e q ui t y  
a r e   p r e s e n t e d   in   t h e   c o n s o li d at e d   s t at e m e n t   o f   c o m p r e h e n s i v e 
in c o m e .     C o m p a r at i v e   in f o r m a t i o n   h a s   b e e n   r e - p r e s e n t e d   s o   t h at   i t   
i s   a l s o   in   c o n f o r mi t y   w i t h   t h e   r e v i s e d   s t a n d ar d .     A s   t h e   c h an g e   in 
ac c o un t in g   p o li c y   o nl y   im p ac t s   p r e s e n t at i o n ,   t h e r e   i s   n o   im p ac t    
o n   t h e   G r o up ’ s   r e s ul t s   f o r   e i t h e r   y ea r   o r   l o s s   p e r   s h a r e .
IAS 27 (amended 2008) Consolidated and separate  
financial statements
T h e   r e v i s e d   s t a n d ar d   r e q uir e s   t h e   e f f e c t s   o f   a ll   t r a n s ac t i o n s   w i t h   
n o n - c o n t r o llin g   in t e r e s t s   t o   b e   r e c o r d e d   in   e q ui t y   i f   t h e r e   i s   n o   c h an g e 
in   c o n t r o l .     T h e s e   t r a n s ac t i o n s   w ill   n o   l o n g e r   r e s ul t   in   g o o d w ill   o r   g a in s  
a n d   l o s s e s .     T h e   s t a n d ar d   a l s o   s p e c i fi e s   t h e   ac c o un t in g   w h e n   c o n t r o l   i s  
l o s t .     A n y   r e m a inin g   in t e r e s t   in   t h e   e n t i t y   i s   r e - m ea s ur e d   t o   f a ir   v a lu e 
a n d   a   g a in   o r   l o s s   i s   r e c og ni s e d   in   p r o fi t   o r   l o s s .     T h e r e   i s   n o   m a t e r i a l  
im p ac t   o n   t h e   G r o up ’ s   r e s ul t s   f o r   e i t h e r   y ea r   o r   l o s s   p e r   s h a r e .
IFRS 3 (2008) Business Combinations
IF R S   3   ( 2 0 0 8 )   B u s in e s s   C o m bin at i o n s ,   a l s o   s t at e d   a s   IF R S   3    
( r e v i s e d ) ,   c h an g e s   t h e   t r eat m e n t   o f   in c i d e n t a l   ac q ui s i t i o n   e x p e n s e s  
a n d   d e f e r r e d   c o n s i d e r at i o n   p a y m e n t s   w hi c h   a r e   c o n t in g e n t   o n 
c o n t in u e d   e m p l o y m e n t ,   t h e   m ea s ur e m ent   o f   c o n s i d e r at i o n   p a y ab l e  
a n d   t h e   t r eat m e n t   o f   c h an g e s   t o   t h e   a m o un t   o f   c o n s i d er at i o n   p a y ab l e . 
T hi s   h a s   r e s ul t e d   in   a   t o t a l   o f   £ 9 m   b e in g   e x p e n s e d   in   t h e   c o n s o li d at e d 
in c o m e   s t at e m e n t   w hi c h   w o ul d   p r e v i o u s l y   h a v e   b e e n   c api t a li s e d   a s 
p ar t   o f   t h e   in v e s t m e n t   c o s t   in   a n   ac q uir e d   b u s in e s s .     T h e   fi n a n c i a l  
im p ac t   o f   t hi s   r e v i s e d   s t a n d ar d   h a s   b e e n   in c lu d e d   in   t h e   ac q ui s i t i o n  
r e l a t e d   e x p e n s e s   lin e   o f   t h e   c o n s o li d at e d   in c o m e   s t at e m e n t .     T h e 
r e v i s e d   s t a n d ar d   i s   o nl y   a p p li c a b l e   p r o s p e c t i v e l y   f o r   ac q ui s i t i o n s    
af t e r   1   O c t o b e r   2 0 0 9 . 
A d o pt i o n   o f   t h e   r e v i s e d   s t a n d ar d   h a s   h ad   t h e   f o ll o w in g   im p ac t :  
  Y e a r 	 e n d e d  
  3 0 	 S e p t e m b e r 	 2 0 1 0
	 £ m 	 ( u n l e s s
	 o t h e r w i s e 	 s t a t e d )
L o s s b e f o r e  t a x  (9)
L o s s f o r  t h e  y e a r a t t r i b u t a b l e  t o e q u i t y   
h o l d e r s  o f t h e p a r e n t  (9)
D e c r e a s e i n t o t a l e q u i t y  (7)
B a s i c  a n d d i l u t e d l o s s  p e r s h a r e ( p e n c e )   (0.7)
C o n t in g e n t   c o n s i d er at i o n   ar i s in g   in   a   b u s in e s s   c o m bin at i o n   t h at   h ad 
b e e n   ac c o un t e d   f o r   in   ac c o r d a n c e   w i t h   IF R S   3   ( 2 0 0 4 )   t h at   h a s   n o t  
b e e n   s e t t l e d   o r   o t h e r w i s e   r e s o l v e d   at   t h e   e f f e c t i v e   d a t e   o f   IF R S   3 
( 2 0 0 8 ) ,   c o n t in u e s   t o   b e   ac c o un t e d   f o r   in   ac c o r d a n c e   w i t h   IF R S   3 
( 2 0 0 4 ) .     A s   s u c h ,   t h e r e   i s   n o   c h an g e   t o   t h e   G r o up ’ s   r e s ul t s   o r   l o s s   
p e r   s h a r e ,   f o r   t hi s   ac c o un t in g   p o li c y .
IFRS 8 Operating Segments
IF R S   8   r e p l ac e s   I A S   1 4   S e g m e n t   R e p o r t in g   a n d   r e q uir e s   t h at   an  
e n t i t y ’ s   o p e r at in g   s e g m e n t s   a r e   r e p o r t e d   o n   t h e   s a m e   b a s i s   a s   
t h e   in t e r n a ll y   r e p o r t e d   in f o r m a t i o n   t h at   i s   p r o v i d e d   t o   t h e   c hi e f  
o p e r at in g   d e c i s i o n   m a k e r .     T h e   c hi e f   o p e r at in g   d e c i s i o n   m a k e r   h a s 
b e e n   i d e n t i fi e d   a s   t h e   G r o up   M a n a g e m e n t   B o ar d   ( G MB ) .     F o ll o w in g 
t h e   ad o pt i o n   o f   IF R S   8 ,   t h e   G r o up   h a s   r e v i s e d   i t s   r e p o r t e d   o p e r at in g  
s e g m e n t s   a n d   p r o v i d e d   f ur t h e r   in f o r m a t i o n   in   r e s p e c t   o f   t h e s e  
s e g m e n t s .     T h e   G r o up   h a s   d e c i d e d   t o   ad o pt   ea r l y   a n   a m e n dm e n t   t o  
IF R S   8   O p e r at in g   S e g m e n t s   w hi c h   s t at e s   t h at   s e g m e n t   in f o r m a t i o n  
f o r   t o t al   a s s e t s   ar e   o nl y   r e q uir e d   i f   s u c h   in f o r m a t i o n   i s   r e g ul ar l y  
r e p o r t e d   t o   t h e   c hi e f   o p e r at in g   d e c i s i o n   m a k e r .     T hi s   n e w   s t a n d ar d 
o nl y   im p ac t s   p r e s e n t at i o n al   a s p e c t s .     T h e r e   i s   n o   im p ac t   o n   t h e 
G r o up ’ s   r e s ul t s   f o r   e i t h e r   y ea r   o r   l o s s   p e r   s h a r e   in   r e s p e c t   o f   t hi s    
n e w   s t a n d ar d .
IAS 23 (revised) Borrowing costs 
T h e   s t a n d ar d   h a s   b e e n   r e v i s e d   t o   r e q uir e   c api t a li s at i o n   o f   b o r r o w in g 
c o s t s   w h e n   s u c h   c o s t s   r e l a t e   t o   a   q u ali f y in g   a s s e t .     T h e   r e v i s i o n   t o   t hi s  
s t a n d ar d   h a s   h ad   n o   e f f e c t   o n   t h e   fi n a n c i a l   p o s i t i o n   o r   p e r f o r m an c e 
o f   t h e   G r o up   a s   b o r r o w in g   c o s t s   f o r   q u ali f y in g   a s s e t s   h a v e   a lr ead y 
b e e n   c api t a li s e d   un d e r   t h e   p r e v i o u s l y   a ll o w e d   a l t e r n a t i v e   t r eat m e n t .
IFRS 7 Financial Instruments – Disclosures (amendment) 
IF R S   7   h a s   b e e n   a m e n d e d   r e q uir in g   e nh a n c e d   d i s c l o s ur e   in   r e l a t i o n   
t o   fi n a n c i a l   in s t r um e n t s   a t   f a ir   v a lu e   a n d   li q ui d i t y   r i s k .     F in an c i a l  
in s t r um e n t s   m ea s ur e d   at   f a ir   v a lu e   a r e   n o w   p r e s e n t e d   in   a   t a b l e  
ac c o r d in g   t o   a   t hr e e - t i e r   hi e r arc h y   t h at   p r i o r i t i s e s   t h e   v a lu at i o n  
t e c hni q u e s   u s e d   in   t h e   c al c ul a t i o n   o f   t h e ir   f a ir   v a lu e .     F o r   fi n a n c i a l  
in s t r um e n t s   c l a s s i fi e d   in   t h e   t hir d   t i e r ,   a   r e c o n c ili at i o n   o f   t h e 
m o v e m e n t s   in   t h e   y ea r   i s   a l s o   r e q uir e d .     T h e   c h an g e s   t o   t h e 
d i s c l o s ur e s   o f   li q ui d i t y   r i s k s   a r e   n o t   s i g ni fi c an t .     T h e r e   i s   n o   im p ac t   
o n   t h e   G r o up ’ s   r e s ul t   f o r   e i t h e r   y ea r   o r   o n   l o s s   p e r   s h a r e   a s   a   r e s ul t   
o f   t h e   a m e n dm e n t   t o   t hi s   s t a n d ar d .
T h e   a m e n d e d   s t a n d ar d   d o e s   n o t   r e q uir e   t h e   p r e s e n t at i o n   o f 
c o m p ar at i v e   in f o r m a t i o n   in   t h e   y ea r   o f   ad o pt i o n   a n d   t h e   G r o up   
h a s   c h o s e n   t o   a p p l y   t hi s   o pt i o n .
IAS 39 (2008) Financial Instruments: Recognition  
and Measurement
T h e   r e v i s e d   s t a n d ar d   a ll o w s   r e c l a s s i fi c at i o n   o f   in s t r um e n t s   in t o   an d 
o u t   o f   ‘ at   f a ir   v a lu e   t hr o u g h   p r o fi t   a n d   l o s s ’   in   c e r t a in   c irc um s t an c e s  
a n d   c l ar i fi e s   t h e   d e s i g n at i o n   o f   h e d g e s   a t   a   s e g m e n t   l e v e l .     T h e r e   i s   
n o   im p ac t   o n   t h e   G r o up ’ s   r e s ul t s   f o r   e i t h e r   y ea r   o r   l o s s   p e r   s h a r e   a s    
a   r e s ul t   o f   t h e   r e v i s i o n   t o   t hi s   n e w   s t a n d ar d . www.tuitravelplc.com
70  T U I T r a v e l  P L C  A n n u a l R e p o r t & A c c o u n t s  2 0 1 0
( i i ) 	 R e s t a te m e n t
O n   1 0   A u g u s t   2 0 1 0 ,   a s   p ar t   o f   i t s   un a u d i t e d   r e s ul t s   f o r   t h e   t hir d 
q u ar t e r   ( nin e   m o n t h s   e n d e d   3 0   J un e   2 0 1 0 ) ,   T U I   T r a v e l   P L C   r e p o r t e d 
t h at   f o ll o w in g   c o m p l e t i o n   o f   t h e   in t e g r at i o n   o f   I T   s y s t e m s   in   i t s   
U K   m a in s t r ea m   b u s in e s s ,   i t   h ad   w r i t t e n   o f f   a   n um b e r   o f   l e g ac y 
r e c e i v ab l e   b al a n c e s   t h at   h ad   b uil t   up   o v e r   an   e x t e n d e d   p e r i o d   o f   
t im e ,   am oun t in g   in   t o t a l   t o   £ 2 9 m .     T hi s   b al a n c e   w a s   r e p o r t e d   a s   
a   s e p ar at e l y   d i s c l o s e d   i t e m . 
T h e   a u d i t   f o r   t h e   f ull   y ea r   e n d e d   S e pt e m b e r   2 0 1 0   hi g hli g h t e d   a 
f ur t h e r   £ 8 8 m   o f   ir r e c o v e r a b l e   b al a n c e s   t h at   n o w   n e e d   t o   b e   w r i t t e n 
o f f ,   g i v in g   a   t o t al   o f   £ 1 1 7 m .     T h e s e   h a v e   a r i s e n   a s   a   r e s ul t   o f   f a ilur e s    
t o   r e c o n c il e   b al a n c e s   ad e q u at e l y   in   l e g ac y   s y s t e m s   in   t h e   r e t a il   a n d  
t o ur   o p e r at o r   b u s in e s s e s   in   T U I   U K .     A s   a   r e s ul t ,   T U I   T r a v e l   P L C   h a s 
r e s t at e d   i t s   r e s ul t s   f o r   t h e   y ea r   e n d e d   3 0   S e pt e m b e r   2 0 0 9 .
T h e   ad j u s t m e n t s   t o   t h e   r e s ul t s   a r e   n o n - c a s h   in   n at ur e   a n d   h a v e   n o 
im p ac t   o n   t h e   G r o up ’ s   c a s h   an d   n e t   d e b t   p o s i t i o n .     A s   a   r e s ul t   o f  
p r o c e s s   im p r o v e m e n t s   d ur in g   t h e   y ea r ,   t h e   im p ac t   in   2 0 1 0   h a s   b e e n 
limi t e d   t o   £ 5 m . 
T h e   t o t al   im p ac t   i s   s um m ar i s e d   in   t h e   t a b l e   b e l o w :
  2 0 1 0   2 0 0 9   P r e 2 0 0 9  T o t a l
  £ m   £m  £m  £m
R e v e n u e  o v e r s t a t e m e n t	 5   12  70   87
R e l e a s e  o f  
u n m a t c h e d  c r e d i t s	 –  30   –   30
T o t a l   5	 42	 70	 117 	
Revenue overstatement
In   2 0 0 4 ,   t h e   U K   t o ur   o p e r at o r ,   T h o m s o n ,   im p l e m e n t e d   a   n e w   R e t a il 
b o o k in g   s y s t e m   in t o   i t s   d i s t r ib u t i o n   n e t w o r k   o f   s h o p s ,   c all   c e n t r e s   
a n d   w e b s i t e .     A s   p ar t   o f   t h at   im p l e m e n t at i o n ,   s o m e   c o n t r o l s   w e r e    
p u t   in   p l ac e   t o   e n s ur e   t h at   t h e   n e w   R e t a il   b o o k in g   s y s t e m   w a s  
r e c o r d in g   t h e   s a m e   d a t a   a s   t h e   e x i s t in g   T o ur   O p e r at in g   s y s t e m .      
In   t h e   m a in ,   t h e s e   c o n t r o l s   o p e r at e d   w e ll   f o r   t h e   fi r s t   f e w   y ea r s    
o f   t h e   n e w   s y s t e m   a n d   a n y   d i f f e r e n c e s   f o un d   a s   p ar t   o f   t h e   r e c e n t  
in v e s t i g at i o n   w e r e   minim a l .
S ub s e q u e n t l y ,   a s   p ar t   o f   a   dr i v e   f o r   f ur t h e r   c o s t   s a v in g s   a n d 
e f fi c i e n c i e s ,   p r o c e s s e s   ar o un d   t h e   t w o   s y s t e m s   w e r e   s t r ea m lin e d ,  
r o l e s   w e r e   c o n s o li d at e d   a n d   p ar t s   o f   t h e   p r o c e s s   w e r e   t r a n s f e r r e d   
t o   a n   o u t s o urc e   p r o v i d e r   in   In d i a .     A s   a   r e s ul t ,   i t   i s   n o w   un d e r s t o o d 
t h at   c o n t r o l   w ea k n e s s e s   a r o s e   a n d   t h e   l e v e l   o f   d i f f e r e n c e s   b e t w e e n 
t h e   t w o   s y s t e m s   g r e w .     T h e s e   d i f f e r e n c e s   a r o s e   b e c a u s e   t r a n s ac t i o n 
d a t a   w a s   n o t   ac c ur at e l y   r e fl e c t e d   in   t h e   R e t a il   s h o p s .     D i s c o un t s    
g i v e n   o n   t h e   p r i c e   o f   h o li d a y s ,   c an c e ll a t i o n   f e e s   a n d   admini s t r a t i o n  
f e e s   f o r   c h an g e s   t o   h o li d a y   b o o k in g s   w e r e   in ac c ur at e l y   r e c o r d e d   b y 
t r a v e l   a g e n t s   a s   a   p r i c e   c h an g e   a s   o p p o s e d   t o   b e in g   a ll o c at e d   t o   t h e  
r e l e v an t   c a t e g o r y   w i t hin   t h e   R e t a il   b o o k in g   s y s t e m .     T hi s   l e d   t o   a n  
o v e r s t a t e m e n t   in   r e v e n u e   in   t h e   T o ur   O p e r at o r   a n d   a   mi s m a t c h   w i t h 
t h e   c a s h   ac t u all y   r e c e i v e d   f r o m   t h e   c u s t o m e r   t h at   w a s   b o o k e d   in   t h e  
R e t a il   b o o k in g   s y s t e m .    
W h e n   t h e   t o ur i s m   b u s in e s s   o f   T U I   A G   m e r g e d   w i t h   F ir s t   C h oi c e 
H o li d a y s   P L C   o n   3   S e pt e m b e r   2 0 0 7 ,   a   k e y   p ar t   o f   t h e   b u s in e s s   p l a n  
w a s   t h e   in t e g r at i o n   o f   t h e   t w o   U K   t o ur   o p e r a t o r   b u s in e s s e s ,   T h o m s o n 
a n d   F ir s t   C h oi c e .     A s   p ar t   o f   t h at   b u s in e s s   m e r g e r   i t   w a s   d e c i d e d   t o  
c o - l o c at e   t h e   b u s in e s s e s   in   L u t o n   ( t h e   T h o m s o n   h ead q u ar t e r s )   a n d 
in t e g r at e   t h e   F ir s t   C h oi c e   b u s in e s s   o n   t o   t h e   T h o m s o n   s y s t e m s .     T h e 
s y s t e m s   c h an g e o v e r   o c c ur r e d   in   2 0 0 8   a n d   a s   a   r e s ul t   t h e   v o lum e s 
IAS 7 Statement of cash flows 
T h e   G r o up   h a s   ad o pt e d   ea r l y   t h e   a m e n dm e n t   t o   I A S   7   S t a t e m e n t   
o f   c a s h   fl o w s   in   r e s p e c t   o f   c a t e g o r i s at i o n   w i t hin   t h e   c o n s o li d at e d 
s t at e m e n t   o f   c a s h   fl o w s   o f   ac q ui s i t i o n   r e l a t e d   e x p e n s e s   w hi c h   a r e 
c h ar g e d   d ir e c t l y   t o   t h e   c o n s o li d at e d   in c o m e   s t at e m e n t .     £ 7 m   o f 
ac q ui s i t i o n   r e l a t e d   e x p e n s e s   h a v e   b e e n   in c lu d e d   w i t hin   c a s h   fl o w s  
f r o m   o p e r at in g   ac t i v i t i e s   in   t h e   y ea r .     T h e r e   i s   n o   c h an g e   t o   t h e   p r i o r 
y ea r   c o n s o li d at e d   s t at e m e n t   o f   c a s h   fl o w s   a s   t h e s e   e x p e n s e s   w e r e  
in c lu d e d   w i t hin   t h e   c o s t   o f   t h e   b u s in e s s   c o m bin at i o n   in   ac c o r d a n c e 
w i t h   IF R S   3   ( 2 0 0 4 )   a n d   t h e r e f o r e   in c lu d e d   w i t hin   in v e s t in g   ac t i v i t i e s .
Other changes
T h e   f o ll o w in g   ac c oun t in g   s t a n d ar d s   a n d   in t e r p r e t at i o n s   i s s u e d   b y   t h e 
In t e r n a t i o n al   A c c o un t in g   S t an d ar d s   B o ar d   ( I A S B )   o r   In t e r n a t i o n a l 
F in an c i a l   R e p o r t in g   In t e r p r e t at i o n s   C o m mi t t e e   ( IF R IC )   h a v e   b e e n 
ad o pt e d   b y   t h e   G r o up   f r o m   1   O c t o b e r   2 0 0 9   w i t h   n o   s i g ni fi c a n t   im p ac t 
o n   c o n s o li d at e d   r e s ul t s   o r   fi n a n c i a l   p o s i t i o n :
•   A m e n dm e n t   t o   I A S   3 2   ( 2 0 0 8 )   a n d   I A S   1   –   F in an c i a l   In s t r um e n t s :  
P r e s e n t at i o n .
•   A m e n dm e n t   t o   I A S   3 2   ( 2 0 0 8 )   a n d   I A S   1   –   P u t t a b l e   fi n a n c i a l  
in s t r um e n t s   a n d   o b li g at i o n s   a r i s in g   o n   li q ui d at i o n .
•   A m e n dm e n t   t o   I A S   3 9   F in an c i a l   in s t r um e n t s   –   R e c og ni t i o n   a n d 
M ea s ur e m e n t :   E li g ib l e   h e d g e d   i t e m s .
•   A m e n dm e n t   t o   IF R IC   9   a n d   I A S   3 9   –   E m b e d d e d   d e r i v a t i v e s .
•   A m e n dm e n t   t o   IF R S   2   S h a r e - b a s e d   p a y m e n t   –   S c o p e   o f   IF R S   2  
a n d   IF R S   3   ( r e v i s e d )   B u s in e s s   C o m bin at i o n s .
•   A m e n dm e n t   t o   I A S   3 8   In t an g ib l e   a s s e t s   –   C o n s e q u e n t i a l  
a m e n dm e n t s   a r i s in g   f r o m   IF R S   3   ( r e v i s e d ) .
•   A m e n dm e n t   t o   IF R IC   9   R ea s s e s s m e n t   o f   e m b e d d e d   d e r i v a t i v e s   – 
S c o p e   o f   IF R IC   9   a n d   r e v i s e d   IF R S   3 .
•   A m e n dm e n t   t o   IF R IC   1 4   –   P r e p a y m e n t s   o f   a   M inimum    
F un d in g   R e q uir e m e n t .
•   A m e n dm e n t   t o   IF R IC   1 6   –   H e d g e s   o f   a   n e t   in v e s t m e n t   in   a    
f o r e i g n   o p e r a t i o n .   
T h e   c o n s o li d at e d   fi n a n c i a l   s t at e m e n t s   a r e   p r e s e n t e d   in   t h e   G r o up ’ s 
p r e s e n t at i o n al   c ur r e n c y   o f   S t e r lin g ,   r o un d e d   t o   t h e   n ea r e s t   milli o n .
(A) Statement of compliance
T h e   c o n s o li d at e d   fi n a n c i a l   s t at e m e n t s   f o r   t h e   y ea r   e n d e d    
3 0   S e pt e m b e r   2 0 1 0   h a v e   b e e n   p r e p a r e d   a n d   a p p r o v e d   b y   t h e 
D ir e c t o r s   in   ac c o r d a n c e   w i t h   Int e r n a t i o n a l   F in an c i a l   R e p o r t in g 
S t an d ar d s   a s   ad o pt e d   b y   t h e   E ur o p ea n   Uni o n   ( A d o pt e d   IF R S s ) .      
T h e   c o n s o li d at e d   fi n a n c i a l   s t at e m e n t s   w e r e   a p p r o v e d   o n   
1   D e c e m b e r   2 0 1 0 .
(B) Basis of preparation
( i ) 	 P a r e n t 	 C o m p a n y
T U I   T r a v e l   P L C   ( t h e   C o m p a n y )   i s   a   c o m p an y   in c o r p o r a t e d   a n d 
d o mi c il e d   in   E n g l a n d   a n d   W a l e s   un d e r   t h e   C o m p a ni e s   A c t   1 9 8 5   an d 
li s t e d   o n   t h e   L o n d o n   S t o c k   E x c h a n g e .     T h e   R e g i s t e r e d   O f fi c e   o f   t h e 
C o m p a n y   i s   T U I   T r a v e l   H o u s e ,   C r a w l e y   B u s in e s s   Q u a r t e r ,   F l e min g  
W a y ,   C r a w l e y ,   W e s t   S u s s e x   R H 1 0   9 Q L .   
T h e   C o m p a n y   h a s   e l e c t e d   t o   p r e p ar e   i t s   p ar e n t   c o m p an y   fi n a n c i a l  
s t at e m e n t s   in   ac c o r d a n c e   w i t h   U K   G A A P .    
Financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements c o n t i n u e d www.tuitravelplc.com
Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
T U I  T r a v e l P L C  A n n u a l R e p o r t  &  A c c o u n t s  2 0 1 0  71
Consolidated income statement
             L o s s f r o m  t h e
         U n d e r l y i n g   L o s s   y e a r f r o m
    C o s t  o f   O p e r a t i n g    o p e r a t i n g   b e f o r e  c o n t i n u i n g
Y e a r 	 e n d e d   R e v e n u e  S a l e s    p r o fi t /( l o s s )   p r o fi t   t a x  o p e r a t i o n s
3 0 	 S e p t e m b e r 	 2 0 0 9   £ m  £ m  £ m   £ m  £ m   £ m
O r i g i n a l l y r e p o r t e d   13,863   (12,705)   37    443    (52)   (10)  
C o r r e c t i o n  (12)  (30)  (42)   (42)  (42)  (42)
R e s t a t e d  13,851   (12,735)   (5)   401    (94)   (52)  
Earnings/(loss) per share
  E a r n i n g s p e r  s h a r e –  U n d e r l y i n g  E a r n i n g s
  C o n t i n u i n g  O p e r a t i o n s    p e r S h a r e    
Y e a r 	 e n d e d       B a s i c  D i l u t e d   B a s i c  D i l u t e d
3 0 	 S e p t e m b e r 	 2 0 0 9       P e n c e   P e n c e   P e n c e   P e n c e
O r i g i n a l l y r e p o r t e d       (1.0)   (1.0)   23.8   23.5
C o r r e c t i o n      (3.8)  (3.8)  (3.8)  (3.7)
R e s t a t e d      (4.8)   (4.8)   20.0   19.8
Consolidated balance sheet
    3 0 S e p t e m b e r  2 0 0 9      3 0  S e p t e m b e r 2 0 0 8
   
  C u r r e n t t r a d e   C u r r e n t  t r a d e     C u r r e n t t r a d e   C u r r e n t t r a d e
  a n d o t h e r  a n d o t h e r    a n d o t h e r  a n d  o t h e r
  r e c e i v a b l e s   p a y a b l e s   E q u i t y   r e c e i v a b l e s  p a y a b l e s   E q u i t y
  £ m  £ m  £ m  £ m  £ m  £ m
O r i g i n a l l y r e p o r t e d   1,536   (4,162)   2,286   1,653   (4,057)  2,596
C o r r e c t i o n  (54)  (58)  (112)   (54)  (16)  (70)
R e s t a t e d  1,482   (4,220)   2,174  1,599   (4,073)   2,526
g oin g   t hr o u g h   t h e   s y s t e m s   in c r ea s e d .     F ur t h e r m o r e ,   t h e   s t r at e g i c 
ini t i at i v e   t o   in c r ea s e   c o n t r o ll e d   d i s t r ib u t i o n   in   t h e   b u s in e s s   a l s o   m ea nt  
t h at   t h e   v o lum e s   g oin g   t hr o u g h   in t e r n a l   c h ann e l s   w e r e   g r o w in g 
s t ead il y .     T h e s e   c h an g e s   c a u s e d   t h e   l e v e l   o f   o v e r s t a t e d   r e v e n u e   t o 
in c r ea s e ,   r eac hin g   a   p eak   in   2 0 0 8 .     S ub s e q u e n t l y ,   in   2 0 0 9   a s   a   r e s ul t   
o f   t h e   in t r o d u c t i o n   o f   a   n e w   f r o n t - e n d   s e llin g   s y s t e m   in   t h e   in - h o u s e 
r e t a il   s t o r e s ,   t i g h t e r   c o n t r o l s   w e r e   p l ac e d   o n   t h e   r e t a il   a g e n t   w h e r e b y 
d i s c o un t s ,   c an c e ll a t i o n   f e e s   a n d   admini s t r at i o n   f e e s   h ad   t o   b e   b o o k e d 
t o   t h e   a p p r o p r i a t e   c a t e g o r y   in   t h e   s y s t e m   a n d   ac c o r d in g l y   t h e s e 
o p e r at i o n al   c h an g e s   m ea n t   t h at   t h e   l e v e l   o f   o v e r s t a t e d   r e v e n u e  
s t a r t e d   t o   f a ll .     F ur t h e r   ac t i o n s   t a k e n   in   2 0 1 0   f ur t h e r   im p r o v e d   
t h e   s i t u at i o n .
O v e r   a   p e r i o d   o f   s e v e n   y ea r s   t h e   p r e - 2 0 0 9   l e v e l   o f   o v e r s t a t e d   r e v e n u e  
a m oun t e d   t o   £ 8 7 m   w i t h   £ 5 m   a r i s in g   in   2 0 1 0 ,   £ 1 2 m   in   2 0 0 9   an d   t h e 
b al a n c e   o f   £ 7 0 m   p r i o r   t o   t h e   y ea r   e n d in g   3 0   S e pt e m b e r   2 0 0 9 .     T h e  
r e s ul t   o f   t h e   c o r r e c t i o n   o f   t hi s   r e v e n u e   o v e r s t a t e m e n t   h a s   b e e n   t o 
r e d u c e   t h e   2 0 0 9   p r o fi t   b y   £ 1 2 m   a n d   r e d u c e   t h e   o p e nin g   r e s e r v e s   a s  
at   1   O c t o b e r   2 0 0 8   b y   £ 7 0 m .
Release of unmatched credits
A s   a   c o n s e q u e n c e   o f   t h e   s y s t e mi c   d e fi c i e n c i e s   in   t h e   r e v e n u e  
r e c og ni t i o n   p r o c e s s   t h at   r e s ul t e d   in   t h e   o v e r s t a t e m e n t   r e f e r r e d   t o 
a b o v e ,   unm a t c h e d   c r e d i t s   b uil t   up   in   t h e   b o o k s   o f   t h e   r e t a il e r .     T h e s e  
unm a t c h e d   c r e d i t s   w e r e   d e e m e d   b y   U K   m a n a g e m e n t   t o   b e   s ur p lu s   t o 
r e q uir e m e n t s   in   2 0 0 9   an d   w e r e   ac c o r d in g l y   r e l ea s e d   t o   c o s t   o f   s a l e s    
in   t h e   p r o fi t   a n d   l o s s   ac c o un t   in   t h at   y ea r .     H ad   t h e   s y s t e mi c   e r r o r s    
in   t h e   r e v e n u e   r e c og ni t i o n   p r o c e s s   b e e n   i d e n t i fi e d   a n d   ad dr e s s e d   at  
t h e   t im e ,   t h e s e   unm a t c h e d   c r e d i t s   w o ul d   n o t   h a v e   e x i s t e d   a s   t h e y  
w o ul d   h a v e   b e e n   a p p r o p r i a t e l y   m a t c h e d   o f f .     I t   i s   n o w   e v i d e n t   t h at   
t h e   a n al y s i s   c ar r i e d   o u t ,   t h e   j u d g e m e n t s   m ad e   a n d   t h e   p r o c e s s e s  
un d e r t a k e n   at   t h e   t im e   t o   b o o k   t h e   r e l ea s e   o f   t h e s e   unm a t c h e d  
c r e d i t s   in   t h e   r e c o r d s   o f   t h e   e n t i t y   c o n c e r n e d   w e r e   in ap p r o p r i at e    
a n d   t h at   t h e   in f o r m a t i o n   p r o v i d e d   t o   b o t h   G r o up   m a n a g e m e n t   a n d    
t o   t h e   e x t e r n a l   a u d i t o r s   w a s   in ac c ur at e .     A c c o r d in g l y ,   t h e   r e l ea s e   o f 
unm a t c h e d   c r e d i t s   h a s   n o w   b e e n   r e v e r s e d   in   t h e   r e s t at e d   in c o m e 
s t at e m e n t   f o r   t h e   y ea r   e n d e d   3 0   S e pt e m b e r   2 0 0 9 .
Tax 
T h e   a s s o c i at e d   t a x   b e n e fi t s   h a v e   n o t   b e e n   r e c og ni s e d   a s   t h e   l e g al  
e n t i t i e s   im p ac t e d   alr ead y   h ad   unr e c og ni s e d   t a x   l o s s e s .     T h e   e f f e c t   o f 
t h e   r e s t at e m e n t   i s   t h e r e f o r e   t o   in c r ea s e   t h e   unr e c og ni s e d   t a x   l o s s e s .    
T h e   t a b l e s   b e l o w   s h o w   t h e   im p ac t   o f   t h e   r e s t at e m e n t   o n   t h e   r e l e v an t  
c o n s o li d at e d   in c o m e   s t at e m e n t   a n d   b al a n c e   s h e e t   lin e s .
P r i o r   y ea r   c o m p ar at i v e s   h a v e   b e e n   r e s t at e d   f o r   t h e   f o ll o w in g   i t e m s .    
R e l at e d   n o t e s   t o   t h e   fi n a n c i a l   s t at e m e n t s   in   r e s p e c t   o f   t h e   b al a n c e  
s h e e t   at   3 0   S e pt e m b e r   2 0 0 8   h a v e   b e e n   d i s c l o s e d   w h e r e   t h e   r e l e v an t  
n o t e   h a s   b e e n   r e s t at e d .
( i i i ) 	 P r o 	 f o r m a 	 fi n a nc i a l 	 i n f o r m a t io n
A n   un a u d i t e d   p r o   f o r m a   in c o m e   s t at e m e n t   f o r   t h e   y ea r   e n d e d    
3 0   S e pt e m b e r   2 0 1 0   h a s   b e e n   p r e p a r e d   b y   t h e   D ir e c t o r s ,   o n   t h e   p r o  
f o r m a   b a s i s   d e s c r ib e d   b e l o w .     T hi s   i s   t o   illu s t r at e   t h e   e s t im at e d  
fi n a n c i a l   e f f e c t   o n   t h e   c o n s o li d at e d   in c o m e   s t at e m e n t   in   t h e   c ur r e n t  
y ea r   o f   t h e   unp r e c e d e n t e d   c l o s ur e   o f   U K   an d   E ur o p ea n   a ir s p ac e , 
f o ll o w in g   t h e   e r upt i o n   o f   t h e   E y j a f j a ll a j o e k ull   v o l c an o   in   I c e l a n d   in   A p r il 
2 0 1 0 .     D ur in g   t hi s   p e r i o d   o f   c l o s ur e   a n d   t h e   p e r i o d   t o   r e s um pt i o n   o f   
a   f ull   fl y in g   s c h e d ul e ,   f r o m   1 5   A p r il   t o   c irc a   2 3   A p r il   2 0 1 0 ,   t h e   G r o up ‘ s  
a bili t y   t o   ea r n   r e v e n u e   f r o m   p ac k a g e   h o li d a y s   a n d   fl i g h t s   w a s   s e v e r e l y  
im p ac t e d   a n d   t h e   G r o up   in c ur r e d   c o s t s   a s s o c i at e d   w i t h   d i s r upt i o n  
c a u s e d   t o   h o li d a y s   in   p r og r e s s   a n d   s t r a n d e d   p a s s e n g e r s . www.tuitravelplc.com
72  T U I T r a v e l  P L C  A n n u a l R e p o r t & A c c o u n t s  2 0 1 0
( i v ) 	 U n d e r l y i n g 	 m e a s u r e s 	 o f 	 p r o fi t s 	 a n d 	 l o s s e s
T h e   G r o up   b e li e v e s   t h at   un d e r l y in g   o p e r at in g   p r o fi t ,   un d e r l y in g   
p r o fi t   b e f o r e   t a x   a n d   un d e r l y in g   ea r nin g s   p e r   s h a r e   p r o v i d e   ad d i t i o n al 
g ui d an c e   t o   s t at u t o r y   m ea s ur e s   t o   h e lp   un d e r s t a n d   t h e   un d e r l y in g  
p e r f o r m an c e   o f   t h e   b u s in e s s   d ur in g   t h e   fi n a n c i a l   y ea r .     T h e   t e r m 
un d e r l y in g   i s   n o t   d e fi n e d   un d e r   IF R S .     I t   i s   a   m ea s ur e   t h at   i s   u s e d   b y 
m a n a g e m e n t   t o   a s s e s s   t h e   un d e r l y in g   p e r f o r m an c e   o f   t h e   b u s in e s s  
in t e r n a ll y   a n d   i s   n o t   in t e n d e d   t o   b e   a   s ub s t i t u t e   m ea s ur e   f o r   ad o pt e d  
IF R S s ’   G A A P   m ea s ur e s .     T h e   G r o up   d e fi n e s   t h e s e   un d e r l y in g 
m ea s ur e s   a s   f o ll o w s :
Un d e r l y in g   o p e r a t in g   p r o fi t   i s   o p e r at in g   p r o fi t   o r   l o s s   f r o m    
c o n t in uin g   o p e r a t i o n s   s t at e d   b e f o r e   s e p ar at e l y   d i s c l o s e d   i t e m s    
( N o t e   3 ) ,   ac q ui s i t i o n   r e l a t e d   e x p e n s e s ,   im p a ir m e n t   o f   g o o d w ill , 
in t e r e s t   a n d   t a x a t i o n   o n   t h e   G r o up ’ s   s h a r e   o f   t h e   r e s ul t s   o f   j oin t  
v e n t ur e s   a n d   a s s o c i at e s .  
Un d e r l y in g   p r o fi t   b e f o r e   t a x   i s   p r o fi t   o r   l o s s   f r o m   c o n t in uin g 
o p e r at i o n s   b e f o r e   t a x a t i o n   ( G r o up   a n d   s h a r e   o f   j oin t   v e n t ur e s   a n d  
a s s o c i at e s ) ,   ac q ui s i t i o n   r e l a t e d   i t e m s ,   im p a ir m e n t   o f   g o o d w ill ,   t h e 
in t e r e s t   e x p e n s e   o f   j oin t   v e n t ur e s   a n d   a s s o c i at e s   a n d   s e p ar at e l y  
d i s c l o s e d   i t e m s   in c lu d e d   w i t hin   b o t h   t h e   o p e r at in g   r e s ul t   ( N o t e   3 )    
a n d   n e t   fi n a n c i a l   e x p e n s e s   ( N o t e   4 ) .
Un d e r l y in g   ea r nin g s   u s e d   in   t h e   c al c ul a t i o n   o f   un d e r l y in g   ea r nin g s   
p e r   s h a r e   i s   p r o fi t   af t e r   t a x   f r o m   c o n t in uin g   o p e r at i o n s   e x c lu d in g 
ac q ui s i t i o n   r e l a t e d   i t e m s ,   im p a ir m ent   o f   g o o d w ill   a n d   s e p ar at e l y  
d i s c l o s e d   i t e m s   in c lu d e d   w i t hin   b o t h   t h e   o p e r at in g   r e s ul t   ( N o t e   3 )    
a n d   n e t   fi n a n c i a l   e x p e n s e s   ( N o t e   4 )   ( n e t   o f   r e l a t e d   t a x at i o n ) .
I t   s h o ul d   b e   n o t e d   t h at   t h e   d e fi ni t i o n s   o f   un d e r l y in g   i t e m s   b e in g   
u s e d   in   t h e s e   c o n s o li d at e d   fi n a n c i a l   s t at e m e n t s   a r e   t h o s e   u s e d   b y   
t h e   G r o up   a n d   m a y   n o t   b e   c o m p ar a b l e   w i t h   t h e   t e r m   ‘ un d e r l y in g ’    
a s   d e fi n e d   b y   o t h e r   c o m p ani e s   w i t hin   b o t h   t h e   s a m e   s e c t o r   o r 
e l s e w h e r e .
( v ) 	 S e p a r a te l y 	 d i s c l o s e d 	 i te m s
S e p ar at e l y   d i s c l o s e d   i t e m s   a r e   t h o s e   s i g ni fi c a n t   i t e m s   w hi c h   in 
m a n a g e m e n t ’ s   j u d g e m e n t   a r e   hi g hli g h t e d   b y   v ir t u e   o f   t h e ir   s i z e   o r 
in c i d e n c e   t o   e n a b l e   a   f ull   un d e r s t a n d in g   o f   t h e   G r o up ’ s   fi n a n c i a l  
p e r f o r m an c e .     S u c h   i t e m s   a r e   in c lu d e d   w i t hin   t h e   in c o m e   s t at e m e n t  
c apt i o n   t o   w hi c h   t h e y   r e l a t e   ( N o t e s   3   a n d   4 ) .
( v i ) 	 Ac q u i s i t i o n 	 r e l a te d 	 e x p e n s e s
A c q ui s i t i o n   r e l a t e d   e x p e n s e s   c o m p r i s e   a m o r t i s a t i o n   o f   b u s in e s s  
c o m bin at i o n   in t a n g ib l e s ,   o t h e r   ac q ui s i t i o n   r e l a t e d   e x p e n s e s   a n d 
r e mun e r a t i o n   f o r   p o s t - c o m bin a t i o n   s e r v i c e s .    
T hi s   f o ll o w s   t h e   G r o up ’ s   ad o pt i o n   o f   IF R S   3   ( R e v i s e d )   f o r   b u s in e s s 
c o m bin at i o n s   c o m p l e t e d   af t e r   1   O c t o b e r   2 0 0 9 .     T h e   r e v i s e d   s t a n d ar d 
h a s   r e s ul t e d   in   a   n um b e r   o f   c h an g e s   f o r   b u s in e s s   c o m bin at i o n s   m ad e 
af t e r   t hi s   d a t e ,   n o t a b l y   t h at   d ir e c t l y   at t r ib u t a b l e   ac q ui s i t i o n   c o s t s   a r e  
t o   b e   e x p e n s e d   r at h e r   t h a n   in c lu d e d   a s   p ar t   o f   t h e   p urc h a s e   p r i c e    
a n d   t h at   c o n t in g e n t   c o n s i d er at i o n   i s   ac c oun t e d   f o r   at   f a ir   v a lu e   at    
t h e   ac q ui s i t i o n   d a t e   w i t h   s ub s e q u e n t   c h an g e s   t o   t h e   f a ir   v a lu e   b e in g 
r e c og ni s e d   in   t h e   c o n s o li d at e d   in c o m e   s t at e m e n t .     T h e   r e v i s e d  
s t a n d ar d   d o e s   n o t   a p p l y   t o   b u s in e s s   c o m bin at i o n s   b e f o r e   1   O c t o b er  
2 0 0 9   a n d   t h e r e   i s   n o   r e t r o s p e c t i v e   a p p li c at i o n   f o r   b u s in e s s  
c o m bin at i o n s   b e f o r e   t h at   d a t e .
T h e   un a u d i t e d   p r o   f o r m a   in f o r m a t i o n   i s   p r e s e n t e d   a l o n g s i d e   t h e 
c o n s o li d at e d   in c o m e   s t at e m e n t .     T hi s   i s   t o   p r o v i d e   in f o r m a t i o n   w hi c h  
t h e   D ir e c t o r s   c o n s i d er   h e lp s   t o   p r o v i d e   a   b e t t e r   un d e r s t an d in g   o f   t h e  
un d e r l y in g   p e r f o r m an c e   o f   t h e   b u s in e s s .     T h e   d i f f e r e n c e s   b e t w e e n 
t h e   un a u d i t e d   p r o   f o r m a   in c o m e   s t at e m e n t   in f o r m a t i o n   a n d   t h e 
c o n s o li d at e d   s t at u t o r y   in c o m e   s t at e m e n t   f o r   t h e   y ea r   a r e   s um m ar i s e d 
a s   f o ll o w s :    
•   T h e   p r o   f o r m a   in c o m e   s t at e m e n t   e x c lu d e s   t h e   e s t im at e d 
in c r e m e n t al   d ir e c t   c o s t s   in c ur r e d   b y   t h e   G r o up   in   r e s p e c t   o f  
w e l f a r e   c o s t s   t o   ac c o m m o d at e   an d   r e p a t r i at e   t h e   c u s t o m e r s   w h o 
w e r e   af f e c t e d   b y   t h e   c l o s ur e   o f   E ur o p ean   a ir s p ac e .     T h e s e   c o s t s  
p r in c ip all y   in c lu d e   h o t e l   c o s t s   f o r   s t r a n d e d   inb oun d   a n d   o u t b o un d  
c u s t o m e r s   a n d   t h e   c o s t   o f   r e p a t r i at i o n   o f   inb o un d   c u s t o m e r s .    
T h e s e   c o s t s   a m oun t   t o   £ 6 9 m .
•   T h e   p r o   f o r m a   in c o m e   s t at e m e n t   in c lu d e s   t h e   e s t im at e d   r e v e n u e 
( £ 9 3 m )   a n d   e s t im at e d   at t r ib u t a b l e   c o s t   o f   s a l e s   a n d   admini s t r a t i v e  
e x p e n s e s   ( £ 6 8 m )   f r o m   h o li d a y s   an d   fl i g h t s   w hi c h   w e r e   b o t h 
b o o k e d   a n d   p a i d   f o r   p r i o r   t o   t h e   c l o s ur e   o f   t h e   a ir s p ac e   b u t   w hi c h 
w e r e   c an c e ll e d   o r   un a b l e   t o   d e p ar t   d ur in g   t h e   af f e c t e d   p e r i o d   
( a   f o r e g o n e   g r o s s   p r o fi t   c o n t r ib u t i o n   o f   £ 2 5 m ) .   
•   T h e   p r o   f o r m a   in c o m e   s t at e m e n t   a l s o   in c lu d e s   an   e s t im at e d 
r e d u c t i o n   in   h o li d a y   a n d   fl i g h t   s a l e s   o f   £ 3 2 m   a n d   c o s t   o f   s a l e s    
o f   £ 2 2 m   in   t h e   im m e d i at e   p e r i o d   a f t e r   2 3   A p r il   2 0 1 0 ,   a s   a   r e s ul t    
o f   t h e   un c e r t a in t y   f r o m   b o t h   t h e   o r i g in al   c l o s ur e   o f   a ir s p ac e   a n d 
f ur t h e r   ad d i t i o n al   c l o s ur e s   an d   d i s r upt i o n   in   M a y ,   p ar t i c ul a r l y    
in   t h e   U K .     T hi s   im p ac t ,   in   t e r m s   o f   f o r e g o n e   g r o s s   p r o fi t  
c o n t r ib u t i o n ,   i s   e s t im at e d   at   £ 1 0 m .
•   C e r t a in   c u s t o m e r s   w h o s e   h o li d a y s   a n d / o r   fl i g h t s   w e r e   c an c e ll e d  
w ill   h a v e   s ub s e q u e n t l y   r e - b o o k e d   t h e ir   h o li d a y   o n c e   f ull   h o li d a y 
a n d   fl y in g   o p e r at i o n s   c o m m e n c e d   a g a in   af t e r   2 3   A p r il   2 0 1 0 .      
I t   i s   n o t   p o s s ib l e   t o   r e li a b l y   t r ac k   s u c h   r e - b o o k in g s .     I t   i s   a l s o    
n o t   p o s s ib l e   t o   d e m o n s t r at e   t h at   t h e   r e - b o o k e d   h o li d a y   c ap ac i t y  
w o ul d   n o t   o t h e r w i s e   h a v e   b e e n   s o l d   an d   m ad e   a   p o s i t i v e  
c o n t r ib u t i o n ,   g i v e n   t h e   a bili t y   o f   t h e   G r o up   t o   s e ll   a n d   d i s t r ib u t e 
h o li d a y s   up   un t il   t h e   d a t e   o f   d e p a r t ur e .     C o n s e q u e n t l y   n o 
ad j u s t m e n t   h a s   b e e n   t o   r e fl e c t   a n   e s t im at e   o f   s u c h   p o s s ib l e    
r e - b o o k in g s   in   t h e   p r o   f o r m a   in f o r m a t i o n .
•     T h e   p r o   f o r m a   in c o m e   s t at e m e n t   d o e s   n o t   in c lu d e   t h e   e s t im at e d  
b e n e fi t   o f   l o s t   r e v e n u e   a n d   p o s i t i v e   c o n t r ib u t i o n   w hi c h   w o ul d   h a v e  
a r i s e n   f r o m   s a l e   o f   f ur t h e r   h o li d a y s   d ur in g   t h e   a ir s p ac e   c l o s ur e  
p e r i o d   f r o m   1 5 - 2 3   A p r il   2 0 1 0   in   t h e   ‘ l at e s ’   m a r k e t   w hi c h   w o ul d  
o t h e r w i s e   h a v e   d e p a r t e d   d ur in g   t hi s   p e r i o d .
A   d e t a il e d   an al y s i s   o f   t h e   im p ac t   o n   t h e   p r o   f o r m a   in c o m e   s t at e m e n t 
d u e   t o   t h e   v o l c ani c   a s h   d i s r upt i o n   i s   s h o w n   in   t h e   t a b l e   b e l o w :  
    E s t i m a t e d  
  C a n c e l l a t i o n s   i m p a c t  p o s t  I n c r e m e n t a l  
  1 5 - 2 3 A p r i l   2 3 A p r i l   c o s t s  T o t a l  
  £ m    £ m    £ m    £ m 
R e v e n u e  (93)  (32)   –    (125)
C o s t  o f  s a l e s   68    22     (69)  21 
G r o s s p r o fi t   (25)  (10)   (69)  (104)
S e p a r a t e l y d i s c l o s e d   
i t e m s ( S D I )  –  –   (69)  (69)
N o n  S D I  (25)  (10)   –  (35)
  (25)   (10)   (69)   (104)
•   T h e   c l o s ur e   o f   U K   a n d   E ur o p ean   a ir s p ac e   h ad   n o   e f f e c t   o n   t h e 
c o m p ar at i v e   y ea r   t o   3 0   S e pt e m b e r   2 0 0 9   a n d   t h e r e f o r e   n o   p r o  
f o r m a   in c o m e   s t at e m e n t   i s   p r e s e n t e d   f o r   t hi s   p e r i o d .
Financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements c o n t i n u e d www.tuitravelplc.com
Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
T U I  T r a v e l P L C  A n n u a l R e p o r t  &  A c c o u n t s  2 0 1 0  73
( i ) 	 S u b s i d i a r i e s
S ub s i d i a r i e s   a r e   e n t i t i e s   c o n t r o ll e d   b y   t h e   G r o up .     C o n t r o l   e x i s t s   
w h e n   t h e   G r o up   h a s   t h e   p o w e r ,   d ir e c t l y   o r   in d ir e c t l y ,   t o   g o v e r n   t h e 
fi n a n c i a l   a n d   o p e r a t in g   p o li c i e s   o f   a n   e n t i t y   s o   a s   t o   o bt a in   b e n e fi t s  
f r o m   i t s   ac t i v i t i e s .     In   a s s e s s in g   c o n t r o l ,   p o t e n t i a l   v o t in g   r i g h t s   t h at   
a r e   c ur r e n t l y   e x e rc i s ab l e   o r   c o n v e r t ib l e   a r e   t a k e n   in t o   ac c oun t .      
T h e   fi n a n c i a l   s t at e m e n t s   o f   s ub s i d i a r i e s   a r e   in c lu d e d   in   t h e 
c o n s o li d at e d   fi n a n c i a l   in f o r m a t i o n   f r o m   t h e   d a t e   t h at   c o n t r o l 
c o m m e n c e s   un t il   t h e   d a t e   t h at   c o n t r o l   c ea s e s .
( i i ) 	 J o i n t 	 v e n t u r e s 	 a n d 	 a s s o c i a te s
Join t   v e n t ur e s   a r e   j oin t l y   c o n t r o ll e d   e n t i t i e s   w h o s e   ac t i v i t i e s   t h e  
G r o up   h a s   t h e   p o w e r   t o   j oin t l y   c o n t r o l ,   e s t a b li s h e d   b y   c o n t r ac t u a l  
a g r e e m e n t .     A s s o c i at e s   a r e   t h o s e   e n t i t i e s   in   w hi c h   t h e   G r o up   h a s   t h e 
a bili t y   t o   e x e rc i s e   s i g ni fi c a n t   in fl u e n c e ,   b u t   n o t   c o n t r o l ,   o v e r   t h e 
fi n a n c i a l   a n d   o p e r a t in g   p o li c i e s .     T h e   c o n s o li d at e d   fi n a n c i a l   s t at e m e n t s  
in c lu d e   t h e   G r o up ’ s   s h a r e   o f   t h e   t o t a l   r e c og ni s e d   in c o m e   a n d   e x p e n s e 
a n d   c h an g e s   in   e q ui t y   o f   j oin t   v e n t ur e s   a n d   a s s o c i at e s   o n   a n   e q ui t y  
ac c o un t e d   b a s i s ,   f r o m   t h e   d a t e   t h at   j oin t   c o n t r o l   o r   s i g ni fi c a n t  
in fl u e n c e   r e s p e c t i v e l y   c o m m e n c e s   un t il   t h e   d a t e   t h at   i t   c ea s e s .    
A s s o c i at e s   a n d   j oin t   v e n t ur e s   a r e   r e c o r d e d   at   c o s t   a s   ad j u s t e d   f o r  
p o s t - ac q ui s i t i o n   c h an g e s   in   t h e   G r o up ’ s   s h a r e   o f   n e t   a s s e t s   o f   t h e  
e n t i t y   in c lu d in g   g o o d w ill   n e t   o f   ac c umul a t e d   im p a ir m e n t   l o s s .     W h e n 
t h e   G r o up ’ s   s h a r e   o f   l o s s e s   e x c e e d s   t h e   c ar r y in g   a m o un t   o f   t h e   j oin t  
v e n t ur e   o r   a s s o c i at e ,   t h e   c ar r y in g   a m o un t   i s   r e d u c e d   t o   £ nil   a n d 
r e c og ni t i o n   o f   f ur t h e r   l o s s e s   i s   d i s c o n t in u e d   e x c e pt   t o   t h e   e x t e n t   t h at 
t h e   G r o up   h a s   in c ur r e d   l e g al   o r   c o n s t r u c t i v e   o b li g at i o n s   o r   m ad e 
p a y m e n t s   o n   b e h al f   o f   t h e   j oint   v e n t ur e   o r   a s s o c i at e .
( i i i ) 	 T r a n s a c t i o n s 	 e l i m i n a te d 	 o n 	 c o n s o l i d a t i o n
In t r a - g r o up   b al a n c e s   a n d   a n y   unr ea li s e d   g a in s   o r   in c o m e   a n d 
e x p e n s e s   a r i s in g   f r o m   in t r a - g r o up   t r a n s ac t i o n s ,   a r e   e limin at e d   in  
p r e p a r in g   t h e   c o n s o li d at e d   fi n a n c i a l   s t at e m e n t s .     Unr ea li s e d   g a in s 
a r i s in g   f r o m   t r a n s ac t i o n s   w i t h   a s s o c i at e s   a n d   j oin t l y   c o n t r o ll e d   e n t i t i e s  
a r e   e limin at e d   t o   t h e   e x t e n t   o f   t h e   G r o up ’ s   in t e r e s t   in   t h e   e n t i t y .   
Unr ea li s e d   l o s s e s   a r e   e limin at e d   in   t h e   s a m e   w a y   a s   unr ea li s e d   g a in s ,  
b u t   o nl y   t o   t h e   e x t e n t   t h at   t h e r e   i s   n o   e v i d e n c e   o f   im p a ir m e n t .
( i v ) 	 Ac q u i s i t i o n 	 i n 	 s t a g e s
W h e r e   a   G r o up   g a in s   c o n t r o l   o f   a   s ub s i d i a r y   un d e r t a k in g   t hr o u g h   a  
s t e p   ac q ui s i t i o n ,   t h e   e x i s t in g   in t e r e s t   o w n e d   i s   r e m ea s ur e d   at   f a ir  
v a lu e   w i t h   t h e   d i f f e r e n c e   b e t w e e n   f a ir   v a lu e   a n d   b o o k   v a lu e   b e in g  
r e c og ni s e d   in   t h e   in c o m e   s t at e m e n t .     T h e   ac c o un t in g   im p ac t   o f  
c h an g e s   in   s h a r e   o w n e r s hip   w hi c h   d o   n o t   a f f e c t   c o n t r o l   i s   ac c ount e d  
f o r   t hr o u g h   r e s e r v e s .
( v ) 	 C o n t i n g e n t 	 a c q u i s i t i o n 	 c o n s i d e r a t io n 	 ( f o r 	 b u s i n e s s	
c o m b i n a t io n s 	 f r o m 	 1 	 O c t o b e r 	 2 0 0 9 )
C o n t in g e n t   c o n s i d er at i o n   i s   ac c o un t e d   f o r   at   f a ir   v a lu e   at   t h e 
ac q ui s i t i o n   d a t e   w i t h   s ub s e q u en t   c h an g e s   in   t h e   f a ir   v a lu e   b e in g  
r e c og ni s e d   in   t h e   in c o m e   s t at e m e n t .     C o n t in g e n t   c o n s i d er a t i o n  
d e p e n d e n t   up o n   c o n t in uin g   s e r v i c e   o f   a n   e m p l o y e e   i s   c h ar g e d   t o   t h e  
in c o m e   s t at e m e n t   o v e r   t h e   r e l a t e d   s e r v i c e   p e r i o d .
C o n t i n g e n t 	 a c q u i s i t i o n 	 c o n s i d e r a t io n 	 ( f o r 	 b u s i n e s s 	 c o m b i n a t io n s 	
u p 	 u n t i l 	 3 0 	 S e p te m b e r 	 2 0 0 9 )
C o n t in g e n t   c o n s i d er at i o n   i s   r e c og ni s e d   w h e n   t h e   p a y m e n t   a m oun t  
b e c o m e s   p r o b ab l e   an d   t h e   a m oun t s   c an   b e   r e li a b l y   m ea s ur e d .    
T h e   p urc h a s e   p r i c e   i s   s ub s e q u e n t l y   ad j u s t e d   a g a in s t   g o o d w ill   o r 
n e g at i v e   g o o d w ill   a s   t h e   e s t im at e   o f   t h e   a m o un t   p a y ab l e   i s   r e v i s e d .
( v i i ) 	 B u s i n e s s 	 a n d 	 P e r f o r m a nc e 	 R e v i e w
T h e   G r o up ’ s   b u s in e s s   ac t i v i t i e s ,   t og e t h e r   w i t h   f ac t o r s   lik e l y   t o   af f e c t  
i t s   f u t ur e   d e v e l o p m e n t ,   p e r f o r m an c e   a n d   p o s i t i o n   a r e   s e t   o u t   in   t h e 
B u s in e s s   P e r f o r m an c e   s e c t i o n .     In   ad d i t i o n ,   N o t e   2 5   s e t s   o u t   t h e 
G r o up ’ s   o bj e c t i v e s ,   p o li c i e s   a n d   p r o c e s s e s   f o r   m a n a g in g   i t s   c api t a l ,  
fi n a n c i a l   r i s k s ,   fi n a n c i a l   in s t r um e n t s   a n d   h e d g in g   ac t i v i t i e s   a s   w e ll   a s 
i t s   e x p o s ur e s   t o   c r e d i t   an d   li q ui d i t y   r i s k .
( v i i i ) 	 F u n d i n g 	 a n d 	 l i q u i d i t y
T h e   B o ar d   r e m a in s   s at i s fi e d   w i t h   t h e   G r o up ’ s   f un d in g   a n d   li q ui d i t y  
p o s i t i o n .     T h e   m a in   s o urc e s   o f   d e b t   f un d in g   a r e :
1 .   t h e   s h a r e h o l d e r   l o an   f r o m   T U I   A G ,   w hi c h   i s   € 6 6 9 m   a n d   i s   b e in g 
r e p a i d   a s   f o ll o w s :   1   D e c e m b e r   2 0 1 0 :   € 5 0 9 m   a n d   3 0   A p r il   2 0 1 1 :  
€ 1 6 0 m ;
2 .   a   t o t al   o f   £ 1 , 0 6 0 m   s y n d i c a t e d   b ank   r e v o l v in g   c r e d i t   f ac ili t i e s   w hi c h 
m a t ur e   in   J un e   2 0 1 2 ;
3 .   £ 4 0 m   o f   b o n d in g   an d   l e t t e r   o f   c r e d i t   f ac ili t i e s   w hi c h   m a t ur e   in  
S e pt e m b e r   2 0 1 1   a n d   a   f ur t h e r   £ 5 0 m   w hi c h   m a t ur e   in   J un e   2 0 1 2 ;
4 .   a   £ 3 5 0 m   c o n v e r t ib l e   b o n d   ( d u e   2 0 1 4 )   i s s u e d   o n   1   O c t o b e r   2 0 0 9  
a n d   s e t t l e d   o n   5   O c t o b e r   2 0 0 9 ;   a n d
5 .   a   £ 4 0 0 m   c o n v e r t ib l e   b o n d   ( d u e   2 0 1 7 )   i s s u e d   o n   2 2   A p r il   2 0 1 0    
a n d   s e t t l e d   o n   2 7   A p r il   2 0 1 0 .
In   ad d i t i o n   t o   t h e   a b o v e   f ac ili t i e s   a   f ur t h e r   £ 3 0 m   b o n d in g   a n d   
l e t t e r   o f   c r e d i t   f ac ili t y   w hi c h   m a t ur e s   in   J un e   2 0 1 2   w a s   s i g n e d   
o n   1 5   O c t o b e r   2 0 1 0 .    
T h e   r at i o   o f   E ar nin g s   B e f o r e   In t e r e s t ,   T a x a t i o n ,   D e p r e c i at i o n , 
A m o r t i s at i o n   a n d   o p e r at in g   l ea s e   R e n t al s   ( E BI T D A R )   t o   fi x e d   
c h ar g e s   ( b e in g   t h e   a g g r e g a t e   a m oun t   o f   in t e r e s t   a n d   a n y   o t h e r  
fi n a n c e   c h ar g e s   in   r e s p e c t   o f   b o r r o w in g s   an d   in c lu d in g   a ll   p a y m e n t s  
un d e r   o p e r at in g   l ea s e s )   a n d   t h e   r at i o   o f   n e t   d e b t   t o   E ar nin g s   B e f o r e  
Int e r e s t ,   T a x a t i o n ,   D e p r e c i at i o n   a n d   A m o r t i s at i o n   ( E BI T D A ) ,   w hi c h   
t h e   B o ar d   b e li e v e s   t o   b e   t h e   m o s t   u s e f ul   m ea s ur e s   o f   c a s h   g e n e r at i o n  
an d   g ea r in g ,   a s   w e ll   a s   b e in g   t h e   m a in   b a s i s   f o r   t h e   G r o up ’ s   c r e d i t  
f ac ili t y   c o v e n a n t s ,   a r e   c ur r e n t l y   w e ll   w i t hin   t h e   c o v e n a n t   limi t s .    
F o r e c a s t s   r e v i e w e d   b y   t h e   B o ar d ,   in c lu d in g   f o r e c a s t s   ad j u s t e d   f o r  
s i g ni fi c a n t l y   w o r s e   e c o n o mi c   c o n d i t i o n s ,   s h o w   c o n t in u e d   c o m p li a n c e  
w i t h   t h e s e   c o v e n a n t s .     F o r   b o t h   c o v e n a n t s ,   ea r nin g s   a r e   c al c ul a t e d   o n 
an   un d e r l y in g   b a s i s   a s   d e s c r ib e d   in   N o t e   1 ( B ) ( i v ) .
O n   t h e   b a s i s   o f   i t s   f o r e c a s t s ,   b o t h   b a s e   c a s e   an d   ad j u s t e d   a s  
d e s c r ib e d   a b o v e ,   a n d   a v a il ab l e   f ac ili t i e s ,   t h e   B o ar d   h a s   c o n c lu d e d   t h at 
t h e   g oin g   c o n c e r n   b a s i s   o f   p r e p a r at i o n   c o n t in u e s   t o   b e   a p p r o p r i a t e .    
In   p ar t i c ul ar   t h e   B o ar d   b e li e v e   t h at   t h e   f un d in g   a lr ead y   in   p l ac e   i s 
s u f fi c i e n t   t o   r e p a y   t h e   S h a r e h o l d e r   l o an   w hi c h   w ill   b e c o m e   p a y ab l e   
a s   d e s c r ib e d   a b o v e .
(C) Basis of consolidation
T h e   c o n s o li d at e d   fi n a n c i a l   s t at e m e n t s   a r e   p r e p ar e d   o n   t h e   hi s t o r i c al  
c o s t   b a s i s   o t h e r   t h a n   d e r i v a t i v e   fi n a n c i a l   in s t r um e n t s ,   fi n a n c i a l  
in s t r um e n t s   h e l d   f o r   t r ad in g ,   fi n a n c i a l   in s t r um e n t s   c l a s s i fi e d    
a s   a v a il ab l e   f o r   s a l e   a n d   li a bili t i e s   f o r   c a s h - s e t t l e d   s h a r e - b a s e d  
p a y m e n t s ,   w hi c h   a r e   s t at e d   at   t h e ir   f a ir   v a lu e .     N o n - c ur r e n t   a s s e t s  
an d   d i s p o s a l   g r o up s   h e l d   f o r   s a l e   ar e   s t at e d   at   t h e   l o w e r   o f   t h e ir 
c ar r y in g   a m o un t   a n d   f a ir   v a lu e   l e s s   c o s t s   t o   s e ll .
T h e   G r o up   fi n a n c i a l   s t at e m e n t s   c o n s o li d at e   t h o s e   o f   t h e   C o m p a n y  
an d   i t s   s ub s i d i a r i e s   ( t og e t h e r   r e f e r r e d   t o   a s   t h e   G r o up )   a n d   e q ui t y  
ac c o un t   t h e   G r o up ’ s   in t e r e s t   in   j oin t   v e n t ur e s   an d   a s s o c i at e s .     
T h e   p ar e n t   c o m p an y   fi n a n c i a l   s t at e m e n t s   p r e s e n t   in f o r m a t i o n   
ab o u t   t h e   C o m p a n y   a s   a   s e p ar at e   e n t i t y   a n d   n o t   ab o u t   t h e   G r o up . www.tuitravelplc.com
74  T U I T r a v e l  P L C  A n n u a l R e p o r t & A c c o u n t s  2 0 1 0
F o r e i g n   e x c h an g e   g a in s   a n d   l o s s e s   a r i s in g   f r o m   a   m o n e t a r y   i t e m  
r e c e i v ab l e   f r o m   o r   p a y ab l e   t o   a   f o r e i g n   o p e r a t i o n ,   t h e   s e t t l e m e n t   
o f   w hi c h   i s   n e i t h e r   p l a nn e d   n o r   lik e l y   in   t h e   f o r e s e ea b l e   f u t ur e ,   a r e  
c o n s i d er e d   t o   f o r m   p ar t   o f   a   n e t   in v e s t m e n t   in   a   f o r e i g n   o p e r at i o n 
a n d   a r e   r e c og ni s e d   d ir e c t l y   in   e q ui t y   in   t h e   t r a n s l a t i o n   r e s e r v e .    
( i i i ) 	 N e t 	 i n v e s t m e n t 	 i n 	 f o r e i g n 	 o p e r a t io n s
T h e   G r o up   a p p li e s   h e d g e   ac c ount in g   t o   f o r e i g n   c ur r e n c y   d i f f e r e n c e s  
a r i s in g   b e t w e e n   t h e   f un c t i o n a l   c ur r e n c y   o f   t h e   f o r e i g n   o p e r at i o n   
a n d   t h e   p ar e n t   e n t i t y ’ s   f un c t i o n a l   c ur r e n c y   ( S t e r lin g )   r e g a r dl e s s    
o f   w h e t h er   t h e   n e t   in v e s t m e n t   i s   h e l d   d ir e c t l y   o r   t hr o u g h   a n 
in t e r m e d i at e   p ar e n t .
F o r e i g n   c ur r e n c y   d i f f e r e n c e s   a r i s in g   o n   t h e   r e t r a n s l a t i o n   o f   a    
fi n a n c i a l   li a bili t y   d e s i g n at e d   a s   a   h e d g e   o f   a   n e t   in v e s t m e n t   in   a 
f o r e i g n   o p e r at i o n   ar e   r e c og ni s e d   in   t h e   c o n s o li d at e d   s t at e m e n t   o f 
c o m p r e h e n s i v e   in c o m e   t o   t h e   e x t e n t   t h at   t h e   h e d g e   i s   e f f e c t i v e   a n d 
a r e   p r e s e n t e d   w i t hin   e q ui t y   in   t h e   t r a n s l a t i o n   r e s e r v e .     T o   t h e   e x t e n t  
t h at   t h e   h e d g e   i s   in e f f e c t i v e ,   s u c h   d i f f e r e n c e s   a r e   r e c og ni s e d   in   p r o fi t  
o r   l o s s .     W h e n   t h e   h e d g e d   p ar t   o f   a   n e t   in v e s t m e n t   i s   d i s p o s e d   o f   t h e 
r e l e v an t   a m oun t   in   t h e   t r a n s l a t i o n   r e s e r v e   i s   t r a n s f e r r e d   t o   p r o fi t   o r 
l o s s   a s   p ar t   o f   t h e   p r o fi t   o r   l o s s   o n   d i s p o s a l .
(E) Financial instruments
( i ) 	 F i n a nc i a l 	 a s s e t s
F in an c i a l   a s s e t s   a r e   e i t h e r   c l a s s i fi e d   a s   l o an s   a n d   r e c e i v ab l e s ,   a v a il ab l e  
f o r   s a l e   fi n a n c i a l   a s s e t s ,   o r   fi n a n c i a l   a s s e t s   at   f a ir   v a lu e   t hr o u g h   p r o fi t  
o r   l o s s .     F in an c i a l   a s s e t s   in c lu d e   c a s h   a n d   c a s h   e q ui v a l e n t s ,   t r ad e 
r e c e i v ab l e s ,   o t h e r   r e c e i v ab l e s ,   l o an s ,   t r ad e   a n d   o t h e r   in v e s t m e n t s   
a n d   d e r i v a t i v e   fi n a n c i a l   in s t r um e n t s .     T h e   G r o up   d e t e r min e s   t h e 
c l a s s i fi c at i o n   o f   i t s   fi n a n c i a l   a s s e t s   at   ini t i a l   r e c og ni t i o n .   F in an c i a l  
a s s e t s   a r e   r e c og ni s e d   ini t i a ll y   at   f a ir   v a lu e ,   n o r m a ll y   b e in g   t h e 
t r a n s ac t i o n   p r i c e   p lu s ,   in   t h e   c a s e   o f   fi n a n c i a l   a s s e t s   n o t   at   f a ir   
v a lu e   t hr o u g h   p r o fi t   o r   l o s s ,   d ir e c t l y   at t r ib u t a b l e   t r a n s ac t i o n   c o s t s .   
T h e   s ub s e q u e n t   m ea s ur em e n t   o f   fi n a n c i a l   a s s e t s   d e p e n d s   o n   t h e ir 
c l a s s i fi c at i o n ,   a s   f o ll o w s :
Loans and receivables
L o a n s   a n d   r e c e i v ab l e s   a r e   n o n - d e r i v a t i v e   fi n a n c i a l   a s s e t s   w i t h    
fi x e d   o r   d e t e r min ab l e   p a y m e n t s   t h at   a r e   n o t   q u o t e d   in   an   ac t i v e 
m a r k e t .     S u c h   a s s e t s   a r e   c ar r i e d   at   am o r t i s e d   c o s t   u s in g   t h e   
e f f e c t i v e   in t e r e s t   m e t h o d   i f   t h e   t im e   v a lu e   o f   m o n e y   i s   s i g ni fi c a n t .    
G a in s   a n d   l o s s e s   a r e   r e c og ni s e d   in   in c o m e   w h e n   t h e   l o an s   an d  
r e c e i v ab l e s   a r e   d e r e c og ni s e d   o r   im p a ir e d ,   a s   w e ll   a s   t hr o u g h   t h e 
a m o r t i s a t i o n   p r o c e s s .     T hi s   c a t e g o r y   o f   fi n a n c i a l   a s s e t s   in c lu d e s    
t r ad e   a n d   o t h e r   r e c e i v ab l e s .
Available for sale financial assets
A v a il a b l e   f o r   s a l e   fi n a n c i a l   a s s e t s   a r e   t h o s e   n o n - d e r i v a t i v e   fi n a n c i a l  
a s s e t s   t h at   ar e   n o t   c l a s s i fi e d   a s   l o an s   a n d   r e c e i v ab l e s   o r   fi n a n c i a l  
a s s e t s   at   f a ir   v a lu e   t hr o u g h   p r o fi t   o r   l o s s .     A f t e r   ini t i a l   r e c og ni t i o n ,  
a v a il ab l e   f o r   s a l e   fi n a n c i a l   a s s e t s   a r e   m ea s ur e d   a t   f a ir   v a lu e ,   w i t h   g a in s  
o r   l o s s e s   r e c og ni s e d   a s   a   s e p ar at e   c o m p o n e n t   o f   e q ui t y   un t il   t h e 
in v e s t m e n t   i s   d e r e c og ni s e d   o r   un t il   t h e   in v e s t m e n t   i s   d e t e r min e d   t o 
b e   im p a ir e d ,   at   w hi c h   t im e   t h e   c umul at i v e   g a in   o r   l o s s   p r e v i o u s l y 
r e p o r t e d   in   e q ui t y   i s   in c lu d e d   in   t h e   c o n s o li d at e d   in c o m e   s t at e m e n t .    
N o t e   1 ( Y ) ( i v )   d e s c r ib e s   t h e   b a s i s   o n   w hi c h   f a ir   v a lu e   i s   d e t e r min e d .
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss
F in an c i a l   a s s e t s   at   f a ir   v a lu e   t hr o u g h   p r o fi t   o r   l o s s   a r e   m ea s ur e d   at  
f a ir   v a lu e   af t e r   ini t i a l   r e c og ni t i o n .     T h e   g a in   o r   l o s s   i s   in c lu d e d   in   t h e  
c o n s o li d at e d   in c o m e   s t at e m e n t .     N o t e   1 ( Y ) ( i v )   d e s c r ib e s   t h e   b a s i s   
o n   w hi c h   f a ir   v a lu e   i s   d e t e r min e d .
T h e   t e r m   c o n t in g e n t   c o n s i d er at i o n   h a s   b e e n   u s e d   t hr o u g h ou t   t h e s e 
fi n a n c i a l   s t at e m e n t s   t o   d e s c r ib e   t h e   p ar t   o f   t h e   o v e r a ll   c o n s i d e r at i o n  
p a i d   t o   t h e   f o r m e r   s h a r e h o l d e r s   o f   b u s in e s s e s   ac q uir e d   o n   o r   af t e r   
1   O c t o b e r   2 0 0 9   t h at   i s   c o n t in g e n t   up o n   t h e   f u t ur e   r e s ul t s   o f   t h o s e 
ac q uir e d   b u s in e s s e s ,   in c lu d in g   w h e r e   t h e   p a y m e n t   i s   c o n t in g e n t   o n 
t h o s e   f o r m e r   s h a r e h o l d e r s   un d e r t a k in g   e m p l o y m e n t   w i t h   t h e   G r o up 
f o r   a   p r e d e t e r min e d   p e r i o d   af t e r   t h e   r e l e v an t   b u s in e s s   c o m bin at i o n .  
IF R S   3   ( r e v i s e d )   r e q uir e s   t h at   t h e s e   am ount s   a r e   c h ar g e d   t o   t h e 
c o n s o li d at e d   in c o m e   s t at e m e n t   a s   a   p o s t - ac q ui s i t i o n   e m p l o y m e n t   c o s t  
o v e r   t h e   t e r m   o f   t h e   r e l e v an t   p o s t - c o m bin a t i o n   e m p l o y m e n t   p e r i o d .   
T h e   G r o up   in c lu d e s   t h e   r e l e v an t   in c o m e   s t at e m e n t   c h a r g e   w i t hin 
ac q ui s i t i o n   r e l a t e d   e x p e n s e s   ( N o t e   1 3 ) .     T h e   D ir e c t o r s   b e li e v e   t h e 
c o m m e rc i a l   n at ur e   o f   t h e s e   p a y m e n t s   m ea n s   t h at   t hi s   t e r m   r e m a in s  
t h e   m o s t   a p p r o p r i a t e   t o   d e s c r ib e   t h e s e   p a y m e n t s ,   n o t w i t h s t a n d in g 
t h e   ac c o un t in g   t r eat m e n t   r e q uir e d   b y   IF R S   3   ( r e v i s e d ) .
( v i ) 	 N o n - c u r r e n t 	 a s s e t s 	 h e l d 	 f o r 	 s a l e
T h e   G r o up   c l a s s i fi e s   n o n - c ur r e n t   a s s e t s   a s   h e l d   f o r   s a l e   i f   t h e ir 
c ar r y in g   a m o un t   w ill   b e   r e c o v e r e d   p r in c ip all y   t hr o u g h   a   s a l e 
t r a n s ac t i o n   r at h e r   t h a n   t hr o u g h   c o n t in uin g   u s e .     T o   b e   c l a s s i fi e d   a s  
h e l d   f o r   s a l e ,   t h e   a s s e t s   mu s t   b e   a v a il ab l e   f o r   im m e d i at e   s a l e   in   t h e ir 
p r e s e n t   c o n d i t i o n ,   s ubj e c t   o nl y   t o   t e r m s   t h at   ar e   u s u al   a n d   c u s t o m a r y  
f o r   t h e   s a l e   o f   s u c h   a s s e t s ,   an d   t h e ir   s a l e   mu s t   b e   hi g hl y   p r o b ab l e . 
S a l e   i s   c o n s i d er e d   t o   b e   hi g hl y   p r o b ab l e   w h e n   m a n a g e m e n t   a r e 
c o m mi t t e d   t o   a   p l a n   t o   s e ll   t h e   a s s e t s   a n d   a n   ac t i v e   p r og r a m m e   t o 
l o c a t e   a   b u y e r   an d   c o m p l e t e   t h e   p l a n   h a s   b e e n   ini t i at e d ,   a t   a   p r i c e  
t h at   i s   r ea s o n ab l e   in   r e l a t i o n   t o   t h e ir   c ur r e n t   f a ir   v a lu e ,   a n d   t h e r e   i s   a n 
e x p e c t at i o n   t h at   t h e   s a l e   w ill   b e   c o m p l e t e d   w i t hin   o n e   y ea r   f r o m   t h e 
d a t e   o f   c l a s s i fi c at i o n .     N o n - c ur r e n t   a s s e t s   c l a s s i fi e d   a s   h e l d   f o r   s a l e 
a r e   c ar r i e d   o n   t h e   G r o up ’ s   b al a n c e   s h e e t   at   t h e   l o w e r   o f   t h e ir   c ar r y in g 
a m oun t   an d   f a ir   v a lu e   l e s s   c o s t s   t o   s e ll .
(D) Foreign currency
( i ) 	 F o r e i g n 	 c u r r e nc y 	 t r a n s a c t i o n s
T r a n s ac t i o n s   in   f o r e i g n   c ur r e n c i e s   a r e   t r a n s l a t e d   at   t h e   f o r e i g n 
e x c h an g e   r at e   r ulin g   a t   t h e   d a t e   o f   t h e   t r a n s ac t i o n .     M o n e t ar y   a s s e t s  
a n d   li a bili t i e s   d e n o min at e d   in   f o r e i g n   c ur r e n c i e s   a t   t h e   b al a n c e   s h e e t  
d a t e   a r e   t r a n s l a t e d   t o   S t e r lin g   at   t h e   f o r e i g n   e x c h a n g e   r at e   r ulin g   at 
t h at   d a t e .     F o r e i g n   e x c h an g e   d i f f e r e n c e s   a r i s in g   o n   t r a n s l a t i o n   a r e  
r e c og ni s e d   in   t h e   in c o m e   s t at e m e n t   ( e x c e pt   f o r   d i f f e r e n c e s   a r i s in g   o n 
t h e   r e t r a n s l a t i o n   o f   a   fi n a n c i a l   li a bili t y   d e s i g n at e d   a s   a   h e d g e   o f   t h e 
n e t   in v e s t m e n t   in   a   f o r e i g n   o p e r at i o n ,   o r   q u ali f y in g   c a s h   fl o w   h e d g e s ,  
w hi c h   a r e   r e c og ni s e d   d ir e c t l y   in   e q ui t y ) .     N o n - m o n e t ar y   a s s e t s   an d  
li a bili t i e s   t h at   a r e   m ea s ur e d   in   t e r m s   o f   hi s t o r i c al   c o s t   in   a   f o r e i g n 
c ur r e n c y   a r e   t r a n s l a t e d   u s in g   t h e   e x c h a n g e   r at e   at   t h e   d a t e   o f   t h e 
t r a n s ac t i o n .     N o n - m o n e t ar y   a s s e t s   an d   li a bili t i e s   d e n o min at e d   in  
f o r e i g n   c ur r e n c i e s   t h at   a r e   s t at e d   at   f a ir   v a lu e   a r e   t r a n s l a t e d   t o 
S t e r lin g   a t   f o r e i g n   e x c h a n g e   r at e s   r ulin g   at   t h e   d a t e s   t h e   f a ir   v a lu e s 
w e r e   d e t e r min e d .
( i i ) 	 F o r e i g n 	 o p e r a t io n s
T h e   a s s e t s   a n d   li a bili t i e s   o f   f o r e i g n   o p e r at i o n s ,   in c lu d in g   g o o d w ill   
a n d   f a ir   v a lu e   ad j u s t m e n t s   a r i s in g   o n   c o n s o li d at i o n ,   a r e   t r a n s l a t e d   t o 
S t e r lin g   a t   t h e   f o r e i g n   e x c h a n g e   r at e s   r ulin g   a t   t h e   b al a n c e   s h e e t   d a t e .
T h e   r e v e n u e s   a n d   e x p e n s e s   o f   o v e r s ea s   o p e r at i o n s   a r e   t r a n s l a t e d   
at   r at e s   a p p r o x im at in g   t o   t h e   f o r e i g n   e x c h an g e   r at e s   r ulin g   at   t h e 
d a t e s   o f   t h e   t r a n s ac t i o n s .     F o r e i g n   e x c h a n g e   d i f f e r e n c e s   a r i s in g   o n 
r e t r a n s l a t i o n   h a v e   b e e n   r e c og ni s e d   d ir e c t l y   in   e q ui t y   in   t h e   t r a n s l a t i o n  
r e s e r v e ,   a   d e s i g n a t e d   f o r e i g n   e x c h a n g e   r e s e r v e ,   s in c e   1   Jan u a r y   2 0 0 7 .  
Financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements c o n t i n u e d www.tuitravelplc.com
Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
T U I  T r a v e l P L C  A n n u a l R e p o r t  &  A c c o u n t s  2 0 1 0  75
I s s u e   c o s t s   a r e   a p p o r t i o n e d   b e t w e e n   t h e   li a bili t y   a n d   e q ui t y  
c o m p o n e n t s   o f   a   c o n v e r t ib l e   b o n d   b a s e d   o n   t h e   a ll o c at i o n   o f 
p r o c e e d s   t o   t h e   li a bili t y   a n d   e q ui t y   c o m p o n e n t s   w h e n   t h e    
in s t r um e n t s   a r e   fi r s t   r e c og ni s e d .
Derivatives
D e r i v at i v e s   a r e   ac c oun t e d   f o r   in   ac c o r d a n c e   w i t h   t h e   p o li c y   in    
N o t e   1 ( E ) ( i ii ) .
Derecognition
T h e   G r o up   d e r e c og ni s e s   a   fi n a n c i a l   li a bili t y   w h e n   t h e   c o n t r ac t u a l  
o b li g at i o n s   t o   p a y   t h e   c o n t r ac t u a l   c a s h   fl o w s   o n   t h e   fi n a n c i a l   li a bili t y  
a r e   d i s c h a r g e d ,   c an c e ll e d   o r   e x pir e .  
( i i i ) 	 D e r i v a t i v e 	 fi n a nc i a l 	 i n s t r u m e n t s
T h e   G r o up   u s e s   d e r i v a t i v e   fi n a n c i a l   in s t r um e n t s   t o   h e d g e   i t s   
e x p o s ur e   t o   f o r e i g n   e x c h an g e ,   in t e r e s t   r at e   a n d   f u e l   p r i c e   r i s k s   
a r i s in g   f r o m   o p e r at i o n al ,   fi n a n c in g   a n d   in v e s t m e n t   ac t i v i t i e s .     
In   ac c o r d a n c e   w i t h   i t s   t r ea s ur y   p o li c y ,   t h e   G r o up   d o e s   n o t   h o l d   
o r   i s s u e   d e r i v a t i v e   fi n a n c i a l   in s t r um e n t s   f o r   t r ad in g   p ur p o s e s .   
H o w e v e r ,   d e r i v a t i v e s   t h at   d o   n o t   q u ali f y   f o r   h e d g e   ac c oun t in g   a r e  
ac c o un t e d   f o r   a s   t r ad in g   in s t r um e n t s .
D e r i v at i v e   fi n a n c i a l   in s t r um e n t s   a r e   ini t i a ll y   r e c og ni s e d   at   f a ir   v a lu e    
o n   t h e   d a t e   a   d e r i v a t i v e   c o n t r ac t   i s   e n t e r e d   in t o   a n d   a r e   s ub s e q u e n t l y  
r e m ea s ur e d   at   f a ir   v a lu e .     T h e   m e t h o d   o f   r e c og ni s in g   t h e   r e s ul t in g 
g a in   o r   l o s s   d e p e n d s   o n   w h e t h e r   t h e   d e r i v a t i v e   i s   d e s i g n at e d   a s   a 
h e d g in g   in s t r um e n t   an d   i f   s o   t h e   n at ur e   o f   t h e   i t e m   b e in g   h e d g e d .    
T h e   g a in   o r   l o s s   o n   r e m ea s ur e m e n t   t o   f a ir   v a lu e   o n   d e r i v a t i v e s   n o t  
d e s i g n at e d   a s   a   h e d g in g   in s t r um e n t   i s   r e c og ni s e d   im m e d i at e l y   in   t h e 
in c o m e   s t at e m e n t .     W h e r e   d e r i v a t i v e s   q u ali f y   f o r   h e d g e   ac c oun t in g ,  
s e e   A c c o un t in g   P o li c y   N o t e   1 ( F ) .
( i v ) 	 S h a r e 	 c a p i t a l
O r d in ar y   s h a r e s   a r e   c l a s s i fi e d   a s   e q ui t y .     In c r e m e n t al   c o s t s   d ir e c t l y  
at t r ib u t a b l e   t o   t h e   i s s u e   o f   o r d in ar y   s h a r e s   a n d   s h a r e   a w a r d s   a r e  
r e c og ni s e d   a s   a   d e d u c t i o n   f r o m   e q ui t y ,   n e t   o f   a n y   t a x   e f f e c t s .
(F) Hedge accounting
T h e   G r o up   d e s i g n at e s   c e r t a in   d e r i v a t i v e s   a s   e i t h e r   h e d g e s   o f   a  
p ar t i c ul a r   r i s k   a s s o c i at e d   w i t h   a   r e c og ni s e d   a s s e t   o r   li a bili t y   o r   a   hi g hl y 
p r o b ab l e   f o r e c a s t   t r a n s ac t i o n   ( c a s h   fl o w   h e d g e )   o r   a   h e d g e   o f   t h e   f a ir 
v a lu e   o f   r e c og ni s e d   a s s e t s   o r   li a bili t i e s   o r   a   fi r m   c o m mi t m e n t   ( f a ir  
v a lu e   h e d g e ) .
O n   ini t i a l   d e s i g n at i o n   o f   t h e   h e d g e ,   t h e   G r o up   f o r m a ll y   d o c um e n t s   t h e 
r e l a t i o n s hip   b e t w e e n   t h e   h e d g in g   in s t r um e n t ( s )   a n d   h e d g e d   i t e m ( s ) ,  
in c lu d in g   t h e   r i s k   m a n a g e m e n t   o bj e c t i v e s   a n d   s t r at e g y   in   un d e r t a k in g  
t h e   h e d g e   t r a n s ac t i o n ,   t og e t h e r   w i t h   t h e   m e t h o d s   t h at   w ill   b e   u s e d   t o  
a s s e s s   t h e   e f f e c t i v e n e s s   o f   t h e   h e d g in g   r e l a t i o n s hip .     T h e   G r o up 
m a k e s   a n   a s s e s s m e n t ,   b o t h   at   t h e   in c e p t i o n   o f   t h e   h e d g e   r e l a t i o n s hip  
a s   w e ll   a s   o n   a n   o n g oin g   b a s i s ,   w h e t h e r   t h e   h e d g in g   in s t r um e n t s   ar e 
e x p e c t e d   t o   b e   ’ hi g hl y   e f f e c t i v e ’   in   o f f s e t t in g   t h e   c h a n g e s   in   t h e   f a ir  
v a lu e   o r   c a s h   fl o w s   o f   t h e   r e s p e c t i v e   h e d g e d   i t e m s   d ur in g   t h e   p e r i o d  
f o r   w hi c h   t h e   h e d g e   i s   d e s i g n a t e d   a n d   w h e t h e r   t h e   ac t u al   r e s ul t s   o f 
eac h   h e d g e   a r e   w i t hin   a   r a n g e   o f   8 0 - 1 2 5 % .     F o r   a   c a s h   fl o w   h e d g e   o f   
a   f o r e c a s t   t r a n s ac t i o n ,   t h e   t r a n s ac t i o n   s h o ul d   b e   hi g hl y   p r o b ab l e   t o 
o c c ur   a n d   s h o ul d   p r e s e n t   a n   e x p o s ur e   t o   v a r i at i o n s   in   c a s h   fl o w s   t h at  
c o ul d   ul t im a t e l y   af f e c t   r e p o r t e d   n e t   in c o m e .  
Cash and cash equivalents
C a s h   a n d   c a s h   e q ui v a l e n t s   c o m p r i s e   c a s h   b al a n c e s   a n d   c all   d e p o s i t s  
w hi c h   a r e   r ead il y   c o n v e r t ib l e   t o   k n o w n   a m oun t s   o f   c a s h   a n d   w hi c h   
ar e   s ubj e c t   t o   in s i g ni fi c a n t   r i s k   o f   c h an g e s   in   v a lu e   a n d   h a v e   an    
o r i g in al   m a t ur i t y   o f   t hr e e   m o n t h s   o r   l e s s .     B ank   o v e r dr af t s   t h at   a r e 
r e p a y a b l e   o n   d e m an d   a n d   f o r m   a n   in t e g r a l   p ar t   o f   t h e   G r o up ’ s   
c a s h   m a n a g e m e n t   a r e   in c lu d e d   a s   a   c o m p o n e n t   o f   c a s h   an d   c a s h 
e q ui v a l e n t s   f o r   t h e   p ur p o s e   o nl y   o f   t h e   c o n s o li d at e d   s t at e m e n t    
o f   c a s h   fl o w s .
Derivatives
D e r i v at i v e s   a r e   ac c o un t e d   f o r   in   ac c o r d a n c e   w i t h   t h e   p o li c y   in   
N o t e   1 ( E ) ( i ii ) .
Derecognition
T h e   G r o up   d e r e c og ni s e s   a   fi n a n c i a l   a s s e t   w h e n   t h e   c o n t r ac t u a l   
r i g h t s   t o   t h e   c a s h   fl o w s   f r o m   t h e   a s s e t   e x pir e ,   o r   i t   t r a n s f e r s   t h e   
r i g h t s   t o   r e c e i v e   t h e   c o n t r ac t u a l   c a s h   fl o w s   o n   t h e   fi n a n c i a l   a s s e t    
in   a   t r a n s ac t i o n   in   w hi c h   s ub s t a n t i all y   a ll   t h e   r i s k s   a n d   r e w a r d s   o f 
o w n e r s hip   o f   t h e   fi n a n c i a l   a s s e t   a r e   t r a n s f e r r e d .     A n y   in t e r e s t   in 
t r a n s f e r r e d   fi n a n c i a l   a s s e t s   t h at   i s   c r eat e d   o r   r e t a in e d   b y   t h e   G r o up    
i s   r e c og ni s e d   a s   a   s e p ar at e   a s s e t   o r   li a bili t y .
( i i ) 	 F i n a nc i a l 	 l i a b i l i t i e s
F in an c i al   li a bili t i e s   a r e   e i t h e r   c l a s s i fi e d   a s   fi n a n c i a l   li a bili t i e s   m ea s ur e d  
a t   a m o r t i s e d   c o s t ,   o r   fi n a n c i a l   li a bili t i e s   a t   f a ir   v a lu e   t hr o u g h   p r o fi t   o r 
l o s s .     F in an c i a l   li a bili t i e s   in c lu d e   t r ad e   an d   o t h e r   p a y ab l e s ,   ac c r u a l s ,  
fi n a n c e   d e b t   a n d   d e r i v a t i v e   fi n a n c i a l   in s t r um e n t s .     T h e   G r o up 
d e t e r min e s   t h e   c l a s s i fi c at i o n   o f   i t s   fi n a n c i a l   li a bili t i e s   at   ini t i a l  
r e c og ni t i o n .     F in an c i a l   li a bili t i e s   a r e   r e c og ni s e d   ini t i a ll y   at   f a ir   v a lu e , 
n o r m a ll y   b e in g   t h e   t r a n s ac t i o n   p r i c e   p lu s ,   in   t h e   c a s e   o f   fi n a n c i a l  
li a bili t i e s   n o t   at   f a ir   v a lu e   t hr o u g h   p r o fi t   o r   l o s s ,   d ir e c t l y   at t r ib u t a b l e 
t r a n s ac t i o n   c o s t s .     T h e   s ub s e q u e n t   m ea s ur em e n t   o f   fi n a n c i a l   li a bili t i e s  
d e p e n d s   o n   t h e ir   c l a s s i fi c at i o n ,   a s   f o ll o w s :
Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost
A ll   fi n a n c i a l   li a bili t i e s   a r e   ini t i a ll y   r e c og ni s e d   at   f a ir   v a lu e .     F o r   in t e r e s t -
b ea r in g   l o an s   a n d   b o r r o w in g s   t hi s   i s   t h e   f a ir   v a lu e   o f   t h e   p r o c e e d s  
r e c e i v e d   n e t   o f   i s s u e   c o s t s   a s s o c i at e d   w i t h   t h e   b o r r o w in g .     A f t e r   ini t i a l 
r e c og ni t i o n ,   fi n a n c i a l   li a bili t i e s   o t h e r   t h a n   t h o s e   at   f a ir   v a lu e   t hr o u g h 
p r o fi t   o r   l o s s   a r e   s ub s e q u e n t l y   m ea s ur e d   a t   a m o r t i s e d   c o s t   u s in g   t h e 
e f f e c t i v e   in t e r e s t   m e t h o d .     A m o r t i s e d   c o s t   i s   c al c ul a t e d   b y   t a k in g   in t o 
ac c o un t   a n y   i s s u e   c o s t s   an d   a n y   d i s c oun t   o r   p r e mi um   o n   s e t t l e m e n t .    
G a in s   a n d   l o s s e s   a r i s in g   o n   t h e   r e p urc h a s e ,   s e t t l e m e n t   o r   c an c e ll a t i o n  
o f   li a bili t i e s   a r e   r e c og ni s e d   r e s p e c t i v e l y   in   in t e r e s t   a n d   o t h e r   r e v e n u e s  
an d   fi n a n c e   c o s t s .     T hi s   c a t e g o r y   o f   fi n a n c i a l   li a bili t i e s   in c lu d e s   t r ad e 
an d   o t h e r   p a y ab l e s .
Convertible bonds
C o n v e r t ib l e   b o n d s   a r e   s e p ar at e d   in t o   t hr e e   c o m p o n e n t s :   li a bili t y , 
i s s u e r   c all   o pt i o n   a n d   e q ui t y   at   in c e p t i o n .     E ac h   c o m p o n e n t   i s  
r e c og ni s e d   s e p ar at e l y .
T h e   ini t i a l   f a ir   v a lu e   o f   t h e   li a bili t y   c o m p o n e n t   o f   t h e   c o n v e r t ib l e   
b o n d   i s   d e t e r min e d   u s in g   t h e   m a r k e t   in t e r e s t   r at e   f o r   a n   e q ui v a l e n t  
n o n - c o n v e r t ib l e   b o n d   a n d   i s   s ub s e q u e n t l y   r e c o r d e d   at   an   a m o r t i s e d  
c o s t   b a s i s   u s in g   t h e   e f f e c t i v e   in t e r e s t   m e t h o d   un t il   e x t in g ui s h e d   o n 
c o n v e r s i o n   o r   m a t ur i t y   o f   t h e   b o n d s .     T h e   i s s u e r   c all   o pt i o n   i s   f a ir  
v a lu e d   u s in g   a   v a lu at i o n   m o d e l   a n d   i s   m ea s ur e d   a t   eac h   b al a n c e   s h e e t  
d a t e   w i t h   c h a n g e s   in   f a ir   v a lu e   r e c og ni s e d   in   t h e   in c o m e   s t at e m e n t .   
T h e   r e m a in d e r   o f   t h e   p r o c e e d s   ar e   r e c og ni s e d   in   s h a r e h o l d e r s ’   e q ui t y  
in   r e t a in e d   ea r nin g s . www.tuitravelplc.com
76  T U I T r a v e l  P L C  A n n u a l R e p o r t & A c c o u n t s  2 0 1 0
(G) Revenue
R e v e n u e   r e p r e s e n t s   t h e   a g g r e g a t e   a m oun t   ea r n e d   f r o m   in c lu s i v e 
t o ur s ,   s c h e d ul e d   a n d   c h ar t e r   fl y in g ,   p r o v i s i o n   o f   in c o min g   a g e n c y  
d e s t in a t i o n   s e r v i c e s ,   t r a v e l   a g e n c y   c o m mi s s i o n   r e c e i v e d   an d   o t h e r 
s e r v i c e s   s up p li e d   t o   c u s t o m e r s   in   t h e   o r d in ar y   c o ur s e   o f   b u s in e s s .    
R e v e n u e   e x c lu d e s   in t r a - g r o up   t r a n s ac t i o n s   a n d   i s   s t at e d   af t e r   t h e  
d e d u c t i o n   o f   t r ad e   d i s c o un t s   a n d   s a l e s   t a x e s .     R e v e n u e   i s   r e p o r t e d 
g r o s s   o f   fi x e d   c h ar g e s   w hi c h   a r e   a   li a bili t y   o f   t h e   t o ur   o p e r a t o r   o r  
a ir lin e .     T h e s e   in c lu d e   A ir   P a s s e n g e r   D u t y   a n d   o t h e r   p e r   p a s s e n g e r 
c h ar g e s   a n d   l e v i e s ,   in c lu d in g   t h e   A T O L   P r o t e c t i o n   C o n t r ib u t i o n   in    
t h e   U K .
( i ) 	 R e v e n u e 	 r e c o g n i t i o n
R e v e n u e   i s   r e c og ni s e d   in   t h e   c o n s o li d at e d   in c o m e   s t at e m e n t   w h e n  
t h e   s i g ni fi c a n t   r i s k s   a n d   r e w a r d s   o f   o w n e r s hip   h a v e   b e e n   t r a n s f e r r e d  
t o   t h e   b u y e r .     T r a v e l   a g e n c y   c o m mi s s i o n s   a n d   o t h e r   r e v e n u e s   r e c e i v e d 
f r o m   t h e   s a l e   o f   t hir d - p ar t y   p r o d u c t   a r e   r e c og ni s e d   w h e n   t h e y   a r e  
ea r n e d ,   t y pi c a ll y   o n   r e c e ip t   o f   fi n a l   p a y m e n t .     R e v e n u e   in   r e s p e c t   o f  
inh o u s e   p r o d u c t   i s   all   r e c og ni s e d   o n   t h e   d a t e   o f   d e p a r t ur e .     R e v e n u e 
f r o m   in d i v i d u a l   t r a v e l   m o d ul e s   d ir e c t l y   b o o k e d   b y   t h e   c u s t o m e r    
w i t h   a ir lin e s ,   h o t e l s   a n d   in c o min g   a g e n c i e s   i s   r e c og ni s e d   w h e n   t h e 
c u s t o m e r   d e p ar t s   o r   u s e s   t h e   r e s p e c t i v e   s e r v i c e .
N o   r e v e n u e   i s   r e c og ni s e d   i f   t h e r e   a r e   s i g ni fi c a n t   un c e r t a in t i e s 
r e g a r d in g   r e c o v e r y   o f   t h e   c o n s i d e r at i o n   d u e   o r   a s s o c i at e d   c o s t s .
( i i ) 	 C l i e n t 	 m o n i e s 	 r e c e i v e d 	 i n 	 ad v a nc e 	 ( d e fe r r e d 	 i nc o m e )
C li e n t   m o ni e s   r e c e i v e d   at   t h e   b al a n c e   s h e e t   d a t e   r e l a t in g   t o   h o li d a y s  
c o m m e n c in g   a n d   fl i g h t s   d e p a r t in g   af t e r   t h e   y ea r   e n d   ar e   d e f e r r e d    
a n d   in c lu d e d   w i t hin   t r ad e   an d   o t h e r   p a y ab l e s .
( i i i ) 	 V a l u a t i o n 	 o f 	 r e v e n u e
W h e r e   t h e   G r o up   ac t s   a s   p r in c ip al ,   r e v e n u e   i s   s t at e d   at   t h e  
c o n t r ac t u a l   v a lu e   o f   g o o d s   a n d   s e r v i c e s   p r o v i d e d .
W h e r e   t h e   G r o up   ac t s   a s   a g e n t   an d   c o ll e c t s   am oun t s   o n   b e h al f   o f   t h e 
p r in c ip al   p r o v i d e r   o f   g o o d s   o r   s e r v i c e s ,   r e v e n u e   i s   s t at e d   at   t h e   v a lu e  
o f   t h e   c o m mi s s i o n s   ea r n e d   a n d   n o t   t h e   t o t al   t r a n s ac t i o n   s a l e s   v a lu e .
W h e r e   t h e   G r o up   ac t s   a s   in t e r m e d i a r y   b e t w e e n   t h e   s e r v i c e   p r o v i d e r  
a n d   t h e   e n d   c u s t o m e r ,   r e v e n u e   i s   p r e s e n t e d   o n   a   n e t   b a s i s   a s   t h e 
d i f f e r e n c e   b e t w e e n   t h e   s a l e s   p r i c e   t o   t h e   c u s t o m e r   a n d   t h e   c o s t   o f 
t h e   s e r v i c e s   p urc h a s e d .     B u s in e s s e s   a r e   i d e n t i fi e d   a s   in t e r m e d i a r i e s  
d e p e n d e n t   o n   a   n um b e r   o f   c r i t e r i a ,   p r in c ip all y   in c lu d in g :   t h e   c o n t r o l 
e x e rc i s e d   o v e r   t h e   p r o v i s i o n   o f   s e r v i c e ,   in v e n t o r y   r i s k ,   a n d   c u s t o m e r  
c r e d i t   r i s k .
( i v ) 	 A i r c r a f t 	 l e a s e 	 i nc o m e
O p e r at in g   l ea s e   r e n t a l   in c o m e s   a r e   r e c og ni s e d   in   o p e r at in g   in c o m e   
a s   ea r n e d ,   o n   a   s t r a i g h t lin e   b a s i s   o v e r   t h e   l ea s e   t e r m .   
(H) Expenses
( i ) 	 O p e r a t i n g 	 l e a s e 	 p a y m e n t s
P a y m e n t s   m ad e   un d e r   o p e r at in g   l ea s e s   a r e   r e c og ni s e d   in   t h e 
c o n s o li d at e d   in c o m e   s t at e m e n t   o n   a   s t r a i g h t lin e   b a s i s   o v e r   t h e   t e r m 
o f   t h e   l ea s e .     L ea s e   in c e n t i v e s   r e c e i v e d   a r e   r e c og ni s e d   in   t h e 
c o n s o li d at e d   in c o m e   s t at e m e n t   a s   a n   in t e g r a l   p ar t   o f   t h e   t o t a l   l ea s e 
e x p e n s e   o v e r   t h e   t e r m   o f   t h e   l ea s e .
D e r i v at i v e s   a r e   r e c og ni s e d   ini t i a ll y   at   f a ir   v a lu e ;   at t r ib u t a b l e  
t r a n s ac t i o n   c o s t s   a r e   r e c og ni s e d   in   p r o fi t   o r   l o s s   a s   in c ur r e d .  
S ub s e q u e n t   t o   ini t i a l   r e c og ni t i o n ,   d e r i v a t i v e s   ar e   m ea s ur e d   at   f a ir  
v a lu e ,   an d   c h an g e s   t h e r e in   a r e   ac c o un t e d   f o r   a s   d e s c r ib e d   b e l o w :  
( i ) 	 C a s h 	 fl o w 	 h e d g e s
W h e r e   a   d e r i v a t i v e   fi n a n c i a l   in s t r um e n t   i s   d e s i g n at e d   a s   a   h e d g e   o f 
t h e   v a r i a bili t y   in   c a s h   fl o w s   ar i s in g   f r o m   a   r e c og ni s e d   a s s e t   o r   li a bili t y , 
o r   a   hi g hl y   p r o b ab l e   f o r e c a s t   t r a n s ac t i o n ,   t h e   e f f e c t i v e   p ar t   o f   a n y   f a ir  
v a lu e   g a in   o r   l o s s   o n   t h e   d e r i v a t i v e   fi n a n c i a l   in s t r um e n t   i s   r e c og ni s e d  
d ir e c t l y   in   t h e   h e d g in g   r e s e r v e .     A n y   in e f f e c t i v e   p o r t i o n   o f   t h e   h e d g e 
i s   r e c og ni s e d   im m e d i at e l y   w i t hin   t h e   c o n s o li d at e d   in c o m e   s t at e m e n t .
W h e n   t h e   f o r e c a s t   t r a n s ac t i o n   s ub s e q u e n t l y   r e s ul t s   in   t h e   r e c og ni t i o n  
o f   a   n o n - fi n a n c i a l   a s s e t   o r   n o n - fi n a n c i a l   li a bili t y ,   t h e   a s s o c i at e d 
c umul at i v e   g a in   o r   l o s s   i s   r e m o v e d   f r o m   t h e   h e d g in g   r e s e r v e   a n d   i s 
in c lu d e d   in   t h e   ini t i a l   c o s t   o r   o t h e r   c ar r y in g   a m oun t   o f   t h e   n o n -
fi n a n c i a l   a s s e t   o r   li a bili t y .     I f   a   h e d g e   o f   a   f o r e c a s t   t r a n s ac t i o n  
s ub s e q u e n t l y   r e s ul t s   in   t h e   r e c og ni t i o n   o f   a   fi n a n c i a l   a s s e t   o r   a  
fi n a n c i a l   li a bili t y ,   t h e   a s s o c i at e d   g a in s   a n d   l o s s e s   t h at   w e r e   r e c og ni s e d  
d ir e c t l y   in   e q ui t y   a r e   r e c l a s s i fi e d   in t o   t h e   c o n s o li d at e d   in c o m e 
s t at e m e n t   in   t h e   s a m e   p e r i o d   o r   p e r i o d s   d ur in g   w hi c h   t h e   a s s e t 
ac q uir e d   o r   li a bili t y   a s s um e d   af f e c t s   p r o fi t   o r   l o s s .
F o r   c a s h   fl o w   h e d g e s ,   o t h e r   t h a n   t h o s e   c o v e r e d   b y   t h e   p r e c e d in g   t w o 
p ar a g r a p h s ,   t h e   a s s o c i at e d   c umul at i v e   g a in   o r   l o s s   i s   r e m o v e d   f r o m 
e q ui t y   a n d   r e c og ni s e d   in   t h e   c o n s o li d at e d   in c o m e   s t at e m e n t   in   t h e 
s a m e   p e r i o d   o r   p e r i o d s   d ur in g   w hi c h   t h e   h e d g e d   f o r e c a s t   t r a n s ac t i o n  
af f e c t s   t h e   c o n s o li d at e d   in c o m e   s t at e m e n t .
P r o s p e c t i v e   h e d g e   t e s t in g   i s   p e r f o r m e d   at   t h e   in c e p t i o n   o f   t h e   h e d g e 
r e l a t i o n s hip   an d   s ub s e q u e n t l y   at   eac h   b al a n c e   s h e e t   d a t e ,   t hr o u g h 
c o m p ar i s o n   o f   t h e   c r i t i c a l   t e r m s   o f   t h e   h e d g e d   f o r e c a s t   t r a n s ac t i o n  
a n d   t h e   h e d g in g   in s t r um e n t .     C r i t i c a l   t e r m s   a r e   t h e   m a t ur i t y ,   a m oun t 
a n d   c ur r e n c y   o f   t h e   c a s h   fl o w s   r e l a t in g   t o   t h e   h e d g in g   in s t r um e n t   a n d  
t h e   f o r e c a s t   h e d g e d   t r a n s ac t i o n .     R e t r o s p e c t i v e   h e d g e   t e s t in g   i s 
p e r f o r m e d   at   eac h   r e p o r t in g   d a t e   p r in c ip all y   u s in g   a   d o ll a r   o f f s e t  
a n al y s i s ,   c o m p ar in g   t h e   c umul at i v e   c h an g e s   in   t h e   f a ir   v a lu e s   o f   t h e 
f o r e c a s t   h e d g e d   t r a n s ac t i o n   a n d   t h e   h e d g in g   in s t r um e n t .
W h e n   a   h e d g in g   in s t r um e n t   n o   l o n g e r   m e e t s   t h e   c r i t e r i a   f o r   h e d g e 
ac c o un t in g ,   e x pir e s   o r   i s   s o l d ,   t e r min at e d   o r   e x e rc i s e d ,   o r   t h e   e n t i t y  
r e v o k e s   d e s i g n a t i o n   o f   t h e   h e d g e   r e l a t i o n s hip ,   h e d g e   ac c o un t in g   i s 
d i s c o n t in u e d   p r o s p e c t i v e l y .     I f   t h e   h e d g e d   f o r e c a s t   t r a n s ac t i o n   i s   s t ill 
e x p e c t e d   t o   o c c ur ,   t h e   c umul at i v e   g a in   o r   l o s s   at   t h at   p oin t   r e m a in s   in 
e q ui t y   a n d   i s   r e c og ni s e d   in   ac c o r d a n c e   w i t h   t h e   ab o v e   p o li c y   w h e n   t h e 
t r a n s ac t i o n   o c c ur s .     I f   t h e   h e d g e d   t r a n s ac t i o n   i s   n o   l o n g e r   e x p e c t e d   t o 
t a k e   p l ac e ,   t h e   c umul at i v e   unr ea li s e d   g a in   o r   l o s s   r e c og ni s e d   in   e q ui t y  
i s   r e c og ni s e d   in   t h e   c o n s o li d at e d   in c o m e   s t at e m e n t   im m e d i at e l y .
( i i ) 	 F a i r 	 v a l u e 	 h e d g e s
W h e r e   a   d e r i v a t i v e   fi n a n c i a l   in s t r um e n t   i s   d e s i g n at e d   a s   a   h e d g e    
o f   t h e   v a r i a bili t y   in   f a ir   v a lu e   o f   a   r e c og ni s e d   a s s e t   o r   li a bili t y   o r   a n  
unr e c og ni s e d   fi r m   c o m mi t m e n t ,   a ll   c h an g e s   in   t h e   f a ir   v a lu e   o f   t h e 
d e r i v a t i v e   a r e   r e c og ni s e d   im m e d i at e l y   in   t h e   in c o m e   s t at e m e n t .      
T h e   c ar r y in g   v a lu e   o f   t h e   h e d g e d   i t e m   i s   ad j u s t e d   b y   t h e   c h an g e   
in   f a ir   v a lu e   t h at   i s   at t r ib u t a b l e   t o   t h e   r i s k   b e in g   h e d g e d   ( e v e n   i f   i t    
i s   n o r m a ll y   c ar r i e d   at   c o s t   o r   a m o r t i s e d   c o s t )   a n d   an y   f a ir   v a lu e   g a in s  
o r   l o s s e s   o n   r e m ea s ur e m e n t   o f   t h e   h e d g e d   r i s k   a r e   r e c og ni s e d 
im m e d i at e l y   in   t h e   in c o m e   s t at e m e n t   ( e v e n   i f   t h o s e   g a in s   w o ul d 
n o r m a ll y   b e   r e c og ni s e d   d ir e c t l y   in   e q ui t y ) .
Financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements c o n t i n u e d www.tuitravelplc.com
Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
T U I  T r a v e l P L C  A n n u a l R e p o r t  &  A c c o u n t s  2 0 1 0  77
T h e   f a ir   v a lu e   o f   t h e   a w a r d s   i s   m ea s ur e d   u s in g   o pt i o n   v a lu at i o n 
m o d e l s ,   t a k in g   in t o   ac c o un t   t h e   t e r m s   a n d   c o n d i t i o n s   up o n   w hi c h   t h e  
a w a r d s   w e r e   m ad e .     T h e   a m o un t   r e c og ni s e d   a s   a n   e x p e n s e   i s   ad j u s t e d  
t o   r e fl e c t   t h e   ac t u al   n um b e r   o f   s h a r e   a w a r d s   t h at   v e s t   e x c e pt   w h e r e  
f o r f e i t ur e   i s   d u e   o nl y   t o   m ar k e t - b a s e d   p e r f o r m an c e   c o n d i t i o n s   n o t  
m e e t in g   t h e   t hr e s h o l d   f o r   v e s t in g .
F o r   c a s h - s e t t l e d   t r a n s ac t i o n s ,   t h e   r e s ul t in g   li a bili t y   f o r   t h e   G r o up   i s 
c h ar g e d   t o   e x p e n s e s   at   i t s   f a ir   v a lu e   a s   at   t h e   d a t e   o f   t h e   p e r f o r m an c e  
o f   t h e   s e r v i c e   b y   t h e   b e n e fi c i a r y .     Un t il   p a y m e n t   o f   t hi s   li a bili t y ,   t h e 
f a ir   v a lu e   o f   t h e   li a bili t y   i s   r e m ea s ur e d   a t   e v e r y   r e p o r t in g   d a t e   a n d   a ll 
c h an g e s   in   t h e   f a ir   v a lu e   a r e   c ar r i e d   w i t h   an   e f f e c t   o n   r e s ul t s .
( i v ) 	 O w n 	 s h a r e s 	 h e l d 	 b y 	 t h e 	 E m p l o y e e 	 B e n e fi t 	 T r u s t s	
T r a n s ac t i o n s   o f   t h e   G r o up - s p o n s o r e d   E m p l o y e e   B e n e fi t   T r u s t s   ( t h e 
T r u s t s )   a r e   in c lu d e d   in   t h e   G r o up ’ s   c o n s o li d at e d   fi n a n c i a l   s t at e m e n t s .  
In   p ar t i c ul a r ,   t h e   T r u s t ’ s   p urc h a s e   o f   s h a r e s   in   t h e   C o m p a n y   i s   d e bi t e d  
d ir e c t l y   in   e q ui t y   t o   r e t a in e d   ea r nin g s / ( d e fi c i t ) .
( v ) 	 S h o r t - te r m 	 b e n e fi t s
S h o r t - t e r m   e m p l o y e e   b e n e fi t s   ar e   m ea s ur e d   o n   a n   un d i s c o un t e d  
b a s i s   a n d   ar e   e x p e n s e d   a s   t h e   r e l a t e d   s e r v i c e   i s   p r o v i d e d .
(J) Financial income and expenses
F in an c i a l   in c o m e   c o m p r i s e s   in t e r e s t   in c o m e   o n   f un d s   in v e s t e d 
( in c lu d in g   a v a il ab l e   f o r   s a l e   fi n a n c i a l   a s s e t s ) ,   d i v i d e n d   in c o m e ,   g a in s    
o n   t h e   d i s p o s a l   o f   a v a il ab l e   f o r   s a l e   fi n a n c i a l   a s s e t s   a n d   c h an g e s   in   t h e 
f a ir   v a lu e   o f   fi n a n c i a l   a s s e t s   o r   li a bili t i e s   at   f a ir   v a lu e   t hr o u g h   p r o fi t   o r 
l o s s .     Int e r e s t   in c o m e   i s   r e c og ni s e d   a s   i t   ac c r u e s   in   p r o fi t   o r   l o s s ,   u s in g 
t h e   e f f e c t i v e   in t e r e s t   m e t h o d .     D i v i d e n d   in c o m e   i s   r e c og ni s e d   in    
p r o fi t   o r   l o s s   o n   t h e   d a t e   t h at   t h e   G r o up ’ s   r i g h t   t o   r e c e i v e   p a y m e n t   i s 
e s t a b li s h e d   w hi c h ,   in   t h e   c a s e   o f   q u o t e d   s e c ur i t i e s ,   i s   t h e   e x - d i v i d e n d 
d a t e .     F o r e i g n   c ur r e n c y   g a in s   a n d   l o s s e s   a r e   r e p o r t e d   o n   a   n e t   b a s i s .
F in an c i a l   e x p e n s e s   c o m p r i s e   in t e r e s t   e x p e n s e   o n   b o r r o w in g s , 
un w in d in g   o f   t h e   d i s c o un t   o n   p r o v i s i o n s ,   c h an g e s   in   t h e   f a ir   v a lu e   o f 
fi n a n c i a l   a s s e t s   o r   li a bili t i e s   at   f a ir   v a lu e   t hr o u g h   p r o fi t   o r   l o s s   an d 
im p a ir m e n t   l o s s e s   r e c og ni s e d   o n   fi n a n c i a l   a s s e t s .     A ll   b o r r o w in g   c o s t s  
a r e   r e c og ni s e d   in   p r o fi t   o r   l o s s   u s in g   t h e   e f f e c t i v e   in t e r e s t   m e t h o d .    
F o r e i g n   c ur r e n c y   g a in s   a n d   l o s s e s   a r e   r e p o r t e d   o n   a   n e t   b a s i s .
(K) Taxation
In c o m e   t a x   c o m p r i s e s   c ur r e n t   a n d   d e f e r r e d   t a x .     In c o m e   t a x   i s  
r e c og ni s e d   in   t h e   c o n s o li d at e d   in c o m e   s t at e m e n t   e x c e pt   t o   t h e    
e x t e n t   t h at   i t   r e l a t e s   t o   i t e m s   r e c og ni s e d   d ir e c t l y   in   e q ui t y ,   in    
w hi c h   c a s e   i t   i s   r e c og ni s e d   in   e q ui t y .
( i ) 	 C u r r e n t 	 t a x
C ur r e n t   t a x   i s   t h e   e x p e c t e d   t a x   p a y ab l e   o n   t h e   t a x ab l e   in c o m e   f o r    
t h e   p e r i o d ,   u s in g   t a x   r a t e s   e n ac t e d   o r   s ub s t a n t i v e l y   e n ac t e d   at   t h e 
b al a n c e   s h e e t   d a t e ,   a n d   a n y   ad j u s t m e n t   t o   t a x   p a y ab l e   in   r e s p e c t   
o f   p r e v i o u s   p e r i o d s .
( i i ) 	 F i n a nc e 	 l e a s e 	 p a y m e n t s
M inimum   l ea s e   p a y m e n t s   a r e   a p p o r t i o n e d   b e t w e e n   t h e   fi n a n c e 
c h ar g e   a n d   t h e   r e d u c t i o n   o f   t h e   o u t s t an d in g   li a bili t y .     T h e   fi n a n c e  
c h ar g e   i s   a ll o c at e d   t o   eac h   p e r i o d   d ur in g   t h e   l ea s e   t e r m   s o   a s   t o 
p r o d u c e   a   c o n s t a n t   p e r i o d i c   r at e   o f   in t e r e s t   o n   t h e   r e m a inin g   b al a n c e  
o f   t h e   li a bili t y .
( i i i ) 	 M a r k e t i n g 	 a n d 	 o t h e r 	 d i r e c t 	 s a l e s 	 c o s t s
M a r k e t in g ,   ad v e r t i s in g   a n d   o t h e r   p r o m o t i o n a l   c o s t s ,   in c lu d in g   t h o s e 
r e l a t e d   t o   t h e   p r o d u c t i o n   o f   b r o c h ur e s ,   a r e   e x p e n s e d   w h e n   t h e 
b e n e fi t   o f   t h e   g o o d s   o r   s e r v i c e s   i s   m ad e   a v a il ab l e   t o   t h e   G r o up .     
In   p ar t i c ul ar ,   b r o c h ur e   c o s t s   ar e   e x p e n s e d   w h e n   t h e   G r o up   h a s    
ac c e s s   t o   t h e   r e l a t e d   ad v e r t i s in g   o r   p r o m o t i o n a l   m at e r i al .
(I) Employee benefits
( i ) 	 D e fi n e d 	 c o n t r i b u t i o n 	 p l a n s
O b li g a t i o n s   f o r   c o n t r ib u t i o n s   t o   d e fi n e d   c o n t r ib u t i o n   p e n s i o n   p l a n s  
ar e   r e c og ni s e d   a s   a n   e x p e n s e   in   t h e   c o n s o li d at e d   in c o m e   s t at e m e n t   
a s   in c ur r e d .
( i i ) 	 D e fi n e d 	 b e n e fi t 	 p l a n s
T h e   G r o up ’ s   n e t   o b li g at i o n   in   r e s p e c t   o f   d e fi n e d   b e n e fi t   p e n s i o n   p l a n s  
i s   c al c ul a t e d   s e p ar at e l y   f o r   eac h   p l a n   b y   e s t im at in g   t h e   a m oun t   o f 
f u t ur e   b e n e fi t   t h at   e m p l o y e e s   h a v e   ea r n e d   in   r e t ur n   f o r   t h e ir   s e r v i c e 
in   c ur r e n t   a n d   p r i o r   p e r i o d s .     T h at   b e n e fi t   i s   d i s c o un t e d   t o   d e t e r min e  
i t s   p r e s e n t   v a lu e   a n d   a n y   unr e c og ni s e d   p a s t   s e r v i c e   c o s t s   a n d   t h e   f a ir 
v a lu e   o f   a n y   p l a n   a s s e t s   i s   d e d u c t e d   in   c al c ul a t in g   t h e   o v e r a ll   li a bili t y .    
T h e   li a bili t y   d i s c o un t   r at e   i s   t h e   y i e l d   at   t h e   b al a n c e   s h e e t   d a t e   o n   
A A   c r e d i t - r at e d   b o n d s   d e n o min at e d   in   t h e   c ur r e n c y   o f ,   a n d   h a v in g   
t h e   s a m e   m a t ur i t y   d a t e s   ap p r o x im a t in g   t o ,   t h e   t e r m s   o f   t h e   G r o up ’ s 
o b li g at i o n s .     T h e   c al c ul a t i o n   i s   p e r f o r m e d   b y   a   q u ali fi e d   ac t u ar y   u s in g  
t h e   p r oj e c t e d   uni t   c r e d i t   m e t h o d .
W h e r e   t h e   c al c ul a t i o n   r e s ul t s   in   a   b e n e fi t   t o   t h e   G r o up ,   t h e   a s s e t  
r e c og ni s e d   i s   limi t e d   t o   t h e   p r e s e n t   v a lu e   o f   an y   f u t ur e   r e f un d s   f r o m 
t h e   p l a n   o r   r e d u c t i o n s   in   f u t ur e   c o n t r ib u t i o n s   t o   t h e   p l a n   w hi c h   a r e 
un d e r   t h e   c o n t r o l   o f   t h e   G r o up .
W h e n   t h e   b e n e fi t s   o f   a   p l a n   a r e   im p r o v e d ,   t h e   p o r t i o n   o f   t h e  
in c r ea s e d   b e n e fi t   r e l a t in g   t o   p a s t   s e r v i c e s   b y   e m p l o y e e s   i s   r e c og ni s e d  
a s   a n   e x p e n s e   in   t h e   c o n s o li d at e d   in c o m e   s t at e m e n t   o n   a   s t r a i g h t lin e 
b a s i s   o v e r   t h e   a v e r a g e   p e r i o d   un t il   t h e   b e n e fi t s   b e c o m e   v e s t e d .     
T o   t h e   e x t e n t   t h at   t h e   b e n e fi t s   v e s t   im m e d i at e l y ,   t h e   e x p e n s e   i s 
r e c og ni s e d   im m e d i at e l y   in   t h e   c o n s o li d at e d   in c o m e   s t at e m e n t .
A ll   ac t u ar i a l   g a in s   a n d   l o s s e s   a r e   r e c og ni s e d   in   t h e   p e r i o d   t h e y    
o c c ur   d ir e c t l y   in   e q ui t y   t hr o u g h   t h e   c o n s o li d at e d   s t at e m e n t   o f 
c o m p r e h e n s i v e   in c o m e .     E i t h e r   m o n t hl y   o r   a nn u a l   c o n t r ib u t i o n s   
ar e   m ad e   t o   f un d e d   s c h e m e s .
( i i i ) 	 S h a r e - b a s e d 	 p a y m e n t 	 t r a n s a c t i o n s
T h e   G r o up ’ s   s h a r e   a w a r d   p r og r a m m e s   a ll o w   c e r t a in   G r o up   e m p l o y e e s 
t o   ac q uir e   s h a r e s   o f   t h e   C o m p an y ;   t h e s e   s h a r e s   a r e   a w a r d e d   b y   t h e 
C o m p a n y .     F o r   e q ui t y - s e t t l e d   t r a n s ac t i o n s ,   t h e   f a ir   v a lu e   o f   s e r v i c e s   
i s   m ea s ur e d   b y   t h e   f a ir   v a lu e   o f   t h e   s h a r e s   at   t h e   t im e   a w a r d e d   an d   
i s   r e c og ni s e d   a s   a n   e m p l o y e e   e x p e n s e   w i t h   a   c o r r e s p o n d in g   in c r ea s e 
in   e q ui t y .     T h e   f a ir   v a lu e   i s   s p r ead   o v e r   t h e   p e r i o d   d ur in g   w hi c h   t h e 
e m p l o y e e   b e c o m e s   e n t i t l e d   t o   t h e   a w a r d s . www.tuitravelplc.com
78  T U I T r a v e l  P L C  A n n u a l R e p o r t & A c c o u n t s  2 0 1 0
Financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements c o n t i n u e d
C e r t a in   a s s e t s / li a bili t i e s   a r e   e x c lu d e d   f r o m   t h e   m ea s ur em e n t   b a s i s   
o f   IF R S   5   in c lu d in g :   d e f e r r e d   t a x   a s s e t s   ( I A S   1 2   In c o m e   T a x e s ) ,   a s s e t s  
a r i s in g   f r o m   e m p l o y e e   b e n e fi t s   ( I A S   1 9   E m p l o y e e   B e n e fi t s )   a n d 
fi n a n c i a l   a s s e t s   w i t hin   t h e   s c o p e   o f   I A S   3 9   F in an c i a l   In s t r um e n t s :  
R e c og ni t i o n   a n d   M ea s ur e m e n t .
(O) Investments
Unl e s s   d e s i g n at e d   at   f a ir   v a lu e   t hr o u g h   p r o fi t   a n d   l o s s ,   t r ad e 
in v e s t m e n t s   a r e   c l a s s i fi e d   a s   a v a il ab l e   f o r   s a l e   a s s e t s   a n d   a r e   in c lu d e d  
un d e r   n o n - c ur r e n t   a s s e t s .     T h e y   ar e   r e c o r d e d   a t   f a ir   v a lu e   w i t h 
m o v e m e n t s   in   v a lu e   t a k e n   t o   e q ui t y .     A n y   im p a ir m ent   t o   v a lu e   i s 
r e c o r d e d   in   t h e   in c o m e   s t at e m e n t .
S h o r t - t e r m   in v e s t m e n t s   in   d e b t   a n d   e q ui t y   s e c ur i t i e s   w hi c h   a r e   h e l d 
f o r   t r ad in g   ar e   c l a s s i fi e d   a s   c ur r e n t   a s s e t s   a n d   a r e   s t at e d   a t   f a ir   v a lu e ,  
w i t h   a n y   r e s ul t a n t   g a in   o r   l o s s   r e c og ni s e d   in   t h e   in c o m e   s t at e m e n t .
(P) Intangible assets
( i ) 	 G o o d w i l l
A ll   b u s in e s s   c o m bin at i o n s   a r e   ac c o un t e d   f o r   b y   a p p l y in g   t h e   
p urc h a s e   m e t h o d .
G o o d w ill   r e p r e s e n t s   a m oun t s   a r i s in g   o n   ac q ui s i t i o n   o f   s ub s i d i ar i e s , 
j oin t   v e n t ur e s   a n d   a s s o c i at e s .     G o o d w ill   r e p r e s e n t s   t h e   d i f f e r e n c e  
b e t w e e n   t h e   f a ir   v a lu e   o f   c o n s i d er at i o n   p a i d   o r   p a y ab l e   a n d   t h e   n e t 
f a ir   v a lu e   o f   t h e   i d en t i fi ab l e   a s s e t s ,   li a bili t i e s   a n d   c o n t in g e n t   li a bili t i e s  
ac q uir e d .     I d e n t i fi a b l e   in t a n g ib l e s ,   s u c h   a s   b r an d s   a n d   c u s t o m e r  
r e l a t i o n s hip s ,   a r e   t h o s e   w hi c h   c an   b e   s o l d   s e p ar at e l y   o r   w hi c h   a r i s e 
f r o m   c o n t r ac t u a l   o r   l e g a l   r i g h t s   r e g a r dl e s s   o f   w h e t h e r   t h o s e   r i g h t s   a r e  
s e p ar a b l e ,   a n d   t h e   f a ir   v a lu e   c an   b e   r e li a b l y   m ea s ur e d .     I d e n t i fi a b l e  
in t a n g ib l e s   a r e   t h o s e   w hi c h   c an   b e   s o l d   s e p ar at e l y   o r   w hi c h   a r i s e   f r o m 
l e g al   r i g h t s   r e g a r dl e s s   o f   w h e t h e r   t h o s e   r i g h t s   a r e   s e p ar a b l e .     G o o d w ill 
i s   s t at e d   at   c o s t   l e s s   a n y   ac c umul a t e d   im p a ir m e n t   l o s s e s .     G o o d w ill   i s 
a ll o c at e d   t o   t h o s e   c a s h   g e n e r at in g   uni t s   e x p e c t e d   t o   b e n e fi t   f r o m   t h e 
b u s in e s s   c o m bin at i o n   a n d   i s   n o t   a m o r t i s e d   b u t   t e s t e d   a nn u a ll y   f o r  
im p a ir m e n t .     Im p a ir m e n t   t e s t in g   i s   b a s e d   o n   a s s e t s   g r o up e d   at   t h e 
l o w e s t   l e v e l   at   w hi c h   g o o d w ill   i s   m o ni t o r e d   f o r   in t e r n a l   m a n a g e m e n t  
p ur p o s e s .     In   r e s p e c t   o f   j oin t   v e n t ur e s   a n d   a s s o c i at e s ,   t h e   c ar r y in g 
a m oun t   o f   g o o d w ill   i s   in c lu d e d   in   t h e   c ar r y in g   a m oun t   o f   t h e  
in v e s t m e n t   in   t h e   j oin t   v e n t ur e   o r   a s s o c i at e .
Fa ir   v a lu e   ad j u s t m e n t s   a r e   m ad e   in   r e s p e c t   o f   ac q ui s i t i o n s .     I f   at   t h e 
b al a n c e   s h e e t   d a t e ,   t h e   a m oun t s   o f   f a ir   v a lu e s   o f   t h e   ac q uir e e ’ s  
i d e n t i fi ab l e   a s s e t s   a n d   li a bili t i e s   c an   o nl y   b e   e s t a b li s h e d   p r o v i s i o n all y , 
t h e n   t h e s e   v a lu e s   a r e   u s e d .     A n y   ad j u s t m e n t s   t o   t h e s e   v a lu e s   a r e  
t a k e n   a s   ad j u s t m e n t s   t o   g o o d w ill   a n d   mu s t   b e   r e c o r d e d   w i t hin   
1 2   m o n t h s   o f   t h e   ac q ui s i t i o n .     N e g a t i v e   g o o d w ill   ar i s in g   o n   a n  
ac q ui s i t i o n   i s   r e c og ni s e d   in   t h e   in c o m e   s t at e m e n t   up o n   ac q ui s i t i o n .
( i i ) 	 C o m p u te r 	 s o f t w a r e 	 a n d 	 o t h e r 	 i n t a n g i b l e 	 a s s e t s
C o m p u t e r   s o f t w a r e   c o n s i s t s   o f   a ll   s o f t w a r e   t h at   i s   n o t   a n   in t e g r a l    
p ar t   o f   t h e   r e l a t e d   c o m p u t e r   h a r d w ar e   a n d   i s   s t at e d   at   c o s t   l e s s  
ac c umul a t e d   a m o r t i s a t i o n   a n d   im p a ir m e n t   l o s s e s .
( i i ) 	 D e fe r r e d 	 t a x
D e f e r r e d   t a x   i s   p r o v i d e d   o r   r e c og ni s e d   u s in g   t h e   b al a n c e   s h e e t   li a bili t y  
m e t h o d ,   p r o v i d in g   f o r   t e m p o r a r y   d i f f e r e n c e s   b e t w e e n   t h e   c ar r y in g 
a m oun t s   o f   a s s e t s   a n d   li a bili t i e s   f o r   fi n a n c i a l   r e p o r t in g   p ur p o s e s   an d 
t h e   a m oun t s   u s e d   f o r   t a x a t i o n   p ur p o s e s .     T h e   f o ll o w in g   t e m p o r a r y  
d i f f e r e n c e s   a r e   n o t   p r o v i d e d   f o r :   t h e   ini t i a l   r e c og ni t i o n   o f   g o o d w ill   
n o t   d e d u c t ib l e   f o r   t a x   p ur p o s e s ,   t h e   ini t i a l   r e c og ni t i o n   o f   a s s e t s   o r 
li a bili t i e s   in   a   t r a n s ac t i o n   t h at   i s   n o t   a   b u s in e s s   c o m bin at i o n   a n d 
d i f f e r e n c e s   r e l a t in g   t o   in v e s t m e n t s   in   s ub s i d i a r i e s   t o   t h e   e x t e n t   t h at  
t h e y   w ill   p r o b ab l y   n o t   r e v e r s e   in   t h e   f o r e s e ea b l e   f u t ur e .     T h e   a m oun t 
o f   d e f e r r e d   t a x   a s s e t   r e c og ni s e d   i s   b a s e d   o n   t h e   e x p e c t e d   m a nn e r   
o f   r ea li s at i o n   o r   s e t t l e m e n t   o f   t h e   c ar r y in g   a m oun t   o f   a s s e t s   a n d 
li a bili t i e s ,   u s in g   t h e   t a x   r at e   at   w hi c h   t h e   a s s e t   o r   li a bili t y   i s   e x p e c t e d 
t o   r e v e r s e   in   f u t ur e   p e r i o d s ,   b a s e d   o n   t a x   l a w s   e n ac t e d   o r 
s ub s t a n t i v e l y   e n ac t e d   at   t h e   b al a n c e   s h e e t   d a t e .
A   d e f e r r e d   t a x   a s s e t   i s   r e c og ni s e d   o nl y   t o   t h e   e x t e n t   t h at   i t   i s 
p r o b ab l e   t h at   f u t ur e   t a x ab l e   p r o fi t s   w ill   b e   a v a il ab l e   a g a in s t   w hi c h   
t h e   a s s e t   c an   b e   u t ili s e d .     D e f e r r e d   t a x   a s s e t s   a r e   r e d u c e d   t o   t h e 
e x t e n t   t h at   i t   i s   n o   l o n g e r   p r o b ab l e   t h at   t h e   r e l a t e d   t a x   b e n e fi t   w ill   
b e   r ea li s e d .
(L) Dividends
D i v i d e n d   d i s t r ib u t i o n   t o   t h e   C o m p a n y ’ s   s h a r e h o l d e r s   i s   r e c og ni s e d   
a s   a   li a bili t y   in   t h e   G r o up ’ s   fi n a n c i a l   s t at e m e n t s   in   t h e   p e r i o d   in   w hi c h 
t h e   d i v i d e n d s   a r e   a p p r o p r i a t el y   a u t h o r i s e d   an d   ap p r o v e d   f o r   p a y m e n t 
a n d   a r e   n o   l o n g e r   at   t h e   d i s c r e t i o n   o f   t h e   C o m p a n y .     Unp a i d   d i v i d e n d s 
t h at   d o   n o t   m e e t   t h e s e   c r i t e r i a   a r e   d i s c l o s e d   in   t h e   n o t e s   t o   t h e 
fi n a n c i a l   s t at e m e n t s .
(M) Earnings per share
T h e   G r o up   p r e s e n t s   b a s i c   an d   d ilu t e d   ea r nin g s   p e r   s h a r e   ( E P S )   d a t a  
f o r   i t s   o r d in ar y   s h a r e s .     B a s i c   E P S   i s   c al c ul a t e d   b y   d i v i d in g   t h e   p r o fi t  
o r   l o s s   at t r ib u t a b l e   t o   o r d in ar y   s h a r e h o l d e r s   o f   t h e   C o m p an y   b y   t h e 
w e i g h t e d   a v e r a g e   n um b e r   o f   o r d in ar y   s h a r e s   o u t s t a n d in g   d ur in g   t h e 
p e r i o d .     D ilu t e d   E P S   i s   d e t e r min e d   b y   ad j u s t in g   t h e   w e i g h t e d   a v e r a g e 
n um b e r   o f   o r d in ar y   s h a r e s   o u t s t an d in g   f o r   t h e   e f f e c t s   o f   a ll   d ilu t i v e  
p o t e n t i a l   o r d in ar y   s h a r e s .     E P S   m ea s ur e s   f o r   b o t h   c o n t in uin g   a n d 
d i s c o n t in u e d   o p e r at i o n s   h a v e   b e e n   p r e s e n t e d   in   ac c o r d a n c e   w i t h    
I A S   3 3 .     T h e   G r o up   a l s o   p r e s e n t s   a   b a s i c   a n d   d ilu t e d   un d e r l y in g    
E P S   m ea s ur e   b a s e d   o n   un d e r l y in g   ea r nin g s   a s   d e fi n e d   in   
N o t e   1 ( B ) ( i v )   a b o v e .     F ur t h e r   d e t a il s   o f   t h e   E P S   c al c ul a t i o n   a r e 
p r e s e n t e d   in   N o t e   3 3 .
(N) Non-current assets held for sale 
IF R S   5   r e q uir e s   t h at   a   n o n - c ur r e n t   a s s e t   o r   a   d i s p o s a l   g r o up  
c o n t a inin g   a   n o n - c ur r e n t   a s s e t   i s   c l a s s i fi e d   a s   h e l d   f o r   s a l e   i f   i t s 
c ar r y in g   a m o un t   w ill   b e   r e c o v e r e d   p r in c ip all y   t hr o u g h   s a l e   r at h e r   t h a n 
t hr o u g h   c o n t in uin g   u s e ,   i t   i s   a v a il ab l e   f o r   im m e d i at e   s a l e   a n d   s a l e   i s 
hi g hl y   p r o b ab l e   w i t hin   o n e   y ea r .
O n   ini t i a l   c l a s s i fi c at i o n   a s   h e l d   f o r   s a l e ,   n o n - c ur r e n t   a s s e t s   a n d 
d i s p o s a l   g r o up s   ar e   m ea s ur e d   at   t h e   l o w e r   o f   p r e v i o u s   c ar r y in g  
a m oun t   an d   f a ir   v a lu e   l e s s   c o s t s   t o   s e ll   w i t h   a n y   ad j u s t m e n t s    
t a k e n   t o   p r o fi t   o r   l o s s .     T h e   s a m e   a p p li e s   t o   g a in s   a n d   l o s s e s    
o n   s ub s e q u e n t   r e m ea s ur e m e n t .
A n y   im p a ir m e n t   l o s s   o n   a   d i s p o s al   g r o up   i s   a ll o c at e d   fi r s t   t o   g o o d w ill  
a n d   t h e n   t o   r e m a inin g   a p p li c a b l e   a s s e t s   o n   a   p r o   r at a   b a s i s   ( e x c e pt   n o 
l o s s   i s   all o c at e d   t o   in v e n t o r i e s ,   fi n a n c i a l   a s s e t s ,   d e f e r r e d   t a x   a s s e t s    
o r   e m p l o y e e   b e n e fi t   a s s e t s ,   w hi c h   c o n t in u e   t o   b e   m ea s ur e d   in  
ac c o r d a n c e   w i t h   t h e   G r o up ’ s   ac c o un t in g   p o li c i e s ) . www.tuitravelplc.com
Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
T U I  T r a v e l P L C  A n n u a l R e p o r t  &  A c c o u n t s  2 0 1 0  79
A s s e t s   un d e r   c o n s t r u c t i o n   a n d   ad v a n c e   p a y m e n t s ,   in c lu d in g 
c api t a li s e d   b o r r o w in g   c o s t s ,   f o r   f u t ur e   a irc r af t   a r e   n o t   d e p r e c i at e d .   
Up o n   t h e   d e li v e r y   o f   t h e   a irc r af t ,   t h e   ad v a n c e   p a y m e n t s   a r e   
r e - c at e g o r i s e d   t o   a irc r af t   a s s e t s   an d   d e p r e c i at i o n   i s   c o m m e n c e d .
( i v ) 	 B o r r o w i n g 	 c o s t s
In   r e s p e c t   o f   b o r r o w in g   c o s t s   r e l a t in g   t o   q u ali f y in g   a s s e t s ,   t h e   G r o up 
c api t a li s e s   b o r r o w in g   c o s t s   d ir e c t l y   at t r ib u t a b l e   t o   t h e   ac q ui s i t i o n , 
c o n s t r u c t i o n   o r   p r o d u c t i o n   o f   a   q u ali f y in g   a s s e t   a s   p ar t   o f   t h e   c o s t    
o f   t h at   a s s e t .  
T h e   G r o up   h a s   c api t a li s e d   b o r r o w in g   c o s t s   w i t h   r e s p e c t   t o   
p r e - d e li v e r y   p a y m e n t s   r e l a t in g   t o   a irc r af t .
( v ) 	 S a l e 	 a n d 	 l e a s e b a c k 	 t r a n s a c t i o n s
W h e n   a   s a l e   a n d   l ea s e b ac k   r e s ul t s   in   a   fi n a n c e   l ea s e ,   a n y   g a in   o n    
t h e   s a l e   i s   d e f e r r e d   a n d   r e c og ni s e d   a s   in c o m e   o v e r   t h e   l ea s e   t e r m .    
A n y   l o s s   o n   t h e   s a l e   i s   im m e d i at e l y   r e c og ni s e d   a s   a n   im p a ir m e n t   
l o s s   w h e n   t h e   s a l e   o c c ur s .
I f   t h e   l ea s e b ac k   i s   c l a s s i fi e d   a s   a n   o p e r at in g   l ea s e ,   t h e n   a n y   g a in    
i s   r e c og ni s e d   im m e d i at e l y   i f   t h e   s a l e   a n d   l ea s e b ac k   t e r m s   a r e  
d e m o n s t r a b l y   at   f a ir   v a lu e .     O t h e r w i s e ,   t h e   s a l e   a n d   l ea s e b ac k   a r e  
ac c o un t e d   f o r   a s   f o ll o w s :
•   I f   t h e   s a l e   p r i c e   i s   b e l o w   f a ir   v a lu e ,   t h e n   t h e   g a in   o r   l o s s   i s 
r e c og ni s e d   im m e d i at e l y ,   o t h e r   t h a n   t o   t h e   e x t e n t   t h at   a   l o s s   i s 
c o m p e n s a t e d   f o r   b y   f u t ur e   r e n t a l s   at   a   b e l o w - m a r k e t   p r i c e ,   t h e n 
t h e   l o s s   i s   d e f e r r e d   an d   a m o r t i s e d   o v e r   t h e   p e r i o d   t h at   t h e   a s s e t    
i s   e x p e c t e d   t o   b e   u s e d .
•   I f   t h e   s a l e   p r i c e   i s   ab o v e   f a ir   v a lu e ,   t h e n   a n y   g a in   i s   d e f e r r e d   a n d 
a m o r t i s e d   o v e r   t h e   u s e f ul   li f e   o f   t h e   a s s e t .
•   I f   t h e   f a ir   v a lu e   o f   t h e   a s s e t   i s   l e s s   t h a n   t h e   c ar r y in g   a m oun t   o f   
t h e   a s s e t   at   t h e   d a t e   o f   t h e   t r a n s ac t i o n ,   t h e n   t h at   d i f f e r e n c e   i s 
r e c og ni s e d   im m e d i at e l y   a s   a   l o s s   o n   t h e   s a l e .
(R) Impairments
( i ) 	 F i n a nc i a l 	 a s s e t s
A   fi n a n c i a l   a s s e t   i s   a s s e s s e d   at   eac h   r e p o r t in g   d a t e   t o   d e t e r min e 
w h e t h e r   t h e r e   i s   a n y   o bj e c t i v e   e v i d e n c e   t h at   i t   i s   im p a ir e d .     A   fi n a n c i a l  
a s s e t   i s   c o n s i d er e d   t o   b e   im p a ir e d   i f   o bj e c t i v e   e v i d e n c e   in d i c at e s   t h at  
o n e   o r   m o r e   e v e n t s   h a v e   h ad   a   n e g at i v e   e f f e c t   o n   t h e   e s t im at e d  
f u t ur e   c a s h   fl o w s   o f   t h at   a s s e t .
A n   im p a ir m e n t   l o s s   in   r e s p e c t   o f   a   fi n a n c i a l   a s s e t   i s   c al c ul a t e d   a s   t h e 
d i f f e r e n c e   b e t w e e n   i t s   c ar r y in g   a m oun t   a n d   i t s   r e c o v e r a b l e   a m oun t .   
A n   im p a ir m e n t   l o s s   in   r e s p e c t   o f   a n   a v a il ab l e   f o r   s a l e   fi n a n c i a l   a s s e t    
i s   c al c ul a t e d   b y   r e f e r e n c e   t o   i t s   f a ir   v a lu e .     T h e   r e c o v e r a b l e   am oun t    
o f   t h e   G r o up ’ s   r e c e i v ab l e s   w hi c h   a r e   c ar r i e d   at   a m o r t i s e d   c o s t   i s 
c al c ul a t e d   a s   t h e   p r e s e n t   v a lu e   o f   e s t im at e d   f u t ur e   c a s h   fl o w s , 
d i s c o un t e d   a t   t h e   o r i g in al   e f f e c t i v e   in t e r e s t   r at e   ( i . e .   t h e   e f f e c t i v e 
in t e r e s t   r at e   c o m p u t e d   at   ini t i a l   r e c og ni t i o n   o f   t h e s e   fi n a n c i a l   a s s e t s ) .    
R e c e i v a b l e s   w i t h   a   s h o r t   d ur a t i o n   ar e   n o t   d i s c o un t e d . 
In d i v i d u a ll y   s i g ni fi c a n t   fi n a n c i a l   a s s e t s   ar e   t e s t e d   f o r   im p a ir m e n t   
o n   a n   in d i v i d u a l   b a s i s .     T h e   r e m a inin g   fi n a n c i a l   a s s e t s   ar e   a s s e s s e d  
c o ll e c t i v e l y   in   g r o up s   t h at   s h a r e   s imil a r   c r e d i t   r i s k   c h ar ac t e r i s t i c s .
A ll   im p a ir m e n t   l o s s e s   a r e   r e c og ni s e d   in   p r o fi t   o r   l o s s .     A n y   c umul at i v e 
l o s s   in   r e s p e c t   o f   an   a v a il ab l e   f o r   s a l e   fi n a n c i a l   a s s e t   p r e v i o u s l y 
r e c og ni s e d   in   e q ui t y   i s   t r a n s f e r r e d   t o   p r o fi t   o r   l o s s .     A n   im p a ir m e n t  
l o s s   i s   r e v e r s e d   i f   t h e   r e v e r s a l   c an   b e   r e l a t e d   o bj e c t i v e l y   t o   a n   e v e n t  
o c c ur r in g   af t e r   t h e   im p a ir m e n t   l o s s   w a s   r e c og ni s e d .     F o r   fi n a n c i a l  
a s s e t s   m ea s ur e d   at   a m o r t i s e d   c o s t   a n d   a v a il ab l e   f o r   s a l e   fi n a n c i a l  
a s s e t s   t h at   a r e   d e b t   s e c ur i t i e s ,   t h e   r e v e r s a l   i s   r e c og ni s e d   in   p r o fi t   o r  
l o s s .     F o r   a v a il ab l e   f o r   s a l e   fi n a n c i a l   a s s e t s   t h at   a r e   e q ui t y   s e c ur i t i e s ,  
t h e   r e v e r s a l   i s   r e c og ni s e d   d ir e c t l y   in   e q ui t y .
( i i i ) 	 A m o r t i s a t i o n
A m o r t i s at i o n   i s   c h ar g e d   t o   t h e   c o n s o li d at e d   in c o m e   s t at e m e n t   o n   
a   s t r a i g h t lin e   b a s i s   o v e r   t h e   e s t im at e d   u s e f ul   e c o n o mi c   li f e   o f   eac h  
t y p e   o f   in t a n g ib l e   a s s e t   a s   f o ll o w s :
C o m p u t e r   s o f t w a r e   3 - 1 0   y ea r s
B r an d s   1 5 - 2 0   y ea r s
O r d e r   b o o k   at   d a t e   o f   ac q ui s i t i o n     O v e r   t h e   p e r i o d   un t il   
t r a v e l   o c c ur s
C u s t o m e r   r e l a t i o n s hip s     O v e r   t h e   p e r i o d   d ur in g   w hi c h 
v a lu e   w ill   b e   o bt a in e d   b y   t h e  
G r o up   ( up   t o   1 5   y ea r s )
L i c e n c e s   Ov er   the t erm of  lic enc e
S o f t w a r e   in   d e v e l o p m e n t   i s   n o t   a m o r t i s e d .     Up o n   c o m p l e t i o n   o f 
d e v e l o p m e n t   a n d   b r in g in g   t h e   s o f t w a r e   in t o   u s e ,   t h e   c o s t s   a r e   
r e - c at e g o r i s e d   in t o   c o m p u t e r   s o f t w a r e   a n d   a m o r t i s a t i o n   c o m m e n c e s .
(Q) Property, plant and equipment
( i ) 	 O w n e d 	 a s s e t s
I t e m s   o f   p r o p e r t y ,   p l a n t   a n d   e q uip m e n t   a r e   s t at e d   at   c o s t   l e s s 
ac c umul a t e d   d e p r e c i at i o n   a n d   im p a ir m e n t   l o s s e s .
W h e r e   s i g ni fi c a n t   p ar t s   o f   an   i t e m   o f   p r o p e r t y ,   p l a n t   a n d   e q uip m e n t  
h a v e   d i f f e r e n t   u s e f ul   li v e s ,   t h e y   a r e   ac c o un t e d   f o r   a s   s e p ar at e   i t e m s   
o f   p r o p e r t y ,   p l a n t   an d   e q uip m e n t .
( i i ) 	 L e a s e d 	 a s s e t s
L ea s e s   in   w hi c h   t h e   G r o up   a s s um e s   s ub s t a n t i all y   a ll   t h e   r i s k s   a n d  
r e w a r d s   o f   o w n e r s hip   a r e   c l a s s i fi e d   a s   fi n a n c e   l ea s e s .     L ea s e d   a s s e t s  
ac q uir e d   b y   w a y   o f   a   fi n a n c e   l ea s e   a r e   s t at e d   at   a n   a m oun t   e q u al   t o 
t h e   l o w e r   o f   t h e ir   f a ir   v a lu e   a n d   t h e   p r e s e n t   v a lu e   o f   t h e   minimum  
l ea s e   p a y m e n t s   at   t h e   in c e p t i o n   o f   t h e   l ea s e ,   l e s s   ac c umul a t e d  
d e p r e c i at i o n   a n d   im p a ir m e n t   l o s s e s .     L ea s e   p a y m e n t s   a r e   ac c o un t e d 
f o r   a s   s e t   o u t   in   N o t e   1 ( H )   a b o v e .
( i i i ) 	 D e p r e c i a t i o n
D e p r e c i at i o n   i s   c h ar g e d   t o   t h e   c o n s o li d at e d   in c o m e   s t at e m e n t   o n   
a   s t r a i g h t lin e   b a s i s   o v e r   t h e   e s t im at e d   u s e f ul   e c o n o mi c   li v e s   o f   eac h  
p ar t   o f   a n   i t e m   o f   p r o p e r t y ,   p l a n t   a n d   e q uip m e n t .     F r e e h o l d   l an d   i s  
n o t   d e p r e c i at e d .     T h e   u s e f ul   e c o n o mi c   li v e s   a r e   a s   f o ll o w s :
F r e e h o l d   p r o p e r t i e s   Up   t o   5 0   y ea r s
S h o r t   l ea s e h o l d   im p r o v e m e n t s     L ea s e   p e r i o d   o r   u s e f ul   e c o n o mi c 
li f e   i f   s h o r t e r
O w n e d   a irc r af t   Up   t o   1 8   y ea r s
F in an c e   l ea s e d   a irc r af t   
a n d   e q uip m e n t     L ea s e   p e r i o d   o r   u s e f ul   e c o n o mi c  
li f e   i f   s h o r t e r
A irc r a f t   s p ar e s   1 2   y ea r s
C r ui s e   s hip s   2 0   y ea r s
Y ac h t s   5 - 1 5   y ea r s
M o t o r   b o a t s   1 5 - 2 4   y ea r s
C o m p u t e r   e q uip m e n t   in c lu d in g 
r e t a il   c o m p u t e r   e q uip m e n t   3 - 5   y ea r s
R e t a il   fi x t ur e s   a n d   fi t t in g s   8   y ea r s
O t h e r  a s s e t s  4  y ears
T h e   c o s t   o f   m a j o r   o v e r h a ul s   o f   o w n e d   a ir f r a m e s   a n d   e n g in e s   i s 
c api t a li s e d   a n d   d e p r e c i at e d   o v e r   t h e   p e r i o d   un t il   t h e   n e x t   s c h e d ul e d 
m a j o r   o v e r h a ul .    
T h e   d e p r e c i at i o n   m e t h o d s ,   u s e f ul   e c o n o mi c   li v e s   a n d   r e s i d u a l    
v a lu e s   a r e   r ea s s e s s e d   a nn u a ll y .     R e v i s i o n s   t o   u s e f ul   e c o n o mi c   li v e s    
a n d   r e s i d u a l   v a lu e s   a r e   ac c oun t e d   f o r   p r o s p e c t i v e l y   f r o m   t h e   d a t e   
o f   c h a n g e . www.tuitravelplc.com
80  T U I T r a v e l  P L C  A n n u a l R e p o r t & A c c o u n t s  2 0 1 0
Financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements c o n t i n u e d
o v e r   a   fl e e t .     T h e   un w in d in g   o f   d i s c oun t e d   v a lu e s   i s   c h ar g e d   t o   t h e 
c o n s o li d at e d   in c o m e   s t at e m e n t   a s   a   fi n a n c i a l   e x p e n s e .
T h e   c o s t   o f   m a j o r   o v e r h a ul s   o f   o w n e d   a ir f r a m e s   an d   e n g in e s   i s 
c api t a li s e d   a n d   d e p r e c i at e d   o v e r   t h e   p e r i o d   un t il   t h e   n e x t   s c h e d ul e d  
m a j o r   o v e r h a ul .
( i i ) 	 R e s t r u c t u r i n g 	 p r o v i s i o n
A   p r o v i s i o n   f o r   r e s t r u c t ur in g   i s   r e c og ni s e d   w h e n   t h e   G r o up   
h a s   a p p r o v e d   a   d e t a il e d   a n d   f o r m a l   r e s t r u c t ur in g   p l a n ,   a n d   t h e 
r e s t r u c t ur in g   e i t h e r   h a s   c o m m e n c e d   o r   h a s   b e e n   a nn oun c e d   
p ub li c l y .     F u t ur e   o p e r at in g   c o s t s   a r e   n o t   p r o v i d e d   f o r .
( i i i ) 	 O n e r o u s 	 c o n t r a c t s
A   p r o v i s i o n   f o r   o n e r o u s   c o n t r ac t s   i s   r e c og ni s e d   w h e n   t h e   e x p e c t e d 
b e n e fi t s   t o   b e   d e r i v e d   b y   t h e   G r o up   f r o m   t h e   c o n t r ac t   ar e   l o w e r   t h a n  
t h e   un a v oi d a b l e   c o s t   o f   m e e t in g   i t s   o b li g at i o n s   un d e r   t h e   c o n t r ac t .    
T h e   p r o v i s i o n   i s   m ea s ur e d   at   t h e   p r e s e n t   v a lu e   o f   t h e   l o w e r   o f   t h e 
e x p e c t e d   c o s t   o f   t e r min at in g   t h e   c o n t r ac t   a n d   t h e   e x p e c t e d   n e t   c o s t 
o f   c o n t in uin g   w i t h   t h e   c o n t r ac t .     B e f o r e   a   p r o v i s i o n   i s   e s t a b li s h e d ,   t h e  
G r o up   r e c og ni s e s   a n y   im p a ir m e n t   l o s s   o n   t h e   a s s e t s   a s s o c i at e d   w i t h 
t h at   c o n t r ac t .  
(U) Non-controlling interests
In   t h e   c o n s o li d at e d   b al a n c e   s h e e t ,   t h e   s h a r e   o f   n e t   a s s e t s   at t r ib u t a b l e  
t o   n o n - c o n t r o llin g   in t e r e s t s   i s   d i s c l o s e d   a s   a   s e p ar at e   c o m p o n e n t   
o f   e q ui t y   af t e r   s h a r e   c api t a l   a n d   r e s e r v e s ,   a l t h o u g h   i t   i s   n e i t h e r   a  
fi n a n c i a l   li a bili t y   n o r   an   e q ui t y   in s t r um e n t .     T h e   c o n s o li d at e d   in c o m e 
s t at e m e n t   d i s c l o s e s   t h e   a m oun t   o f   t h e   r e s ul t   f o r   t h e   y ea r   at t r ib u t a b l e 
t o   n o n - c o n t r o llin g   in t e r e s t s .
W h e r e   t h e   G r o up   h a s   a   w r i t t e n   p u t   o pt i o n   in   r e s p e c t   o f   a   n o n -
c o n t r o llin g   in t e r e s t   a n d   h a s   a n   un a v oi d a b l e   o b li g at i o n   t o   p urc h a s e   t h e 
s h a r e h o l d in g ,   t h e   n o n - c o n t r o llin g   in t e r e s t   i s   r e c o r d e d   a s   a   fi n a n c i a l  
li a bili t y   at   f a ir   v a lu e ,   r at h e r   t h a n   b e in g   r e p o r t e d   a s   a   s e p ar at e  
c o m p o n e n t   o f   e q ui t y .     N o   r e s ul t   i s   at t r ib u t a b l e   t o   n o n - c o n t r o llin g 
in t e r e s t s   a n d   in s t ead   c h an g e s   t o   t h e   f a ir   v a lu e   o f   t h e   fi n a n c i a l   li a bili t y  
a r e   r e c o r d e d   at   eac h   p e r i o d   e n d   in   t h e   in c o m e   s t at e m e n t   w i t hin  
fi n a n c i a l   in c o m e   o r   fi n a n c i a l   e x p e n s e s .
O n   p urc h a s e   o r   s a l e   o f   a   n o n - c o n t r o llin g   in t e r e s t   h e l d   in   a   G r o up 
s ub s i d i a r y ,   t h e   G r o up   r e c og ni s e s   in c r ea s e s   o r   d e c r ea s e s   in   i t s   in t e r e s t 
d ir e c t l y   in   e q ui t y .
(V) Related parties
F o r   t h e   p ur p o s e   o f   t h e s e   c o n s o li d at e d   fi n a n c i a l   s t at e m e n t s ,   p ar t i e s  
a r e   c o n s i d er e d   t o   b e   r e l a t e d   t o   t h e   G r o up   i f   t h e   G r o up   h a s   t h e   a bili t y ,  
d ir e c t l y   o r   in d ir e c t l y ,   t o   c o n t r o l   t h e   p ar t y   o r   e x e rc i s e   s i g ni fi c an t  
in fl u e n c e   o v e r   t h e   p ar t y   m a k in g   fi n a n c i a l   a n d   o p e r at in g   d e c i s i o n s ,   o r 
v i c e   v e r s a ,   o r   w h e r e   t h e   G r o up   a n d   t h e   p ar t y   a r e   s ubj e c t   t o   c o m m o n 
c o n t r o l   o r   c o m m o n   s i g ni fi c a n t   in fl u e n c e .     R e l at e d   p ar t i e s   m a y   b e 
in d i v i d u a l s   o r   o t h e r   e n t i t i e s .
(W) Segment reporting
A n   o p e r at in g   s e g m e n t   i s   a   c o m p o n e n t   o f   an   e n t i t y   t h at :
a )   e n g a g e s   in   b u s in e s s   ac t i v i t i e s   f r o m   w hi c h   i t   m a y   ea r n   r e v e n u e s    
a n d   in c ur   e x p e n s e s   ( in c lu d in g   r e v e n u e s   a n d   e x p e n s e s   r e l a t in g   t o 
t r a n s ac t i o n s   w i t h   o t h e r   c o m p o n e n t s   o f   t h e   s a m e   e n t i t y ) ;
b )   w h o s e   o p e r at in g   r e s ul t s   a r e   r e g ul ar l y   r e v i e w e d   b y   t h e   G MB   t o  
m a k e   d e c i s i o n s   a b o u t   r e s o urc e s   t o   b e   a ll o c at e d   t o   t h e   s e g m e n t 
a n d   a s s e s s   i t s   p e r f o r m an c e ;   a n d
c )   f o r   w hi c h   d i s c r e t e   fi n a n c i a l   in f o r m a t i o n   i s   a v a il ab l e .
A s   d e s c r ib e d   in   N o t e   2 ,   all   un d e r l y in g   o p e r a t in g   i t e m s   a r e   a ll o c at e d    
t o   t h e   s e g m e n t ’ s   un d e r l y in g   p r o fi t   e x c e pt   c e n t r a l   c o s t s   a n d   n e t 
fi n a n c i a l   e x p e n s e s .
( i i ) 	 N o n - fi n a nc i a l 	 a s s e t s
T h e   c ar r y in g   a m oun t   o f   t h e   G r o up ’ s   n o n - fi n a n c i a l   a s s e t s ,   o t h e r 
t h a n   in v e n t o r y   a n d   d e f e r r e d   t a x   a s s e t s ,   a r e   r e v i e w e d   at   eac h   
b al a n c e   s h e e t   d a t e   t o   d e t e r min e   w h e t h e r   t h e r e   i s   a n y   in d i c at i o n   
o f   im p a ir m e n t .     I f   s u c h   a n   in d i c at i o n   e x i s t s ,   t h e   a s s e t ’ s   r e c o v e r a b l e  
a m oun t   i s   e s t im at e d .     F o r   g o o d w ill ,   t h e   r e c o v e r a b l e   a m oun t   i s 
e s t im at e d   at   eac h   b al a n c e   s h e e t   d a t e .
A n   im p a ir m e n t   l o s s   i s   r e c og ni s e d   w h e n e v e r   t h e   c ar r y in g   am ount   o f   
a n   a s s e t   o r   i t s   c a s h   g e n e r at in g   uni t   e x c e e d s   i t s   r e c o v e r a b l e   a m oun t .   
T h e   r e c o v e r a b l e   a m oun t   o f   a n   a s s e t   o r   c a s h   g e n e r at in g   uni t   i s   t h e 
g r eat e r   o f   i t s   v a lu e   in   u s e   a n d   f a ir   v a lu e   l e s s   c o s t s   t o   s e ll .     In   a s s e s s in g  
v a lu e   in   u s e ,   t h e   e s t im at e d   f u t ur e   c a s h   fl o w s   a r e   d i s c o un t e d   t o   t h e ir 
p r e s e n t   v a lu e   u s in g   a   p r e - t a x   d i s c oun t   r at e   t h at   r e fl e c t s   c ur r e n t  
m a r k e t   a s s e s s m e n t s   o f   t h e   t im e   v a lu e   o f   m o n e y   a n d   t h e   r i s k s   s p e c i fi c  
t o   t h e   a s s e t .     A   c a s h   g e n e r at in g   uni t   i s   t h e   s m a ll e s t   i d en t i fi ab l e   g r o up 
o f   a s s e t s   t h at   g e n e r at e s   c a s h   in fl o w s   t h at   a r e   l ar g e l y   in d e p e n d e n t   o f   
t h e   c a s h   in fl o w s   f r o m   o t h e r   a s s e t s   o r   g r o up s   o f   a s s e t s .
Im p a ir m e n t   l o s s e s   a r e   r e c og ni s e d   in   p r o fi t   o r   l o s s .     Im p a ir m e n t   l o s s e s  
r e c og ni s e d   in   r e s p e c t   o f   c a s h   g e n e r at in g   uni t s   ar e   a ll o c at e d   fi r s t   t o  
r e d u c e   t h e   c ar r y in g   a m oun t   o f   g o o d w ill   a ll o c at e d   t o   t h e   c a s h 
g e n e r at in g   uni t   a n d   t h e n   t o   r e d u c e   t h e   c ar r y in g   a m oun t   o f   o t h e r 
a s s e t s   in   t h e   uni t   o n   a   p r o   r at a   b a s i s .  
A n   im p a ir m e n t   l o s s   in   r e s p e c t   o f   g o o d w ill   i s   n o t   r e v e r s e d .     In   r e s p e c t  
o f   o t h e r   a s s e t s ,   im p a ir m e n t   l o s s e s   r e c og ni s e d   in   p r i o r   p e r i o d s   a r e 
a s s e s s e d   at   eac h   r e p o r t in g   d a t e   f o r   a n y   in d i c a t i o n s   t h at   t h e   l o s s   h a s 
d e c r ea s e d   o r   n o   l o n g e r   e x i s t s .     A n   im p a ir m e n t   l o s s   i s   r e v e r s e d   i f   t h e r e 
h a s   b e e n   a   c h an g e   in   t h e   e s t im at e s   u s e d   t o   d e t e r min e   t h e   r e c o v e r a b l e 
a m oun t .     A n   im p a ir m e n t   l o s s   i s   r e v e r s e d   o nl y   t o   t h e   e x t e n t   t h at   t h e 
a s s e t ’ s   c ar r y in g   am oun t   d o e s   n o t   e x c e e d   t h e   c ar r y in g   a m oun t   t h at 
w o ul d   h a v e   b e e n   d e t e r min e d ,   n e t   o f   d e p r e c i at i o n   o r   am o r t i s a t i o n ,   i f  
n o   im p a ir m e n t   l o s s   h ad   b e e n   r e c og ni s e d .
(S) Inventories
In v e n t o r i e s   a r e   m ea s ur e d   at   t h e   l o w e r   o f   c o s t   o r   n e t   r ea li s a b l e   v a lu e .    
N e t   r ea li s a b l e   v a lu e   i s   t h e   e s t im at e d   s e llin g   p r i c e   l e s s   t h e   e s t im at e d  
c o s t s   in c ur r e d   un t il   t h e   s a l e   a n d   t h e   e s t im at e d   v a r i a b l e   c o s t s   r e q uir e d 
t o   s e ll .     A ll   in v e n t o r i e s   a r e   w r i t t e n   d o w n   in d i v i d u a ll y   w h e r e   t h e   n e t 
r ea li s a b l e   v a lu e   o f   in v e n t o r i e s   i s   l o w e r   t h a n   t h e ir   c ar r y in g   a m o un t s .    
T h e   m ea s ur em e n t   m e t h o d   a p p li e d   t o   s imil a r   in v e n t o r y   i t e m s   i s   t h e 
w e i g h t e d   a v e r a g e   c o s t   f o r mul a .
(T) Provisions
A   p r o v i s i o n   i s   r e c og ni s e d   in   t h e   c o n s o li d at e d   b al a n c e   s h e e t   w h e n   t h e 
G r o up   h a s   a   l e g a l   o r   c o n s t r u c t i v e   o b li g at i o n   a s   a   r e s ul t   o f   a   p a s t   e v e n t , 
i t   i s   p r o b ab l e   t h at   a n   o u t fl o w   o f   e c o n o mi c   b e n e fi t s   w ill   b e   r e q uir e d   t o 
s e t t l e   t h e   o b li g at i o n   a n d   t h e   o u t fl o w   o f   e c o n o mi c   b e n e fi t s   c an   b e 
r e li a b l y   e s t im at e d .     I f   t h e   e f f e c t   i s   m a t e r i al ,   p r o v i s i o n s   ar e   d e t e r min e d 
b y   d i s c o un t in g   t h e   e x p e c t e d   f u t ur e   c a s h   fl o w s   at   a   p r e - t a x   r at e   t h at 
r e fl e c t s   c ur r e n t   m a r k e t   a s s e s s m e n t s   o f   t h e   t im e   v a lu e   o f   m o n e y   a n d  
t h e   r i s k s   s p e c i fi c   t o   t h e   li a bili t y .
( i ) 	 M a i n te n a nc e 	 p r o v i s i o n 	 f o r 	 l e a s e d 	 a i r c r a f t
T o   r e fl e c t   t h e   l e g a l   o b li g at i o n s   p l ac e d   up o n   t h e   G r o up   un d e r    
t h e   t e r m s   o f   c e r t a in   o p e r at in g   l ea s e s ,   p r o v i s i o n   i s   m ad e   f o r   t h e 
m a in t e n a n c e ,   o v e r h a ul   a n d   r e p a ir   c o s t s   o f   o p e r a t in g   l ea s e d   a ir f r a m e s ,  
e n g in e s   an d   c e r t a in   o t h e r   c o m p o n e n t s .     T h e   p r o v i s i o n   i s   b a s e d   o n   
t h e   p r e s e n t   v a lu e   o f   t o t a l   a n t i c ip at e d   e x t e r n a l   c o s t s   o v e r   t h e   u s e f ul 
e c o n o mi c   li f e   o f   t h e   a s s e t   c al c ul a t e d   b y   r e f e r e n c e   t o   c o s t s 
e x p e r i e n c e d   a n d   p ub li s h e d   m a n u f ac t ur e r s ’   d a t a .     T h e   c h ar g e   t o   t h e 
c o n s o li d at e d   in c o m e   s t at e m e n t   i s   c al c ul a t e d   b y   r e f e r e n c e   t o   t h e 
n um b e r   o f   h o ur s   a n d   c y c l e s   fl o w n   a n d   b y   r e f e r e n c e   t o   t h e   l e n g t h    
o f   t h e   f ull   o v e r h a ul   c y c l e .     C o s t s   in c ur r e d   a r e   c h a r g e d   a g a in s t   t h e 
p r o v i s i o n .     N e i t h e r   t h e   t imin g   n o r   t h e   v a lu e   o f   t h e   e x p e n d i t ur e   c an   
b e   p r e c i s e l y   d e t e r min e d   b u t   t h e y   c an   b e   a v e r a g e d   o v e r   t im e   a n d    www.tuitravelplc.com
Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
T U I  T r a v e l P L C  A n n u a l R e p o r t  &  A c c o u n t s  2 0 1 0  81
( v ) 	 T r ad e 	 a n d 	 o t h e r 	 r e c e i v a b l e s
T r ad e   r e c e i v ab l e s   ar e   r e c og ni s e d   at   t h e ir   f a ir   v a lu e   an d   s ub s e q u e n t l y 
r e c o r d e d   at   am o r t i s e d   c o s t   u s in g   t h e   e f f e c t i v e   in t e r e s t   m e t h o d   
a s   r e d u c e d   b y   a ll o w an c e s   f o r   e s t im at e d   ir r e c o v e r a b l e   am ount s .     
A n   a ll o w an c e   f o r   ir r e c o v e r a b l e   a m oun t s   i s   e s t a b li s h e d   w h e n   t h e r e    
i s   o bj e c t i v e   e v i d e n c e   t h at   t h e   G r o up   w ill   n o t   b e   a b l e   t o   c o ll e c t   a ll 
a m oun t s   d u e   ac c o r d in g   t o   t h e   o r i g in al   t e r m s   o f   t h e   r e c e i v ab l e s .      
T h e   a m oun t   o f   a ll o w an c e   i s   t h e   d i f f e r e n c e   b e t w e e n   t h e   a s s e t ’ s 
c a r r y i n g   a m o u n t   a n d   t h e   p r e s e n t   v a l u e   o f   e s t i m a t e d   f u t u r e   c a s h   fl o w s .
( v i ) 	 T r ad e 	 p a y a b l e s
T r ad e   p a y ab l e s   ar e   r e c og ni s e d   at   t h e ir   f a ir   v a lu e   a n d   s ub s e q u e n t l y 
r e c o r d e d   at   am o r t i s e d   c o s t   u s in g   t h e   e f f e c t i v e   in t e r e s t   m e t h o d .
( v i i ) 	 D e r i v a t i v e s
T h e   f a ir   v a lu e   o f   f o r e i g n   c ur r e n c y   c o n t r ac t s ,   f u e l   f o r w ar d   c o n t r ac t s  
a n d   o pt i o n   c o n t r ac t s   i s   t h e ir   f o r w ar d   m a r k e t   p r i c e   at   t h e   b al a n c e 
s h e e t   d a t e ,   b a s e d   o n   e x t e r n a l   v a lu at i o n s   o r   in t e r n a l   v a lu at i o n s   u s in g 
m a r k e t   d a t a .  
( v i i i ) 	 N o n - d e r i v a t i v e 	 fi n a nc i a l 	 l i a b i l i t i e s
Fa ir   v a lu e ,   w hi c h   i s   d e t e r min e d   f o r   d i s c l o s ur e   p ur p o s e s ,   i s   c al c ul a t e d  
b a s e d   o n   t h e   p r e s e n t   v a lu e   o f   f u t ur e   p r in c ip al   a n d   in t e r e s t   c a s h    
fl o w s ,   d i s c oun t e d   at   t h e   m a r k e t   r at e   o f   in t e r e s t   at   t h e   r e p o r t in g   d a t e .    
F o r   fi n a n c e   l ea s e s   t h e   m a r k e t   r at e   o f   in t e r e s t   i s   d e t e r min e d   b y 
r e f e r e n c e   t o   s imil a r   l ea s e   a g r e e m e n t s .
( i x ) 	 S h a r e - b a s e d 	 p a y m e n t s
T h e   f a ir   v a lu e   o f   t h e   s h a r e s   a w a r d e d   i s   m ea s ur e d   u s in g   o pt i o n 
v a lu at i o n   m o d e l s ,   t a k in g   in t o   ac c ount   t h e   t e r m s   a n d   c o n d i t i o n s   up o n 
w hi c h   t h e   a w a r d s   w e r e   m ad e .     T h e   v a lu at i o n   b a s i s   i s   i d e n t i c a l   w h e t h e r 
t h e   a w a r d s   w ill   b e   s e t t l e d   in   c a s h   o r   s h a r e s .
(Z) New Standards and interpretations not yet adopted
T h e   f o ll o w in g   s t a n d ar d s   w hi c h   a r e   a p p li c a b l e   t o   t h e   G r o up   h a v e    
b e e n   e n d o r s e d   b y   t h e   E ur o p ean   Uni o n   a n d   a r e   e f f e c t i v e   f o r   t h e   
y ea r   e n d in g   3 0   S e pt e m b e r   2 0 1 1 .     T h e y   a r e   n o t   e x p e c t e d   t o   h a v e   a  
s i g ni fi c a n t   im p ac t   o n   t h e   G r o up ’ s   fi n a n c i a l   s t at e m e n t s   in   f u t ur e   y ea r s :  
I A S   1   P r e s e n t at i o n   o f   F in an c i a l   S t a t e m e n t s   h a s   b e e n   a m e n d e d   t o 
s t at e   t h at   t h e   c l a s s i fi c at i o n   o f   t h e   li a bili t y   c o m p o n e n t   o f   a   c o n v e r t ib l e  
in s t r um e n t   a s   c ur r e n t   o r   n o n - c ur r e n t   i s   n o t   a f f e c t e d   b y   t e r m s   t h at ,   
at   t h e   o pt i o n   o f   t h e   h o l d e r ,   r e s ul t   in   s e t t l e m e n t   o f   t h e   li a bili t y   t hr o u g h  
i s s u e   o f   e q ui t y   in s t r um e n t s .
I A S   7   S t a t e m e n t   o f   c a s h   fl o w s   h a s   b e e n   am e n d e d   t o   s t at e   e x p li c i t l y 
t h at   o nl y   e x p e n d i t ur e   t h at   r e s ul t s   ini t i a ll y   in   t h e   r e c og ni t i o n   o f   a n  
a s s e t   m a y   b e   c l a s s i fi e d   a s   a   c a s h   fl o w   f r o m   in v e s t in g   ac t i v i t i e s .
P ar a g r ap h   1 4   o f   I A S   1 7   L ea s e s   h a s   b e e n   d e l e t e d   s u c h   t h at   a   l ea s e   
o f   l an d   w i t h   a n   in d e fi ni t e   e c o n o mi c   li f e   n e e d   n o t   b e   c l a s s i fi e d   a s   an 
o p e r at in g   l ea s e .     A   l an d   l ea s e   w i t h   a   l ea s e   t e r m   o f   s e v e r a l   d e c ad e s   o r 
l o n g e r   m a y   b e   c l a s s i fi e d   a s   a   fi n a n c e   l ea s e ,   e v e n   i f   at   t h e   e n d   o f   t h e 
l ea s e   t e r m   t i t l e   d o e s   n o t   p a s s   t o   t h e   l e s s e e .     W h e n   a   l ea s e   in c lu d e s  
b o t h   l an d   a n d   b uil d in g s ,   c l a s s i fi c at i o n   o f   eac h   e l e m e n t   o f   t h e   l ea s e    
w ill   t a k e   ac c oun t   o f   t h e   f ac t   t h at   l an d   n o r m a ll y   h a s   a n   in d e fi ni t e  
e c o n o mi c   li f e .
T h e   a p p e n d i x   o f   I A S   1 8   R e v e n u e   h a s   b e e n   a m e n d e d   t o   s p e c i f y   t h at   a n 
e n t i t y   ac t s   a s   p r in c ip al   w h e n   e x p o s e d   t o   s i g ni fi c a n t   r i s k s   a n d   r e w a r d s  
a s s o c i at e d   w i t h   s a l e   o f   g o o d s   o r   r e n d e r in g   o f   s e r v i c e s .     F ur t h e r  
in d i c a t o r s   h a v e   b e e n   ad d e d   t o   t h e   a p p e n d i x   t o   a s s i s t   in   a s s e s s in g  
w h e t h e r   a n   e n t i t y   i s   p r in c ip al   o r   a g e n t .
T h e   G r o up   h a s   d e c i d e d   t o   ad o pt   ea r l y   a n   a m e n dm e n t   t o   IF R S   8  
O p e r at in g   S e g m e n t s   w hi c h   s t at e s   t h at   s e g m e n t   in f o r m a t i o n   f o r   t o t a l 
a s s e t s   i s   o nl y   r e q uir e d   i f   s u c h   in f o r m a t i o n   i s   r e g ul ar l y   r e p o r t e d   t o   t h e 
c hi e f   o p e r at in g   d e c i s i o n - m a k e r .
(X) Use of estimates
T h e   p r e p ar at i o n   o f   fi n a n c i a l   s t at e m e n t s   r e q uir e s   m a n a g e m e n t   
t o   m a k e   j u d g e m e n t s ,   e s t im at e s   a n d   a s s um p t i o n s   t h at   a f f e c t   t h e 
ap p li c at i o n   o f   ac c o un t in g   p o li c i e s   a n d   t h e   r e p o r t e d   a m oun t s   o f   
a s s e t s ,   li a bili t i e s ,   in c o m e   a n d   e x p e n s e s .     A c t u a l   r e s ul t s   m a y   d i f f e r    
f r o m   t h e s e   e s t im at e s .
E s t im a t e s   a n d   un d e r l y in g   a s s um p t i o n s   a r e   r e v i e w e d   o n   a n   o n g oin g 
b a s i s .     R e v i s i o n s   t o   ac c oun t in g   e s t im at e s   a r e   r e c og ni s e d   in   t h e   p e r i o d 
in   w hi c h   t h e   e s t im at e s   a r e   r e v i s e d   a n d   in   a n y   f u t ur e   p e r i o d s   af f e c t e d .   
D e t a il s   o f   c r i t i c a l   j u d g e m e n t s ,   s i g ni fi c an t   e s t im at e s   a n d   a s s um p t i o n s 
ar e   d i s c l o s e d   in   t h e   r e l e v an t   n o t e s   t o   t h e   c o n s o li d at e d   fi n a n c i a l  
s t at e m e n t s .     T h e   k e y   ac c o un t in g   e s t im at e s   a n d   j u d g e m e n t s   ar e 
d e s c r ib e d   in   N o t e   3 1 .
(Y) Determination of fair values
A   n um b e r   o f   t h e   G r o up ’ s   ac c o un t in g   p o li c i e s   a n d   d i s c l o s ur e s   r e q uir e 
t h e   d e t e r min a t i o n   o f   f a ir   v a lu e ,   f o r   b o t h   fi n a n c i a l   a n d   n o n - fi n a n c i a l  
a s s e t s   a n d   li a bili t i e s .     Fa ir   v a lu e s   h a v e   b e e n   d e t e r min e d   f o r 
m ea s ur em e n t   a n d / o r   d i s c l o s ur e   p ur p o s e s   b a s e d   o n   t h e   f o ll o w in g 
m e t h o d s .     W h e n   a p p li c a b l e ,   f ur t h e r   in f o r m a t i o n   a b o u t   t h e 
a s s um p t i o n s   m ad e   in   d e t e r minin g   f a ir   v a lu e s   i s   d i s c l o s e d   in   t h e   
n o t e s   s p e c i fi c   t o   t h at   a s s e t   o r   li a bili t y .
( i ) 	 P r o p e r t y , 	 p l a n t 	 a n d 	 e q u i p m e n t
T h e   f a ir   v a lu e   o f   p r o p e r t y ,   p l a n t   a n d   e q uip m e n t   r e c og ni s e d   a s   a    
r e s ul t   o f   a   b u s in e s s   c o m bin at i o n   i s   b a s e d   o n   m a r k e t   v a lu e s .     T h e 
m a r k e t   v a lu e   o f   p r o p e r t y   i s   t h e   e s t im at e d   a m oun t   f o r   w hi c h   a  
p r o p e r t y   c o ul d   b e   e x c h an g e d   o n   t h e   d a t e   o f   v a lu at i o n   b e t w e e n   a  
w illin g   b u y e r   a n d   a   w illin g   s e ll e r   in   a n   a r m ’ s   l e n g t h   t r a n s ac t i o n   a f t e r 
p r o p e r   m a r k e t in g   w h e r e in   t h e   p ar t i e s   h ad   eac h   ac t e d   k n o w l e d g eab l y , 
p r u d e n t l y   a n d   w i t h ou t   c o m p ul s i o n .     T h e   m a r k e t   v a lu e   o f   i t e m s   o f 
p l a n t ,   e q uip m e n t ,   fi x t ur e s   a n d   fi t t in g s   i s   b a s e d   o n   t h e   q u o t e d   m a r k e t  
p r i c e s   f o r   s imil a r   i t e m s .
( i i ) 	 I n t a n g i b l e 	 a s s e t s
T h e   f a ir   v a lu e   o f   in t a n g ib l e   a s s e t s   r e c og ni s e d   a s   a   r e s ul t   o f   a   b u s in e s s  
c o m bin at i o n ,   in c lu d in g   b r an d s ,   c u s t o m e r   r e l a t i o n s hip s   an d   t h e 
c u s t o m e r   o r d e r   b o o k   at   t h e   d a t e   o f   ac q ui s i t i o n ,   i s   v a lu e d   b y   r e f e r e n c e 
t o   e x t e r n a l   m a r k e t   v a lu e s   o r   in c o m e - b a s e d   m e t h o d s .     In c o m e - b a s e d  
m e t h o d s   e s t im at e   t h e   f u t ur e   e c o n o mi c   b e n e fi t s   t o   b e   d e r i v e d   f r o m  
o w n e r s hip   o f   t h e   a s s e t   b y   i d e n t i f y in g ,   q u an t i f y in g   a n d   s e p ar at in g   c a s h  
fl o w s   at t r ib u t a b l e   t o   t h e   a s s e t   a n d   c api t a li s in g   t h e ir   p r e s e n t   v a lu e .
( i i i ) 	 I n v e n t o r i e s
T h e   f a ir   v a lu e   o f   in v e n t o r i e s   ac q uir e d   in   a   b u s in e s s   c o m bin at i o n   i s 
d e t e r min e d   b a s e d   o n   t h e   e s t im at e d   s e llin g   p r i c e   in   t h e   o r d in ar y  
c o ur s e   o f   b u s in e s s ,   l e s s   t h e   e s t im at e d   c o s t s   o f   c o m p l e t i o n   a n d   s a l e , 
an d   a   r ea s o n ab l e   p r o fi t   m a r g in   b a s e d   o n   t h e   e f f o r t   r e q uir e d   t o  
c o m p l e t e   a n d   s e ll   t h e   in v e n t o r i e s . 
( i v ) 	 I n v e s t m e n t s 	 i n 	 e q u i t y 	 a n d 	 d e b t 	 s e c u r i t i e s
T h e   f a ir   v a lu e   o f   fi n a n c i a l   a s s e t s   at   f a ir   v a lu e   t hr o u g h   p r o fi t   o r   l o s s  
an d   a v a il ab l e   f o r   s a l e   fi n a n c i a l   a s s e t s   i s   d e t e r min e d   b y   r e f e r e n c e   t o 
t h e ir   q u o t e d   c l o s in g   bi d   p r i c e   at   t h e   r e p o r t in g   d a t e ,   w h e r e   a v a il ab l e .      
I f   t h e r e   i s   n o   m a r k e t   p r i c e   a v a il ab l e   t h e   f a ir   v a lu e   i s   c al c ul a t e d   b a s e d 
o n   o t h e r   v a lu at i o n   t e c hni q u e s ,   in c lu d in g   a s s e s s m e n t s   o f   f u t ur e   
c a s h   fl o w s ,   e s t im at e d   s e llin g   p r i c e   an d   o t h e r   a v a il ab l e   in f o r m a t i o n .    
T h e   f a ir   v a lu e   o f   h e l d   t o   m a t ur i t y   in v e s t m e n t s   i s   d e t e r min e d   o n   
ini t i a l   r e c og ni t i o n   an d   t h e r eaf t e r   f o r   d i s c l o s ur e   p ur p o s e s   o nl y . www.tuitravelplc.com
82  T U I T r a v e l  P L C  A n n u a l R e p o r t & A c c o u n t s  2 0 1 0
b e t w e e n   C e n t r al   E ur o p e ,   N o r t h e r n   R e g i o n   a n d   W e s t e r n   E ur o p e ) , 
S p e c i a li s t   an d   E m e r g in g   M a r k e t s ,   A c t i v i t y   a n d   A c c o m m o d a t i o n   &  
D e s t in a t i o n s   S e c t o r s .     Un d e r   IF R S   8 ,   t h e   r e s ul t s   o f   G e r m an y ,   t h e   U K  
&   Ir e l a n d   a n d   C an ad a   a r e   s h o w n   s e p ar at e l y   f r o m   C e n t r al   E ur o p e   a n d 
N o r t h e r n   R e g i o n   r e s p e c t i v e l y   a s   t h e s e   m e e t   t h e   t hr e s h o l d   o f   b e in g 
in d i v i d u a l   r e p o r t a b l e   s e g m e n t s .     T h e   F r e n c h   a ir lin e ,   C o r s a ir ,   h a s   b e e n 
s e p ar at e l y   d i s c l o s e d   f r o m   t h e   r e s t   o f   W e s t e r n   E ur o p e   a s   i t   i s   t h e   o nl y  
s c h e d ul e d   a ir lin e   c o n s o li d at e d   w i t hin   t h e   G r o up   a n d   t h e r e f o r e   h a s   
a   d i f f e r e n t   b u s in e s s   m o d e l   t o   t h e   r e s t   o f   t h e   G r o up ’ s   in t e g r at e d    
t o ur   o p e r at o r s .     A   m o r e   d e t a il e d   e x p l an at i o n   o f   eac h   s e g m e n t   i s 
in c lu d e d   in   t h e   B u s in e s s   p e r f o r m an c e   s e c t i o n   o f   t h e   A nn u a l   R e p o r t    
&   A c c o un t s .     C o m p a r at i v e   in f o r m a t i o n   h a s   a l s o   b e e n   r e s t at e d   t o 
r e fl e c t   t h e s e   n e w   s e g m e n t s .  
C e r t a in   G r o up   o p e r at in g   s e g m e n t s   h a v e   b e e n   a g g r e g a t e d   in t o 
r e p o r t a b l e   s e g m e n t s   w h e r e   t h e ir   ac t i v i t i e s   ar e   c o n s i d e r e d   t o   b e 
s u f fi c i e n t l y   s imil a r   in   n at ur e   un d e r   t h e   a g g r e g a t i o n   c r i t e r i a   o f   IF R S   8 . 
T h e   r e s ul t s   o f   N o r d i c s   f o r m   t h e   r e s t   o f   N o r t h e r n   R e g i o n ;   Sw i t z e r l a n d , 
A u s t r i a   a n d   P o l an d   f o r m   t h e   r e s t   o f   C e n t r a l   E ur o p e ;   an d   B e l g i um ,   t h e 
N e t h e r l an d s   a n d   t h e   F r e n c h   t o ur   o p e r at in g   b u s in e s s e s   f o r m   t h e   r e s t  
o f   W e s t e r n   E ur o p e .
C e n t r al   c o s t s   c o m p r i s e   fi n a n c e ,   h um an   r e s o urc e s ,   l e g al ,   f ac ili t y   c o s t s  
a n d   s o m e   in f o r m a t i o n   t e c hn o l og y   c o s t s   t h at   d o   n o t   r e l a t e   t o   eac h  
b u s in e s s   s e g m e n t   ( a n d   h e n c e   t h e y   a r e   n o t   a ll o c at e d )   an d   a r e 
c l a s s i fi e d   w i t hin   a ll   o t h e r   s e g m e n t s .
In f o r m a t i o n   r e g a r d in g   t h e   r e s ul t s   o f   eac h   r e p o r t a b l e   s e g m e n t   i s 
p r o v i d e d   b e l o w .   S e g m e n t al   p e r f o r m an c e   i s   e v a lu at e d   b a s e d   o n  
un d e r l y in g   o p e r at in g   p r o fi t   a n d   i s   m ea s ur e d   c o n s i s t e n t l y   w i t h  
un d e r l y in g   o p e r at in g   p r o fi t   o r   l o s s   in   t h e   c o n s o li d at e d   fi n a n c i a l 
s t at e m e n t s   a n d   a s   d e fi n e d   in   N o t e   1 ( B ) ( i v ) .     T h e   G MB   r e v i e w s 
r e v e n u e s   an d   un d e r l y in g   o p e r at in g   p r o fi t   b e f o r e   t h e   im p ac t   o f   t h e 
v o l c an o .     C o n s e q u e n t l y ,   t h e   s e g m e n t a l   r e s ul t s   ar e   s h o w n   o n   a   p r e -
v o l c an o   b a s i s   a s   d e fi n e d   in   N o t e   1 ( B ) ( i ii )   a n d   r e c o n c il e d   b ac k   t o   t h e 
s t at u t o r y   r e s ul t .     T h e   G r o up - w i d e   d i s c l o s ur e s   r e fl e c t   t h e   s t at u t o r y 
r e v e n u e s   an d   n o n - c ur r e n t   a s s e t s   fi g ur e s .
In t e r - s e g m e n t   s a l e s   a n d   t r a n s f e r s   r e fl e c t   a r m ’ s   l e n g t h   p r i c e s   a s   i f   s o l d 
o r   t r a n s f e r r e d   t o   t hir d   p ar t i e s .     F in an c i al   in c o m e   a n d   e x p e n s e s   a r e   n o t  
a ll o c at e d   t o   t h e   r e p o r t a b l e   s e g m e n t s   a s   t hi s   ac t i v i t y   i s   m a n a g e d   b y 
t h e   G r o up ’ s   t r ea s ur y   f un c t i o n   w hi c h   m a n a g e s   t h e   o v e r a ll   n e t   d e b t 
p o s i t i o n   o f   t h e   G r o up .
N o   o n e   c u s t o m e r   e x c e e d s   1 0 %   o f   e n t i t y   r e v e n u e s   in   a n y   s e g m e n t . 
Im p a ir m e n t   l o s s e s   a r i s in g   in   t h e   p e r i o d   r e l a t e   t o   S p e c i a li s t   s e g m e n t s 
w hi c h   a r e   f ur t h e r   d e t a il e d   in   N o t e   1 0 .     A ll   im p a ir m e n t   l o s s e s   h a v e 
b e e n   r e c og ni s e d   in   t h e   c o n s o li d at e d   in c o m e   s t at e m e n t .
S e g m e n t   a s s e t s   c o m p r i s e   c api t a l   e x p e n d i t ur e   ( a s   t hi s   i s   t h e   o nl y 
m ea s ur e   o f   a s s e t s   r e p o r t e d   t o   t h e   G MB )   an d   r e p r e s e n t   t h e   a m oun t s 
p urc h a s e d   in   t h e   y ea r .     C api t a l   e x p e n d i t ur e   i s   m ea s ur e d   w i t hin   t h e  
G r o up   a s   n o n - b u s in e s s   c o m bin at i o n - r e l at e d   ad d i t i o n s   o f   in t a n g ib l e s  
a n d   p r o p e r t y ,   p l a n t   a n d   e q uip m e n t .
N o t e   t h at   w i t h   e f f e c t   f r o m   1   O c t o b e r   2 0 1 0 ,   t h e   G r o up   h a s 
r e o r g a ni s e d   i t s   b u s in e s s   S e c t o r s .     T h e   M a in s t r ea m   S e c t o r   r e m a in s 
un c h an g e d   in   t e r m s   o f   o p e r at in g   s e g m e n t s .     T h e   r e m a inin g   S e c t o r s  
h a v e   b e e n   r e fi n e d   an d   r e n a m e d   t o   r e fl e c t   t h e   s t r at e g i c   p r i o r i t i e s   o f 
T U I   T r a v e l   a s   i t   d e v e l o p s .     T h e   t hr e e   r e m a inin g   S e c t o r s   a r e   n o w   c all e d  
A c c o m m o d a t i o n   &   D e s t in a t i o n s ,   S p e c i a li s t   &   A c t i v i t y   a n d   E m e r g in g  
M a r k e t s .     S e g m e n t al   in f o r m a t i o n   w ill   b e   p r e s e n t e d   u s in g   t hi s   n e w 
s t r u c t ur e   t hr o u g h ou t   t h e   f o r t h c o min g   fi n a n c i a l   y ea r   e n d in g    
3 0   S e pt e m b e r   2 0 1 1 .
A m e n dm e n t   t o   I A S   3 2   C l a s s i fi c a t i o n   o f   r i g h t s   i s s u e s   r e q uir e s   t h at 
r i g h t s ,   o pt i o n s   o r   w a r r a n t s   t o   ac q uir e   a   fi x e d   n um b e r   o f   t h e   e n t i t y ’ s  
o w n   e q ui t y   in s t r um e n t s   f o r   a   fi x e d   a m oun t   o f   c ur r e n c y   ar e   e q ui t y  
in s t r um e n t s   i f   t h e   e n t i t y   o f f e r s   t h e   r i g h t s ,   o pt i o n s   o r   w a r r a n t s   p r o 
r at a   t o   a ll   o f   i t s   e x i s t in g   o w n e r s   o f   t h e   s a m e   c l a s s   o f   i t s   o w n   n o n -
d e r i v a t i v e   e q ui t y   in s t r um e n t s .
I A S   3 6   Im p a ir m e n t   o f   A s s e t s   h a s   b e e n   a m e n d e d   t o   s t at e   t h at   t h e 
l ar g e s t   uni t   t o   w hi c h   g o o d w ill   i s   a ll o c at e d   i s   o p e r a t in g   s e g m e n t   l e v e l    
a s   d e fi n e d   in   IF R S   8   b e f o r e   a p p l y in g   a g g r e g at i o n   c r i t e r i a   o f   IF R S   8 . 1 2 .
I A S   3 8   Int an g ib l e   A s s e t s   –   M ea s ur in g   t h e   f a ir   v a lu e   o f   a n   in t a n g ib l e 
a s s e t   ac q uir e d   in   a   b u s in e s s   c o m bin at i o n   h a s   b e e n   a m e n d e d   t o   c l ar i f y 
t h e   d e s c r ip t i o n   o f   v a lu at i o n   t e c hni q u e s   c o m m o nl y   u s e d   t o   m ea s ur e  
f a ir   v a lu e   o f   in t a n g ib l e   a s s e t s   ac q uir e d   in   a   b u s in e s s   c o m bin at i o n   f o r 
w hi c h   n o   ac t i v e   m a r k e t   e x i s t s .
I A S   3 9   F in an c i a l   In s t r um e n t s :   R e c og ni t i o n   a n d   M ea s ur e m e n t   h a s   b e e n 
a m e n d e d   s o   t h at :
i )   w h e r e   t h e   e x e rc i s e   p r i c e   o f   a n   e m b e d d e d   p r e p a y m e n t   o pt i o n 
r e im b ur s e s   t h e   l e n d e r   f o r   a n   a m oun t   up   t o   t h e   a p p r o x im at e  
p r e s e n t   v a lu e   o f   t h e   l o s t   in t e r e s t   f o r   t h e   r e m a inin g   t e r m   o f   t h e  
h o s t   c o n t r ac t ,   t h e n   t h e   e m b e d d e d   p r e p a y m e n t   o pt i o n   i s   c l o s e l y  
r e l a t e d   t o   t h e   h o s t   c o n t r ac t   a n d   t h e   e m b e d d e d   d e r i v a t i v e   i s   
n o t   s e p ar at e d .
i i )   t h e   s c o p e   e x e m pt i o n   in   p ar a g r a p h   2 ( g )   i s   n o w   r e s t r i c t e d   t o 
f o r w ar d   c o n t r ac t s   b e t w e e n   b u y e r   a n d   s e ll e r   t o   b u y   o r   s e ll   a n 
ac q uir e e   at   a   f u t ur e   d a t e   ( i . e .   c o n t r ac t   t h at   w ill   r e s ul t   in   a   b u s in e s s  
c o m bin at i o n   at   a   f u t ur e   d a t e ) . 
i ii )   g a in s   o r   l o s s e s   o n   a   h e d g e d   in s t r um e n t   s h o ul d   b e   r e c l a s s i fi e d   f r o m 
e q ui t y   t o   p r o fi t   o r   l o s s   d ur in g   t h e   p e r i o d   t h at   t h e   h e d g e d   f o r e c a s t  
c a s h   fl o w s   af f e c t   p r o fi t   o r   l o s s .
IF R IC   1 7   D i s t r ib u t i o n   o f   n o n - c a s h   a s s e t s   t o   o w n e r s   p r o v i d e s   g ui d an c e  
o n   ac c o un t in g   f o r   a r r an g e m e n t s   w h e r e b y   a n   e n t i t y   d i s t r ib u t e s   n o n -
c a s h   a s s e t s   t o   s h a r e h o l d e r s   e i t h e r   a s   a   d i s t r ib u t i o n   o f   r e s e r v e s   o r   
a s   d i v i d e n d s .  
IF R IC   1 8   T r a n s f e r   o f   A s s e t s   f r o m   C u s t o m e r s   d ea l s   w i t h   t h e   ac c o un t in g 
f o r   c o n t r ib u t e d   p r o p e r t y ,   p l a n t   a n d   e q uip m e n t   b y   t h e   e n t i t y   r e c e i v in g  
t h e   c o n t r ib u t i o n .
IF R IC   1 9   –   E x t in g ui s hin g   fi n a n c i a l   li a bili t i e s   w i t h   e q ui t y   in s t r um e n t s  
d eal s   w i t h   h o w   e n t i t i e s   s h o ul d   m ea s ur e   e q ui t y   in s t r um e n t s   i s s u e d   in    
a   d e b t   f o r   e q ui t y   s w a p .
T h e   G r o up   c o n t in u e s   t o   m o ni t o r   t h e   p o t e n t i a l   im p ac t   o f   o t h e r    
n e w   s t a n d ar d s   an d   in t e r p r e t at i o n s   w hi c h   m a y   b e   e n d o r s e d   b y   t h e 
E ur o p ean   Uni o n   an d   r e q uir e   ad o pt i o n   b y   t h e   G r o up   in   f u t ur e  
ac c o un t in g   p e r i o d s .  
2. Segmental information
T h e   G r o up   h a s   ad o pt e d   IF R S   8   O p e r at in g   S e g m e n t s   f o r   t h e   fi r s t   t im e 
in   t h e   y ea r .     IF R S   8   r e q uir e s   s e g m e n t   in f o r m a t i o n   t o   b e   p r e s e n t e d   o n 
t h e   s a m e   b a s i s   a s   t h at   u s e d   f o r   in t e r n a l   m a n a g e m e n t   r e p o r t in g . 
S e g m e n t al   in f o r m a t i o n   i s   r e p o r t e d   b y   t h e   G r o up ’ s   b u s in e s s   s e c t o r s   t o 
t h e   G MB .     T h e   G MB   c o n s i s t s   o f   t o ur   o p e r at in g   a n d   f un c t i o n a l   e x p e r t s 
dr a w n   f r o m   ac r o s s   t h e   G r o up   t h at   e x e c u t e s   T U I   T r a v e l   P L C ’ s   d a y - t o -
d a y   o p e r at i o n s   a n d   a ll o c at e s   r e s o urc e s   t o ,   a n d   a s s e s s e s   t h e  
p e r f o r m an c e ,   o f   t h e   o p e r at in g   s e g m e n t s .   C o n s e q u e n t l y ,   t h e   G MB   i s 
c o n s i d er e d   t o   b e   t h e   c hi e f   o p e r a t in g   d e c i s i o n   m a k e r .
T h e   G r o up   p r e s e n t s   s e g m e n t   in f o r m a t i o n   in   r e s p e c t   o f   i t s   b u s in e s s  
s e g m e n t s .     O n   t h e   ad o pt i o n   o f   IF R S   8 ,   t h e   G r o up   h a s   d e t e r min e d   n e w  
s e g m e n t s   in   lin e   w i t h   t h e   r e q uir e m e n t s   o f   t hi s   s t a n d ar d .     T h e   G r o up ’ s  
o p e r at in g   s e g m e n t s   w e r e   p r e v i o u s l y   d e fi n e d   a s   M a in s t r ea m   ( s p li t  
Financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements c o n t i n u e d www.tuitravelplc.com
Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
T U I  T r a v e l P L C  A n n u a l R e p o r t  &  A c c o u n t s  2 0 1 0  83
Y e a r 	 e n d e d 	 3 0 	 S e p te m b e r 	 2 0 1 0
	 	 	 	 U n d e r l y i n g
	 	 	 	 o p e r a t i n g 	 G r o u p ’ s 	 s h a r e
	 	 	 	 	 p r o fi t / ( l o s s ) 	 o f 	 u n d e r l y i n g 	 U n d e r l y i n g
	 	 	 	 b e f o r e 	 j o i n t 	 o p e r a t i n g 	 o p e r a t i n g
	 T o t a l 	 r e v e n u e 	 	 T o t a l 	 e x t e r n a l 	 v e n t u r e s 	 a n d 	 p r o fi t / ( l o s s ) 	 p r o fi t / ( l o s s )
	 b e f o r e 	 i m p ac t 	 I n t e r - 	 r e v e n u e 	 b e f o r e 	 a s s o c i a t e s 	 a n d 	 o f 	 j o i n t 	 b e f o r e 	 i m p ac t
	 o f 	 v o l c a n i c 	 s e g m e n t a l 	 i m p a c t 	 o f 	 i m p a c t 	 o f 	 v e n t u r e s 	 a n d 	 o f 	 v o l c a n i c
	 a s h 	 r e v e n u e 	 v o l c a n i c 	 a s h 	 v o l c a n i c 	 a s h 	 a s s o c i a t e s 	 a s h
S e c t o r 	 £ m 	 	 £ m 	 	 £ m 	 	 £ m 	 	 £ m 	 	 £ m	
U K	 3,453	 (61)	 3,392	 127		 	–		 127	
C a n a d a	 52	 	–		 52	 (5)	 – 		 (5)
R e s t  o f  N o r t h e r n R e g i o n	 967	 (63)	 904	 58	 2		 60	
T o t a l	N o r t h e r n	R e g i o n	 4,472	 (124)	 4,348	 180 		 2		 182	
G e r m a n y	 3,829	 (29)	 3,800	 76 		 5 		 81	
R e s t o f  C e n t r a l  E u r o p e	 627	 (52)	 575	 11		 – 		 11	
T o t a l	C e n t r a l 	E u r o p e	 4,456	 (81)	 4,375	 87 		 5 		 92	
F r e n c h  a i r l i n e	 399	 (56)	 343	 (24)	 –		 (24)
R e s t  o f  W e s t e r n E u r o p e	 2,336	 (13)	 2,323	 75 		 –		 75	
T o t a l	W e s t e r n 	E u r o p e	 2,735	 (69)	 2,666	 51 		 –		 51	
T o t a l	M a i n s t r e a m	 11,663	 (274)	 11,389	 318 		 7		 325	
S p e c i a l i s t  & E m e r g i n g  M a r ke t s	 717	 –		 717	 25		 (6)	 19	
A c t i v i t y	 868	 –		 868	 61		 – 		 61	
A c c o m m o d a t i o n  & D e s t i n a t i o n s	 760	 (209)	 551	 61		 10 		 71	
A l l  o t h e r s e g m e n t s	 – 		 –		 – 		 (29)	 –		 (29)
T o t a l 	G r o u p	 14,008	 (483)	 13,525	 436 		 11 		 447	
Y ea r   e n d e d   3 0   S e pt e m b e r   2 0 0 9
        U n d e r l y i n g
        o p e r a t i n g   G r o u p ’ s s h a r e
        p r o fi t / ( l o s s )   o f u n d e r l y i n g
    I n t e r -    b e f o r e j o i n t   p r o fi t  o f j o i n t   U n d e r l y i n g
    s e g m e n t a l   T o t a l  e x t e r n a l   v e n t u r e s a n d   v e n t u r e s a n d   o p e r a t i n g
  T o t a l  r e v e n u e   r e v e n u e  r e v e n u e  a s s o c i a t e s   a s s o c i a t e s   p r o fi t / ( l o s s )
Sect or   £m   £m    £m   £m    £m   £m  
U K ( r e s t a t e d * )  3,332  (87)  3,245   142    –    142 
C a n a d a  168  –    168   (24)  –   (24)
R e s t o f N o r t h e r n R e g i o n   878   (81)   797   46   2   48  
T o t a l  N o r t h e r n R e g i o n  ( r e s t a t e d * )   4,378   (168)   4,210    164    2    166  
G e r m a n y   4,183   (39)   4,144    65    5    70  
R e s t o f C e n t r a l E u r o p e   654   (2)   652    1    –    1  
T o t a l   C e n t r a l E u r o p e   4,837  (41)  4,796   66   5    71  
F r e n c h a i r l i n e   432  (75)  357   (24)  –   (24)
R e s t  o f W e s t e r n E u r o p e  2,310  (15)   2,295    57    –    57  
T o t a l W e s t e r n E u r o p e  2,742   (90)   2,652    33    –    33  
T o t a l  M a i n s t r e a m  ( r e s t a t e d * )   11,957   (299)   11,658   263    7   270  
S p e c i a l i s t  &  E m e r g i n g M a r ke t s   825   –     825    31    1    32  
A c t i v i t y  816   –     816    59    –    59  
A c c o m m o d a t i o n  &  D e s t i n a t i o n s   719   (167)   552    60    7    67  
A l l o t h e r  s e g m e n t s  –    –    –    (27)   –    (27)
T o t a l  G r o u p  ( r e s t a t e d * )  14,317   (466)   13,851    386    15    401  
* Pl ea s e   r e f e r   t o   B a s i s   o f   P r e p a r a t i o n   w i t hin   N o t e   1   o f   t h e   fi n a n c i a l   s t at e m e n t s   f o r   d e t a il s . Financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements c o n t i n u e d
www.tuitravelplc.com
84  T U I T r a v e l  P L C  A n n u a l R e p o r t & A c c o u n t s  2 0 1 0
            R e s t a t e d  
          Y e a r 	 e n d e d 	 	   Y e a r  e n d e d 
          3 0 	 S e p t e m b e r   3 0  S e p t e m b e r
        	 2 0 1 0   2 0 0 9 
Reconciliation of segmental analysis of revenue to statutory revenue       No t e	 £ m 	   £m 
T o t a l 	e x t e r n a l 	r e v e n u e 	i n	s e g m e n t a l 	a n a l y s i s 	        	 13,525 	   13,851 
I m p a c t  o f v o l c a n i c  a s h        1(B)(iii) 	 (125)  –  
S t a t u t o r y 	r e v e n u e         	 13,400 	   13,851 
            R e s t a t e d  
        	 Y e a r 	 e n d e d 	    Y e a r  e n d e d 
          3 0 	 S e p t e m b e r   3 0  S e p t e m b e r
        	 2 0 1 0   2 0 0 9 
Reconciliation of underlying operating profit to loss before tax         No t e	 £ m 	   £m  
G r o u p	u n d e r l y i n g 	o p e r a t i n g 	p r o fi t 	d i s c l o s e d	a b o v e        	 447	  401  
I m p a c t  o f v o l c a n i c  a s h         1(B)(iii) 	 (35)   –  
        	 412 	  401 
S e p a r a t e l y d i s c l o s e d  i t e m s         3 	 (250)  (340)
A c q u i s i t i o n  r e l a t e d e x p e n s e s         13(A) 	 (63)   (56)
I m p a i r m e n t o f  g o o d w i l l         10 	 (12)   (7)
T a x a t i o n  o n  p r o fi t s  a n d  i n t e r e s t o n j o i n t v e n t u r e s a n d  a s s o c i a t e s        12 	 (6)  (3)
O p e r a t i n g 	p r o fi t / ( l o s s )         	 81 	  (5)
N e t  fi n a n c i a l  e x p e n s e s         4 	 (117)  (89)
L o s s 	b e f o r e 	t a x         	 (36)  (94)
    T o t a l  d e p r e c i a t i o n  o f p r o p e r t y ,   
    p l a n t  a n d e q u i p m e n t  a n d   
  C a p i t a l  e x p e n d i t u r e   a m o r t i s a t i o n  o f i n t a n g i b l e  a s s e t s
     
  	 	 3 0 	 S e p t e m b e r   3 0 S e p t e m b e r  3 0 	 S e p t e m b e r   3 0 S e p t e m b e r
  	 	 2 0 1 0 	   2 0 0 9	 2 0 1 0 	   2 0 0 9
Other segmental information   	 	 £ m 	   £m	 £ m 	   £m
U K    	 188   63	 84   91
C a n a d a    	 –   1	 –	  3
R e s t  o f N o r t h e r n R e g i o n    	 15   19	 9  7
T o t a l	N o r t h e r n	R e g i o n     	 203   83 	 93   101
G e r m a n y     	 24  28	 35  35
R e s t o f C e n t r a l E u r o p e     	 2  4 	 4  4
T o t a l	C e n t r a l	E u r o p e     	 26   32 	 39  39
F r e n c h  a i r l i n e     	 22   26 	 22  25
R e s t o f W e s t e r n  E u r o p e     	 22   33 	 37  49
T o t a l	W e s t e r n	E u r o p e    	 44   59	 59  74
T o t a l	M a i n s t r e a m     	 273   174 	 191   214
S p e c i a l i s t  &  E m e r g i n g  M a r ke t s     	 4  5 	 11  12
A c t i v i t y     	 29  35	 27  34
A c c o m m o d a t i o n  &  D e s t i n a t i o n s    	 17  16	 32  27
A l l o t h e r  s e g m e n t s     	 1  4 	 – 	  –  
T o t a l	G r o u p     	 324  234 	 261  287
T o t a l d e p r e c i a t i o n  o f  p r o p e r t y , p l a n t a n d d e p r e c i a t i o n  a n d a m o r t i s a t i o n  o f i n t a n g i b l e a s s e t s o f  £ 2 6 1 m  ( 2 0 0 9 :  £ 2 8 7 m )  c o m p r i s e s  £ 9 4 m  ( 2 0 0 9 : £ 1 0 3 m )  
o f  a m o r t i s a t i o n  o f i n t a n g i b l e  a s s e t s  a s  s h o w n i n  N o t e 1 0 a n d £ 1 6 7 m ( 2 0 0 9 :  £ 1 8 4 m )  o f  d e p r e c i a t i o n  a s  s h o w n  i n N o t e  1 1 . www.tuitravelplc.com
Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
T U I  T r a v e l P L C  A n n u a l R e p o r t  &  A c c o u n t s  2 0 1 0  85
        	 Y e a r 	 e n d e d 	   Y e a r e n d e d  
        	 3 0 	 S e p t e m b e r 	   3 0 S e p t e m b e r   
        	 2 0 1 0 	   2 0 0 9 
Reconciliation of capital expenditure to amounts included in the financial statements     N o t e   £ m   £ m
T o t a l G r o u p  c a p i t a l e x p e n d i t u r e a s  s h o w n  a b o v e        	 324  234
A n a l y s e d a s :
A d d i t i o n s  t o i n t a n g i b l e a s s e t s         	 43  82
A d d i t i o n s  t o p r o p e r t y ,  p l a n t  a n d e q u i p m e n t        	 281   152
        	 324   234
R e c o n c i l i a t i o n 	t o	t h e	n o t e s 	t o	t h e 	fi n a n c i a l 	s t a t e m e n t s
A d d i t i o n s  t o i n t a n g i b l e  a s s e t s  i n s e g m e n t a l  a n a l y s i s         	 43  82
A d d i t i o n s  t o g o o d w i l l         	 1  3
I n t a n g i b l e 	a s s e t s : 	t o t a l 	a d d i t i o n s         10 	 44  85
A d d i t i o n s  t o  p r o p e r t y ,  p l a n t  a n d  e q u i p m e n t  i n  s e g m e n t a l  a n a l y s i s         	 281   152
P r o p e r t y , 	p l a n t 	a n d 	e q u i p m e n t : 	t o t a l 	a d d i t i o n s        11 	 281   152
Group-wide disclosures
T h e U K i s t h e G r o u p ’ s  p a r e n t c o m p a n y ’ s  c o u n t r y o f  d o m i c i l e .   R e v e n u e s  f r o m  e x t e r n a l  c u s t o m e r s  a n d  n o n - c u r r e n t  a s s e t s a r e  s p l i t  g e o g r a p h i c a l l y   
a s f o l l o w s :
  U K   G e r m a n y   F r a n c e  O t h e r  E u r o p e  R e s t  o f t h e  Wo r l d   T o t a l
           
    R e s t a t e d                     R e s t a t e d
  2 0 1 0 	   2 0 0 9    2 0 1 0 	   2 0 0 9    2 0 1 0 	   2 0 0 9    2 0 1 0 	   2 0 0 9    2 0 1 0    2 0 0 9    2 0 1 0    2 0 0 9 
  £ m 	   £ m   £ m 	   £ m   £ m    £ m    £ m 	   £ m    £ m 	   £ m   £ m 	   £ m                                                       
R e v e n u e f r o m  
e x t e r n a l  c u s t o m e r s	 4,134   4,150   	 3,704   3,753 	 	 1,313   1,337   	 3,524   3,831   	 725    780 	 	 13,400   13,851  
N o n - c u r r e n t  a s s e t s	 2,685   2,598   	 639     643   	 735    779 	 	 856 	   955   	 756    726   	 5,671    5,701  
Uni t e d   K in g d o m   r e v e n u e   a r i s e s   w h e r e   t h e   s o urc e   o f   t h e   s up p l y   i s   t h e   Uni t e d   K in g d o m .     In   ad d i t i o n   t o   t h e   Uni t e d   K in g d o m ,   r e v e n u e   r e l a t in g   t o 
a n   in d i v i d u a l   c o un t r y   i s   s e p ar at e l y   d i s c l o s e d   w h e n   i t   r e p r e s e n t s   1 0 %   o r   m o r e   o f   t o t a l   r e v e n u e .     ‘ O t h e r   E ur o p e ’   i s   d e fi n e d   a s   C o n t in e n t a l   E ur o p e  
a n d   E ir e   e x c lu d in g   U K ,   G e r m an y   a n d   F r a n c e .     N o n - c ur r e n t   a s s e t s   f o r   t h e   t a b l e   ab o v e   in c lu d e s   in t a n g ib l e   a s s e t s   a n d   p r o p e r t y ,   p l a n t   an d 
e q uip m e n t   a n d   e x c lu d e s   all   fi n a n c i a l   in s t r um e n t s ,   d e f e r r e d   t a x   a s s e t s   a n d   p o s t - e m p l o y m e n t   b e n e fi t   a s s e t s .    
3. Separately disclosed items
          Y e a r 	 e n d e d 	   Y e a r e n d e d  
        	 3 0 	 S e p t e m b e r 	   3 0 S e p t e m b e r
        	 2 0 1 0 	   2 0 0 9 
        	 £ m 	   £m  
M e r g e r r e l a t e d i n t e g r a t i o n c o s t s         	 116  144  
A i r c r a f t a n d o t h e r a s s e t s         	 7  124 
R e s t r u c t u r i n g  a n d o t h e r s e p a r a t e l y d i s c l o s e d i t e m s         	 58  72 
T o t a l	p r e	v o l c a n i c 	a s h         	 181  340  
I n c r e m e n t a l  c o s t s  c a u s e d  b y v o l c a n i c  a s h  d i s r u p t i o n        	 69  –  
T o t a l        	 250  340 
S e p a r a t e l y d i s c l o s e d  fi n a n c i a l  e x p e n s e s         	 7   12 
T h e   2 0 0 9   c o m p ar at i v e   n um b e r s   h a v e   b e e n   r ea ll o c at e d   t o   e n s ur e   t h at   t h e y   a r e   in   ali g nm e n t   w i t h   t h e   r e v i s e d   c r i t e r i a   u s e d   t o   d i f f e r e n t i at e 
b e t w e e n   t h e   d i f f e r e n t   t y p e s   o f   s e p ar at e l y   d i s c l o s e d   i t e m s .
S e p ar at e l y   d i s c l o s e d   i t e m s   w i t hin   t h e   o p e r at in g   p r o fi t / ( l o s s )   a r e   in c lu d e d   w i t hin   t h e   c o n s o li d at e d   in c o m e   s t at e m e n t   a s   f o ll o w s :
          Y e a r 	 e n d e d 	   Y e a r e n d e d  
        	 3 0 	 S e p t e m b e r 	   3 0 S e p t e m b e r
        	 2 0 1 0 	   2 0 0 9 
        	 £ m 	   £m  
C o s t o f  s a l e s         	 133  209  
A d m i n i s t r a t i v e  e x p e n s e s        	 117   131 
T o t a l        	 250   340  Financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements c o n t i n u e d
www.tuitravelplc.com
86  T U I T r a v e l  P L C  A n n u a l R e p o r t & A c c o u n t s  2 0 1 0
Merger related integration costs
T h e s e   r e l a t e   p r im a r il y   t o   t h e   c o s t s   o f   in t e g r at i o n   o f   t h e   U K   b u s in e s s e s .     T h e   m a j o r i t y   o f   c o s t s   ( £ 4 8 m )   a r i s e   f r o m   t h e   in t e g r at i o n   o f   F ir s t   C h oi c e 
a n d   T h o m s o n   in   t h e   U K ,   an d ,   in   p ar t i c ul a r ,   f r o m   t h e   f o r m at i o n   o f   o n e   a ir lin e   an d   a n   in t e g r at e d   r e t a il   e s t at e .     A   c o m bin e d   M a in s t r eam   U K   h ead  
o f fi c e   h a s   b e e n   e s t a b li s h e d   in   L u t o n .    
T h e   U K   b u s in e s s   h a s   a l s o   n o w   c o m p l e t e d   t h e   c r eat i o n   o f   a   s in g l e   m a n a g e m e n t   in f o r m a t i o n   ( MI )   s ui t e .     T h e   im p r o v e d   MI   an d   f o r e c a s t   c ap a bili t y 
w hi c h   i t   h a s   g i v e n   t h e   b u s in e s s   h a s   n o w   l e d   t o   t h e   c l o s in g   o u t   o f   c e r t a in   f o r e i g n   c ur r e n c y   p o s i t i o n s   b a s e d   o n   t h e   im p r o v e d   v i s ibili t y   o f   p a s t   a n d  
f u t ur e   r e q uir e m e n t s ,   r e s ul t in g   in   a   £ 2 0 m   c h ar g e   in   t h e   c ur r e n t   y ea r .
C o s t s   a l s o   a r o s e   f r o m   t h e   o n g oin g   m e r g e r   o f   f o r m e r   T U I   b u s in e s s e s   b a s e d   in   C o n t in e n t a l   E ur o p e   w i t h   t h e ir   F ir s t   C h oi c e   c o un t e r p a r t s   ( £ 4 m ) .     
In   t h e   A c c o m m o d a t i o n   &   D e s t in a t i o n s   S e c t o r   s e p ar at e   F ir s t   C h oi c e   a n d   T U I   T o ur i s m   in c o min g   a g e n c i e s   h a v e   b e e n   c o m bin e d   in   a   n um b e r   o f    
k e y   d e s t in a t i o n s ,   n o t a b l y   S p a in ,   t h e   D o mini c a n   R e p ub li c ,   G r e e c e   a n d   T ur k e y   ( t o t a l   £ 1 6 m ) .
C o s t s   in c lu d e   am oun t s   p a i d   o r   p r o v i d e d   f o r   r e d un d a n c y   an d   in t e g r at i o n   r e mun e r a t i o n   c o s t s   ( in c lu d in g   t h e   c o s t   o f   t h e   V a lu e   C r eat i o n   S h a r e   Pl a n 
a n d   r o ll e d   o v e r   F ir s t   C h oi c e   s h a r e   a w a r d s   ( N o t e   5 ( D ) ) ) ,   p r o p e r t y   c l o s ur e s   a n d   o n e r o u s   l ea s e   o b li g at i o n s ,   a s   w e ll   a s   p r o f e s s i o n al   f e e s   r e l a t in g   t o 
t h e   in t e g r at i o n   p r oj e c t .
Aircraft and other assets
In c lu d e d   in   t h e   y ea r   e n d e d   3 0   S e pt e m b e r   2 0 1 0   i s   a   £ 4 7 m   c r e d i t   w hi c h   r e l a t e s   t o   a   c o m bin at i o n   o f   a irc r af t   o r d e r   c an c e ll a t i o n   c r e d i t s   a n d  
c o m p e n s a t i o n   f o r   d e l a y s   t o   t h e   d e li v e r y   o f   a irc r af t .     P r in c ip a l   c h a r g e s   in c lu d e   £ 1 5 m   f o r   t h e   im p a ir m ent   o f   t h e   c r ui s e   s hip ,   t h e   ‘ I s l an d   E s c ap e ’ 
( N o t e   1 1 ) ;   £ 1 2 m   t o   p r o v i d e   f o r   c o s t s   r e l a t in g   t o   t h e   C o r s a ir   fl e e t   r e n e w a l   a s   p ar t   o f   t h e   r e s t r u c t ur in g   o f   t h at   b u s in e s s ;   an d   £ 7 m   t o   r e c o r d   an 
o n e r o u s   l ea s e   p r o v i s i o n   o n   a n   un u s e d   p r o p e r t y .   
In   t h e   y ea r   e n d e d   3 0   S e pt e m b e r   2 0 0 9   t h e r e   w a s   a   £ 1 2 4 m   im p a ir m e n t   c h ar g e   p r in c ip all y   in   r e s p e c t   o f   a s s e t   w r i t e - d o w n s   o f   B o e in g   7 4 7 s   o p e r at e d 
b y   C o r s a ir   ( N o t e   1 1 ) .   
Restructuring and other separately disclosed items
C o s t s   in c ur r e d   in   t h e   y ea r   e n d e d   3 0   S e pt e m b e r   2 0 1 0   in c lu d e   r e s t r u c t ur in g   p r og r a m m e s   w hi c h   a r e   n o t   r e l a t e d   t o   t h e   b u s in e s s   c o m bin at i o n   o f 
F ir s t   C h oi c e   a n d   t h e   T o ur i s m   b u s in e s s e s   o f   T U I   A G .     T h e   p r in c ip al   i t e m s   ar e   £ 4 3 m   t o   s i g ni fi c a n t l y   r e s t r u c t ur e   C o r s a ir ,   t h e   s c h e d ul e d   F r e n c h 
a ir lin e ;   £ 2 2 m   f o r   t h e   r e s t r u c t ur in g   o f   h o t e l   o p e r at i o n s   in   T ur k e y   a n d   £ 1 3 m   t o   r e s t r u c t ur e   t h e   t o ur   o p e r at o r ,   r e t a il   n e t w o r k   a n d   h o t e l   o p e r at i o n s 
o f   N o u v e ll e s   F r o n t i è r e s   in   F r a n c e .     A l s o   in c lu d e d   i s   a   £ 3 0 m   c r e d i t   a r i s in g   f r o m   t h e   r e v a lu at i o n   o f   t h e   in v e s t m e n t   in   T h e   A ir lin e   G r o up   ( N o t e   1 2 ) , 
a n d   a   £ 1 3 m   g a in   r e c og ni s e d   o n   t h e   d i s p o s a l   o f   t h e   C an ad i a n   M a in s t r ea m   o p e r at i o n   w hi c h   w a s   c o n t r ib u t e d   w h e n   c r eat in g   t h e   s t r at e g i c   v e n t ur e 
( N o t e   1 8 ) .     T hi s   g a in   w a s   m o r e   t h a n   o f f s e t   b y   o ur   s h a r e   o f   p o s t - d ea l   r e s t r u c t ur in g   c o s t s   a n d   r e l a t e d   S k y s e r v i c e   w r i t e - o f f s .
T h e   m a in   c o s t s   in c ur r e d   in   t h e   y ea r   e n d e d   3 0   S e pt e m b e r   2 0 0 9   w e r e   £ 4 0 m   in   r e l a t i o n   t o   t r a n s ac t i o n   c o s t s   an d   a s s o c i at e d   r e s t r u c t ur in g   in   t h e 
G e r m an   s o urc e   m a r k e t ,   d u e   t o   t h e   t r a n s ac t i o n   t o   s e ll   T U I fl y ’ s   c i t y   c h ar t e r   b u s in e s s   t o   A ir   B e r lin   P L C ,   £ 1 6 m   d u e   t o   t h e   c l o s ur e   o f   t h e   S un s a il 
C lub s   in   T ur k e y   a n d   t h e   C ar ib b ea n ,   a n d   £ 1 3 m   f o r   r e s t r u c t ur in g   o f   t h e   F r e n c h   t o ur   o p e r at o r ,   N o u v e ll e s   F r o n t i è r e s .
Impact of volcanic ash
In c lu d e d   in   s e p ar at e l y   d i s c l o s e d   i t e m s   ar e   t h e   in c r e m e n t al   d ir e c t   c o s t s   in c ur r e d   b y   t h e   G r o up   in   r e s p e c t   o f   w e l f a r e   c o s t s   t o   l o o k   a f t e r   t h e 
c u s t o m e r s   w h o   w e r e   af f e c t e d   b y   t h e   c l o s ur e   o f   E ur o p ea n   a ir s p ac e .     T h e s e   c o s t s   p r in c ip all y   in c lu d e   h o t e l   c o s t s   f o r   s t r a n d e d   inb oun d   a n d 
o u t b o un d   c u s t o m e r s ,   a n d   t h e   c o s t   o f   r e p a t r i at i o n   o f   inb oun d   c u s t o m e r s .     T h e s e   c o s t s   a m oun t   t o   £ 6 9 m   a n d   a r e   s h o w n   in   t h e   ‘ P r o   f o r m a   im p ac t  
o f   v o l c a ni c   a s h ’   c o lum n   o n   t h e   f ac e   o f   t h e   c o n s o li d at e d   in c o m e   s t at e m e n t .
Separately disclosed financial expenses
T h e   s e p ar at e l y   d i s c l o s e d   fi n a n c i a l   e x p e n s e s   in   t h e   y ea r   e n d e d   3 0   S e pt e m b e r   2 0 1 0   r e l a t e   t o   n o n   d e b t   i t e m s ,   p r in c ip all y   a   £ 3 m   in t e r e s t   c h ar g e   o n  
a   t a x   p e n al t y   im p o s e d   b y   t h e   T ur k i s h   a u t h o r i t i e s   r e l a t in g   t o   fi n a n c i a l   y ea r s   up   t o   a n d   in c lu d in g   2 0 0 8 .      
T h e   s e p ar at e l y   d i s c l o s e d   fi n a n c i a l   e x p e n s e s   f o r   t h e   y ea r   e n d e d   3 0   S e pt e m b e r   2 0 0 9   r e l a t e   t o   n o n   d e b t   i t e m s   in c lu d in g   t h e   r e v a lu at i o n   o f   a   p u t  
o pt i o n   w r i t t e n   b y   t h e   G r o up   in   r e s p e c t   o f   a   n o n - c o n t r o llin g   in t e r e s t   s h a r e h o l d e r   o f   L ’ T U R   T o ur i s mu s   A G   ( L ’ T U R ) . www.tuitravelplc.com
Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
T U I  T r a v e l P L C  A n n u a l R e p o r t  &  A c c o u n t s  2 0 1 0  87
4. Net financial expenses
          Y e a r 	 e n d e d 	   Y e a r e n d e d  
        	 3 0 	 S e p t e m b e r 	   3 0 S e p t e m b e r
        	 2 0 1 0 	   2 0 0 9 
        	 £ m 	   £m  
F i n a n c i a l 	i n c o m e
B a n k i n t e r e s t  r e c e i v a b l e         	 3   6  
I n t e r e s t o n p e n s i o n  s c h e m e  a s s e t s         	 66   64 
O t h e r fi n a n c i a l  i n c o m e         	 –   2  
T o t a l        	 69   72  
F i n a n c i a l	 e x p e n s e s
B a n k  i n t e r e s t  p a y a b l e  o n  l o a n s a n d o v e r d r a f t s         	 (10)  (11)
F i n a n c e  c h a r g e s o n c o n v e r t i b l e  b o n d        	 (44)   –  
I n t e r e s t  o n  p e n s i o n  s c h e m e  l i a b i l i t i e s         	 (84)  (81)
I n t e r e s t  p a y a b l e  i n  r e s p e c t  o f l o a n s f r o m p a r e n t         	 (15)   (42)
F i n a n c e l e a s e  c h a r g e s          	 (11)  (10)
U n w i n d i n g  o f d i s c o u n t o n p r o v i s i o n s         	 (11)   (5)
O t h e r fi n a n c i a l  e x p e n s e s        	 (11)  (12)
T o t a l        	 (186)  (161)
N e t	fi n a n c i a l 	e x p e n s e s         	 (117)   (89)
          Y e a r 	 e n d e d 	   Y e a r e n d e d  
        	 3 0 	 S e p t e m b e r 	   3 0 S e p t e m b e r
        	 2 0 1 0 	   2 0 0 9 
        	 £ m 	   £m  
N e t fi n a n c i a l  e x p e n s e s  ( a s  a b o v e )        	 (117)   (89)
L e s s s e p a r a t e l y d i s c l o s e d fi n a n c i a l  e x p e n s e s  ( N o t e  3 )         	 7	  12 
N e t	u n d e r l y i n g 	fi n a n c i a l 	e x p e n s e s         	 (110)  (77)
5. Employees
          Y e a r 	 e n d e d 	   Y e a r e n d e d  
        	 3 0 	 S e p t e m b e r 	   3 0 S e p t e m b e r
        	 2 0 1 0 	   2 0 0 9 
(A) Average number of employees         	 N u m b e r 	   Number  
B y	S e c t o r
M a i n s t r e a m  S e c t o r        	 35,375    35,130 
S p e c i a l i s t   &  E m e r g i n g  M a r ke t s  S e c t o r         	 1,522    1,474 
A c t i v i t y  S e c t o r        	 4,492    4,792 
A c c o m m o d a t i o n  &  D e s t i n a t i o n s S e c t o r         	 6,941	   7,673  
C o r p o r a t e         	 394    394 
T o t a l        	 48,724    49,463 
T h e   2 0 0 9   c o m p ar at i v e   n um b e r s   h a v e   b e e n   r ea ll o c at e d   t o   e n s ur e   t h at   t h e y   a r e   in   ali g nm e n t   w i t h   a   r e v i s e d   m e t h o d   o f   a ll o c at in g   h ead c o un t   t o   t h e  
v a r i ou s   S e c t o r s .   T h e r e   i s   n o   c h an g e   t o   t h e   t o t al   n um b e r   o f   e m p l o y e e s .
          Y e a r 	 e n d e d 	   Y e a r e n d e d  
        	 3 0 	 S e p t e m b e r 	   3 0 S e p t e m b e r
        	 2 0 1 0 	   2 0 0 9 
(B) Staff costs         	 £ m 	   £m 
W a g e s  a n d s a l a r i e s        	 1,385   1,293 
S o c i a l  s e c u r i t y  c o s t s         	 248   234 
P e n s i o n  c o s t s        	 61  47  
S h a r e - b a s e d  p a y m e n t s  ( N o t e 5 ( D ) )         	 15  17  
T o t a l        	 1,709   1,591  
In c lu d e d   w i t hin   w a g e s   a n d   s a l a r i e s   a r e   £ 9 6 m   ( 2 0 0 9 :   £ 6 5 m )   o f   w a g e s   a n d   s a l a r i e s   an d   £ 8 m   ( 2 0 0 9 :   £ 5 m )   o f   s o c i al   s e c ur i t y   c o s t s   in   r e l a t i o n   t o 
r e d un d a n c y   a n d   in t e g r at i o n   c o s t s .   T h e s e   r e l a t e d   s t af f   c o s t s   ar e   in c lu d e d   w i t hin   s e p ar at e l y   d i s c l o s e d   i t e m s   ( N o t e   3 ) .
(C) Pension costs
T h e   G r o up   o p e r at e s   p e n s i o n   s c h e m e s   f o r   e m p l o y e e s   e li g ib l e   a n d   w i s hin g   t o   p ar t i c ip a t e   in   t h e   s c h e m e s .     T h e s e   c o m p r i s e   b o t h   d e fi n e d  
c o n t r ib u t i o n   a n d   d e fi n e d   b e n e fi t   s c h e m e s .     P e n s i o n   o b li g at i o n s   v a r y   r e fl e c t in g   t h e   d i f f e r e n t   l e g a l   a n d   m a r k e t   c o n d i t i o n s   in   eac h   c o un t r y   o f 
o p e r at i o n .     D e fi n e d   c o n t r ib u t i o n   s c h e m e s   a r e   f un d e d   b y   t h e   p a y m e n t   o f   c o n t r ib u t i o n s   t o   p r i v at e   a n d   s t at e - r un   o r g a ni s a t i o n s ,   w hil s t   d e fi n e d  
b e n e fi t   s c h e m e s   c o m p r i s e   b o t h   f un d e d   a n d   un f un d e d   s c h e m e s .     T h e   a s s e t s   o f   a ll   t h e   f un d e d   d e fi n e d   b e n e fi t   s c h e m e s   a r e   h e l d   s e p ar at e l y   f r o m  
t h e   a s s e t s   o f   t h e   G r o up . Financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements c o n t i n u e d
www.tuitravelplc.com
88  T U I T r a v e l  P L C  A n n u a l R e p o r t & A c c o u n t s  2 0 1 0
Defined contribution schemes for employees and Directors 
C ur r e n t   c o n t r ib u t i o n s   a r e   r e c og ni s e d   a s   a n   e x p e n s e   in   t h e   y ea r   a n d   o n c e   p a i d   t h e   G r o up   h a s   n o   f ur t h e r   li a bili t y .     P e n s i o n   c o s t s   o f   £ 2 4 m    
( 2 0 0 9 :   £ 2 0 m )   r e l a t in g   t o   d e fi n e d   c o n t r ib u t i o n   s c h e m e s   w e r e   c h ar g e d   t o   t h e   in c o m e   s t at e m e n t .
Defined benefit pension schemes 
T h e   m o v e m e n t   o f   d e fi n e d   b e n e fi t   p e n s i o n   o b li g at i o n s   an d   a s s e t s   i s   d e t a il e d   b e l o w ,   s um m ar i s e d   a s   U K ,   G e r m an y   a n d   O t h e r .     O t h e r   in c lu d e s  
f un d e d   s c h e m e s   in   Ir e l a n d ,   t h e   N e t h e r l an d s ,   Sw i t z e r l a n d   an d   N o r w a y ,   w hil s t   t h e   m a in   un f un d e d   ar r a n g e m e n t s   a r e   in   A u s t r i a   a n d   F r a n c e .      
A lm o s t   a ll   U K   s c h e m e s   a r e   f un d e d   w hil s t   G e r m an   s c h e m e s   a r e   un f un d e d .    
T h e   p r in c ip al   f un d e d   s c h e m e s   in   t h e   U K   a r e   s h o w n   in   t h e   t a b l e   b e l o w .     T h e s e   a r e   c l o s e d   t o   n e w   m e m b e r s ,   w i t h   t h e   e x c e pt i o n   o f   e x i s t in g 
e m p l o y e e s   w o r k in g   t o w ar d s   t h e ir   e n t r y   q u ali fi c a t i o n   d a t e :
  D a t e  o f l a s t  f u l l  A v e r a g e  G r o u p  A v e r a g e e m p l o y e e
S c h e m e  n a m e   a c t u a r i a l  v a l u a t i o n   c o n t r i b u t i o n  r a t e  c o n t r i b u t i o n r a t e  
B r i t a n n ia   A i r w a y s   L i m i t e d   S u pe r a n n u a t i o n   a n d   L i f e   A s s u r a n c e   S c h e m e   3 1  M a r c h  2 0 0 8   3 8 . 8 % p l u s  £ 4 8 . 2 m  p e r a n n u m *   1 0 . 0 %
T U I  P e n s i o n  S c h e m e ( U K )  3 1  M a r c h  2 0 0 8   1 6 . 5 %  p l u s  £ 1 7 . 6 m  p e r  a n n u m *   5 . 4 %
A i r  2 0 0 0 L i m i t e d  R e t i r e m e n t  B e n e fi t s  S c h e m e   1  N o v e m b e r  2 0 0 6   2 6 . 3 %  p l u s  £ 1 . 4 m p e r a n n u m   9 . 8 %
U n i j e t  G r o u p P l c F i n a l S a l a r y  S c h e m e   1  No v ember   2006   24.7%  plus £1.3m  per   annum  10.0%
* C a s h   c o n t r ib u t i o n s   f r o m   t h e   C o m p a n y   t o   f un d   t h e   S c h e m e s ’   d e fi c i t s   a r e   c ur r e n t l y   r e d u c e d   b y   a n   a m oun t   h e l d   b ac k   un d e r   a n   e s c r o w 
a r r an g e m e n t   a g r e e d   b e t w e e n   t h e   C o m p a n y   an d   t h e   S c h e m e s ’   T r u s t e e s .     T h e   C o m p a n y   an d   T r u s t e e s   a r e   c ur r e n t l y   in   d i s c u s s i o n   r e g a r d in g   
t h e   o n g oin g   f un d in g   o f   t h e   S c h e m e s ’   d e fi c i t s ,   a n d   t h e   e s c r o w   a r r an g e m e n t   f o r m s   p ar t   o f   t h e s e   d i s c u s s i o n s .     T hi s   a r r an g e m e n t   e x pir e s   o n    
3 1   M a rc h   2 0 1 1 .     T h e   v a lu e s   q u o t e d   ab o v e   a r e   t h e   g r o s s   v a lu e s   b e f o r e   r e d u c t i o n .
W h e r e   t h e r e   i s   m o r e   t h a n   a   s in g l e   c l a s s   o f   m e m b e r s hip ,   c o n t r ib u t i o n   r at e s   r e fl e c t   w e i g h t e d   a v e r a g e   v a lu e s   w i t hin   t h e   s c h e m e .     C o n t r ib u t i o n   r at e s  
a r e   s t at e d   b e f o r e   ad j u s t m e n t   f o r   s a l a r y   s ac r i fi c e   a r r an g e m e n t s   w h e r e   a p p li c a b l e .
T h e   T r u s t e e s   o f   a ll   f o ur   s c h e m e s   li s t e d   ab o v e   a r e   c ur r e n t l y   un d e r t a k in g   v a lu at i o n s   a n d   a r e   in   n e g o t i at i o n   w i t h   t h e   C o m p an y   t o   a g r e e   t h e s e .
T h e   p r in c ip al   un f un d e d   s c h e m e s   in   G e r m an y   a r e   s h o w n   b e l o w .     T h e s e   w e r e   a ll   s ubj e c t   t o   a   f ull   ac t u ar i a l   v a lu at i o n   w i t hin   t hr e e   m o n t h s   p r e c e d in g  
t h e   b al a n c e   s h e e t   d a t e :
Scheme name            St a t us
V e r s o r g u n g s o r d n u n g ’ H a p a g - L l o y d  F l u g g e s e l l s c h a f t  m b H           Open t o new  members
V e r s o r g u n g s o r d n u n g ’  T U I  D e u t s c h l a n d G m b H          Closed t o new  members
V e r s o r g u n g s o r d n u n g ’  T U I L e i s u r e T r a v e l G m b H           Closed  t o  new  members
V a lu at i o n s   o f   t h e   s c h e m e s   a r e   m ad e   b y   q u ali fi e d   ac t u ar i e s   u s in g   m a r k e t - b a s e d   v a lu at i o n s   f o r   t h e   a s s e t s   a n d   t h e   p r oj e c t e d   uni t   m e t h o d   f o r   t h e 
li a bili t i e s .     T h e   G r o up   r e c og ni s e s   a ll   ac t u ar i a l   g a in s   o r   l o s s e s   in   t h e   c o n s o li d at e d   s t at e m e n t   o f   c o m p r e h e n s i v e   in c o m e .
T h e   a s s e t s   o f   eac h   s c h e m e   h a v e   b e e n   t a k e n   at   m a r k e t   v a lu e   a n d   li a bili t i e s   in   eac h   t e r r i t o r y   h a v e   b e e n   c al c ul a t e d   u s in g   t h e   f o ll o w in g   p r in c ip al  
a s s um p t i o n s :
  UK
1
 per  annum  German y   per  annum   Other
3
 per  annum
     
  2 0 1 0   2009   2 0 1 0   2009 	 2 0 1 0   2009
  %   %   %   % 	 %   %            
I n fl a t i o n   3.2  3.2  	 1.6   1.8 	 1.8  1.9
S a l a r y i n fl a t i o n   4.2
2
  4.2
2
	 2.5  2.5 	 2.8   2.9
D i s c o u n t  r a t e   5.3   5.5 	 4.3  5.3	 3.9  4.8
1 .   P e n s i o n   i n c r e a s e s   i n   t h e   U K   S c h e m e s   r e fl e c t   t h e   g e n e r a l   i n fl a t i o n   a s s u m p t i o n ,   s u b j e c t   t o   m i n i m u m   a n d   m a x i m u m   i n c r e a s e   l i m i t s .
2 .   4 . 2 %   ( 2 0 0 9 :   4 . 2 % )   i s   a p p l i c a b l e   a c r o s s   a l l   U K   S c h e m e s   w i t h   t h e   e x c e p t i o n   o f   t h e   B r i t a n n i a   A i r w a y s   L i m i t e d   S u p e r a n n u a t i o n   a n d   L i f e   A s s u r a n c e   S c h e m e   w h i c h   h a s   a s s u m e d   s a l a r y   i n fl a t i o n   o f 
3 . 7 %   p l u s   1 . 4 %   ( 2 0 0 9 :   3 . 7 %   p l u s   0 . 8 % )   t o   r e fl e c t   a n n u a l   s e r v i c e   i n c r e m e n t s .
3 .   T h e   a s s u m p t i o n s   f o r   O t h e r   a r e   a   w e i g h t e d   a v e r a g e .
T h e   C o m p a n y   i s   a w a r e   o f   t h e   U K   g o v e r nm e n t ’ s   p r o p o s e d   c h a n g e   in   p e n s i o n   in d e x at i o n   f r o m   t h e   R e t a il   P r i c e s   In d e x   ( R P I )   t o   t h e   C o n s um e r  
P r i c e s   In d e x   ( C P I ) . 
F o ll o w in g   t h e   a nn oun c e m e n t ,   t h e   C o m p a n y   un d e r t o o k   a n   e x e rc i s e   t o   e x a min e   s c h e m e   r ul e s   g o v e r nin g   p e n s i o n   in c r ea s e s   in   i t s   m a t e r i al   s c h e m e s .    
T h e   r e s ul t s   o f   t hi s   e x e rc i s e   t og e t h e r   w i t h   c e r t a in   a s s um p t i o n s   w e r e   u s e d   t o   d e v e l o p   a n   e s t im at e   o f   t h e   p o t e n t i a l   im p ac t .     U s in g   a n   R P I   t o   C P I 
d i f f e r e n t i a l   o f   0 . 7 %   a n d   a p p l y in g   i t   t o   a ll   U K   s c h e m e   p e n s i o n   in c r ea s e s   in   d e f e r m e n t ,   o t h e r   t h a n   t h o s e   s ubj e c t   t o   fi x e d   in fl at i o n   e s c a l at i o n ,   w o ul d  
p r o d u c e   a   p o t e n t i a l   r e d u c t i o n   in   p e n s i o n   li a bili t i e s   o f   a p p r o x im a t e l y   £ 8 m .     T h e   r e d u c t i o n   w o ul d   b e   r e c og ni s e d   t hr o u g h   ac t u ar i a l   g a in s   a n d  
t r eat e d   a s   a   c h an g e   in   ac t u ar i a l   a s s um p t i o n s   d u e   t o   p e n s i o n   in c r ea s e s   b e in g   link e d   t o   s t at u t o r y   in d e x at i o n   a s   o p p o s e d   t o   R P I .  
F ur t h e r ,   i f   t h e   c h an g e   w e r e   e x t e n d e d   t o   ap p l y   t o   b o t h   p e n s i o n   in c r ea s e s   in   d e f e r m e n t   an d   p e n s i o n   in c r ea s e s   in   p a y m e n t ,   t h e r e   i s   a   t o t al 
p o t e n t i a l   r e d u c t i o n   in   p e n s i o n   li a bili t i e s   o f   a p p r o x im a t e l y   £ 3 0 m ,   b u t   s u c h   a   c h an g e   w o ul d   r e q uir e   f ur t h e r   p e r mi s s i v e   l e g i s l at i o n   an d   t h e 
a g r e e m e n t   o f   t h e   s c h e m e   t r u s t e e s   a s   t h e   p e n s i o n s   in   p a y m e n t   in c r ea s e s   a r e   c ur r e n t l y   link e d   t o   R P I .     T h e   e s t im at e d   £ 2 2 m   f ur t h e r   r e d u c t i o n 
w o ul d   b e   r e c og ni s e d   t hr o u g h   t h e   in c o m e   s t at e m e n t   a s   t h e   c h an g e   t o   C P I   o n   t h e s e   p l a n s   w o ul d   b e   c o n s i d e r e d   a   c h an g e   in   b e n e fi t   o b li g at i o n .    
T h e   p o t e n t i a l   r e d u c t i o n   in   t h e   c ur r e n t   y ea r   o f   £ 8 m   i s   m o d e s t   c o m p ar e d   t o   t h e   t o t a l   U K   p e n s i o n   li a bili t y   o f   £ 3 4 9   milli o n   b e c a u s e   s i g ni fi c a n t  
e l e m e n t s   o f   t h e   ac c r u e d   li a bili t i e s   a r e   s ubj e c t   t o   fi x e d   r at e s   o f   r e v a lu at i o n .  www.tuitravelplc.com
Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
T U I  T r a v e l P L C  A n n u a l R e p o r t  &  A c c o u n t s  2 0 1 0  89
W hil s t   in   M a n a g e m e n t ’ s   v i e w   t h e   p o t e n t i a l   ad j u s t m e n t   t o   t h e   p e n s i o n   li a bili t y   i s   n o t   m a t e r i al ,   n o   ad j u s t m e n t   h a s   b e e n   r e c og ni s e d   d u e   t o   t h e 
s i g ni fi c a n t   un c e r t a in t y   r e l a t in g   t o   k e y   v a r i a b l e s   a n d   a s s um p t i o n s   o n   t hi s   i s s u e .
T h e   m o r t a li t y   a s s um p t i o n s   un d e r l y in g   t h e   v a lu e   o f   t h e   ac c r u e d   li a bili t i e s   f o r   eac h   t e r r i t o r y   a r e   s e t   o u t   in   t h e   t a b l e s   b e l o w .     T h e   m o r t a li t y  
a s s um p t i o n s   a r e   b a s e d   o n   r e l e v an t   s t a n d ar d   m o r t a li t y   t a b l e s   in   eac h   t e r r i t o r y :
        	 2 0 1 0 	   2 0 0 9 
U K	l i f e 	e x p e c t a n c y	( w e i g h t e d 	a v e r a g e )         	 Y e a r s 	   Y ears 
M a l e s
L i f e  e x p e c t a n c y  i n y e a r s f o r  a  p e n s i o n e r r e t i r i n g a g e d 6 5 ,  o n t h e b a l a n c e  s h e e t  d a t e       	 23.0   22.9  
L i f e  e x p e c t a n c y  i n y e a r s f o r  a  p e n s i o n e r r e t i r i n g a g e d 6 5 ,  2 0 y e a r s  a f t e r t h e  b a l a n c e  s h e e t d a t e     	 24.3   24.2 
F e m a l e s
L i f e   e x p e c t a n c y  i n y e a r s f o r  a  p e n s i o n e r r e t i r i n g a g e d 6 5 ,  o n t h e b a l a n c e  s h e e t  d a t e       	 25.4   25.2 
L i f e  e x p e c t a n c y  i n y e a r s f o r  a  p e n s i o n e r r e t i r i n g a g e d 6 5 ,  2 0 y e a r s  a f t e r t h e  b a l a n c e  s h e e t d a t e     	 26.5   26.4  
        	 2 0 1 0 	   2 0 0 9 
G e r m a n y 	l i f e 	e x p e c t a n c y         	 Y e a r s 	   Y ears 
M a l e s
L i f e  e x p e c t a n c y  i n y e a r s f o r  a  p e n s i o n e r r e t i r i n g a g e d 6 5 ,  o n t h e b a l a n c e  s h e e t  d a t e       	 18.3 	  18.2 
L i f e  e x p e c t a n c y  i n y e a r s f o r  a  p e n s i o n e r r e t i r i n g a g e d 6 5 ,  2 0 y e a r s  a f t e r t h e  b a l a n c e  s h e e t d a t e     	 21.4 	  20.9 
F e m a l e s	 	
L i f e   e x p e c t a n c y  i n y e a r s f o r  a  p e n s i o n e r r e t i r i n g a g e d 6 5 ,  o n t h e b a l a n c e  s h e e t  d a t e       	 22.0 	  22.3  
L i f e  e x p e c t a n c y  i n y e a r s f o r  a  p e n s i o n e r r e t i r i n g a g e d 6 5 ,  2 0 y e a r s  a f t e r t h e  b a l a n c e  s h e e t d a t e     	 25.0 	  24.9  
        	 2 0 1 0 	   2 0 0 9 
O t h e r	l i f e 	e x p e c t a n c y	( w e i g h t e d 	a v e r a g e )         	 Y e a r s 	   Y ears  
M a l e s
L i f e  e x p e c t a n c y  i n y e a r s f o r  a  p e n s i o n e r r e t i r i n g a g e d 6 5 ,  o n t h e b a l a n c e  s h e e t  d a t e       	 20.5 	  18.8  
L i f e  e x p e c t a n c y  i n y e a r s f o r  a  p e n s i o n e r r e t i r i n g a g e d 6 5 ,  2 0 y e a r s  a f t e r t h e  b a l a n c e  s h e e t d a t e     	 21.9 	  20.2  
F e m a l e s
L i f e  e x p e c t a n c y  i n y e a r s f o r  a  p e n s i o n e r r e t i r i n g a g e d 6 5 ,  o n t h e b a l a n c e  s h e e t  d a t e       	 22.9 	  21.8  
L i f e  e x p e c t a n c y  i n y e a r s f o r  a  p e n s i o n e r r e t i r i n g a g e d 6 5 ,  2 0 y e a r s  a f t e r t h e  b a l a n c e  s h e e t d a t e     	 23.6 	  22.5  
T h e   f a ir   v a lu e   o f   a s s e t s   o f   t h e   s c h e m e s   in   eac h   t e r r i t o r y   a r e   s e t   o u t   b e l o w :
  UK   German y   Other   T o t al
       
  2 0 1 0   2 0 0 9   2 0 1 0   2 0 0 9	 2 0 1 0   2 0 0 9	 2 0 1 0   2 0 0 9
  £ m   £m  £ m   £m	 £ m   £m	 £ m   £m             	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	
E q u i t i e s	 523   457   	 –	  –  	 47   46  	 570   503 
G o v e r n m e n t  d e b t	 242   210  	 –	  –  	 37   37  	 279   247 
C o r p o r a t e  b o n d s	 177   129  	 –	  – 	 21   21  	 198	   150 
P r o p e r t y	 12   15 	 –	  – 	 1  1 	 13   16 
C a s h a n d  c a s h  e q u i v a l e n t s	 20  45 	 –	  – 	 1  1  	 21   46 
O t h e r	 99  86 	 – 	  –  	 35   31  	 134   117 
T o t al	 1 , 0 7 3   942  	 –	  – 	 142  137  	 1,215   1,079 
T h e   e x p e c t e d   r at e s   o f   r e t ur n   o n   eac h   c a t e g o r y   o f   a s s e t s   in   eac h   t e r r i t o r y   a r e   a s   f o ll o w s :
  UK   German y   Other
     
  2 0 1 0   2009   2 0 1 0   2009 	 2 0 1 0   2009
  %   %  %   % 	 %   %            
E q u i t i e s   7.8  7.8 	 N/ A	  N/ A 	 8.0	  8.0 
G o v e r n m e n t  d e b t   3 . 8  4.1 	 N/ A	  N/ A 	 4.2	  4.2 
C o r p o r a t e  b o n d s  5.3  5.5 	 N/ A	  N/ A 	 4.3	  3.8 
P r o p e r t y   6.5  6.0 	 N/ A	  N/ A 	 6.4	  5.8 
C a s h a n d c a s h e q u i v a l e n t s   0.5  0.5 	 N/ A	  N/ A 	 2.6   0.5 
O t h e r   7.4   7.4  	 N/ A	  N/ A 	 2.5	  2.5  
O v e r a l l e x p e c t e d  r a t e  o f r e t u r n   6.3   6.2  	 N/ A	  N/ A 	 5.0	  5.1  
T h e   o v e r a ll   e x p e c t e d   r at e   o f   r e t ur n   i s   c al c ul a t e d   b y   w e i g h t in g   t h e   in d i v i d u a l   r at e s   in   ac c o r d a n c e   w i t h   t h e   a n t i c ip a t e d   b al a n c e   in   t h e   s c h e m e s ’ 
in v e s t m e n t   p o r t f o li o .     T h e   f a ir   v a lu e s   o f   t h e   s c h e m e s ’   a s s e t s   a r e   n o t   in t e n d e d   t o   b e   r ea li s e d   in   t h e   s h o r t - t e r m   an d   m a y   b e   s ubj e c t   t o   s i g ni fi c a n t  
c h an g e   b e f o r e   t h e y   a r e   r ea li s e d .   Financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements c o n t i n u e d
www.tuitravelplc.com
90  T U I T r a v e l  P L C  A n n u a l R e p o r t & A c c o u n t s  2 0 1 0
C h an g e s   in   t h e   f a ir   v a lu e   o f   s c h e m e   a s s e t s   in   eac h   t e r r i t o r y   ar e   a s   f o ll o w s :
  UK   German y   Other   T o t al
       
  2 0 1 0   2 0 0 9   2 0 1 0   2 0 0 9	 2 0 1 0   2 0 0 9	 2 0 1 0   2 0 0 9
  £ m   £m  £ m   £m	 £ m   £m 	 £ m   £m             	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	
B a l a n c e  a t b e g i n n i n g  o f  y e a r	 942 	   810   	 –	  –  	 137	  114  	 1,079	   924  
E x p e c t e d   r e t u r n  o n  s c h e m e  a s s e t s	 60 	  58 	 –	  – 	 6 	  6  	 66	  64 
C o m p a n y   c o n t r i b u t i o n s	 89 	  86  	 – 	  –  	 5 	  6 	 94	  92 
M e m b e r c o n t r i b u t i o n s	 4 	  6 	 – 	  –  	 2 	  1 	 6	  7  
B e n e fi t s  p a i d	 (61)   (55) 	 –	  –  	 (5)   (6) 	 (66)  (61)
E x p e r i e n c e  g a i n s / ( l o s s e s )	 39	  37  	 –	  –  	 – 	  (3)	 39 	  34 
F o r e i g n e x c h a n g e	 – 	  –  	 –	  –  	 (3)   19  	 (3)   19  
B a l a n c e	a t	e n d	o f	y e a r	 1,073 	   942   	 –	  –  	 142	  137   	 1,215	   1,079  
A c t u a l r e t u r n  o n  s c h e m e  a s s e t s	 99 	  95  	 –	  –  	 6 	  3  	 105	  98  
E m p l o y e r   c o n t r ib u t i o n s   in   t h e   n e x t   y ea r   b a s e d   o n   a g r e e m e n t s   in   p l ac e   at   t h e   b al a n c e   s h e e t   d a t e   a r e   e x p e c t e d   t o   b e   £ 9 8 m   in   r e s p e c t   o f   t h e    
U K   a n d   £ 5 m   in   r e s p e c t   o f   O t h e r .     C a s h   c o n t r ib u t i o n s   f r o m   t h e   C o m p a n y   t o   f un d   t h e   U K   S c h e m e s ’   d e fi c i t s   a r e   c ur r e n t l y   r e d u c e d   b y   a n   a m oun t 
h e l d   b ac k   un d e r   a n   e s c r o w   a r r an g e m e n t   a g r e e d   b e t w e e n   t h e   C o m p a n y   a n d   t h e   S c h e m e s ’   T r u s t e e s .     T h e   C o m p an y   a n d   T r u s t e e s   a r e   c ur r e n t l y    
in   d i s c u s s i o n   r e g a r d in g   t h e   o n g oin g   f un d in g   o f   t h e   S c h e m e s ’   d e fi c i t s ,   a n d   t h e   e s c r o w   a r r an g e m e n t   f o r m s   p ar t   o f   t h e s e   d i s c u s s i o n s .      
T hi s   a r r an g e m e n t   e x pir e s   o n   3 1   M a rc h   2 0 1 1 . 
T h e   c o m p o s i t i o n   o f   t h e   f a ir   v a lu e   o f   s c h e m e   a s s e t s   in   eac h   t e r r i t o r y   i s   a s   f o ll o w s :
  UK   German y   Other   T o t al
       
  2 0 1 0   2 0 0 9   2 0 1 0   2 0 0 9	 2 0 1 0   2 0 0 9	 2 0 1 0   2 0 0 9
  £ m   £m   £ m   £m 	 £ m   £m 	 £ m   £m             	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	
S c h e m e s  w i t h s u r p l u s  o f a s s e t s	 2   2 	 –	  –  	 9  10 	 11   12 
S c h e m e s  w i t h d e fi c i t  o f a s s e t s	 1,071   940   	 –	  – 	 133  127  	 1,204   1,067 
T o t a l  1,073   942  	 –	  – 	 142  137   	 1,215   1,079 
C h an g e s   in   t h e   p r e s e n t   v a lu e   o f   d e fi n e d   b e n e fi t   o b li g at i o n s   in   eac h   t e r r i t o r y   ar e   a s   f o ll o w s :
  UK   German y   Other   T o t al
       
  2 0 1 0   2 0 0 9   2 0 1 0   2 0 0 9	 2 0 1 0   2 0 0 9	 2 0 1 0   2 0 0 9
  £ m   £m   £ m   £m 	 £ m   £m 	 £ m   £m             	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	
B a l a n c e  a t b e g i n n i n g  o f  y e a r	 1,327   1,015  	 97	  50 	 156 	   113  	 1,580	   1,178 
R e c l a s s i fi c a t i o n	 –	  –  	 – 	  18 	 – 	  – 	 – 	  18 
C u r r e n t s e r v i c e c o s t	 26   20  	 7 	  3  	 4	  4 	 37	  27 
I n t e r e s t c o s t o n o b l i g a t i o n	 72	  69  	 5 	  5  	 7	  7 	 84	  81 
B e n e fi t s  p a i d	 (61)   (55) 	 (2)   (3)	 (7)   (8)	 (70)  (66)
M e m b e r c o n t r i b u t i o n s	 4 	  6  	 –	  – 	 2 	  1  	 6	  7 
E x p e r i e n c e l o s s e s  	 54	  272   	 16	  13  	 11 	  20 	 81	  305  
A m o u n t s  a r i s i n g  f r o m  t r a n s f e r s  i n	 – 	  – 	 –	  1 	 –	  – 	 – 	  1  
F o r e i g n e x c h a n g e	 –	  –  	 (6)  10  	 (3)   19  	 (9)  29  
B a l a n c e	a t	e n d	o f	y e a r	 1 , 42 2 	  1,327   	 117 	  97  	 170	   156  	 1,709   1,580 
T h e   r e c l a s s i fi c at i o n   in   2 0 0 9   w i t hin   G e r m an y   r e l a t e s   t o   fl i g h t   c r e w   ea r l y   r e t ir e m e n t   b e n e fi t s   w hi c h   w e r e   p r e v i o u s l y   d i s c l o s e d   in   ac c r u a l s .
T h e   a m oun t s   r e c og ni s e d   in   t h e   c o n s o li d at e d   in c o m e   s t at e m e n t   f o r   t h e   y ea r s   e n d e d   3 0   S e pt e m b e r   2 0 1 0   a n d   3 0   S e pt e m b e r   2 0 0 9   f o r   eac h  
t e r r i t o r y   a r e   a s   f o ll o w s :
  UK   German y   Other   T o t al
       
  2 0 1 0   2 0 0 9   2 0 1 0   2 0 0 9	 2 0 1 0   2 0 0 9	 2 0 1 0   2 0 0 9
  £ m   £m   £ m   £m 	 £ m   £m 	 £ m   £m             	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	
C u r r e n t s e r v i c e  c o s t	 26	  20 	 7 	  3  	 4   4  	 37 	  27 
I n t e r e s t o n d e fi n e d  b e n e fi t   
p e n s i o n  s c h e m e  o b l i g a t i o n	 72	  69 	 5 	  5  	 7	  7  	 84 	  81 
E x p e c t e d r e t u r n  o n  d e fi n e d   
b e n e fi t  p e n s i o n  s c h e m e	 (60)   (58)	 – 	  –  	 (6)   (6)	 (66)  (64)
T o t a l	 38 	  31  	 12 	  8  	 5	  5  	 55 	  44   www.tuitravelplc.com
Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
T U I  T r a v e l P L C  A n n u a l R e p o r t  &  A c c o u n t s  2 0 1 0  91
T h e s e   am oun t s   a r e   in c lu d e d   w i t hin   t h e   f o ll o w in g   e x p e n s e / ( in c o m e )   c a t e g o r i e s   in   t h e   c o n s o li d at e d   in c o m e   s t at e m e n t :
  UK   German y   Other   T o t al
       
  2 0 1 0   2 0 0 9   2 0 1 0   2 0 0 9	 2 0 1 0   2 0 0 9	 2 0 1 0   2 0 0 9
  £ m   £m  £ m   £m	 £ m   £m	 £ m   £m             	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	
C o s t o f  s a l e s	 14	  10 	 6 	  2 	 2	  3 	 22 	  15 
A d m i n i s t r a t i v e e x p e n s e s	 12	  10 	 1 	  1 	 2	  1 	 15 	  12 
F i n a n c i a l e x p e n s e s	 72	  69 	 5 	  5 	 7	  7 	 84 	  81 
F i n a n c i a l i n c o m e	 (60)   (58)	 – 	  – 	 (6)   (6)	 (66)  (64)
T o t a l	 38 	  31 	 12	  8 	 5	  5 	 55 	  44 
T h e   a m oun t s   r e c og ni s e d   d ir e c t l y   in   e q ui t y   f o r   t h e   y ea r   e n d e d   3 0   S e pt e m b e r   2 0 1 0   an d   f o r   t h e   y ea r   e n d e d   3 0   S e pt e m b e r   2 0 0 9   f o r   eac h   t e r r i t o r y  
a r e   a s   f o ll o w s :
  UK   German y   Other   T o t al
       
  2 0 1 0   2 0 0 9   2 0 1 0   2 0 0 9	 2 0 1 0   2 0 0 9	 2 0 1 0   2 0 0 9
  £ m   £m  £ m   £m	 £ m   £m	 £ m   £m             	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	
C u m u l a t i v e l o s s e s / ( g a i n s )   
b r o u g h t  f o r w a r d	 439 	   204   	 5	  (8) 	 24	  (1) 	 468 	  195  
L o s s e s  r e c o g n i s e d  d u r i n g t h e  y e a r	 15	  235   	 16	  13  	 11 	  23 	 42	  271 
E x c h a n g e  a d j u s t m e n t s	 –	  –   	 (1)  –  	 (1)  2  	 (2)   2  
C u m u l a t i v e 	 l os s e s 	 c a rr i e d 	 f o r w a r d 	 454 	  439   	 20	  5  	 34 	  24  	 508 	   468  
T r e n d   a n al y s i s   in f o r m a t i o n   in   r e s p e c t   o f   t h e   U K ,   G e r m an y   an d   O t h e r   t e r r i t o r i e s   i s   a s   f o ll o w s :
UK
  	 2 0 1 0 	   2 0 0 9   2 0 0 8   2 0 0 7    2 0 0 6 
U K	b a l a n c e 	s h e e t   	 £ m 	   £m   £m    £m    £m 
F a i r v a l u e o f  s c h e m e  a s s e t s   	 1,073	   942    810    891   781
P r e s e n t  v a l u e o f  s c h e m e  l i a b i l i t i e s   	 (1,422)   (1,327)  (1,015)   (1,144)   (1,125)
Deficit   	 (349)  (385)   (205)   (253)  (344)
  	 2 0 1 0 	   2 0 0 9   2 0 0 8   2 0 0 7    2 0 0 6 
U K	e x p e r i e n c e	a d j u s t m e n t s   	 £ m 	   £m    £m   £m    £m 
E x p e r i e n c e g a i n / ( l o s s ) o n s c h e m e  a s s e t s   	 39 	  37    (178)  (7)  11 
E x p e r i e n c e ( l o s s ) / g a i n  o n  s c h e m e  l i a b i l i t i e s   	 (54)   (272)   184    95    108  
Germany
  	 2 0 1 0 	   2 0 0 9   2 0 0 8   2 0 0 7    2 0 0 6 
G e r m a n y 	b a l a n c e 	s h e e t   	 £ m 	   £m   £m    £m    £m  
F a i r v a l u e o f  s c h e m e  a s s e t s   	 –	  –   –   –   – 
P r e s e n t  v a l u e o f  s c h e m e  l i a b i l i t i e s   	 (117)   (97)   (50)  (48)  (53)
D e fi c i t    	 (117)  (97)   (50)   (48)   (53)
  	 2 0 1 0 	   2 0 0 9   2 0 0 8   2 0 0 7    2 0 0 6 
G e r m a n y 	e x p e r i e n c e	a d j u s t m e n t s   	 £ m 	   £m   £m   £m   £m  
E x p e r i e n c e ( l o s s ) / g a i n  o n s c h e m e  l i a b i l i t i e s   	 (16)   (13)   8   11    (1)
Other
  	 2 0 1 0 	   2 0 0 9   2 0 0 8   2 0 0 7    2 0 0 6 
O t h e r	b a l a n c e 	s h e e t   	 £ m 	   £m   £m    £m   £m 
F a i r v a l u e o f  s c h e m e  a s s e t s   	 142	  137    114    103   91 
P r e s e n t  v a l u e o f  s c h e m e  l i a b i l i t i e s   	 (170)   (156)   (113)   (97)  (87)
( D e fi c i t ) / s u r p l u s   	 (28)   (19)  1   6   4 
  	 2 0 1 0 	   2 0 0 9   2 0 0 8   2 0 0 7    2 0 0 6 
O t h e r	e x p e r i e n c e 	a d j u s t m e n t s   	 £ m 	   £m   £m    £m   £m 
E x p e r i e n c e l o s s  o n s c h e m e  a s s e t s   	 –   (3)   (15)   (1)  –  
E x p e r i e n c e ( l o s s ) / g a i n  o n s c h e m e  l i a b i l i t i e s   	 (11)   (20)  5   14    10  Financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements c o n t i n u e d
www.tuitravelplc.com
92  T U I T r a v e l  P L C  A n n u a l R e p o r t & A c c o u n t s  2 0 1 0
Total
  	 2 0 1 0 	   2 0 0 9   2 0 0 8   2 0 0 7    2 0 0 6  
A l l	T e r r i t o r i e s ’ 	b a l a n c e 	 s h e e t   	 £ m 	   £m   £m   £m    £m  
F a i r v a l u e  o f  s c h e m e  a s s e t s   	 1,215	   1,079    924    994   872 
P r e s e n t v a l u e o f  s c h e m e l i a b i l i t i e s   	 (1,709)   (1,580)   (1,178)   (1,289)   (1,265)
D e fi c i t   	 (494)   (501)   (254)   (295)   (393)
  	 2 0 1 0 	   2 0 0 9   2 0 0 8   2 0 0 7    2 0 0 6 
A l l	T e r r i t o r i e s ’ 	e x p e r i e n c e 	a d j u s t m e n t s   	 £ m 	   £m   £m   £m   £m 
E x p e r i e n c e  g a i n / ( l o s s ) o n s c h e m e  a s s e t s   	 39 	  34    (193)   (8)  11  
E x p e r i e n c e ( l o s s ) / g a i n  o n s c h e m e  l i a b i l i t i e s   	 (81)   (305)   197    120   117 
T h e   m o v e m e n t   in   t h e   n e t   d e fi c i t   f o r   p e n s i o n s   i s   a s   f o ll o w s :
  UK   German y   Other   T o t al
       
  2 0 1 0   2 0 0 9   2 0 1 0   2 0 0 9	 2 0 1 0   2 0 0 9	 2 0 1 0   2 0 0 9
  £ m   £m   £ m   £m 	 £ m   £m 	 £ m   £m             	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	
B a l a n c e  a t b e g i n n i n g  o f y e a r	 385    205   	 97    50 	 18	  (2)	 500 	  253 
R e c l a s s i fi c a t i o n	 –	  –  	 –	  18  	 – 	  –  	 – 	  18  
P r o v i s i o n s  m a d e  d u r i n g t h e  y e a r	 38    31 	 12    8  	 5	  5 	 55	  44 
P r o v i s i o n s  u s e d d u r i n g  t h e  y e a r	 (89)   (86) 	 (2)   (3) 	 (7)   (8) 	 (98)  (97)
A m o u n t s  a r i s i n g  f r o m  t r a n s f e r s  i n 	 – 	  –  	 – 	  1  	 –	  –  	 –	  1  
A c t u a r i a l  l o s s r e c o g n i s e d  i n e q u i t y	 15 	  235   	 16   13  	 11 	  23  	 42 	  271 
F o r e i g n e x c h a n g e	 –	  – 	 (6)  10  	 –	  – 	 (6)  10 
B a l a n c e 	a t 	e n d	o f 	y e a r	 349    385   	 117	  97 		 27 	  18  	 493	   500  
T h e   r e c l a s s i fi c at i o n   in   2 0 0 9   w i t hin   G e r m an y   r e l a t e s   t o   fl i g h t   c r e w   ea r l y   r e t ir e m e n t   b e n e fi t s   w hi c h   w e r e   p r e v i o u s l y   d i s c l o s e d   in   ac c r u a l s .
R e c o n c ili a t i o n   o f   d e fi n e d   b e n e fi t   o b li g at i o n s   a n d   s c h e m e   a s s e t s   t o   v a lu e s   r e c og ni s e d   in   t h e   B al an c e   S h e e t :
  UK   German y   Other   T o t al
       
  2 0 1 0   2 0 0 9   2 0 1 0   2 0 0 9	 2 0 1 0   2 0 0 9	 2 0 1 0   2 0 0 9
  £ m   £m  £ m   £m	 £ m   £m 	 £ m   £m             	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	
P r e s e n t  v a l u e o f f u n d e d  
d e fi n e d  b e n e fi t  o b l i g a t i o n s	 1,421	   1,326  	 –	  –  	 152 	  139  	 1,573    1,465 
F a i r v a l u e  o f s c h e m e  a s s e t s	 (1,073)   (942) 	 –	  –  	 (142)  (137) 	 (1,215)   (1,079)
P r e s e n t  v a l u e o f u n f u n d e d   
d e fi n e d  b e n e fi t  o b l i g a t i o n s	 1	  1  	 117	  97 		 18 	  17  	 136	   115  
  349 	   385  	 117 	  97 	 28 	  19 	 494	   501 
U n r e c o g n i s e d  p a s t   s e r v i c e  c o s t	 – 	  – 	 –	  – 	 (1)  (1)	 (1)  (1)
R e c o g n i s e d  l i a b i l i t y  f o r d e fi n e d   
b e n e fi t  o b l i g a t i o n	 349 	   385   	 117	  97  	 27	  18  	 493	   500  
Analysed as:
R e t i r e m e n t  b e n e fi t   
n o n - c u r r e n t  a s s e t s	 –	  –  	 –	  –  	 (1)   (1) 	 (1)  (1)
R e t i r e m e n t  b e n e fi t   
c u r r e n t l i a b i l i t i e s	 –	  – 	 3 	  3  	 2	  –  	 5 	  3 
R e t i r e m e n t  b e n e fi t   
n o n - c u r r e n t l i a b i l i t i e s	 349 	   385   	 114	  94  	 26	  19  	 489 	   498  
T o t a l	 349	   385  	 117	  97  	 27 	  18  	 493	   500  
T h e   s e n s i t i v i t y   o f   t h e   f a ir   v a lu e   o f   t h e   d e fi n e d   p e n s i o n   d e fi c i t   t o   t h e   k e y   fi n a n c i a l   a n d   d e m og r a p hi c   a s s um p t i o n s   i s   illu s t r at e d   b e l o w .
      U K 	 G e r m a n y 	 O t h e r 	 	 T o t a l 	
	 	 	 2 0 1 0 	 	 2 0 1 0 	 	 2 0 1 0 	 	 2 0 1 0 	
	 	 	 £ m 	 	 £ m 	 	 £ m 	 	 £ m	
( D e c r e a s e )  t o d e fi c i t  o f i n c r e a s i n g d i s c o u n t r a t e b y  0 . 2 5 %     	 (64)	 (8)	 (6)	 (78)
I n c r e a s e  t o d e fi c i t  o f  r e d u c i n g  d i s c o u n t r a t e  b y 0 . 2 5 %     	 68 		 8		 6 		 82	
I n c r e a s e  t o d e fi c i t  o f i n c r e a s i n g  a l l  l i f e  e x p e c t a n c i e s  b y  1  y e a r    	 40 		 5		 4 		 49  www.tuitravelplc.com
Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
T U I  T r a v e l P L C  A n n u a l R e p o r t  &  A c c o u n t s  2 0 1 0  93
(D) Share award schemes
T h e   C o m p a n y   o p e r at e s   f o ur   p r in c ip al   s h a r e   a w a r d   s c h e m e s   w hi c h   a r e   d e s i g n e d   t o   link   r e mun e r a t i o n   t o   t h e   f u t ur e   p e r f o r m an c e   o f   t h e   G r o up .    
T h e   s c h e m e s   a r e   t h e   P e r f o r m an c e   S h a r e   Pl a n   ( P S P ) ,   t h e   D e f e r r e d   A nn u a l   B o n u s   S c h e m e   ( D A B S ) ,   t h e   D e f e r r e d   A nn u a l   B o n u s   L o n g - t e r m 
In c e n t i v e   S c h e m e   ( D A BL I S )   a n d   t h e   V a lu e   C r eat i o n   S y n e r g y   Pl a n   ( V C S P ) .     T h e   D A BL I S   s c h e m e   i s   d e s c r ib e d   b e l o w   a n d   t h e   o t h e r   t hr e e   s c h e m e s 
a r e   d e s c r ib e d   in   t h e   R e mun e r at i o n   R e p o r t   a l o n g   w i t h   t h e   r e l e v an t   v e s t in g   c r i t e r i a .
A t   3 0   S e pt e m b e r   2 0 1 0   t h e   s h a r e s   a ll o c at e d   an d   o u t s t an d in g   in   r e s p e c t   o f   o r d in ar y   s h a r e s ,   w e r e   a s   f o ll o w s :
Shar e  a w ar d  scheme      	 N u m b e r 	 o f 	 s h a r e s 	   Da t e due t o   v est 
P e r f o r m a n c e  S h a r e P l a n      	 1,819,513	   2 Dec ember  2010  
      	 618,658 	   19  Dec ember   2010 
      	 2,755,536 	   19  Dec ember   2010  
      	 131,840    19  Ma y   2011 
      	 1,030,546	   28  No v ember  2011 
      	 5,930,834	   28  No v ember   2011 
      	 2,227,585	   2  Dec ember  2012  
      	 722,799    19  Mar ch 2013  
D e f e r r e d A n n u a l  B o n u s  S c h e m e       	 2,621,921	   19  Dec ember   2010 
      	 4,486,020	   28  No v ember  2011 
      	 3,952,024	   2  Dec ember   2012  
D e f e r r e d A n n u a l  B o n u s L o n g T e r m  I n c e n t i v e  S c h e m e       	 3,797,395	   2  Dec ember   2012 
V a l u e C r e a t i o n  S y n e r g y P l a n      	 636,178 	   28  No v ember  2010 
T o t a l      	 30,730,849   
T h e   n um b e r   o f   s h a r e   a w a r d s   at   t h e   b e g innin g   a n d   e n d   o f   t h e   y ea r   i s   a s   f o ll o w s :
        N u m b e r 	 o f 	 a w a r d s 	
        	 3 0 	 S e p t e m b e r 	 2 0 1 0 	
O u t s t a n d i n g  a t b e g i n n i n g  o f  t h e  y e a r  – e x c l u d i n g  d e f e r r e d s h a r e s          	 25,614,6 86  
F o r f e i t e d   d u r i n g t h e y e a r          	 ( 1 , 3 4 6 , 3 9 9 )
E x e r c i s e d  d u r i n g t h e y e a r          	 ( 6 , 3 5 0 , 6 0 7 )
G r a n t e d  d u r i n g  t h e y e a r          	 1 2 , 8 1 3 , 1 6 9  
O u t s t a n d i n g 	a t 	t h e	e n d 	o f 	t h e 	y e a r	– 	e x c l u d i n g 	d e f e r r e d 	s h a r e s            	 3 0 , 7 3 0 , 8 4 9 	
In   ad d i t i o n   t o   t h e   a b o v e   s h a r e s ,   t h e r e   ar e   4 2 3 , 0 9 6   ( 2 0 0 9 :   1 , 8 3 0 , 9 6 0 )   d e f e r r e d   s h a r e s   o u t s t an d in g   in   r e l a t i o n   t o   t h e   D e f e r r e d   A nn u a l   B o n u s  
S c h e m e .     T h e s e   a r e   d u e   t o   v e s t   b e t w e e n   1 9   D e c e m b e r   2 0 1 0   a n d   2   D e c e m b e r   2 0 1 2 .
D ur in g   t h e   y ea r   s o m e   o f   t h e   p ar t i c ip an t s   o f   t h e   D A B S   a n d   V C S P   a g r e e d   t o   e n t e r   in t o   a   j oint   e l e c t i o n   w i t h   t h e   C o m p a n y   p ur s u an t   t o   s e c t i o n 
4 3 1 ( 1 )   o f   t h e   In c o m e   T a x   ( E ar nin g s   a n d   P e n s i o n s )   A c t   2 0 0 3   in   r e s p e c t   o f   t h e s e   a w a r d s .     C o n s e q u e n t l y ,   t h e   R e mun e r at i o n   C o m mi t t e e   a g r e e d   t o 
v e s t   t h e   V C S P   a w a r d s   ea r l y   a n d   r e l ea s e   s u f fi c i e n t   s h a r e s   t o   s at i s f y   t h e   t a x   li a bili t y   a r i s in g   f r o m   t h e   j oin t   e l e c t i o n .     T h e   r e m a inin g   s h a r e s ,   w hi c h  
a r e   v e s t e d ,   a r e   h e l d   t og e t h e r   w i t h   t h e   d e f e r r e d   e l e m e n t   o f   t h e   D A B S   s c h e m e   a s   r e s t r i c t e d   s h a r e s   a n d   w ill   n o t   b e   r e l ea s e d   b e f o r e   t h e   t hir d  
a nni v e r s a r y   o f   t h e   o r i g in al   a w a r d   d a t e   ( D A B S   d e f e r r e d   s h a r e s   1 , 3 8 4 , 6 8 0   a n d   V C S P   a w a r d s   1 , 7 0 1 , 8 1 6 ) .     T h e s e   r e s t r i c t e d   s h a r e s   a r e   s ubj e c t   t o 
c l a w b ac k   c o n d i t i o n s   in   ac c o r d a n c e   w i t h   t h e   s c h e m e   r ul e s .
N o   m a t e r i al   a w a r d s   h a v e   b e e n   m ad e   t o   d a t e   un d e r   t h e   G r o up ’ s   H MR C - a p p r o v e d   S h a r e   In c e n t i v e   Pl a n   w hi c h   i s   an   all - e m p l o y e e   s h a r e   p l a n .
T h e   f a ir   v a lu e   o f   s e r v i c e s   r e c e i v e d   in   r e t ur n   f o r   s h a r e s   a w a r d e d   d ur in g   t h e   y ea r   i s   m ea s ur e d   b y   r e f e r e n c e   t o   t h e   f a ir   v a lu e   o f   t h e   s h a r e s   a w a r d e d .   
T h e   f a ir   v a lu e   at   t h e   d a t e   t h e   s h a r e s   w e r e   a w a r d e d   h a s   b e e n   e s t im at e d   u s in g   a   bin o mi a l   m e t h o d o l og y   f o r   a ll   s c h e m e s   e x c e pt   w h e r e   t h e r e   i s   a 
m a r k e t - b a s e d   p e r f o r m an c e   c o n d i t i o n   a t t ac h e d   t o   v e s t in g ,   in   w hi c h   c a s e   a   M o n t e   C ar l o   s imul at i o n   w a s   u s e d .     T h e   p r in c ip al   a s s um p t i o n s   r e q uir e d 
b y   t h e s e   m e t h o d o l og i e s   w e r e :  
      2 0 1 0 	   2009    2008 
Inf orma tion 	r ela ting	t o	f air	v alues	of	shar es 	a w ar ded
F a i r v a l u e  a t m e a s u r e m e n t  d a t e    	 £1.30-£2.58    £1.34-£1.82    £1.05-£2.42 
S h a r e  p r i c e     	 £2.43-£2.93 	    £2.05   £2.51-£2.70 
E x p e c t e d  v o l a t i l i t y     	 44.0%    44.9%    30.4%-34.8% 
A w a r d l i f e    	 3 	y ears   3   y ears   3   y ears  
E x p e c t e d  d i v i d e n d s     	 3.6%    3.8%    3.6%  
R i s k f r e e i n t e r e s t  r a t e    	 1.6%   2.73%   4.52%-4.75% 
P ar t i c ip an t s   ar e   n o t   e n t i t l e d   t o   d i v i d e n d s   p r i o r   t o   v e s t in g .     E x p e c t e d   v o l at ili t y   i s   b a s e d   o n   hi s t o r i c   v o l at ili t y   ad j u s t e d   f o r   c h an g e s   t o   f u t ur e 
v o l at ili t y   in d i c a t e d   b y   p ub li c l y   a v a il ab l e   in f o r m a t i o n .     S h a r e s   w e r e   a w a r d e d   un d e r   a   s e r v i c e   c o n d i t i o n . Financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements c o n t i n u e d
www.tuitravelplc.com
94  T U I T r a v e l  P L C  A n n u a l R e p o r t & A c c o u n t s  2 0 1 0
Employee expenses for the year
E m p l o y e e   e x p e n s e s   f o r   t h e   c ur r e n t   a n d   p r i o r   y ea r   r e l a t in g   t o   s h a r e - b a s e d   s c h e m e s   ar e :
        	 Y e a r 	 e n d e d   Y e a r e n d e d 
        	 3 0 	 S e p t e m b e r   3 0 S e p t e m b e r  
        	 2 0 1 0    2 0 0 9  
        	 £ m 	   £m 
S h a r e s  a w a r d e d  i n  2 0 0 7         	 2   4  
S h a r e s  a w a r d e d  i n 2 0 0 8        	 5	  5  
S h a r e s  a w a r d e d  i n 2 0 0 9        	 3   7 
S h a r e s  a w a r d e d  i n 2 0 1 0         	 4    –  
E q u i t y - s e t t l e d         	 1 4    16  
E x p e n s e  a r i s i n g  f o r s h a r e  a p p r e c i a t i o n  r i g h t s         	 1   1 
T o t al        	 1 5   17  
In c lu d e d   in   t h e   c h ar g e   f o r   e q ui t y   a w a r d s   m ad e   in   2 0 1 0   i s   £ 3 m   ( 2 0 0 9 :   £ 3 m )   r e l a t in g   t o   t h e   V C S P .     T h e   s h a r e s   t hi s   c h ar g e   c o r r e s p o n d s   t o   w ill   b e 
a w a r d e d / r e l ea s e d   af t e r   t h e   d a t e   o f   t h e s e   ac c oun t s .  
O f   t h e   £ 1 5 m   ( 2 0 0 9 :   £ 1 7 m )   t o t al   e m p l o y e e   e x p e n s e s   r e l a t in g   t o   s h a r e - b a s e d   s c h e m e s   in c ur r e d   in   t h e   y ea r   e n d e d   3 0   S e pt e m b e r   2 0 1 0 ,   £ 4 m    
( 2 0 0 9 :   £ 6 m )   i s   in c lu d e d   w i t hin   s e p ar at e l y   d i s c l o s e d   i t e m s   ( N o t e   3 )   a s   r e l a t in g   t o   s p e c i fi c   r e mun e r a t i o n   in c ur r e d   f o r   p o s t - m e r g e r   in t e g r at i o n .
T h e   f u t ur e   e s t im at e d   e x p e n s e   f o r   s h a r e   a w a r d   s c h e m e s   o u t s t an d in g   at   3 0   S e pt e m b e r   i s :
        	 Y e a r 	 e n d e d   Y e a r e n d e d 
        	 3 0 	 S e p t e m b e r   3 0 S e p t e m b e r  
        	 2 0 1 0    2 0 0 9  
        	 £ m 	   £m  
T o b e  i n c u r r e d  w i t h i n o n e  y e a r         	 1 0   16 
T o b e i n c u r r e d  a f t e r   m o r e t h a n  o n e  y e a r        	 6  9 
T o t al        	 1 6  25  
A t   3 0   S e pt e m b e r   2 0 1 0   1 3 , 1 91 , 2 4 6   s h a r e s   ( 2 0 0 9 :   1 0 , 8 4 2 , 9 0 8   s h a r e s )   w e r e   h e l d   b y   t h e   G r o up ’ s   E m p l o y e e   B e n e fi t   T r u s t s .
Long-term incentives
D e fe r r e d 	 A n n u a l 	 B o n u s 	 L o n g - te r m 	 I nc e n t i v e 	 S c h e m e
T h e   D e f e r r e d   A nn u a l   B o n u s   L o n g - t e r m   In c e n t i v e   S c h e m e   ( D A BL I S )   i s   f o r   p ar t i c ip an t s   b e l o w   t h e   G MB   l e v e l   an d   r e q uir e s   a   2 5 %   d e f e r r al   o f    
a n y   a nn u a l   p e r f o r m an c e   b o n u s   a w a r d   in t o   s h a r e s .     M at c hin g   s h a r e s   m a y   a l s o   b e   a w a r d e d   up   t o   f o ur   t im e s   t h e   d e f e r r e d   a m oun t   an d   a r e   s ubj e c t 
t o   t h e   ac hi e v e m e n t   o f   s t r e t c hin g   p e r f o r m an c e   c o n d i t i o n s   o v e r   a   t hr e e - y ea r   p e r i o d .     A w a r d s   o f   d e f e r r e d   a n d   m a t c hin g   s h a r e s   a r e   s ubj e c t   
t o   f o r f e i t ur e   c o n d i t i o n s   un t il   t h e   r e l ea s e   d a t e .     T h e   ea r li e s t   p oin t   at   w hi c h   t h e   s h a r e s   a r e   e li g ib l e   f o r   r e l ea s e   i s   at   t h e   e n d   o f   t hr e e   y ea r s   
f o ll o w in g   d e f e r r al .  
F o r   a w a r d s   o f   m a t c hin g   s h a r e s   m ad e   d ur in g   t h e   y ea r ,   n o   s h a r e s   w ill   v e s t   unl e s s   t h e   a nn u a l   a v e r a g e   o f   t h e   r at i o   o f   t h e   G r o up ’ s   r e t ur n   o n   in v e s t e d  
c api t a l   ( R O IC )   t o   t h e   w e i g h t e d   a v e r a g e   c o s t   o f   c api t a l   ( W A C C )   m e e t s   o r   e x c e e d s   o n e   o v e r   t h e   t hr e e - y ea r   p e r i o d .     A   h ur dl e   o f   R O IC ,   b e in g   at   l ea s t 
e q u al   t o   W A C C ,   i s   u s e d   t o   e n s ur e   t h at   t h e   r e l e v an t   l o n g - t e r m   in c e n t i v e   a w a r d s   p a y   o u t   o nl y   w h e n   s h a r e h o l d e r   v a lu e   i s   b e in g   c r eat e d   o v e r   t h e  
p e r f o r m an c e   p e r i o d s .     I f   t h e   R O IC / W A C C   h ur dl e   i s   m e t ,   s h a r e s   w ill   o nl y   v e s t   t o   t h e   e x t e n t   t o   w hi c h   t w o   f ur t h e r   p e r f o r m an c e   c o n d i t i o n s   a r e  
s at i s fi e d   o v e r   t h e   t hr e e - y ea r   p e r i o d   a s   f o ll o w s :
•   Up   t o   h a l f   t h e   m at c hin g   s h a r e s   w ill   v e s t   b a s e d   o n   g r o w t h   in   R O IC   w i t hin   t h e   p ar t i c ip an t s ’   S e c t o r   o r   G r o up   o v e r   t h e   t hr e e - y ea r    
p e r f o r m an c e   p e r i o d .
R O I C 	 p e r f o r m a n c e 	 G A P 	 	 	 	 P r o p o r t i o n 	 o f 	 m a t c h i n g 	 s h a r e s 	 v e s t i n g
B e l o w t h e m i n i m u m        0%
M i n i m u m l e v e l a c h i e v e d       On  a str aightline basis betw een 10% and  100% 
M a x i m u m  l e v e l  a c h i e v e d         100%
•   Up   t o   o n e   q u ar t e r   o f   t h e   m a t c hin g   s h a r e s   w ill   v e s t   b a s e d   o n   g r o w t h   in   t h e   G r o up ’ s   ea r nin g s   p e r   s h a r e   ( E P S ) ,   b e f o r e   a m o r t i s a t i o n   o f   m e r g e r  
in t a n g ib l e s ,   g o o d w ill   im p a ir m e n t   a n d   s e p ar at e l y   d i s c l o s e d   i t e m s ,   in   r e l a t i o n   t o   t h e   g r o w t h   in   t h e   U K   R e t a il   P r i c e   In d e x   ( R P I )   a s   s h o w n   in   t h e 
t a b l e   b e l o w :
A v e r a g e 	 a n n u a l 	 E P S 	 g r o w t h 	 i n 	 e x c e s s 	 o f 	 R P I 	 g r o w t h 	 	 	 P r o p o r t i o n 	 o f 	 m a t c h i n g 	 s h a r e s 	 v e s t i n g
B e l o w 4 %      0%
B e t w e e n  4 %  a n d 1 3 %      On  a str aightline basis betw een 10% and  100% 
1 3 %  o r a b o v e      100% www.tuitravelplc.com
Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
T U I  T r a v e l P L C  A n n u a l R e p o r t  &  A c c o u n t s  2 0 1 0  95
•   Up   t o   o n e   q u ar t e r   o f   t h e   m a t c hin g   s h a r e s   w ill   v e s t   b a s e d   o n   t h e   G r o up ’ s   r a nk in g   o f   t o t a l   s h a r e h o l d e r   r e t ur n   ( T S R )   p e r f o r m an c e   r e l a t i v e    
t o   c o m p ani e s   r a nk e d   3 0 t h   t o   1 0 0 t h   b y   m a r k e t   c api t a li s at i o n   a s   at   t h e   d a t e   o f   t h e   a w a r d   a s   s h o w n   in   t h e   t a b l e   b e l o w :
T S R 	 R a n k i n g 	 	 	 P r o p o r t i o n 	 o f 	 m a t c h i n g 	 s h a r e s 	 v e s t i n g
B e l o w m e d i a n       0%
B e t w e e n m e d i a n  a n d  u p p e r q u a r t i l e       On  a str aightline basis betw een 15% and 100%  
A t  o r a b o v e  u p p e r q u a r t i l e      100%
M at c hin g   s h a r e   a w a r d s   l ap s e   i f   t h e   p e r f o r m a n c e   c o n d i t i o n s   a r e   n o t   m e t .
(E) Remuneration of Directors
        	 Y e a r 	 e n d e d   Y e a r e n d e d  
        	 3 0 	 S e p t e m b e r   3 0 S e p t e m b e r  
        	 2 0 1 0    2 0 0 9 
        	 £ m 	   £m  
E m o l u m e n t s         	 9	  10 
P e n s i o n s  a n d o t h e r r e t i r e m e n t  b e n e fi t s         	 1   1  
T o t a l        	 10	  11  
F ur t h e r   in f o r m a t i o n   i s   p r o v i d e d   in   t h e   a u d i t e d   s e c t i o n   o f   t h e   R e mun e r at i o n   R e p o r t   w hi c h   f o r m s   p ar t   o f   t h e s e   fi n a n c i a l   s t at e m e n t s . 
6. Income, expenses and auditors’ remuneration
        	 Y e a r 	 e n d e d   Y e a r e n d e d  
        	 3 0 	 S e p t e m b e r   3 0 S e p t e m b e r  
        	 2 0 1 0    2 0 0 9 
        	 £ m 	   £m  
I n c l u d e d  w i t h i n  o p e r a t i n g p r o fi t  i n  t h e  c o n s o l i d a t e d  i n c o m e  s t a t e m e n t f o r  t h e y e a r a r e t h e  f o l l o w i n g ( c r e d i t s ) / c h a r g e s
O p e r a t i n g  l e a s e i n c o m e :  a i r c r a f t         	 (54)  (18)
O p e r a t i n g l e a s e  r e n t a l s :  l a n d a n d b u i l d i n g s         	 162    163 
O p e r a t i n g l e a s e  r e n t a l s :  a i r c r a f t  a n d o t h e r  e q u i p m e n t        	 417    408 
D e p r e c i a t i o n  o f p r o p e r t y , p l a n t a n d e q u i p m e n t         	 167 	  184  
A m o r t i s a t i o n  o f i n t a n g i b l e a s s e t s         	 94   103 
C h a r g e  f o r s h a r e - b a s e d p a y m e n t s          	 15	  17 
L o s s / ( p r o fi t )  o n s a l e o f p r o p e r t y , p l a n t a n d e q u i p m e n t         	 1    (12)
L o s s / ( g a i n )  o n f o r e i g n  c u r r e n c y  r e t r a n s l a t i o n        	 14 	  (23) 
I m p a i r m e n t  o f g o o d w i l l  a n d o t h e r  i n t a n g i b l e s        	 12	  7 
I m p a i r m e n t  o f p r o p e r t y , p l a n t  a n d  e q u i p m e n t         	 15   125 
O p e r at in g   l ea s e   r e n t a l s ,   l an d   a n d   b uil d in g s ,   in c lu d e s   £ 1 5 m   ( 2 0 0 9 :   £ 8 m )   o f   c o s t s   in c lu d e d   in   s e p ar at e l y   d i s c l o s e d   i t e m s   ( N o t e   3 )   a s   p r o v i s i o n s   
f o r   o n e r o u s   l ea s e s ,   p r im a r il y   r e l a t e d   t o   v ac a t e d   p r o p e r t i e s   in   t h e   U K   a n d   Ir e l a n d .     In   ad d i t i o n   t o   t h e   o p e r a t in g   l ea s e   r e n t a l s   d i s c l o s e d   a b o v e , 
c h ar g e s   o f   £ 1 4 9 m   ( 2 0 0 9 :   £ 7 1 m )   w e r e   in c ur r e d   in   r e s p e c t   o f   h o t e l   ac c o m m o d at i o n   r e n t a l s   w hi c h   a r e   d i s c l o s e d   a s   o p e r at in g   l ea s e s   un d e r   
IF R IC   4 :   D e t e r minin g   w h e t h e r   a n   a r r an g e m e n t   c o n t a in s   a   l ea s e .
        	 Y e a r 	 e n d e d   Y e a r e n d e d  
        	 3 0 	 S e p t e m b e r   3 0 S e p t e m b e r  
        	 2 0 1 0    2 0 0 9 
        	 £ m 	   £m  
A u d i t o r s ’	r e m u n e r a t i o n
A u d i t o r s ’ r e m u n e r a t i o n f o r t h e s e  fi n a n c i a l  s t a t e m e n t s  a n d o t h e r  G r o u p  s u b s i d i a r y  fi n a n c i a l  s t a t e m e n t s   
p u r s u a n t   t o l e g i s l a t i o n         	 3	  2  
O t h e r s e r v i c e s  p u r s u a n t t o  l e g i s l a t i o n ( i n c l u d i n g  r e g u l a t o r y  r e p o r t i n g )         	 1	  1  
O t h e r s e r v i c e s          	 3	  1 
A u d i t o r s ’   r e mun e r at i o n   r e f e r s   t o   f e e s   p a i d   t o   t h e   G r o up ’ s   a u d i t o r s ,   K P M G   A u d i t   Pl c ,   an d   i t s   a s s o c i at e s   a n d   d o e s   n o t   in c lu d e   f e e s   p a i d   t o   
o t h e r   a u d i t o r s   w h o   a u d i t   s ub s i d i a r i e s   o f   t h e   G r o up .     O t h e r   s e r v i c e s   ar e   p r in c ip all y   in   r e s p e c t   o f   w o r k   r e l a t in g   t o   t h e   r e s t at e m e n t   d e s c r ib e d   in 
N o t e   1 ( B ) ( i i ) ,   d e fi n e d   b e n e fi t   p e n s i o n   s c h e m e   ad v i c e   a n d   t a x   c o m p li a n c e   w o r k   in   r e s p e c t   o f   c e r t a in   o v e r s ea s   s ub s i d i a r i e s . Financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements c o n t i n u e d
www.tuitravelplc.com
96  T U I T r a v e l  P L C  A n n u a l R e p o r t & A c c o u n t s  2 0 1 0
7. Taxation
T h e   t a x   c h ar g e   /   ( c r e d i t )   c an   b e   s um m ar i s e d   a s   f o ll o w s :  
            R e s t a t e d
        	 Y e a r 	 e n d e d   Y e a r e n d e d  
        	 3 0 	 S e p t e m b e r   3 0  S e p t e m b e r  
        	 2 0 1 0    2 0 0 9 
( i )	A n a l y s i s	o f 	c h a r g e / ( c r e d i t ) 	i n 	t h e 	y e a r         	 £ m 	   £m 
C u r r e n t	t a x 	c h a r g e
U K c o r p o r a t i o n  t a x  o n l o s s f o r t h e  y e a r        	 –	   (21)
N o n - U K t a x o n l o s s  f o r t h e  y e a r         	 61	  41  
A d j u s t m e n t s  i n  r e s p e c t o f p r e v i o u s  y e a r s        	 (15)  (3)
        	 46	  17  
D e f e r r e d	t a x 	c h a r g e / ( c r e d i t )
O r i g i n a t i o n 	a n d 	r e v e r s a l 	o f 	t i m i n g 	d i f f e r e n c e s :
C u r r e n t  y e a r  U K         	 (6)  (5)
C u r r e n t y e a r n o n - U K        	 (2)   (43)
C h a n g e s  i n  t a x r a t e s        	 (1)  – 
A d j u s t m e n t s  i n  r e s p e c t o f p r e v i o u s  y e a r s        	 13	  (11)
        	 4	  (59)
T o t a l	i n c o m e 	t a x 	c h a r g e / ( c r e d i t )	i n 	c o n s o l i d a t e d 	i n c o m e	s t a t e m e n t         	 50	  (42)
( i i ) 	 R e c o nc i l i a t io n 	 o f 	 e f fe c t i v e 	 t a x 	 r a te
T h e   t o t al   t a x   c h ar g e   ( 2 0 0 9 :   c r e d i t )   f o r   t h e   y ea r   i s   hi g h e r   ( 2 0 0 9 :   hi g h e r )   t h a n   t h e   s t a n d ar d   r at e   o f   c o r p o r at i o n   t a x   in   t h e   U K   o f   2 8 %   ( 2 0 0 9 :   2 8 % ) .   
T h e   d i f f e r e n c e s   a r e   e x p l a in e d   b e l o w :
      R est a t ed
    Y e a r 	 e n d e d   Y ear   ended
     3 0 	 S e p t e m b e r 	 2 0 1 0   30  Sept ember  2009
       
    	 £ m 	 	 %    £m    %  
L o s s  b e f o r e  t a x r e p o r t e d  i n t h e  c o n s o l i d a t e d  i n c o m e  s t a t e m e n t  ( 2 0 0 9 :  r e s t a t e d )  	 (36)	   (94)  
L e s s s h a r e o f  l o s s / ( p r o fi t )  i n  j o i n t  v e n t u r e s a n d a s s o c i a t e s  ( N o t e 1 2 )     	 3		   (9)  
    	 (33)	   (103)  
I n c o m e t a x  o n  l o s s b e f o r e t a x e x c l u d i n g  s h a r e  o f  p r o fi t  o f j o i n t v e n t u r e s  
a n d  a s s o c i a t e s a t  t h e s t a n d a r d  r a t e o f  U K  t a x  o f 2 8 % ( 2 0 0 9 :  2 8 % )    	 (9)	 28 	  (29)   28  
E x p e n s e s  n o t d e d u c t i b l e  f o r  t a x  p u r p o s e s    	 3		 (9)  3    (3)
I n c o m e  n o t t a x a b l e     	 (2)	 6 	  (4)  4 
N o n - u t i l i s a t i o n o f t a x  l o s s e s     	 67	 (203) 	  11   (11)
H i g h e r  t a x  r a t e s o n o v e r s e a s  e a r n i n g s / l o s s e s     	 (3)	 9	  (8)  8 
L o w e r t a x   r a t e s o n   o v e r s e a s  e a r n i n g s / l o s s e s     	 ( 3 )	 9 	  (1)  1 
C h a n g e s  i n t a x r a t e s     	 ( 1 )	 3 	  –    – 
A d j u s t m e n t s  t o t a x a t i o n i n r e s p e c t o f  p r e v i o u s  p e r i o d s      	 ( 2 )	 6 	  (14)  14 
T o t a l 	i n c o m e 	t a x 	c h a r g e / ( c r e d i t )	i n	i n c o m e 	s t a t e m e n t     	 5 0 		 ( 1 5 1 )   (42)   41 
T h e   un d e r l y in g   e f f e c t i v e   r at e   o f   t a x at i o n   f o r   t h e   y ea r   e n d e d   3 0   S e pt e m b e r   2 0 1 0   i s   c al c ul a t e d   b a s e d   o n   t h e   un d e r l y in g   p r o fi t   b e f o r e   t a x  
( e x c lu d in g   s e p ar at e l y   d i s c l o s e d   i t e m s ,   am o r t i s a t i o n   o f   IF R S   3   b u s in e s s   c o m bin at i o n   in t a n g ib l e s   a n d   g o o d w ill   im p a ir m e n t   c h ar g e s )   a n d   i s 
c al c ul a t e d   at   2 7 % .     T h e   ac t u al   t a x   r at e   o f   1 5 1 %   d i f f e r s   f r o m   t h e   un d e r l y in g   e f f e c t i v e   t a x   r at e   d u e   t o   t h e   t a x   e f f e c t   o f   s e p ar at e l y   d i s c l o s e d   i t e m s  
( p r in c ip all y   t h e   n o n - r e c og ni t i o n   o f   t a x   l o s s e s   a r i s in g   f r o m   s u c h   i t e m s ) ,   am o r t i s a t i o n   o f   IF R S   3   b u s in e s s   c o m bin at i o n   in t a n g ib l e s   an d   g o o d w ill  
im p a ir m e n t   c h ar g e s . www.tuitravelplc.com
Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
T U I  T r a v e l P L C  A n n u a l R e p o r t  &  A c c o u n t s  2 0 1 0  97
( i i i ) 	 D e fe r r e d 	 t a x 	 r e c o g n i s e d 	 d i r e c t l y 	 i n 	 e q u i t y
T h e   f o ll o w in g   t a x at i o n   c h ar g e / ( c r e d i t )   h a s   b e e n   r e c og ni s e d   d ir e c t l y   in   e q ui t y   w i t hin   t h e   c o n s o li d at e d   s t at e m e n t   o f   c o m p r e h e n s i v e   in c o m e :
        	 Y e a r 	 e n d e d   Y e a r e n d e d  
        	 3 0 	 S e p t e m b e r   3 0 S e p t e m b e r  
        	 2 0 1 0    2 0 0 9 
        	 £ m 	   £m  
T a x	r e l a t i n g	t o	c o m p o n e n t s 	o f 	o t h e r	c o m p r e h e n s i v e 	i n c o m e
C a s h fl o w   h e d g e s        	 9	  (39)
D e fi n e d  b e n e fi t  p e n s i o n  p l a n s        	 (9)  (65)
O t h e r        	 9	  (1)
T o t a l	t a x 	 d e b i t e d / ( c r e d i t e d ) 	t o	o t h e r 	c o m p r e h e n s i v e 	i n c o m e         	 9   (105)
T a x 	( c r e d i t e d ) / d e b i t e d 	d i r e c t l y 	t o	e q u i t y
E q u i t y  s e t t l e d t r a n s a c t i o n s  ( s h a r e - b a s e d   p a y m e n t s )         	 (4)   –  
C o n v e r t i b l e b o n d s        	 31	  –  
T o t a l	t a x 	d e b i t e d / ( c r e d i t e d ) 	t o	e q u i t y         	 27 	  – 
T o t a l        	 36 	  (105)
( i v ) 	 F a c t o r s 	 a f fe c t i n g 	 f u t u r e 	 t a x 	 c h a r g e
A )   T h e   E m e r g e n c y   B u d g e t   o n   2 2   J un e   2 0 1 0   a nn oun c e d   t h at   t h e   U K   c o r p o r at i o n   t a x   r at e   w ill   r e d u c e   f r o m   2 8 %   t o   2 4 %   o v e r   a   p e r i o d   o f   f o ur   y ea r s  
f r o m   2 0 1 1 .     T h e   fi r s t   r e d u c t i o n   in   t h e   U K   c o r p o r at i o n   t a x   r at e   f r o m   2 8 %   t o   2 7 %   w a s   s ub s t a n t i v e l y   e n ac t e d   o n   2 0   J ul y   2 0 1 0   a n d   w ill   b e   e f f e c t i v e 
f r o m   1   A p r il   2 0 1 1 .   T hi s   m a y   r e d u c e   t h e   G r o up ’ s   f u t ur e   c ur r e n t   t a x   c h ar g e   ac c o r d in g l y .   I t   h a s   n o t   y e t   b e e n   p o s s ib l e   t o   q u an t i f y   t h e   f ull   a n t i c ip at e d  
e f f e c t   o f   t h e   a nn oun c e d   f ur t h e r   3 %   r a t e   r e d u c t i o n ,   a l t h o u g h   t hi s   s h o ul d   f ur t h e r   r e d u c e   t h e   G r o up ’ s   f u t ur e   c ur r e n t   t a x   c h ar g e   a n d   r e d u c e   t h e 
G r o up ’ s   d e f e r r e d   t a x   li a bili t i e s / a s s e t s   ac c o r d in g l y .
B )   T h e   S p a ni s h   t a x   a u t h o r i t i e s   a r e   a u d i t in g   p ar t s   o f   t h e   G r o up ’ s   S p ani s h   o p e r at i o n s   f o r   t h e   y ea r s   2 0 0 2   t hr o u g h   2 0 0 6 .     D ur in g   2 0 1 0 ,   t h e   S p ani s h  
t a x   a u t h o r i t i e s   f o r m a ll y   n o t i fi e d   t h e   G r o up   t h at   t h e y   d i s a g r e e   w i t h   t h e   S p ani s h   c o r p o r at e   in c o m e   t a x   t r eat m e n t   o f   t w o   s e p ar at e   t r a n s ac t i o n s  
t h at   w e r e   un d e r t a k e n   d ur in g   t h e   p e r i o d   un d e r   a u d i t .     T h e   G r o up   h a s   h ad   e x t e n s i v e   d i s c u s s i o n s   w i t h   t h e   S p ani s h   t a x   a u t h o r i t i e s   t o   e x p l a in   t h e 
n at ur e   o f   t h e   t r a n s ac t i o n s   a n d   s e e k   t o   a g r e e   t h e   S p ani s h   t a x   t r eat m e n t   o f   t h e s e .    
T h e   o r i g in al   t a x   d e d u c t i o n   a r i s in g   f r o m   t h e   t r a n s ac t i o n s   b e in g   c h all e n g e d   b y   t h e   S p a ni s h   t a x   a u t h o r i t i e s   w a s   a p p r o x im at e l y   € 2 8   milli o n .     In   p r i o r  
y ea r s ,   t h e   D ir e c t o r s   r e c o r d e d   a   t a x   c r e d i t o r   f o r   t h e ir   b e s t   e s t im at e   o f   t h e   t a x   t h at   t h e y   b e li e v e   m a y   b e c o m e   p a y ab l e   in   t h e   e v e n t   t h at   t h e 
S p ani s h   t a x   a u t h o r i t i e s   a r e   s u c c e s s f ul   in   t h e ir   c h all e n g e .     T hi s   c r e d i t o r   c o n t in u e s   t o   b e   h e l d   a t   3 0   S e pt e m b e r   2 0 1 0 ,   w i t hin   in c o m e   t a x e s   p a y ab l e .    
In   c o n t in uin g   t o   c h all e n g e   t h e s e   t r a n s ac t i o n s ,   t h e   t a x   a u t h o r i t i e s   m a y   s e e k   t o   p ur s u e   a   j u d i c i al   p r o c e s s   w i t h   t h e   p o s s ibili t y   o f   in t e r e s t   a n d 
p e n al t i e s ,   t h e   o u t c o m e   o f   w hi c h   at   t hi s   s t a g e   i s   n o t   c e r t a in .     O n   t h e   b a s i s   o f   in d e p e n d e n t   l e g al   ad v i c e   t a k e n ,   t h e   G r o up   fi r m l y   b e li e v e s   t h at   in    
t h e   e v e n t   o f   a n y   s u c h   c a s e ,   i t   c o ul d   b e   d e f e n d e d   r o b u s t l y .     I t   i s   lik e l y   t h at   t h e   r e s o lu t i o n   o f   t hi s   m a t t e r   w ill   t a k e   a   n um b e r   o f   y ea r s   t o   r eac h   a   
fi n a l   c o n c lu s i o n .
C )   O t h e r   f ac t o r s   w hi c h   m a y   af f e c t   t h e   f u t ur e   t a x   c h ar g e   in c lu d e   t h e   mi x   o f   j ur i s d i c t i o n s   w i t h   d i f f e r e n t   t a x   r at e s   in   w hi c h   p r o fi t s   a n d   l o s s e s   a r i s e ,  
c h an g e s   in   t a x   r at e s   an d   t h e   p o t e n t i a l   f u t ur e   r e c og ni t i o n   o f   t a x   l o s s e s   f o r   w hi c h   a   d e f e r r e d   t a x   a s s e t   h a s   n o t   b e e n   r e c og ni s e d   a t   t h e   y ea r - e n d 
( N o t e   1 4 ) . Financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements c o n t i n u e d
www.tuitravelplc.com
98  T U I T r a v e l  P L C  A n n u a l R e p o r t & A c c o u n t s  2 0 1 0
8. Discontinued operation
T h e   b u s in e s s   o f   S o c i é t é   d ’ In v e s t i s s e m e n t   A é r i e n   S . A . ,   t r ad in g   a s   J e t 4 Y o u ,   i s   t h e   G r o up ’ s   a ir lin e   o p e r at i o n   in   M o r o c c o   a n d   h a s   b e e n   p r e s e n t e d   a s 
a   d i s c o n t in u e d   o p e r at i o n   a s   i t   w a s   ac q uir e d   e x c lu s i v e l y   w i t h   a   v i e w   t o   i t s   s ub s e q u e n t   r e s a l e .     T h e   b u s in e s s   i s   a l s o   p r e s e n t e d   a s   a   d i s p o s a l   g r o up 
h e l d   f o r   s a l e   ( N o t e   1 8 ) .
        	 Y e a r 	 e n d e d   Y e a r e n d e d 
        	 3 0 	 S e p t e m b e r   3 0 S e p t e m b e r  
        	 2 0 1 0    2 0 0 9  
        	 £ m 	   £m 
R ev enue        	 91    80 
O p e r a t i n g c o s t s         	 (109)   (86)
Loss 	bef or e	t ax	of 	disc ontinued	oper a tion         	 (18)  (6)
T a x        	 –	  – 
Loss	aft er 	t ax 	of	disc ontinued	oper a tion         	 (18)  (6)
P r o v i s i o n  f o r l o s s o n  d i s p o s a l         	 –		  (8)
Loss 	f or 	the	y ear 	fr om 	disc ontinued	oper a tion        	 (18)   (14)
9. Dividends
T h e   f o ll o w in g   d i v i d e n d s   w hi c h   r e l a t e   t o   o r d in ar y   s h a r e s   h a v e   b e e n   d e d u c t e d   f r o m   e q ui t y   in   t h e   y ea r :  
        	 Y e a r 	 e n d e d   Y e a r e n d e d 
        	 3 0 	 S e p t e m b e r   3 0 S e p t e m b e r  
        	 2 0 1 0    2 0 0 9  
        P e n c e 	 p e r 	 s h a r e 	 £ m 	   £m  
D i v i d e n d s 	r e l a t i n g 	t o	t h e	y e a r 	e n d e d	3 0 	S e p t e m b e r 	2 0 0 8
I n t e r i m d i v i d e n d  ( p a i d O c t o b e r  2 0 0 8 )       	 2.8 		 –	  31  
F i n a l   d i v i d e n d ( p a i d  A p r i l  2 0 0 9 )       	 6.9		 –	  76  
      	 9.7		 –	  107 
D i v i d e n d s 	r e l a t i n g	t o 	t h e 	y e a r 	e n d e d 	3 0	S e p t e m b e r 	2 0 0 9
I n t e r i m  d i v i d e n d ( p a i d O c t o b e r  2 0 0 9 )        	 3.0		 33	  – 
F i n a l  d i v i d e n d ( p a i d A p r i l  2 0 1 0 )       	 7.7 		 85	  – 
      	 10.7 		 118 	   –  
T h e   in t e r im   d i v i d e n d   in   r e s p e c t   o f   t h e   y ea r   e n d e d   3 0   S e pt e m b e r   2 0 1 0   o f   3 . 2 p   p e r   s h a r e   w a s   p a i d   o n   1   O c t o b e r   2 0 1 0   an d   t hi s   d i v i d e n d   o f   £ 3 6 m  
w ill   b e   r e c og ni s e d   a s   a   d e d u c t i o n   f r o m   e q ui t y   in   t h e   y ea r   e n d in g   3 0   S e pt e m b e r   2 0 1 1 .
S ub s e q u e n t   t o   t h e   b al a n c e   s h e e t   d a t e ,   t h e   D ir e c t o r s   h a v e   p r o p o s e d   a   fi n a l   d i v i d e n d   o f   7 . 8 p   p e r   s h a r e   ( 2 0 0 9 :   fi n a l   d i v i d e n d   o f   7 . 7 p   p e r   s h a r e )  
p a y ab l e   o n   1   M a rc h   2 0 1 1   t o   t h e   h o l d e r s   o f   r e l e v a n t   s h a r e s   o n   t h e   r e g i s t e r   at   4   F e b r u ar y   2 0 1 1 .     T h e   fi n a l   p r o p o s e d   d i v i d e n d   a m oun t s   t o   £ 1 2 2 m  
a n d   w ill ,   af t e r   a p p r o v a l   b y   s h a r e h o l d e r s ,   b e   r e c og ni s e d   in   t h e   c o n s o li d at e d   fi n a n c i a l   s t at e m e n t s   f o r   t h e   y ea r   e n d in g   3 0   S e pt e m b e r   2 0 1 1 .     T h e   fi n a l 
o r d in ar y   d i v i d e n d   o f   7 . 8 p   p e r   s h a r e ,   t og e t h e r   w i t h   t h e   in t e r im   d i v i d e n d   o f   3 . 2 p   p e r   s h a r e ,   m a k e s   a   t o t a l   d i v i d e n d   o f   1 1 . 0 p   p e r   s h a r e   r e l a t in g   t o   t h e 
y ea r   e n d e d   3 0   S e pt e m b e r   2 0 1 0 .    
A   d i v i d e n d   r e in v e s t m e n t   p l a n   i s   in   o p e r a t i o n .     T h o s e   s h a r e h o l d e r s   w h o   h a v e   n o t   e l e c t e d   t o   p ar t i c ip a t e   in   t hi s   p l a n ,   an d   w h o   w o ul d   lik e   t o 
p ar t i c ip a t e   w i t h   r e s p e c t   t o   t h e   2 0 1 0   fi n a l   d i v i d e n d ,   m a y   d o   s o   b y   c o n t ac t in g   E q uini t i   d ir e c t l y   o n   0 8 7 1   3 8 4   2 0 3 0 .     T h e   l a s t   d a y   f o r   e l e c t i o n   f o r   t h e 
fi n a l   p r o p o s e d   d i v i d e n d   i s   1 5   F e b r u ar y   2 0 1 1   a n d   a n y   r e q u e s t s   s h o ul d   b e   m ad e   in   g o o d   t im e   a h ead   o f   t h at   d a t e . www.tuitravelplc.com
Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
T U I  T r a v e l P L C  A n n u a l R e p o r t  &  A c c o u n t s  2 0 1 0  99
10. Intangible assets
      C u s t o m e r    C o m p u t e r      S o f t w a r e  i n     
  G o o d w i l l    B r a n d s    r e l a t i o n s h i p s    s o f t w a r e    L i c e n c e s   d e v e l o p m e n t   O t h e r    T o t a l  
  £ m   £ m    £ m   £ m   £ m    £ m   £ m    £ m 
C o s t
A t 1 O c t o b e r  2 0 0 8   4,194    415    203    309    57    18    138    5,334  
A d d i t i o n s   3   –   –    55    4    23    –   85 
A c q u i s i t i o n  t h r o u g h  
b u s i n e s s  c o m b i n a t i o n s   62    21   –    –    –    –   –   83 
D i s p o s a l s   –    –    (1)   (15)   (2)   –    (4)   (22)
R e c l a s s i fi c a t i o n  t o a s s e t s  
h e l d  f o r  s a l e   (17)   (21)   (14)   (3)   (4)   –    (1)   (60)
F o r e i g n  e x c h a n g e  288   26    23    19    5    –    4    365 
R e c l a s s i fi c a t i o n  o f a s s e t c l a s s  –    –    –    30    (18)   (12)   –    –  
A t 3 0 S e p t e m b e r 2 0 0 9   4,530   441   211    395   42   29    137   5,785 
A d d i t i o n s  1   –    –   27    1    14    1   44 
A c q u i s i t i o n  t h r o u g h  
b u s i n e s s  c o m b i n a t i o n s   31    13    1   –    –    –   27    72  
D i s p o s a l s  (6)   –    –    (18)   (2)   –    –     (26)
R e c l a s s i fi c a t i o n  t o a s s e t s   
h e l d  f o r s a l e   –     –     –     –     2    –    –     2  
F o r e i g n  e x c h a n g e   (80)  (7)  (12)  (2)   (2)   (1)   (2)  (106)
R e c l a s s i fi c a t i o n  o f a s s e t c l a s s  –     –    –    20    (5)   (15)   –    –  
A t	3 0 	S e p t e m b e r	2 0 1 0	 4 , 4 7 6 		 4 4 7 		 2 0 0 		 42 2		 3 6 		 2 7		 1 6 3 		 5 , 7 7 1 	
A m o r t i s a t i o n 	a n d	i m p a i r m e n t 	l o s s e s
A t  1 O c t o b e r  2 0 0 8  (555)   (23)   (16)   (218)   (35)   –    (58)   (905)
A m o r t i s a t i o n  f o r t h e  y e a r   –    (25)   (17)   (47)   (4)   –    (10)   (103)
I m p a i r m e n t l o s s   (7)  –    –   –   –   –   –   (7)
D i s p o s a l s   –    –    –    14    2    –    3    19  
R e c l a s s i fi c a t i o n  t o a s s e t s  
h e l d  f o r  s a l e   –    2    2    2    2    –    –    8  
F o r e i g n  e x c h a n g e  (41)   (2)   (3)   (14)   –    –    –    (60)
R e c l a s s i fi c a t i o n  o f  a s s e t  c l a s s  –    –    (1)   (15)   16    –    –    –  
A t 3 0  S e p t e m b e r  2 0 0 9   (603)   (48)   (35)   (278)   (19)   –    (65)   (1,048)
A m o r t i s a t i o n  f o r t h e y e a r   –    (25)    (13)   (47)   (2)   –    (7)   (94)
I m p a i r m e n t l o s s   (12)   –   –   –   –   –    –    (12)
D i s p o s a l s   –    –    –    16    2    –    –    18  
R e c l a s s i fi c a t i o n  t o a s s e t s   
h e l d f o r s a l e   –    –    –    –    (1)   –    –    (1)
F o r e i g n  e x c h a n g e   20    1     3    2    –    –    (1)    25  
R e c l a s s i fi c a t i o n  o f a s s e t c l a s s   –    –   –    (5)  5    –   –   – 
A t 	 3 0 	S e p t e m b e r	2 0 1 0  ( 5 9 5 )	 ( 7 2 )	 ( 4 5 ) 		 ( 3 1 2 )	 ( 1 5 )	 – 		 ( 7 3 )	 ( 1 , 1 1 2 )
N e t	 b o o k 	v a l u e                
A t 1 O c t o b e r 2 0 0 8  3,639    392    187    91    22    18    80    4,429  
A t 3 0 S e p t e m b e r 2 0 0 9   3,927    393    176    117    23    29    72    4,737  
A t	3 0	S e p t e m b e r 	2 0 1 0   3 , 8 8 1 		 3 7 5 		 1 5 5 		 1 1 0 		 2 1		 2 7 		 9 0 		 4 , 6 5 9  
A m o r t i s at i o n   o f   in t a n g ib l e   a s s e t s   i s   r e c og ni s e d   w i t hin   c o s t   o f   s a l e s   in   t h e   c o n s o li d at e d   in c o m e   s t at e m e n t .
A m o r t i s at i o n   o f   b u s in e s s   c o m bin at i o n   a n d   o t h e r   in t a n g ib l e s   c o m bin e d   w i t h   d e p r e c i at i o n   o f   p r o p e r t y ,   p l a n t   an d   e q uip m e n t   i s   d i s c l o s e d   b y  
s e g m e n t   in   N o t e   2 .     Im p a ir m e n t   o f   in t a n g ib l e   a s s e t s   b y   s e g m e n t   i s   a l s o   d i s c l o s e d   in   N o t e   2 . Financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements c o n t i n u e d
www.tuitravelplc.com
100   T U I T r a v e l P L C A n n u a l R e p o r t &  A c c o u n t s  2 0 1 0
T h e   a g g r e g a t e   c ar r y in g   a m oun t s   o f   g o o d w ill   a ll o c at e d   t o   eac h   p r in c ip al   c a s h   g e n e r at in g   uni t   ( C G U )   a r e   a s   f o ll o w s :
    3 0 	 S e p t e m b e r    3 0 S e p t e m b e r  
    2 0 1 0 	   2 0 0 9  
Sect or   C GU  £ m 	   £m  
M a i n s t r e a m  – N o r t h e r n R e g i o n   UK  and  Ir eland    1,514   1,507 
M a i n s t r e a m  – C e n t r a l E u r o p e   German y   387   406  
A c c o m m o d a t i o n &  D e s t i n a t i o n s  Ac c ommoda tion  & Destina tions  B2B   322   309 
M a i n s t r e a m  – N o r t h e r n  R e g i o n   Nor dic s  273   273  
M a i n s t r e a m  – W e s t e r n  E u r o p e   F r anc e  228   230 
A c c o m m o d a t i o n  & D e s t i n a t i o n s   Ac c ommoda tion  &  Destina tions B2C  218   209  
A c c o m m o d a t i o n  & D e s t i n a t i o n s  Ac c ommoda tion &  Destina tions Specialist  159   153 
A c t i v i t y   St udent   143   110  
A l l S e c t o r s   Multiple C GUs    729   787  
T o t a l	g o o d w i l l     3,973   3,984    
O f w h i c h :     
G o o d w i l l i n c l u d e d  w i t h i n i n t a n g i b l e  a s s e t s     3,881   3,927   
G o o d w i l l i n c l u d e d  i n  a s s e t s  h e l d f o r s a l e ( N o t e 1 8 )     3   21   
G o o d w i l l i n c l u d e d  w i t h i n j o i n t  v e n t u r e s a n d a s s o c i a t e s  ( N o t e 1 2 )   89   36   
    3,973   3,984  
G o o d w ill   in c lu d e d   in   a s s e t s   h e l d   f o r   s a l e   r e l a t e s   t o   J e t 4 Y o u   at   3 0   S e pt e m b e r   2 0 1 0   a n d   J e t 4 Y o u   a n d   t h e   M a in s t r ea m   C an ad i a n   b u s in e s s   at   
3 0   S e pt e m b e r   2 0 0 9 .
O n c e   e v e r y   y ea r ,   o r   m o r e   f r e q u e n t l y   i f   e v e n t s   o r   a   c h an g e   in   t h e   e c o n o mi c   e n v ir o nm e n t   in d i c at e   a   r i s k   o f   im p a ir m e n t ,   t h e   G r o up   a s s e s s e s   t h e 
r e c o v e r a b l e   a m oun t   o f   g o o d w ill   a ll o c at e d   t o   i t s   C G U s   a s   r e q uir e d   b y   I A S   3 6 :   Im p a ir m e n t   o f   a s s e t s .     T h e   r e c o v e r a b l e   v a lu e   o f   g o o d w ill   f o r   a ll   
C G U s   h a s   b e e n   d e t e r min e d   t o   b e   v a lu e   in   u s e . 
T h e   mul t ip l e   C G U s   n o t   s e p ar at e l y   li s t e d   a b o v e   d o   n o t   in d i v i d u a ll y   r e p r e s e n t   m o r e   t h a n   3 %   o f   t o t a l   G r o up   g o o d w ill .     A ll   C G U s   h a v e   b e e n   t e s t e d  
f o r   im p a ir m ent .
I A S   3 6   r e q uir e s   t h at   im p a ir m ent   t e s t s   a r e   c ar r i e d   o u t   o n   C G U s ,   f o ll o w in g   t h e   l e v e l   a t   w hi c h   t h e   G r o up ’ s   m a n a g e m e n t   m ea s ur e s   r e t ur n s    
o n   o p e r at i o n s .
T h e   c al c ul a t i o n   o f   r e c o v e r a b l e   v a lu e   u s e s   t h e   f o ll o w in g   a s s um p t i o n s :
•     C a s h   fl o w   p r oj e c t i o n s   b a s e d   o n   t h e   G r o up ’ s   l a t e s t   a p p r o v e d   fi v e - y ea r   b u s in e s s   p l a n .   
•     W h e r e   in f o r m a t i o n   w a s   r e c e i v e d   c o n c e r nin g   t h e   un d e r l y in g   o p e r at in g   p r o fi t   o f   a   C G U   a f t e r   t h e   fi n a li s at i o n   o f   t h e   fi v e - y ea r   b u s in e s s   p l a n ,    
c a s h   fl o w   p r oj e c t i o n s   w e r e   r e - r un   b a s e d   o n   t h e   r e v i s e d   in f o r m a t i o n   t o   o bt a in   a   m o r e   up - t o - d at e   v a lu e   in   u s e .
•     C a s h   fl o w s   b e y o n d   t h e   p l a n   p e r i o d   ar e   e x t r a p o l a t e d   u s in g   a n   in fl at i o n ar y   o nl y   g r o w t h   r at e   o f   b e t w e e n   1 %   an d   3 % .     T h e   g r o w t h   r at e   u s e d   i s 
l e s s   t h a n   o r   e q u al   t o   t hir d   p ar t y   e s t im at e s   o f   t h e   m e d i um - t e r m   GD P   g r o w t h   r at e s   o f   t h e   k e y   g e og r a p hi c   m a r k e t s   in   w hi c h   t h e   s p e c i fi c   C G U  
o p e r at e s   at   t h e   t im e   t h e   p r oj e c t i o n s   a r e   p r e p a r e d .    
•     C a s h   fl o w s   a r e   d i s c o un t e d   u s in g   t h e   G r o up ’ s   w e i g h t e d   a v e r a g e   c o s t   o f   c api t a l   ( W A C C )   ad j u s t e d   a s   ap p r o p r i at e   f o r   b u s in e s s   s p e c i fi c   f ac t o r s    
o f   s e c t o r   r i s k ,   b u s in e s s   s i z e   a n d   g e og r a p hi c   r i s k .    
•     S in c e   d e t e r min a t i o n   o f   an   a p p r o p r i a t e   G r o up   W A C C   w a s   j u d g e m e n t al ,   s e n s i t i v i t i e s   a l s o   ad dr e s s e d   h o w   in c r ea s e s   in   t h e   b a s e   G r o up   W A C C  
mi g h t   im p ac t   t h e   r e s ul t s   o f   t h e   im p a ir m e n t   t e s t s .     T h e   G r o up ’ s   W A C C   w a s   b a s e d   o n   a   c api t a l   a s s e t   p r i c in g   m o d e l   c al c ul a t i o n   u s in g   a   mi x t ur e   
o f   inh ou s e   d a t a   a n d   e x t e r n a l   inp u t s   p r o v i d e d   b y   t hir d   p ar t y   fi n a n c i a l   in s t i t u t i o n s .
•     C e n t r al   g r o up   o v e r h ead s   a r e   b o r n e   in   f ull   b y   C G U s   a n d   a r e   a ll o c at e d   p r o   r at a   t o   t h e   C G U ’ s   un d e r l y in g   o p e r at in g   p r o fi t .  
•     In   2 0 0 9   t h e   A c c o m m o d a t i o n   &   D e s t in a t i o n s   S e c t o r   w a s   p r e s e n t e d   a s   o n e   C G U   a s   t h e r e   w a s   in s u f fi c i e n t   in f o r m a t i o n   a v a il ab l e   t o   a ll o c at e 
g o o d w ill   b e t w e e n   t h e   v a r i ou s   c a s h   g e n e r at in g   s e c t i o n s   o f   t h e   b u s in e s s .     S u f fi c i e n t   in f o r m a t i o n   i s   n o w   a v a il ab l e   f o r   a   m ea nin g f ul   a ll o c at i o n   
a n d   t h e   2 0 0 9   c o m p ar at i v e s   h a v e   b e e n   am e n d e d   t o   s h o w   t h e   g o o d w ill   a ll o c at i o n   o n   a   s imil a r   b a s i s   t o   t h at   u s e d   in   2 0 1 0 .     N o   im p a ir m e n t s    
h a v e   a r i s e n   a s   a   r e s ul t   o f   t hi s   c h an g e .
T h e   c al c ul a t i o n   o f   r e c o v e r a b l e   a m oun t   i s   s e n s i t i v e   t o   f o r e c a s t   f u t ur e   ea r nin g s   an d ,   p ar t i c ul a r l y ,   t h e   d i s c o un t   r at e s   u s e d :
•     A   p e rc e n t a g e   d e c r ea s e   o f   up   t o   2 0 %   in   f u t ur e   p l a nn e d   ea r nin g s   f o r   b o t h   t h e   y ea r   e n d in g   3 0   S e pt e m b e r   2 0 1 1   a n d   t h e   y ea r   e n d in g   
3 0   S e pt e m b e r   2 0 1 2   w o ul d   s t ill   r e s ul t   in   s i g ni fi c a n t   h ead r o o m   p o s i t i o n s   f o r   a ll   t h e   p r in c ip al   C G U s   d e t a il e d   in   t h e   t a b l e   a b o v e .
•     In   ad d i t i o n   t o   t h e   d e c r ea s e d   ea r nin g s   n o t e d   a b o v e ,   a n   in c r ea s e   f o r   t h e   p r in c ip al   C G U s   d e t a il e d   a b o v e   o f   a   1   p e rc e n t a g e   p oin t   in   t h e   d i s c o un t  
r at e s   u s e d   w o ul d   n o t   c h an g e   t h e   c o n c lu s i o n   t h at   t h e   c ar r y in g   v a lu e   o f   g o o d w ill   i s   s up p o r t e d   b y   i t s   r e c o v e r a b l e   a m oun t .
•     In   ad d i t i o n   t h e   s e n s i t i v i t i e s   d i s c l o s e d   im m e d i at e l y   a b o v e   d o   n o t   t a k e   ac c o un t   o f   a n y   mi t i g at in g   ac t i o n   t h at   m a n a g e m e n t   w o ul d   t a k e   s h o ul d  
ea r nin g s   d e c r ea s e .
•     O t h e r   k e y   a s s um p t i o n s   a r e   in   r e s p e c t   o f   t h e   s h o r t   an d   m e d i um - t e r m   p o s t - ac q ui s i t i o n   ea r nin g s   o f   ac q uir e d   o p e r at i o n s .     T h e   f o r e c a s t   ea r nin g s 
o f   t h e s e   n e w l y - ac q uir e d   b u s in e s s e s   a r e   inh e r e n t l y   m o r e   j u d g e m e n t al   o v e r   t h e s e   t im e f r a m e s . www.tuitravelplc.com
Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
T U I  T r a v e l P L C A n n u a l R e p o r t  & A c c o u n t s  2 0 1 0  101
T h e   p r e - t a x   d i s c o un t   r at e s   u s e d   f o r   eac h   C G U   o r   g r o up   o f   s imil a r   C G U s   a r e   a s   f o ll o w s :
  C a s h  g e n e r a t i n g  u n i t s   P r e - t a x 	 d i s c o u n t 	 r a t e 	 u s e d   P r e - t a x  d i s c o u n t  r a t e u s e d
Sect or    (C GUs)   3 0 	 S e p t e m b e r 	 2 0 1 0 	 ( % )   30  Sept ember  2009 (%)
M a i n s t r e a m – N o r t h e r n R e g i o n   UK   &  Ir eland    11  10
M a i n s t r e a m  – C e n t r a l E u r o p e  German y   11   11
M a i n s t r e a m – N o r t h e r n R e g i o n   Nor dic s   11  11
M a i n s t r e a m – W e s t e r n  E u r o p e   F r anc e   11   11
M a i n s t r e a m – N o r t h e r n R e g i o n   Canada**  11   10
  Other   C GUs*  11-12   11
S p e c i a l i s t  & E m e r g i n g M a r ke t s   Eur opean  Specialist businesses *  11-12   12
  American  Specialist businesses*   11-11.5   12.5
  R ussia**   14  14
A c t i v i t y  Marine  busi nesses*   12   12-13
  Sport,  Adv ent ur e, St udent    
  and Ski businesses*  11-12   13
A c c o m m o d a t i o n  & D e s t i n a t i o n s   Ac c ommoda tion  & Destina tions*    13   12.5
*   M u l t i p l e   i n d i v i d u a l   C G U s
* *     G o o d w i l l   i n   r e s p e c t   o f   C a n a d a   a n d   R u s s i a   i s   i n c l u d e d   w i t h i n   t h e   G r o u p ’ s   e q u i t y   i n v e s t m e n t   i n   j o i n t   v e n t u r e s   a n d   a s s o c i a t e s .
E x c e p t   f o r   t h e   im p a ir m e n t s   r e f e r r e d   t o   b e l o w   a n d   b a s e d   o n   t h e   c al c ul a t i o n s   un d e r t a k e n ,   t h e   D ir e c t o r s   c o n s i d er   t h at   t h e   r e c o v e r a b l e   a m oun t   
o f   g o o d w ill   in   eac h   C G U   e x c e e d s   i t s   c ar r y in g   v a lu e . 
Impairment charges
I f   t h e   r e c o v e r a b l e   am oun t   o f   a   C G U   i s   e s t im at e d   t o   b e   l e s s   t h a n   t h e   t o t al   o f   i t s   o p e r at in g   fi x e d   a s s e t s ,   g o o d w ill   an d   o t h e r   in t a n g ib l e s ,   a n 
im p a ir m e n t   l o s s   i s   r e c og ni s e d   im m e d i at e l y   in   t h e   in c o m e   s t at e m e n t .     T h e   im p a ir m ent   l o s s   i s   a ll o c at e d   fi r s t   t o   r e d u c e   t h e   c ar r y in g   a m oun t   o f   a n y  
g o o d w ill   a ll o c at e d   t o   t h e   C G U   a n d   t h e n   t o   t h e   o t h e r   a s s e t s   o n   a   p r o   r at a   b a s i s .     T h e   im p a ir m e n t   l o s s   r e c og ni s e d   i s   e q u al   t o   t h e   d i f f e r e n c e  
b e t w e e n   t h e   n e t   b o o k   v a lu e   a n d   t h e   r e c o v e r a b l e   am oun t .
A t   3 0   S e pt e m b e r   2 0 1 0 ,   t h e   E ur o p ean   S p e c i a li s t   d i v i s i o n   o f   t h e   S p e c i a li s t   &   E m e r g in g   M a r k e t s   S e c t o r   h ad   8   C G U s   c o r r e s p o n d in g   e i t h e r   t o   a n  
o p e r at i o n   in   a   p ar t i c ul ar   c o un t r y ,   o r   a   t y p e   o f   s p e c i a li s t   l e i s ur e   t r a v e l   o r   p r o d u c t .
In   t h e   y ea r   e n d e d   3 0   S e pt e m b e r   2 0 1 0   t h e r e   w a s   a   £ 1 2 m   im p a ir m e n t   o f   g o o d w ill   r e l a t in g   t o   t h e   I t a li a n   ( £ 7 m )   an d   S p ani s h   ( £ 5 m )   S p e c i a li s t   C G U s 
a s   a   r e s ul t   o f   a   d e t e r i o r at i o n   in   f o r e c a s t   t r ad in g   r e s ul t s   c o m p ar e d   t o   t h e   p r i o r   y ea r .     T h e   im p a ir m e n t   t e s t   f o r   b o t h   o f   t h e s e   C G U s   w a s   b a s e d   o n 
t h e   v a lu e   in   u s e   c al c ul a t i o n .     B o t h   im p a ir m e n t   c h ar g e s   a r e   d i s c l o s e d   w i t hin   admini s t r at i v e   e x p e n s e s   a n d   s h o w n   s e p ar at e l y   o n   t h e   f ac e   o f   t h e 
c o n s o li d at e d   in c o m e   s t at e m e n t .
T h e   im p a ir m e n t   h a s   a r i s e n   s in c e   t h e   c a s h   fl o w   m o d e l   b a s e d   o n   t h e   c ur r e n t   5 - Y ea r   Pl a n   a n d   o t h e r   c r i t e r i a   d e s c r ib e d   a b o v e   d o e s   n o t   s up p o r t    
t h e   c ar r y in g   a m oun t   o f   g o o d w ill   a n d   all   o t h e r   a s s e t s   f o r   t h e s e   t w o   C G U s .     T h e   p r e - t a x   d i s c o un t   r at e   u s e d   f o r   t h e s e   t w o   b u s in e s s e s   w a s   1 1 %   f o r  
I t a l y   a n d   1 2 %   f o r   S p a in   ( 2 0 0 9 :   b o t h   c o un t r i e s   1 2 % )   a n d   t h e   g r o w t h   r at e s   b e y o n d   t h e   5 - Y ea r   Pl a n   u s e d   w e r e   1 . 2 %   ( 2 0 0 9 :   0 . 8 % )   f o r   t h e   I t a li a n  
S p e c i a li s t   C G U   a n d   1 . 9 %   ( 2 0 0 9 :   1 . 7 % )   f o r   t h e   S p ani s h   S p e c i a li s t   C G U .
In   p r i o r   y ea r s ,   im p a ir m e n t   c h ar g e s   h a v e   a r i s e n   a s   a   r e s ul t   o f   t h e   G r o up ’ s   r e s t r u c t ur in g   p o s t   b u s in e s s   c o m bin at i o n .     In   2 0 0 9 ,   w i t hin   t h e   A c t i v i t y  
S e c t o r ,   a n   im p a ir m e n t   c h ar g e   o f   £ 7 m   ar o s e   f o ll o w in g   t h e   c l o s ur e   o f   t h e   m a j o r i t y   o f   S un s a il   C lub s ’   o p e r at i o n s   d ur in g   t h at   fi n a n c i a l   y ea r .      
T h e   g o o d w ill   im p a ir m e n t   c h ar g e   w a s   c al c ul a t e d   b a s e d   o n   t h e   v a lu e   in   u s e   o f   t h e   r e m a inin g   b u s in e s s   u s in g   a   d i s c oun t   r at e   o f   1 3 % . Financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements c o n t i n u e d
www.tuitravelplc.com
102   T U I T r a v e l P L C A n n u a l R e p o r t &  A c c o u n t s  2 0 1 0
11. Property, plant and equipment
           A d v a n c e  
      Y a c h t s ,       p a y m e n t s
      m o t o r  b o a t s   A i r c r a f t   f o r f u t u r e      
    L a n d a n d   a n d  c r u i s e   a n d  d e l i v e r y o f  C o m p u t e r   O t h e r   
    b u i l d i n g s    s h i p s   e q u i p m e n t    a i r c r a f t   e q u i p m e n t    e q u i p m e n t   T o t a l  
    £ m    £ m   £ m    £ m  £ m   £ m   £ m  
C o s t
A t 1 O c t o b e r 2 0 0 8    329    170    881    –    172    411    1,963  
F o r e i g n e x c h a n g e     36    8   87   2   8   41   182 
A c q u i s i t i o n s  t h r o u g h b u s i n e s s  c o m b i n a t i o n s     2    74    –    –    1    6    83  
T r a n s f e r s     –   –   –   80    –   22   102 
A d d i t i o n s     16    14    31    33    5    53    152  
D i s p o s a l s     (30)   (22)   (75)  (7)  (14)  (25)  (173)
R e c l a s s i fi c a t i o n s     5    1    11    –    (3)   (14)   –  
T r a n s f e r r e d ( t o ) / f r o m  a s s e t s h e l d f o r s a l e     (19)  (4)  32    –   (1)   1   9 
A t 3 0 S e p t e m b e r 2 0 0 9    339   241   967   108   168    495   2,318 
F o r e i g n  e x c h a n g e     (10)  (2)  (40)   (5)   1   (15)  (71)
A c q u i s i t i o n s  t h r o u g h  b u s i n e s s c o m b i n a t i o n s    2   –   –    –    –   3    5 
A d d i t i o n s    26    131    32    36    8    48    281  
D i s p o s a l s     (8)   (17)   (49)   –     (13)   (35)   (122)
R e c l a s s i fi c a t i o n s     3    (1)   24    (2)   11    (35)   –  
T r a n s f e r r e d f r o m  a s s e t s h e l d f o r  s a l e     2    –     –    –    –     –    2  
A t 	3 0	S e p t e m b e r 	2 0 1 0    354		 352	 934	 	 137 		 175		 461		 2,413  
D e p r e c i a t i o n	a n d	i m p a i r m e n t              
A t 1 O c t o b e r  2 0 0 8     (170)   (47)   (416)   –    (136)   (268)   (1,037)
F o r e i g n  e x c h a n g e     (19)   (3)  (41)  –   (7)  (26)   (96)
A c q u i s i t i o n s  t h r o u g h b u s i n e s s c o m b i n a t i o n s     (1)   (36)   –    –    –    (4)   (41)
P r o v i d e d  i n  t h e y e a r    (17)   (16)   (99)   –    (14)   (38)   (184)
D i s p o s a l s     18    12    66    –    11    22    129  
I m p a i r m e n t s     (1)  –   (124)  –   –   –   (125)
R e c l a s s i fi c a t i o n s     –    3    (2)   –    (1)   –    –  
T r a n s f e r r e d  t o / ( f r o m )  a s s e t s  h e l d f o r s a l e    15    –    (17)   –    1    1    –  
A t 3 0 S e p t e m b e r 2 0 0 9    (175)   (87)   (633)   –    (146)   (313)   (1,354)
F o r e i g n e x c h a n g e     4    1    27    –    (1)   6    37   
P r o v i d e d  i n t h e y e a r    (16)  (19)  (83)  –    (12)  (37)   (167)
D i s p o s a l s     7    9    41    –    12    30    99  
I m p a i r m e n t s     –     (15)   –     –    –    –    (15)
R e c l a s s i fi c a t i o n s     (2)   –    –    –    (7)   9   –  
T r a n s f e r r e d f r o m  a s s e t s  h e l d f o r s a l e    (1)   –    –     –    –    –    (1)
A t	3 0	S e p t e m b e r 	2 0 1 0     (183)	 (111)	 (648)	 – 		 (154)	 (305)	 (1,401)
N e t  b o o k v a l u e
A t   1 O c t o b e r 2 0 0 8     159    123    465    –    36    143    926  
A t  3 0 S e p t e m b e r 2 0 0 9     164    154    334    108    22    182    964  
A t 	 3 0 	S e p t e m b e r	2 0 1 0     171 		 241		 286		 137 		 21 		 156		 1,012   www.tuitravelplc.com
Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
T U I  T r a v e l P L C A n n u a l R e p o r t  & A c c o u n t s  2 0 1 0  103
Impairment charges
T h e   im p a ir m e n t   c h ar g e   in   t h e   y ea r   e n d e d   3 0   S e pt e m b e r   2 0 1 0   f o r   £ 1 5 m   r e l a t e s   t o   o n e   o w n e d   s hip   w i t hin   t h e   U K   o p e r at in g   s e g m e n t ,   t h e   
‘ I s l an d   E s c ap e ’ .    
A n   e x p an d e d   c l a s s   s ur v e y   o n   t h e   c o n d i t i o n   o f   t h e   s hip   c o n d u c t e d   in   2 0 1 0   r e v ea l e d   t h at   t h e   s hip   w ill   r e q uir e   a   m o r e   e x t e n s i v e   dr y   d o c k   t h a n 
o r i g in all y   e x p e c t e d   a s   s t e e l w o r k   c o r r o s i o n   a n d   o t h e r   c o n d i t i o n s   o f   c l a s s   w ill   n e e d   t o   b e   r e c t i fi e d   b e f o r e   c e r t i fi c at i o n   i s   r e n e w e d .     A s   a   r e s ul t   o f 
in c r ea s e d   r e c t i fi c at i o n   c o s t s ,   t h e   D ir e c t o r s   h a v e   r e c o n s i d er e d   t h e   s t r at e g y   f o r   t hi s   s hip   a n d   n o w   c o n s i d e r   t h at   t h e   r e c o v e r a b l e   a m oun t   w ill   b e 
b a s e d   up o n   n e t   d i s p o s a l   p r o c e e d s .     T h e   r e c o v e r a b l e   a m oun t   o f   t h e   a s s e t ,   u s in g   f a ir   v a lu e   l e s s   c o s t s   t o   s e ll   b a s i s   o f   v a lu at i o n ,   i s   d e r i v e d   f r o m 
o bt a inin g   a n   in d e p e n d e n t   m a r k e t   v a lu at i o n   f r o m   an   e x t e r n a l   in t e r n at i o n al   s hip pin g   c o n s ul t a n c y ,   u s in g   o p e n   m a r k e t   v a lu e .     T h e   c ar r y in g   v a lu e    
h a s   b e e n   im p a ir e d   t o   t h e   e x t e n t   t h at   i t   i s   b e l o w   r e c o v e r a b l e   v a lu e .  
T h e   2 0 0 9   c h ar g e   w a s   f o r   A irc r a f t ,   £ 1 2 4 m   ( w i t hin   t h e   F r e n c h   a ir lin e   o p e r at in g   s e g m e n t )   a n d   L a n d   a n d   b uil d in g s ,   £ 1 m ,   ( A c t i v i t y   S e c t o r   o p e r at in g  
s e g m e n t ) .     T h e   im p a ir m e n t   c h ar g e s   ar e   d i s c l o s e d   w i t hin   c o s t   o f   s a l e s   a n d   a s   a   s e p ar at e l y   d i s c l o s e d   i t e m   ( N o t e   3 ) .   
Advance payments for future delivery of aircraft
In t e r e s t   o f   £ 5 m   ( 2 0 0 9 :   £ 2 m )   h a s   b e e n   c api t a li s e d   d ur in g   t h e   y ea r   in   r e l a t i o n   t o   t h e   ad v a n c e   p a y m e n t s   f o r   f u t ur e   d e li v e r y   o f   a irc r af t   at   a   r at e   o f  
5 . 4 %   ( 2 0 0 9 :   6 . 0 % ) .     A d v an c e   p a y m e n t s   f o r   f u t ur e   d e li v e r y   o f   a irc r af t   w e r e   d i s c l o s e d   a s   p r e p a y m e n t s   in   t h e   y ea r   e n d e d   3 0   S e pt e m b e r   2 0 0 8   b u t 
w e r e   t r a n s f e r r e d   t o   p r o p e r t y ,   p l a n t   a n d   e q uip m e n t   in   t h e   p r i o r   y ea r .     T h e r e   w e r e   £ 8 0 m   o f   ad v a n c e   p a y m e n t s   f o r   f u t ur e   d e li v e r y   o f   a irc r af t   a t   
3 0   S e pt e m b e r   2 0 0 8 ,   £ 73 m   w i t hin   n o n - c ur r e n t   p r e p a y m e n t s   an d   £ 7 m   w i t hin   c ur r e n t   p r e p a y m e n t s .     T h e   c h an g e s   w e r e   un d e r t a k e n   t o   a li g n   t h e 
G r o up ’ s   p r e s e n t at i o n   w i t h   i t s   p ar e n t   c o m p an y .  
Other equipment – advance payments for maintenance of owned aircraft
A d v an c e   p a y m e n t s   f o r   m a in t e n an c e   o f   o w n e d   a irc r af t   w e r e   d i s c l o s e d   a s   p r e p a y m e n t s   at   3 0   S e pt e m b e r   2 0 0 8   b u t   w e r e   t r a n s f e r r e d   t o   p r o p e r t y  
p l a n t   a n d   e q uip m e n t   un d e r   c o n s t r u c t i o n   w i t hin   o t h e r   e q uip m e n t   in   t h e   p r i o r   y ea r .     T h e r e   w e r e   £ 2 2 m   o f   ad v a n c e   p a y m e n t s   f o r   a irc r af t  
m a in t e n an c e   at   3 0   S e pt e m b e r   2 0 0 8 ,   a ll   w i t hin   n o n - c ur r e n t   p r e p a y m e n t s .  
Other disclosures
O t h e r   p r o p e r t y ,   p l a n t   a n d   e q uip m e n t   w i t h   a   c o m bin e d   n e t   b o o k   v a lu e   a s   at   3 0   S e pt e m b e r   2 0 1 0   o f   £ 1 5 6 m   ( 2 0 0 9 :   £ 1 8 2 m )   in c lu d e s   £ 1 0 3 m    
( 2 0 0 9 :   £ 1 0 3 m )   o f   fi x t ur e s   a n d   fi t t in g s ,   £ 2 4 m   ( 2 0 0 9 :   £ 4 7 m )   o f   p r o p e r t y ,   p l a n t ,   a n d   e q uip m e n t   un d e r   c o n s t r u c t i o n   a n d   £ 2 8 m   ( 2 0 0 9 :   £ 3 0 m )    
o f   m o t o r   v e hi c l e s .
L a n d   a n d   b uil d in g s   c o m p r i s e   f r e e h o l d   a n d   l o n g   l ea s e h o l d   p r o p e r t i e s   w i t h   n e t   b o o k   v a lu e s   o f   £ 1 1 8 m   ( 2 0 0 9 :   £ 1 0 8 m )   a n d   s h o r t   l ea s e h o l d 
p r o p e r t i e s   w i t h   a   n e t   b o o k   v a lu e   o f   £ 5 3 m   ( 2 0 0 9 :   £ 5 6 m )   r e s p e c t i v e l y .
T h e   n e t   b o o k   v a lu e   o f   a s s e t s   h e l d   un d e r   fi n a n c e   l ea s e s   a n d   hir e   p urc h a s e   c o n t r ac t s   at   3 0   S e pt e m b e r   2 0 1 0   w a s   £ 2 0 1 m   ( 2 0 0 9 :   £ 1 5 2 m ) .     
T hi s   in c lu d e s   £ 1 0 9 m   ( 2 0 0 9 :   £ 3 m )   o f   s hip s ,   y ac h t s   a n d   m o t o r b o a t s ,   £ 7 9 m   ( 2 0 0 9 :   £ 1 4 4 m )   o f   a irc r af t ,   £ 7 m   ( 2 0 0 9 :   £ nil )   o f   l an d   a n d   b uil d in g s   
a n d   £ 6 m   ( 2 0 0 9 :   £ 5 m )   o f   o t h e r   a s s e t s ,   m a inl y   v e hi c l e s .
T h e   n e t   b o o k   v a lu e   o f   p r o p e r t y ,   p l a n t   a n d   e q uip m e n t   w i t h   r e s t r i c t i o n s   o n   t i t l e ,   b e in g   p l e d g e d   a s   s e c ur i t y   f o r   b ank   l o an s ,   a m oun t e d   t o   
£ 2 7 m   ( 2 0 0 9 :   £ 2 9 m ) . Financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements c o n t i n u e d
www.tuitravelplc.com
104   T U I T r a v e l P L C A n n u a l R e p o r t &  A c c o u n t s  2 0 1 0
12. Investment in joint ventures, associates and other investments
T h e   G r o up ’ s   e q ui t y   in v e s t m e n t   in   i t s   j oin t   v e n t ur e s   an d   a s s o c i at e s   i s   r e c o r d e d   in   t h e   c o n s o li d at e d   fi n a n c i a l   s t at e m e n t s   a s   f o ll o w s : 
        S h a r e o f  n e t   S h a r e  o f  n e t    T o t a l  
        a s s e t s  o f   a s s e t s  o f   s h a r e o f 
        j o i n t  v e n t u r e s    a s s o c i a t e s    n e t  a s s e t s  
        £ m    £ m   £ m 
C o s t
A t 1 O c t o b e r 2 0 0 8        85    11    96  
S h a r e o f  p r o fi t s  b e f o r e  i n t e r e s t a n d  t a x f o r  t h e y e a r        8    4    12  
S h a r e o f  i n t e r e s t  a n d t a x  c h a r g e         (2)   (1)   (3)
A c q u i s i t i o n s         –    8   8 
D i s p o s a l s         (30)   –    (30)
D i v i d e n d s  p a i d         (8)  (2)  (10)
R e c l a s s i fi c a t i o n s  a n d  o t h e r m o v e m e n t s         (3)   (4)   (7)
F o r e i g n  e x c h a n g e          7   3    10  
A t  3 0 S e p t e m b e r  2 0 0 9         57   19    76 
S h a r e  o f p r o fi t s / ( l o s s e s )  b e f o r e i n t e r e s t ,  a m o r t i s a t i o n a n d  t a x  f o r  t h e y e a r          8    (3)   5 
S h a r e  o f i n t e r e s t  a n d t a x c h a r g e         (5)  (1)  (6)
S h a r e o f a m o r t i s a t i o n f o r  t h e  y e a r         –    (2)   (2)
A c q u i s i t i o n s         1    58    59  
D i s p o s a l s         –     (1)   (1)
D i v i d e n d s  p a i d         (7)  (2)   (9)
R e c l a s s i fi c a t i o n s  a n d o t h e r m o v e m e n t s         5    (4)   1  
F o r e i g n  e x c h a n g e         (2)   1    (1)
A t	3 0	S e p t e m b e r	2 0 1 0       	 57 		 65		 122	
G o o d w i l l
A t  1 O c t o b e r  2 0 0 8        13    5    18  
A c q u i s i t i o n s         9    3    12  
D i s p o s a l s         (4)   –    (4)
R e c l a s s i fi c a t i o n s  a n d o t h e r  m o v e m e n t s         –   7   7  
F o r e i g n  e x c h a n g e         2    1    3  
A t  3 0 S e p t e m b e r 2 0 0 9         20    16    36  
A c q u i s i t i o n s         10    47    57  
R e c l a s s i fi c a t i o n s  a n d o t h e r m o v e m e n t s         –    (1)   (1)
F o r e i g n  e x c h a n g e        (1)   (2)   (3)
A t	3 0	S e p t e m b e r	2 0 1 0       	 29 		 60		 89	
N e t	b o o k 	v a l u e
A t  1  O c t o b e r 2 0 0 8         98   16   114 
A t 1  O c t o b e r  2 0 0 9        77    35    112  
A t	3 0	S e p t e m b e r	2 0 1 0       	 86		 125		 211  
T h e   G r o up ’ s   s h a r e   o f   j oin t   v e n t ur e   a n d   a s s o c i at e   l o s s   af t e r   in t e r e s t   a n d   t a x   w a s   £ 3 m   ( 2 0 0 9 :   p r o fi t   £ 9 m ) .    
T h e   p r in c ip al   j oin t   v e n t ur e s   a n d   a s s o c i at e s   a n d   t h e   p r o p o r t i o n   o f   v o t in g   r i g h t s   a r e   s h o w n   b e l o w :
    P r o p o r t i o n  o f
    v o t i n g r i g h t s     C o u n t r y  o f r e g i s t r a t i o n /
N a m e  o f  c o m p a n y      h e l d  %   N a t u r e  o f b u s i n e s s  i n c o r p o r a t i o n 
J o i n t 	v e n t u r e s
T r a v c o G r o u p  H o l d i n g  S A E    50.0   Inc oming agency    Eg ypt  
L e  P a s s a g e  t o I n d i a T o u r s  a n d  T r a v e l P r i v a t e  L t d    50.0   Inc oming agency    India 
A t l a n t i c a  H e l l a s  S A    50.0    Ho t el oper a t or    Gr eec e  
A t l a n t i c a H o t e l s  & R e s o r t s L i m i t e d     49.9    Ho t el oper a t or    C yprus 
T o g e b i H o l d i n g s  L i m i t e d     49.0   T our  oper a t or    C yprus  
A s s o c i a t e s
S u n w i n g T r a v e l G r o u p I n c    25.0   T our   oper a t or    Canada 
T U I  I n f o T e c  G m b H    49.9   IT  Servic es    German y  
T og e bi   H o l d in g s   L imi t e d   o p e r at e s   t hr o u g h   s ub s i d i a r i e s   in   R u s s i a   a n d   Uk r a in e . www.tuitravelplc.com
Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
T U I  T r a v e l P L C A n n u a l R e p o r t  & A c c o u n t s  2 0 1 0  105
A   s um m ar y   o f   t h e   r e s ul t s   f o r   t h e   y ea r   e n d e d   3 0   S e pt e m b e r   2 0 1 0   a n d   o f   t h e   a s s e t s   a n d   li a bili t i e s   at   t hi s   d a t e   o f   t h e   G r o up ’ s   j oin t   v e n t ur e s   a n d 
a s s o c i at e s   i s   s h o w n   b e l o w :
        J o i n t  v e n t u r e s    A s s o c i a t e s    T o t a l  
1 0 0 % v a l u e s         £ m   £ m    £ m 
R e v e n u e       	 792 		 618		 1,410  
O p e r a t i n g c o s t s         (781)   (623)   (1,404)
O p e r a t i n g p r o fi t / ( l o s s )         11    (5)   6  
N e t  i n t e r e s t  p a y a b l e         (2)  (1)   (3)
P r o fi t / ( l o s s ) 	b e f o r e 	t a x a t i o n       	 9		 (6)	 3 
T a x a t i o n         (5)   (3)   (8)
P r o fi t / ( l o s s ) 	a f t e r	 t a x a t i o n	f o r 	t h e	y e a r       	 4		 (9)	 (5)
N o n - c u r r e n t  a s s e t s         169   159    328 
C u r r e n t  a s s e t s         158    184    342  
T o t a l  a s s e t s         327    343    670  
N o n - c u r r e n t l i a b i l i t i e s        (59)   (60)  (119)
C u r r e n t  l i a b i l i t i e s         (154)   (145)   (299)
T o t a l l i a b i l i t i e s         (213)   (205)   (418)
N e t	a s s e t s       	 114 		 138		 252 	
Sunwing strategic venture
T h e   C an ad i a n   M a in s t r eam   b u s in e s s   w a s   c l a s s i fi e d   a s   a   d i s p o s a l   g r o up   a s   at   3 0   S e pt e m b e r   2 0 0 9   a n d   d i s c l o s e d   a s   h e l d   f o r   s a l e   o n   t h e   b a s i s   o f   t h e 
a nn oun c e d   s t r at e g i c   v e n t ur e   t r a n s ac t i o n   w i t h   S un w in g   T r a v e l   G r o up   In c .   ( S un w in g ) .     T h e   r e s p e c t i v e   p ar t i e s   r e c e i v e d   a ll   t h e   n e c e s s a r y   r e g ul a t o r y 
a p p r o v a l s   o n   1 4   Jan u a r y   2 0 1 0   a n d   s ub s e q u e n t l y   fi n a li s e d   t h e   t r a n s ac t i o n .     O n   t hi s   d a t e ,   S un w in g   h a s   b e e n   ac c o un t e d   f o r   a s   an   ac q ui s i t i o n   o f   a n 
a s s o c i at e   in   ac c o r d a n c e   w i t h   I A S   2 7   ( r e v i s e d ) .
In f o r m a t i o n   r e l a t in g   t o   t h e   p r o fi t   o n   d i s p o s a l   o f   t h e   C an ad i a n   M a in s t r ea m   b u s in e s s   a n d   t h e   C an ad i a n   r e s ul t s   i s   d e t a il e d   in   N o t e   1 8 .
Togebi Holdings Limited
O n   1 5   A p r il   2 0 0 9 ,   t h e   G r o up   s i g n e d   a n   a g r e e m e n t   w i t h   S - G r o up   C api t a l   M a n a g e m e n t   L imi t e d   ( S G C M )   f o r   t h e   f o r m at i o n   o f   a   j oin t l y   o w n e d  
in v e s t m e n t   h o l d in g   c o m p an y ,   t o   b e   o w n e d   5 1 %   b y   S G C M   an d   4 9 %   b y   t h e   G r o up .     T h e   j oin t   v e n t ur e   a g r e e d   t o   ac q uir e   m a j o r i t y   s t a k e s   in   t h e 
b u s in e s s e s   o f   t w o   t o ur   o p e r at o r s   a n d   t r a v e l   a g e n c y   g r o up s   in   R u s s i a   a n d   Uk r a in e ,   V K O   G r o up   a n d   V o y a g e   K i e v ,   a n d   s i g n e d   a   l e t t e r   o f   in t e n t   t o 
ac q uir e   a   7 5 %   c o n t r o llin g   s t a k e   in   t h e   b u s in e s s   o f   M o s t r a v e l ,   a n   e n t i t y   in   w hi c h   T U I   T r a v e l   P L C   a lr ead y   o w n e d   a   3 4 %   s t a k e .     A ll   r e g ul a t o r y   a n d  
c o m p e t i t i o n   a u t h o r i t y   a p p r o v a l s   w e r e   g r a n t e d   d ur in g   t h e   c ur r e n t   y ea r   a n d   t h e   j oin t   v e n t ur e   w a s   o f fi c i all y   l a un c h e d   o n   2   M a rc h   2 0 1 0 ,   in c lu d in g  
t h e   c o m p l e t i o n   o f   t h e   ac q ui s i t i o n   o f   a   7 5 %   c o n t r o llin g   s t a k e   in   M o s t r a v e l ’ s   b u s in e s s .
A ll   m a j o r   d e c i s i o n s   h a v e   t o   b e   a g r e e d   b y   b o t h   s h a r e h o l d e r s   a n d   un d e r   I A S   3 1 :   In t e r e s t s   in   Join t   V e n t ur e s   t h e   e n t i t y   i s   t h e r e f o r e   ac c oun t e d   f o r   
a s   a   j oin t   v e n t ur e .
S G C M   i s   o w n e d   b y   a   s i g ni fi c a n t   s h a r e h o l d e r   o f   T U I   A G   a n d   i s   t h e r e f o r e   c o n s i d e r e d   t o   b e   a   r e l a t e d   p ar t y .     T og e bi   H o l d in g s   a n d   i t s   s ub s i d i a r y  
un d e r t a k in g s   ar e   t h e r e f o r e   c o n s i d e r e d   t o   b e   r e l a t e d   p ar t i e s   b y   v ir t u e   o f   S G C M   b e in g   t h e   j oin t   v e n t ur e r   t o   t hi s   in v e s t m e n t .
Other investments
        T r a d e  N o n -  
        a n d l i s t e d   c o n s o l i d a t e d   
        i n v e s t m e n t s    e n t i t i e s    T o t a l
        £ m    £ m   £ m 
A t 1 O c t o b e r  2 0 0 8        23    33    56 
A d d i t i o n s         36    3   39 
D i s p o s a l s         (9)   –    (9)
R e p a y m e n t  o f l o a n  n o t e s         (2)   –    (2)
I n v e s t m e n t s  c o n s o l i d a t e d  f o r t h e  fi r s t  t i m e        –    (8)   (8)
I m p a i r m e n t  d u r i n g  t h e  y e a r         –    (2)  (2)
C h a n g e i n t h e f a i r v a l u e  o f a v a i l a b l e  f o r  s a l e fi n a n c i a l  a s s e t         (1)  –    (1)
F o r e i g n  e x c h a n g e         –   4   4 
A t 3 0 S e p t e m b e r  2 0 0 9         47   30   77 
D i s p o s a l s        (9)   –   (9)
R e c l a s s i fi c a t i o n  t o n o n - c u r r e n t  i n t e r e s t b e a r i n g  r e c e i v a b l e s        (7)   –    (7)
I n v e s t m e n t s  c o n s o l i d a t e d  f o r t h e  fi r s t  t i m e        –    (4)   (4)
C h a n g e  i n t h e f a i r v a l u e  o f a v a i l a b l e  f o r s a l e fi n a n c i a l  a s s e t          (4)   –   (4)
C h a n g e  i n t h e f a i r v a l u e  o f a s s e t s  h e l d  a t  f a i r  v a l u e  t h r o u g h  p r o fi t  a n d l o s s        30    –   30 
F o r e i g n e x c h a n g e          (1)   (3)  (4)
A t	3 0	S e p t e m b e r 	2 0 1 0       	 56 		 23		 79 	
O t h e r   in v e s t m e n t s   o f   £ 7 9 m   ( 2 0 0 9 :   £ 7 7 m )   c o m p r i s e   t r ad e   a n d   li s t e d   in v e s t m e n t s   a n d   n o n - c o n s o li d a t e d   e n t i t i e s . Financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements c o n t i n u e d
www.tuitravelplc.com
106   T U I T r a v e l P L C A n n u a l R e p o r t &  A c c o u n t s  2 0 1 0
T r ad e   a n d   li s t e d   in v e s t m e n t s   at   3 0   S e pt e m b e r   2 0 1 0   r e p r e s e n t e d   t h e   G r o up ’ s   1 4 . 3 %   s h a r e h o l d in g   in   T h e   A ir lin e   G r o up   L imi t e d   ( w hi c h   in   t ur n   h a s 
a   4 2 %   s h a r e h o l d in g   in   N a t i o n al   A ir   T r af fi c   S e r v i c e s   L imi t e d ) ,   a   7 . 2 %   s h a r e h o l d in g   in   A ir   B e r lin   P L C   an d   a   1 0 %   h o l d in g   in   t h e   A t l a n t i c a   L e i s ur e 
G r o up   L imi t e d .
D ur in g   t h e   y ea r ,   t h e   G r o up   r e v a lu e d   i t s   in v e s t m e n t   in   T h e   A ir lin e   G r o up   t o   f a ir   v a lu e   a n d   r e c l a s s i fi e d   t h e   l o an   n o t e   e l e m e n t   o f   t hi s   in v e s t m e n t   
t o   n o n - c ur r e n t   in t e r e s t - b ea r in g   r e c e i v ab l e s .     T h e   up li f t   in   t h e   v a lu e   o f   t h e   in v e s t m e n t   o f   £ 3 0 m   h a s   b e e n   c r e d i t e d   t o   s e p ar at e l y   d i s c l o s e d   
i t e m s   ( N o t e   3 ) .
N o n - c o n s o li d at e d   e n t i t i e s   a r e   r e c o r d e d   a t   c o s t   a n d   r e fl e c t   t h e   G r o up ’ s   n e t   in v e s t m e n t   h e l d   in   c irc a   5 0   s ub s i d i ar i e s   w hi c h ,   d u e   t o   t h e   im m a t e r i a l  
s i z e   o f   t h e ir   r e v e n u e s ,   r e s ul t   an d   fi n a n c i a l   p o s i t i o n ,   h a v e   n o t   b e e n   c o n s o li d at e d .     B al a n c e s   b e t w e e n   t h e s e   e n t i t i e s   an d   c o n s o li d at e d   s ub s i d i ar i e s 
h a v e   n o t   b e e n   e limin at e d .
13. Investments
Acquisitions
( A ) 	 Ac q u i s i t i o n s 	 i n 	 t h e 	 y e a r 	 e n d e d 	 3 0 	 S e p te m b e r 	 2 0 1 0
A c q ui s i t i o n s   w e r e   m ad e   in   t h e   y ea r   f o r   a   t o t a l   in v e s t m e n t   v a lu e   o f   £ 4 3 m   in   o r d e r   t o   e x p an d   b u s in e s s   o p e r at i o n s   in   lin e   w i t h   t h e   G r o up ’ s    
g r o w t h   s t r a t e g y .     I n   a cc o r d a n c e   w i t h   t h e   p r o v i s i o n s   of   I F R S   3   ( r e v i s e d ) ,   i n c i d e n t a l   a cq u i s i t i o n   c o s t s   of   £ 7 m   a n d   £ 2 m   of   r e m u n e r a t i o n   
f o r   p o s t - c o m bin a t i o n   s e r v i c e s   h a v e   b e e n   e x p e n s e d   w i t hin   admini s t r at i v e   e x p e n s e s   in   t h e   c o n s o li d at e d   in c o m e   s t at e m e n t   in   t h e   y ea r .    
T h e s e   ac q ui s i t i o n s   g a v e   r i s e   t o   p r o v i s i o n al   g o o d w ill   o f   £ 3 1 m .     T h e   p r in c ip al   ac q uir e d   b u s in e s s e s   a n d   t h e ir   ac q ui s i t i o n   d a t e s   w e r e :
B u s i n e s s   D e s c r i p t i o n   D a t e  C o u n t r y
M a i n s t r e a m 	S e c t o r 	
T T O H L O t e l H i z m e t l e r i  T u r i z m V e T i c a r e t  A n o n i m S i r ke t i  Ho t el oper a tions  Mar ch 2010  T urk ey
W o n d e r H o l d i n g  A B  T our   oper a t or   Ma y   2010   Sw eden
A c t i v i t y	S e c t o r
S p o r t s  E x e c u t i v e T r a v e l  L i m i t e d    T our  oper a t or   Dec ember  2009  Unit ed  Kingdom
H a m p s t e a d  S c h o o l o f E n g l i s h  Language t eaching  F ebruary   2010   Unit ed Kingdom
M a n c h e s t e r A c a d e m y  H o l d i n g s  L i m i t e d  Language t eaching  August  2010  Unit ed Kingdom
T o r t o l a  Y a c h t S e r v i c e s  Y acht servic es  Sept ember  2010  USA
A c c o m m o d a t i o n 	& 	D e s t i n a t i o n s	S e c t o r
S e l e c t  W o r l d  P t y  L i m i t e d ( t r a d i n g  a s  S e l e c t  T o u r s  A u s t r a l i a ) *   Cruise  servic es  Oct ober   2009   Austr alia
H i l a r i o  T o u r s    Coach  oper a tions   April 2010  Dominican R epublic
*   O n   7   S e p t e m b e r   2 0 1 0   S e l e c t   W o r l d   P t y   L i m i t e d   c h a n g e d   i t s   n a m e   t o   I n t e r c r u i s e s   S h o r e s i d e   &   P o r t   S e r v i c e s   P t y   L i m i t e d .
In   ad d i t i o n   t o   t h e   a b o v e ,   t h e   G r o up   ac q uir e d   2 2   in d i v i d u a ll y   in s i g ni fi c a n t   G e r m an - b a s e d   t r a v e l   a g e n c y   b u s in e s s e s   a n d   o n e   in s i g ni fi c a n t   D ani s h  
t o ur   o p e r at o r   f o r   a   t o t a l   c o n s i d e r at i o n   o f   £ 7 m   d ur in g   t h e   y ea r   e n d e d   3 0   S e pt e m b e r   2 0 1 0 .
T h e   G r o up   ac q uir e d   1 0 0 %   o f   t h e   v o t in g   e q ui t y   in s t r um e n t s   in   r e s p e c t   o f   eac h   ac q ui s i t i o n   c o m p l e t e d   d ur in g   t h e   y ea r   w i t h   t h e   e x c e pt i o n   o f  
W o n d e r H o l d in g   A B ,   o f   w hi c h   5 1 %   o f   t h e   v o t in g   e q ui t y   in s t r um e n t s   w e r e   ac q uir e d   a n d   T T O HL   O t e l   H i z m e t l e r i   T ur i z m   V e   T i c ar e t   A n o nim   S ir k e t i , 
H a m p s t ead   S c h o o l   o f   E n g li s h ,   T o r t o l a   Y ac h t   S e r v i c e s   an d   H il ar i o   T o ur s ,   w hi c h   w e r e   a s s e t   d ea l s .     T h e   am oun t   o f   n o n - c o n t r o llin g   in t e r e s t   in  
W o n d e r H o l d in g   A B   i s   n o t   c o n s i d e r e d   m a t e r i al .
T h e   r e l a t i v e   s i z e   o f   t h e   ac q ui s i t i o n s   m ad e   i s   s e t   o u t   in   t h e   t a b l e   b e l o w :
          T o t a l   T o t a l
C o n s i d e r a t i o n          N u m b e r o f   c o n s i d e r a t i o n    g o o d w i l l 
£ m          a c q u i s i t i o n s    £ m   £ m 
0 – 5         4  7  6
5  – 1 0         4  29  18
T o t a l	      	 8	 36	 24
O t h e r  i n d i v i d u a l l y  i n s i g n i fi c a n t  b u s i n e s s e s         23  7  7
T o t a l       	 31	 43	 31 www.tuitravelplc.com
Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
T U I  T r a v e l P L C A n n u a l R e p o r t  & A c c o u n t s  2 0 1 0  107
T h e   t o t al   p r o v i s i o n al   n e t   a s s e t s / ( li a bili t i e s )   ac q uir e d   a r e   s e t   o u t   b e l o w :
            F a i r v a l u e o f 
        B o o k  v a l u e     n e t  a s s e t s /  
        p r i o r  t o    F a i r  v a l u e   ( l i a b i l i t i e s )  
        a c q u i s i t i o n    a d j u s t m e n t s    a c q u i r e d  
      N o t e    £ m   £ m   £ m 
N e t	a s s e t s / ( l i a b i l i t i e s ) 	a c q u i r e d
I n t a n g i b l e  a s s e t s       A1     1    40   41 
P r o p e r t y , p l a n t  a n d  e q u i p m e n t          3    2     5  
T r a d e r e c e i v a b l e s         4    –   4 
C a s h          5    –     5  
C u r r e n t  l i a b i l i t i e s  ( e x c l u d i n g d e b t )         (36)   1    (35) 
D e f e r r e d  t a x  p r o v i s i o n       A2    –    (4)  (4)  
O t h e r  n o n - c u r r e n t  l i a b i l i t i e s  ( e x c l u d i n g  d e b t )         (3)   –     (3)  
I n t e r e s t - b e a r i n g  l i a b i l i t i e s         (1)   –    (1)
T o t a l        	 (27)	 39	 12 
T o t a l  c o n s i d e r a t i o n             43  
L e s s  n e t  a s s e t s  a c q u i r e d  ( a s  a b o v e )            (12)
T o t a l 	g o o d w i l l 	i n 	r e s p e c t 	o f 	a c q u i s i t i o n s           	 31	
O f   t h e   t r ad e   r e c e i v ab l e s   a b o v e ,   £ 4 m   r e p r e s e n t s   t h e   g r o s s   a n d   f a ir   v a lu e   o f   t h e   a m oun t   o f   t h e   r e c e i v ab l e s .  
A ll   ac q ui s i t i o n s   h a v e   b e e n   ac c o un t e d   f o r   u s in g   t h e   p urc h a s e   m e t h o d ,   a s   r e q uir e d   b y   IF R S   3   ( r e v i s e d ) .     I t   s h o ul d   b e   n o t e d   t h at   c e r t a in   f a ir   v a lu e  
ad j u s t m e n t s   a n d   t h e   v a lu e   o f   c o n t in g e n t   c o n s i d er at i o n   h a v e   n e c e s s ar il y   b e e n   p r e p a r e d   o n   a   p r o v i s i o n al   b a s i s   d u e   t o   t h e   r e c e n t   t imin g   o f   c e r t a in 
ac q ui s i t i o n s ,   t h e   p e r i o d s   o v e r   w hi c h   c o n t in g e n t   c o n s i d er at i o n   m a y   b e c o m e   p a y ab l e   a n d   t h e   s ea s o n ali t y   o f   b u s in e s s e s ,   s u c h   t h at   f a ir   v a lu e s   c an 
o nl y   b e   d e t e r min e d   ac c ur at e l y   o n c e   a   s ea s o n   h a s   p a s s e d .     E x p er i e n c e   m a y   r e s ul t   in   r e v i s i o n s   t o   f a ir   v a lu e s   in   t h e   s ub s e q u e n t   ac c o un t in g   p e r i o d . 
N o   m a t e r i al   a m oun t   o f   g o o d w ill   i s   e x p e c t e d   t o   b e   d e d u c t ib l e   f o r   t a x   p ur p o s e s .
Fa ir   v a lu e   ad j u s t m e n t s   p r in c ip all y   a r i s e   f r o m :
A 1   E limin a t i o n   o f   g o o d w ill   e x i s t in g   in   b al a n c e   s h e e t s   at   ac q ui s i t i o n   a n d   in c lu s i o n   o f   t h e   f a ir   v a lu e   o f   IF R S   3   b u s in e s s   c o m bin at i o n   in t a n g ib l e 
a s s e t s   c o m p r i s in g   p r in c ip all y   b r an d s ,   c u s t o m e r   r e l a t i o n s hip s   a n d   c o n t r ac t s   ( N o t e   1 0 ) .
A 2   R e c og ni t i o n   o f   d e f e r r e d   t a x at i o n   li a bili t i e s   r e l a t in g   t o   o t h e r   ad j u s t m e n t s ,   in c lu d in g   in t a n g ib l e   a s s e t s   r e c og ni s e d .
T h e r e   a r e   n o   ac c o un t in g   p o li c y   ad j u s t m e n t s .
T h e   c o n s i d e r at i o n   p a y ab l e   i s   m ad e   up   o f :
            £ m  
C a s h            40
C o n t i n g e n t c o n s i d e r a t i o n             1
D e f e r r e d  c o n s i d e r a t i o n            2
T o t a l	c o n s i d e r a t i o n           	 43
T h e   g o o d w ill   a r i s in g   in   t h e   y ea r   o f   £ 3 1 m   ( 2 0 0 9 :   £ 6 2 m )   a r i s e s   f r o m   3 1   ( 2 0 0 9 :   2 7 )   s e p ar at e   ac q ui s i t i o n s .     A s   n o   o n e   s in g l e   ac q ui s i t i o n   in   t h e   c ur r e n t 
o r   p r i o r   y ea r   i s   c o n s i d e r e d   m a t e r i al   t o   g o o d w ill ,   t h e   r e c o n c ili at i o n   s um m a r y   a s   s h o w n   in   N o t e   1 0   o f   t h e   fi n a n c i a l   s t at e m e n t s   h a s   n o t   b e e n  
a n al y s e d   b y   eac h   ac q ui s i t i o n   in   t h e   c ur r e n t   y ea r   o r   p r i o r   y ea r .
I F R S   3   ( r e v i s e d )   h a s   b e e n   a d o p t e d   f o r   t h e   fi r s t   t i m e   i n   t h e   y e a r   a n d   i s   a p p l i c a b l e   p r o s p e c t i v e l y   f o r   a l l   a c q u i s i t i o n s   a f t e r   1   O c t o b e r   2 0 0 9 .     I F R S   3  
( r e v i s e d )   r e q u i r e s   c o n s i d e r a t i o n   t h a t   i s   c o n t i n g e n t   o n   f u t u r e   s e r v i c e   b y   t h e   v e n d o r   t o   b e   e x p e n s e d   o v e r   t h e   s e r v i c e   p e r i o d   a n d   a c q u i s i t i o n   c o s t s   t o   
b e   e x p e n s e d   a s   i n c u r r e d .     P r e v i o u s l y   t h e s e   c o s t s   w o u l d   h a v e   b e e n   i n c l u d e d   a s   p a r t   o f   t h e   c o s t   o f   a c q u i s i t i o n   a n d   c a l c u l a t i o n   o f   g o o dw i l l .     A s   a   r e s u l t  
o f   t h e s e   c h a n g e s ,   £ 9 m   h a s   b e e n   e x p e n s e d   i n   t h e   y e a r   a n d   i n c l u d e d   i n   t h e   a c q u i s i t i o n   r e l a t e d   e x p e n s e s   i n   t h e   c o n s o l i d a t e d   i n c o m e   s t a t e m e n t .  
        	 Y e a r 	 e n d e d    Y e a r e n d e d
        	 3 0 	 S e p t e m b e r 	   3 0 S e p t e m b e r
        	 2 0 1 0 	   2 0 0 9
        	 £ m 	   £m  
A c q u i s i t i o n	r e l a t e d	e x p e n s e s 	i n 	o p e r a t i n g 	p r o fi t / ( l o s s )
A m o r t i s a t i o n o f b u s i n e s s  c o m b i n a t i o n  i n t a n g i b l e s        	 54   56
O t h e r  a c q u i s i t i o n  r e l a t e d e x p e n s e s         	 7  –
R e m u n e r a t i o n  f o r p o s t - c o m b i n a t i o n s e r v i c e s        	 2   –
T o t a l        	 63  56 Financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements c o n t i n u e d
www.tuitravelplc.com
108   T U I T r a v e l P L C A n n u a l R e p o r t &  A c c o u n t s  2 0 1 0
M o v e m e n t s   in   d e f e r r e d   a n d   c o n t in g e n t   c o n s i d er at i o n   in   t h e   y ea r   w e r e   a s   f o ll o w s :
      D e f e r r e d    C o n t i n g e n t    L o a n   
      c o n s i d e r a t i o n    c o n s i d e r a t i o n    n o t e s   T o t a l  
      £ m    £ m   £ m    £ m  
A t 1  O c t o b e r  2 0 0 9      20    51    6   77 
R e c o g n i s e d  i n t h e y e a r r e l a t i n g  t o  c u r r e n t y e a r a c q u i s i t i o n s *       2    2    1    5  
A d j u s t m e n t s  t o a m o u n t s r e c o g n i s e d i n  r e s p e c t o f  p r i o r p e r i o d  a c q u i s i t i o n s      1    (11)  (1)  (11)
C a s h   p a i d      (2)   (9)   (4)   (15)
F o r e i g n  e x c h a n g e        –    1    –    1  
A t 	 3 0	S e p t e m b e r	2 0 1 0     	 21		 34 		 2 		 57 
*     I n c l u d e s   c a p i t a l i s e d   a n d   e x p e n s e d   a m o u n t s .     C o n t i n g e n t   c o n s i d e r a t i o n   i s   d e fi n e d   w i t h i n   N o t e   1 ( C ) ( v ) .
F ur t h e r   d e t a il s   o f   d e f e r r e d   a n d   c o n t in g e n t   c o n s i d e r at i o n   p a y ab l e   in   l e s s   t h a n   o n e   y ea r   an d   a f t e r   m o r e   t h a n   o n e   y ea r   i s   g i v e n   in   N o t e s   2 0   an d   
2 2   r e s p e c t i v e l y .
T h e   c o n t in g e n t   a n d   d e f e r r e d   c o n s i d er at i o n   p a y ab l e   a r i s in g   in   t h e   y ea r   i s   in   r e s p e c t   o f   t h e   ac q ui s i t i o n s   li s t e d   b e l o w .     I t   i s   d e p e n d e n t   o n   t h e   r e s ul t s  
o f   t h e   b u s in e s s e s   o v e r   t h e   f o ll o w in g   p e r i o d s   o r   t h e   b al a n c e   o f   w o r k in g   c api t a l   a t   t h e   ac q ui s i t i o n   d a t e ,   a n d   t h e   D ir e c t o r s   b e li e v e   t h e   a m o un t s 
r e fl e c t   t h e   m o s t   lik e l y   o u t c o m e   in   eac h   c a s e :
    B a s i s  o f  P e r i o d f o r   E x p e c t e d
    c a l c u l a t i o n   c a l c u l a t i o n   r a n g e o f
A c q u i s i t i o n     o f  c o n s i d e r a t i o n   o f  c o n s i d e r a t i o n   c o n s i d e r a t i o n  
S e l e c t  W o r l d  P t y  L i m i t e d  ( t r a d i n g a s  S e l e c t   
T o u r s  A u s t r a l i a ) *     Earnings  & Emplo yment  Up t o 31 Dec 2011   A UD 3-4m
S p o r t s  E x e c u t i v e T r a v e l  L i m i t e d     Earnings  & Emplo yment   Up t o 31 Dec 2012  GBP  1m
H a m p s t e a d  S c h o o l  o f  E n g l i s h    Earnings  & Emplo yment   Up t o  13 Aug 2011   GBP  1m
W o n d e r H o l d i n g  A B    Earnings  & Emplo yment   Up t o  30  Sep  2015    SEK  7-17m
T o t a l 	c o n t i n g e n t 	c o n s i d e r a t i o n 	r e c o g n i s e d 	i n	r e s p e c t 	o f	c u r r e n t 	y e a r	a c q u i s i t i o n s       GBP 	4-5m
*   O n   7   S e p t e m b e r   2 0 1 0   S e l e c t   W o r l d   P t y   L i m i t e d   c h a n g e d   i t s   n a m e   t o   I n t e r c r u i s e s   S h o r e s i d e   &   P o r t   S e r v i c e s   P t y   L i m i t e d .
E x p e c t e d   c o n s i d er at i o n   p a y ab l e   r e p r e s e n t s   t h e   e x p e c t e d   c o n s i d e r at i o n   t h at   t h e   G r o up   w ill   b e   o b li g e d   t o   p a y   f o ll o w in g   a n   a s s e s s m e n t   o f   t h e 
r a n g e   o f   p o s s ib l e   c o n t in g e n t   a m oun t s   o f   c o n s i d er at i o n .
T h e   e x p e c t e d   c o n t in g e n t   c o n s i d e r at i o n   f o r   a ll   f o ur   ac q ui s i t i o n s   a b o v e   i s   c al c ul a t e d   u s in g   mul t ip l e s   o f   un d e r l y in g   ea r nin g s .     A s   a ll   o f   t h e   a b o v e 
ac q ui s i t i o n s   a r e   w i t hin   t h e   f a ir   v a luin g   p e r i o d   s in c e   t h e ir   d a t e   o f   ac q ui s i t i o n ,   t h e r e   h a v e   b e e n   n o   m a t e r i al   c h an g e s   t o   t h e   a m o un t s   r e c og ni s e d    
in   t h e   y ea r .
(B) Cash flows arising in respect of acquisitions
T o t al   c a s h   fl o w s   r e l a t in g   t o   ac q ui s i t i o n s   in   t h e   y ea r ,   in c lu d in g   a m oun t s   p a i d   in   r e s p e c t   o f   d e f e r r e d   a n d   c o n t in g e n t   c o n s i d e r at i o n   ar i s in g   o n   p r i o r  
p e r i o d   ac q ui s i t i o n s ,   ar e   a s   f o ll o w s :
        	 E x p e c t e d 	 	 2 0 1 0	
        	 t o t a l 	 	 p a i d 	
        	 £ m 	 	 £ m  
A c q u i s i t i o n s 	i n 	t h e	c u r r e n t 	y e a r        	 40	 40 
D e f e r r e d & c o n t i n g e n t  c o n s i d e r a t i o n a r i s i n g a n d  p a i d         	 3	 1	
C a s h 	o u t fl o w 	r e l a t i n g	t o	c u r r e n t 	y e a r 	a c q u i s i t i o n s 	( e x c l u d i n g 	a c q u i s i t i o n 	r e l a t e d 	e x p e n s e s )     	 43	 41	
C a s h a c q u i r e d w i t h  a c q u i s i t i o n s          	 (5)
N e t 	c a s h 	o u t fl o w 	i n 	t h e	y e a r	r e l a t i n g 	t o 	c u r r e n t 	y e a r	a c q u i s i t i o n s          	 36 
C a s h p a i d r e l a t i n g t o p r i o r p e r i o d  a c q u i s i t i o n s ( i n c l u d i n g  s e t t l e m e n t  o f  a c q u i s i t i o n  r e l a t e d l o a n  n o t e s )       	 15	
N e t	c a s h 	o u t fl o w 	i n 	t h e	y e a r	r e l a t i n g 	t o	a c q u i s i t i o n s           	 51	
A c q u i s i t i o n 	r e l a t e d 	e x p e n s e s            	 7 	
T o t a l	c a s h	o u t fl o w s 	i n 	t h e 	y e a r	r e l a t i n g 	t o	a c q u i s i t i o n s           	 58	
(C) Residual goodwill
A   c o n s i s t e n t   p r o c e s s   i s   un d e r t a k e n   at   eac h   ac q ui s i t i o n   t o   i d e n t i f y   t h e   f a ir   v a lu e   o f   s e p ar a b l e   a s s e t s   a n d   li a bili t i e s   ac q uir e d ,   in c lu d in g   t h e   f a ir   v a lu e  
o f   in t a n g ib l e   a s s e t s ,   b e in g   b r an d s ,   o r d e r   b o o k s ,   li c e n c e s ,   c u s t o m e r   r e l a t i o n s hip s   an d   o t h e r   in t a n g ib l e   a s s e t s .     T h e   r e s i d u a l   g o o d w ill   o n   ac q ui s i t i o n  
r e p r e s e n t s   t h e   v a lu e   o f   a s s e t s   a n d   ea r nin g s   t h at   d o   n o t   f o r m   s e p ar a b l e   a s s e t s   un d e r   IF R S   3   ( r e v i s e d )   b u t   n e v e r t h e l e s s   a r e   e x p e c t e d   t o 
c o n t r ib u t e   t o   t h e   f u t ur e   r e s ul t s   o f   t h e   G r o up . www.tuitravelplc.com
Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
T U I  T r a v e l P L C A n n u a l R e p o r t  & A c c o u n t s  2 0 1 0  109
R e s i d u a l   g o o d w ill   in   r e s p e c t   o f   c ur r e n t   y ea r   ac q ui s i t i o n s   r e p r e s e n t s   p r in c ip all y :
•   M a r k e t   k n o w l e d g e   o f   p ar t i c ul a r   g e og r a p hi c   ar ea s ;
•   K n o w l e d g e   o f   p ar t i c ul a r   m a r k e t   s e g m e n t s ,   f o r   e x a m p l e   s p o r t s   t r a v e l   a n d   l an g u a g e   t r a inin g ;
•   In v o l v e m e n t   o f   e x i s t in g   m a n a g e m e n t   a n d   e m p l o y e e s   a n d   t r a n s f e r   o f   t h e ir   k n o w l e d g e   o f   t h e   o p e r at i o n   o f   t h e   b u s in e s s   m o d e l ;
•   In t e g r at i o n   s y n e r g i e s   p ar t i c ul a r l y   w i t hin   U K   M a in s t r eam   a n d   t h e   A c t i v i t y   S e c t o r ;   a n d
•   T h e   a bili t y   t o   s e ll   ac q uir e d   p r o d u c t   t hr o u g h   e x i s t in g   c h ann e l s   a n d   e x i s t in g   p r o d u c t   t hr o u g h   ac q uir e d   c h ann e l s ,   in   a ll   S e c t o r s .
(D) Consolidated income statement
I f   t h e   b u s in e s s e s   t h at   w e r e   ac q uir e d   a t   v a r i ou s   t im e s   d ur in g   t h e   y ea r   e n d e d   3 0   S e pt e m b e r   2 0 1 0   h ad   b e e n   p ar t   o f   t h e   G r o up   s in c e   1   O c t o b e r  
2 0 0 9 ,   G r o up   r e v e n u e   w o ul d   h a v e   b e e n   in c r ea s e d   b y   £ 4 2 m   t o   £ 1 3 , 4 4 2 m .     T h e   l o s s   b e f o r e   t a x   f o r   t h e   y ea r   o f   £ 3 6 m   w oul d   h a v e   b e e n   £ 8 m   hi g h e r    
at   £ 4 4 m   o n   t hi s   b a s i s .     T hi s   a m oun t   h a s   b e e n   c al c ul a t e d   af t e r   a p p l y in g   t h e   G r o up ’ s   ac c oun t in g   p o li c i e s   a n d   ad j u s t in g   f o r   c h a r g in g   a m o r t i s a t i o n    
o f   b u s in e s s   c o m bin at i o n   in t a n g ib l e s   h ad   t h o s e   in t a n g ib l e   a s s e t s   b e e n   r e c og ni s e d   s in c e   1   O c t o b e r   2 0 0 9 .
T h e   ac q uir e d   b u s in e s s e s   c o n t r ib u t e d   r e v e n u e s   o f   £ 6 8 m   a n d   p r o fi t   af t e r   t a x   ( in c lu d in g   a m o r t i s a t i o n   o f   b u s in e s s   c o m bin at i o n   in t a n g ib l e s )   o f   £ 7 m .
(E) Acquisitions post balance sheet date
S ub s e q u e n t   t o   3 0   S e pt e m b e r   2 0 1 0 ,   t h e   G r o up   ac q uir e d   4 9 %   o f   B o o m e r an g   R e i s e n   G m b H   f o r   c o n s i d e r at i o n   o f   £ 2 m .
T h e   ac c o un t in g   f o r   t hi s   ac q ui s i t i o n   h a s   n o t   y e t   b e e n   fi n a li s e d .  
(F) Prior period revisions to fair values
In   t h e   y ea r   e n d e d   3 0   S e pt e m b e r   2 0 0 9 ,   t h e   G r o up   ac q uir e d   v a r i o u s   b u s in e s s e s   f o r   a   t o t al   c o n s i d e r at i o n   o f   £ 9 2 m .     T h e   fi n a li s at i o n   o f   t h e 
ac q ui s i t i o n   b al a n c e   s h e e t s   f o r   t h e s e   b u s in e s s e s   h a s   n o t   l e d   t o   a   m at e r i al   ad j u s t m e n t   t o   g o o d w ill   p r e s e n t e d   in   t h e   2 0 0 9   ac c o un t s   a n d   t h e r e f o r e  
t h e r e   i s   n o   r e s t at e m e n t   o f   t h e   r e s ul t s   f o r   t h e   y ea r   e n d e d   3 0   S e pt e m b e r   2 0 0 9 ,   o r   b al a n c e   s h e e t   a s   at   3 0   S e pt e m b e r   2 0 0 9   in   r e s p e c t   o f    
t h e s e   fi n a li s at i o n s .
(G) Gains and losses in subsequent periods
IF R S   3   ( r e v i s e d )   a n d   i t s   p r e d e c e s s o r ,   IF R S   3   ( 2 0 0 4 )   r e q uir e s   d i s c l o s ur e   in   t h e   c ur r e n t   y ea r   o f   a n y   m at e r i al   g a in   o r   l o s s   in   t h e   c ur r e n t   p e r i o d   in  
r e s p e c t   o f   m a t e r i al   b u s in e s s   c o m bin at i o n s .     In   2 0 1 0 ,   t h e   G r o up   h a s   im p a ir e d   t h e   a s s e t   o f   I s l a n d   E s c ap e ,   b y   £ 1 5 m   f o ll o w in g   t h e   s t e p   ac q ui s i t i o n   o f 
I s l a n d   C r ui s e s   in   2 0 0 9 .   F ur t h e r   in f o r m a t i o n   i s   in c lu d e d   in   N o t e   1 1 .     T h e r e   w e r e   n o   m a t e r i al   g a in s   o r   l o s s e s   in   r e s p e c t   o f   m a t e r i al   b u s in e s s 
c o m bin at i o n s   in   t h e   c o m p ar at i v e   y ea r .  
D i s p o s a l s
D ur in g   t h e   y ea r   e n d e d   3 0   S e pt e m b e r   2 0 1 0 ,   t h e   G r o up   d i s p o s e d   o f   i t s   1 0 0 %   s h a r e h o l d in g   in   K a y l e e   E n t e r p r i s e s   In c . ,   a   c o m p an y   in c o r p o r a t e d   in  
t h e   Uni t e d   S t a t e s .     T o t al   p r o c e e d s   w e r e   £ 2 m   a n d   t h e   p r o fi t   o n   d i s p o s a l   w a s   £ 1 m .
14. Deferred tax assets and liabilities
    A s s e t s    L i a b i l i t i e s    N e t  
       
  3 0 	 S e p t e m b e r 	   3 0  S e p t e m b e r 	 3 0 	 S e p t e m b e r 	   3 0 S e p t e m b e r 	 3 0 	 S e p t e m b e r 	   3 0 S e p t e m b e r  
  2 0 1 0 	   2 0 0 9   2 0 1 0 	   2 0 0 9    2 0 1 0 	   2 0 0 9  
  £ m    £m   £ m    £m  	 £ m    £m            
I n t a n g i b l e  a s s e t s  1	  26   (150)   (212)  (149)  (186)
F i n a n c e l e a s e  t r a n s a c t i o n s   –	  1   (32)  (25)   (32)  (24)
P r o p e r t y ,   p l a n t  a n d  e q u i p m e n t  97   81   (47)  (44)  50 	  37 
F i n a n c i a l i n s t r u m e n t s  a n d f o r e i g n e x c h a n g e   32	  85   (37)  (80)	 (5)  5 
I n t e r e s t - b e a r i n g l o a n s  a n d  b o r r o w i n g s  254 	   46 	 (230)   (10)  24 	  36 
E m p l o y e e  b e n e fi t s   126 	   117    – 	   –  	 126 	  117  
O t h e r  s h o r t - t e r m  t e m p o r a r y d i f f e r e n c e s   302 	   102    (317)   (50)   (15)   52  
T a x  v a l u e  o f l o s s e s  c a r r i e d  f o r w a r d   87 	  77    – 	  –  	 87 	  77  
T o t a l  899 	   535    (813)   (421)   86 	  114  
S e t o f f  o f d e f e r r e d  t a x  w i t h i n  t h e  s a m e j u r i s d i c t i o n   (785)   (324)   785 	   324    – 	  –  
N e t	t a x	a s s e t s / ( l i a b i l i t i e s )   114 	   211    (28)   (97) 	 86 	  114  
T h e   G r o up   h a s   r e c og ni s e d   d e f e r r e d   t a x   a s s e t s   r e l a t in g   t o   t a x   l o s s e s   in   in d i v i d u a l   t a x   j ur i s d i c t i o n s   b a s e d   o n   f o r e c a s t   f u t ur e   t a x a b l e   p r o fi t s . Financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements c o n t i n u e d
www.tuitravelplc.com
110   T U I T r a v e l P L C A n n u a l R e p o r t &  A c c o u n t s  2 0 1 0
Unrecognised deferred tax assets
D e f e r r e d   t a x   a s s e t s   h a v e   n o t   b e e n   r e c og ni s e d   in   r e s p e c t   o f   t h e   f o ll o w in g   i t e m s   ( r e p o r t e d   at   t h e   a p p li c a b l e   t a x   r at e ) :
            R e s t a t e d  
        	 3 0 	 S e p t e m b e r    3 0  S e p t e m b e r  
        	 2 0 1 0 	   2 0 0 9 
        	 £ m    £m 
C a p i t a l  l o s s e s         	 3	  3  
O t h e r  l o s s e s         	 197 	  147  
O t h e r s h o r t - t e r m  t i m i n g  d i f f e r e n c e s         	 –	  32 
T o t a l	l o s s e s         	 200 	  182  
T h e s e   a s s e t s   h a v e   n o t   b e e n   r e c og ni s e d   p r in c ip all y   b e c a u s e   t h e   D ir e c t o r s   a r e   n o t   c e r t a in   o f   t h e   t imin g   o f   a n y   b e n e fi t s   t h at   mi g h t   a r i s e   in   t h e  
f u t ur e .     T h e s e   l o s s e s   a r e   n o t   s ubj e c t   t o   t im e   e x pir y   a n d   ar e   a v a il ab l e   f o r   u t ili s a t i o n   a g a in s t   p r o fi t s   a r i s in g   in   f u t ur e   p e r i o d s   in   t h e   t e r r i t o r i e s   in  
w hi c h   t h e y   h a v e   a r i s e n .     T h e   v a lu e   o f   unr e c og ni s e d   c api t a l   l o s s e s   h a s   b e e n   r ea s s e s s e d   d ur in g   t h e   y ea r .     T h e   2 0 0 9   c o m p ar at i v e   h a s   b e e n   r e s t at e d  
t o   b e   p r e s e n t e d   o n   a   c o n s i s t e n t   b a s i s .     T h e r e   a r e   n o   o t h e r   unp r o v i d e d   d e f e r r e d   t a x   li a bili t i e s   n o r   unr e c og ni s e d   d e f e r r e d   t a x   a s s e t s .
M o v e m e n t s   in   t e m p o r a r y   d i f f e r e n c e s   d ur in g   t h e   c ur r e n t   y ea r :
    B a l a n c e  a t       R e c o g n i s e d /    R e c o g n i s e d /    	 B a l a n c e 	 a t	
    1  O c t o b e r    A r i s i n g  o n   E x t i n g u i s h e d   ( c h a r g e d )  i n    ( c h a r g e d )  i n    F o r e i g n   	 3 0 	 S e p t e m b e r	
    2 0 0 9    a c q u i s i t i o n   o n d i s p o s a l s  i n c o m e   e q u i t y    e x c h a n g e   	 2 0 1 0 	
    £m    £m   £m   £m    £m    £m  	 £ m	
I n t a n g i b l e  a s s e t s     (186)  (4)   26   13   (1)  3  	 (149)
F i n a n c e  l e a s e  t r a n s a c t i o n s     (24)  –     (8)  –   –  	 (32)
P r o p e r t y ,  p l a n t  a n d e q u i p m e n t    37    –    (1)   14    –    –  	 50	
F i n a n c i a l i n s t r u m e n t s a n d f o r e i g n e x c h a n g e     5    –    1    –     (9)   (2) 	 (5)
I n t e r e s t - b e a r i n g  l o a n s  a n d b o r r o w i n g s     36    –    (3)   27    (31)   (5) 	 24	
E m p l o y e e b e n e fi t s     117    –    –    (5)   13    1  	 126	
O t h e r  s h o r t - t e r m  t e m p o r a r y d i f f e r e n c e s     52    –     8    (65)   (8)   (2) 	 (15)
T a x  v a l u e o f  l o s s e s  c a r r i e d  f o r w a r d     77   –   (11)   20    –   1 	 87	
T o t a l    114   (4)   20   (4)   (36)  (4) 	 86	
M o v e m e n t s   in   t e m p o r a r y   d i f f e r e n c e s   d ur in g   t h e   p r i o r   y ea r   a r e   a n al y s e d   a s   f o ll o w s :
      B a l a n c e  a t      R e c o g n i s e d /    R e c o g n i s e d /       B a l a n c e  a t  
      1  O c t o b e r    A r i s i n g  o n   ( c h a r g e d )  i n   ( c h a r g e d )  i n   F o r e i g n    3 0  S e p t e m b e r  
      2 0 0 8    a c q u i s i t i o n    i n c o m e   e q u i t y    e x c h a n g e     2 0 0 9  
      £ m   £ m  £ m   £ m   £ m    £ m 
I n t a n g i b l e  a s s e t s       (187)  (1)  15   1    (14)  (186)
F i n a n c e  l e a s e  t r a n s a c t i o n s       12   –    (35)  –   (1)   (24)
P r o p e r t y , p l a n t  a n d e q u i p m e n t      (3)  –    41   –   (1)   37 
F i n a n c i a l  i n s t r u m e n t s a n d f o r e i g n e x c h a n g e       (23)   –    (10)   39    (1)   5 
I n t e r e s t - b e a r i n g  l o a n s  a n d b o r r o w i n g s       (1)  –   39    –   (2)  36 
E m p l o y e e b e n e fi t s       58   –    (7)  65   1    117 
O t h e r  s h o r t - t e r m  t e m p o r a r y d i f f e r e n c e s      50   (1)  (1)   –   4   52 
T a x  v a l u e  o f  l o s s e s  c a r r i e d f o r w a r d       64    –    17    –    (4)   77  
T o t a l      (30)  (2)  59    105   (18)   114 
In t an g ib l e   a s s e t   t e m p o r a r y   d i f f e r e n c e s   a r i s e   in   r e s p e c t   o f   a s s e t s   r e c og ni s e d   o n   ac q ui s i t i o n .     P r o p e r t y ,   p l a n t   a n d   e q uip m e n t   t e m p o r a r y 
d i f f e r e n c e s   p r in c ip all y   r e l a t e   t o   t a x   d e p r e c i at i o n   in   t h e   U K ,   F r a n c e   a n d   G e r m an y .     E m p l o y e e   b e n e fi t s   t e m p o r a r y   d i f f e r e n c e s   a r i s e   in   r e s p e c t   o f 
d e fi n e d   b e n e fi t   p e n s i o n   s c h e m e   li a bili t i e s   a n d   f u t ur e   d e d u c t i o n s   a v a il ab l e   o n   t h e   v e s t in g   o f   e m p l o y e e   a w a r d s .     F in an c i al   in s t r um e n t s   a n d   f o r e i g n  
e x c h an g e   t e m p o r a r y   d i f f e r e n c e s   a r i s e   in   r e s p e c t   o f   fi n a n c i a l   in s t r um e n t s   ac c ount e d   f o r   un d e r   I A S   3 9   a n d   p r in c ip all y   r e fl e c t   t h e   f a ir   v a lu e   at    
3 0   S e pt e m b e r   2 0 1 0   o f   c a s h   fl o w   h e d g in g   d e r i v a t i v e s   t h at   w ill   b e   s e t t l e d   a g a in s t   f u t ur e   t r a n s ac t i o n s .     O t h e r   s h o r t - t e r m   t e m p o r a r y   d i f f e r e n c e s  
r e l a t e   t o   o p e r at in g   e x p e n s e s   a n d   r e l a t e d   ac c r u a l s   a n d   p r o v i s i o n s   f o r   w hi c h   a   t a x   d e d u c t i o n   h a s   n o t   y e t   b e e n   r e c og ni s e d .  
15. Inventories
        	 3 0 	 S e p t e m b e r 	   3 0 S e p t e m b e r  
        	 2 0 1 0 	   2 0 0 9  
        	 £ m 	   £m 
M a r i n e  i n v e n t o r i e s         	 15 	  17 
A i r l i n e  s p a r e s  a n d  o p e r a t i n g e q u i p m e n t        	 24	  21  
O t h e r  o p e r a t i n g  i n v e n t o r i e s         	 10	  13 
T o t a l        	 49	  51 
T h e   r e v e r s a l   o f   a   w r i t e - d o w n   o f   in v e n t o r i e s   t o   n e t   r ea li s a b l e   v a lu e   a m o un t e d   t o   £ 2 m   in   2 0 1 0   ( 2 0 0 9 :   w r i t e - d o w n   £ 3 m ) .     www.tuitravelplc.com
Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
T U I  T r a v e l P L C A n n u a l R e p o r t  & A c c o u n t s  2 0 1 0  111
16. Trade and other receivables
      R est a t ed  R est a t ed
  3 0 	 S e p t e m b e r 	 2 0 1 0   30  Sept ember   2009   30  Sept ember  2008
     
  	 C u r r e n t 	 N o n - c u r r e n t 	 T o t a l   C u r r e n t  N o n - c u r r e n t  T o t a l   C u r r e n t   N o n - c u r r e n t  T o t a l
  	 a s s e t s 	 a s s e t s 	 a s s e t s   a s s e t s   a s s e t s   a s s e t s   a s s e t s   a s s e t s   a s s e t s
  	 £ m 	 	 £ m 	 	 £ m    £m    £m    £m    £m    £m    £m  
T r a d e r e c e i v a b l e s  	 586 		 –		 586 	   604    –   604    576    –   576 
A m o u n t s  o w e d b y  r e l a t e d p a r t i e s  	 		 53	 –		 53	  26    –    26    133    2    135  
I n t e r e s t  b e a r i n g  o t h e r  r e c e i v a b l e s	 	 – 		 7		 7 	  –    –    –    –   –   – 
O t h e r r e c e i v a b l e s  	 204 		 34		 238	  266    43    309    340    98    438  
  	 843 		 41		 884	  896    43    939    1,049    100    1,149  
P r e p a y m e n t s   	 561 		 115		 676	  586   151   737   550    110   660 
T o t a l  	 1,404 		 156		 1,560      1,482    194    1,676    1,599    210    1,809  
T r ad e   r e c e i v ab l e s   a s   at   3 0   S e pt e m b e r   2 0 0 9   h a v e   b e e n   r e d u c e d   b y   £ 54 m   ( 2 0 0 8 :   £ 54 m )   f o ll o w in g   t h e   r e s t at e m e n t   d i s c l o s e d   in   N o t e   1 ( B ) ( i i ) .
T h e   m a x imum   e x p o s ur e   t o   c r e d i t   r i s k   f o r   t o t al   l o an s   a n d   r e c e i v ab l e s   at   t h e   r e p o r t in g   d a t e   b y   g e og r a p hi c   r e g i o n   w a s :
            R e s t a t e d
        	 	 3 0 	 S e p t e m b e r   3 0 S e p t e m b e r  
        	 2 0 1 0   2 0 0 9
        	 £ m    £m  
U n i t e d  K i n g d o m         	 235	  222  
G e r m a n y         	 131    132 
F r a n c e         	 93	  132 
O t h e r E u r o p e a n  c o u n t r i e s         	 358 	  331  
R e s t o f t h e W o r l d         	 67   122 
T o t a l        	 884    939  
T r ad e   a n d   o t h e r   r e c e i v ab l e s   ar e   d i s c l o s e d   n e t   o f   p r o v i s i o n s   f o r   b ad   an d   d o ub t f ul   d e b t s ,   an   a n al y s i s   o f   w hi c h   i s   s h o w n   b e l o w :
        	 	 3 0 	 S e p t e m b e r   3 0 S e p t e m b e r  
        	 2 0 1 0   2 0 0 9
        	 £ m    £m  
B a l a n c e a t t h e  b e g i n n i n g  o f t h e  y e a r        	 59 	  36 
F o r e i g n e x c h a n g e         	 (2)  10 
C h a r g e t o  t h e c o n s o l i d a t e d  i n c o m e  s t a t e m e n t         	 17	  23 
U t i l i s a t i o n  o f p r o v i s i o n         	 (19)   (10)
T o t a l        	 55	  59  
T h e   a g e in g   o f   t r ad e   r e c e i v ab l e s   at   t h e   b al a n c e   s h e e t   d a t e   w a s :
        R est a t ed
    3 0 	 S e p t e m b e r 	 2 0 1 0   30  Sept ember  2009
     
        	 G r o s s 	 P r o v i s i o n 	 N e t   G r o s s   P r o v i s i o n  N e t 
        	 £ m 	 £ m 	 £ m    £m  £m  £m 
N o t o v e r d u e         	 645		 (2)	 643 	   696    (1)  695 
O v e r d u e 1  – 3 0  d a y s         	 139 		 (3)	 136    125    (8)   117  
O v e r d u e 3 1  – 9 0  d a y s         	 47 		 (1)	 46   50    (3)  47  
O v e r d u e 9 1  – 1 8 0  d a y s         	 18 		 (2)	 16   20    (3)  17  
O v e r d u e m o r e t h a n  1 8 0 d a y s         	 90		 (47)	 43    107    (44)   63  
T o t a l        	 939		 (55)	 884    998    (59)   939  
N o   in d i v i d u a ll y   m a t e r i al   b ad   d e b t   p r o v i s i o n   m o v e m e n t s   o r   c h a n g e s   h a v e   b e e n   r e c o r d e d   in   t h e   y ea r .     B a s e d   o n   p a s t   e x p e r i e n c e   a n d   t h e   p o s t  
b al a n c e   s h e e t   p e r i o d   t o   t h e   d a t e   o f   a p p r o v a l   o f   t h e s e   c o n s o li d at e d   fi n a n c i a l   s t at e m e n t s ,   t h e   G r o up   c o n s i d er s   t h at   t h e   p r o v i s i o n   a ll o w an c e  
r e c o r d e d   i s   ad e q u a t e .     W i t hin   t h e   p r o v i s i o n   t h e r e   a r e   n o   in d i v i d u a ll y   m a t e r i al   am oun t s   h e l d .     T r ad e   r e c e i v ab l e s   n o t   o v e r d u e   a n d   n o t   im p a ir e d 
in c lu d e   a m oun t s   d u e   f r o m   t r a v e l   a g e n c i e s ,   t o ur   o p e r at o r s   a n d   h o t e li e r s   in   r e s p e c t   o f   M a in s t r ea m ,   S p e c i a li s t   &   E m e r g in g   M a r k e t s ,   A c t i v i t y   an d  
A c c o m m o d a t i o n   &   D e s t in a t i o n s   S e c t o r s .     C r e d i t   e x p o s ur e   t o   in d i v i d u a l   p a s s e n g e r s   b o o k in g   h o li d a y s   d ir e c t l y   i s   limi t e d   b y   t h e   G r o up ’ s   p o li c y   t h at 
f ull   p a y m e n t   i s   r e q uir e d   b e f o r e   t h e   i s s u e   o f   t i c k e t s   an d   h o li d a y   d e p a r t ur e .
T h e   p r o v i s i o n   o f   £ 5 5 m   ( 2 0 0 9 :   £ 5 9 m )   r e l a t e s   t o   g r o s s   r e c e i v ab l e s   o f   £ 9 6 m   ( 2 0 0 9 :   £ 1 0 3 m ) .     T h e r e f o r e   t h e r e   ar e   £ 1 9 8 m   o f   r e c e i v ab l e s   t h at   a r e  
o v e r d u e   a n d   n o t   im p a ir e d   a t   3 0   S e pt e m b e r   2 0 1 0   ( 2 0 0 9 :   £ 1 9 9 m ) . Financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements c o n t i n u e d
www.tuitravelplc.com
112   T U I T r a v e l P L C A n n u a l R e p o r t &  A c c o u n t s  2 0 1 0
17. Cash and cash equivalents
        	 	 3 0 	 S e p t e m b e r   3 0 S e p t e m b e r  
        	 2 0 1 0   2 0 0 9
        	 £ m    £m  
C a s h i n h a n d         	 18 	  34 
C a s h a t  b a n k        	 234 	  304  
D e p o s i t s        	 1,052	   452 
C a s h 	a n d 	 c a s h 	e q u i v a l e n t s         	 1,304	   790 
C a s h   a n d   c a s h   e q ui v a l e n t s   in c lu d e s   £ 5 1 m   ( 2 0 0 9 :   £ 6 0 m )   t h at   i s   n o t   a v a il ab l e   f o r   im m e d i at e   u s e   b y   t h e   G r o up .     T hi s   i s   m ad e   up   o f   m o ni e s   h e l d   
t o   m e e t   r e g ul a t o r y   r e q uir e m e n t s   p lu s   c a s h   b al a n c e s   o n   s h o r t - t e r m   d e p o s i t s   h e l d   o n   a   r e s t r i c t e d   b a s i s   b y   t h e   G r o up ’ s   c apt i v e   in s ur an c e   f un d s   
a s   p ar t   o f   t h e ir   o n g oin g   o p e r at i o n s .
D e p o s i t s   in c lu d e   a n   a m oun t   o f   £ 3 7 0 m   ( 2 0 0 9 :   £ nil )   w hi c h   i s   d e p o s i t e d   w i t h   t h e   p ar e n t   c o m p an y ,   T U I   A G   a n d   i s   r e p a y a b l e   o n   d e m an d .
O t h e r   c ur r e n t   in v e s t m e n t s   d i s c l o s e d   in   t h e   c o n s o li d at e d   b al a n c e   s h e e t   o f   £ nil   ( 2 0 0 9 :   £ 3 6 m )   c o m p r i s e   d e p o s i t   b al a n c e s   h e l d   t o   m e e t   r e g ul a t o r y 
r e q uir e m e n t s   w i t h   a   t e r m   e x c e e d in g   t hr e e   m o n t h s .
18. Assets classified as held for sale 
        	 	 3 0 	 S e p t e m b e r   3 0 S e p t e m b e r  
        	 2 0 1 0   2 0 0 9
        	 £ m    £m 
Y a c h t s a n d m o t o r  b o a t s        	 1   4  
L a n d   a n d b u i l d i n g s        	 1   9 
A i r c r a f t         	 15	  16  
D i s p o s a l  g r o u p s  – a s s e t s        	 30	  93  
O t h e r        	 10 	  4  
T o t a l	a s s e t s 	c l a s s i fi e d 	a s	h e l d 	f o r 	s a l e         	 57   126 
D i s p o s a l  g r o u p s  – l i a b i l i t i e s        	 (31)   (59)
N e t	a s s e t s 	c l a s s i fi e d 	a s	h e l d 	f o r	s a l e         	 26   67  
T h e   d i s p o s a l   g r o up   a s s e t s   a n d   li a bili t i e s   h e l d   f o r   s a l e   c o m p r i s e   S o c i é t é   d ’ In v e s t i s s e m e n t   A é r i e n   S . A .   ( J e t 4 Y o u )   at   3 0   S e pt e m b e r   2 0 1 0   a n d   
3 0   S e pt e m b e r   2 0 0 9   an d   t h e   C an ad i a n   M a in s t r ea m   b u s in e s s   a t   3 0   S e pt e m b e r   2 0 0 9 .     J e t 4 Y o u   i s   in c lu d e d   w i t hin   t h e   r e s t   o f   W e s t e r n   E ur o p e 
s e g m e n t   a n d   t h e   C an ad i a n   M a in s t r ea m   b u s in e s s   w a s   in c lu d e d   in   t h e   r e s t   o f   N o r t h e r n   R e g i o n .     J e t 4 Y o u   i s   p r e s e n t e d   a s   h e l d   f o r   s a l e   a t   t h e 
c ur r e n t   a n d   p r i o r   y ea r   e n d ,   b a s e d   o n   t h e   ac t i v e   a n d   o n g oin g   d i s p o s a l   p r o c e s s   f o r   t h e   b u s in e s s   w hi c h   i s   p r og r e s s in g   a n d   w hi c h   t h e   D ir e c t o r s   
e x p e c t   t o   c o m p l e t e   w i t hin   1 2   m o n t h s .
A s s e t s   h e l d   f o r   s a l e   a r e   e x p e c t e d   t o   b e   s o l d   w i t hin   1 2   m o n t h s .   
T h e   C an ad i a n   M a in s t r eam   b u s in e s s   w a s   c l a s s i fi e d   a s   a   d i s p o s a l   g r o up   a s   at   3 0   S e pt e m b e r   2 0 0 9   a n d   d i s c l o s e d   a s   h e l d   f o r   s a l e   p r e v i o u s l y   o n   t h e 
b a s i s   o f   t h e   a nn oun c e d   s t r at e g i c   v e n t ur e   t r a n s ac t i o n   w i t h   S un w in g   T r a v e l   G r o up   In c . ,   a   l ead in g   t o ur   o p e r at o r   in   C an ad a .     T h e   r e s p e c t i v e   p ar t i e s  
r e c e i v e d   a ll   t h e   n e c e s s a r y   r e g ul a t o r y   a p p r o v a l s   o n   1 4   Jan u a r y   2 0 1 0   a n d   s ub s e q u en t l y   fi n a li s e d   t h e   t r a n s ac t i o n .
Un d e r   t h e   t e r m s   o f   t h e   d eal ,   T U I   T r a v e l   P L C   c o n t r ib u t e d   i t s   C an ad i a n   M a in s t r ea m   o p e r at i o n s   p lu s   C $ 1 0 2 m   a n d   S un w in g   c o n t r ib u t e d   i t s 
o p e r at i o n s   t o   t h e   s t r at e g i c   v e n t ur e .   T U I   T r a v e l   r e c e i v e d   a   4 9 %   e c o n o mi c   in t e r e s t   in   t h e   s t r at e g i c   v e n t ur e ,   w i t h   S un w in g ’ s   o w n e r s   r e c e i v in g   
5 1 %   o f   t h e   e c o n o mi c   in t e r e s t .     T h e   t o t a l   g a in   r e c og ni s e d   o n   t h e   d i s p o s a l   o f   t h e   M a in s t r eam   b u s in e s s   in   ac c o r d a n c e   w i t h   I A S   2 7   ( r e v i s e d )   w a s  
£ 1 3 m   a n d   h a s   b e e n   in c lu d e d   w i t hin   s e p ar at e l y   d i s c l o s e d   i t e m s   in   N o t e   3 .
G o o d w ill   a r i s in g   o n   t h e   t r a n s ac t i o n   w a s   £ 4 7 m   an d   f o r m s   p ar t   o f   t h e   G r o up ’ s   e q ui t y   in v e s t m e n t   in   a s s o c i at e d   un d e r t a k in g s .
        	 Y e a r 	 e n d e d    Y e a r e n d e d 
        	 3 0 	 S e p t e m b e r 	   3 0 S e p t e m b e r  
        	 2 0 1 0    2 0 0 9
        	 £ m   £m
R e s u l t 	o f 	t h e	d i s p o s e d	g r o u p	c o m p a n y 	c l a s s i fi e d 	a s	h e l d 	f o r 	s a l e 	a s	a t	3 0	S e p t e m b e r 	2 0 0 9 	–		
C a n a d i a n	M a i n s t r e a m	b u s i n e s s 	–	1 0 0 %	
R e v e n u e        	 52 	  167 
E x p e n s e s         	 (57)  (192)
L o s s b e f o r e  t a x o f d i s p o s e d  o p e r a t i o n         	 (5)  (25)
T a x        	 –	  – 
L o s s 	f o r 	t h e	y e a r	f r o m 	d i s p o s e d 	o p e r a t i o n         	 (5)   (25)
A s s o c i a t e d  G r o u p  s h a r e o f r e s u l t s  o f t h e S u n w i n g  s t r a t e g i c  v e n t u r e – 4 9 %
S h a r e  o f u n d e r l y i n g  p r o fi t s  b e f o r e t a x  f o r t h e y e a r        	 1	  –  
S h a r e  o f t a x  c h a r g e         	 –	  –  
S h a r e 	o f 	n e t	p r o fi t s         	 1	  –  www.tuitravelplc.com
Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
T U I  T r a v e l P L C A n n u a l R e p o r t  & A c c o u n t s  2 0 1 0  113
19. Interest-bearing loans and borrowings
          3 0 	 S e p t e m b e r 	   3 0 S e p t e m b e r  
        	 2 0 1 0 	   2 0 0 9 
        	 £ m    £m   
C u r r e n t	l i a b i l i t i e s
A m o u n t s  o w e d t o r e l a t e d p a r t i e s        	 575	  229  
B a n k l o a n s  a n d o v e r d r a f t s         	 1	  31 
L o a n n o t e s         	 1	  3  
F i n a n c e  l e a s e s  ( a n d  h i r e p u r c h a s e  c o n t r a c t s )         	 142 	  25  
O t h e r  fi n a n c i a l  l i a b i l i t i e s        	 38	  39  
T o t a l        	 757 	  327  
O t h e r   fi n a n c i a l   li a bili t i e s   c o m p r i s e   t h e   ‘ f a ir   v a lu e ’   o f   t w o   p u t   o pt i o n s   w r i t t e n   b y   t h e   G r o up   t o   t h e   s o l e   r e m a inin g   n o n - c o n t r o llin g   in t e r e s t 
s h a r e h o l d e r   in   L ’ T U R   t h at   m a y   r e q uir e   t h e   G r o up   t o   p urc h a s e   t h e   n o n - c o n t r o llin g   in t e r e s t   s h a r e h o l d in g .     D ur in g   t h e   p r i o r   y ea r ,   t h e   G r o up  
in c r ea s e d   i t s   s h a r e h o l d in g   f r o m   5 1 %   t o   7 0 %   o n   t h e   e x e rc i s e   o f   p ar t   o f   o n e   o f   t h e   o pt i o n s .     T h e   r e m a in d e r   o f   t hi s   p u t   o pt i o n   o v e r   2 0 %   o f   t h e 
s h a r e s   m a y   b e   e x e rc i s e d   a t   a n y   t im e   un t il   2 0 1 5 .     A   f ur t h e r   p u t   o pt i o n   at   a   fi x e d   p r i c e   w i t h   n o   t im e   limi t   h a s   b e e n   w r i t t e n   b y   t h e   G r o up   d ur in g   
t h e   y ea r   t o   t h e   s a m e   n o n - c o n t r o llin g   in t e r e s t   s h a r e h o l d e r   f o r   t h e   r e m a inin g   1 0 %   s h a r e h o l d in g .
Fa ir   v a lu e   c h an g e s   in   t h e   p u t   o pt i o n   li a bili t y   a r e   in c lu d e d   w i t hin   fi n a n c i a l   e x p e n s e s   o r   fi n a n c i a l   in c o m e .
        	 3 0 	 S e p t e m b e r 	   3 0 S e p t e m b e r  
        	 2 0 1 0 	   2 0 0 9 
        	 £ m 	   £m  
N o n - c u r r e n t	l i a b i l i t i e s
A m o u n t s  o w e d t o r e l a t e d p a r t i e s        	 –	  611  
B a n k l o a n s         	 35   20  
L o a n n o t e s         	 1	  3  
F i n a n c e  l e a s e s  ( a n d  h i r e p u r c h a s e  c o n t r a c t s )         	 127 	  167  
C o n v e r t i b l e b o n d s        	 633 	  –  
T o t a l        	 796	  801 
T h e   b ank   l o an s   a n d   l o an   n o t e s   a r e   r e p a y a b l e :
        	 3 0 	 S e p t e m b e r 	   3 0 S e p t e m b e r  
        	 2 0 1 0 	    2 0 0 9 
        	 £ m 	    £m  
W i t h i n o n e  y e a r        	 2	  34 
B e t w e e n o n e a n d fi v e  y e a r s        	 36	  23 
T o t a l        	 38	  57  
C e r t a in   l o an s   a r e   s e c ur e d   o n   t h e   un d e r l y in g   a s s e t s   o f   t h e   c o m p an y   in   w h o s e   n a m e   t h e   b o r r o w in g s   a r e   m ad e .   A t   3 0   S e pt e m b e r   2 0 1 0   a n d   
3 0   S e pt e m b e r   2 0 0 9   t h e   r e l a t e d   p ar t y   l o an s   w e r e   all   r e p a y a b l e   w i t hin   fi v e   y ea r s .     F in an c e   l ea s e   li a bili t i e s   r e l a t e   p r im a r il y   t o   t h e   l ea s in g   o f   a irc r af t , 
b o at s   a n d   c r ui s e   s hip s .     G r o up   o b li g at i o n s   un d e r   fi n a n c e   l ea s e s   a n d   hir e   p urc h a s e   c o n t r ac t s   a r e   p a y ab l e   a s   f o ll o w s :
  	 	 M i n i m u m       M i n i m u m
  	 	 l e a s e       l e a s e
  	 	 p a y m e n t s       p a y m e n t s  
  	 	 3 0 	 S e p t e m b e r       3 0 S e p t e m b e r
  P r i n c i p a l 	 	 I n t e r e s t 	 	 2 0 1 0 	   P r i n c i p a l   I n t e r e s t    2 0 0 9  
  £ m 	 	 £ m 	 	 £ m 	   £m    £m   £m 
I n r e s p e c t  o f a i r c r a f t ,  y a c h t s  a n d e q u i p m e n t p a y a b l e w i t h i n :
O n e  y e a r  142	 12	 154  25   8   33 
O n e  t o fi v e  y e a r s  78	 14	 92   164   6    170 
A f t e r fi v e  y e a r s  49	 16	 65   3   –    3 
T o t a l   269	 42	 311  192   14   206  Financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements c o n t i n u e d
www.tuitravelplc.com
114   T U I T r a v e l P L C A n n u a l R e p o r t &  A c c o u n t s  2 0 1 0
C o n v e r t i b l e 	 b o n d s
        	 3 0 	 S e p t e m b e r    3 0 S e p t e m b e r  
        	 2 0 1 0 	   2 0 0 9  
        	 £ m 	   £m  
£ 3 5 0 m C o n v e r t i b l e  B o n d 6 . 0 %  O c t o b e r  2 0 1 4         	 304	  –
£ 4 0 0 m  C o n v e r t i b l e   B o n d 4 . 9 %  A p r i l 2 0 1 7         	 329    –
T o t a l        	 633    –
T h e   G r o up   i s s u e d   t w o   c o n v e r t ib l e   b o n d s   d ur in g   t h e   y ea r .
i )     A   £ 3 5 0 m   fi x e d   r at e   6 %   b o n d   w a s   i s s u e d   o n   1   O c t o b e r   2 0 0 9   a n d   s e t t l e d   o n   5   O c t o b e r   2 0 0 9   r a i s in g   £ 3 4 1 m   n e t   o f   i s s u e   c o s t s .     T h e   b o n d   i s 
c o n v e r t ib l e   at   t h e   o pt i o n   o f   t h e   h o l d e r ,   b e f o r e   o r   up o n   m a t ur i t y   in   O c t o b e r   2 0 1 4 .     C o n v e r s i o n   in t o   o r d in ar y   s h a r e s   w ill   o c c ur   at   a   p r e mi um   o f 
3 3 %   t o   t h e   G r o up ’ s   s h a r e   p r i c e   o n   t h e   d a t e   o f   i s s u an c e .
i i )     A   £ 4 0 0 m   fi x e d   r at e   4 . 9 %   b o n d   w a s   i s s u e d   o n   2 2   A p r il   2 0 1 0   an d   s e t t l e d   o n   2 7   A p r il   2 0 1 0   r a i s in g   £ 3 91 m   n e t   o f   i s s u e   c o s t s .     T h e   b o n d   i s  
c o n v e r t ib l e   at   t h e   o pt i o n   o f   t h e   h o l d e r ,   b e f o r e   o r   up o n   m a t ur i t y   in   A p r il   2 0 1 7 .     C o n v e r s i o n   in t o   o r d in ar y   s h a r e s   w ill   o c c ur   at   a   p r e mi um   o f   3 3 % 
t o   t h e   G r o up ’ s   s h a r e   p r i c e   o n   t h e   d a t e   o f   i s s u an c e .
T h e   G r o up   h o l d s   a n   I s s u e r   c all   o pt i o n   t o   r e d e e m   t h e   c o n v e r t ib l e   b o n d s   at   t h e ir   p r in c ip al   a m oun t s ,   t og e t h e r   w i t h   ac c r u e d   in t e r e s t ,   up o n 
f ul fi lm e n t   o f   c e r t a in   p r e - d e t e r min e d   c r i t e r i a .     T h e   f a ir   v a lu e   o f   t hi s   o pt i o n   w a s   n e g li g ib l e   at   3 0   S e pt e m b e r   2 0 1 0 .     T h e   e q ui t y   p o r t i o n   o f   t h e   b o n d s  
o f   £ 8 3 m   i s   in c lu d e d   in   t h e   c o n v e r t ib l e   b o n d   r e s e r v e .
R e c o nc i l i a t io n 	 o f 	 f a c e 	 v a l u e 	 t o 	 c a r r y i n g 	 a m o u n t
        £ 3 5 0 m    £ 4 0 0 m 	 T o t a l	
        C o n v e r t i b l e  C o n v e r t i b l e	 C o n v e r t i b l e
        B o n d   B o n d	 B o n d s
        £m    £m 	 £ m	
C o n v e r t i b l e  b o n d  – F a c e v a l u e        350  400 	 750 
I s s u e c o s t        (9)  (9)	 (18)
C a s h  r e c e i v e d         341   391 	 	 732	
E q u i t y p o r t i o n         (48)  (66)	 (114)
A c c r e t i o n  i n t e r e s t         9     4 	 	13	
I s s u e  c o s t s a m o r t i s e d        2       –	 		2	
C a r r y i n g	a m o u n t         304 		 	 329 		 	 633	
20. Current trade and other payables
          R e s t a t e d   R e s t a t e d
      	 3 0 	 S e p t e m b e r 	 	   3 0   S e p t e m b e r   3 0  S e p t e m b e r  
      	 2 0 1 0 	   2 0 0 9   2 0 0 8  
      	 £ m 	    £m   £m 
T r a d e  p a y a b l e s       	 1,365 	   1,421    1,158 
D e f e r r e d a n d c o n t i n g e n t  c o n s i d e r a t i o n  ( N o t e  1 3 ( A ) )      	 25	  23   20 
O t h e r p a y a b l e s      	 181	  232    233 
A m o u n t s o w e d  t o r e l a t e d  p a r t i e s       	 87 	  134   77  
O t h e r t a x e s  a n d  s o c i a l  s e c u r i t y  c o s t s       	 65 	  99    58 
A c c r u a l s a n d  d e f e r r e d  i n c o m e      	 1,065    1,005   1,033  
C l i e n t m o n e y  r e c e i v e d  i n a d v a n c e       	 1,513 	   1,306   1,494 
T o t a l      	 4,301    4,220   4,073  
T r ad e   p a y ab l e s   a s   at   3 0   S e pt e m b e r   2 0 0 9   h a v e   b e e n   in c r ea s e d   b y   £ 5 8 m   ( 2 0 0 8 :   £ 1 6 m )   f o ll o w in g   t h e   r e s t at e m e n t   d i s c l o s e d   in   N o t e   1 ( B ) ( i i ) . www.tuitravelplc.com
Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 115
21. Provisions for liabilities and charges
   Aircraft    
   maintenance  Restructuring  Other  Total 
   £m  £m  £m  £m 
At 1 October 2009   254  30  155  439 
Provided in the year   198  55  94  347 
Released in the year   (12) (2) (14) (28)
Unwinding of discounted amount   10  –  1  11 
Costs incurred   (115) (26) (76) (217)
Foreign exchange   (5) 1  (5) (9)
At 30 September 2010   330  58  155  543 
Analysed as:    
Non-current   236  26  45  307 
Current   94  32  110  236 
   330  58  155  543 
At 30 September 2009    
Analysed as:    
Non-current   205  2  43 250 
Current   49  28  112 189 
   254  30  155 439 
Aircraft maintenance
In respect of aircraft, provision is made for maintenance, overhaul and repair costs of operating leased airframes, engines and certain other 
components based on total anticipated costs over the useful economic life of the asset calculated by reference to costs experienced and 
published manufacturers’ data.  The charge to the income statement is calculated by reference to the number of hours and cycles flown and  
by reference to the length of the full overhaul cycle.  Costs incurred are charged against the provision.  Neither the timing nor the value of the 
expenditure can be precisely determined but they can be averaged over time and over a fleet.
The cost of major overhauls of owned airframes and engines is capitalised and depreciated over the period until the next scheduled  
major overhaul.
Restructuring
Restructuring, which includes severance payments, relates to provisions arising as a result of reorganisation and restructuring plans that are 
irrevocably committed.  Further details of restructuring projects in the current year are set out in Note 3.  
The provision is expected to be utilised within 18 months of the balance sheet date.
Other
Other provisions relate to litigation (including provisions for contingent liabilities recorded on the merger of First Choice), onerous lease 
contracts that have been entered into in the ordinary course of business and other future obligations, the amount or timing of which is 
uncertain.  The majority of the provision is anticipated to be utilised within 12 months of the balance sheet date, while the remainder is expected 
to be utilised within one to four years of the balance sheet date, although the timing and payments related to individual litigation claims is 
estimated and is inherently uncertain.
22. Non-current trade and other payables
     30 September  30 September 
     2010  2009 
     £m  £m 
Deferred and contingent consideration (Note 13(A))     30  48 
Other payables     19  5 
Accruals and deferred income     44  55 
Total     93  108  Financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
www.tuitravelplc.com
116 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010
23. Share capital
     30 September  30 September 
     2010  2009 
     £m  £m 
Authorised  
1,999,500,020 (2009: 1,999,500,020) ordinary shares of 10p each     200  200 
49,998 (2009: 49,998) redeemable preference shares of £1 each     –  – 
Total     200  200 
     30 September  30 September 
     2010  2009 
     £m  £m 
Issued and fully paid  
1,118,010,670 (2009: 1,118,010,670) ordinary shares of 10p each     112  112 
Total     112  112 
As described more fully in Note 35, the ultimate parent company, TUI AG, is the beneficial owner of 54.92% of the Company’s issued ordinary 
share capital as at 30 September 2010.
From time to time the Company purchases its own shares on the market; the timing of these purchases depends on market prices.  Primarily the 
shares are intended to be used for issuing shares under the Company’s share award programme.  Buy and sell decisions are made on a specific 
transaction basis by the Board; the Company does not have a defined share buy-back plan.
Acquisition of own shares
The number of shares held by the Group’s Employee Benefit Trusts (EBT) at 30 September 2010 and at 30 September 2009 is disclosed in  
Note 5(D).  
24. Capital and reserves 
   Convertible     Equity Non- 
  Share bond Merger Translation Hedging Retained holders controlling 
  capital reserve reserve reserve reserve deficit of parent interests Total
  £m  £m £m  £m  £m £m  £m  £m  £m 
At 1 October 2008 (as previously reported) 112  –  2,490  232  27  (270) 2,591  5  2,596 
Restatement (Note 1(B)(ii))  –  –  –  –  –  (70) (70) –  (70)
Restated balance at 1 October 2008   112  –  2,490  232  27  (340) 2,521  5  2,526 
(Loss)/profit for the year  
(as previously reported)  –  –  –  –  –  (25) (25) 1  (24)
Restatement (Note 1(B)(ii))  –  –  –  –  –  (42) (42) –  (42)
Restated (loss)/profit for the year  –  –  –  –  –  (67) (67) 1  (66)
Other comprehensive income/(expense)  
for the year         
Other comprehensive income/(expense)   –  –  –  128  (102) (206) (180)  1 (179)
Restated total comprehensive income/ 
(expense) for the year  –  –  –  128  (102) (273) (247) 2 (245)
Transactions with owners         
Share-based payment (net of deferred tax) –  –  –  –  –  16  16  –  16 
Dividends  –  –  –  –  –  (107) (107) (3) (110)
Acquisition of non-controlling interests  –  –  –  –  –  (12) (12) (1) (13)
Restated balance at 30 September 2009   112  –  2,490  360  (75) (716) 2,171  3  2,174  www.tuitravelplc.com
Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 117
   Convertible     Equity Non-
  Share  bond Merger  Translation  Hedging  Retained holders  controlling
  capital  reserve reserve  reserve  reserve  deficit of parent  interests  Total 
  £m  £m £m  £m  £m £m  £m  £m  £m 
At 1 October 2009 (as previously reported) 112  –  2,490  360  (75) (604) 2,283  3  2,286 
Restatement (Note 1(B)(ii))  –  –  –  –  –  (112) (112) –  (112)
Restated balance at 1 October 2009  112  –  2,490  360  (75) (716) 2,171  3  2,174 
Loss for the year  –  –  –  –  –  (104) (104) –  (104)
Other comprehensive (expense)/income  
for the year         
Other comprehensive (expense)/income  
for the year  –  –  –  (59) 56  (70) (73) –  (73)
Total comprehensive (expense)/income  
for the year  –  –  –  (59) 56  (174) (177) –  (177)
Transactions with owners         
Share-based payment (net of deferred tax) –  –  –  –  –  20 20  –  20 
Acquisition of own shares  –  –  –  –  –  (7) (7) –  (7)
Dividends   –  –  –  –  –  (118) (118) (2) (120)
Issue of convertible bonds (net of 
deferred tax)   –  83 –  –  –  –  83  –  83 
At 30 September 2010  112  83 2,490  301  (19) (995) 1,972  1  1,973 
Restatement
Please refer to Note 1(B)(ii) for a full explanation of the restatement.
Convertible bond reserve
The convertible bond reserve comprises the equity element of the convertible bonds and the related portion of the bonds’ issue costs  
(see Note 19).  The equity element is calculated in accordance with the accounting policy described in Note 1(E)(ii) and is presented net of 
deferred tax.  
Merger reserve
The merger reserve arose on the business combination of TUI Travel PLC (TUI Travel), First Choice Holidays PLC (First Choice) and the Tourism 
Division of TUI AG on 3 September 2007.  The merger reserve is non-distributable.
Other reserves
The share-based payment credit for the year ended 30 September 2010 of £16m has an associated deferred tax credit of £4m (2009: £nil).
During the year ended 30 September 2010 the Group’s Employee Benefit Trusts acquired shares at market value for consideration of £7m 
(2009: £nil).
Details of dividends to equity holders of the parent debited to equity in the year are set out in Note 9.
Exchange gains or losses arising on the translation to the Group’s reporting currency are recorded in the translation reserve.  Gains or losses 
arising on cash flow hedges are initially recorded in the hedge reserve and are recycled to the consolidated income statement in accordance  
with the accounting policy in Note 1(F).
The Group also has a capital reserve of £0.1m at 30 September 2010 (2009: £0.1m) and a revaluation reserve of £0.2m (2009: £0.2m).   
The capital reserve is non-distributable.
Non-controlling interest
As described in Note 13, the Group purchased a 51% stake in WonderHolding AB during the year.  The non-controlling interest is not  
considered material.
25. Financial instruments
(A) Treasury risk overview
The Group is exposed to a variety of financial risks:
• Market risk (in respect of foreign currency rate risk, jet fuel price risk and interest rate risk);
• Liquidity risk (in respect of the Group’s ability to meet its liabilities); 
• Credit risk (in respect of recovery of amounts owing to the Group); and
• Capital risk (in respect of its capital structure and cost of capital). Financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
www.tuitravelplc.com
118 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010
The Group’s key financial market risks are in relation to foreign currency rates and jet fuel price.  Currency risk results from the substantial  
cross-border element of the Group’s trading and arises on sales, purchases and borrowings that are denominated in a currency other than the 
functional currencies of individual Group businesses.  The risk is managed by the use of foreign exchange forward, swap and option contracts.  
The Group’s exposure to jet fuel prices results from the aircraft fleet operations and is managed using commodity swaps and options.
The Group is exposed to interest rate risk that arises principally from the Group’s floating rate aircraft leases, and floating rate bank loans and 
cash balances.  Certain finance leases and loans have fixed interest rates.
Credit risk, liquidity risk and capital risk are considered in Notes 25(D), 25(F) and 25(K) respectively.
The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the establishment and oversight of the Group’s risk management framework and for 
ensuring that the Group has adequate policies, procedures and controls to successfully manage the financial risks that it faces.  These form part 
of the Group’s overall Risk Management Framework (the framework).  
Incorporated within the framework’s terms of reference are the determination of all treasury policies and the monitoring of the effectiveness  
of those policies.  Group Treasury implements the agreed policies on a day-to-day basis.  The procedures also stipulate the levels of authority 
applied to approving and to dealing the types of hedging financial instrument used to manage these exposures.  Transactions are only 
undertaken to hedge underlying exposures.  Financial instruments are not traded, nor are speculative positions taken.
The treasury position of the Group, including liquidity, foreign exchange and fuel hedging exposure, is managed centrally in accordance with 
policies appropriate to cover specific risks faced by each business unit, and is the responsibility of the Chief Financial Officer and Group Treasurer.
Group Treasury conducts regular reviews of financial risks with business unit management teams and receives regular cash flow and, where 
relevant, jet fuel usage forecasts from each business unit to ensure hedging instruments match the currency or fuel requirements of each 
operating business.  Reports and forecasts for the Group, showing hedging instruments and forecast requirements, are submitted monthly  
to the GMB and to each Board meeting of TUI Travel PLC.
In line with its established policy, the Group has monitored throughout the year its counterparty exposure with individual financial institutions.  
Such counterparty risk can arise by way of cash deposited or derivative instruments traded.
(B) Currency risk management
The Group is exposed to currency risk on sales, purchases and borrowings that are denominated in a currency other than the functional 
currencies of individual Group businesses (which are principally Sterling, US Dollar, Euro and Swedish Krona).  
The Group hedges its foreign currency exposures on a seasonal basis, that is Winter and Summer, with each season comprising a six-month 
period.  At the start of a season the Group will have hedged substantially all of its foreign currency exposure (forecast sales and purchases and 
related assets and liabilities) for that season, using predominantly forward exchange contracts and option-based instruments, most with a 
maturity of less than one year from the reporting date.  
In respect of other monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies, the Group ensures that its net exposure is kept to an 
acceptable level principally by using forward contracts in respect of non-Sterling denominated airline maintenance provision balances, loan 
balances and deposits.
The Group publishes its consolidated financial statements in Sterling and, as a result, it is also subject to foreign currency exchange translation 
risk in respect of the translation of the results and underlying net assets of its foreign operations into Sterling.
The following significant exchange rates to the Group’s Sterling presentation currency (excluding the impact of hedged transactions) are 
illustrative of the rates applied during the current and prior year:
   Average rate Mid-spot rate
   
   Year ended  Year ended   
   30 September  30 September  30 September  30 September 
£1 GBP equivalent   2010   2009  2010   2009 
US Dollar   1.559 1.560  1.587 1.600 
Euro   1.152 1.149  1.163 1.094 
Swedish Krona   11.307 12.101  10.631 11.181 
As at 30 September 2010, the Group has hedged forecast transactions for $3.4bn (2009: $3.5bn) and €1.5bn (2009: €1.2bn) for periods up until 
Winter 2011 principally relating to Winter 2010 and Summer 2011.  
(C) Commodity risk
Fuel commodity risk arises from the Group’s operation of aircraft.
The Group hedges its fuel commodity exposures on a seasonal basis, being Winter and Summer with each season comprising a six-month 
period.  At the start of a season the Group will have hedged substantially all of its fuel commodity exposure for that season, using predominantly 
commodity swaps or options, most with a maturity of less than one year from the reporting date.  
As at 30 September 2010, the Group has hedged transactions for fuel of 1.7m metric tonnes (2009: 1.8m metric tonnes) for periods up until 
Winter 2011.
Details of fuel forward derivative instruments are set out in Note 25(I). www.tuitravelplc.com
Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 119
(D) Credit risk
Credit risk refers to the risk that a counterparty will default on its contractual obligations resulting in financial loss to the Group.  Credit risk 
arises from cash balances (including bank deposits and cash and cash equivalents) and derivative financial instruments, as well as credit 
exposures to customers, including outstanding receivables, financial guarantees and committed transactions.  Credit risk is managed separately 
for treasury and operating related credit exposures.  
The Group minimises its financial credit risk through the application of risk management policies approved and monitored by the Board.   
While counterparties are limited to major banks and financial institutions, Group policy ensures that individual counterparty limits are adhered  
to and that there are no significant concentrations of credit risk.  The Group monitors the credit ratings of its counterparties (where applicable) 
as part of its ongoing assessment of its credit exposure.  Financial instruments are only transacted with major financial institutions with strong 
credit ratings of A1/P1.  
Loans and other receivables exposures are managed locally in the operating units where they arise and credit limits are set as deemed 
appropriate for the customer.  There is no material concentration of credit risk with respect to trade and other receivables as the Group has 
a large number of internationally dispersed customers.  
The carrying amount of financial assets represents the maximum credit exposure.  The maximum exposure to credit risk at the balance sheet 
date was:
      Restated
     Carrying value Carrying value 
     30 September 30 September 
     2010 2009 
     £m £m 
Trade and other receivables     814 939 
Cash and cash equivalents (Note 17)     1,304 790 
Derivatives – contracts used for hedging (Note 25(I))     165 284 
Trade and listed investments (Note 12)     56 47 
Other investments (Note 17)     – 36 
Total     2,339 2,096 
The trade and other receivables balance for 2009 has been restated.  Trade receivables have been reduced by £54m as at 30 September 2009.  
See Note 16 and Note 1(B)(ii). 
The maximum exposure to credit risk for total trade and other receivables at the balance sheet date and by geographic region as well as their 
ageing is disclosed in Note 16.  Trade and other receivables are shown net of provision for bad and doubtful debts of £55m (2009: £59m).
Cash, cash equivalents and other investments principally comprise money market deposits and other short-term investments.  The investments 
are with counterparties with a strong credit rating of A1/P1.  At 30 September 2010, approximately 33% (2009: 51%) of the Group’s unrestricted 
cash and cash equivalents were invested with counterparties based in the United Kingdom.  A further 33% (2009: 0%) was on deposit with TUI 
AG, the ultimate parent company of the Group.
Trade and other receivables exclude prepaid accommodation and other prepayments which do not meet the definition of a financial instrument.  
Prepayments for hotel accommodation, whilst not meeting the definition of a financial asset under IAS 39, give rise to a risk similar to credit risk 
due to the inherent risk of the Group not recovering the prepayment through full delivery of the related goods and services.  From time to time 
prepayments can concentrate risk with specific counterparties which are based overseas.  The carrying amount of prepayments (which are 
presented within current and non-current assets) forms the maximum credit exposure, before taking into account any security or collateral  
held by the Group.  Where appropriate, the Group obtains security collateral over the related accommodation property to mitigate credit risk.  
At 30 September 2010, prepaid accommodation which is recoverable after more than one year was £115m (2009: £151m).
(E) Interest rate risk 
The Group has exposure to interest rate risk arising principally on Sterling, US Dollar and Euro floating interest rates that are attached to the 
Group’s floating rate aircraft leases, and floating rate bank loans and cash balances.
The Group does not account for any fixed rate financial liabilities at fair value through profit and loss and the Group does not have any interest 
rate swap derivative instruments. Financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
www.tuitravelplc.com
120 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010
The Group’s loans and borrowings are measured at amortised cost with the exception of the other financial liabilities which are carried at  
fair value:
    Carrying Carrying
    amount amount
    30 September 30 September
    2010 2009
Financial instrument Currency Nominal interest rate Year of maturity £m £m
Convertible bonds Sterling 4.9%-6.0% 2014-2017 633 – 
Shareholder loan EUR 2.9% 2011 575 840 
Secured bank loans Sterling 1.6%-6.2% 2011-2018 15 19 
 EUR 5.1%-6.0% 2010-2016 2 1 
 USD 1.4% 2011 7 9 
Unsecured bank loans EUR 1.3%-8.4% 2010-2016 12 22 
    36 51 
Finance leases EUR 2.0%-8.4% 2010-2046 236 187 
 USD 4.5%-5.5% 2011-2015 29 2 
 MAD 5.9%-6.5% 2014-2017 2 2 
 AUD 7.2%-11.8% 2010-2015 2  1 
    269  192 
Loan notes Sterling 1.0%-4.5% 2010-2012 1 1
 USD 6.0%-6.5% 2011-2016 1 4 
 NZD 7.0%  2011 – 1 
    2  6 
Other financial liabilities EUR 5.0% Current 38 39 
Total interest-bearing liabilities    1,553  1,128 
Analysed between:
Fixed rate instruments    921 215 
Variable rate instruments    632 913 
    1,553 1,128 
The main movements between fixed rate and variable rate instruments in 2010 are the partial repayment of the shareholder loan (variable rate) 
and the issuance of the convertible bonds (fixed rates).
(F) Liquidity risk 
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due.  The Group’s approach is to ensure that  
it will have sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities when due, under both normal and stressed circumstances.  
The Group’s liquidity peaks in July and August, during the European summer holiday season, with the liquidity low point being in December and 
January.  To manage the liquidity position the Group is able to draw cash advances under its existing bank facilities which principally comprise 
the following main sources of long-term debt funding:
i) the external bank revolving syndicated credit facilities totalling £1,060m (2009: £910m) plus bonding and letter of credit facilities totalling 
£90m (2009: £40m) which all mature in June 2012 except for a £40m bonding and letter of credit facility in September 2011.  From these 
facilities, £166m has been utilised for letter of credit purposes at 30 September 2010 (2009: £144m);
ii) a £350m convertible bond (due 2014) issued on 1 October 2009 and settled on 5 October 2009; and
iii) a £400m convertible bond (due 2017) issued on 22 April 2010 and settled on 27 April 2010.
The external bank revolving credit facility is used to manage the seasonality of the Group’s cash flows and liquidity.  Cash positions, liquidity and 
available facility headroom are monitored daily by the Group Treasury Department.
In addition to the above facilities a further £30m bonding and letter of credit facility which mature in June 2012 was signed on 15 October 2010.  
The Board remains satisfied with the Group’s funding and liquidity position.  Fixed charges cover and the ratio of net debt to EBITDA, which the 
Board believes to be the most useful measures of cash generation and gearing, as well as being the main basis for covenants in our external 
credit facilities, were met at the year end and throughout the year.  Fixed charges cover is defined as earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, 
amortisation and operating lease rentals charge (EBITDAR) divided by net interest plus operating lease rentals.  EBITDA is defined as earnings 
before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation.  Both covenants are measured on an ‘underlying basis’ as defined in Note 1(B)(iv). www.tuitravelplc.com
Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 121
In respect of the delivery of new aircraft, the Group’s established strategy is to refinance new aircraft in advance of their delivery dates and 
therefore the Group does not forecast to use internal cash resources for new aircraft purchases.  Details of aircraft purchase commitments at 
the year end are given in Note 28.
The following are the undiscounted contractual cash flows of financial liabilities, including interest payments calculated using interest rates in 
force at each balance sheet date:
 Carrying Contractual Within Between Between More than
 amount cash flows 1 year 1 and 2 years 2 and 5 years 5 years
30 September 2010 £m £m £m £m £m £m
Non-derivative financial liabilities
Convertible bonds 633 982 41 41 461 439 
Shareholder loan 575 580 580 – – – 
Secured bank loans 24 26 10 2 14 – 
Unsecured bank loans 12 13 9 2 2 – 
Finance leases 269 311 154 21 71 65
Loan notes 2 3 2 1 – – 
Other financial liabilities 38 38 38 – – – 
Trade and other payables 2,678 2,678 2,630 48 – – 
Derivative financial liabilities
Contracts used for hedging 145 146 119 27 – – 
Total 4,376 4,777 3,583 142 548 504 
 Carrying Contractual Within Between Between More than
 amount cash flows 1 year 1 and 2 years 2 and 5 years 5 years
30 September 2009 (restated) £m £m £m £m £m £m
Non-derivative financial liabilities
Shareholder loan 840 865 249 616 – – 
Secured bank loans 29 31 6 10 15 – 
Unsecured bank loans 22 27 15 3 6 3 
Finance leases 192 206 33 147 23 3
Loan notes 6 7 5 1 1 –
Other financial liabilities 39 39 39 – – –
Trade and other payables  2,889 2,889 2,858 31 – – 
Derivative financial liabilities
Contracts used for hedging 302 348 307 38 3 – 
Total 4,319 4,412 3,512 846 48 6 
Trade payables as at 30 September 2009 have been increased by £58m following the restatement disclosed in Note 1(B)(ii). 
The actual repayment of revolving credit facilities will vary.  The timing reflected in the tables is based on the first date that the Group can be 
required to settle the liability.
Trade and other payables exclude customers’ monies received in advance, deferred income, contingent consideration and other non-contractual 
payables.
At 30 September 2010 the Group had available undrawn committed borrowing facilities of £984m (2009: £806m), comprising letters of credit, 
guarantees and revolving, floating rate credit facilities for cash borrowings.  Any non-compliance with covenants underlying the Group’s financing 
arrangements could, if not waived, constitute an event of default with respect to any such arrangements.  The Group was in full compliance with 
its financial covenants throughout each of the periods presented.  
Undrawn facilities throughout all years presented are analysed as follows:
     30 September  30 September 
     2010  2009 
     £m  £m 
Expiring:
Within one year     1  40 
In more than one year but less than five years     983  766 
Total     984  806  Financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
www.tuitravelplc.com
122 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010
(G) Analysis of total financial assets and financial liabilities
The tables below set out the Group’s IAS 39 classification for each of its financial assets and liabilities:
 Financial  Derivative
 assets and  financial
 liabilities at fair  instruments Available  Financial
 value through  used in for sale  liabilities at
 income  hedge financial Loans and amortised Total
 statement accounting assets receivables cost carrying value
At 30 September 2010 £m £m £m £m £m £m
Cash and cash equivalents –  –  –  1,304  –  1,304 
Borrowings due within one year –  –  –  –  (719) (719)
Borrowings due after more than one year –  –  –  –  (796) (796)
Derivative assets 10  155  –  –  –  165 
Derivative liabilities (12) (133) –  –  –  (145)
Other financial assets 29  –  27  814  –  870 
Other financial liabilities (59) –  –  –  (2,657) (2,716)
Total (32) 22  27  2,118  (4,172) (2,037)
 Financial  Derivative
 assets and  financial
 liabilities at fair  instruments Available  Financial
 value through  used in for sale  liabilities at
 income  hedge financial Loans and amortised Total
 statement accounting assets receivables cost carrying value
At 30 September 2009 (restated) £m £m £m £m £m £m
Cash and cash equivalents –  –  –  790  –  790 
Borrowings due within one year –  –  –  –  (288) (288)
Borrowings due after more than one year –  –  –  –  (801) (801)
Derivative assets –  284  –  –  –  284 
Derivative liabilities –  (302) –  –  –  (302)
Other financial assets –  –  47  975  –  1,022 
Other financial liabilities (59) –  –  –  (2,869) (2,928)
Total (59) (18) 47  1,765  (3,958) (2,223)
Other financial assets and other financial liabilities have been restated as described in Note 1(B)(ii).  Other financial assets have reduced by 
£54m (see Note 16) and other financial liabilities have increased by £58m (see Note 20) at 30 September 2009. 
Following the amendments to IFRS 7 and IAS 39 the Group has re-presented the 2009 table in Note 25(G).  The main changes are to split the 
assets and liabilities previously classified in the held for trading column into financial assets and liabilities at fair value through income statement 
and derivative financial instruments used in hedge accounting.  The Group’s derivative assets (£284m) and liabilities (£302m) at 30 September 
2009 have been classified as derivative financial instruments used in hedge accounting and the L’TUR put option of £39m has been classified  
as a financial liability at fair value through income statement.  In addition the deferred consideration liability of £20m at 30 September 2009  
has been reclassified from amortised cost to financial assets and liabilities at fair value through income statement to reflect a more appropriate 
categorisation under IFRS 7 fair value hierarchy.  There are no other changes to the table.  The reclassifications between categories of financial 
instrument have no impact on any of the primary statements in either year.  
Other financial assets comprise trade receivables, other receivables which are receivable within and after more than one year as well as other 
investments due within one year.  Other financial liabilities comprise trade payables, accruals and other financial liabilities which are payable 
within and after more than one year.
Interest payable on financial instruments carried at amortised cost (comprising bank loans, loans from parent and finance lease liabilities)  
is disclosed in Note 4.
Derivatives presented under held for trading under IAS 39 classifications are analysed between cash flow hedges and economic hedges  
in Note 25(I). www.tuitravelplc.com
Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 123
(H) Fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities 
The fair values of financial assets and liabilities, together with carrying amounts shown in the consolidated balance sheet at 30 September 2010 
and at 30 September 2009, are as follows:
   Restated
  30 September 2010 30 September 2009
   
   Carrying  Fair Carrying  Fair
   amount  value  amount   value 
   £m  £m  £m  £m 
Cash and cash equivalents   1,304  1,304  790  790 
Borrowings
Convertible bond   (633) (705) –  – 
Shareholder loan   (575) (575) (840) (840)
Bank loans    (36) (36) (51) (51)
Loan notes   (2) (2) (6) (6)
Finance lease liabilities   (269) (271) (192) (188)
Derivative financial instruments
Forward exchange contracts used for hedging
– assets   153  153  271  271 
– liabilities   (127) (127) (173) (173)
Commodity contracts used for hedging
– assets   12  12  13  13 
– liabilities   (18) (18) (129) (129)
Other financial assets
Trade and other receivables   814  814  939  939 
Trade and listed investments   56  56  47  47 
Other investments   –  –  36  36 
Other financial liabilities
Other financial liabilities   (38) (38) (39) (39)
Current trade and other payables   (2,630) (2,630) (2,858) (2,858)
Non-current trade and other payables   (48) (48) (31) (31)
Total   (2,037) (2,111) (2,223) (2,219)
The basis for fair value measurement of financial assets and liabilities is set out in Note 1(Y) to the consolidated financial statements.
30 September 2009: Trade and other receivables has been reduced by £54m (see Note 16) and Trade and other payables have been increased 
by £58m (see Note 20) as a result of the restatement described in Note 1(B)(ii).
Fair value measurements
The adoption of the amendment to IFRS 7 in the year ended 30 September 2010 requires enhanced disclosures about fair value measurements 
of financial instruments through the use of a three-level fair value hierarchy that prioritises the valuation techniques used in fair value calculations.
The levels can be broadly described as follows:
• Level 1 – use of unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
• Level 2 – use of observable inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1, such as quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities  
in active markets.
• Level 3 – use of inputs not based on observable market data but reflecting management’s own assumptions about pricing the asset  
or liability.
The Group maintains policies and procedures to value instruments using the most relevant data available.  If there are multiple inputs available 
that fall into different levels of the hierarchy, the instrument is categorised on the basis of the lowest level input. Financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
www.tuitravelplc.com
124 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010
The Group’s financial assets and liabilities, excluding finance lease liabilities, measured at fair value at 30 September 2010 are categorised  
as follows:
      Total fair 
   Level 1  Level 2  Level 3  value 
At 30 September 2010   £m  £m  £m  £m 
Assets
Trade and listed investments   19  –  37  56 
Derivative financial instruments   –  165  –  165 
Total assets   19  165  37  221 
Liabilities
Derivative financial instruments   –  (145) –  (145)
Other financial liabilities   –  –  (59) (59)
Total liabilities   –  (145) (59) (204)
Total   19  20  (22) 17 
The movements in level 3 instruments, measured on a recurring basis, for the year ended 30 September 2010 are as follows:
    Trade 
    and listed  Other financial Total level 3
    investments liabilities instruments
    £m £m £m
At 30 September 2009    14  (59) (45)
Deferred consideration settlement    –  2  2 
Net credit/(charge) included in the income statement    30  (3) 27 
Adjustment through goodwill    –  (1) (1)
Reclassification to non-current interest bearing receivables    (7) –  (7)
Foreign exchange movements (in equity)    –  2  2 
At 30 September 2010    37  (59) (22)
Trade and listed investments
As at 30 September 2010 £37m of trade and listed investments were categorised as level 3 instruments.  These consist of the Group’s 
investment in The Airline Group (£29m) and other trade investments in the equity of unlisted companies (£8m).  Both are valued using 
assumptions not observable in the market and so have been categorised as level 3 instruments in the fair value hierarchy (see Note 12).
The level 1 trade investment is the Group’s holding in Air Berlin PLC (see Note 12).
Derivative assets and liabilities
Derivatives are valued in the market using discounted cash flow techniques.
These techniques incorporate inputs at levels 1 and 2, such as interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates.  These market inputs are used 
in the discounted cash flow calculation incorporating the instrument’s term, notional amount and discount rate, and taking credit risk into 
account.
As significant inputs to the valuation are observable in the markets, these instruments are categorised as level 2 in the hierarchy.
Other financial liabilities
The put option to acquire the remaining equity stake in L’TUR Tourismus AG (£38m) is classified as an other financial liability with changes in  
fair value included in operating profit.  The deferred consideration balance (£21m) is also measured at fair value based on the relevant contracts.  
As all of these financial liabilities are valued using assumptions not observable in the market, they are categorised as level 3 instruments in the 
fair value hierarchy.
Reclassification to non-current interest bearing receivables
£7m of loan notes owed to the Group by The Airline Group Limited have been reclassified from trade and other investments to non-current 
interest bearing receivables during 2010. www.tuitravelplc.com
Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 125
(I) Derivative instruments
At the balance sheet date the fair value of the Group’s derivative financial assets and liabilities was as follows:
 30 September 2010 30 September 2009
  
 Assets  Liabilities  Total  Assets  Liabilities  Total 
 Fair  Fair  Fair  Fair  Fair  Fair 
 value  value  value  value  value  value 
 £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m 
Cash flow hedges
Foreign exchange forwards 80  (101) (21) 238  (167) 71 
Foreign exchange options 3  (2) 1  –  (1) (1)
Commodity options 1  –  1  3  (13) (10)
Commodity swaps 11  (18) (7) 10  (116) (106)
 95  (121) (26) 251  (297) (46)
Economic hedges      
Foreign exchange forwards 60  (12) 48  33  (5) 28 
Held at fair value in profit & loss 10  (12) (2) –  – –
Total 165  (145)  20  284  (302) (18)
Analysed as:
Current 144  (122) 22  271  (284) (13)
Non-current 21  (23) (2) 13  (18) (5)
Total 165  (145) 20  284  (302) (18)
The Group has hedged a proportion of its currency requirements for the Winter 2010 and Summer 2011 seasons using collecting forward option 
instruments which are carried at fair value through profit and loss.  All other derivatives are held as cash flow hedges or to offset changes in the 
value of items recognised in the consolidated balance sheet.  Speculative positions are not undertaken.
The following table indicates the periods in which the cash flows associated with derivatives are expected to occur.  Future cash flows have been 
estimated based on spot rates and prices at 30 September 2010.  The net cash flows are shown net for each instrument.
   Projected cash flows
   
   Less than   Between   Between   Over  
   1 year  1 and 2 years  2 and 5 years  5 years 
30 September 2010   £m  £m  £m  £m 
Derivative financial assets
Foreign exchange forwards   132  16  2  – 
Foreign exchange options   2  –  –  – 
Commodity swaps   8  –  –  – 
   142  16  2  – 
Derivative financial liabilities
Foreign exchange forwards   (99) (20) –  – 
Commodity options   (1) –  –  – 
Commodity swaps   (19) (7) –  – 
   (119) (27) –  – 
Total   23  (11) 2  – 
   Projected cash flows
   
   Less than   Between   Between   Over  
   1 year  1 and 2 years  2 and 5 years  5 years 
30 September 2009   £m  £m  £m  £m 
Derivative financial assets
Foreign exchange forwards   252  11  –  – 
Commodity swaps   5  –  –  – 
   257  11  –  – 
Derivative financial liabilities
Foreign exchange forwards   (148) (14) (2) – 
Commodity options   (27) (2) –  – 
Commodity swaps   (132) (22) (1) – 
   (307) (38) (3) – 
Total    (50) (27) (3) –  Financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
www.tuitravelplc.com
126 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010
Ineffectiveness 
Ineffectiveness in respect of cash flow hedges has been recognised in the consolidated income statement for the year ended 30 September 
2010.  Ineffectiveness for the year ended 30 September 2010 comprised a credit of £2m (2009: credit £5m) relating to fuel hedging and this  
is included within underlying operating profit.  
Aircraft order book derivatives
Last year US dollar cash flow hedges in connection with the Group’s aircraft order books were fully unwound and settled early in a planned 
process.  Payments for new aircraft in US dollars are now planned to be funded by way of proceeds from sale and leaseback transactions and 
future US dollar currency requirements are not required to be forward hedged.
The cumulative gain on aircraft order book derivatives from the period when these hedges were effective up until the termination of these 
hedges was recognised in the hedging reserve.  Net gains relating to aircraft orders delivered or cancelled in the prior year (comprising 10 Boeing 
787s) were recycled to the consolidated income statement immediately and were recorded in separately disclosed items (Note 3).  There were no 
deliveries in 2010 and the remaining amount of £11m (net of deferred taxation) remains in reserves available to be recycled to match the delivery 
of the related aircraft.  
(J) Amounts recognised directly in equity
The following amounts have been recognised directly in equity during the year:
     Year ended  Year ended 
     30 September  30 September 
     2010  2009 
     £m  £m 
Hedging reserve
Effective portion of changes in fair value of cash flow hedging instruments     33  (60)
Fair value of cash flow hedges transferred to the consolidated income statement    41  (81)
     74  (141)
Deferred tax on the above items recognised directly in equity is shown in Note 7(iii).
(K) Capital management
The Board’s policy has been to maintain a strong capital base in order to maintain investor, creditor and market confidence and to sustain  
future development of the business.  The Group has a roadmap to deliver sustainable long-term value to shareholders with a return on invested 
capital greater than the Group’s pre-tax weighted average cost of capital.  Progress in achieving this objective has been made during this year,  
by improving underlying operating margins to 14.3% which increases return on invested capital (ROIC) to 9.9% (2009: restated 8.6%).
ROIC is defined as ‘Underlying NOPAT’/‘Average Invested Capital’.
Underlying NOPAT is underlying Net Operating Profit After a Tax charge at the effective annual rate.
‘Underlying’ as a measure of operating profit is defined in Note 1(B)(iv).
Average Invested Capital comprises an average of the net assets (at the start and end of the year) of the Group adjusted to add back net debt, 
cumulative goodwill impairment charges and defined benefit pension scheme net deficits.  There is also an adjustment to adjust net debt to 
reflect a seasonal average cash balance.  Calculations for the current and prior years are: 
      Restated
     Year ended Year ended
     30 September 30 September 
     2010  2009 
    Note £m  £m 
Underlying operating profit excluding impact of volcanic disruption  Consolidated income statement 447*  401 
Taxation at the underlying effective rate of 27% (2009: 28%)      (121)  (112)
Underlying NOPAT     326  289 
Net assets**  Consolidated balance sheet 1,973  2,174 
Net debt    26 249  338 
Seasonal net debt adjustment     300  300 
Cumulative goodwill impairment charge (2010: Spain, £5m and Italy, £7m;  
2009: Sunsail Clubs, £7m; 2008: TUIFly, £112m)    10 131  119 
Defined benefit pension net deficit    5(C) 493  500 
Invested Capital     3,146  3,431 
Average Invested Capital     3,289  3,379 
ROIC     9.9%  8.6% 
*Pro forma unaudited underlying operating profit (Note 1(B)(iii)). 
**Net assets includes the liability element (£633m) of the convertible bond.
ROIC in 2009 prior to the restatement described in Note 1(B)(ii) was 9.2%. www.tuitravelplc.com
Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 127
The Board seeks to maintain a balance between the levels of debt borrowings undertaken and the advantages and security afforded by a sound 
capital position.  An analysis of net debt at the year end is in Note 26.
Certain subsidiaries have external capital requirements as a result of applicable travel industry regulations in their jurisdictions.  Compliance  
with these regulations is mandatory for the relevant operating businesses in those countries in order that they are able to continue trading.   
Key countries with such mandatory capital requirements are France, Belgium, the Netherlands, Germany and Australia.  The capital requirements 
in these countries stipulate maintaining minimum equity/net asset levels in operating subsidiaries.  All such capital requirements were complied 
with as at 30 September 2010.  None of these requirements are individually or collectively significant to the overall Group and do not place any 
significant restriction on the Group’s funding or operations.
Underlying operating profit, underlying NOPAT, net assets, invested capital, average invested capital and ROIC have been restated.  See Note 
1(B)(iv).
(L) Sensitivity analysis
The sensitivity analysis is for illustrative purposes only and should not be considered a projection of likely future events and gains or losses.
The sensitivity analysis includes the following assumptions:
• Changes in market interest rates only affect interest income or expense of variable financial instruments;
• Changes in market interest rates only affect interest income or expense in relation to financial instruments with fixed interest rates if these 
are recognised at fair value;
• Changes in market interest, currency and fuel rates affect the fair value of derivative financial instruments designated as hedging instruments 
and the majority of hedges are expected to be highly effective with the main exception being collecting FX forward contracts not qualifying 
for hedge accounting; and
• Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments and other financial assets or liabilities are estimated by discounting the future 
cash flows to net present values using appropriate market rates prevailing at the year end.
The Group has used a sensitivity analysis technique that measures the estimated change to the consolidated income statement and equity of a 
1% (100 basis points) difference in market interest rates or a 10% strengthening or weakening in Sterling against all other currencies and in fuel 
prices, from the rates applicable at the balance sheet date, with all other variables remaining constant.
Interest rate risk
Under the above assumptions, a 100 basis points increase in interest rates would result in a £5m increase in interest expense in the consolidated 
income statement or equity (2009: no material impact).  A 100 basis points reduction in interest rates is not considered reasonably possible.
Currency risk
Similarly, under the above assumptions, a 10% strengthening or weakening of Sterling against all principal exchange rates would not have altered 
the reported loss before tax (September 2009: loss reduced by £4m, profit increased by £5m, respectively) (principally relating to the translation 
of the income statements of overseas subsidiaries).  Equity (before tax) would have decreased by £210m (2009: £376m) or increased by £215m 
(2009: £376m), respectively.  
Fuel price risk
The sensitivity analysis is based on a 10% increase or decrease in fuel prices and the sensitivity will differ correspondingly if the fuel markets are 
more or less volatile.  Under these assumptions, with a 10% increase or decrease in the unit price of fuel, profit before tax would neither increase 
nor decrease materially, because of the fuel price hedging policy and appropriate pricing adjustments.  Equity (before tax) would increase by 
£79m (2009: £70m), or decrease by £78m (2009: £70m), respectively.
(M) Litigation risk
The Group has a policy to mitigate the financial risk of litigation and disaster through insurance with third party providers and the use of captive 
insurance companies.  The Group’s exposure to risk is capped by single event and aggregate limits, with insurance in place for exposures above 
these limits.  
The Group provides for outstanding claims, including settlement expenses, using a consistent methodology based upon historical claims 
patterns, average claims amounts, external legal advice and future expectations.   Financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
www.tuitravelplc.com
128 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010
26. Movements in cash and net debt
   Cash  Amounts due    Other
   and cash Convertible to related   Finance  financial 
   equivalents bonds parties Bank loans Loan notes Leases liabilities Total 
   £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m £m  
At 1 October 2008   1,130  –  (840) (185) (9) (187) (45) (136)
Cash movement   (352) –  91  143  6  22  23  (67)
Non-cash movement   (4) –  29  –  (2) –  (12) 11 
Foreign exchange   16  –  (120) (8) (1) (26) (5) (144)
Arising on acquisition   –  –  –  (1) –  (1) –  (2)
At 30 September 2009   790  –  (840) (51) (6) (192) (39) (338)
Cash movement   561  (750) 222  13  4  31  –  81 
Non-cash movement   –  117  –  –  –  (121) –  (4)
Foreign exchange   (47) –  43  2  –  13  1  12 
At 30 September 2010   1,304  (633) (575) (36) (2) (269) (38) (249)
Non-cash movements relate to the equity portion of the convertible bond issues and the inception of new finance leases arising on capital 
expenditure (2009: financial liabilities arising from the issue of a put option in respect of non-controlling interest shares).
27. Operating lease commitments
Total Group obligations under non-cancellable operating lease contracts are payable as follows:
   Land  Aircraft, ships  Land  Aircraft, ships 
   and  yachts and  and   yachts and 
   buildings  equipment  buildings  equipment 
   30 September  30 September 30 September 30 September
   2010  2010 2009  2009 
   £m  £m  £m  £m 
Total commitments under non-cancellable operating leases expiring:
Within one year   226  369  190  406 
Between one and five years   512  728  444  962 
Later than five years   245  107  240  230 
Total   983  1,204  874  1,598 
Operating lease commitments in respect of land and buildings principally comprise commitments in respect of the Group’s retail estate.
The future commitment under the Group’s floating rate aircraft operating leases at 30 September 2010 was £122m (2009: £120m).
In total the Group operates 122 aircraft on operating leases at 30 September 2010 (2009: 128 aircraft).  Yachts are held on operating leases  
in TUI Marine as part of the Group’s Sunsail and The Moorings fleets.  Cruise ships are held on operating leases in the UK source market.
28. Capital and other commitments
Capital commitments
The Group’s capital commitments are as follows:
     30 September  30 September 
     2010  2009 
     £m  £m 
Contracted but not provided for     9  22 
In addition to the above items, at the year end the Group had contracted to purchase 40 (2009: 50) aircraft with initial deliveries to start in the 
last quarter of the calendar year 2010.  At list price, the total order value was US$4,439m (2009: US$6,156m).
The Group intends to refinance these aircraft in advance of their delivery dates and therefore does not expect to use its own cash resources for 
their purchase.
The Group’s joint ventures and associates had no material capital commitments at 30 September 2010 (2009: £nil). www.tuitravelplc.com
Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 129
29. Contingent liabilities
The Group is at any time defending a number of actions against it arising in the normal course of business.  Provision is made for these actions 
where this is deemed appropriate.  No actions which are outstanding at 30 September 2010 are expected to have a material effect on these 
accounts.  The Directors consider that adequate provision has been made for all known liabilities.
30. Related party transactions
Apart from with its own subsidiaries which are included in the consolidated financial statements, TUI Travel PLC, in carrying out its ordinary 
business activities, maintained direct and indirect relationships with related parties including consolidated or related companies of its ultimate 
parent company, TUI AG.  These companies delivered services to companies in the Group.
The Group also undertook transactions with its joint ventures and associated companies.  These transactions related primarily to incoming 
agencies and hotel companies used by the Group’s tour operators.  The income and expenses arising from transactions with associates and joint 
ventures are included within the appropriate sector revenue or costs as presented in the segmental analysis.
All transactions with related parties were executed on an arm’s length basis and under normal conditions of trade with independent third parties.
Shareholder loan
A shareholder loan was advanced to the Company by TUI AG on 3 September 2007.  The loan bears interest at EURIBOR plus a margin, 
currently 1.9% per annum, increasing six-monthly to a maximum of 2.0% per annum.  The Company can make voluntary repayments at any  
time during the term of the loan subject to a minimum repayment of €10m and the giving of 30 days’ notice.  The drawn balance of the loan  
at 30 September 2010 was €669m (30 September 2009: €919m), not including accrued interest payable.  It is repayable in two instalments: 
1 December 2010, €509m and 30 April 2011, €160m.
Hotel Framework Agreement
As part of the relationship arrangements between the Company and TUI AG at the time of the business combination, both parties entered into 
the Hotel Framework Agreement, which governs the commercial relationship between TUI AG and the Company in respect of the distribution  
of hotel beds forming part of the hotel portfolio interests retained by TUI AG.  Under the Hotel Framework Agreement, TUI Deutschland (TUI 
Travel PLC’s German tour operating business) continues to have access to the Robinson hotel portfolio and to the distribution of such portfolio’s 
hotel beds in Europe on the basis of the existing levels of exclusivity and seasonal arrangements between TUI Deutschland and Robinson, as 
practised prior to the business combination.  In addition, TUI Deutschland agrees to provide the same services in relation to the distribution of 
the beds as it did prior to the business combination and shall be entitled to use certain Robinson trademarks in connection with these services.  
The Hotel Framework Agreement expires on 31 October 2011 and discussions regarding a new agreement are currently being undertaken.
Trademark Licence Agreement
The Trademark Licence Agreement incorporates trademark licences granted from TUI AG to members of the TUI Tourism Group in relation to  
TUI Tourism’s use of the TUI name and logo and other trademarks from within TUI AG’s portfolio of trademarks used in the former TUI Tourism’s 
business.  Licence fees payable under each licence are an annual fee equal to 0.02% of the average annual gross turnover of the relevant licensee 
under the relevant trademarks measured over a three-year period.  Total licence fees charged for the year ended 30 September 2010 were  
£3m (2009: £3m).  Each licence’s standard terms are for five years with an option for the relevant licensee to extend for a further five years on  
the same terms.
Details of transactions with related parties and balances outstanding at the balance sheet date are set out in the tables below:
  Revenue Expenses
   
   Year ended  Year ended  Year ended  Year ended 
   30 September  30 September  30 September  30 September 
   2010  2009  2010  2009 
   £m  £m  £m  £m       
Related party
Ultimate parent TUI AG   11  7  70  71 
Hotel and resort subsidiaries of TUI AG   13  5  403  384 
Other subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates of TUI AG   7  8  98  63 
Joint ventures and associates of the Group   10  7  120  151 
Total   41  27  691  669  Financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
www.tuitravelplc.com
130 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010
  Receivables outstanding Payables outstanding
   
   30 September  30 September  30 September  30 September 
   2010  2009  2010  2009 
   £m  £m  £m  £m       
Related party
Ultimate parent TUI AG   385  6  594  885 
Hotel and resort subsidiaries of TUI AG   4  1  46  56 
Other subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates of TUI AG   4  6  12  14 
Joint ventures and associates of the Group   30  13  10  19 
Total   423  26  662  974 
The £385m receivable balance outstanding from the ultimate parent TUI AG at 30 September 2010 includes a £370m (2009: £nil) cash deposit, 
returnable on demand.
Payables outstanding with related parties are reported in Notes 19 and 20 and receivables outstanding are reported in Note 16 and Note 17.
Details regarding the investment in Togebi Holdings Limited are included in Note 12.
In accordance with IAS 24, key management functions within the Group and the GMB were related parties whose remuneration had to be listed 
separately.  The compensation paid in respect of key management personnel (including Directors) was as follows:
     Year ended  Year ended 
     30 September  30 September 
     2010  2009 
     £m  £m 
Short-term employee benefits     15 17 
Post-retirement benefits     2 2 
Share-based payments     9 10 
Total     26 29 
Details of Directors’ Remuneration are given in the Remuneration Report.  
31. Key accounting estimates and judgements
The preparation of consolidated financial statements under adopted IFRSs requires the Directors to make estimates and judgements that  
affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities and the reported amount of revenue and 
expenses during the year.  The Directors evaluate the estimates and judgements on an ongoing basis.  Such estimates and judgements are based 
upon historical experience and other factors it believes to be reasonable under the circumstances.  Actual results may differ from estimates.
Management has discussed with the Audit Committee the development, selection and disclosure of the Group’s critical accounting policies and 
estimates and the applications of these policies and estimates.  Key estimates and judgements have been made in respect of the following areas:
(A) Estimates
Intangible assets – Goodwill carrying value
A full impairment review has been performed of all goodwill and intangibles balances held across the Group on a cash generating unit basis.   
The impairment review is performed on a ‘value in use’ basis, which requires estimation of future net operating cash flows, the time period  
over which they will occur, an appropriate discount rate and an appropriate growth rate.  Further details, including sensitivity analysis, are given  
in Note 10 and the accounting policy is set out in Note 1(P).
Defined benefit pension plans
A qualified independent actuary undertakes the estimation of the present value of the Group’s obligations under defined benefit pension 
schemes using assumptions taken from a range of possible actuarial assumptions.  These assumptions may not be borne out in practice, 
especially due to the long timescales involved.  In particular, the valuation of scheme assets is based on the fair value at the balance sheet date.  
As these assets are not intended to be sold in the short-term, their value may change significantly prior to realisation.  In reviewing the work of 
the qualified independent actuary, management was required to exercise judgement to satisfy itself that appropriate weight had been afforded 
to macroeconomic factors.  Details of the actual assumptions used, including sensitivity analysis, are set out in Note 5(C).
Derivative financial instruments
Judgement is required in the assessment of prospective effectiveness and specifically in the assessment of the probability of forecast 
transactions, both at hedge inception and during the period over which hedge accounting is adopted.  The fair value of derivative financial 
instruments can also involve judgement.  Where appropriate, external valuations from financial institutions are undertaken to support the 
carrying value of such items.  Details of sensitivity analysis are set out in Note 25(L). www.tuitravelplc.com
Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 131
(B) Judgements
Separately disclosed items
Separately disclosed items are those significant items which in management’s judgement are highlighted by virtue of their size or incidence to 
enable a full understanding of the Group’s financial performance.  Such items are included within the income statement caption to which they 
relate (Notes 3 and 4).
Other asset carrying values
Management performs an assessment at each balance sheet date of all material assets across the Group for signs of impairment.  Key judgement 
areas include the carrying values of land and buildings, aircraft, ships, yachts and motorboats, trade receivables and prepaid accommodation.  
The recovery of these assets is dependent on estimated future cash flows receivable and the provision of future services or goods by third 
parties.  Useful economic lives and residual values are subject to regular management review.  
Business combinations
Judgement and estimation is required in the identification and valuation of separable assets and liabilities on acquisitions.  In particular, 
judgement and estimation is required in the identification and valuation of separable intangible assets, being brands, orders books and customer 
databases, and determining appropriate useful economic lives for these assets.  Judgement and estimation is also required in determining 
contingent consideration payable in respect of acquisitions.  Details of acquisitions are set out in Note 13.
Liabilities
In accounting for provisions, judgement is required in determining occurrence probability, maturity and level of risk.  Judgement and estimation 
is required in determining aircraft maintenance, restructuring and onerous lease provisions.  Due to the volume of transactions and the 
materiality of period end accruals, judgement is also required in respect of the recognition and derecognition of airline and accommodation 
operating accruals.  Details of provisions made and the basis on which the provision has been calculated is disclosed in Note 21 and the 
accounting policy is set out in Note 1(T).
Share-based payments
Judgement and estimation is required in determining the fair value of shares at the date of award.  The fair value is estimated using valuation 
techniques which take into account the awards’ term, the risk-free interest rate and the expected volatility of the market price of the Company’s 
shares.  Details of share-based payments and the assumptions applied are disclosed in Note 5(D) and the accounting policy is set out in  
Note 1(Y)(ix).
Non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale
The classification of non-current assets and disposal groups as ‘held for sale’ requires judgement in determining whether the planned disposal  
is highly probable and able to be realised within 12 months.  The measurement of held for sale assets at their fair value less costs to sell can  
also require significant judgement if there is no active market.
Lease accounting
Judgement is required in the initial classification of leases as either operating leases or finance leases and, in respect of finance leases, 
determining the appropriate discount rate implicit in the lease to discount minimum lease payments.  In respect of certain leases classified  
as finance leases, it has not been possible to reliably estimate lessors’ residual values and management has been required to independently 
estimate an appropriate discount rate.  Judgement is also required in respect of the treatment of gains and losses arising on the sale and 
leaseback of assets.  The accounting policy for leases is set out in Notes 1(G), 1(H) and 1(Q).
Taxation
The Group has, from time to time, contingent tax liabilities arising from trading and corporate transactions in the UK and overseas jurisdictions.  
After taking appropriate external advice, the Group makes provision for these liabilities based on the probable level of economic loss that may  
be incurred and which is reliably measurable.  Judgement is also required in the assessment of the future recoverability of tax losses and 
recognition of deferred tax assets.  Details of unrecognised tax losses are given in Note 14.
Recoverable amounts of deposits and prepayments
Judgements have been made in respect of the volumes of future trading with hoteliers and the credit-worthiness of those hoteliers in order  
to assess the recoverable amounts of deposits and prepayments made to those hoteliers.
Fair value measurements
Management has to make judgements regarding the valuation of some financial instruments that use inputs that are not observable in active 
markets.  These are disclosed in Note 25(G).   Financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
www.tuitravelplc.com
132 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010
32. Principal operating subsidiaries
Other than as stated below, all the principal operating subsidiaries listed are wholly owned.  Principal operating subsidiaries are those which,  
in the opinion of the Directors, significantly affected the Sector’s results and net assets during the year.  The Directors consider that those 
companies not listed are not significant in relation to the Sector specified.  TUI UK Limited is presented within the Mainstream Sector, Northern 
Region to reflect its principal operations but the Company also includes certain UK Activity and Specialist businesses at 30 September 2010.
Subsidiary Country Nature of business
Mainstream Sector  
Mainstream – Northern Region 
Fritidsresor AB Sweden T our operator
Oy Finnmatkat AB Finland T our operator 
Star Tour A/S Denmark T our operator
Startour-Stjernereiser AS Norway T our operator
Thomson Airways Limited United Kingdom Airline
TUI Canada Holdings Inc. (Holding Co. of Sunwing Travel Group Inc.) Canada Holding Company
TUI UK Limited United Kingdom T our operator
TUI UK Retail Limited United Kingdom Travel agent
TUIfly Nordic AB Sweden Airline
Mainstream – Central Europe
Berge und Meer Touristik GmbH Germany T our operator
Hapag-Lloyd Express GmbH Germany Airline
L’TUR Tourismus AG (70.0%) Germany T our operator
TUI fly GmbH Germany Airline
TUI (Suisse) AG Switzerland T our operator
TUI Austria Holding GmbH Austria T our operator
TUI Aviation GmbH Germany Leasing company
TUI Deutschland GmbH Germany T our operator
TUI Leisure Travel GmbH Germany Travel agent
TUI Österreich GmbH Austria T our operator
TUI Poland Sp Zoo Poland T our operator
Mainstream – Western Europe
Corsair S.A. France Airline
Groupe Marmara SAS (98.9%) France T our operator
JetAir N.V. Belgium T our operator
TUI Airlines Belgium N.V. Belgium Airline
TUI Airlines Nederland B.V. Netherlands Airline
TUI Travel Belgium N.V. Belgium T our operator
TUI Nederland N.V. Netherlands T our operator
Voyages Touraventure S.A. France T our operator
Specialist & Emerging Markets Sector
Aventuria SAS France T our operator
Citalia Holidays Limited United Kingdom T our operator
Easy Market S.P.A. Italy On-line travel agent
Educational Tours, Inc. USA T our operator
EEFC, Inc. (Trading as Europe Vacations) USA  T our operator 
Hayes & Jarvis (Travel) Limited (includes trading names Thomson Tailor Made and Jetsave) United Kingdom  T our operator 
I Viaggi del Turchese Srl Italy T our operator
Interspecialists SLU (trading as Royal Vacaciones & Ambassador Tours) Spain T our operator 
New Horizons Tour & Travel Inc. USA T our operator
StudentCity.com, Inc USA T our operator
TCS and Starquest Expeditions, Inc USA T our operator
Tourinter SAS France T our operator
TRAVCOA Corporation USA T our operator
Travel Turf Inc. (trading as World Class Vacations) USA T our operator
Your Man Tours, Inc. USA T our operator www.tuitravelplc.com
Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 133
Subsidiary Country Nature of business
Activity Sector
Adventure Tours Australia Group Pty Ltd Australia T our operator
Crown Blue Line Limited United Kingdom T our operator
EAC Language Centres (UK) Limited United Kingdom Language teaching
TTSS Limited (previously called Edwin Doran Limited) United Kingdom T our operator
Exodus Travels Limited United Kingdom T our operator
Fanfirm Pty Limited Australia T our operator
Gullivers Sports Travel Limited United Kingdom T our operator
Hampstead School of English Limited United Kingdom Language teaching
Mariner International Travel, Inc. USA T our operator
Porter and Haylett Limited United Kingdom Boat owning company
Peregrine Adventures Pty Ltd Australia T our operator
Prestige Boating Holidays Limited  Irish Republic T our operator
Quark Expeditions, Inc USA T our operator
Real Travel Limited United Kingdom T our operator
Ski Bound Limited United Kingdom T our operator
Sportsworld Group Limited United Kingdom T our operator
Sunsail Limited United Kingdom T our operator
Sunsail Worldwide Sailing Limited United Kingdom T our operator
Williment Travel Group limited New Zealand T our operator
World Challenge Holdings Limited United Kingdom T our operator
Yachts International Limited British Virgin Islands T our operator
Zegrahm Expeditions, Inc USA T our operator
Accommodation & Destinations Sector
Beds on line SLU Spain Online accommodation
Hotelbeds SLU Spain Online accommodation
Hotelbeds Dominicana SA Dominican Republic  Destination services
Hotelbeds Spain SLU Spain Destination services
Hotelbeds Product, SLU Spain Online accommodation
Hotelbeds USA, Inc. USA Destination services
Late Rooms Limited United Kingdom Late accommodation
Tantur Turizm Seyahat A.S. Turkey Destination services
Transfar Agencia de Viagens e Turismo Unipessoal LDA Portugal Destination services
TUI España Turismo S.A. (99.0%) Spain Destination services Financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
www.tuitravelplc.com
134 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010
33. (Loss)/earnings per share 
The basic loss per share is calculated by dividing the result attributable to ordinary shareholders by the applicable weighted average number  
of shares in issue during the year, excluding those held in the employee benefit trusts.  The diluted loss per share is calculated on the result 
attributable to ordinary shareholders divided by the adjusted potential weighted average number of ordinary shares, which takes account of  
the outstanding share awards and the impact of the conversion of the convertible bonds, where their conversion is dilutive.  The additional 
underlying earnings per share measures have been presented to provide the reader of the accounts with a better understanding of the results.
Basic and diluted loss per share from continuing operations is as follows:
     Weighted (Loss)/
  Weighted (Loss)/ (Loss)/ average no. earnings
 (Loss)/ average no. earnings earnings  of shares per share
 earnings of shares per share Restated  Restated  Restated 
 2010  2010  2010  2009  2009  2009 
 £m  Millions  Pence  £m  Millions  Pence 
Basic and diluted loss per share (86) 1,107  (7.8) (53) 1,107  (4.8)
Acquisition related expenses and impairment of  
goodwill (net of tax) 127  –  11.5  47  –  4.2 
Separately disclosed items (net of tax) 203  –  18.3  227  –  20.6 
Basic underlying earnings per share 244  1,107  22.0  221  1,107  20.0 
Effect of dilutive options –  11  (0.2) –  11  (0.2)
Effect of convertible bond (net of tax) 32  144  0.1  –  –  – 
Diluted underlying earnings per share 276  1,262 21.9  221  1,118  19.8 
Basic and diluted loss per share from the discontinued operation is as follows:
  Weighted   Weighted
  average no. Loss  average no. Earnings 
 Loss of shares per share Loss of shares per share 
 2010  2010  2010  2009  2009  2009 
 £m  Millions  Pence  £m  Millions  Pence 
Basic and diluted loss per share (18) 1,107 (1.6) (14)  1,107  (1.3) 
For statutory measures of loss per share, in both the current and prior year the effect of options is anti-dilutive.  The anti-dilutive effect is not 
taken into account and basic loss per share and diluted loss per share are both disclosed as 7.8p (2009: loss of 4.8p) for continuing operations 
and 1.6p (2009: loss of 1.3p) for the discontinued operation.  The fully diluted weighted average number of shares on a statutory basis is  
1,323 million (2009: 1,118 million).  The diluting effect of options in both years and the convertible bond (in 2010 only) is included solely to 
calculate diluted underlying earnings per share.
2009 loss per share, (basic and diluted) underlying earnings per share (basic and diluted) have been restated as a result of the restatement in 
Note 1(B)(ii).  The impact of the restatement on basic (and diluted) loss per share is to increase the loss by 3.8p per share from 1.0p per share  
to 4.8p per share.  Basic underlying earnings per share decreases by 3.8p per share from 23.8p per share to 20.0p per share.  Diluted underlying 
earnings per share decreases by 3.8p from 23.5p per share to 19.8p per share.
Reconciliation of loss for the year from continuing operations attributable to ordinary shareholders from continuing operations
      Restated 
     Year ended   Year ended 
     30 September  30 September 
     2010  2009 
     £m  £m 
Loss attributable to ordinary shareholders from continuing operations      (86) (53) 
Result attributable to non-controlling interests from continuing operations     –  1 
Loss for the year from continuing operations     (86) (52) 
2009 numbers have been restated as described in Note 1(B)(ii).  None of the discontinued loss for the year is attributable to non-controlling 
interests (2009: none). www.tuitravelplc.com
Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 135
Non-GAAP measure
Reconciliation of underlying operating profit to underlying earnings
      Restated 
     Year ended  Year ended 
     30 September  30 September 
     2010  2009 
    Note £m  £m 
Underlying operating profit     447  401 
Net underlying financial expenses    4  (110) (77)
Underlying profit before tax     337  324 
Underlying tax charge at 27% (2009: 28%)     (93) (102)
Underlying profit for the year     244  222
Attributable to ordinary shareholders     244  221
Attributable to non-controlling interests     –  1
Underlying profit for the year     244  222
2009 reconciliation has been restated as described in Note 1(B)(ii).  The underlying numbers shown are as described in Note 1(B)(iv) and exclude 
the impact of the volcano ash as described in Note 1(B)(iii).
34. Post balance sheet events
• Paul Bowtell, Chief Financial Officer, will be resigning from the TUI Travel PLC Board with effect from 31 December 2010 and will be replaced 
as Chief Financial Officer by Will Waggott.
• Acquisitions: details of acquisitions and disposals since the balance sheet date are set out in Note 13.
• A £30m bonding and letter of credit facility which matures in June 2012 was signed on 15 October 2010.
35. Ultimate parent company
The ultimate parent company is considered to be TUI AG, a company registered in Berlin and Hanover (Federal Republic of Germany).   
At 30 September 2010 TUI AG was the beneficial owner of 54.92% of the ordinary share capital of the Company. 
In addition a number of bonds are held on TUI AG’s behalf and, if converted, this would give rise to 52,309,463 of new shares.  On a fully-diluted 
basis, if all bonds were converted, TUI AG’s shareholding would be 50.37% at 30 September 2010.
TUI AG prepares consolidated financial statements which include the results of the Group.  The accounting reference date of TUI AG is 
30 September.  Copies of the TUI AG financial statements are publicly available and can be obtained from the registered office of this company 
situated at Karl-Wiechert-Allee 4, 30625 Hanover, Federal Republic of Germany. www.tuitravelplc.com
136 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010
Financial statements
Company balance sheet
At 30 September 2010
     30 September  30 September 
      2010  2009 
    Note £m £m 
Fixed assets
Investment in subsidiary undertakings    D 918  911 
Total investments     918   911 
Current assets
Derivative financial instruments     6  30 
Debtors    E 1,145  234 
Cash at bank and in hand     –  36 
     1,151  300 
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year    F (967) (311)
Net current assets/(liabilities)     184  (11)
Total assets less current liabilities     1,102  900 
Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year    G (638) (631)
Provision for liabilities and charges    H (19) – 
Net assets     445  269 
Capital and reserves
Share capital    I 112 112 
Profit and loss account    J 227 127 
Convertible bond reserve    J 83 – 
Other reserves    J 23 30 
Equity shareholders’ funds     445 269 
The financial statements were approved by a duly authorised Committee of the Board of Directors on 1 December 2010 and were signed on its 
behalf by:
Paul Bowtell
Chief Financial Officer  www.tuitravelplc.com
Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 137
Notes to the Company’s financial statements  
for the year ended 30 September 2010
the Company’s own equity instruments or is a derivative that will be 
settled by the Company exchanging a fixed amount of cash or other 
financial assets for a fixed number of its own equity instruments.
Derivative financial instruments
Derivative financial instruments are stated at fair value.  The gain or 
loss on remeasurement to fair value is recognised immediately in the 
income statement.  However, where derivatives qualify for hedge 
accounting, recognition of any resultant gain or loss depends on the 
nature of the item being hedged.
Convertible bond
The convertible bonds are split into two components: a debt 
component and a component representing the embedded derivatives 
in the bond.  The debt component represents the Group’s liability  
for future interest coupon payments and the redemption amount.  
The embedded derivatives represent the value of the option that 
bondholders have to convert into ordinary shares of the Company.  
These derivatives were valued on inception and recognised in the 
Convertible bond reserve in equity.
The debt component of the convertible bonds are measured at 
amortised cost and therefore increase as the present value of the 
interest coupon payments and redemption amount increases, with a 
corresponding charge to finance cost.  The debt component decreases 
by the cash interest coupon payments made.  The embedded 
derivatives are measured at fair value at each balance sheet date,  
and changes in fair value are recognised in the income statement.  
Issue costs are apportioned between the liability and derivative 
components of a convertible bond based on the allocation of 
proceeds to the liability and derivative components when the 
instruments are first recognised.
Share-based payment
The Company operates share-based payment schemes for the 
employees of its subsidiaries.  The fair value of shares awarded to 
employees of the Company is recognised as an employee expense 
with a corresponding increase in equity.  The employee expense is 
recharged to fellow Group subsidiaries.  The Company makes awards 
of its own shares to the employees of its subsidiaries and as such 
recognises an increase in the cost of investment in its subsidiaries 
equivalent to the equity-settled share-based payment charge 
recognised in its subsidiaries’ financial statements with the 
corresponding credit being recognised directly in equity.  The fair 
value is measured at the award date and is spread over the period 
during which the employee becomes unconditionally entitled to the 
awards.  Calculating the fair value takes into account various factors 
including the expected volatility of the shares, the dividend yield and 
the risk free interest rate.  Further information on the share schemes 
is provided in Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements.
The increase in investments and credit to equity for the year ended 
30 September 2010 is £14m (30 September 2009: £16m).  
Transactions of the Company’s Employee Benefit Trust are included  
in the Company’s financial statements.  In particular, the Trust’s 
purchases and sales of shares in the Company are debited and 
credited directly to equity.
A. Accounting policies
Basis of preparation
The following accounting policies have been applied consistently in 
dealing with items which are considered material in relation to the 
Company’s financial statements.
Accounting convention
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with 
applicable UK accounting standards and under the historical cost 
convention.  The financial statements have been prepared on the 
going concern basis, which assumes that the Company will continue  
in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption under Section 
408 of the Companies Act 2006 from presenting its own profit and 
loss account.  The profit after tax included in the financial statements 
of the Company determined in accordance with the Act, was £214m 
(2009: loss of £33m).
Under Financial Reporting Standard (FRS) No 1 (revised), the 
Company is exempt from the requirement to prepare a cash flow 
statement as its cash flows are included within the published 
consolidated statement of cash flows of TUI Travel PLC.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption contained within 
FRS 29 and has not provided the required financial instruments 
disclosure on the basis that the Group’s consolidated financial 
statements include consolidated IFRS 7 disclosures which are 
compliant with the requirements of FRS 29.
Foreign currencies
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated at the foreign 
exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.  Monetary assets 
and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet 
date are translated to Sterling at the foreign exchange rate ruling at 
that date.  Foreign exchange differences arising on translation are 
recognised in the income statement.  Non-monetary assets and 
liabilities that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign 
currency are translated using the exchange rate at the date of the 
transaction.  Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in 
foreign currencies that are stated at fair value are translated to 
Sterling at foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates the fair values 
were determined.
Investments
In the Company’s financial statements, investments in subsidiaries are 
stated at cost less provision for impairment.  Dividends received and 
receivable are credited to the Company’s profit and loss account.
Interest-bearing borrowings
Interest-bearing borrowings are recognised initially at fair value less 
attributable transaction costs.  Subsequent to initial recognition, 
interest-bearing borrowings are stated at amortised cost with any 
differences between cost and redemption value being recognised  
in the income statement over the period of the borrowings on an 
effective interest rate basis.
Classification of financial instruments issued
Financial instruments issued by the Company are treated as equity 
only to the extent that they meet the following conditions: they 
include no contractual obligation upon the Company to deliver cash  
or other financial assets or to exchange financial assets or financial 
liabilities with another party under conditions that are potentially 
unfavourable to the Company; and where the instrument will or may 
be settled in the Company’s own equity instruments, it is either a non-
derivative that includes no obligation to deliver a variable number of  www.tuitravelplc.com
138 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010
Financial statements
Notes to the Company’s financial statements  
for the year ended 30 September 2010 continued
Related parties
For the purpose of these financial statements, parties are considered to be related to the Company if the Company has the ability, directly or 
indirectly, to control the party or exercise significant influence over the party making financial and operating decisions, or vice versa, or where 
the Company and the party are subject to common control or common significant influence.  Related parties may be individuals or other entities.  
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption contained within FRS 8 and has not therefore disclosed transactions or balances with 
entities which are wholly-owned subsidiaries.
Taxation
The charge for taxation is based on the profit or loss for the period and takes into account taxation deferred because of timing differences 
between the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes.
Except as otherwise required by accounting standards, full provision without discounting is made for all timing differences, which have arisen  
but not reversed at the balance sheet date.  Timing differences arise when items of income and expenditure are included in tax computations  
in periods different from their inclusion in the financial statements.
Dividends on shares presented within shareholders’ funds
Dividends distributed to the Company’s shareholders are recognised as a liability and deducted from equity in the Group’s financial statements 
in the period in which the dividends are appropriately authorised and approved for payment and are no longer at the discretion of the Company.  
Unpaid dividends that do not meet these criteria are disclosed in the notes to the financial statements.
Auditors’ remuneration
The Company’s 2010 audit fee was £25,000 (2009: £25,000).
B. Directors’ remuneration and employees
Details of Directors’ remuneration, gains made by them on vesting of share awards, amounts receivable by them under long-term incentive 
schemes and pension entitlements in the current and prior year are contained in the audited section of the Remuneration Report and in Note 5 
of the consolidated financial statements.  The Company had seven employees (2009: nine).  Details of all share awards issued by the Company 
are given in Note 5 of the consolidated financial statements.
C. Dividends
Details of dividends paid and proposed by the Company in the current and prior year and details of dividends proposed subsequent to the 
balance sheet date are given in Note 9 of the consolidated financial statements.
D. Investments
      Shares in 
      Subsidiaries 
      £m 
Cost
At 1 October 2009      911 
Additions      14 
Disposals      (3)
At 30 September 2010      922 
Provision for diminution in value
At 30 September 2009      – 
Impairment      (4)
At 30 September 2010      (4)
Net book value
At 30 September 2009      911 
At 30 September 2010      918 
Additions represent share-based payment liabilities incurred.  The costs of the share-based schemes, which are operated for employees of  
the Company’s subsidiaries, are borne by the subsidiaries, subject to local accounting standards.  The Company recognises an increase in the 
investment in the subsidiary and a credit to retained earnings, in accordance with FRS 20: Share-based payments.
The investment in Travelmood Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary, of £4m has been fully written down in the year.  This follows a review of  
the carrying value by the Directors in light of the intended strategic direction and expected trading of the company in the foreseeable future.
Details of the principal operating subsidiaries held directly and indirectly by the Company and of companies acquired in the year ended 
30 September 2010 can be found in Notes 32 and 13 of the Group’s consolidated financial statements.   www.tuitravelplc.com
Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 139
E. Debtors
     30 September  30 September
     2010  2009
     £m  £m 
Amounts owed by ultimate parent company     370  – 
Amounts owed by Group undertakings     705  234 
Corporation tax recoverable     35  – 
Prepayments     2  – 
Other debtors     33  – 
Total     1,145  234 
Amounts owed by ultimate parent
Amounts owed by ultimate parent comprise a loan of £370m.  The loan is unsecured, bears interest at EURIBOR plus a margin of 1.9%, has no 
fixed date of repayment and is repayable on demand.  
Amounts owed by Group undertakings
Amounts owed by Group undertakings are unsecured, includes £360m (2009: £226m) that bears interest at 6.0% (2009: 1.5%) and matures on 
5 October 2010, £9m (2009: £nil) that bears interest at 7.0% and matures on 29 October 2010.  £336m (2009: £8m) is unsecured, bears no 
interest, has no fixed date of repayment and is repayable on demand.
F. Creditors: amounts falling due within one year
     30 September  30 September
     2010  2009
     £m  £m 
Bank overdraft     112  – 
Deferred and contingent consideration     12  4 
Amounts owed to ultimate parent company     589  252 
Amounts owed to Group undertakings     234  55 
Accruals and deferred income     20  – 
Total     967  311 
Bank overdraft
Bank overdraft is unsecured, repayable on demand and bears interest at overnight LIBOR rate plus a margin of 2%.
Amounts owed to Group undertakings
Amounts owed by Group undertakings are unsecured, interest free, have no fixed date of repayment and are repayable on demand.  
Amounts owed to ultimate parent company
Amounts owed to the ultimate parent comprise a shareholder loan of €669m (2009: €919m), current account of €14m (2009: €15m) and interest 
payable of €2m (2009: €9m).  The loan bears interest at EURIBOR plus a margin of 1.9% (2009: 1.5%) per annum.  The Company can make 
voluntary repayments at any time during the term of the loan subject to a minimum repayment of €10m and the giving of 30 days’ notice.  The 
drawn balance of the loan at 30 September 2010 was €669m (2009: £919m), not including interest payable.  It is repayable in two instalments: 
1 December 2010, €509m and 30 April 2011, €160m.
G. Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year
     30 September  30 September 
     2010  2009 
     £m  £m 
Convertible bonds     633  – 
Deferred and contingent consideration     5  20 
Amounts owed to ultimate parent company     –  611 
Total     638  631 
Details of the convertible bonds are given in Note 19 of the consolidated financial statements.  The accounting under UK GAAP and IFRS  
is the same. www.tuitravelplc.com
140 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010
Financial statements
Notes to the Company’s financial statements  
for the year ended 30 September 2010 continued
H. Provision for liabilities and charges
     30 September  30 September 
     2010  2009 
     £m  £m 
Other timing differences     (19) –
Total provision for liabilities and charges     (19) –
At 1 October     – –
Deferred tax charge to profit and loss account      8  –
Deferred tax charge to equity      (27) –
At 30 September     (19) –
Other timing differences comprise the deferred tax charge on the equity portion of the convertible bonds and share-based payments.
I. Share capital
     30 September  30 September 
     2010  2009 
     £m  £m 
Authorised share capital  
1,999,500,020 (2009: 1,999,500,020) ordinary shares of 10p each     200  200 
49,998 (2009: 49,998) redeemable preference shares of £1 each     –  – 
Total     200  200 
Allotted, called up and fully paid share capital  
1,118,010,670 (2009: 1,118,010,670) ordinary shares of 10p each     112  112 
Total     112  112 
J. Capital and reserves 
   Profit and Convertible Other 
  Share capital loss account bond reserve reserves Total
  £m  £m   £m  £m £m 
At 30 September 2008  112  267  – 14   393 
Share-based payment costs  –  –  – 16   16 
Loss for the year  –  (33) – –   (33)
Dividends paid  –  (107) – –   (107)
At 30 September 2009  112  127  – 30   269 
Acquisition of shares  –  –  – (7)  (7)
Disposal on award of shares  –  4  – (18)  (14)
Share-based payment costs  –  –  – 18   18 
Profit for the year  –  214  – –   214 
Equity portion of convertible bonds  –  –  83 –   83 
Dividends paid  –   (118) – –   (118)
At 30 September 2010  112   227  83 23   445 
The share-based payment credit for the year ended 30 September 2010 of £14m (2009: £16m) has an associated deferred tax credit of £4m 
(2009: £nil).
During the year ended 30 September 2010 the Group’s Employee Benefit Trusts acquired shares at market value for consideration of £7m 
(2009: £nil).
Details of dividends debited to equity in the year are set out in Note 9. www.tuitravelplc.com
Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 141
K. Contingent liabilities
Under the terms of guarantees given to the Civil Aviation Authority and other relevant authorities by the Company in respect of certain 
subsidiaries, in the event of default the Company could be held liable to the extent of the subsidiaries’ net trading liabilities at the time  
of default.
The Company, and its subsidiaries, is at any time defending a number of actions against it arising in the normal course of business.  Provision  
is made for these actions where this is deemed appropriate.  No actions which are outstanding at 30 September 2010 are expected to have a 
material effect on these accounts.  The Directors consider that adequate provision has been made for all known liabilities.
Where the Company enters into financial guarantee contracts to guarantee the indebtedness of other companies within its Group, the Company 
considers these to be insurance arrangements and accounts for them as such.  In this respect, the Company treats the guarantee contract as  
a contingent liability until such time as it becomes probable that the Company will be required to make a payment under the guarantee.
L. Related party transactions
Apart from with its own subsidiaries which are included in the consolidated financial statements, TUI Travel PLC, in carrying out its ordinary 
business activities, had transactions with its ultimate parent company, TUI AG, which delivered services to companies in the Group.
All transactions with related parties were executed on an arm’s length basis and under normal conditions of trade with independent third parties.
Details of transactions with related parties and balances outstanding at the balance sheet date are set out in the tables below:
  Interest received Expenses
   
   Year ended  Year ended  Year ended  Year ended 
   30 September  30 September  30 September  30 September 
   2010  2009  2010  2009 
   £m  £m  £m  £m       
Related party
Ultimate parent TUI AG   4  –  22  46 
Total   4  –  22  46 
  Debtors Creditors
   
   Year ended  Year ended  Year ended  Year ended 
   30 September  30 September  30 September  30 September 
   2010  2009  2010  2009 
   £m  £m  £m  £m       
Related party
Ultimate parent TUI AG    370  –  589  863 
Total    370  – 589  863 
M. Post balance sheet events
Paul Bowtell will be resigning as a Director of the Company with effect from 31 December 2010.
Subsequent to 30 September 2010 the Company has sold TTSS Limited (previously Edwin Doran Travel Limited) for a total consideration  
of £6m to another company within the TUI Travel PLC Group.
Details of further post balance sheet events relevant to the Company and its Group are given in Note 34 of the consolidated financial statements. www.tuitravelplc.com
142   T U I  T r a v e l  P L C  A n n u a l  R e p o r t  &  A c c o u n t s  2 0 1 0
Shareholder information
Shareholder profiles
Shareholder profiles
I n   t h e   1 2   m o n t h s   t o   3 0   N o v e m b e r   2 0 1 0   t h e   C o m p a n y   w a s   n o t i fi e d   b y   w a y   o f   T r a n s p a r e n c y   Di r e c t i v e   F o r m   1 
( T R 1 )   n o t i fi c a t i o n s   o f   t h e   f o l l o w i n g   v o t i n g   r i g h t s   o f   t h e   is s u e d   o rd i na r y   s ha r e   c a p i t a l   o f   t h e   C o m p a n y .
          S h a r e s
            %
T U I A G         	 615,882,193 	 55.09
A l l i a n c e  B e r n s t e i n  I n v e s t m e n t s  L P           42,423,212  3.79
M a r a t h o n A s s e t  M a n a g e m e n t           34,073,455  3.05
Financial calendar
A G M :       3   F e b r u ar y   2 0 1 1
In t e r im   r e s ul t s :     M a y   2 0 1 1
P r e limin ar y   r e s ul t s :       D e c e m b e r   2 0 1 1
Solicitors
H e r b e r t   S mi t h
Bankers
B arc l a y s   B ank   P L C 
C i t i g r oup   N A 
R o y a l   B ank   o f   S c o t l a n d   p l c 
S o c i é t é   G é n é r al e
Registrars and transfer office
E q uini t i   L imi t e d 
A s p e c t   H o u s e 
S p e n c e r   R o ad 
L a n c in g   B N 9 9   6 D A 
S h a r e h o l d e r   C o n t ac t   C e n t r e   N o :   0 8 7 1   3 8 4   2 0 3 0 
In t e r n a t i o n a l :   + 4 4   ( 0 )   1 2 1   4 1 5   7 1 6 1 
W e b s i t e :   w w w . s h a r e v i e w . c o . uk  
Company website
w w w . t ui t r a v e lp l c . c o m
Secretary and Registered Office
A   L   Jo hn 
T U I   T r a v e l   H o u s e 
C r a w l e y   B u s in e s s   Q u a r t e r 
F l e min g   W a y 
C r a w l e y 
W e s t   S u s s e x     R H 1 0   9 Q L 
T e l e p h o n e :     0 1 2 9 3   6 4 57 0 0 
Fac s imil e :         0 1 2 9 3   6 4 57 0 4
R e g i s t e r e d   n um b e r   6 0 7 2 8 7 6
Auditors
K P M G   A u d i t   Pl c
Merchant bankers
L a z ar d   B r o t h e r s   &   C o   L imi t e d 
D e u t s c h e   B ank
Stockbrokers
R B S   H o a r e   G o v e t t   L imi t e d 
D e u t s c h e   B ank
Contacts and advisers www.tuitravelplc.com
Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
T U I  T r a v e l P L C A n n u a l R e p o r t  & A c c o u n t s  2 0 1 0  143
Shareholder information
Shareholder discount
Quark Expeditions*
B e s t   p r i c e   o n   t h e   w w w . q u a r k e x p e d i t i o n s . c o m   w e b s i t e   p lu s   a   f ur t h e r  
5 %   d i s c o un t   p e r   ad ul t   o n   a ll   d e p a r t ur e s .
SkiBound*
B e s t   p r i c e   o n   t h e   w w w . s k ib o un dh o li d a y s . c o . uk   w e b s i t e   p lu s   a   f ur t h e r  
d i s c o un t   o f   £ 2 0   p e r   ad ul t   o r   £ 4 0   p e r   b o o k in g   o n   a ll   o ur   F r e n c h   c lub 
h o t e l   d e s t in a t i o n s .
*   D i s c o u n t s   a r e   n o t   v a l i d   o n   a c c o m m o d a t i o n - o n l y   b o o k i n g s   a n d   c a n n o t   b e   u s e d   i n   c o n j u n c t i o n  
w i t h   a n y   d i s c r e t i o n a r y   d i s c o u n t s ,   g r o u p   s a v i n g s   o r   o t h e r   p r o m o t i o n a l   o f f e r s .
In   o r d e r   t o   q u ali f y   f o r   t h e   d i s c oun t ,   p r i v at e   s h a r e h o l d e r s   ( in c lu d in g  
t h o s e   h o l d in g   t hr o u g h   a   n o min e e   ac c o un t )   mu s t   h o l d   at   l ea s t   5 0 0 
o r d in ar y   s h a r e s   in   t h e   C o m p an y   o n   t h e   d a t e   o f   b o o k in g   t h e   h o li d a y  
a n d   mu s t   h a v e   b e e n   o n   t h e   r e g i s t e r   o f   s h a r e h o l d e r s   f o r   a   minimum  
p e r i o d   o f   o n e   y ea r   o n   t h at   d a t e .
T o   r e g i s t e r   f o r   y o ur   d i s c o un t   c all   E q uini t i   o n   0 8 7 1   3 8 4   2 0 3 0   ( M o n d a y  
t o   F r i d a y   0 8 : 3 0 - 1 7 : 3 0 ) .     Y o u   w ill   b e   r e q uir e d   t o   p r o v i d e   d e t a il s   t o 
c o n fi r m   y o u   ar e   an   e li g ib l e   s h a r e h o l d e r .     O n c e   c o n fi r m e d ,   y o u   w ill   b e 
g i v e n   a   uni q u e   c o d e .
T o   m a k e   a   b o o k in g   c all   u s   o n :   0 8 4 4   8 0 0   3 1 0 4   ( M o n d a y   t o   F r i d a y   
0 9 : 0 0 - 1 8 : 0 0 / S a t ur d a y   0 9 : 0 0 - 1 7 : 0 0 ) .     Y o u   w ill   b e   a s k e d   f o r   y our   uni q u e  
c o d e   an d   y o ur   d i s c oun t   w ill   b e   a p p li e d .
Share dealing service
A n   e x e c u t i o n - o nl y   s h a r e - d ealin g   s e r v i c e   f o r   t h e   p urc h a s e   a n d   s a l e   o f 
T U I   T r a v e l   P L C   s h a r e s   i s   a v a il ab l e   f r o m   N a t W e s t   S t o c k b r o k e r s .    
N a t W e s t   S t o c k b r o k e r s   i s   a u t h o r i s e d   a n d   r e g ul a t e d   b y   t h e   F in an c i a l  
S e r v i c e s   A u t h o r i t y   a n d   i s   a   m e m b e r   o f   t h e   L o n d o n   S t o c k   E x c h an g e  
a n d   P L U S .    
F o r   d e t a il s ,   p l ea s e   c o n t ac t :
N a t W e s t   S t o c k b r o k e r s 
P r e mi e r   Pl ac e    
2 ½   D e v o n s hir e   S q u ar e 
L o n d o n   E C 2 M   4 B A 
T e l e p h o n e   0 8 0 8   2 0 8   4 4 3 3
Find out more
T U I   T r a v e l   P L C   h a s   a   c o r p o r at e   w e b s i t e   w hi c h   c an   b e   ac c e s s e d  
t hr o u g h   w w w . t ui t r a v e lp l c . c o m
E li g ib l e   s h a r e h o l d e r s   a r e   e n t i t l e d   t o   t h e   f o ll o w in g   d i s c oun t s   ( w hi c h   a r e 
s ubj e c t   t o   c h an g e )   w h e n   b o o k in g   h o li d a y s   t hr o u g h   o ur   d e d i c at e d 
S h a r e h o l d e r   D i s c o un t   L in e .
B e s t   p r i c e   o n   t h e   d e d i c at e d   w e b s i t e   p lu s   a   f ur t h e r   d i s c o un t   o f   £ 2 0   p e r 
ad ul t   o r   £ 4 0   p e r   b o o k in g   ( c r ui s e ,   s h o r t / m e d i um - h a ul   d e s t in a t i o n s )   o r  
£ 4 0   p e r   ad ul t   o r   £ 8 0   p e r   b o o k in g   ( l o n g - h a ul   d e s t in a t i o n s )   f o r   t h e 
f o ll o w in g :  
*   F ir s t   C h oi c e       w w w . fi r s t c h oi c e . c o . uk
*   T h o m s o n         w w w . t h o m s o n . c o . uk
*   T h o m s o n   W o r l d w i d e   w w w . t h o m s o n w o r l d w i d e . c o m
*   C i t ali a         w w w . c i t a li a . c o m  
*   J e t s a v e       w w w . j e t s a v e . c o . uk
*   M e o n   V ill a s       w w w . m e o n v ill a s . c o m  
*   S o v e r e i g n       w w w . s o v e r e i g n . c o m
*   H a y e s   &   Jar v i s     w w w . h a y e s a n d j a r v i s . c o . uk
Thomson Airways   
B e s t   p r i c e   o n   t h e   w w w . t h o m s o n . c o . uk   w e b s i t e   p lu s   a   f ur t h e r   d i s c oun t  
o f   £ 1 0   p e r   p e r s o n   f o r   a   r e t ur n   j o ur n e y   ( s h o r t / m e d i um - h a ul  
d e s t in a t i o n s )   o r   £ 2 0   p e r   p e r s o n   f o r   a   r e t ur n   j o ur n e y   ( l o n g - h a ul  
d e s t in a t i o n s ) .
Hotelopia
B e s t   p r i c e   o n   a ll   h o t e l s   o n   t h e   w w w . h o t e l o pi a . c o . uk   w e b s i t e   p lu s   a n 
ad d i t i o n al   1 4 %   d i s c oun t .
Trek America Grand American Adventures*
B e s t   p r i c e   o n   t h e   w e b s i t e   w w w . t r e k am e r i c a . c o m   p lu s   a n   ad d i t i o n al 
1 0 %   d i s c o un t .
The Moorings*
B e s t   p r i c e   o n   t h e   w w w . m o o r in g s . c o m   w e b s i t e   p lu s   a   f ur t h e r   d i s c oun t  
o f   £ 2 0   p e r   ad ul t   o r   £ 4 0   p e r   b o o k in g   ( s h o r t - h a ul   d e s t in a t i o n s )   o r   £ 4 0 
p e r   ad ul t   o r   £ 8 0   p e r   b o o k in g   ( l o n g - h a ul   d e s t in a t i o n s ) .
Sunsail*
B e s t   p r i c e   o n   t h e   w w w . s un s a il . c o . uk   w e b s i t e   p lu s   a   f ur t h e r   d i s c o un t   o f 
£ 2 0   p e r   ad ul t   o r   £ 4 0   p e r   b o o k in g   ( s h o r t - h a ul   d e s t in a t i o n s )   o r   £ 4 0   p e r  
ad ul t   o r   £ 8 0   p e r   b o o k in g   ( l o n g - h a ul   d e s t in a t i o n s ) .
Le Boat*
B e s t   p r i c e   o n   t h e   w w w . l e b o at . c o . uk   w e b s i t e   p lu s   a   f ur t h e r   d i s c oun t   o f  
£ 2 0   p e r   ad ul t   o r   £ 4 0   p e r   b o o k in g   o n   a ll   d e s t in a t i o n s .    
Real Gap Gap Year for Grown Ups*
B e s t   p r i c e   o n   t h e   w w w . r ea l g ap . c o . uk   w e b s i t e   p lu s   a   f ur t h e r   d i s c oun t 
o f   1 0 % .     www.tuitravelplc.com
144   T U I T r a v e l P L C A n n u a l R e p o r t &  A c c o u n t s  2 0 1 0
Shareholder information
Index
H
H ea l t h   an d   s af e t y   2 7
I
In d e p e n d e n t   A u d i t o r s ’   R e p o r t   6 3
In v e s t m e n t   c a s e   i f c
K
K e y   P e r f o r m an c e   In d i c a t o r s     1 8
M
M a in s t r ea m   S e c t o r   0 4
M a r k e t   o v e r v i e w   1 2
N
N o t e s   t o   t h e   c o n s o li d at e d   fi n a n c i a l   s t at e m e n t s   6 9
N o min a t i o n   C o m mi t t e e     5 0
O
O u t l o o k   1 3 ,   4 1
P
P e o p l e   2 4
P e o p l e   &   O p e r at i o n al   E f f e c t i v e n e s s   1 6
P e n s i o n s     8 7
P r in c ip a l   r i s k s   2 0
P r in c ip a l   o p e r at in g   s ub s i d i a r i e s   1 3 2
P r o d u c t   &   C o n t e n t   1 4
R
R e s t at e m e n t   o f   p r i o r   y ea r s ’   ac c o un t s   7 0
R e mun e r at i o n   C o m mi t t e e   5 3
R e mun e r at i o n   R e p o r t   5 3
R i s k     2 0
S
S e g m e n t al   p e r f o r m an c e   3 3 ,   8 3
S e p ar at e l y   d i s c l o s e d   i t e m s   8 5
S h a r e h o l d e r   p r o fi l e s   1 4 2
S h a r e h o l d e r   d i s c o un t   1 4 3
S p e c i a li s t   &   A c t i v i t y   S e c t o r   0 6
S p e c i a li s t   &   E m e r g in g   M a r k e t s   S e c t o r   5 ,   3 9
S t r at e g y   2 ,   1 4
S t r at e g i c   im p e r at i v e s   1 4
S t r at e g i c   o v e r v i e w   0 8
S u s t a in ab l e   d e v e l o p m e n t   2 8
S up p li e r s   4 4
T
T a x     9 6
T U I   T r a v e l   o v e r v i e w   0 2
T o t al   S h a r e h o l d e r   R e t ur n   5 6
W
W h o   w e   a r e   0 2
W h e r e   w e   o p e r at e     0 3
A
A c c o m m o d a t i o n   &   D e s t in a t i o n s   S e c t o r   0 5 ,   3 7
A c c o un t in g   p o li c i e s   6 9
A c q ui s i t i o n s     1 7 ,   1 0 6
A c t i v i t y   S e c t o r   0 5 ,   3 8
A nn u a l   G e n e r al   M e e t in g     4 4
A u d i t   C o m mi t t e e     5 0
A u d i t o r s     4 6
B
B al an c e   s h e e t     6 6
B o ar d   C o m mi t t e e s     4 9
B o ar d   o f   D ir e c t o r s     4 2
B r an d s   0 3
B u s in e s s   p e r f o r m an c e   3 2
C
C h a ir m an ’ s   s t at e m e n t     0 8
C h ar i t a b l e   g i v in g   4 4
C hi e f   E x e c u t i v e ’ s   s t at e m e n t   0 9
C hi e f   E x e c u t i v e ’ s   in t e r v i e w   1 0
C o ll ea g u e s   2 4
C o n s o li d at e d   b al a n c e   s h e e t   6 6
C o n s o li d at e d   in c o m e   s t at e m e n t   6 4
C o n s o li d at e d   s t at e m e n t   o f   c a s h   fl o w s   6 8
C o n s o li d at e d   s t at e m e n t   o f   c h an g e s   in   e q ui t y   6 7
C o n s o li d at e d   s t at e m e n t   o f   c o m p r e h e n s i v e   in c o m e   6 5
C o n s um e r   s e n t im e n t   1 3
C o n t ac t s   an d   ad v i s e r s   1 4 2
C o r p o r a t e   G o v e r n a n c e   r e p o r t     4 8
C ur r e n t   t r ad in g   4 0
D
D ir e c t o r s ’   bi og r ap hi e s   4 3
D ir e c t o r s ’   r e p o r t   4 4
D ir e c t o r s ’   r e s p o n s ibili t i e s   4 7
D ir e c t o r s ’   r e mun e r a t i o n   57
D i s t r ib u t i o n   &   B r an d s   1 5
D i v i d e n d s     0 8
E
E ar nin g s   p e r   s h a r e     0 8
E m e r g in g   m a r k e t s   6 ,   1 7
F
F in an c i a l   c al e n d ar     1 4 2
F in an c i a l   hi g hli g h t s     0 7
F in an c i a l   s t at e m e n t s   6 4
G
G o v e r n a n c e   4 2
G r o up   o v e r v i e w   0 2
G r o up   M a n a g e m e n t   B o ar d   2 4
G r o up   p e r f o r m an c e     3 2
G r o w t h   &   C api t a l   A ll o c a t i o n   1 7 Delivered by global3digital
Print managed by urban life support  
www.urbanlifesupport.co.uk
This document is printed on Chorus Silk, a paper containing 
100% virgin fibre sourced from well-managed, sustainable,  
FSC certified forests. Printed by Park Communications on  
FSC
®
 certified paper.
Park is an EMAS certified CarbonNeutral
®
 Company and its 
Environmental Management System is certified to ISO 14001.
100% of the inks used are vegetable oil based, 95% of press 
chemicals are recycled for further use and, on average, 99%  
of any waste associated with this production will be recycled.
Photography supplied by TUI Travel businesses.
 
www.tuitravelplc.com
The investment case
Reasons to invest in TUI Travel PLC (London Stock Exchange ticker code TT.)
Experienced management team
Each of our businesses is led by highly experienced management teams giving us real strength and depth  
of leadership.  Our leaders have demonstrated excellent track records of building strong businesses and 
creating value.
Market-leading brands
We have some of the most recognised and highly trusted brands in the industry, which reduces the  
cost of customer acquisition and means we are highly attractive to our accommodation providers and 
distribution partners.
Market-leading positions
We are either the number one or number two tour operator in almost all of our mainstream source 
markets, including leadership positions in the UK, Germany, France, Belgium and the Netherlands.
Market consolidation
Consolidation in some of our key markets has improved the structure of the industry, helping to remove 
excess supply from the market.  
Economies of scale
We buy over 150 million bednights per year, making us one of the largest distributors of accommodation 
globally.  Our scale gives us a competitive advantage when negotiating with suppliers, allowing us to offer 
excellent value to our customers.
Turnaround potential
In 2009, we identified £142m of turnaround opportunities as we took strategic actions to improve margins 
in a number of underperforming businesses.  After delivering £53m of these in 2010, a further £89m of 
opportunities for margin improvement remains.  
Exposure to higher growth specialist travel
Almost one third of our profits are generated by our portfolio of specialist businesses which enjoy high 
growth and margin characteristics, including specialist tour operators offering unique, experiential travel 
experiences and online accommodation providers.  
Emerging markets
We have established a significant presence in the fast-growing Russian and Ukrainian source markets, 
leaving us well positioned to take advantage of the potential in these markets.  We have an existing 
presence in Brazil, China and India and are investigating the opportunities in these exciting markets. Annual Report & Accounts for the year ended 30 September 2010 TUI Travel PLC
TUI Travel House
Crawley Business Quarter
Fleming Way
Crawley
West Sussex
RH10 9QL
T elephone: 0044 (0)1293 645700
www.tuitravelplc.com
TUI Travel PLC  Annual Report & Accounts for the year ended 30 September 2010
We’re on a journey.  
Focused on delivery.
http://ara2010.tuitravelplc.com
