 Annual Report & Accounts for the year ended 30 September 2009
We’re on a journey.
It’s been a year of progress.
http://ara2009.tuitravelplc.com
TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts for the year ended 30 September 2009 Experienced management team
Our management team has a track record of delivering long term growth whilst managing the
business through significant changes in consumer demand. We have real strength and depth
throughout our management teams across the organisation. See Our Colleagues on page 22.
Market-leading brands
We have some of the most recognised and highly trusted brands in the industry, which drive
customer retention, reduce the cost of customer acquisition and are attractive to our
accommodation providers and distribution partners. See Distribution & Brands on page 15.
Market-leading positions
In the Mainstream Sector we are either the number one or number two positioned tour
operator in almost all of our source markets, including the UK, Germany, France, Belgium, 
the Netherlands and the Nordic countries.
Market consolidation
Consolidation in some of our key markets has improved the structure of the industry and 
has reduced the risk of profit volatility historically driven by oversupply of capacity.
Competitive advantage
We buy over 150 million bednights per year, making us one of the largest distributors of
accommodation globally. Our scale gives us a competitive advantage when negotiating with
suppliers, allowing us to offer excellent value to our customers.
Flexible business model
The inherent flexibility of our model means that we are able to carefully manage our capacity
to react to changes in demand, reducing the volatility of our profitability through the cycle.
Synergies
We have identified £200m of synergy benefits as a result of the merger in 2007 and are 
highly confident of achieving this target. By 2009, we had delivered £120m of synergy
benefits and have £80m still to come. See People & Operational Effectiveness on page 16.
Turnaround potential
Since the merger, we have successfully executed a number of strategic actions to improve
margins in underperforming businesses including our scheduled flying operations in the 
UK and Germany and our Canadian tour operator. We have a number of businesses where
margins continue to be diluted by strategic and business model issues and solving these
represents an opportunity for substantial future margin improvement.
Specialist Sectors
In excess of one-third of our profits are generated by our portfolio of niche specialist
businesses which enjoy high organic growth and margin characteristics and often display
counter-seasonal profitability. Growth in these Sectors is augmented by our highly successful
acquisition strategy, where we identify new market niches and build substantial market
positions. This portfolio of businesses is unique and cannot be replicated, representing 
a clear differentiation from our competitors. See Product & Content on page 14.
Emerging markets
We have an existing presence in the four major emerging markets of Russia, Brazil, China and
India. The growth potential of these markets is substantial and we are well positioned to take
advantage of this, particularly in Russia. See Growth & Capital Allocation on page 17.
10 reasons to invest 
in TUI T ravel PLC
www.tuitravelplc.com Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
TUI T ravel PLC is the 
world’s leading leisure 
travel company. 
Find our 2009 Annual 
Report online at
http://ara2009.tuitravelplc.com
ifc Group at a glance
ifc The investment case
02 TUI T ravel overview
04 Our structure
06 Highlights
08 Strategic overview
08 Market overview
10 Chairman’s statement
11 Chief Executive’s statement
12 Chief Executive’s interview
14 Our strategy
18 Key performance indicators
20 Principal risks
22 Responsible leadership
26 Sustainable development
30 Business performance
30 Group performance
34 Segmental performance
42 Current trading
44 Governance
44 Board of Directors
46 Directors’ report
48 Statement of Directors’ responsibilities
49 Corporate Governance report
53 Remuneration report
63 Independent Auditors’ report
64 Financial statements
64 Consolidated income statement
65 Consolidated balance sheet
66 Consolidated statement of cash flows
67 Consolidated statement of recognised 
income and expense
68 Notes to the consolidated financial statements
123 Company balance sheet
124 Notes to the Company’s financial statements
128 Shareholder information
128 Three-year financial history
129 Shareholder discount
130 Contacts and advisers
131 Glossary of key terms
132 Index
TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 01
www.tuitravelplc.com
The Annual Report contains forward-looking statements that are subject to 
risk factors associated with, amongst other things, the economic and business
circumstances occurring from time to time in countries and Sectors in which the
Group operates. It is believed that the expectations reflected in these statements
are reasonable but they may be affected by a wide range of variables which could
cause actual results to differ from those currently anticipated.
Contents Who we are
TUI Travel PLC (TUI Travel or the Group) was created on 
3 September 2007 from the merger of First Choice Holidays PLC 
and the T ourism Division of TUI AG. It is the world’s leading leisure
travel company operating in over 180 countries with more than
30 million customers in 27 key source markets.
TUI Travel has over 200 brands which are comprised of market-
leading mainstream brands and specialist travel businesses. 
TUI Travel is focused on providing customers with a wide choice 
of differentiated and flexible travel experiences to meet their
changing needs.
TUI Travel is headquartered in the UK and employs approximately
50,000 people. It is listed on the London Stock Exchange in the
FTSE100 and has the ticker code ‘TT.’.
Group at a glance
TUI T ravel overview
02 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009
www.tuitravelplc.com
Making travel 
experiences special
Creating superior shareholder value by
being the leading global leisure travel group
providing customers with a wide choice
of differentiated and flexible travel
experiences to meet their changing needs
Product 
& Content
Distribution
& Brands
People &
Operational
Effectiveness
Growth & 
Capital
Allocation
Customer obsessed Value driven Playing to win Responsible leadership
vision
Go to
page 14
Go to
page 14
Go to
page 23
strategic goal
strategic
imperatives
values
Our strategy Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
Where we operate
TUI Travel is a truly global player operating 
in 27 key source markets. The two additions
from last year include market entrances in
Ukraine and New Zealand.
Our 27 key source markets
TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 03
www.tuitravelplc.com
Australia
Austria
Belgium
Canada
China
Czech Republic
Denmark
Finland
France
Germany
Hungary
India
Ireland
Italy
Luxembourg
Netherlands
New Zealand
Norway
Poland
Russia
Slovenia
Spain
Sweden
Switzerland
Ukraine
United Kingdom
United States
Our key brands
TUI Travel operates under more than 200 brands. A selection of our well-known brands 
include TUI, Thomson, Fritidsresor, Nouvelles Frontières, The Moorings, Quark,
LateRooms.com, Hotelbeds.com, Hayes & Jarvis and Turchese.
TUI operates in the German source
market and is the market-leading tour
operator brand.
www.tui.com
Thomson is the leading UK tour
operator which also offers flights 
and accommodation.
www.thomson.co.uk
Fritidsresor is a tour operator and 
retail business in the Swedish 
source market offering package 
tours to the Mediterranean and
destinations worldwide.
www.fritidsresor.se
Nouvelles Frontières is the leading
multi-specialist and multi-channel 
tour operator in France offering a wide
range of holidays and destinations. 
www.nouvelles-frontieres.fr
The Moorings is the world’s premier
yacht charter company, and offers hire
of its custom-designed yachts in North
America, UK, France and Germany.
www.moorings.com
Quark Expeditions is the world’s leading
operator of expedition cruise voyages
to the Polar Regions.
www.quarkexpeditions.com
LateRooms is the hotel industry’s
leading late availability database
offering over 500,000 accommodation
deals directly to consumers across 
the UK and worldwide. 
www.laterooms.com
Hotelbeds is a leading business-to-
business provider of destination
services and accommodation online 
to wholesalers, travel operators and
travel organisers.
www.r2.hotelbeds.com
Hayes & Jarvis operates in the UK source
market and creates specialist holiday
itineraries for discerning travellers to 
55 destinations worldwide. 
www.hayesandjarvis.co.uk
Turchese offers holidays to Europe, 
the Mediterranean area and the 
Middle East and operates in the Italian
source market. 
www.turchese.it Mainstream is the largest Sector in terms of size, financial performance and employee numbers. It comprises
leading tour operators and ‘power’ brands and operates a fleet of 146 aircraft and circa 3,500 retail shops.
There are three divisions:
Northern Region
The Northern Region comprises the distribution,
tour operating businesses and airlines in the UK
and Ireland, the Nordic countries and Canada. The
UK operates some of the best known and loved
travel brands including the UK’s third largest airline,
Thomson Airways. The Nordics comprises the
markets of Sweden, Norway, Denmark and Finland.
The Nordics has number one brands in all markets,
except Finland where it is number two. In Canada
the brand positioning is being strengthened with
the proposed strategic venture with Sunwing.
Top selling brands*
Thomson, First Choice
and Fritidsresor
Customer numbers
7.1m
Top three destinations*
Balearics, Greece and Turkey
Group at a glance
Our structure
TUI Travel is organised and managed through four Sectors – Mainstream, Activity, Specialist 
& Emerging Markets and Accommodation & Destinations. The chart opposite illustrates the
underlying operating profit mix by Sector for the year ended 30 September 2009.
04 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009
www.tuitravelplc.com
Mainstream Sector
For further information 
see page 34
Key activities
Central Europe
Central Europe comprises the distribution, tour
operating businesses and airline in the source
markets of Germany, Austria, Switzerland and
Poland. Germany is our largest source market*. 
In Germany and Austria, TUI is the market-leading
brand. The businesses are focused on providing 
a unique service and great products at the best
value to our customers.
Top selling brands*
TUI, 1-2-Fly and l’tur
Customer numbers
9.7m
Top three destinations*
Spain, Germany and Turkey
Western Europe
Western Europe comprises the distribution, tour
operating businesses and airlines in France, Belgium
and the Netherlands. In each country the brands
have market-leading positions based on quality 
of service and price.
Top selling brands*
Jetair, Holland International 
and Marmara
Customer numbers
5.2m
Top three destinations*
Spain, Greece and Turkey
*By customer numbers. Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 05
www.tuitravelplc.com
This Sector has over 40 activity travel businesses
that operate under five divisions – Marine,
Adventure, Ski, Student and Sport. Each of these
divisions has market-leading positions. The
Adventure businesses take more customers 
to iconic adventure destinations than any other
operator. The Sport businesses are leaders in
supporter-led cricket and rugby tours in Australia
and the UK, while the Student businesses
encompass everything from the traditional 
school trip to France, to trek holidays for groups 
of young adults in the Himalayas. This Sector also
includes the leading yacht brands in Europe and 
the US and the world’s largest ski operator.
Top selling brands*
Crystal Ski, Moorings and Le Boat
Customer numbers
1.1m
Top three destinations*
France, Austria and Italy
Activity Sector
For further information 
see page 39
Specialist &
Emerging Markets
Sector
For further information 
see page 40
Accommodation &
Destinations Sector
For further information 
see page 41
Key activities
The Specialist & Emerging Markets Sector is an
international portfolio of travel businesses focusing
on specific destinations, premium travel experiences
or particular customer demographic segments 
often with differentiated and exclusive product. 
The sector consists of 40 businesses operating 
from North America, Europe and, most recently,
emerging markets such as Russia and Ukraine.
Top selling brands*
Mostravel, T urchese and 
Hayes & Jarvis
Customer numbers
2.0m 
(including Russia & Ukraine)
Top three destinations*
US, Egypt and Italy
The Accommodation & Destinations Sector (A&D)
sells and provides a range of services in destination
to tour operators, travel agents, corporate clients,
and direct to the consumer worldwide. Services
include hotel accommodation, transfers, excursions,
round trips, organising meetings, incentives,
conferences and events (MICE), cruise handling 
as well as integrated website solutions for our
customers. A&D is structured along key business
lines – Business to Business (B2B) and Business 
to Consumer (B2C).
Top selling brands*
TUI (used by a number of incoming
agencies including TUI España, 
TUI Hellas), Hotelbeds.com and
LateRooms.com
Customer numbers/roomnights
26.9m
Top three destinations*
Spain, UK and Portugal
*By customer numbers.
65.0%
12.6%
6.7%
12.6%
3.1%
Mainstream Sector
Activity Sector
Specialist & Emerging Markets Sector
Accommodation & Destinations Sector
Joint ventures Revenue
Flat £13,863m
Underlying operating profit
+11% £443m
Underlying profit before tax
+15% £366m
Underlying earnings per share
+17% 23.8p
Dividend per share
+10% 10.7p
The financial highlights are underlying results for the years ended 30 September 2009 and 30 September 2008. Underlying operating profit excludes
separately disclosed items, amortisation of IFRS 3 intangibles, goodwill impairment and taxation of results of the Group’s joint ventures and associates.
Underlying profit before tax also excludes separately disclosed financial expenses. Underlying earnings per share excludes the same items as excluded
from underlying profit before tax, net of related taxation.
08 9.7p
09 10.7p
08 20.4p
09 23.8p
08 £319m
09 £366m
08 £398m
09 £443m
08 £13,932m
09 £13,863m
Group at a glance
Financial highlights
06 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009
www.tuitravelplc.com Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
• The Group delivered a strong performance despite significant
economic headwinds
• The merger integration is progressing well and we are on track 
to deliver £200m in synergy targets by 2011
• Announced significant transactions in Germany between TUIfly
and Air Berlin and in Canada with the proposed strategic venture
with Sunwing
• Building a market-leading presence in Russia & CIS through 
a joint venture with S-Group Capital Management
• Completed 11 bolt-on acquisitions in high-growth niche
specialist businesses
• Raised £490m of financing through a convertible bond and
additional bank facility
Operational highlights
TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 07
www.tuitravelplc.com The economic environment
It became clear in 2008 that the world’s financial
system was in jeopardy as many of its leading banks
were suffering liquidity issues and incurring losses,
leading them to be significantly undercapitalised. 
In early 2009, all indicators pointed towards an
increasingly challenging operating environment with
the deterioration of the world economy, financial
uncertainty and low consumer confidence.
Additional challenges became apparent with the
continued volatility of currency and fuel prices as
well as the outbreak of the H1N1 virus.
More than one year on from the banking crisis we
are seeing some indications of economies beginning
to bottom out but economic data is still mixed.
There appear to be signs that the government’s
intervention in the banking crisis is starting to take
effect and there is improving consumer confidence
and an increasing willingness to spend. However,
unemployment is predicted to rise to 11% in the
UK in the second half of 2010 and although there
has been recent improvement in the US,
unemployment remains at 9% (Oxford Economic
Forecasting September 2009). In Germany and
France, unemployment is expected to continue 
to rise in 2010, remaining high until 2012. During
2009, the US and the major European economies
(UK, Germany and France) have seen some
quarterly increases in GDP. However, annual GDP
growth is not expected to resume until 2010.
The leisure travel market
Historically, tourism has shown resilience in
deteriorating economic situations, such as the
recession in the early 1990s and short term shocks
such as 9/11 and the SARS health scare. However,
after a period of strong growth, tourism has not
been immune to the current financial crisis.
According to the United Nations World T ourism
Organisation (UNWTO), the number of international
tourist arrivals worldwide reached 500 million in the
first seven months of 2009, down from 540 million
in the same period of 2008. Economic conditions,
combined with the uncertainties brought about by
the H1N1 virus, are expected to continue to impact
tourism demand in the short term though the rate
of decline is anticipated to ease during the remainder
of 2009 and international tourism is forecast to
decrease by 5% for the full year 2009. The UNWTO
expects moderate growth for 2010.
Over the past couple of years, we have seen
consolidation of the major European players. 
The mergers of TUI T ourism and First Choice 
and Thomas Cook and My Travel have delivered
consolidation, primarily in the UK market. There
have also been several high profile collapses of
airlines and tour operators globally. Businesses 
with weak financial models and poor capacity
management have not survived. Those businesses
that have market-leading brands, are financially
secure and have flexible business models have
proven more resilient. TUI Travel has continued 
to weather the challenging economic environment.
The Group’s financial performance has continued 
to meet the Board’s and the market’s expectations.
Our business model allows us to closely align our
supply to demand and we also have a high degree
of flexibility which allows us to manage and adapt
quickly to changing market conditions and
customer needs.
The political climate
T ourism is one of the most heavily regulated
industries. As a global organisation TUI Travel has 
a public affairs team that works with governments
across our key source markets to address issues
that impact our industry and our customers.
The Package Travel Directive is one issue that has
come to the fore following the collapse of a number
of airlines including XL Airways and one on which
we have been campaigning across our key markets.
The Package Travel Directive came into effect in
1990 and its provisions were introduced into UK 
law through the Package Travel Regulations in 1992.
The Package T ravel Directive set out travel organisers’
responsibilities to their customers in the event that
an operator fails. In the EU, anyone who offers
package holidays must comply with the Package
Travel Directive.
Following campaigning by TUI Travel and the
industry, the European Commission has recognised
that the Package Travel Directive needs to be
updated in line with the significant changes that
have taken place in the industry over the last
17 years, most notably the use of the internet 
for booking holidays. We are ensuring that TUI
Travel’s views on this regulation and the protection
customers should expect are heard. As part of 
this, Peter Long has met with the European
Commissioner for Consumer Affairs to submit 
our recommendations.
The sustainability challenge
Travel and tourism accounts for 11% of the world’s
GDP and 12% of its exports.
1
Around 50 of the world’s least developed countries
rely largely on tourism for economic development.
However, travel and tourism are responsible for
around 5% of global carbon dioxide emissions.
2
As a leading tour operator TUI Travel aspires to 
lead the travel and tourism sector and to lobby for
sustainability to be embraced as a business issue
on which the future health of the industry depends.
As a tourism group we take our responsibilities very
seriously and are working to ensure that sustainable
Strategic overview
Market overview
08 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009
www.tuitravelplc.com Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
development aligns with the Group’s key strategic
priorities. Our challenge is to understand how our
industry can optimise its social, economic and
environmental benefits for all concerned. TUI
Travel’s goal in this respect is to make travel
experiences special by providing holidays that cause
minimal environmental impact, respect the culture
and people of destinations and offer real economic
benefit to local communities. See Sustainable
Development on page 26.
Consumer sentiment
Our customers continue to look forward to their
annual holiday. They continue to want to travel
abroad, experience new countries, cultures and
sunnier climates. We are seeing the following
customer trends:
Brand strength
Customers are loyal to reputable, established, 
high-quality brands (’power brands’) as they seek 
to de-risk their holidays and book with a tour
operator that gives full financial protection. We 
have some of the most recognised and highly
trusted brands in the industry. See Distribution 
& Brands on page 15.
Product innovation and development
Customers continue to be more discerning in their
holiday decisions, wanting differentiated products
and value for money. We are developing a portfolio
of exclusive products that no competitor can 
match or replicate and which is tailored to include
additional services and facilities that our customers
want on their holiday. For further information on
differentiated products see Product & Content 
on page 14.
We have seen a trend towards all inclusive packages
due to customers seeking financial certainty and
wanting to know exactly what their holiday is going
to cost. In the UK, we have experienced a 33%
increase in demand and in Germany a 50% increase
in 2009 versus 2008.
The flexibility of our travel products has also
become a key customer requirement with an
increase in demand for 10 or 11-night holidays,
wider choices of departure dates and flights from
regional airports.
Our customers care about the environment and
expect a quality tour operator to be addressing
these issues on their behalf. See Sustainable
Development on page 26. In the largest
mainstream markets, Germany and the UK, 
we have launched green brochures featuring 
only holidays that meet the highest social and
environmental criteria.
We continue to listen to our customers by creating
new holiday experiences to meet and beat their
expectations.
Destinations
A number of non-EU countries including Egypt 
and Turkey continued to grow strongly in popularity
in 2008/2009. The number of our customers
travelling to the Eurozone has decreased but these
destinations including the Balearics, mainland
Spain, Portugal and Greece still remain our top
short haul destinations. For long haul destinations
the Dominican Republic, Thailand and the United
States continually provide resorts that are popular
and value for money. Despite the impact of swine
flu, Mexico has recovered well following investments
and incentives by the local Government to attract
tourists back to the resorts. New destinations
introduced in 2009 included Kenya and Canada.
Emerging markets
As our traditional mainstream markets mature we
continue to look to new markets for growth. During
the year, we committed to investing in Russia & CIS
with our joint venture partner, S-Group Capital
Management. Our aim is for TUI Russia & CIS to
achieve a market-leading position. We also have an
existing presence in Brazil, China and India and
these markets are being investigated and evaluated
for further growth opportunities. See Growth &
Capital Allocation on page 17.
Market outlook
Although customers are booking later in the 
current economic climate, there is still a strong
demand from our customers for their main holiday.
We anticipate that market conditions will remain
challenging and expect the later booking pattern to
continue in the next financial year. In the long term
there is every reason to believe that the demand
for international travel will continue to grow strongly
after the effects of the current economic downturn
have receded, particularly in emerging market
economies, and we are well placed to capture 
this growth.
TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 09
www.tuitravelplc.com
1 United Nations World T ourism Organisation (UNWTO) T ourism
Satellite Accounts (TSA).
2 United Nations World T ourism Organisation (UNWTO), United
Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) and World Meteorological
Organization (WMO) (October 2007) Climate Change and T ourism:
Responding to Global Challenges. Madrid. T wo years on from the formation of TUI Travel, we
have made substantial progress in implementing
our strategic imperatives and delivering our roadmap.
We are on track to achieve our synergy target and
have successfully resolved a number of key strategic
issues identified at the time of the merger. Some
underperforming businesses remain and we are
confident that we can turn these around. We are
focusing increasingly on the significant growth
opportunities identified within both the Mainstream
and Specialist Sectors, which I believe will deliver
superior and sustainable long term growth.
Results
The Group has achieved an 11% increase in
underlying operating profit to £443m, (2008:
£398m) on slightly lower revenue of £13,863m
(2008: £13,932m). Underlying profit before tax 
is up 15% to £366m, (2008: £319m). Underlying
earnings per share increased by 17% to 23.8p,
(2008: 20.4p). The Group statutory loss before
taxation was £52m (2008: £267m).
Dividends
The Board is recommending a final dividend of 7.7p
per share. On 19 May 2009, the Board recommended
an interim dividend of 3.0p per share, thereby
resulting in a full year dividend of 10.7p per share
(previous year 9.7p). The Group has a progressive
dividend policy and will look to maintain underlying
dividend cover at just over two times.
Board
Christoph Mueller resigned as Aviation Director 
and subsequently left the Board in May 2009. 
In October 2009, Horst Baier was appointed as a
Non-Executive Director. The Board is composed of
a majority of independent Non-Executive Directors.
Colleagues
Providing special holiday experiences to our
customers is down to the hard work and enthusiasm
of our colleagues. Our colleagues are at the heart of
achieving our objectives and successes and we have
outstanding talent at every level of the business. 
I thank them on behalf of the Board.
Sustainable development
Sustainability is important to our customers,
colleagues and ultimately our shareholders. We are
aware of our responsibility to manage our impacts
on the environment and people. Climate change is
the greatest environmental challenge facing humanity
and we recognise that we contribute to global
carbon emissions, particularly through our aircraft
operations. We work hard to reduce this impact and
I am pleased to report that our emissions compare
favourably with our peers. 
Dr Michael Frenzel
Non-Executive Chairman
Strategic overview | Chairman’s statement
Growing in strength
We have again delivered a strong set of results against a backdrop of challenging economic
conditions and exceptional cost inflation from jet fuel prices and currency movements. 
Our performance in 2009 proves that the flexibility and diversity of our model works and 
is testament to the strength of our management team and our market-leading brands.
10 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009
www.tuitravelplc.com
350
300
250
200
150
100
TUI T ravel PLC
FTSE 100
FTSE 30-100
TUI Travel PLC shares
listed 03.09.07
30.09.04 30.09.05 30.09.06 30.09.07 30.09.08 30.09.09
Total Shareholder Return
TUI Travel PLC v FTSE 100 & FTSE 30-300
Dr Michael Frenzel
Non-Executive Chairman Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
We are very proud that TUI Travel is the world’s
leading leisure travel company taking over 30 million
customers on holiday each year. We have produced
another good set of financial results this year, with 
a £45m increase in underlying operating profit 
to £443m and an improvement in underlying
operating margin of 30 basis points to 3.2%.
Our performance is particularly impressive as it has
been achieved in spite of the higher levels of cost
inflation and the challenging economic backdrop,
which has resulted in both higher unemployment
and declines in consumer confidence in all source
markets. The Group’s flexible business model and
careful capacity management has meant we have
been able to successfully manage the businesses
through this difficult period. Our strong brands,
together with ongoing product innovation and
development, have also meant that we have
continued to maintain market-leading positions and 
to deliver new holiday experiences for customers.
Climate change has been one of the most talked-
about topics this year and in the leisure travel
industry it is without doubt one of the largest
challenges we face. TUI Travel is the first major 
tour operator to commit to carbon reduction targets
and I have met with business leaders to discuss 
the business community’s response to climate
change. We will continue with our commitment 
to sustainability and strive to ensure that it aligns
with our strategic priorities.
TUI Travel’s clear strategic goal is to create superior
shareholder value by being the world’s leading
leisure travel group providing customers with the
widest choice of differentiated and flexible travel
experiences to meet their changing needs. This 
year we have focused on delivering growth and
shareholder value by growing our Mainstream
businesses’ margins and building our portfolio of
specialist businesses. We have made substantial
progress in delivering both these targets and we 
are confident there is more growth to come.
Finally, all of our achievements this year could not
have happened without the hard work and dedication
of our 50,000 colleagues and I would like to thank
them personally for their contribution.
Peter Long
Chief Executive
Strategic overview | Chief Executive’s statement
A clear strategic goal
Welcome to TUI Travel PLC’s 2009 annual report. This year we have taken the step of putting 
our Annual Report & Accounts fully online reflecting our ongoing commitment to sustainable
development and the fact that over 70% of our shareholders will be receiving it electronically 
this year. We hope you enjoy reading and hearing about TUI Travel’s achievements.
TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 11
www.tuitravelplc.com
Peter Long
Chief Executive
View the CEO’s interview online
Watch the CEO’s interview online at 
http://ara2009.tuitravelplc.com In what has been a very economically challenging
year in the global market place, where we have
experienced the deepest and longest post-war
recession, rising unemployment, loss of consumer
confidence and increased cost pressures, I am
delighted that TUI T ravel has achieved strong results.
For me, if there is one thing that really stands out 
it is the dedication and commitment of all our
colleagues at TUI T ravel.
I believe that we have the best management team
in the industry and this is borne out by the way
businesses perform in times of adversity. It is one
thing to perform well when the trading environment
is positive or benign but it is quite another thing to
produce good performance when times are tough.
We also have a good mix of tour operator and
functional experts across the Group which creates
the right balance to successfully manage what is 
a huge, complex international business.
It is not only about the team at the top though. 
We have identified our talent pool and considerable
time and commitment is going into developing our
leaders of tomorrow. I have had the opportunity 
of spending time with them this year and what 
a fantastic group of colleagues they are. It is both a
privilege and reassuring to know that as the business
grows we will have the right team to grow with it.
It’s been very interesting to see the reactions of 
our customers within our different source markets
during this period of economic uncertainty.
The first market where we saw a marked reaction
was in the United States. The sub-prime mortgage
issue was a significant factor and unemployment
rose much more quickly than in our other source
markets and consumer confidence was lower much
earlier. We experienced a marked drop in bookings
across a number of our businesses. Having taken
the pain earlier, however, the US market is now
coming back strongly and the businesses are
performing accordingly.
In the UK, we have experienced a later booking
pattern – if someone is concerned about whether
they will have a job or not, it’s not surprising that
they delay booking their annual summer holiday.
They did, however, eventually book and, because
we had ensured that we aligned capacity with
demand, although they were booking later, we
weren’t having to discount the price.
How are the different markets responding to
the current economic climate?
What are the highlights of this year for you?
There is evidence that consumer confidence in the UK
is improving as we’re seeing strong demand for late
bookings this winter. Furthermore, I am encouraged
by our booking pattern for Summer 2010.
In Germany and, to a lesser or greater extent, our
other European source markets, we think it could
be slightly different. The fiscal measures put in
place in these countries means that they have not
experienced the unemployment levels that we have
seen in either the US or the UK. Once these
measures cease we may see unemployment rise.
We are, therefore, planning cautiously for next year
in these source markets although there are positive
signs in a number of these countries.
We have experienced both lower demand and
significant cost inflation across the Group which 
we managed through our flexible business model.
Carefully aligning capacity with demand allowed 
us to achieve our required load factors and also
ensured that there was no excessive discounting 
in the lates market despite the later booking trend.
We have identified a number of businesses across
the Group that were or are underperforming and
we have taken or are taking appropriate steps to
address these.
In Germany, we have concluded a transaction with
Air Berlin who will take over our City Pairs business.
This allows us to exit an operation which made
significant losses in 2008. This deal makes strategic
sense for both us and Air Berlin. We are also
improving our product mix in Germany which will
deliver higher margins and have plans in place to
increase our controlled distribution.
In France, within Nouvelles Frontières, we are
rationalising the product range to ensure that we
operate programmes of significant scale to key
destinations. Corsair, our long haul scheduled
airline, was hit by a series of socio-political events 
in a number of its key destinations and we are
continuing to review its business model and
strategy. Our retail operation in both Nouvelles
Frontières, where we were sub-scale, and Marmara,
where we relied heavily on third party agents,
needed to be addressed. We are now selling
Marmara product through our Nouvelles Frontières
and Havas retail operations and the transaction
with Carlson Wagonlit Travel after the year end
gives us the scale we require.
In Canada, which is an extremely competitive
market with significant over-capacity, we have a
weak market position and made a loss of £24m in
2009. Having reviewed the strategic alternatives for
What steps have you taken to further 
improve the Group’s business performance?
Strategic overview | Chief Executive’s interview
An interview with 
Chief Executive, Peter Long
12 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009
www.tuitravelplc.com Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
Canada, we recently announced a strategic venture
with Sunwing, a leading tour operator in Canada. 
The transaction, once completed, will strengthen
our position in the Canadian market and bring 
a number of strategic and financial benefits to 
the Group.
For us it’s all about delivering sustainable longer
term growth and our flexible and efficient business
model remains key to what we do.
We will be focusing on continuing to improve those
areas of the business that are underperforming,
increasing our differentiated and exclusive product
and getting the right mix of controlled distribution
across the whole of our Mainstream Sector.
We will also look closely at how we shape our long
haul programme. Being the European launch customer
for the Boeing 787, we will ensure that we take full
advantage of the competitive advantage this brings us.
Within our Specialist Sectors, we have a unique
portfolio that is impossible to replicate and our
focus will be on driving organic growth in our
existing businesses and maximising further the
merger integration opportunities we have. We will
expand into new source markets with specialist
products, just as we did with Le Boat in Germany.
We continue to identify new market niches that
offer high-growth potential and where we can easily
establish a significant position. In Russia and Ukraine,
we will leverage and grow our existing platforms as
well as investigating further the potential of other
emerging markets.
Travel and tourism is the world’s largest industry
and has grown and changed rapidly over the last 
30 years. In 1979 there were 270 million international
tourist arrivals, this has risen to nearly a billion
today and the prediction for 2020 is 1.6 billion.
The mainstream tour operators opened customers’
eyes to safe travel beyond one’s own country and
people are more adventurous today. It started with
Spain, but now customers are more confident and
will happily go to destinations like Egypt, Turkey, the
Dominican Republic and Mexico. It’s not only about
a sun and beach holiday, many of our Group’s
customers want to go on experiential holidays like
sailing, trekking in the Himalayas, safaris or Polar
expedition cruising and these will continue to
become even more popular.
How do you see the leisure travel market
developing in the future?
How will your strategy and business model
develop over the next couple of years?
The new generation of aircraft, like the Boeing 787,
will allow our customers to fly even further afield to
new destinations in aircraft that are more fuel
efficient, offer greater comfort and are less
damaging to the environment than today’s aircraft.
We are in a constantly changing industry and if we
stand still we will be left behind. We put our customers
at the heart of everything we do and not only deliver
what they want today but continue to innovate in
order to deliver what they will want tomorrow.
Every year we face different challenges and we deal
with them, be they geo-political, natural disasters or
economic. But for me there are two key challenges
that we are addressing, one is carbon reduction and
the second is regulation.
We operate in a high carbon industry. Although 
we are a tour operator, first and foremost, we also
have a fleet of 150 aircraft to take our customers
on holiday and, unfortunately, today there is no
alternative to jet fuel. Mass production of second
generation bio-fuels, which seem more viable, 
are still a considerable number of years off. We,
therefore, have to do all we can to reduce our
carbon dioxide emissions ourselves and are making
a significant investment in new technology like the
Boeing 787. We have committed to reducing our
carbon emissions from our fleet by 6% by 2014.
We are supportive of the inclusion of aviation in 
the European Emissions Trading Scheme (ETS) but
believe there should be a global emissions trading
framework for aviation which channels monies
raised from auctioning emissions allocations into
environmental solutions rather than national coffers.
We also don’t want to see the aviation industry
being hit twice, both by national governments in 
tax raising schemes and also by ETS.
As a tour operator we are heavily regulated and we
do not have an issue with that. What we do have an
issue with, however, is that competitors in the same
market competing for the same customers and the
same business, should be regulated in the same way
and this isn’t the case. We welcome the fact that
the European Commission is looking at revising the
Package Travel Directive which has been in place for
nearly 20 years and does not take into consideration
the way the leisure travel market has changed,
particularly in the last six or seven years with the
low cost carriers and online travel agents. Financial
protection also needs to be addressed especially in
the light of the number of airline failures that we
have seen and may well continue to see.
What are the challenges TUI Travel is facing?
TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 13
www.tuitravelplc.com
View the CEO’s interview online
Watch the CEO’s interview online at 
http://ara2009.tuitravelplc.com Summary
• Different products to our competitors
and unique in the marketplace
• High customer retention and repeat 
booking rates
• Earlier booking trends
Differentiated content is a central pillar of our
product and content strategy. We are developing a
portfolio of exclusive products that no competitor
can match or replicate and which is tailored to
include additional services and facilities that
customers want on their holiday. Every one of our
businesses offers products that are tailored to meet
the holiday needs and tastes of its customers. In
the Mainstream Sector, the level of differentiated
product has increased over the last year and
currently represents 37% of total holidays. We 
have specific targets in each Sector to continue 
to increase this level of differentiation and are
constantly reviewing and evolving product content.
The Mainstream differentiated products in the UK
include Sensatori, designed for couples, and First
Choice Holiday Villages, designed for families. In
Germany we offer Sensimar, a 5-star spa concept
for couples and Robinson Clubs for families. In the
Nordics our Blue Villages offer an excellent
experience for families.
The portfolio of differentiated content not only
increases our competitive advantage by distinguishing
us from the competition, it also drives higher
margins, underpinning our plans to improve
underlying operating margins. Differentiated
products have an earlier booking profile which
increases yields and removes pressure in the lates
market, while customers also benefit from a more
added-value, unique experience. Feedback shows
that customers appreciate the quality and value of
these products, and higher satisfaction levels drive
repeat bookings and customer retention.
Strategic overview | Our strategy
Strategic imperatives
We have a clear strategic goal to create superior shareholder value by being the world’s leading
leisure travel group providing customers with the widest choice of differentiated and flexible
travel experiences to meet their changing needs. In order for us to achieve our strategy we 
are focused on four areas – Product & Content, Distribution & Brands, People & Operational
Effectiveness and Growth & Capital Allocation. We measure the delivery of these four areas 
by our key performance indicators. See KPIs on page 18.
14 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009
www.tuitravelplc.com
Imperative 1: Product & Content Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
Summary
• Highly trusted brands that provide value 
and quality
• Broadening customer choice
• Building our customer relationships
Our highly trusted brands provide excellent 
value for money and drive customer loyalty and
repeat bookings. We have market-leading brands 
in the Mainstream Sector including TUI, Thomson,
First Choice, Jetairfly, Fritidsresor, Holland
International, Arke, Nouvelles Frontières and
Marmara. In the Specialist Sectors we have 
well-known niche brands that have market-leading
positions including Hayes & Jarvis, Sovereign,
Citalia, The Moorings, Crystal Ski, LateRooms.com
and Hotelbeds.com
Our aim is to provide customers with a wide choice
of holiday options that meet their preferences, and
a convenient range of booking options. By securing
direct access to customers, we can manage and
deliver the whole holiday experience from booking
with an agent in our travel shops, online or via one
of our call centres, to in-resort and after-sales
service, whilst driving customer satisfaction and
ultimately customer loyalty.
In each source market the distribution of products
is tailored to reflect different customer preferences
and market dynamics. Each source market has its
own distribution strategy, which aims to reduce
costs by building controlled distribution through 
the efficient operation of retail shops, the use of
the internet as a research and booking tool and by
the utilisation of call centres.
In the Mainstream businesses our leading brands
drive bookings through controlled distribution
capability which is made up of three main channels;
a retail network of circa 3,500 shops, an online
booking capability for all major brands and call
centres. In the UK for instance, where there is a
high propensity to purchase online, we have invested
heavily in web capability. In addition, to increase
control of late and online sales, we have launched 
a latedeals.co.uk website and continue to maximise
the efficiency of our channels by utilising the down
time in shops to enable staff to work as a virtual 
call centre. In France there is a higher propensity 
to purchase through more traditional travel agents
and we are expanding our retail network both
through owned and franchise agencies. We have
also increased controlled distribution for the
Marmara brand by building its internet offering 
and selling it through our network of Nouvelles
Frontières shops and Havas Voyages retail stores.
TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 15
www.tuitravelplc.com
Imperative 2: Distribution & Brands Summary
• Our colleagues are key to our success
• Flexible business model that can react 
to demand changes
• Development of sophisticated capacity 
and yield management systems
• Underlying operating profit margin up 
30 basis points from 2.9% to 3.2%
• Integration progressing well with total
synergies upgraded to £200m
The skills and expertise of our colleagues are the
key to our success. Across the Group we have a
unique breadth and depth of experience with
innovative entrepreneurs in our specialist
businesses, skilled tour operators in Mainstream,
functional experts at the centre and a highly
experienced and respected international
management team. Our aim is to motivate and
engage our teams to deliver outstanding customer
experiences and results for our businesses. T alent
across the Group is reviewed regularly with a focus
on retaining and developing individuals to drive the
business forward. See Our Colleagues on page 22.
We have a flexible business model that allows us to
react to demand changes. Significant operational
flexibility is retained through maintaining low
bedstock commitments (71% is uncommitted),
third party flying arrangements (accounting for 28%
of all tour operator capacity) and the asset leasing
profiles of our shops and aircraft (46% of aircraft
leases and 36% of shop leases will expire in the
next three years). This allows us to manage capacity
in response to changes in the trading environment.
Our tour operators actively manage capacity
through sophisticated capacity and yield
management systems. The UK Mainstream business
has a market-leading yield system to plan and
manage capacity allowing us to analyse profitability
for Thomson and First Choice by creating a detailed
picture of profitable capacity by individual flight.
This allows us to determine optimum seat capacity
by each UK airport and to ensure that we maintain
the most appropriate aircraft fleet size and type.
This has enabled us to leverage the strength of
both these brands by improving efficiency with
fewer aircraft and less risk, driving an improvement
in margins. Our other businesses are also beginning
to implement this system; in the Activity Sector, 
the ski business has fully implemented the same
yield management tool driving further improvements
in margin.
The cost synergies arising from the integration 
of First Choice and Thomson and further synergy
benefits in France, Austria and the UK ski
businesses and Accommodation & Destinations, 
will contribute significantly to our profitability. 
We have made excellent progress to date delivering
synergies of £120m in 2009 and expect to deliver
further synergies of £60m in 2010, maintaining 
our target of £200m in 2011. In addition to the
delivery of these cost synergies, the businesses are
continually working to leverage their market-leading
positions and scale to maximise their cost
competitiveness and rationalise the cost base
further through the continual improvement of
business processes and systems. We are also further
reviewing options to reduce the number of
reservation and back office systems in the
Mainstream businesses.
Strategic overview | Our strategy
Strategic imperatives continued
16 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009
www.tuitravelplc.com
Imperative 3: People & Operational Effectiveness Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
Summary
• Acquired 11 niche high-growth
businesses in Specialist Sectors
• Growth plans are progressing well in 
Russia & CIS
• Consolidation of the Canadian market
through a proposed strategic venture 
with Sunwing
• Underlying operating profit up 11% 
to £443m
• Increase in return on invested capital 
to 9.2%
We have identified a number of market segments
where we can allocate capital to drive growth. These
target market segments, primarily within our Specialist
Sectors, are high-growth and high-margin, and present
excellent opportunities for us to create leading
positions in fragmented markets. These segments
offer significant potential for further growth and we
are creating market-leading positions by a combination
of the acquisition of complementary businesses and
organic growth in our existing businesses. We have
completed 12 acquisitions this year (11 in the
Specialist Sectors) and will continue to make bolt-on
acquisitions in targeted Specialist businesses. The
pipeline of potential acquisitions is strong at present
and we envisage the level of investment in the
medium term to be similar to recent years.
Further organic long term growth will be achieved
through the continued introduction of some of 
our Specialist brands in the Specialist & Emerging
Markets and Activity Sectors into new European
markets utilising our distribution strength, including
our pan-European retail estate of circa 3,500
branches. For example, we are launching the best of
our Marine, Adventure and Polar Cruising products
into Germany, followed by Russia and Ukraine.
Following the successful launch of Le Boat within
our German retail operation, we will position this
customer offering in the Dutch and Belgian markets.
Emerging markets have experienced a strong
increase in demand for leisure travel. As the leading
international leisure travel group we are excellently
placed to benefit from this opportunity. We have
undertaken careful customer research and market
analysis to understand the markets in which we can
participate to add value. Our strategy within Russia
& CIS has been the main area of focus and our
growth plans are progressing well. We are confident
that by bringing together the skills and knowledge
of TUI Travel and S-Group Capital Management
(our joint venture partner) we can create a leading
position in the Russian & CIS leisure travel markets.
We have an existing presence in Brazil, China and
India and continue to build our understanding of
these leisure travel markets to determine our
optimal participation strategy for each market.
In the mainstream markets we have identified
opportunities to allocate capital to participate in
market consolidation and strengthen our competitive
position, driving the turnaround of underperforming
businesses in the Mainstream Sector. During the year,
we have reviewed the strategic alternatives for our
Canadian business and announced, in September
2009, a strategic venture with Sunwing, a leading 
tour operator in Canada. The strategic venture with
Sunwing will strengthen our position in this market. 
It provides us with a share of the profitability of the
venture and has a number of strategic benefits for 
the Group, including consolidation of the fragmented
Canadian market, improved operational efficiencies
and synergies and counter-cyclical profitability
between summer and winter seasons.
We continue to believe that the Boeing 787
Dreamliner represents a fantastic opportunity to
deliver long term growth for the Group. Not only
will it be able to fly greater distances, enabling us to
offer a wider range of non-stop destinations to our
customers than equivalent aircraft today, but it will
do so with greater fuel efficiency and additional
comfort. We plan to use the customer and operational
benefits to position the long haul offering as a key
differentiator in Europe allowing us to develop a
pre-eminent position in the long haul charter market.
TUI Travel will be the first company to take delivery
of the Boeing 787 in Europe. We are expecting to
receive delivery of the first aircraft in early 2012.
We have an asset-right business model and typically
only invest in assets such as yachts, inland waterway
cruisers and expedition cruise ships that provide us
with greater competitive advantage and enable us
to earn premium margins. As a result of our asset-
right business model, delivery against our strategic
imperatives driving underlying margin enhancement
and delivery of synergy benefits of £200m, we
remain confident of delivering our medium term
margin targets. Despite tough economic conditions
we have made significant progress in realising these
key objectives, improving operating margins by 
30 basis points to 3.2% (2008: 2.9%) and return 
on invested capital to 9.2% (2008: 8.4%).
TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 17
www.tuitravelplc.com
Imperative 4: Growth & Capital Allocation We believe that improving our financial
performance will allow us to invest in the future 
of our business for the benefit of shareholders,
colleagues and customers. Our main strategic
objective is to improve the Group’s profitability 
and to enhance returns on investment.
T o measure our financial progress we have two
financial KPIs: (i) operating margin % and (ii) return
on invested capital (ROIC). 
In the year, despite the tough economic conditions,
operating margins improved by 30 basis points to
3.2%, primarily driven by the delivery of merger
synergies. ROIC increased from 8.4% to 9.2%
driven by improved profitability.
Differentiated content is a central pillar of our
product and content strategy across all our
businesses. Differentiated product earns superior
margins, achieves higher customer satisfaction 
and delivers higher customer retention. 
In the year, we increased the differentiated product
mix by 4 percentage points, including investment in
Sensimar, a new 5-star spa concept in the German
source market and further development of the
Sensatori concept in the UK source market after its
successful launch in 2008. We expect to continue to
increase the number of units under these concepts
over the next five years.
Our portfolio of market-leading brands helps to
increase the direct distribution mix by driving
bookings through our controlled channels. Increasing
the direct distribution mix is a key driver to improve
customer retention, reduce our distribution costs
and enhance customer relationships. 
We have increased our controlled distribution mix 
in the year in all source markets, with the most
significant increases in the Nordic region and
Germany. The increase in the Nordic region was
driven by the online channel, which now distributes
over half of all holidays sold. In Germany, the
increase was due to increased sales through our
own retail network and through direct brands.
Maintaining a substantial mix of operating profits
from our Specialist Sectors as a proportion of our
Group result is a strategic priority. The Specialist
Sectors are a major point of differentiation and a
key source of the Group’s future growth. These
Sectors add significant value to the Group as they
enjoy higher margins and growth characteristics,
often exhibit counter-seasonal profitability and are
virtually impossible to replicate as we have crucial
first-mover advantage. 
The proportion of operating profit contribution
from the Specialist Sectors has remained flat in 
the year. 
We are experiencing greater consumer awareness 
of sustainability and believe that creating more
sustainable holidays will help protect our product into
the future and also support product differentiation,
brand loyalty and competitive advantage. 
Our airlines’ carbon efficiency compares favourably
with both scheduled and low-cost airlines. Carbon
emissions from TUI Travel’s airlines decreased by
3.75% in the financial year, saving over 220,000
tonnes of carbon dioxide. However, the total number
of revenue passenger kilometres flown decreased in
the same period, resulting in a very slight increase
in our fleet average CO
2
/RPK (carbon dioxide
emissions per revenue passenger kilometre).
Strategic overview
Key Performance Indicators (KPIs)
18 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009
www.tuitravelplc.com
Financial
Product 
& Content
Distribution 
& Brands
Specialist 
Sectors
Responsible
Leadership
KPI rationale Performance Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 19
www.tuitravelplc.com
In January 2008, we set out a roadmap to 
increase TUI T ravel’s operating margins from 2.0% 
to 4.7%.
We also set out a target of doubling the Group’s
ROIC from the 5.4% achieved in 2007. We are
confident that we can achieve the improved
financial performance implied by these targets 
by delivering our margin improvement roadmap.
Operating margin %
2009 2008
3.2% 2.9%
ROIC
2009 2008
9.2% 8.4%
We are targeting a differentiated product mix 
of over 50% in our Mainstream Sector.
Differentiated product mix as a proportion 
of total Mainstream Sector holidays
2009 2008
37% 33%
Controlled distribution mix as a proportion 
of total Mainstream Sector holidays
2009 2008
58% 53%
The proportion of Group operating profit*
generated by our Specialist Sectors
2009 2008
35% 35%
*Before central costs.
Aircraft carbon efficiency, measured through 
TUI Travel airlines’ fleet average CO
2
/RPK
2009 2008
78.1g CO
2
/RPK 77.9g CO
2
/RPK
We are targeting a controlled distribution mix of
greater than two-thirds in our Mainstream Sector. 
We expect the mix of profits from the Specialist
Sectors to increase in the medium term due to
their superior underlying growth characteristics,
although, in the next financial year the synergy
delivery in the Mainstream Sector may reduce the
proportion of profit from the Specialist Sectors.
The Group has committed to reducing its direct
carbon emissions by 6% by 2013/2014 (against 
a baseline of 2007/2008) in terms of total carbon
emissions as well as relative carbon emissions, based
on 2008/2009 operational structure and plans.
T arget Key Performance Indicators Managing risk
Effective risk management is key to the delivery of
our business objectives and strategic goals. We have
established a risk framework to facilitate the early
identification and evaluation of risk to ensure
challenges are prioritised and managed accordingly.
The objective of the framework is to reduce the 
risk exposure of all of our businesses in line with
the Group’s risk appetite and to achieve excellence
through managing risk effectively throughout 
the Group.
The risk framework which has been developed and
implemented across the Group has been closely
linked to the strategic planning process. Over 120
active risk workshops have taken place to date,
conducted at divisional and functional levels and
facilitated by a dedicated Group Risk Management
team to ensure consistency in the methodology
applied. The framework is fully supported by a web-
based risk reporting system which is used to collect,
analyse and monitor risk status.
The risk management approach is periodically
reviewed to ensure the most effective means for
understanding, evaluating and managing risk are in
place. We are continuously striving to improve our
risk management capabilities and work is underway
to further enhance and embed the framework across
the Group during the forthcoming financial year.
The process
Objectives and strategic goals
The Group considers four types of risk when
identifying potential events that could affect the
delivery of business objectives and strategic goals.
Risks are considered in the context of:
• Longer term strategic and emerging threats;
• Medium term challenges associated to business
change programmes;
• Shorter term risks triggered by the changing
external environment; and
• Shorter term risks in relation to internal
operations.
Identify and evaluate
The nature of the risk is fully understood and
evaluated by considering the impact and likelihood.
T ools and techniques have been developed to
understand the relative priority of risk at varying
levels throughout the Group. The output is then
used as a basis for determining the order in which
risks should be managed.
Review and agree
It is the responsibility of senior management teams
and Sector Boards across the Group to review,
challenge and agree the risk profile for their area of
responsibility and start to consider how to allocate
resource effectively to manage risk.
Decide response method
The most appropriate means of response
(terminate, reduce, accept, or pass-on) is identified,
where necessary taking into consideration the
outcome of any cost benefit analysis, to ensure the
activity giving rise to the risk is managed within
justifiable and tolerable levels and in line with the
overall Group appetite.
Develop and implement actions
Existing controls are documented along with any
further action plans and delivery dates to treat 
the risk appropriately. Processes are established 
to ensure clear action ownership and to monitor
progress to help ensure the risk responses are
carried out effectively.
Review risk status
The businesses are responsible for reviewing and
updating their risk profiles on a quarterly basis to
ensure the Group has clear visibility of what its risks
are and how they are being responded to.
Reporting and governance
The Board is responsible for risk management 
and delegates tasks to the Audit Committee, 
Group Risk Management and Group Audit Services.
In addition to the quarterly reviews conducted 
by the businesses, Group Risk Management
consolidates and aggregates all risks identified
across the Group to create the Group Risk Profile.
This is presented to the Audit Committee on a half-
yearly basis for review and is also closely monitored
by the Group Risk Management team to ensure
that progress in relation to management of risk 
is sound and effective.
As the responsibility for managing risk clearly
resides within the businesses, the Audit Committee
invite the individual senior management teams to
present and discuss their risk profile on a rotational
basis. Additionally, the Group Risk Management
team reports on progress of the development and
implementation of the framework.
Group Audit Services play a key role in ensuring
that the businesses adhere to the risk management
framework. They review and test the evaluation of
reported risks, ensuring that identified controls are
operating effectively and that actions have been
validated to appropriately mitigate risks reported.
Strategic overview
Principal risks
20 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009
www.tuitravelplc.com Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
Macro economic
(External operating)
Decline in the economy and potential impact on consumer
demand and capacity commitments
Climate change
(Strategic and emerging)
Reducing the Group’s contribution to global warming
whilst operating in a carbon-intensive industry
Health and Safety
(Internal operating)
Accident or injury being caused to any of our colleagues 
or customers whilst in our care, as a result of failure in our
due diligence process or supplier negligence
Hedging and cost base increases
(External operating)
Potential negative impact on margin from volatility of
foreign exchange and fuel prices affecting unhedged
balances and other general cost base increases as a result
of the economic conditions
Business interruption / technology reliability
(Internal operating)
Inability to resume business operations or trading due 
to critical systems failure (heavy reliance on key selling
systems) or business interruption scenario at any of our
key locations, critically affecting our ability to service 
and trade
Geopolitical / natural catastrophes / pandemic
(External operating)
Political volatility, natural catastrophes and global outbreak
of Swine flu (H1N1) affecting certain destinations and/or
source markets where we operate causing disruption to
programme and customer experience, potential safety
exposure and negative impact on destination desirability
Liquidity and cash management
(Internal operating)
Management of Group cash position over diverse portfolio
and potential risk to cost of financing
Supply chain / product failure
(External operating)
Failure of key suppliers that we are heavily reliant on
which could cause negative customer experience or loss 
of financial investments
Aviation finance contract commitments
(External operating)
Ability to secure adequate funding and manage capital
cost of aircraft effectively
• Flexible business model (beds and aircraft) in order to adjust capacity in response to changes in
demand with only 29% of group bedstock committed and third party flying accounting for 28% 
of all tour operator capacity
• Majority of aircraft and shops on operating leases. 46% of all aircraft leases and 36% of shop
leases due to expire in the next three years
• Strong focus on cost control
• Competitive supplier scale benefits post-merger
• Robust, aligned strategy across Group
• Strong balance sheet and secured lines of finance
• Replacing older aircraft with new, more fuel efficient models
• Significant investment in new technology like the Boeing 787
• Fuel efficiency measures in engineering, flight planning and management, maintenance and
ground operations
• Carbon management strategy in development to reduce the Group’s greenhouse gas emissions
from airlines, water transport, major premises, ground transport and flagship hotel properties
• Preparing for regulatory proposals on climate change
• Risk-based approach to Health and Safety due diligence for Group products and activities
• Destination-based quality reviews carried out for areas of high risk
• Industry-leading expertise employed at the centre to set policy and provide guidance
• Best practice sharing across Group tailored to source market need
• Robust airline safety management systems in place across the Group
• Hedging policies in place across all source markets, controlled and monitored by Group Treasury
• Flexible cost base and strong focus on fixed cost reduction and transitioning fixed to 
variable costs
• Strong relationships and contracts with key suppliers to control cost increases
• Standing agenda item at the monthly GMB Mainstream Committee meeting
• Robust, centrally supported technology for significant parts of the business
• Investment in disaster recovery plans and reliance testing post-merger
• Dedicated project team established to support the development of business continuity and
disaster recovery plans across the Group
• Flexible supplier agreements allowing for capacity to be switched
• Balance of destination mix to minimise concentration
• Strong relationships with local tourism bodies and travel industry associations and government
guidance obtained and used
• Crisis management policy established and rolled out and operational plans in place to respond 
to incidents
• Health and Safety risk assessments conducted post-incident
• Daily cash balances reported and monitored
• Strong focus on working capital management at the centre
• Centralised cash management system implemented across the Group
• Daily counterparty reviews and investment control by central team
• Strong relationships with banking and financing partners
• Key lines of finance do not expire until mid 2012
• Renegotiation of shareholder loan repayment schedule
• Increased liquidity through Convertible Bond Offering
• Spread of financial commitments across key value chain suppliers
• Well established relationships with key suppliers
• Service levels monitored and managed accordingly
• Centralised purchasing functions for key procurement areas
• Regular inspections of key service providers to assess health and safety, quality and sustainability
• Long and well established partnerships with diverse group of institutions providing 
aviation financing
• Continued strong operating performance supports status with aviation investment and 
banking community
• Reduced order book through cancellation or deferral where possible
• Sourcing best market rates for financing and sale and leaseback of current deliveries
Some of the principal risks that the Group is currently managing are:
Risk type / Nature of risk faced Business response
TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 21
www.tuitravelplc.com Group Management Board
The strategic direction of the Group is set by the
Group Management Board (GMB) in conjunction
with the Board. See Governance on page 44. 
The GMB consists of tour operating and function
experts drawn from across the Group. This highly
experienced international team manages and
executes TUI Travel’s day-to-day operations and is
responsible for the overall performance of the Group.
Our colleagues
TUI Travel employs approximately 50,000 colleagues
in over 200 travel businesses around the world. They
are key to our success and we are proud of their
commitment and professionalism as they continue
to deliver outstanding customer experiences and
results for the Group.
Diversity
As an international business, we operate in many
diverse cultures and accept our responsibility to
rule out discrimination on any grounds including
ethnicity, gender, sexual orientation, disability and
age. We continue to develop policies on non-
discrimination and inclusiveness in line with best
practice and, where possible, they are incorporated
into training for line managers as a key part of
induction programmes. Unfair treatment of any
colleague is not tolerated and confidential reporting
mechanisms are available through which colleagues
can confidentially raise matters of this nature which
may concern them.
Strategy
The aim of our Human Resources strategy is to
build the most capable, engaged teams to deliver
the best results for our business. We support 
this through:
Colleague engagement
Engaging colleagues in our goals and successes and
involving them in matters affecting them.
Leadership capability
Developing our leaders through talent management,
succession planning and personal development as
they play a key role in creating and leading high-
performance teams.
Organisation effectiveness
Supporting the business through organisation
design and resource management to meet the
medium and long term needs of the Group.
Colleague engagement
We share one vision and one set of values across
the Group and have developed winning behaviours
to support them. We involve our colleagues in
business matters that affect them and respond 
to feedback received through employee surveys,
employee forums and as part of the performance
review cycle.
The performance review cycle gives every colleague
the opportunity to meet their line manager at least
once annually to discuss their performance and to
make plans for development in the coming year.
Strategic overview
Responsible leadership
22 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009
www.tuitravelplc.com
Our team
1. Peter Long
Chief Executive
2. Paul Bowtell
Chief Financial Officer
3. Dermot Blastland
Managing Director, UK & Ireland
4. Dr Volker Böttcher
Managing Director, Central Europe
5. Bart Brackx
Managing Director, Western Europe
6. Andrew John
Group Legal Director
and Company Secretary
7. Bill Logan
Group Human Resources Director
8. Johan Lundgren
Managing Director, Northern Region
9. Richard Prosser
Managing Director,
Specialist & Emerging Markets
10. Joan Vilà
Managing Director,
Accommodation & Destinations
11. William Waggott
Commercial Director
12. John Wimbleton
Managing Director, Activity
12 3 4 5 6 Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
TUI Spirit – our vision and values
Our common vision and values unite us across the
Group and we call this our TUI Spirit. Our vision is
Making Travel Experiences Special and our four
values are:
• Responsible leadership;
• Customer obsessed;
• Value driven; and
• Playing to win.
Winning behaviours have been developed to help
embed these values in every day working life in a
number of ways. These behaviours allow us to truly
engage in our work and optimise our performance
– as individuals and as a business.
Bringing our values to life
Our businesses have adapted these values in
different ways to suit their requirements and
circumstances. In TUI Nordics they are called Blue
Spirit and in TUI UK & Ireland they are part of the
internal brand Be Special.
In the Activity and Specialist & Emerging Markets
Sectors, colleagues nominated individuals and
teams for TUI Spirit awards. In TUI Deutschland,
TUI Spirit champions have been selected to help
develop ways to further incorporate TUI Spirit into
every day working life.
Special Experiences Collection
In September we produced our first Special
Experiences Collection, a web-based magazine to
showcase stories and experiences of colleagues across
the Group, living the values in their daily working
lives. Many of the examples highlighted colleagues
who provided exceptional customer service.
‘Barteline Wolfs, a Belgian colleague working in 
the Costa del Sol was on her way into work when
she got a call to say that some clients needed her
assistance. Barteline found herself in the third
traffic jam of the day and unable to reach the hotel
in time. She saw no other option than parking the
car, taking off her shoes and running the mile to
the hotel. There were many amused faces when 
she arrived and the clients were very impressed’.
‘A couple booking their wedding in Slovenia through
one of our Thomson shops had some very specific
requirements for their special day – including black
roses. Travel advisor, Kate Wareing, scoured Europe
and eventually tracked down a supplier, Kate said
‘You just need to go that little bit further, if that’s
what they wanted as far as I was concerned that
was what they were going to get’.
In businesses new to the Group, GMB members
and their teams work to embed TUI Spirit in a
timescale appropriate to each business. For example,
in Russia and Ukraine, our values have been shared
and there will be a further programme of activity to
embed them in Spring 2010.
TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 23
www.tuitravelplc.com
78 9 10 11 12 Living our values – Responsible leadership
Our people are vital to achieving our sustainable
development goals. Responses to internal surveys
show us that colleagues are motivated by knowledge
of the Group’s commitment to sustainable
development and that our record in this area is
becoming increasingly important to recruitment and
retention. 73% of TUI Travel’s senior leaders agree
that ‘my business acts responsibly on environmental
matters’ and 66% agree that ‘my business acts
responsibly in the local communities in which we
operate’ (Leadership Voice, October 2008).
Living our values – Customer obsessed
An example of how this value has been brought to
life is in our UK Mainstream business. Over 10,000
colleagues, working in overseas destinations, retail,
customer service and head office roles have
attended a training module called Be a Dream
Maker with a focus on how to deliver a special
experience to external and internal customers.
80% of attendees said they had seen a positive
impact on their own performance after participating
in the training. Be a Dream Maker has now been
integrated into the induction programme for all 
new colleagues. The positive effect on customer
satisfaction was also clear through the 2009
summer season with ratings improving considerably
compared to the previous year.
Employee surveys – measuring 
engagement
Colleague engagement is closely linked with 
our business success. We aim to measure the
engagement and satisfaction of our colleagues
regularly, conducting employee surveys at least
every two years.
Working with an international supplier, we also
conducted our first Leadership Voice survey of 
679 senior leaders in TUI Travel PLC, published in
October 2008. The survey gathered opinion on a
range of topics including Engagement, Vision &
Values, Leadership Effectiveness and Business
Direction & Strategy. The results helped us to
understand the progress made in embedding TUI
Spirit and our strategy in different parts of the
Group. We were also able to identify opportunities
for improvement.
Leadership Voice results highlights
• 79% response rate from the 679 senior
managers invited to participate;
• 91% favourable responses to ‘I believe in the
goals and objectives of TUI Travel’;
• 88% agreed ‘TUI Travel’s values are clear to me’;
and
• 72% stated ‘My business does a good job of
developing management expertise’.
Engaging and developing leadership 
capability
Developing our managers and senior managers 
is key to our success and we continue to invest 
in developing our leaders. Our future business
performance is dependent on good succession
planning for senior management roles. We aim to
develop our own people targeting as many senior
appointments from within the organisation as
possible. We have continued the investment in our
leaders this year through a number of programmes
including Costa Rica and TUI Horizons.
Costa Rica
This year, as part of our leadership development
programme, 75 senior managers from across the
Group had the opportunity to attend a four-day
offsite development programme in Costa Rica. The
programme was designed by Group Management
Development working in collaboration with i-to-i,
one of our Activity businesses. Each cohort
completed building work and made business
improvements in a small eco-tourism business in
the rainforest. The eco-tourism business formed a
live case study where delegates applied the Group’s
Managing for Value framework to identify
opportunities to improve business processes.
Participants practised their leadership skills in a
challenging, culturally diverse and unfamiliar setting,
working with peers and members of the local
community who run the Heliconias Lodge in Costa
Rica. A positive business outcome was that a number
of cross-Group projects were initiated by participants
who had identified opportunities to work together
while in Costa Rica. The project was completed
successfully in September 2009 and we are now
investigating a number of destinations and new
project ideas to offer a similar development
programme for our senior managers in 2010.
Strategic overview
Responsible leadership continued
24 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009
www.tuitravelplc.com Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
TUI Horizons
TUI Horizons is a development programme for
middle managers who have been identified as
management talent with the potential to take 
up senior general management positions across 
the Group.
TUI Horizons is run as a virtual business school, using
a number of external experts and internal specialists
from across the Group covering business topics
including T ourism and the Business Environment,
Strategy and Finance. During 2009, the programme
ran three times, with 65 managers participating.
In 2010, we plan to extend the scope of TUI
Horizons. In addition to the core modules, we 
will offer a number of one-day master classes 
on specific subjects that will provide ongoing
opportunities for learning and networking.
Recruiting for our long term success
Our International Graduate Management Scheme 
is part of our strategy to recruit and develop the
right people to ensure the long term success of 
our business. Over 18 months, trainees take on
assignments in different parts of the Group lasting
three/four months and also receive additional
personal training and support during this time. 
At the end of the scheme, our trainees are offered
permanent positions where possible.
T welve trainees from nine countries – Belarus,
China, France, Germany, Hungary, India, the
Netherlands, Sweden and the UK – participated 
in the International Management Trainee scheme 
in 2009. This included seven trainees who were
recruited into the scheme in 2009 and five trainees
who joined the scheme in 2008.
This year, three trainees have joined the Group 
in permanent roles, as Sales & Retail Manager 
in Germany, Staff Incentives Manager in UK &
Ireland Mainstream and Project Manager for
Specialist & Emerging Markets in Russia.
Organisation effectiveness
We support organisation effectiveness through
talent management and recruitment processes.
T alent across the Group is reviewed regularly at
Board level and we are focused on retaining and
developing individuals to drive the business forward.
T o meet seasonal demands, we move our top-
performing frontline colleagues between retail,
overseas representation and airline cabin crew 
roles where possible. This develops a multi-skilled
workforce with year-round experience of delivering
service to our customers.
We use the most effective recruitment methods in
the countries in which we operate and encourage
the sharing of skills and knowledge to suit both 
the business and our colleagues. As part of our
recruitment approach, we actively promote career
opportunities across the Group to enhance the mix
of professional and general management skills.
Reward programmes
We operate competitive reward programmes 
to reinforce and support our overall colleague
engagement strategy. In addition, variable
compensation in the form of annual and longer
term incentives helps drive the high performance
that our results demonstrate.
This year we introduced an aligned incentive
programme for our most senior leaders throughout
the Group. The programme rewards financial
performance of the business in which the individual
works. In 2010, the programme will also take into
account how that performance was achieved by
mapping the individual leader’s actions to our
winning behaviours. T o aid retention of talent and
ensure focus on longer term shareholder value
creation, at least one-quarter of the annual bonus
achieved is deferred into TUI Travel PLC shares for
three years or more.
The majority of our colleagues participate in local
benefit programmes including retirement benefit
schemes and generous holiday discounts. In the UK,
colleagues are able to purchase shares in the Group
through our Share Incentive Plan that provides one
free share for every four shares purchased.
TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 25
www.tuitravelplc.com Throughout the year, sustainable development has
continued to be an important part of the business
agenda for TUI T ravel. We aspire to lead in sustainable
development within the leisure travel industry. In
the long term, we believe this goal will help build
shareholder value for TUI Travel and contribute to
operating a strong business now and in the future.
• TUI Travel is listed on the FTSE4Good Index 
in recognition of its transparency and for 
meeting strict social, environmental and
governance standards.
• It is the highest placed travel company, at 16, 
in the 2008 Good Companies Guide – The
Observer’s annual ethical ranking of 
FTSE350 companies.
• TUI Travel’s first full Sustainable Development
Report was published in July 2009, with
independent verification of our targets by 
Bureau Veritas.
• For the second consecutive year, we have been
included in the Carbon Disclosure Leadership
Index, which highlights the top 10% of 
FTSE350 companies that have displayed 
the most professional approach to climate
change disclosure.
TUI Travel businesses received several sustainable
development-related awards during 2008/2009. 
For details, see
www.tuitravelplc.com/sustainabledevelopment
Sustainable development strategy
During 2008/2009, we developed a Group
sustainable development policy in conjunction with
key colleagues, articulating our vision and approach
to sustainable development. The Group Code of
Conduct covers a wide range of sustainability
issues, including human rights, business ethics and
transparency and commits TUI Travel to upholding
the principles of the UN Global Compact.
TUI Travel’s sustainable development strategy is
based on consideration of the key issues affecting
the Company, now and in the future. It has been
developed in consultation with internal and 
external stakeholders.
We encourage all TUI Travel businesses to develop
their own sustainable development strategy,
aligning with Group priorities. At the end of
2008/2009, 73%* of TUI Travel businesses had 
their own sustainable development strategy.
*Weighted by employee numbers.
Policy and mitigation for Groupwide risks relating 
to sustainability are facilitated by the Group Risk
Management and Sustainable Development
Departments, with responsibility for managing such
risks also shared by the businesses themselves. 
For further details, see the Risk section on page 20.
Strategic overview
Sustainable development
26 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009
www.tuitravelplc.com
Saving fuel with winglets
TUIfly Nordic was one of the first
airlines in the world to fit winglets to
the Boeing 767s in its fleet. Aircraft
with winglets – wing-ends that curve
upwards – can reduce fuel burn by up
to 5%, depending on flight distance.
All seven TUI Travel airlines have 
fuel-saving winglets fitted to some 
or all of the aircraft in their fleets. Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
Managing sustainable development
This year, the Group has maintained and enhanced
its governance structure for sustainable development.
There are now over 40 full time-equivalent
colleagues working on sustainable development
within TUI T ravel.
Johan Lundgren, Managing Director of the
Mainstream Sector, Northern Region, is responsible
for reporting on sustainable development to the
TUI Travel PLC Board. Dermot Blastland, Managing
Director of TUI UK & Ireland, has responsibility for
reporting on sustainable development to the Group
Management Board.
A Group Steering Committee, chaired by Dermot
Blastland, sets the strategic direction and long term
objectives for sustainable development. The
Committee is composed of Sector Managing
Directors and meets at least once a year.
During 2008/2009, TUI Travel increased the capacity
of its dedicated Group Sustainable Development
Department from three to four people. The
department’s role is to drive sustainability
performance across the Group towards FTSE100
best practice and to forge industry leadership in key
sustainability issues. It also has a particular remit to
guide TUI UK & Ireland’s sustainable development
strategy and activities.
Each Sector has a Sustainable Development
Coordinator with a remit to develop and implement
sustainable development strategy within their
Sector. This year, the Sector Coordinators have
appointed a network of champions to support them
in the delivery of Group and Sector sustainable
development strategy.
TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 27
www.tuitravelplc.com
Fair trade excursion
TUI Nederland launched a fair trade
chocolate excursion in the Dominican
Republic, developed in partnership
with the Dutch development
organisations Cordaid and PASEO, 
to generate additional income for the
local cacao farmers. Ten local farmers
and more than 30 local women have
been trained as guides on the tour.
Our four strategic priorities
for sustainable development are:
Carbon management
Groups of key colleagues (for example, fuel 
managers) meet to identify possible reduc-
tions in our carbon emissions from aviation, 
water transport, major premises, ground 
transport and flagship hotel properties.
Destinations
Colleagues meet regularly to tackle key 
sustainability issues in destinations (for 
example, sustainability auditing of hotels) 
and optimise the environmental, social 
and economic impact of our holidays.
Our colleagues
We share best practice in order to promote 
knowledge of sustainable development 
and positive behaviour change within 
the Company.
Our customers
We share best practice among marketing 
colleagues to engage customers in 
sustainability issues and encourage them 
to choose more sustainable holiday options.
Each strategic priority has a Board-level sponsor
and is underpinned by our commitment to
integrate sustainable development into the way 
TUI T ravel operates. Carbon management
Climate change affects our destinations and
therefore our product and we acknowledge that 
the Group’s greenhouse gas emissions contribute to
global warming. TUI T ravel has a carbon management
strategy in development to reduce this contribution,
covering aviation, water transport, major premises,
ground transport and flagship hotel properties.
In 2007/2008, TUI Travel’s direct carbon footprint
(from diesel, gas, kerosene and petrol) was
6,564,026 tonnes, a reduction of 8% since
2006/2007. This reduction is attributable to aircraft
fleet consolidation following the September 2007
merger, as well as fuel conservation measure across
the TUI T ravel airlines.
We have committed to reducing TUI Travel’s direct
carbon emissions by 6% by 2013/2014 (against a
baseline of 2007/2008) in terms of total carbon
emissions as well as relative carbon emissions, based
on 2008/2009 operational structure and plans.
TUI Travel is monitoring and preparing for
regulatory proposals on climate change that could
have a fiscal impact. By addressing our carbon
impacts and putting measures in place to reduce
current and future carbon emissions, we are in a
good position to respond to carbon legislation.
Carbon emissions from aviation
We aim to reduce the environmental impact of our
fleet of aircraft by replacing older aircraft with new,
more fuel-efficient models and by pursuing a fuel
conservation programme to ensure that our airlines
are as fuel efficient as possible. In 2008/2009, TUI
Travel airlines’ fleet average emissions were 78.1g 
of carbon dioxide per revenue passenger kilometre
(CO
2
/RPK). TUI Travel airlines’ carbon efficiency
compares very favourably with both global
scheduled airlines and low-cost airlines.
TUI Travel airlines saved over 34,000 tonnes of
carbon dioxide in 2008/2009 through the Groupwide
fuel conservation programme. The savings were
made by implementing fuel efficiency measures 
in engineering, flight planning and management,
maintenance and ground operations.
Destinations
When managed well, tourism supports conservation
and preserves natural heritage. The tourism value
chain – accommodation, catering, retail, excursions,
transfer and airport services – provides employment
and training opportunities and stimulates local
enterprise to the extent that, in 2008, tourism
accounted for 30% of the world’s exports of
services (UNWTO World T ourism Barometer).
Our sustainability impact in destinations is largely
indirect, particularly through our accommodation
suppliers, and we assume a level of responsibility
for encouraging them to improve in this area. 77%*
of TUI Travel businesses are actively engaging with
suppliers on environmental issues. In addition, 
TUI Travel is involved in hundreds of projects
designed to improve the livelihoods of local people
in destinations. For further information on how 
we have embedded sustainability into our
accommodation practices. See Suppliers on 
page 29.
*Weighted by employee numbers.
This year, we have also developed Groupwide
policies on animal welfare in excursion locations and
the protection of children in tourist areas. We also
initiated a project to gain a better understanding 
of the socio-economic impacts of our operations in
developing destinations, particularly in relation to
the growing all-inclusive holiday market.
Our colleagues
We seek to make sustainable development central
to the way we run and manage TUI Travel. This is
articulated through one of our TUI Spirit values,
Responsible leadership: ‘We are committed to
sustainable development and to making a positive
impact on society.’ In order to achieve this, we work
closely with Human Resources and Marketing teams
to embed sustainability principles into their work.
TUI Travel’s senior management are regular public
advocates for more sustainable tourism in the media,
at industry and governmental events, and with other
audiences. See Our Colleagues on page 22 for
further details on how senior management view their
businesses sustainable development performance.
Strategic overview
Sustainable development continued
28 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009
www.tuitravelplc.com
The Climate Project
Simon O’Kelly, General Manager 
of Peregrine and Gecko Adventures,
has been selected as a presenter 
for The Climate Project,
www.theclimateproject.org. Simon 
was trained by Al Gore and other
facilitators to give the climate 
change presentation from the film 
‘An Inconvenient Truth’ and has
committed to sharing it with as 
many colleagues as possible.
Gold Standard carbon
offsetting
TUI Travel has invested in five
exclusive renewable energy and
energy efficiency projects that are
scheduled to deliver 500,000 tonnes 
of carbon offsets by the end of 2012.
The projects are all designed to the
Gold Standard, an independent
organisation that verifies the delivery
of robust carbon reduction and
additional community benefits. Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
Our customers
We believe that customer demand for more
sustainable holidays will grow. Our customers 
are becoming increasingly aware of sustainable
development issues and expect businesses –
including their holiday company – to be tackling 
the issues that matter to them.
We know from experience that effective
management of environmental and social impacts
not only saves money, but provides a better
customer experience – the correlation between our
customers’ holiday satisfaction scores and the best-
performing hotels in the sustainability audit
programme is evidence of this.
In response to this demand, 86%* of TUI Travel
businesses confirm that they are communicating
with customers on sustainable development issues.
75%* of TUI Travel businesses currently offer a
carbon offset to customers and, in 2008/2009, we
developed Groupwide communications guidance 
on this issue.
*Weighted by employee numbers.
Charitable giving
We have developed a Groupwide charity policy and
guidelines to ensure transparency in our charitable
activities and to enable us to report annually on 
TUI Travel’s charitable giving. During the year, the
Group made charitable donations of £290,799
(2008: £236,200). The Group made no political
contributions during the year (2008: £nil).
Our suppliers
Our principal suppliers are hotel owners and
operators and transport and excursion providers.
Our UK and destination teams undertake regular
inspections of accommodation, transport and
excursion suppliers to assess not just health 
and safety, but also quality and sustainability. 
We work with our suppliers on a cycle of 
continuous improvement and if suppliers fall 
below our expectations, we remove them from 
our programmes.
The T ravelife Sustainability System (www.travelife.co.uk)
has been adopted by a number of businesses in the
Mainstream Sector Northern Region and Western
Europe and in the Specialist & Emerging Markets
Sector. Central Europe is continuing with its well-
recognised TUI Umwelt Champion (’Environment
Champion’) award for its 100 most environmentally
friendly hotels.
TUI UK & Ireland has introduced a sustainable
development addendum as part of all accommodation
contracts. This means that each hotelier must initiate
(or continue to develop) a sustainability programme,
managing their impacts on the environment, their
employees and the local community. This is an
industry first for UK mainstream tour operations.
Over the course of the next financial year, the
addendum will be embedded into the contracting
processes of the Mainstream Sector Northern 
Region and Western Europe and in the Specialist 
& Emerging Markets Sector.
TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 29
www.tuitravelplc.com
Quality-centred consultation
High-quality hotels are preferred by
customers and generate loyalty to 
the tour operator brand. Since spring
2009, TUI Deutschland has offered
professional quality consultation to
hotel operators, identifying their
potential for improvement. Demand
for TUI Quality Support is strong, and
these services offer genuine added
value. The team has enabled many
hotels to achieve substantial quality
improvements within a short
timeframe, increasing the customer
appeal of these hotels considerably. Group revenue for 2009 was slightly lower than the
prior year at £13,863m (2008: £13,932m). Capacity
reductions reduced underlying revenue by 14%,
partially offset by 4% higher selling prices, resulting
in an organic revenue decline of 10%. Foreign
currency translation increased revenue by 9% due
to Sterling weakness and revenue from acquisitions
resulted in a 1% increase over the prior year.
The Group achieved a £45m improvement in
underlying operating profits to £443m in 2009
(2008: £398m). This improvement has primarily
been achieved by the delivery of integration
synergies and the recovery of scheduled flying
losses in the UK and Germany. The improvement
was partially offset by the adverse impact on our
French business of weaker demand and socio-
political events in the French West Indies and
Madagascar, and weaker demand and excess
market capacity in Canada.
The main drivers of the year-on-year improvement
in underlying operating profit are:
£m
FY08 underlying operating profit 398
Incremental synergies +85
Scheduled flying +19
Impact of FY08 sale and leasebacks -10
France – Nouvelles Frontières/Corsair trading -26
Canada trading -19
Other trading +1
Swine flu -10
Acquisitions +5
FY09 underlying operating profit 443
A reconciliation of underlying profit before tax 
to statutory loss before tax is as follows:
2009 2008
Year ended 30 September £m £m
Underlying profit before tax 366 319
Separately disclosed items 
– operating (Note 3) (340) (380)
Separately disclosed items 
– financial expenses (Note 4) (12) (4)
Impairment of goodwill (7) (112)
Amortisation of business 
combination intangibles (56) (87)
T axation on profits of joint 
ventures and associates (3) (3)
Statutory loss before tax (52) (267)
Separately disclosed items
Separately disclosed items within the operating
result for the year were £340m (2008: £380m). 
The majority of these items were non-cash in
nature, relating to accounting impairments and
write offs. Out of the £340m total, £142m were
cash items. Separately disclosed items in the 
year included:
• Costs of £143m incurred to achieve the 
synergy benefits;
• An impairment charge of £124m in respect 
of write downs of Boeing 747 aircraft operated
by Corsair;
• Restructuring expenses of £40m, which relate
primarily to the closure of the Sunsail Clubs in
Turkey and ongoing restructuring in Nouvelles
Frontières; and
• Costs of £32m relating to the transaction
between TUIfly and Air Berlin.
Business performance
Group performance
30 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009
www.tuitravelplc.com
Year ended 30 September 2009
Underlying results
1
Statutory results
£m 2009 2008 Change 2009 2008
Revenue 13,863 13,932 Flat 13,863 13,932
Operating profit/(loss) 443 398 +11% 37 (184)
Profit/(loss) before tax 366 319 +15% (52) (267)
Basic earnings/(loss) per share (p) 23.8p 20.4p +17% (1.0)p (24.4)p
1 Underlying operating profit and underlying profit before tax are from continuing operations and exclude separately disclosed items, amortisation
of business combination intangibles, goodwill impairment and taxation of results of the Group’s joint ventures and associates. Underlying profit
before tax also excludes separately disclosed financial expenses. Underlying earnings per share excludes the same items, net of related taxation. Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
In the year, the Group completed 12 acquisitions,
including 11 within high-growth niche segments of
the leisure travel market in line with its strategy of
making ‘bolt-on’ acquisitions of businesses with the
ability to generate premium margins and high
earnings growth. The 12 businesses were acquired
for a total consideration of £89m. For comparison,
in the year ended 30 September 2008, we made 
16 acquisitions for a total consideration of £109m.
In addition, we announced a further three significant
investments in the year. We invested £8m in our
joint venture in Russia & CIS, £30m for a 9.9%
stake in Air Berlin as part of the transaction between
TUIfly (our airline operations in Germany), and Air
Berlin and announced that we will invest c.£55m in
a strategic venture with Sunwing in Canada.
Strategic venture in Canada
We have agreed a strategic venture with Sunwing, 
a leading tour operator in Canada. Under the terms
of the deal, TUI Travel will contribute its Canadian
operations plus C$101m and Sunwing will
contribute its operations to the strategic venture.
TUI Travel will receive a 49% interest in the strategic
venture, with Sunwing’s owners receiving 51%.
The Canadian market has for some time been both
challenging and fragmented. The profitability of 
our operations in this market has been affected 
by the excess market capacity and in the year to 
30 September 2009 the business made a loss of
£24m (2008: loss of £5m).
This venture strengthens our position in the
Canadian market and we believe that the
transaction delivers a number of strategic and
financial benefits to the Group. In particular, the
Group will earn a share of the profitability of the
strategic venture, rather than 100% of the losses
generated by the current operations.
This deal is subject to regulatory clearance, which
we expect to receive shortly.
TUIfly – Air Berlin Transaction
As part of the transaction between TUIfly, our
airline operations in Germany, and Air Berlin, TUI
Travel has acquired 9.9% of Air Berlin’s shares.
Russia & CIS
As described above, our Russia & CIS joint venture has
completed the acquisition of a 75% stake in certain
assets of two businesses and expects to complete
the acquisition of a further business shortly.
Sale and leaseback transactions
In the year, we successfully completed the sale and
leaseback of all seven aircraft that were acquired in
the period as well as four aircraft that were held for
sale at 30 September 2008. Proceeds for the four
aircraft that were owned at the start of the period
were £90m.
We do not have any planned aircraft deliveries in
the year ending 30 September 2010.
TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 31
www.tuitravelplc.com
Acquisitions
Company Description Date Country
Activity Sector
Sport Abroad Sports tours October 2008 United Kingdom
T eamlink Travel Student sports tours October 2008 United Kingdom
Edwin Doran Student sports tours November 2008 United Kingdom
Master Yachting Yacht charters November 2008 Germany
Off The Piste Student ski December 2008 United Kingdom
Adventure T ours Australia Adventure tours April 2009 Australia
Williment Travel Group Sports tours May 2009 New Zealand
Zegrahm Expeditions Adventure cruising June 2009 USA
EAC Language Centres Language school July 2009 United Kingdom
Specialist & Emerging Markets Sector
Travel Adventures Student travel October 2008 USA
Accommodation & Destinations Sector
Aragon T ours Cruise handling May 2009 United Kingdom
Mainstream Sector – Northern Region
Island Cruises Cruise operator November 2008 United Kingdom
Total consideration £89m Taxation
Underlying profit before tax excluding joint ventures
and associates for the year was £351m (2008:
£304m). The effective tax rate on these profits is
28.0% (2008: 28.0%). Based on the current structure
of the business and existing local taxation rates and
legislation, it is expected that the underlying tax rate
will reduce to a level of around 27%.
Statutory loss before tax for the year less the share
of profit in joint ventures and associates was £61m
(2008: loss of £279m). The tax credit on this loss
was £42m (2008: £nil) representing an effective tax
rate of 69% (2008: £nil). This rate differs from the
underlying effective tax rate due to the tax effect of
separately disclosed items, amortisation of business
combination intangibles, goodwill impairment
charges and the recognition for the first time in the
current year of deferred tax assets for losses arising
in prior periods in certain territories.
The cash tax rate is expected to be lower than the
underlying income statement tax rate as we utilise
our deferred tax assets generated from restructuring
expenditure and tax losses. In the coming year, we
envisage a cash tax rate of approximately 15% of
underlying profit before tax.
Earnings per share
Underlying basic earnings per share was 23.8p
(2008: 20.4p), an improvement of 17%. Basic loss
per share from continuing operations was 1.0p
(2008: 24.4p).
Dividends
The Board is recommending a final dividend of 7.7p
per share (2008: 6.9p). On 19 May 2009, the Board
recommended an interim dividend of 3.0p per
share (2008: 2.8p), making a full year dividend of
10.7p per share (2008: 9.7p). This represents a
payout ratio of 45% of underlying basic earnings
per share. The final dividend will be paid on 1 April
2010 to holders of relevant shares on the register 
at 12 March 2010.
The Group’s policy is to maintain underlying
dividend cover at around two times. We intend to
continue to operate a dividend re-investment plan
as an alternative to receiving a cash dividend.
Cash and liquidity
The net debt position (cash and cash equivalents
less loans, overdrafts and finance leases) at the
year end was £338m (2008: £136m). This consisted
of £790m of cash and £1,128m of interest-bearing
loans and liabilities.
The increase in net debt has arisen primarily due to:
• The cash impact of costs incurred to deliver the
synergy benefits;
• A working capital outflow driven by capacity
reductions and the later booking curve;
• Acquisitions made in the year; and
• An adverse impact arising on the translation 
of foreign currency denominated debt.
On 29 September 2009, we announced a number
of financing measures, including:
• An issue of £350m of convertible bonds due 
in October 2014;
• Additional revolving credit facilities of £140m,
maturing in June 2012; and
• Deferral to April 2011 of €160m of the shareholder
loan, beyond the 2011 seasonal peak in net debt,
as part of a rescheduling of the repayment
profile of the loan.
In accordance with the new repayment schedule,
we repaid €100m of our shareholder loan on 
30 September 2009 and the outstanding balance 
is now €919m. The new repayment schedule is 
set out below:
€m
1 April 2010 250
1 December 2010 509
1
30 April 2011 160
1 Adjusted for any further movements in the balance due prior to 
that date.
In addition to the above, we have a £770m
revolving credit facility which matures in June 2012.
Given the Group’s current facilities and current cash
flow forecasts, the Board remains satisfied with the
Group’s funding and liquidity position. Fixed charges
cover and the ratio of net debt to EBITDA, which
we believe to be the most useful measures of cash
generation and gearing, were 2.0x and 0.5x
respectively at the year end (2008: 2.1x and 0.2x
respectively). Fixed charges cover is defined as
EBITDA before operating lease rentals charge
divided by net interest plus operating lease rentals.
EBITDA is defined as earnings before interest, tax,
depreciation and amortisation and is calculated on
an underlying basis.
Business performance
Group performance continued
32 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009
www.tuitravelplc.com Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
Pension deficit
The net accounting pension deficit at the year 
end has increased to £500m (2008: £253m). The
increase was driven primarily by a reduction in the
discount rate used to calculate the present value 
of future liabilities from 6.9% to 5.5% in the UK.
The basis for the reduced discount rate was lower
corporate bond yields.
We anticipate cash contributions to fund the
pension deficit will be c.£70m per annum in 2010
and will remain at this level in the medium term.
Accounting policies
There have been no changes in accounting policies
during this financial year. The Group continues to
monitor the potential impact and timing of changes
to International Financial Reporting Standards which
will be applicable to the Group in future years.
Treasury policies
The Board has established a framework to ensure
that the Group has adequate policies, procedures
and controls to successfully manage the financial
risks that it faces. These form part of the Company’s
Risk Management Framework. See page 20.
The key financial risks faced by the Company are in
relation to foreign currency, interest rate, fuel price
and liquidity. Group Treasury has implemented
individual treasury policies to cover specific risks
faced by each business unit. The procedures
stipulate the levels of authority applied to dealing
and approve the financial instruments that may be
used to manage these exposures. All significant
treasury transactions on behalf of the businesses
are undertaken and executed by Group Treasury.
T ransactions are undertaken only to hedge underlying
exposures. Financial instruments are not traded,
nor are speculative positions taken.
TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 33
www.tuitravelplc.com Proportion of Group revenue
£1 1.7bn £11.8bn
The Mainstream Sector reported an underlying
operating profit of £305m in 2009, an
improvement of £28m (2008: £277m). This
represents 65% of Group underlying operating
profit before central costs (2008: 65%).
Mainstream 2009 2008 Change %
Underlying operating 
profit (£m)
Northern Region 206 178 +16%
Central Europe 66 62 +6%
Western Europe 33 37 -11%
Total 305 277 +10%
Underlying operating
margin (%)
Northern Region 4.9% 4.1% +80bps
Central Europe 1.4% 1.3% +10bps
Western Europe 1.2% 1.4% -20bps
Total 2.6% 2.3% +30bps
Northern Region
The Northern Region comprises the distribution
and tour operating businesses in the source
markets of UK and Ireland, the Nordic countries
and Canada. Brands include Fritidsresor, the Nordic
tour operator and retailer, First Choice and
Thomson, the leading UK high street brands and
Signature Vacations, the tour operator in Canada.
The Northern Region achieved a 16% improvement
in underlying operating profit to £206m in 2009
(2008: £178m). The improvement was largely driven
by incremental merger synergies of £64m and
reduced scheduled flying losses in the UK, offset by
weaker trading in Canada and Ireland, the weaker
Winter programme for Thailand in the Nordics and
the adverse impact of the swine flu outbreak in
Mexico on the UK performance.
08 £11.8bn
09 £11.7bn
Underlying operating profit bridge
UK & Northern
£m Ireland Nordics Canada Region
2008 133 49 (5) 178
Scheduled 
flying losses 9 – – 9
Sale and leaseback
transaction (5) – – (5)
Swine flu (9) – – (9)
Trading (10) (3) (19) (33)
Acquisitions 2 – – 2
Synergies 64 – – 64
2009 184 46 (24) 206
Northern Region 2009 2008 Change %
Customers (’000)
UK & Ireland 5,687 6,978 -19%
Nordic 1,177 1,313 -10%
Canada 240 279 -14%
Total 7,104 8,570 -17%
Revenue (£m)
UK & Ireland 3,257 3,433 -5%
Nordic 797 766 +4%
Canada 168 178 -6%
Total 4,222 4,377 -4%
Underlying operating 
profit/(loss) (£m)
UK & Ireland 184 133 +38%
Nordic 46 49 -6%
Canada (24) (5) n/a
Total 206 178 +16%
Underlying operating 
margin (%)
UK & Ireland 5.6% 3.9% +170bps
Nordic 5.8% 6.4% -60bps
Canada (14.3)% (2.8)% -1,150bps
Total 4.9% 4.1% +80bps
UK & Ireland
UK & Ireland delivered a £51m improvement in
underlying profits to £184m in 2009 (2008: £133m).
The UK delivered synergies of £93m in 2009, an
increase of £64m over prior year synergies of £29m.
Significant achievements during the year included
the full integration of the Thomson and First 
Choice cabin crews and pilots from 1 May onwards,
further consolidation of the core IT systems and
infrastructure with Summer 2009 running off a
single reservation system, and the successful
integration of Island Cruises with Thomson Cruises.
Business performance
Segmental performance
34 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009
www.tuitravelplc.com
Greener Holidays e-brochure
In April 2009, First Choice published
Greener Holidays, the first brochure 
in the UK market to promote more
sustainable mainstream holidays. The
online brochure features only those
hotels that have earned a Travelife
award for their commitment to the
environment, their employees and 
the local community, and provides 
an easy way for customers to make 
a more sustainable choice.
www.firstchoice.co.uk/greener-
holidays
Mainstream Sector Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
During the year, the business eliminated a
significant amount of loss-making scheduled flying
capacity, which resulted in the reduction of £9m of
scheduled flying losses from the previous financial
year. Charter capacity reductions supported a
stronger pricing environment in the lates market
and input cost inflation was recovered through
higher average selling prices.
The outbreak of swine flu in Mexico in April 2009
resulted in an adverse impact of £9m in the second
half of 2009, due to repatriation and compensation
costs, increased cancellations and lower load factors
when the Mexico flying programme resumed in May.
The Irish business increased operating losses by £3m
versus the prior year, due to a significant decrease
in demand resulting from the weak economic
environment. Customer volumes decreased by 
23% in 2009, with a similar decrease in capacity.
Additionally, all operators in the market reduced
prices to secure volumes, and margins were eroded
as a result. We have carried out a strategic review 
of the Irish business which will enable it to operate
more profitably in this challenging market in the
coming year, through measures including cost
reductions and further capacity rationalisation.
Controlled distribution increased by three
percentage points to 78% in 2009, as improved
functionality on both the Thomson and First Choice
websites drove greater online volumes. The recently
launched ‘MyThomson’ is a personalised portal that
allows customers to access bookings, pay balances
and select seats.
The focus on delivering high-quality differentiated
product and service continued in 2009. Thomson
built on the highly successful 2008 launch of
Sensatori in Crete with two more of these 5-star
concept hotels: Sensatori Mexico (opened May
2009) and Sensatori T enerife (opening May 2010).
First Choice launched the hugely popular Splash
brochure, with 13 Splash hotels each offering
unlimited free access to an onsite waterpark. The
First Choice Holiday Village portfolio also expanded,
with an updated unit in Lanzarote and further
openings (including Rhodes) are planned for 2010.
The cruise programme also saw further expansion:
Thomson Dream joined the fleet, to sail from April
2010, opening up new destinations in Cuba and
Honduras. We now have a market leadership position
in the 3 to 4-star cruise market in the Mediterranean.
Nordics
The Nordics business reported underlying operating
profits of £46m (2008: £49m) and an operating
margin of 5.8%. If we were to include profits earned
from destination services, which includes transfers
and excursions, and which are reported in our A&D
Sector, the operating margin generated by the
Nordics business would be c.7%.
The year-on-year decline in profit was primarily 
due to reduced demand for the main long haul
destination of Thailand in Winter 2008/2009
following political upheaval in Bangkok. Winter
2008/2009 volumes to Thailand were lower and
margins were further affected due to discounting in
the lates market, leading to a £10m loss. However,
there was a good recovery in this destination during
the Summer 2009 season and volumes to Thailand
were ahead of last year. We are the only tour
operator to offer direct flights on our own airline
from all major Nordic airports to the Thailand
market, which strengthens our position as the
leading long haul operator in the Nordic region.
The Summer 2009 programme performed very well,
with strong customer demand, particularly in the
lates market. Load factor improved by six percentage
points over the prior year, contributing to record
Summer profits for the Nordics business. Summer
2009 capacity was reduced by 12%, with the majority
of reductions targeted in the shoulder months.
During 2009, the level of differentiated product
offered by the Nordics business increased by four
percentage points to 41%. This was driven by the
opening of a new eco-friendly Blue Village in
Rhodes and the creation of a new concept, Blue
Unique, with 20 small unique hotels in several
charter destinations.
Controlled distribution increased by six percentage
points to 85% in 2009, driven by growth in online
sales which reached 52% in 2009 (2008: 46%).
Improvements in web functionality and increased
availability of products online contributed to the
significant growth in online sales during the year.
Canada
Canada reported an underlying operating loss of
£24m in 2009 (2008: loss of £5m). The Canadian
market has for some time been both challenging
and fragmented, and significant over-capacity
resulted in deep discounting and margin erosion 
for all market participants in 2009.
We have reviewed the strategic alternatives for the
Canadian business and on 29 September 2009 we
announced that we have agreed a strategic venture
with Sunwing, a leading tour operator in Canada. This
deal strengthens our position in the Canadian market
and has a number of strategic and financial benefits
to the Group. This deal is subject to regulatory
clearance, which we expect to receive shortly.
TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 35
www.tuitravelplc.com
Nordics Blue Village
Blue Village offers family-oriented
hotels located close to the sea,
designed and planned exclusively for
the Nordic market. The focus is on
families with children, with a wide
selection of facilities and childcare
options. We currently have 13 hotels,
principally in European destinations
such as Spain, Canary Islands and
Cyprus and also one hotel in Thailand. Central Europe
Central Europe includes the source markets of
Germany, Austria, Switzerland and Poland. In
Germany and Austria, TUI is the number one brand
with many different tour operator and distribution
activities. In Germany, the largest market, there 
is a broad brand portfolio that reaches out to 
all customer segments. TUI is the favourite brand 
of the German holidaymaker, 1-2-Fly appeals to
price-conscious customers, while airtours is a brand
designed for the luxury segment.
Central Europe reported an underlying operating
profit of £66m in 2009 (2008: £62m). As outlined 
in the table below, the improvement of £4m is
principally due to strong Summer 2009 trading in 
the German tour operator (up £15m), the elimination
of TUIfly losses (£10m), partially offset by weak
trading in Switzerland (down £4m) and Poland
(down £11m).
Underlying operating profit bridge
Switzer- Central
£m Germany Austria land Poland Europe
2008 45944 62
Scheduled 
flying losses 10 – – – 10
Impact of sale 
and leasebacks (5) – – – (5)
Trading 15 (2) (4) (11) (2)
Synergies – 1 – – 1
2009 65 8 – (7) 66
Central Europe 2009 2008 Change %
Customers (’000)
Germany 8,775 10,056 -13%
Switzerland 286 324 -12%
Austria 565 682 -17%
Poland 104 141 -27%
Total 9,730 11,203 -13%
Revenue (£m)
Germany 4,144 4,036 +3%
Switzerland 185 196 -6%
Austria 405 385 +5%
Poland 62 85 -27%
Total 4,796 4,702 +2%
Central Europe 2009 2008 Change %
Underlying operating 
profit/(loss) (£m)
Germany 65 45 +44%
Switzerland – 4n/a
Austria 8 9 -11%
Poland (7) 4n/a
Total 66 62 +6%
Underlying operating 
margin (%)
Germany 1.6% 1.1% +50bps
Switzerland – 2.0% -200bps
Austria 2.0% 2.4% -40bps
Poland (11.3)% 4.7% -1,600bps
Total 1.4% 1.3% +100bps
Germany
Underlying operating profit for 2009 was £65m, 
an improvement of £20m over the prior year (2008:
£45m). Strong Summer 2009 trading in the tour
operator led to an improvement of £18m in the
2009 result. This was driven by a 17% cut in charter
capacity, which resulted in fewer holidays left to 
sell than in the prior year, particularly in the lates
market. As a result, higher average selling prices
were achieved which led to improved margins over
last year. Demand was also stimulated by passing
on hotel rate renegotiations to the customer. The
capacity cuts were mainly in the short and medium
haul destinations of Balearics, Greece, Canaries and
Mainland Spain, partly offset by increased customer
demand for destinations such as Turkey, Cape
Verde, Croatia and the US.
TUIfly also improved its result by cutting capacity 
in its loss-making scheduled flying routes. Capacity
was cut by 16% in Summer 2009, which led to a
two percentage point improvement in load factors
for its Summer 2009 programme and resulted in 
a £10m improvement in margins over the prior
year. During the year, we also announced that we
entered into a strategic venture with Air Berlin,
which will further de-risk the TUIfly business
through an exit of the scheduled flying operation
and will secure optimal capacity for the German
tour operator.
Business performance
Segmental performance continued
36 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009
www.tuitravelplc.com
Sensimar launch success
A new hotel format called Sensimar
has been launched in order to reach
out specifically to the attractive and
growing target market of high-income
couples seeking quality products. In 
its first year of operation the concept
was very successful and the first three
hotels in Crete, Rhodes and Side in
Turkey achieved average occupancy
rates of 75%.
TUI Deutschland establishes
new sustainability initiative
Early in 2009, TUI Deutschland
launched the industry sustainability
initiative Futouris which focuses on
climate and biodiversity protection
and the promotion of educational
programmes. The initiative supports
schools in Namibia and Nepal and
farmers in Kenya. Following its
establishment by TUI Deutschland,
competitors have now also joined 
the initiative. Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
Germany improved its controlled distribution by six
percentage points to 46% in 2009, through increased
sales through our own retail network and direct
brands such as Berge & Meer and l’tur.
The underlying operating margin % in Germany
improved by 50bps to 1.6% (2008: 1.1%), but this
remains below target margins. The pro forma margin,
which reflects the benefit of eliminating residual
losses of £20m and associated revenues of £275m
in the scheduled flying operation, is 2.2%.
Switzerland
Switzerland reported a breakeven underlying
operating result in 2009 (2008: profit of £4m).
Customer volumes decreased by 12% over the prior
year due to soft consumer demand, as well as over
capacity in the market and aggressive pricing by
competitors to protect market share. In addition,
prices were adversely affected by the unfavourable
exchange rate for the Swiss Franc against the Euro.
Austria
Austria reported underlying operating profits of
£8m (2008: £9m). Trading performance was
adversely impacted by weaker customer demand 
in the Austrian market, although margins were
protected by capacity control which led to a decline
in volumes of 17% over the prior year. The volume
decreases were largely in the destinations of
Greece, Spain and Tunisia.
The Austrian business delivered synergies of £4m
in 2009, an increase of £1m over the prior year
figure of £3m. This has been achieved through 
the integration of the former First Choice and TUI
businesses, including significant savings on IT,
commission, advertising and brochure costs.
Poland
Poland reported an underlying operating loss of
£7m in 2009 (2008: profit of £4m). This decline was
driven by the significant weakening of the Polish
Zloty against the Euro which increased input costs
and significantly reduced customer demand for
Euro destinations. Volumes decreased by 27% in
2009 over the prior year.
Western Europe
Western Europe comprises the market-leading tour
operating and distribution businesses in France,
Belgium and the Netherlands as well as the
following airlines: Corsairfly (France), Jetairfly
(Belgium), Arkefly (Netherlands) and Jet4you.com
(Morocco). In France, it includes the two largest
tour operators: Nouvelles Frontières and Marmara.
In Belgium, it comprises Jetair, which is the largest
holiday brand in Belgium, and Sunjets, while in the
Netherlands it comprises TUI Nederland, with the
brands Holland International and Arke, the latter
being the only vertically integrated tour operator 
for the Dutch source market.
Western Europe reported underlying operating
profits of £33m in 2009 (2008: £37m). In France,
our airline Corsairfly was significantly impacted by
the socio-political issues in the French West Indies
and Madagascar in the second quarter. This was
offset by a very strong performance from Belgium
due to robust Summer 2009 trading and reduced
fuel costs.
Underlying operating profit bridge
Western
£m France Netherlands Belgium Europe
2008 5 8 24 37
FWI/Madagascar (15) – – (15)
Trading (12) (1) 21 8
Acquisitions (1) (1)
Synergies 4 – – 4
2009 (19) 7 45 33
Western Europe 2009 2008 Change %
Customers (’000)
France 2,217 2,451 -10%
Netherlands 1,274 1,430 -11%
Belgium 1,790 1,864 -4%
Total 5,281 5,745 -8%
Revenue (£m)
France 1,228 1,307 -6%
Netherlands 700 686 +2%
Belgium 724 759 -5%
Total 2,652 2,752 -4%
TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 37
www.tuitravelplc.com
Jetairfly and Arkefly joint
venture
In 2008, a joint venture called Tec4Jets
was created between our Belgian
airline Jetairfly and Dutch airline
Arkefly for completion of aircraft
maintenance. The combined efforts 
of management and colleagues along
with successful development of
synergies across the two airlines
contributed to both significant
improvement in on-time performance
for both airlines and higher customer
satisfaction levels. Western Europe 2009 2008 Change %
Underlying operating
profit/(loss) (£m)
France (19) 5n/a
Netherlands 7 8 -13%
Belgium 45 24 +88%
Total 33 37 -11%
Underlying operating
margin (%)
France (1.5)% 0.4% -190bps
Netherlands 1.0% 1.2% -20bps
Belgium 6.2% 3.2% +300bps
Total 1.2% 1.4% -20bps
France
Underlying operating profit bridge
Nouvelles
£m Frontières Corsair Marmara France
2008 (22) 10 17 5
FWI/Madagascar – (15) – (15)
Trading 8 (19) (1) (12)
Acquisitions (1) – – (1)
Synergies 2 – 2 4
2009 (13) (24) 18 (19)
France reported an underlying operating loss of
£19m in 2009 (2008: profit of £5m). Corsairfly, our
French long haul scheduled airline, was significantly
impacted by a series of socio-political events in 
the key destinations of French West Indies and
Madagascar during the second quarter. Consumer
sentiment towards these destinations continued to
be weak for the remainder of 2009 and passenger
numbers to these destinations decreased by 15%
versus the prior year. As a result, Corsairfly incurred
repatriation costs, cancellations and weaker demand
for these destinations, which led to a £15m impact
on operating profits.
The airline also experienced softer consumer
demand following the economic downturn. As a
result of the softer demand, the average selling
prices achieved were not sufficient to recover 
input costs.
Controlled distribution improved by four percentage
points in 2009 to 50%, driven by a redesign of our
French websites and a series of marketing actions
to strengthen brand awareness.
France delivered synergies of £5m, an increase of
£4m over the prior year synergies of £1m. These
synergies were primarily generated by distributing
Marmara products through the Nouvelles Frontières
retail network and savings on seat rates for shared
routes. In addition, Marmara launched four new
long haul destinations – Mauritius, Dominican
Republic, Kenya and Canada – using Nouvelles
Frontières’ in-house flight capacity, which enabled
Marmara to offer these destinations at attractive
prices for the French customer.
We are focused on strategic solutions for all aspects
of the Nouvelles Frontières and Corsairfly
businesses, including:
• Continuing to review the business model and
strategy for the Corsairfly business;
• Addressing our product strategy, including
revitalisation of our differentiated product
offering and rationalisation of the product range
to exit from unprofitable destinations; and
• Expanding distribution capability, including an
agreement with Carlson Wagonlit.
Netherlands
Netherlands reported an underlying operating
profit of £7m in 2009 (2008: £8m). Summer 2009
margins were slightly behind the prior year, as
average selling prices were under pressure in the
lates market due to the softer consumer demand
and the later booking profile. T otal capacity for 2009
was reduced by 12% compared to the prior year,
particularly to the destinations of Spain (down
15%) and Turkey (down 10%), with customer
volumes down 11%.
Belgium
Belgium achieved a strong improvement in
underlying operating profits to £45m (2008: £24m).
This was driven by careful capacity management,
which resulted in higher occupancies and strong
pricing in the Summer 2009 lates market, combined
with innovative up-selling, cost efficiencies and a
significant reduction in fuel costs. During 2009, the
business successfully launched a new web-based
reservation platform, which improved operational
efficiency and web capability.
Business performance
Segmental performance continued
38 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009
www.tuitravelplc.com
TUI Nederland takes
sustainable tourism to 
travel agents
TUI Nederland was the first Dutch
travel organisation to launch a
sustainable tourism policy for its 220
travel agencies. During the year, the
stores received training and practical
information on sustainable tourism. 
A Group Travel Agencies Sustainable
Development Report was also created
and each store received its own
sustainability report. In January 2009,
TUI Nederland won the travel industry
award ‘Green Feather’ for its
sustainability activities. Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
Proportion of Group revenue
£816m £780m
The Activity Sector has over 40 activity 
travel businesses that operate in the market
segments of Marine, Adventure, Ski, Student
and Sport. It is market leader in adventure
travel, taking more customers to iconic
adventure destinations than any other operator.
Its Sport businesses are leaders in supporter-led
cricket and rugby tours in Australia and the UK. 
The Student businesses encompass everything
from the traditional school trip to France, to young
adults trekking in the Himalayas. The Moorings and
Sunsail are the leading yacht brands in Europe and
the US and this Sector also includes Crysal Ski, the
world’s largest ski operator.
The Activity Sector delivered underlying operating
profits of £59m in 2009 (2008: £50m), driven by
acquisition profits of £3m and integration synergies
growth of £7m, with underlying trading broadly in
line with the prior year.
Ski, Student
£m Marine Adventure and Sport Activity
2008 19 14 17 50
Acquisitions – 2 1 3
Synergies 1 – 6 7
Trading (1) (3) 3 (1)
2009 19 13 27 59
Activity 2009 2008 Change %
Revenue (£m)
Marine 131 142 -8%
Adventure 240 239 –
Ski, Student and Sport 445 399 +12%
Total 816 780 +5%
Underlying operating
profit (£m)
Marine 19 19 –
Adventure 13 14 -7%
Ski, Student and Sport 27 17 +59%
Total 59 50 +18%
Underlying operating
margin (%)
Total 7.2% 6.4% +80bps
08 £780m
09 £816m
The Marine division reported underlying profits of
£19m in 2009 (2008: £19m). Additional synergies 
of £1m were delivered in 2009 in line with the prior
year, through cost savings achieved by merging 
back office operations across the Marine businesses.
The business was able to mitigate the impact on
profitability of weaker consumer demand by
reducing capacity and implementing cost saving
measures, and also benefited from some currency
gains. The flagship yacht base in T ortola, in the
British Virgin Islands, was officially opened in
February 2009. The marina is home to 400
catamarans and mono-hulls and provides excellent
recreation and leisure facilities for guests before
and after their charter. During 2009, Le Boat also
successfully launched its products through the TUI
Deutschland retail network, which is now Le Boat’s
largest distributor in that market.
The Adventure businesses reported underlying
operating profits of £13m in 2009 (2008: £14m).
Businesses acquired during the year, plus the
annualisation of acquisitions made in the prior year,
contributed £2m of profit in 2009. The acquisition
of ATA in April 2009 enabled the Australian group
of businesses to extract synergies from the
integration of ATA with its existing operations. In
July 2009, we acquired Zegrahm, which will operate
closely with our Quark polar cruise business to
expand distribution and undertake joint marketing
initiatives. The North American and Scandinavian
Adventure businesses, however, saw reduced
customer demand in 2009 with revenue down 
15% compared to the prior year.
The Ski, Student and Sport divisions increased
underlying operating profits in 2009 by £10m to
£27m (2008: £17m). The divisions delivered strong
trading growth of £3m in 2009 versus prior year,
driven by the Lions T our in June 2009 and growth in
the Student businesses. Businesses acquired during
the year, plus the annualisation of acquisitions made
in the prior year, contributed £1m of profit in 2009,
with the Sports division strengthening its position
through the acquisition of Williment, the leading
sports business in New Zealand, and the Student
division entering the substantial and rapidly
expanding language school market with the
acquisition of EAC. The Ski division delivered
additional integration synergies of £6m in 2009 
over the prior year, through the integration of the
former TUI and First Choice ski and club businesses.
TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 39
www.tuitravelplc.com
TUI Marine award-winning
catamaran
TUI Marine unveiled the new Sunsail
38-foot catamarans (Sunsail 384) at
the October 2009 Annapolis Boat
Show in the US. This model was built
exclusively for TUI Marine creating a
leading and differentiated position in
the fastest expanding segment of
yacht charter in the world. The new
catamaran has already been
nominated as a finalist for two
prestigious competitions to be
announced in 2010.
Activity Sector
Quark Expeditions opens new
routes
Quark Expeditions has launched a
Greenland programme which gives 
the opportunity to learn more about
this area. Once on board the ship,
customers are given illustrated
presentations on Greenland’s wildlife
and geography and can explore its
eastern fjords in zodiacs and kayaks.
Quark’s expeditions are accessible
worldwide through TUI Travel’s
existing distribution network including
adventure brands such as Peregrine
Australia, Exodus in the UK and, from
next year, in Germany. Proportion of Group revenue
£825m £819m
The Specialist & Emerging Markets Sector is
an international portfolio of travel businesses
focusing on specific destinations, premium
travel experiences or particular customer
demographic segments often with
differentiated and exclusive product.
This Sector consists of 40 businesses operating from
nine source markets in North America, Europe and,
most recently, emerging markets such as Russia and
Ukraine. Specialist travel experiences include around-
the-world private jet expeditions, student educational
tours and tailormade trips to the Far East, Africa 
or Australia. Brands include TCS & Starquest
Expeditions, the private jet tour operator, Sovereign
and Hayes & Jarvis, premium travel brands and
Turchese and Mostravel, destination specialists.
The Specialist & Emerging Markets Sector reported
underlying operating profits of £31m (2008: £26m).
This was due to the delivery of incremental
synergies of £3m and acquisition profits of £1m,
with trading slightly ahead of the prior year.
£m Europe US Specialist
2008 14 12 26
Acquisitions – 1 1
Synergies 3 – 3
Trading (1) 2 1
2009 16 15 31
Specialist & Emerging Markets 2009 2008 Change %
Customers (’000)
Europe 530 634 -16%
US 303 339 -11%
Total 833 973 -14%
Revenue (£m)
Europe 584 609 -4%
US 241 210 +15%
Total 825 819 +1%
Underlying operating
profit (£m)
Europe 16 14 +14%
US 15 12 +25%
Total 31 26 +19%
08 £819m
09 £825m
Specialist & Emerging Markets 2009 2008 Change %
Underlying operating
margin (%)
Total 3.8% 3.2% +60bps
Europe
The Europe division reported underlying operating
profits of £16m in 2009 (2008: £14m), an increase 
of £2m. The division delivered incremental synergies
of £3m in 2009, primarily due to the integration of
the former Thomson and First Choice businesses in
the UK. The majority of the UK businesses are now
on one common reservation platform and this has
significantly increased call centre and online conversion
rates for the former Thomson businesses this year.
Underlying trading decreased by £1m in 2009
compared to the prior year, primarily reflecting
softer trading in some markets where conditions
were challenging. Volumes reduced by 44% and 26%
in the Spanish and Irish businesses, respectively,
due to the significant weakening of the economies in
these markets. Citalia, the Italian specialist business,
suffered a 15% decrease in volumes due to the
Sterling weakening against the Euro which led to
customers switching to non Euro destinations.
Hayes & Jarvis and Sovereign performed well,
however, with margins ahead of the prior year 
and volume growth of 8% and 14%, respectively.
US
The US division reported underlying operating
profits of £15m in 2009 (2008: £12m), an increase
of £3m. Underlying trading improved by £2m in
2009 over the prior year and acquisitions contributed
an incremental £1m of profits in the year.
The luxury private jets segment performed very well
in 2009 as its winter programme was fully sold before
the recession fully impacted the US economy. This
was partly offset by softer trading in the escorted
tours businesses, as demand decreased for its
specialist premium products due to the weakening
of the US economy.
Emerging Markets
Our growth plans in Russia & CIS are progressing
well. During 2009, the TUI Russia & CIS joint
venture completed the acquisition of a 75% stake
in certain assets of VKO, a tour operator and travel
agency group based in Russia and the acquisition of
a 75% stake in certain assets of Voyage Kiev, a tour
operator and travel agency group based in Ukraine.
We expect the joint venture to complete the
acquisition of 75% of Mostravel shortly. The result
for the Emerging Markets division is included within
joint ventures and associates.
Business performance
Segmental performance continued
40 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009
www.tuitravelplc.com
Driving growth in 
UK & Ireland
Over the last year the UK & Ireland
specialist businesses have reduced
costs and improved efficiencies by
moving 11 brands onto one platform
for reservations, finance, HR, 
E-Commerce and IT. The benefits
include a wider range of products and
flexibility, shared inventory, back
office efficiencies and shared best
practice. The integration of all brands
onto one platform has driven growth
for this division and will continue to
add value to all of the brands as new
developments are rolled out across
the single platform.
Specialist & Emerging Markets Sector
Sustainable development
champions
During 2008/2009 the Specialist &
Emerging Markets Sector appointed
and trained a network of over 100
sustainable development champions,
each with specific targets to achieve 
in this area. Champions have already
delivered practical sustainability
projects including I Viaggi del
Turchese’s ‘walk to school’ scheme,
saving carbon and strengthening ties
with the local community, and
employee engagement activities such
as the UK businesses’ sustainability-
themed photography competition. Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
Proportion of Group revenue
£552m £502m
The Accommodation & Destinations Sector
(A&D) sells and provides a range of services 
in destination to tour operators, travel 
agents, corporate clients and direct to the
consumer worldwide.
Services include hotel accommodation, transfers,
excursions, roundtrips, organising meetings,
incentives, conferences and events (MICE), cruise
handling as well as integrated website solutions 
for our customers.
A&D has a portfolio of online and offline
businesses employing brands – including TUI,
Hotelbeds, Bedsonline, Hotelopia, LateRooms.com,
AsiaRooms.com and Intercruises – to distribute 
its products. A&D is structured along key business
lines which reflect the customer base and the
business model of that particular segment –
Business to Business (B2B) and Business to
Customer (B2C).
The A&D Sector reported underlying operating
profits of £60m in 2009 (2008: £57m). The increase
was due to incremental merger synergies of £3m
and contribution from new acquisitions of £1m,
partially offset by the adverse impact of the swine
flu in Mexico of £1m.
Accommodation & Destinations Change %
Customers
B2B roomnights +10%
B2C roomnights +17%
Incoming passenger volumes -10%
2009 2008 Change %
Revenue (£m) 552 502 +10%
Underlying operating
profit (£m) 60 57 +5%
Underlying operating
margin (%) 10.9% +11.4% -50bps
08 £502m
09 £552m
A&D delivered synergies of £5m in 2009, an increase
of £3m over the prior year synergies of £2m. These
synergies were delivered through the integration 
of the former TUI and First Choice Destinations
businesses, primarily in Dominican Republic, Mexico
and Spain. The integration process continues to be
ongoing in this Sector, with further integration to
take place in Spain, Portugal, Turkey and Greece.
During 2008 and 2009, A&D acquired three cruise
handling businesses and an online bedbank
business, and these contributed £1m in additional
profits in 2009 versus the prior year.
The business was impacted by the swine flu
outbreak in Mexico in 2009, as customer presence
in the Mexican resorts was significantly reduced,
leading to lost transfer and excursion revenue. 
This resulted in lost contribution of £1m in 2009.
Underlying trading was broadly in line with the prior
year. The Destinations businesses were adversely
impacted by the capacity reductions implemented
by the tour operators in its core markets, such as
Spain and Greece, in 2009. Customer volumes were
down 10% in 2009 versus the prior year. Additionally,
excursion revenues were lower in the agencies
based in Euro destinations due to the significant
weakening of Sterling, which reduced in-resort
spending by UK visitors.
The online businesses performed well due to the
diversity of the B2B and B2C portfolio. Weaker
performance in the more mature destinations of
Spain and Portugal due to the economic environment
and competitive pressure was compensated by
growth in demand in emerging markets such as
Asia and the Americas. LateRooms.com also
performed well in 2009, with volumes up 47% 
over the prior year due to its effective marketing
campaign and a strong increase in content.
Following the successful launch of LateRooms.es 
in 2008, LateRooms.it was successfully launched
into the Italian source market in 2009.
TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 41
www.tuitravelplc.com
AsiaRooms.com moves to
LateRooms.com model
LateRooms.com and AsiaRooms.com
are our two market-leading brands 
in the accommodation-only market.
We have already achieved growth
through investing in brands and
content, shared infrastructure and
moving AsiaRooms.com to a commission
model for hoteliers. In 2010 we intend
to build on this growth further by
expanding the geographic reach of
both brands and entering into new
markets in Europe and Australia.
Accommodation & Destinations Sector
Ultramar Transport reduces
coach fleet emissions
Ultramar Transport, part of TUI
España, provides ground transport
services to TUI Travel customers in
the destinations we serve. Ultramar
Transport has been working hard to
progressively reduce the emission
profile of its fleet. Coaches 
purchased in the last three years
comply with Euro-4 and Euro-5
European Union vehicle emission
standards, the most stringent in force,
representing the very latest engine
and fuel-saving technology. Summer 2009
Trading for the Summer 2009 season finished 
in line with our expectations. Despite the later
booking trend, we achieved required load factors
and average selling prices demonstrating the
flexibility of our business model and the strength 
of demand for the main summer holiday. This was 
a pleasing performance against the backdrop of
exceptional fuel and currency driven cost inflation
as well as the challenging economic environment.
Winter 2009/2010
Booking volumes have improved since our previous
trading statement on 29 September, 2009. Across 
all source markets, recent booking volumes are
significantly ahead of the cumulative booking
position and ahead of capacity reductions. This
trading pattern is similar to that experienced in the
last two seasons, where booking volumes improved
throughout the season, reflecting a later booking
trend. Our focus is on ensuring that we achieve
required prices and load factors and, as such, 
we entered the season with reduced capacity in
anticipation of weaker demand and have leveraged
the flexibility in our model to further reduce supply
in Germany, which is now down 9%. We retain
flexibility to further adjust capacity to reflect
changes in demand, although on the evidence of
recent trading, we do not expect to alter capacity
significantly in either direction in the remainder of
the season.
Year-on-year customer booking variation %
Last Last Last Last
4 weeks 6 weeks 8 weeks 10 weeks Cumulative
UK -4 -6 -8 -9 -16
Nordics +14 +10 +12 +9 -15
Germany -7 -3 -4 -5 -15
France +10 +18 +16 +10 -9
Belgium +13 +9 +9 +6 +1
Netherlands -6 -1 -2 -5 -12
In the UK, booking volumes have improved in recent
weeks, reflecting similar trends to those seen in the
Winter 2008/2009 and Summer 2009 seasons. In
the last four weeks, booking volumes were down 4%
compared to the cumulative position which is down
16%. Capacity reductions mean that we now have
13% fewer holidays left to sell in the UK. Including
mix benefits, average selling prices remain up 10%,
with margins flat year-on-year.
In the Nordics, booking volumes have been ahead
of prior year in recent weeks and the cumulative
booking position has improved significantly from 
-24% at our last trading update to -15%. The
improvement has been seen across all source
markets in the region, with particular strength in
Sweden and Finland which are our two largest
markets in the Nordics. Although we currently have
more product left to sell than last year, our rate of
sale leaves us confident that we will achieve
required load factors.
In Germany, we have leveraged the flexibility in our
model to reduce capacity by 9% to ensure that we
achieve required load factors and average selling
prices. We have reduced our prices to pass lower
flying costs (driven by lower fuel prices) and
accommodation savings through to our customers,
which should help to deliver our required volumes
without harming our margins.
In Western Europe, like our other source markets,
cumulative booking volumes are down versus the
prior year but the trend has improved in recent
weeks and volumes were ahead in Belgium and
France. Belgium is trading particularly well,
continuing its strong performance in the Summer
2009 lates market, and has taken more bookings
than at the same time last year.
Business performance
Current trading
42 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009
www.tuitravelplc.com
Current trading
1
Winter 2009/2010
Risk only
Total T otal Total
Y ear-on-year variation % ASP
2
Sales
2
Customers
2
Capacity
3
Left to sell
3
Mainstream
Northern Region
Short haul +6 -20 -25
Medium haul +7 -11 -18
Long haul +9 -14 -21
UK +10 -8 -16 -15 -13
Nordic +3 -13 -15 -11 +4
Northern Region – Total +6 -13 -18
Central Europe
Germany Flat -15 -15 -9 +4
Austria -2 -27 -26
Switzerland -6 -11 -5
Poland -7 -24 -18
Central Europe – Total Flat -15 -15
Western Europe
France -11 -19 -9
Belgium -4 -3 +1
Netherlands +3 -10 -12
Western Europe – Total -8 -14 -7
Specialist -13 -23 -11
Activity NA -19 NA
Accommodation & Destinations
4
-8 +20 +30
1 These statistics are up to 22 November 2009.
2 These statistics relate to all customers whether risk or non-risk.
3 These statistics include all risk capacity programmes.
4 These statistics refer to B2B Online businesses only and sales refer to total transaction value (TTV). Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
The Specialist and Activity Sectors have also
experienced a later booking trend and have seen
significant improvements in demand in recent
weeks. In the Specialist & Emerging Markets Sector,
bookings in the last four weeks are flat on the prior
year, whereas cumulative booking volumes are
down 11%. The improvement has been seen across
all divisions within the Sector, with a particularly
marked upturn in the US and Russian source
markets. In the Activity Sector, sales in the last four
weeks were up 15% versus the prior year, with all
divisions showing positive year-on-year trends.
In the A&D Sector, greater availability of bedstock
and price reductions by accommodation suppliers
has led to a significant growth in volumes (+30%) 
in our online B2B division. As a wholesaler of
accommodation, our margins per transaction have
remained flat despite the fall in average transaction
values and the strong volume growth means that
total margins are ahead of the prior year for the
season so far. We are seeing similar trends in our
online B2C division, with strong growth in our
LateRooms business, and we have successfully
transitioned our AsiaRooms brand from a merchant
to a commissionable model, driving higher conversion
rates and improved margins.
Summer 2010
We remain pleased with trading in the UK for the
Summer 2010 programme, with bookings down 3%.
We are currently planning for flat capacity for the
season. The load factor is flat versus the prior year
at 20% and the average selling price of packages is
now up 7%, although this partly reflects the shift 
in destination mix away from short haul and the
product mix shift towards differentiated product.
Initial trading in the Nordics market for Summer
2010 has also been encouraging, with load factors
flat at 15% and average selling prices up 3%.
Fuel/foreign exchange
We have hedged a significant proportion of our fuel
and foreign exchange exposure for 2010 in line with
our hedging policy.
Winter Summer
2009/2010 2010
Euro 75% 74%
USD 93% 83%
Jet Fuel 86% 78%
As at 20 November 2009
Higher fuel prices resulted in $125m of extra costs
in Summer 2009 versus Summer 2008. Based on
achieved hedged rates and current forward rates,
the effective fuel rate for Summer 2010 is currently
20% lower in local currency terms. For most of our
Continental European businesses this, coupled with
lower accommodation cost rates, allows them to
reduce prices significantly whilst maintaining
margins. In the UK source market, however, the
strength of the Euro (+10% year-on-year) offsets
the fuel rate savings.
Integration
The merger integration continues to progress well
and we are on track to deliver our £200m synergy
target. We have delivered £120m of benefit to date
and expect to deliver a further £60m in 2010.
Synergy phasing
£m FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11
P&L benefit 35 120 180 200
Incremental P&L benefit +35 +85 +60 +20
Outlook
In the current economic climate, we have taken a
cautious approach to capacity planning to ensure
that supply is in line with demand and we are
pleased with our current booking position.
For Winter 2009/2010, we have seen stronger
bookings over the course of recent weeks, which
reflects a similar pattern to our experience in
Winter 2008/2009, and this gives us confidence 
that we will achieve required load factors.
Consumer demand for the main summer holiday
remains strong, as evidenced by our performance 
in the Summer 2009 season. We are currently
planning for capacity to be approximately flat in
most source markets for the Summer 2010 season,
although we retain flexibility to adjust supply as
demand develops. In addition, our businesses are
benefiting from significantly lower cost pressures
than Summer 2009 which means that, unlike last
year, we do not have to pass on substantial price
increases to our customers. In many of our non-UK
source markets lower input costs, driven by lower
fuel rates, mean that we can reduce prices without
harming margins. We expect this to further
stimulate demand.
All of the above leaves us well placed to meet the
Board’s expectations for the year ending 
30 September 2010.
TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 43
www.tuitravelplc.com Governance
Board of Directors
44 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009
www.tuitravelplc.com
123
456
789
10 11 12
13 14 15
16 17 Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
1. Dr Michael Frenzel
Non-Executive Chairman (Age 62)
Dr Michael Frenzel joined the Board of TUI Travel PLC
on 28 June 2007 as Non-Executive Chairman. Michael
studied law at Ruhr University in Bochum and completed
his doctorate whilst working at the university as a
scientific assistant. He joined Westdeutsche Landesbank
(WestLB), Düsseldorf, in 1981 where he was promoted
to various managerial positions and became manager
of the Industrial Holdings Department in 1983 and
overall manager of WestLB’s Equity Holdings Division 
in 1985 – including holdings in banking, leasing and real
estate. Michael has held the position of Chief Executive
and Chairman of the Executive Board of TUI AG
(formerly Preussag AG) since January 1994, overseeing
its extensive acquisition programme in the late 1990s,
which resulted in the acquisitions of TUI AG’s stake in
Hapag-Lloyd and of leading tourism businesses such 
as Thomson Travel and Nouvelles Frontières. Michael 
is also currently a member of the supervisory board 
of a number of companies including Norddeutsche
Landesbank, AXA Konzern AG and Volkswagen AG. 
2. Sir Michael Hodgkinson
Non-Executive Deputy Chairman and Senior
Independent Director (Age 65)
Sir Michael Hodgkinson joined the Board of First
Choice Holidays PLC as a Non-Executive Director in
January 2004 and became Chairman in March 2004. 
He joined the Board of TUI Travel PLC on 28 June 2007
as Non-Executive Deputy Chairman and is the Senior
Independent Director. Following an early career in the
automotive industry, he was appointed Chief Executive
of Grand Metropolitan’s European Food Division in
1986 and in 1992 he joined BAA plc, becoming Chief
Executive in 1999, a post from which he retired in June
2003. Sir Michael was Senior Non-Executive Director at
Royal Mail and Chairman of Post Office Limited until
September 2007 and is currently a non-executive
director of Transport for London Limited, Dublin Airport
and Crossrail Limited. He was also a director of Bank 
of Ireland plc from May 2004 until July 2006. 
3. Peter Long
Chief Executive (Age 57)
Peter Long joined the Board of TUI Travel PLC on 
28 June 2007 as Chief Executive. In November 1996 he
was appointed Group Managing Director of First Choice
Holidays PLC and became Chief Executive in September
1999. Prior to joining First Choice, he was Chief Executive
of Sunworld Holidays, having previously been Finance
Director then Chief Executive of the tour operating
division of the International Leisure Group. From
February 2001 to June 2005 Peter was a non-executive
director of RAC plc, and from April 2006 to July 2009
he was a non-executive director of Debenhams plc.
Peter was appointed as a non-executive director of
Rentokil Initial Plc in 2005 and is currently the Senior
Independent Non-Executive Director. 
4. Paul Bowtell
Chief Financial Officer (Age 41)
Paul Bowtell joined the Board of TUI Travel PLC on 
28 June 2007 as Chief Financial Officer. He was appointed
to the Board of First Choice Holidays PLC in September
2004 as Group Finance Director and was previously the
Finance Director of British Gas, a subsidiary of Centrica
plc, where he had been since January 2002. Prior to
that, he was with W H Smith plc where he held a
number of corporate centre roles before becoming the
Finance Director of the UK Retail business. He is an
Associate of the Institute of Chartered Accountants 
in England and Wales. In November 2007 Paul was
appointed as a non-executive director of SThree PLC.
5. William Waggott
Commercial Director (Age 46)
William Waggott joined the Board of TUI Travel PLC 
on 28 June 2007 as Commercial Director. He spent the
early part of his career with Coopers & Lybrand and
Courthaulds T extiles plc, where he performed various
senior group finance and divisional finance director
roles. William joined Airtours plc in 1992 as UK Leisure
Group Finance Director, prior to joining Thomson Travel
Group in 2001. He then went on to become Chief
Financial Officer of TUI T ourism. 
6. Dr Volker Böttcher
Managing Director, Central Europe (Age 50)
Volker Böttcher joined the Board of TUI Travel PLC on
19 June 2007 and is responsible for Central Europe 
in the Mainstream Sector. After an early career in law,
Volker joined T ouristik Union International in 1987 as 
a legal advisor. Having occupied various management
positions, he became head of TUI’s Special Programmes
Division in 1996 which included responsibility for 
long haul destinations, city tours and the Eastern
Mediterranean. In 2003 Volker was appointed Chairman
for Central Europe for TUI AG, being responsible for all
tourism activities in the source markets of Germany,
Austria, Switzerland and Poland. He was appointed to
the board of TUI Deutschland GmbH in April 2000.
Following the restructuring of TUI’s business model in
Germany, he was appointed CEO of TUI Deutschland
GmbH in July 2001. 
7. Johan Lundgren
Managing Director, Northern Region (Age 43)
Johan Lundgren was appointed to the Board of TUI
Travel PLC on 21 December 2007. He is responsible 
for the Northern Region which includes all Mainstream
tourism sales in the UK and Ireland, Canada, Sweden,
Norway, Denmark and Finland. Johan has worked in 
the Nordic tourism industry for almost 20 years, 14 of
which have been as a Managing Director. Between 1999
and 2001, he was President of Sunquest Vacations in
Canada. Johan went on to become Chief Executive of
TUI Nordic and also took responsibility for tourism
sales in the source markets of Italy and Russia. 
8. Rainer Feuerhake
Non-Executive Director (Age 65)
Rainer Feuerhake joined the Preussag Group (now TUI
AG) in 1968 and by 1980 was responsible for group
accounting. Rainer was appointed as Chief Financial
Officer of Preussag AG in November 1988 and
subsequently TUI AG following a resolution to rename
Preussag AG on 1 July 2002. In this position Rainer 
was responsible for the departments of Accounting &
Reporting, Finance, Investor Relations, T ax Affairs,
Mergers & Acquisitions, Destination Management and
the Shared Service Centre. He joined the Board of TUI
Travel PLC on 28 June 2007.
9. Tony Campbell
Non-Executive Director (Age 60)
T ony Campbell became a Non-Executive Director of
First Choice Holidays PLC in April 1997 and joined the
Board of TUI Travel PLC on 28 June 2007 as a Non-
Executive Director. T ony was Deputy Chief Executive of
Asda Stores Limited until March 2001. He is currently
the Chairman of Hobbs Holding No 1 Limited, 
T M Lewin Group Limited, The White Company (UK)
Limited and Ultralase Group Limited.
10. Clare Chapman
Non-Executive Director (Age 49)
Clare Chapman became a Non-Executive Director of
First Choice Holidays PLC in March 2003 and joined the
Board of TUI Travel PLC on 28 June 2007. Clare is the
Director General of Workforce for NHS and Social Care,
Department of Health. Prior to this, she was Group
Personnel Director at T esco. In addition, Clare serves on
the Audit Committee of Jobcentre Plus; is an advisory
Board Member for the Judge Institute, Business School
for the University of Cambridge; and a Fellow of the
Institute of Personnel.
11. Bill Dalton
Non-Executive Director (Age 65)
Bill Dalton became a Non-Executive Director of First
Choice Holidays PLC in October 2004 and joined the
Board of TUI Travel PLC on 19 March 2007. He was
previously an executive director of HSBC Holdings plc,
Chief Executive of HSBC Bank plc and Global Head 
of Personal Financial Services for the HSBC Group.
During his banking career, he has amassed a great deal
of international expertise and is also a non-executive
director of a number of UK and North American
companies including Associated Electric & Gas
Insurance Services (AEGIS), AEGIS Managing Agency
Limited (UK), HSBC North America Holding Inc,
T alisman Energy Inc and US Cold Storage Inc. 
12. Jeremy Hicks
Non-Executive Director (Age 56)
Jeremy Hicks became a Non-Executive Director of 
First Choice Holidays PLC in March 2005 and joined 
the Board of TUI Travel PLC on 28 June 2007. He is 
a Chartered Accountant with a number of business
interests particularly in the field of marketing services.
He has extensive experience in the world of finance 
as an Investment Banker and most recently as Chief
Financial Officer of Aegis Group plc, a leading UK-based
multi-national marketing services group, from which 
he resigned in April 2007.
13. Giles Thorley
Non-Executive Director (Age 42)
Giles Thorley became a Non-Executive Director of First
Choice Holidays PLC in February 2006 and joined the
Board of TUI T ravel PLC on 19 March 2007. He is currently
the Chief Executive Officer of Punch T averns plc. After
qualifying as a Barrister, he had an early career at
Nomura International plc and has been in his current
post of Chief Executive of Punch T averns plc since 2001.
At Punch, he successfully led the IPO and Punch’s
subsequent acquisition of Pubmaster and Spirit Group to
its current position as the largest pub company in the UK. 
14. Harold Sher
Non-Executive Director (Age 62)
Harold Sher joined the Board of TUI Travel PLC as a
Non-Executive Director on 29 October 2007. He studied
commerce at university and started his career as a
Chartered Accountant. Harold moved to industry early
in his career holding a range of executive positions before
being appointed Chief Executive of Amalgamated Metal
Corporation PLC in 1992, a position he still holds. He
has served as president of a major North American
Steel Services Group and, together with his role at
Amalgamated Metal Corporation, this has provided 
him with broad international commercial experience.
15. Dr Albert Schunk
Non-Executive Director (Aged 68)
Dr Albert Schunk joined the Board of TUI Travel PLC as 
a Non-Executive Director on 29 October 2007. Albert
studied economics at university and carried out a
research project for the German Government in Latin
America. After joining IG-Metall, he has served on the
supervisory board of Volkswagen and other German
Companies since 1976. In 1994 he became a member
of the European Economic and Social Council in Brussels
and has recently been advising the Riu Group in Spain.
16. Dr Erhard Schipporeit
Non-Executive Director (Age 60)
Dr Erhard Schipporeit joined the Board of TUI Travel
PLC as a Non-Executive Director on 29 October 2007.
He started his career in 1979 in the Bosch Group and
in 1981 he joined VARTA AG/VARTA Battery AG, at 
that time a leading European battery company, where
he became CFO in 1990 and Chief Executive and
Chairman of the Executive Board in 1993. After the
successful restructuring of VARTA the next move in his
career brought him to the Munich-based conglomerate
company VIAG AG as CFO. VIAG merged in 2000 with
VEBA AG to form the new E.ON AG, one of the world’s
leading utility companies. Erhard was CFO and
Executive Board Member of E.ON from 2000 until his
resignation in November 2006. In 2007 he was
appointed Senior Advisor for BNP Paribas SA and is
also currently a non-executive director of a number 
of companies including SAP AG, Deutsche Boerse AG,
T alanx AG and Hanover Rueckversicherung AG.
17. Horst Baier 
Non-Executive Director (Age 53)
Horst Baier joined the Board of TUI Travel PLC as 
a Non-Executive Director on 13 October 2009. He
commenced his professional career in the Treasury
Department of Continental AG, the German tyre
manufacturer. Between 1994 and 1996 Horst was
responsible for Group Financing for the Fürth-based
Schickedanz Group. In 1996, he took over responsibility
for the Treasury, Accounting and T ax Department at 
TUI AG. Since 2001, Horst has been responsible for
Accounting & Reporting for TUI AG and, in November
2007, was appointed to the Executive Board of TUI AG
with responsibility for the Controlling function.
TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 45
www.tuitravelplc.com The Directors submit their report to the members of TUI Travel PLC
(the Company) for the year ended 30 September 2009.
Principal activity
The principal activity of the TUI Travel PLC group of companies (the
Group) is that of an international leisure travel business. It provides 
a broad and diverse range of leisure travel experiences to more than
30 million customers in 27 different source markets. For further
information see TUI Travel overview on page 2.
Annual General Meeting
The Annual General Meeting (AGM) will be held on Tuesday 
9 February 2010 at 10.30am at the offices of Deutsche Bank,
Winchester House, 1 Great Winchester Street, London EC2N 2DB. 
An explanation of the business to be transacted at the AGM has 
been circulated to shareholders and can be found on the website
www.tuitravelplc.com
Business performance
The Business performance for the year ended 30 September 2009,
prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006, is set out on
pages 30 to 43 and forms part of the Directors’ report.
Results and dividends
The Group loss before taxation for the year ended 30 September 2009
was £52m (2008: £267m). The Directors recommend a final dividend
of 7.7p per ordinary share (2008: 6.9p), payable on 1 April 2010 to
holders on the register at the close of business on 12 March 2010.
When taken with the interim dividend of 3.0p per ordinary share paid
on 1 October 2009 (2008: 2.8p), this gives a total dividend of 10.7p
(2008: 9.7p) relating to the year ended 30 September 2009.
Corporate Governance report
The Corporate Governance report for the year ended 30 September
2009, prepared in accordance with rule 7.2 of the FSA’s Disclosure and
Transparency Rules, is set out on pages 49 to 52 and forms part of the
Directors’ report.
Policy and practice on payment of suppliers
The operating units within the Group are responsible for agreeing the
terms and conditions under which business transactions with their
suppliers are conducted. Due to the nature of the Group’s operations,
and in common with the industry as a whole, payments are often
made in advance of the provision of goods and services. The Group
does not follow any code or statement on payment practice but it is
Group policy that payments to suppliers, whether in advance or after
the provision of the goods or services, are made on the basis of the
terms that have been agreed with them.
The Company had no trade creditors at 30 September 2009 (2008: £nil)
and consequently creditor days have not been presented. Where the
Company is the recipient of goods or services, payment of suppliers is
conducted by one of the Group companies in accordance with the
policy set out above.
Directors’ and Officers’ insurance
The Company has purchased, and maintained throughout the year,
Directors’ and Officers’ Liability insurance and the level of cover is
regularly reviewed.
Significant agreements – change of control
The Companies Act 2006 requires us to disclose any significant
agreements that take effect, alter or terminate on a change of control
of the Company.
Relationship Agreement with TUI AG
The Relationship Agreement between TUI AG and TUI Travel, dated 
29 June 2007, includes the principle that TUI Travel will operate
independently of TUI AG and records the understanding between TUI
AG and TUI Travel regarding the relationship between them and the
governance of TUI Travel. The Relationship Agreement will remain in
force until either the shares in TUI Travel are no longer admitted to
trading on the London Stock Exchange, or TUI AG has less than 10%
of the rights to vote at general meetings. In addition, in the event that
another party acquires control of TUI AG during the term of the
Relationship Agreement, TUI AG will lose certain rights under the
Relationship Agreement including its rights in respect of the
composition of the Board.
The Relationship Agreement contains restrictions on the acquisition 
by TUI AG of additional shares in TUI Travel which result in the
increase of its shareholding to more than 55% of the voting rights
(save where TUI AG makes a general offer to acquire all TUI Travel
shares in issue). TUI AG has anti-dilution rights in respect of further
issues of shares in TUI Travel other than on a pre-emptive basis. 
TUI Travel has also agreed that certain matters will require the prior
approval of 80% of the Directors present at the meeting of the Board
at which such matter is considered, including material changes to the
business of any Group company, acquisitions and disposals of a value
which exceeds £10m, the entry into, variation or redemption prior to
their due date of any borrowing facilities and the approval of the
annual budget.
£770m bank revolving credit facility agreement
An agreement dated 29 June 2007 between a number of relationship
banks and the Company relating to a £770m bank revolving credit
facility currently provided to the Company, contains terms which 
give the lending banks the right to cancel all commitments to the
Company and to declare all outstanding credits and accrued interest
immediately due and payable if a change of control occurs. For the
purpose of this agreement a change of control occurs if:
i any person or group of persons acting in concert gains control of
the Company; or
ii TUI AG and any persons acting in concert with it acquires or acquire
75% or more of the voting shares in the Company.
£140m bank revolving credit facility agreement
An agreement dated 29 September 2009 between a number of
relationship banks and the Company relating to a £140m bank
revolving credit facility currently provided to the Company, contains
terms which give the lending banks the right to cancel all commitments
to the Company and to declare all outstanding credits and accrued
interest immediately due and payable if a change of control occurs. 
For the purpose of this agreement a change of control occurs if:
i any person or group of persons acting in concert gains control of
the Company; or
ii TUI AG and any persons acting in concert with it acquires or acquire
75% or more of the voting shares in the Company.
Governance
Directors’ report
46 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009
www.tuitravelplc.com Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
£40m bonding and letter of credit facility agreement
An agreement dated 29 September 2009 between a relationship bank
and the Company relating to a £40m bonding and letter of credit
facility currently provided to the Company, contains terms which give
the lending bank the right to cancel all commitments to the Company
and to declare all outstanding bonds or letters of credit together with
accrued issuance fees immediately due and payable if a change of
control occurs. For the purpose of this agreement a change of control
occurs if:
i any person or group of persons acting in concert gains control of
the Company; or
ii TUI AG and any persons acting in concert with it acquires or acquire
75% or more of the voting shares in the Company.
£350m 6.0% Convertible Bonds
Subsequent to the year end on 30 September 2009, the Company
issued £350m of 6.0% Convertible Bonds. The settlement took place
on 5 October 2009. The Convertible Bonds contain terms which give
the bondholders the right to redeem the bonds at their principal
amount, together with accrued and unpaid interest up to the date of
redemption, if a change of control occurs. As more fully described in
the terms and conditions, for the purpose of the Convertible Bonds 
a change of control occurs if:
i following a takeover offer to acquire all or a majority of the shares 
in the Company, the offeror and/or its associates have or will have
more than 50% of the voting rights in the Company; or
ii the Free Float of the Company is less than 30% of the issued
ordinary shares for at least five consecutive dealing days (where the
Free Float is (a) all outstanding ordinary shares of the Company less
those held by or on behalf of TUI AG, its associates and any persons
acting in concert with it and (b) the ordinary shares underlying the
outstanding Secured Exchangeable Bonds due 2013 issued by Nero
Finance Limited on 16 January 2008).
No other agreements which take effect, alter or terminate upon 
a change of control of the Company following a takeover bid are
considered to be significant in terms of their potential impact on the
business of the Group as a whole.
Going concern
After making appropriate enquiries, the Directors have reasonable
expectation that the Company and Group have adequate resources 
to continue operations for the foreseeable future. For this reason, 
they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the
financial statements.
A further summary of funding and liquidity is included in Note 1 to the
consolidated financial statements.
Contractual arrangements
The Group has contractual arrangements with numerous third parties
in support of its business activities (see Suppliers on page 29). The
disclosure in this report of information about any of those third
parties is not considered necessary for an understanding of the
development, performance or position of the Group’s businesses.
Auditors
The auditors, KPMG Audit Plc, are willing to continue in office. In
accordance with Section 489 of the Companies Act 2006, a resolution
for the re-appointment of KPMG Audit Plc as auditors of the Company
is to be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
Statement of the Directors as to disclosure of
information to auditors
The Directors confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is 
no relevant audit information of which the Company’s auditors are
unaware; and each Director has taken all the steps that he or she
ought to have taken as a Director to make himself or herself aware 
of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Company’s
auditors are aware of that information.
Other information
Other information relevant to the Directors’ report can be found in the
following sections of the Annual Report:
Information Location in Annual Report
Our colleagues Responsible leadership 22
Social responsibility Responsible leadership 22
Sustainable development Responsible leadership 26
Charitable and political donations Responsible leadership 29
Suppliers Responsible leadership 29
Future developments Business performance 43
Board and Committee Membership Corporate Governance report 
49, 50
Financial risk management Corporate Governance report 51
and Strategic overview 20
Post balance sheet events after
30 September 2009 Financial statements – Note 34
Share capital – authorised and issued Financial statements – Note 23
Substantial shareholdings Shareholder profiles 128
The Directors’ report was approved by a duly authorised Committee
of the Board of Directors on 30 November 2009 and signed on its
behalf by Andrew John, the Company Secretary.
By order of the Board
Andrew John
Company Secretary
30 November 2009
Company Number: 6072876
TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 47
www.tuitravelplc.com The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the
TUI Travel PLC group of companies (the Group) and parent company
financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and parent
company financial statements for each financial year. Under that law
they are required to prepare the Group financial statements in
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) 
as adopted by the EU and applicable law and have elected to prepare
the parent company financial statements in accordance with UK
Accounting Standards and applicable law (UK Generally Accepted
Accounting Practice).
Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial
statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view
of the state of affairs of the Group and parent company and of their
profit or loss for that period. In preparing each of the Group and
parent company financial statements, the Directors are required to:
• Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them
consistently;
• Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
• For the Group financial statements, state whether they have been
prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU;
• For the parent company financial statements, state whether
applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject 
to any material departures disclosed and explained in the parent
company financial statements; and
• Prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless
it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the parent
company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting 
records that are sufficient to show and explain the parent company’s
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the
financial position of the parent company and enable them to ensure
that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably
open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent
and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible
for preparing a Directors’ report, Directors’ Remuneration report 
and Corporate Governance report that complies with that law and
those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of 
the corporate and financial information included on the Company’s
website. Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and
dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation 
in other jurisdictions.
Directors’ responsibility statement
Each of the Directors, the names of whom are set out on page 49 of
this Annual Report, confirms that to the best of his or her knowledge:
• The financial statements, prepared in accordance with the
applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of
the assets, liabilities, financial position and the profit or loss of the
Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken
as a whole; and
• The Directors’ report includes a review of the development and
performance of the business and the position of the issuer and 
the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole,
together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties
that they face.
The Statement of Directors’ responsibilities was approved by a duly
authorised Committee of the Board of Directors on 30 November
2009 and signed on its behalf by Paul Bowtell, Chief Financial Officer.
Paul Bowtell
Chief Financial Officer
30 November 2009
Governance
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities
in respect of the Annual Report and the financial statements
48 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009
www.tuitravelplc.com Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
The Board
The Company is controlled through its Board of Directors – 
the Directors at the date of this report are:
Director’s name Title
Horst Baier Non-Executive Director
Dr Volker Böttcher Managing Director, Central Europe
Paul Bowtell Chief Financial Officer
T ony Campbell Non-Executive Director
Clare Chapman Non-Executive Director
Bill Dalton Non-Executive Director
Rainer Feuerhake Non-Executive Director
Dr Michael Frenzel Non-Executive Chairman
Jeremy Hicks Non-Executive Director
Sir Michael Hodgkinson Non-Executive Deputy Chairman 
and Senior Independent Director
Peter Long Chief Executive
Johan Lundgren Managing Director, Northern Region
Dr Erhard Schipporeit Non-Executive Director
Dr Albert Schunk Non-Executive Director
Harold Sher Non-Executive Director
Giles Thorley Non-Executive Director
William Waggott Commercial Director
All Directors detailed above served throughout the year with the
exception of Horst Baier who was appointed on 13 October 2009.
Christoph Mueller resigned as a director on 27 May 2009.
As at 30 September 2009, the Board comprised five Executive
Directors and 11 Non-Executive Directors (including the Chairman).
On 13 October 2009 Horst Baier was appointed as a Non-Executive
Director. Biographical details of all the Directors are set out on page 45.
All Directors are subject to re-election by shareholders at intervals of
no more than three years in accordance with the Articles of Association
and, therefore, each year one-third of the Board members will retire
by rotation. The Directors retiring by rotation and offering themselves
for re-election at the Annual General Meeting (AGM) on 9 February
2010 are Dr Michael Frenzel, T ony Campbell, Clare Chapman, Rainer
Feuerhake and Johan Lundgren who, all being eligible, will offer
themselves for re-election. Horst Baier, having been appointed 
since the last AGM, will also offer himself for re-election. T o enable
shareholders to make an informed decision, the 2010 Notice of the
AGM includes additional biographical details and a statement as to
why the Company believes the Non-Executive Directors should be 
re-elected. The Chairman intends to confirm at the AGM that the
performance of each individual continues to be effective and
demonstrates commitment to the role.
The Board recommends to shareholders the re-appointment of all six
Directors retiring at the meeting on the basis that they are all effective
Directors of the Company and demonstrate the appropriate level of
commitment in their respective roles.
The terms of the Directors’ service contracts are disclosed in the
Remuneration report commencing on page 53. Directors’ interests 
in the shares of the Company are disclosed on page 62.
Directors’ service contracts and the letters of appointment of the
Non-Executive Directors are available for inspection at the Company’s
registered office and will be available at the AGM which is scheduled 
to take place on 9 February 2010.
Following the appointment of any new Director, the Chairman, in
conjunction with the Company Secretary, ensures that a full, formal
and tailored induction to the Company is provided. The Company
Secretary is available to answer any questions which may arise. All
Directors have been given a detailed Induction and Training Manual.
Board procedures/responsibilities
The Board meets regularly, including away days, to review the strategy
of the Group. The schedule of matters specifically reserved to it for
decision include: determining the strategy and control of the Group;
amendments to the structure and capital of the Group; approval of
financial reporting and controls; oversight of the Group’s internal
controls; approval of capital and revenue expenditure of a significant
size; acquisitions, disposals and share dealings; Board membership
and appointments; approval of remuneration of Directors and certain
senior management; corporate governance matters; and approval of
Group policies and risk management strategies.
The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and Chief
Executive is clearly established and has been agreed by the Board.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company
Secretary and all Directors can take independent professional advice, 
if necessary, at the Company’s expense. No such advice was sought by
any Director during the year.
The Company Secretary is responsible for ensuring Board procedures
are followed including the formal minuting of any unresolved concerns
that Directors may have in connection with the operation of the
Company. During the year, there were no such unresolved issues.
The T erms of Reference for the Board and its Committees are available
for inspection on the Group’s website and will be available at the AGM.
Directors’ conflicts of interests
From 1 October 2008, the Directors became subject to a statutory
duty under the Companies Act 2006 to avoid a situation where they
have, or could have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or
possibly may conflict, with the interests of the Company. Directors 
of public companies may authorise conflicts and potential conflicts
where appropriate, if the articles of association contain a provision 
to this effect.
The Company amended its articles of association in March 2008 to
deal with, amongst other things, the provisions on conflicts of interest
in the Companies Act 2006. The Company has established formal
procedures for the disclosure and review of any conflicts, or potential
conflicts, of interest which the Directors may have and for the
authorisation of such conflict matters by the Board. In deciding whether
to authorise a conflict or potential conflict the Directors must have
regard to their general duties under the Companies Act 2006. The
authorisation of any conflict matter, and the terms of authorisation,
may be reviewed at any time and will be reviewed formally by the
Board on an annual basis. The Board believes that the procedures
established to deal with conflicts of interest are operating effectively.
Board effectiveness and individual performance of Directors
An assessment of the performance of the Board and its individual
Directors was commenced during the year. The Board’s effectiveness
was assessed by means of a detailed questionnaire which was
designed by the Company Secretary and completed by each Director.
The questionnaire covers 16 areas including the processes for setting
the strategy of the Company, monitoring business performance,
corporate governance and the effectiveness of the Executive Directors,
Non-Executive Directors (including the Chairman) and the Board’s
Committees. The results were fed back to the Chairman and a full
debate is scheduled to take place in the Board before the end of 2009.
Corporate Governance report
TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 49
www.tuitravelplc.com An assessment of each individual Director’s performance is undertaken
annually. The performance of each Director is measured against 
12 criteria with peers being requested, confidentially, to rate that
Director’s performance by reference to the criteria. The Chairman then
discusses the overall result for each Director with him or her and any
concerns are addressed.
Independence of Non-Executive Directors
The Chairman, Dr Michael Frenzel, did not meet the independence
criteria laid out in the provisions of the Combined Code at the time of
his appointment. This is because Dr Frenzel is the Chief Executive of
TUI AG – a 52% shareholder of the Company as at 30 September 2009.
Details of the Chairman’s other significant commitments are given in
his biography on page 45. The Chairman does have a number of other
external roles but the Board is satisfied that these do not interfere
with the performance of his duties as Chairman of the Company.
Of the other 11 Non-Executive Directors, two are not considered to 
be independent – Rainer Feuerhake and Horst Baier who are also
Executive Directors of TUI AG.
The Non-Executive Directors considered to be independent are
Sir Michael Hodgkinson, T ony Campbell, Clare Chapman, Bill Dalton,
Jeremy Hicks, Dr Erhard Schipporeit, Dr Albert Schunk, Harold Sher
and Giles Thorley.
The Board recognises that the Combined Code requires that at least
half the Board, excluding the Chairman, should be independent Non-
Executive Directors. The Board had 17 members up to 27 May 2009
(when Christoph Mueller resigned), of whom nine were deemed to be
independent. From 28 May 2009 to 30 September 2009, the Board
had 16 members of whom nine were also deemed to be independent.
Therefore the Company was compliant with provision A3.2 of the
Combined Code throughout the year ended 30 September 2009.
Following the appointment of Horst Baier, the Board reverted to
17 members of which nine were deemed independent.
The Board is committed to seek to ensure that its membership is
regularly refreshed.
Meetings of the Non-Executive Directors
The Chairman met with the Non-Executive Directors twice during the
year – in February and May. A meeting has been scheduled for 2010
and others will be held as the need arises. In the February meeting
there was general agreement that, since the September 2007 merger,
the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer had co-operated well in
establishing a successful corporate culture which gave confidence in
the Company’s ability to trade well through a period of unprecedented
economic turbulence. The May meeting focused on the refinancing
requirements of the business.
A meeting of the Non-Executive Directors, led by the Senior
Independent Director, took place during the year to appraise the
Chairman’s performance. After debate, it was concluded that Board
meetings are chaired effectively in an open and constructive manner
which encourages contribution from all Non-Executive Directors.
Attendance of Directors at meetings of the Board and its Committees
Scheduled Audit Remuneration
Board Committee Committee
Meetings Meetings Meetings
Dr Volker Böttcher (MD Central Europe) 7(7) N/A N/A
Paul Bowtell (Chief Financial Officer) 7(7) N/A N/A
T ony Campbell (Non-Executive Director) 6(7) 7(8) 7(7)
Clare Chapman (Non-Executive Director) 5(7) N/A 6(7)
Bill Dalton (Non-Executive Director) 6(7) 6(8) 6(7)
Rainer Feuerhake (Non-Executive Director) 7(7) N/A 6(7)
Dr Michael Frenzel (Chairman) 6(7) N/A 5(7)
Jeremy Hicks (Non-Executive Director) 7(7) 8(8) N/A
Sir Michael Hodgkinson (Deputy Chairman) 7(7) N/A N/A
Peter Long (Chief Executive) 7(7) N/A N/A
Johan Lundgren (MD Northern Region) 6(7) N/A N/A
Christoph Mueller (Aviation Director) 5(5) N/A N/A
Dr Albert Schunk (Non-Executive Director) 7(7) N/A N/A
Harold Sher (Non-Executive Director) 7(7) N/A N/A
Erhard Schipporeit (Non-Executive Director) 5(7) N/A N/A
Giles Thorley (Non-Executive Director) 6(7) 7(8) N/A
Will Waggott (Commercial Director) 7(7) N/A N/A
Figures in brackets indicate the maximum number of meetings during the year in which the
individual was a Board member. The Nomination Committee did not meet during the year.
Governance
Corporate Governance report continued
50 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009
www.tuitravelplc.com
TUI Travel PLC
Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee Audit Committee
Delegated authorities
Sets remuneration and incentives for the executive 
directors; approves and monitors remuneration and 
incentive plans for the Group.
Members
C M Chapman Chairman
L A Campbell
W R P Dalton
Dr M H F Frenzel
R Feuerhake
Delegated authorities
Ensures that the Board and Committee 
composition has the optimum balance of skills, 
knowledge and experience by nominating suitable 
candidates for approval by the Board to fill 
executive and non-executive vacancies.
Members
Sir Michael Hodgkinson Chairman
C M Chapman
J D Hicks 
Dr M H F Frenzel
R Feuerhake
Delegated authorities
Monitors the Group’s integrity in financial reporting 
and reviews the effectiveness of the risk 
management framework.
Members
J D Hicks Chairman
L A Campbell 
W R P Dalton
G A Thorley
Board governance structure Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
Remuneration Committee
See the Remuneration report on page 53 for full details of the
Remuneration Committee, its composition and work during the year.
Remuneration Committee effectiveness review
During July and August 2008, the Remuneration Committee members
participated in an independent survey of Committee members’
performance, which was conducted by Deloitte. An analysis of the
results was produced at the end of August 2008 and considered at 
a meeting in October 2008. There was unanimous support for the
overall effectiveness of the Committee. The analysis indicated that
there were certain areas where effectiveness could be further
enhanced and the Committee resolved to actively address these
points. The Committee considered reports and undertook discussions
on the relevant points in March 2009 and concluded they had been
fully addressed. A new full performance evaluation process is
scheduled to commence in January 2010.
Nomination Committee
The Committee comprises five Non-Executive Directors and is chaired
by Sir Michael Hodgkinson (the Senior Independent Director).
In relation to the appointment of Horst Baier, who was appointed on
13 October 2009, a description of the role and required capabilities
was prepared prior to the appointment. A meeting of the Committee
– chaired by Sir Michael Hodgkinson (Non-Executive Deputy
Chairman) – considered Horst’s suitability for the role, his other
significant commitments and the existing skills and knowledge of the
Board as a whole. As a significant percentage of the Group’s turnover
is generated in Germany, it was believed that additional expertise and
experience in the differences between German and UK accounting
practices was required. It was felt that Horst’s experience in the leisure
travel industry as an executive director of TUI AG, and his previous
experience over a long career involving work of a financial nature,
would assist the Board and enable him to make an excellent
contribution to its deliberations. For this reason, it was not deemed
appropriate for an external search consultancy or open advertising to
be used for this appointment as the Board was of the view that no
other candidate would be able to match the specific knowledge and
expertise Horst brings to this role.
At the meeting held in October, the current membership and
effectiveness of the Committee was also discussed and it was agreed
that the composition of the Committee remained appropriate and
effective.
Audit Committee
All members of the Committee are considered to be independent. 
In accordance with the Combined Code, the Board is satisfied that
Jeremy Hicks has ‘recent and relevant financial experience’.
The Chief Financial Officer and the Director of Group Audit Services
are normally invited to meetings and other Directors, including the
Chief Executive and the Non-Executive Directors, may also attend. 
The Chairman of the Committee also meets with the external auditors
without management present.
The Committee’s duties, which were discharged during the year, include:
• Monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of the Company
and formal announcements relating to the Company’s financial
performance, and reviewing the significant financial reporting
judgements contained in them.
• Reviewing the Company’s internal financial controls and the
Company’s internal control and risk management systems.
• Monitoring the effectiveness of the Company’s Group Audit Services
function through meetings with the Director of Group Audit Services,
the agreement in advance of annual work plans and the review of
the results of the work undertaken.
• The consideration of the appointment, re-appointment and removal
of the external auditors and the approval of their remuneration and
terms of their engagement.
• A policy for the engagement of the external auditors to supply 
non-audit services was approved in 2007 and remains in force. The
Audit Committee has concluded that, in some cases, the provision
of non-audit services by the incumbent auditors, which does not
impact on their independence in providing their primary statutory
audit role, is appropriate and this has been communicated to the
Board. Auditor independence and objectivity are safeguarded by 
the Audit Committee monitoring and approving, where appropriate,
the nature of the work and the level of fees paid for non-audit
services as a proportion of the total audit fees paid.
Audit Committee effectiveness review
An assessment of the effectiveness was conducted during the year 
by a questionnaire sent by the Company Secretary to members of 
the Audit Committee and relevant executives. Results from the
questionnaires have been collated and the Committee is scheduled 
to review and debate the findings before the end of 2009.
Internal control and risk
The Board has overall responsibility for the Group’s system of internal
control and for reviewing its effectiveness, while the role of management
is to implement Board policies on risk and control.
The system of internal control is designed to manage and mitigate
rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
In pursuing these objectives, internal controls – which include financial,
operational and compliance controls – and risk management can only
provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material
misstatement or loss. The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of
internal controls during the year.
The Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for identifying,
evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group; that
this has been in place for the year under review and up to the date 
of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts; that this process is
regularly reviewed by the Board; and that the process accords with 
the Turnbull Guidance. The key elements of the control framework 
and review processes in place across the Group are as follows:
• The Board sets corporate strategy and business objectives. 
The GMB and Sector management integrate these objectives into
their operational and financial business plans. Where areas for
improvement in the system of internal control are identified, the
Board considers the recommendations made by the GMB and the
Audit Committee.
• The GMB meets regularly together with other senior executives 
to consider Group operational and financial performance and
business development. The Chief Executive reports to the Board 
on behalf of the GMB on significant changes in the business and
the external environment. The Chief Financial Officer provides the
Board with financial information which includes key performance
and risk indicators.
TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 51
www.tuitravelplc.com • Group Risk Management have designed a framework for risk
management for TUI Travel PLC in line with Turnbull guidance,
integrated with the short and long term business planning
processes. They review the progress in line with this framework 
and report on the Group risk profile on a quarterly basis, providing
a consolidated Group risk profile to the Audit Committee on a 
half-yearly basis. Additionally, at each Audit Committee meeting, 
the framework development is reported and individual Sector
management teams are invited to review and discuss their risk
profile on a rotational basis.
• The Audit Committee, with assistance from certain related
management committees, oversees key risks, such as financial 
risk, health and safety, corporate and social responsibility and the
environment, where such risks apply across all Sectors. The Board
believes that, in order to be effective, risk management processes
must be driven down to each operating unit. Accordingly, each
Sector Board now addresses risk management as a standing 
agenda item and is responsible for ensuring that the risks facing
that Sector’s businesses are identified and that related action plans
are implemented. Sectors formally report their risk profile on a
quarterly basis.
• The Group Audit Services function independently reviews the risk
identification procedures and control processes implemented by
management and reports its findings at each Audit Committee
meeting, or more frequently if appropriate.
• The Audit Committee reviews the proposed work plans of the
Group Audit Services function; reports issued by Group Audit
Services; progress made on addressing findings arising from these
reports; as well as reports on systems; and controls from the external
auditors covering material weaknesses. The Chairman of the Audit
Committee reports to the Board on the outcome of the Audit
Committee meetings held and the Board receives the minutes 
of all such meetings.
• The Treasury position of the Group, including cash, foreign exchange
and fuel hedging exposure, is managed centrally in accordance with
policies appropriate for each Sector and is the responsibility of the
Chief Financial Officer and Group Treasurer. Reports and forecasts
are submitted monthly to the GMB and to each Board meeting.
Weekly meetings on liquidity and fuel hedging take place attended
by the Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer, Group Treasurer and
other senior managers as deemed necessary.
• Financial forecasts, providing predicted results with sensitivity
analysis, are prepared routinely throughout the year for review 
by the GMB and the Board. These forecasts also include details 
of the Group’s ongoing compliance with its regulatory and banking
requirements. The Group has established investment appraisal and
authorisation procedures and its capital expenditure is reviewed
against budgets which have been approved by the Board.
Processes are in place to ensure appropriate action is taken where
necessary to remedy any deficiencies identified through the Group’s
internal control and risk management processes.
There are policies and procedures for the reporting by employees and
the resolution of suspected fraudulent activities. It is the policy of the
Group to employ staff and management of high integrity, to train
them appropriately and to require compliance with all relevant laws,
regulations and internal policies. The Group has independent third
party reporting mechanisms that allow employees to raise concerns 
on financial reporting or other matters. Any reports received are
passed direct to Group Audit Services which acknowledges receipt and
periodically reports back on a confidential basis to the independent
third party on any action taken. Within its regular report to the Audit
Committee, Group Audit Services provides a summary of any
confidential reports received and actions taken. A monthly report 
is also produced which includes a summary of all calls received
highlighting any issues raised. For further information see Risk
Management on page 20.
Communication with shareholders
The Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer hold regular meetings
with major shareholders to review the Group’s performance and
prospects. The views of shareholders are communicated to all
members of the Board following such meetings. During the course 
of these meetings the issue of governance is discussed. Presentations
to major shareholders are made at least twice yearly, after the
announcement of the interim and preliminary results, details of which,
together with the Group’s financial reports and other announcements,
can be accessed via the Group’s website www.tuitravelplc.com
The Combined Code recommends that the Senior Independent
Director meets with a range of major shareholders to gain an
understanding of their views. In practice and, as a result of the
extensive investor feedback provided by the Chief Executive and the
Chief Financial Officer, the Senior Independent Director and other
Non-Executive Directors believe that they are aware of such issues
and therefore considered that it was not necessary to arrange
meetings with major shareholders for this purpose during the year.
However, they would make themselves available if any major
shareholder requested such a meeting.
There is also an opportunity for shareholders to question the
Chairman and other Directors (including the Chairmen of the Audit,
Remuneration and Nomination Committees) at the Annual General
Meeting. This forum also provides Non-Executive Directors with the
opportunity to discuss the views of shareholders with them directly.
At general meetings:
• The Company prepares separate resolutions on each substantially
separate issue and does not combine resolutions together
inappropriately;
• A schedule of proxy votes cast is made available for inspection at
the conclusion of the proceedings; and
• The Annual Report and Accounts is laid before shareholders at the
Annual General Meeting.
Combined Code Provisions
For the reasons disclosed above and in the Remuneration report on
page 53, during the year the Company did not fully comply with the
following provisions:
• Code Provision A2.2. The Chairman should on appointment meet
the independence criteria set out in Code A3.1;
• Code Provision B2.1. The Remuneration Committee should all be
independent Non-Executive Directors; and
• Code Provision D1.1. The Senior Independent Director should meet
with a range of major shareholders to listen to their views in order
to help develop a balanced understanding of the issues and
concerns of major shareholders.
Governance
Corporate Governance report continued
52 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009
www.tuitravelplc.com Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
The Remuneration Committee (the Committee) formulates and
applies the Company policy with consideration to the prevailing
economic climate in the major economies within which it operates and
within the spirit of its core values which cultivate responsible leadership
in its external and internal social environment. Consequently the
Committee closely considers the Company’s sustained performance 
in building both shareholder value and a secure future for all 
its stakeholders.
This report has been prepared by the Committee and has been
approved by the Board. It complies with Schedule 8 of the Large and
Medium Sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports)
Regulations 2008. This report will be put to shareholders for approval
at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 9 February 2010.
Remuneration Committee
During the year, the Committee comprised the following 
Non-Executive Directors:
Clare Chapman – Chairman
T ony Campbell
Bill Dalton
Dr Michael Frenzel
Rainer Feuerhake
Three of the members of the Committee are independent Non-
Executive Directors. Dr Michael Frenzel and Rainer Feuerhake are not
considered by the Company to be independent. Dr Frenzel and Rainer
Feuerhake are members of the Executive Board of TUI AG – a 52%
shareholder of TUI Travel PLC as at 30 September 2009 – and their
appointments are pursuant to the Relationship Agreement between
TUI AG and the Company.
No member of the Committee has any personal financial interest,
other than as a shareholder (as disclosed in the interests in shares
table on page 62), in the matters to be decided by the Committee.
The three independent members of the Committee have no conflicts
of interest arising from Committee members’ cross-directorships and
none of the members of the Committee participate in any bonus
schemes, pension plans, share awards or any employee share schemes
in respect of the Company. Members of the Committee have no day-
to-day involvement in the running of the Company.
The Committee met seven times during the year. Michael Frenzel was
unable to attend on two occasions and Clare Chapman, Bill Dalton and
Rainer Feuerhake were unable to attend on one occasion, all due to
prior commitments.
The Committee advises the Board on overall remuneration policy. 
The Committee also determines, on behalf of the Board, and with 
the benefit of advice from external consultants and members of the
Human Resources Department, the remuneration of the Executive
Directors and other members of the Group Management Board. The
activities of the Committee are governed by its T erms of Reference,
which have been approved by the Board and can be found on the 
TUI Travel website at www.tuitravelplc.com
Material advice or services were provided to the Committee during 
the year by:
Mercer Human Resource Consulting (Mercer)
Deloitte LLP (Deloitte)
Herbert Smith LLP (Herbert Smith)
Peter Long – Chief Executive
Paul Bowtell – Chief Financial Officer
Bill Logan – Group Human Resources Director
David House – Group Reward Director
Bill Logan has direct access to the Chairman of the Committee and he,
together with David House, advised the Committee on all aspects of
the Group’s reward policies and structures during the year. Peter Long
attends meetings of the Committee to make recommendations
relating to the performance and remuneration of his direct reports 
and Andrew John (Company Secretary) acts as Secretary to the
Committee. Peter Long, Paul Bowtell, Bill Logan and Andrew John 
are not in attendance when their own remuneration is considered.
During the year, the Committee appointed Deloitte, who succeeded
Mercer, both external consultancy organisations, to provide independent
advice on all aspects of senior management remuneration. Deloitte
also provides salary benchmarking information and tax services to the
Group from time to time and verification of the relative performance
conditions attached to the Performance Share Plan and Deferred
Annual Bonus Scheme.
Herbert Smith advised on various legal issues relating to the Company’s
share schemes and also provides other legal services to the Group.
Policy on remuneration of Non-Executive Directors
Non-Executive Directors, including the Chairman, do not have service
contracts and do not participate in the Group’s pension scheme,
annual bonus scheme or long term incentive schemes. Non-Executive
Directors have letters of appointment which can be terminated by
either party serving six months’ notice. Each appointment is subject 
to retirement by rotation under the Articles of Association of the
Company, and re-election by shareholders, at least once every 
three years.
Non-Executive Directors are paid a fee which is approved by the Board
on the recommendation of the Executive Directors, having taken
account of the fees paid in other companies of a similar complexity
and the skills and experience of the individuals. The base fee for the
Non-Executive Directors is £55,000 but the Chairman and Deputy
Chairman (who is also the Senior Independent Director) are paid
higher fees to reflect their additional responsibilities. The Chairman
receives a fee of £300,000 and the Deputy Chairman receives a fee 
of £200,000. The Chairman of the Audit Committee and the Chairman
of the Remuneration Committee receive an additional fee of £15,000
and £10,000 respectively.
Policy on remuneration of Executive Directors and
senior executives
The Committee aims to ensure that remuneration packages are
offered which:
• Set the total remuneration package at an appropriate level to reflect
the competitive market in which the Group operates;
• Link a substantial proportion of the total remuneration package to
the achievement of demanding financial performance targets;
• Structure the reward of senior management to align their interests
with those of the shareholders over the long term; and
• Reinforce the high-performance culture throughout the Group.
Remuneration report
TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 53
www.tuitravelplc.com The Group has performance-related reward policies. These are designed
to provide the appropriate balance between fixed remuneration and
variable ‘at-risk’ reward which is linked to the performance of both the
Group and the individual. Group performance-related measures are
chosen carefully to ensure a strong link between reward and true
underlying financial performance. Individual performance is measured
through an assessment of comprehensive business unit deliverables,
modelling the Group’s values and the achievement of specific objectives.
At a minimum, the individual performance of the Executive Directors is
assessed on an annual basis.
In assessing levels of pay and benefits, TUI Travel compares the
packages offered by different groups of comparator companies. 
These groups are chosen having regard to:
• Financial size – turnover, profits and market capitalisation;
• Scale of business – the number of people employed;
• Diversity and complexity of businesses;
• Geographical spread of businesses;
• Industry type; and
• Relevance as:
– a potential source for candidates for roles within the Group; and
– a potential threat in respect of attracting TUI Travel executives.
External consultants are used to advise the Committee on the
structure and level of pay and benefits in TUI Travel’s markets.
The normal policy for Executive Directors is that, using ‘target’ or
‘expected value’ calculations, long term performance drives 60% 
of total annual remuneration (excluding benefits) and the total
proportion of performance-related remuneration (including annual
bonus) is 70%.
The main components of remuneration in the Company are:
• Fixed remuneration
– base salary
– benefits
– pension contribution
• Performance-related remuneration
– annual bonus
– long term incentives
Base salary
The salary for each Executive Director is based on individual
performance and on information from independent professional
sources on the salary levels for similar jobs in groups of comparable
companies. This approach is consistent with that used to determine
salary and benefit levels for all employees within the Group. Internal
relativities and salary levels in the wider employment market are also
taken into account.
Fixed remuneration
Annual incentive
Long term incentive
 
During the year, the Committee decided that it was not appropriate to
increase fixed remuneration in the current climate. Consequently, the
Executive Directors’ base salaries were not increased at the normal
annual review in October 2009 and will remain at 2009 levels during
the financial year to 30 September 2010. In addition, the Committee
does not anticipate undertaking the next normal annual review prior
to 1 October 2011.
Benefits are provided to Executive Directors in accordance with the
practice applying to other executives in their geographic location.
Annual performance bonus
Within the Annual Bonus Plan, challenging performance goals are set
and these must be achieved before the maximum bonus becomes
payable. The Annual Bonus Plan measures are weighted heavily to 
the Group’s financial performance and the balance to personal
objectives. The maximum bonus opportunity for each Executive
Director varies by individual but will not exceed 175% of annual base
salary. The maximum bonus opportunity is greater than the maximum
bonus for the financial year ending 30 September 2009 (150%). This
change, combined with not increasing fixed remuneration, implements
a policy decision to increase the portion of total remuneration that is
performance related. This will have the benefit of helping to manage
the Group’s fixed cost base and improve the alignment between
executive reward and the value created for shareholders.
Long term incentives
Deferred Annual Bonus Scheme
All Executive Directors also participate in the Deferred Annual Bonus
Scheme (DABS) which requires a minimum of 25% and a maximum 
of 50% of any annual performance bonus payable to be deferred into
awards of shares. Matching shares may also be awarded up to four
times the deferred amount and are subject to the achievement of
stretching performance conditions. Awards of deferred and matching
shares are subject to forfeiture conditions until the release date. The
earliest point at which the shares are eligible for release is at the end
of three years following deferral.
For awards of matching shares made during the year, no shares will
vest unless the annual average of the ratio of the Group’s return on
invested capital (ROIC) to the weighted average cost of capital (WACC)
meets or exceeds one over the three-year period. A hurdle of ROIC,
being at least equal to WACC, is used to ensure that the relevant long
term incentive awards pay out only when shareholder value is being
created over the performance periods. If the ROIC/WACC hurdle is met,
shares will only vest to the extent to which two further performance
conditions are satisfied over the three-year period as follows:
• Up to three-quarters of the matching shares will vest based on
growth in the Group’s earnings per share (EPS), before amortisation
of goodwill and merger intangibles, goodwill impairment and
separately disclosed items, in relation to the growth in the UK Retail
Price Index (RPI) as shown in the table below:
Average annual EPS growth in excess of RPI growth Proportion of matching shares vesting
Below 4% 0%
Between 4% and 13% On a straightline basis 
between 10% and 100%
13% or above 100%
Governance
Remuneration report continued
54 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009
www.tuitravelplc.com Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
• Up to one-quarter of the matching shares will vest based on the
Group’s ranking of total shareholder return (TSR) performance
relative to companies ranked 30th to 100th by market capitalisation
as at the date of the award as shown in the table below:
TSR Ranking Proportion of matching shares vesting
Below median 0%
Between median and upper quartile On a straightline basis
between 15% and 100%
At or above upper quartile 100%
Matching share awards lapse if the performance conditions are not met.
Performance Share Plan
The Performance Share Plan (PSP) allows Executive Directors and
eligible participants to receive share awards, subject to the satisfaction
of performance conditions, set by the Committee, which are normally
measured over a three-year period. Awards are normally made annually
and, except in exceptional circumstances, will not exceed two times
annual salary for Executive Directors.
For awards made during the year, no shares will vest unless the annual
average of the ratio of the Group’s ROIC to the WACC meets or
exceeds one over the three-year period.
If the ROIC/WACC hurdle is met, shares will only vest to the extent to
which two further performance conditions are satisfied over the three-
year period as follows:
Up to half of the shares will vest based on growth in the Group’s EPS,
before amortisation of goodwill and merger intangibles, goodwill
impairment and separately disclosed items, in relation to the growth 
in the UK RPI as shown in the table below:
Average annual EPS growth in excess of RPI growth Proportion of shares vesting
Below 4% 0%
Between 4% and 13% On a straightline basis
between 10% and 100%
13% or above 100%
• Up to half of the shares will vest based on the Group’s ranking of
TSR performance relative to companies ranked 30th to 100th by
market capitalisation as at the date of the award as shown in the
table below:
TSR Ranking Proportion of shares vesting
Below median 0%
Between median and upper quartile On a straightline basis
between 15% and 100%
At or above upper quartile 100%
Awards under the Performance Share Plan lapse if the performance
conditions are not met.
The Committee considers that EPS and TSR are the key performance
conditions that are most relevant to the Group. EPS is a key indicator
of the Group’s underlying financial performance whilst TSR is a relative
measure of shareholder value creation. A hurdle of ROIC, being at least
equal to WACC, is used to ensure that the relevant long term incentive
awards pay out only when shareholder value is being created over the
performance periods.
Value Creation Synergy Plan
Under the Value Creation Synergy Plan (VCSP), which is a one-off
three-year plan, Executive Directors and eligible participants will
receive an award which will be satisfied by a combination of cash and
shares provided that stretching performance targets are satisfied. 
The performance targets, set by the Committee, are based on the
achievement of the synergistic objectives of the merger of First Choice
Holidays PLC (now First Choice Holidays Limited) and the T ourism
Division of TUI AG.
The maximum aggregate awards for Executive Directors are:
Maximum value of aggregate 
Director award (% of base salary)
Dr Volker Böttcher 225%
Paul Bowtell 330%
Peter Long 450%
Johan Lundgren 330%
William Waggott 330%
The awards will be a combination of cash and shares, which will vest 
in three tranches over three years, as shown below:
Tranche 1 (2007/2008): 50% cash and 50% shares;
Tranche 2 (2008/2009): 50% cash and 50% shares; and
Tranche 3 (2009/2010): 100% cash.
While any cash entitlement will be paid annually, shares will be
deferred until the end of the three-year period.
The vesting of the annual tranches will be subject to the achievement
of annual performance targets over the three-year period. The release
of the share elements will be subject to a further overall three-year
performance target.
The overall three-year performance targets have been set at a target
of £100m of synergistic value (below which no vesting will occur) with
a payment and vesting scale up to a ‘stretch’ level of £150m. In
addition, the Committee have set annual profit margin targets below
which no payment or vesting will occur.
At target and stretch annual performance, the proportion vesting
under each annual tranche will be 50% and 100% respectively. In the
event that the overall three-year performance target is not achieved,
any net amounts that have been previously paid in relation to the cash
elements of Tranches 1 and 2 must be repaid to the Company.
All-employee share schemes
Executive Directors based in the UK are eligible to participate in the
HMRC-approved Share Incentive Plan which is an all-employee share
scheme enabling staff to acquire shares in the Company on preferential
terms. T o further encourage employee shareholding in the Company,
the Share Incentive Plan provides a matching share for every four
shares bought by a participant under the plan. Matching shares are
not subject to performance conditions.
Shareholding guidelines
The Executive Directors will be expected to build, within five years 
of their appointment, and then maintain, a shareholding equal in 
value to 1.5 times their basic salary or two times in the case of the
Chief Executive.
No new shares were issued during the year and therefore the Company
has remained within its headroom limits for the issue of new shares
under share incentive schemes. All share incentive awards made, and
all future share incentive awards, will normally be settled with shares
purchased in the market.
TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 55
www.tuitravelplc.com Policy on pensions
Each of the UK-based Executive Directors and senior executives
participates in a defined contribution retirement plan.
The Group’s pension policy is that, in the event that a participant in 
a registered pension scheme may reach or exceed HMRC lifetime or
annual thresholds, and therefore chooses not to accept further
registered pension contributions, a contribution to an unregistered
long term investment scheme or a non-pensionable cash payment,
equivalent to the Group’s contribution to the registered pension
scheme, will be offered in lieu. Pension scheme participants will not 
be compensated for any adverse tax consequences of exceeding the
HMRC lifetime allowance limit.
Executive Directors, and senior executives outside of the UK,
participate in local pension plans.
Policy on external appointments
The Company recognises that its Directors may be invited to become
non-executive directors of other companies and that such duties can
broaden experience and knowledge and benefit the business. Subject
to the approval of the Board, Executive Directors are, therefore,
allowed to accept non-executive appointments and to retain the fees
received (excluding positions where the Director is appointed as the
Company’s representative) as long as this is not likely to lead to a
conflict of interest.
For the year ended 30 September 2009, Peter Long received and
retained non-executive directors’ fees in respect of two appointments
(Debenhams PLC to 1 August 2009 and Rentokil Initial plc – FTSE 250
and FTSE 100 respectively) of £97,500 (2008: £105,000). Paul Bowtell
received and retained non-executive director fees in respect of his
appointment as a non-executive director of SThree plc (a small cap
company) of £40,000 (2008: £36,667).
Performance graph
TUI Travel shares were listed on the London Stock Exchange on 
3 September 2007. Since December 2007, the Company has been 
a member of the FTSE 100 Index. The graph below measures the
performance of First Choice Holidays PLC up to the merger, and
subsequently the performance of TUI Travel PLC, assuming dividends
are reinvested, compared with the TSR performance achieved against
the constituent companies of the FTSE 100 Index and separately
those ranked 30 to 100 by market capitalisation. The latter Index is
considered to be the most appropriate benchmark for comparison
purposes and is used within the performance measures of the
Company’s long term incentive schemes.
Contracts of service
Executive Directors
The Remuneration Committee’s policy is for Executive Directors to
have rolling contracts with a 12-month notice period.
Volker Böttcher, Paul Bowtell, Peter Long, Johan Lundgren and William
Waggott currently have service agreements with a 12-month notice
period and it is intended that all new appointments will also have 
12-month notice periods. However, on occasion, to complete an
external recruitment successfully, a longer initial period may be used
reducing to 12 months, following guidance in the Combined Code.
No provisions for compensation for termination following change 
of control, or for liquidated damages of any kind, are included in the
current Directors’ contracts. In the event of any early termination 
of an Executive Director’s contract, the policy is to seek to minimise
any liability.
Effective date Unexpired term/
Executive Director of contract notice period
Dr Volker Böttcher 5 September 2007 12
Paul Bowtell 7 April 2008 12
Peter Long 19 February 2008 12
Johan Lundgren 20 March 2009 12
William Waggott 22 April 2008 12
Non-Executive Directors
Effective date Unexpired term/
Non-Executive Director of appointment notice period
Horst Baier 13 October 2009 6
T ony Campbell 3 September 2007 6
Clare Chapman 3 September 2007 6
Bill Dalton 3 September 2007 6
Rainer Feuerhake 3 September 2007 6
Dr Michael Frenzel 3 September 2007 6
Jeremy Hicks 3 September 2007 6
Sir Michael Hodgkinson 3 September 2007 6
Giles Thorley 3 September 2007 6
Dr Erhard Schipporeit 29 October 2007 6
Dr Albert Schunk 29 October 2007 6
Harold Sher 29 October 2007 6
Governance
Remuneration report continued
56 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009
www.tuitravelplc.com
350
300
250
200
150
100
TUI T ravel PLC
FTSE 100
FTSE 30-100
TUI Travel PLC shares
listed 03.09.07
30.09.04 30.09.05 30.09.06 30.09.07 30.09.08 30.09.09
Total Shareholder Return
TUI Travel PLC v FTSE 100 & FTSE 30-300 Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
The information provided in the following pages of this report has been audited by KPMG Audit Plc.
Directors’ remuneration
T otal remuneration
excluding pensions
For the year For the year
ended ended
Basic salaries Performance 30 September 30 September
and fees payments
1
Benefits
2
2009 2008
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Executive Directors
Dr Volker Böttcher
3
474 405 12 891 743
Paul Bowtell 490 547 16 1,053 1,005
Peter Long 850 1,238 35 2,122 2,029
Johan Lundgren
4
597 567 273 1,437 1,109
Christoph Mueller
5
426 19 445 750
William Waggott 430 435 16 881 835
Non-Executive Directors
T ony Campbell 55 55 55
Clare Chapman 65 65 65
Bill Dalton 55 55 55
Rainer Feuerhake 55 55 55
Dr Michael Frenzel (Chairman) 300 300 300
Jeremy Hicks 70 70 70
Sir Michael Hodgkinson (Deputy Chairman) 200 200 200
Dr Erhard Schipporeit 55 55 50
Dr Albert Schunk 55 55 50
Harold Sher 55 55 50
Giles Thorley 55 55 55
Former Directors 2,402
Total 4,287 3,192 371 7,849 9,878
1 ’Performance payments’ include bonus awards in cash in respect of participation in the Annual Bonus Plan and the Value Creation Synergy Plan but exclude bonus awards in deferred shares, details
of which are set out on page 59. Messrs Böttcher, Bowtell, Long and Waggott achieved the maximum level for both annual bonus and VCSP. Mr Lundgren achieved 86.3% of the maximum for annual
bonus and the maximum for VCSP .
2 ’Benefits’ incorporate all tax assessable benefits arising from the individual’s employment. For Messrs Bowtell, Long and Waggott, this relates in the main to the provision of a fully expensed company
car or car allowance and private healthcare cover, and for Messrs Böttcher and Mueller the provision of a fully expensed company car or car allowance. In addition to the provision of a fully expensed
company car or car allowance and private healthcare cover, Mr Lundgren relocated from Sweden to the UK on 1 August 2009 and received relocation, housing and education benefits.
3 In calculating remuneration for Mr Böttcher, payments made during the year in EUR have been converted at 1.15 units to 1 GBP , being the average exchange rate for the period 1 October 2008 
to 30 September 2009.
4 In calculating remuneration for Mr Lundgren, payments made during the year in SEK have been converted at 12.19 units to 1 GBP , being the average exchange rate for the period 1 October 2008 to
31 July 2009.
5 Mr Mueller resigned as a Director on 27 May 2009 and ceased employment on 31 August 2009 due to redundancy. In calculating his remuneration, payments made during the year in EUR have been
converted at 1.15 units to 1 GBP, being the average exchange rate for the period 1 October 2008 to 31 August 2009.
TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 57
www.tuitravelplc.com Directors’ pensions
The Group makes a contribution of 50% of base salary for Peter Long. During the year, contributions have been paid partly into a self-invested
personal pension and, mindful of the HMRC lifetime allowance limit, partly as a non-pensionable cash payment (subject to tax and national
insurance) equivalent to the Company pension contribution.
The Group makes contributions of 25% and 50% of base salary into a defined contribution pension scheme for the benefit of Paul Bowtell and
William Waggott respectively.
In addition, William Waggott has deferred pension entitlements under the Defined Benefit section of the TUI Pension Scheme (UK). He ceased 
to be an active member of the Defined Benefit section on 3 September 2007 and, therefore, no increase in accrued benefit has occurred during
the year.
The normal retirement date for the UK-based Executive Directors and senior executives is 65.
In the event of death in service, the Executive Directors’ and senior executives’ pension arrangements provide lump sums for the purchase of
dependants’ pensions of the greater of eight times salary or the value of the pension fund in addition to which a lump sum of four times salary 
is payable. Following the changes to the tax rules from April 2006, any dependant’s pension may be paid as an additional lump sum subject to
HMRC limits.
Dr Volker Böttcher participates in separate pension arrangements in Germany at a cost of 25% of base salary.
Johan Lundgren participated in a separate pension arrangement in Sweden at a cost of 33% of base salary.
Christoph Mueller participated in separate pension arrangements in Germany at a cost of 35% of base salary until his employment ceased. 
The Company made an additional pension contribution of €46,813 in accordance with his contractual termination arrangements.
Pension contributions for Directors
Pension contributions or allowance for
the year ended 30 September 2009
Executive Director £000
Dr Volker Böttcher 118
Paul Bowtell 123
Peter Long 425
Johan Lundgren 200
Christoph Mueller
1
190
William Waggott 208
Total 1,264
1 Christoph Mueller ceased employment on 31 August 2009.
T otal pension contributions or allowances for the year ended 30 September 2009 were £1.264m. In calculating this total, payments made in EUR
and SEK have been converted at 1.15 and 12.10 units to 1 GBP respectively, being the average exchange rates for the year ended 30 September
2009.
Long term incentives
Deferred Annual Bonus Scheme (DABS)
Messrs Böttcher, Bowtell, Long, Lundgren and Waggott participated in the DABS during the year ended 30 September 2009 and are expected 
to receive an award on 2 December 2009 as follows:
Estimated value of award
Director £000
Dr Volker Böttcher 237
Paul Bowtell 294
Peter Long 638
Johan Lundgren 258
William Waggott 215
Awards made under the DABS, and which remain outstanding at 30 September 2009, are given in the table on page 59.
58 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009
www.tuitravelplc.com
Governance
Remuneration report continued Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
Deferred Annual Bonus Scheme (DABS)
Maximum
value based
DABS shares DABS shares Maximum on share price
DABS shares awarded during vested during DABS shares of 254.6p at
held at the year ended Market price the year ended Market price Value at held at 30 September
1 October 30 September per share 30 September per share vesting Planned/actual 30 September 2009
2008 2009 Award date at award 2009 at vesting £ vesting date 2009 £
Directors
Dr Volker Böttcher 60,432
3
19.12.07 270.40p 19.12.10 60,432 153,860
241,729
4
19.12.07 270.40p 19.12.10 241,729 615,442
104,809
5
28.11.08 205.25p 28.11.11 104,809 266,844
419,236
6
28.11.08 205.25p 28.11.11 419,236 1,067,375
T otal 302,161 524,045 826,206 2,103,521
Paul Bowtell 81,426 14.12.05 229.25p 81,426
1
218.62p 178,014 15.12.08 – –
156,923
2
13.02.07 260.00p 13.02.10 156,923 399,526
67,599
3
19.12.07 270.40p 19.12.10 67,599 172,107
270,394
4
19.12.07 270.40p 19.12.10 270,394 688,423
134,470
5
28.11.08 205.25p 28.11.11 134,470 342,361
537,880
6
28.11.08 205.25p 28.11.11 537,880 1,369,442
T otal 576,342 672,350 81,426 178,014 1,167,266 2,971,859
Peter Long 174,483 14.12.05 229.25p 174,483
1
218.62p 381,455 15.12.08 – –
326,155
2
13.02.07 260.00p 13.02.10 326,155 830,391
138,288
3
19.12.07 270.40p 19.12.10 138,288 352,081
553,150
4
19.12.07 270.40p 19.12.10 553,150 1,408,320
292,326
5
28.11.08 205.25p 28.11.11 292,326 744,262
1,169,304
6
28.11.08 205.25p 28.11.11 1,169,304 2,977,048
T otal 1,192,076 1,461,630 174,483 381,455 2,479,223 6,312,102
Johan Lundgren 67,431
3
19.12.07 270.40p 19.12.10 67,431 171,679
269,723
4
19.12.07 270.40p 19.12.10 269,723 686,715
135,446
5
28.11.08 205.25p 28.11.11 135,446 344,846
541,784
6
28.11.08 205.25p 28.11.11 541,784 1,379,382
T otal 337,154 677,230 1,014,384 2,582,622
Christoph Mueller 54,417
3
19.12.07 270.40p 54,417
7
234.70p 127,717 01.09.09 – –
217,666
4
19.12.07 270.40p 55,069
8
234.70p 129,247 01.09.09 – –
104,809
5
28.11.08 205.25p 104,809
7
234.70p 245,987 01.09.09 – –
419,236
6
28.11.08 205.25p 35,356
8
234.70p 82,981 01.09.09 – –
T otal 272,083 524,045 249,651 585,932 – –
William Waggott 73,558
3
19.12.07 270.40p 19.12.10 73,558 187,279
294,230
4
19.12.07 270.40p 19.12.10 294,230 749,110
97,442
5
28.11.08 205.25p 28.11.11 97,442 248,087
389,768
6
28.11.08 205.25p 28.11.11 389,768 992,349
T otal 367,788 487,210 854,998 2,176,825
Grand total 3,047,604 4,346,510 505,560 1,145,401 6,342,077 16,146,929
1 This ‘roll-over’ award was based on a) performance to 30 September 2008 where the performance measure relates to EPS growth in excess of the rate of inflation; and b) performance to the 3rd
anniversary of the award date where the performance measure relates to the Company’s TSR ranking against the constituent companies of the FTSE Mid-250 Index (excluding Investment Trusts) 
as calculated at the award date. A performance hurdle of the ROIC being in excess of the WACC must also be achieved for any of the award to be released. The number of shares released is graded
according to a) EPS growth, with 7.5% of the award being released for 4% per annum in excess of inflation and 75% of the award released for 13% per annum in excess of inflation and b) ranking 
of the Company against the comparator group, with 2.5% of the award being released for median and 25% of the award being released for upper quartile. The ROIC/WACC hurdle was achieved, 
EPS growth was greater than 13% per annum in excess of inflation and the Company TSR ranking was in the upper quartile therefore the entire award was released on 14 December 2008.
2 This ‘roll-over’ award is based on a) performance to 30 September 2009 where the performance measure relates to EPS growth in excess of the rate of inflation and b) performance to the 3rd
anniversary of the Award date where the performance measure relates to the Company’s TSR ranking against the constituent companies of the FTSE Mid-250 index (excluding Investment Trusts) 
as calculated at the Award date. A performance hurdle of the ROIC being in excess of the WACC must also be achieved for any of the award to be released. The number of shares released is graded
according to a) EPS growth, with 7.5% of the award being released for 4% per annum in excess of inflation and 75% of the award released for 13% per annum in excess of inflation and b) ranking 
of the Company against the comparator group, with 2.5% of the award being released for median and 25% of the award being released for upper quartile.
3 This award is the deferred element of the Annual Bonus entitlement for Financial Year 2006/2007 and is subject only to continued employment to the release date.
4 This matching award is based on a) performance to 30 September 2010 where the performance measure relates to (EPS) growth in excess of the rate of inflation and b) performance to the 
3rd anniversary of the Award date where the performance measure relates to the Company’s TSR ranking against the constituent companies of the FTSE 100 index ranked 30 to 100 by market
capitalisation as calculated at the award date. A performance hurdle of the return on ROIC being in excess of the WACC must also be achieved for any of the award to be released. The number 
of shares released is graded according to a) EPS growth, with 7.5% of the award being released for 12% in excess of inflation and 75% of the award released for 39% in excess of inflation and 
b) ranking of the Company against the comparator group, with 3.75% of the award being released for median and 25% of the award being released for upper quartile.
5 This award is the deferred element of the Annual Bonus entitlement for Financial Year 2007/2008 and is subject only to continued employment to the release date.
6 This matching award is based on a) performance to 30 September 2011 where the performance measure relates to EPS growth in excess of the rate of inflation and b) performance to the 3rd
anniversary of the award date where the performance measure relates to the Company’s TSR ranking against the constituent companies of the FTSE 100 index ranked 30 to 100 by market
capitalisation as calculated at the date. A performance hurdle of the ROIC being in excess of the WACC must also be achieved for any of the award to be released. The number of shares released 
is graded according to a) EPS growth, with 7.5% of the award being released for 12% in excess of inflation and 75% of the award released for 39% in excess of inflation and b) ranking of the
Company against the comparator group, with 3.75% of the award being released for median and 25% of the award being released for upper quartile.
7 Christoph Mueller ceased employment with effect from 31 August 2009 due to redundancy. Under the terms of his departure and in accordance with the scheme rules these deferred awards were released in full.
8 Christoph Mueller ceased employment with effect from 31 August 2009 due to redundancy. Under the terms of his departure and in accordance with the scheme rules these matching awards were
released early subject to pro-ration for time elapsed and performance to cessation of employment.
TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 59
www.tuitravelplc.com Performance Share Plan (PSP)
During the year ended 30 September 2009 there were four cycles in operation.
The award made in respect of each cycle and the maximum pre-tax number of ordinary shares due if performance targets are achieved in full are:
Maximum
Maximum value based
Maximum PSP shares PSP shares Maximum on share price
PSP shares awarded during vested during PSP shares of 254.6p at
held at the year ended Market price the year ended Market price Value at held at 30 September
1 October 30 September per share 30 September per share vesting Planned/actual 30 September 2009
2008 2009 Award date at award 2009 at vesting £ vesting date 2009 £
Directors
Dr Volker Böttcher 39,444 03.09.07 285.50p 39,444
1
219.28p 86,493 15.12.08 – –
78,888
2
– 03.09.07 285.50p – 13.02.10 78,888 200,849
129,209
3
– 13.09.07 273.00p – 01.12.10 129,209 328,966
221,829
4
28.11.08 205.25p – 28.11.11 221,829 564,777
T otal 247,541 221,829 39,444 86,493 429,926 1,094,592
Paul Bowtell 38,168 14.12.05 229.25p 38,168
1
219.28p 83,695 15.12.08
74,039
2
– 13.02.07 260.00p – 13.02.10 74,039 188,503
202,198
3
– 13.09.07 273.00p – 01.12.10 202,198 514,796
286,479
4
28.11.08 205.25p – 28.11.11 286,479 729,376
T otal 314,405 286,479 38,168 83,695 562,716 1,432,675
Peter Long 92,476 14.12.05 229.25p 92,476
1
219.28p 202,781 15.12.08
173,078
2
– 13.02.07 260.00p – 13.02.10 173,078 440,657
586,081
3
– 13.09.07 273.00p – 01.12.10 586,081 1,492,162
828,258
4
28.11.08 205.25p – 28.11.11 828,258 2,108,745
T otal 851,635 828,258 92,476 202,781 1,587,417 4,041,564
Johan Lundgren 65,174 03.09.07 285.50p 65,174
1
219.28p 142,914 15.12.08
130,348
2
– 03.09.07 285.50p – 13.02.10 130,348 331,866
104,773
3
– 13.09.07 273.00p – 01.12.10 104,773 266,752
192,307
3
19.12.07 270.40p – 19.12.10 192,307 489,614
287,106
4
28.11.08 205.25p – 28.11.11 287,106 730,972
T otal 492,602 287,106 65,174 142,914 714,534 1,819,204
Christoph Mueller 55,221 03.09.07 285.50p 55,221
1
220.50p 121,762 15.12.08 – –
110,443
2
– 03.09.07 285.50p 43,465
5
234.70p 102,012 01.09.09 – –
129,209
3
– 13.09.07 273.00p 38,791
5
234.70p 91,042 01.09.09 – –
217,759
4
28.11.08 205.25p 19,622
5
234.70p 46,053 01.09.09 – –
T otal 294,873 217,759 157,099 360,869 – –
William Waggott 122,343 03.09.07 285.50p 122,343
1
220.50p 269,766 15.12.08 – –
244,685
2
– 03.09.07 285.50p – 13.02.10 244,685 622,968
146,520
3
– 13.09.07 273.00p – 01.12.10 146,520 373,040
209,500
4
28.11.08 205.25p – 28.11.11 209,500 533,387
T otal 513,548 209,500 122,343 269,766 600,705 1,529,395
Grand total 2,714,604 2,050,931 514,704 1,146,518 3,895,298 9,917,430
1 This ‘roll-over’ award was based on performance from 1 November 2005 to 30 September 2008 where the performance measure related to EPS growth in excess of the rate of inflation and a
performance hurdle of the ROIC being in excess of the WACC. The number of shares released is graded according to EPS growth, with 10% of the award being released for 4% pa in excess of
inflation and the entire award released for 13% per annum in excess of inflation. The ROIC/WACC hurdle was achieved and EPS growth was greater than 13% per annum in excess of inflation
therefore the entire award was released on 14 December 2008.
2 This ‘roll-over’ award is based on performance from 1 November 2006 to 30 September 2009 where the performance measure relates to EPS growth in excess of the rate of inflation and a
performance hurdle of the ROIC being in excess of the WACC. The number of shares released is graded according to EPS growth, with 10% of the award being released for 4% per annum in excess 
of inflation and the entire award released for 13% per annum in excess of inflation.
3 This award is based on a) performance to 30 September 2010 where the performance measure relates to EPS growth in excess of the rate of inflation and b) performance to the 3rd anniversary 
of the Award date where the performance measure relates to the Company’s TSR ranking against the constituent companies of the FTSE 100 index ranked 30 to 100 by market capitalisation as
calculated at the Award date. A performance hurdle of the ROIC being in excess of the weighted average cost of capital (WACC) must also be achieved for any of the award to be released. The
number of shares released is graded according to a) EPS growth, with 5% of the award being released for 12% in excess of inflation and 50% of the award released for 39% in excess of inflation 
and b) ranking of the Company against the comparator group, with 7.5% of the award being released for median and 50% of the award being released for upper quartile.
4 This award is based on a) performance to 30 September 2011 where the performance measure relates to EPS growth in excess of the rate of inflation and b) performance to the 3rd anniversary 
of the Award date where the performance measure relates to the Company’s TSR ranking against the constituent companies of the FTSE 100 index ranked 30 to 100 by market capitalisation as
calculated at the Award date. A performance hurdle of the ROIC being in excess of the WACC must also be achieved for any of the award to be released. The number of shares released is graded
according to a) EPS growth, with 5% of the award being released for 12% in excess of inflation and 50% of the award released for 39% in excess of inflation and b) ranking of the Company against
the comparator group, with 7.5% of the award being released for median and 50% of the award being released for upper quartile.
5 Christoph Mueller ceased employment with effect from 31 August 2009 due to redundancy. Under the terms of his departure and in accordance with the scheme rules these awards were released
early subject to pro-ration for time elapsed and performance to cessation of employment.
60 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009
www.tuitravelplc.com
Governance
Remuneration report continued Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
Value Creation Synergy Plan (VCSP)
Messrs Böttcher, Bowtell, Long, Lundgren and Waggott participated in the VCSP during the year ended 30 September 2009 and are expected to
receive a deferred share award on 2 December 2009 as follows:
Estimated value of award
Executive Director £000
Dr Volker Böttcher 168
Paul Bowtell 253
Peter Long 600
Johan Lundgren 309
William Waggott 220
Awards made under the VCSP, and which remain outstanding at 30 September 2009, are given in the table below.
Maximum
value based
VCSP shares VCSP shares Maximum on share price
VCSP shares awarded during vested during VCSP shares of 254.6p at
held at the year ended Market price the year ended Market price Value at held at 30 September
1 October 30 September per share 30 September per share vesting Planned/actual 30 September 2009
2008 2009 Award date at award 2009 at vesting £ vesting date 2009 £
Directors
Dr Volker Böttcher 78,606
1
28.11.08 205.25p – 28.11.11 78,606 200,131
T otal 78,606 – 78,606 200,131
Paul Bowtell 123,264
1
28.11.08 205.25p – 28.11.11 123,264 313,830
T otal 123,264 – 123,264 313,830
Peter Long 292,326
1
28.11.08 205.25p – 28.11.11 292,326 744,262
T otal 292,326 – 292,326 744,262
Johan Lundgren 148,990
1
28.11.08 205.25p – 28.11.11 148,990 379,329
T otal 148,990 – 148,990 379,329
Christoph Mueller 78,606
1
28.11.08 205.25p 39,774
2
234.70p 93,350 01.09.09 – –
T otal 78,606 39,774 93,350 – –
William Waggott 107,186
1
28.11.08 205.25p – 28.11.11 107,186 272,896
T otal 107,186 – 107,186 272,896
Grand total 828,978 39,774 93,350 750,372 1,910,448
1 This award is the deferred element of Tranche 1 of the VCSP for Financial Year 2007/2008. A profit margin performance hurdle must also be achieved for any of the award to be released. The number
of shares released is graded according to synergistic value achieved with none of the award being released for synergistic value below £100m and all of the award being released for £150m synergistic
value or more.
2 Christoph Mueller ceased employment with effect from 31 August 2009 due to redundancy. Under the terms of his departure and in accordance with the scheme rules these awards were released
early subject to pro-ration for time elapsed and performance to cessation of employment.
Five-year long term cash plan
Under the five-year long term cash bonus agreement between Peter Long and First Choice Holidays PLC (now First Choice Holidays Limited),
approved at the 2005 AGM of that company, Peter Long is eligible to receive a maximum of £600,000, subject to EPS growth in excess of RPI
growth, the Company’s TSR ranking against the constituent companies of the FTSE Mid-250 Index (excluding Investment Trusts) as calculated 
at the award date, and the achievement of personal objectives as determined by the Committee over the period to 30 September 2009. A
performance hurdle of the ROIC being in excess of the WACC must also be achieved for any of the bonus to be payable. The amount of bonus
payable is graded according to:
• EPS growth, with 3.5% of the award being released for 4% per annum in excess of inflation and 35% of the award released for 13% per annum
in excess of inflation;
• TSR ranking of the Company against the comparator group, with 5% of the award being released for median and 50% of the award being
released for upper quartile; and
• The remaining 15% of the Bonus being payable for the achievement of personal objectives.
The ROIC/WACC hurdle was achieved, EPS growth was greater than 13% per annum in excess of inflation, the Company TSR ranking was in the
upper quartile and personal objectives were achieved in full therefore all of the award was paid.
Value of award
Director £000
Peter Long 600
TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 61
www.tuitravelplc.com Directors’ interests in ordinary shares of the Company
As at 30 September 2009, the Directors’ interests in ordinary shares of the Company were:
Ordinary shares of 10p each
Director’s name Title as at 30 September 2009
Horst Baier Non-Executive Director –
Dr Volker Böttcher Managing Director, Central Europe 37,577
Paul Bowtell Chief Financial Officer 424,625
*
T ony Campbell Non-Executive Director 43,268
Clare Chapman Non-Executive Director 10,000
Bill Dalton Non-Executive Director 10,000
Rainer Feuerhake Non-Executive Director –
Dr Michael Frenzel Non-Executive Chairman –
Jeremy Hicks Non-Executive Director –
Sir Michael Hodgkinson Non-Executive Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director 20,000
Peter Long Chief Executive 2,428,235
*
Johan Lundgren Managing Director, Northern Region 27,297
Dr Erhard Schipporeit Non-Executive Director –
Dr Albert Schunk Non-Executive Director –
Harold Sher Non-Executive Director –
Giles Thorley Non-Executive Director 25,000
William Waggott Commercial Director 103,061
*
*Includes shares purchased under the Share Incentive Plan.
The Company’s Register of Directors’ Interests, which is open to inspection at the Registered Office, contains full details of Directors’
shareholdings and will be available for inspection before and during the Annual General Meeting to be held on 9 February 2010.
During the year, the price of the Company’s ordinary shares ranged between 174.8p and 279.25p and the mid-closing price on 30 September
2009 was 254.6p.
On 1 October 2009, T ony Campbell was allocated 504 additional shares in respect of the Dividend Reinvestment Plan.
The Remuneration report was approved by a duly authorised Committee of the Board of Directors on 30 November 2009 and signed on its
behalf by:
Clare Chapman
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
30 November 2009
62 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009
www.tuitravelplc.com
Governance
Remuneration report continued Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
We have audited the financial statements of TUI Travel PLC for the
year ended 30 September 2009 set out on pages 64 to 127. The
financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation
of the TUI Travel PLC group of companies (the Group) financial
statements is applicable law and International Financial Reporting
Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the EU. The financial reporting
framework that has been applied in the preparation of the parent
company financial statements is applicable law and UK Accounting
Standards (UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice).
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in
accordance with sections 495, 496 and 497 of the Companies Act
2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state 
to the Company’s members those matters we are required to state 
to them in an auditors’ report and for no other purpose. T o the fullest
extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility 
to anyone other than the Company and the Company’s members, 
as a body, for our audit work for this report, or for the opinions we
have formed.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and
Auditors
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement
set out on page 48, the directors are responsible for the preparation
of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true
and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements in
accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing
(UK and Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the
Auditing Practices Board’s (APB’s) Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is
provided on the APB’s web-site at www.frc.org.uk/apb/scope/UKP.
Opinion on financial statements
In our opinion:
• The financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of 
the Group’s and of the parent company’s affairs as at 30 September
2009 and of the Group’s loss for the year then ended;
• The Group financial statements have been properly prepared in
accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU;
• The parent company financial statements have been properly
prepared in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting
Practice; and
• The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with 
the requirements of the Companies Act 2006; and, as regards the
Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the
Companies Act 2006
In our opinion:
• The part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited has
been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act
2006; and
• The information given in the Directors’ Report for the financial year
for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with
the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report 
by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following:
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, 
in our opinion:
• Adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent
company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received
from branches not visited by us; or
• The parent company financial statements and the part of the
Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the
accounting records and returns; or
• Certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration specified by law are
not made; or
• We have not received all the information and explanations we
require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review:
• The Directors’ report, set out on page 47, in relation to going
concern; and
• The part of the Corporate Governance report relating to the
Company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the June 2008
Combined Code specified for our review.
Oliver Tant
(Senior Statutory Auditor) for and on behalf of
KPMG Audit Plc, Statutory Auditor
Chartered Accountants
8 Salisbury Square
London
EC4Y 8BB
30 November 2009
Independent Auditor’s report to the Members of TUI T ravel PLC
TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 63
www.tuitravelplc.com 64 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009
www.tuitravelplc.com
Financial statements
Consolidated income statement
for the year ended 30 September 2009
Year ended Year ended
30 September 30 September
2009 2008
Note £m £m
Continuing operations
Revenue 2 13,863 13,932
Cost of sales (12,705) (12,911)
Gross profit 1,158 1,021
Administrative expenses (1,130) (1,217)
Share of profit of joint ventures and associates 12 9 12
Operating profit/(loss) 37 (184)
Analysed as:
Underlying operating profit 1, 2 443 398
Separately disclosed items 3 (340) (380)
Amortisation of business combination intangibles 10 (56) (87)
Impairment of goodwill 10 (7) (112)
T axation on profits of joint ventures and associates 12 (3) (3)
37 (184)
Financial income 4 72 122
Financial expenses 4 (161) (205)
Net financial expenses 4 (89) (83)
Loss before tax (52) (267)
T axation 7 42 –
Loss for the year from continuing operations (10) (267)
Discontinued operation
Loss from discontinued operation 8 (14) –
Loss for the year (24) (267)
Attributable to:
Equity holders of the parent (25) (271)
Minority interest 1 4
Loss for the year (24) (267)
Pence Pence
Basic and diluted loss per share (pence) for loss attributable 
to the equity holders of the Company during the year
– basic and diluted: from continuing operations 33 (1.0) (24.4)
– basic and diluted: from discontinued operation 33 (1.3) –
Non-GAAP measures
Reconciliation of underlying operating profit to underlying profit before tax
£m £m
Underlying operating profit 1, 2 443 398
Net underlying financial expenses 4 (77) (79)
Underlying profit before tax 366 319
Pence Pence
Underlying earnings per share (pence) for profit attributable 
to the equity holders of the Company during the year
– basic 33 23.8 20.4
– diluted 33 23.5 20.2 Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
30 September 30 September
2009 2008
Note £m £m
Non-current assets
Intangible assets 10 4,737 4,429
Property, plant and equipment 11 964 926
Investments in joint ventures and associates 12 112 114
Other investments 12 77 56
Trade and other receivables 16 194 210
Retirement benefit asset 5(C) 1 17
Derivative financial instruments 25(I) 13 48
Deferred tax assets 14 211 205
6,309 6,005
Current assets
Inventories 15 51 51
Other investments 17 36 29
Trade and other receivables 16 1,536 1,653
Income tax recoverable 30 29
Derivative financial instruments 25(I) 271 273
Cash and cash equivalents 17 790 1,130
Assets classified as held for sale 18 126 157
2,840 3,322
Total assets 9,149 9,327
Current liabilities
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 19 (327) (99)
Retirement benefits 5(C) (3) (2)
Derivative financial instruments 25(I) (284) (178)
Trade and other payables 20 (4,162) (4,057)
Provisions 21 (189) (235)
Income tax payable (67) (89)
Liabilities classified as held for sale 18 (59) (22)
(5,091) (4,682)
Non-current liabilities
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 19 (801) (1,167)
Retirement benefits 5(C) (498) (268)
Derivative financial instruments 25(I) (18) (50)
Trade and other payables 22 (108) (149)
Provisions 21 (250) (180)
Deferred tax liabilities 14 (97) (235)
(1,772) (2,049)
Total liabilities (6,863) (6,731)
Net assets 2,286 2,596
Equity
Share capital 23 112 112
Other reserves 24 2,775 2,749
Retained deficit 24 (604) (270)
Total equity attributable to equity holders of the parent 24 2,283 2,591
Minority interest 24 3 5
Total equity 24 2,286 2,596
The financial statements were approved by a duly authorised Committee of the Board of Directors on 30 November 2009 and signed on its
behalf by:
Paul Bowtell
Chief Financial Officer
TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 65
www.tuitravelplc.com
Consolidated balance sheet
at 30 September 2009 Year ended Year ended
30 September 30 September
2009 2008
Note £m £m
Loss for the year (24) (267)
Adjustment for:
Depreciation and amortisation 10, 11 287 331
Impairment of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment 10, 11 132 145
Equity-settled share-based payment expenses 5(D) 16 14
(Profit)/loss on sale of property, plant and equipment 6 (12) 71
Share of profit of joint ventures and associates 12 (9) (12)
(Gain)/loss on foreign exchange 6 (23) 26
Dividends received from joint ventures and associates 12 10 9
Financial income 4 (72) (122)
Financial expenses 4 161 205
Loss from discontinued operation 8 14 –
T axation 7 (42) –
Operating profit before changes in working capital and provisions 438 400
Increase in inventories (2) (5)
Decrease/(increase) in trade and other receivables 93 (235)
(Decrease)/increase in trade and other payables (183) 265
(Decrease)/increase in provisions and employee benefits (23) 42
Cash flows from operations 323 467
Interest paid (68) (109)
Interest received 6 53
Income taxes paid (43) (33)
Cash flows from operating activities 218 378
Investing activities
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 161 347
Proceeds from disposal of subsidiaries net of cash disposed of – 2
Acquisition of subsidiaries net of cash acquired 13(B) (48) (90)
Acquisition of minority shareholdings (3) (20)
Investment in joint ventures, associates and other investments (51) (9)
Acquisition of property, plant and equipment and software (234) (277)
Cash flows from investing activities (175) (47)
Financing activities
Proceeds from new loans and deposits taken 17 232
Repayment of borrowings (280) (1,411)
Repayment of finance lease liabilities (22) (26)
Ordinary and minority interest dividends paid 24 (110) (70)
Acquisition of shares for share-based payments 24 – (7)
Cash flows from financing activities (395) (1,282)
Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents (352) (951)
Cash and cash equivalents at start of the year 17 1,130 1,959
Reclassification of cash to assets classified as held for sale (4) –
Effect of foreign exchange on cash held 16 122
Cash and cash equivalents at end of the year 17 790 1,130
Movements in cash and net debt are presented in Note 26.
In accordance with IAS 7 Cash flow statements, the acquisition of shares for share-based payments has been restated in the comparative year 
to be presented as a financing activity rather than an operating activity.
66 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009
www.tuitravelplc.com
Financial statements
Consolidated statement of cash flows
for the year ended 30 September 2009 Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
Year ended Year ended
30 September 30 September
2009 2008
Note £m £m
Foreign exchange translation 25(J) 129 180
Actuarial (losses)/gains arising in respect of defined benefit pension schemes 5(C) (271) 4
Cash flow hedges:
– movement in fair value 25(J) (60) 163
– amounts recycled to the income statement 25(J) (81) 37
Changes in the fair value of available for sale financial asset 12 (1) –
T ax on items taken directly to equity 7 105 (62)
Net (loss)/income recognised directly in equity (179) 322
Loss for the year (24) (267)
Total recognised (expense)/income for the year (203) 55
Attributable to:
Equity holders of the parent (205) 50
Minority interest 2 5
Total (203) 55
TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 67
www.tuitravelplc.com
Consolidated statement of recognised income and expense
for the year ended 30 September 2009 1. Accounting policies
The following accounting policies have been applied consistently to all
years presented in these consolidated financial statements.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in the Group’s
presentational currency of Sterling, rounded to the nearest million.
(A) Statement of compliance
The consolidated financial statements for the year ended 
30 September 2009 have been prepared and approved by the
Directors in accordance with International Financial Reporting
Standards as adopted by the European Union (Adopted IFRSs). 
The consolidated financial statements were approved on 
30 November 2009.
(B) Basis of preparation
(i) Parent Company
TUI Travel PLC (the Company) is a company incorporated and
domiciled in England and Wales under the Companies Act 1985 and
listed on the London Stock Exchange. The Registered Office of the
Company is TUI Travel House, Crawley Business Quarter, Fleming Way,
Crawley, West Sussex RH10 9QL.
The Company has elected to prepare its parent company financial
statements in accordance with UK GAAP.
(ii) Underlying measures of profits and losses
The Group believes that underlying operating profit, underlying profit
before tax and underlying earnings per share provide additional
guidance to statutory measures to help understand the underlying
performance of the business during the financial year. The term
underlying is not defined under International Financial Reporting
Standards. It is a measure that is used by management to assess the
underlying performance of the business internally and is not intended
to be a substitute measure for Adopted IFRSs’ GAAP measures. The
Group defines these underlying measures as follows:
Underlying operating profit is operating profit or loss from continuing
operations stated before separately disclosed items (Note 3),
amortisation of intangible assets acquired in business combinations,
impairment of goodwill and taxation on the Group’s share of the
results of joint ventures and associates.
Underlying profit before tax is profit or loss from continuing
operations before taxation (Group and share of joint ventures and
associates), amortisation of intangible assets acquired in business
combinations, impairment of goodwill and separately disclosed items
included within both the operating result (Note 3) and net financial
expenses (Note 4).
Underlying earnings used in the calculation of underlying earnings 
per share is profit after tax from continuing operations excluding
amortisation of intangible assets acquired in business combinations,
impairment of goodwill and separately disclosed items included within
both the operating result (Note 3) and net financial expenses (Note 4)
(net of related taxation).
It should be noted that the definitions of underlying items being used
in these consolidated financial statements are those used by the
Group and may not be comparable with the term ‘underlying’ as
defined by other companies within both the same sector or elsewhere.
(iii) Separately disclosed items
Separately disclosed items are those significant items which in
management’s judgement are highlighted by virtue of their size or
incidence to enable a full understanding of the Group’s financial
performance. Such items are included within the income statement
caption to which they relate (Notes 3 and 4).
(iv) Business Performance Review
The Group’s business activities, together with factors likely to affect 
its future development, performance and position are set out in the
Business Performance Review. In addition, Note 25 sets out the
Group’s objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital,
financial risks, financial instruments and hedging activities as well as 
its exposures to credit and liquidity risk.
(v) Funding and liquidity
The Board remains satisfied with the Group’s funding and liquidity
position. The two main sources of debt funding are the shareholder
loan from TUI AG, which is €919m and is being repaid in instalments
over the period to April 2011 and the £910m of syndicated bank
revolving credit facility which matures in June 2012. On 25 September
2009 the Group also agreed an annually renewable £40m bonding and
letter of credit facility. In addition, on 1 October 2009, the Group
offered £350m of senior unsecured convertible bonds due 2014. The
coupon has been set at 6.0% per annum, and the conversion price has
been set at 349.3p per share, which represents a premium of 33.0%
over the volume weighted average price of TUI Travel PLC’s ordinary
shares from launch to pricing. Settlement occurred on 5 October 2009.
The ratio of Earnings Before Interest, T axation, Depreciation,
Amortisation and operating lease Rentals (EBITDAR) to fixed charges
(being the aggregate amount of interest and any other finance charges
in respect of borrowings and including all payments under operating
leases) and the ratio of net debt to EBITDA, which the Board believes
to be the most useful measures of cash generation and gearing, as
well as being the main basis for the Group’s credit facility covenants,
are currently well within the covenant limits. Forecasts reviewed by the
Board, including forecasts adjusted for significantly worse economic
conditions, show continued compliance with these covenants. EBITDA
is Earnings Before Interest, T axation, Depreciation and Amortisation.
For both covenants earnings are calculated on an underlying basis as
described in Note 1(B)(ii).
On the basis of its forecasts, both base case and adjusted as
described above, and available facilities, the Board has concluded that
the going concern basis of preparation continues to be appropriate.
(C) Basis of consolidation
The consolidated financial statements are prepared on the historical
cost basis other than derivative financial instruments, financial
instruments held for trading, financial instruments classified as
available for sale and liabilities for cash-settled share-based payments,
which are stated at their fair value. Non-current assets and disposal
groups held for sale are stated at the lower of their carrying amount
and fair value less costs to sell.
The Group financial statements consolidate those of the Company
and its subsidiaries (together referred to as the Group) and equity
account the Group’s interest in joint ventures and associates. The
parent company financial statements present information about the
Company as a separate entity and not about the Group.
(i) Subsidiaries
Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group. Control exists when
the Group has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial
and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its
activities. In assessing control, potential voting rights that are currently
exercisable or convertible are taken into account. The financial
statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial
information from the date that control commences until the date that
control ceases.
Financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
68 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009
www.tuitravelplc.com Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
(ii) Joint ventures and associates
Joint ventures are jointly controlled entities whose activities the Group
has the power to jointly control, established by contractual agreement.
Associates are those entities in which the Group has the ability to
exercise significant influence, but not control, over the financial and
operating policies. The consolidated financial statements include the
Group’s share of the total recognised income and expense of joint
ventures and associates on an equity accounted basis, from the date
that joint control or significant influence respectively commences until
the date that it ceases. Associates and joint ventures are recorded 
at cost as adjusted for post-acquisition changes in the Group’s share 
of net assets of the entity including goodwill net of accumulated
impairment loss. When the Group’s share of losses exceeds the
carrying amount of the joint venture or associate, the carrying 
amount is reduced to nil and recognition of further losses is
discontinued except to the extent that the Group has incurred legal 
or constructive obligations or made payments on behalf of the joint
venture or associate.
(iii) Transactions eliminated on consolidation
Intra-group balances and any unrealised gains or income and expenses
arising from intra-group transactions, are eliminated in preparing the
consolidated financial statements. Unrealised gains arising from
transactions with associates and jointly controlled entities are eliminated
to the extent of the Group’s interest in the entity. Unrealised losses
are eliminated in the same way as unrealised gains, but only to the
extent that there is no evidence of impairment.
(iv) Acquisition in stages
When control is obtained in successive share purchases (a ‘step
acquisition’), each significant transaction is accounted for separately
and the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired
are stated at fair value when control is obtained. The fair value of the
acquiree’s identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities may 
be different at the date of each purchase transaction. Any adjustment
to those fair values relating to previously held interests of the acquirer
is accounted for as a revaluation.
(v) Contingent acquisition consideration
Contingent consideration is recognised when the payment amount
becomes probable and the amount can be reliably measured. The
purchase price is subsequently adjusted against goodwill or negative
goodwill as the estimate of the amount payable is revised.
(vi) Non-current assets held for sale
The Group classifies non-current assets as held for sale if their carrying
amount will be recovered principally through a sale transaction rather
than through continuing use. T o be classified as held for sale, the
assets must be available for immediate sale in their present condition,
subject only to terms that are usual and customary for the sale of such
assets, and their sale must be highly probable. Sale is considered to be
highly probable when management are committed to a plan to sell the
assets and an active programme to locate a buyer and complete the
plan has been initiated, at a price that is reasonable in relation to their
current fair value, and there is an expectation that the sale will be
completed within one year from the date of classification. Non-current
assets classified as held for sale are carried on the Group’s balance
sheet at the lower of their carrying amount and fair value less costs 
to sell.
(D) Foreign currency
(i) Foreign currency transactions
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated at the foreign
exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets
and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet
date are translated to Sterling at the foreign exchange rate ruling at
that date. Foreign exchange differences arising on translation are
recognised in the income statement (except for differences arising on
the retranslation of a financial liability designated as a hedge of the
net investment in a foreign operation, or qualifying cash flow hedges,
which are recognised directly in equity). Non-monetary assets and
liabilities that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign
currency are translated using the exchange rate at the date of the
transaction. Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in
foreign currencies that are stated at fair value are translated to 
Sterling at foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates the fair values
were determined.
(ii) Foreign operations
The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill 
and fair value adjustments arising on consolidation, are translated to
Sterling at the foreign exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
The revenues and expenses of overseas operations are translated 
at rates approximating to the foreign exchange rates ruling at the
dates of the transactions. Foreign exchange differences arising on
retranslation have been recognised directly in equity in the translation
reserve, a designated foreign exchange reserve, since 1 January 2007.
Foreign exchange gains and losses arising from a monetary item
receivable from or payable to a foreign operation, the settlement 
of which is neither planned nor likely in the foreseeable future, are
considered to form part of a net investment in a foreign operation 
and are recognised directly in equity in the translation reserve.
(iii) Net investment in foreign operations
The Group applies hedge accounting to foreign currency differences
arising between the functional currency of the foreign operation and
the parent entity’s functional currency (Sterling) regardless of whether
the net investment is held directly or through an intermediate parent.
Foreign currency differences arising on the retranslation of a financial
liability designated as a hedge of a net investment in a foreign
operation are recognised in the consolidated statement of recognised
income and expense to the extent that the hedge is effective and are
presented within equity in the translation reserve. T o the extent that
the hedge is ineffective, such differences are recognised in profit or
loss. When the hedged part of a net investment is disposed of the
relevant amount in the translation reserve is transferred to profit or
loss as part of the profit or loss on disposal.
(E) Financial instruments
(i) Financial assets
Financial assets are either classified as loans and receivables, available
for sale financial assets, or financial assets at fair value through profit
or loss. Financial assets include cash and cash equivalents, trade
receivables, other receivables, loans, other investments, and derivative
financial instruments. The Group determines the classification of its
financial assets at initial recognition. Financial assets are recognised
initially at fair value, normally being the transaction price plus, in the
case of financial assets not at fair value through profit or loss, directly
attributable transaction costs. The subsequent measurement of
financial assets depends on their classification, as follows:
TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 69
www.tuitravelplc.com Loans and receivables
Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed 
or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
Such assets are carried at amortised cost using the effective interest
method if the time value of money is significant. Gains and losses are
recognised in income when the loans and receivables are derecognised
or impaired, as well as through the amortisation process. This category
of financial assets includes trade and other receivables.
Available for sale financial assets
Available for sale financial assets are those non-derivative financial
assets that are not classified as loans and receivables or financial
assets at fair value through profit or loss. After initial recognition,
available for sale financial assets are measured at fair value, with gains
or losses recognised as a separate component of equity until the
investment is derecognised or until the investment is determined to
be impaired, at which time the cumulative gain or loss previously
reported in equity is included in the consolidated income statement.
Note 1(Y)(iv) describes the basis on which fair value is determined.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits.
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral
part of the Group’s cash management are included as a component 
of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose only of the consolidated
statement of cash flows.
Derivatives
Derivatives are accounted for in accordance with the policy in 1(E)(iii).
Derecognition
The Group derecognises a financial asset when the contractual rights
to the cash flows from the asset expire, or it transfers the rights to
receive the contractual cash flows on the financial asset in a transaction
in which substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the
financial asset are transferred. Any interest in transferred financial
assets that is created or retained by the Group is recognised as a
separate asset or liability.
(ii) Financial liabilities
Financial liabilities are either classified as financial liabilities measured
at amortised cost, or financial liabilities at fair value through profit or
loss. Financial liabilities include trade and other payables, accruals,
finance debt and derivative financial instruments. The Group determines
the classification of its financial liabilities at initial recognition. Financial
liabilities are recognised initially at fair value, normally being the
transaction price plus, in the case of financial liabilities not at fair value
through profit or loss, directly attributable transaction costs. The
subsequent measurement of financial liabilities depends on their
classification, as follows:
Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost
All financial liabilities are initially recognised at fair value. For interest-
bearing loans and borrowings this is the fair value of the proceeds
received net of issue costs associated with the borrowing. After initial
recognition, financial liabilities other than those at fair value through
profit or loss are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the
effective interest method. Amortised cost is calculated by taking into
account any issue costs, and any discount or premium on settlement.
Gains and losses arising on the repurchase, settlement or cancellation
of liabilities are recognised respectively in interest and other revenues
and finance costs. This category of financial liabilities includes trade
and other payables.
Derivatives
Derivatives are accounted for in accordance with the policy in 1(E)(iii).
Derecognition
The Group derecognises a financial liability when the contractual
obligations to pay the contractual cash flows on the financial liability
are discharged, cancelled or expire.
(iii) Derivative financial instruments
The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure
to foreign exchange, interest rate and fuel price risks arising from
operational, financing and investment activities. In accordance with its
treasury policy, the Group does not hold or issue derivative financial
instruments for trading purposes. However, derivatives that do not
qualify for hedge accounting are accounted for as trading instruments.
Derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value on
the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently
remeasured at fair value. The method of recognising the resulting gain
or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging
instrument and if so the nature of the item being hedged. The gain 
or loss on remeasurement to fair value on derivatives not designated
as a hedging instrument is recognised immediately in the consolidated
income statement. Where derivatives qualify for hedge accounting, see
Accounting Policy 1(F).
(iv) Share capital
Ordinary shares are classified as equity. Incremental costs directly
attributable to the issue of ordinary shares and share awards are
recognised as a deduction from equity, net of any tax effects.
(F) Hedge accounting
The Group designates certain derivatives as either hedges of a
particular risk associated with a recognised asset or liability or a highly
probable forecast transaction (cash flow hedge) or a hedge of the 
fair value of recognised assets or liabilities or a firm commitment 
(fair value hedge).
On initial designation of the hedge, the Group formally documents the
relationship between the hedging instrument(s) and hedged item(s),
including the risk management objectives and strategy in undertaking
the hedge transaction, together with the methods that will be used to
assess the effectiveness of the hedging relationship. The Group makes
an assessment, both at the inception of the hedge relationship as well
as on an ongoing basis, whether the hedging instruments are expected
to be ‘highly effective’ in offsetting the changes in the fair value or
cash flows of the respective hedged items during the period for which
the hedge is designated, and whether the actual results of each hedge
are within a range of 80-125%. For a cash flow hedge of a forecast
transaction, the transaction should be highly probable to occur and
should present an exposure to variations in cash flows that could
ultimately affect reported net income.
Derivatives are recognised initially at fair value; attributable transaction
costs are recognised in profit or loss as incurred. Subsequent to initial
recognition, derivatives are measured at fair value, and changes therein
are accounted for as described below:
Financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
70 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009
www.tuitravelplc.com Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
(i) Cash flow hedges
Where a derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge of
the variability in cash flows arising from a recognised asset or liability,
or a highly probable forecast transaction, the effective part of any fair
value gain or loss on the derivative financial instrument is recognised
directly in the hedging reserve. Any ineffective portion of the hedge 
is recognised immediately within the consolidated income statement.
When the forecast transaction subsequently results in the recognition
of a non-financial asset or non-financial liability, the associated
cumulative gain or loss is removed from the hedging reserve and is
included in the initial cost or other carrying amount of the non-
financial asset or liability. If a hedge of a forecast transaction
subsequently results in the recognition of a financial asset or a
financial liability, the associated gains and losses that were recognised
directly in equity are reclassified into the consolidated income
statement in the same period or periods during which the asset
acquired or liability assumed affects profit or loss.
For cash flow hedges, other than those covered by the preceding two
paragraphs, the associated cumulative gain or loss is removed from
equity and recognised in the consolidated income statement in the
same period or periods during which the hedged forecast transaction
affects the consolidated income statement.
Prospective hedge testing is performed at the inception of the hedge
relationship and subsequently at each balance sheet date, through
comparison of the critical terms of the hedged forecast transaction
and the hedging instrument. Critical terms are the maturity, amount
and currency of the cash flows relating to the hedging instrument 
and the forecast hedged transaction. Retrospective hedge testing is
performed at each reporting date principally using a dollar offset
analysis, comparing the cumulative changes in the fair values of the
forecast hedged transaction and the hedging instrument.
When a hedging instrument no longer meets the criteria for hedge
accounting, expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or the entity
revokes designation of the hedge relationship, hedge accounting is
discontinued prospectively. If the hedged forecast transaction is still
expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss at that point remains in
equity and is recognised in accordance with the above policy when the
transaction occurs. If the hedged transaction is no longer expected to
take place, the cumulative unrealised gain or loss recognised in equity
is recognised in the consolidated income statement immediately.
(ii) Fair value hedges
Where a derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge 
of the variability in fair value of a recognised asset or liability or an
unrecognised firm commitment, all changes in the fair value of the
derivative are recognised immediately in the income statement. 
The carrying value of the hedged item is adjusted by the change 
in fair value that is attributable to the risk being hedged (even if it 
is normally carried at cost or amortised cost) and any fair value gains
or losses on remeasurement of the hedged risk are recognised
immediately in the income statement (even if those gains would
normally be recognised directly in equity).
(G) Revenue
Revenue represents the aggregate amount earned from inclusive
tours, scheduled and charter flying, provision of incoming agency
destination services, travel agency commission received and other
services supplied to customers in the ordinary course of business.
Revenue excludes intra-group transactions and is stated after the
deduction of trade discounts and sales taxes. Revenue is reported
gross of fixed charges which are a liability of the tour operator or
airline. These include Air Passenger Duty and other per passenger
charges and levies, including the ATOL Protection Contribution in 
the UK.
(i) Revenue recognition
Revenue is recognised in the income statement when the significant
risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred to the buyer.
Travel agency commissions and other revenues received from the sale
of third party product are recognised when they are earned, typically
on receipt of final payment. Revenue in respect of in-house product is
all recognised on the date of departure. Revenue from individual travel
modules directly booked by the customer with airlines, hotels and
incoming agencies is recognised when the customer departs or uses
the respective service.
No revenue is recognised if there are significant uncertainties
regarding recovery of the consideration due, associated costs or
possible return of goods.
(ii) Client monies received in advance (deferred income)
Client monies received at the balance sheet date relating to holidays
commencing and flights departing after the year end is deferred and
included within trade and other payables.
(iii) Valuation of revenue
Where the Group acts as principal, revenue is stated at the contractual
value of goods and services provided.
Where the Group acts as agent and collects amounts on behalf of the
principal provider of goods or services, revenue is stated at the value
of the commissions earned and not the total transaction sales value.
Where the Group acts as intermediary between the service provider
and the end customer, revenue is presented on a net basis as the
difference between the sales price to the customer and the cost of 
the services purchased. Businesses are identified as intermediaries
dependent on a number of criteria, principally including: the control
exercised over the provision of service, inventory risk, and customer
credit risk.
(iv) Aircraft lease income
Operating lease rental incomes are recognised in operating income 
as earned, on a straightline basis over the lease term.
(H) Expenses
(i) Operating lease payments
Payments made under operating leases are recognised in the income
statement on a straightline basis over the term of the lease. Lease
incentives received are recognised in the income statement as an
integral part of the total lease expense over the term of the lease.
TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 71
www.tuitravelplc.com (ii) Finance lease payments
Minimum lease payments are apportioned between the finance 
charge and the reduction of the outstanding liability. The finance
charge is allocated to each period during the lease term so as to
produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance
of the liability.
(iii) Marketing and other direct sales costs
Marketing, advertising and other promotional costs, including those
related to the production of brochures, are expensed when the benefit
of the goods or services is made available to the Group. In particular,
brochure costs are expensed when the Group has access to the
related advertising or promotional material.
(I) Employee benefits
(i) Defined contribution plans
Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension plans are
recognised as an expense in the income statement as incurred.
(ii) Defined benefit plans
The Group’s net obligation in respect of defined benefit pension plans
is calculated separately for each plan by estimating the amount of
future benefit that employees have earned in return for their service 
in current and prior periods. That benefit is discounted to determine
its present value and any unrecognised past service costs and the fair
value of any plan assets is deducted in calculating the overall liability.
The liability discount rate is the yield at the balance sheet date on AA
credit-rated bonds denominated in the currency of and having the
same maturity dates approximating to the terms of the Group’s
obligations. The calculation is performed by a qualified actuary using
the projected unit credit method.
Where the calculation results in a benefit to the Group, the asset
recognised is limited to the present value of any future refunds from
the plan or reductions in future contributions to the plan which are
under the control of the Group.
When the benefits of a plan are improved, the portion of the
increased benefit relating to past services by employees is recognised
as an expense in the income statement on a straightline basis over the
average period until the benefits become vested. T o the extent that
the benefits vest immediately, the expense is recognised immediately
in the income statement.
All actuarial gains and losses are recognised in the period they occur
directly in equity through the consolidated statement of recognised
income and expense. Either monthly or annual contributions are made
to funded schemes.
(iii) Share-based payment transactions
The Group’s share award programmes allow certain Group employees
to acquire shares of the Company; these shares are awarded by the
Company. For equity-settled transactions, the fair value of services is
measured by the fair value of the shares at the time awarded and is
recognised as an employee expense with a corresponding increase 
in equity. The fair value is spread over the period during which the
employee becomes entitled to the awards.
The fair value of the awards is measured using option valuation
models, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the
awards were made. The amount recognised as an expense is adjusted
to reflect the actual number of share awards that vest except where
forfeiture is due only to market-based performance conditions not
meeting the threshold for vesting.
For cash-settled transactions, the resulting liability for the Group is
charged to expenses at its fair value as at the date of the performance
of the service by the beneficiary. Until payment of this liability, the fair
value of the liability is remeasured at every reporting date and all
changes in the fair value are carried with an effect on results.
(iv) Own shares held by the Employee Benefit Trust
Transactions of the Group-sponsored Employee Benefit Trust are
included in the Group’s consolidated financial statements. In particular,
the trust’s purchase of shares in the Company is debited directly in
equity to retained earnings.
(v) Short term benefits
Short term employee benefits are measured on an undiscounted basis
and are expensed as the related service is provided.
(J) Financial income and expenses
Financial income comprises interest income on funds invested
(including available for sale financial assets), dividend income, gains 
on the disposal of available for sale financial assets and changes in the
fair value of financial assets or liabilities at fair value through profit or
loss. Interest income is recognised as it accrues in profit or loss, using
the effective interest method. Dividend income is recognised in profit
or loss on the date that the Group’s right to receive payment is
established, which in the case of quoted securities is the ex-dividend
date. Foreign currency gains and losses are reported on a net basis.
Financial expenses comprise interest expense on borrowings,
unwinding of the discount on provisions, changes in the fair value of
financial assets or liabilities at fair value through profit or loss and
impairment losses recognised on financial assets. All borrowing costs
are recognised in profit or loss using the effective interest method.
Foreign currency gains and losses are reported on a net basis.
(K) Taxation
Income tax comprises current and deferred tax. Income tax is
recognised in the consolidated income statement except to the extent
that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is
recognised in equity.
(i) Current tax
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for 
the period, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the
balance sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of
previous periods.
(ii) Deferred tax
Deferred tax is provided or recognised using the balance sheet liability
method, providing for temporary differences between the carrying
amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and
the amounts used for taxation purposes. The following temporary
differences are not provided for: the initial recognition of goodwill 
not deductible for tax purposes, the initial recognition of assets or
liabilities in a transaction that is not a business combination and
differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that
they will probably not reverse in the foreseeable future. The amount 
of deferred tax asset recognised is based on the expected manner of
realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities,
using the tax rate at which the asset or liability is expected to reverse
in future periods, based on tax laws enacted or substantively enacted
at the balance sheet date.
Financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
72 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009
www.tuitravelplc.com Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable
that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can
be utilised. Deferred tax assets are reduced to the extent that it is no
longer probable that the related tax benefit will be realised.
(L) Dividends
Dividend distribution to the Company’s shareholders is recognised as
a liability in the Group’s financial statements in the period in which the
dividends are appropriately authorised and approved for payment and
are no longer at the discretion of the Company. Unpaid dividends that
do not meet these criteria are disclosed in the notes to the financial
statements.
(M) Earnings per share
The Group presents basic and diluted earnings per share (EPS) data
for its ordinary shares. Basic EPS is calculated by dividing the profit 
or loss attributable to ordinary shareholders of the Company by the
weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the
period. Diluted EPS is determined by adjusting the weighted average
number of ordinary shares outstanding for the effects of all dilutive
potential ordinary shares. EPS measures for both continuing and
discontinued operations have been presented in accordance with 
IAS 33. The Group also presents a basic and diluted underlying EPS
measure based on underlying earnings as defined in Note 1(B)(ii)
above. Further details of the EPS calculation are presented in Note 33.
(N) Non-current assets held for sale
IFRS 5 requires that a non-current asset or a disposal group
containing a non-current asset is classified as held for sale if its
carrying amount will be recovered principally through sale rather than
through continuing use, it is available for immediate sale and sale is
highly probable within one year.
On initial classification as held for sale, non-current assets and
disposal groups are measured at the lower of previous carrying
amount and fair value less costs to sell with any adjustments taken to
profit or loss. The same applies to gains and losses on subsequent
remeasurement.
Any impairment loss on a disposal group is allocated first to goodwill
and then to remaining applicable assets on a pro rata basis (except no
loss is allocated to inventories, financial assets, deferred tax assets or
employee benefit assets, which continue to be measured in
accordance with the Group’s accounting policies).
Certain assets/liabilities are excluded from the measurement basis of
IFRS 5 including: deferred tax assets (IAS 12 Income T axes), assets
arising from employee benefits (IAS 19 Employee Benefits) and
financial assets within the scope of IAS 39 Financial Instruments:
Recognition and Measurement.
(O) Investments
Trade investments are classified as available for sale assets and are
included under non-current assets. They are recorded at fair value with
movements in value taken to equity. Any impairment to value is
recorded in the income statement.
Short term investments in debt and equity securities which are held
for trading are classified as current assets and are stated at fair value,
with any resultant gain or loss recognised in the income statement.
(P) Intangible assets
(i) Goodwill
All business combinations are accounted for by applying the 
purchase method.
Goodwill represents amounts arising on acquisition of subsidiaries,
jointly controlled entities and associates. Goodwill represents the
difference between the fair value of consideration paid or payable and
the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent
liabilities acquired. Identifiable intangibles are those which can be sold
separately or which arise from legal rights regardless of whether those
rights are separable. Goodwill is stated at cost less any accumulated
impairment losses. Goodwill is allocated to those cash generating 
units expected to benefit from the business combination and is not
amortised but tested annually for impairment. Impairment testing is
based on assets grouped at the lowest level at which goodwill is
monitored for internal management purposes. In respect of joint
ventures and associates, the carrying amount of goodwill is included in
the carrying amount of the investment in the joint venture or associate.
Fair value adjustments are made in respect of acquisitions. If at the
balance sheet date, the amounts of fair values of the acquiree’s
identifiable assets and liabilities can only be established provisionally,
then these values are used. Any adjustments to these values are taken
as adjustments to goodwill and must be recorded within 12 months of
the acquisition.
Negative goodwill arising on an acquisition is recognised in the income
statement upon acquisition.
(ii) Computer software and other intangible assets
Computer software consists of all software that is not an integral part of
the related computer hardware and is stated at cost less accumulated
amortisation and impairment losses.
(iii) Amortisation
Amortisation is charged to the income statement on a straightline
basis over the estimated useful economic life of each type of
intangible asset as follows:
Computer software 3 – 10 years
Brands 15 – 20 years
Order book at date of acquisition Over the period until travel occurs
Customer relationships Over the period during which value will be
obtained by the Group (up to 15 years)
Goodwill is not amortised but is tested annually for impairment.
(Q) Property, plant and equipment
(i) Owned assets
Items of property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less
accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
Where significant parts of an item of property, plant and equipment
have different useful lives, they are accounted for as separate items 
of property, plant and equipment.
(ii) Leased assets
Leases in which the Group assumes substantially all the risks and
rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases. Leased assets
acquired by way of a finance lease are stated at an amount equal to
the lower of their fair value and the present value of the minimum
lease payments at the inception of the lease, less accumulated
depreciation and impairment losses. Lease payments are accounted
for as set out in Note 1(H) above.
TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 73
www.tuitravelplc.com (iii) Depreciation
Depreciation is charged to the income statement on a straightline
basis over the estimated useful economic lives of each part of an item
of property, plant and equipment. Freehold land is not depreciated.
The useful economic lives are as follows:
Freehold properties Up to 50 years
Short leasehold improvements Lease period or useful economic 
life if shorter
Owned aircraft Up to 18 years
Finance leased aircraft 
and equipment Lease period or useful economic 
life if shorter
Aircraft spares 12 years
Cruise ships 20 years
Yachts 5-15 years
Motor boats 15-24 years
Computer equipment including
retail computer equipment 3-5 years
Retail fixtures and fittings 8 years
Other assets 4 years
The cost of major overhauls of owned airframes and engines is
capitalised and depreciated over the period until the next scheduled
major overhaul.
The depreciation methods, useful economic lives and residual values
are reassessed annually. Revisions to useful economic lives and residual
values are accounted for prospectively from the date of change.
Assets under construction are not depreciated.
(iv) Borrowing costs
In respect of borrowing costs relating to qualifying assets, the Group
capitalises borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition,
construction or production of a qualifying asset as part of the cost 
of that asset.
The Group has capitalised borrowing costs with respect to pre-delivery
payments relating to aircraft.
(v) Sale and leaseback transactions
When a sale and leaseback results in a finance lease, any gain on the
sale is deferred and recognised as income over the lease term. Any
loss on the sale is immediately recognised as an impairment loss when
the sale occurs.
If the leaseback is classified as an operating lease, then any gain is
recognised immediately if the sale and leaseback terms are
demonstrably at fair value. Otherwise, the sale and leaseback are
accounted for as follows:
If the sale price is below fair value then the gain or loss is recognised
immediately other than to the extent that a loss is compensated for 
by future rentals at a below-market price, then the loss is deferred
and amortised over the period that the asset is expected to be used.
If the sale price is above fair value, then any gain is deferred and
amortised over the useful life of the asset.
If the fair value of the asset is less than the carrying amount of the
asset at the date of the transaction, then that difference is recognised
immediately as a loss on the sale.
(R) Impairments
(i) Financial assets
A financial asset is assessed at each reporting date to determine
whether there is any objective evidence that it is impaired. A financial
asset is considered to be impaired if objective evidence indicates that
one or more events have had a negative effect on the estimated
future cash flows of that asset.
An impairment loss in respect of a financial asset is calculated as the
difference between its carrying amount and its recoverable amount.
An impairment loss in respect of an available for sale financial asset is
calculated by reference to its fair value. The recoverable amount of the
Group’s receivables which are carried at amortised cost is calculated as
the present value of estimated future cash flows, discounted at the
original effective interest rate (i.e. the effective interest rate computed
at initial recognition of these financial assets). Receivables with a short
duration are not discounted.
Individually significant financial assets are tested for impairment on an
individual basis. The remaining financial assets are assessed collectively
in groups that share similar credit risk characteristics.
All impairment losses are recognised in profit or loss. Any cumulative
loss in respect of an available for sale financial asset previously
recognised in equity is transferred to profit or loss. An impairment 
loss is reversed if the reversal can be related objectively to an event
occurring after the impairment loss was recognised. For financial
assets measured at amortised cost and available for sale financial
assets that are debt securities, the reversal is recognised in profit or
loss. For available for sale financial assets that are equity securities, 
the reversal is recognised directly in equity.
(ii) Non-financial assets
The carrying amount of the Group’s non-financial assets, other than
inventory and deferred tax assets, are reviewed at each balance sheet
date to determine whether there is any indication of impairment. If
such an indication exists, the asset’s recoverable amount is estimated.
For goodwill, the recoverable amount is estimated at each balance
sheet date.
An impairment loss is recognised whenever the carrying amount of an
asset or its cash generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount. The
recoverable amount of an asset or cash generating unit is the greater
of its value in use and fair value less costs to sell. In assessing value in
use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present
value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market
assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the
asset. A cash generating unit is the smallest identifiable group of
assets that generates cash inflows that are largely independent of 
the cash inflows from other assets or groups of assets.
Impairment losses are recognised in profit or loss. Impairment losses
recognised in respect of cash generating units are allocated first to
reduce the carrying amount of goodwill allocated to the cash
generating unit and then to reduce the carrying amount of other
assets in the unit on a pro rata basis.
An impairment loss in respect of goodwill is not reversed. In respect 
of other assets, impairment losses recognised in prior periods are
assessed at each reporting date for any indications that the loss has
decreased or no longer exists. An impairment loss is reversed if there
has been a change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable
amount. An impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the
asset’s carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that
would have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, 
if no impairment loss had been recognised.
Financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
74 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009
www.tuitravelplc.com Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
(S) Inventories
Inventories are measured at the lower of cost or net realisable value.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price less the estimated
costs incurred until the sale and the estimated variable costs required
to sell. All inventories are written down individually where the net
realisable value of inventories is lower than their carrying amounts.
The measurement method applied to similar inventory items is the
weighted average cost formula.
(T) Provisions
A provision is recognised in the consolidated balance sheet when the
Group has a legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event,
it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to
settle the obligation and the outflow of economic benefits can be
reliably estimated. If the effect is material, provisions are determined
by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that
reflects current market assessments of the time value of money 
and the risks specific to the liability.
(i) Maintenance provision for leased aircraft
T o reflect the legal obligations placed upon the Group under the terms
of certain operating leases, provision is made for the maintenance,
overhaul and repair costs of operating leased airframes, engines and
certain other components. The provision is based on the present value
of total anticipated external costs over the useful economic life of the
asset calculated by reference to costs experienced and published
manufacturers’ data. The charge to the income statement is calculated
by reference to the number of hours and cycles flown and by reference
to the length of the full overhaul cycle. Costs incurred are charged
against the provision. Neither the timing nor the value of the
expenditure can be precisely determined but they can be averaged
over time and over a fleet. The unwinding of discounted values is
charged to the income statement as a financial expense.
The cost of major overhauls of owned airframes and engines is
capitalised and depreciated over the period until the next scheduled
major overhaul.
(ii) Restructuring provision
A provision for restructuring is recognised when the Group has
approved a detailed and formal restructuring plan, and the
restructuring either has commenced or has been announced publicly.
Future operating costs are not provided for.
(iii) Onerous contracts
A provision for onerous contracts is recognised when the expected
benefits to be derived by the Group from the contract are lower than
the unavoidable cost of meeting its obligations under the contract. 
The provision is measured at the present value of the lower of the
expected cost of terminating the contract and the expected net cost
of continuing with the contract. Before a provision is established, the
Group recognises any impairment loss on the assets associated with
that contract.
(U) Minority interest
In the consolidated balance sheet, the share of net assets attributable
to minority shareholders is disclosed as a separate component of
equity after share capital and reserves, although it is neither a financial
liability nor an equity instrument. The consolidated income statement
discloses the amount of the result for the year attributable to 
minority shareholders.
Where the Group has a written put option in respect of a minority
interest and has an unavoidable obligation to purchase the
shareholding, the minority interest is recorded as a financial liability 
at fair value, rather than being reported as a separate component of
equity. No result is attributable to minority shareholders and instead
changes to the fair value of the financial liability are recorded at each
period end in the income statement within financial income or
financial expenses.
On purchase or sale of a minority interest shareholding held in a
Group subsidiary, the Group recognises increases or decreases in its
interest directly in equity.
(V) Related parties
For the purpose of these consolidated financial statements, parties 
are considered to be related to the Group if the Group has the ability
directly or indirectly, to control the party or exercise significant
influence over the party making financial and operating decisions, or
vice versa, or where the Group and the party are subject to common
control or common significant influence. Related parties may be
individuals or other entities.
(W) Segment reporting
A segment is a distinguishable component of the Group that is
engaged either in providing related products or services (business
segment), or in providing products or services within a particular
economic environment (geographical segment), which is subject to
risks and returns that are different from those of other segments.
Segment information is presented in respect of the Group’s business
and geographical segments. The Group’s primary format for segment
reporting is based on business segments. As described in Note 2, all
items are allocated to segments except corporate costs, net financial
expenses, and corporate assets and liabilities.
(X) Use of estimates
The preparation of financial statements requires management to make
judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of
accounting policies and the reported amounts of assets, liabilities,
income and expenses. Actual results may differ from these estimates.
Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing
basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period
in which the estimates are revised and in any future periods affected.
Details of critical judgements, significant estimates and assumptions
are disclosed in the relevant notes to the consolidated financial
statements. The key estimates and judgements are described in 
Note 31.
TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 75
www.tuitravelplc.com (Y) Determination of fair values
A number of the Group’s accounting policies and disclosures require
the determination of fair value, for both financial and non-financial
assets and liabilities. Fair values have been determined for
measurement and/or disclosure purposes based on the following
methods. When applicable, further information about the assumptions
made in determining fair values is disclosed in the notes specific to
that asset or liability.
(i) Property, plant and equipment
The fair value of property, plant and equipment recognised as a result
of a business combination is based on market values. The market value
of property is the estimated amount for which a property could be
exchanged on the date of valuation between a willing buyer and a willing
seller in an arms length transaction after proper marketing wherein
the parties had each acted knowledgeably, prudently and without
compulsion. The market value of items of plant, equipment, fixtures
and fittings is based on the quoted market prices for similar items.
(ii) Intangible assets
The fair value of intangible assets recognised as a result of a business
combination, including brands, customer relationships and the
customer order book at the date of acquisition, is valued by reference
to external market values or income based methods. Income based
methods estimate the future economic benefits to be derived from
ownership of the asset by identifying, quantifying and separating cash
flows attributable to the asset and capitalising their present value.
(iii) Inventories
The fair value of inventories acquired in a business combination is
determined based on the estimated selling price in the ordinary
course of business less the estimated costs of completion and sale,
and a reasonable profit margin based on the effort required to
complete and sell the inventories.
(iv) Investments in equity and debt securities
The fair value of financial assets at fair value through profit or loss and
available for sale financial assets is determined by reference to their
quoted closing bid price at the reporting date, where available. The fair
value of held to maturity investments is determined on initial recognition
and thereafter for disclosure purposes only.
(v) Trade and other receivables
Trade receivables are recognised at their fair value and subsequently
recorded at amortised cost using the effective interest method as
reduced by allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts. An
allowance for irrecoverable amounts is established when there is
objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all
amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables. The
amount of allowance is the difference between the asset’s carrying
amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows.
(vi) Trade payables
Trade payables are recognised at their fair value and subsequently
recorded at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
(vii) Derivatives
The fair value of foreign currency contracts, fuel forward contracts and
option contracts is their forward market price at the balance sheet date,
based on external valuations or internal valuations using market data.
(viii) Non-derivative financial liabilities
Fair value, which is determined for disclosure purposes, is calculated
based on the present value of future principal and interest cash flows,
discounted at the market rate of interest at the reporting date. For
finance leases the market rate of interest is determined by reference
to similar lease agreements.
(ix) Share-based payments
The fair value of the shares awarded is measured using option
valuation models, taking into account the terms and conditions upon
which the awards were made. The valuation basis is identical whether
the awards will be settled in cash or shares.
(Z) New Standards and interpretations not yet adopted
IFRS 8 Operating Segments has been endorsed by the European
Union and will be effective for the year ending 30 September 2010.
IFRS 8 introduces the ‘management approach’ to segment reporting
and will require presentation and disclosure of segment information 
to be based on the internal reports regularly reviewed by the Group’s
Chief Operating Decision Maker in order to assess each segment’s
performance and to allocate resources to them. Currently the Group
presents segment information in respect of its business segments
(Note 2) and will continue to do so under the new standard. The
Group is currently assessing the impact that this standard will have 
on the disclosures presented for each segment.
IFRS 3 (2008) Business Combinations supersedes IFRS 3 (2004)
Business Combinations and has been endorsed by the European
Union and will be effective for all acquisitions completing on or after 
1 October 2009. There will be no retrospective application.
IFRS 3 (2008) changes the treatment of incidental acquisition
expenses, the treatment of deferred consideration payments which 
are contingent on continued employment, the measurement of
consideration payable, and the treatment of changes to the amount 
of consideration payable. It is likely to lead to items being expensed in
the income statement which would previously have been included as
part of the cost of investment in an acquired business. The financial
impact of this revised standard will be determined by the prospective
acquisitions undertaken by the Group.
The following standards are also endorsed by the European Union but
are not expected to have a significant impact on the Group’s financial
statements in future years:
IAS 1 (2008) Presentation of Financial Statements has been 
amended and will be applicable for the first time for the year ending 
30 September 2010. The changes will have a presentational impact
only and will not affect the recognition or measurement of items in 
the financial statements.
IAS 32 (2008) Financial Instruments: Presentation clarifies the
treatment of puttable financial instruments and will be effective for
the first time for the year ending 30 September 2010.
IAS 39 (2008) Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement 
is effective for the first time for the year ended 30 September 2010.
The revised standard allows reclassification of instruments into and
out of ‘at fair value through profit and loss’ in certain circumstances
and clarifies the designation of hedges at a segment level.
IFRS 7 (2008) Financial Instruments: Disclosure is effective for the 
first time for the year ending 30 September 2010 and introduces
further disclosure requirements in respect of fair value measurements
and liquidity risk.
The Group continues to monitor the potential impact of other 
new standards and interpretations which may be endorsed by the
European Union and require adoption by the Group in future
accounting periods.
Financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
76 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009
www.tuitravelplc.com Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
2. Segmental information
Segmental information is presented initially by the Group’s business sectors (the primary format) and secondly by geographic region. Segment
results, assets and liabilities include items directly attributable to a segment as well as those that can be allocated on a reasonable basis.
Unallocated items comprise corporate costs, net financial expenses, and corporate assets and liabilities.
(A) Sector analysis
The Sector analysis is based on the Group’s management and reporting structure. A detailed explanation of each Sector is included in the
Business Performance Review.
Mainstream Sector
Specialist & Joint
Total Emerging Accommodation Ventures
Central Northern Western Mainstream Markets Activity & Destinations and Eliminations/ Total
Europe Region Europe Sector Sector Sector Sector Associates Corporate Group
Year ended 30 September 2009 £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Revenue
T otal revenue 4,829 4,302 2,671 11,802 825 816 738 – (318) 13,863
Inter segment revenue (33) (80) (19) (132) – – (186) – 318 –
External revenue:
– continuing operations 4,796 4,151 2,652 11,599 816 758 549 – – 13,722
– acquired operations – 71 – 71 9 58 3 – – 141
Total external revenue 4,796 4,222 2,652 11,670 825 816 552 – – 13,863
Operating profit/(loss) 18 115 (124) 9 18 6 36 9 (41) 37
Amortisation of business
combination intangibles 120 3 24 813 11 – –56
Separately disclosed items 47 71 154 272 5 33 13 3 14 340
Impairment of goodwill ––––– 7 – –– 7
T axation on profits of joint
ventures and associates –––––– – 3 – 3
Underlying operating profit/(loss) 66 206 33 305 31 59 60 15 (27) 443
Analysed as:
Continuing operations 66 204 33 303 30 54 60 15 (27) 435
Acquired operations –2 –215 – – –8
443
Net financial expenses excluding separately disclosed items (Note 4) (77)
Underlying profit before tax 366
Mainstream Sector
Specialist & Joint
T otal Emerging Accommodation Ventures
Central Northern Western Mainstream Markets Activity & Destinations and Eliminations/ T otal
Europe Region Europe Sector Sector Sector Sector Associates Corporate Group
Year ended 30 September 2008 £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Revenue
T otal revenue 4,714 4,532 2,753 11,999 819 780 701 – (367) 13,932
Inter segment revenue (12) (155) (1) (168) – – (199) – 367 –
External revenue:
– continuing operations 4,702 4,377 2,752 11,831 808 706 495 – – 13,840
– acquired operations –––– 11 74 7 – – 92
T otal external revenue 4,702 4,377 2,752 11,831 819 780 502 – – 13,932
Operating (loss)/profit (113) (104) 20 (197) 1 (4) 42 12 (38) (184)
Amortisation of business
combination intangibles 1 58 2 61 8 8 10 – – 87
Separately disclosed items 62 224 15 301 17 46 5 – 11 380
Impairment of goodwill 112 – – 112 – – – – – 112
T axation on profits of joint
ventures and associates –––––– – 3 – 3
Underlying operating profit/(loss) 62 178 37 277 26 50 57 15 (27) 398
Analysed as:
Continuing operations 62 178 37 277 26 42 57 15 (27) 390
Acquired operations ––––– 8 – –– 8
398
Net financial expenses excluding separately disclosed items (Note 4) (79)
Underlying profit before tax 319
TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 77
www.tuitravelplc.com Mainstream Sector
Specialist & Joint
Total Emerging Accommodation Ventures
Central Northern Western Mainstream Markets Activity & Destinations and Total
30 September 2009 and
Europe Region Europe Sector Sector Sector Sector Associates Corporate Group
the year then ended £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Balance sheet
Segment assets 1,272 3,701 1,223 6,196 631 979 1,405 112 (174) 9,149
Segment liabilities (1,574) (2,202) (978) (4,754) (213) (318) (490) – (1,088) (6,863)
Other disclosures
Capital expenditure 32 83 59 174 5 35 16 – 4 234
T otal depreciation of 
PPE and amortisation 39 101 74 214 12 34 27 – – 287
Impairment of goodwill
and other intangibles ––––– 7 – –– 7
Impairment of property, 
plant and equipment – – 124 124 – 1 – – – 125
Mainstream Sector
Specialist & Joint
T otal Emerging Accommodation Ventures
Central Northern Western Mainstream Markets Activity & Destinations and T otal
30 September 2008 and
Europe Region Europe Sector Sector Sector Sector Associates Corporate Group
the year then ended £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Balance sheet
Segment assets 1,231 3,636 1,184 6,051 598 814 1,252 114 498 9,327
Segment liabilities (1,610) (1,975) (934) (4,519) (266) (279) (469) – (1,198) (6,731)
Other disclosures
Capital expenditure 20 103 37 160 4 26 18 – – 208
T otal depreciation of 
PPE and amortisation 45 173 60 278 10 21 22 – – 331
Impairment of goodwill 
and other intangibles 112 – – 112 – 2 – – – 114
Impairment of property, 
plant and equipment 5 18 – 23 – 8 – – – 31
The segmental assets and liabilities above do not include intercompany balances or investments that are eliminated at Group level, and therefore
the analysis does not necessarily represent the net equity positions of the Sectors as if they were stand-alone entities.
Assets shown under Corporate as at September 2009 includes a £710m negative cash balance (2008: nil) which is offset by positive cash
balances in other Sectors as part of the Group’s cash pooling facility.
Capital expenditure comprises additions to plant, property and equipment (Note 11) and computer software and licences (Note 10).
(B) Geographical analysis of business
In presenting information on the basis of secondary geographic segments, segment revenue is based on the geographic location of the customer
that generated that revenue. Segment assets and capital expenditure are based on the geographical location of the assets. Other Europe is
defined as Continental Europe and Eire excluding UK, Germany and France.
UK Germany France Other Europe Rest of the World T otal
2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Revenue from
external customers 4,162 4,392 3,753 3,689 1,337 1,424 3,831 3,682 780 745 13,863 13,932
Segment assets 3,784 3,551 1,051 1,034 899 840 2,402 2,210 1,075 1,080 9,211 8,715
Capital expenditure 65 81 55 16 36 16 59 72 19 23 234 208
Segment assets exclude non-operating assets relating to corporate entities and the Group’s joint ventures and associates, totalling negative assets
of £62m (2008: positive £612m).
78 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009
www.tuitravelplc.com
Financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
3. Separately disclosed items
Year ended Year ended
30 September 30 September
2009 2008
£m £m
Merger related integration costs 143 164
Restructuring expenses 40 65
Aircraft 157 151
Total 340 380
Separately disclosed items within the operating profit/(loss) are included within the income statement as follows:
Year ended Year ended
30 September 30 September
2009 2008
£m £m
Revenue – 12
Cost of sales 209 228
Administrative expenses 131 140
Total 340 380
Merger related integration costs
These relate primarily to the costs of integration of the UK businesses. The majority of costs arise from the integration of First Choice and
Thomson in the UK, and in particular from the formation of one airline and an integrated retail estate. A combined Mainstream UK head office
has been established in Luton. Costs also arise from bringing together former Thomson Specialist businesses with the former First Choice Activity
and Specialist Sectors, notably Ski and UK specialist brands. In the Accommodation & Destinations Sector separate First Choice and TUI T ourism
incoming agencies have been combined in a number of key destinations, notably Spain.
Costs include amounts paid or provided for redundancy and integration remuneration costs, including the cost of the Value Creation Share Plan
and rolled over First Choice share awards (Note 5(D)), property closures and onerous lease obligations, as well as professional fees relating to the
integration project.
IFRS 3 business combination fair value adjustments in respect of First Choice customer deposits held at 3 September 2007 reduced deferred
income by £14m at that date, with a corresponding reduction in statutory revenues for the year ended 30 September 2008 and the period ended
30 September 2007. This amount is included within separately disclosed integration items for the year ended 30 September 2008 in order to
better present the underlying trading performance of the Group in that year.
Restructuring expenses
Costs incurred in the year ended 30 September 2009 relate to restructuring programmes which are not related to the business combination 
of First Choice and the TUI T ourism businesses. The principal items are £16m relating to the closure of the Sunsail Clubs in Turkey and the
Caribbean (announced in March 2009), £13m for the ongoing restructuring of the French tour operator, Nouvelles Frontières, and £8m for
restructuring the German source market as a consequence of the sale of TUIfly’s city charter operation to Air Berlin PLC.
Costs incurred in the year ended 30 September 2008 relate to restructuring programmes that were already underway in both the First Choice 
and TUI T ourism businesses prior to the business combination as well as subsequent restructuring activities across all Sectors. Costs also related
to the integration of acquired businesses into the Group. Principal restructuring projects included the integration of the Sunsail and The Moorings
businesses and the restructuring of Le Boat in TUI Marine, the rationalisation of the Nouvelles Frontières tour operator product and the Corsair
scheduled flying programme in France and an impairment charge in respect of the Thomson Alfresco assets.
Aircraft
Aircraft costs relate to the continuing restructuring of the aircraft fleet. In the year ended 30 September 2009 there is a £124m impairment
charge principally in respect of asset write downs of Boeing 747s operated by Corsair (Note 11). Costs of £32m were incurred relating to the
transaction to sell TUIfly’s city charter business to Air Berlin PLC. These costs include the income statement charge from discontinued hedge
accounting on fuel and currency hedges which are no longer required, various contract cancellation penalties as well as legal and professional fees.
Foreign exchange losses on aircraft order book hedging of £16m have been offset by a gain of £23m from discontinued hedge accounting on the
10 Boeing 787 orders which have been cancelled, further details of which are set out in Note 25(I). Net gains arising on the sale and leaseback of
aircraft were £4m. £1m has been charged relating to the carrying value of aircraft held for sale (Note 18).
In the year ended 30 September 2008, costs principally include sale and leaseback losses of £102m and write-downs on aircraft held for sale of
£23m (Note 11). Other items include fuel and related currency option premium costs and losses on aircraft order book hedging (Note 25(I)),
adjustments to prior period maintenance provision assumptions and other fleet reorganisation costs.
TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 79
www.tuitravelplc.com 4. Net financial expenses
Year ended Year ended
30 September 30 September
2009 2008
£m £m
Financial income
Bank interest receivable 6 42
Interest on pension scheme assets 64 68
Interest receivable in respect of loans to parent – 4
Other financial income 2 8
Total 72 122
Financial expenses
Bank interest payable on loans and overdrafts (11) (45)
Interest on pension scheme liabilities (81) (72)
Interest payable in respect of loans from parent (42) (67)
Finance lease charges on leases (10) (12)
Unwinding of discount on provisions (5) (4)
Other financial expenses (12) (5)
Total (161) (205)
Net financial expenses (89) (83)
Year ended Year ended
30 September 30 September
2009 2008
£m £m
Net financial expenses (as above) (89) (83)
Less separately disclosed financial expenses 12 4
Net underlying financial expenses (77) (79)
The separately disclosed financial expenses relate to non debt items including the revaluation of a put option written by the Group in respect of 
a minority shareholder of L’TUR T ourismus AG. Further details are given in Note 19.
5. Employees
Year ended Year ended
30 September 30 September
2009 2008
(A) Average number of employees Number Number
By Sector
Mainstream Sector 34,913 36,382
Specialist & Emerging Markets Sector 1,607 1,864
Activity Sector 4,659 4,199
Accommodation & Destinations Sector 7,673 6,951
Corporate 611 605
Total 49,463 50,001
The 2008 comparative numbers have been adjusted to ensure that they are in alignment with a revised method of allocating headcount to the
various Sectors. There is no change to the total number of employees.
Year ended Year ended
30 September 30 September
2009 2008
(B) Staff costs £m £m
Wages and salaries 1,293 1,263
Social security costs 234 216
Pension costs 47 55
Share-based payments (Note 5(D)) 17 15
Total 1,591 1,549
Included within wages and salaries are £65m (2008: £82m) of redundancy and integration costs. These related staff costs are included within
separately disclosed items (Note 3).
80 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009
www.tuitravelplc.com
Financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
(C) Pension costs
The Group operates pension schemes for employees eligible and wishing to participate in the schemes. These comprise both defined
contribution and defined benefit schemes. Pension obligations vary reflecting the different legal and market conditions in each country of
operation. Defined contribution schemes are funded by the payment of contributions to private and state-run organisations, whilst defined
benefit schemes comprise both funded and unfunded schemes. The assets of all the funded defined benefit schemes are held separately from
the assets of the Group.
Defined contribution schemes for employees and Directors
Current contributions are recognised as an expense in the year, and once paid the Group has no further liability. Pension costs of £20m 
(2008: £25m) relating to defined contribution schemes were charged to the income statement.
Defined benefit pension schemes
The movement of defined benefit pension obligations and assets is detailed below, summarised as UK, Germany and Other. Other includes
funded schemes in Ireland, the Netherlands, Switzerland and Norway, whilst the main unfunded arrangements are in Austria and France. 
Almost all UK schemes are funded whilst German schemes are unfunded.
The principal funded schemes in the UK are shown in the table below. These are closed to new members, with the exception of existing
employees working towards their entry qualification date:
Date of last full Average employee 
Scheme name actuarial valuation Average Group contribution rate contribution rate
Britannia Airways Limited Superannuation and Life Assurance Scheme 31 March 2006 37.9% plus £46.3m per annum 9.6%
TUI Pension Scheme (UK) 31 March 2005 11.8% plus £16.4m per annum 5.3%
Air 2000 Limited Retirement Benefits Scheme 1 November 2006 26.4% plus £1.4m per annum 9.8%
Unijet Group Plc Final Salary Scheme 1 November 2006 24.7% plus £1.3m per annum 10.0%
Where there is more than a single class of membership, contribution rates reflect weighted average values within the scheme. Contribution rates
are stated before adjustment for salary sacrifice arrangements where applicable.
The principal unfunded schemes in Germany are shown below. These were all subject to a full actuarial valuation within three months preceding
the balance sheet date:
Scheme name Status
Versorgungsordnung’ Hapag-Lloyd Fluggesellschaft mbH Open to new members
Versorgungsordnung’ TUI Deutschland GmbH Closed to new members
Versorgungsordnung’ TUI Leisure Travel GmbH Closed to new members
Valuations of the schemes are made by qualified actuaries using market-based valuations for the assets and the projected unit method for the
liabilities. The Group recognises all actuarial gains or losses in the consolidated statement of recognised income and expense.
The assets of each scheme have been taken at market value and liabilities in each territory have been calculated using the following principal
assumptions:
UK
1
per annum Germany per annum Other
4
per annum
2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008
%% % % % %
Inflation 3.2 3.6 1.8 N/A 1.9 N/A
Salary inflation 4.2
2
5.1
2
2.5 2.1-3.5
3
2.9 0.0-2.0
3
Discount Rate 5.5 6.9 5.25 6.75 4.8 4.1
1 Pension increases in the UK Schemes reflect the general inflation assumption, subject to minimum and maximum increase limits.
2 4.2% (2008: 5.1%) is applicable across all UK Schemes with the exception of the Britannia Airways Limited Superannuation and Life Assurance Scheme which has assumed salary inflation of 3.7%
plus 0.8% (2008: 4.6% plus 0.8%) to reflect annual service increments.
3 In Germany and Other the prior year salary inflation assumption is a percentage increment relative to inflation.
4 The assumptions for Other are a weighted average.
TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 81
www.tuitravelplc.com The mortality assumptions underlying the value of the accrued liabilities for each territory are set out in the tables below. The mortality
assumptions are based on relevant standard mortality tables in each territory:
2009 2008
UK life expectancy (weighted average) Years Years
Males
Life expectancy in years for a pensioner retiring aged 65, on the balance sheet date 22.9 22.9
Life expectancy in years for a pensioner retiring aged 65, 20 years after the balance sheet date 24.2 24.1
Females
Life expectancy in years for a pensioner retiring aged 65, on the balance sheet date 25.2 25.3
Life expectancy in years for a pensioner retiring aged 65, 20 years after the balance sheet date 26.4 26.3
2009 2008
Germany life expectancy Years Years
Males
Life expectancy in years for a pensioner retiring aged 65, on the balance sheet date 18.2 18.0
Life expectancy in years for a pensioner retiring aged 65, 20 years after the balance sheet date 20.9 20.7
Females
Life expectancy in years for a pensioner retiring aged 65, on the balance sheet date 22.3 22.1
Life expectancy in years for a pensioner retiring aged 65, 20 years after the balance sheet date 24.9 24.7
2009 2008
Other life expectancy (weighted average) Years Years
Males
Life expectancy in years for a pensioner retiring aged 65, on the balance sheet date 18.8 18.8
Life expectancy in years for a pensioner retiring aged 65, 20 years after the balance sheet date 20.2 20.0
Females
Life expectancy in years for a pensioner retiring aged 65, on the balance sheet date 21.8 21.7
Life expectancy in years for a pensioner retiring aged 65, 20 years after the balance sheet date 22.5 22.4
The fair value of assets of the schemes in each territory are set out below:
UK Germany Other T otal
2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Equities 457 427 – – 46 38 503 465
Government debt 210 153 – – 37 33 247 186
Corporate bonds 129 115 – – 21 16 150 131
Property 15 15 – – 1 1 16 16
Cash and cash equivalents 45 82 – – 1 – 46 82
Other 86 18 – – 31 26 117 44
Total 942 810 – – 137 114 1,079 924
The expected rates of return on each category of assets in each territory are as follows:
UK Germany Other
2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008
% % % % % %
Equities 7.8 8.2 N/A N/A 8.0 8.0
Government debt 4.1 4.7 N/A N/A 4.2 4.3
Corporate bonds 5.5 7.3 N/A N/A 3.8 4.3
Property 6.0 8.2 N/A N/A 5.8 6.7
Cash and cash equivalents 0.5 5.0 N/A N/A 0.5 N/A
Other 7.4 5.0 N/A N/A 2.5 2.5-4.7
Overall expected rate of return 6.2 7.0 N/A N/A 5.1 5.1
The overall expected rate of return is calculated by weighting the individual rates in accordance with the anticipated balance in the schemes’
investment portfolio. The fair values of the schemes’ assets are not intended to be realised in the short term and may be subject to significant
change before they are realised.
82 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009
www.tuitravelplc.com
Financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
Changes in the fair value of scheme assets in each territory are as follows:
UK Germany Other T otal
2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Balance at beginning of year 810 891 – – 114 103 924 994
Expected return on scheme assets 58 62 – – 6 6 64 68
Company contributions 86 69 – – 6 2 92 71
Member contributions 6 6 – – 1 1 7 7
Benefits paid (55) (40) – – (6) (3) (61) (43)
Experience gains/(losses) 37 (178) – – (3) (15) 34 (193)
Amounts arising from transfers – – – – – 4 – 4
Foreign exchange – – – – 19 16 19 16
Balance at end of year 942 810 – – 137 114 1,079 924
Actual return on scheme assets 95 (116) – – 3 (9) 98 (125)
Employer contributions in the next year are expected to be £89m in respect of the UK and £5m in respect of Other.
The composition of the fair value of scheme assets in each territory is as follows:
UK Germany Other T otal
2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Schemes with surplus of assets 2 2 – – 10 91 12 93
Schemes with deficit of assets 940 808 – – 127 23 1,067 831
Total 942 810 – – 137 114 1,079 924
Changes in the present value of defined benefit obligations in each territory are as follows:
UK Germany Other T otal
2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Balance at beginning of year 1,015 1,144 50 48 113 97 1,178 1,289
Reclassification – – 18 – – – 18 –
Current service cost 20 25 3 2 4 4 27 31
Interest cost on obligation 69 64 5 3 7 5 81 72
Benefits paid (55) (40) (3) (2) (8) (4) (66) (46)
Member contributions 6 6 – – 1 1 7 7
Experience losses/(gains) 272 (184) 13 (8) 20 (5) 305 (197)
Settlement and curtailment – – – – – (1) – (1)
Amounts arising from transfers – – 1 1 – 2 1 3
Foreign exchange – – 10 6 19 14 29 20
Balance at end of year 1,327 1,015 97 50 156 113 1,580 1,178
The reclassification within Germany relates to flight crew early retirement benefits which were previously disclosed in accruals.
The amounts recognised in the consolidated income statement for the years ended 30 September 2009 and 30 September 2008 for each
territory are as follows:
UK Germany Other T otal
2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Current service cost 20 25 3 2 4 4 27 31
Gains on curtailments and settlements – – – – – (1) – (1)
Interest on defined benefit pension 
scheme obligation 69 64 5 3 7 5 81 72
Expected return on defined benefit 
pension scheme (58) (62) – – (6) (6) (64) (68)
Total 31 27 8 5 5 2 44 34
TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 83
www.tuitravelplc.com These amounts are included within the following expense/(income) categories in the consolidated income statement:
UK Germany Other T otal
2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Cost of sales 10 15 2 1 3 2 15 18
Administrative expenses 10 10 1 1 1 1 12 12
Financial expenses 69 64 5 3 7 5 81 72
Financial income (58) (62) – – (6) (6) (64) (68)
Total 31 27 8 5 5 2 44 34
The amounts recognised directly in equity for the year ended 30 September 2009 and for the year ended 30 September 2008 for each territory
are as follows:
UK Germany Other T otal
2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Cumulative losses/(gains) 
brought forward 204 210 (8) – (1) (10) 195 200
Losses/(gains) recognised 
during the year 235 (6) 13 (8) 23 10 271 (4)
Foreign exchange – – – – 2 (1) 2 (1)
Cumulative losses/(gains) 
carried forward 439 204 5 (8) 24 (1) 468 195
Trend analysis information in respect of the UK, Germany and Other territories is as follows:
UK
2009 2008 2007 2006 2005
UK balance sheet £m £m £m £m £m
Fair value of scheme assets 942 810 891 781 698
Present value of scheme liabilities (1,327) (1,015) (1,144) (1,125) (1,181)
Deficit (385) (205) (253) (344) (483)
2009 2008 2007 2006 2005
UK experience adjustments £m £m £m £m £m
Experience gain/(loss) on scheme assets 37 (178) (7) 11 69
Experience (loss)/gain on scheme liabilities (272) 184 95 108 (240)
Germany
2009 2008 2007 2006 2005
Germany balance sheet £m £m £m £m £m
Fair value of scheme assets – ––––
Present value of scheme liabilities (97) (50) (48) (53) (49)
Deficit (97) (50) (48) (53) (49)
2009 2008 2007 2006 2005
Germany experience adjustments £m £m £m £m £m
Experience gain/(loss) on scheme assets – ––––
Experience (loss)/gain on scheme liabilities (13) 8 11 (1) (2)
84 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009
www.tuitravelplc.com
Financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
Other
2009 2008 2007 2006 2005
Other balance sheet £m £m £m £m £m
Fair value of scheme assets 137 114 103 91 77
Present value of scheme liabilities (156) (113) (97) (87) (80)
Deficit/surplus (19) 164 (3)
2009 2008 2007 2006 2005
Other experience adjustments £m £m £m £m £m
Experience (loss)/gain on scheme assets (3) (15) (1) – 3
Experience (loss)/gain on scheme liabilities (20) 51410 (4)
Total
2009 2008 2007 2006 2005
All Territories’ balance sheet £m £m £m £m £m
Fair value of scheme assets 1,079 924 994 872 775
Present value of scheme liabilities (1,580) (1,178) (1,289) (1,265) (1,310)
Deficit (501) (254) (295) (393) (535)
2009 2008 2007 2006 2005
All Territories’ experience adjustments £m £m £m £m £m
Experience gain/(loss) on scheme assets 34 (193) (8) 11 72
Experience (loss)/gain on scheme liabilities (305) 197 120 117 (246)
The movement in the net deficit for pensions is as follows:
UK Germany Other T otal
2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Balance at beginning of year 205 253 50 48 (2) (8) 253 293
Reclassification – – 18 – – – 18 –
Provisions made during the year 31 – 8 5 5 2 44 7
Provisions used during the year (86) (42) (3) (2) (8) (2) (97) (46)
Amounts arising from transfers 
in and out – – 1 1 – (2) 1 (1)
Actuarial (gain)/loss recognised 
in equity 235 (6) 13 (8) 23 10 271 (4)
Foreign exchange – – 10 6 – (2) 10 4
Balance at end of year 385 205 97 50 18 (2) 500 253
The reclassification within Germany relates to flight crew early retirement benefits which were previously disclosed in accruals.
TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 85
www.tuitravelplc.com Reconciliation of defined benefit obligations and scheme assets to values recognised in the Balance Sheet:
UK Germany Other T otal
2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Present value of funded defined 
benefit obligations 1,326 1,014 – – 139 100 1,465 1,114
Fair value of scheme assets (942) (810) – – (137) (114) (1,079) (924)
Present value of unfunded defined 
benefit obligations 1 1 97 50 17 13 115 64
385 205 97 50 19 (1) 501 254
Unrecognised past service cost – – – – (1) (1) (1) (1)
Recognised liability for defined 
benefit obligation 385 205 97 50 18 (2) 500 253
Analysed as:
Retirement benefit non-current assets – – – – (1) (17) (1) (17)
Retirement benefit current liabilities – – 3 2 – – 3 2
Retirement benefit non-current 
liabilities 385 205 94 48 19 15 498 268
Total 385 205 97 50 18 (2) 500 253
The sensitivity of the fair value of the defined pension deficit to the key financial and demographic assumptions is illustrated below.
UK Germany Other Total
2009 2009 2009 2009
£m £m £m £m
(Decrease) in deficit from increasing discount rate by 0.25% (59) (6) (7) (72)
Increase in deficit from reducing discount rate by 0.25% 6277 76
Increase in deficit from increasing all life expectancies by 1 year 3874 49
(D) Share award schemes
The Company operates three principal share award schemes which are designed to link remuneration to the future performance of the Group.
The schemes are the Performance Share Plan (PSP), the Deferred Annual Bonus Scheme (DABS) and the Value Creation Synergy Plan (VCSP).
All three schemes are described in the Remuneration Report along with the relevant vesting criteria.
At 30 September 2009 the shares allocated and outstanding in respect of ordinary shares, were as follows:
Share award scheme Number of shares Date due to vest
Performance Share Plan 425,739 13 February 2010
1,208,158 13 February 2010
1,076,195 13 February 2010
1,822,352 13 September 2010
618,046 19 December 2010
2,848,557 19 December 2010
131,840 19 May 2011
1,045,662 28 November 2011
6,341,589 28 November 2011
Deferred Annual Bonus Scheme 846,090 13 February 2010
2,642,069 19 December 2010
4,681,760 28 November 2011
Value Creation Synergy Plan 1,926,629 28 November 2010
Total 25,614,686
The number of share awards at the beginning and end of the year is as follows:
Number of awards
30 September 2009
Outstanding at beginning of the year – excluding deferred shares 14,540,872
Forfeited during the year (1,481,168)
Exercised during the year (2,412,082)
Granted during the year 14,967,064
Outstanding at the end of the year 25,614,686
In addition to the above shares, there are 1,830,960 (2008: 714,937) deferred shares outstanding in relation to the Deferred Annual Bonus
Scheme. These are due to vest between 19 December 2010 and 28 November 2011.
86 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009
www.tuitravelplc.com
Financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
No material awards have been made to date under the Group’s HMRC-approved Share Incentive Plan which is an all-employee share plan.
The fair value of services received in return for share awards granted during the year is measured by reference to the fair value of the shares
awarded. The fair value at the date the shares were awarded has been estimated using a binomial methodology for all schemes except where
there is a market-based performance condition attached to vesting, in which case a Monte Carlo simulation was used. The principal assumptions
required by these methodologies were:
2009 2008 2007
Information relating to fair values of shares awarded
Fair value at measurement date £1.34-£1.82 £1.05-£2.42 £1.09-£2.71
Share price £2.05 £2.51-£2.70 £2.60-£2.86
Expected volatility 44.9% 30.4%-34.8% 25.7%-28.4%
Award life 3 years 3 years 3 years
Expected dividends 3.8% 3.6% 3.8%
Risk free interest rate 2.73% 4.52%-4.75% 5.05%-5.35%
Participants are not entitled to dividends prior to vesting. Expected volatility is based on historic volatility adjusted for changes to future volatility
indicated by publicly available information. Shares were awarded under a service condition.
Employee expenses for the year
Employee expenses for the current year and prior period relating to share-based schemes are:
Year ended Year ended
30 September 30 September
2009 2008
£m £m
Shares awarded in 2006 – 2
Shares awarded in 2007 4 6
Shares awarded in 2008 5 6
Shares awarded in 2009 7 –
Equity-settled 16 14
Expense arising for share appreciation rights 1 1
Total 17 15
Included in the charge for equity awards made in 2009 is £3m relating to the VCSP. The shares this charge corresponds to will be awarded after
the date of these accounts.
Of the £17m total employee expenses relating to share-based schemes incurred in the year ended 30 September 2009, £6m (2008: £9m) is
included within separately disclosed items (Note 3) as relating to specific remuneration incurred for post-merger integration.
The future estimated expense for share award schemes outstanding at 30 September is:
30 September 30 September
2009 2008
£m £m
T o be incurred within one year 16 13
T o be incurred after more than one year 9 11
Total 25 24
At 30 September 2009, 10,842,908 shares (2008: 11,875,944 shares) were held by the Group’s Employee Benefit Trust.
(E) Remuneration of Directors
Year ended Year ended
30 September 30 September
2009 2008
£m £m
Emoluments 10 12
Pensions and other retirement benefits 1 1
Total 11 13
Further information is provided in the Remuneration Report.
TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 87
www.tuitravelplc.com 6. Income, expenses and auditors’ remuneration
Year ended Year ended
30 September 30 September
2009 2008
Included in the consolidated income statement for the year are the following (credits)/charges: £m £m
Operating lease income, aircraft (18) (6)
Operating lease rentals, land and buildings 163 167
Operating lease rentals, aircraft and other equipment 408 327
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 184 206
Amortisation of intangible assets 103 125
Charge for share-based payments 17 15
(Profit)/loss on sale of property, plant and equipment (12) 71
(Gain)/loss on foreign currency retranslation (23) 26
Impairment of goodwill and other intangibles 7 114
Impairment of property, plant and equipment 125 31
Operating lease rentals, land and buildings, includes £8m (2008: £19m) of costs included in separately disclosed items (Note 3) as provisions 
for onerous leases, primarily related to the closure of Sunsail Clubs in Turkey (£4m) and integration of the UK Thomson/First Choice retail estate
(£4m). Also within separately disclosed items is £1m of costs in relation to aircraft leases. In addition to the operating lease rentals disclosed
above, charges of £71m (2008: £77m) were incurred in respect of hotel accommodation rentals which are disclosed as operating leases under
IFRIC 4: Determining whether an arrangement contains a lease.
Year ended Year ended
30 September 30 September
2009 2008
£m £m
Auditors’ remuneration
Auditors’ remuneration for these financial statements and other Group subsidiary financial statements pursuant to legislation 2 2
Other services pursuant to legislation (including regulatory reporting) 1 1
Other services 1 1
Auditors’ remuneration refers to fees paid to the Group’s auditors, KPMG Audit Plc, and its associates and does not include fees paid to other
auditors who audit subsidiaries of the Group.
Other services are principally in respect of defined benefit pension scheme advice and tax compliance work in respect of certain overseas subsidiaries.
88 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009
www.tuitravelplc.com
Financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
7. Taxation
The tax (credit)/charge can be summarised as follows:
Year ended Year ended
30 September 30 September
2009 2008
(i) Analysis of (credit)/charge in the year £m £m
Current tax charge
UK corporation tax on loss for the year (21) –
Non-UK tax on loss for the year 41 54
Adjustments in respect of previous years (3) 1
17 55
Deferred tax (credit)
Origination and reversal of timing differences:
Current year UK (5) (43)
Current year non-UK (43) (12)
Adjustments in respect of previous years (11) –
(59) (55)
Total income tax (credit) in consolidated income statement (42) –
(ii) Reconciliation of effective tax rate
The total tax (credit) for the year is higher (2008: lower) than the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 28% (2008: 29%). The differences
are explained below:
Year ended Year ended
30 September 2009 30 September 2008
£m % £m %
Loss before tax reported in the consolidated income statement (52) (267)
Less share of profit in joint ventures and associates (Note 12) (9) (12)
(61) (279)
Income tax on loss before tax excluding share of profit of joint ventures 
and associates at the standard rate of UK tax of 28% (2008: 29%) (17) 28 (81) 29
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 3 (5) 39 (14)
Income not taxable (4) 6 ––
(Utilisation)/non-utilisation of tax losses (1) 2 44 (16)
Higher tax rates on overseas earnings (8) 13 ––
Lower tax rates on overseas earnings (1) 2 (3) 1
Adjustments to taxation in respect of previous periods (14) 23 1–
Total income tax (credit) in consolidated income statement (42) 69 ––
The underlying effective rate of taxation for the year ended 30 September 2009 is calculated based on the underlying profit before tax (excluding
separately disclosed items, amortisation of IFRS 3 business combination intangibles and goodwill impairment charges) and is calculated at 28%.
The actual tax rate of 69% differs from the underlying effective tax rate due to the tax effect of separately disclosed items, amortisation of IFRS 3
business combination intangibles, goodwill impairment charges and the recognition in the current year of deferred tax assets on losses from prior
years, due to a greater degree of certainty in the timing and method of their utilisation.
(iii) Deferred tax recognised directly in equity
The following taxation (credit)/charge has been recognised directly in equity within the consolidated statement of recognised income and
expense:
Year ended Year ended
30 September 30 September
2009 2008
£m £m
Cash flow hedges (39) 58
Defined benefit pension plans (65) 4
Other (1) –
Total (105) 62
TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 89
www.tuitravelplc.com 8. Discontinued operation
The business of Société d’Investissement Aérien S.A., trading as Jet4You, is the Group’s airline operation in Morocco and has been presented 
as a discontinued operation as it was acquired on 30 June 2008 exclusively with a view to its subsequent resale. The business is also presented 
as a disposal group held for sale (Note 18).
Year ended Year ended
30 September 30 September
2009 2008
£m £m
Revenue 80 26
Operating costs (86) (25)
Loss before tax of discontinued operation (6) 1
Tax – (1)
Loss after tax of discontinued operation (6) –
Provision for loss on disposal (8) –
Loss for the year from discontinued operation (14) –
The provision for loss on disposal is based on the Directors’ assessment of the fair value less costs to sell of the disposal group based on current
sale negotiations.
9. Dividends
The following dividends relate to ordinary shares which have been deducted from equity in the year:
Year ended Year ended
30 September 30 September
Pence 2009 2008
per share £m £m
Dividends relating to the year ended 30 September 2007
Interim dividend (paid September 2007) 2.5 – –
Initial interim dividend (paid April 2008) 5.9 – 65
8.4 – 65
Dividends relating to the year ended 30 September 2008
Interim dividend (paid October 2008) 2.8 31 –
Final dividend (paid April 2009) 6.9 76 –
9.7 107 –
The interim dividend in respect of the year ended 30 September 2009 of 3.0p per share was paid on 1 October 2009 and this dividend of £33m
will be recognised as a deduction from equity in the year ending 30 September 2010.
Subsequent to the balance sheet date, the Directors have proposed a final dividend of 7.7p per share (2008: final dividend of 6.9p per share)
payable on 1 April 2010 to the holders of relevant shares on the register at 12 March 2010. The final proposed dividend amounts to £85m and
will, after approval by shareholders, be recognised in the consolidated financial statements for the year ending 30 September 2010. The final
ordinary dividend of 7.7p per share, together with the interim dividend of 3.0p per share, makes a total dividend of 10.7p per share relating to 
the year ended 30 September 2009.
A dividend reinvestment plan is in operation. Those shareholders who have not elected to participate in this plan, and who would like to participate
with respect to the 2009 final dividend, may do so by contacting Equiniti direct on 0871 384 2030. The last day for election for the final proposed
dividend is 18 March 2010 and any requests should be made in good time ahead of that date.
90 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009
www.tuitravelplc.com
Financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
10. Intangible assets
Customer Computer Software in
Goodwill Brands relationships software Licences development Other T otal
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Cost
At 1 October 2007 3,883 362 161 270 43 4 133 4,856
Additions 2 – 1 34 3 18 – 58
Acquisition through business combinations 82 30 23 – 6 – 3 144
Disposals (3) – (1) (1) (1) (4) – (10)
Foreign exchange 230 23 19 6 6 – 2 286
At 30 September 2008 4,194 415 203 309 57 18 138 5,334
Additions 3 – – 55 4 23 – 85
Acquisition through business combinations 62 21 ––––– 83
Disposals – – (1) (15) (2) – (4) (22)
Reclassification to assets held for sale (17) (21) (14) (3) (4) – (1) (60)
Foreign exchange 288 26 23 19 5 – 4 365
Reclassification of asset class – – – 30 (18) (12) – –
At 30 September 2009 4,530 441 211 395 42 29 137 5,785
Amortisation and impairment losses
At 1 October 2007 (420) (2) (2) (180) (27) – (8) (639)
Amortisation for the year – (20) (14) (38) (4) – (49) (125)
Impairment loss (112) – – – (2) – – (114)
Disposals – – 1 – 1 – – 2
Foreign exchange (23) (1) (1) – (3) – (1) (29)
At 30 September 2008 (555) (23) (16) (218) (35) – (58) (905)
Amortisation for the year – (25) (17) (47) (4) – (10) (103)
Impairment loss (7) –––––– (7)
Disposals – – – 14 2 – 3 19
Reclassification to assets held for sale – 2222 – – 8
Foreign exchange (41) (2) (3) (14) – – – (60)
Reclassification of asset class – – (1) (15) 16 – – –
At 30 September 2009 (603) (48) (35) (278) (19) – (65) (1,048)
Net book value
At 1 October 2007 3,463 360 159 90 16 4 125 4,217
At 30 September 2008 3,639 392 187 91 22 18 80 4,429
At 30 September 2009 3,927 393 176 117 23 29 72 4,737
Amortisation of intangible assets is recognised within cost of sales in the consolidated income statement.
The goodwill impairment loss incurred in 2009 relates to Sunsail Clubs hotel operations in Turkey and Antigua which were closed during the year
whilst the impairment losses incurred in 2008 relate primarily to TUIfly, the Group’s airline in Germany. Both impairment charges are disclosed
within administrative expenses and shown separately on the face of the consolidated income statement.
Amortisation of business combination intangibles totalling £56m (2008: £87m) shown on the face of the consolidated income statement relates
primarily to the amortisation of brands, the order book (shown within other above) and customer relationships. The remaining useful economic
life of these assets is up to 18 years.
Amortisation of business combination intangibles and depreciation combined with amortisation of other intangible assets is disclosed by segment
in Note 2. Impairment of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets by segment is also disclosed in Note 2.
TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 91
www.tuitravelplc.com The aggregate carrying amounts of goodwill allocated to each principal cash generating unit (CGU) are as follows:
30 September 30 September
2009 2008
CGU Sector £m £m
UK and Ireland Mainstream Northern Region 1,507 1,501
Accommodation & Destinations Accommodation & Destinations 671 547
Germany Mainstream Central Europe Region 406 352
Nordics Mainstream Northern Region 273 243
Marmara & Nouvelles Frontières Mainstream Western Europe 230 200
Multiple CGUs All Sectors 861 805
Total goodwill 3,948 3,648
Of which:
Goodwill included within intangible assets 3,927 3,639
Goodwill included in assets held for sale (Note 18) 21 9
3,948 3,648
Goodwill included in assets held for sale principally relates to the Canadian business and Jet4You.
Once every year or more frequently if events or a change in the economic environment indicate a risk of impairment, the Group assesses the
recoverable amount of goodwill allocated to its CGUs as required by IAS 36: Impairment of assets. The recoverable value of goodwill for all CGUs
has been determined based on value in use.
The multiple CGUs not separately listed above do not individually represent more than 3% of total Group goodwill. All CGUs have been tested 
for impairment.
IAS 36 requires that impairment tests are carried out on CGUs, following the level at which the Group’s management measures returns on operations.
The calculation of recoverable amount uses the following assumptions:
• Cash flow projections based on the Group’s latest approved five-year business plan.
• Cash flows beyond the plan period are extrapolated using an inflationary only growth rate of between 1% and 3%. The growth rate used is 
less than or equal to third party estimates of the medium term GDP growth rates of the key geographic markets in which the specific CGU
operates at the time the projections are prepared.
• Cash flows are discounted using the Group’s weighted average cost of capital, adjusted as appropriate for business specific factors of sector
risk, business size and geographic risk.
• Since determination of an appropriate Group weighted average cost of capital was judgemental, sensitivities also addressed how increases 
in the base Group weighted average cost of capital might impact the results of the impairment tests. The Group’s weighted average cost of
capital was based on a selection of third party financial institutions with significant knowledge of the Group’s operations.
• Central group overheads are borne in full by CGUs and are allocated pro rata to the CGU’s underlying operating profit.
• Where draft 2010 budgets indicated lower or higher underlying operating profit than the five-year business plan for any CGU, cash flow
projections were re-run based on the revised operating profit information to obtain a more up to date value in use.
The calculation of recoverable amount is sensitive to forecast future earnings and, particularly, the discount rates used:
• A percentage decrease of up to 20% in future planned earnings for both the year ending 30 September 2010 and the year ending 
30 September 2011 would still result in significant headroom positions for all the principal CGUs detailed in the table above.
• In addition to the decreased earnings noted above, an increase for the principal CGUs detailed above of up to 1.5 percentage points in the
discount rates used would not change the conclusion that the carrying value of goodwill is supported by its recoverable amount.
The sensitivities disclosed immediately above do not take account of any mitigating action that management would take should earnings decrease.
92 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009
www.tuitravelplc.com
Financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
Other key assumptions are in respect of the short and medium term post-acquisition earnings of acquired operations within the Activity,
Specialist & Emerging Markets and Accommodation & Destinations Sectors. The forecast earnings of these newly-acquired businesses are
inherently more judgemental over these timeframes.
The pre-tax discount rates used for each CGU or group of similar CGUs are as follows:
Pre-tax discount rate used Pre-tax discount rate used
30 September 2009 30 September 2008
Sector Cash generating units (CGUs) % %
Mainstream UK and Ireland 10 8.5
Germany 11 9.5
Nordics 11 10.5
Marmara & Nouvelles Frontières 11 9.5
Other CGUs
1
11 10.5
Specialist & Emerging Markets European Specialist businesses
1
12 11
American Specialist businesses
1
12.5 11
Activity Marine businesses
1
12-13 11.5-12.5
Sport, Adventure, Student and Ski businesses
1
13 13
Accommodation & Destinations Accommodation & Destinations 12.5 10.75-12.5
1 Multiple individual CGUs.
Based on the calculations undertaken, the Directors consider that the recoverable amount of goodwill in each CGU exceeds its carrying value
subject to the impairments noted below.
Impairment charges
Impairment charges have arisen in the current and prior year as a result of the Group’s restructuring post business combination.
Sunsail Clubs
Within the Activity Sector, an impairment charge of £7m has arisen following the closure of the majority of Sunsail Clubs’ operations during the
current financial year. In particular, the Turkish summer clubs were not opened in the Summer of 2009 and it has been decided not to reopen the
Antiguan Colonna Club during Winter 2009/2010. The goodwill impairment charge has been calculated based on the value in use of the remaining
business using a discount rate of 13% (2008: 12.5%).
TUIfly
In 2008 a £112m impairment charge in respect of goodwill in Germany was recorded relating to TUIfly, the Group’s airline in the German source
market, part of the Central European Mainstream Sector.
The goodwill impairment arose as a result of the reclassification of TUIfly as a disposal group held for sale as at 30 June 2008. This reclassification
was undertaken based on the plan to dispose of the airline into a new joint venture undertaking which would continue to provide flying capacity
to the German source market tour operator. The goodwill impairment charge was calculated based on the fair value less costs to sell of TUIfly
under the terms of the planned joint venture arrangement, which was on a commercial arms length basis.
As at 30 September 2008, TUIfly was declassified as a disposal group held for sale and reclassified within the Group’s ongoing non-current and
current assets and liabilities. This was on the basis that a disposal transaction was no longer considered sufficiently probable. The impairment
charge recorded during the year was not reversed at 30 September 2008, based on management’s then ongoing strategic review of TUIfly.
TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 93
www.tuitravelplc.com 11. Property, plant and equipment
Advance
Yachts, payments for
Land and motor boats and Aircraft and future delivery Computer Other
buildings cruise ships equipment of aircraft equipment equipment T otal
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Cost
At 1 October 2007 277 164 1,581 – 154 364 2,540
Foreign exchange 21 10 107 – 5 33 176
Acquisitions through business combinations 15 – – – 1 8 24
Additions 31 10 45 – 15 51 152
Disposals (15) (9) (749) – (3) (29) (805)
Transferred to assets held for sale – (5) (103) – – (16) (124)
At 30 September 2008 329 170 881 – 172 411 1,963
Foreign exchange 36 8 87 2 8 41 182
Acquisitions through business combinations 2 74 – – 1 6 83
Transfers – – – 80 – 22 102
Additions 16 14 31 33 5 53 152
Disposals (30) (22) (75) (7) (14) (25) (173)
Reclassifications 5 1 11 – (3) (14) –
Transferred (to)/from assets held for sale (19) (4) 32 – (1) 1 9
At 30 September 2009 339 241 967 108 168 495 2,318
Depreciation and impairment
At 1 October 2007 (140) (41) (698) – (112) (232) (1,223)
Foreign exchange (12) (2) (20) – (10) (14) (58)
Acquisitions through business combinations (11) –––– (3) (14)
Provided in the year (16) (8) (119) – (18) (45) (206)
Disposals 9 3 396 – 4 20 432
Impairments – (1) (23) – – (7) (31)
Transferred to assets held for sale – 2 48 – – 13 63
At 30 September 2008 (170) (47) (416) – (136) (268) (1,037)
Foreign exchange (19) (3) (41) – (7) (26) (96)
Acquisitions through business combinations (1) (36) – – – (4) (41)
Provided in the year (17) (16) (99) – (14) (38) (184)
Disposals 18 12 66 – 11 22 129
Impairments (1) – (124) – – – (125)
Reclassifications – 3 (2) – (1) – –
Transferred to/(from) assets held for sale 15 – (17) – 1 1 –
At 30 September 2009 (175) (87) (633) – (146) (313) (1,354)
Net book value
At 1 October 2007 137 123 883 – 42 132 1,317
At 30 September 2008 159 123 465 – 36 143 926
At 30 September 2009 164 154 334 108 22 182 964
94 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009
www.tuitravelplc.com
Financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
Impairment charges
Impairment charges in the year ended 30 September 2009 total £125m (2008: £31m) and are for Aircraft, £124m (2008: £23m) and Land and
buildings relating to Sunsail Clubs, £1m (2008: nil). The impairment charges are disclosed within cost of sales and as a separately disclosed item
(Note 3). Segmental analysis of the impairment charge is presented in Note 2.
Advance payments for future delivery of aircraft
Advance payments for future delivery of aircraft were disclosed as prepayments in the year ended September 2008 but have been transferred 
to property, plant and equipment in the current year. There were £80m of advance payments for future delivery of aircraft at 30 September 2008,
£73m within non-current prepayments and £7m within current prepayments. The changes have been undertaken to align the Group’s presentation
with its parent company. No restatement to comparative financial information has been recorded on the basis of materiality.
Interest of £2m (2008: nil) has been capitalised during the year in relation to the advance payments for future delivery of aircraft at a rate of 6%.
Other equipment – advance payments for maintenance of owned aircraft
Advance payments for maintenance of owned aircraft were disclosed as prepayments at 30 September 2008 and have been transferred to
property plant and equipment under construction within other equipment in the current year. There were £22m of advance payments for aircraft
maintenance at 30 September 2008, all within non-current prepayments.
Sale and leaseback transactions
During the year ended 30 September 2009, there have been 11 aircraft sale and leaseback transactions. Seven of these transactions were 
fully conducted within the year; the remaining four aircraft, which had been purchased during the prior year, were classified as held for sale at 
30 September 2008 and were then sold and leased back in the current year. Net gains arising on the sale and leaseback transactions in the year
ended 30 September 2009 were £4m which is included within cost of sales and also within separately disclosed items (Note 3).
During the year ended 30 September 2008, the Group sold and leased back 24 aircraft on operating leases as part of its aircraft fleet strategy. 
Of these aircraft, 20 were previously owned and held within Property, plant and equipment and the sale was accounted for as a disposal. The
remaining four aircraft were purchased, sold and leased back within the year. The loss on sale and leasebacks of £102m, including the recognition
of opening maintenance provisions, is included within cost of sales and also within separately disclosed items (Note 3).
Future commitments in respect of aircraft fleet operating leases are disclosed in Note 27.
Assets held for sale
At 30 September 2009, one aircraft classified as a non-current asset held for sale at 30 September 2008 has been reclassified to Property, plant
and equipment. A full depreciation charge has been recorded in the year.
Other disclosures
Other property, plant and equipment with a combined net book value as at 30 September 2009 of £182m (2008: £143m) includes £103m (2008:
£95m) of fixtures and fittings, £47m (2008: £20m) of property, plant and equipment under construction and £30m (2008: £27m) of motor vehicles.
Land and buildings comprise freehold and short leasehold properties with net book values of £108m (2008: £98m) and £56m (2008: £61m) respectively.
The net book value of assets held under finance leases and hire purchase contracts at 30 September 2009 was £152m (2008: £193m).
The net book value of property, plant and equipment with restrictions on title, being pledged as security for bank loans, amounted to £29m
(2008: £39m).
TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 95
www.tuitravelplc.com 12. Investment in joint ventures, associates and other investments
The Group’s equity investment in its joint ventures and associates is recorded in the consolidated financial statements as follows:
Share of net Share of net T otal
assets of assets of share of
joint ventures associates net assets
£m £m £m
Cost
At 1 October 2007 64 12 76
Share of profits before tax for the year 15 – 15
Share of tax charge (3) – (3)
Increase in investment 9– 9
Dividends paid (7) (2) (9)
Foreign exchange 718
At 30 September 2008 85 11 96
Share of profits before tax for the year 8 4 12
Share of tax charge (2) (1) (3)
Acquisitions –88
Disposals (30) – (30)
Dividends paid (8) (2) (10)
Reclassifications and other movements (3) (4) (7)
Foreign exchange 73 10
At 30 September 2009 57 19 76
Goodwill
At 1 October 2007 12 4 16
Foreign exchange 112
At 30 September 2008 13 5 18
Acquisitions 93 12
Disposals (4) – (4)
Reclassifications and other movements – 7 7
Foreign exchange 213
At 30 September 2009 20 16 36
Net book value
At 1 October 2007 76 16 92
At 1 October 2008 98 16 114
At 30 September 2009 77 35 112
The Group’s share of joint venture and associate profit after tax was £9m (2008: £12m). During the year, the Group acquired a 49.9%
shareholding in TUI InfoT ec GmbH and a 49% shareholding in T ogebi Holdings Limited for consideration of £11m and £9m respectively.
The disposal relates to the Group acquiring the remaining 50% shareholding in Sunshine Cruises Limited for a consideration of £30m on 
4 October 2008. From this date, Sunshine Cruises ceased to be equity accounted and is instead fully consolidated as a subsidiary.
The principal joint ventures and associates and the proportion held are shown below:
Country of registration/
Name of company % proportion held Nature of business incorporation
Joint ventures
Travco Group Holding SAE 50.0 Incoming agency Egypt
Le Passage to India T ours and Travel Pvt Ltd 50.0 Incoming agency India
Atlantica Hellas SA 50.0 Hotel operator Greece
Atlantica Hotels and Resorts Ltd 50.0 Hotel operator Cyprus
T ogebi Holdings Limited 49.0 T our operator Cyprus
Associates
Turismo Asia Company Limited 49.0 Incoming agency Thailand
TUI InfoT ec GmbH 49.9 IT Services Germany
T ogebi Holdings Limited operates in Russia and Ukraine.
96 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009
www.tuitravelplc.com
Financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
A summary of the results for the year ended 30 September 2009 and of the assets and liabilities at this date of the Group’s joint ventures and
associates is shown below:
Joint ventures Associates T otal
100% values £m £m £m
Revenue 459 346 805
Operating costs (441) (333) (774)
Operating profit 18 13 31
Net interest payable (3) (1) (4)
Profit before taxation 15 12 27
T axation (3) (2) (5)
Profit after taxation for the year 12 10 22
Non-current assets 182 34 216
Current assets 140 62 202
T otal assets 322 96 418
Non-current liabilities (75) (11) (86)
Current liabilities (130) (49) (179)
T otal liabilities (205) (60) (265)
Net assets 117 36 153
Non-consolidated entities
Trade and listed Non-consolidated
investments entities T otal
£m £m £m
At 1 October 2007 23 30 53
Foreign exchange –33
At 30 September 2008 23 33 56
Additions 36 3 39
Disposals (9) – (9)
Repayment of loan notes (2) – (2)
Investments consolidated for the first time – (8) (8)
Impairment during the year – (2) (2)
Change in the fair value of available for sale financial asset (1) – (1)
Foreign exchange –44
At 30 September 2009 47 30 77
Non-consolidated entities are recorded at cost and reflect the Group’s net investment held in circa 100 subsidiaries which, due to the immaterial
size of their revenues, result and financial position, have not been consolidated. Balances between these entities and consolidated subsidiaries
have not been eliminated.
Other investments
Other investments of £77m comprise trade and listed investments and non-consolidated entities.
Trade and listed investments represent the Group’s 14.3% shareholding in The Airline Group Limited, which in turn has a 42% shareholding in
National Air Traffic Services Limited, a 9.9% shareholding in Air Berlin PLC and a 10% holding in the Atlantica Leisure Group Limited.
During the year, the Group announced a strategic cooperation between its German airline (TUIfly) and Air Berlin PLC. As part of this transaction
the Group prepaid an equity investment in Air Berlin PLC of €33m equating to a 9.9% shareholding. This is included in trade and listed
investments at 30 September 2009. On 3 October 2009, full clearance was received from the German competition authorities in respect of the
Group’s investment in Air Berlin PLC. During the year, a £1m loss on revaluation of the Air Berlin PLC investment to fair value has been
recognised in equity. No other material changes in the fair value of these investments have been recorded in the year.
Subsequent to the year end, on 24 October 2009 the city charter operation of TUIfly transferred to Air Berlin PLC, comprising 13 aircraft on wet
lease contracts.
TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 97
www.tuitravelplc.com 13. Investments
Acquisitions
(A) Acquisitions in the year ended 30 September 2009
Acquisitions were made in the year for a total of £92m, including £2m of acquisition expenses. These acquisitions gave rise to provisional goodwill
of £58m. The principal acquired businesses and their acquisition dates were:
Business Description Date Country
Mainstream Sector – Northern Region
Sunshine Cruises Limited (trading as Island Cruises Ltd) Cruise vessel operator October 2008 United Kingdom
Specialist & Emerging Markets Sector
Travel Adventures, Inc T our operator October 2008 USA
Activity Sector
Sport Abroad (UK) Limited T our operator October 2008 United Kingdom
T eamlink Travel Limited T our operator October 2008 United Kingdom
Edwin Doran Limited T our operator November 2008 United Kingdom
Master Yachting GmbH T our operator November 2008 Germany
Student Skiing Limited
1
(trading as Off The Piste Limited) T our operator December 2008 United Kingdom
Adventure T ours Australia Group Pty Limited T our operator April 2009 Australia
Williment World Travel Limited T our operator May 2009 New Zealand
Zegrahm Expeditions, Inc T our operator June 2009 USA
EAC Language Centres (UK) Limited Language T eaching July 2009 United Kingdom
Accommodation & Destinations Sector
Aragon T ours Limited Cruise services May 2009 United Kingdom
1 Formerly On The Piste.com Limited.
In addition to the above, the Group acquired 15 individually insignificant businesses for a total consideration of £3m.
The Group acquired 100% of the voting equity instruments in respect of each acquisition completed during the year with the exception of
Sunshine Cruises Limited (trading as Island Cruises), where the Group previously held 50% and acquired all the remaining shares in the year.
The relative size of the acquisitions made is set out in the table below:
Total T otal
Consideration Number of consideration goodwill
£m acquisitions £m £m
0 – 5 61514
5 – 10 32019
10 – 15 22321
>15 131 1
Total of businesses listed above 12 89 55
Other individually insignificant businesses 15 3 3
Total 27 92 58
98 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009
www.tuitravelplc.com
Financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
The total net assets/(liabilities) acquired are set out below:
Fair value of
Book value Accounting net assets/
prior to policy Fair value (liabilities)
acquisition adjustments adjustments acquired
Note £m £m £m £m
Net assets/(liabilities) acquired
Intangible fixed assets 1 3 – 18 21
Property, plant and equipment 2 53 (1) (10) 42
Current assets (excluding cash) 3 34 2 – 36
Cash 34 – – 34
Current liabilities (excluding debt) 3 (53) (1) – (54)
Deferred tax provision 4 – – (2) (2)
Other non-current liabilities (excluding debt) 5 (7) – (3) (10)
Interest-bearing liabilities (3) – – (3)
61 – 3 64
Adjusted for carrying value of share of Sunshine Cruises Limited 
previously owned as a joint venture (30)
Total 34
T otal consideration 92
Less net assets acquired (as above) (34)
Provisional goodwill arising 58
Goodwill reclassified from investments in joint ventures on 
acquisition of Sunshine Cruises Limited 4
Total goodwill in respect of acquisitions 62
All acquisitions have been accounted for using the purchase method, as required by IFRS 3. It should be noted that certain fair value adjustments
and the value of contingent consideration have necessarily been prepared on a provisional basis due to the recent timing of certain acquisitions
and the periods over which contingent consideration may become payable. Experience may result in revisions to fair values in the subsequent
accounting period.
Accounting policy and fair value adjustments principally arise from:
1 Elimination of goodwill existing in balance sheets at acquisition and inclusion of the fair value of IFRS 3 business combination intangible assets
comprising principally brands (Note 10).
2 Fair valuation of property, plant and equipment principally relating to ship assets in Sunshine Cruises.
3 Accounting policy alignment for revenue recognition and associated operating costs.
4 Recognition of deferred taxation liabilities relating to other adjustments, including intangible assets recognised.
5 Provision for onerous lease contract on Zegrahm Expeditions, Inc.
The consideration payable is made up of:
£m
Cash 67
Deferred consideration 1
Contingent consideration 20
Loan notes issued 2
90
Expenses 2
Total consideration 92
TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 99
www.tuitravelplc.com (B) Cash flows arising in respect of acquisitions
T otal cash flows relating to acquisitions in the year, including amounts paid in respect of deferred and contingent consideration arising on prior
period acquisitions are as follows:
2009 2009
Maximum Paid
£m £m
Acquisitions in the year 67 67
Deferred and contingent consideration arising and loan notes issued 23 –
Acquisition expenses paid in the year 22
Total consideration 92 69
Cash acquired with acquisitions (34)
Cash paid relating to prior period acquisitions (excluding loan notes) 13
Net cash outflow in the year relating to acquisitions 48
Maximum consideration payable represents the maximum consideration that the Group would be obliged to pay if all contingent consideration
were to become due.
Movements in deferred and contingent consideration in the year were as follows:
Deferred Contingent Loan
consideration consideration notes T otal
£m £m £m £m
At 1 October 2008 29 40 8 77
Recognised in the year relating to current year acquisitions 1 20 2 23
Adjustments to amounts recognised in respect of prior period acquisitions – (10) – (10)
Cash paid (11) (2) (6) (19)
Foreign exchange 1326
At 30 September 2009 20 51 6 77
Further details of deferred and contingent consideration payable in less than one year and after more than one year is given in Notes 20 and 
22 respectively.
The contingent consideration payable arising in the year is in respect of the acquisitions listed below. It is dependent on the results of the
businesses over the following periods or the balance of working capital at the acquisition date, and the Directors believe the amounts provided
reflect the most likely outcome in each case:
Basis of Period for
calculation calculation Maximum
of contingent of contingent contingent
Acquisition consideration consideration consideration
Sport Abroad (UK) Limited Earnings Up to 9 Oct 2011 GBP 1m
Master Yachting GmbH Earnings Up to 31 Dec 2013 EUR 1m
Adventure T ours Australia Group Pty Limited Earnings Up to 30 Sep 2010 AUD 7m
Williment World Travel Limited Earnings Up to 31 Dec 2011 NZD 14m
Zegrahm Expeditions, Inc Earnings Up to 31 Dec 2011 USD 11m
EAC Language Centres (UK) Limited Earnings Up to 30 Sep 2010 GBP 3m
Total contingent consideration recognised in respect of current year acquisitions GBP 20m
(C) Residual goodwill
A consistent process is undertaken at each acquisition to identify the fair value of separable assets and liabilities acquired, including the fair value
of intangible assets, being brands, order books, licences, customer relationships and other intangible assets. The residual goodwill on acquisition
represents the value of assets and earnings that do not form separable assets under IFRS 3 but nevertheless are expected to contribute to the
future results of the Group.
Residual goodwill in respect of current year acquisitions represents principally:
• Market knowledge of particular geographic areas;
• Knowledge of particular market segments, for example sports travel and language training;
• Involvement of existing management and employees and transfer of their knowledge of the operation of the business model;
• Integration synergies particularly within UK Mainstream and the Activity Sector; and
• The ability to sell acquired product through existing channels and existing product through acquired channels, in all Sectors.
100 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009
www.tuitravelplc.com
Financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
(D) Consolidated income statement
If the businesses that were acquired at various times during the year ended 30 September 2009 had been part of the Group since 1 October
2008, Group revenue and loss after tax would have been increased by £38m and £2m respectively including amortisation of business combination
intangibles net of tax.
The acquired businesses contributed revenues of £141m and profit after tax (including amortisation of business combination intangibles) of £6m.
(E) Acquisitions post balance sheet date
Subsequent to 30 September 2009, the Group has acquired Select World Pty Ltd for a total maximum consideration of AUD 14m (GBP 8m). 
The accounting under IFRS 3 (revised) for this acquisition has not yet been finalised.
(F) Prior period revisions to fair values
In the year ended 30 September 2008, the Group acquired various businesses for a total consideration of £109m. The finalisation of the
acquisition balance sheets for these businesses has not led to revisions to the fair values that were presented in the 2008 accounts, and therefore
no restatement of the results to 30 September 2008 or balance sheet as at 30 September 2008 has been presented in these accounts.
14. Deferred tax assets and liabilities
Assets Liabilities Net
30 September 30 September 30 September 30 September 30 September 30 September
2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008
Intangible assets 26 3 (212) (190) (186) (187)
Finance lease transactions 1 12 (25) – (24) 12
Property, plant and equipment 81 11 (44) (14) 37 (3)
Receivables and other assets 5 4 (5) (8) – (4)
Financial instruments and foreign exchange 85 27 (80) (50) 5 (23)
Inventories 4 6 – – 4 6
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 46 6 (10) (7) 36 (1)
Retirement benefits 117 62 – (4) 117 58
Other short term temporary differences 93 57 (45) (9) 48 48
T ax value of losses carried forward 77 64 – – 77 64
Total 535 252 (421) (282) 114 (30)
Set off of deferred tax within the same jurisdiction (324) (47) 324 47 – –
Net tax assets/(liabilities) 211 205 (97) (235) 114 (30)
The Group has recognised deferred tax assets relating to tax losses in individual tax jurisdictions based on forecast future taxable profits.
Unrecognised deferred tax assets
Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of the following items (reported at the applicable tax rate):
30 September 30 September
2009 2008
£m £m
Capital losses 42 3
Other losses 147 142
Total losses 189 145
These assets have not been recognised principally because the Directors are not certain of the timing of any benefits that might arise in the
future. These losses are not subject to time expiry and are available for utilisation against profits arising in future periods in the territories in
which they have arisen. There are no other unprovided deferred tax liabilities nor unrecognised deferred tax assets.
TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 101
www.tuitravelplc.com Movements in temporary differences during the current year:
Balance at Recognised/ Recognised/ Balance at
1 October Arising on (charged) in (charged) in Foreign 30 September
2008 acquisition income equity exchange 2009
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Intangible assets (187) (1) 15 1 (14) (186)
Finance lease transactions 12 – (35) – (1) (24)
Property, plant and equipment (3) – 41 – (1) 37
Receivables and other assets (4) – 3 – 1 –
Financial instruments and foreign exchange (23) – (10) 39 (1) 5
Inventories 6 – (2) – – 4
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings (1) – 39 – (2) 36
Employee benefits 58 – (7) 65 1 117
Other short term temporary differences 48 (1) (2) – 3 48
T ax value of losses carried forward 64 – 17 – (4) 77
Total (30) (2) 59 105 (18) 114
Movements in temporary differences during the prior year are analysed as follows:
Balance at Recognised/ Recognised/ Balance at
1 October Arising on (charged) in (charged) in Foreign 30 September
2007 acquisition income equity exchange 2008
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Intangible assets (190) (18) 22 – (1) (187)
Finance lease transactions 7 – 3 – 2 12
Property, plant and equipment (32) – 32 – (3) (3)
Receivables and other assets (2) – (1) – (1) (4)
Financial instruments and foreign exchange 42 – (4) (58) (3) (23)
Inventories 5 – – – 1 6
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings (3) – 1 – 1 (1)
Employee benefits 59 – (3) (4) 6 58
Other short term temporary differences 57 – (12) – 3 48
T ax value of losses carried forward 41 – 17 – 6 64
T otal (16) (18) 55 (62) 11 (30)
Intangible asset temporary differences arise in respect of assets recognised on acquisition. Property, plant and equipment temporary differences
principally relate to tax depreciation in the UK, France and Germany. Employee benefits temporary differences arise in respect of defined benefit
pension scheme liabilities and future deductions available on the vesting of employee awards. Financial instruments and foreign exchange
temporary differences arise in respect of financial instruments accounted for under IAS 39 and principally reflect the fair value at 30 September
2009 of cash flow hedging derivatives that will be settled against future transactions. Other short term temporary differences relate to operating
expenses and related accruals and provisions for which a tax deduction has not yet been recognised.
15. Inventories
30 September 30 September
2009 2008
£m £m
Marine inventories 17 16
Airline spares and operating equipment 21 20
Other operating inventories 13 15
Total 51 51
No inventory amounts are expected to be recovered after more than 12 months.
The write-down of inventories to net realisable value amounted to £3m (2008: £1m). The write-downs in 2009 and 2008 are both included within
underlying operating profit in cost of sales.
102 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009
www.tuitravelplc.com
Financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
16. Trade and other receivables
30 September 2009 30 September 2008
Current Non-current Total Current Non-current T otal
assets assets assets assets assets assets
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Trade receivables 658 – 658 630 – 630
Amounts owed by related parties 26 – 26 133 2 135
Other receivables 266 43 309 340 98 438
950 43 993 1,103 100 1,203
Prepayments 586 151 737 550 110 660
Total 1,536 194 1,730 1,653 210 1,863
The maximum exposure to credit risk for total loans and receivables at the reporting date by geographic region was:
30 September 30 September
2009 2008
£m £m
United Kingdom 276 287
Germany 132 184
France 132 174
Other European countries 331 385
Rest of the World 122 173
Total 993 1,203
Trade and other receivables are disclosed net of provisions for bad and doubtful debts, an analysis of which is shown below.
30 September 30 September
2009 2008
£m £m
Balance at the beginning of the year 36 35
Foreign exchange 10 2
Charge to the consolidated income statement 23 (1)
Utilisation of provision (10) –
Total 59 36
The ageing of trade receivables at the balance sheet date was:
30 September 
30 September 2009 2008
Gross Provision Net Gross
£m £m £m £m
Not overdue 750 (1) 749 1,016
Overdue 1 – 30 days 125 (8) 117 115
Overdue 31 – 90 days 50 (3) 47 53
Overdue 91 – 180 days 20 (3) 17 34
Overdue more than 180 days 107 (44) 63 21
1,052 (59) 993 1,239
Provisions for bad and doubtful debts (36)
Total 993 1,203
No individually material bad debt provision movements or changes have been recorded in the year. Based on past experience and the post
balance sheet period to the date of these consolidated financial statements, the Group considers that the impairment allowance recorded is
adequate. Within the impairment allowance there are no individually material amounts held. Trade receivables not overdue and not impaired
include amounts due from travel agencies, tour operators and hoteliers in respect of Mainstream, Specialist & Emerging Markets, Activity and
Accommodation & Destinations Sectors. Credit exposure to individual passengers booking holidays directly is limited by the Group’s policy that
full payment is required before the issue of tickets and holiday departure.
TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 103
www.tuitravelplc.com 17. Cash and cash equivalents
30 September 30 September
2009 2008
£m £m
Cash in hand 34 12
Cash at bank 304 396
Deposits 452 722
Cash and cash equivalents 790 1,130
Cash and cash equivalents includes £60m (2008: £46m) that is not available for immediate use by the Group. This is made up of monies held to
meet regulatory requirements plus cash balances on short term deposits held on a restricted basis by the Group’s captive insurance funds as part
of their ongoing operations.
Other current investments disclosed on the consolidated balance sheet comprise deposit balances held to meet regulatory requirements with a
term exceeding three months.
18. Assets classified as held for sale
30 September 30 September
2009 2008
£m £m
Yachts and motor boats 4 3
Land and buildings 9 1
Aircraft 16 126
Disposal groups – assets 93 24
Other 4 3
Total assets classified as held for sale 126 157
Disposal groups – liabilities (59) (22)
Net assets classified as held for sale 67 135
The disposal group assets and liabilities held for sale comprise the Canadian Mainstream business at 30 September 2009 and Société
d’Investissement Aérien S.A. (Jet4You) at 30 September 2009 and 30 September 2008. Jet4You is included within the Western Europe segment
and the Canadian Mainstream Business is included in the Northern Region. The Canadian Mainstream business is classified as held for sale on 
the basis of the announced joint venture transaction with Sunwing Travel Group Inc. Jet4You is presented as held for sale at the current and 
prior year end, based on the active disposal process for the business which is progressing and which the Directors expect to complete within 
12 months.
Aircraft held for sale relate to the Northern Europe and Central Europe Mainstream segments. In the year ended 30 September 2009, an
impairment charge of £1m (2008: £31m) has been taken to record these property, plant and equipment assets at the lower of their carrying
value and fair value less costs to sell. The impairment charge is included within separately disclosed restructuring expenses and aircraft items
(Note 3).
During the prior year, four aircraft were purchased but were not sold and leased back until the first quarter of the current year ended 
30 September 2009. The four aircraft were therefore classified as held for sale at 30 September 2008 until their disposal for a total of £90m 
in the current year. The disposal proceeds are included within ‘Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment’ on the consolidated cash
flow statement.
Assets held for sale are expected to be sold within 12 months.
19. Interest-bearing loans and borrowings
30 September 30 September
2009 2008
£m £m
Current liabilities
Amounts owed to related parties 229 –
Bank loans and overdrafts 31 31
Loan notes 3 3
Finance leases (and hire purchase contracts) 25 20
Other financial liabilities 39 45
Total 327 99
Other financial liabilities comprise the fair value of two put options written by the Group to the sole remaining minority shareholder in L’TUR
T ourismus AG (L’TUR) that may require the Group to purchase the minority shareholding. During the year, the Group increased its shareholding
from 51% to 70% on the exercise of part of one of the options. The remainder of this put option over 20% of the shares may be exercised at any
time until 2015. A further put option at a fixed price with no time limit has been written by the Group during the year to the same minority
shareholder for the remaining 10% shareholding.
104 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009
www.tuitravelplc.com
Financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
Fair value changes in the put option liability are included within financial expenses or financial income.
30 September 30 September
2009 2008
£m £m
Non-current liabilities
Amounts owed to related parties 611 840
Bank loans 20 154
Loan notes 3 6
Finance leases (and hire purchase contracts) 167 167
Total 801 1,167
30 September 30 September
2009 2008
£m £m
The bank loans and loan notes are repayable:
Within one year 34 34
Between one and five years 23 156
After five years – 4
Total 57 194
Certain loans are secured on the underlying assets of the company in whose name the borrowings are made.
At 30 September 2009 and 30 September 2008, the related party loans were all repayable within five years.
Finance lease liabilities relate primarily to the leasing of aircraft and boats. Group obligations under finance leases and hire purchase contracts are
payable as follows:
Minimum Minimum
lease lease
payments payments
30 September 30 September
Principal Interest 2009 Principal Interest 2008
£m £m £m £m £m £m
In respect of aircraft, yachts and equipment payable within:
One year 25 8 33 20 9 29
One to five years 164 6 170 158 15 173
After five years 3– 3 9– 9
Total 192 14 206 187 24 211
20. Current trade and other payables
30 September 30 September
2009 2008
£m £m
Trade payables 1,363 1,142
Deferred and contingent consideration (Note 13(B)) 23 20
Other payables 232 233
Amounts owed to related parties 134 77
Other taxes and social security costs 99 58
Accruals and deferred income 1,005 1,033
Client money received in advance 1,306 1,494
Total 4,162 4,057
TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 105
www.tuitravelplc.com 21. Provisions for liabilities and charges
Aircraft
maintenance Restructuring Other T otal
£m £m £m £m
At 1 October 2008 204 46 165 415
Provided in the year 240 24 93 357
Released in the year (15) – (25) (40)
Unwinding of discounted amount 4 – 1 5
Costs incurred (188) (41) (85) (314)
Foreign exchange 916 16
At 30 September 2009 254 30 155 439
Analysed as:
Non-current 205 2 43 250
Current 49 28 112 189
254 30 155 439
At 30 September 2008
Analysed as:
Non-current 154 1 25 180
Current 50 45 140 235
204 46 165 415
Aircraft maintenance
In respect of aircraft, provision is made for maintenance, overhaul and repair costs of operating leased airframes, engines and certain other
components based on total anticipated costs over the useful economic life of the asset calculated by reference to costs experienced and
published manufacturers’ data. The charge to the income statement is calculated by reference to the number of hours and cycles flown and 
by reference to the length of the full overhaul cycle. Costs incurred are charged against the provision. Neither the timing nor the value of the
expenditure can be precisely determined but they can be averaged over time and over a fleet.
The cost of major overhauls of owned airframes and engines is capitalised and depreciated over the period until the next scheduled 
major overhaul.
Restructuring
Restructuring relates to provisions arising as a result of reorganisation and restructuring plans that are irrevocably committed and includes
severance payments. Further details of restructuring projects in the current year are set out in Note 3.
Other
Other provisions relate to litigation (including provisions for contingent liabilities recorded on acquisition of First Choice), onerous lease contracts
that have been entered into in the ordinary course of business and other future obligations, the amount or timing of which is uncertain. The
majority of the provision is anticipated to be utilised within 12 months of the balance sheet date, while the remainder is expected to be utilised
within one to four years of the balance sheet date, although the timing and payments related to individual litigation claims is estimated and is
inherently uncertain.
22. Non-current trade and other payables
30 September 30 September
2009 2008
£m £m
Trade payables – 1
Deferred and contingent consideration (Note 13(B)) 48 49
Other payables 5 6
Accruals and deferred income 55 93
Total 108 149
106 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009
www.tuitravelplc.com
Financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
23. Share capital
30 September 30 September
2009 2008
£m £m
Authorised
1,999,500,020 (2008: 1,999,500,020) ordinary shares of 10p each 200 200
49,998 (2008: 49,998) redeemable preference shares of £1 each – –
Total 200 200
Allotted, called up and fully paid
1,118,010,670 (2008: 1,118,010,670) ordinary shares of 10p each 112 112
Total 112 112
As described more fully in Note 35, the ultimate parent company, TUI AG, is the beneficial owner of 52.54% of the Company’s issued ordinary
share capital.
From time to time the Company purchases its own shares on the market; the timing of these purchases depends on market prices. Primarily the
shares are intended to be used for issuing shares under the Company’s share award programme. Buy and sell decisions are made on a specific
transaction basis by the Board; the Company does not have a defined share buy-back plan.
24. Capital and reserves
Retained
Share Merger Translation Hedging earnings Equity holders Minority
capital reserve reserve reserve (deficit)/ of parent interest T otal
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 October 2007 112 2,490 45 (107) 83 2,623 7 2,630
T otal recognised income/(expense) for the year – – 187 134 (271) 50 5 55
Share-based payment –––– 14 14 – 14
Acquisition of own shares –––– (7) (7) – (7)
Acquisition in stages –––– (8) (8) – (8)
Dividends –––– (65) (65) (5) (70)
Acquisition of minority interest –––– (16) (16) (2) (18)
At 30 September 2008 112 2,490 232 27 (270) 2,591 5 2,596
T otal recognised income/(expense) for the year – – 128 (102) (231) (205) 2 (203)
Share-based payment –––– 16 16 – 16
Dividends –––– (107) (107) (3) (110)
Acquisition of minority interest –––– (12) (12) (1) (13)
At 30 September 2009 112 2,490 360 (75) (604) 2,283 3 2,286
Merger reserve
The merger reserve arose on the business combination of TUI Travel PLC (TUI Travel), First Choice Holidays PLC (First Choice) and the T ourism
Division of TUI AG on 3 September 2007. The merger reserve is non-distributable.
Acquisition of minority interest
During the year ended 30 September 2009, the Group acquired a proportion of the minority interest shareholding in respect of a number of
subsidiaries. The principal acquisitions were in respect of the minority interest shareholdings in L’TUR T ourismus AG (Note 19), TUI Hellas T ravel
T ourism and Airlines AE and TUI Bulgaria OOD.
Acquisition in stages
Equity adjustments in the year ended 30 September 2008 relating to acquisitions in stages were for the Group’s acquisition of the remaining 50%
shareholding in Société Polynésienne Promotion Hotelière, a hotel operator within the Western Europe Mainstream Sector and the remaining
60% shareholding of Jet4You, a Moroccan airline. Both were previously equity accounted entities for which a share of net liabilities had not been
recognised under IAS 28 and IAS 31.
Acquisition of own shares
During the year ended 30 September 2008, the Company purchased its own shares for £7m which was debited to equity. The number of shares
held by the Employee Benefit Trust (EBT) at 30 September 2009 and at 30 September 2008 is disclosed in Note 5(D). The associated cash
outflow was presented as a financing cash flow.
Other reserves
Exchange gains or losses arising on the translation to the Group’s reporting currency are recorded in the translation reserve. Gains or losses
arising on cash flow hedges are initially recorded in the hedging reserve and are recycled to the consolidated income statement in accordance
with the accounting policy in Note 1(F).
The Group also has a capital reserve of £0.1m at 30 September 2009 (2008: £0.1m) and a revaluation reserve of £0.2m (2008: £0.2m). 
The capital reserve is non-distributable.
TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 107
www.tuitravelplc.com 25. Financial instruments
(A) Treasury risk overview
The Group is exposed to a variety of financial risks:
• Market risk (in respect of foreign currency rate risk, fuel price risk and interest rate risk);
• Liquidity risk (in respect of the Group’s ability to meet its liabilities);
• Credit risk (in respect of recovery of amounts owing to the Group); and
• Capital risk (in respect of its capital structure and cost of capital).
The Group’s key financial market risks are in relation to foreign currency rates and jet fuel price. Currency risk results from the substantial 
cross-border element of the Group’s trading, and arises on sales, purchases and borrowings that are denominated in a currency other than the
functional currencies of individual Group businesses. The risk is managed by the use of foreign exchange forward, swap and option contracts. 
The Group’s exposure to jet fuel prices results from the aircraft fleet operations and is managed using commodity swaps and options.
The Group is exposed to interest rate risk that arises principally from the Group’s floating rate aircraft leases, and floating rate bank loans and
cash balances. Certain finance leases and loans have fixed interest rates.
Credit risk, liquidity risk and capital risk are considered in Notes 25(D), 25(F) and 25(K) respectively.
The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the establishment and oversight of the Group’s risk management framework and to ensure
that the Group has adequate policies, procedures and controls to successfully manage the financial risks that it faces. These form part of the
Group’s overall Risk Management Framework.
Incorporated within the framework’s terms of reference are the determination of all treasury policies and the monitoring of the effectiveness of
those policies. Group Treasury implements the agreed policies on a day-to-day basis. The procedures also stipulate the levels of authority applied
to dealing and to approving the types of hedging financial instrument used to manage these exposures. Transactions are only undertaken to
hedge underlying exposures. Financial instruments are not traded, nor are speculative positions taken.
The Treasury position of the Group, including liquidity, foreign exchange and fuel hedging exposure, is managed centrally in accordance with
policies appropriate to cover specific risks faced by each business unit, and is the responsibility of the Chief Financial Officer and Group Treasurer.
Group Treasury conducts regular reviews of financial risks with business unit management teams and receives regular cash flow forecasts from
each business unit to ensure hedges match the currency or fuel requirements of each operating business. Reports and forecasts for the Group,
showing hedges and forecast requirements, are submitted monthly to the Group Management Board and to each Board meeting of TUI Travel PLC.
In line with its established policy, the Group has monitored throughout the year its counterparty exposure with individual financial institutions.
Such counterparty risk can arise by way of cash deposited or derivative instruments traded.
(B) Currency risk management
The Group is exposed to currency risk on sales, purchases and borrowings that are denominated in a currency other than the functional
currencies of individual Group businesses (which are principally Sterling, Euro, US Dollar, Canadian Dollar and Swedish Krona).
The Group hedges its foreign currency exposures on a seasonal basis, that is, winter season and summer season with each season comprising 
a six-month period. At the start of a season the Group will have hedged substantially all of its foreign currency exposure (forecast sales and
purchases and related assets and liabilities) for that season, using predominantly forward exchange contracts, most with a maturity of less than
one year from the reporting date.
In respect of other monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies, the Group ensures that its net exposure is kept to an
acceptable level principally by using forward contracts in respect of non-Sterling denominated airline maintenance provision balances, loan
balances and deposits.
The Group publishes its consolidated financial statements in Sterling and as a result, it is also subject to foreign currency exchange translation 
risk in respect of the translation of the results and underlying net assets of its foreign operations into Sterling.
The following significant exchange rates to the Group’s Sterling presentation currency (excluding the impact of hedged transactions) are
illustrative of the rates applied during the current and prior year:
Average rate Mid-spot rate
Year ended Year ended
30 September 30 September 30 September 30 September
£1 GBP equivalent 2009 2008 2009 2008
US Dollar 1.560 1.992 1.600 1.801
Euro 1.149 1.324 1.094 1.256
Canadian Dollar 1.822 1.991 1.717 1.885
Swedish Krona 12.101 12.374 11.181 12.301
As at 30 September 2009, the Group has hedged forecast transactions for $3.5bn and €1.2bn for periods up until Winter 2010 principally relating
to Winter 2009 and Summer 2010.
108 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009
www.tuitravelplc.com
Financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
(C) Commodity risk
Fuel commodity risk arises from the Group’s operation of aircraft in Europe and Canada.
The Group hedges its fuel commodity exposures on a seasonal basis, being the winter and summer season with each season comprising a 
six-month period. At the start of a season the Group will have hedged substantially all of its fuel commodity exposure for that season, using
predominantly commodity swaps or options, most with a maturity of less than one year from the reporting date.
As at 30 September 2009, the Group has hedged transactions for fuel of 1.8m metric tonnes (2008: 2.0m metric tonnes) for periods up until
Winter 2010.
During the prior year, the Group paid premiums on swaption and option instruments in order to manage short term volatility in respect of 
fuel hedging, whilst still continuing to apply the Group’s documented hedging policies. The charge for these option premiums is included in 
the comparative year’s separately disclosed items (within cost of sales) as it arose directly as a result of the exceptional fuel price volatility 
during 2008.
Details of fuel forward derivative instruments are set out in Note 25(I).
(D) Credit risk
Credit risk refers to the risk that a counterparty will default on its contractual obligations resulting in financial loss to the Group. Credit risk arises
from cash balances (including bank deposits and cash and cash equivalents) and derivative financial instruments, as well as credit exposures to
customers, including outstanding receivables, financial guarantees and committed transactions. Credit risk is managed separately for treasury and
operating related credit exposures.
The Group minimises its financial credit risk through the application of risk management policies approved and monitored by the Board. While
counterparties are limited to major banks and financial institutions, Group policy ensures that individual counterparty limits are adhered to and
that there are no significant concentrations of credit risk. The Group monitors the credit ratings of its counterparties (where applicable) as part of
its ongoing assessment of its credit exposure. Financial instruments are only transacted with major financial institutions with strong credit ratings
of A1/P1.
Loans and other receivables exposures are managed locally in the operating units where they arise and credit limits are set as deemed
appropriate for the customer. There is no material concentration of credit risk with respect to trade and other receivables as the Group has a large
number of internationally dispersed customers.
The carrying amount of financial assets represents the maximum credit exposure. The maximum exposure to credit risk at the balance sheet 
date was:
Carrying value Carrying value
30 September 30 September
2009 2008
£m £m
Trade and other receivables (Note 16) 993 1,203
Cash and cash equivalents (Note 17) 790 1,130
Derivatives – contracts used for hedging 284 321
Trade and listed investments (Note 12) 47 23
Other investments (Note 17) 36 29
Total 2,150 2,706
Trade and other receivables exclude prepaid accommodation and other prepayments which do not meet the definition of a financial instrument.
The maximum exposure to credit risk for total trade and other receivables at the balance sheet date and by geographic region as well as their
ageing is disclosed in Note 16.
Cash, cash equivalents and other investments principally comprise money market deposits and other short term investments. The investments
are with counterparties with a strong credit rating of A1/P1. At 30 September 2009, approximately 51% (2008: 48%) of the Group’s unrestricted
cash and cash equivalents were invested with counterparties based in the United Kingdom.
In addition, the Group makes prepayments for hotel accommodation. Whilst such prepayments do not meet the definition of a financial asset
under IAS 39, such prepayments give rise to a risk similar to credit risk due to the inherent risk of the Group not recovering the prepayment
through full delivery of the related goods and services. Prepayments from time to time can concentrate risk with specific counterparties which 
are based overseas. The carrying amount of prepayments (which are presented within current and non-current assets) forms the maximum credit
exposure, before taking into account any security or collateral held by the Group. Where appropriate, the Group obtains security collateral over
the related accommodation property to mitigate credit risk. The Group leases out aircraft on operating leases on a short term seasonal basis,
principally over the Winter season. Lease income recognised in the year was £18m (2008: £6m). Subsequent to the year end, on 24 October
2009, the Group commenced the long term wet lease to Air Berlin PLC of 13 aircraft, for an initial term of 10 years. At 30 September 2009,
prepaid accommodation which is recoverable after more than one year was £151m (2008: £89m).
TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 109
www.tuitravelplc.com (E) Interest rate risk
The Group has exposure to interest rate risk arising principally on Sterling, US Dollar, and Euro floating interest rates that are attached to the
Group’s floating rate aircraft leases, and floating rate bank loans and cash balances.
The Group does not account for any fixed rate financial liabilities at fair value through profit and loss and the Group does not designate
derivatives (interest rate swaps) as hedging instruments under a fair value hedge accounting model.
The Group’s loans and borrowings are measured at amortised cost with the exception of put option liabilities which are carried at fair value:
Face value Face value
and carrying and carrying
amount amount
30 September 30 September
2009 2008
Financial instrument Currency Nominal interest rate Year of maturity £m £m
Shareholder loan EUR 3.0% 2011 840 840
Secured bank loans Sterling 2.2%-6.2% 2010-2018 19 24
EUR 5.1%-6.0% 2009-2015 1 1
USD 1.4% 2011 9 9
Unsecured bank loans USD N/A N/A – 132
EUR 1.9%-5.7% 2009-2018 22 19
51 185
Finance leases EUR 2.6%-6.4% 2010-2015 187 180
USD 5.5% 2011-2013 2 5
MAD 5.9%-6.5% 2014-015 2 2
AUD 7.2%-11.8% 2009-2012 1 –
192 187
Loan notes Sterling 1.4% 2010-2011 1 3
USD 5.0%-6.0% 2010-2011 4 6
NZD 7.0% 2009-2010 1 –
6 9
Put option liabilities EUR 5.0% Current 39 45
Total interest-bearing liabilities 1,128 1,266
Analysed between:
Fixed rate instruments 215 208
Variable rate instruments 913 1,058
1,128 1,266
(F) Liquidity risk
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due. The Group’s approach is to ensure that 
it will have sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities when due, under both normal and stressed circumstances.
The Group’s liquidity peaks in July and August, during the European summer holiday season, with the liquidity low point being in December and
January. T o manage the liquidity position the Group is able to draw cash advances under its existing bank facilities which principally comprise two
main sources of long term debt funding:
(i) the shareholder loan from TUI AG of €919m which is fully drawn and is repayable on: 1 April 2010: €250m, 1 December 2010: €509m and 
30 April 2011: €160m; and
(ii) the external bank revolving syndicated credit facilities totalling £910m (2008: £770m) plus a bonding and letter of credit facility of £40m 
(2008: nil) which mature in June 2012 and September 2010 respectively. From these facilities, £144m has been utilised for letter of credit
purposes at 30 September 2009 (2008: £224m).
The Group’s external bank revolving credit facility was increased by £140m with effect from 30 September 2009. The external bank revolving
credit facility is used to manage the seasonality of the Group’s cash flows and liquidity. Cash positions, liquidity and available facility headroom 
are monitored daily by the Group treasury department.
In addition to the above facilities, the Group issued a £350m convertible bond (due 2014) on 1 October 2009 which was settled on 5 October
2009. The coupon has been set at 6.0% per annum, and the conversion price has been set at 349.3p per share, which represents a premium 
of 33.0% over the volume weighted average price of TUI Travel PLC’s ordinary shares from launch to pricing.
110 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009
www.tuitravelplc.com
Financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
The Board remains satisfied with the Group’s funding and liquidity position. Fixed charges cover and the ratio of net debt to EBITDA, which the
Board believes to be the most useful measures of cash generation and gearing, as well as being the main basis for covenants in our external
credit facilities, were met at the year end and throughout the year. Fixed charges cover is defined as earnings before interest, tax, depreciation,
amortisation and operating lease rentals charge (EBITDAR) divided by net interest plus operating lease rentals. EBITDA is defined as earnings
before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation. Both covenants are measured on an ‘underlying basis’ as defined in Note 1(B)(ii).
In respect of the delivery of new aircraft, the Group’s established strategy is to refinance new aircraft in advance of their delivery dates and
therefore the Group does not forecast to use internal cash resources for new aircraft purchases. Details of aircraft purchase commitments at the
year end are given in Note 28.
The following are the undiscounted contractual cash flows of financial liabilities, including interest payments calculated using interest rates in force
at each balance sheet date:
Carrying Contractual Within 1-2 2-5 More than
amount cash flows 1 year years years 5 years
30 September 2009 £m £m £m £m £m £m
Non-derivative financial liabilities
Shareholder loan 840 865 249 616 – –
Secured bank loans 29 31 6 10 15 –
Unsecured bank loans 22 27 15363
Finance leases 192 206 33 147 23 3
Loan notes 67511 –
Other financial liabilities 39 39 39–––
Trade and other payables 2,831 2,831 2,800 31 – –
Derivative financial liabilities
Contracts used for hedging 302 348 307 38 3 –
Total 4,261 4,354 3,454 846 48 6
Carrying Contractual Within 1-2 2-5 More than
amount cash flows 1 year years years 5 years
30 September 2008 £m £m £m £m £m £m
Non-derivative financial liabilities
Shareholder loan 840 998 52 53 893 –
Secured bank loans 34 42 8 7 15 12
Unsecured bank loans 151 186 8 9 151 18
Finance leases 187 211 29 30 143 9
Loan notes 9963 – –
Other interest-bearing liabilities 45 45 45 – – –
Trade and other payables 2,607 2,607 2,554 53 – –
Derivative financial liabilities
Contracts used for hedging 228 211 166 37 8 –
T otal 4,101 4,309 2,868 192 1,210 39
The actual repayment of revolving credit facilities will vary. The timing reflected in the tables is based on the first date that the Group can be
required to settle the liability.
Trade and other payables exclude customers monies received in advance, deferred income and deferred and contingent consideration.
At 30 September 2009, the Group had available undrawn committed borrowing facilities of £806m (2008: £546m), comprising letters of credit,
guarantees and revolving, floating rate credit facilities for cash borrowings. Any non-compliance with covenants underlying the Group’s financing
arrangements could, if not waived, constitute an event of default with respect to any such arrangements. The Group was in full compliance with
its financial covenants throughout each of the periods presented. Undrawn facilities presented below exclude the Group’s £350m 6% convertible
bond, issued on 1 October 2009.
Undrawn facilities throughout all years presented are analysed as follows:
30 September 30 September
2009 2008
£m £m
Expiring:
Within one year 40 –
In more than one year but less than five years 766 546
Total 806 546
TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 111
www.tuitravelplc.com (G) Analysis of total financial assets and financial liabilities
The tables below set out the Group’s IAS 39 classification for each of its financial assets and liabilities:
Held for Available Loans and Amortised Total
trading for sale receivables cost carrying value
At 30 September 2009 £m £m £m £m £m
Cash and cash equivalents – – 790 – 790
Borrowings due within one year – – – (288) (288)
Borrowings due after more than one year – – – (801) (801)
Derivative assets 284––– 284
Derivative liabilities (302) – – – (302)
Other financial assets – 47 1,029 – 1,076
Other financial liabilities (39) – – (2,831) (2,870)
Total (57) 47 1,819 (3,920) (2,111)
Held for Available Loans and Amortised T otal
trading for sale receivables cost carrying value
At 30 September 2008 £m £m £m £m £m
Cash and cash equivalents – – 1,130 – 1,130
Borrowings due within one year – – – (54) (54)
Borrowings due after more than one year – – – (1,167) (1,167)
Derivative assets 321 – – – 321
Derivative liabilities (228) – – – (228)
Other financial assets – 23 1,232 – 1,255
Other financial liabilities (45) – – (2,607) (2,652)
Total 48 23 2,362 (3,828) (1,395)
Other financial assets comprise trade receivables, other receivables which are receivable within and after more than one year as well as other
investments due within one year. Other financial liabilities comprise trade payables, accruals and other financial liabilities which are payable within
and after more than one year.
Interest payable on financial instruments carried at amortised cost (comprising bank loans, loans from parent and finance lease liabilities) is
disclosed in Note 4.
Derivatives presented under Held for trading under IAS 39 classifications are analysed between cash flow hedges and economic hedges in Note 25(I).
(H) Fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities
The fair values of financial assets and liabilities, together with carrying amounts shown in the consolidated balance sheet at 30 September 2009
and at 30 September 2008, are as follows:
30 September 2009 30 September 2008
Carrying Fair Carrying Fair
amount value amount value
£m £m £m £m
Cash and cash equivalents 790 790 1,130 1,130
Borrowings
Shareholder loan (840) (840) (840) (840)
Bank loans (51) (51) (185) (185)
Loan notes (6) (6) (9) (9)
Finance lease liabilities (192) (188) (187) (179)
Derivative financial instruments
Forward exchange contracts used for hedging:
– assets 271 271 264 264
– liabilities (173) (173) (112) (112)
Commodity contracts used for hedging:
– assets 13 13 57 57
– liabilities (129) (129) (116) (116)
Other financial assets
Trade receivables 993 993 1,203 1,203
Trade and listed investments 47 47 23 23
Other investments 36 36 29 29
Other financial liabilities
Other financial liabilities (39) (39) (45) (45)
Trade and other payables (2,800) (2,800) (2,554) (2,554)
Other long term payables (31) (31) (53) (53)
Total (2,111) (2,107) (1,395) (1,387)
The basis for fair value measurement of financial assets and liabilities is set out in Note 1(Y) to the consolidated financial statements.
112 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009
www.tuitravelplc.com
Financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
(I) Derivative instruments
At the balance sheet date the fair value of the Group’s derivative financial assets and liabilities was as follows:
30 September 2009 30 September 2008
Assets Liabilities Total Assets Liabilities T otal
Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair
value value value value value value
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Cash flow hedges
Foreign exchange forwards 238 (167) 71 229 (87) 142
Foreign exchange options – (1) (1) 20 (4) 16
Commodity options 3 (13) (10) 15 (16) (1)
Commodity swaps 10 (116) (106) 42 (100) (58)
251 (297) (46) 306 (207) 99
Economic hedges
Foreign exchange forwards 33 (5) 28 15 (21) (6)
Total 284 (302) (18) 321 (228) 93
Analysed as:
Current 271 (284) (13) 273 (178) 95
Non-current 13 (18) (5) 48 (50) (2)
Total 284 (302) (18) 321 (228) 93
All derivatives are held as cash flow hedges or to offset changes in the value of items recognised in the consolidated balance sheet. Speculative
positions are not undertaken.
The following table indicates the periods in which the cash flows associated with derivatives (which are principally cash flow hedges) are expected
to occur:
Projected cash flows
Less than Between Between Over
1 year 1 and 2 years 2 and 5 years 5 years
30 September 2009 £m £m £m £m
Derivative financial assets
Foreign exchange forwards 252 11 – –
Commodity swaps 5–––
257 11 – –
Derivative financial liabilities
Foreign exchange forwards (148) (14) (2) –
Commodity options (27) (2) – –
Commodity swaps (132) (22) (1) –
(307) (38) (3) –
Total (50) (27) (3) –
Projected cash flows
Less than Between Between Over
1 year 1 and 2 years 2 and 5 years 5 years
30 September 2008 £m £m £m £m
Derivative financial assets
Foreign exchange forwards 194 37 51 –
Foreign exchange options 3 – – –
Commodity options 8–––
Commodity swaps 42 2 – –
247 39 51 –
Derivative financial liabilities
Foreign exchange forwards (68) (19) (8) –
Commodity options (8) (3) – –
Commodity swaps (90) (15) – –
(166) (37) (8) –
Total 81 2 43 –
Ineffectiveness
Ineffectiveness in respect of cash flow hedges has been recognised in the income statement for the year ended 30 September 2009. Ineffectiveness
in the year ended 30 September 2009 comprised £5m (2008: £7m) relating to fuel hedging and this is included within underlying operating profit.
TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 113
www.tuitravelplc.com Aircraft order book derivatives
In November 2008, US dollar cash flow hedges in connection with the Group’s aircraft order books were fully unwound and settled early in a
planned process. This early settlement which resulted in a net cash gain, has arisen because post the business combination forming TUI T ravel
PLC, the Board has determined the Group’s asset ownership strategy is ‘asset right’. In terms of aircraft ownership and financing this means that
the Group’s preferred solution is to sell and leaseback new aircraft under operating leases at the time of delivery. Consequently, payments for 
new aircraft in US dollars are now planned to be funded by way of proceeds from sale and leaseback transactions and future US dollar currency
requirements are not required to be forward hedged.
The cumulative gain on aircraft order book derivatives from the period when these hedges were effective up until the termination of these
hedges is recognised in the hedging reserve. Net gains relating to aircraft orders delivered or cancelled in the year (comprising 10 Boeing 787s)
have been recycled to the income statement immediately and are recorded in separately disclosed items (Note 3). A remaining amount of £11m
(net of deferred taxation) remains in reserves and will be recycled to match the delivery of the related aircraft.
(J) Amounts recognised directly in equity
The following amounts have been recognised directly in equity during the year:
Year ended Year ended
30 September 30 September
2009 2008
£m £m
Hedging reserve
Effective portion of changes in fair value of cash flow hedge (60) 163
Fair value of cash flow hedges transferred to the consolidated income statement (81) 37
(141) 200
Translation
Foreign currency translation differences for foreign operations recorded 
in the consolidated statement of recognised income and expense 129 180
Net (credit)/charge to equity (12) 380
(K) Capital management
The Board’s policy has been to maintain a strong capital base in order to maintain investor, creditor and market confidence and to sustain future
development of the business. The Group has a roadmap to deliver sustainable long term value to shareholders with a return on invested capital
greater than the Group’s weighted average cost of capital. Progress in achieving this objective has been made during this year, by improving
underlying operating margins from 2.9% to 3.2% which increases return on invested capital (ROIC) to 9.2% (2008: 8.4%).
ROIC is defined as ‘Underlying NOPAT’/‘Average Invested Capital’
Underlying NOPAT is underlying net operating profit less a tax charge at the effective annual rate.
‘Underlying’ as a measure of operating profit is defined in Note 1(B)(ii).
Average Invested Capital comprises an average of the net assets (at the start and end of the year) of the Group adjusted to add back net debt,
cumulative goodwill impairment charges and defined benefit pension scheme net deficits. There is also an adjustment to adjust net debt to
reflect a seasonal average cash balance. Calculations for the current and prior years are:
Year ended Year ended
30 September 30 September
2009 2008
Note £m £m
Underlying operating profit Consolidated income statement 443 398
T axation at the underlying effective rate of 28% – (124) (111)
Underlying NOPAT 319 287
Net assets Consolidated balance sheet 2,286 2,596
Net debt 26 338 136
Adjustment for seasonal cash balances – 300 300
Cumulative goodwill impairment charge (2009: Sunsail Clubs £7m/2008: TUIFly £112m) 10 119 112
Defined benefit pension net deficit 5C 500 253
Invested Capital 3,543 3,397
Average Invested Capital 3,470 3,430
ROIC 9.2% 8.4%
114 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009
www.tuitravelplc.com
Financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
The Board seeks to maintain a balance between the levels of debt borrowings undertaken and the advantages and security afforded by a sound
capital position. An analysis of net debt at the year end is in Note 26.
Certain subsidiaries have external capital requirements as a result of applicable travel industry regulations in their jurisdictions. Compliance 
with these regulations is mandatory for the relevant operating businesses in those countries in order that they are able to continue trading. 
Key countries with such mandatory capital requirements are France, Belgium, the Netherlands, Germany, Canada and Australia. The capital
requirements in these countries comprise maintaining minimum equity/net asset levels in operating subsidiaries. All such capital requirements
were complied with as at 30 September 2009. None of these requirements are individually or collectively significant to the overall Group and 
do not place any significant restriction on the Group’s funding or operations.
(L) Sensitivity analysis
The sensitivity analysis is for illustrative purposes only and should not be considered a projection of likely future events and gains or losses.
The sensitivity analysis includes the following assumptions:
• Changes in market interest rates only affect interest income or expense of variable financial instruments;
• Changes in market interest rates only affect interest income or expense in relation to financial instruments with fixed interest rates if these are
recognised at fair value;
• Changes in market interest, currency and fuel rates affect the fair value of derivative financial instruments designated as hedging instruments
and all hedges are expected to be highly effective; and
• Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments and other financial assets or liabilities are estimated by discounting the future cash
flows to net present values using appropriate market rates prevailing at the year end.
The Group has used a sensitivity analysis technique that measures the estimated change to the income statement and equity of a 1% (100 basis
points) difference in market interest rates or a 10% strengthening or weakening in Sterling against all other currencies and in fuel prices, from the
rates applicable at the balance sheet date, with all other variables remaining constant.
Interest rate risk
Under the above assumptions, a 100bp increase in interest rates would not result in any material change in the consolidated income statement or
equity (2008: £5m).
Currency risk
Similarly, under the above assumptions, with a 10% strengthening or weakening of Sterling against all principal exchange rates, loss before tax
would have reduced by £4m (September 2008: loss reduced by £24m) or increased by £5m (2008: profit increased by £29m), respectively
(principally relating to the translation of the income statement of overseas subsidiaries). Equity (before tax) would have decreased by £376m
(2008: £204m) or increased by £376m (2008: £249m), respectively.
Fuel price risk
The sensitivity analysis is based on a 10% increase or decrease in fuel prices and the sensitivity will differ correspondingly if the fuel markets are
more or less volatile. Under these assumptions, with a 10% increase or decrease in the unit price of fuel, profit before tax would neither increase
nor decrease materially, because of the fuel price hedging policy and appropriate pricing adjustments. Equity (before tax) would increase by £70m
(2008: £108m), or decrease by £70m (2008: £142m), respectively.
(M) Litigation risk
The Group has a policy to mitigate the financial risk of litigation and disaster through the use of captive insurance companies and insurance with
third party providers. The Group’s exposure to risk is capped by single event and aggregate limits, with insurance in place for exposures above
these limits.
The Group provides for outstanding claims, including settlement expenses, using a consistent methodology based upon historical claims patterns,
average claims amounts, external legal advice and future expectations.
TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 115
www.tuitravelplc.com 26. Movements in cash and net debt
CashAmounts Other
and cash due to financial
equivalents related parties Bank loans Loan notes Finance leases liabilities T otal
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 October 2007 1,959 (1,400) (553) (28) (178) (37) (237)
Cash movement (951) 778 400 21 26 – 274
Non-cash movement – (23) – (1) (11) (4) (39)
Foreign exchange 122 (195) (17) (1) (24) (4) (119)
Arising on acquisition – – (15) – – – (15)
At 30 September 2008 1,130 (840) (185) (9) (187) (45) (136)
Cash movement (352) 91 143 6 22 23 (67)
Non-cash movement (4) 29 – (2) – (12) 11
Foreign exchange 16 (120) (8) (1) (26) (5) (144)
Arising on acquisition – – (1) – (1) – (2)
At 30 September 2009 790 (840) (51) (6) (192) (39) (338)
Non-cash movements in respect of other financial liabilities arise from the issue of a put option in respect of minority interest shares (Note 12).
27. Operating lease commitments
T otal Group obligations under non-cancellable operating lease contracts are payable as follows:
Land Aircraft, Land Aircraft,
and yachts and and yachts and
buildings equipment buildings equipment
30 September 30 September 30 September 30 September
2009 2009 2008 2008
£m £m £m £m
T otal commitments under non-cancellable operating leases expiring:
Within one year 190 406 153 341
Between one and five years 444 962 414 825
Later than five years 240 230 275 166
Total 874 1,598 842 1,332
Operating lease commitments in respect of land and buildings principally comprise commitments in respect of the Group’s retail estate.
The future commitment under the Group’s floating rate aircraft operating leases at 30 September 2009 was £120m (2008: £34m).
The increase in total aircraft lease commitments year-on-year reflects the movement in the US$ exchange rate since September 2008, and 
the extension of eight leases on the Thomson aircraft fleet. In total the Group operates 128 aircraft on operating leases at 30 September 2009
(2008: 128 aircraft). Yachts are held on operating leases in TUI Marine as part of the Group’s Sunsail and The Moorings fleets.
28. Capital and other commitments
Capital commitments
30 September 30 September
2009 2008
The Group’s capital commitments are as follows: £m £m
Contracted but not provided for 22 60
In addition to the above items, at the year end the Group had contracted to purchase 50 aircraft with initial deliveries to start in the last quarter
of the calendar year 2010. At list price, the total order value was US$6,156m.
On 3 October 2009, a Group company signed a contract which cancelled 10 of the aircraft which had been on order. The remaining 40 aircraft, at
list price, have a total order value of US$4,316m. The Group intends to refinance these aircraft in advance of their delivery dates and therefore
does not expect to use its own cash resources for their purchase.
The Group’s joint ventures and associates had no material capital commitments at 30 September 2009 (2008: nil).
Other commitments
On 29 September 2009, the Group announced a joint venture transaction with Sunwing Travel Group Inc. Under the terms of the deal, TUI T ravel
will contribute its Canadian operations plus CAD101m and Sunwing will contribute its operations to the joint venture. TUI Travel will receive a
49% interest in the joint venture with Sunwing’s owners receiving 51%. The deal is subject to regulatory and competition approvals which are in
the process of being sought.
116 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009
www.tuitravelplc.com
Financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
29. Contingent liabilities
The Group is at any time defending a number of actions against it arising in the normal course of business. Provision is made for these actions
where this is deemed appropriate. No actions which are outstanding at 30 September 2009 are expected to have a material effect on these
accounts. The Directors consider that adequate provision has been made for all known liabilities.
30. Related party transactions
Apart from with its own subsidiaries which are included in the consolidated financial statements, TUI Travel PLC, in carrying out its ordinary
business activities, maintained direct and indirect relationships with related parties including consolidated or related companies of its ultimate
parent company, TUI AG. These companies delivered services to companies in the Group.
The Group also undertook transactions with its joint ventures and associated companies. These transactions related primarily to incoming
agencies and hotel companies used by the Group’s tour operators. The income and expenses arising from transactions with associates and joint
ventures are included within the appropriate sector revenue or costs as presented in the segmental analysis.
All transactions with related parties were executed on an arms length basis and under normal conditions of trade with independent third parties.
Shareholder loan
A shareholder loan was advanced to the Company by TUI AG on 3 September 2007. The loan bears interest at EURIBOR plus a margin, currently
1.5% per annum, increasing six-monthly by 0.2% to a maximum of 2.0% per annum. The Company can make voluntary repayments at any time
during the term of the loan subject to a minimum repayment of €10m and the giving of 30 days’ notice. The drawn balance of the loan at 
30 September 2009 was €919m (30 September 2008: €1,019m), not including accrued interest payable. It is repayable in three instalments: 
1 April 2010, €250m; 1 December 2010, €509m and 30 April 2011, €160m.
Hotel Framework Agreement
As part of the relationship arrangements between the Company and TUI AG at the time of the business combination, both parties entered into
the Hotel Framework Agreement, which governs the commercial relationship between TUI AG and the Company in respect of the distribution of
hotel beds forming part of the hotel portfolio interests retained by TUI AG. Under the Hotel Framework Agreement, TUI Deutschland (TUI Travel
German tour operating business) continues to have access to the Robinson hotel portfolio and to the distribution of such portfolio’s hotel beds 
in Europe on the basis of the existing levels of exclusivity and seasonal arrangements between TUI Deutschland and Robinson, as practised prior
to the business combination. In addition, TUI Deutschland agrees to provide the same services in relation to the distribution of the beds as it 
did prior to the business combination and shall be entitled to use certain Robinson trademarks in connection with these services. The Hotel
Framework Agreement expires on 31 October 2011, provided that one year prior to such expiry the parties shall discuss in good faith and
endeavour to agree a replacement agreement.
Trademark Licence Agreement
The Trademark Licence Agreement incorporates trademark licences granted from TUI AG to members of the TUI T ourism Group in relation to 
TUI T ourism’s use of the TUI name and logo and other trademarks from within TUI AG’s portfolio of trademarks used in the former TUI T ourism’s
business. Licence fees payable under each licence are an annual fee equal to 0.02% of the average annual gross turnover of the relevant licensee
under the relevant trademarks measured over a three-year period. T otal licence fees charged in the year ended 30 September 2009 were £3m
(2008: £3m). Each licence’s standard terms are for five years with an option for the relevant licensee to extend for a further five years on the
same terms.
Details of transactions with related parties and balances outstanding at the balance sheet date are set out in the tables below:
Revenue Expenses
Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended
30 September 30 September 30 September 30 September
2009 2008 2009 2008
£m £m £m £m
Related party
Ultimate parent TUI AG 7 4 71 78
Hotel and resort subsidiaries of TUI AG 5 2 384 349
Other subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates of TUI AG 8 19 63 31
Joint ventures and associates of the Group 7 18 151 21
Total 27 43 669 479
TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 117
www.tuitravelplc.com Receivables outstanding Payables outstanding
Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended
30 September 30 September 30 September 30 September
2009 2008 2009 2008
£m £m £m £m
Related party
Ultimate parent TUI AG 6 107 885 840
Hotel and resort subsidiaries of TUI AG 1 3 56 52
Other subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates of TUI AG 6 5 14 12
Joint ventures and associates of the Group 13 20 19 13
Total 26 135 974 917
Payables outstanding with related parties are reported in Notes 19 and 20 and receivables outstanding are reported in Note 16.
In accordance with IAS 24, key management functions within the Group and the Group Management Board were related parties whose
remuneration had to be listed separately. The compensation paid in respect of key management personnel (including Directors) was as follows:
Year ended Year ended
30 September 30 September
2009 2008
£m £m
Short term employee benefits 17 18
Post-retirement benefits 2 2
Share-based payments 10 7
Total 29 27
Details of Directors’ remuneration are given in the Remuneration Report.
31. Key accounting estimates and judgements
The preparation of consolidated financial statements under Adopted IFRSs requires the Group to make estimates and judgements that affect 
the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities and the reported amount of revenue and
expenses during the year. The Group evaluates its estimates and judgements on an on-going basis. Such estimates and judgements are based
upon historical experience and other factors it believes to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results may differ from estimates.
Management has discussed with the Audit Committee the development, selection and disclosure of the Group’s critical accounting policies and
estimates and the applications of these policies and estimates. Key estimates and judgements have been made in respect of the following areas:
(A) Estimates
Intangible assets – goodwill carrying value
A full impairment review has been performed of all goodwill and intangibles balances held across the Group on a cash generating unit basis. The
impairment review is performed on a ‘value in use’ basis, which requires estimation of future net operating cash flows, the time period over which
they will occur, an appropriate discount rate and an appropriate growth rate. Further details, including sensitivity analysis, are given in Note 10
and the accounting policy is set out in Note 1(P).
Defined benefit pension plans
A qualified independent actuary undertakes the estimation of the present value of the Group’s obligations under defined benefit pension
schemes using assumptions taken from a range of possible actuarial assumptions. These assumptions may not be borne out in practice, especially
due to the long timescales involved. In particular, the valuation of scheme assets is based on the fair value at the balance sheet date. As these
assets are not intended to be sold in the short term, their value may change significantly prior to realisation. In reviewing the work of the qualified
independent actuary management were required to exercise judgement to satisfy themselves that appropriate weight had been afforded to
macroeconomic factors. Details of the actual assumptions used, including sensitivity analysis, are set out in Note 5(C).
Derivative financial instruments
Judgement is required in the assessment of prospective effectiveness and specifically in the assessment of the probability of forecast transactions,
both at hedge inception and during the period over which hedge accounting is adopted. The fair value of derivative financial instruments can also
involve judgement. Where appropriate, external valuations from financial institutions are undertaken to support the carrying value of such items.
Details of sensitivity analysis are set out in Note 25(L).
118 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009
www.tuitravelplc.com
Financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
(B) Judgements
Separately disclosed items
Separately disclosed items are those significant items which in management’s judgement are highlighted by virtue of their size or incidence to
enable a full understanding of the Group’s financial performance. Such items are included within the income statement caption to which they
relate (Notes 3 and 4).
Other asset carrying values
Management perform an assessment at each balance sheet date of all material assets across the Group for signs of impairment. Key judgement
areas include the carrying values of land and buildings, aircraft, ships, yachts and motorboats, trade receivables and prepaid accommodation. The
recovery of these assets is dependent on estimated future cash flows receivable and the provision of future services or goods by third parties.
Useful economic lives and residual values are subject to regular management review.
Business combinations
Judgement and estimation is required in the identification and valuation of separable assets and liabilities on acquisitions. In particular,
judgement and estimation is required in the identification and valuation of separable intangible assets, being brands, orders books and customer
databases, and determining appropriate useful economic lives for these assets. Judgement and estimation is also required in determining
contingent consideration payable in respect of acquisitions. Details of acquisitions are set out in Note 13.
Liabilities
In accounting for provisions, judgement is required in determining occurrence probability, maturity and level of risk. Judgement and estimation is
required in determining aircraft maintenance, restructuring and onerous lease provisions. Due to the volume of transactions and the materiality of
period end accruals, judgement is also required in respect of the recognition and derecognition of airline and accommodation operating accruals.
Details of provisions made and the basis on which the provision has been calculated is disclosed in Note 21 and the accounting policy is set out 
in Note 1(T).
Share-based payments
Judgement and estimation is required in determining the fair value of shares at the date of award. The fair value is estimated using valuation
techniques which take into account the awards’ term, the risk-free interest rate and the expected volatility of the market price of the Company’s
shares. Details of share-based payments and the assumptions applied are disclosed in Note 5(D) and the accounting policy is set out in Note
1(Y)(ix).
Non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale
The classification of non-current assets and disposal groups as ‘held for sale’ requires judgement in determining whether the planned disposal is
highly probable and able to be realised within 12 months. The measurement of held for sale assets at their fair value less costs to sell can also
require significant judgement if there is no active market.
Lease accounting
Judgement is required in the initial classification of leases as either operating leases or finance leases and, in respect of finance leases,
determining the appropriate discount rate implicit in the lease to discount minimum lease payments. In respect of certain leases classified as
finance leases, it has not been possible to reliably estimate lessors’ residual values and management has been required to independently estimate
an appropriate discount rate. Judgement is also required in respect of the treatment of gains and losses arising on the sale and leaseback of
assets (Note 11). The accounting policy for leases is set out in Notes 1(G), 1(H) and 1(Q).
Taxation
The Group has, from time to time, contingent tax liabilities arising from trading and corporate transactions in the UK and overseas jurisdictions.
After taking appropriate external advice, the Group makes provision for these liabilities based on the probable level of economic loss that may be
incurred and which is reliably measurable. Judgement is also required in the assessment of the future recoverability of tax losses and recognition
of deferred tax assets. Details of unrecognised tax losses are given in Note 14.
Recoverable amounts of deposits and prepayments
Judgements have been made in respect of the volumes of future trading with hoteliers and the credit-worthiness of those hoteliers in order to
assess the recoverable amounts of deposits and prepayments made to those hoteliers.
TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 119
www.tuitravelplc.com 32. Principal operating subsidiaries
Other than as stated below, all the principal operating subsidiaries listed are wholly owned. Principal operating subsidiaries are those which, in 
the opinion of the Directors, significantly affected the Group’s results and net assets during the year. The Directors consider that those companies
not listed are not significant in relation to the Group as a whole. All of the subsidiaries have only ordinary share capital except for First Choice
Canada Inc., which also has unlimited preference shares all of which are owned by the Group. TUI UK Limited is presented within the Mainstream
Sector, Northern Region to reflect its principal operations but the Company also includes certain UK Activity and Specialist businesses at 
30 September 2009.
Subsidiary Country Nature of business
Mainstream Sector
Mainstream – Northern Region
Falcon Leisure Group (Overseas) Limited Eire T our operator
First Choice Holidays Finance Limited United Kingdom Treasury operation
First Choice Canada Inc Canada T our operator
Sunshine Cruises Limited (trading as Island Cruises Ltd) United Kingdom Cruise vessel operator
Thomson Airways Limited United Kingdom Airline
TUI Nordic Holding AB Sweden T our operator
TUI UK Limited United Kingdom T our operator
TUI UK Retail Limited United Kingdom Travel agent
TUIfly Nordic AB Sweden Airline
Mainstream – Central Europe
Berge und Meer T ouristik GmbH Germany T our operator
Hapag-Lloyd Express GmbH Germany Airline
Hapag-Lloyd Fluggesellschaft mbH Germany Airline
L’TUR T ourismus AG (70%) Germany T our operator
TUI (Suisse) AG Switzerland T our operator
TUI Austria Holding GmbH Austria T our operator
TUI Aviation GmbH Germany Leasing company
TUI Deutschland GmbH Germany T our operator
TUI Leisure Travel GmbH Germany Travel agent
TUI Österreich GmbH Austria T our operator
Mainstream – Western Europe
Groupe Marmara SAS France T our operator
Groupe Nouvelles Frontières S.A.S. France T our operator
JetAir N.V. Belgium T our operator
Société d’Investissement Aérien S.A. (Jet4You) Morocco Airline
TUI Airlines Belgium N.V. Belgium Airline
TUI Airlines Nederland B.V. Netherlands Airline
TUI Travel Belgium N.V. Belgium T our operator
TUI Nederland N.V. Netherlands T our operator
Jet4You is held for sale at 30 September 2009.
Specialist & Emerging Markets Sector
Aventuria SA France T our operator
Caradonna Dive Adventures, Inc USA T our operator
Citalia Holidays Limited United Kingdom T our operator
Country Walkers, Inc USA T our operator
Educational T ours, Inc USA T our operator
EEFC, Inc USA T our operator
Hayes & Jarvis (Travel) Limited United Kingdom T our operator
I Viaggi del Turchese Srl Italy T our operator
International Expeditions, Inc USA T our operator
Les T ours Jumpstreet T ours Inc Canada T our operator
Meon Travel Limited United Kingdom T our operator
National Events Inc. USA T our operator
Royal Vacaciones SL Spain T our operator
Starquest Expeditions, Inc USA T our operator
StudentCity.com, Inc USA T our operator
TCS Expeditions, Inc USA T our operator
T ourinter SA France T our operator
TRAVCOA Corporation USA T our operator
Travel Adventures, Inc. USA T our operator
Travelmood Limited United Kingdom Long haul travel
Your Man T ours, Inc USA T our operator
120 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009
www.tuitravelplc.com
Financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
Subsidiary Country Nature of business
Activity Sector
Adventure T ours Australia Group Pty Limited Australia T our operator
Australian Sports T ours Pty Ltd Australia T our operator
CHS T our Services Limited United Kingdom T our operator
Crown Blue Line Limited United Kingdom T our operator
EAC Language Centres (UK) Limited United Kingdom Language teaching
Edwin Doran Limited United Kingdom T our operator
Exodus Travels Limited United Kingdom T our operator
Gullivers Sports Travel Limited United Kingdom T our operator
Mariner International Travel, Inc USA T our operator
MyPlanet International A/S Denmark T our operator
Peregrine Adventures Pty Ltd Australia T our operator
Quark Expeditions, Inc USA T our operator
Real Travel Limited United Kingdom T our operator
Ski Bound Limited United Kingdom T our operator
Sportsworld Group Limited United Kingdom T our operator
Student Skiing Limited (formerly On The Piste.com Limited) United Kingdom T our operator
Sunsail Limited United Kingdom T our operator
Sunsail Worldwide Sailing Limited United Kingdom T our operator
The Moorings Limited British Virgin Islands T our operator
Williment World Travel Limited New Zealand T our operator
World Challenge Holdings Limited United Kingdom T our operator
Yachts International Limited British Virgin Islands T our operator
Zegrahm Expeditions, Inc USA T our operator
Accommodation & Destinations Sector
Hotelbeds SLU Spain Online accommodation
Hotelbeds Spain SLU Spain Destination services
Hotelbeds Product, SLU Spain Online accommodation
Hotelbeds USA, Inc USA Destination services
Late Rooms Limited United Kingdom Late accommodation
T antur Turizem Seyahat A.S. Turkey Destination services
TUI España Turismo S.A. Spain Destination services
TUI Hellas Travel T ourism and Airlines AE. Greece Destination services
TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 121
www.tuitravelplc.com 33. (Loss)/earnings per share
The basic (loss)/earnings per share is calculated by dividing the result attributable to ordinary shareholders by the applicable weighted average
number of shares in issue during the year, excluding those held in the employee share ownership trusts. The diluted earnings per share is
calculated on the result attributable to ordinary shareholders divided by the adjusted weighted average number of ordinary shares, which takes
account of the outstanding share awards, where their conversion is dilutive. The additional earnings per share measures have been given to
provide the reader of the accounts with a better understanding of the results.
Basic and diluted loss per share from continuing operations is as follows
2009 2008
(Loss)/ Weighted average (Loss)/earnings (Loss)/ Weighted average (Loss)/earnings
earnings number of shares per share earnings number of shares per share
£m Millions Pence £m Millions Pence
Basic and diluted loss per share (11) 1,107 (1.0) (271) 1,109 (24.4)
Amortisation of business combination
intangibles, and impairment of goodwill (net of tax) 47 – 4.3 174 – 15.7
Separately disclosed items (net of tax) 227 – 20.5 323 – 29.1
Basic underlying earnings per share 263 1,107 23.8 226 1,109 20.4
Effect of dilutive options – 11 (0.3) – 9 (0.2)
Diluted underlying earnings per share 263 1,118 23.5 226 1,118 20.2
Basic and diluted loss per share from the discontinued operation is as follows:
2009 2008
Weighted average Loss Weighted average Earnings
Loss number of shares per share Earnings number of shares per share
£m Millions Pence £m Millions Pence
Basic and diluted loss per share (14) 1,107 (1.3) – 1,109 –
For statutory measures of loss per share, in both the current and prior year the effect of options is anti-dilutive. The anti-dilutive effect is not
taken into account and basic loss per share and diluted loss per share are both disclosed as (1.0)p (2008: (24.4)p) for continuing operations and
(1.3)p (2008: nil p) for the discontinued operation. The diluting effect of options in 2009 and 2008 is included solely to calculate diluted
underlying earnings per share.
34. Post balance sheet events
The following events after 30 September 2009 are disclosed in the notes to the consolidated financial statements:
• Acquisitions: details of acquisitions since the balance sheet date are set out in Note 13;
• Trade investments: details of the investment in Air Berlin are set out in Note 12;
• Convertible bond issue: details are provided in Note 1(B)(v) and Note 25(F) – Funding and liquidity; and
• Capital commitments: on 3 October 2009 an agreement was reached with Boeing to cancel 10 of the B787 aircraft the Group had on order.
Details are provided in Note 28.
35. Ultimate parent company
The ultimate parent company is considered to be TUI AG, a company registered in Berlin and Hanover (Federal Republic of Germany). 
At 30 September 2009 TUI AG was the beneficial owner of 52.54% of the ordinary share capital of the Company on a fully diluted basis.
TUI AG prepares consolidated financial statements which include the results of the Group. The accounting reference date of TUI AG is 
30 September (previously 31 December). Copies of the TUI AG financial statements are publicly available and can be obtained from the
registered office of this company situated at Karl-Wiechert-Allee 4, 30625 Hanover, Federal Republic of Germany.
122 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009
www.tuitravelplc.com
Financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
30 September 30 September
2009 2008
Note £m £m
Fixed assets
Investment in subsidiary undertakings D 911 706
Total investments 911 706
Current assets
Derivative financial instruments 30 3
Debtors E 234 547
Cash at bank and in hand 36 205
300 755
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year F (311) (70)
Net current (liabilities)/assets (11) 685
Total assets less current liabilities 900 1,391
Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year G (631) (998)
Net assets 269 393
Capital and reserves
Share capital H 112 112
Profit and loss account I 127 267
Other reserve I 30 14
Equity shareholders’ funds I 269 393
The financial statements were approved by a duly authorised Committee of the Board of Directors on 30 November 2009 and were signed on its
behalf by:
Paul Bowtell
Chief Financial Officer
TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 123
www.tuitravelplc.com
Company balance sheet
At 30 September 2009 A. Accounting policies
Basis of preparation
The following accounting policies have been applied consistently in
dealing with items which are considered material in relation to the
Company’s financial statements.
Accounting convention
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with
applicable UK accounting standards and under the historical cost
convention. The financial statements have been prepared on the going
concern basis, which assumes that the Company will continue in
operational existence for the foreseeable future.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption under Section
408 of the Companies Act 2006 from presenting its own profit and
loss account. The loss after tax included in the financial statements 
of the Company determined in accordance with the Act, was £33m
(14-month period ended 30 September 2008: profit of £376m).
Under Financial Reporting Standard No 1 (revised), the Company is
exempt from the requirement to prepare a cash flow statement as its
cash flows are included within the published consolidated statement
of cash flows of TUI Travel PLC.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption contained within
FRS 8 and has not therefore disclosed transactions or balances with
entities which form part of its Group.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption contained within
FRS 29 and has not provided the required financial instruments
disclosure on the basis that the Group’s consolidated financial
statements include consolidated IFRS 7 disclosures which are
compliant with the requirements of FRS 29.
Foreign currencies
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated at the foreign
exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets
and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet
date are translated to Sterling at the foreign exchange rate ruling at
that date. Foreign exchange differences arising on translation are
recognised in the income statement. Non-monetary assets and
liabilities that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign
currency are translated using the exchange rate at the date of the
transaction. Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in
foreign currencies that are stated at fair value are translated to 
Sterling at foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates the fair values
were determined.
Leases
Assets acquired under finance leases are capitalised and the outstanding
future lease obligations are shown in payables. Operating lease rentals
are charged to the profit and loss account on a straightline basis over
the period of the lease.
Operating lease income is recognised in the profit and loss account on
a straightline basis over the period of the lease.
Investments
In the Company’s financial statements, investments in subsidiaries are
stated at cost less provision for impairment. Dividends received and
receivable are credited to the Company’s profit and loss account.
Interest-bearing borrowings
Interest-bearing borrowings are recognised initially at fair value less
attributable transaction costs. Subsequent to initial recognition,
interest-bearing borrowings are stated at amortised cost with any
differences between cost and redemption value being recognised 
in the income statement over the period of the borrowings on an
effective interest rate basis.
Classification of financial instruments issued
Financial instruments issued by the Company are treated as equity
only to the extent that they meet the following conditions: they
include no contractual obligation upon the Company to deliver cash 
or other financial assets or to exchange financial assets or financial
liabilities with another party under conditions that are potentially
unfavourable to the Company and; where the instrument will or may
be settled in the Company’s own equity instruments, it is either a 
non-derivative that includes no obligation to deliver a variable number
of the Company’s own equity instruments or is a derivative that will be
settled by the Company exchanging a fixed amount of cash or other
financial assets for a fixed number of its own equity instruments.
Derivative financial instruments
Derivative financial instruments are stated at fair value. The gain or
loss on remeasurement to fair value is recognised immediately in 
the income statement. However, where derivatives qualify for hedge
accounting, recognition of any resultant gain or loss depends on the
nature of the item being hedged.
Share-based payment
The Company operates share-based payment schemes for the
employees of its subsidiaries. The fair value of shares awarded to
employees of the Company is recognised as an employee expense with
a corresponding increase in equity. The employee expense is recharged
to fellow Group subsidiaries. The Company grants awards of its own
shares to the employees of its subsidiaries and as such recognises 
an increase in the cost of investment in its subsidiaries equivalent to
the equity-settled share-based payment charge recognised in its
subsidiaries’ financial statements with the corresponding credit being
recognised directly in equity. The fair value is measured at the award
date and is spread over the period during which the employee
becomes unconditionally entitled to the awards. Calculating the 
fair value takes into account various factors including the expected
volatility of the shares, the dividend yield and the risk free interest
rate. Further information on the share schemes is provided in Note 5
to the consolidated financial statements.
The increase in investments and credit to equity for the year ended 
30 September is £16m (14-month period ended 30 September 
2008: £14m).
Transactions of the Company’s Employee Benefit Trust are included in
the Company’s financial statements. In particular, the trust’s purchases
and sales of shares in the Company are debited and credited directly
to equity.
Financial statements
Notes to the Company’s financial statements
124 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009
www.tuitravelplc.com Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
Taxation
The charge for taxation is based on the profit or loss for the period and takes into account taxation deferred because of timing differences
between the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes.
Except as otherwise required by accounting standards, full provision without discounting is made for all timing differences, which have arisen but
not reversed at the balance sheet date. Timing differences arise when items of income and expenditure are included in tax computations in
periods different from their inclusion in the financial statements.
Dividend on shares presented within shareholders’ funds
Dividend distribution to the Company’s shareholders is recognised as a liability and deducted from equity in the Group’s financial statements in
the period in which the dividends are appropriately authorised and approved for payment and are no longer at the discretion of the Company.
Unpaid dividends that do not meet these criteria are disclosed in the notes to the financial statements.
Auditors’ remuneration
The Company’s 2009 audit fee was £25,000 (2008: £25,000).
B. Directors’ remuneration and employees
Details of Directors’ remuneration, gains made by them on vesting of share awards, amounts receivable by them under long term incentive
schemes and pension entitlements in the current year and prior period are contained in the audited section of the Remuneration Report and 
in Note 5 of the consolidated financial statements. The Company had nine employees (2008: nine). Details of all share awards issued by the
Company are given in Note 5 of the consolidated financial statements.
C. Dividends
Details of dividends paid and proposed by the Company in the current year and prior period and details of dividends proposed subsequent 
to the balance sheet date are given in Note 9 of the consolidated financial statements.
D. Investments
Shares in
subsidiaries
£m
Cost
At 1 October 2008 706
Acquisitions 9
Additions 16
Recapitalisation of group companies 184
Disposals (4)
At 30 September 2009 911
Provision for diminution in value
At 30 September 2008 and at 30 September 2009 –
Net book value
At 30 September 2009 911
At 30 September 2008 706
Additions represent share-based payment liabilities incurred. The costs of the share-based schemes, which are operated for employees of the
Company’s subsidiaries, are borne by the subsidiaries, subject to local accounting standards. The Company recognises an increase in the
investment in the subsidiary and a credit to retained earnings, in accordance with FRS 20: Share-based Payment.
Details of the principal operating subsidiaries held directly and indirectly by the Company and of companies acquired in the year ended 
30 September 2009 can be found in Notes 13 and 32 of the Group’s consolidated financial statements.
Recapitalisation of Group companies relates to £184m invested in T ouraventura S.A. during the restructure of certain of the French companies 
to combine two existing tax groups during the year.
E. Debtors
30 September 30 September
2009 2008
£m £m
Amounts owed by group undertakings 234 546
Other receivables – 1
Total 234 547
TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 125
www.tuitravelplc.com F. Creditors: amounts falling due within one year
30 September 30 September
2009 2008
£m £m
Loan notes – 2
Amounts owed to group undertakings 55 61
Amounts owed to ultimate parent company 252 –
Deferred and contingent consideration 4 4
Accruals and deferred income – 3
Total 311 70
G. Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year
30 September 30 September
2009 2008
£m £m
Loan notes – 1
Bank loans and overdrafts – 132
Amounts owed to group undertakings – 3
Amounts owed to ultimate parent 611 840
Deferred and contingent consideration 20 22
Total 631 998
Amounts owed to the ultimate parent at 30 September 2009 comprise a shareholder loan from the ultimate parent, TUI AG, which is being repaid
in instalments over the period to April 2011 and bears interest at EURIBOR plus a margin, currently 1.5% per annum, increasing six-monthly by
0.2% to a maximum of 2.0% per annum. The Company can make voluntary repayments at any time during the term of the loan subject to a
minimum repayment of €10m and the giving of 30 days’ notice. The drawn balance of the loan at 30 September 2009 was €919m of which
€669m is due in more than one year (2008: €1,019m, all due in more than one year), not including accrued interest payable.
All balances repayable after more than one year are due within one to two years.
H. Share capital
30 September 30 September
2009 2008
£m £m
Authorised share capital
1,999,500,020 (2008: 1,999,500,020) ordinary shares of 10p each 200 200
49,998 (2008: 49,998) redeemable preference shares of £1 each – –
Total 200 200
Allotted, called up and fully paid share capital
1,118,010,670 (2008: 1,118,010,670) ordinary shares of 10p each 112 112
Total 112 112
I. Capital and reserves
Share Profit
capital and loss Other T otal
account account reserve
£m £m £m £m
At 1 August 2007 ––––
Profit for the period – 376 – 376
Issue of shares 112 – – 112
Share issue costs – (24) – (24)
Share-based payment costs – – 14 14
Shares acquired to satisfy share-based payment schemes – (20) – (20)
Dividends paid – (65) – (65)
At 30 September 2008 112 267 14 393
Loss for the year – (33) – (33)
Share-based payment costs – – 16 16
Dividends paid – (107) – (107)
At 30 September 2009 112 127 30 269
At 30 September 2009, shareholders’ funds are all due to equity shareholders.
126 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009
www.tuitravelplc.com
Financial statements
Notes to the Company’s financial statements continued Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
J. Operating lease commitments
The Company’s obligations under operating lease contracts are as follows:
Aircraft Aircraft
30 September 30 September
2009 2008
£m £m
Annual commitments under non-cancellable operating leases expiring:
After five years – 7
Total – 7
All operating lease commitments relate to aircraft. Aircraft leased by the Company are sub-leased to subsidiary undertakings on similar terms. 
On 9 June 2009 all aircraft leases were novated to a fellow group company, TUI Aviation Finance Limited, which was incorporated for this purpose.
K. Contingent liabilities
Under the terms of guarantees given to the Civil Aviation Authority and other relevant authorities by the Company in respect of certain
subsidiaries, in the event of default the Company could be held liable to the extent of the subsidiaries’ net trading liabilities at the time of default.
The Company, and its subsidiaries, is at any time defending a number of actions against it arising in the normal course of business. Provision 
is made for these actions where this is deemed appropriate. No actions which are outstanding at 30 September 2009 are expected to have a
material effect on these accounts. The Directors consider that adequate provision has been made for all known liabilities.
Where the Company enters into financial guarantee contracts to guarantee the indebtedness of other companies within its group, the Company
considers these to be insurance arrangements and accounts for them as such. In this respect, the Company treats the guarantee contract as a
contingent liability until such time as it becomes probable that the Company will be required to make a payment under the guarantee.
L. Post balance sheet events
Details of post balance sheet events relevant to the Company and its Group are given in Note 34 of the consolidated financial statements.
TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 127
www.tuitravelplc.com Year ended Year ended Year ended
30 September 30 September 30 September
2009 2008 2007
£m £m £m
Revenue 13,863 13,932 12,840
Underlying operating profit 443 398 261
Underlying operating profit margin % 3.2% 2.9% 2.0%
Underlying earnings per share (basic) 23.8p 20.4p 14.4p
Return on invested capital (ROIC) 9.2% 8.4% 5.4%
Shareholder profiles
In the 12 months to 30 November 2009 the Company was notified by way of Transparency Directive Form 1
(TR1) notifications of the following voting rights of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company.
Shares
(m) %
TUI AG 603,996,039 54.00
Prudential 37,097,287 3.31
Financial calendar
AGM: 9 February 2010
Interim results: May 2010
Preliminary results: December 2010
128 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009
www.tuitravelplc.com
Shareholder information
Three-year financial history Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
Eligible shareholders are entitled to the following discounts (which are
subject to change) when booking holidays through our dedicated
Shareholder Discount Line.
First Choice*
Best price on the www.firstchoice.co.uk website plus a further discount of
£20 per adult or £40 per booking (cruise, short/medium haul destinations)
or £40 per adult or £80 per booking (long haul destinations).
Thomson*
Best price on the www.thomson.co.uk website plus a further discount of
£20 per adult or £40 per booking (cruise, short/medium haul destinations)
or £40 per adult or £80 per booking (long haul destinations).
Thomson Airways
Best price on the www.thomson.co.uk website plus a further discount of
£10 per person for a return journey (short/medium haul destinations)
or £20 per person for a return journey (long haul destinations).
Thomson Worldwide*
Best price on the www.thomsonworldwide.com website plus a 
further discount of £20 per adult or £40 per booking (short/medium
haul destinations) or £40 per person or £80 per booking (long 
haul destinations).
Citalia*
Best price on the www.citalia.com website plus a further discount of
£20 per adult or £40 per booking (short/medium haul destinations) 
or £40 per person or £80 per booking (long haul destinations).
Hayes & Jarvis*
Best price on the www.hayesandjarvis.co.uk website plus a further
discount of £20 per adult or £40 per booking (short/medium 
haul destinations) or £40 per person or £80 per booking (long 
haul destinations).
Jetsave*
Best price on the www.jetsave.co.uk website plus a further discount 
of £20 per adult or £40 per booking (short/medium haul destinations)
or £40 per person or £80 per booking (long haul destinations).
Meon Villas*
Best price on the www.meonvillas.com website plus a further discount
of £20 per adult or £40 per booking (short/medium haul destinations)
or £40 per person or £80 per booking (long haul destinations).
Sovereign*
Best price on the www.sovereign.com website plus a further discount
of £20 per adult or £40 per booking (short/medium haul destinations)
or £40 per person or £80 per booking (long haul destinations).
Hotelopia
Best price on all hotels on the www.hotelopia.co.uk website plus an
additional 14% discount.
Imaginative Traveller*
Best price on the www.imaginative-traveller.com website plus an
additional 10% discount.
Country Walkers
Best price on the www.countrywalkers.com website plus a further
discount of £200 per adult or £400 per booking on all escorted tours.
The Moorings*
Best price on the www.moorings.com website plus a further discount
of £20 per adult or £40 per booking (short haul destinations) or £40
per adult or £80 per booking (long haul destinations).
Sunsail*
Best price on the www.sunsail.co.uk website plus a further discount of
£20 per adult or £40 per booking (short haul destinations) or £40 per
adult or £80 per booking (long haul destinations).
Le Boat*
Best price on the www.leboat.co.uk website plus a further discount 
of £20 per adult or £40 per booking on all destinations.
Club Vass*
Best price on the www.clubvass.com website plus a further discount 
of £20 per adult or £40 per booking on all destinations.
*Discounts are not valid on accommodation-only bookings and cannot be used in conjunction
with any discretionary discounts, group savings or other promotional offers.
In order to qualify for the scheme, private shareholders (including
those holding through a nominee account) must hold at least 500
ordinary shares in the Company on the date of booking the holiday
and must have been on the register of shareholders for a minimum
period of one year on that date.
T o register for your discount call Equiniti on 0871 384 2030 (Monday
to Friday 0830-1730hrs). You will be required to provide details to
confirm you are an eligible shareholder. Once confirmed, you will be
given a unique code.
T o make a booking call us on: 0844 800 3104 (Monday to Friday 0900-
1800hrs, Saturday 0900-1700hrs). You will be asked for your unique
code and your discount will be applied.
Share dealing service
An execution-only share-dealing service for the purchase and sale of
TUI Travel PLC shares is available from NatWest Stockbrokers. NatWest
Stockbrokers is authorised and regulated by the Financial Services
Authority and is a member of the London Stock Exchange and PLUS.
For details, please contact:
NatWest Stockbrokers
Waterhouse Square
38-142 Holborn
London EC1N 2TH
T el: 0808 208 4433
Find out more
TUI Travel PLC has a corporate website which can be accessed through
www.tuitravelplc.com
Shareholder discount
TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 129
www.tuitravelplc.com Secretary and Registered Office
A L John
TUI T ravel PLC
TUI T ravel House
Crawley Business Quarter
Fleming Way
Crawley
West Sussex RH10 9QL
T elephone: +44 (0)1293 645700
Facsimile: +44 (0)1293 645704
Registered number 6072876
Auditors
KPMG Audit Plc
Merchant bankers
Lazard Brothers & Co Limited
Deutsche Bank
Stockbrokers
RBS Hoare Govett Limited
Deutsche Bank
Solicitors
Herbert Smith
Bankers
Barclays Bank PLC
Citigroup NA
Royal Bank of Scotland plc
Société Générale
Registrars and transfer office
Equiniti Limited
Aspect House
Spencer Road
Lancing BN99 6DA
Shareholder Contact Centre No: 0871 384 2030
International: +44 (0) 121 415 7161
Website: www.shareview.co.uk
Company website
www.tuitravelplc.com
Shareholder information
Contacts and advisers
130 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009
www.tuitravelplc.com Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
AGM
Annual General Meeting
A&D
Accommodation & Destinations Sector
Asset-right
Optimum mix of owned and leased assets
B2B
Business-to-Business
B2C
Business-to-Consumer
Bedstock
Accommodation capacity
Bednights
Amount of accommodation sold
bn
billion
Business combination
The merger of the T ourism Division of TUI AG (excluding certain 
hotel assets) and First Choice Holidays PLC
CIS
Commonwealth of Independent States
CO
2
/RPK
Carbon dioxide emissions per revenue passenger kilometre
Controlled distribution
Owned and franchised retail shops, call centre and website
CGU
Cash generating unit
DABS
Deferred Annual Bonus Scheme
Differentiated content
Includes hotels and products that have been tailored to offer
additional services and facilities to our customers
Direct distribution
Retail, call centre and website
EBT
Employee Benefit Trust
EPS
Earnings per share
ETS
European Emissions Trading Scheme
GAS
Group Audit Services
GDP
Gross Domestic Product
GMB
Group Management Board
JV
Joint venture
KPIs
Key Performance Indicators
Lates market
8-10 weeks prior to departure
Load factor
Passenger volumes as a percentage of capacity
m
million
Merger
The business combination of the T ourism Division of TUI AG
(excluding certain hotel assets) and First Choice Holidays PLC
MOU
Memorandum of Understanding
PSP
Performance Share Plan
RCF
Revolving Credit Facility
ROIC
Return on invested capital
RPI
Retail Price Index
Sector
Subset of TUI Travel PLC whose businesses share similar
characteristics, these include Mainstream Sector, Activity Sector,
Specialist & Emerging Markets Sector and Accommodation &
Destinations Sector
Specialist Sectors
The Specialist Sectors are the Activity Sector, Specialist & Emerging
Markets Sector and Accommodation & Destinations Sector
Summer season
May to October
TSR
T otal Shareholder Return
TUI AG
TUI Travel PLC’s majority shareholder
The Board
TUI Travel PLC Board of Directors
The Group
The TUI Travel PLC Group of Companies
The Company
TUI T ravel PLC
VCSP
Value Creation Synergy Plan
WACC
Weighted average cost of capital
Winter season
November to April
Glossary of key terms
TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 131
www.tuitravelplc.com A
Accommodation & Destinations Sector 5, 41
Accounting policies 68
Acquisitions 31, 98
Activity Sector 5, 39
Annual General Meeting 46
Audit Committee 51
Auditors 63
B
Balance sheet 123
Board Committees 50
Board of Directors 44
Brands 3
Business performance 30
C
Chairman’s statement 10
Chief Executive’s statement 11
Chief Executive’s interview 12
Climate change 10, 28
Colleagues 22
Company balance sheet 123
Consolidated balance sheet 65
Consolidated income statement 64
Consolidated statement of cash flows 66
Consolidated statement of recognised 
income and expense 67
Consumer sentiment 9
Contacts and advisers 130
Corporate Governance report 49
Current trading 42
D
Directors’ biographies 45
Directors’ report 46
Directors’ responsibilities 48
Directors’ remuneration 57
Distribution & Brands 15
Dividends 10, 32, 90
E
Earnings per share 32
Emerging markets 9, 17
F
Financial calendar 128
Financial highlights 6
Financial statements 64
Fuel and foreign exchange 43
G
Glossary of key terms 131
Governance 44
Group at a glance IFC
Group Management Board 22
Group performance 30
Growth & Capital Allocation 17
I
Independent Auditors’ report 63
Investment case IFC
K
Key Performance Indicators 18
M
Mainstream Sector 4, 34
Market overview 8
N
Notes to the Company’s financial statements 124
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 68
Net debt 116
Nomination Committee 51
O
Operational highlights 7
Outlook 43
P
People & Operational Effectiveness 16
Pensions 33
Principal risks 20
Principal operating subsidiaries 120
Product & Content 14
R
Remuneration Committee 53
Remuneration report 53
Report of the Directors 46
Responsible leadership 22
Risk 20
S
Segmental performance 34
Shareholder profiles 128
Shareholder discount 129
Shareholder information 128
Specialist & Emerging Markets Sector 5, 40
Strategy 14
Strategic imperatives 14
Strategic overview 8
Structure 4
Sustainable development 26
Suppliers 29
T
T axation 32, 89
Three-year financial history 128
TUI T ravel overview 2
T otal Shareholder Return 56
W
Who we are 2
Where we operate 3
Shareholder information
Index
132 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009
www.tuitravelplc.com Designed and produced by Likemind www.likemind.com
This report is printed on Regency Satin, which contains material
sourced from responsibly managed forests, certified in accordance
with the FSC (Forest Stewardship Council). It is made from 10%
recovered fibre, diverting waste from landfill and is manufactured
under strict environmental management systems, the international
ISO 14001 standard, EMAS (Eco-Management & Audit Scheme) and
the IPPC (Integrated Pollution Prevention and Control) regulation.
Printed in England by Cousin. Cousin is a carbon neutral company 
with ISO 4001 accreditation: it recycles all solvents used in the printing
process, making any waste ph neutral, and also holds FSC status.
Photography supplied by Exodus, First Choice, TUI Deutschland, 
TUI España, TUIfly, TUI picture pool, TUI Nederland, TUI Nordics, Quark.
www.tuitravelplc.com TUI Travel PLC
TUI Travel House
Crawley Business Quarter
Fleming Way
Crawley
West Sussex
RH10 9QL
T elephone: 01293 645700
www.tuitravelplc.com
TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts for the year ended 30 September 2009
