 DEFENCE
SECURITY
TRANSPORT
ENERGY
positioned for growth
through portfolio strength
focused on customer need
making a difference
AVIONICS
MANNED AIRCRAFT SYSTEMS
AIRCRAFT WEAPON SYSTEMS
UNMANNED AIRBORNE VEHICLE SYSTEMS
MANNED NAVAL VESSEL SYSTEMS
UNMANNED NAVAL SYSTEMS
NAVAL WEAPON SYSTEMS
WEAPON SYSTEMS
MANNED VEHICLE SYSTEMS
UNMANNED GROUND VEHICLE SYSTEMS
SOLDIER SYSTEMS
LOGISTICS AND SUPPORT
SATELLITE SYSTEMS
RADIO SYSTEMS
COMMAND, CONTROL, COMMUNICATIONS
AND COMPUTERS
DATA TRAFFIC MANAGEMENT
AND QUALITY OF SERVICE
MISSION SUPPORT
DATA INTERCEPT
WIRELESS SURVEILLANCE SYSTEMS
SITUATIONAL AWARENESS
INFRASTRUCTURE SECURITY
SYSTEMS PROTECTION
PROACTIVE DEFENCE
FIRST RESPONSE
MASS TRANSIT
BAGGAGE SYSTEMS
PASSENGER SYSTEMS
AIRPORT INFORMATION SYSTEMS
MASTER SYSTEMS INTEGRATION
RESOURCE MANAGEMENT
REMOTE POWER
RENEWABLES
OIL AND GAS
CIVIL NUCLEAR
Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
1. Introduction
Financial and operational highlights 01
Chairman’s statement 02
Douglas Caster CBE, Chairman
Group at a glance 04
Chief Executive’s report 06
Rakesh Sharma, Chief Executive
2. Strategic review
Strategic objectives 08
Key Performance Indicators 10
Business model 12
Strategic tenets 18
Market analysis 20
3. Performance
Financial performance overview 24
Paul Dean, Finance Director
Aircraft & Vehicle Systems 26
Information & Power Systems 28
Tactical & Sonar Systems 30
Financial review 32
Making a difference 35
Developing Ultra’s people 36
Sustainability 38
Risk management 40
4. Governance
Board of Directors 44
Executives and advisors 46
Corporate governance 47
Remuneration report 58
Directors’ report 67
5. Group ﬁnancials
Independent auditor’s report 70
Group highlights 71
Consolidated income statement 72
Consolidated statement of
comprehensive income 72
Consolidated balance sheet 73
Consolidated cash ﬂow statement 74
Consolidated statement of changes in equity 75
Notes to accounts 76
Statement of accounting policies in respect of
the Group’s consolidated ﬁnancial statements 107
6. Company ﬁnancials
Independent auditor’s report 115
Company balance sheet 116
Notes to accounts 117
Statement of accounting policies
for the Company accounts 121
7. Five year review
Five year review 123
Cautionary statement
This document contains forward looking
statements that are subject to risk factors
associated with, amongst other things, the
economic and business circumstances occurring
from time to time in the countries and sectors
in which the Group operates. It is believed that
the expectations reflected in these statements
are reasonable but they may be affected by a
wide range of variables which could cause
actual results to differ materially from those
currently anticipated.
Ultra Electronics is a group of specialist
businesses designing, manufacturing and
supporting electronic, electro-mechanical and
software systems, sub-systems and products
for DEFENCE, SECURITY, TRANSPORT and
ENERGY applications worldwide.
Contents
For more information:
www.ultra-electronics.com/
investors/irhome.php Underlying earnings per share
+3.6%
(2011: 120.2p)
Group order book
-4.8%
(2011: £950.3m)
Underlying operating proﬁt
+0.1 %
(2011: £122.1m)
Underlying proﬁt before tax
+0.6%
(2011: £114.9m)
Dividend per share
+3.9%
(2011: 38.5p)
Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 01
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Footnote
Underlying operating proﬁt is before
amortisation of intangibles arising on acquisition
and adjustments to deferred consideration net of
acquisition costs. IFRS operating proﬁt £88.7m
(2011: £99.2m). Underlying proﬁt before tax
and underlying earnings per share are before
amortisation of intangibles arising on acquisition,
fair value movements on derivatives, unwinding
of discounts on provisions and adjustments to
deferred consideration net of acquisition costs.
Basic EPS 91.5p (2011: 96.2p). Operating cash
ﬂow is cash generated by operations and
dividends from associates, less net capital
expenditure, R&D and LTIP share purchases.
operating cash conversion is cash generated
by operations and dividends from associates, less
net capital expenditure, R&D and LTIP share
purchases as % of operating proﬁt before
amortisation of intangibles arising on acquisition
and adjustments to deferred consideration net
of acquisition costs. Net debt comprises loans
and overdrafts less cash and cash equivalents.
organic revenue/proﬁt growth is the annual
rate of increase in revenue/proﬁt that was
achieved, assuming that acquisitions made
during the prior year were only included for the
same proportion of the current year.
Dividend
The proposed ﬁnal dividend is 27.8p, bringing the total dividend for the year to 40.0p (2011: 38.5p).
This represents an annual increase of 4%, with the dividend being covered 3.1 times (2011: 3.1 times)
by underlying earnings per share. If approved at the Annual General Meeting, the dividend will be paid
on 3 May 2013 to shareholders on the register on 12 April 2013.
= Key Performance Indicator, see pages 10 and 11 for details
Financial and operational highlights
Revenue
+4.0%
(2011: £731.7m)
£760.8m
760.8
731.7
710.0
651.0
515.3
40.0
38.5
34.6
31.2
26.0
12 1 1 10 09 08
12 1 1 10 09 08
115.6
114.9
102.7
89.5
77.2
12 1 1 10 09 08
905.0
950.3
817.9
761.8
783.5
12 1 1 10 09 08
124.5
120.2
107.9
96.4
80.1
12 1 1 10 09 08
122.2
122.1
110.3
97.3
77.1
12 1 1 10 09 08
KPI
KPI
124.5p
KPI
£122.2m
40.0p £1 15.6m
KPI
£905.0m
1. Introduction 2. Strategic review 3. Performance 4. Governance 5. Group ﬁnancials 6. Company ﬁnancials 7. Five-year review
Operational highlights
Award of a £19m+ contract
with the US Air Force for
provision of airborne
communication gateways.
A high level of internal
investment maintained to
underpin future growth.
Three acquisitions to
augment Ultra’s existing
portfolio of specialist
niche capabilities. 02 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Chairman’s statement
Dear shareholder
I am pleased to report that Ultra has
successfully managed a year of challenging
market conditions where expenditure in the
Group’s main defence markets continues to
be under extreme pressure as governments
address their budget deﬁcits and debt
levels. Through Ultra’s robust strategic
review process, the Group was able to
recognise the tightening of defence
budgets and has reacted by positioning
itself into areas of preferential spend within
these markets. At the same time the Group
has made good progress in adjacent,
non-defence, security, transport and energy
markets so that, in 2012, revenue from its
traditional defence markets represented
less than 60% of the Group total. Ultra’s
recent investments in new products and
acquisitions have enabled the Group to
achieve this repositioning to provide both a
degree of resilience to tough market
conditions and a platform for future
growth. The Group’s overall performance in
2012 underlines the resilience of its
business model and this is explained in
more detail on pages 12 to 17.
Ultra’s strategy is constantly to increase its
share of the markets in which it has
positioned itself and the Group continues
to focus on those specialist sectors within
the markets where customers preferentially
target their expenditure. An important role
of the Board is to participate fully in
robustly reviewing and testing the
Executive Directors’ strategic plans for the
Group, to ensure that they deal not just
with the particularly challenging short-term
market conditions, but also fully address
the need to continue to position for
medium and long-term growth.
It has long been a core part of Ultra’s
strategy to acquire companies that bring
world leading niche technologies and
market positions to the Group, in addition
to supplementing its organic growth. The
Board plays a key role in reviewing any
potential acquisition to ensure that it is
complementary to the existing portfolio,
ʻʻ
ʼʼ
The Group will continue to differentiate itself from its
competitors through its technical innovation and the high
standards of behaviour for which Ultra is known.
Douglas Caster CBE,
Chairman Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 03
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
achieves an appropriate strategic ﬁt, is
valued sensibly and will add to future
shareholder value. In 2012 Ultra completed
three acquisitions: GigaSat, Barron McCann
and RFI. These businesses augment Ultra’s
existing specialist capabilities in
communications, cyber & security and
power markets, all of which have been
identiﬁed as future growth areas.
Another core element of Ultra’s strategy is
continued investment in the development
of new, differentiated offerings, particularly
where the Group’s specialist domain
knowledge provides competitive
advantage. As with acquisitions, the Board
takes a key role in reviewing, testing and
approving all major investment cases. This
includes conﬁrming that the Group’s
resources are being focused and prioritised
in an appropriate manner, that risks are
identiﬁed and mitigated and that the
return is viable. Such developments are
reviewed regularly against performance,
time and cost criteria to ensure that the
Group is managing its resources and overall
level of risk appropriately. In the same way,
Ultra’s major programmes are reviewed by
the Board, during both the bid and
execution phases.
In Ultra, risk is assessed and managed at
the most appropriate level of the business.
Those risks that are identiﬁed as strategic in
nature are elevated to the Board where
they are subjected to formal scrutiny to
ensure that the appropriate mitigations are
in place. In addition to assessing speciﬁc
risks, the Board will also regularly assess
and conﬁrm the status of the overall
business, with a focus on the Group’s
competitive strategies, business
performance, regulatory and compliance
measures and the ﬁnancial performance
and accounts. Further information on how
Ultra manages risk is available in the risk
management section of this report on
pages 40 to 43.
The Group will continue to differentiate
itself from its competitors through its
technical innovation and the high standards
of behaviour for which Ultra is known. The
Group remains committed to achieving and
sustaining high standards of ethical
business conduct and corporate
governance. This report contains a speciﬁc
section devoted to the framework and
processes that are in place to maintain the
high standards of governance that the
Board requires of Ultra. Further detail about
how the Board provides effective leadership
on these matters can be found in the
sustainability section on pages 38 to 39
and the governance section, starting on
page 44 of this report.
I should like to ﬁnish by thanking, on
behalf of the Board, all of Ultra’s employees
for their continued hard work, engagement
and passion in what has been a challenging
year. With so many committed,
professional and enthusiastic people
supporting the Group’s management, I am
conﬁdent that Ultra is better placed than
most in addressing the current market
uncertainties and ensuring that growth
continues into the future.
Douglas Caster CBE
Chairman
0
200
400
600
800
1000
1200
1400
1600
1800
2000
97 98 99 00 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12
Ultra’s track record of
delivering above average
shareholder returns
since ﬂotation (pence)
FTSE all share price index
FTSE 100 price index
FTSE all share aerospace/defence
1. Introduction 2. Strategic review 3. Performance 4. Governance 5. Group ﬁnancials 6. Company ﬁnancials 7. Five-year review
= Key Performance Indicator, see pages 10 and 11 for details KPI
KPI The Chief Executive chairs an
Executive Team that reports
through him to the Board.
This team comprises the Chief
Executive, the Group Finance
and Marketing Directors and
Divisional Managing Directors
and Presidents, along with the
Company Secretary.
Ultra’s Divisional Managing
Directors and Presidents play a
vital role in ensuring that an
appropriate management span
of control is maintained across
the Group. Within a structure of
delegated authorities, Divisional
Managing Directors and
Presidents work closely with
business management teams to
ensure that the agreed strategy is
being delivered, that the financial
performance is as planned and
that the employees skills and
capabilities are being developed.
The Divisional Managing
Directors and Presidents meet
as members of Ultra’s Executive
Team at least once a month.
Cross-divisional as well as
intra-divisional co-operation is
actively encouraged.
*see footnote on page 1
Aircraft & Vehicle Systems
Number of employees
1,098
Revenue
£147.0m -11.5%
2011: £166.1m
Underlying operating profit*
£30.8m -1.0%
2011: £31.1m
Order book
£163.6m -7.8%
2011: £177.4m
Information & Power Systems
Number of employees
1,843
Revenue
£315.8m +22.9%
2011: £257.0m
Underlying operating profit*
£45.0m +47.5%
2011: £30.5m
Order book
£391.4m -11.5%
2011: £442.2m
% of Group revenue
% of Group revenue
% of Group profit*
% of Group profit*
Tactical & Sonar Systems
Number of employees
1,739
Revenue
£298.0m -3.4%
2011: £308.6m
Underlying operating profit*
£46.4m -23.3%
2011: £60.5m
Order book
£350.0m +5.8%
2011: £330.7m
% of Group revenue % of Group profit*
Group at a glance
How Ultra operates
04 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
The Group is organised into three divisions: Aircraft & Vehicle Systems, Information & Power
Systems and Tactical & Sonar Systems. Ultra’s divisions deliver specialist solutions to the
defence, security, transport and energy markets.
42 37
39 38
19 25
% %
% %
% % Ultra specialises in high integrity, safety
critical, real-time control systems for
aircraft and vehicle applications. These
include airframe and engine ice
protection, power distribution and control
equipment, and noise and vibration
cancellation systems. The Group also
supplies advanced human-machine
interfaces and systems, including those to
control unmanned ground and air
vehicles. Ultra provides innovative small
power sources including miniature
pneumatic systems, propane-powered fuel
cells and multi-fuel UAV engines.
• positions on Boeing 787 and Gulfstream
aircraft that will provide long-term
returns as new build programmes ramp
up to full rate production
• establishment of a ﬁve-year agreement
with Kongsberg for the CROWS3
remote vehicle weapon station for the
US Army
• award of a contract for a range of
equipment for the Embraer’s KC-390,
reﬂecting growing business with the
world’s third largest aircraft manufacturer
• BAE Systems
• UTC
• Boeing
• ACMA
• ITT
Capabilities Highlights in 2012 Major customers in 2012
Ultra supplies advanced command and
control systems for battlespace visualisation,
surveillance systems, air defence and naval
combat management. The Group provides
perimeter security solutions for critical
infrastructure, crisis response planning &
management software, and secure
networks. Ultra’s high integrity sensors and
control systems are used for civil and
military nuclear reactors and a range of
specialist, solid-state electrical power
systems that are used for naval vessels and
mass transit. Ultra is a world-leading
integrator of airport and airline
management & information systems.
• signing of a ‘preferred supplier’
agreement with Areva that positions
Ultra for new build UK nuclear plants as
well as legacy plants globally
• success in winning additional contracts
to develop and ﬁt Ultra’s TACPOD
product onto US unmanned air vehicles
• development and provision of electrical
power management equipment to
current and future UK submarines
(Astute, Vanguard and ‘Successor’)
• US DoD
• Oman Ministry of Trade
and Communication
• Rolls-Royce
• BAE Systems
• UK MoD
Ultra supplies advanced cyber security
solutions, high capacity communication
systems, satellite communication
equipment and tactical surveillance
equipment to support network enabled
warfare. Specialist areas include data links,
encryption for information assurance and
electronic warfare. The Group also supplies
world-leading ship, submarine and
airborne sonar equipment and systems to
meet the challenges of the underwater
battlespace, including anti-submarine
warfare and torpedo defence. Ultra has
developed a range of highly efficient
acoustic hailing devices.
• End Cryptographic Unit Replacement
Programme (ECU-RP) contract was
successfully negotiated following volume
adjustments to reﬂect the UK’s defence
review outcome
• orders for additional Litening advanced
targeting pods and associated support
for the RAF Typhoon aircraft, following
excellent performance during
operations in Libya
• a further contract for a torpedo defence
system to Turkey for its Landing Ship
Tank programme, building on recent
success for similar systems for the Turkish
Navy’s MILGEM corvettes
• US DoD
• UK MoD
• Boeing
• Lockheed Martin
• Raytheon
More on pages ?? and ??
More information about
Aircraft & Vehicle Systems can
be found on pages 26 and 27
More information about
Information & Power Systems
can be found on
pages 28 and 29
More information about
Tactical & Sonar Systems can
be found on pages 30 and 31
Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 05
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
1. Introduction 2. Strategic review 3. Performance 4. Governance 5. Group ﬁnancials 6. Company ﬁnancials 7. Five-year review The prime objective
The Board’s prime objective continues to
be to outperform the market in terms of
annual increases in shareholder value by
delivering above average increases in
earnings and by communicating effectively
with shareholders and the ﬁnancial
community. The Executive Team has the
responsibility for developing and
implementing the strategies and plans that
will deliver against this prime objective.
Ultra’s strategic framework
The strategic framework, pictured below, is
focused on ensuring that Ultra meets its
prime objective. This is achieved through
the strategies for growth which are
described on pages 8 and 9 allied with
the business model described on pages
12 to 17. Underpinning these are Ultra’s
strategic tenets described on pages 18
and 19 which help to shape and deﬁne
the values and behaviors embodied within
Ultra’s culture. Ultra’s culture is described
on pages 36 and 37.
Executing the strategies for growth
To increase Ultra’s portfolio of specialist
capabilities, the Group continues to invest
over 5% of revenue in internal
development. This investment is to
generate further specialist, differentiated
offerings in the niche market sectors
where customers preferentially focus their
expenditure. These activities are led by the
businesses and are robustly reviewed by
the Executive Team and the Board.
In parallel, Ultra continues to invest in
value adding acquisitions which bring
complementary, world-leading niche
technologies and market access to the
Group’s portfolio. In 2012, Ultra bought
three specialist businesses. In May the
Group acquired GigaSat, a UK company
that develops, manufactures, sells and
supports ﬁxed, mobile and transportable
satellite earth stations, or satcom
terminals. Their products and services are
provided to the military, government and
commercial markets around the world.
GigaSat is part of Ultra’s Tactical & Sonar
Systems division.
In June, Ultra acquired specialist UK cyber
security companies Barron McCann
Technology Limited and Barron McCann
Payments Limited (BeMac). BeMac provides
commercial-grade cryptographic and key
management services to the UK
Government, military, law enforcement
agencies and the ﬁnance sector. BeMac’s
proprietary products are accredited by
CESG/GCHQ, the UK government’s
national technical authority for secure
electronic communications. BeMac has
been integrated into Ultra’s AEP Networks
business to form a centre of excellence for
baseline and enhanced-grade cryptographic
and secure communication products and
services. This business is also part of Ultra’s
Tactical & Sonar Systems division.
In August the Group acquired RFI, a
specialist US electronic component
company that manufactures high-voltage,
power conversion sub-systems and a
variety of other products designed for
industrial, military and commercial
applications. RFI has been integrated into
Ultra’s EMS business and is a part of Ultra’s
Information & Power Systems division.
Chief Executive’s report
06 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
ʻʻ
…Ultra’s robust business model and
inherent agility, has enabled the Group
to be positioned for growth…
ʼʼ
Objective Delivered
through…
Underpinned
by…
To outperform the
market in terms of
annual increases in
shareholder return
Strategies for growth
(see page 08)
Strategic tenets
(see page 18)
Robust business model
(see page 12)
Culture
(see page 36)
Rakesh Sharma, Chief Executive As a consequence of this continuous
investment, the Group’s 28 businesses now
cover more than 180 specialist capability
areas across Ultra’s core markets of
defence, security, transport and energy.
This broad diversity gives signiﬁcant
resilience to Ultra’s ﬁnancial performance
and drives the Group’s growth momentum.
Augmenting this wide diversity of capability
is Ultra’s constant determination to
broaden its customer base and to widen its
geographical footprint. Both of these
activities are carried out in a measured and
controlled manner with due consideration
of risk. New markets and geographical
sectors take time to enter and Ultra has
therefore made the strategic decision to
focus its resources in a prioritised number
of regions and sectors with high growth
potential. Ultra, as an independent,
non-threatening partner, is able to support
all of the main prime contractors and local
industry partners with its unique
capabilities and solutions. Ultra is therefore
well positioned to bring its specialised
equipment, systems and services to new
long-term platforms and programmes in
new markets and regions. Further details
on Ultra’s robust business model can be
found on pages 12 to 17.
Building and sustaining
long-term relationships
The ability to execute these strategies
successfully is entirely reliant upon the
Group’s employees. Ultra’s reputation as a
global leader in electronics and software
for defence, security, transport and energy
applications is built on the endeavours of
its exceptional employees and their ability
to develop long term value adding
relationships with customers. In the current
climate of changing market dynamics, it is
even more important that the Group
continues to differentiate itself through its
behaviours and attitudes. To support this
Ultra has developed a number of internal
initiatives and tools that help it gain a
better understanding of customers real
needs and hence improve its ability to offer
differentiated and comprehensive
solutions. One of these key initiatives is
LAUNCH: see page 36.
Underpinning all of Ultra’s behaviours is
a strong ethical policy that is mandatory
for all employees across the entire Group.
In addition to educating employees on
anti-bribery and corruption policies,
including gifts and hospitality practices, the
training also gives guidance on identifying
warning ﬂags to ensure potential issues are
raised immediately and can be dealt with
appropriately. In the period Ultra decided
not to pursue business in certain areas
where its ethical standards might be at risk.
Executing against the growth strategies,
shown above, requires consistency of
management focus and drive. The
continuity of Ultra’s management team
ensures that the expertise and experience
is retained to maintain growth momentum
in the Group. The members of the
Executive Team understand through
experience what makes Ultra different and
how to focus the Group’s businesses on
maintaining competitive advantage in the
various specialist market sectors in which
Ultra operates.
Summary
Early recognition of current changes in
market dynamics, coupled with Ultra’s
robust business model and inherent agility,
has enabled the Group to be positioned
for growth in these challenging times.
I am conﬁdent that Ultra is extremely well
placed to execute successfully the
strategies and plans to meet the Board’s
prime objective.
Rakesh Sharma
Chief Executive
+++
Increase the Group’s
portfolio of specialist
capability areas
Augment the
number of long-term
platforms and
programmes on
which Ultra’s specialist
capabilities are
speciﬁed
Broaden the Group’s
customer base
Widen Ultra’s
geographic footprint
The four main strategies
for growth are:
Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 07
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
1. Introduction 2. Strategic review 3. Performance 4. Governance 5. Group ﬁnancials 6. Company ﬁnancials 7. Five-year review
Dividend per share
+3.9%
(2011: 38.5p)
40.0
38.5
34.6
31.2
26.0
12 1 1 10 09 08
40.0p
Underlying earnings per share
+3.6%
(2011: 120.2p)
124.5
120.2
107.9
96.4
80.1
12 1 1 10 09 08
124.5p
KPI
= Key Performance Indicator, see pages 10 and 11 for details KPI Strategic objectives
Ultra’s four strategies for growth
08 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
1
Increase the Group’s portfolio of
specialist capability areas
Ultra concentrates on providing its customers with capabilities and
systems using the Group’s electronic and software solutions for
niche markets in defence & aerospace, security & cyber, transport
and energy. Within these market sectors Ultra focuses on
developing specialist capabilities that provide differentiated
solutions to customers’ requirements. Across Ultra’s businesses
there are more than 180 of these specialist capability areas.
2
Augment the number of long-term
platforms and programmes on
which Ultra’s specialist capabilities
are speciﬁed
Ultra positions these specialist capabilities on a long list of
international platforms and programmes. This breadth of
platform and programme coverage creates a ﬂywheel effect that
drives Ultra’s performance year after year, despite market
ﬂuctuations. Ultra is positioned on more than 350 such platforms
and programmes. Excluding the Oman Airport IT project, no
single programme contributes more than 5% of Ultra’s revenue
in any one year.
In 2012…
Ultra added 9 new specialist
capability areas to its portfolio.
In 2012…
the Group’s specialist capabilities
were speciﬁed on 9 new platforms
and programmes.
In order to outperform the market, and thereby improve the Group’s ranking in the FTSE
index, Ultra must add shareholder value and increase its market capitalisation more rapidly
than other companies. This is facilitated by an above-average rate of revenue growth. Ultra
constantly strives to increase its share of the high growth sectors of the markets in which it
has positioned itself. The four main strategic objectives that support this target growth are:
Strategies in action…
The acquisition of BeMac brings to Ultra’s portfolio of
specialist capabilities:
• baseline-grade cryptographic equipment
• key management services
• secure financial transaction systems
BeMac’s capabilities are provided to UK Government, military,
law enforcement agencies and the finance sector. BeMac’s
proprietary products are accredited by CESG/GCHQ, the UK
government’s national technical authority for secure electronic
communications. BeMac has been integrated into Ultra’s AEP
Networks business to form a centre of excellence for baseline
and enhanced grade cryptographic and secure communication
products and services.
Strategies in action…
Ultra’s PMES business is part of a joint team with Babcock and
UK MoD that is now under contract to fit Ultra’s new main-static
convertor equipment to the UK Vanguard class submarines,
which will continue in-service beyond the next decade. Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 09
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
3
Broaden the Group’s customer base
Ultra’s independence allows it to sell its wide portfolio of specialist
capabilities to a broad range of customers around the world. Ultra
supplies to a wide range of different project ofﬁces, integrated
project teams and platform teams within its customers, the largest
of which include; US DoD, UK MoD, Rolls-Royce, BAE Systems,
Lockheed Martin, Raytheon and Boeing.
4
Widen Ultra’s geographic footprint
Ultra has pursued a strategy of gaining access to the two largest
addressable defence budgets in the world. Despite the recent
budget reductions, the US still spends more more on defence
each year than the rest of NATO nations combined. The majority
of Ultra’s acquisitions have been in North America and the point
has now been reached where the Group has a transatlantic
capability and derives more of its revenue from the US and
Canada than it does from the UK. Ultra’s revenue from the
Middle East and Asia Pacific regions are capable of expansion.
The Group’s growing presence in Australia, and the Middle East
regions indicates Ultra’s intent in this regard.
In 2012…
Ultra won business with
19 new customers.
In 2012…
the Group was successful in
9 new geographic areas.
58%
opening ﬁrm order cover compared
to analysts’ consensus forecast for
2013 revenue (2011: 54%)
19%
increase in sales to countries
outside Europe and North America
£111.2m (2011: £93.2m)
Strategies in action…
Ultra’s Nuclear Controls business, a strategic supplier of
nuclear-qualified instrumentation and control systems, has
signed a Memorandum of Understanding with AREVA that will
open the way for a future partnership in power generation
and the build of two new nuclear reactors in the UK. The
collaboration could also extend to other reactors including
those planned at Sizewell.
Ultra’s 3eTI business has been extremely successful with
providing ‘virtual’ perimeter fence and EnergyGuard
capabilities to the US Navy to protect and manage its
buildings and infrastructure. Building on this success, 3eTI
has now started to deliver similar capabilities to the US Army
and large US Air Force estate infrastructure.
Strategies in action…
Ultra’s Card Systems business, through its Magicard product,
provided the physical access control and attendee registration
at the G20 summit in Los Cabos, Mexico.
1. Introduction 2. Strategic review 3. Performance 4. Governance 5. Group ﬁnancials 6. Company ﬁnancials 7. Five-year review KPIs charting growth
Strategic objectives
*see footnote on page 1
10 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
KPI 1
Revenue growth
KPI 2
Proﬁt before tax growth
KPI 3
Growth in earnings per share over
a three-year period
The indicators shown below have been identiﬁed by the Board as giving the best overall
indication of the Group’s long-term success in improving its FTSE ranking by
outperforming the market.
Comment
Revenue grew by 4.0% to £760.8m, an
increase of £29.1m. The positive effects of
both foreign exchange on translation of
overseas revenues and the incremental
beneﬁt of self-funded acquisitions
outweighed a decline in underlying
constant currency revenues of 4%.
Comment
Underlying proﬁt before tax increased
slightly to £115.6m and the underlying
operating margin fell a little to 16.1%. The
additional contribution from acquisitions
and favourable foreign currency translation
was offset by an adverse organic
performance mainly owing to a difﬁcult
defence market in 2012.
Comment
Headline earnings per share in the year
were 124.5p (2011: 120.2p), an increase
of 3.6%. A ﬁnal dividend of 27.8p (2011:
26.8p) is proposed. If this is approved at
the Annual General Meeting, this will give
a full year dividend of 40.0p (2011: 38.5p)
and will be covered 3.1 times by proﬁts.
+4%
2011:
3%
2010:
9%
+1%
2011:
12%
2010:
15%
+9%
2011:
15%
2010:
16%
Description
Growth in total Group revenue compared
to the prior year, providing a quantiﬁed
indication of the rate at which the Group’s
business activity is expanding.
Description
Growth in Group underlying proﬁt before
tax* compared to the prior year,
conﬁrming that additional revenue is
being gained without proﬁt margins being
compromised or that proﬁts from new
acquisitions are are not being diluted.
Description
Annual growth in underlying earnings per
share* calculated over a rolling three-year
period, indicating progress towards the
Board’s primary objective. *see footnote on page 1
Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 11
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
KPI 4
Cash conversion
KPI 5
Interest cover
KPI 6
Relative total shareholder return
Comment
Underlying operating cash ﬂow* was
£89.6m and the ratio of cash to
underlying operating proﬁt was 73%. As
anticipated, this was a reduction from the
very strong £133.7m (110% conversion)
recorded in 2011, due predominantly to
the phasing of working capital
movements and increased level of capital
expenditure in 2012. The cash to
underlying operating proﬁt ratio over a
rolling ﬁve year period is 98%.
Comment
Ultra continues to generate signiﬁcant
cover to meet its interest payments.
Comment
The shareholder return compares
favourably to the FTSE 250 index.
Non-financial performance indicators
Ultra’s four strategies for growth are described on pages 8 and 9 of this report. Performance
indicators relating to the Group’s success in these four dimensions are shown on those pages.
The Group’s right people are its most important asset. Performance indicators that relate to the
recruitment, retention and development of Ultra’s staff are included on page 37 of this report.
23times
2011:
23times
2010:
23times
+6%per annum
2011:
+9%per annum
2010:
+5%per annum
73%
2011:
110%
2010:
96%
Description
Net cash from operating activities, less
net purchases of property, plant and
equipment, less expenditure on product
development and LTIP purchases, expressed
as a percentage of underlying operating
proﬁt*. Operating cash conversion* is a
simple yet reliable measure of cash
generation, which represents the major
element of the Group’s short-term
incentive bonus scheme.
Description
The ratio of underlying operating proﬁt*
to ﬁnance costs associated with
borrowings, as a reliable indicator of
balance sheet strength.
Description
Annual total shareholder return
(capital growth plus dividends paid,
assuming dividends reinvested) over a
rolling ﬁve-year period compared to
the FTSE 250 index.
1. Introduction 2. Strategic review 3. Performance 4. Governance 5. Group ﬁnancials 6. Company ﬁnancials 7. Five-year review Ultra businesses constantly
innovate to create solutions to
customer requirements that are
different from and better than
those of the Group’s competitors.
Solutions
By applying these differentiated solutions
to a wide range of international platforms
and programmes, Ultra has built an
exceptionally broad portfolio of specialist
capability areas. Where the Group has a
number of complementary capabilities it
can also combine these to offer broader
solutions. In other words, the products,
capabilities and the associated domain
expertise uniquely position Ultra to be able
to meet sub-system and system
requirements. These solutions are
underpinned by through-life support
offerings that ensure the capabilities are
delivered and sustained in-service.
Support
Ultra offers support to its customers
through the design, delivery and support
phases of a programme. Ultra’s deep
understanding of its specialist capability
areas combined with knowledge of the
customer environment is a key factor in
delivering innovative solutions to meet the
customers’ through-life needs.
Capabilities
Throughout the Group’s businesses there
are more than 180 of these specialist
capability areas across Ultra’s broad market
areas of:
 Defence & Aerospace
 Security & Cyber
 Transport and Energy
Ultra provides these specialist capabilities
on more than 350 long term multi-year
platforms and programmes. Excluding the
Oman Airport IT project, no single
programme contributes more than 5% of
Ultra’s revenue in any one year.
The Group is constantly seeking to
increase the number of specialist
capabilities in narrow market niches and
to increase the number of long-term
platforms and programmes on which
Ultra’s specialist capabilities are specified.
Ultra’s ever broadening range of specialist
market capabilities coupled with its
increasing presence on long-term
programmes and platforms drives the
Group’s growth momentum.
The expansive spread of specialist
capability areas mapped onto so many
platforms and programmes provides
resilience to Ultra’s financial performance
and reduces the Group’s risk profile.
Why we’re different
Business model
12 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Products
What we do
Ultra focuses on developing specialist
capabilities that provide differentiated
solutions to customers’ requirements
>8
core capability areas
>180
specialist capabilities
>350
platforms & programmes
Revenue by capability
Defence & Aerospace 56%
Security & Cyber 24%
Transport and Energy 20% Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 13
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
The diagram below shows how the
180+ specialist capabilities relate to
their major end customers and markets
Ultra has more than 180 specialist capability areas across
the Group’s broad market areas of Defence & Aerospace,
Security & Cyber, Transport and Energy
1. Introduction 2. Strategic review 3. Performance 4. Governance 5. Group ﬁnancials 6. Company ﬁnancials 7. Five-year review Why we’re different
Business model
(continued)
14 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Ultra is constantly repositioning
itself in high growth sectors
within its main Defence &
Aerospace, Security & Cyber,
Transport and Energy markets.
Market sectors
Through its tried and tested strategic
review process, the Group has
demonstrated a long track record of
identifying future high growth market
sectors. Ultra then invests to create
differentiated positions in these sectors.
Ultra’s ever broadening range of specialist
market positions and growing geographic
reach underpins the Group’s growth.
Ultra continues to focus on maximising
revenue from the largest addressable
defence budgets in the world. Within
these markets, the Group continues to
follow a strategy of identifying and
pursuing areas of preferential funding.
The Group has expanded and developed a
transatlantic capability and derives around
half its revenue from North America. The
Middle East and Asia Pacific regions are
capable of being larger markets for Ultra
and the Group is focused on broadening
its geographic reach in line with Strategic
Objective 4 see page 9. A full analysis of
Ultra's markets is on pages 20 to 23.
Ultra’s customers
Ultra’s independence allows it to work with
the world’s major prime contractors in its
markets and to sell its wide portfolio of
specialist capabilities to a broad range of
customers around the world. The graphic
to the right shows the major customers for
the Group’s 2012 revenue. Within the
Group’s top customers, such as the US
Department of Defense (DoD), the UK
Ministry of Defence (MoD) and BAE
Systems, the Group actually supplies to a
wide range of different project offices,
integrated project teams and platform
teams. Therefore, Ultra deals with a larger
number of different partners and customers
than the graphic might first suggest.
Geographic reach
Over the last two decades Ultra has
expanded and developed its international
footprint and now has significant
operations in Europe, North America,
Middle East and Asia Pacific. Ultra has
businesses based in the countries shaded
light blue on the map (above), and
furthermore, conducts business in the
countries shaded in dark blue.
Markets
Where we operate
Ultra focuses on constantly and continuously
positioning itself in areas of preferential
customer spend within its main markets
Revenue by region
United Kingdom 30%
North America 48%
Mainland Europe 7%
Rest of the world 15%
5 10 15 20 25 % 30
US DoD
UK MoD
MOTC OMAN
ROLLS-ROYCE
BAE SYSTEMS
LOCKHEED MARTIN
RAYTHEON
BOEING
AUSTRALIAN DoD
GENERAL DYNAMICS
THALES
CANADIAN DND
TAIWAN MoD
EDF
UTC In its specialist capability areas,
Ultra’s understanding of the
customer environment and the
projected capability gaps that the
customer would like addressed –
in short, its understanding of the
customer’s ‘problem statement’
– is a key differentiator.
Ultra businesses constantly innovate to
create solutions to customer requirements
that are different from and better than those
of the Group’s competitors in a way that the
customer values. In identifying differentiated
solutions, prime consideration is given not to
what Ultra would like to sell but to what the
customer needs. This flexibility covers not
just the technical attributes of the product
or system but also the commercial package,
the training and the support in which the
customer is interested.
The Group is agnostic as to the source of
technology that is required to deliver
solutions. When proven technology that
meets customers’ requirements exists
outside the Group, Ultra is happy to form
teaming partnerships to access it. Ultra sees
these teaming arrangements as a source of
competitive advantage, allowing Ultra to
deliver differentiated solutions that meet
customer needs efficiently. It is important
that these teaming arrangements are of
benefit to all parties – by working together,
the team members are able to win
opportunities that would not be possible
without teaming.
Ultra’s position in the supply chain
Within the definition of the supply chain
shown in the graphic above, Ultra’s specialist
capabilities are mainly at Tiers 3 and 4,
supplying equipment and components to
support Tier 1 and 2 subsystems and
programmes. The Group does undertake
Tier 2 subsystem integration but does this
mainly when integrating its own Tier 3
offerings. Ultra therefore understands the
Tier 3 detailed interfaces and so is able to
manage the risk inherent in sub-system
integration activities.
Ultra has no strategic aim to be a Tier 1, top
level platform provider. The Group is
therefore non-threatening to the Tier 1
prime contractors such as BAE Systems or
Rolls-Royce and counts them amongst its
largest customers. They can rely on Ultra to
provide the specialist capabilities at which
the Group is expert. Concentrating on Tiers
3 and 4, rather than aiming to be a Tier 1
platform provider, means that, with the
exception of the Oman Airport IT
programme, no single platform or
programme typically accounts for more
than 5% of Group revenue for the year, so
the cancellation or curtailment of any single
programme is unlikely to have a significant
adverse impact on the Group.
Typical tier offerings
Tier 1 (Platform provider)
Responsible for being the prime contractor of the
platform in question, examples being a naval vessel or
a terminal at an airport.
Tier 2 (Sub-system integrator)
Responsible for integrating equipment or components
that will make up a functional element of the platform.
Examples of sub-system integration that Ultra has
completed include integrated sonar systems and wing
ice protection systems.
Tier 3 (Equipment supplier)
Ultra has a large presence at this level of the
supply chain, supplying equipment such as data links,
cryptographic equipment and large electrical
transformers.
Tier 4 (Component supplier)
Ultra also provides a broad range of smaller
components onto many programmes worldwide,
including sensors for measuring the performance of a
nuclear reactor and joysticks to control UAVs.
Investment
The Group has a strategy to continuously
invest to strengthen its capabilities across
its specialist niche markets.
Ultra consistently invests over 5% of
revenue in new product and business
development. In addition, over 10% of
Group revenue is customer-funded product
development. In total therefore over 15%
of revenue spend is focused on augmenting
the portfolio of capabilities and programme
positions that underpin further growth.
Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 15
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Supply chain
Tier 1
Tier 2
Tier 3
Tier 4
3rd party
technology
Customer
‘problem 
statement’
Ultra’s
solution
Product and business
development spend 2012
Ultra focuses on developing innovative
solutions that are delivered in close collaboration
with partners, suppliers and customers
Partnerships
How we operate
Platform provider Tier 1
Sub-system integrator Tier 2
Equipment supplier Tier 3
Component supplier Tier 4
Group funded 6.5%
Customer funded 12.9%
1. Introduction 2. Strategic review 3. Performance 4. Governance 5. Group ﬁnancials 6. Company ﬁnancials 7. Five-year review Why we’re different
16 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Flexibility
How we are
organised
Ultra focuses on delivering agile and
responsive support to customers through a
high degree of operational autonomy
A key differentiator for Ultra is
the agility that businesses in the
Group exhibit in their dealings
with customers.
Ultra’s businesses have a high degree of
operational autonomy so that they
provide exceptionally agile and responsive
support to customers and partners
normally associated with a smaller
business. These benefits of customer
focus and agility are augmented by the
access to wider and complementary
technologies and expertise that lie
elsewhere in the Group or with partners,
and by Ultra’s strong financial position.
The Board provides effective leadership
and direction in delivering the key
corporate objective of reliable and
consistent growth in shareholder value. At
the operational level, the Executive Team
has responsibility for running the Group
and for delivery of strategy, financial
performance and team development.
Across the Group, there are no more than
seven levels of seniority from shop-floor
operator or newly qualified engineer up to
the Chief Executive. Flat management
structures within the 28 businesses are
encouraged to facilitate agile behaviour at
all levels.
Ultra ensures that all of its businesses are
well managed, profitable and cash
generative. This allows the Group to self-
fund acquisitions that deliver positions
in new markets or additional niche
capabilities. Since the Group’s formation,
Ultra has maintained a balance between
organic and acquisition growth, having
successfully integrated 48 acquisitions
since 1993.
The Group pursues four parallel strategies
for growth that are explained more fully on
pages 8 and 9.
Ultra’s business model and the four
strategies for growth are underpinned by
eight strategic tenets see pages 18 and
19. These strategic tenets provide
guidance for the implementation of the
strategy as well as forming the basis of
Ultra’s culture and behaviours, more
details of which can be found on pages
35 to 37.
Objective Delivered
through…
Underpinned
by…
To outperform the
market in terms of
annual increases in
shareholder return
Strategies for growth
(see page 08)
Strategic tenets
(see page 18)
Robust business model
(see page 12)
Culture
(see page 36)
With around 4,700 employees in its 28
businesses, the number of staff at Ultra’s head
office is fewer than 30. This gives a clear signal
about how it wants the Group to run.
ʻʻ
ʼʼ
BOARD
RESPONSIBLE FOR:
LEADERSHIP – doing the right thing
GROWTH IN SHAREHOLDER VALUE
GROUP STRATEGY
RISK MANAGEMENT
STANDARDS OF ETHICS
AND BEHAVIOUR
EXEC TEAM
RESPONSIBLE FOR:
MANAGEMENT – doing things right
DELIVERING THE STRATEGY
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
TEAM DEVELOPMENT
28
AUTONOMOUS
BUSINESSES
ORGANISED INTO 3 DIVISIONS
Business model
(continued) Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 17
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Ultra’s strategy is constantly
to broaden its portfolio of
products and services that are
positioned on a large number
of international platforms and
programmes in the defence,
security, transport and
energy markets.
The Group has an increasingly broad
customer base worldwide with sales
outside the UK now representing 70% of
Group revenue. Ultra is constantly
repositioning itself in high growth sectors
within its main defence, security, transport
and energy markets.
The Group remains committed to its strategy
of continued investment in its portfolio of
differentiated specialist capabilities to ensure
that the business is well positioned to meet
future market demand.
• Ultra has over 180 specialist niche
capabilities
• Ultra is positioned on over 350 long-term,
multi-year programme and platforms
• That with the exception of the Oman
Airport IT programme, no one
programme is more than 5% of Ultra’s
revenue in any year
The above factors,
combined with Ultra’s
market agility
and organisational
flexibility results in a
stable and well
balanced business that
brings robustness and
resilience to Ultra’s
financial profile and
reduces the Group’s risk.
More detail on Ultra’s approach to risk
management can be found on pages
40 to 43.
Focus on autonomy
As much authority and responsibility as possible is devolved to the
Managing Directors and Presidents of Ultra’s individual businesses
and their management teams. Ultra wants these teams to maintain
the agility and sharp focus externally on customer requirements
that are typical of owner-managed businesses. Ultra’s core
management processes address four main areas. These are:
• compliance
ensuring that the businesses comply fully with all laws
and regulations of all the countries in which they operate
and that they demonstrate the high standards of integrity
and ethical behaviour
• strategy
agreeing and then delivering five-year plans focused on
positioning for growth in target markets through innovation
that generates differentiated solutions to customer
requirements for each of Ultra’s specialist capability areas
More on pages 8 and 9
• financial performance
managing the main processes (for example, winning new
business, execution of contracts, production and support) so
that the businesses meet or exceed the agreed financial budgets.
Across all Ultra businesses the focus is mainly on cash generation
as an indicator of the high quality of earnings growth
More on pages 24 to 34
• developing people
for each business developing the team and its individuals so that
they so that they grow with the business and do not become a
constraint on the development of the Group. Ultra’s right people
are its most important asset and great focus is placed on
ensuring that the right people are in the right roles
More on pages 36 and 37
Balance
How we
reduce risk
1. Introduction 2. Strategic review 3. Performance 4. Governance 5. Group ﬁnancials 6. Company ﬁnancials 7. Five-year review Strategic tenets
Ultra’s growth momentum has
been sustained by successfully
pursuing its strategies for
growth see pages 8 and 9.
Underpinning these strategies
are eight core strategic tenets.
They have been used
consistently by the Group over
many years. They help shape the
culture, defined as values and
behaviours that drive results,
that is encouraged in Ultra.
Focus on defence,
security, transport
and energy
The Group’s core competencies, domain
knowledge and market positions give it
particular credibility in these four sectors
worldwide. Core competencies include:
market positioning through an
understanding of customer needs, enabling
responses to complex invitations to tender
or requests for proposals; managing
complex development programmes where
risks need careful identiﬁcation and control;
manufacturing and aftermarket support
over long timescales and the discipline to
meet our commitments. The strategy is to
enhance the capability of the Group to
allow adjacent market sectors that exhibit
growth to be served.
Through-life product
and services portfolio
The Group values any position within the
supply chain that is held by any particular
niche. Frequently, more attractive margins
can be generated by providing
components than by supplying entire
systems. Where the Group has a number
of complementary niches, it does combine
these to offer sub-systems, systems and
through-life management solutions to
satisfy customer requirements. Generally,
however, Ultra prefers to retain a leading
niche position rather than constantly
pursue the supply of systems with the
hope of higher added value. The scope of
Ultra’s offering is determined after a
rigorous strategic review.
Niche player
Within the Group’s 28 businesses, more
than 180 niches can be identified where
the aim is to sustain competitive
advantage. These niches enable Ultra to
achieve world-leading positions and result
in the potential for superior financial
performance. This broad spread gives the
Group low dependency on any single
contract and provides resilience in the
face of technological changes or funding
cut-backs.
Organic and
acquisition growth
Ultra businesses are expected to contribute
to the organic growth of the Group as well
as identifying well-matched acquisition
targets. To ensure that an appropriate rate
of organic growth is maintained,
businesses produce annual ﬁve-year
strategic plans that target speciﬁc
opportunities. The focus on cash
generation is a key driver to the
affordability of suitable acquisitions to
augment the Group’s growth rate. The
Group’s acquisition strategy is summarised
as being the pursuit of ‘bolt-on’ and
‘bolt-in’ acquisitions that enable Ultra to
successfully pursue its four main strategies
for growth. The normal size of
acquisitions, as measured by annual
revenue, is currently about £30m to
£100m for ‘bolt-ons’ and up to £15m for
‘bolt-ins’. Larger acquisitions will be
considered where the case is compelling.
18 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Ultra’s enablers Efﬁciency and
competence
Ultra seeks to maximise efﬁciency
throughout its organisation. The levels of
commitment and competency of business
management teams is continuously
assessed through strategic, budget,
organisation, succession and regular
business performance reviews. The Group
places a high degree of trust in, and has
high expectations of, its senior staff and
supports their development and
improvement activities. Ultra empowers
management teams to run their respective
businesses to deliver agreed strategies,
meet budgets and continuously develop
their people. Ultra constantly develops its
people and structure through a rigorous
annual organisation, succession and
development planning process.
Teaming
Teaming, internally within the Group or
externally with other companies, broadens
offerings by combining niche products or
linking domain knowledge. It attains
competitive advantage by accessing
off-the-shelf technology at lower cost,
allowing timely delivery while avoiding
expensive development costs and high
project risk. Increasingly, Ultra teams with
international, world-class partners to
access ‘best of breed’ technology and
undertakes specialist system and
sub-system design and integration,
ensuring customers sovereign operational
independence where required.
Strategic supplier
Ultra businesses are expected to maximise
their relationships with customers for the
long-term, through a close understanding
of customer needs leading to sustained
on-time delivery of high quality products
and services. Many of the Group’s niche
offerings involve the design and supply of
complex products and services which are
typically safety or performance-critical in
their application. This creates a shared
dependency from the customers’
perspective and encourages a long-term
strategic relationship where Ultra’s
businesses become part of the customers’
extended enterprises, to mutual beneﬁt.
Commitments
Ultra has built a reputation for meeting its
commitments. This reputation is not only
based on businesses meeting their
obligations, but also by establishing a
culture within the Group which is based
on this principle. Ultra believes that this
reputation is one of its deﬁning and
most valuable characteristics. Behaving in
this way fosters long-term relationships.
Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 19
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Market Analysis
Ultra’s analysis of the defence, security,
transport and energy markets can be
found on pages 20 to 23.
Teaming
Further details on Ultra’s approach to
partnering and teaming can be found
on page 15.
Strategic Supplier
Further details on how Ultra drives
long term relationships can be found
on pages 35 and 36.
Commitments
More information on Ultra’s
commitment to developing sustainable
and long-term business can be found
on pages 38 and 39.
1. Introduction 2. Strategic review 3. Performance 4. Governance 5. Group ﬁnancials 6. Company ﬁnancials 7. Five-year review 20 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
*C4ISR is command, control, communication,
computers, intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance
Market analysis
Defence
Within Ultra’s core markets, defence forces
are readjusting to the end of long-running
land campaigns in Iraq and Afghanistan,
against the backdrop of signiﬁcant and
continuing government ﬁscal uncertainty.
Defence budgets are under pressure, yet
international tensions are undiminished
and the demands for military presence and
focused intervention remain high, driven by
threats from terrorism, insurgency and
regional competition. As a result, military
forces will be asked to do more with less,
leading to a greater dependency on
unmanned systems, greater use of
intelligence-led, Special Operations and
quick-reaction forces, and improved
situational awareness and networking for
the lower number of troops on the ground.
C4ISR*, defence IT and cyber will receive
priorities while projecting fewer ‘boots on
the ground’. Increased mobility and ﬂexibility
will improve the utility of these smaller
formations, relying upon high-capacity,
secure data links and wideband, mobile
communications delivering data down to
the individual soldier for improved
situational awareness. Each of these
specialist capabilities plays to the established
strengths of Ultra’s portfolio.
US
In the US, Ultra’s largest defence market,
budget uncertainty will continue through
2013. Sequestration (under the 2012
Budget Control Act) has now been
enacted and an extension of the current
Continuing Resolution is judged more
likely than not as US deﬁcit pressures
continue unaddressed. Sequestration
would apply across all programmes, until
negotiations on priority spend could be
agreed by the Department of Defense.
These cuts would add another $500bn to
the existing $487bn defence funding
reduction over the next 10 years, as already
announced in the Fiscal Year 2013 (FY13)
budget. A further downward correction to
the US defence budget seems inevitable
with some programmes being curtailed or
cancelled. While the breadth of Ultra’s
portfolio and focus on areas of preferential
and continuing spend provides a strong
degree of resilience, this market remains
difﬁcult as budget uncertainty translates
into an unwillingness to commit to normal
contract volumes, while funding remains
subject to additional scrutiny and
vulnerable to further cuts. These effects are
most evident in land warfare programmes
as the strategic emphasis shifts back
toward expeditionary warfare capabilities.
Recent US strategy will see the focus
return to the Asia-Paciﬁc region, with a
60-40 force split between East and West
coast forces favouring the Paciﬁc by 2020.
The strategy has a strong focus on
undersea dominance, with the new P-8
Anti-Submarine Warfare (ASW) patrol
aircraft, new Littoral Combat Ship
stationing and submarine force allocations
prioritised to counter the growing
Asia-Paciﬁc submarine threat. Over 80 new
submarines will be commissioned within
the region in the next 10 years, largely to
undertake area denial/anti-access roles
amongst the contested waters that offer
competed access to critical resources and
command regional inﬂuence. Ultra’s
In demanding markets, Ultra provides a growing portfolio of highly differentiated, specialist
capabilities and innovative technologies to meet particular customer need. Ultra’s clear focus
on areas of preferential spend, increasing market access and product diversity provides
resilience in a period of budget adjustment in core markets. Working closely and effectively
across the Group, and with partners, Ultra offers the comprehensive, tailored and proven
solutions the customer is seeking.
Military forces will
be asked to do more
with less.
ʻʻ
ʼʼ Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 21
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
long-standing expertise in all aspects of
underwater capability leave it well
positioned to exploit this resurgence of
focus on ASW capability, with both the US
and regional maritime forces.
UK
In the UK the defence equipment budget
has been reset around a deﬁned core
programme, providing some welcome relief
from the damage of overspend on major
projects impacting across the programme
as a whole. Further defence budget cuts
appear likely in the next Comprehensive
Spending Review as the UK Government
struggles with its own deﬁcit problem, but
there are signs that the equipment
acquisition budget will remain stable in the
short-term. The UK Ministry of Defence
continues to provide valuable opportunities
in areas covered by Ultra’s specialist
capabilities, such as ISTAR, data links, force
protection and crypto management. Ultra
also beneﬁts from a more stable
commitment to the submarine reﬁt and
build programme.
Rest of the world
Elsewhere in Ultra’s target markets a
general upward trend of defence spending
continues with a focus on the acquisition
of established and proven, high end
systems while protecting and building an
indigenous defence industrial capability. In
Turkey, Ultra has established a strong
reputation for successful teaming with
Turkish industry, including the secondment
of several Turkish engineers under new visa
arrangements to develop the next
generation of ship torpedo defence. This
engagement has secured Ultra’s reputation
and position as a leading provider of sonar
systems to the Turkish Navy, while
encouraging interest in the Group’s wider
portfolio of capabilities. Ultra is applying
the lessons from Turkey to establish new
relationships in India, now the largest
defence importer in the world. India is
investing heavily in defence and
speciﬁcally in improving its ‘blue water’
naval capability, with a build programme
of some ﬁve or six new ships a year for the
next ten years. There is strong interest in
Ultra’s sonar capabilities and expertise in
armoured ﬁghting vehicle electronic
architectures, on top of the Group’s
long-standing engagement in army radio
systems. While Australia has implemented
short-term defence cuts as a contribution
to deﬁcit reduction ahead of the next
general election, the long-term
programme provides further opportunities
in Ultra’s areas of strength. The Group also
remains well positioned in the Middle East
and has an emerging set of opportunities
in Brazil; both regions of continuing high
defence investment.
A further downward
correction in the
US defence market
seems inevitable.
ʻʻ
ʼʼ ʼʼ
ʼʼ
Portfolio strength
and focus on
preferential spend
provides resilience.
ʻʻ
New markets
provide growth
opportunities.
ʻʻ
US focus on Asia-Paciﬁc plays to Ultra’s long-
standing expertise in all aspects of underwater
and ASW capability.
ʻʻ
ʼʼ
1. Introduction 2. Strategic review 3. Performance 4. Governance 5. Group ﬁnancials 6. Company ﬁnancials 7. Five-year review 22 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Market analysis
(continued)
Security & Cyber
The security & cyber market now represents
24% of Group revenue, targeting the
preferential customer spend arising from
terrorism, organised crime, drug trafﬁcking
and cyber-security threats. Governments
are responding with demands for
integrated solutions, which combine
surveillance and protection capabilities with
improved intelligence and effective C3
systems. Ultra has demonstrable expertise
in all of these areas.
Border security and critical national
infrastructure protection remain key
opportunities in both core and emerging
markets. Solutions need to be
comprehensive and fully integrated, with
mature, proven technologies that can be
tailored to customers’ speciﬁc needs. The
ability to access ‘best of breed’ capabilities
through close partnership is a further
requirement. Ultra is well positioned to
meet these demands in both the large US
market and in other areas of high interest,
such as the Middle East.
Within both government and private
sectors, there is a growing understanding
of the scale and potential threat from
individual and state-sponsored cyber-
attacks on critical national and commercial
infrastructures. Ultra is seeing an increased
demand for tailored solutions in the
Group’s core markets of the US and UK, as
well as new opportunities in the Middle
East and Australia. A well-established
portfolio of specialist capabilities in the
security and cyber areas, enhanced by
recent acquisitions and teaming with
leading providers in the ﬁeld, allows Ultra
to offer comprehensive solutions tailored
to individual customer needs.
The Group now enjoys a comprehensive
range of established crypto-capabilities
that span from the highest levels of
government security through to
commercial and transaction-protection
applications. These augment Ultra’s
unique key management and remote
keying capabilities that remain in strong
demand. The Group also has a wide range
of lawful intercept and data analysis
products to offer, together with the
identiﬁcation and access management,
secure communications, networks and
command & control systems to enable their
effective employment.
ʼʼ
Solutions need to be comprehensive
and fully integrated with mature, proven
technologies that can be tailored to the
customer’s speciﬁc need.
ʻʻ Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 23
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Transport and Energy
Population growth, shifts in global trade
and the proliferation of low-cost airlines
worldwide is driving demand for civil
aircraft and infrastructure investment in
mass passenger transport systems. In
established economies, infrastructure
investment is upgrading capabilities and
driving economic recovery. In emerging
economies, such investment is being used
to secure growth, build national capacity
and deliver prestigious projects.
Passenger trafﬁc ﬁgures continue to
exceed carrying capacity, with growth in
commercial aircraft manufacturers’
revenues expected to reach record levels in
2013. Production levels will exceed 1,000
aircraft per year for the third consecutive
year and backlogs continue to grow. This
long-term, worldwide increase in air travel
drives investment in infrastructure,
including airport IT systems where Ultra
has a strong capability. Ultra’s ability to
secure and deliver as a master systems
integrator, for the Muscat and Salalah
airports in Oman, has clearly established
the Group’s capability in this market, with
further opportunities expected within the
region in the following years.
The investment in ground transport systems
and speciﬁcally rail infrastructure is
predicted to exceed airport investment over
the next decade; an opportunity which
should beneﬁt Ultra with its established
and specialist trackside power capability.
Reports on the Fukushima disaster
underwrote the need for high-integrity
safety systems and remote monitoring in
civil nuclear power. Some nations
(Germany, Switzerland, Taiwan) have since
turned away from nuclear power, while
others have suspended or delayed
construction plans as a result of safety
concerns or economic stagnation; as a
result nuclear power accounted for just
11% of worldwide electricity production in
2012. Nevertheless, the imperative to
deliver low-carbon energy remains high. In
the US, despite the focus on indigenous
shale oil production, the government
approved four new-build Westinghouse
reactors, each of which uses Ultra’s
specialist sensors. The Group’s involvement
continues in China’s civil nuclear reactor
build programme, by far the largest in the
world. Elsewhere, there has been a
growing emphasis on reactor plant life
extension as new builds are delayed; this
plays well to the Group’s safety system
experience and specialist sensor provision.
Whilst investment decisions in some
countries may be slowed by economic
concerns, demand remains strong in the
world’s high-growth economies. Ultra
continues to win business in these
transport and energy areas, which now
represent 20% of Group revenue.
Continuing growth
in air trafﬁc is driving
new opportunities for
airport systems.
ʻʻ
ʼʼ
A growing emphasis on reactor plant
life extension plays well to the Group’s
safety system experience and specialist
sensor provision.
ʻʻ
ʼʼ
1. Introduction 2. Strategic review 3. Performance 4. Governance 5. Group ﬁnancials 6. Company ﬁnancials 7. Five-year review 24 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Financial performance overview
Ultra’s 2012 results
The order book at the end of 2012 was
£905.0m compared with £950.3m
(£934.4m at constant currencies) at the
end of 2011. Within the order book total,
opening ﬁrm order cover for 2013,
compared to analysts’ consensus revenue
forecasts was 58% (2011: 54%) reﬂecting
in part the signiﬁcant orders for US
sonobuoys received in the fourth quarter
of 2012.
Revenue
Revenue grew by 4.0% to £760.8m, an
increase of £29.1m. The positive effects of
both foreign exchange on translation of
overseas revenues and the incremental
beneﬁt of acquisitions outweighed a
decline in underlying constant currency
revenues of 4.2%.
With over 50% of revenues sold in US
dollars, Ultra beneﬁted from a slight decline
in the US dollar rate to 1.59 (2011: 1.60)
which increased revenues by 0.6%.
Acquisitions contributed a further 7.6%.
Principally this arose due to the full-year
effects of Sotech, Zu and AEP which were
acquired in 2011 and, to a lesser extent,
GigaSat, BeMac and RFI that were
purchased in 2012.
Excluding acquisitions and the effect of
currency movements, there was an organic
decline of 4.2%. There were major
shortfalls in two divisions, Aircraft &
Vehicle Systems and Tactical & Sonar
Systems. In contrast, Information & Power
Systems reported a signiﬁcant increase.
The shortfall in Aircraft & Vehicle Systems
arose primarily in the aircraft controls
business due to lower sales in the noise
and vibration segment because of the
phasing of aircraft deliveries as well as
lower reported sales at AMI in the gap
between the cessation of funded
development work and the beginning of
full production. Tactical & Sonar Systems
was a mixed picture. While sales into the
UK crypto programme and to anti-
submarine warfare in the US were robust,
this was overshadowed by a signiﬁcant
reduction in sales of tactical radios, both to
the export and particularly the US market.
In contrast, revenue from Information &
Power Systems was particularly strong
driven by the further ramping up of the
Oman airport IT project and strong sales of
TACPOD in the US.
Operating proﬁt and margins
Underlying operating proﬁt increased
slightly to £122.2m (2011: £122.1m) and
the margin fell a little to 16.1% (2011:
16.7%). The additional contribution from
acquisitions and favourable foreign
currency translation was offset by an
adverse organic performance.
After a record margin performance in 2011,
Aircraft & Vehicle Systems and Information
& Power Systems both improved again in
2012. However, the overall Group position
was held back by a decline at Tactical &
Sonar Systems, where there was a sharp
fall in the radio business; and the margin
consequently fell signiﬁcantly despite
considerable restructuring cost reductions.
It should be noted that Ultra continues to
invest in research and development to
support future opportunities; this
investment increased by £7.8m to £49.2m
(2011: £41.4m) and represents 6.5% of
Group turnover.
Acquisitions contributed an additional
£6.8m; largely through a full-year
contribution from Sotech and Zu.
Performance
Revenue
+4.0%
(2011: £731.7m)
£760.8m
760.8
731.7
710.0
651.0
515.3
12 1 1 10 09 08
KPI
ʻʻ
After a record margin performance in 2011, Aircraft &
Vehicle Systems and Information & Power Systems both
improved again in 2012…
ʼʼ
= Key Performance Indicator, see pages 10 and 11 for details KPI Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 25
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
1. Introduction 2. Strategic review 3. Performance 4. Governance 5. Group ﬁnancials 6. Company ﬁnancials 7. Five-year review
*see footnote on page 1
Interest and proﬁt before tax
Net ﬁnancing charges, excluding the
unwinding of discounted provisions and
fair value movement on derivatives, was
£6.7m (2011: £7.2m). The ﬁnance cost of
the bank debt was £5.3m (2011: £5.2m),
remaining steady as the closing net debt
was little changed. The ﬁnance cost of the
pension scheme reduced by £0.7m to
£1.3m (2011: £2.0m) because of a reduced
interest charge on scheme liabilities due to
a lower discount rate. The interest on bank
debt was covered 23 times (2011: 23
times) by underlying operating proﬁt*, one
of Ultra’s KPI, see pages 10 and 11 for
more information.
Underlying proﬁt before tax was £115.6m
(2011: £114.9m); an increase of 0.6%.
IFRS Proﬁt before tax
Ultra’s IFRS proﬁt before tax fell from
£91.2m (2011) to £82.8m. The principal
reason for the reduction was an increased
charge for the amortisation of intangibles
arising on acquisition; this reﬂects the
acquisition activity of recent years
(particularly Sotech, Zu and GigaSat).
The table below reconciles the underlying
and the reported number.
Tax, EPS, and dividends
The underlying tax rate reduced to 25.3%
(2011: 28.0%) due to a combination of
lower UK rates and the release of
provisions following the close of certain tax
inquiries around the world.
Headline earnings per share were 124.5p
(2011: 120.2p), an increase of 3.6%. A
ﬁnal dividend of 27.8p (2011: 26.8p) is
proposed. If this is approved at the Annual
General Meeting, it will give a full year
dividend of 40.0p (2011: 38.5p) and will
be covered 3.1 times.
Paul Dean, Finance Director
2012 2011
£m £m
Underlying proﬁt before tax 115.6 114.9
Amortisation of intangibles arising
on acquisition (32.1) (23.1)
Proﬁt/(loss) on fair value acquisition
movements on derivatives 1.4 (0.8)
Adjustment to contingent consideration
net of acquisition costs (1.5) 0.2
Unwinding of discount on provisions (0.6) –
Reported proﬁt before tax 82.8 91.2
Underlying operating proﬁt
+0.1 %
(2011: £122.1m)
122.2
122.1
110.3
97.3
77.1
12 1 1 10 09 08
£122.2m
3.6%
Headline earnings per share
up 3.6% (2011: 11.4%) 26 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc *see footnote on inside front cover
In 2012 Ultra’s Controls business continued to support low-rate initial production of the F-35 Joint
Strike Fighter through increased deliveries of its Engine Inlet Ice Protection System (EIPS). This system
is supplied to Pratt & Whitney in support of its F-135 engine programme and provides control to the
de-icing mats embedded within the guide vanes on the inlet. The overall value to Ultra has the
potential to exceed £150m.
Pictured above, L to R: Jim Wardale, Systems Engineer;
Ian Stothers, Technology Director; Simon Lockyer,
Senior Software Engineer; Heather Rolls, Director of
Programmes; Andy Daryle (front), Systems Engineering
Manager; Bart De Boer, Systems Reliability Engineer;
Alan Elford, Mechanical Engineering Manager; Jonathan
Newton, Software Engineer; Martin Pankhurst, Engineering
Specialist; David Ashworth, Software Systems Engineer.
Ultra’s Engine Inlet Ice Protection System
provides safety critical protection to the Joint
Strike Fighter's engine whilst operating within
the harsh environment of a military jet engine bay.
Aircraft & Vehicle Systems
Performance
26 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 27 *see footnote on inside front cover
The division’s revenue reﬂected a slower
than expected build up in sales of the
Group’s noise and vibration products on a
number of programmes, while funding
delays impacted sales from the UK Scout
and Warrior Capability Sustainment
armoured vehicle programmes. US budget
constraints resulted in the delay of a UAV
fuel cell order. There was some continuing
impact from the previously announced
cancellation relating to a European military
aircraft. Underlying operating proﬁt
reﬂected lower sales, offset by cost
reductions and reduced investment spend
as this division moves out of a development
phase and starts to ramp up into a long
production phase for its aerospace
products. This was reﬂected in the
underlying operating margin which rose to
21.0% (2011: 18.7%).
Highlights of activities in the year that
will underpin the division’s future
performance included:
• establishment of a ﬁve-year agreement
with Kongsberg for the CROWS3 remote
vehicle weapon station for the US Army
• positions on Boeing 787 and Gulfstream
aircraft that will provide long-term
returns as new build programmes ramp
up to full-rate production
• award of a contract for a range of
equipment for the Embraer’s KC-390,
reﬂecting growing business with the
world’s third largest aircraft manufacturer
1. Increasing the Group’s portfolio
of specialist capability areas
Ultra’s Precision Air & Land Systems business has developed a fuel tank inerting
system for passenger aircraft which addresses a growing market need arising from
the continual drive to improve ﬂight safety. Development was internally funded
through a Group-wide Audacity challenge. These systems deliver oxygen depleted
air to partially empty fuel tanks to minimise the risk of explosion. PALS has used its
considerable pneumatic systems capabilities, originally developed for military
applications, to design a novel system architecture in partnership with leading
industry suppliers. Ultra’s solution meets regulatory safety requirements and at the
same time addresses manufacturers and airlines needs for lighter, fuel efﬁcient and
cost effective aircraft subsystems.
*see footnote on page 1
Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 27
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Revenue in Aircraft & Vehicles reduced by 12%
to £147.0m (2011: £166.1m) and underlying
operating proﬁt reduced by 1% to £30.8m
(2011: £31.1m). The order book was reduced by
8% to £163.6m (2011: £177.4m).
Revenue £m
-11.5%
(2011: £166.1m)
£147.0m
19
% of group
Underlying operating proﬁt*
-1.0%
(2011: £31.1m)
£30.8m
25
% of group
Order book £m
-7.8%
(2011: £177.4m)
£163.6m
18
% of group
Number of employees
+5.4%
(2011: 1,042)
1,098
24
% of group
%
%
% %
Strategy in action
For details on Ultra’s strategic
objectives see pages 8 and 9.
1. Introduction 2. Strategic review 3. Performance 4. Governance 5. Group ﬁnancials 6. Company ﬁnancials 7. Five-year review 26 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc *see footnote on inside front cover
In March 2012, Advanced Tactical Systems was awarded a contract to design, develop and deliver
14 Tactical Communications C3I Pods (TACPOD) and associated ground support equipment for the US
Air Force. TACPOD is a communications extension and interoperability system provided in an externally
mounted aircraft pod. The TACPOD provides a robust, non-invasive tactical communications system that
can be ﬂown on manned or unmanned aircraft to provide connectivity between warﬁghters and their
command and control elements. The current TACPOD contract exceeds £19m and is a demonstration
of Ultra winning a major program in a new market area through Audacity and Entrepreneurship.
Pictured above, First row: George Bartlett, Director,
Airborne IPT; Cathy Cox, Technical Writer; Julie Short,
Financial Analyst; Serena Smyers, Systems Engineer;
Heath Hannes, Systems Engineering Lead; Gary Newcomb,
Software Engineering Lead. Second row: Johnny Pratt,
Technician; Michael Jackson, Test Engineer;
Randall Withrow, Systems Engineer. Third row: Damian
White, Test Engineer; Joe Yoder, Technical Manager;
Don Bergman, Deputy Program Manager; April Neigut,
Mechanical Engineer; Nick Kraus, Test Engineer.
Fourth row: John Leimon, Electrical Engineer; Geoff
Guenther, Software Engineering Lead; Jason Sinnema,
Mechanical Engineer; David Medina, Test Engineer;
Bill Newcomb, Systems Engineer; Juan DelaPena, Test
Engineer; Kevin Ford, Mechanical Engineering Lead; Doug
Huyck, Systems Engineer; Brian Kimball, Software Engineer.
TACPOD is a communication exchange system
that can receive messages using one
protocol and transmit them to
another receiver using a different
protocol, thereby allowing two
dissimilar systems to communicate.
Information & Power Systems
Performance
28 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 27 *see footnote on inside front cover
Revenue growth was achieved across the
division, notably from the ramping up of
Ultra’s Oman airport IT project, and strong
sales of TACPOD and power products.
These offset a lull in sales activity from the
Command & Control Systems business.
SOTECH, a recent acquisition, also
performed strongly. Underlying operating
proﬁt was boosted by full contributions
from recent acquisitions and reﬂected
increased conﬁdence in the delivery of the
Oman Airport IT project as engineering
risks are mitigated. Underlying operating
margin increased to 14.2% (2011: 11.9%)
largely driven by the acquisition of SOTECH
and Zu.
Features of the division’s performance
in the year that will underpin future
performance included:
• signing of a ‘preferred supplier’
agreement with Areva that positions Ultra
for new build UK nuclear plants as well as
upgrades to legacy power plants globally
• success in winning additional contracts to
develop and ﬁt Ultra’s TACPOD product
onto US unmanned air vehicles
• development and provision of electrical
power management equipment to current
and future UK submarines (Astute,
Vanguard and ‘Successor’)
2. Positioning on long-term programmes
Following a competitive renewal process, Airport Systems has been awarded a
ﬁve-year extension to its ﬂagship UltraTrak Baggage Management System at
London’s Heathrow airport. Furthermore, the new contract will extend the system
from Terminals 1-4 to include Terminal 5 for the ﬁrst time. The renewal will extend
Ultra’s contract with the Heathrow airlines to 2018, meaning that Ultra will have
provided baggage reconciliation, segregation, reporting and baggage management
services to the Heathrow community continuously for 15 years. By the end of 2013,
UltraTrak will reconcile all of Heathrow’s 35 million bags each year, making the
system the largest single-site baggage reconciliation system installation in the world.
The system will have over 8,000 registered ground handler, airline and security staff
using its 800+ wireless scanners and 200+ workstations.
Strategy in action
*see footnote on page 1
Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 29
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Revenue in Information & Power Systems grew by
23% to £315.8m (2011: £257.0m). Underlying
operating proﬁt increased by 48% to £45.0m
(2011: £30.5m). The order book at the end of the
period was reduced by 12% to £391.4m
(2011: £442.2m), largely reﬂecting the trading of
the Oman contract.
Revenue £m
+22.9%
(2011: £257.0m)
£315.8m
42
% of group
Underlying operating proﬁt*
+47.5%
(2011: £30.5m)
£45.0m
37
% of group
Order book £m
-11.5%
(2011: £442.2m)
£391.4
43
% of group
Number of employees
+7.5%
(2011: 1,714)
1,843
39
% of group
%
%
% %
For details on Ultra’s strategic
objectives see pages 8 and 9.
1. Introduction 2. Strategic review 3. Performance 4. Governance 5. Group ﬁnancials 6. Company ﬁnancials 7. Five-year review In 2012, the Information Assurance team within Ultra’s Communication & Integrated Systems
business further secured its position as a world-leading cryptography provider after capturing a number
of additional development and study contracts that will lead to future production. This builds on a
contract with the UK MoD to provide a wide range of high-grade cryptographic products. Ultra’s offering
is based on an innovative, compact, reprogrammable core cryptographic module. This reconﬁgurable
common core crypto is ﬁtted into speciﬁc adaptors to provide a ‘form-ﬁt-function’ replacement to
previous cryptographic devices, and has resulted in the UK MoD being able to save considerable costs
through minimising platform integration activities.
Pictured above, front row from L to R: Finbarr
O’Donoghue, Product Engineer; Aftab Haider, Mechanical
Team leader; Laurence Dixon, Chief Engineer, IA Product
Development; Andrea Lee, Project Manager; Andy Frew,
Head of Programmes, Information Assurance;
Alpesh Kavia, Principal Hardware Engineer; Back row
L to R: Jonathan Blogh, Firmware Design Authority; Jim
Haywood, ILS Manager; Colin Rowe, Principal Test System
Engineer; Stewart Murray, Software & Firmware Team
Leader; Mark Weston, ECU ITEA and I&I Team Leader.
Ultra’s common core high-grade cryptographic product
offers increased security, ﬂexibility and interoperability.
The reprogrammable nature of the device means that it
can be upgraded to meet future needs in UK and
export markets.
Tactical & Sonar Systems
Performance
30 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 US ground force reductions, budget
constraints and planned phasing of a US
Army tactical radio programme led to a 50%
reduction in radio sales compared with 2011.
Elsewhere, the division saw good revenue
growth in the Group’s crypto and sonobuoy
businesses. US sonobuoy orders remained
buoyant as the US shifts focus to the Asia-
Paciﬁc theatre. In secure communications the
Group continues to enjoy an active interest
and demand in its portfolio of encryption
and key-management capabilities.
Ultra also achieved substantial sales in
perimeter surveillance and power monitoring
systems. Underlying operating proﬁt was
impacted by restructuring costs and
maintenance of investment for future
growth, reducing the division’s underlying
operating margin to 15.6% compared to
19.6% last year.
Features of the division’s performance
in the year that will underpin future
performance included:
• an End Cryptographic Unit Replacement
Programme (ECU-RP) contract was
successfully negotiated following the
volume adjustments to reﬂect the UK’s
defence review
• orders for additional Litening advanced
targeting pods and associated support
for the RAF’s Typhoon aircraft, following
excellent performance during operations
in Libya, further strengthening Ultra’s
position for opportunities linked to
Typhoon exports
• a further contract for a torpedo defence
system to Turkey for its Landing Ship Tank
programme, building on recent success
for similar systems for the Turkish Navy’s
MILGEM corvettes
Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 27 *see footnote on inside front cover
4. Widening Ultra’s geographic footprint
Ultra’s Sonar business was successful in being selected to provide torpedo defence
systems for the Turkish Navy’s two new Landing Ship Tank (LST) platforms. The
selection of Ultra to provide this capability was built upon the existing and proven
industrial relationships with Turkish industry that were forged while delivering two
systems under the MILGEM programme. For the MILGEM programme, Ultra teamed
with Turkish industry to adapt a version of Ultra’s Sea Sentor torpedo defence system
to meet the Turkish Navy’s speciﬁc needs. The success of this programme and of the
relationships has allowed Ultra, working closely with local industry, to win the
contract for the LST.
Strategy in action
*see footnote on page 1
Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 31
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Revenue in Tactical & Sonar Systems reduced by
3% to £298.0m (2011: £308.6m). The division’s
underlying operating proﬁt reduced by 23% to
£46.4m (2011: £60.5m). Order book was increased
by 6% to £350.0m (2011: £330.7m).
Revenue £m
-3.4%
(2011: £308.6m)
£298.0m
39
% of group
Underlying operating proﬁt*
-23.3%
(2011: £60.5m)
£46.4m
38
% of group
Order book £m
+5.8%
(2011: £330.7m)
£350.0m
39
% of group
Number of employees
+1.4%
(2011: 1,715)
1,739
37
% of group
%
%
% %
For details on Ultra’s strategic
objectives see pages 8 and 9.
1. Introduction 2. Strategic review 3. Performance 4. Governance 5. Group ﬁnancials 6. Company ﬁnancials 7. Five-year review 32 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
*see footnote on page 1
Financial review
Operating Cash ﬂow
Underlying operating cash ﬂow* was
£89.6m and the ratio of cash to underlying
operating proﬁt was 73%. As anticipated,
this was a reduction from the strong
£133.7m (110% conversion) recorded in
2011, due predominantly to the phasing of
working capital movements and increased
level of capital expenditure in 2012. The
cash to operating proﬁt ratio over a rolling
ﬁve year period is 98%.
After a low year in 2011, capital
expenditure on property, plant and
equipment rose by £8.4m to £20.5m
(2011: £12.1m). The major expenditure
related to the acquisition of new facilities
for the Precision Air and Land Systems
(PALS) business in Cheltenham; the
refurbishment of the site at Greenford and
the creation of an electric motor assembly
facility at PMES at Rugeley. There were no
major asset disposals in the year.
Capital expenditure on intangible assets
(not acquired through acquisitions) was
£4.7m (2011: £3.1m). The increase was
predominantly due to the purchase of
intellectual property rights to support radio
development. Amortisation of the same
asset class was £3.2m (2011: £6.3m), but it
should be noted that the prior year
comparative was distorted by the write-off
of capitalised development costs associated
with the cancellation of a contract for a
European military aircraft that occurred due
to changing aircraft requirements.
There was a net outﬂow of working capital
of £13.8m compared to an inﬂow of
£18.5m in 2011. There was an outﬂow of
inventories of £2.7m (2011: £5.4m inﬂow)
across a range of businesses, notably in
PALS ahead of the site relocation. The
outﬂow for both receivables of £6.0m
(2011: £26.5m) and payables £2.0m
(2011: £36.9m inﬂow) was also spread
across a number of businesses. In
comparison to the prior year, it should be
noted that the receivables and payables in
2011 were ‘grossed’ up as a substantial
advanced payment relating to the Oman
project was invoiced in December 2011
and so was both a trade debtor in the
receivables ﬂow and an advanced payment
in the payables ﬂow.
Non-operating cash ﬂow
From the underlying operating cash ﬂow*
of £89.6m (2011: £133.7m), the Group
funded various non-operating items to
arrive at a small reduction in net debt of
£3.1m (2011: £64.0m increase in debt).
The main non-operating items were:
• the cash cost of tax was £25.6m (2011:
£29.1m). The reduction arose principally
in the US due to R&D tax credits and a
lower state tax charge
• acquisition spend was £37.0m (2011:
£142.1m). Most of the spend (£33.3m)
related to the three acquisitions
completed in the year but there was a
small balance relating to earn-outs on
deals from prior years
• dividend payments of £26.9m (2011:
£24.5m)
At the end of the year, there was net debt
of £43.0m, compared to £46.1m at the
end of 2011.
Treasury and balance sheet matters
Effect of acquisitions
The three acquisitions made in the year
(GigaSat, BeMac and RFI) were made at a
total purchase consideration of £52.5m of
which an estimated £15.2m related to
deferred consideration for GigaSat. The
purchase consideration includes cash
acquired of £5.4m.
Banking Facilities
Ultra’s current banking facilities amount to
£190m in total plus a £15m overdraft. They
are provided by a small group of banks led
by the Royal Bank of Scotland and
comprise two tranches. The ﬁrst tranche is
a £90m revolving credit facility, which can
be drawn down in any common currencies
and is due to expire in January 2016. The
second tranche provides a further £100m
of revolving credit and was signed in
December 2012 and is due to expire in
December 2017. This second tranche is
effectively the renewal of the £120m
facility that was due to expire in September
2013 but was reﬁnanced early to ensure
continuity of funding. Both facilities have
the same covenants.
The Group also has a ‘shelf’ facility with
Prudential Investment Management Inc
(‘Pricoa’). This agreement effectively gave
the Group access to the US private
placement market on a bilateral basis. The
facility is non-committed but is for up to
$150m. At 31 December 2012, $70m of
loan notes had been issued, which will
mature in 2018 and 2019. By using the
Pricoa facility, Ultra has been able to extend
the term proﬁle of its debt at a competitive
rate and reduce its current liabilities.
As well as being used to fund acquisitions,
the ﬁnancing facilities are also used for
other balance sheet and operational needs,
including funding day-to-day working
capital requirements. The US dollar
borrowings also represent natural hedges
against assets denominated in that currency.
At the year-end, the total borrowings
drawn from the revolving facilities was
£29.2m (2011: £80.2m) giving headroom,
based on current facilities, of £160.8m
(2011: £129.8m) plus the £15m
overdraft. £43.3m (2011: £6.5m) of
Pricoa loan notes had been issued. The
Group also held £30.8m of cash which
was held for working capital purposes
and to fund acquisitions.
ʻʻ
The Group’s performance in the year
demonstrated the beneﬁt of having a
broad portfolio of niche activities.
ʼʼ Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 33
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
*see footnote on page 1
Interest rate management
Much of the Group’s current ﬁnancing has
been taken on to fund acquisitions in North
America. To reduce the risks associated
with interest rate ﬂuctuations and the
associated volatility in reported earnings,
Ultra issued a total of $70m of ﬁxed rate,
seven-year, notes to Pricoa. Consequently,
the Group has extended the term proﬁle of
its debt and has also ﬁxed a substantial
proportion of its interest for the same
seven-year period. The amount of ﬁxed
term debt and the associated interest rate
policy is kept under regular review.
Pensions
Ultra offers company-funded retirement
beneﬁts to all employees in its major
countries of operation. Many UK staff with
longer service still participate in the Ultra
Electronics Limited deﬁned-beneﬁt scheme,
which was closed to new entrants in 2003.
This is a contributory scheme in which the
company makes the largest element of the
payments which are topped up by
employee contributions. The scheme was
actuarially assessed using the projected unit
method at 31 December 2012, when the
net scheme deﬁcit calculated in accordance
with IAS19 was £63.2m, compared to
£60.8m in 2011. The present value of the
liabilities rose by £14.9m in 2012, mainly
because of the lower discount rate, driven
by the lower yield on corporate bonds. The
increase in the schemes liabilities was
largely offset by an increase in the value of
the scheme assets of £13.9m.
There was a full actuarial assessment carried
out as of April 2010. The result of which
was a funding deﬁcit relating to past service
of £63.6m before tax, assuming a split
annual discount rate for future liabilities of
7.5% before retirement and 5.25% post
retirement. Following the completion of the
assessment, Ultra reached agreement with
the pension scheme trustee board to
eliminate the deﬁcit by making annual
payments of £7.2m per annum over a
ten-year period commencing in 2011. It
was also agreed that the company assets
that were offered as security against the
deﬁcit at the last valuation of £10m could
be released. A new valuation will take place
as of April 2013.
The scheme has a statement of investment
principles that includes a speciﬁc declaration
on socially responsible investment; this is
delegated to the investment managers.
Pension management and governance is
undertaken by the pension trustees on
behalf of the members. The trustees
include both company-nominated and
employee-elected representatives.
All staff who have joined Ultra in the UK
since the deﬁned-beneﬁt scheme was
closed in 2003 have been invited to
become members of the Ultra Electronics
Group Personal Pension Plan and, since
April 2011, the Ultra Electronics Group
Flexible Retirement Plan. Under the terms
of this deﬁned contribution scheme,
company payments are supplemented by
contributions from employees.
Certain employees at TCS in Canada
participate in a deﬁned beneﬁt scheme.
This scheme is closed to new employees
and had an IAS19 deﬁcit of £0.7m at the
end of the year (2011: deﬁcit of £1.2m).
Regular payments continue to be made,
with both company and employees making
contributions, so as to maintain a
satisfactory funding position. The Group’s
remaining Canadian employees participate
in a number of deﬁned contribution
pension plans. In the US, Ultra offers a
deﬁned contribution 401(k) retirement
beneﬁt plan to all full-time employees.
Under this plan, Ultra provides participating
and contributing employees with matching
contributions, subject to plan and US
Internal Revenue Service limitations.
SOTECH, which had its own 401(k) plan in
place when it became part of Ultra during
2011, consolidated its plan into the main
Ultra scheme on 2 July 2012. Wells Fargo
Bank N.A. provides third party
administrative services and is also a directed
trustee of the plan.
98%
The operating cash conversion*
over a rolling ﬁve year
period is 98% (2011: 103%)
7years
Debt proﬁle extended and
interest ﬁxed for a seven year
period (2011: 7 years)
Ultra offers
company-funded
retirement beneﬁts
to all employees in
its major countries
of operation.
ʻʻ
ʼʼ
1. Introduction 2. Strategic review 3. Performance 4. Governance 5. Group ﬁnancials 6. Company ﬁnancials 7. Five-year review 34 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Financial review
(continued)
Foreign exchange risks
Ultra’s results are affected by both the
translation and transaction effects of
foreign currency movements. By their
nature, currency translation risks cannot be
mitigated but the transaction position is
actively managed.
The majority of sales made by Ultra’s
businesses are made in local currency, thus
avoiding any transaction risk. However, this
risk does arise when businesses make sales
and purchases that are denominated in
foreign currencies, most often in US dollars.
To reduce the potential volatility, Ultra
attempts to source, in US dollars, a high
proportion of the product sold in US
dollars. For the remaining net expense, the
Group’s policy is to hedge forward the
foreign currency trading exposure in order
to increase certainty. The expected ﬂows
are reviewed on a regular basis and
additional layers of cover are taken out so
that, at year-end, 99% of the expected
exposure for 2013 was covered, reducing
to 28% of the exposure for 2015. Exposure
to other currencies is hedged as it arises on
speciﬁc contracts.
The majority of sales made by Ultra’s
businesses are made in local currency, thus
avoiding any transaction risk.
ʼʼ
99%
at year-end, 99% of the
expected exposure for 2013
was covered
ʻʻ Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 35
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Making a difference…
to shareholders
Ultra aims to extend its long track record
of delivering above average shareholder
returns. The Group’s primary objective is to
continue to outperform the market in terms
of annual increases in shareholder value by
delivering above average increases in
earnings and by communicating effectively
with shareholders and the ﬁnancial
community. Ultra’s strategy is constantly to
increase its share of the markets in which
it has positioned itself. The Group focuses
on those specialist sectors within the
markets where customers preferentially
focus their expenditure.
to customers
Ultra aims to be an excellent and
strategic supplier to its customers,
reflecting its sixth strategic tenet. This
can only be achieved through developing
long-term relationships that are based on
performance excellence, meeting
commitments and exhibiting the best
behaviours. This enables the businesses
to build long-term, mutually beneficial
relationships with their customers, such
that Ultra’s businesses become part of
the customers’ extended enterprise.
to suppliers
Supplier management is critical to the
continued success of the Group as it
depends upon its suppliers to help to
deliver the complex products and services
which are typically safety or performance-
critical in their application. Ultra is focused
on delivering innovative and differentiated
solutions that can only be generated
through working in partnership with
suppliers and customers. This is
encapsulated in the seventh strategic tenet
“gain competitive advantage by internal
and external teaming”. Poor performance
or inappropriate behaviour by a supplier
could affect Ultra’s reputation or ability to
meet its commitments.
to employees
The success Ultra achieves in innovating to
meet customer needs is based on the broad
range of skills and capabilities of its
employees. The Board understands this and
recognises that the Group’s ‘right’ people are
its most important asset. This is enshrined in
the ﬁfth strategic tenet which calls for an
”efﬁcient organisation with engaged and
competent people”. Ultra is committed to
developing people and securing the talent
pipeline to ensure the continuing growth
and success of Ultra. More detail on this can
be found in Developing Ultra’s People on
pages 36 and 37.
in the community
The Group recognises that each of its
businesses has an important role to play in
the communities in which they operate.
Many of Ultra’s businesses have formed
special relationships with schools in their
surrounding communities, hosting
company visits, helping with school science
fairs and providing work experience
opportunities. Each operating business has
its own locally held charity budget, is able
to support selected charities and is
encouraged to maintain and grow links
with its local communities. The Group
encourages and supports its employees
who undertake voluntary work in the local
community or at national levels.
to the environment
Ultra recognises that it is important, both
for its employees and the communities in
which it operates, that effective measures
are in place to minimise the environmental
impact of its activities as this will help to
secure the long-term future of the Group.
The Group has committed to substantial
investments in manufacturing facilities that
will, in addition to improving productivity,
offer increased efﬁciencies and reduce
energy consumption. One example of this
is Ultra’s facility (above) in Indiana US,
where Ultra has the second largest natural
heating and cooling system in the state.
Making a difference
The Board recognises that the long-term success of the Group will be enhanced through fair
and positive relationships that make a difference to all its stakeholders including shareholders,
customers, suppliers, employees, local communities and the environment. This reinforces
Ultra’s strategic tenets, described on pages 18 and 19, that deﬁne the values and behaviours
of the Group’s culture which is aligned with the achievement of Ultra’s prime objective.
1. Introduction 2. Strategic review 3. Performance 4. Governance 5. Group ﬁnancials 6. Company ﬁnancials 7. Five-year review Culture:
Ultra deﬁnes its culture as the values, role
models, processes, procedures and
behaviours of its employees that drive
Ultra’s success. Many individuals join the
Ultra team each year, through organic
growth, natural staff turnover and
acquisitions. Ultra is committed to ensuring
that its culture is not diluted as the Group
grows. The Group’s culture, values and
behaviours are shaped by the strategic
tenets, described on pages 18 and 19,
with the ﬁfth tenet calling for “an efﬁcient
organization with engaged and competent
people”. To achieve this, Ultra has
identiﬁed four cultural behaviours of its
people that are highly valued and
encouraged. These are leadership,
entrepreneurship, audacity and paranoia.
Together, they are known within the
Group as LEAP.
Leadership:
Good leadership is extremely important
to Ultra and a number of models of
leadership are incorporated in the
development and training programmes
that are delivered around the Group. These
are designed to help develop leadership
skills for employees already in leadership
positions or about to move into such a role.
Leadership applies at all levels of
management for team leaders, supervisors,
managers – in fact for anyone who is
responsible for others. Ultra needs effective
leaders who have the ability to utilise the
appropriate mix of ‘soft’ and ‘hard’ power,
depending on management circumstances,
that is known as ‘smart power’.
Entrepreneurship:
Being entrepreneurial is a behaviour that
underpins the Group’s strategy. All Ultra
businesses seek to provide customers with
solutions that are different from, and
better than, those of the competitors.
Ultra’s entrepreneurial culture seeks to
maximise the capability to generate
excellent ideas and the business skills to
bring them to market. Not all new ideas
work ﬁrst time and Ultra’s ‘no blame’
culture ensures that positive lessons are
learned from setbacks. Entrepreneurship is
hard-wired into the Group’s structure as
each of the individual businesses is run
autonomously, with the Managing
Directors and Presidents encouraged to
behave like owner-managers.
Audacity:
Audacious thinking is the difference
between incremental improvement and
business transformation. It takes the idea
of innovation, one of Ultra’s core values,
and invites employees to think about issues
in ways that are unconstrained by existing
norms and make use of creative
approaches to every aspect of the Group’s
business. Many of Ultra’s businesses have
conducted ‘audacity workshops’ which
challenge the attendees to think of stretch
targets for their business which have the
potential to transform the business. In
2012 the Group ran an internal innovation
challenge called the ‘Audacity Fund’. Here,
funds are made available to turn ideas
from employees into reality. Any employee
can submit a proposal for an idea that
could improve one of Ultra’s existing
products or services, solve a customer’s
problem or result in a new business
opportunity for the Group. The best are
then awarded funding to turn them into
research and development projects with
the expectation that they will augment the
Group’s performance in the future.
Paranoia:
Paranoia in the business sense is a concern
and fear about competitors and what they
may do. It also relates to concerns and
fears about things that can go wrong
internally – for example with development
projects or with the Group’s strategic
relationships. Paranoia is a very healthy
business behaviour and ensures that an
appropriate consideration is given to the
risks and threats faced by the Group that
can then be pre-empted or their effects
mitigated. For Ultra, paranoia is important
in focusing its staff on maximising their
knowledge of the competitive landscape by
constantly asking questions of the Group’s
customers, teaming partners and suppliers.
What people mean to Ultra
The success Ultra achieves in innovating to
meet customer needs is based on the broad
range of skills and capabilities of its
employees. All managers in Ultra work
towards the aim of delivering an efﬁcient
organisation with engaged and committed
people to meet the Group’s business
commitments. It is vital to the continuing
growth and success of Ultra that the quality
of the leadership teams is constantly
improved. Many businesses state that their
people are the company’s most important
asset. Ultra varies this slightly: the Group’s
‘right people’ are its most important asset.
Growth through engagement
During 2012 an additional complementary
set of behaviours called LAUNCH were
introduced. These behaviours are designed
speciﬁcally to support improved customer
relationship building.
Listen
to the customer
Ask
the right questions
Understand
what their pain is clearly
Need
identify the customer’s needs;
get their agreement
Create
a relationship, opportunity
and solution
Holistic
examine the bigger picture; how can
Ultra maximise the scope and value of
the opportunity
LAUNCH is a way for Ultra’s businesses
to generate more opportunities, and
ultimately to deliver increased growth
through enhanced customer engagement.
36 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Developing Ultra’s people
The success Ultra achieves in innovating to meet customer
needs is based on the broad range of skills and capabilities
of the Group’s employees. Ultra recognises this and is
committed to having an efﬁcient organisation with engaged
and competent people. Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 37
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Succession planning and retention
To ensure that Ultra has the right people in
the right place in the organisation, each of
Ultra’s businesses prepares an annual
‘organisation, succession and development
plan’. In this, individuals are assessed
against their performance in their current
role and their potential to perform a larger
role. This assessment positions the
individual on the ‘performance versus
potential’ grid shown below. It recognises
that any role in the business will become
more challenging as the business grows.
Equal attention is given to enhancing the
performance of and retaining the
individuals in the green zone of the grid
and to addressing the challenges of the
people in the amber and red zones. This
does not always mean that those
individuals in the red and amber areas
must leave Ultra. Often they need to be
placed in a role more suited to their talents
and in which they can perform as required
by the business. Ultra has achieved high
retention rates of those individuals on the
business senior management teams who
are in the green zone.
By developing and retaining the high
potential individuals in the green zone, the
Group is creating its next generation of
business leaders who will be able to take
up the challenge of continuing the growth
and expansion of Ultra.
The succession planning element of the
process aims to ensure that there are
suitable successors for all the management
team roles across each business and other
senior level roles. Ultra has, as a result,
been able to appoint a high proportion of
its leaders at Board, divisional and business
levels through internal promotion.
Businesses must also make sure that the
talent pool is deep enough to cope with
these internal appointments. Therefore, as
well as the people listed as successors,
each business also identiﬁes people with
high potential. The combined list represents
Ultra’s ‘high-ﬂyer’ talent pool and is used
regularly to ﬁnd the right people to ﬁll
internal vacancies. In a typical year Ultra
recruits over 600 new employees. Over and
above this, acquisitions bring new people
into the Ultra team.
Training and development
The Group actively supports and invests in
training and development linked to
business needs. Each business is responsible
for identifying the training needs of its
employees and managing its own training
budget. This typically takes place through
individual employee performance and
development reviews, which are held at
least annually. Ultra has its Learning
Academy, an online portal, available to all
of the Group’s businesses, that enables the
scheduling of training, hosts online courses
and retains the training records of Ultra’s
employees. Speciﬁc training programmes
are provided for individuals as necessary. In
2012, 20 different in-house training
courses were run in the UK and in North
America. Many of these are courses
tailored to the speciﬁc requirements of
Ultra and the trainers have an intimate
knowledge of how the Group operates
across all its businesses. These training
events include programmes on leadership
and management along with workshops
on Ultra’s successful competitive strategy,
strategic selling, programme management
and systems engineering.
Low Medium
Potential
Performance
High Very High
Securing the talent pipeline
Ultra has been committed to
developing people ever since it was
formed in 1993 and has a number of
programmes that help the Group to
attract the best people as well as
encouraging students to develop
careers in engineering or business.
Examples of how Ultra businesses
do this are:
• Ultra businesses have formed special
relationships with schools in their
surrounding communities, hosting
company visits, helping with school
science fairs and providing work
experience opportunities.
• Ultra has sponsored students through
their last two years at school. This
provides students with support and
mentoring during their studies and has
led to students electing to undertake
STEM*degree courses.
• Many Ultra businesses have well
established, successful,
apprenticeship programmes.
• Ultra businesses also provide
opportunities for students to work on
real projects through work
placement, co-op programmes and
internship schemes.
• Ultra has excellent links with
universities around the world. It allows
the Group access to leading research
and to relationships with students
who may ultimately join Ultra. The
Group sees beneﬁt in working with
universities to collaborate on
innovation and to recruit students
who can make a difference.
*STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering & Maths)
96%
96%
95%
95%
97%
100
––
80
––
60
––
40
––
20
––
0
––
08 09 10 11 12
Retention of ‘high-performers’ in the green
zone (see graphic in main text)
Internal appointments at Executive Team,
Divisional and MD/President level
84%
86%
81%
80%
75%
100
––
80
––
60
––
40
––
20
––
0
––
08 09 10 11 12
1. Introduction 2. Strategic review 3. Performance 4. Governance 5. Group ﬁnancials 6. Company ﬁnancials 7. Five-year review 38 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Sustainability
Ultra is committed to maintaining the high
standards of business ethics that underpin
this reputation. The Ultra Board requires
that the Group should at all times be a
responsible corporate citizen and, as such,
the Group complies with all applicable
legislation in the countries in which it
operates. The Board has determined that
the Group’s corporate responsibility
initiatives are to be focused on the
following key areas:
• Diversity and inclusion
• Ethical business conduct
• Health and safety
• Environment
Diversity and inclusion
Ultra is committed to maintaining a work
environment that provides equal
opportunities for all employees regardless
of nationality, gender, ethnic background,
sexual orientation, religious beliefs, marital
status, disability or age. The Group
complies with all applicable employment
rights and legislation in the countries in
which it operates.
Ultra uses rigorous recruiting practices to
ensure the best candidate is selected based
on objective requirements and assessments.
Ultra measures gender and age diversity.
Ethical business conduct
Ultra remains committed to achieving and
sustaining a prominent role in ethical
business conduct. To support these aims,
the Group has focused its initiatives on
three core areas:
• meeting and exceeding the legal and
ethical standards
• providing guidance and support to
employees
• an independent Ethics Overview
Committee to offer advice and guidance
Meeting legal and ethical standards
Ultra requires that all employees, businesses
and all third parties who act on Ultra’s
behalf must comply fully with the Group’s
standards of business ethics and with the
applicable laws and regulations of the
countries in which it does business.
Ultra is committed to operating in
accordance with all legislative requirements,
including those pertaining to anti-bribery
and corruption practices, the relevant
national export control regulations and any
competition and anti-trust laws.
Ultra has a corporate ethics policy which
encompasses a gifts and hospitality policy.
All the individual businesses are required to
report on compliance every month. In
addition, the Board reviews compliance
twice a year. Although ultimate
responsibility for the Group’s ethics policy
lies with the Board, Managing Directors
and Presidents of the individual businesses
have responsibility for the implementation
and control of the policy.
Providing guidance and support
to employees
The Group has continued to strengthen
its policies and processes to ensure
employees have the clear guidance they
need in identifying and managing ethical
matters, including: raising concerns,
conﬂicts of interest, competitive
intelligence and sponsorships and
charitable donations. The Group has
introduced additional and updated training
to support employees more effectively.
To support its continuing commitment to
business ethics, a Group-wide independent,
conﬁdential web- and telephone-based
hotline was implemented in 2009 to allow
employees to report concerns anonymously
about possible improprieties and other
compliance issues, see page 56 of the
Governance section of this report.
Reports made to the hotline are compiled
by the independent operator and
forwarded to the Chairman of the Audit
Committee (or for US businesses,
forwarded to the directors of the Special
Security Arrangement Board or Proxy Board
as appropriate) for action. Any employee
found to be in breach of the ethics policy is
subject to appropriate disciplinary action.
Ultra believes that a successful and sustainable business is built on more than just ﬁnancial
results. Ultra has a long, consistent track record of development and growth and has built a
reputation for meeting its commitments. This reputation is not only based on the businesses
meeting their obligations, but importantly on the manner in which they do so. Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 39
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Independent Ethics Overview Committee
To support the Group in achieving and
sustaining its aim of being a leader in
ethical business conduct, Ultra established
an independent Ethics Overview
Committee. The Ethics Overview
Committee provides independent
guidance, advice and scrutiny of Ultra’s
business activity. The Committee provides
assurance that Ultra’s business is being
conducted in line with the Group’s policies,
processes and in accordance with the
appropriate legislation. Members of the
Committee undertake visit to Ultra
businesses to assess their compliance with
the Group’s standard of business ethics.
The Committee comprises six permanent
members, three of whom, including the
Chairman, are independent. To maintain
the highest degree of impartiality, the
independent members of the Committee
are self-selecting. The appointment of the
Chairman is also exclusively within the
remit of the independent members.
Health and safety
Ultra’s commitment to the safety and well-
being of the Group’s employees, visitors
and the local communities is a key priority.
A healthy, committed workforce working in
a safe environment is necessary to achieve
superior business results. Therefore, Ultra
places great emphasis on maintaining high
standards of health and safety, not just for
employees, visitors and the local
communities, but also for the people using
Ultra’s products and services.
Across the Group, the businesses manage
a wide range of safety risks. This ranges
from ofﬁce employees, manufacturing
employees and employees providing
services at customer sites, including
military bases and platforms.
The safety of the products and services
provided to users and customers is also of
key importance to Ultra. The individual
operating businesses ensure that the
appropriate legal and ethical levels of safety
are met across a product’s lifecycle, with
particular emphasis on the manufacturing,
in-service and disposal phases.
The Chief Executive is the Board member
with overall health and safety responsibility.
All Ultra operating businesses are required
to have a written heath and safety. Each
Managing Director or President is
responsible for the management of health
and safety within their business, and for
providing adequate resource to satisfy the
Board’s requirements. Compliance is
assessed through independent external
audits which occur bi-annually.
Each operating business is required to
submit a separate annual report on health
and safety performance which, along with
the result of the audits, is reviewed by the
Board. The reportable/recordable accident
rate has been maintained over recent years
and is shown in ﬁgure 3a. Lost time
accident data per 200,000 hours has been
recorded for the whole Group since 2010
and is shown in ﬁgure 3b.
The reportable/recordable accident rate
per employee for 2012 fell from 1.14%
to 1.06%.
Ultra’s continuous safety improvement
activities are focused on ensuring that
the Group’s facilities, infrastructure,
processes, products and services are as
safe as reasonably practical for Ultra’s
employees, visitors, local communities,
customers and users.
Environment
Ultra recognises that it is important, both for
its employees and the communities in which
it operates, that effective measures are in
place to minimise the environmental impact
of its activities as this will help to secure the
long term future of the Group. These
measures include both the operational
business environment and the products and
services that the Group provide.
Products
The processes and practises in the
individual operating businesses ensure
that environmental considerations are
taken into account throughout the
product’s lifecycle, from concept through
to disposal. The individual operating
businesses work with their suppliers to
reduce the impact of their products and to
maximise the use of environmentally
acceptable components. Ultra ensures the
full co-operation of all employees to
minimise environmental impact and
maximise the conservation of materials.
Operational
The Chief Executive is the main Board
member with overall environmental
responsibility. The Managing Directors and
Presidents of the operating businesses are
responsible for implementation of the
policy. Where appropriate, individual
businesses have ISO14001 accreditation.
Ultra has a formal environmental policy
that addresses compliance with
environmental legislation, conformity with
standards for air, waste disposal and noise,
the economical use of materials and the
establishment of appropriate environmental
performance standards. Progress is
monitored through annual reporting and a
bi-annual external audit process, the most
recent of which took place in 2011.
Compliance to environmental requirements
is planned and managed by site and the
processes for the storage, handling and
disposal of hazardous or pollutant materials
are reviewed on a continuous basis. Ultra
has caused no contamination of land in
2012, continuing the excellent track record
of the previous four years.
In the UK, Ultra measures and reports on its
packaging waste annually and is shown in
ﬁgure 4. Businesses are encouraged and
incentivised to reduce the net amount of
waste they produce.
Energy consumption is measured annually
and the data compared with previous
years. The Group is increasing its efforts to
address energy conservation and emissions.
Ultra in the UK is registered with the
Environment Agency as part of the Carbon
Reduction Commitment programme. The
Group’s compliance emissions fell from
7,332 tonnes (2011/12) to 6,511 tonnes
(2011/12) of CO2, a reduction of 11%.
Ultra’s position in the 2011/12 CRC
Performance League Table (PLT) is available
on the Environment Agency’s website.
Fig 4 Packaging Waste
(t/£m sales) in UK Businesses
0.212
0.200
0.165
0.160
0.192
0.250
––
0.200
––
0.150
––
0.100
––
0.050
––
0.000
––
08 09 10 11 12
Fig 3a Reportable/recordable
accidents per employee
1.24%
1.31%
1.14%
1.30%
1.06%
1.5%
––
1.2%
––
0.9%
––
0.6%
––
0.3%
––
0.0%
––
08 09 10 11 12
Fig 3b Lost time accidents
per 200,000 hours
0.55
0.34
0.56
0.60
––
0.50
––
0.40
––
0.30
––
0.20
––
0.10
––
10 11 12
1. Introduction 2. Strategic review 3. Performance 4. Governance 5. Group ﬁnancials 6. Company ﬁnancials 7. Five-year review 40 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Risk management
Ultra encourages its businesses to challenge the market through innovation
and to exhibit audacity. Proﬁtable growth is not achieved without considered
risk so the management of that risk has become an integral part of Ultra’s
processes. Risks are understood and managed as business decisions are made,
so that the Group’s collective exposure is well understood.
Risk is assessed and managed at the most appropriate level of the business as part of the
annual strategic planning round. Resulting strategic risks are elevated for formal Board
scrutiny, ensuring that appropriate mitigations are in place.
Internal audit
Internal peer group
Business
Division
Executive team
Board
Reviewed by
reviewed as normal practice
major only, in accordance with delegated authorities
by exception
Business activity
Strategy (competitive)
Strategy (corporate)
Acquisitions
Bids
Contract execution
Business performance
Team development
Business processes
Regulatory and compliance
This table illustrates the business activities that are routinely reviewed.
The table is illustrative, not exhaustive:
Typical review points
Vision; market analysis; competitor analysis; differentiation;
innovation roadmap; teaming plans
Acquisition watch list; available ﬁnancing
Specialist capabilities; customers and programmes; synergies;
ﬁnancial performance; ﬁnancial projections
Plan to win and positioning with customer; maturity of solution;
competitive position; embedded risk (technical and engineering);
resources available; cash proﬁle; contract conditions
Progress against plan and milestones; costs incurred/to
complete/at completion; risk register
Orders, sales, proﬁt and cash; month, year-to-date, forecasts;
variances to budget and forecast; marketing pursuits; projects
under development, compliance matrix
Organisation review; succession planning; training plans; management
and team development activities; performance vs. potential review
Quality systems; segregation of duties; disaster recovery; health,
safety & environmental management; IT penetration testing
Compliance with local laws, compliance with export regulations,
compliance with security requirements Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 41
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Description
There is now substantial evidence
that active efforts are being made to
penetrate Ultra’s secure networks, in
order to gain access to classiﬁed
information, steal intellectual
property or disrupt business activity.
There is a security and business risk if
Ultra fails to secure its systems.
Potential impact
• Reputational damage to Ultra as a highly
-regarded provider of secure data systems
• Loss of business opportunity with
removal of government approval to
work on classiﬁed equipment
development and manufacture
• Reduced product differentiation with
loss of intellectual property
• Disruption to business activity as
systems are cleansed and restored
Mitigation
• Ultra has comprehensively reviewed
policy, governance and accountability
for the management of the cyber
attack risk
• This has resulted in a new Group
Information Security Policy and a
signiﬁcant further investment in the
hardening of all Ultra’s IT systems
• Development of the Group’s ability to
monitor systems and detect intrusion
attempts will continue through 2013
Risk 1. Cyber attack
Description
Ultra’s core markets are changing as
government budgets come under
ﬁscal pressures, placing signiﬁcant
pressure on sales and orders. Contract
awards are more heavily scrutinised
and are more dependent on a close
understanding of the customer’s need.
Potential impact
• Reduced business opportunity through
an inability to respond quickly enough to
changes in the market environment by
adapting our offerings and approach
• Inability to match the full range of a
customer’s requirements
• Inability to maintain growth in declining
defence markets
Mitigation
• Continue to target areas of preferential
customer spend
• Operate a wide-ranging portfolio of
specialist capabilities, complemented by
a structure and culture that promotes
agility, innovation and speed of response
• Develop and strengthen the marketing
teams within each business
• Introduce LAUNCH behaviours, see
page 36, to improve understanding of
customer need
• Collaborate across the full Ultra portfolio
and/or partner to present comprehensive
solutions that match customer needs
Risk 2. Changing market environment
Description
Ultra’s product development and
innovation does not sustain sufﬁcient
differentiation in the market place,
compared with commercial off the
shelf (COTS) products, or as a result
of a disruptive technology, or
because of a signiﬁcant change in
customer preference.
Potential impact
• Research and Development (R&D)
activity does not keep pace with
technological development, losing
product differentiation compared
with competitors
• Ultra’s portfolio of specialist capabilities
is eroded through commoditisation
• Business is lost through increasing
competition
Mitigation
• Maintain Ultra’s cultural focus on
understanding customer need and
delivering innovation
• Based upon comprehensive market and
competitor analysis, generate technology
and product roadmaps that bring
differentiated products to market to
meet sales opportunities
• Better co-ordinate R&D investment
across the Group to avoid duplication
and maximise advantage
• Employ strategy reviews and game-
planning to ensure R&D tracks plans
and budgets
Risk 3. Sustaining product differentiation
Trend
Increasing

Trend
Increasing

Trend
Unchanged

Annually, businesses identify risks to the successful delivery of their strategic
plan and these are assessed at the Divisional level. Risks that are corporate in
nature or that span Ultra businesses are elevated to the Executive Team for
management. Resulting strategic risks (shown below and over the page) are
assessed at Board level.
1. Introduction 2. Strategic review 3. Performance 4. Governance 5. Group ﬁnancials 6. Company ﬁnancials 7. Five-year review Risk management
(continued)
42 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Description
The Group’s UK deﬁned beneﬁt
pension scheme deﬁcit becomes a
serious liability for the Group.
Potential impact
• Increasing pension liabilities make a
material impact on shareholder value
Mitigation
• The Board will remain focussed on this
key issue and holds formal reviews of
the Group’s pension strategy annually
• Manage the issue through annual
accounting and triennial valuation
processes, in order to highlight issues
to the Board as they emerge
Risk 5. Pensions
Description
Ultra is bidding for and delivering
an increasing number of large and
complex contracts.
Potential impact
• Ultra could underestimate the required
resource or project complexity and so
make a loss
• Ultra could fail to apply the appropriate
programme management skills to
such large products, impacting on
proﬁtability and reputation
Mitigation
• The Group Operating Manual has been
updated to enhance the rigour and
oversight of major bids and
independent scrutiny of bids at
Executive Team level has been initiated
• Ultra has conducted rigorous ‘lessons
learned’ processes across recent large
programmes
• Where the complexity of the programme
demands Ultra will recruit or team to
bring in the specialist skills required to
manage large projects
Risk 6: Execution of contracts
Description
As the Group grows it fails to
manage the organisation in such a
manner as to preserve the Ultra
culture of innovation, agility and
accountability.
Potential impact
• Ultra generates a level of hierarchy and
bureaucracy that constrains innovation
and entrepreneurship
• Ultra loses the key staff that are important
to sustaining the portfolio of specialist
capabilities and so loses business
Mitigation
• Sustain a lean head ofﬁce structure
and empower individual businesses
that are of a size to remain agile, while
encouraging collaboration where
appropriate
• Reinforce the LEAP behaviours that
embody the Group’s culture
• Introduce the LAUNCH behaviours to
improve customer understanding
• Manage acquisitions in order to embed
Ultra culture and practices over existing
behaviours
Risk 7: Ultra culture
Trend
Unchanged

Trend
Decreasing

Trend
Unchanged

Description
Ultra has elected to cede some
control of certain businesses
(e.g. US Proxy Board and joint
enterprises) to enhance market
position in key markets. Changes in
local regulation or other cause leads
to an adverse impact on the Group.
Potential impact
• Inability to exercise management
control could lead to an adverse
impact on the Group
Mitigation
• Ultra works hard to ensure that its joint
venture partners and the members of
the Group’s security and proxy boards
accord with the Group’s corporate
culture and way of doing business
• Ultra beneﬁts from the expertise that
the members of its JVs and boards bring
to the Group
• Ensure that the relationship continues to
be mutually beneﬁcial
Risk 4. Market access
Trend
Decreasing
 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 43
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Description
Entry into new markets is necessary
to maintain growth but they often
have very different, unfamiliar
procurement processes and
constraints. These are also more
likely to require mature products,
delivered as packaged capabilities
rather than individual products.
Potential impact
• Ultra fails fully to understand the
commercial practices and market
dynamics with the new regions it is
entering, so loses business opportunities
while expending resource on presence
Mitigation
• Outside its core markets, Ultra will
focus its regional marketing attention
on the Middle East, Australia, Turkey,
India and Brazil
• Engage closely with UKTI and
Embassies to improve local knowledge
• Access institutional consultants and
research to better understand target
regions
• Introduce Regional Marketing
Managers in target regions to identify
and calibrate opportunities across the
full breadth of the Group’s portfolio
of capabilities, and maintain an ‘in
region’ presence
• Develop sound regional partnerships in
developing markets to meet offset
needs while maintaining product
differentiation and proﬁtability
Risk 8. New markets
Description
The Group’s businesses are capital-
light but specialist knowledge
intensive. Ultra fails to attract,
develop and retain people with the
required specialist competences.
For more information on Ultra’s human
resources initiatives, see pages 36 and 37.
Potential impact
• Ultra could lose key staff or
capabilities so that the Group cannot
fulfill its contractual obligations or is
forced to outsource work, and thereby
reducing margins
Mitigation
• Continue the Group’s strong emphasis
on recruiting, retaining and developing
high quality individuals to work in Ultra
teams. This is delivered through the
annual OSDP (Organisation, Succession
and Development Planning) process
• Maintain Ultra’s consistently high levels
of retention for key staff
• Fast track high potential candidates, and
exploit opportunities for secondments
and inter-business transfers
• Ensure all key staff have a nominated
successor so the impact, if someone
does leave the business, is reduced
• Ensure poor performance is addressed
Risk 9. Staff retention
Description
Major primes in Ultra’s sectors could
integrate vertically (organically or by
acquisition), so undermining the
Group’s market position.
Potential impact
• A sudden removal of key market
segments resulting in a loss of business
• Greater competition for suitable
acquisitions
Mitigation
• Continue to operate in speciﬁc market
niches which play to Ultra’s strengths
• Continue to innovate and differentiate
the offering
• Ensure the Group executes contracts
well and constantly meets its
commitments, thereby reducing the
incentive for customers to attempt to
emulate the Group’s specialist expertise
and capabilities
• Maintain close relationships with all
potential primes
• Champion the beneﬁts of competition
with end customers
Risk 10: Industry restructuring – vertical integration
Trend
Unchanged

Trend
Increasing

Trend
Decreasing

1. Introduction 2. Strategic review 3. Performance 4. Governance 5. Group ﬁnancials 6. Company ﬁnancials 7. Five-year review Governance
44 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Board of Directors
For the year ended 31 December 2012
Douglas Caster is a highly experienced engineer and manager of
electronics businesses. He has a long track record of driving growth
through effective acquisition and superior ﬁnancial performance in
the companies he has led.
Douglas Caster started his career as an electronics design engineer with the
Racal Electronics Group in 1975, before moving to Schlumberger 1986 and
then to Dowty as Engineering Director of Sonar & Communication Systems
in 1988. In 1992, he became Managing Director of that business and, after
participating in the management buy-out that formed Ultra Electronics,
joined the Board in October 1993. In April 2000, he was promoted to the
position of Managing Director of Ultra’s Information & Power Systems
division. In April 2004 he was appointed Chief Operating Ofﬁcer and
became Chief Executive in April 2005. He was appointed deputy Chairman
in April 2010 and became Chairman of Ultra in April 2011.
Rakesh Sharma has managed businesses and divisions across the
full range of Ultra’s wide portfolio, with consistent success in
driving growth in the Group. Combining business and technical
insight, he ensures Ultra businesses maintain a competitive
advantage in the Group’s specialist market sectors, while delivering
superior ﬁnancial performance.
Rakesh Sharma started his career as an electronic design engineer at
Marconi in 1983 before moving to Dowty as Chief Engineer of Sonar &
Communication Systems in 1989. He was appointed Marketing Director of
that business in 1993 when Ultra Electronics was formed. From 1997 to
1999 he worked in the US as Ultra’s Operations Director, North America.
After returning to the UK he was Managing Director of PMES and then of
Sonar & Communication Systems before taking his ﬁrst divisional role in
2005 as Managing Director, Tactical & Sonar Systems. In 2008 he moved
to run the Group’s Information & Power Systems Division before being
appointed Chief Operating Ofﬁcer in January 2010. He was appointed to
the Board in April 2010 and became Chief Executive in April 2011.
Chris Bailey is a highly experienced, large plc Finance Director who
brings valuable specialist and general management expertise to
Ultra’s Board. He has a knowledge and expertise in the organisation
of operations in all of Ultra’s main geographic markets.
Chris Bailey was appointed to the Board in January 2005. He was Group
Finance Director of Aggregate Industries plc until 2004. Before this he was
the Finance Director of the precursor companies of Aggregate Industries
from 1984 until its formation in 1997. He is a Fellow of the Institute of
Chartered Accountants of England & Wales and is also a Member of the
Association of Corporate Treasurers.
Martin Broadhurst has a wealth of valuable experience in the
defence and aerospace markets, having run a large engineering
organisation within the sector for ﬁfteen years. He has demonstrable
expertise and skill in growing international business and in
expanding capabilities.
Martin Broadhurst OBE was appointed to the Ultra Board in July 2012. He
joined Marshall Aerospace as a Management Trainee in 1975 and,
following a number of roles with the company including Production
Director and Director of Programmes, was appointed as Chief Executive in
February 1996. During his time as Chief Executive he served on the Group
Holdings Board and was Chairman of a number of subsidiary companies.
Douglas Caster CBE BSc MIET
Chairman
Time with Ultra:
19 years 2 months
Time in position:
1 year 8 months
Rakesh Sharma BSc MBA MInstP CPhys
Chief Executive
Time with Ultra:
19 years 2 months
Time in position:
1 year 8 months
Christopher Bailey* FCA MCT
Non-Executive Director
Time in position:
7 years 11 months
Martin Broadhurst* OBE MA C.Dir FIoD FRAeS
Non-Executive Director
Time in position:
5 months Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 45
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
1. Introduction 2. Strategic review 3. Performance 4. Governance 5. Group ﬁnancials 6. Company ﬁnancials 7. Five-year review
*Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committee member
*NOTE: All details correct as at 31 December 2012
 Executive Director
 Non-Executive Director
 Company Secretary & General Counsel
Paul Dean MA FCMA
Finance Director
Time with Ultra:
4 years
Time in position:
4 years
Paul Dean is a broadly experienced plc Finance Director whose
background, including participation in the buyout from Burmah
Castrol and subsequent ﬂotation.
Paul Dean joined Ultra in January 2009 having been Finance Director of
Foseco from 2001 until its acquisition by Cookson plc in April 2008. He
was a key part of the team that led the 2001 management buy-out from
Burmah Castrol of ﬁve specialty chemicals businesses to form Foseco
(Jersey) Ltd which was ﬂoated as Foseco plc in May 2005. From 1989 to
2001, Paul held a number of senior ﬁnance roles in Burmah Castrol plc,
including Finance Director of Castrol UK Limited, Chief Financial Ofﬁcer of
the Fosroc Division, Group Financial Controller and then Corporate
Treasurer for Burmah Castrol plc. He was appointed to the Board in April
2009. Paul has been approached to take a Finance Director role outside of
the defence and aerospace sector and will leave Ultra on 31 March 2013.
Mark Anderson brings a broad customer perspective, operational
experience from recent conﬂicts and collaboration with close allies.
His oversight of Ultra's strategic process will beneﬁt from this broad
understanding of the customer need.
Mark Anderson joined the Royal Navy in 1974 as a weapon system
engineer before switching career path to achieve both nuclear submarine
and ship command. His MoD staff appointments include policy roles in two
strategic defence reviews and equipment customer responsibility for all
underwater programmes. He has worked closely with the US throughout
his career, including sensitive roles within the US Joint Staff. Promoted to
Rear Admiral, he commanded all Fleet Operations and headed the UK
submarine service up to the end of his 36 years’ service in June 2011. He
then joined Ultra in a divisional strategy role before being selected to
succeed Andy Hamment and joined the Board in April 2012.
Mark Anderson CB BSc
Group Marketing Director
Time with Ultra:
1 year 7 months
Time in position:
8 months
Sir Robert Walmsley brings to Ultra’s Board solid experience in the
defence, security, energy and transport sectors, core markets in
which the Group is investing for growth. He has deep knowledge
of all of Ultra’s main geographic markets and a substantial
experience of government procurement.
Sir Robert Walmsley was most recently Chief of Defence Procurement at
the UK Ministry of Defence (MoD), a post which he held from 1996 until
his retirement from public service in 2003. Prior to his MoD appointment,
Sir Robert had a distinguished career in the Royal Navy, where he rose to
the rank of Vice Admiral in 1994 and served for two years as Controller of
the Navy. Sir Robert Walmsley is Chairman of the Board of the Major
Projects Association, a Non-Executive Director of Cohort plc and of the
General Dynamics Corporation. He is also a senior advisor at Morgan
Stanley International plc. He was appointed to the Board in January 2009.
Sharon Harris brings corporate legal expertise to the Board role,
together with plc experience in corporate governance, with a
strong knowledge of the management and protection of
intellectual property.
Sharon Harris was previously Group Legal Director at EMAP Ltd
and Head of Legal & Estates/Deputy Company Secretary at Britvic plc.
She has a law degree from Kings College, London and completed her
Law Society exams at Chester College of Law. She joined Ultra in
November 2011 and was appointed Company Secretary in April 2012.
Sir Robert Walmsley* KCB, FREng
Non-Executive Director
Time in position:
3 years 11 months
Sharon Harris LLB
Company Secretary
& General Counsel
Time with Ultra:
1 year 1 month
Time in position:
8 months Governance
46 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Executives and advisors
Executive Team members
Rakesh Sharma
Chief Executive
Paul Dean
Group Finance Director
Mark Anderson
Group Marketing Director
Carlos Santiago
President
Tactical Systems
Mike Clayton
Managing Director
Information & Intelligence Systems
Phil Evans
Managing Director
Aircraft & Vehicle Systems
Carlos Santiago
President
Sonar & Undersea Systems
Graeme Stacey
Managing Director
Airport & Power Systems
Keith Thomson
Group Human Resources Director
Sharon Harris
Company Secretary & General Counsel
Business MDs and Presidents
Olugbenga Erinle
President
3eTI
John McAlonan
President
Advanced Tactical Systems
Mark Darvill
Managing Director
AEP Networks
Paul Owen
Managing Director
Airport Systems
Mark Doyle
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
Al Shaheen (49%)
Aaron Crumm
President
AMI
Doug Burd
Managing Director
Avalon Systems
& Ultra Electronics, Australia
Andy Matko
Director & General Manager
Card Systems
Mike Clayton
Managing Director
Command & Control Systems
Mike Baptist
Managing Director
Communication & Integrated Systems
Andy Wycherley
Director & General Manager
CEMS
Rob McDonald
Managing Director
Controls
Pete Crawford
President
EMS
Paul Fardellone
President
Flightline Systems
Chris Lay
Managing Director
GigaSat
Grant Levy
Project Director
Ithra (70%)
Ken Walker
President
Maritime Systems
Ken Tasch
President
Measurement Systems Inc.
Nick Gaines
Managing Director
Nuclear Control Systems
Dan Upp
President
Nuclear Sensors & Process Instrumentation
Bill Terry
President
Ocean Systems
Jon Everett
Managing Director
PMES
Andy Yates
Managing Director
Precision Air & Land Systems
Paul Maguire
President
ProLogic
Kim Wrighton
Managing Director
Sonar Systems
Michael Phipps
President
SOTECH
Iwan Jemczyk
President
Tactical Communication Systems
Joe Peters
President
USSI
External auditor
Deloitte LLP
Abbots House
Abbey Street
Reading RG1 3BD
Principal bankers
The Royal Bank of Scotland plc
135 Bishopsgate
London EC2M 3UR
Solicitors
Slaughter & May
One Bunhill Row
London EC1Y 8YY
Osborne Clarke
2 Temple Back East
Temple Quay
Bristol BS1 6EG
Financial advisors
Moelis & Company
First Floor, Condor House
10 St. Paul’s Churchyard
London EC4M 8AL
JPMorgan Cazenove Limited
25 Bank Street, Canary Wharf
London E14 5JP
Stockbrokers
JPMorgan Cazenove Limited
25 Bank Street, Canary Wharf
London E14 5JP
Registrars
Equiniti
Aspect House
Spencer Road, Lancing
West Sussex BN99 6DA Ultra is committed to fostering a strong culture
of good governance. High standards of integrity
and ethical behaviour are expected from
everyone in the Group. Ultra’s distinctive
corporate culture promotes high standards of
corporate governance. Each operating business,
overseen by a divisional management structure, is
responsible for its own success and is accountable
for its actions.
In support of the commitment to good governance,
during the past financial year the Board has:
• welcomed Martin Broadhurst to the Board as
an Independent Non-Executive Director. He
brings to us a wealth of experience in the
aerospace and defence sectors;
• enhanced the risk management processes to
reinforce ‘bottom up’ and ‘top down’ review
of risks;
• held a number of unscheduled Board meetings
to review major new bids and investments;
• considered the impact of DEFRA’s draft
regulations on carbon footprint reporting;
• engaged with shareholders on changes to
Executive Directors’ remuneration;
• discussed board diversity both in terms of
gender and relevant experience to support the
Group’s international operations;
• reviewed and updated the terms of reference
of the Board’s Committees; and
• continued to develop our externally-facilitated
Board evaluation, building on areas where the
Board can add further value to our business.
Further detail about what the Board is doing on
these fronts is on the following pages.
In terms of Board changes, Andy Hamment
retired as Marketing Director on 30 March 2012
and was replaced by Mark Anderson. Martin
Broadhurst replaced Ian Griffiths as Non-Executive
Director on 2 July 2012. As previously announced
in the RNS on 24 January 2013, Paul Dean, the
Group Finance Director will stand down from the
Board on 31 March 2013 and will be succeeded by
Mary Waldner who joins Ultra on 1 July 2013. In
the interim, Mark Nelson, the Finance Director for
Ultra’s Sonar & Undersea Systems Division, will
fulfill the function of Group Finance Director
reporting to Rakesh Sharma. The Directors join me
in thanking Andy, Ian and Paul for their valuable
service to Ultra.
Douglas Caster CBE, Chairman
1 March 2013
Douglas Caster CBE, Chairman
Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 47
Corporate governance
Corporate governance
Chairman’s introduction
1. Introduction 2. Strategic review 3. Performance 4. Governance 5. Group ﬁnancials 6. Company ﬁnancials 7. Five-year review Compliance statement
The principal governance rules applying to the Company are
contained in the UK Corporate Governance Code (the “Code”),
issued by the Financial Reporting Council. The Board considers
that the Company complied with the main principles of the
Code during the year under review.
Where appropriate, the Board has adopted aspects of the
revised Code. The Board will report fully under the revised Code
in its 2013 Annual Report.
The Board notes the requirement of the Code to explain the
basis on which the Group generates or preserves value over the
longer term (the business model) and the strategy for delivering
the objectives of the Group. The Group’s strategy and the
business model are specifically addressed on pages 8 to 17 of
this Annual Report. Further explanations of how the main
principles of the Code have been applied to the business are set
out below, in the Directors’ remuneration report and the Audit
Committee report.
Role of the Board
The role of the Board is to provide effective leadership and
direction in delivering the key corporate objective of reliable
and consistent growth in shareholder value. The Executive
Directors set the Group strategy which is subject to challenge
before final agreement by the full Board. The Board also
ensures that adequate controls are in place, including
calibrating risk appetite and maintaining oversight of Ultra’s
risk management processes. The Board receives regular
compliance reports. The Board encourages the Group’s
businesses to behave ethically and properly at all times and
engenders a culture of fairness to customers, suppliers and
employees. It is the function of the Group’s management,
through the Chief Executive Rakesh Sharma and his Executive
Team, to run the operations of the Group. The members of
the Executive Team are listed on page 46.
The Board is responsible for major investment decisions such
as acquisitions of companies and the allocation of the Group’s
R&D expenditure to major new projects. To this end, in
addition to the ten scheduled Board meetings, the Board held
five unscheduled Board meetings in the year. The Board
conducts regular reviews of the major projects being
undertaken by the operating businesses.
A summary of some of the Board’s key responsibilities and
activities is set out opposite and the full range of Board
responsibilities are detailed in the document entitled ‘Matters
to be reserved to the Board’ which is available from the
Investors section of the Group website.
Corporate governance report
48 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc
Corporate governance (continued)
• Chief Executive’s Report
covers the Group’s operational performance, particular
performance issues in each Division, the overall outlook
for the Group and health and safety performance
• Finance Director’s Report
financial forecasts for the half and full year, review of
cash performance to date and future forecasts, review
of banking covenants, review of analysts’ views of the
Group, major shareholdings and major share buyers
and sellers
• Major projects report
• Marketing Director’s report
• Human Resources report
• Review of current acquisition activity and approval of
any offers for proposed acquisitions
• Business presentation by a Managing Director
Board matters
At every Board meeting standing agenda items include:
Other important topics which are covered on a routine
basis during the year are:
Other significant matters addressed by the Board in
2012 included:
• Approval of annual and interim financial statements
and accompanying regulatory announcements
• Review and approval of the annual budget
• Review and approval of major capital investment projects
and bids
• A special full day Board meeting is held to review the
five-year strategic plan, with presentations given by the
Executive Team and discussions held on significant
matters identified in the proposed plan
• Six-monthly review of Compliance Reports prepared by
Divisional Managing Directors and Presidents
• Annual reviews of health & safety and environmental
reports summarising the position across all Group
businesses
• Approval of any changes to the rules of operation of the
Group’s employee share plans
• Effectiveness of internal controls
• Review of the risk register
• Post acquisition reviews
• Board evaluation
• Corporate governance updates
• Approval of a new revolving credit facility
• Consideration of the Group’s tax position
• Structure, policies and procedures to address internal
cyber-security and potential new cyber-security offerings
• Appointment of Moelis & Company as joint financial
adviser with J.P. Morgan Cazenove
• Corporate Social Responsibility, in particular Ultra’s
approach to the proposed mandatory carbon reporting
legislation
• Corporate pension strategy Board meetings
The key source of information for the Board remains the
comprehensive set of papers that are prepared and circulated
to the Directors in advance of each Board meeting. Both
routine and exceptional agenda items are supported by
advance briefing papers to enable an informed debate to
take place at Board meetings.
In addition to these briefing documents it is now normal
practice for acquisition opportunities to be presented to the
Board by the appropriate Divisional Managing Director or
President. This enables a full discussion of the merits and risks
of any acquisition proposal to take place at an early stage.
Other significant matters that require formal Board approval
which are routinely presented by the appropriate business
include major bids, updates on key strategic initiatives and major
capital and private venture development expenditure proposals.
The scheduled Board meetings are rotated around the sites of
the operating businesses. During 2012, the Board visited six
operating businesses in the UK. In addition, the Board held
one meeting at a North American business, following a tour
by the Non-Executive Directors of some of the North
American operations and one meeting in Abu Dhabi, during a
review of the Company’s operations in Oman and the United
Arab Emirates.
During Board meetings at Ultra’s operating units, presentations
detailing recent performance, key opportunities and future
forecasts are given by the senior managers of the host
businesses. Product demonstrations and site tours also take
place. This gives all of the Directors a good practical insight
into operating businesses and is particularly useful for the
Non-Executive Directors. The Non-Executive Directors will also
conduct separate visits to businesses. The Directors meet
frequently with individual Executive Team members who make
presentations to the Board on any significant investment
proposals, including proposed acquisitions and to give
progress reports on any particular strategic initiatives which
the Board may have requested. The Executive Team as a whole
meets the Board annually to present the proposed Strategic
Plan for the next five years. This is then debated with the
Directors, changes agreed and a final plan is approved.
Meeting attendance 2012
The Company Secretary & General Counsel or the Assistant
Company Secretary attended all Board meetings and
Committee meetings. The table below shows attendance by
Directors at the Board and Committee meetings. To the
extent Directors were unable to attend meetings, because
unscheduled meetings were called at short notice or they
were unable to attend due to prior commitments, they
received and read papers for consideration at the meeting,
relayed their comments in advance and, where necessary,
followed up with the Chairman on the decisions made.
Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 49
Corporate governance (continued)
1. Introduction 2. Strategic review 3. Performance 4. Governance 5. Group ﬁnancials 6. Company ﬁnancials 7. Five-year review
Actual
(inclusive of
unscheduled
Board Maximum Maximum Maximum Maximum
meetings) possible Actual possible Actual possible Actual possible
Chairman
Douglas Caster
1
14 15 4*4* 5*5* 2*2*
Chief Executive
Rakesh Sharma 15 15 4*4* 5*5* 2*2*
Executive
Directors
Mark Anderson
2
11 11 2*2* - - - -
Paul Dean 15 15 4*4* - - - -
Andy Hamment
3
4 4 2*2* - - - -
Non-Executive
Directors
Chris Bailey
5
14 15 4 4 5 5 2 2
Martin Broadhurst
4
8 8 2 2 3 3 1 1
Ian Griffiths
6
5 7 2 2 2 2 0 1
Sir Robert Walmsley 15 15 4 4 5 5 2 2
1
Douglas Caster was unable to attend the unscheduled Board meeting in March due to short notice and a prior commitment.
2
Mark Anderson was appointed on 1 April 2012.
3
Andy Hamment retired on 30 March 2012.
4
Martin Broadhurst was appointed on 2 July 2012.
5
Chris Bailey was unable to attend the Board meeting in October due to a long standing private commitment.
6
Ian Griffiths retired on 2 July 2012. He was unable to attend the Board and Nominations Committee meetings held in
the US in May or the unscheduled Board meeting in June due to short notice and a prior commitment.
*By invitation
Nominations Committee Remuneration Committee Audit Committee Main Board Board composition
In 2012, the following changes to the Board took place:
• After serving 9 years on the Board, Ian Griffiths was replaced
by Martin Broadhurst as Non-Executive Director; and
• Andy Hamment (Marketing Director) retired and was
replaced by Mark Anderson.
Throughout 2012, the Board structure was in line with the Code.
Board skills and experience
The Board has a balance of skills, understanding, perspectives
and experience relevant to the Group’s activities. The Board
collectively possesses a deep understanding of the Group’s
core defence, security, transport and energy markets. This is
complemented by its members’ experience and expertise in
other industries and other disciplines including procurement,
accountancy, financial management and growing
international businesses. There is knowledge of best practice
in other companies and other industries, and the Board seeks
to adopt new methodologies when these are seen to be in
the best interests of the Group. This range of skills and
experience informs the Board’s decision-making and enables
it to provide effective leadership.
The particular skills and experience that each Director brings
to the Board are described in their biographical details on
pages 44 and 45 and are summarised opposite.
The Company has a policy whereby Executive Directors,
but not the Chief Executive, may accept one appointment
as a Non-Executive Director in another listed company.
Executive Directors are permitted to retain any fees from
such external appointments.
Board roles
Chairman
The role of the Chairman, Douglas Caster, is to manage the
Board, while the role of the Chief Executive is to run the
operations of the Group. The Chairman aims to facilitate free
and open debate on the topics which appear on the Board
agenda and to promote a culture where the Non-Executive
Directors can provide the appropriate level of challenge and
questioning of the reports and plans put forward by the Chief
Executive and his fellow Executive Directors. All Directors are
able to add items to Board agendas.
Terms of reference set out the Chairman’s activities. These
include a summary of his board and corporate duties, an
outline of his visits to company businesses, his relations with
shareholders and the media, and those key areas of relations
with external bodies that he seeks to promote. Throughout
Board – tenure and independence
Experience
Tenure on other
years Independent plc Boards
Chairman
Douglas Caster 19 No No
Non-Executive
Directors
Chris Bailey 8 Yes Yes
Martin Broadhurst <1 Yes No
Sir Robert Walmsley 4 Yes Yes
Executive
Directors
Rakesh Sharma 2 No No
Paul Dean 3 No Yes
Mark Anderson <1 No No
50 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc
Corporate governance (continued)
Current Board of Directors
Chairman: 1
Executive Directors: 3
Non-Executive Directors: 3
Chairman;
Executive Directors;
Non-Executive Directors.
Defence and Security
Transport
Energy
Engineering
Production
Project management
Finance
Procurement
Marketing
Management
Cross border trade
Number of Directors
with skills and
experience described
6
6
5
6
5
6
3
6
7
7
4 Board roles (continued)
Chairman (continued)
the year, the Chairman held a series of private meetings to
discuss aspects of the business at which only the Non-Executive
Directors were present.
Chief Executive
The role of the Chief Executive, Rakesh Sharma, is to manage
and run the Group’s businesses. He accomplishes this task
through an Executive Team comprising the Group Finance,
Marketing and Human Resources Directors, the Divisional
Managing Directors and Presidents, the Company Secretary
& General Counsel and the Chief Executive as Chairman.
Management of individual businesses is devolved to the
Divisional Managing Directors and Presidents, assisted by
dedicated Divisional Finance Directors and Divisional Strategy
Directors. The Chief Executive also utilises the independent
Ethics Overview Committee to provide independent oversight
of specific ethical issues. See page 39 for a description of the
role of this Committee.
Senior Independent Director
Chris Bailey is the Senior Independent Director. In common
with the other Non-Executive Directors he acts as a sounding
board for the Chairman. While Ultra enjoys an open board
culture, Chris Bailey provides an independent voice and is
available as a point of contact for colleagues on the Board
should they have concerns that they feel unable to raise with
the Chairman. He performs a similar function for shareholders,
employees or any other external stakeholders of the Group.
He is able to receive ‘whistleblowing reports’ submitted by
employees anonymously via an externally hosted Employee
Hotline. He ensures that such reports are fully investigated,
that corrective action is taken where necessary and no
retribution is taken against the whistleblower.
Non-Executive Directors
Chris Bailey, Sir Robert Walmsley and Martin Broadhurst are
the Group’s independent Non-Executive Directors. The Board
considers them to be independent. In assessing independence,
the Board considers that they are independent of
management and free from business and other relationships
which could interfere with the exercise of independent
judgment now and in the future. The Board believes that any
shareholdings of the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors
serve to align their interests with those of all shareholders.
The Non-Executive Directors have wide experience of working
in a variety of different government and industry roles with
exposure to international business.
The key role of the Non-Executive Directors, along with the
Chairman, is to provide an appropriate level of challenge and
constructive criticism to the plans of the Executive Directors.
The Non-Executive Directors have met without the Chairman
or Executive Directors being present on several occasions
during the year to discuss aspects relating to the Board and
the Company and appropriate feedback is given.
On behalf of the Company, the Non-Executive Directors are
active in developing relationships at a senior level with the
Company’s key suppliers, customers and business partners.
Insurance
The Group maintains an appropriate level of Directors and
Officers Liability insurance cover in respect of legal action
against its Directors.
Board appointments – the process
In appointing Martin Broadhurst and Mary Waldner, the
Board, through the Nominations Committee, has been careful
to identify the skills, knowledge and experience needed for
each role and to complement the existing skills mix provided
by other Board members. The process followed by the
Nominations Committee in appointing Directors is described
on page 56. To ensure selection from the widest possible
talent pool, it is the Company’s normal practice to engage the
services of independent, external search consultants in
recruiting new Directors. This was the case with the
appointments of Martin Broadhurst and Mary Waldner.
Directors’ induction and training
All new appointments to the Board receive a comprehensive
induction to the Group covering the corporate structure, the
products and services of the Group’s businesses, the key
markets in which the businesses operate and the key risks
which the Group faces, together with the actions and plans
which are in place to mitigate against these. On appointment,
each Director receives a full induction pack explaining Ultra’s
governance framework, policies and procedures and a
briefing from the Company Secretary & General Counsel on
the legal, governance and control framework.
Programmes of visits to Group businesses are arranged. It is
important for these to encompass as many businesses as
possible, since no two Ultra businesses are alike. New Directors
are encouraged to meet business and divisional management
teams to gain a feel for the Group’s style and culture.
The Company Secretary & General Counsel annually presents
to the Board on corporate governance. The Board is briefed
on significant changes in the law or governance codes
affecting their duties as Directors. Experts present to the
Board on specialist areas, such as pensions and tax. Specific
training is arranged for Directors as and when appropriate.
The Directors are able to call on independent professional
advice at anytime should this be necessary in order for them
to carry out their duties.
Board evaluation
The Chairman commissions externally-facilitated annual Board
evaluations. Board evaluations run on a two year cycle. One year,
the effectiveness of the Board and its Committees is evaluated.
The next year, individual Director’s performance is evaluated.
In 2012, Mr Jack Telfer facilitated a review of the Board and
its Committees. Mr Telfer has considerable experience of
working at board level. He was the Human Resources Director
of the Company up until June 2004 (when he left the
Company to set up his own consultancy) and so was able to
facilitate the evaluation from a position of having a good
understanding of the Company and its culture. He provides a
valuable insight into the Company’s challenges and needs and
is able to assess the Board and its Committees in the context
of the Company’s development.
Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 51
Corporate governance (continued)
1. Introduction 2. Strategic review 3. Performance 4. Governance 5. Group ﬁnancials 6. Company ﬁnancials 7. Five-year review Board evaluation (continued)
The Board completed a detailed questionnaire covering:
Board structure and effectiveness, functionality, Board
meetings, administration, interaction with senior
management, corporate governance, Committee structure
and effectiveness and progress on Board effectiveness since
the last evaluation in 2010. Mr Telfer reported back on his
findings to the Chairman and made a presentation at a Board
meeting, at which observations were discussed.
The review concluded that the Board as a whole was effective
and the procedures and effectiveness of the Board and its
Committees had improved since the 2010 evaluation. The
Directors concluded that the Board was proactive, spent
sufficient time on key issues and that appropriate debate and
challenge was welcomed during Board discussions. The Board
identified the following areas of focus going forward and
actions to address these:
Diversity
Ultra continues to follow its overriding policy of appointing the
best person for a particular role, regardless of sex, race,
nationality, disability, sexual orientation, age, marital status,
religion or beliefs. The Board contends that a board composed
of the right balance of skills, experience, and diversity of views is
best placed to support a company in its strategic objectives. The
Board has considered in detail the requirements of the Code
regarding gender diversity. In selecting the best person for a
role, the Board gives active consideration to the benefits of
diversity, including gender diversity. However, setting diversity
target aspirations, especially by specific dates, can distort the
selection process and conflict with its preferred, diversity-aware
‘best person for the role’ approach.
Engineering is a sector of relatively low female participation,
especially in senior management positions. This poses a
challenge for the Group in terms of achieving gender
diversity with the appropriate knowledge and understanding
of the risks associated with the Group’s technologies and
offerings. Nevertheless, the Company has been successful in
recruiting its first female Director from the finance sector, and
will continue in its diversity aware ‘best person for the role’
approach to recruiting.
Annual re-election of Directors
All the Directors, with the exception of Paul Dean who stands
down from the Board on 31 March 2013, will stand for
re-election at the Annual General Meeting on 26 April 2013.
Conflicts of interest
Each Director has a responsibility to bring situational or
transactional conflicts of interest to the attention of the
Board as soon as they arise. No conflicts were identified
during 2012.
Internal controls
The Directors carry out an annual review of the effectiveness
of the Group’s internal control systems. This covers the ways in
which identified strategic, operational and financial risks are
managed. Particular attention is paid to the security of the
Group’s IT systems and more latterly on improving cyber security.
Ultra’s internal controls are designed, and have evolved over
time, to meet the Group’s particular needs and the risks to
which it is exposed. However, no controls can provide
absolute assurance against material errors, losses or fraud.
The key features of the internal control system that operated
during the year are described below.
Control environment
Ultra’s control systems are well defined and are considered by
the Directors to be appropriate to the Group’s size and
structure. The control environment is managed by the Chief
Executive and the Executive Team. Individual businesses
report to a specific Divisional Managing Director or President,
who is responsible for ensuring that the Managing Director or
President of each operating business has implemented the
controls as defined in the Group Operating Manual.
Individual operating businesses are required to maintain their
own detailed operating procedures which are consistent with
the Group Operating Manual.
52 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc
Corporate governance (continued)
Focus
Given the Company’s
operations in the US,
it was concluded that
a North American
representative on the
Board would contribute
to the Board’s insight
and experience of the
US market
The level of Board
interaction with the
Divisional Managing
Directors/Presidents
would be increased
Risk Management
reporting would continue
to be developed
Actions
The Board agreed that
when appointing a new
Non-Executive Director
this requirement would
be taken into account
In addition to presenting
the Strategic Plan annually,
the Divisional Managing
Directors/Presidents would
meet with the Board part
way through the year to
give an update on actions
arising from the Strategic
Plan. The Non-Executive
Directors would aim to
meet with the Divisional
Managing Directors/
Presidents three times a year.
It was agreed that:
• The strategic risks as set
out on pages 41 to 43
would be reviewed by
the Board twice annually
• An enhanced unified
reporting format for
major project risks
would be implemented
• An issue tracking tool
would be used to record
control issues identified
by internal audit along
with agreed actions and
timeframes for their
remediation Control environment (continued)
The Board maintains an internal audit process to review
financial and information systems control procedures
throughout the Group. In 2012, this was performed by Ernst
& Young LLP. All significant business units are audited at least
once every 2 years, while other businesses are audited on a
3 year cycle. In addition, all newly acquired free-standing
businesses are audited within a year of their acquisition date.
The lead partner from Ernst & Young reports directly to the
Chairman of the Audit Committee and presents the findings
of his team twice annually to the Audit Committee. Progress
reports on follow-up remedial actions are reported regularly
to the Committee. Ernst & Young confirm whether
appropriate action has been taken to address the risks when
they next visit the business concerned.
In 2012, a tender of the internal audit process was performed.
The Audit Committee concluded that the current internal
auditors, Ernst & Young, should be replaced by
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP effective from 1 January 2013.
Half-yearly Divisional control reviews are held between each
Divisional Finance Director and the Group Finance Director at
which internal control processes and issues for each business in
the Division are discussed. The results from these reviews are
included in the Internal Controls Improvement Status Report
which is presented to the Audit Committee twice a year.
Ultra has a robust anti-bribery and corruption policy in place. In
accordance with this policy, all Directors and employees are
required to sign Ultra’s code of conduct on anti-bribery and
commit to act in accordance with the code. Within one week of
joining Ultra, Directors and employees undertake anti-bribery
training. Further anti-bribery training is given to targeted
groups throughout the year. The Group intranet, which is
accessible by all employees, contains a statement from the
Chief Executive regarding compliance with Ultra’s anti-bribery
and corruption policy. Ultra businesses submit monthly
business performance reports confirming compliance with the
code and reporting any breaches.
Risk management
Risk assessment and management is not treated as a separate
function within Ultra. It is assessed and managed as an integral
part of all of Ultra’s management and control processes.
In their monthly business performance reports, individual
operating businesses identify key opportunities and risks,
their possible financial impacts and any mitigating actions.
These are reviewed by and discussed with the Divisional
Managing Directors and Presidents at monthly review
meetings and appropriate actions are agreed. The Divisional
Managing Directors and Presidents present monthly reports
to the Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director. These
include an assessment of the risks inherent in each business’s
financial forecasts and any other key risks. Based on these
reports, the Executive Team compiles a register of the major
risks facing the Group which are reported to and monitored
by the Board. Please refer to pages 40 to 43 for details of
these major risks and the approach taken to mitigate these.
In addition, all businesses maintain risk registers for major
projects. The financial impact of identified risks are evaluated
together with the probability of the risks occurring.
Mitigating actions are subsequently agreed and implemented.
The Managing Directors and Presidents, Finance Directors and
Vice Presidents of Finance of each business are required to
give a formal written representation to the Board each year
confirming that they accept responsibility for maintaining
effective internal controls and that they have disclosed full
details of any fraud or suspected fraud within their business.
The Board accepts overall responsibility for reviewing the
operation and effectiveness of the Group’s internal controls at
least annually and has performed a specific assessment for the
purposes of this Annual Report. With the assistance of the
Audit Committee all significant aspects of internal control for
2012 have been reviewed and internal procedures amended
where necessary.
Financial reporting systems
The Group has a well-established process for collecting
financial information from operating businesses and for
consolidating this at divisional and Group level.
Financial results for operating businesses, each division and
the whole Group, are provided to the Board monthly and
presented at every scheduled Board meeting. Scheduled
Board meetings are held monthly with the exceptions of June
and August. The Chief Executive and Group Finance Director
explain the significance of any major impacts on the financial
performance and draw the Board’s attention to any
significant trends or deviations from budget revealed by
forecasts of future performance.
Shareholder communication
The Group is committed to ensuring effective communication
with its shareholders and encourages an open dialogue with
shareholders to promote a mutual understanding of
objectives and expectations. Throughout the year, Ultra
initiates tailored events and responds to meeting requests
with current and prospective investors and financial analysts.
Specifically, meetings are held with institutional investors and
financial analysts after the release of the interim and full year
financial results at which detailed briefings are given. These
briefings can also be found on the investors section of the
Group’s website together with copies of all regulatory
announcements, press releases and copies of the published
full year and interim accounts and reports.
The Chief Executive, Chairman, Group Finance Director and
Marketing Director regularly meet institutional shareholders
or potential shareholders either individually or as part of
group meetings.
The Board is regularly updated by the Company’s stock broker
on analyst’s and major shareholders’ views on the Company.
The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors are always
available to meet with shareholders should they have any
concerns or questions that they wish to raise.
Each year, Ultra organises focused events and/or site visits to
provide greater insight into the strengths and potential of its
extensive portfolio of specialist capabilities. These range from
Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 53
Corporate governance (continued)
1. Introduction 2. Strategic review 3. Performance 4. Governance 5. Group ﬁnancials 6. Company ﬁnancials 7. Five-year review Shareholder communication (continued)
introductory briefings on the Group as a whole to
presentations on specific areas of capability. Visits and
presentations in the year included an in depth review of
Ultra’s capability in Anti-Submarine Warfare and their
applicability to growing tensions in the Asia-Pacific region.
Ultra invites investors and members of the financial
community to exhibitions, such as the Farnborough Airshow.
Members of the Executive Team also take part in investor
briefings organised by third parties.
All shareholders are invited to attend the Annual General
Meeting where they have the opportunity to meet with
Directors and to ask questions. Voting at the Annual General
Meeting is conducted by way of a show of hands. Proxy votes
lodged for each Annual General Meeting are announced at
the meeting and published on Ultra’s website. Electronic
communication with shareholders is preferred wherever
possible since this is both more efficient and environmentally
friendly. However shareholders may opt to receive hard copy
communication if they wish.
Shareholder analysis
The majority of Ultra’s shares are held by institutional
shareholders. Some of the members of the buyout team
which originally formed Ultra still have significant holdings in
the Company, as does the Chairman, Chief Executive and
other members of Ultra’s Executive Team. Many of whom
have retained shares awarded via share option or long term
incentive schemes.
Shareholder analysis by category of shareholder as at
31 December 2012
Fund Holding %
Unit trusts 34,361,956 49.51
Pension funds 10,352,331 14.92
Insurance companies 5,665,223 8.16
Other managed funds 5,484,354 7.90
Sovereign wealth 3,752,810 5.41
Private Investor 2,993,535 4.31
Custodians 1,261,540 1.82
Investment trust 839,000 1.21
Trading position 394,748 0.57
Exchange-traded fund 352,497 0.51
Charity 294,939 0.42
Employee share scheme
trustees 235,247 0.34
Unclassified 229,895 0.33
Mutual fund 135,241 0.19
University 102,694 0.15
Other 2,947,649 4.25
Total issued share capital 69,403,659 100.0
Shareholder analysis by size of holding as at 31 December 2012
Total number Total number %
Size of shareholding of holdings % of holders of shares issued capital
1-50 113 6.74 2,466 0.01
51-100 87 5.19 7,253 0.01
101-250 349 20.84 65,157 0.09
251-500 272 16.24 100,454 0.14
501-1,000 262 15.64 187,104 0.27
1,001-5,000 283 16.90 596,153 0.86
5,001-10,000 50 2.98 357,913 0.52
10,001-25,000 71 4.24 1,129,715 1.63
25,001-50,000 49 2.93 1,770,862 2.55
Over 50,000 139 8.30 65,186,582 93.92
Totals 1,675 100.00 69,403,659 100.00
54 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc
Corporate governance (continued)
26 March 2013 Annual Report and Accounts
published
10 April 2013 Ex-dividend date
12 April 2013 Record date
26 April 2013 Annual General Meeting
3 May 2013 Final dividend payment date
5 August 2013 Interim results announced
27 September 2013 Interim dividend payment date
Financial calendar Board Committees
Ultra has established three Committees of the Board, the
Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees, to which
certain key responsibilities have been delegated. The
detailed terms of reference of each Committee are available
from the Investors section of the Group website. The
responsibilities of each Committee are in line with the
recommendations of the Code. The membership of each
Committee comprises the three independent Non-Executive
Directors – Chris Bailey, Sir Robert Walmsley and Martin
Broadhurst. Chris Bailey, Senior Independent Director, is
Chairman of each Committee. Summaries of the key activities
of each Committee are given below.
Audit Committee
Composition
The membership of the Audit Committee has been outlined
above. Chris Bailey, Chairman of the Committee, has recent and
relevant experience in a senior financial role in another public
limited company, including having been Group Finance Director
of Aggregate Industries plc until 2004. He is a fellow of the
Institute of Chartered Accountants of England & Wales and is
also a member of the Association of Corporate Treasurers.
In addition to the Committee members, the Group Chairman,
Chief Executive and Group Finance Director are invited to
attend Audit Committee meetings. The Company Secretary
& General Counsel acts as Secretary to the Committee. The
Marketing Director normally attends Audit Committee
meetings as an observer. Deloitte LLP are the Group’s external
auditor. The Deloitte Audit Partner attends all Audit
Committee meetings, whilst the lead partner from Ernst &
Young attended those meetings at which summary Internal
Audit Reports were reviewed by the Committee.
The Committee’s terms of reference includes all matters
indicated by the Code and are reviewed and approved by the
Board annually. The terms of reference are available on the
Company’s website (www.ultra-electronics.com).
The Committee Chairman met with Ernst & Young and Deloitte
in the absence of Executive Directors and other Committee
members had the opportunity to do so. During 2012, the
Committee met with Deloitte, without Executive Directors
present, at which Deloitte reported on their views of the
Group’s performance and on the performance of the Executive
Directors in running the Group.
Role
The Board takes overall responsibility for the review of the
effectiveness of the internal controls. The Audit Committee
assists the Board in this by monitoring the internal control
procedures. It does this through:
• Its receipt and review of internal audit reports
• Reports from the Group Finance Director of his actions to
ensure that the Group’s operating businesses address any
control weaknesses
• Its review of the accounts and supporting reports presented
by the Group’s external auditor
• Other detailed reviews and investigations that it may require
The key functions of the Committee are:
• Scrutiny of the Group’s annual and interim financial
statements and accounts
• Receipt of reports from the Group’s external auditor
• Review of internal audit reports from Ernst & Young who
carried out a programme of internal audit visits to the
operating businesses
• Receipt and review of plans to improve any internal
controls which are identified in the internal audit reports
• To carry out regulatory and statutory compliance checks on
the Group’s financial affairs
The Audit Committee is required to report its findings to the
Board, identifying any matters on which it considers that
action or improvement is needed and make recommendations
on the steps to be taken. Matters considered by the
Committee during 2012 were:
Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 55
Corporate governance (continued)
1. Introduction 2. Strategic review 3. Performance 4. Governance 5. Group ﬁnancials 6. Company ﬁnancials 7. Five-year review
Topic
Financial results
Internal controls
Fraud
Audit plans
Cyber and IT security
Whistleblowing
External auditor
Governance
What was considered
Full and half year financial
statements and related
results announcements
Reports and reviews from
the Group’s external
auditor
Matters that required the
exercise of significant
management judgement
Review of Ultra’s system
of internal controls and
their effectiveness
Re-tender of internal audit
provisions
Review of representation
on fraud statement
Setting and review of
internal and external
audit plans for the year
An assessment of cyber and
IT security within the Group
Review reports of calls to
the Group’s external
Employee Hotline and how
they have been investigated
and dealt with
Review and approval of
external auditor’s
engagement policy
Review and approval of
audit and non-audit fees
for the external auditor
Review of new guidance
from the Financial
Reporting Council and
changes to the UK
Corporate Governance Code
Review of changes to IFRS
and financial reporting
Review of the Committee’s
terms of reference
Benchmarking Ultra’s
Annual Report & Accounts
against peer group and
approval of the 2011
Corporate Governance
Report Audit Committee (continued)
An external Employee Hotline is used to provide a process for
reporting ethical concerns. Employees are informed of this
process through posters (which are translated into local
languages) and through the Group intranet (which is
accessible by all employees). Employees can report ethical
dilemmas or other similar concerns they may have via the
external Employee Hotline and can remain anonymous if they
wish. Employee concerns are forwarded directly to the
Chairman of the Audit Committee or, in the case of issues
covered by US security legislation, to the Chairman of the
Security Committee of either Ultra’s Special Security
Agreement company or Ultra’s Proxy Board company,
whichever is relevant. During 2012 two reports were
submitted (three in 2011). These were fully investigated and
appropriate action was taken.
It is the policy of the Group that non-audit services provided by
Deloitte, Ultra’s external auditor, are restricted to regulatory
reporting, consultancy services associated with financial
restructuring, responding to new reporting requirements, due
diligence assessments of potential acquisitions and minor
consultancy work. The Audit Committee has decided that any
individual assignments with an estimated fee in excess of
£50,000 will be referred in advance to the Chairman of the
Audit Committee for his approval. In connection with
acquisition due diligence work and certain tax consultancy
work, it is the Board’s view that the auditor’s familiarity with
Ultra’s accounting practices and the techniques that are
involved in Ultra’s long-term contracting activities serves them
well in carrying out such work.
The senior audit partner employed by Deloitte on the Ultra
audit is subject to a strict policy of regular rotation such that
there is a change in this role at least once every five years.
This is in accordance with professional practice guidelines.
The current senior audit partner’s tenure commenced in 2011.
The Committee has reviewed and monitored the external
auditor’s independence and objectivity and the effectiveness of
the external audit process. In order to do this it has addressed
the questions contained in a questionnaire issued by the
Institute of Chartered Accountants of Scotland in October 2007.
The Committee confirmed that Deloitte had been sufficiently
transparent and incisive. The Committee was satisfied that
previous audits had been effective. The result of the process
was that the Committee concluded that Deloitte was both
independent and objective and that the reappointment of
Deloitte as external auditor should be recommended to the
shareholders. Accordingly, a resolution to reappoint Deloitte
will be put to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
The fees paid to Deloitte in respect of non-audit services are
shown in note 6 to the Financial Statements.
Nominations Committee
Role
The function of the Nominations Committee is to review and
recommend all main Board and Committee appointments.
The Committee’s terms of reference includes all matters
indicated by the Code. The terms of reference are available
on the Company’s website (www.ultra-electronics.com).
During 2012 the Committee met twice. The first meeting was
to agree the process for appointing a new Non-Executive
Director and the second meeting was to agree the process for
appointing the new Group Finance Director. The process
followed was:
• A role and experience profile for both positions was
discussed and agreed
• An independent external search consultancy was engaged
to identify candidates who met the role profile
• A short list was created through discussions with the Senior
Independent Director
• Non-Executive Directors met the short listed candidates, the
results of which were discussed by the Nominations
Committee and recommendations were made
• A meeting with the recommended candidate was
undertaken with the Chief Executive
The recruitment process for the appointment of Mark
Anderson as Marketing Director was set out in the 2011
Annual Report.
Ultra operates a well-established succession planning process.
This is described in detail on page 37.
Remuneration Committee
Role
The Committee met five times during the year. It is
responsible for evaluating the performance of the Executive
Directors, including the Chief Executive, and for setting their
levels of remuneration. It also meets without the Chairman
being present to agree his remuneration. Full details of the
activities of the Remuneration Committee during 2012 are
given in the Directors’ remuneration report on page 58,
together with details of the Directors’ pension entitlements,
long-term incentive share awards and shareholdings. It will be
presented for approval by the shareholders at the Annual
General Meeting.
Statement of going concern
Ultra’s banking facilities amount to £190m in total, plus a
£15m overdraft. They were established in two tranches.
The first tranche comprises £90m of revolving credit,
denominated in Sterling, US dollars, Canadian dollars,
Australian dollars or Euros. This facility was signed in January
2011 and expires in January 2016. The facility is provided by a
group of six banks.
The second tranche provides a further £100m of revolving
credit in the same currencies. This was signed in December
2012 with five banks and expires in December 2017. Both
facilities have the same covenants.
The Group also has a “shelf” facility in place with Prudential
Investment Management Inc. This agreement effectively gave
the Group access to the US private placement market on a
bilateral basis. The facility is non-committed but is for up to
$150m. At the year-end, $70m of loan notes had been issued,
with maturity dates in 2018 and 2019.
As well as being used to fund acquisitions, the borrowing
facilities are also used for other balance sheet and
operational needs, including the funding of day-to-day
56 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc
Corporate governance (continued) Statement of going concern (continued)
working capital requirements. The US dollar borrowings also
represent natural hedges against assets denominated in that
currency. The Group’s banking covenants have all been met
during the past year with a comfortable margin. The
approved Group budget for 2013 and strategic plan for later
years give confidence that the Group will continue to meet
these covenants. Details of how Ultra manages its liquidity
risk can be found in note 23 – Financial Instruments and
Financial Risk Management.
Though global macro-economic conditions remain uncertain,
the long-term nature of Ultra’s business and its positioning in
attractive sectors of its markets, taken together with the
Group’s forward order book provides a satisfactory level of
confidence in respect of trading in the year to come.
The Directors have a reasonable expectation that Ultra has
adequate resources to continue in operational existence for
the foreseeable future. Thus, they continue to adopt a
going concern basis of accounting in preparing the annual
financial statements.
Directors’ responsibilities statement
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report
and the financial statements in accordance with applicable
law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial
statements for each financial year. Under that law the Directors
are required to prepare the Group financial statements in
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards
(IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union and Article 4 of the
International Accounting Standards Regulation (“IAS”) and
have elected to prepare the Parent Company financial
statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally
Accepted Accounting Practice (United Kingdom Accounting
Standards and applicable law). Under company law the
Directors must not approve the accounts unless they are
satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of
affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of the
Company for that period.
In preparing the Parent Company financial statements, the
Directors are required to:
• Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them
consistently
• Make judgments and accounting estimates that are
reasonable and prudent
• State whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have
been followed subject to any material departures disclosed
and explained in the financial statements
• Prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will
continue in business
In preparing the Group financial statements, International
Accounting Standard 1 requires that Directors:
• Properly select and apply accounting policies
• Present information, including accounting policies, in a
manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and
understandable information
• Provide additional disclosures when compliance with the
specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable
users to understand the impact of particular transactions,
other events and conditions on the entity’s financial
position and financial performance
• Make an assessment of the Company’s ability to continue as
a going concern
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate
accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the
Company’s transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy
at any time the financial position of the Company and enable
them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the
Companies Act 2006. They are also responsible for
safeguarding the assets of the Company and for taking
reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud
and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and
integrity of the corporate and financial information included
on the Company’s website. Legislation in the United Kingdom
governing the preparation and dissemination of financial
statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Responsibility statement
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge:
• the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the
relevant financial reporting framework, give a true and fair
view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or
loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the
consolidation taken as a whole;
• we consider the annual report and accounts to be fair,
balanced and understandable and to provide the
information necessary for shareholders to assess the
Company’s performance, business model and strategy; and
• the management report, which is incorporated into the
Directors’ report, includes a fair review of the development
and performance of the business and the position of the
Company and the undertakings included in the
consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description
of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
By order of the Board,
R. Sharma, Chief Executive
P . Dean, Group Finance Director
1 March 2013
Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 57
Corporate governance (continued)
1. Introduction 2. Strategic review 3. Performance 4. Governance 5. Group ﬁnancials 6. Company ﬁnancials 7. Five-year review Chairman’s Introduction
On behalf of the Remuneration Committee (the “Committee”),
I am pleased to present the Directors’ remuneration report for
2012 which sets out the remuneration policy operated in the
year and the policy for 2013.
The Committee reviews the detailed operation of the
remuneration policy each year to ensure that it remains
suitable for Ultra’s current and future strategic objectives, is
structured in line with the latest best practice and to consider
how it compares to practice elsewhere in the market.
Following a review of the policy towards the end of 2012, the
Committee has determined that it is appropriate to make some
minor changes to the long-term incentive policy for 2013;
namely increasing the long-term incentive award level for the
Chief Executive from 100% to 125% of salary p.a.; updating
the relative Total Shareholder Return (“TSR”) comparator
group; and recalibrating the Earnings Per Share (“EPS”) hurdle.
These changes, and the rationale for making them, are explained
in detail in the remuneration report. The increase to the Chief
Executive’s award will necessitate an amendment to the rules of
the Long Term Incentive Plan (“LTIP”). In line with the Company’s
commitment to clear and open communication with
shareholders, in January 2013, I wrote to the Company’s major
shareholders advising them of the changes. No material issues
were raised.
The Committee determined that the Company’s remuneration
policy continues to be appropriately stretching (the EPS
underpin on long-term incentive awards remains amongst the
toughest in the FTSE 250) and well aligned to Ultra’s Key
Performance Indicators and shareholder interests. The changes
will ensure that strong financial performance remains a key
focus whilst ensuring executives are incentivised to drive
sustainable growth, which is in the long-term interests of the
Company and its shareholders. No further changes are planned.
The Committee is considering the impact of the forthcoming UK
Government legislation on its remuneration policies and
disclosures. The Committee will report under the Department for
Business, Innovation & Skills (”BIS“) proposals in its 2013
Directors’ remuneration report (when the final legislation is
published). However, it does not anticipate any radical changes
to policy as a result of the new legislation.
I trust that having read the remuneration report you will support
the Committee’s approach. I am always available to shareholders
to discuss any aspect of the Company’s remuneration policy.
Chris Bailey, Chairman, Remuneration Committee
UNAUDITED INFORMATION
This report has been prepared in accordance with the
Companies Act 2006 (the “Act”) and Schedule 8 of the Large
and Medium Sized Companies and Groups (Accounts & Reports)
Regulations 2008. This report also meets the relevant
requirements of the Listing Rules of the Financial Services
Authority and describes how the Board has applied the
principles relating to directors’ remuneration in the UK
Corporate Governance Code (the “Code”). As required by the
Act, a resolution to approve this report will be proposed at the
Annual General Meeting of the Company at which the financial
statements will be submitted for approval.
The Act requires the auditor to report to the Group’s
shareholders on certain parts of this report and to state
whether in their opinion those parts of this report have been
properly prepared in accordance with the relevant legislation.
This report has therefore been divided into separate sections
for audited and unaudited information.
Role and composition of the Committee
Role
The role of the Committee is to:
• Determine and agree with the Board the framework and
broad policy for the remuneration of the Executive
Directors, Chairman of the Board and senior management
reporting to the Executive Directors
• Ensure that the Executive Directors are fairly rewarded for
their individual contributions to the Company’s overall
performance, with due regard to the interests of shareholders
and to the financial and commercial health of the Company
• Ensure that contractual arrangements, including the
termination of Executive Directors, are fair both to the
individuals concerned and to the Company
The Committee’s terms of reference includes all matters
indicated by the Code and are approved and reviewed by the
Board annually. The terms of reference are available on the
Company’s website (www.ultra-electronics.com).
Composition
Chris Bailey continued as Chairman of the Remuneration
Committee during 2012. Sir Robert Walmsley and Martin
Broadhurst (Martin Broadhurst replaced Ian Griffiths upon his
retirement on 2 July 2012), both independent Non-Executive
Directors, were the other Committee members. Sharon Harris,
the Company Secretary & General Counsel, acted as secretary to
the Committee. The Chairman and the Chief Executive,
although not Committee members, normally attend Committee
meetings by invitation, except where matters directly relating
to their own remuneration are discussed.
Remuneration report
Chris Bailey, Chairman, Remuneration Committee
58 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc
Remuneration report Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 59
Remuneration report
1. Introduction 2. Strategic review 3. Performance 4. Governance 5. Group ﬁnancials 6. Company ﬁnancials 7. Five-year review
Key activities during 2012
During 2012 the Remuneration Committee met five times. The key activities were:
Linkage between remuneration, corporate objectives and shareholder interests
Element of
remuneration
Base salary
Annual bonus
Long Term
Incentive Plan
Objective
Aims to attract and retain key
executives
Reflects the individual’s role within
the Group and their experience
Provides focus on delivering/
exceeding annual budget
Rewards and helps retain key
executives and is aligned to the
Group’s risk profile
Rewards longer-term value
creation. Incentivises the
delivery of above market Total
Shareholder Returns
Provides a focus on delivery of
the Group’s strategic plan
Helps to reward and retain
key executives
Timescale
Continuous
12 months
Three years
Performance metric
Delivery against key personal
objectives
Reflect individual role and
responsibilities
Based on annual targets for two
of the Group’s KPIs: operating
cash flow and operating profit
Relative Total Shareholder Return is
based on a comparator group of
representative UK listed companies
(see page 62) with an EPS underpin*
Governance and forward planning
Reviewed and approved 2011
Directors’ remuneration report
in light of feedback from
institutional shareholders
Communicated with major
shareholders about changes to the
LTIP and Executive Directors’ salary
Introduced a bonus clawback
provision in the LTIP and
Executive Share Option Scheme
Amended pension arrangements
following statutory changes to
annual and lifetime allowances
Extended share ownership
guidelines to the Executive Team
Reviewed the Committee’s terms
of reference
Reviewed and considered the
implications of the BIS proposals
Pay
Reviewed and approved Executive
Directors’ and Executive Team’s
remuneration taking account of
performance, salary surveys, market
trends, regulatory developments
and investor guidelines
Approved the Chairman’s
remuneration and contract for 2013
Incentive plans
Reviewed and approved the 2011
Executive Directors’ and Executive
Team’s bonus awards and setting of
2012 bonus targets
Approved the 0% vesting for the
2009 LTIP awards
Granted the 2012 LTIP awards
Approved executive share option
awards for 2012
Determined the treatment of
Mr Hamment’s LTIP awards
Reviewed the operation and
performance conditions of the LTIP
* For the 2013 LTIP , Relative Total Shareholder
Return will be based on the FTSE 250
(excluding investment trusts).
Role and composition of the Committee (continued)
Advice to the Remuneration Committee
Wholly independent advice on executive remuneration and
share schemes is received from New Bridge Street, a
subsidiary of Aon plc. New Bridge Street is appointed by
the Committee and, during the year, provided the
Company with advice on the operation of the Company’s
LTIP and other share schemes, remuneration benchmarking
services and an annual update on market and best practice.
During 2012, insurance broking services were also provided
to the Group by other subsidiaries of Aon plc which the
Committee believes in no way prejudices New Bridge
Street’s position as the Committee’s independent advisers.
Pension advisory services were provided to the Committee
and the Group by Towers Watson.
In addition, the Committee consults the Chief Executive
with regard to the remuneration and benefits packages
offered to Executive Directors (other than in relation to
his own remuneration and benefits package) and
members of the Executive Team. Linkage between remuneration, corporate objectives and shareholder interests (continued)
The Group’s remuneration policy is to reward senior management competitively, enabling Ultra to recruit, motivate and
retain executives of high caliber, whilst avoiding making excessive remuneration payments. The remuneration of Executive
Directors and senior managers is aligned with corporate objectives and the interests of shareholders. The linkages between
the three elements of the Executive Directors’ remuneration packages with the Group’s objectives and the interests of
shareholders are outlined on page 59.
Salaries
Base salary levels of Executive Directors are set by reference to:
• the salaries paid in companies of a similar turnover and market capitalisation. However, the Company’s policy is to set
salaries of new Executive Directors by reference to their skills and experience on appointment, rather than by reference
to the rate paid to their predecessor or the wider market. The policy is then to progress salaries towards market rates
over the next one to two years, subject to continued performance and development in the role;
• the individual Director’s performance and responsibilities; and
• remuneration practices across the Group as a whole in order to ensure that a coherent structure applies. Input is sought
from the Chief Executive and the Group Human Resources Director to assist in this process. Salary increases for Executive
Directors are reflective of the levels of salary increases awarded to high performing Group employees.
The Executive Directors’ salaries are reviewed annually by the Committee and take effect from 1 January. New Bridge
Street prepared data on the total remuneration packages for Executive Directors with similar roles in two comparator
groups of companies:
(1) A ‘specific’ group comprising 13 companies of a broadly similar size drawn from the LTIP TSR comparator group;
and
(2) A ‘general’ group comprising 38 companies from across all sectors (excluding Financial Services) with a similar
market capitalisation and turnover to the Company.
In addition to the analysis presented by New Bridge Street, the Committee used a number of other published salary
surveys.
The Executive Directors’ salaries have been reviewed by the Committee which has determined that the following
levels should be implemented with effect from 1st January 2013:
2013 Salary 2012 Salary % Increase
£’000 £’000 %
Chief Executive
1
460 420 9.5
Finance Director
2
305 305 -
Marketing Director
3
205 180 13.9
1
The Chief Executive was appointed in 2011 on a salary of £400,000 per annum (compared with his predecessor’s salary of
£466,000 per annum). This was in line with the Company’s policy of setting the salaries of new Executive Directors by
reference to their skills and experience on appointment, rather than by reference to the rate paid to their predecessor or
the wider market. The increase in salary reflects a progression towards market rates based on performance and
development in the role.
2
Mr Dean’s salary reflects the fact that he will be employed by the Company for a short period in 2013 and his salary is in
line with salary benchmark data.
3
The salary shown is for the incumbent Marketing Director, Mark Anderson, who succeeded Andy Hamment in this role on
1 April 2012. In line with the Company’s policy of setting the salaries of new Executive Directors by reference to their
skills and experience on appointment, rather than by reference to the rate paid to their predecessor or the wider market,
Mr Anderson’s salary is below that of his predecessor (which was £255,000 per annum). The Committee anticipates that
Mr Anderson’s salary will continue to progress towards market rates subject to his continued performance and
development in the role.
60 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc
Remuneration report (continued) Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 61
Remuneration report (continued)
1. Introduction 2. Strategic review 3. Performance 4. Governance 5. Group ﬁnancials 6. Company ﬁnancials 7. Five-year review
Annual bonus scheme
The basic mechanism of the Executive Directors’ bonus scheme is the same as that utilised for the Executive Team,
although the quantum of the bonus varies between these groups of employees.
Bonus payments in 2012 were based upon the achievement of sliding scale profit before tax and cash flow targets.
These targets are derived from the annual budgets approved by the Board but adjusted where appropriate to provide
an appropriate degree of “stretch” challenge and an incentive to outperform. Profit and cash are two of the Key
Performance Indicators by which the Group is measured. Please refer to pages 10 and 11 for details. The maximum
bonus for Executive Directors in 2012 was 100% of base salary. The bonus targets set by the Committee were a
maximum of 25% of salary subject to the achievement of a £134.6m profit before tax and loss on fair value
movements on derivatives and amortisation of intangibles arising on acquisition, and a maximum of 75% of salary
subject to achieving an operating cash flow of £168.0m after capitalised development costs, capital expenditure,
purchase of long-term incentive plan shares and taking account of movements in working capital. The actual results
for the year fell short of the agreed targets and consequently no bonuses were paid.
The 100% of salary maximum will continue to be operated for 2013 and structure of the bonus schemes will follow the
same logic as for 2012 with a maximum of 25% of salary being payable for the achievement of an agreed profit
target, and a maximum of 75% being payable for achievement of an agreed operating cash flow target. The relevant
targets are determined by the Remuneration Committee.
A bonus clawback provision was adopted in 2012. The clawback applies to the bonus scheme, LTIP and Executive Share
Option Scheme. The circumstances in which a clawback may be triggered are (i) fraud/willful misconduct resulting in
overpayment of bonus to employees; or (ii) a material error resulting from fraud/willful misconduct in the manner in
which the achievement of the bonus targets have been calculated, which results in overpayments to employees. In
practice, the Committee’s view is, because the majority of the target is linked to operating cash flow, the likelihood of
such an event occurring is remote.
Directors’ Long-Term Incentive Plan and Employee Share Option Plans
The Company operates the following three “live” discretionary share incentive plans which were all approved in 2007:
• the 2007 Long-Term Incentive Plan (“2007 LTIP”);
• the 2007 Company Share Option Plan (“2007 CSOP”); and
• the 2007 Executive Share Option Scheme (“2007 ESOS”).
2007 LTIP
The sole form of equity-based long-term incentive for Executive Directors is the 2007 LTIP . They do not receive awards under
the 2007 CSOP or 2007 ESOS schemes, which provide incentives for less senior employees. Under the 2007 LTIP , conditional
awards of shares are made annually to Executive Directors and selected other senior executives. These awards normally vest
three years after grant, subject to continued employment and the extent to which a performance condition has been met. It is
the opinion of the Committee that the LTIP scheme has helped to motivate senior executives to drive sustained above-market
long-term growth in the Company’s profits and to generate excellent returns for shareholders as a result.
It is the Committee’s normal policy to grant annual LTIP awards to Executive Directors in the form of shares worth 100% of
salary. However, in certain exceptional circumstances the Committee may make awards of up to 150% of salary. This policy
has remained unchanged since 2002, when the Company was a member of the FTSE Small Cap and significantly smaller
and less complex relative to its current market positioning. Whilst the Committee actively avoids making changes to
remuneration levels simply to reflect market rates, it is conscious of the need to ensure that senior executives are paid
fairly relative to the wider market. This is to ensure that the Company is able to retain and recruit executives of an
appropriate calibre to continue to drive the Company’s key objective of achieving above market returns to shareholders
over a sustained period. In this regard, the Committee has agreed, subject to shareholder approval at the forthcoming
Annual General Meeting, to amend the LTIP rules to increase the level of award to the Chief Executive from 100% of
salary p.a. to 125% of salary p.a. The other Executive Directors will continue to receive awards of 100% of salary p.a.
TSR applies to all awards granted under the 2007 LTIP. The Committee contends that the use of relative TSR has a number
of advantages. These include:
• aligning the performance objectives of the Executive Directors more closely with the interests of the shareholders;
• being an entirely objective measure of relative performance;
• reflecting the practice most commonly used by other quoted companies; and
• reducing the complexity and cost of calculating the vesting result.
TSR is one of the Key Performance Indicators by which the Group is measured. Please refer to pages 10 and 11 for details. Detailed structure of TSR performance condition
Under the TSR performance condition, TSR is based upon a comparison of the Company’s average share price (plus
reinvested dividends) during the quarter immediately prior to the start of the measurement period and its average share
price (plus reinvested dividends) during the last quarter of the three year measurement period. The resulting TSR is
compared with that achieved by a representative comparator group of companies. The comparator group for measuring
relative TSR for the awards made in 2012 was as follows:
ARM Holdings Halma QinetiQ Spectris
Babcock International Hampson Industries Renishaw Spirax-Sarco Engineering
BAE Systems Laird Group Rolls-Royce Spirent Communications
Chemring Group Logica Rotork TT Electronics
Cobham Meggitt Senior UMECO
Dialight Oxford Instruments Serco Group Vitec Group
Domino Printing Sciences Psion Smiths Group WS Atkins
The Committee carries out a review of the constituents annually with a view to ensuring that it contains appropriate
peer companies and is of a suitable size (noting that a small group can lead to volatility issues). During 2012, four of
the companies in the comparator group delisted. This year, the Committee concluded that it is difficult to compile a
sufficiently robust set of peers given Ultra’s wide portfolio of specialisms and that it would be preferable to change
the TSR comparator group for future awards to the FTSE 250 (excluding investment trusts). This change will reduce the
level of subjectivity in requiring the comparator group to be reviewed each year, and mitigate issues of volatility which
can arise when using a smaller chosen group.
The vesting rules under the 2007 LTIP are as follows:
Ultra’s rank within the comparator group Percentage of award that vests
Below median 0%
Median 20%
Upper quartile 100%
Between median and upper quartile Pro-rata between 20% and 100%
In addition to the main TSR condition, an EPS growth “underpin” applies to these awards. The purpose of the EPS
underpin is to ensure that, as well as achieving above market returns to shareholders via the primary TSR performance
condition, an appropriate level of profit growth is maintained by the Group. Growth in EPS is one of the Key
Performance Indicators by which the Group is measured. Please refer to pages 10 and 11 for details.
The current underpin is EPS growth of 7% p.a. over the relevant performance period. Whilst the Board continues to
pursue a strong and progressive growth strategy, the Committee considered that current market conditions, inflation
and economic expectations had changed. Consequently it decided to reduce the level of the EPS underpin for future
awards to 5% p.a. growth. The Committee believes that this will ensure that strong financial performance remains a key
focus whilst incentivising executives to drive sustainable growth which is in the long-term interests of the Company and
its shareholders.
In the event that the underpin is not met over a specific three-year LTIP measurement period, the level of vesting will
automatically fall to zero. Headline EPS will be defined as earnings per share after adjustments to exclude gains or
losses on financial instruments and the amortisation of intangibles arising on acquisition. The extent to which awards
vest will be verified independently by a third party.
The 2007 LTIP contains clawback provisions for the overpayment of bonuses as described on page 61.
All-Employee Share Plans
The Executive Directors are also eligible to participate in the Company’s HMRC approved All-Employee Share Ownership
Plan (“AESOP”) and the Savings Related Share Option Scheme on the same terms as other employees.
Under the AESOP, employees in the UK are offered the opportunity to buy shares up to the value of £1,500 per annum from
pre-tax salary. Shares are then held in trust on behalf of employees until the maturity date or until they leave the Company.
Under the Savings Related Share Option Scheme, employees are entitled to save up to £1,200 per annum from net pay
towards the purchase of options to buy Ultra shares after a period of either three or five years, depending upon the
employee’s choice.
62 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc
Remuneration report (continued) Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 63
Remuneration report (continued)
1. Introduction 2. Strategic review 3. Performance 4. Governance 5. Group ﬁnancials 6. Company ﬁnancials 7. Five-year review
Senior Executive share ownership guidelines
To support the alignment of interests between senior executives and shareholders, Executive Directors and the Executive
Team are encouraged, through share ownership guidelines, to retain shares. All Executive Directors are to retain at least
50% of the post-tax shares they acquire on the vesting of LTIP awards until a holding equivalent to 100% of base salary is
achieved. Each member of the Executive Team is to retain at least 50% of the post-tax shares they receive on the vesting
of LTIP awards until a holding of 50% of base salary is achieved. Pre-existing shareholdings will be taken into account.
The shares and options held by the Executive Directors are shown below:
Executive Directors’ shareholdings and options as at 1 March 2013
Direct and LTIPs granted
indirect but not yet Total shares
Name of Director shareholdings vested SAYE options plus options
M. Anderson - 7,273 270 7,543
P. Dean 754 52,606 - 53,360
R. Sharma 41,072 55,805 433 97,310
Total shareholder return performance graph
The graph below shows the TSR performance of the Company in comparison with the FTSE 250 Index over the past five
years. The graph shows the value at the end of 2012 of £100 invested at the start of the evaluation period, in the
Company and in the Index. The Committee considers the FTSE 250 a relevant index for the TSR comparison as the Company
is a member of the index and because together the index members represent a broad range of UK quoted companies.
Total shareholder return – compared to FTSE 250 Index
Source: Datastream
Directors’ service contracts
The Executive Directors’ service contracts have a notice period of one year, which the Committee considers appropriately
reflects both current market practice and the balance between the interests of the Company and each Executive Director.
In the event of early termination, it is the Committee’s policy that the amount of compensation paid to Executive Directors
will be considered in the light of all the relevant circumstances, subject to the overriding conditions that:
• the Committee’s aim will be to avoid rewarding poor performance;
• the duty of the relevant Executive Director to mitigate his loss will be taken into account; and
• no compensation payment can normally exceed one year’s salary and benefits.
The following table provides more information on each Director’s service contract:
Name Date of contract Notice period
M. Anderson 1 April 2012 12 months
P. Dean 1 January 2009 12 months
A. Hamment
1
1 July 2000 12 months
R. Sharma 21 April 2011 12 months
1
Andy Hamment retired on 30 March 2012
No Executive Directors have provisions in their contracts for compensation on early termination other than for the
notice period.
40
100
80
60
120
160
140
31 December 07 31 December 08 31 December 09 31 December 10 31 December 11 31 December 12
Ultra Electronics FTSE Mid 250 Index
Value (£) Non-Executive Directors’ remuneration
The Chairman’s remuneration is set by the Committee which meets without him for this purpose and to review his
performance. The remaining Non-Executive Directors’ fees are set by a committee comprising the Executive Directors. In
all cases, the fee levels are based upon published salary surveys, taking account of individual responsibilities and the
time commitments demanded by the roles. Chris Bailey was Chairman of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations
Committees during 2012 and received additional fees as a result.
Non-Executive Directors’ fees have been reviewed for 2013 with reference to data regarding fee levels currently earned by
the directors of similar companies, selected on the basis of size. It has been determined that the Non-Executive Directors’
fees for 2013 will be:
2013 Fees 2012 Fees
£’000 £’000
Base fee
Chairman 187.5 182.0
Non-Executive Directors 46.4 45.0
Supplements
Chairman of the Audit Committee 5.7 5.5
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 5.7 5.5
Service contracts
Details of service contracts for Non-Executive Directors are as follows:
Name Date of contract Notice period
C. Bailey 31 January 2013 Nil
M. Broadhurst
1
2 July 2012 Nil
D. Caster 21 April 2012 Nil
I. Griffiths
1
1 May 2011 Nil
Sir Robert Walmsley 31 January 2013 Nil
1
Martin Broadhurst replaced Ian Griffiths on the 2 July 2012
• The Non-Executive Directors have fixed twelve-month contracts with no notice period.
• There are no provisions in their contracts for compensation on early termination.
Directors’ pension entitlements
The Group operates a defined benefit pension scheme for Rakesh Sharma. Mark Anderson and Paul Dean joined Ultra after
the defined benefit scheme was closed to new entrants. They are eligible to participate in a defined contribution scheme.
Under the defined benefit scheme, a pension equal to two-thirds of salary at retirement is provided at the normal
retirement age of 63 years. Where pensionable service is less than 20 years, the pension is calculated at one-thirtieth of
the retirement salary for each year of service. With the Group’s consent, Executive Directors may retire from age 55. After
age 58, Group consent to early retirement is not required. In the event of early retirement, the pension is reduced
following an actuarial adjustment. In the event of death-in-service, a spouse’s pension of 33% of pensionable earnings is
payable, together with an allowance for dependent children up to a maximum of 33% of pensionable earnings where
relevant. On the death of a retired Executive Director, a spouse’s pension of 50% of the Executive Director’s pension is
payable. Once the pension is in payment, the part of the Executive Director’s pension above the Guaranteed Minimum
Pension will be increased each year in line with the increase in the retail price index, capped at 7.5% for service prior to
1 April 2008 and at 5% thereafter, above which increases are at the Trustees’ and the Group’s discretion.
Life Assurance Scheme
All Executive Directors are eligible to participate in the life assurance scheme. Directors can elect for death-in-service cover in
a range from one to six times annual earnings.
64 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc
Remuneration report (continued) Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 65
Remuneration report (continued)
1. Introduction 2. Strategic review 3. Performance 4. Governance 5. Group ﬁnancials 6. Company ﬁnancials 7. Five-year review
AUDITED INFORMATION
Directors’ pension benefits earned
The table below sets out the pension benefits earned by Executive Directors for the year ended 31 December 2012:
Accrued Increase Transfer Accrued Transfer Movement
benefit at in period value of benefit value at Transfer in transfer
Age at beginning (net of increase at end beginning value at end value during
year-end of year indexation) in year of year of year of year year*
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
A. Hamment** 58 130 3 84 133 2,349 2,975 621
R. Sharma 51 56 6 86 65 799 965 130
*Less Directors’ contributions.
**Retired in March 2012.
Paul Dean and Mark Anderson participate in the Group Personal Pension Plan, a defined contribution scheme. Employer
contributions for the year for Mark Anderson were £13,905 (2011: nil) and for Paul Dean were: £12,962 (2011: £52,200). An
additional amount of £44,222 was paid to Paul Dean in the form of a cash supplement.
Directors’ remuneration
Directors’ emoluments are detailed below:
Annual
Basic Other cash performance 2012 2011
salary emoluments Fees bonus Benefits Total Total
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
M. Anderson
1
135 8-- 2 145 -
C. Bailey -- 56 -- 56 53
M. Broadhurst
2
-- 23 -- 23 -
D. Caster -- 182 - 11 193 258
P. Dean
3
305 44 -- 22 371 534
I. Griffiths
4
-- 23 -- 23 43
A. Hamment
5
64 3-- 1 68 444
R. Sharma 420 40 -- 21 481 664
Sir Robert Walmsley -- 45 -- 45 43
924 95 329 - 57 1,405 2,039
1
The 2012 total reflects the period from 1 April 2012 (date of appointment) to 31 December 2012.
2
The 2012 total reflects the period from 2 July 2012 (date of appointment) to 31 December 2012.
3
In addition, in 2012 Paul Dean received fees of £12,500 for his service as a Non-Executive Director of Porvair plc.
4
The 2012 total reflects the period from 1 January 2012 to 2 July 2012 (date of resignation).
5
The 2012 total reflects the period from 1 January 2012 to 30 March 2012 (date of retirement). There were no special
termination arrangements. In addition, in 2012 Andy Hamment received fees of £39,250 for his service as a Non-Executive
Director of Senior plc.
Pension contributions to Directors of £120,231 (2011: £161,521) were paid by the Company, including £81,060 (2011: £62,584)
in respect of the highest paid Director. Other benefits of Executive Directors comprise a car (or allowance), provision of fuel
and insurances for life, personal accident and family medical cover. Non-Executive Directors are not eligible for pension
scheme membership and do not participate in any of the Group’s bonus or other incentive plans. Directors’ interests under Long-Term Incentive Plans
Details of the Directors’ interests in these arrangements are given below:
Interests under the Ultra Electronics Long-Term Incentive Plan 2007
Market Crystallising
price dates of
of shares outstanding
M. Anderson D. Caster A. Hamment
1
P . Dean R. Sharma granted awards
2009 award - 33,522 15,276 21,217 12,284 £11.78 March 2012
2010 award - 22,816 15,556 18,322 14,658 £14.46 March 2013
2011 award - 15,923 13,859 16,395 16,513 £16.96 March 2014
Interests at 1 January 2012 - 72,261 44,691 55,934 43,455
2009 award lapsed during
the year - (33,522) (15,276) (21,217) (12,284)
2012 award 7,273 -- 17,889 24,634 £17.05 March 2015
Interests at 31 December 2012 7,273 38,739 29,415 52,606 55,805
1
Andy Hamment’s LTIP awards will vest at the normal time and subject to the defined performance conditions.
Andy Hamment did not receive an LTIP award for 2012.
All of the outstanding awards are subject to comparative TSR-based performance conditions materially identical to those
described earlier. During the year, the Group purchased no shares relating to the 2012 award (2011: 24,700 shares).
Consequently, no Ultra shares were purchased for the Directors (2011: £261,598).
The 2009 award crystallised during the year as detailed above. The actual date of the award was 16 March 2009. The market
price of the shares when granted was £11.78. The market price of the shares on vesting was £17.69. The aggregate gain
made by the Directors under the LTIP during the year was £nil (2011: £751,196). Ultra’s share price on 31 December 2012 was
£16.64. The range during 2012 was £14.41 to £17.71.
Directors’ interests under the All-Employee Share Ownership Plan
As previously described, the Company operates an All-Employee Share Ownership Plan (“AESOP”) in which the Executive
Directors are eligible to participate. Details of the Executive Directors’ interests in this arrangement are given below:
Partnership
shares
Interests as Interests as acquired from
at 1 January Shares acquired at 31 December 1 January 2013 Interests as at
Name of Director 2012 during year 2012 to 1 March 2013 1 March 2013
P. Dean 313 102 415 23 438
A. Hamment
1
2,312 31 2,343 - 2,343
R. Sharma 2,312 149 2,461 23 2,484
1
The interests as at 31 December 2012 and interests as at 1 March 2013 reflect the period from 1 January 2012 to
30 March 2012 (date of retirement).
Mark Anderson was not a participant in the AESOP during 2012.
During the year, the Share Ownership Plan Trust, established and operated in connection with the AESOP, purchased
31,215 (2011: 34,267) Ultra Electronics Holdings plc. shares, with a nominal value of £1,560 (2011: £1,713) for £507,304
(2011: £556,850).
Directors’ interests
Details of Directors’ shareholdings are given below:
At start of year At end of year At 1 March 2013
Direct Indirect Direct Indirect Direct
ownership ownership ownership ownership ownership
M. Anderson -- -- -
C. Bailey - 2,500 - 2,500 -
M. Broadhurst -- -- -
D. Caster 117,666 633,522 117,666 633,522 117,666
P. Dean 313 - 415 - 754
R. Sharma 5,252 35,002 5,401 35,648 5,424
Sir R. Walmsley 1,600 - 1,600 - 1,600
There were no changes in indirect ownership between 1 January 2013 and 1 March 2013.
This report was approved by the Board of Directors on 1 March 2013 and signed on its behalf by:
Chris Bailey, Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
66 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc
Remuneration report (continued) Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 67
Directors’ report
1. Introduction 2. Strategic review 3. Performance 4. Governance 5. Group ﬁnancials 6. Company ﬁnancials 7. Five-year review
Directors’ report
For the year ended 31 December 2012
The Directors present their annual report on the affairs of the Group, together with the accounts and independent
auditor’s report, for the year ended 31 December 2012. Details in relation to health and safety, the environment, business
ethics and employment practices are included in the Making a difference section on page 35 and the Sustainability
section on pages 38 and 39. The Corporate Governance statement on pages 47 to 57 forms part of this report.
Principal activity
Ultra Electronics Holdings plc is the Group holding company and the Company is incorporated in the United Kingdom
under the Companies Act 2006. The principal activities of its subsidiary undertakings are the design, development,
manufacture and support of electronic systems for the international defence, security, transport and energy markets.
Business review
The Company is required to set out in this report a fair review of the business of the Group during the financial year
ended 31 December 2012 and of the position of the Group at the end of that financial year, together with a description
of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group. The information that satisfies these requirements can be found
in the following sections: Ultra’s performance in 2012 on pages 24 to 34; and management of risks and uncertainties
and corporate responsibility on pages 40 to 43.
Results and dividends
Group results and dividends are as follows:
2012
£’000
Balance on retained earnings, beginning of year 220,149
Total comprehensive income for the year 57,127
Dividends: 2011 final paid of 26.8p per share (18,466)
2012 interim paid of 12.2p per share (8,411)
Equity-settled employee share schemes 2,346
Balance on retained earnings, end of year 252,745
The final 2012 dividend of 27.8p per share is proposed to be paid on 3 May 2013 to shareholders on the register at
12 April 2013. The interim dividend was paid on 21 September 2012, making a total of 40.0p (2011: 38.5p) per share
paid in the year.
Future developments
A review of the activities and future developments of the Group is contained in the Chief Executive’s report on pages 6
to 23.
Research and development
The Directors are committed to maintaining a significant level of research and development expenditure in order to
expand the Group’s range of proprietary products. During the year a total of £147.1 million (2011: £127.2 million) was
spent on engineering development of which £97.9 million (2011: £85.8 million) was funded by customers and £49.2 million
(2011: £41.4 million) by the Group.
Purchase of own shares
During the year the Company purchased no (2011: 24,700) ordinary shares and no (2011: 48,193) ordinary shares were
distributed following vesting of awards under the Ultra Electronics Long-Term Incentive Plan. At 31 December 2012,
the Group held 235,245 ordinary shares under the Ultra Electronics Long-Term Incentive Plan (representing 0.3% of the
ordinary shares in issue as at 31 December 2012).
Employment policy
It is the policy of Ultra to create a working environment in which there is no discrimination and all employment decisions are
based entirely on merit and the ability of people to perform their intended roles. Ultra aims to continue to build a workforce
which is recruited from the widest possible talent pool.
Directors and their interests
The Directors who served throughout the year and to the date of signing these financial statements, and their interests
in the shares and share options of the Company at 1 March 2013 are listed on pages 65 and 66. Directors’ indemnities
The Company has made qualifying third party indemnity provisions for the benefit of its Directors which were made
during the year and remain in force at the date of this report.
Substantial shareholdings
As at 1 March 2013, the Company had been notified, in accordance with Chapter 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency
rules, of the following voting rights as shareholders of the company:
Percentage
of ordinary Number of 5p Date of
Nature of holding share capital ordinary shares announcement
Schroders plc Indirect 6.5 4,501,053 22 January 2007
Ameriprise Financial Inc Direct & indirect 5.2 3,583,955 4 May 2010
Artemis Investment Management LLP Direct 4.99 3,460,241 28 January 2013
BlackRock Inc Indirect 4.2 2,910,296 15 April 2010
Norges Bank Direct 4.05 2,802,233 10 August 2012
Charitable and political contributions
The Group contributed £40,000 (2011: £58,000) to charities and made no contributions for political purposes in the year.
Supplier payment policy
Individual operating businesses are responsible for agreeing the terms and conditions under which they conduct business
transactions with their suppliers. It is Group policy that payments to suppliers are made in accordance with those terms,
provided that the supplier is also complying with all relevant terms and conditions. Trade payable days of the Group for
the year ended 31 December 2012 were 50 days (2011: 63 days) based on the ratio of Group trade payables at the end of
the year to the amounts invoiced during the year by suppliers. At the year end the Company had trade payables of
£108,000 (2011: nil).
Contractual arrangements
The Group contracts with a large number of customers in order to sell its wide portfolio of specialist offerings to a broad
range of customers around the world. The Group’s largest customers are the US Department of Defense and UK Ministry
of Defence. Contracts placed with these customers are on a wide range of separate contracts placed by different Ultra
businesses through different project offices and project teams.
The Group also contracts with numerous suppliers across the world and manages these arrangements to ensure that it is
not over-dependent on a single supplier. This is normally achieved through the dual sourcing of specialist components.
Capital structure
Details of the authorised and issued share capital, together with details of the movements in the Company’s issued share
capital during the year are shown in note 27. The Company has one class of ordinary shares which carry no right to fixed
income. Each share carries the right to one vote at general meetings of the Company.
There are no specific restrictions either on the size of a holding or on the transfer of shares, which are both governed by
the general provisions of the Articles of Association and prevailing legislation.
Details of employee share schemes are set out in note 27. No person has any special rights of control over the Company’s
share capital and all issued shares are fully paid.
With regard to the appointment and replacement of Directors, the Company is governed by its Articles of Association, the
UK Corporate Governance Code, the Companies Acts and related legislation. The Articles themselves may be amended by
special resolution of the shareholders. The powers of Directors are described in the ‘Matters to be reserved to the Board’
which is available from the Investors section of the Group website.
Annual General Meeting
The next Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held on 26 April 2013 at 417 Bridport Road, Greenford,
Middlesex UB6 8UA at 10.00am. A separate circular providing details of the Annual General Meeting has been sent to
shareholders with this annual report.
68 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc
Directors’ report (continued) Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 69
Director’s report (continued)
1. Introduction 2. Strategic review 3. Performance 4. Governance 5. Group ﬁnancials 6. Company ﬁnancials 7. Five-year review
Auditor
Each of the Directors at the date of approval of this report confirms that:
(1) So far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Company’s auditor is unaware; and
(2) The Director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a Director to make himself aware of any relevant
audit information and to establish that the Company’s auditor is aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of Section 418 of The Companies
Act 2006.
By order of the Board,
Sharon Harris, Company Secretary & General Counsel
1 March 2013
Registered Office: 417 Bridport Road, Greenford, Middlesex UB6 8UA Registered Number: 02830397 ?? Ultra Electronics Holdings plc
Independent auditor’s report – Group
To the members of Ultra Electronics Holdings plc
We have audited the Group financial statements of Ultra Electronics Holdings plc for the year ended 31 December 2012 which
comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated
Balance Sheet, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity and the related notes
1 to 35, and the Statement of Accounting Policies. The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their
preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union.
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies
Act 2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company’s members those matters we are
required to state to them in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do
not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Company’s members as a body, for our
audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditors
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the
Group financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit and express
an opinion on the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing (UK
and Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s (APB’s) Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give
reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s circumstances and have
been consistently applied and adequately disclosed; the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the
Directors; and the overall presentation of the financial statements. In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial
information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements. If we become
aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on financial statements
In our opinion the Group financial statements:
• give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s affairs as at 31 December 2012 and of its profit for the year then ended;
• have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union; and
• have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Opinion on other matter prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion the information given in the Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the Group financial statements
are prepared is consistent with the Group financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following:
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
• certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or
• we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review:
• the Directors’ statement contained within the Corporate Governance statement in relation to going concern;
• the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the
UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review; and
• certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on Directors’ remuneration.
Other matter
We have reported separately on the Parent Company financial statements of Ultra Electronics Holdings plc for the year ended
31 December 2012 and on the information in the Directors’ Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
Kerr Mitchell, Senior Statutory Auditor
for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor
Reading, United Kingdom
1 March 2013
Notes: An audit does not provide assurance on the maintenance
and integrity of the website, including controls used to achieve
this, and in particular on whether any changes may have occurred
to the financial statements since first published. These matters are
the responsibility of the Directors but no control procedures can
provide absolute assurance in this area.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and
dissemination of financial statements differs from legislation in
other jurisdictions.
70 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc
Independent auditor’s report – Group Ultra Electronics Holdings plc ??
Group highlights
For the year ended 31 December 2012
2012 2011 Change
£’000 £’000 %
Revenue 760,826 731,733 4.0
Underlying operating profit* 122,244 122,116 0.1
Operating profit 88,671 99,215 (10.6)
Underlying profit before tax* 115,566 114,901 0.6
Profit before tax 82,806 91,179 (9.2)
2012 2011 Change
pence pence %
Underlying earnings per share* 124.5 120.2 3.6
Basic earnings per share 91.5 96.2 (4.9)
Dividend per share 40.0 38.5 3.9
* Ultra uses underlying figures as key performance indicators. Underlying figures are stated before amortisation charges
relating to acquired intangibles, adjustments to deferred consideration net of acquisition costs, unwinding of discounts
on provisions and the revaluation of financial instruments based on their fair values. A reconciliation between operating
profit and underlying operating profit, and from profit before tax and underlying profit before tax is shown in note 2 to
the accounts. A reconciliation for basic earnings per share and underlying earnings per share is shown in note 12.
Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 71
Group highlights
1. Introduction 2. Strategic review 3. Performance 4. Governance 5. Group ﬁnancials 6. Company ﬁnancials 7. Five-year review 2012 2011
Note £’000 £’000
Profit for the year 63,566 66,164
Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations (12,803) 2,719
Gain on net investment hedges 4,044 289
Actuarial loss on defined benefit pension schemes (6,097) (8,312)
Loss on cash flow hedges - (84)
Transfer from profit and loss on cash flow hedges - 1,702
Tax relating to components of other comprehensive income 10 (33) 98
Other comprehensive income for the year (14,889) (3,588)
Total comprehensive income for the year 28 48,677 62,576
Attributable to:
Owners of the Company 48,368 62,296
Non-controlling interests 309 280
The accompanying notes are an integral part of this consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
Consolidated statement
of comprehensive income
For the year ended 31 December 2012
Consolidated income statement
For the year ended 31 December 2012
2012 2011
Note £’000 £’000
Continuing operations
Revenue 3 760,826 731,733
Cost of sales (534,622) (514,944)
Gross profit 226,204 216,789
Other operating income 4 2,008 2,037
Distribution costs (1,264) (1,141)
Administrative expenses (140,109) (116,653)
Share of profit from associate 16 3,487 2,793
Other operating expenses 5 (1,655) (4,610)
Operating profit 6 88,671 99,215
Investment revenue 8 1,583 296
Finance costs 9 (7,448) (8,332)
Profit before tax 82,806 91,179
Tax 10 (19,240) (25,015)
Profit for the year from continuing operations 63,566 66,164
Attributable to:
Owners of the Company 63,257 65,884
Non-controlling interests 309 280
Earnings per ordinary share (pence)
From continuing operations
Basic 12 91.5 96.2
Diluted 12 91.2 95.8
The accompanying notes are an integral part of this consolidated income statement.
72 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc
Consolidated income statement/Consolidated statement of comprehensive income Consolidated balance sheet
31 December 2012
2012 2011
Note £’000 £’000
Non-current assets
Goodwill 13 291,824 278,125
Other intangible assets 14 139,160 140,333
Property, plant and equipment 15 57,756 48,587
Interest in associate 16 8,989 6,610
Deferred tax assets 25 1,138 11,911
Derivative financial instruments 23 3,152 1,948
Trade and other receivables 19 4,133 -
506,152 487,514
Current assets
Inventories 17 52,185 47,672
Trade and other receivables 19 201,039 197,071
Cash and cash equivalents 30,840 41,051
Derivative financial instruments 23 2,454 2,746
286,518 288,540
Total assets 792,670 776,054
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 20 (242,858) (235,709)
Tax liabilities (13,428) (19,721)
Derivative financial instruments 23 (490) (263)
Obligations under finance leases 21 (37) (63)
Borrowings 22 (27,544) (78,912)
Short-term provisions 26 (22,474) (14,457)
(306,831) (349,125)
Non-current liabilities
Retirement benefit obligations 31 (83,096) (82,871)
Other payables 20 (20,987) (27,861)
Deferred tax liabilities 25 (7,079) (11,942)
Derivative financial instruments 23 (99) (804)
Obligations under finance leases 21 (50) (76)
Borrowings 22 (46,209) (8,148)
Long-term provisions 26 (14,094) (10,059)
(171,614) (141,761)
Total liabilities (478,445) (490,886)
Net assets 314,225 285,168
Equity
Share capital 27 3,470 3,449
Share premium account 28 48,752 43,862
Own shares 28 (2,581) (2,581)
Hedging reserve 28 (9,979) (14,023)
Translation reserve 28 21,119 33,898
Retained earnings 28 252,745 220,149
Total equity attributable to equity holders of the company 313,526 284,754
Non-controlling interest 699 414
Total equity 314,225 285,168
The financial statements of Ultra Electronics Holdings plc, registered number 02830397, were approved by the Board of
Directors and authorised for issue on 1 March 2013.
On behalf of the Board
R. Sharma, Chief Executive
P . Dean, Finance Director
The accompanying notes are an integral part of this consolidated balance sheet.
Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 73
Consolidated balance sheet
1. Introduction 2. Strategic review 3. Performance 4. Governance 5. Group ﬁnancials 6. Company ﬁnancials 7. Five-year review Consolidated cash flow statement
For the year ended 31 December 2012
2012 2011
Note £’000 £’000
Net cash flow from operating activities 29 83,737 115,413
Investing activities
Interest received 193 296
Dividends received from equity accounted investments 765 -
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (20,470) (12,099)
Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment 67 -
Expenditure on product development and other intangibles (4,659) (3,055)
Acquisition of subsidiary undertakings (including acquisition costs) 32 (42,398) (146,180)
Net cash acquired with subsidiary undertakings 32 5,445 4,033
Net cash used in investing activities (61,057) (157,005)
Financing activities
Issue of share capital 4,911 2,741
Purchase of Long-Term Incentive Plan shares - (422)
Dividends paid (26,877) (24,469)
Funding from government loans 1,298 1,621
Loan syndication costs (722) (771)
(Decrease)/increase in borrowings (10,145) 35,776
Decrease in loan to associate 577 1,948
Minority investment - 134
Repayment of obligations under finance leases (52) (173)
Net cash generated (used in)/from financing activities (31,010) 16,385
Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents (8,330) (25,207)
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 41,051 68,129
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes (1,881) (1,871)
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 30,840 41,051
The accompanying notes are an integral part of this consolidated cash flow statement.
74 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc
Consolidated cash ﬂow statement Consolidated statement of changes in equity
For the year ended 31 December 2012
Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent
Share Non
Share premium Reserve for Hedging Translation Retained controlling
capital account own shares reserve reserve earnings interest Total equity
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Balance at 1 January 2012 3,449 43,862 (2,581) (14,023)33,898 220,149 414 285,168
Profit for the year -- --- 63,257 309 63,566
Other comprehensive
income for the year -- - 4,044 (12,779) (6,130) (24) (14,889)
Total comprehensive
income for the year -- - 4,044 (12,779) 57,127 285 48,677
Own shares acquired -- ---- - -
Disposal of own shares -- ---- - -
Equity-settled employee
share schemes 21 4,890 -- - 1,974 - 6,885
Dividend to shareholders -- --- (26,877)- (26,877)
Tax on share-based
payment transactions -- --- 372 - 372
Balance at 31 December 2012 3,470 48,752 (2,581) (9,979) 21,119 252,745 699 314,225
Balance at 1 January 2011 3,436 41,134 (2,653) (15,930)31,179 185,969 -243,135
Profit for the year -- --- 65,884 280 66,164
Other comprehensive
income for the year -- - 1,907 2,719 (8,214)- (3,588)
Total comprehensive
income for the year -- - 1,907 2,719 57,670 280 62,576
Own shares acquired -- (422) -- -- (422)
Disposal of own shares -- 494 -- (494)- -
Equity-settled employee
share schemes 13 2,728 -- - 1,974 - 4,715
Non-controlling interest’s
investment made in
subsidiary -- ---- 134 134
Dividend to shareholders -- --- (24,469)- (24,469)
Tax on share-based
payment transactions -- --- (501)- (501)
Balance at 31 December 2011 3,449 43,862 (2,581) (14,023) 33,898 220,149 414 285,168
Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 75
Consolidated statement of changes in equity
1. Introduction 2. Strategic review 3. Performance 4. Governance 5. Group ﬁnancials 6. Company ﬁnancials 7. Five-year review Notes to accounts – Group
31 December 2012
1 Segment information
For management purposes, the Group is organised into three operating segments – Aircraft & Vehicle Systems, Information
& Power Systems and Tactical & Sonar Systems. These segments are consistent with the internal reporting as reviewed by
the Chief Executive Officer. Each segment includes businesses with similar operating and market characteristics.
2012 2011
External Inter External Inter
revenue segment Total revenue segment Total
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Revenue
Aircraft & Vehicle Systems 147,017 18,440 165,457 166,061 21,201 187,262
Information & Power Systems 315,835 13,815 329,650 257,012 18,388 275,400
Tactical & Sonar Systems 297,974 20,261 318,235 308,660 19,703 328,363
Eliminations - (52,516) (52,516) - (59,292) (59,292)
Consolidated revenue 760,826 - 760,826 731,733 - 731,733
All inter-segment trading is at arms’ length.
2012
Aircraft Information Tactical
& Vehicle & Power & Sonar
Systems Systems Systems Total
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Underlying operating profit 30,798 45,048 46,398 122,244
Amortisation of intangibles arising
on acquisition (3,571) (14,005) (14,503) (32,079)
Adjustments to deferred consideration net of acquisition costs (315) (518) (661) (1,494)
Operating profit 26,912 30,525 31,234 88,671
Investment revenue 1,583
Finance costs (7,448)
Profit before tax 82,806
Tax (19,240)
Profit after tax 63,566
2011
Aircraft Information Tactical
& Vehicle & Power & Sonar
Systems Systems Systems Total
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Underlying operating profit 31,140 30,517 60,459 122,116
Amortisation of intangibles arising
on acquisition (4,168) (8,270) (10,695) (23,133)
Adjustments to deferred consideration net of acquisition costs 1,559 (371) (956) 232
Operating profit 28,531 21,876 48,808 99,215
Investment revenue 296
Finance costs (8,332)
Profit before tax 91,179
Tax (25,015)
Profit after tax 66,164
76 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc
Notes to accounts – Group 1 Segment information (continued)
Capital expenditure, additions to intangibles, depreciation and amortisation
Capital expenditure and
additions to intangibles Depreciation
(excluding goodwill) and amortisation
2012 2011 2012 2011
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Aircraft & Vehicle Systems 7,511 2,991 6,784 10,673
Information & Power Systems 7,088 4,739 18,770 12,278
Tactical & Sonar Systems 10,530 7,424 20,570 15,620
Total 25,129 15,154 46,124 38,571
The 2012 depreciation and amortisation expense includes £35,242,000 of amortisation charges (2011: £29,431,000) and
£10,882,000 of property, plant and equipment depreciation charges (2011: £9,140,000).
Total assets by segment
2012 2011
£’000 £’000
Aircraft & Vehicle Systems 146,872 137,340
Information & Power Systems 296,411 311,576
Tactical & Sonar Systems 311,803 269,482
755,086 718,398
Unallocated 37,584 57,656
Consolidated total assets 792,670 776,054
Unallocated assets represent deferred tax assets, derivatives at fair value and cash and cash equivalents.
Total liabilities by segment
2012 2011
£’000 £’000
Aircraft & Vehicle Systems 42,594 49,572
Information & Power Systems 121,273 113,620
Tactical & Sonar Systems 139,547 126,713
303,414 289,905
Unallocated 175,031 200,981
Consolidated total liabilities 478,445 490,886
Unallocated liabilities represent derivatives at fair value, tax payables, deferred tax liabilities, retirement benefit
obligations, bank loans and loan notes.
Revenue by destination
The following table provides an analysis of the Group’s sales by geographical market.
2012 2011
£’000 £’000
United Kingdom 225,671 215,227
Continental Europe 55,769 67,882
Canada 19,038 22,123
USA 349,145 333,266
Rest of World 111,203 93,235
760,826 731,733
During the year there was one direct customer (2011: one), that individually accounted for greater than 10% of the
Group’s total turnover. Sales to this customer in 2012 were £189.3m (2011: £178m) across all segments.
Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 77
Notes to accounts – Group (continued)
1. Introduction 2. Strategic review 3. Performance 4. Governance 5. Group ﬁnancials 6. Company ﬁnancials 7. Five-year review 1 Segment information (continued)
Other information (by geographic location)
Additions to Property,
Plant & Equipment
and intangible assets
(excluding
Non current assets Total assets acquisitions)
2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
United Kingdom 200,453 134,649 339,855 252,530 16,404 7,791
USA 216,746 273,768 292,022 345,790 4,227 5,429
Canada 55,831 40,081 71,191 56,613 2,795 1,321
Rest of World 28,831 25,157 69,477 63,465 1,703 613
501,861 473,655 772,545 718,398 25,129 15,154
Unallocated 4,291 13,859 20,125 57,656 - -
506,152 487,514 792,670 776,054 25,129 15,154
2 Additional performance measures
To present the underlying profitability of the Group on a consistent basis year-on-year, additional performance indicators
have been used. These are calculated as follows:
2012 2011
£’000 £’000
Operating profit 88,671 99,215
Amortisation of intangibles arising on acquisition 32,079 23,133
Adjustments to contingent consideration net of acquisition costs 1,494 (232)
Underlying operating profit 122,244 122,116
Profit before tax 82,806 91,179
Amortisation of intangibles arising on acquisition 32,079 23,133
Adjustments to contingent consideration net of acquisition costs 1,494 (232)
Unwinding of discount on provisions (see note 26) 577 -
(Profit)/loss on fair value movements on derivatives (1,390) 821
Underlying profit before tax 115,566 114,901
Cash generated by operations (see note 29) 113,881 149,318
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (20,470) (12,099)
Proceeds on disposal of property, plant and equipment 67 -
Expenditure on product development and
other intangibles (4,659) (3,055)
Dividend from equity accounted investment 765 -
Purchase of Long-Term Incentive Plan shares - (422)
Operating cash flow 89,584 133,742
Underlying operating profit has been shown before acquisition related costs and the amortisation of intangible assets arising
on acquisitions. To maintain a consistent presentation of financial performance over the longer term, these charges have been
excluded from underlying operating profit. Underlying profit before tax and underlying earnings per share (see note 12) are
also presented before these adjustments.
78 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc
Notes to accounts – Group (continued) 2 Additional performance measures (continued)
IAS 37 requires the Group to discount provisions using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects the current assessment of the
time value of money and the risks specific to the liability. The liability relates to acquisition deferred consideration,
therefore, to maintain a consistent presentation of financial performance over the longer term underlying profit before
tax and underlying earnings per share (see note 12) are stated before the unwinding of discount on the provision.
IAS 39 requires the Group to ‘fair value’ the derivative instruments used to manage Ultra’s foreign exchange exposures. This
creates volatility in the valuation of the outstanding instruments as exchange rates move over time. This will have minimal
impact on profit over the full term of the instruments, but can cause significant volatility on particular balance sheet dates.
Headline profit before tax and headline earnings per share (see note 12) are stated before changes in the valuation of
foreign currency derivative instruments.
The Group is cash-generative and reinvests funds to support the continuing growth of the business. It seeks to use an
accurate and appropriate measure of the funds generated internally while sustaining this growth. For this, Ultra uses
operating cash flow, rather than cash generated by operations, as its preferred indicator of cash generated and
available to cover non-operating expenses such as tax and interest payments. The Group believes that using cash
generated by operations, with the exclusion of net expenditure on property, plant and equipment and outflows for
capitalised product development and other intangibles, would result in an under-reporting of the true cash cost of
sustaining a growing business.
3 Revenue
An analysis of the Group’s revenue is as follows:
2012 2011
£’000 £’000
Sales of goods 343,981 355,102
Revenue from long term contracts 416,845 376,631
760,826 731,733
4 Other operating income
Amounts included in other operating income were as follows:
2012 2011
£’000 £’000
Foreign exchange gains 2,008 2,037
2,008 2,037
5 Other operating expenses
Amounts included in other operating expenses were as follows:
2012 2011
£’000 £’000
Amortisation of development costs 830 4,572
Foreign exchange losses 825 38
1,655 4,610
Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 79
Notes to accounts – Group (continued)
1. Introduction 2. Strategic review 3. Performance 4. Governance 5. Group ﬁnancials 6. Company ﬁnancials 7. Five-year review 6 Operating profit
Operating profit is stated after charging/(crediting):
2012 2011
£’000 £’000
Raw materials and other bought in inventories expensed in the year 233,279 268,914
Inventories written down and recognised as an expense in the year 3,516 3,954
Reversals of write-downs of inventory (196) (68)
Staff costs (see note 7) 226,995 212,292
Depreciation and amounts written off property, plant and equipment 10,882 9,140
Amortisation of internally generated intangible assets 830 4,572
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets (including other intangibles) 34,412 24,859
Government grant income (see note 24) (2,628) (4,872)
Net foreign exchange loss/(gain) 1,905 (627)
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 137 61
Operating lease rentals
– plant and machinery 1,398 1,283
– other 9,481 7,900
Research and development costs 48,597 40,549
Auditor’s remuneration for statutory audit work (including expenses) 685 592
The Company only audit fee included in the Group audit fee shown above was £20,000 (2011: £20,000).
Analysis of auditor’s remuneration
2012 2011
£’000 £’000
Fees payable for the audit of the annual accounts 166 157
Fees payable for the audit of subsidiaries 519 435
Total for statutory Group audit services 685 592
Analysis of non-audit services:
Audit related services - 10
Tax compliance 5 3
Other tax advisory services 14 49
Corporate finance services 50 192
Other services 125 24
Total for non-audit services 194 278
7 Staff costs
Particulars of employees (including executive Directors) are shown below.
Employee costs during the year amounted to:
2012 2011
£’000 £’000
Wages and salaries 197,098 183,294
Social security costs 18,573 17,741
Pension costs 11,324 11,257
226,995 212,292
The average monthly number of persons employed by the Group during the year was as follows:
2012 2011
Number Number
Production 1,616 1,553
Engineering 1,781 1,764
Selling 308 267
Support services 725 622
4,430 4,206
Information on Directors’ remuneration is given in the section of the Remuneration Report described as having been audited
and those elements required by the Companies Act 2006 and the Financial Services Authority form part of these accounts.
80 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc
Notes to accounts – Group (continued) 8 Investment revenue
2012 2011
£’000 £’000
Bank interest 193 296
Fair value movement on derivatives 1,390 -
1,583 296
9 Finance costs
2012 2011
£’000 £’000
Amortisation of finance costs of debt 591 670
Interest payable on bank loans, overdrafts and other loans 4,943 3,137
Interest payable on finance leases 1 1
Transfers to equity on cash flow hedges - 1,702
Total borrowing costs 5,535 5,510
Retirement benefit scheme finance cost 1,336 2,001
Unwinding of discount on provisions 577 -
Fair value movement on derivatives - 821
7,448 8,332
10 Tax
2012 2011
£’000 £’000
UK taxes
Corporation tax 12,854 14,216
Adjustment in respect of prior years 169 (492)
13,023 13,724
Overseas taxes
Current taxation 10,043 16,878
Adjustment in respect of prior years (138) (288)
9,905 16,590
Total current tax 22,928 30,314
Deferred tax
Origination and reversal of temporary differences
UK deferred tax 679 (1,469)
Overseas deferred tax (4,367) (3,830)
Total deferred tax credit (3,688) (5,299)
Total tax charge 19,240 25,015
Corporation tax in the UK is calculated at 24.5% (2011: 26.5%) of the estimated assessable profit for the year.
Taxation for the other jurisdictions is calculated at the rates prevailing in the respective jurisdictions.
In addition to the amount charged to the income statement, the following amounts relating to tax have been recognised
directly in other comprehensive income:
2012 2011
£’000 £’000
Current tax
Net investment hedges 77 (329)
Deferred tax
Arising on income and expenses recognised in other comprehensive income:
Actuarial loss on defined benefit pension schemes (110) 832
Revaluation of interest rate swaps - (405)
Total income tax (charge)/credit recognised directly in other comprehensive income (33) 98
Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 81
Notes to accounts – Group (continued)
1. Introduction 2. Strategic review 3. Performance 4. Governance 5. Group ﬁnancials 6. Company ﬁnancials 7. Five-year review 10 Tax (continued)
In addition to the amount charged to the income statement and other comprehensive income, the following amounts
relating to tax have been recognised directly in equity:
2012 2011
£’000 £’000
Current tax
Excess tax deductions related to share based payments on exercised options 263 296
Deferred tax
Change in estimated excess tax deductions related to share-based payments 109 (797)
Total income tax recognised directly in equity 372 (501)
The difference between the total current tax shown above and the amount calculated by applying the standard rate
of UK corporation tax to the profit before tax is as follows:
2012 2011
£’000 £’000
Group profit before tax 82,806 91,179
Tax on Group profit at standard UK corporation tax rate of 24.5% (2011: 26.5%) 20,287 24,162
Tax effects of:
Income/expenses that are not taxable/allowable in determining taxable profits (1,451) (1,157)
Tax effect of utilisation of tax losses not previously recognised (248) (169)
Different tax rates of subsidiaries operating in other jurisdictions 877 1,526
Adjustments in respect of prior years (225) 653
Tax expense for the year 19,240 25,015
11 Dividends
Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders in the year:
2012 2011
£’000 £’000
Final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2011 of 26.8p (2010: 24.0p) per share 18,466 16,446
Interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2012 of 12.2p (2011: 11.7p) per share 8,411 8,023
26,877 24,469
Proposed final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2012 of 27.8p (2011: 26.8p) per share 19,230 18,424
The 2012 proposed final dividend of 27.8p per share is proposed to be paid on 3 May 2013 to shareholders on the
register at 12 April 2013. It was approved by the Board after 31 December 2012 and has not been included as a liability
as at 31 December 2012.
Under UK tax law, no withholding tax is required to be deducted from dividends paid by Ultra Electronics Holdings plc.
Subject to certain exceptions for traders in securities and insurance companies, a corporate shareholder resident in the
United Kingdom for tax purposes will generally not be subject to corporation tax on dividends received from Ultra.
Individual shareholders resident in the UK for tax purposes are generally liable to income tax on the aggregate amount of any
dividend received from Ultra and a tax credit equal to 10% of the gross dividend (or one ninth of the cash dividend received).
The tax credit can be set against the individual shareholder’s total liability to income tax on the cash dividend. Non-UK resident
shareholders may be subject to tax on dividends received from Ultra under any law to which they are subject outside the UK.
82 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc
Notes to accounts – Group (continued) 12 Earnings per share
2012 2011
pence pence
Basic underlying (see below) 124.5 120.2
Diluted underlying (see below) 124.1 119.8
Basic 91.5 96.2
Diluted 91.2 95.8
The calculation of the basic, underlying and diluted earnings per share is based on the following data:
2012 2011
£’000 £’000
Earnings
Earnings for the purposes of basic earnings per share being profit for the year
from continuing operations 63,257 66,164
Underlying earnings
Profit for the year from continuing operations 63,257 66,164
(Profit)/loss on fair value movements on derivatives (net of tax) (1,155) 524
Amortisation of intangibles arising on acquisition (net of tax) 22,266 15,896
Unwinding of discount on provisions (net of tax) 436 -
Acquisition-related costs net of contingent consideration (net of tax) 1,273 129
Earnings for the purposes of underlying earnings per share 86,077 82,713
The adjustments to profit are explained in note 2.
2012 2011
Number of Number of
shares shares
The weighted average number of shares is given below:
Number of shares used for basic earnings per share 69,165,099 68,809,084
Effect of dilutive potential ordinary shares – share options 215,138 261,857
Number of shares used for fully diluted earnings per share 69,380,237 69,070,941
2012 2011
£’000 £’000
13 Goodwill
2012 2011
£’000 £’000
Cost
At 1 January 278,125 221,761
Exchange differences (6,416) 1,744
Recognised on acquisition of subsidiaries 19,478 57,485
Reclassifications 372 -
Other changes 265 (2,865)
At 31 December 291,824 278,125
Accumulated impairment losses
At 1 January and 31 December - -
Carrying amount at 31 December 291,824 278,125
Other changes and reclassifications in 2012 relate to adjustments made relating to the re-assessment of initial fair values.
Other changes in 2011 relate to purchase price adjustments and changes relating to the re-assessment of initial fair values.
Underlying profit before tax 115,566 114,901
Tax rate applied for the purposes of underlying earnings per share 25.25% 28.0%
Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 83
Notes to accounts – Group (continued)
1. Introduction 2. Strategic review 3. Performance 4. Governance 5. Group ﬁnancials 6. Company ﬁnancials 7. Five-year review 13 Goodwill (continued)
Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated, at acquisition, to the Cash-Generating Units (CGUs) that are
expected to benefit from that business combination. These consist of the Group’s operating businesses. Goodwill has been
allocated to CGUs as set out below:
2012 2011
£’000 £’000
Blue Sky Group 7,496 7,839
Precision Air & Land Systems 10,317 10,317
Adaptive Materials Inc 6,375 6,666
Other 13,074 13,074
Aircraft & Vehicle Systems 37,262 37,896
Airport Systems 27,996 28,077
Command & Control Systems 14,015 14,015
NSPI 10,752 11,996
ProLogic 47,176 49,258
RFI 2,355 -
SOTECH 8,844 8,372
Other 11,458 11,458
Information & Power Systems 122,596 123,176
3eTI 11,366 11,887
AEP
†
24,640 17,135
GigaSat 9,544 -
Maritime Systems 9,331 10,067
Tactical Communication Systems 36,435 37,214
UnderSea Sensor Systems Inc 18,342 18,533
Criticom 7,870 8,230
Other 14,438 13,987
Tactical & Sonar Systems 131,966 117,053
Total – Ultra Electronics 291,824 278,125
†
Increase is due to the BeMac acquisition during 2012.
The recoverable amounts of CGUs are determined from value-in-use calculations. In determining the value-in-use for each
CGU, the Group prepares cash flows derived from the most recent financial budgets and strategic plans, representing the
best estimate of future performance. These plans, which have been approved by the Board, include detailed financial
forecasts and market analysis covering the expected development of each CGU over the next five years. The cash flows for
the following ten years are also included and assume a growth rate of 2.5% per annum. Cash flows beyond that period
are not included in the value-in-use calculation.
The key assumptions used in the value-in-use calculations are those regarding the discount rate, future revenues, growth
rates and forecast gross margins. Management estimates the discount rate using pre-tax rates that reflect current market
assessments of the time value of money and risks specific to the Group, being the Weighted Average Cost of Capital
(WACC). The WACC is then risk-adjusted to reflect risks specific to each business. The pre-tax discount rate used during
2012 varied between 12.3% and 16.0% (2011: 12.3% to 13.3%). Future revenues are based on orders already received,
opportunities that are known and expected at the time of setting the budget and strategic plans and future growth rates.
Budget and strategic plan growth rates are based on a combination of historic experience, available government spending
data and management and industry expectations of the growth rates that are expected to apply in the major markets in
which each CGU operates. Longer-term growth rates, applied for the ten year period after the end of the strategic planning
period, are set at 2.5%. Ultra considers the long-term growth rate to be appropriate for the sectors in which it operates.
Forecast gross margins reflect past experience, factor in expected efficiencies to counter inflationary pressures, and also
reflect likely margins achievable in the shorter-term period of greater defence spending uncertainty.
Within each of the strategic plans a number of assumptions are made about business growth opportunities, contract wins,
product development and available markets. A key assumption is that there will be continued demand for Ultra’s products
and expertise from a number of US government agencies and prime contractors during the strategic plan period.
Sensitivity analysis has been performed on the value-in-use calculations to:
(i) reduce the post-2017 growth assumption from 2.5% to nil.
(ii) apply a 10% reduction to forecast operating profits in each year of the modelled cash inflows.
(iii) consider specific market factors as noted above.
84 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc
Notes to accounts – Group (continued) 13 Goodwill (continued)
Certain of these sensitivity scenarios give rise to potential impairments at ProLogic, Adaptive Materials Inc and Criticom.
Headroom for these businesses, which represents the value derived from the key growth assumptions in the value-in-use
calculations, is as follows: ProLogic £10.9m, Adaptive Materials Inc £39.0m and Criticom £1.0m. Sensitivity assumptions (i)
and (ii) would result in a headroom shortfall at Criticom only of £0.3m and £0.4m respectively. Sensitivity (iii) is particularly
relevant for ProLogic and Adaptive Materials Inc and accordingly if assumption (ii) was extended further, a 12% reduction
to forecast operating profits in each year of the modelled cash inflows for ProLogic, and a 71% reduction for Adaptive
Materials Inc, representing a key programme, would indicate an impairment.
For all other CGUs, the value-in-use calculations comfortably exceed the CGU carrying values in the sensitivity scenarios.
14 Other intangible assets
Internally
generated
capitalised
Customer Intellectual Profit in Other development Other
relationships property order book acquired costs intangibles Total
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Cost
At 1 January 2011 87,972 38,786 19,363 784 15,868 13,775 176,548
Foreign exchange differences 1,393 822 210 39 90 102 2,656
Acquired on acquistion of
subsidiary undertakings 49,993 26,375 2,938 323 - 503 80,132
Additions -- -- 868 2,187 3,055
At 1 January 2012 139,358 65,983 22,511 1,146 16,826 16,567 262,391
Foreign exchange differences (4,956) (1,824) (835) (145) (284) (405) (8,449)
Acquired on acquistion of
subsidiary undertakings 22,884 9,061 860 694 - 148 33,647
Additions -- -- 597 4,062 4,659
Reclassifications -- -- - (372) (372)
Disposals -- -- - (525) (525)
At 31 December 2012 157,286 73,220 22,536 1,695 17,139 19,475 291,351
Accumulated amortisation
At 1 January 2011 (41,085) (14,719) (18,517) (37) (8,409) (8,482) (91,249)
Foreign exchange differences (754) (306) (176) (13) (74) (55) (1,378)
Charge (15,211) (5,429) (2,072) (421) (4,572) (1,726) (29,431)
At 1 January 2012 (57,050) (20,454) (20,765) (471) (13,055) (10,263) (122,058)
Foreign exchange differences 2,344 848 795 118 250 241 4,596
Disposals -- -- - 513 513
Charge (20,690) (8,664) (2,432) (293) (830) (2,333) (35,242)
At 31 December 2012 (75,396) (28,270) (22,402) (646) (13,635) (11,842) (152,191)
Carrying amount
At 31 December 2012 81,890 44,950 134 1,049 3,504 7,633 139,160
At 31 December 2011 82,308 45,529 1,746 675 3,771 6,304 140,333
Other represents software, patents and trademarks. The amortisation of intangible assets charge is included within
administrative expenses.
Intangible assets, other than goodwill, are amortised over their estimated useful lives, typically as follows:
Intellectual property 5 to 10 years
Customer relationships 5 to 16 years
Development costs 2 to 10 years
Software 3 to 5 years
Patents and trademarks 10 to 20 years
Profit in acquired order book 1 to 3 years
Acquired intangibles
Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 85
Notes to accounts – Group (continued)
1. Introduction 2. Strategic review 3. Performance 4. Governance 5. Group ﬁnancials 6. Company ﬁnancials 7. Five-year review 15 Property, plant and equipment
Short Plant and
Freehold leasehold machinery Total
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Cost
At 1 January 2011 19,733 12,818 83,935 116,486
Foreign exchange differences 1 208 297 506
Acquisitions - 234 515 749
Additions 652 1,619 9,828 12,099
Disposals - (180) (3,426) (3,606)
At 1 January 2012 20,386 14,699 91,149 126,234
Foreign exchange differences (361) (352) (1,867) (2,580)
Acquisitions - 180 1,060 1,240
Additions 7,920 6,395 6,155 20,470
Disposals - (1,128) (7,335) (8,463)
At 31 December 2012 27,945 19,794 89,162 136,901
Accumulated Depreciation
At 1 January 2011 (3,269) (6,233) (61,630) (71,132)
Foreign exchange differences 21 (52) (411) (442)
Charge (585) (1,086) (7,469) (9,140)
Disposals - 136 2,931 3,067
At 1 January 2012 (3,833) (7,235) (66,579) (77,647)
Foreign exchange differences 77 147 1,012 1,236
Charge (874) (2,145) (7,863) (10,882)
Disposals - 1,115 7,033 8,148
At 31 December 2012 (4,630) (8,118) (66,397) (79,145)
Carrying amount
At 31 December 2012 23,315 11,676 22,765 57,756
At 31 December 2011 16,553 7,464 24,570 48,587
Freehold land amounting to £3,502,000 (2011: £2,452,000) has not been depreciated. The net book value of plant and
machinery held under finance leases was £107,000 (2011: £158,000). Depreciation charged in the year on assets held
under finance leases was £52,000 (2011: £46,000). Included within Land and Buildings is £5,137,000 (2011: £nil) of assets
in the course of construction which will start to be depreciated during 2013.
Land and Buildings
86 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc
Notes to accounts – Group (continued) 16 Interest in associate
2012 2011
£’000 £’000
The value of the Group’s investment is made up as follows:
Total assets 14,069 59,340
Total liabilities (5,080) (52,730)
Interest in associate 8,989 6,610
2012 2011
£’000 £’000
Total revenue of associate 38,859 56,334
Group’s share of profit recognised 3,487 2,793
The Group’s interest in associate is represented by its 49% shareholding in Al Shaheen Adventure LLC, a Company
incorporated in the UAE. The 2012 assets and liabilities of the associate are presented with a netting of appropriate
contract related balances. For 2011 these were presented on a gross basis.
17 Inventories
2012 2011
£’000 £’000
Raw materials and consumables 32,850 30,045
Work in progress 11,621 10,053
Finished goods and goods for resale 7,714 7,574
52,185 47,672
18 Long-term contract balances
2012 2011
£’000 £’000
Contracts in progress at the balance sheet date:
Amounts due from contract customers included in trade and other receivables 87,727 53,027
Amounts due to contract customers included in trade and other payables (107,953) (102,070)
(20,226) (49,043)
Contract costs incurred plus recognised profits less recognised losses to date 1,270,263 1,133,641
Advances received from customers for contract work amounted to £76,519,000 (2011: £77,103,000).
19 Trade and other receivables
2012 2011
Non-current £’000 £’000
Trade receivables 4,133 -
4,133 -
2012 2011
Current £’000 £’000
Trade receivables 96,355 124,654
Provisions against receivables (1,445) (1,743)
Net trade receivables 94,910 122,911
Amounts due from contract customers (note 18) 87,727 53,027
Other receivables 11,402 14,609
Prepayments and accrued income 7,000 6,524
201,039 197,071
Trade receivables do not carry interest. The average credit period on sale of goods is 34 days (2011: 42 days).
The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other receivables approximates to their fair value.
Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 87
Notes to accounts – Group (continued)
1. Introduction 2. Strategic review 3. Performance 4. Governance 5. Group ﬁnancials 6. Company ﬁnancials 7. Five-year review 19 Trade and other receivables (continued)
The ageing profile of unprovided overdue debtors was as follows:
Related Related
2012 provision Total 2011 provision Total
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
1 to 3 months 18,510 (451) 18,059 15,090 (850) 14,240
4 to 6 months 2,886 (306) 2,580 3,388 (585) 2,803
7 to 9 months 670 (405) 265 294 (174) 120
Over 9 months 907 (283) 624 134 (134)-
Total overdue 22,973 (1,445) 21,528 18,906 (1,743) 17,163
The Group provides against its trade receivables where there are serious doubts as to future recoverability based on prior
experience, on assessment of the current economic climate and on the length of time that the receivable has been
overdue. All trade receivables that have been overdue for more than a year are provided for in full.
Movement in the provision for trade receivables was as follows:
2012 2011
£’000 £’000
Balance at beginning of year 1,743 961
Foreign exchange differences (12) 1
Increase in provision for trade receivables regarded as potentially uncollectable 412 1,278
Decrease in provision for trade receivables recovered during the year (698) (497)
Balance at end of year 1,445 1,743
Credit risk
Credit risk is defined as the risk that a counterparty will default on its contractual obligations resulting in financial loss
to the Group. The Group mitigates this risk of financial loss by only dealing with creditworthy counterparties.
The credit risk on liquid funds and derivative financial instruments is limited because the counterparties are banks with
high credit ratings assigned by international credit rating agencies.
Whilst the Group has elements of concentration of credit risk, with exposure to a number of largecounter parties and
customers, the customers are mainly government agencies or multi-national organisations with whom the Group has long
term business relationships. The Group has a small number of customers with individually significant amounts outstanding.
These customers are considered to have low credit risk. Ongoing credit evaluation is performed on the financial
condition of accounts receivable and when appropriate action is taken to minimise the Group’s credit risk.
The carrying amount of financial assets recorded in the financial statements (see note 23) net of any allowances for
losses represents the Group’s maximum exposure to credit risk.
20 Trade and other payables
2012 2011
£’000 £’000
Amounts included in current liabilities:
Trade payables 75,773 76,565
Amounts due to contract customers (note 18) 96,620 82,656
Other payables 22,943 31,160
Accruals and deferred income 47,522 45,328
242,858 235,709
Amounts included in non current liabilities:
Amounts due to contract customers (note 18) 11,333 19,414
Other payables 5,578 5,986
Accruals and deferred income 4,076 2,461
20,987 27,861
The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other payables approximates to their fair value.
88 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc
Notes to accounts – Group (continued) 21 Finance leases
Minimum lease payments
2012 2011
£’000 £’000
Amounts payable under finance leases:
Within one year 41 63
Between one and five years 57 77
98 140
Less: future finance charges (11) (1)
Present value of finance lease liabilities 87 139
Present value of finance lease liabilities – payments due:
Within one year 37 63
Between one and five years 50 76
87 139
22 Borrowings
2012 2011
£’000 £’000
Bank loans are payable as follows:
Less than one year 29,186 80,202
29,186 80,202
Less: unamortised finance costs of debt (1,642) (1,290)
27,544 78,912
Amounts due after more than one year:
Unsecured loan notes 43,295 6,468
Loans from government 2,914 1,680
46,209 8,148
Total borrowings:
Amount due for settlement within 12 months 27,544 78,912
Amount due for settlement after 12 months 46,209 8,148
73,753 87,060
Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 89
Notes to accounts – Group (continued)
1. Introduction 2. Strategic review 3. Performance 4. Governance 5. Group ﬁnancials 6. Company ﬁnancials 7. Five-year review 23 Financial instruments and financial risk management
Derivative financial instruments
Exposure to currency and interest rate risks arises in the normal course of the Group’s business. Derivative financial
instruments are used to hedge exposure to all significant fluctuations in foreign exchange rates and interest rates.
Fair value measurements recognised in the balance sheet
The following table provides an analysis of financial instruments that are measured subsequent to initial recognition
at fair value, grouped into Levels 1 to 3 based on the degree to which the fair value is observable:
• Level 1 fair value measurements are those derived from quoted (unadjusted) active markets for identical assets
or liabilities;
• Level 2 fair value measurements are those derived from inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that
are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (i.e as prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices); and
• Level 3 fair value measurements are those derived from valuation techniques that includes inputs for the asset or
liability that are not based on observable market data (unobservable inputs).
All of Ultra’s financial instruments have been assessed as Level 2.
Fair value measurements recognised in the balance sheet
2012
Level 2 Total
£’000 £’000
Financial assets at fair value
Foreign exchange derivative financial instruments (through profit and loss) 5,606 5,606
Financial liabilities at fair value
Foreign exchange derivative financial instruments (through profit and loss) 589 589
2011
Level 2 Total
£’000 £’000
Financial assets at fair value
Foreign exchange derivative financial instruments (through profit and loss) 4,694 4,694
Financial liabilities at fair value
Foreign exchange derivative financial instruments (through profit and loss) 1,067 1,067
Current assets/(liability) Non-current assets/(liability)
2012 2011 2012 2011
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Financial assets/(liabilities) carried at fair value
through profit or loss
Foreign exchange currency liabilities (490) (263) (99) (804)
Foreign exchange currency assets 2,454 2,746 3,152 1,948
Financial assets
The financial assets of the Group were as follows:
2012 2011
£’000 £’000
Cash and cash equivalents 30,840 41,051
Currency derivatives used for hedging 5,606 4,694
Amounts due from contract customers 87,727 53,027
Other receivables 11,402 14,609
Receivables 99,043 122,911
The Directors consider that the carrying amount for all financial assets approximates to their fair value.
90 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc
Notes to accounts – Group (continued) 23 Financial instruments and financial risk management (continued)
Financial liabilities
The financial liabilities of the Group were as follows:
2012 2011
£’000 £’000
Currency derivatives used for hedging 589 1,067
Other financial liabilities:
Bank loans and overdrafts 27,544 78,912
Loan notes 43,295 6,468
Finance leases 87 139
Government loans 2,914 1,680
Trade payables 75,773 76,565
Amounts due to contract customers 107,953 102,070
Deferred consideration 24,911 12,178
Accruals 31,380 28,838
The Directors consider that the carrying amount for all financial liabilities approximates to their fair value.
Liquidity risk
The Group maintains committed banking facilities with core banks to provide prudent levels of borrowing headroom.
The Group’s banking facilities are provided by a small group of banks, led by The Royal Bank of Scotland. During the year
there were two facilities in place; one, which was replaced in 2011, provides £90 million of revolving credit and expires in
January 2016 and a second which was put in place in 2010, providing a further £120 million of revolving credit which
expires in September 2013. Both facilities are denominated in Sterling, US dollars, Canadian dollars, Australian dollars and
Euros and are used for balance sheet and operational needs. A further £15 million overdraft is available for short-term
working capital funding.
On 13 January 2013 the £120 million facility was replaced by a £100 million facility which expires in December 2017.
All bank loans are unsecured. Interest was predominantly charged at 1.50% (2011: 1.50%) over base or contracted rate.
At 31 December 2012, the Group had available £180,815,000 (2011: £129,798,000) of undrawn, committed borrowing facilities.
The Group is strongly cash-generative and the funds generated by operating companies are managed regionally to fund
short-term local working capital requirements. Where additional funding is required, this is provided centrally through the
Group’s committed banking facilities.
The Group, through its Canadian subsidiary Ultra Electronics Tactical Communication Systems (UETCS), participates in two
Canadian programmes that provide government support in relation to the development of certain of its products. Further
disclosure is provided in note 24.
In July 2011 the Group negotiated a private shelf agreement with Prudential Investment Management, Inc. which allows the
Group to issue loan notes up to a value of $150 million. Loan notes can be issued up until 3 January 2014 and with a maturity
date of up to 10 years. $10 million of loan notes were issued in 2011 with a maturity date of July 2018, a further $60 million of
loan notes were issued in January 2012 with a maturity date of January 2019. Consequently as at 31 December 2012 $80 million
remained available under the shelf agreement.
Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 91
Notes to accounts – Group (continued)
1. Introduction 2. Strategic review 3. Performance 4. Governance 5. Group ﬁnancials 6. Company ﬁnancials 7. Five-year review 23 Financial instruments and financial risk management (continued)
The following table details the Group’s remaining contractual maturity for its financial liabilities:
Within 1 to 2 to Over
1 year 2 years 5 years 5 years Total
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
2012
Bank loans and overdrafts 29,752 -- - 29,752
Loan notes 1,559 1,559 4,678 44,822 52,618
Government loans -- - 2,914 2,914
Finance leases 41 34 23 - 98
Trade payables 75,773 -- - 75,773
Currency derivatives used for hedging 490 96 3- 589
Deferred consideration 13,721 11,190 -- 24,911
Accruals 27,304 2,197 1,508 371 31,380
2011
Bank loans and overdrafts 81,636 -- - 81,636
Loan notes 265 265 794 6,872 8,196
Government loans -- - 1,680 1,680
Finance leases 63 43 34 - 140
Trade payables 76,565 -- - 76,565
Currency derivatives used for hedging 263 804 -- 1,067
Deferred consideration 6,509 5,217 452 - 12,178
Accruals 26,377 865 1,043 553 28,838
Capital risk management
The Group manages its capital to ensure that entities in the Group will be able to continue as going concerns while
maximising the return to stakeholders through the optimisation of the debt and equity balance. The capital structure of
the Group consists of debt, which includes the borrowings disclosed in Note 22 to the Accounts, cash and cash equivalents
and equity attributable to equity holders of the parent, comprising issued capital, reserves and retained earnings as
disclosed in the Group Statement of Changes in Equity.
The Group is not subject to externally imposed capital requirements.
Currency risk
The Group uses currency derivatives in the form of forward currency contracts to hedge its foreign currency transaction risk.
The currencies giving rise to this risk are primarily US dollars and Canadian dollars.
At 31 December 2012, the net fair value of the Group’s currency derivatives is estimated to be an asset of approximately
£5,017,000 (2011: £3,627,000), comprising £5,606,000 assets (2011: £4,694,000) and £589,000 liabilities (2011: £1,067,000).
The gain on derivative financial instruments included in the Group’s consolidated income statement for the period was
£1,390,000 (2011: loss of £821,000).
The net notional, or net contracted amounts of foreign currency related forward sales contracts, classified by year of
maturity are shown below.
Not Between
exceeding 1 year and Over
1 year 5 years 5 years Total
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
2012
US dollars/Sterling 49,749 52,995 - 102,744
US dollars/Canadian dollars 20,620 -- 20,620
Canadian dollars/Sterling 5,693 1,582 - 7,275
Euro/other currencies 3,834 3,684 5,175 12,693
Total 79,896 58,261 5,175 143,332
2011
US dollars/Sterling 39,046 71,102 - 110,148
US dollars/Canadian dollars 21,829 -- 21,829
Canadian dollars/Sterling 2,095 3,148 - 5,243
Euro/other currencies 8,263 7,876 5,176 21,315
Total 71,233 82,126 5,176 158,535
92 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc
Notes to accounts – Group (continued) 23 Financial instruments and financial risk management (continued)
Net investment hedges
At the year end the Group had net investments in US companies where the associated foreign currency translation risk is
hedged by external borrowings in US dollars. The value of the borrowings does not exceed the net investments, meeting
the conditions required to qualify as effective hedges.
Interest rate risk
The Group has $70 million of long term fixed rate debt with an interest rate of 3.60%. This was entered into to
achieve an appropriate mix of fixed and floating rate exposure reflecting the Group’s policy. During the prior year the
Group used interest rate swaps to manage its exposure to interest rate movements on its borrowings. The swaps matured
in December 2011 and had fixed swap rates, including the bank margin, ranging from 4.40% to 4.78%. The interest rate
swaps were designated effective cash flow hedges and the change in fair value was charged to equity. The amount recycled
from the income statement during the year was £nil. £1,702,000 was charged to interest cost in the prior year.
The effective interest rates and repricing dates of the Group’s financial assets and liabilities were as follows:
Effective Within
interest Total 1 year 1 to 2 years 2 to 5 years 5+ years
rate £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
2012
Cash and cash equivalents 0.36% 30,840 30,840 -- -
Loan notes 3.60% 43,295 -- - 43,295
Unsecured bank loans 1.94% 27,544 27,544 -- -
Government loans 4.43% 2,914 -- - 2,914
Finance lease liabilities 4.89% 87 37 30 20 -
2011
Cash and cash equivalents 0.10% 41,051 41,051 -- -
Loan notes 4.09% 6,468 -- - 6,468
Unsecured bank loans:
US dollar loan 1.79% 78,912 78,912 -- -
Government loans 4.43% 1,680 -- - 1,680
Finance lease liabilities 4.89% 139 63 42 34 -
Market risk sensitivity analysis
Currency risks
The Group has estimated the change to the income statement and equity of a 10% and 25% strengthening or weakening
of average actual and transactional currency rates applicable during the year and a 10% and 25% change in the foreign
exchange rates applicable for valuing foreign exchange derivative instruments.
Profit Profit Profit Profit
before before before before
tax Equity tax Equity tax Equity tax Equity
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
2012
Transaction 6,343 6,343 (6,343) (6,343) 15,858 15,858 (15,858) (15,858)
P&L translation 1,866 1,857 (1,866) (1,857) 4,665 4,643 (4,665) (4,643)
Foreign exchange
derivatives (8,125) (8,125) 8,953 8,953 (22,261) (22,261) 17,723 17,723
Total foreign exchange 84 75 744 753 (1,738) (1,760) (2,800) (2,778)
2011
Transaction 7,511 7,511 (7,511) (7,511) 18,777 18,777 (18,777) (18,777)
P&L translation 1,866 3,419 (1,866) (3,419) 4,664 8,546 (4,664) (8,546)
Foreign exchange
derivatives (8,480) (8,480) 7,302 7,302 (23,837) (23,837) 16,548 16,548
Total foreign exchange 897 2,450 (2,075) (3,628) (396) 3,486 (6,893) (10,775)
25% weakening 25% strengthening 10% weakening 10% strengthening
Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 93
Notes to accounts – Group (continued)
1. Introduction 2. Strategic review 3. Performance 4. Governance 5. Group ﬁnancials 6. Company ﬁnancials 7. Five-year review 23 Financial instruments and financial risk management (continued)
Interest rate risk
During 2012 the Group’s borrowings were predominantly at fixed interest rates, consequently the income statement is not
particularly sensitive to a small change in interest rates. The Group has estimated the change to the income statement of a
1% increase in market interest rates, from the average rates applicable during 2012. There is no significant difference
between the amount recharged to the income statement and equity in the year.
Profit
before tax
£’000
2012
Interest rate sensitivity (386)
2011
Interest rate sensitivity 117
24 Government grants and loans
The Group through its Canadian subsidiary Ultra Electronics Tactical Communication Systems (UETCS) participates in two
Canadian programmes that provide government support in relation to the development of certain of its products.
Under the Strategic Aerospace and Defence Initiative (SADI), the Canadian Federal Government provides a long-term
funding arrangement in respect of certain eligible research and development project costs. Under this arrangement, up to
$32m will be provided and reimbursed at favourable rates of interest over the period 2016 - 2030. The benefit of the
below market rate of interest has been calculated as the difference between the proceeds received and the fair value of
the loan and has been credited to profit in the year. The fair value of the loan has been calculated using a market interest
rate for a similar instrument applicable at the time the agreement was signed.
UETCS also participates in the Investissement Quebec (IQ) research and development programme, whereby IQ shares in the
cost of research and development of certain specified new products. Under this arrangement IQ will finance up to $14m of
eligible costs associated with these specified projects. This funding is repayable under a royalty arrangement over the
period 2014 - 2021 if these products are successfully brought to market. Royalties only become payable when sales of these
products are made. As there is no minimum repayment, funding received in respect of the IQ programme has been
included in the income statement.
Amounts recognised in the financial statements in respect of these programmes were as follows:
2012 2011
£’000 £’000
Fair value of SADI loan brought forward 1,680 -
Contributions 970 1,593
Interest charged to finance costs 327 87
Foreign exchange differences (63) -
Fair value of SADI loan carried forward 2,914 1,680
Government grants credited to profit in the year
2012 2011
£’000 £’000
SADI 1,841 3,432
IQ 787 1,440
2,628 4,872
1% change
94 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc
Notes to accounts – Group (continued) 25 Deferred tax
The following are the major deferred tax liabilities and assets recognised by the Group and movements thereon during
the current and prior reporting period.
Employee
Accelerated* share Retirement
tax options benefit
depreciation costs Derivatives obligations Goodwill Other Total
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
At 1 January 2011 (11,622) 1,889 (806) 21,247 (7,947) 1,525 4,286
Credit/(charge) to income 4,728 (494) 253 (1,016) (1,465) 3,179 5,185
Reclassification (856) --- 856 --
Credit/(charge) to other
comprehensive income -- (405) 2,191 -- 1,786
Charge direct to equity - (776) --- - (776)
Exchange differences 97 -- - (15) 52 134
Effect of change in tax rate
– income statement 286 (21) 43 (190)2 (5) 115
– other comprehensive income -- - (1,359)- - (1,359)
– equity - (21) --- - (21)
Arising on acquisition (10,245) --- - 864 (9,381)
At 1 January 2012 (17,612) 577 (915) 20,873 (8,569) 5,615 (31)
Credit/(charge) to income 5,405 (41) (306) (1,414) (398) (68) 3,178
Reclassification from tax liabilities -- -- - (2,583) (2,583)
Credit/(charge) to other
comprehensive income -- - 1,388 -- 1,388
Charge direct to equity - 113 -- -- 113
Exchange differences 309 -- - 119 (189) 239
Effect of change in tax rate
– income statement 663 (21) 71 (122)8 (89) 510
– other comprehensive income -- - (1,498)- - (1,498)
– equity - (4) --- - (4)
Arising on acquisition (7,417) --- - 164 (7,253)
At 31 December 2012 (18,652) 624 (1,150) 19,227 (8,840) 2,850 (5,941)
2012 2011
£’000 £’000
Non current assets 1,138 11,911
Non current liabilities (7,079) (11,942)
(5,941) (31)
*Relates to property, plant and equipment and intangible assets.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset where the Group has a legally enforceable right to do so.
The Group has not recognised deferred tax assets of £3.40 million (2011: £2.99 million) relating to tax losses, due to
uncertainty as to their recoverability. There are no temporary differences which arise in respect of undistributed earnings.
The main rate of UK corporation tax will reduce from 25% to 23% from 1 April 2013. The lower rate of 23% has been used
to calculate the deferred tax balances at 31 December 2012 as this rate reduction was enacted before the balance sheet date.
The UK government has also announced its intention to reduce the main rate of corporation tax by 2% per annum to
21% by 1 April 2014. This further proposed rate reduction has not been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance
sheet date and are therefore not included in the financial statements.
The main estimated impact on the balance sheet of the 2% annual reduction will be to reduce the deferred tax asset in
respect of retirement benefit obligations by approximately £1.6m.
Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 95
Notes to accounts – Group (continued)
1. Introduction 2. Strategic review 3. Performance 4. Governance 5. Group ﬁnancials 6. Company ﬁnancials 7. Five-year review 26 Provisions
Contract
related
Warranties provisions Total
£’000 £’000 £’000
At 1 January 2012 8,650 15,866 24,516
Created 1,934 21,087 23,021
Reversed (493) (5,205) (5,698)
Utilised (1,330) (4,270) (5,600)
Unwinding of discount - 577 577
Exchange differences (80) (168) (248)
At 31 December 2012 8,681 27,887 36,568
Included in current liabilities 5,393 17,081 22,474
Included in non-current liabilities 3,288 10,806 14,094
8,681 27,887 36,568
Warranty and contract-related provisions will be utilised over the period as stated in the contract to which each
specific provision relates. Other provisions such as for dilapidations will be payable at the end of the contracted life
which is up to fifteen years. Provisions for warranty costs are based on an assessment of future claims with reference
to past experience. Such costs are generally incurred within two years after delivery.
27 Share capital and share options
2012 2011
No. £’000 No. £’000
Authorised:
5p ordinary shares 90,000,000 4,500 90,000,000 4,500
Allotted, called-up and fully paid:
5p ordinary shares 69,403,659 3,470 68,976,915 3,449
426,744 ordinary shares having a nominal value of £21,337 were allotted during the year under the terms of the Group’s
various Share Option Schemes. The aggregate consideration received was £4,911,265.
Share options
During the year to 31 December 2012, the Group operated the following equity-settled share option schemes:
1. Savings-Related Share Option Schemes
A Savings-Related Share Option Scheme is open to all US employees and provides for a purchase price equal to the
average of the daily average market price on the five days before the grant less 10%. The vesting period is two years.
If the options remain unexercised after a period of three months from the date of maturity, the options expire.
Options are forfeited if the employee leaves the Group before the options vest.
A Savings-Related Share Option Scheme is open to all Canadian employees and provides for a purchase price equal to
the daily average market price on the five days before the grant less 10%. The vesting period is three years. If the
options remain unexercised after a period of six months from the date of maturity, the options expire. Options are
forfeited if the employee leaves the Group before the options vest.
A Savings-Related Share Option Scheme is open to all Abu Dhabi employees and provides for a purchase price equal to
the daily average market price on the day before the grant less 10%. The vesting period is three years. If the options
remain unexercised after a period of six months from the date of maturity, the options expire. Options are forfeited if
the employee leaves the Group before the options vest.
A Savings-Related Share Option Scheme is open to all UK employees and provides for a purchase price equal to the
daily average market price on the day before grant less 10%. The vesting periods are three and five years. If the
options remain unexercised after a period of six months from the date of maturity, the options expire. Options are
forfeited if the employee leaves the Group before the options vest.
At 31 December 2012, share options outstanding under the Savings Related Share Option Schemes were as follows:
Number of shares Option Exercise
Options granted 2012 2011 price (£) dates
2012 – US scheme 36,729 - 13.79 September 2014 - December 2014
2011 – US scheme 89,035 93,081 12.72 September 2013 - December 2013
2010 – US scheme - 26,564 14.62 September 2012 - December 2012
96 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc
Notes to accounts – Group (continued) 27 Share capital and share options (continued)
1. Savings Related Share Option Schemes (continued)
Number of shares Option Exercise
Options granted 2012 2011 price (£) dates
2012 – Canadian scheme 38,357 - 13.79 September 2015 - March 2016
2011 – Canadian scheme 3,798 4,530 12.72 September 2014 - March 2015
2010 – Canadian scheme 5,781 6,955 14.62 September 2013 - March 2014
2009 – Canadian scheme 38,749 50,049 11.27 September 2012 - March 2013
2009 – Abu Dhabi scheme 909 909 11.48 December 2012 - June 2013
2007 – UK 5 year scheme 16,472 106,326 10.39 December 2012 - June 2013
2008 – UK 3 year scheme - 2,834 12.00 December 2011 - June 2012
2008 – UK 5 year scheme 11,774 13,197 12.00 December 2013 - June 2014
2009 – UK 3 year scheme 1,791 11,490 11.48 December 2012 - June 2013
2009 – UK 5 year scheme 9,191 9,623 11.48 December 2014 - June 2015
2010 – UK 3 year scheme 13,646 15,507 15.54 December 2013 - June 2014
2010 – UK 5 year scheme 11,133 13,693 15.54 December 2015 - June 2016
2011 – UK 3 year scheme 21,263 23,630 13.33 December 2014 - June 2015
2011 – UK 5 year scheme 20,654 22,706 13.33 December 2016 - June 2017
2012 – UK 3 year scheme 29,292 - 13.85 December 2015 - June 2016
2012 – UK 5 year scheme 34,053 - 13.85 December 2017 - June 2018
2. Company Share Option Plan
The Company Share Option Plan provides share options for nominated employees in the UK. The purchase price is set
at a mid-market price on the date of grant. This is an approved scheme and vesting is unconditional. Options vest after
three years and lapse after ten years from the date of grant.
At 31 December 2012, share options outstanding under the Company Share Option Plan were as follows:
Number of shares Option Exercise
Options granted 2012 2011 price (£) dates
2003 - 1,301 4.53 March 2006 - March 2013
2005 4,395 6,044 7.28 March 2008 - March 2015
2006 4,018 5,502 10.32 February 2009 - February 2016
2007 13,039 19,769 12.07 May 2010 - May 2017
2008 8,449 18,007 12.00 March 2011 - March 2018
2009 11,828 45,369 11.90 March 2012 - March 2019
2010 22,671 24,693 14.83 March 2013 - March 2020
2011 27,903 32,832 16.97 March 2014 - March 2021
2012 31,191 - 17.10 March 2015 - March 2022
3. Executive Share Option Scheme
The Executive Share Option Scheme provides share options for nominated employees in the UK, US and Canada. The
purchase price is set at a mid-market price on the date of grant. This is an unapproved scheme and vesting is unconditional.
Options vest after three years and lapse after seven years from the date of grant.
At 31 December 2012, share options outstanding under the Executive Share Option Scheme were as follows:
Number of shares Option Exercise
Options granted 2012 2011 price (£) dates
2005 - 10,038 7.28 March 2008 - March 2012
2006 8,857 65,060 10.32 February 2009 - February 2013
2007 47,652 68,554 12.07 May 2010 - May 2014
2008 77,030 116,248 12.00 March 2011 - March 2015
2009 120,345 207,341 11.90 March 2012 - March 2016
2010 161,401 185,682 14.83 March 2013 - March 2017
2011 140,013 152,136 16.97 March 2014 - March 2018
2011 8,183 8,183 15.70 August 2014 - August 2018
2012 187,990 - 17.10 March 2015 - March 2019
4. Long-Term Incentive Plan
Details in relation to the LTIP are included in the Directors’ Remuneration report on pages 58 to 66.
Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 97
Notes to accounts – Group (continued)
1. Introduction 2. Strategic review 3. Performance 4. Governance 5. Group ﬁnancials 6. Company ﬁnancials 7. Five-year review 27 Share capital and share options (continued)
The number and weighted average exercise price of share options for all share based payment arrangements (including
LTIP) are as follows:
Weighted Weighted
average average
exercise Number exercise Number
price (£) of options price (£) of options
2012 2012 2011 2011
Beginning of year 10.49 1,700,786 9.88 1,657,897
Granted during the year 12.31 472,027 11.74 446,363
Forfeited during the year 14.47 (50,366) 13.03 (67,461)
Expired during the year 3.61 (161,856) 7.11 (29,371)
Exercised during the year 11.38 (384,633) 8.80 (306,642)
Outstanding at the end of the year 11.40 1,575,958 10.49 1,700,786
Exercisable at the end of the year 11.70 353,534 11.37 313,357
The Group recognised total expenses of £1,974,000 (2011: £1,974,000) in relation to equity-settled, share-based payment
transactions. Expected volatility was determined by calculating the historic volatility of the Group’s share price.
Share options were exercised on a regular basis throughout the year. The weighted average share price during the year
was £16.15. The fair value of options granted during the year was £1,912,376 (2011: £1,814,728).
The Group’s equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair value at the date of grant. The fair value
determined at the grant date is expensed on a straight line basis over the vesting period, based on the Group’s estimate
of shares that will eventually vest. The fair value for all schemes other than the LTIP schemes are measured by use of the
Black Scholes option pricing model using the following assumptions:
Share save* CSOP* ESOS* LTIP*
2012
Weighted average share price (£) 14.31 16.43 16.29 n/a
Weighted average exercise price (£) 12.40 16.39 16.25 n/a
Expected volatility % 24.4 25.3 26.2 n/a
Expected option life (years) 3.9 6.0 5.0 n/a
Risk-free interest rate % 2.1 3.0 2.1 n/a
Expected dividends % 2.1 2.1 2.1 n/a
Share save* CSOP* ESOS* LTIP*
2011
Weighted average share price (£) 14.10 14.06 14.02 n/a
Weighted average exercise price (£) 12.22 14.19 14.14 n/a
Expected volatility % 24.4 24.3 25.5 n/a
Expected option life (years) 3.8 6.0 5.0 n/a
Risk-free interest rate % 2.3 2.7 2.5 n/a
Expected dividends % 2.0 2.1 2.1 n/a
*Figures in the above table show an average across the invested schemes at year end.
For the 2010, 2011 and 2012 LTIP awards, the stochastic model has been used to calculate the fair value of the awards
at grant date as this is the most accurate way of modelling the TSR performance condition. The fair value of these
schemes has been calculated using the following assumptions:
2012 2011
Exercise price (£) n/a n/a
Share price at grant (£) 16.24 13.16
Expected option life (years) 3.0 3.0
Expected volatility % 25.9 28.0
Expected dividend yield % 0.0 0.0
Risk-free interest rate % 1.6 2.1
Figures in the above table show an average across the schemes.
The weighted average fair value of options granted during the year was £4.45 (2011: £4.53).
The weighted average remaining contractual life of share options was 3.4 years (2011: 3.4 years).
98 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc
Notes to accounts – Group (continued) 28 Equity
Share Reserve Non
Share premium for own Hedging Translation Retained controlling Total
capital account shares reserve reserve earnings interests equity
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Balance at 1 January 2011 3,436 41,134 (2,653) (15,930) 31,179 185,969 - 243,135
Total comprehensive
income for the year -- - 1,907 2,719 57,670 280 62,576
Own shares acquired -- (422) -- -- (422)
Disposal of own shares -- 494 -- (494)- -
Equity-settled employee
share scheme 13 2,728 -- - 1,473 - 4,214
Non-controlling interest’s
investment made in
subsidiary -- ---- 134 134
Dividends to shareholders -- --- (24,469)- (24,469)
Balance at 1 January 2012 3,449 43,862 (2,581) (14,023) 33,898 220,149 414 285,168
Total comprehensive
income for the year -- - 4,044 (12,779) 57,127 285 48,677
Own shares acquired -- ---- - -
Disposal of own shares -- ---- - -
Equity-settled employee
share scheme 21 4,890 -- - 2,346 - 7,257
Non-controlling interest’s
investment made in
subsidiary -- ---- - -
Dividends to shareholders -- --- (26,877)- (26,877)
Balance at 31 December 2012 3,470 48,752 (2,581) (9,979) 21,119 252,745 699 314,225
The share premium account represents the premium arising on the issue of equity shares.
The ‘own shares reserve’ represents the cost of shares in Ultra Electronics Holdings plc purchased in the market and held by
the Ultra Electronics Employee Trust to satisfy options under the Group’s Long-Term Incentive Plan (“LTIP”) share schemes.
At 31 December 2012, the number of own shares held was 235,245 (2011: 235,245).
29 Notes to the cash flow statement
2012 2011
£’000 £’000
Operating profit 88,671 99,215
Adjustments for:
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 10,882 9,140
Amortisation of intangible assets 35,242 29,431
Acquisition costs and adjustments 1,494 (232)
Cost of equity-settled employee share schemes 1,974 1,974
Adjustment for pension funding (7,209) (5,968)
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 137 61
Share of profit from associate (3,487) (2,793)
(Decrease)/increase in provisions (3,088) 2,701
Operating cash flow before movements in working capital 124,616 133,529
(Increase)/decrease in inventories (2,719) 5,382
Increase in receivables (5,969) (26,488)
(Decrease)/increase in payables (2,047) 36,895
Cash generated by operations 113,881 149,318
Income taxes paid (25,589) (29,134)
Interest paid (4,555) (4,771)
Net cash from operating activities 83,737 115,413
Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 99
Notes to accounts – Group (continued)
1. Introduction 2. Strategic review 3. Performance 4. Governance 5. Group ﬁnancials 6. Company ﬁnancials 7. Five-year review 29 Notes to the cash flow statement (continued)
Reconciliation of net movement in cash and cash equivalents to movements in net debt.
2012 2011
£’000 £’000
Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents (8,331) (25,207)
Cash outflow/(inflow) from decrease/(increase) in debt and finance leasing 8,899 (37,224)
Change in net debt arising from cash flows 568 (62,431)
Loan syndication costs 903 771
Amortisation of finance costs of debt (551) (670)
Translation differences 2,228 (1,643)
Movement in net debt in the year 3,148 (63,973)
Net (debt)/cash at start of year (46,148) 17,825
Net debt at end of year (43,000) (46,148)
Net debt comprised the following:
2012 2011
£’000 £’000
Cash and cash equivalents 30,840 41,051
Borrowings (73,753) (87,060)
Obligations under finance leases included in current liabilities (37) (63)
Obligations under finance leases included in non-current liabilities (50) (76)
(43,000) (46,148)
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at bank and other short-term highly liquid investments with a maturity of
three months or less.
30 Other financial commitments
a) Capital commitments
At the end of the year capital commitments were:
2012 2011
£’000 £’000
Contracted but not provided 2,950 1,113
b) Lease commitments
At 31 December 2012, the Group had outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable
operating leases, which fall due as follows:
2012 2011
£’000 £’000
Within one year 9,861 8,960
Between one and five years 30,340 27,861
After five years 18,189 21,184
58,390 58,005
100 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc
Notes to accounts – Group (continued) 31 Retirement benefit schemes
Some UK employees of the Group are members of the Ultra Electronics Limited defined benefit scheme which was
established on 1 March 1994. The scheme was closed to new members in 2003. A new defined contribution plan was
introduced for other employees and new joiners in the UK. The latest full actuarial valuation of the defined benefit
scheme was carried out as at 6 April 2010. The Group also operates two defined contribution schemes for overseas
employees. In addition to these schemes, the Group’s Tactical Communication Systems business based in Montreal,
Canada, has three defined benefit schemes.
Defined contribution schemes
The total cost charged to income in respect of the defined contribution schemes was £5,889,000 (2011: £5,076,000).
Defined benefit schemes
The UK defined benefit scheme was actuarially assessed at 31 December 2012 using the ‘projected unit’ method. The
Canadian defined benefit schemes were actuarially assessed at 31 December 2012 using the ‘projected unit’ method.
Key financial assumptions used in the valuation of these schemes were as follows:
UK Canada UK Canada
2012 2012 2011 2011
Discount rate 4.70% 4.70% 5.0% 5.0%
Inflation rate – RPI 2.85% 2.85% 3.0% 3.0%
Inflation rate – CPI 2.05% n/a 2.2% n/a
Expected rate of salary increases 3.35% 3.35% 3.5% 3.5%
Future pension increases (pre 6/4/08) 2.75% 2.85% 3.0% 2.7%
Future pension increases (post 6/4/08) 1.85% n/a 2.2% n/a
For each of these assumptions there is a range of possible values. Relatively small changes in some of these variables can have
a significant impact on the level of the total obligation. For the UK scheme, a 0.1% reduction in the inflation assumption to
2.75% and a 0.1% increase in the discount rate to 4.8% would decrease the schemes liabilities by 1.8% and 1.7% respectively.
If the members life expectancy were to increase by 1 year, the scheme liabilities would increase by 2.9%.
The key demographic assumption used was in relation to the mortality rates of current and future pensioners. Due to
the size of the scheme the mortality rates were based on standard tables, namely:
Current pensioners 95% SAPS S1PMA/105% SAPS S1PFA c2002 MC1% imps from 2002
Future pensioners 95% SAPS S1PMA/105% SAPS S1PFA c2002 MC1% imps from 2002
The mortality assumptions used in the valuation of the UK scheme make appropriate allowance for future improvements
in longevity and are set out below:
2012 2011
Current pensioners (at 65) – males 22 years 22 years
Current pensioners (at 65) – females 24 years 24 years
Future pensioners (at 65) – males 24 years 24 years
Future pensioners (at 65) – females 25 years 25 years
Amounts recognised in the income statement in respect of the Group’s defined benefit schemes were as follows:
UK Canada Total UK Canada Total
2012 2012 2012 2011 2011 2011
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Past service cost -- - - 0.4 0.4
Current service cost 5.2 0.2 5.4 5.5 0.3 5.8
Interest on pension scheme liabilities 11.0 0.6 11.6 11.7 0.5 12.2
Expected return on pension scheme assets (9.6) (0.7) (10.3) (9.7) (0.5) (10.2)
6.6 0.1 6.7 7.5 0.7 8.2
The prior year past service cost related to the enhancement of cash commutation factors.
Of the current service cost for the year, £4.2 million (2011: £4.4 million) has been included in cost of sales, and
£1.2 million (2011: £1.4 million) has been included in administrative expenses.
Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 101
Notes to accounts – Group (continued)
1. Introduction 2. Strategic review 3. Performance 4. Governance 5. Group ﬁnancials 6. Company ﬁnancials 7. Five-year review 31 Retirement benefit schemes (continued)
Actuarial gains and losses have been reported in the statement of comprehensive income.
The amount included in the balance sheet arising from the Group’s obligations in respect of its defined benefit retirement
schemes is as follows:
UK Canada Total UK Canada Total
2012 2012 2012 2011 2011 2011
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Fair value of scheme assets 153.4 10.0 163.4 139.5 9.6 149.1
Present value of scheme liabilities (235.4) (11.1) (246.5) (220.5) (11.5) (232.0)
Scheme deficit (82.0) (1.1) (83.1) (81.0) (1.9) (82.9)
Related deferred tax asset 18.8 0.4 19.2 20.2 0.7 20.9
Net pension liability (63.2) (0.7) (63.9) (60.8) (1.2) (62.0)
Movements in the present value of defined benefit obligations during the year were as follows:
UK Canada Total UK Canada Total
2012 2012 2012 2011 2011 2011
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Present value of obligation at 1 January (220.5) (11.5) (232.0) (211.7) (9.9) (221.6)
Past service cost -- - - (0.4) (0.4)
Current service cost (5.2) (0.2) (5.4) (5.5) (0.3) (5.8)
Interest cost (11.0) (0.6) (11.6) (11.7) (0.5) (12.2)
Actuarial gains and losses (5.7) (0.3) (6.0) 3.8 (0.6) 3.2
Exchange difference - 0.2 0.2 - (0.3) (0.3)
Benefits paid 7.0 1.3 8.3 4.6 0.5 5.1
Present value of obligation at 31 December (235.4) (11.1) (246.5) (220.5) (11.5) (232.0)
Movements in the fair value of scheme assets during the year were as follows:
UK Canada Total UK Canada Total
2012 2012 2012 2011 2011 2011
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Fair value at 1 January 139.5 9.6 149.1 134.2 8.9 143.1
Expected return on scheme assets 9.6 0.7 10.3 9.7 0.5 10.2
Actuarial gains and losses (0.4) 0.3 (0.1) (10.7) (0.9) (11.6)
Exchange differences - (0.2) (0.2) - 0.3 0.3
Employer contributions 11.7 0.9 12.6 10.9 1.3 12.2
Benefits paid (7.0) (1.3) (8.3) (4.6) (0.5) (5.1)
Fair value at 31 December 153.4 10.0 163.4 139.5 9.6 149.1
The analysis of the scheme assets and the expected rate of return at the balance sheet date were as follows:
2012 2011
Expected return:
Equities 7.5% 7.5%
Bonds 4.1% 4.7%
Gilts 2.3% 2.5%
Property 6.5% 6.5%
Other assets 2.3% 2.5%
Other investment funds 7.5% 7.5%
Actual return on plan assets 6.7% 0.01%
102 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc
Notes to accounts – Group (continued) 31 Retirement benefit schemes (continued)
The expected rates of return are determined by reference to relevant published indices. The overall expected rate of return
is calculated as a weighted average rate of return on each asset class.
Scheme assets were as follows:
UK Canada Total UK Canada Total
2012 2012 2012 2011 2011 2011
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Fair value:
Equities 75.4 5.9 81.3 79.1 5.2 84.3
Bonds 32.2 3.5 35.7 29.4 3.5 32.9
Property 7.3 - 7.3 6.8 - 6.8
Other assets 0.8 0.6 1.4 1.4 0.9 2.3
Other investment funds 37.7 - 37.7 22.8 - 22.8
153.4 10.0 163.4 139.5 9.6 149.1
The analysis of the actuarial loss in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income was as follows:
UK Canada Total UK Canada Total
2012 2012 2012 2011 2011 2011
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Actual return less expected return
on pension scheme assets (0.4) 0.3 (0.1) (10.7) (0.9) (11.6)
Experience gains arising on
scheme liabilities (2.9) (0.3) (3.2) 0.2 0.2 0.4
Changes in assumptions underlying the
present value of the scheme liabilities (2.8)- (2.8) 3.5 (0.7) 2.8
(6.1)- (6.1) (7.0) (1.4) (8.4)
Cumulative actuarial losses, net of deferred tax, recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income at
31 December 2012 were £43.0 million (2011: £36.8 million).
The five-year history of experience adjustments is as follows:
2012 2011 2010 2009 2008
£m £m £m £m £m
Present value of defined benefit obligations (246.5) (232.0) (221.6) (204.7) (159.7)
Fair value of scheme assets 163.4 149.1 143.1 127.2 100.9
Scheme deficit (83.1) (82.9) (78.5) (77.5) (58.8)
The amount of contributions expected to be paid to defined benefit schemes during the 2013 financial year is £11.0m. For
the UK scheme this includes additional deficit payments of £7.2m per annum, agreed with the Trustee, to fund the scheme
deficit over a ten year period. As part of the settlement the Trustee released certain cash and property assets previously
held as security.
Experience adjustments on scheme liabilities (3.2) 0.4 7.5 (0.5) (0.7)
Percentage of scheme liabilities 1.2% (0.2%) (3.4%) 0.2% 0.4%
Experience adjustment on scheme assets (0.1) 11.6 6.1 16.0 (38.7)
Percentage of scheme assets 0% (7.8%) 4.3% 12.6% (38.3%)
Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 103
Notes to accounts – Group (continued)
1. Introduction 2. Strategic review 3. Performance 4. Governance 5. Group ﬁnancials 6. Company ﬁnancials 7. Five-year review 32 Acquisitions
Acquisitions during the year
In aggregate, consideration of £36,953,000 was paid in respect of acquisitions, all of which was discharged by means of
cash and cash equivalents and was made up as follows.
£’000
Cash outflow on subsidiaries acquired 38,633
Deferred consideration on subsidiaries acquired in prior years 3,765
Cash acquired with subsidiaries (5,445)
Net cash outflow 36,953
Aggregate assets and liabilities acquired comprised intangible assets of £33,499,000, property, plant and equipment of
£1,236,000, cash of £5,445,000, inventories of £3,094,000, net receivables of £5,933,000 and payables of £16,166,000.
If all the acquisitions had occurred on 1 January 2012 the revenue for the Group would have been £775,787,000 and
operating profit would have been £91,396,000.
With respect to prior year acquisitions, fair value adjustments totalling net £0.9m have been debited to goodwill, offset
by adjustments to contingent consideration which have credited goodwill by £0.3m.
The Group tests goodwill annually for impairment, or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill might be
impaired. Following a detailed review, no impairment losses have been recognised in the year.
GigaSat
On 30 May 2012, the Group acquired the entire share capital of certain Giga Group companies (GigaSat) for cash
consideration of £13.6m. A further sum, estimated at the time of acquisition as £15.2m (discounted), is payable if certain
earnings targets are met for the years ending 30 June 2013 and 30 June 2014. This contingent consideration has been
recorded against goodwill in accordance with IFRS 3.
GigaSat develops, manufactures, sells and supports fixed, mobile and transportable satellite earth stations, or satcom
terminals, offered in several forms that operate in the most commonly used frequency bands for satellite
communications. Its range of products adds to Ultra’s strategy of being able to offer both terrestrial and satellite
communication links.
The provisional fair values of the net assets acquired are stated below:
Book value Revaluations Provisional fair value
£’000 £’000 £’000
Intangible assets 250 22,257 22,507
Property, plant and equipment 556 - 556
Cash and cash equivalents 1,176 - 1,176
Inventories 1,652 (234) 1,418
Receivables 3,679 - 3,679
Payables (4,386) (5,721) (10,107)
Net assets acquired 2,927 16,302 19,229
Goodwill arising on acquisition 9,544
Purchase consideration 28,773
The revenue and profit contributions from GigaSat were approximately £8.1m and £1.9m respectively in the period
from the date of acquisition to 31 December 2012.
The goodwill arising on the acquisition is attributable to the the strategic premium to gain access to GigaSat’s market niche
relative to an organic entry and opportunities to develop new technologies and acquire new customers in the market.
Acquisition costs of £0.6m were charged to the income statement during the year.
The total goodwill on this acquisition expected to be deductible for tax is £nil.
104 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc
Notes to accounts – Group (continued) 32 Acquisitions (continued)
Barron McCann Technology & Payments
On 26 June 2012, the Group acquired the entire share capital of Barron McCann Technology Limited and Barron McCann
Payments Limited (BeMac) for initial cash consideration of £16.1m. BeMac provides baseline grade crypto and key
management services to the UK government, military, law enforcement agencies and the finance sector. BeMac will
broaden Ultra’s crypto portfolio beyond the high-grade domain and also provide access to the lucrative financial
services market.
The provisional fair values of the net assets acquired are stated below:
Book value Revaluations Provisional fair value
£’000 £’000 £’000
Intangible assets - 7,248 7,248
Property, plant and equipment 419 - 419
Cash and cash equivalents 4,269 - 4,269
Inventories 565 - 565
Receivables 1,716 - 1,716
Payables (3,977) (1,667) (5,644)
Net assets acquired 2,992 5,581 8,573
Goodwill arising on acquisition 7,505
Purchase consideration 16,078
The revenue and profit contributions from BeMac were approximately £3.6m and £0.4m respectively in the period from
the date of acquisition to 31 December 2012.
The goodwill arising on the acquisition is attributable to the value of synergies arising from the acquisition, the acquiree’s
technology and future profits arising from access to new markets.
Acquisition costs of £0.2m were charged to the income statement during the year.
The total goodwill on this acquisition expected to be deductible for tax is £nil.
RFI Corporation
On 17 August 2012, the Group acquired the power conversion business operated by RFI Corporation (“RFI”), a
wholly-owned subsidiary of DGT Holdings Corp (“DGT”) for a cash consideration of $12.0m.
RFI is an established manufacturer of proprietary, high-voltage, power conversion subsystems including electronic filters, high
voltage capacitors, pulse modulators, transformers and reactors, and a variety of other products designed for industrial,
medical, military and other commercial applications. It is located on Long Island, New York, USA, close to Ultra’s EMS
Development Corp., part of the Group’s Airport & Power Systems division, and has been integrated into the EMS business.
The provisional fair values of the net assets acquired are stated as follows:
Book value Revaluations Provisional fair value
£’000 £’000 £’000
Intangible assets - 3,744 3,744
Property, plant and equipment 261 - 261
Inventories 1,111 - 1,111
Receivables 538 - 538
Payables (415)- (415)
Net assets acquired 1,495 3,744 5,239
Goodwill arising on acquisition 2,429
Purchase consideration 7,668
The revenue and operating profit contributions from RFI were approximately £2.1m and £(0.1)m respectively in the
period from the date of acquisition to 31 December 2012.
The goodwill arising on the acquisition is attributable to the acquiree’s technology, the value of synergies arising from
the acquisition and opportunities to acquire new customers in the market.
Acquisition costs of £0.5m have been charged to the income statement.
The total goodwill on this acquisition expected to be deductible for tax £2.4m.
Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 105
Notes to accounts – Group (continued)
1. Introduction 2. Strategic review 3. Performance 4. Governance 5. Group ﬁnancials 6. Company ﬁnancials 7. Five-year review 33 Related party transactions
Remuneration of key management personnel
The remuneration of key management personnel, which includes the Directors of the Group, is set out below in aggregate
for each of the categories specified in IAS 24: Related Party Disclosures. Further information about the remuneration of
individual Directors is provided in the audited part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 65 and 66:
2012 2011
£’000 £’000
Short-term employee benefits 2,818 4,193
Post-employment benefits 279 309
Share-based payments 902 1,635
3,999 6,137
Transactions with associate
At 31 December 2012, a loan of £657,000 (2011: £1,289,000) was due from Al Shaheen Adventure LLC (ASA), the Group’s
49% equity-accounted investment.
A small amount of trading also occurs with ASA, in the normal course of business and on an arm’s length basis. Balances
are settled on normal trade terms and the amounts outstanding at year end were insignificant.
34 Post balance sheet events
On 13 January 2013 the Group initiated the new £100 million banking facility, as signed in December 2012, which is
provided by a small club of banks. This facility replaces the £120 million facility and provides revolving credit over a five year
period. It is denominated in Sterling, US Dollars, Canadian Dollars, Euros or Australian Dollars. This facility is in addition to
the Group’s existing £90 million revolving credit facility and a £15 million overdraft facility for funding short-term working
capital requirements.
35 Contingent liabilities
The Group has entered into a number of guarantee and performance bond arrangements in the normal course of business
totalling £57.4m (2011: £67.6m). Provision is made for any amounts that the Directors consider may become payable under
such arrangements, the provision as at 31 December 2012 and 31 December 2011 was £nil.
The nature of much of the contracting work performed by the Group means that there are occasional contractual issues,
variations and renegotiations that arise in the ordinary course of business. The Group is, from time to time, party to legal
proceedings and claims which arise in the ordinary course of business. The Directors do not anticipate that the outcome
of these proceedings, actions and claims, either individually or in aggregate, will have a material adverse effect upon the
Group’s financial position.
106 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc
Notes to accounts – Group (continued) Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 107
Statement of accounting policies in respect of the Group’s consolidated financial statements
1. Introduction 2. Strategic review 3. Performance 4. Governance 5. Group ﬁnancials 6. Company ﬁnancials 7. Five-year review
Statement of accounting policies
In respect of the Group’s consolidated financial statements
A summary of the Group’s principal accounting policies, all of which have been applied consistently across the Group
throughout the current and preceding year, are set out below:
Basis of accounting
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRSs”).
The financial statements have also been prepared in accordance with IFRSs adopted by the European Union and
therefore comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS regulations.
Adoption of new and revised Standards
The following IFRIC interpretations, amendments to existing standards and new standards have been adopted in the
current year but have not impacted the reported results or the financial position:
• IAS 12 Income Taxes (amended) – Deferred Tax: Recovery of Underlying Assets
• IFRS 7 Financial Instalments: Disclosures (amended) – Disclosures: Transfers of Financial Assets
At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following standards and interpretations which have not
been applied in these financial statements were in issue but not yet effective (and in some cases had not yet been
adopted by the EU):
• Amendments to IFRS 1 Severe Hyperinflation and Removal of Fixed Dates for First Time Adopters
• Amendments to IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures: enhancing disclosures about the Transfers of Financial
Assets, enhancing disclosures about offsetting of financial assets and financial liabilities and disclosures about the
initial application of IFRS 9
• IFRS 9 Financial Instruments
• IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements
• IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements
• IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities
• IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement
• Amendments to IAS 1 Presentation of Items of Other Comprehensive Income
• IAS 19 (Revised) Employee Benefits
• IAS 27 (Revised) Separate Financial Statements
• IAS 28 (Revised) Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures
• Amendment to IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation – Amendments to application guidance on the offsetting of
financial assets and financial liabilities
• IFRIC 20 Stripping Costs in the Production Phase of a Surface Mine
The Directors anticipate that the adoption of these standards and interpretations in future periods will have no material
impact on the financial statements of the Group, except for:
• IFRS 9 Financial Instruments – This will introduce a number of changes in the presentation of financial instruments.
• IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements, IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements, IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other
Entities, IAS 27 (Revised) Separate Financial Statements and IAS 28 (Revised) Investments in Associates and Joint
Ventures – This will introduce additional disclosures within the notes to the accounts.
• Amendments to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements – This will impact the presentation of various items within
the Statement of Other Comprehensive Income by requiring the separation of items that will later be reclassified
through the Income Statement from those that will never pass through the Income Statement.
• IAS 19 Employee Benefits (Revised) – This will impact the measurement of the various components representing
movements in the defined benefit pension obligation and associated disclosures. The impact on current year statutory
profit would have been a reduction of £2.6 million if the revised standard had been in effect during 2012.
Beyond the information above, it is not practicable to provide a reasonable estimate of the effect of these standards
until a detailed review has been completed.
The consolidated financial information has been prepared on the historical cost basis except for derivatives and assets
held for sale which are measured at fair value.
Going concern
The Directors have, at the time of approving the financial statements, a reasonable expectation that the Group has
adequate resources to continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements.
Further detail is contained in the statement on Corporate Governance on page 56. Basis of consolidation
The consolidated financial information includes the results, cash flows and assets and liabilities of Ultra Electronics
Holdings plc (“the Company”) and its subsidiaries (together, “the Group”) made up to 31 December each year.
Control is achieved where the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an investee
entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
On acquisition, the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of a subsidiary that meet the conditions for recognition
under IFRS 3 are measured at their fair values at the date of acquisition. Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair
values of the identifiable net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill. Any deficiency of the cost of acquisition below the
fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired is credited to the income statement in the period of acquisition.
The results of subsidiaries acquired during the year are included in the consolidated income statement from the effective
date of acquisition.
All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
Goodwill
Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the cost of acquisition over the Group’s interest in the fair value
of the identifiable assets and liabilities of a subsidiary. Goodwill is initially recognised as an asset at cost and is subsequently
measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses. Goodwill is reviewed for impairment at least annually. Any
impairment is recognised immediately in the income statement and is not subsequently reversed.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to each of the Group’s cash-generating units expected to benefit
from the synergies of the combination. Cash-generating units to which goodwill has been allocated are tested for impairment
annually, or more frequently when there is an indication that the unit may be impaired. If the recoverable amount of the
cash-generating unit is less than the carrying amount of the unit, the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying
amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the other assets of the unit pro-rata on the basis of the carrying
amount of each asset in the unit. An impairment loss recognised for goodwill is not reversed in a subsequent period.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before the date of transition to IFRSs has been retained at the previous UK GAAP amounts
subject to being tested for impairment at that date. Goodwill written off to reserves under UK GAAP prior to 1998 has not
been reinstated and will not be included in determining any subsequent profit or loss on disposal.
Investments in associates
An associate is an entity over which the Group is in a position to exercise significant influence, but not control or joint
control, through participation in the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee. Significant influence is the
power to participate in the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee but is not control or joint control
over those policies.
The results and assets and liabilities of associates are incorporated in these financial statements using the equity
method of accounting. Investments in associates are carried in the balance sheet at cost as adjusted by post-acquisition
changes in the Group’s share of the net assets of the associate, less any impairment in the value of individual
investments. Losses of an associate in excess of the Group’s interest in that associate (which includes any long-term
interests that, in substance, form part of the Group’s net investment in the associate) are recognised only to the extent
that the Group has incurred legal or constructive obligations or made payments on behalf of the associate.
Revenue recognition
Revenue from the sale of goods is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable and represents
amounts receivable for goods and services provided in the normal course of business, net of discounts, VAT and other
sales related taxes. Sales of goods are normally recognised when goods are delivered and title has passed.
Revenue from contracts to provide services is recognised by reference to the stage of completion of the contracts in the
same way as for long-term contracts. This is normally measured by the proportion that contract costs incurred for work
performed to date bear to the estimated total contract costs, except where this would not be representative of the
stage of completion.
Revenue from long-term contracts is recognised in accordance with the Group’s accounting policy on long-term
contracts (see accounting policy ‘Long-term contracts’).
Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest
rate applicable.
108 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc
Statement of accounting policies in respect of the Group’s consolidated financial statements (continued) Long-term contracts
Where the outcome of a long-term contract can be estimated reliably, revenue and costs are recognised by reference to
the stage of completion of the contract activity at the balance sheet date. This is normally measured by the proportion
that contract costs incurred for work performed to date bear to the estimated total contract costs, except where this
would not be representative of the stage of completion. Variations in contract work, claims and incentive payments are
included to the extent that they have been agreed with the customer, or when it is considered probable that the customer
will approve the variation and the amount of revenue arising from the variation.
Where the outcome of a long-term contract cannot be estimated reliably, contract revenue is recognised to the extent
of contract costs incurred that it is probable will be recoverable. Contract costs are recognised as expenses in the period
in which they are incurred.
When it is probable that total contract costs will exceed total contract revenue, the expected loss is recognised as an
expense immediately.
Foreign currency
Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are recorded in the local currency at the actual exchange rates at the
date of the transactions. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date
are reported at the rates of exchange prevailing at that date. Any gain or loss arising from a change in exchange rates
subsequent to the date of the transaction is included as an exchange gain or loss in the income statement.
The trading results and cash flows of overseas undertakings are translated into sterling, which is the functional currency
of the Company, using the average rates of exchange during the relevant financial period. The balance sheets of
overseas subsidiary undertakings are translated into sterling at the rates ruling at the year-end. Exchange differences
arising from the retranslation of the opening balance sheets and results are classified as equity and transferred to the
Group’s translation reserve.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments on the acquisition of foreign entities are treated as assets and liabilities of the
foreign entity and translated at the closing rate. The Group has elected to treat goodwill and fair value adjustments
arising on acquisitions before the date of transition to IFRSs as sterling denominated assets and liabilities.
Borrowing costs
Borrowing costs are recognised in profit or loss in the period in which they are incurred, except where they relate to
qualifying assets, in which case they are capitalised.
Government grants
Government grants are recognised in the income statement so as to match them with the expenditure towards which
they are intended to contribute, to the extent that the conditions for receipt have been met and there is reasonable
assurance that the grant will be received.
Government assistance provided in the form of below market rate of interest loans are treated as government grants.
The benefit of the below market rate of interest is calculated as the difference between the proceeds received and the
fair value of the loan and is matched against the related expenditure. The fair value of the loan is calculated using
prevailing market interest rates.
Retirement benefit costs
The Group provides pensions to its employees and Directors through defined benefit and defined contribution pension
schemes. The schemes are funded and their assets are held independently of the Group by trustees.
For defined benefit retirement schemes, the cost of providing benefits is determined using the Projected Unit Credit
Method, with actuarial valuations being carried out at each balance sheet date. The actuarial gains and losses are
recognised in full in the period in which they occur. They are recognised outside the income statement and presented in
the statement of comprehensive income.
Past service cost is recognised immediately to the extent that the benefits are already vested, and otherwise is
amortised on a straight-line basis over the average period until the benefits become vested.
The retirement benefit obligation recognised in the balance sheet represents the present value of the defined benefit
obligation as adjusted for unrecognised past service cost, and as reduced by the fair value of scheme assets.
Payments to defined contribution retirement schemes are charged as an expense as they fall due.
Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 109
Statement of accounting policies in respect of the Group’s consolidated financial statements (continued)
1. Introduction 2. Strategic review 3. Performance 4. Governance 5. Group ﬁnancials 6. Company ﬁnancials 7. Five-year review Research and development
Expenditure on research activities is recognised as an expense in the period in which it is incurred.
Any internally generated intangible asset arising from development activities is recognised only if an asset is created
that can be identified, it is probable that the asset created will generate future economic benefit and the development
cost of the asset can be measured reliably.
Internally generated assets are amortised on a straight-line basis over their useful lives. Where no internally generated
intangible asset can be recognised, development expenditure is recognised as an expense in the period in which it is incurred.
Other intangible assets
Costs associated with producing or maintaining computer software programmes for sale are recognised as an expense
as incurred. Costs that are directly associated with the development of identifiable and unique software products
controlled by the Group, that will generate economic benefits exceeding costs beyond one year and that can be
measured reliably, are recognised as intangible assets. Capitalised software development expenditure is stated at cost
less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses. Amortisation is provided on a straight-line basis over the
estimated useful life of the related asset.
Acquired computer software licences for use within the Group are capitalised as intangible assets on the basis of the
costs incurred to acquire and bring to use the specific software.
Patents and trademarks are stated initially at historical cost. Patents and trademarks have definite useful lives and are
carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
Intangible assets arising from a business combination whose fair value can be reliably measured are separated from
goodwill and amortised over their remaining estimated useful lives.
Impairment
At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its tangible and intangible assets to determine
whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss. If any such indication exists, the
recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss. Where the asset
does not generate cash flows that are independent from other assets, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of
the cash generating unit to which the asset belongs. An intangible asset with an indefinite useful life is tested for
impairment annually and whenever there is an indication that the asset may be impaired.
Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use. In assessing the value in use, the
estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value. If the recoverable amount of an asset is estimated to
be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset is reduced to its recoverable amount. An impairment
loss is recognised as an expense immediately.
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset is increased to the revised estimate
of its recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would
have been determined had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset in prior years. A reversal of an impairment
loss is recognised as income immediately, except for goodwill.
Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment is shown at original historical cost, net of depreciation and any provision for impairment.
Depreciation is provided at rates calculated to write off the cost, less estimated residual value, of each asset on a
straight-line basis over its expected useful life as follows:
Freehold buildings 40 to 50 years
Short leasehold improvements over remaining period of lease
Plant and machinery 3 to 20 years
Freehold land and assets under construction are not depreciated.
Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over their expected useful lives on the same basis as owned assets or,
where shorter, over the term of the relevant lease.
Leases
Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of
ownership to the lessee. All other leases are classified as operating leases.
110 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc
Statement of accounting policies in respect of the Group’s consolidated financial statements (continued) Leases (continued)
Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets of the Group at their fair value or, if lower, at the present
value of the minimum lease payments, each determined at the inception of the lease. The corresponding liability to the
lessor is included in the balance sheet as a finance lease obligation. Lease payments are apportioned between finance
charges and reduction of the lease obligation so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of
the liability. Finance charges are charged directly against income.
Rentals under operating leases, where the Group acts as either lessee or lessor, are charged on a straight line basis over
the lease term, even if the payments are not made on such a basis. Initial direct costs incurred in negotiating and
arranging an operating lease are added to the carrying amount of the leased asset and recognised on a straight-line
basis over the lease term.
Inventories
Inventories are valued at the lower of cost (determined on a first-in, first-out basis and including an appropriate
proportion of overheads incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition) and net realisable
value. Provision is made for any obsolete, slow moving or defective items.
Trade receivables
Trade receivables are measured at fair value. Appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts are
recognised in profit or loss when there is objective evidence that the asset is impaired.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in-hand, call deposits and bank overdrafts, where there is right of set off.
Bank overdrafts are presented as current liabilities to the extent that there is no right of offset with cash balances.
Assets held for sale
Assets classified as held for sale are measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
Assets are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered through a sale transaction rather than
through continuing use. This condition is regarded as met only when the sale is highly probable and the asset is available
for immediate sale in its present condition. Management must be committed to the sale which should be expected to
qualify for recognition as a completed sale within one year from the date of classification.
Trade payables
Trade payables are stated at their fair value.
Loans and overdrafts
Interest-bearing loans and overdrafts are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs where there is a
facility commitment. In these circumstances issue costs are deducted from the value of the loan and amortised over the
life of the commitment. Where there is no facility commitment, issue costs are written-off as incurred. Finance charges
including premiums payable on settlement or redemption are accounted for on an accruals basis in profit or loss using
the effective interest rate method and are added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent that they are
not settled in the period in which they arise.
Share-based payments
The Group issues equity settled share-based payments to certain employees. Equity settled share-based payments are
measured at fair value at the date of grant. The fair value determined at the grant date is expensed on a straight-line
basis over the vesting period, based on the Group’s estimate of shares that will eventually vest and adjusted for the
effect of non-market related conditions.
Fair value is measured by use of a Black-Scholes model for the share option plans and a stochastic model for awards
made under the 2007 Long-Term Incentive Plan.
The credits in respect of equity-settled amounts are included in equity.
Provisions
Provisions, including property related provisions are recognised in the balance sheet when the Group has a legal or
constructive obligation as a result of a past event, and where it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will
be required to settle the obligation.
Provision is made for the anticipated cost of repair and rectification of products under warranty, based on known
exposures and historical occurrences. Provisions for restructuring costs are recognised when the Group has a detailed
formal plan for the restructuring that has been communicated to affected parties.
Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 111
Statement of accounting policies in respect of the Group’s consolidated financial statements (continued)
1. Introduction 2. Strategic review 3. Performance 4. Governance 5. Group ﬁnancials 6. Company ﬁnancials 7. Five-year review Equity instruments
Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Taxation
The tax expense represents the sum of the current tax payable and deferred tax.
The current tax payable is based on taxable profit for the year. Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the
income statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it
further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible. The Group’s liability for current tax is calculated using tax
rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets
and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit,
and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method. Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all
taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable
profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised. Such assets and liabilities are
not recognised if the temporary difference arises from goodwill or from the initial recognition (other than in a business
combination) of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the tax profit nor the accounting profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries except
where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary
difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is
no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the
asset is realised. Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income statement, except when it relates to items charged or
credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against
current tax liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends
to settle its current tax assets and liabilities.
Derivative financial instruments
Ultra uses derivative financial instruments, principally forward foreign currency contracts and interest rate swaps, to reduce
its exposure to exchange rate and interest rate movements. Ultra does not hold or issue derivatives for speculative or
trading purposes.
Derivative financial instruments are recognised as assets and liabilities and measured at their fair values at the balance
sheet date. Changes in their fair values are recognised in the income statement and this is likely to cause volatility in
situations where the carrying value of the hedged item is not adjusted to reflect fair value changes arising from the
hedged risk. Provided the conditions specified by IAS 39 are met, hedge accounting may be used to mitigate this income
statement volatility. Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that do not qualify for hedge
accounting are recognised in the income statement as they arise.
Hedge accounting will not generally be applied to transactional hedging relationships, such as hedges of forecast or
committed transactions. However, hedge accounting will be applied to translational hedging relationships where it is
permissible under IAS 39. When hedge accounting is used, the relevant hedging relationships will be classified as fair
value hedges, cash flow hedges or net investment hedges.
Where the hedging relationship is classified as a fair value hedge, the carrying amount of the hedged asset or liability
will be adjusted by the increase or decrease in the fair value attributable to the hedged risk and the resulting gain or
loss will be recognised in the income statement where, to the extent that the hedge is effective, it will be offset by the
change in the fair value of the hedging instrument.
Where the hedging relationship is classified as a cash flow hedge or as a net investment hedge, to the extent that the
hedge is effective, changes in the fair value of the hedging instrument will be recognised directly in equity rather than in
the income statement. Any gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income
statement. For cash flow hedges of forecasted future transactions, when the hedged item is recognised in the financial
statements, the accumulated gains and losses recognised in equity will be either recycled to the income statement or, if the
hedged items result in a non-financial asset, will be recognised as adjustments to its initial carrying amount.
112 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc
Statement of accounting policies in respect of the Group’s consolidated financial statements (continued) Operating profit
Operating profit is stated after charging restructuring costs and after the share of results of associates but before
investment income and finance costs.
Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty
When applying the Group’s accounting policies, management must make a number of key judgements involving
estimates and assumptions concerning the future. These estimates and judgements are based on factors considered to
be relevant, including historical experience, that may differ significantly from the actual outcome. The key
assumptions concerning the future and other key sources of estimation uncertainty at the Balance Sheet date that
have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next
financial year include:
CONTRACT REVENUE AND PROFIT RECOGNITION
A significant proportion of the Group’s activities are conducted under long term contract arrangements and are
accounted for in accordance with IAS 11 Construction Contracts.
Revenue and profit on such contracts are recognised according to the stage of completion of the contract activity at the
balance sheet date of the particular contract and are calculated by reference to reliable estimates of contract revenue and
expected costs. Expected costs are calculated after taking account of the perceived contract risks related to performance
not yet proven.
Owing to the complexity of some of the contracts undertaken by the Group the cost estimation process requires
significant judgement and is carried out using the experience of the Group’s engineers, project managers and finance
and commercial professionals. Because of the level of judgement required, cost estimates are reviewed and updated
on a regular basis using the Group’s established project management processes. Some of the factors that will impact
upon cost estimates include the availability of suitably qualified labour, the nature and complexity of the work to be
performed, the availability of materials, the impact of change orders and the performance of sub-contractors.
When it is probable that total contract costs will exceed total contract revenue, the expected loss is recognised
immediately as an expense.
Where services are rendered, sales are recognised when the stage of completion of the services and the related
revenue and costs can be measured reliably.
Where goods are delivered under arrangements not considered to fall under the scope of IAS 11 Construction Contracts,
revenue is recognised when substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership have transferred to the customer.
RETIREMENT BENEFIT PLANS
The Group accounts for its post-retirement pension plans in accordance with IAS 19 Employee Benefits.
For defined benefit retirement plans, the cost of providing benefits is determined periodically by independent actuaries and
charged to the income statement in the period in which those benefits have been earned by the employees. Actuarial gains and
losses are recognised in full in the period in which they arise and are recognised in the statement of comprehensive income.
The retirement benefit obligation recognised in the balance sheet represents the present value of the scheme
liabilities as reduced by the fair value of the scheme assets.
The main assumptions used in determining the defined benefit post retirement obligation include the discount rate used
in discounting scheme liabilities, the inflation rate, the expected rate of salary inflation, the expected rate of future
pension increases, expected returns on scheme assets and future mortality assumptions. For each of these assumptions,
there is a range of possible values. Relatively small changes in some of these variables can have a significant impact on
the level of the total obligation.
The valuation of pension scheme assets and liabilities at a specific point of time rather than over a period of time can
lead to significant annual movements in the pension scheme deficit as calculated under IAS 19, but has no impact on
short-term cash contributions since these are based upon separate independent actuarial valuations.
Details of the pension scheme assumptions and obligation at 31 December 2012 are provided in note 31.
INTANGIBLE ASSETS
IFRS 3 (revised) Business Combinations requires that goodwill arising on the acquisition of subsidiaries is capitalised and
included in intangible assets. IFRS 3 (revised) also requires the identification of other intangible assets at acquisition. The
assumptions involved in valuing these intangible assets requires the use of estimates and judgements, that may differ
from the actual outcome. These estimates and judgements cover future growth rates, expected inflation rates and the
discount rate used.
Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 113
Statement of accounting policies in respect of the Group’s consolidated financial statements (continued)
1. Introduction 2. Strategic review 3. Performance 4. Governance 5. Group ﬁnancials 6. Company ﬁnancials 7. Five-year review Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty (continued)
DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
The Group uses derivatives in the normal course of business to manage its exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency
rates. Derivatives are accounted for in the consolidated balance sheet as assets or liabilities at fair value in accordance
with IAS 39 “Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement”.
Accounting for derivatives is complex and significant judgements and estimates are involved in estimating the fair value
of these instruments. Generally, fair value estimates of derivative contracts involve the selection of an appropriate
valuation model and determining the appropriate inputs to use in that model.
In evaluating whether a particular relationship qualifies for hedge accounting, the Group determines whether the
relationship meets the strict hedging relationship criteria. For a relationship that does not meet these criteria,
effectiveness is tested by determining whether changes in the fair value of the derivative offset, within a specified range,
changes in the fair value of the hedged item. If fair value changes fail this test, hedge accounting is no longer used.
GOODWILL
Each year the Group carries out impairment tests of its goodwill balances which requires estimates to be made of the
value in use of its cash generating units (CGU’s). These value in use calculations are dependent on estimates of future
cash flows and long-term growth rates of the CGU’s. Further details on these estimates are provided in note 13.
INCOME TAXES
In determining the Group’s provisions for income tax and deferred tax it is necessary to consider transactions in a small
number of key tax jurisdictions for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. To the extent that the final outcome
differs from the tax that has been provided, adjustments will be made to income tax and deferred tax provisions held in
the period the determination is made.
114 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc
Statement of accounting policies in respect of the Group’s consolidated financial statements (continued) Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 115
Independent auditor’s report – Company
1. Introduction 2. Strategic review 3. Performance 4. Governance 5. Group ﬁnancials 6. Company ﬁnancials 7. Five-year review
Independent auditor’s report – Company
To the members of Ultra Electronics Holdings plc
We have audited the Parent Company financial statements of Ultra Electronics Holdings plc for the year ended
31 December 2012 which comprise the Parent Company Balance Sheet, the related notes 36 to 47, and the Statement of
Accounting Policies. The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and
United Kingdom Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice).
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies
Act 2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company’s members those matters we are
required to state to them in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do
not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Company’s members as a body, for our
audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditor
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation
of the Parent Company financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility
is to audit and express an opinion on the Parent Company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and
International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing
Practices Board’s (APB’s) Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give
reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Parent Company’s circumstances
and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed; the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made
by the Directors; and the overall presentation of the financial statements. In addition, we read all the financial and
non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements. If
we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on financial statements
In our opinion the Parent Company financial statements:
• give a true and fair view of the state of the Company’s affairs as at 31 December 2012;
• have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice; and
• have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion:
• the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the
Companies Act 2006; and
• the information given in the Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is
consistent with the Parent Company financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you
if, in our opinion:
• adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not
been received from branches not visited by us; or
• the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not in
agreement with the accounting records and returns; or
• certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or
• we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Other matter
We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of Ultra Electronics Holdings plc for the year ended
31 December 2012.
Kerr Mitchell, Senior Statutory Auditor
for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor
Reading, United Kingdom
1 March 2013
Notes: An audit does not provide assurance on the maintenance
and integrity of the website, including controls used to achieve
this, and in particular on whether any changes may have occurred
to the financial statements since first published. These matters are
the responsibility of the Directors but no control procedures can
provide absolute assurance in this area.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and
dissemination of financial statements differs from legislation in
other jurisdictions. 2012 2011
Note £’000 £’000
Fixed assets
Tangible assets 37 1,057 1,179
Investments 38 555,682 392,787
556,739 393,966
Current assets
Debtors: Amounts falling due within one year 39 5,776 5,534
Cash at bank and in hand - -
5,776 5,534
Creditors: Amounts falling due within one year 41 (103,944) (168,307)
Net current liabilities (98,168) (162,773)
Total assets less current liabilities 458,571 231,193
Creditors: Amounts falling due after more than one year 42 (49,701) (6,847)
Net assets 408,870 224,346
Capital and reserves
Called-up share capital 44 3,470 3,449
Share premium account 45 48,752 43,862
Profit and loss account 45 359,229 179,616
Own shares 45 (2,581) (2,581)
Shareholders’ funds 408,870 224,346
The financial statements of Ultra Electronics Holdings plc, registered number 02830397, were approved by the Board of
Directors and authorised for issue on 1 March 2013.
On behalf of the Board
R. Sharma, Chief Executive
P . Dean, Finance Director
The accompanying notes are an integral part of this balance sheet.
Company balance sheet
31 December 2012
116 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc
Company balance sheet Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 117
Notes to accounts – Company
1. Introduction 2. Strategic review 3. Performance 4. Governance 5. Group ﬁnancials 6. Company ﬁnancials 7. Five-year review
36 Staff costs
2012 2011
£’000 £’000
Employee costs during the year amounted to:
Wages and salaries 3,376 4,158
Social security costs 271 575
Other pension costs 7,424 6,976
11,071 11,709
The average number of persons employed by the Company during the year was as follows:
2012 2011
number number
Support services 22 18
37 Tangible fixed assets
Plant and
machinery
£’000
Cost
At 1 January 2011 1,067
Additions 879
At 1 January 2012 1,946
Additions 80
At 31 December 2012 2,026
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 January 2011 608
Charge 159
At 1 January 2012 767
Charge 202
At 31 December 2012 969
Net book value
At 31 December 2012 1,057
At 31 December 2011 1,179
38 Investments
a) Principal subsidiary undertakings
The Company owns either directly or indirectly 100% of the ordinary share capital of the following principal
subsidiary undertakings:
Place of registration
Name or incorporation
Ultra Electronics Limited England and Wales
Ultra Electronics USA Group Inc. USA
Ultra Electronics Canada Inc. Canada
The principal activity of the subsidiary undertakings is the design, development and manufacture of electronic systems
for the international defence and aerospace markets.
Notes to accounts – Company
31 December 2012 38 Investments (continued)
b) Investment in subsidiary undertakings
Total
£’000
At 1 January 2012 392,787
Foreign exchange differences -
Additions 179,722
Disposals (16,827)
At 31 December 2012 555,682
39 Debtors
2012 2011
£’000 £’000
Amounts falling due within one year:
Amounts due from subsidiary undertakings 4,001 3,885
Deferred tax assets 670 1,074
Other debtors 920 309
Prepayments and accrued income 179 266
VAT 6 -
5,776 5,534
40 Deferred tax
Movements in the deferred tax asset were as follows:
2012 2011
£’000 £’000
Beginning of year 1,074 592
(Charge)/credit to the profit and loss account (404) 766
Charge to equity - (284)
End of year 670 1,074
The deferred tax balances are analysed as follows:
2012 2011
£’000 £’000
Other temporary differences relating to current assets and liabilities 670 1,074
Deferred tax asset 670 1,074
These balances are shown as follows:
2012 2011
£’000 £’000
Debtors: Amounts falling due within one year 670 1,074
At the balance sheet date the Company had nil unprovided deferred tax (2011: nil).
118 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc
Notes to accounts – Company (continued) Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 119
Notes to accounts – Company (continued)
1. Introduction 2. Strategic review 3. Performance 4. Governance 5. Group ﬁnancials 6. Company ﬁnancials 7. Five-year review
41 Creditors: amounts falling due within one year
2012 2011
£’000 £’000
Bank loans and overdraft 63,474 90,018
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings 21,262 55,417
Other creditors:
– VAT - 285
– social security and PAYE 250 249
– other creditors 16,971 19,807
Accruals and deferred income 1,987 2,531
103,944 168,307
The bank loans are unsecured. Interest was predominantly charged at 1.5% (2011: 1.5%) over base or contracted rate.
42 Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year
2012 2011
£’000 £’000
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings - 379
Loan notes 43,295 6,468
Other creditors 6,406 -
49,701 6,847
43 Borrowings
Borrowings fall due as analysed below:
2012 2011
£’000 £’000
Bank loans and overdraft
In one year or less, or on demand 65,116 91,308
65,116 91,308
Less: unamortised finance costs of debt (1,642) (1,290)
63,474 90,018
Less: included in creditors: amounts falling due within one year (63,474) (90,018)
Loan notes
Due after more than five years 43,295 6,468
The loan notes are unsecured and due for repayment in 2018 and 2019. Interest was charged at 3.60% (2011: 4.09%).
44 Called-up share capital
2012 2011
No. £’000 No. £’000
Authorised:
5p ordinary shares 90,000,000 4,500 90,000,000 4,500
Allotted, called-up and fully paid:
5p ordinary shares 69,403,659 3,470 68,976,915 3,449
426,744 ordinary shares having a nominal value of £21,337 were allotted during the year under the terms of the Group’s
various Share Option Schemes. The aggregate consideration received by the Company was £4,911,265. 45 Reserves and reconciliation of movement in shareholders’ funds
Called Share Profit
up share premium and loss Own
capital account account shares 2012 2011
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Balance at 1 January 3,449 43,862 179,616 (2,581) 224,346 224,940
Share based payments -- 1,974 - 1,974 3,885
Retained profit for the year -- 204,516 - 204,516 17,671
Dividends paid -- (26,877)- (26,877) (24,469)
Long-Term Incentive Plan – additions -- -- - (422)
Issue of new shares 21 4,890 -- 4,911 2,741
Balance at 31 December 3,470 48,752 359,229 (2,581) 408,870 224,346
The profit and loss account includes £190,957,000 (2011: £65,400,000) which is not distributable. A net foreign exchange loss of
£122,000 was taken to reserves in the year. Further details in respect of dividends are presented in note 11 to the Group
financial statements and share based payments in note 27 to the Group financial statements.
The Company holds 235,245 own shares (2011: 235,245).
46 Guarantees and other financial commitments
Lease commitments
The minimum rentals for the next 12 months are as follows:
Plant and Plant and
machinery machinery
2012 2011
£’000 £’000
Operating lease rentals which expire
– within one year 27 37
– between two to five years 38 27
65 64
47 Post balance sheet events
On 13 January 2013 the Group initiated the new £100 million banking facility, as signed in December 2012, which is
provided by a small club of banks. This facility replaces the £120 million facility and provides revolving credit over a five year
period. It is denominated in Sterling, US Dollars, Canadian Dollars, Euros or Australian Dollars. This facility is in addition to
the Group’s existing £90 million revolving credit facility and a £15 million overdraft facility for funding short-term working
capital requirements.
120 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc
Notes to accounts – Company (continued) Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 121
Statement of accounting policies for the Company accounts
1. Introduction 2. Strategic review 3. Performance 4. Governance 5. Group ﬁnancials 6. Company ﬁnancials 7. Five-year review
A summary of the Company’s principal accounting policies, which has continued to apply United Kingdom accounting
standards, all of which have been applied consistently throughout the year and preceding year in the separate financial
information presented for the Company, are set out below:
Basis of accounting
The Company accounts have been prepared under the historical cost convention and in accordance with applicable
United Kingdom accounting standards.
No profit and loss account is presented for the Company, as permitted by section 408 of the Companies Act 2006. The
Company’s retained profit for the year is disclosed in note 45.
Fixed assets and depreciation
Tangible fixed assets are shown at original historical cost, net of depreciation and any provision for impairment.
Depreciation is provided at rates calculated to write off the cost, less estimated residual value, of each asset on a
straight-line basis over its expected useful life as follows:
Plant and machinery 3 to 20 years
Taxation
UK Corporation tax is provided at amounts expected to be paid (or recovered) using the tax rates and laws that have
been enacted or substantially enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet
date where transactions or events that result in an obligation to pay more tax in the future, or a right to pay less tax in
the future, have occurred at the balance sheet date. Temporary differences are differences between the Company’s
taxable profits and its results as stated in the financial statements. These arise from including gains and losses in tax
assessments in different periods from those recognised in the financial statements.
A net deferred tax asset is regarded as recoverable and therefore recognised only when, on the basis of all available
evidence, it can be regarded as more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits from which the future
reversal of the underlying timing difference can be deducted.
Deferred tax is measured at the average tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the timing differences
are expected to reverse based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance
sheet date. Deferred tax is not discounted.
Retirement benefit costs
The Company provides pensions to its employees and Directors through defined benefit and defined contribution
pension schemes. The schemes are funded and their assets are held independently of the Group by trustees.
The amount charged to the profit and loss account for defined benefit schemes is the estimated regular cost of
providing the benefits accrued in the period adjusted to reflect variations from the cost. The regular cost is calculated
so that it represents a substantially level percentage of current and future pensionable payroll.
Any difference between the amount charged to the profit and loss account and contributions paid to the pension
scheme is shown as a separately identifiable liability or asset in the balance sheet.
Certain employees and Directors participated in the UK defined benefit scheme operated by Ultra Electronics Limited.
Paragraph 9(b) of FRS 17 allows for a defined benefit scheme to be accounted for as a defined contribution scheme
where there are multi-employers and one employer is unable to identify its share of the underlying assets and liabilities
on a consistent and reasonable basis. The Ultra Electronics Limited defined benefit scheme has been accounted for on
this basis. The deficit in the scheme at 31 December 2012 was £82.0 million (2011: £81.0 million). Further disclosures in
relation to this pension scheme are given in note 31 to the Group financial statements.
Payments to defined contribution retirement schemes are charged as an expense as they fall due.
Investments
Fixed asset investments are shown at cost less provision for impairment.
Going concern
The Directors have, at the time of approving the financial statements, a reasonable expectation that the Group has
adequate resources to continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements.
Further detail is contained in the statement on Corporate Governance on page 56.
Statement of accounting policies
for the Company accounts Foreign currency
Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are recorded in the local currency at the actual exchange rates at the
date of the transactions (or, where appropriate, at the rate of exchange in a related forward exchange contract).
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are reported at the rates of
exchange prevailing at that date (or, where appropriate, at the rate of exchange in a related forward exchange
contract). Any gain or loss arising from a change in exchange rates subsequent to the date of the transaction is included
as an exchange gain or loss in the profit and loss account.
Share-based payments
The Company issues equity settled share-based payments to certain employees. Equity settled share-based payments are
measured at fair value at the date of grant. The fair value determined at the grant date is expensed on a straight-line
basis over the vesting period, based on the Company’s estimate of shares that will eventually vest. Fair value is measured
by use of an option pricing model, using the assumptions disclosed within the Group accounts in note 27.
Related parties
The Company has taken the FRS 8 (revised) exemption from disclosure of transactions between wholly-owned
subsidiaries. Remuneration of the Directors is provided in the audited part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report on
pages 65 and 66.
Loans and overdrafts
Interest-bearing loans and overdrafts are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs where there is a
facility commitment. In these circumstances issue costs are deducted from the value of the loan and amortised over the
life of the commitment. Where there is no facility commitment, issue costs are written-off as incurred. Finance charges
including premiums payable on settlement or redemption are accounted for on an accruals basis in profit or loss using
the effective interest rate method and are added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent that they are
not settled in the period in which they arise.
122 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc
Statement of accounting policies for Company accounts Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 123
Five year review
1. Introduction 2. Strategic review 3. Performance 4. Governance 5. Group ﬁnancials 6. Company ﬁnancials 7. Five-year review
Five year review
Financial highlights
2008 2009 2010 2011 2012
£m £m £m £m £m
Revenue
Aircraft & Vehicle Systems 150.3 180.0 174.1 166.1 147.0
Information & Power Systems 141.3 193.5 224.0 257.0 315.8
Tactical & Sonar Systems 223.7 277.5 311.9 308.6 298.0
Total revenue 515.3 651.0 710.0 731.7 760.8
Underlying operating profit
1
Aircraft & Vehicle Systems 22.0 22.6 23.4 31.1 30.8
Information & Power Systems 19.9 23.6 27.5 30.5 45.0
Tactical & Sonar Systems 35.2 51.1 59.4 60.5 46.4
Total underlying operating profit
1
77.1 97.3 110.3 122.1 122.2
Margin
1
15.0% 15.0% 15.5% 16.7% 16.1%
Profit/(loss) before tax (2.9) 107.9 91.3 91.2 82.8
Profit after tax 1.8 78.5 66.3 66.2 63.6
Operating cash flow
2
79.0 111.6 106.4 133.7 89.6
Free cash flow before dividends, acquisitions
and financing
3
54.7 93.3 83.4 100.1 58.8
Net (debt)/cash at year-end
4
(63.9) (28.7) 17.8 (46.1) (43.0)
Underlying earnings per share (p)
5
80.1 96.4 107.9 120.2 124.5
Dividends per share (p) 26.0 31.2 34.6 38.5 40.0
Average employee numbers 3,582 3,961 4,006 4,206 4,430
1
Before acquisition-related costs and amortisation of intangibles arising on acquisition and profit on disposal of
property, plant and equipment net of property-related provisions.
2
Cash generated by operations, and dividends from associates less net capital expenditure, R&D and LTIP share purchases.
3
Free cash flow before dividends, acquisitions and financing has been adjusted to include the purchase of LTIP shares,
which are included in financing activities.
4
Loans and overdrafts less cash and cash equivalents.
5
Before acquisition-related costs, amortisation of intangibles arising on acquisition, fair value movement on derivative
financial instruments, profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment net of property-related provisions, loss on
closing out foreign currency hedging contracts and unwinding of discount on provisions. 124 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Aircraft & Vehicle Systems
Al Shaheen (49%)
P .O. Box: 128630
Abu Dhabi
United Arab Emirates
Tel: +971 2 813 7444
www.alsa.ae
AMI
5500 South State Street
Ann Arbor, Michigan 48108
USA
Tel: +1 734 302 7632
www.ultra-ami.com
Card Systems
Waverley House
Hampshire Road
Weymouth, Dorset DT4 9XD
England
Tel: +44 (0) 1305 767100
www.ultramagicard.com
CEMS
Waverley House
Hampshire Road
Weymouth, Dorset DT4 9XD
England
Tel: +44 (0) 1305 767100
www.ultra-cems.com
Controls
417 Bridport Road
Greenford, Middlesex UB6 8UA
England
Tel: +44 (0) 20 8813 4444
www.ultra-controls.com
Measurement Systems Inc.
50 Barnes Park North
Suite 102
Wallingford, Connecticut 06492
USA
Tel: +1 203 949 3500
www.ultra-msi.com
Precision Air & Land Systems
Kingsditch Lane
Cheltenham, Gloucestershire GL51 9PG
England
Tel: +44 (0) 1242 221166
www.ultra-pals.com
Anson Business Park
Cheltenham Road East, Gloucester GL2 9QN
England
Tel: +44 (0) 1452 714382
www.ultra-pals.com
Information & Power Systems
AIRPORT & POWER SYSTEMS
Airport Systems
The Oaks
Crewe Road
Wythenshawe, Manchester M23 9SS
England
Tel: +44 (0) 161 946 3600
www.ultra-as.com
EMS Development Corporation
95 Horseblock Road, Unit 2
Yaphank, New York 11980
USA
Tel: +1 631 345 6200
www.ultra-ems.com
Ithra (70%)
PO Box 1162
PC111, Almattar CPO
Al Seeb, Muscat
Sultanate of Oman
Tel: +968 2 434 3500
Nuclear Control Systems
Innovation House
Lancaster Road
Ferndown Industrial Estate
Wimborne, Dorset BH21 7SQ
England
Tel: +44 (0) 1202 850450
www.ultra-ncs.com
Nuclear Sensors & Process Instrumentation
707 Jeffrey Way
P .O. Box 300
Round Rock, Texas 78680-0300
USA
Tel: +1 512 434 2800
www.ultra-nspi.com
PMES
Towers Business Park
Wheelhouse Road
Rugeley, Staffordshire WS15 1UZ
England
Tel: +44 (0) 1889 503300
www.ultra-pmes.com
INFORMATION & INTELLIGENCE SYSTEMS
Advanced Tactical Systems
4101 Smith School Road
Building IV, Suite 100
Austin, Texas 78744
USA
Tel: +1 512 327 6795
www.ultra-ats.com
Command & Control Systems
Knaves Beech Business Centre
Loudwater
High Wycombe, Buckinghamshire HP10 9UT
England
Tel: +44 (0) 1628 530000
www.ultra-ccs.com
ProLogic
9400 Innovation Drive
Manassas, Virginia 20110
USA
Tel: +1 703 331 5922
www.ultra-prologic.com
SOTECH
12011 Guilford Road
Suite 111
Annapolis Junction, Maryland 20701
USA
Tel: +1 301 470 7015
Tactical & Sonar Systems
SONAR & UNDERSEA SYSTEMS
Avalon Systems
12 Douglas Drive
Technology Park
Mawson Lakes
Adelaide, South Australia 5095
Australia
Tel: +61 (0) 8 8169 1200
www.ultra-avalon.com
www.ultra-electronics.com.au
Flightline Systems
7625 Omnitech Place
Victor, New York 14564-9795
USA
Tel: +1 585 924 4000
www.ultra-fei.com
Maritime Systems
40 Atlantic Street
Dartmouth, Nova Scotia B2Y 4N2
Canada
Tel: +1 902 466 7491
www.ultra-ms.com
Ocean Systems
115 Bay State Drive
Braintree, Massachusetts 02184-5203
USA
Tel: +1 781 848 3400
www.ultra-os.com
Sonar Systems
418 Bridport Road
Greenford, Middlesex UB6 8UA
England
Tel: +44 (0) 20 8813 4567
www.ultra-sonar.com
USSI
4868 East Park 30 Drive
Columbia City, Indiana 46725-8861
USA
Tel: +1 260 248 3500
www.ultra-ussi.com
TACTICAL SYSTEMS
3eTI
9715 Key West Avenue
Suite 500
Rockville, Maryland 20850
USA
Tel: +1 301 670 6779
www.ultra-3eti.com
AEP Networks
Knaves Beech Business Centre
Loudwater
High Wycombe, Buckinghamshire HP10 9UT
England
Tel: +44 (0) 1628 642600
www.ultra-aep.com
Communication & Integrated Systems
419 Bridport Road
Greenford, Middlesex UB6 8UA
England
Tel: +44 (0) 20 8813 4567
www.ultra-cis.com
GigaSat
GigaSat Building
Tring Business Centre
Icknield Way
Tring, Hertfordshire HP23 4JX
England
Tel: +44 (0) 1442 892000
TCS
5990 Côte de Liesse
Montreal, Québec H4T 1V7
Canada
Tel: +1 514 855 6363
www.ultra-tcs.com
Photography
TEAM PHOTOGRAPH ON PAGES 26 & 30,
BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND THROUGHOUT:
Molyneux Associates
TEAM PHOTOGRAPH ON PAGE 28:
Ultra Electronics, Advanced Tactical Systems, In-house Media
PLATFORMS/END APPLICATIONS COURTESY OF:
BAE Systems, Boeing, Lockheed Martin and US DoD
Business addresses
Ultra Electronics Holdings plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Registered Office:
Ultra Electronics Holdings plc
417 Bridport Road
Greenford
Middlesex UB6 8UA
England
Tel: +44 (0) 20 8813 4321
Fax: +44 (0) 20 8813 4322
www.ultra-electronics.com
information@ultra-electronics.com Design: HAT Associates +44 (0)1242 253112
