 Umeco plc  
  
Annual Report  
  
2012
Umeco plc 
 
Annual Report 2012
Delivering innovation and real advantage
Next Page
Back to Contents
Previous Page Umeco is a global leader in advanced 
composites solutions.
With our product portfolio and our proven 
expertise in materials, products and 
processes, we’re leading the way in the 
design, development and distribution of 
cutting edge composite materials.
Next Page
Back to Contents
Previous Page Overview Business Review Financial Statements Governance Company Information Directors 1 Umeco plc Annual Report 2012
Overview
Markets 2
Service 4
Technology and Know-how 6
Footprint 8
Business Review
Chairman’s Statement 10
Chief Executive’s Review 12
Our Business Model and Strategy 13
Finance Director’s Review 16
Principal Risks and Uncertainties 19
Corporate Responsibility 21
Directors 
Board of Directors 22
Directors’ Report 24
Financial Statements
Group Highlights 30
Consolidated Statement of  
 Comprehensive Income 31
Consolidated Balance Sheet  32
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows 33
Consolidated Statement of  
 Changes in Equity 34
Group Accounting Policies 35
Notes to the Consolidated Financial  
 Statements 40
Company Balance Sheet 72
Company Accounting Policies 73
Notes to the Company  
 Financial Statements 75
Governance 
Corporate Governance 80
Remuneration Report 87
Independent Auditor’s Report to the  
Members of Umeco plc 97
Company Information 
Principal Businesses 98
Five Year Summary 99
Shareholder Information  
 and Financial Calendar 100
Advisors 101
Highlights 
 > Disposal of the Supply Chain businesses in July 2011 has created  
a focused advanced composites business
 > First Boeing 787 delivered to All Nippon Airlines in September 2011. 
Umeco materials used in the construction of this aircraft type
 > Re-branding of the Group completed at the JEC show in March 2012
 > Acclaimed Capital Markets Event held in March 2012 during which  
the Group detailed its strategy, focused on delivering innovation and 
real advantage 
*  Umeco uses adjusted figures as key performance indicators. Adjusted figures are stated before the results of discontinued 
operations, amortisation and impairment charges relating to intangible assets, significant items, the revaluation of financial 
instruments based on their market values and associated tax effects. The differences between the total and adjusted 
measures of operating profit, profit before tax and profit attributable to owners of the Company are reconciled in note 8 to the 
consolidated financial statements. The narrative in the Business Review is based on the adjusted measures of operating profit, 
profit before tax and earnings per share. These provide a more consistent measure of operating performance. On 20 May 
2011, Umeco announced the proposed disposal of the Supply Chain business and completion of the divestment took place 
on 29 July 2011. The Supply Chain business, which was held for sale at 31 March 2011, was classified as a discontinued 
operation in the consolidated financial statements at 31 March 2011 and the financial statements show the discontinued 
operation separately from continuing operations. 
† 
 In light of the offer from Cytec UK Holdings Limited for Umeco, the Board is not proposing a final dividend and therefore the 
dividend for the year is proposed to comprise the interim dividend of 4.00 pence per ordinary share (2011: total dividend  
18.25 pence).
Financial performance 
2012 2011 Change 
Per cent
Revenue £223.0m £207.4m + 7.5
Adjusted operating profit* £21.7m £19.5m + 1 1.3
Operating profit £17.7m £11.4m + 55.3
Adjusted profit before tax* £20.3m £16.4m + 23.8
Profit before tax £16.5m £8.6m + 91.9
Adjusted earnings per share* 28.6p 24.6p + 16.3
Earnings per share 23.3p 13.9p + 67.6
Dividend per share
†
4.00p 18.25p – 78.1
Next Page
Back to Contents
Previous Page 2 Umeco plc Annual Report 2012
Service  
Technology
Markets
Footprint
Know-how
Delivering innovation and real advantage 
through market knowledge
and strategy 
The advanced composites market
The terms ‘advanced composites’ and 
‘prepreg’ have become accepted as the 
generic names for a generation of materials 
manufactured from high performance  
fibres pre-impregnated with a suitable resin 
matrix. These materials are developed, 
manufactured and supplied by our Structural 
Materials business.
Vital to the effective processing of these 
materials, are the vacuum bagging materials 
which are developed, manufactured and 
supplied by our Process Materials business.
Advanced composite materials and vacuum 
bagging materials are used by our customers 
to manufacture components, structures and 
tooling designed for use in our core markets. 
In many cases, advanced composite 
components are replacing traditional metallic 
components.
A high growth market
Industry estimates show a compound growth 
in demand for carbon fibre – a key indicator 
in relation to the wider market for composite 
materials – of 19 per cent per annum 
between 2011 and 2015 followed by 11 per 
cent per annum between 2015 and 2019.
The global industry for composite materials  
is forecast to grow significantly in the coming 
years. The three sectors that will drive this 
growth are anticipated to be aerospace & 
defence, renewable energy and automotive, 
where the combined market size for prepregs 
and process materials is estimated to  
grow by a factor of almost two between 2010 
and 2016.
Why are advanced composites the 
materials of choice?
High strength structures can be designed 
with significant weight savings. Composites 
have several advantages over conventional 
metallic alloys. These include: 
 > Optimised structural performance utilising the 
directional properties of fabrics and fibres.
 > Component integration.
 > Ability to manufacture complex shapes at 
lower costs compared with fabricated or 
machined metallic alloys. 
 > Time and cost reductions on tooling and 
manufacturing of one-offs, prototypes and 
short length production runs. 
 > Excellent fatigue life, i.e. carbon fibre 
composites can be designed to be 
essentially fatigue free. 
 > Improved energy absorbing safety 
structures.
 > Easy repair of damaged structures.
 > Exceptional environmental degradation 
and corrosion resistance properties.
Next Page
Back to Contents
Previous Page Overview Business Review Financial Statements Governance Company Information Directors 3
Key sectors for advanced composite materials
© Ginetta Supercars / Flow Images
Aerospace & defence
The growing demand for lower fuel 
consumption, aligned with advances in 
composite construction techniques, has 
led to a significant increase in the use of 
composites in civil aircraft in the last few 
years. 
New aircraft such as the Airbus 
A380 XWB and the Boeing 787 have 
approximately 50 per cent composites 
compared to approximately 20 per cent 
for current models. 
Wind energy
Previous European industry leadership in 
this sector has been overtaken by China 
and we are well placed to take advantage 
of this geographical shift through our joint 
venture in Shanghai.
With the potential deployment of up to 
29GW of additional offshore wind 
capacity by 2020, the UK is the single 
largest territory for offshore wind globally 
for the foreseeable future. This presents a 
major opportunity for the UK given the 
potential demand for bigger, stronger and 
more durable composite turbine blades. 
Automotive
As the UK moves towards a low carbon 
economy, more environmentally-friendly 
car designs will increasingly seek out 
light weight materials, such as advanced 
composites, to cut fuel emissions and 
reduce running costs.
Industry activity and investment aimed at 
overcoming existing barriers to high 
volume manufacture of composite parts 
and components will influence the uptake 
of advanced composite materials.
Other industrial
Composite materials are used in a wide 
range of applications such as medical 
hardware, communications satellites,  
rail rolling stock and infrastructures, 
photovoltaics and construction systems, 
where low weight, high strength/rigidity, 
and fire performance are required. The 
sheer variety of applications means a  
very wide pool of opportunities to develop 
new products and help replace current 
materials with composite materials.
Recreation
The motorsport industry and in particular 
Formula 1 has been using carbon fibre 
prepregs for many years, benefiting from 
the unique properties of the materials. 
The use of composite materials, 
manufactured mainly using glass fibre 
and polyester resins, is also long 
established as the main construction 
material for boat hulls, decks and 
superstructures in the recreational boat 
building segment. A move away from 
open moulding to vacuum bagging is 
being accelerated by health and safety 
considerations.
Next Page
Back to Contents
Previous Page 4 Umeco plc Annual Report 2012
Service  
Technology
Markets
Footprint
Know-how
Delivering innovation and real advantage 
through solutions tailored  
to customer needs
Focused on our customers
Our culture is to provide great customer 
service, to be highly responsive and flexible. 
Our engineers, chemists and sales force  
have experience in our key markets and an 
intimate understanding of our customers’ 
requirements. This gives us the scope to 
make recommendations, develop new 
products and processes and to deliver them 
quickly – providing real advantage to our 
customers in the following areas:
 > Fibre technology
 > Resin chemistry
 > Blown film technology
 > Collaborative research
 > Testing facilities
 > Tooling technology 
 > Product selection
 > Process know-how
Responsive and reliable service around 
the globe 
Structural Materials operates from facilities  
in Europe and the USA. This business 
develops, manufactures and supplies a 
broad range of advanced composite 
materials.
Process Materials operates from facilities in 
Europe, the USA and China. This business 
develops, manufactures and supplies 
process materials and tooling.
Umeco prides itself on its responsiveness  
to customer needs and its ability to deliver 
short lead times.
Next Page
Back to Contents
Previous Page Overview Business Review Financial Statements Governance Company Information Directors 5
Boeing case study
Boeing, faced with increased build rates, 
plus many new programmes with 
significantly more composite elements, 
were looking for solutions to free floor 
space and outsource lower value added 
activities such as inventory management, 
logistics and kitting.
By establishing a Umeco service hub 
next to Boeing, we have been able to 
improve our responsiveness and ability  
to understand their processing needs. 
The hub is now an established part of the 
Boeing supply chain and we will continue 
to develop this facility in line with 
Boeing’s expansion plans for the 
production of composite components.
Next Page
Back to Contents
Previous Page 6 Umeco plc Annual Report 2012
Service  
Technology
Markets
Footprint
Know-how
through technology and  
proven expertise
Know-how
Our business is focused on providing our 
customers with products, materials and 
know-how so they can manufacture light 
weight, cost effective advanced composite 
components for their products.
Our expertise is in the formulation of specialist 
resins. We combine these resins with fibres 
and, depending on the characteristics and 
format of the fibres used, we obtain a 
composite material with specific properties 
suited to our customers’ requirements.
Our customers benefit from our in depth 
process and engineering expertise, which 
provides added value technical support to 
their manufacturing capabilities.
Products & solutions
We currently hold over 200 resin formulations 
and combine these with over 150 different 
fibre types and fabric formats yielding  
more than 6,000 individual products.  
Each is targeted at a specific customer or 
application. This bespoke service proposition 
sets us apart from the crowd. 
We design and produce films with 
engineered structures from 50 microns and 
upwards in thickness and with five or more 
layers engineered specifically with the final 
component in mind.
We produce complete packaged solutions 
for customers seeking innovative 
improvements to their own processes and 
provide line side deliveries of kits of the exact 
materials needed to complete their daily 
production schedules.
Investment in research & development 
and processes
 > Substantial investment in research & 
development
 > Focused on specific market opportunities 
 > Participation in collaborative projects; 
co-sponsors of pioneering academic 
research
 > Partnering with many of our customers 
 > At the end of March 2012, we were 
participating in 23 projects with over  
250 partners
Delivering innovation and real advantage 
Next Page
Back to Contents
Previous Page Overview Business Review Financial Statements Governance Company Information Directors 7
Image: © Airbus S.A.S. 2010 – Computer Rendering by  
Fixion – GWLNSD 
GKN Aerospace manufactures Airbus 
A350 XWB wing spars using Umeco’s 
large scale composite tooling mandrels
Umeco’s tooling prepregs were used to 
manufacture a suite of large scale tooling 
mandrels used by GKN Aerospace in the 
production of Airbus A350 XWB rear wing 
spars. Umeco was asked to design and 
manufacture low weight, low cost 
mandrels exhibiting high stiffness and 
excellent geometric accuracy. 
The mandrels were made using machined 
foam cores which were over-laminated 
with Umeco’s LTM®217 epoxy tooling 
resin system combined with woven 
carbon fibre and ultra-high modulus 
unidirectional carbon fibres. The mandrels 
were then machined in their assembled 
state to the final spar dimensions, within 
the specified tolerance of ±0.25mm. 
Initially designed specifically for current 
Airbus A350 XWB wing construction, all 
four mandrels can be remachined and 
relaminated to implement geometry 
changes quickly and cost-efficiently.
This project illustrates Umeco’s design 
and materials expertise as well as our 
ability to deliver high quality tooling for  
the aerospace industry market leaders.
Success for Quantum Racing
Our VTM
®
260 series prepregs and VTA
®
260 
adhesive films were used by Longitud Cero 
Composites S.L. to manufacture the hull of 
Quantum Racing’s TP52 yacht – which went 
on to win the 2011 Audi MedCup Circuit and 
TP 52 World Championship.
These products have a successful history 
spanning multiple America’s Cup and  
Volvo Ocean Race victories, with Quantum 
Racing’s success further cementing our 
reputation as a manufacturer of world-
beating materials in the race boat segment.
Image: Courtesy of Quantum Racing – © Libby Tomlinson
Previous Page
Back to Contents
Next Page 8 Umeco plc Annual Report 2012
through global resources 
locally served
Composites is a business with worldwide 
demand and it is important to be globally 
present. With multiple locations in the  
USA, Europe and Asia, a worldwide sales 
force network and a central research & 
development facility, our aim is to keep  
close to our customers and to establish 
facilities in emerging markets. 
Manufacturing capacity is kept under 
constant review in an environment where 
incremental capacity becomes available 
between one and two years after investment 
decisions are made.
We establish local, long term relationships 
with a broad blue chip customer base.
Delivering innovation and real advantage 
Structural Materials
Revenue by location of customer
Process Materials
Revenue by location of customer
UK 7.1
10.1
Italy 16.6
  24.9
33.2
Per cent Per cent
5.5
4.9
17.6
Italy     113
Rest of Europe 12
USA  290
France     53
UK     395
863
France
Rest of Europe          
UK
Italy
France
Rest of Europe          
  22.4 31.5 USA          USA          
  18.9 7.3 Rest of World Rest of World
UK 7.1
10.1
Italy 16.6
  24.9
33.2
Per cent Per cent
5.5
4.9
17.6
Italy     113
Rest of Europe 12
USA  290
France     53
UK     395
863
France
Rest of Europe          
UK
Italy
France
Rest of Europe          
  22.4 31.5 USA          USA          
  18.9 7.3 Rest of World Rest of World
Service  
Technology
Markets
Footprint
Know-how
Next Page
Back to Contents
Previous Page Overview Business Review Financial Statements Governance Company Information Directors 9
Siemens case study
Siemens decided to implement a global 
strategy to outsource the manufacture of 
vacuum bags and, responding quickly to 
customer needs, our US team proposed 
a solution that reviewed Siemens’ whole 
process. This included re-engineering the 
vacuum bag kit, optimising film use with 
nesting techniques and implementing 
proven know-how to ensure consistent 
quality and high productivity. The end 
result was a cost competitive solution 
and a partner that Siemens  
can trust for future programmes. 
Umeco’s new business in China
Umeco’s soon to be established, wholly-
owned, Chinese business will provide a 
local service to our global customers 
already manufacturing in China, and also 
ensure that we are well positioned to take 
full advantage of the anticipated high 
growth rates in the demand for advanced 
composites. Asia is already the largest 
market worldwide for composites and  
is forecast for double digit growth in 
advanced composites demand over 
coming years, primarily driven by the 
wind energy and aerospace industries.
Our new Chinese business will offer  
the full range of Umeco products and 
services. The first step will be to focus  
on sales and distribution, assisting our 
existing distributors with local technical 
support, transferring key know-how and 
knowledge from our businesses in the 
USA and Europe and connecting directly 
with our key customers. The next step  
will be to manufacture prepreg material 
locally, which will become key in the 
bidding process for local contracts.
Next Page
Back to Contents
Previous Page 10 Umeco plc Annual Report 2012
Chairman’s Statement
Overview
We successfully divested Pattonair on 29 July 2011 and as a result 
Umeco plc (‘Umeco’) became a business focused on the advanced 
composites market. The business performed well in the year to  
31 March 2012, with trading in the second half building upon the 
encouraging first half year.
On 12 April 2012, the Boards of Umeco and Cytec Industries Inc. 
(‘Cytec’) announced that they had reached agreement on the terms  
of a recommended cash offer by Cytec UK Holdings Limited, a 
wholly-owned subsidiary of Cytec, for the entire issued  
and to be issued share capital of Umeco. It is intended that the 
acquisition will be effected by way of a Court-sanctioned Scheme of 
Arrangement of Umeco under Part 26 of the Companies Act 2006 
(‘Scheme of Arrangement’). 
Under the terms of the acquisition, Umeco shareholders will be 
entitled to receive 550 pence in cash for each Umeco share held  
at the reduction record time, valuing the entire issued and to be 
issued share capital of Umeco at approximately £274 million. The 
consideration of 550 pence in cash for each Umeco share represents 
a premium of approximately 46.3 per cent to the closing price of 
376 pence per Umeco share on 11 April 2012, being the last dealing 
day prior to announcement of the proposed acquisition.
On 28 May 2012, the shareholders of Umeco overwhelmingly voted  
in favour of the Scheme of Arrangement and the proposal by Cytec. 
The acquisition is expected to complete on 20 July 2012, subject to 
satisfaction or waiver of the outstanding conditions, including the 
receipt of certain competition clearances and sanction of the Scheme 
of Arrangement by the Court.
The Board of Umeco believes that the offer from Cytec of 550 pence 
per Umeco share is an attractive price for Umeco shareholders, and 
represents a valuation that reflects the future growth potential of 
Umeco whilst providing certainty, in cash, to Umeco shareholders.
Results and dividend
As a consequence of the disposal of Pattonair, Umeco’s Supply 
Chain operation, the results for this business are shown as a 
discontinued operation in the consolidated financial statements. 
Excluding Supply Chain, revenue from continuing operations in the 
year to 31 March 2012 was £223.0 million (2011: £207.4 million),  
an increase of 7.5 per cent. Adjusted operating profit increased by 
11.3 per cent to £21.7 million (2011: £19.5 million). 
Consistent with the terms of the proposed acquisition by Cytec,  
the Board is not proposing a final dividend and therefore the total 
dividend for the year is proposed to be the interim dividend of 
4.00 pence per ordinary share (2011: total dividend 18.25 pence). 
Strategy
Following the disposal of Supply Chain in July 2011, Umeco has been 
focused on its advanced composites business, which principally serves 
the aerospace & defence, wind energy, automotive, recreation and 
industrial sectors. Umeco’s focus within these end sectors is those 
segments with underlying long term growth prospects, coupled with 
a propensity to switch to lighter weight, high-strength advanced 
composite materials driven by structural factors such as environmental 
regulation, rising fuel costs and safety considerations. 
 
Following the good progress Umeco made with the execution of its 
growth strategy, the Board of Umeco received an approach from 
Cytec which culminated in the Board of Umeco recommending an 
offer to be made by way of a Scheme of Arrangement.
Cytec is focused on continuing to develop its product and 
applications technologies in the composites market. Accordingly, 
Cytec understands the strategic value in creating a larger advanced 
composites offering in the industrial applications segment, building  
on the success of the Umeco business which has been developed  
to date. 
The acquisition should provide significant opportunities for Umeco to 
expand its offering in the rapidly growing industrial markets for 
advanced composite materials through leveraging its customer 
service excellence, know-how and the leading technologies of the 
combined entity within existing and new customer relationships.
Neil Johnson 
Chairman 
Next Page
Back to Contents
Previous Page Company Information Directors
11 Umeco plc Annual Report 2012
Business Review Overview Governance Financial Statements
Board changes 
On 20 May 2011, we announced that Andrew Moss (formerly Chief 
Operating Officer) had been appointed as Chief Executive and Steve 
Bowers (formerly Group Financial Controller) had been appointed as 
Finance Director. 
Andrew Moss joined Umeco in 1999. He joined the Board in June 
2008 on his appointment as Chief Operating Officer, prior to  
which he was Chief Executive of Umeco Composites. Andrew has  
a broad industrial and aerospace background, and was previously 
Chief Executive of the Automotive and Building Products Group of 
Invensys plc. 
Steve Bowers joined Umeco in 1998 having qualified as a chartered 
accountant with KPMG. He has been Company Secretary since  
1999 and was appointed Group Financial Controller in 2004. 
Clive Snowdon, formerly Chief Executive, and Doug Robertson, formerly 
Finance Director, resigned from the Board on 20 May 2011.
It is intended that upon the Scheme of Arrangement becoming 
effective, Andrew Moss, Chief Executive, Steve Bowers, Finance 
Director and each of the Non-executive Directors of Umeco will  
each resign from their office as a director of Umeco and, in respect  
of the Chief Executive and Finance Director, that they will resign as 
employees of Umeco. They will each receive compensation in line 
with their legal rights and the provisions of their respective service 
contracts or letters of appointment.
Management and employees
Cytec has assured the Board of Umeco that, upon the Scheme of 
Arrangement becoming effective, the existing employment rights, 
including pension rights, of the management and employees of 
Umeco will be safeguarded. Discussions between Cytec and Umeco’s 
senior management in relation to any specific ongoing roles  
to be assigned to them in the enlarged group (following the Scheme of 
Arrangement becoming effective), and their ongoing terms of 
employment, may take place before the acquisition has completed.
The management and employees of Umeco have done an outstanding 
job in transforming Umeco into a highly successful business focused  
on the advanced composites market. I am especially proud of their 
achievements over the past year, one in which Umeco has undergone 
significant change, and thank them for their support and commitment.
Summary
As Umeco enters a new phase in its long history it is well positioned in 
growing markets with an experienced management team focused on the 
future growth prospects. The offer from Cytec of 550 pence per Umeco 
share represents a valuation that reflects this potential whilst providing 
certainty, in cash, to Umeco shareholders. 
Neil Johnson
Chairman
19 June 2012
Next Page
Back to Contents
Previous Page 12 Umeco plc Annual Report 2012
Chief Executive’s Review
Andrew Moss
Chief Executive
Umeco is an advanced composite materials business delivering 
innovation that provides real advantage across the globe for blue chip 
manufacturers. 
Advanced composite materials are light weight and high-performance, 
characteristics for which there is growing demand across a wide 
range of end markets. There are strong structural drivers of growth in 
our markets with an increasing requirement for materials that address 
issues associated with rising fuel prices and concerns for the 
environment.
Our strategy is to focus our efforts on higher growth end markets and 
we aim to grow our share in these markets by exploiting our proven 
portfolio of products and technologies and building on long term and 
well established blue chip customer relationships. Our technology, 
know-how and service levels are key differentiators which set us 
apart from the competition.
Today, we are well positioned and are now unified around a single 
Umeco brand. This joined up approach is critical to our growth plans 
and our ability to better leverage our customer relationships and 
service ethos under one trading name which is a global leader in the 
market for advanced composites. 
Results
Umeco grew revenue by 7.5 per cent to £223.0 million and adjusted 
operating profit by 11.3 per cent to £21.7 million, reflecting strong 
growth in our aerospace activities partially offset by weakness in the 
wind energy sector.
Our business is managed through two business streams – Structural 
Materials and Process Materials.
Structural Materials
Structural Materials develops, manufactures and supplies a broad 
range of advanced composite materials. It also has a growing 
European presence in the distribution of composite resins, 
reinforcements and related products.
Structural Materials enjoyed good growth in its revenues from 
aerospace & defence, recreation, especially motorsport, and other 
industrial sectors. Revenue growth from our distribution activities in 
Europe contributed 3.9 per cent of the overall 15.8 per cent growth. 
Operating profits grew by 5.6 per cent with the lower operating 
margin in the year reflecting revenue growth biased toward the lower 
margin distribution business, coupled with lower research & 
development grant income in the first half of the year.
2012
£m
2011
£m
Change
Per cent
Revenue 139.0 120.0 + 15.8
Adjusted operating profit 11.4 10.8 + 5.6
Per cent Per cent
Adjusted operating margin 8.2 9.0
Working capital to sales 9.4 11.3
Sector review 
Revenue by sector
2012
£m
2011
£m
Change
Per cent
Aerospace & defence 50.7 45.1 + 12.4
Wind energy 0.9 1.5 – 40.0
Recreation 37.2 30.9 + 20.4
Automotive 12.2 11.8 + 3.4
Other industrial sectors 38.0 30.7 + 23.8
139.0 120.0 + 15.8
Aerospace & defence 
Structural Materials’ aerospace & defence revenues grew by 12.4 per 
cent, led by our UK business. This was largely driven by demand for 
ballistic protection materials for the 200 vehicle Foxhound contract 
awarded to Force Protection Europe by the UK Ministry of Defence.  
This order was completed in February 2012 and work immediately 
commenced on a follow-on order for materials for a further 100 vehicles.
We are pleased with the progress we are making on materials, including 
our out-of-autoclave product range, for which we are the only source 
qualified by Airbus, and tooling for A350 XWB applications. In March 
2012, we announced that GE Aviation placed an order for the first 18 ship 
sets of our MTM
®
44-1 out-of-autoclave prepreg for the outer and 
mid-section fixed trailing edge panels for the Airbus A350 XWB wing. 
Wind energy 
Structural Materials’ relatively low revenues in the wind energy sector 
decreased during the year as a result of reduced demand for our specialist 
materials used in the structure of moulding tools for turbine blades. 
Recreation
Revenue in this sector, which includes motorsport, marine and other 
sporting goods applications, grew by 20.4 per cent. During the year, we 
were successful in winning further sales in Formula 1 and this made a 
Next Page
Back to Contents
Previous Page Financial Statements Governance Company Information Directors
13
Business Review Overview
Service  
Technology
Markets
Footprint
Know-how
Fast growing high quality 
business segments
Long term relationships
with global blue chip
customer base
Global and local
Geographical reach
Global brand
Sustained
investment
in research
& development
Applications
and engineering
know-how
Expertise in
formulations
Responsive 
and reliable
Focused
on customer
needs
Proprietary
technology
Portfolio of
advanced
composite
materials
Delivering 
innovation and 
real advantage 
Our Business Model and Strategy
This pentagon captures Umeco’s 
strategy, values and USP , which 
are the Company’s tools for 
building shareholder value.
Next Page
Back to Contents
Previous Page 14 Umeco plc Annual Report 2012
Chief Executive’s Review continued
significant contribution to revenue growth. Activity in the marine sector 
was slightly ahead of last year and revenue in the high value recreational 
sector improved due to growing demand, in particular arising from 
supplying customised composite solutions to a market and technology 
leader in sporting goods.
Automotive 
Revenue in the automotive sector increased by 3.4 per cent all of 
which arose in the second half of the year as new projects came  
on stream. Our UK and US businesses enjoyed strong growth and 
are active on a number of projects. High profile applications of our 
materials technology include both GTA Motor’s ‘Spano’ Super Sports 
Car and Koenigsegg’s Agera R Hypercar which recently broke a 
Guinness World speed record.
Other industrial sectors 
Applications where the high strength, light weight characteristics of 
advanced composite materials are attractive arise in a wide range of 
industries. Umeco’s portfolio of composite materials has a diverse 
customer base including those in healthcare, electrical equipment 
and industrial machinery. Revenue grew by 23.8 per cent, the majority 
of which arose from the expanded geographic coverage of our 
distribution business. During the second half of the prior year, 
Structural Materials’ distribution business successfully extended its 
agreement with Ashland to include Finland and France, with both 
these territories making a significant contribution to revenue in the 
year to 31 March 2012. 
Business development 
Umeco was the lead partner alongside Tilsatec, Sigmatex, Exel 
Composites, NetComposites and the University of Leeds in the 
multi-partner UK project ‘FibreCycle’ which has received a JEC 
Innovations Award. The aim of the project was to develop materials 
based on carbon fibres recovered from waste streams to allow 
manufacturing of technical fabric for thermoplastic and thermoset 
applications in the composites industry.
Our Structural Materials business in the US was awarded  
US$2.0 million of funding from the United States Navy for research & 
development efforts in support of our out-of-autoclave materials and 
technology development. This is the third phase of a programme to 
increase the technology readiness level of our materials to permit 
deployment on military and other air and space vehicles. The 
programme of work will be undertaken over the next two years.
We have successfully completed a collaborative project to 
demonstrate the automated processing and manufacture of cost-
effective advanced composite structures for the automotive industry 
in partnership with ABB Ltd, Bentley Motors Ltd and ESI Group.  
A follow-on project with Aston Martin is currently in progress.
In the rail industry, our MTM
®
82S-C prepreg has been hailed a 
resounding success for Bombardier’s Class 379 Passenger trains 
used on the Stansted Airport rail link. Our materials provide a 
significant weight reduction, over 40 per cent, compared to the 
previous design being used by Bombardier.
We are installing an additional manufacturing line at our Structural 
Materials site in the UK. This £3.1 million investment will add capacity 
to our existing product range, as well as providing additional 
functionality to meet and exceed our customers’ requirements.  
The line is expected to be installed during autumn 2012.
The relocation of Structural Materials’ Californian operations is 
proceeding to plan. The administrative areas of the operation relocated 
in November 2011 and the new machinery became operational in 
February 2012. The remainder of the production machinery together 
with existing staff will relocate by the end of the current financial year. 
Capital expenditure on this project was US$5.6 million in the year to 
31 March 2012. Total spend is expected to be US$12.0 million of 
which US$11.6 million has already been expended.
Process Materials
Process Materials develops, manufactures and supplies vacuum 
bagging materials to the composites industry and other markets. 
 
Process Materials enjoyed good growth in its revenues from 
aerospace & defence, recreation and automotive. Revenue growth 
was held back by the slowdown of demand in the Chinese wind 
energy sector coupled with the impact of destocking the distribution  
channel ahead of the opening of our manufacturing joint venture in 
September 2011. 
Operating profits grew by 18.4 per cent with the improved margins  
in the year reflecting the revenue growth biased towards the higher 
margin aerospace & defence sector, coupled with the pricing actions 
taken in the second half of the prior year.
2012
£m
2011
£m
Change
Per cent
Revenue 84.0 87.4 – 3.9
Adjusted operating profit 10.3 8.7 + 18.4
   
Per cent Per cent
Adjusted operating margin 12.3 10.0
Working capital to sales 22.1 16.5
Sector review
Revenue by sector
2012
£m
2011
£m
Change
Per cent
Aerospace & defence 31.0 26.4 + 17.4
Wind energy 22.2 28.2 – 21.3
Recreation 3.9 3.4 + 14.7
Automotive 5.8 3.4 + 70.6
Other industrial sectors 21.1 26.0 – 18.8
84.0 87.4 – 3.9
Aerospace & defence 
Our aerospace & defence revenues grew by 17.4 per cent maintaining 
the strong growth trend established over the past two years. 
Increasing build rates for large commercial aircraft both at Boeing and 
Airbus coupled with progress on new aircraft programmes such as 
A350 XWB and B787 is driving growth in this sector. 
Next Page
Back to Contents
Previous Page Company Information Directors
15 Umeco plc Annual Report 2012
Business Review Overview Governance Financial Statements
Wind energy 
Our revenues in the wind energy sector declined by 21.3 per cent, 
however excluding China our revenues grew by 13.9 per cent.  
We anticipated a decline in activity as we switched production of 
materials for China to our joint venture, but this was exacerbated by  
a reduction in demand from Chinese customers. After a record 2010, 
there has been a tightening of government regulation and, coupled 
with bottlenecks in the electricity grid, turbine producers are reacting 
to this slowdown in demand by destocking. We are pleased that the 
recovery in this sector commenced in the final quarter of the year and 
remain confident about the long term growth potential of this 
important sector. Overall, we are pleased by the progress made in 
this sector. 
Recreation & automotive 
Revenues in the recreation sector grew by 14.7 per cent reflecting 
modest growth in end markets and some new business wins. 
Automotive sector revenues grew by 70.6 per cent due to increased 
sales of specialist film products to this sector during the second half 
of the year.
Other industrial sectors 
Process Materials’ revenues declined in other industrial sectors  
by 18.8 per cent. Growth in demand from composites sectors was 
more than offset by a sharp decline during the first half of the year in 
the demand for specialist films not directly related to composites 
applications in Continental Europe. During the second half markets 
stabilised and looking forward we expect this specialist films product 
line to respond to the macroeconomic factors impacting European 
markets. 
Business development 
In September 2010, in line with our strategy to establish a presence  
in the world’s leading area for wind energy, we announced a joint 
venture agreement with our Chinese distributor, Shanghai Leadgo 
Technology Co., Ltd. to manufacture vacuum bagging films 
specifically for the wind energy sector. The facility was formally 
opened on 21 September 2011 and has successfully commenced 
production ahead of schedule and on budget. This is a significant 
development for Umeco in the world’s largest market for wind energy.
Process Materials has made good progress in qualifying a new range 
of specialist bagging film for aerospace applications. These are being 
manufactured at our facility in Italy, for which new equipment has 
recently been ordered. This is expected to be operational in mid 2012 
and will provide the capability to make a wider range of products. 
Strategic developments
On 7 June 2011, Umeco joined the National Composites Centre with  
a place on the board. We are enjoying developing a close working 
relationship with world-leading manufacturers and UK academics to 
develop new technologies and promote the application of composites.
On 8 August 2011, we announced that our German subsidiary, Umeco 
Composites GmbH, had purchased certain of the assets of Fenotec 
Ges.i.L from the administrator for the cash sum of €2.2 million 
(£1.9 million). The assets purchased, which are located in Beelitz near 
Berlin, comprise freehold buildings and high quality production 
equipment. These are being used to manufacture Umeco’s range of 
prepreg advanced composite materials. We are well advanced in  
the process of introducing our own proven product range to  
this facility. The acquisition provides an excellent opportunity for us  
to get closer to our customers in Continental Europe. 
We are in the process of establishing a Wholly Owned Foreign 
Enterprise in China and this is expected to be completed during 
2012. The operation will be a sales and distribution hub, based in 
Shanghai, offering local technical and sales support to Umeco’s 
extensive network of distributors and agents in the fast growing 
Asian market as well as providing a more direct channel to 
customers in the region across its entire product range. This 
important development involves minimal recruitment and other 
costs at this stage. 
Supply Chain disposal
The sale of the Supply Chain business was approved by 
shareholders at the general meeting held on 13 June 2011 and 
completion occurred on 29 July 2011. Proceeds received from the 
disposal were in line with the terms we announced on 20 May 2011. 
The net cash inflow relating to the Supply Chain business in the 
year, including proceeds received net of cash balances disposed 
and attributable corporate costs, was £84.4 million. Under the terms 
of the disposal agreement, deferred consideration of £8.0 million is 
receivable in instalments during the year to 31 March 2013.
Outlook
In a period of major change we successfully delivered a good 
performance in the year to 31 March 2012, with profits in line  
with our expectations. During the year we made significant progress 
with the successful disposal of Supply Chain enabling us to focus 
on enhancing our position as a leading global composite materials 
and solutions business. We also acquired high quality assets for our 
new business in Germany and opened our joint venture in China, 
giving us a foothold in the world’s largest wind energy market.
Whilst we need to be vigilant in an uncertain macroeconomic 
environment, Umeco is in good shape to enjoy the structural growth 
opportunities for advanced composite materials.
Andrew Moss
Chief Executive
19 June 2012
Next Page
Back to Contents
Previous Page 16 Umeco plc Annual Report 2012
Finance Director’s Review
Operating results
Continuing operations
2012
£m
2011
£m
Revenue 223.0 207.4
Adjusted operating profit 21.7 19.5
Per cent Per cent
Adjusted operating margin 9.7 9.4
Revenue from continuing operations was 7.5 per cent higher than  
last year. The growth in revenue reflects improvements in demand  
in the markets served by Structural Materials and Process Materials. 
Adjusted operating profit was £21.7 million, £2.2 million higher than 
the previous year and our operating margin improved to 9.7 per cent 
(2011: 9.4 per cent). 
Structural Materials’ operating margin decreased to 8.2 per cent 
(2011: 9.0 per cent). This was due to the effects of additional 
distribution revenues which attract lower margins, dual running costs 
associated with the relocation of our operations in California and, in 
the first half of the year, lower income from grant funding providers in 
respect of our research & development activities. The operating 
margin of Process Materials increased to 12.3 per cent (2011: 
10.0 per cent), due to a favourable sales mix with activity biased 
toward the aerospace & defence sector.
The performance of the Group including discontinued operations 
reflects the four month contribution from the Supply Chain business. 
Including discontinued operations, total revenue decreased by  
32.2 per cent to £311.9 million (2011: £459.9 million) and adjusted 
operating profit reduced by 24.3 per cent to £25.2 million  
(2011: £33.3 million). 
Exchange rates
Average rates 2012 2011
US dollar 1.596 1.556
Euro 1.160 1.177
Closing rates
US dollar 1.598 1.603
Euro 1.200 1.130
The majority of Group revenue from continuing operations is 
generated by overseas subsidiaries and a significant proportion of  
UK business is transacted in foreign currencies, principally the US 
dollar and the Euro. Exchange rate effects were limited in the year 
due to the relative stability of principal exchange rates and, at 
constant exchange rates, the increase in revenue from continuing 
operations for the year would have been just £1.2 million higher  
than the reported figure. 
Net financial expense 
Net financial expense, excluding revaluations of financial instruments, 
was £3.2 million in aggregate (2011: £5.8 million), of which £1.4 million 
(2011: £3.1 million) related to continuing operations with the remainder 
being attributable to discontinued operations. For the period to the 
date of disposal of the Supply Chain business, financial income and 
expense have been allocated between continuing and discontinued 
operations, with central interest costs being apportioned based  
upon funding provided to business units and consideration paid  
for acquisitions.
The average interest rate payable in the year to 31 March 2012  
on debt balances was 6.4 per cent (2011: 6.3 per cent). Following 
completion of the disposal of the Supply Chain business, variations  
in the Group’s net cash and debt levels have reduced significantly. 
Intangible amortisation 
The amortisation charge for continuing operations was £4.0 million 
(2011: £5.3 million). This related to the amortisation of intangible 
assets arising on acquisitions, principally the benefit of product 
approvals, order books and customer relationships on hand at the 
dates of acquisition. No impairment charges have been made in 
the year. 
Significant items 
No significant items were incurred in respect of continuing operations 
(2011: £2.8 million). Significant items of £2.1 million (2011: £0.2 million) 
were charged to profit before tax in relation to discontinued 
operations, comprising £1.1 million for compensation to directors for 
loss of office and £1.0 million in respect of the write-off of prepaid 
bank fees.
Profit before tax 
Adjusted profit before tax from continuing operations was £20.3 million 
(2011: £16.4 million), a rise of 23.8 per cent. Total profit before tax from 
continuing operations was £16.5 million (2011: £8.6 million).
Adjusted profit before tax, including discontinued operations,  
was £23.0 million (2011: £27.5 million), a decrease of 16.4 per cent.
Tax 
The effective tax rate on adjusted profit before tax from continuing 
operations was 32.0 per cent (2011: 27.6 per cent). The effective tax 
rate on adjusted profit before tax, including discontinued operations, 
was 32.5 per cent (2011: 28.7 per cent). 
The effective tax rate on profit before tax from continuing operations 
was 31.5 per cent (2011: 22.4 per cent).
Steve Bowers 
Finance Director
Next Page
Back to Contents
Previous Page Company Information Directors
17 Umeco plc Annual Report 2012
Business Review Overview Governance Financial Statements
Discontinued operations 
Completion of the sale of the Supply Chain business occurred on 
29 July 2011. The principal terms of the disposal are an unadjusted 
cash and debt free value of approximately £145.8 million. The net 
consideration was £112.5 million, before transaction costs, excluding 
£8.0 million deferred consideration which will be received in four equal 
quarterly instalments between 29 June 2012 and 29 March 2013. 
Supply Chain is classified as a discontinued operation in the 
consolidated financial statements, along with Advanced Composites 
Group SA (Pty) Limited (‘ACG South Africa’), the business and assets 
of which were disposed in the prior year.
In the year to 31 March 2012, revenue from discontinued operations 
was £88.9 million (2011: £252.5 million) and adjusted operating profit 
was £3.5 million (2011: £13.8 million).
Earnings per share 
Adjusted earnings per share from continuing operations were 
28.6 pence, 16.3 per cent higher than last year (2011: 24.6 pence). 
Total earnings per share from continuing operations were 23.3 pence 
(2011: 13.9 pence). 
Adjusted earnings per share including discontinued operations were 
32.3 pence (2011: 40.8 pence). 
Dividends 
In light of the offer from Cytec for Umeco, the Board is not proposing 
a final dividend and therefore the dividend for the year is proposed to 
comprise the interim dividend of 4.00 pence per ordinary share (2011: 
total dividend 18.25 pence). This interim dividend was paid in 
February 2012 and the value of the dividend was £2.0 million.
Operating cash flow
Continuing operations
2012 
£m
2011 
£m
Operating profit 21.7 19.5
Depreciation 3.8 3.7
Profit on disposal of property, plant & 
equipment (0.2) –
Significant items – (2.8)
Share based payments and own shares held 0.9 0.4
Increase in inventories (6.2) (5.6)
Increase in debtors (0.3) (10.0)
(Decrease)/increase in creditors, provisions 
& retirement benefit obligations (0.5) 10.4
Operating cash flow 19.2 15.6
2012 
Per cent
2011 
Per cent
Operating cash flow conversion 88.5 80.0
Working capital ratio 13.1 11.4
Operating profit conversion to cash for continuing operations was 
88.5 per cent (2011: 80.0 per cent) and remains within our anticipated 
range of between 80.0 per cent and 100.0 per cent. There was a net 
outflow in respect of working capital, provisions and retirement 
benefit obligations of £7.0 million (2011: £5.2 million). Increases in 
inventories to support the Group’s ongoing growth led to an outflow 
of £6.2 million (2011: £5.6 million). Debtors increased only marginally, 
by £0.3 million (2011: £10.0 million), reflecting the Group’s tight credit 
control environment which continues to be maintained to ensure our 
exposure to credit risk remains at an acceptable level. The ratio of 
working capital to revenue for continuing operations increased from 
11.4 per cent to 13.1 per cent. 
Capital expenditure 
Gross capital expenditure for continuing operations of £11.3 million 
(2011: £6.5 million) was £7.5 million higher than depreciation. The 
capital expenditure primarily comprised £3.5 million at Structural 
Materials’ new premises in California, £1.9 million for the assets 
purchased in Germany from Fenotec Ges.i.L and, within Process 
Materials, £2.6 million for equipment to manufacture bagging films for 
the aerospace market. 
Free cash flow 
Operating cash flow less interest, tax and capital expenditure from 
continuing operations generated £3.6 million (2011: £2.5 million). Tax 
paid by continuing operations was £0.9 million lower than the current 
tax charge in the financial statements, as a result of the receipt of 
refunds in respect of prior years.
Net debt and banking facilities
2012 
£m
2011 
£m
Net cash/(debt) 8.6 (74.3)
Net cash was £8.6 million (2011: net debt of £74.3 million). Foreign 
exchange effects caused the sterling value of debt to fall by 
£1.8 million, which principally arose during the period to the disposal 
of the Supply Chain business.
The proceeds of the disposal of Supply Chain of £106.4 million net  
of costs were used to fully repay the Group’s committed credit 
facilities with Lloyds Banking Group. In conjunction with the disposal, 
the Group entered into an agreement for a new five year committed 
multi currency revolving credit bank facility with HSBC Bank plc and 
Santander UK plc, comprising £15.0 million and US$25.0 million 
facilities. This facility provides us with the financial flexibility to invest  
in opportunities that can deliver long term returns. 
Equity 
Equity attributable to shareholders grew from £171.6 million to  
£173.7 million. This principally results from the retained profit for the 
year of £13.8 million, less an actuarial loss arising in retirement benefit 
obligations of £2.1 million net of tax, a loss debited to the translation 
reserve of £3.6 million and dividends paid of £7.5 million. An expense 
relating to share based payments of £0.8 million was credited directly 
to reserves.
Next Page
Back to Contents
Previous Page 18 Umeco plc Annual Report 2012
Finance Director’s Review continued
Pensions
The Group operates a number of defined contribution pension 
schemes and two defined benefit plans. The defined benefit plans are 
closed to new entrants and the latest actuarial valuations of these 
plans show a deficit of £2.6 million (2011: £3.7 million). The Board has 
agreed with the plans’ trustees that the deficits will be funded over a 
five year period and, accordingly, special payments were paid to the 
plans during the year of £1.2 million (2011: £1.2 million). In addition, a 
one-off lump sum contribution of £0.7 million was paid in September 
2011 by the Group following completion of the disposal of the Supply 
Chain business. Under the terms of the Supply Chain disposal 
agreement, Umeco retains funding responsibility for the defined 
benefit plans; however the Supply Chain business’ employees ceased 
to accrue further benefits under the plans from completion of 
the disposal. 
The deficits of the defined benefit plans have been recognised  
on the balance sheet, with the IAS19 valuation of the plans at  
31 March 2012 showing a shortfall in assets to liabilities of  
£1.7 million (2011: £2.0 million). 
Currency exchange risk
The Group seeks to hedge currency exchange risks by matching 
purchases and revenues that are denominated in foreign currencies. 
Where this is not possible, forward currency contracts may be taken 
out to protect exposures. Group policy prohibits speculation in 
currency management. 
The retranslation of the Group’s net investment in overseas 
businesses led to a net loss of £0.2 million being debited to  
the translation reserve.
Summary
In the year we combined growth in revenue levels with improving 
operating margins and continued to maintain our tight working capital 
control environment. Umeco’s balance sheet was transformed during 
the year, providing a strong financial position. Combined with our new 
banking facilities, this financial position gives Umeco the ability to 
capitalise on the strong structural growth drivers in our markets.
Steve Bowers
Finance Director
19 June 2012
Next Page
Back to Contents
Previous Page Company Information Directors
19 Umeco plc Annual Report 2012
Business Review Overview Governance Financial Statements
Principal Risks and Uncertainties
Significant risks affecting the Group are identified and monitored principally through the preparation of risk registers. 
Risk registers are produced by each business unit on a monthly basis and are considered at local board level. Significant 
changes in the risk profile of the Group are reported to the Umeco Board as they arise. A ‘Group wide’ risk register, 
introduced in 201 1, consolidates the risk registers produced in every part of the organisation and a comprehensive 
review of all risks identified is reviewed by the Board on an annual basis. The risks outlined in this part of the Annual 
Report are those that could delay or prevent the achievement of the Group’s strategic objectives and developments.
Risk Impact Control
Lapse of the offer from Cytec. The acquisition 
by Cytec of Umeco is dependent on a number 
of factors including the receipt of certain 
competition clearances and sanction of the 
Scheme of Arrangement by the Court.
Lapse of the offer from Cytec would expose the 
Group to high costs of an aborted transaction and 
to potential reputational damage and reduction of 
share value.
The shareholder meetings held on 28 May 2012 
overwhelmingly approved the Scheme of 
Arrangement. Competition clearances are in the 
process of being sought.
Continuing economic uncertainty. Despite 
some recovery in markets during 2011/12, 
economic conditions continue to be uncertain, 
in particular within the Eurozone.
Greater potential volatility in demand levels, 
continuing uncertainty surrounding the Euro and a 
heightened risk of debtors defaulting expose the 
Group to the risk of reduced profitability.
The sectors in which the Group operates have 
shown themselves to be resilient in the face of the 
recent economic downturn. Strong order books at 
key OEMs in the aerospace sector support long 
term prospects for this sector which is currently the 
Group’s largest customer segment. Demand levels 
for advanced composite materials have been 
robust and the long term prospects for advanced 
composites remain strong, due to the underlying 
move to improve efficiency and address regulatory 
and environmental issues through the use of 
stronger, lighter weight materials. 
 
The Group’s continued development of its product 
offering through investment in technology and 
know-how provides a strong position from which  
to manage the adverse effects of short term 
economic fluctuations. The longevity of aerospace 
programmes, strongly embedded relationships 
with key customers and market leading technology 
give some mitigation against the effects of weak 
and volatile macroeconomic conditions.
Risk of product failure. The Group provides 
warranties to customers regarding the 
specification and/or proper operation of the 
products that it supplies and there is a risk of 
goods supplied leading to the Group being 
held responsible for incidents.
The liability faced as a result of such an incident, 
particularly in sectors such as aerospace, could 
exceed the Group’s product liability insurance 
cover, or the nature of claims may be such that 
insurance cover provides no protection.
Business units perform quality assurance testing 
on products received from suppliers and products 
are sourced through ISO approved companies 
where possible. All business units are aware of the 
need for thorough checking of products received 
and despatched, and for ensuring stringent quality 
control mechanisms in manufacturing processes. 
Product liability insurance is maintained, with cover 
being benchmarked by the Group’s insurance 
brokers.
Unsuccessful merger & acquisition activity and 
project management. A key aspect of the 
Group’s development has been merger & 
acquisition activity and the establishment of 
new operations designed to enhance its 
strategic position.
The complex activities involved such as due 
diligence and project management, if 
unsuccessfully carried out, may lead to loss of 
qualified personnel or customers and may lead  
to unforeseen costs and delays. Furthermore,  
each project requires considerable management 
attention and this diversion from the day-to-day 
management of the Group could adversely affect 
the Group’s operating results. 
Legal, tax and other advisors are used to ensure 
that all merger & acquisition activity is properly 
considered. Sufficient local and divisional 
management is put in place to ensure proper 
control of the processes. Head office resources 
have been strengthened during 2011/12 by the 
addition of project resource and by the expansion 
of the central finance function. 
Next Page
Back to Contents
Previous Page 20 Umeco plc Annual Report 2012
Risk Impact Control
Debt funding has become more difficult to 
obtain and volatility in financial markets can 
cause the raising of new equity funds to be 
problematic. The Group’s borrowing facilities 
contain financial covenants, principally interest 
cover and the ratio of net debt to EBITDA.
Unless the Group puts in place appropriate 
financial resources and action plans, there is a risk 
that insufficient financial resources may be available 
to support its expected growth. Should the Group 
fail to meet certain financial covenants, facilities 
may be withdrawn or financial sanctions may be 
imposed by lenders. The Group may breach its 
facilities if it does not have adequate visibility of its 
future cash flows and borrowing requirements.
The Group’s revolving credit facility comprises 
facilities of £15.0 million and $25.0 million. This 
facility expires in May 2016 (subject to, amongst 
other things, change of control provisions) and 
therefore provides a long term core to the Group’s 
funding. While significant covenant headroom 
currently exists, monitoring of forecasts against 
banking covenants is designed to provide sufficient 
advance notice of any potential future covenant 
issues. In addition, a strong reporting procedure 
results in regular, up-to-date cash monitoring. 
Through these processes and controls, the Group 
identifies and deals with potential funding issues, 
allowing appropriate and timely action to be taken.
Each of the Group’s business units depend 
upon IT systems for their efficient running. 
There are risks associated with the loss of data 
or key IT personnel, or of operational delays 
caused by technical problems. There are also 
risks associated with software providers, such 
as the withdrawal of support.
Any interruptions to the Group’s IT systems could 
have an adverse effect on its performance.
System changes are planned in detail and are 
made in a controlled manner to cause the  
minimum of disruption. The Group operates on 
decentralised IT systems and continues to monitor  
the suitability of the differing systems in operation. 
Common software is used wherever appropriate.  
IT disaster recovery plans are in place at each 
business unit, to minimise the disruption caused by 
IT system failures. 
Loss of key personnel. In common with most 
businesses, the Group is dependent on 
certain key members of management for their 
knowledge, judgement and leadership skills. 
Loss of such personnel could have a material effect 
on the Group’s performance.
The need to motivate and develop management is 
recognised by the Board and the remuneration and 
progression of key members of staff is monitored  
to ensure they are retained and are provided with 
opportunity for development. 
The Group may be vulnerable to rising  
input costs.
Changes in raw material costs may not be capable 
of being passed onto customers on a timely basis, 
thereby impacting profitability.
Significant efforts are made to ensure that changes 
in input costs beyond certain thresholds can 
promptly be reflected in selling prices. Detailed 
reviews of margins and relevant key performance 
indicators are made by local management.
Quality and qualifications. The strategy of the 
Group, particularly within the aerospace 
market, is dependent upon materials gaining 
the qualifications necessary to ensure they are 
included in build specifications. To differing 
extents, all business units are required to 
comply with quality standards or regulatory 
requirements set by customers, suppliers  
and authorities.
Without such qualifications, planned growth levels 
will be difficult to achieve.
Significant technical resource is applied throughout 
the Group to ensure that necessary qualifications 
are obtained. The Group has invested in a global 
research & development centre where purpose 
designed products are developed. Technical 
standards such as ISO 9001, AS9100 and AS7003 
(Nadcap) are in place in the key sites. Product 
quality is continually monitored and any defects  
are investigated promptly in conjunction with 
customers and suppliers. 
Increased exposure to bad debts. The risk of business failures has increased  
as a result of the recent economic downturn, 
contributing to an increased risk of bad debts 
arising. While the Group has a broad customer 
base, there are large debtor balances with 
customers across a range of market segments, 
including with customers based in less  
developed countries. 
Regular dialogue with customers whose accounts 
are outside agreed terms or where there are 
concerns regarding recoverability, together with  
the forgoing of sales to high risk customers, help 
mitigate this risk of customer failure. Attendance  
at business unit meetings by divisional and head 
office management enables exposure to particular 
customers to be considered on a Group basis, 
rather than solely at local level. Credit insurance is 
used at certain business units to give protection 
against bad debts.
Principal Risks and Uncertainties continued
Next Page
Back to Contents
Previous Page Company Information Directors
21 Umeco plc Annual Report 2012
Business Review Overview Governance Financial Statements
Corporate Responsibility
Environment
We recognise the impact the Group has on the environment and  
we have well developed environmental policies that seek to prevent 
pollution and reduce any adverse environmental impact of our 
activities.
Our policy is to control and manage energy effectively across our 
operations and we aim to reduce electricity and gas consumption  
to the lowest practicable level and to maintain these standards. 
Umeco is a full participant of the Carbon Reduction Commitment 
Energy Efficiency Scheme. Emissions data already collected shows 
our energy use across the UK operations and this has given us a 
base line for our carbon emissions. In the year to 31 March 2011, our 
total CO
2
 emissions, excluding discontinued operations, were 4,345 
tonnes and this has increased by 3.5 per cent to 4,497 tonnes in the 
year to 31 March 2012.
The relocation of our Californian Structural Materials business into a 
single 116,000 sq.ft. facility is almost complete and provides us with the 
opportunity to install more efficient equipment. In addition to improving 
energy efficiency, the new plant will reduce solvent emissions, resulting 
in a substantially improved environmental performance.
In a drive to switch away from the use of volatile solvents wherever 
possible, we implemented a non-solvent clean down solution at one 
of the Group’s major operations which will reduce the use of these 
solvents by about 9 tonnes in a full year.
Our customers operate in industries that are at the forefront  
of environmental change as they seek to lower carbon emissions.  
They demand high-performance, light weight materials that will  
reduce fuel consumption and improve efficiency.
Collaborative research and the environment
Our Structural Materials Technology Centre continues to be involved  
in a number of collaborative research programmes that are addressing 
factors which impact the environment. 
Recent examples include:
•  FibreCycle. The FibreCycle research project demonstrated 
ground-breaking technology to recover carbon fibres. This  
£1.5 million project ended in August 2011 and was partly funded  
by the Technology Strategy Board, which is an executive body 
established by the UK Government. The aim of this project was  
to develop materials based on carbon fibres recovered from  
waste streams to allow manufacturing of technical fabric for 
thermoplastic and thermoset applications in the composites 
industry. The project successfully showed that high-value  
products based on recovered/recycled carbon fibres could offer 
commercial potential. These materials, which have significantly 
lower environmental impact than virgin carbon fibre-based 
materials, are suitable for many applications especially in the 
automotive, aerospace, recreation, medical and energy sectors.
• AFRECAR (Affordable Recycled Carbon fibres). The aim  
of this project is to develop low-cost, high-strength composite 
materials based on recycled carbon fibre which can be used as  
a light weight structural reinforcement in the aerospace and motor 
industries in non-critical applications such as seats, overhead 
lockers and other interior features on aircraft and body panels  
in cars.
• ACOMPLICE (Affordable COMPosites for LIghtweight Car 
structurEs). This collaborative project aims to prove a reduction 
of 24 per cent CO
2
 emissions of a standard vehicle via weight 
saving through the use of novel cost-effective, high-performance 
composite technologies.
Employees
Umeco’s values set out clearly the high standards of performance  
we expect from our employees.
Employees are required to act with integrity, fairness and trust and  
this is reflected in well defined policies on ethical behaviour and  
risk management.
We make ambition work by nurturing and developing talent within  
the Group, supporting the attainment of professional qualifications, 
running specialist internal technical courses and offering internal  
and external management development programmes. Student  
work placements and internships are offered on a regular basis  
and these often develop into permanent offers of employment.
Social and community responsibility
Umeco has agreed to support two ‘Arkwright Engineering 
Scholarships’ which will be awarded by the Arkwright Scholarships 
Trust to deserving applicants having the potential to be future  
leaders in engineering. Umeco has also provided the opportunity  
for successful applicants to spend a period of time on work 
placement at some of its operating units.
The Board considers the social, community and ethical matters 
pertinent to the Group, and will review items of significance where 
appropriate and put controls in place as necessary.
Next Page
Back to Contents
Previous Page 22 Umeco plc Annual Report 2012
1 2
3 4
5 6 7
Board of Directors
Next Page
Back to Contents
Previous Page Company Information
23 Umeco plc Annual Report 2012
Overview Governance Financial Statements Directors Business Review
1. Neil Johnson (age 63) Chairman
Neil Johnson joined the Board as Non-executive Chairman in  
October 2009. He currently holds a number of senior Board and 
advisory positions with public and private companies. He is Chairman 
of Motability Operations Group plc (a financial business owned by the 
UK clearing banks), Hornby Plc, and in May 2012 he was appointed 
Chairman of Yule Catto & Co plc. He is also a member of a Ministry of 
Defence Advisory Board and an independent Non-executive Director 
of the Business Growth Fund. 
2. Andrew Moss (age 55) Chief Executive
Andrew Moss joined the Group in 1999. He joined the Board in June 
2008 on his appointment as Chief Operating Officer, prior to which he 
was Chief Executive of Umeco Composites. He has a broad industrial 
and aerospace background, and was previously Chief Executive of 
the Automotive and Building Products Group of Invensys plc.
3. Steve Bowers (age 39) Finance Director & Company Secretary
Steve Bowers joined the Group in 1998 having qualified as a 
chartered accountant with KPMG. He has been Company Secretary 
since 1999 and was also appointed Group Financial Controller in 
2004. Steve joined the Board in May 2011 on his appointment as 
Finance Director.
4. Stephen Bird (age 51) Non-executive Director
Stephen Bird joined the Board in October 2006 as a Non-executive 
Director. In April 2009, Stephen became Chief Executive of The Vitec 
Group plc. Until March 2009, he was Divisional Managing Director  
of the Weir Group plc’s Oil & Gas Division. Stephen has extensive 
experience in high technology industries having held a number  
of senior management positions with Black & Decker Europe,  
Unipart Group and Technicolor Group. Stephen is Chairman of the 
remuneration committee and is a member of the audit committee.
5. Graham Zacharias (age 61) Non-executive Director
Graham Zacharias joined the Board as a Non-executive Director in 
September 2005. He was Group Finance Director of Rightmove plc 
from 2006 until January 2009 and remained on the Board of 
Rightmove plc until April 2009, since when he has pursued private 
interests. He was previously Group Finance Director of Spectris plc 
and has also served as Finance Director of the Aerospace Group of  
BTR plc. Graham is Chairman of the audit committee and is a 
member of the remuneration committee.
6. Chris Hole (age 65) Non-executive Director
Chris Hole joined the Board in July 2007 as a Non-executive Director. 
He was previously Director of Procurement at Rolls-Royce plc until  
his retirement in December 2006. Chris is a Non-executive member 
of the Board of Derby Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust. Chris is a 
member of the remuneration committee.
7. Adrian Auer (age 63) Non-executive Director
Adrian Auer joined the Board as a Non-executive Director and as 
Senior Independent Director in April 2010. Adrian is Chairman of 
Shanks Group plc and Readymix plc, Non-executive Director of 
Electrocomponents plc and AZ Electronic Materials SA, and 
Chairman of the charity Addaction. Adrian has held the position of 
Finance Director in a number of major companies, notably in the 
building materials and construction sectors, in addition to senior 
finance positions with BP and ICI. Adrian is a member of the audit 
committee and became a member of the remuneration committee  
on 28 September 2011.
Next Page
Back to Contents
Previous Page 24 Umeco plc Annual Report 2012
The Directors of Umeco plc (the ‘Company’ or ‘Umeco’) submit their 
Annual Report and financial statements for the year to 31 March 2012.
Principal activities
Umeco is an international provider of advanced composite materials 
primarily to the aerospace & defence, wind energy, recreation and 
automotive industries. Umeco is managed through two business streams:
Structural Materials develops, manufactures and supplies a broad 
range of advanced composite materials for a diverse range of industries 
such as aerospace & defence, wind energy, recreation and automotive.
Process Materials develops, manufactures and supplies vacuum 
bagging materials to the composites industry and other markets, 
providing a wide range of materials and technical support to a 
growing number of international customers.
Disposal of Supply Chain
On 13 June 2011, shareholders approved the disposal of Umeco’s 
Supply Chain business, which trades as Pattonair, to a company 
established by funds advised by Exponent Private Equity LLP and the 
transaction was successfully completed on 29 July 2011 for a net 
consideration of approximately £112.5 million before transaction costs, 
excluding £8.0 million deferred consideration. The proceeds of the 
disposal were used to fully repay the Group’s committed credit facilities 
with Lloyds Banking Group. In conjunction with the disposal, the Group 
entered into an agreement for a new five year committed multi currency 
revolving credit bank facility with HSBC Bank plc and Santander 
UK plc, comprising £15.0 million and US$25.0 million facilities.
Recommended cash offer for Umeco plc
On 12 April 2012, the boards of Umeco and Cytec announced that they 
had reached agreement on the terms of a recommended cash offer by 
Cytec UK Holdings Limited, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Cytec, for 
the entire issued and to be issued share capital of Umeco. It is intended 
that the acquisition will be effected by way of a Court-sanctioned 
Scheme of Arrangement of Umeco under Part 26 of the Companies 
Act 2006.
Under the terms of the acquisition, Umeco shareholders will be entitled 
to receive 550 pence in cash for each Umeco share held at the 
reduction record time, valuing the entire issued and to be issued share 
capital of Umeco at approximately £274 million.
On 28 May 2012, the Scheme of Arrangement was approved by 
Umeco shareholders in general meeting.
Completion of the acquisition remains subject to the satisfaction or 
waiver of the other conditions set out in the Scheme of Arrangement 
document dated 25 April 2012 sent to shareholders, including the 
receipt of certain competition clearances and the Court sanctioning the 
Scheme of Arrangement at the scheme court hearing and confirming 
the capital reduction at the reduction court hearing. The indicative 
dates for the scheme court hearing and the reduction court hearing are 
18 July 2012 and 20 July 2012, respectively. Subject to the conditions 
as described above, the Scheme of Arrangement is expected to 
become effective on 20 July 2012.
Review of Group’s business
Under Section 417 of the Companies Act 2006, the Company  
is required to produce a fair review of its business, including a 
description of the principal risks and uncertainties that face the 
Company. This is set out in the Business Review on pages 10 to 21, 
which includes the Chairman’s Statement, Chief Executive’s Review 
and Finance Director’s Review, together with descriptions of the 
principal activities. The Business Review is incorporated into this 
report by reference. The Business Review sets out information on  
the future strategy and prospects of the Group.
The following specific issues are discussed in the sections shown  
in brackets:
•	 key objectives and performance in the year to 31 March 2012 
(Chairman’s Statement, Chief Executive’s Review and Finance 
Director’s Review);
•	 treasury policy and risk management (note 27 to the consolidated 
financial statements and Corporate Governance); and
•	 corporate social responsibility, environmental matters and employee 
issues (Corporate Responsibility and Corporate Governance).
Details of the results for the year are shown in the Consolidated 
Statement of Comprehensive Income. Analyses of revenue and 
adjusted operating profit by segment are shown in note 1 to the 
consolidated financial statements.
Group key performance indicators
The Board has adopted various financial and non-financial key 
performance indicators (‘KPIs’) to measure the strategic and 
operational progress of the Group, which are measured at Group 
and/or subsidiary level as appropriate. 
The financial KPIs include revenue and order intake, operating profit 
and operating margin, profit before tax, earnings per share and 
operating cash flow, together with operating cash conversion with 
particular focus on working capital measures.
The non-financial KPIs include health & safety, customer service 
levels, employee absence and turnover rates and other specific 
indicators relating to production efficiency and output.
Corporate governance
Under Disclosure and Transparency Rule 7.2, the Company is 
required to include a Corporate Governance statement in its 
Directors’ Report. All relevant information on the corporate 
governance practices of the Company are set out in the Corporate 
Governance statement on pages 80 to 86. The Corporate 
Governance statement is incorporated into this report by reference.
Profits and dividends
The Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income is shown  
on page 31. Profit before tax from continuing operations was  
£16.5 million (2011: £8.6 million).
In light of the offer from Cytec for Umeco, the Directors are  
not proposing a final dividend and therefore the total dividend 
declared for the year to 31 March 2012 is 4.00 pence per share  
(2011: 18.25 pence).
Directors’ Report 
Next Page
Back to Contents
Previous Page Overview Business Review Company Information
25 Umeco plc Annual Report 2012
Financial Statements Directors Governance
Research & development
Expenditure on research & development was £1.7 million (2011: 
£2.1 million). This expenditure relates to the research & development 
of advanced composite materials, including materials evaluation and 
prototype production. The accounting policy on research & 
development is disclosed in the Group Accounting Policies section.
Share capital
Details of share capital are given in note 19 to the consolidated 
financial statements. At the date of this report there were 48,493,870 
ordinary shares of 25 pence each in issue, all of which are fully paid 
up and quoted on the London Stock Exchange. 
Rights and obligations attaching to shares
The rights attaching to the Company’s ordinary shares, as well as the 
powers of the Company’s Directors, are set out in the Company’s  
Articles of Association (the ‘Articles’), copies of which can be 
obtained from the Company Secretary.
Subject to applicable statutes (in this section the ‘Companies Acts’), 
any resolution passed by the Company under the Companies Acts 
and other shareholders’ rights, shares may be issued with such rights 
and restrictions as the Company may by ordinary resolution decide, 
or (if there is no such resolution or so far as it does not make specific 
provision) as the Board (as defined in the Articles) may decide. 
Subject to the Articles, the Companies Acts and other shareholders’ 
rights, unissued shares are at the disposal of the Board.
Voting
Every member and every duly appointed proxy present at a general 
meeting or class meeting has, upon a show of hands, one vote and 
every member present in person or by proxy has, upon a poll, one  
vote for every share held by him. In the case of joint holders of a share 
the vote of the senior who tenders a vote, whether in person or by 
proxy, shall be accepted to the exclusion of the votes of the other  
joint holders and, for this purpose, seniority shall be determined  
by the order in which the names stand in the register in respect  
of the joint holding.
Restrictions on voting
No member shall be entitled to vote at any general meeting or class 
meeting in respect of any share held by him if any call or other sum 
then payable by him in respect of that share remains unpaid or if a 
member has been served with a restriction notice (as defined in the 
Articles) after failure to provide the Company with information 
concerning interests in those shares required to be provided under 
the Companies Acts. Save for the irrevocable undertakings given by 
certain shareholders in connection with the offer for the entire issued 
share capital of the Company made by Cytec UK Holdings Limited  
as announced on 12 April 2012 (details of which were set out in the 
Scheme of Arrangement document dated 25 April 2012 sent to 
shareholders in connection with that offer), the Company is not aware 
of any agreements between holders of securities that may result in 
restrictions on voting rights.
Dividends and other distributions
The Company may by ordinary resolution from time to time declare 
dividends not exceeding the amount recommended by the Board. 
Subject to the Companies Acts, the Board may pay interim dividends, 
and also any fixed rate dividend, whenever the financial position of  
the Company, in the opinion of the Board, justifies its payment. If  
the Board acts in good faith, it is not liable to holders of shares with 
preferred or pari passu rights for losses arising from the payment of 
interim or fixed dividends on other shares. The Board may withhold 
payment of all or any part of any dividends or other monies payable  
in respect of the Company’s shares from a person with a 0.25 per 
cent interest (as defined in the Articles) if such a person has been 
served with a restriction notice (as defined in the Articles) after failure 
to provide the Company with information concerning interests in 
those shares required to be provided under the Companies Acts.
Variation of rights
Subject to the Companies Acts, rights attached to any class of shares 
may be varied with the written consent of the holders of not less  
than three-fourths in nominal value of the issued shares of that class 
(calculated excluding any shares held as treasury shares), or with the 
sanction of a special resolution passed at a separate general meeting 
of the holders of those shares. At every such separate general 
meeting (except an adjourned meeting) the quorum shall be two 
persons holding or representing by proxy not less than one-third in 
nominal value of the issued shares of the class (calculated excluding 
any shares held as treasury shares). The rights conferred upon the 
holders of any shares shall not, unless otherwise expressly provided 
in the rights attaching to those shares, be deemed to be varied by the 
creation or issue of further shares ranking pari passu with them.
Restrictions on transfer of securities in the Company
There are no restrictions on the transfer of securities in the Company, 
except:
•	 that certain restrictions may from time to time be imposed by laws 
and regulations (for example, insider trading laws); and
•	 pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority 
whereby certain employees of the Company require the approval 
of the Company to deal in the Company’s ordinary shares.
Save for the irrevocable undertakings given by certain shareholders  
in connection with the offer for the entire issued share capital of the 
Company made by Cytec UK Holdings Limited as announced on  
12 April 2012 (details of which were set out in the Scheme of 
Arrangement document dated 25 April 2012 sent to shareholders  
in connection with that offer), the Company is not aware of any 
agreements between shareholders that may result in restrictions on 
the transfers of securities. No person holds securities in the Company 
carrying special rights with regard to control of the Company. The 
Articles may be amended by special resolution of the Company’s 
shareholders. 
Share allotment
A general allotment power and a limited power to allot in specific 
circumstances for cash otherwise than pro rata to existing 
shareholders were given to the Directors by resolutions approved at the 
Annual General Meeting of the Company held on 2 August 2011. These 
powers will expire at the earlier of 2 November 2012 and the conclusion 
of the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held later in 2012.
Appointment and replacement of Directors
The Directors shall be not less than two and not more than 15 in 
number. The Company may by ordinary resolution vary the minimum 
and/or maximum number of Directors. A Director shall not be required 
to hold any shares in the Company. Directors may be appointed by the 
Company by ordinary resolution or by the Board. A Director appointed 
by the Board holds office only until the next following Annual General 
Meeting of the Company and is then eligible for re-appointment. The 
Board or any committee authorised by the Board may from time to time 
appoint one or more Directors to hold any employment or executive 
office for such period and on such terms as they may determine and 
may also revoke or terminate any such appointment.
Next Page
Back to Contents
Previous Page 26 Umeco plc Annual Report 2012
At every Annual General Meeting of the Company any Director who has 
been appointed by the Board since the last Annual General Meeting,  
or who held office at the time of the two preceding Annual General 
Meetings and who did not retire at either of them, or who has held 
office with the Company, other than employment or executive office,  
for a continuous period of nine years or more at the date of  
the meeting, shall retire from office and may offer himself for 
re-appointment by the members. The Company may by special 
resolution remove any Director before the expiration of his period  
of office. The office of a Director shall be vacated if: (i) he resigns or 
offers to resign and the Board resolve to accept such offer; (ii) his 
resignation is requested by all of the other Directors and all of the 
other Directors are not less than three in number; (iii) he is or has 
been suffering from mental or physical ill health and the Board 
resolves that his office be vacated; (iv) he is absent without the 
permission of the Board from meetings of the Board (whether or not 
an alternate Director appointed by him attends) for six consecutive 
months and the Board resolves that his office is vacated; (v) he 
becomes bankrupt or compounds with his creditors generally;  
(vi) he is prohibited by a law from being a Director; (vii) he ceases  
to be a Director by virtue of the Companies Acts; or (viii) he is 
removed from office pursuant to the Articles.
Powers of the Directors
Subject to the Articles, the Companies Acts and any directions given 
by the Company by special resolution, the business of the Company 
will be managed by the Board who may exercise all the powers of the 
Company, whether relating to the management of the business of the 
Company or not. In particular, the Board may exercise all the powers 
of the Company to borrow money, to guarantee, to indemnify, to 
mortgage or charge any of its undertaking, property, assets (present 
and future) and uncalled capital and to issue debentures and other 
securities and to give security for any debt, liability or obligation of the 
Company or of any third party.
Directors
The names of the Directors at the date of this report, together with 
biographical details, are shown on page 23. The remuneration of the 
Directors, together with details of their share options and share 
interests, is disclosed in the Remuneration Report on pages 87 to 96.
The appointment of a Director is a matter for resolution by the  
Board as a whole, acting through the nomination committee.  
Re-appointment is subject to review and is not automatic. Details  
of the appointment and replacement of Directors is disclosed in the 
Corporate Governance statement. Where appropriate, the nomination 
committee uses the services of external recruitment consultants. Details 
of potential candidates provided by consultants may be initially reviewed 
by a sub-committee of the nomination committee and meetings with 
selected candidates are then held with Directors. Subsequently, the 
nomination committee meets to discuss and confirm an appointment.
On 20 May 2011, the Company announced that Andrew Moss had 
been appointed as Chief Executive, and Steve Bowers had been 
appointed as Finance Director, in each case with immediate effect. 
Andrew Moss joined the Group in 1999. He joined the Board in June 
2008 on his appointment as Chief Operating Officer, prior to which he 
was Chief Executive of Umeco Composites. He has a broad industrial 
and aerospace background, and was previously Chief Executive of 
the Automotive and Building Products Group of Invensys plc.
Steve Bowers joined the Group in 1998 having qualified as a 
chartered accountant with KPMG. He has been Company Secretary 
since 1999 and was appointed Group Financial Controller in 2004.
Clive Snowdon resigned from the Board on 20 May 2011, having 
been Chief Executive of Umeco for 14 years. Clive Snowdon has a 
broad industrial background with significant experience in both 
distribution and manufacturing. During his tenure with Umeco, he was 
a member of the Board of Directors of the Midlands Aerospace 
Alliance, becoming Chairman in May 2009, and was a member of the 
Council of the A|D|S trade body. He has been a Non-executive 
Director of Hill & Smith Holdings PLC since May 2007, being 
appointed Senior Independent Director in May 2009.
Doug Robertson resigned from the Board on 20 May 2011 having 
been Finance Director for nearly four years. Doug Robertson joined 
the Board as Finance Director in July 2007, having previously held the 
role of Finance Director at Seton House Group Limited from 2002 
until April 2007. From 1994 to 2000 he held a variety of Divisional 
Finance Director roles within Williams plc and, in 2000, became 
Managing Director of Tesa Group, Chubb’s hotel security division.
Directors retire by rotation at intervals of no more than three years,  
in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Apart from service contracts and other related agreements as 
detailed in the Remuneration Report, no Director had an interest 
during the year or at the year end in any contracts with the Company 
or its subsidiaries and no Director had any beneficial interest in the 
shares of any of the Company’s subsidiaries.
Conflicts of interest
The Board continues to operate the procedures adopted following the 
introduction of the statutory directors’ duty to avoid conflicts of 
interest and these procedures have operated effectively during the 
year. The Articles permit the Directors to authorise conflicts of 
interest. The conflicted Director shall not count towards the quorum 
or vote on any resolution to authorise the conflict of interest and, at 
the Board’s discretion, may be excluded from any meeting at which 
the conflict is under consideration. Where a conflict of interest is 
authorised, the Board may impose such restrictions on the conflicted 
Director as they deem appropriate such as excluding the Director 
from receipt of information or discussions.
Employees, employment policy and employee involvement
Information relating to employee numbers and remuneration is  
shown in note 2 to the consolidated financial statements. Details  
of employment policy and employee involvement are set out in the 
Corporate Governance statement.
Directors’ Report continued 
Next Page
Back to Contents
Previous Page Overview Business Review Company Information
27 Umeco plc Annual Report 2012
Financial Statements Directors Governance
Substantial shareholders
The Company has been notified of the following interests of  
3.0 per cent or more in the issued share capital of the Company  
(in accordance with Disclosure and Transparency Rule 5) as at  
19 June 2012:
Number
of shares Per cent
BT Pension Scheme Trustees Limited 6,284,072 13.0
Hermes Specialist UK Focus Fund 6,264,751 12.9
BlackRock, Inc. 5,135,208 10.6
Aberforth Partners LLP 4,319,692 8.9
BlackRock UK Special Situations Fund 3,517,205 7.3
Merrill Lynch International 2,921,698 6.0
AXA S.A. 2,384,881 4.9
Legal and General Investment 
Management 1,913,261 3.9
NFU Mutual Insurance Society Limited 1,880,407 3.9
Aberdeen Asset Management 1,507,314 3.1
The interest of BT Pension Scheme Trustees Limited is an indirect 
interest and includes the 6,264,751 shares shown in the table above 
as an interest of the Hermes Specialist UK Focus Fund.
The interest of BlackRock, Inc. includes the 3,517 ,205 shares shown in 
the table above as an interest of BlackRock UK Special Situations Fund. 
In addition to the interest in ordinary shares noted above, BlackRock, 
Inc. has also notified the Company of an interest held by way of 
contracts for difference in respect of 2,581,340 shares, equivalent to 
5.3 per cent of issued share capital. Including this interest held by 
way of contracts for difference, BlackRock, Inc.’s total interest is 
7,716,548 shares, equivalent to 15.9 per cent of issued share capital.
Going concern
A review of Group business activities and future outlook is set out  
on pages 10 to 21 which includes the Chairman’s Statement, Chief 
Executive’s Review and Finance Director’s Review. The financial 
position of the Group, its cash flows and liquidity position are shown 
in the Consolidated Balance Sheet and Consolidated Statement of 
Cash Flows and accompanying notes to the financial statements. The 
principal business risks associated with the business are shown on 
pages 19 to 20. In addition, note 27 to the consolidated financial 
statements includes the Group’s objectives, policies and processes 
for managing its capital, its financial risk management objectives, 
details of its financial instruments and hedging activities and its 
exposures to credit and liquidity risk.
The Group has entered into an agreement for a new five year 
committed multi currency revolving credit bank facility with HSBC 
Bank plc and Santander UK plc, comprising £15.0 million and 
US$25.0 million facilities. The facility will expire in May 2016, subject 
to, amongst other things, change of control provisions.
After considering the nature and duration of these facilities and 
making appropriate enquiries, based on the strength of the Group’s 
balance sheet, current expectations of future trading (based on future 
cash flow forecasts and revenue projections which the Directors 
believe are based on a realistic assessment of future business 
performance) and on the facilities available to the Group, the Directors 
believe they have reasonable grounds for stating that the Company 
and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational 
existence for the foreseeable future. For this reason, they continue to 
adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Authority to make market purchases of own shares
An authority to make market purchases of shares was given to the 
Directors by a special resolution at the Annual General Meeting of the 
Company held on 2 August 201 1. In the year to 31 March 2012, the 
Company has not acquired any of its own shares. The existing authority 
will expire at the earlier of 2 November 2012 and the conclusion of the 
Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2012.
Related party transactions 
Related party transactions are set out in note 16 to the Company 
financial statements.
Essential contracts and significant agreements
The Company and Group have a number of significant agreements 
relating to funding and customer relationships. 
The Group’s revolving credit bank facility agreement with HSBC  
Bank plc and Santander UK plc, comprising £15.0 million and 
US$25.0 million facilities, is essential to the Group as a whole. This 
agreement includes change of control provisions which, in the event 
of a change in ownership of the Company, could potentially cause the 
facility to lapse.
The Group has essential relationships with its key customers, with many 
of these relationships being the subject of long term supply agreements. 
Other than as noted above, the Directors are not aware of any 
significant agreements to which the Company and/or any of its 
subsidiaries is a party that take effect, alter or terminate upon a  
change of control of the Company following a takeover bid. 
Re-branding 
The Group has unified around a single brand – Umeco, and a list of 
businesses which have changed their names is given in note 30 to 
the consolidated financial statements.
Donations
The Group made no charitable donations during the year (2011: £1,600). 
The Group made no political donations during the year (2011: £nil).
Directors’ and officers’ liability insurance
Throughout the year to 31 March 2012, the Company maintained liability 
insurance for its Directors and officers, and the Directors and officers of 
the Group’s subsidiaries, as permitted by the Companies Acts.
Supplier payment policy
It is the Group’s normal procedure to agree payment terms with 
suppliers in advance and to adhere to those agreed terms when 
making payments. At 31 March 2012, the Company’s outstanding 
indebtedness to trade creditors corresponded to 24 days when 
averaged over the year (2011: 45 days).
Auditors
The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors’ 
Report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no 
relevant audit information (as defined in section 418(3) of the 
Companies Act 2006) of which the parent Company’s auditors are 
unaware, and each Director has taken all the steps that he ought to 
have taken as a Director to make himself aware of any relevant audit 
information and to establish that the Company’s auditors are aware of 
that information.
Next Page
Back to Contents
Previous Page 28 Umeco plc Annual Report 2012
If required, in light of the offer from Cytec, resolutions for the re-
appointment of KPMG Audit Plc as auditors of the Company and for 
authorising the Directors to determine their remuneration will be 
proposed at the 2012 Annual General Meeting.
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, and  
the Group and Company financial statements, in accordance with 
applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and parent 
Company financial statements for each financial year. Under that  
law, they are required to prepare the Group financial statements in 
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (‘IFRS’) 
as adopted by the EU and applicable law, and have elected to 
prepare the parent Company financial statements in accordance with 
UK Accounting Standards and applicable law (UK Generally 
Accepted Accounting Practice ‘UK GAAP’).
Under company law, the Directors must not approve the financial 
statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair  
view of the state of affairs of the Group and parent Company and  
their profit or loss for that period. In preparing each of the Group and 
parent Company financial statements, the Directors are required to:
•	 select suitable accounting policies and then apply them 
consistently;
•	 make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
•	 for the Group financial statements, state whether they have  
been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU;
•	 for the parent Company financial statements, state whether 
applicable UK accounting standards have been followed, subject  
to any material departures disclosed and explained in the parent 
Company financial statements; and
•	 prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis, unless  
it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the parent 
Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records 
that are sufficient to show and explain the parent Company’s 
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the 
financial position of the parent Company and to enable them to 
ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Acts. 
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are 
reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to 
prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors confirm that they have complied with these 
requirements in preparing the financial statements.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also 
responsible for preparing a Directors’ Report, Directors’ 
Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance statement that 
comply with such law and regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the 
corporate and financial information included on the Group’s website. 
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of 
financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The Directors, namely Neil Johnson, Andrew Moss, Steve Bowers, 
Stephen Bird, Graham Zacharias, Chris Hole and Adrian Auer, 
confirm that to the best of their knowledge, the financial statements of 
the Group, prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU, 
and the financial statements of the Company, prepared in accordance 
with UK GAAP, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, 
financial position and income and expenditure of the Company (and 
the Group as a whole) as required by Disclosure and Transparency 
Rule 4.1.12. The Annual Report includes a fair review of the 
development and performance of the business and the position of the 
Company (and the Group as a whole), together with a description of 
the principal risks and uncertainties and a statement by the auditors 
of their responsibilities. 
By order of the Board
Steve Bowers
Finance Director
19 June 2012
Registered office: Concorde House, Warwick New Road,
Leamington Spa, Warwickshire, CV32 5JG, United Kingdom
Registration number: 148635
Directors’ Report continued 
Next Page
Back to Contents
Previous Page Overview Business Review Company Information Directors
29 Umeco plc Annual Report 2012
Financial Statements Governance
Financial Statements
Group Highlights 30
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 31
Consolidated Balance Sheet  32
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows 33
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 34
Group Accounting Policies 35
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 40
Company Balance Sheet 72
Company Accounting Policies 73
Notes to the Company Financial Statements 75
Financial Statements
Next Page
Back to Contents
Previous Page 30 Umeco plc Annual Report 2012
2012
£m
2011
£m
Change
Per cent
Revenue 223.0 207.4 + 7.5
Revenue – including discontinued operations 311.9 459.9 – 32.2
Adjusted operating profit* 21.7 19.5 + 11.3
Adjusted operating profit* – including discontinued operations 25.2 33.3 – 24.3
Operating profit 17.7 11.4 + 55.3
Operating profit – including discontinued operations 20.1 25.0 – 19.6
Adjusted profit before tax* 20.3 16.4 + 23.8
Adjusted profit before tax* – including discontinued operations 23.0 27.5 – 16.4
Profit before tax 16.5 8.6 + 91.9
Profit before tax – including discontinued operations 17.1 19.9 – 14.1
2012
Pence
2011
Pence
Change
Per cent
Adjusted earnings per share* – continuing operations 28.6 24.6 + 16.3
Adjusted earnings per share* – including discontinued operations 32.3 40.8 – 20.8
Earnings per share – continuing operations 23.3 13.9 + 67.6
Earnings per share – including discontinued operations 28.5 4.5 + 533.3
Dividend per share 4.00 18.25 – 78.1
*Note on adjusted figures
Umeco uses adjusted figures as key performance indicators. Adjusted figures are stated before the results of discontinued operations, 
amortisation and impairment charges relating to intangible assets, significant items, the revaluation of financial instruments based on their 
market values and associated tax effects. The differences between the total and adjusted measures of operating profit, profit before tax and 
profit attributable to owners of the Company are reconciled in note 8 to the consolidated financial statements. The narrative contained in the 
Business Review is based on the adjusted measures of operating profit, profit before tax and earnings per share. These provide a more 
consistent measure of operating performance.
 
Group Highlights 
Next Page
Back to Contents
Previous Page Overview Business Review Financial Statements Governance Company Information Directors
31 Umeco plc Annual Report 2012
Notes
2012
£m
2011
£m
Continuing operations
Revenue 1 223.0 207.4
Cost of sales (156.7) (143.9)
Gross profit 66.3 63.5
Administrative expenses (48.6) (52.1)
Operating profit 3 17.7 11.4
Financial income 4 1.5 1.5
Financial expense 4 (2.7) (4.3)
Profit before tax 16.5 8.6
Income tax – UK 5 (2.5) (2.2)
Income tax – overseas 5 (2.7) 0.3
Income tax – total (5.2) (1.9)
Profit from continuing operations 11.3 6.7
Discontinued operations
Profit/(loss) from discontinued operations (net of income tax) 22 2.5 (4.5)
Profit attributable to owners of the Company 13.8 2.2
Other comprehensive (expense)/income
Foreign exchange translation differences on continuing foreign operations (0.2) (1.7)
Recycling of cumulative currency translation reserve on disposal 22 (3.4) –
Actuarial (loss)/gain in pension schemes 24 (2.6) 1.2
(6.2) (0.5)
Income tax on other comprehensive expense 5 0.5 (0.4)
Other comprehensive expense (5.7) (0.9)
Total comprehensive income attributable to owners of the Company 8.1 1.3
Earnings per share Pence Pence
Total
Basic earnings per share 7 28.5 4.5
Diluted earnings per share 7 28.3 4.4
Continuing operations
Basic earnings per share 7 23.3 13.9
Diluted earnings per share 7 23.1 13.7
Discontinued operations
Basic earnings/(loss) per share 7 5.2 (9.4)
Diluted earnings/(loss) per share 7 5.2 (9.3)
 
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income
For the year to 31 March 2012
Next Page
Back to Contents
Previous Page 32 Umeco plc Annual Report 2012
Notes
2012
£m
2011
£m
Assets
Non-current assets
Property, plant & equipment 9 40.6 33.3
Intangible assets 10 106.8 111.5
Deferred tax assets 12 0.1 2.6
147.5 147.4
Current assets
Inventories 13 31.5 25.6
Trade & other receivables 14 58.9 53.5
Income tax receivable 0.6 1.4
Cash 15 15.4 5.6
Assets classified as held for sale 22 – 281.6
106.4 367.7
Total assets 253.9 515.1
Liabilities
Current liabilities
Trade & other payables 16 (53.3) (53.3)
Financial liabilities 27 – (0.2)
Income tax payable (7.0) (7.6)
Loans & borrowings 17 (1.1)  (25.6)
Liabilities classified as held for sale 22 – (130.1)
(61.4) (216.8)
Non-current liabilities
Other payables (1.0) (0.4)
Deferred tax liabilities 12 (7.3) (9.4)
Retirement benefit obligation 24 (1.7) (2.0)
Loans & borrowings 17 (5.7) (111.4)
Provisions 18 (3.1) (3.5)
(18.8) (126.7)
Total liabilities (80.2) (343.5)
Net assets 173.7 171.6
Equity
Share capital 19 12.1 12.0
Share premium 20 116.0 115.5
Translation reserve 20 3.3 6.9
Retained earnings 20 42.3 37.2
Equity attributable to owners of the Company 173.7 171.6
The financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 19 June 2012 and signed on its behalf by:
NA Johnson
Director 
Consolidated Balance Sheet Registered number: 1 48635
As at 31 March 2012
Next Page
Back to Contents
Previous Page Overview Business Review Financial Statements Governance Company Information Directors
33 Umeco plc Annual Report 2012
Notes 
2012
£m
2011 
£m
Cash flows from operating activities – continuing operations
Profit for the year – continuing operations 3 11.3 6.7
Depreciation 3.8 3.7
Amortisation & impairment charges 3 4.0 5.3
Profit on disposal of property, plant & equipment (0.2) –
Financial income 4 (1.5) (1.5)
Financial expense 4 2.7 4.3
Share based payments expense 26 0.5 0.2
Own shares held 0.4 0.2
Income tax expense 5 5.2 1.9
26.2 20.8
Increase in inventories (6.2) (5.6)
Increase in trade & other receivables (0.3) (10.0)
Increase in trade & other payables 1.4 11.6
Decrease in provisions (0.5) –
Decrease in retirement benefit obligation (1.4) (1.2)
Cash generated from operations 19.2 15.6
Net financial expense paid (1.5) (3.8)
Tax paid (3.0) (2.9)
Net cash flow from operating activities – continuing operations 14.7 8.9
Cash flows from investing activities – continuing operations
Acquisition of property, plant & equipment 9 (11.3) (6.5)
Proceeds from sale of property, plant & equipment 9 0.2 0.1
Acquisition of subsidiaries, net of cash acquired 10 – (0.1)
Net cash flow from investing activities – continuing operations (11.1) (6.5)
Cash flows from financing activities – continuing operations
Proceeds from issue of ordinary shares 0.6 –
Drawdown of bank loans 16.2 17.9
Repayment of bank loans (120.6) (37.0)
Repayment of lease finance liabilities (0.2) (0.2)
Dividends paid to owners of the Company 6 (7.5) (8.5)
Net cash flow from financing activities – continuing operations (111.5) (27.8)
Discontinued operations
Net cash flow from operating activities 22 (21.7) 9.7
Net cash flow from investing activities 22 106.1 (2.6)
Net cash flow from discontinued operations 22 84.4 7.1
Net decrease in cash 23 (23.5) (18.3)
Cash at start of year 38.4 56.5
Effect of exchange rate fluctuations 0.5 0.2
Net cash at end of year 15 15.4 38.4
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
For the year to 31 March 2012
Next Page
Back to Contents
Previous Page 34 Umeco plc Annual Report 2012
Share
capital
£m
Share
premium
£m
Translation
reserve
£m
Retained
earnings
£m
Total
£m
At 1 April 2011 12.0 115.5 6.9 37.2 171.6
Total comprehensive income/(expense)
Profit attributable to owners of the Company – – – 13.8 13.8
Other comprehensive (expense)/income
Foreign exchange translation differences on continuing foreign operations – – (0.2) – (0.2)
Recycling of cumulative currency translation reserve on disposal – – (3.4) – (3.4)
Actuarial loss in pension schemes – – – (2.6) (2.6)
Income tax on other comprehensive income – – – 0.5 0.5
Total other comprehensive expense – – (3.6) (2.1) (5.7)
Total comprehensive (expense)/income – – (3.6) 11.7 8.1
Transactions with owners, recorded directly in equity
Share capital issued 0.1 0.5 – – 0.6
Cost of share based payments – – – 0.9 0.9
Dividends paid – – – (7.5) (7.5)
Total transactions with owners 0.1 0.5 – (6.6) (6.0)
At 31 March 2012 12.1 116.0 3.3 42.3 173.7
Share
capital
£m
Share
premium
£m
Translation
reserve
£m
Retained
earnings
£m
Total
£m
At 1 April 2010 12.0 115.5 8.6 42.3 178.4
Total comprehensive income/(expense)
Profit attributable to owners of the Company – – – 2.2 2.2
Other comprehensive (expense)/income
Foreign exchange translation differences on foreign operations – – (1.7) – (1.7)
Actuarial gain in pension schemes – – – 1.2 1.2
Income tax on other comprehensive income – – – (0.4) (0.4)
Total other comprehensive (expense)/income – – (1.7) 0.8 (0.9)
Total comprehensive (expense)/income – – (1.7) 3.0 1.3
Transactions with owners, recorded directly in equity
Cost of share based payments – – – 0.4 0.4
Dividends paid – – – (8.5) (8.5)
Total transactions with owners – – – (8.1) (8.1)
At 31 March 2011 12.0 115.5 6.9 37.2 171.6
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
For the year to 31 March 2012
Next Page
Back to Contents
Previous Page Overview Business Review Company Information Directors
35 Umeco plc Annual Report 2012
Financial Statements Governance
The accounting policies set out on pages 35 to 39 have been applied 
consistently in dealing with items which are considered material  
in relation to the Group’s financial statements.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared by 
applying the accounting policies, presentation and basis of 
consolidation which were applied in the preparation of the Company’s 
consolidated financial statements for the year to 31 March 2011, 
which were prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU, 
except for the following accounting standards and interpretations 
which are effective for the Group from 1 April 2011:
•	 Amendments to IFRIC14 ‘Prepayment of a minimum funding 
requirement’
•	 IFRIC19 ‘Extinguishing financial liabilities with equity instruments’
•	 Amendments to IFRS7 ‘Improving disclosures about financial 
instruments’
•	 Amendments to IAS24 ‘Related party transactions’
The amendment to IFRIC14 ‘Prepayment of a minimum funding 
requirement’ removes unintended consequences arising from 
the treatment of prepayments when there is a minimum funding 
requirement. The amendment results in prepayments of contributions 
in certain circumstances being recognised as an asset rather than an 
expense. This standard has no impact upon profit or net assets in the 
year to 31 March 2012.
IFRIC19 ‘Extinguishing financial liabilities with equity instruments’ 
addresses the accounting by an entity when the terms of a financial 
liability are renegotiated and result in the entity issuing equity 
instruments to a creditor to extinguish all or part of the financial 
liability. It does not address the accounting by the creditor. This 
standard has no material impact upon profit or net assets in the year 
to 31 March 2012.
IFRS7 ‘Improving disclosures about financial instruments’ requires 
entities to provide disclosures in their financial statements that enable 
users to evaluate the significance of financial instruments, the nature 
and extent of risks arising from them and how entities manage those 
risks. This standard has no material impact on the Group’s financial 
statements.
IAS24 ‘Related party transactions’ introduces changes relating mainly 
to the related party disclosure requirements for government related 
entities, and the definition of a related party. This standard has no 
material impact on the Group’s financial statements.
The following amendment to a standard had been endorsed by the EU 
by the year end but is not effective for the year to 31 March 2012:
•	 Amendments to IFRS7 ‘Disclosures – Transfers of financial assets’
The Group has considered the impact of this amendment to a 
standard on future periods and no significant impact is expected  
on reported profit or net assets from its adoption.
The Group has chosen not to adopt this amendment to a  
standard early.
Umeco plc is a company incorporated and domiciled in the UK.  
The address of the Company’s registered office is Concorde House, 
Warwick New Road, Leamington Spa, Warwickshire, CV32 5JG, United 
Kingdom. The Company is listed on the London Stock Exchange.
The consolidated financial statements of the Company for the year to  
31 March 2012 comprise the Company and its subsidiaries, together 
with a share of the results, assets and liabilities of jointly controlled 
entities (joint ventures) using the proportionate consolidation method 
of accounting (together referred to as the ‘Group’). 
The consolidated financial statements were approved for release by 
the Board of Directors on 19 June 2012.
Statement of compliance
The Group’s financial statements as approved by the Directors have 
been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU. The 
Company has elected to prepare its parent Company financial 
statements in accordance with UK GAAP and these are shown on 
pages 72 to 79.
Going concern
The Group’s business activities, together with the factors likely to 
affect its future development, performance and position, the financial 
position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing 
facilities are described in the Business Review. In addition, note 27 to 
the consolidated financial statements includes the Group’s objectives, 
policies and processes for managing its capital, its financial risk 
management objectives, details of its financial instruments and 
hedging activities and its exposures to credit and liquidity risk.
The Group’s bank facilities amount to £39.1 million. On 20 May 2011, 
the Group entered into a five year committed multi currency revolving 
credit bank facility with HSBC Bank plc and Santander UK plc, 
comprising £15.0 million and US$25.0 million facilities. The facility will 
expire in May 2016, subject to, amongst other things, change of 
control provisions. The Group has a £10.0 million overdraft facility with 
HSBC Bank plc.
After considering the nature and duration of these facilities and 
making appropriate enquiries, based on the strength of the Group’s 
balance sheet, current expectations of future trading and on the 
facilities available to the Group, the Directors believe they have 
reasonable grounds for stating that the Company and the Group have 
adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the 
foreseeable future. For this reason, they continue to adopt the going 
concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Basis of preparation
The consolidated financial statements are presented in pounds 
sterling, the functional currency of the Company. They are prepared 
on the historical cost basis except that the following assets and 
liabilities are stated at their fair values – derivative financial instruments 
(IAS39) and retirement benefit obligations (IAS19).
Group Accounting Policies
For the year to 31 March 2012
Next Page
Back to Contents
Previous Page 36 Umeco plc Annual Report 2012
Consolidation
The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements 
of the Company and all of its subsidiaries. Acquisitions are accounted for 
using the purchase method, when control over the operating and financial 
policies of a company has been acquired. Control exists when the 
Company has direct or indirect power to govern the financial and 
operating policies of an entity so as to obtain economic benefit from 
its activities. The existence and effect of potential voting rights that 
are currently exercisable or convertible are considered in assessing 
control. Consolidation of subsidiaries continues until that control 
ceases. The financial statements of subsidiaries used in the 
preparation of the consolidated financial statements are prepared  
for the same reporting period as the Company.
Transactions and balances between Group companies are eliminated  
on consolidation, and no profit before tax is recognised on sales 
made between Group companies until the products are sold to 
customers outside the Group.
Investments in jointly controlled entities
Joint ventures are those entities over whose activities the Group has 
joint control, established by contractual agreement. 
The Group’s share of joint ventures is accounted for using the 
proportionate consolidation method. The Consolidated Statement of 
Comprehensive Income and the Consolidated Balance Sheet include 
the Group’s share of the joint ventures’ income, expenses, assets  
and liabilities.
Divestments and assets held for sale
The results and cash flows of major lines of business that are held  
for sale have been classified as discontinued operations. Businesses 
that are divested are de-consolidated from the date on which  
control ceases.
When the carrying value of an asset will be recovered principally 
through a sale transaction expected to take place within twelve 
months of the balance sheet date rather than through continuing use, 
it is classified as held for sale and stated at the lower of carrying value 
and fair value less costs to sell.
Immediately before classification as held for sale, the assets, or 
components of a disposal group, are re-measured in accordance 
with the Group’s accounting policies. Thereafter generally the assets, 
or disposal group, are measured at the lower of their carrying amount 
and fair value less costs to sell. Any impairment loss on a disposal 
group is first allocated to goodwill, and then to remaining assets and 
liabilities on a pro rata basis, except that no loss is allocated to 
inventories, financial assets, deferred tax assets and employee benefit 
assets relating to retirement benefit obligations which continue to  
be measured in accordance with the Group’s accounting policies. 
Impairment losses on initial classification as held for sale and 
subsequent gains or losses on re-measurement are recognised in the 
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income. Gains are not 
recognised in excess of any cumulative impairment loss. 
Discontinued operations
A discontinued operation is a component of the Group’s business that 
represents a separate major line of business or geographical area of 
operations that has been disposed of or is held for sale, or is a subsidiary 
acquired exclusively with a view to resale. Classification as a 
discontinued operation occurs upon disposal or when the operation 
meets the criteria to be classified as held for sale, if earlier. When an 
operation is classified as a discontinued operation, the comparative 
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income and Consolidated 
Statement of Cash Flows are re-presented as if the operation had been 
discontinued from the start of the comparative period.
Goodwill and intangible assets
Goodwill represents amounts arising on acquisition of subsidiaries. In 
respect of acquisitions that have been announced since 1 April 2004, 
goodwill represents the difference between the fair value of the cost  
of the acquisition (including the attributable costs of the acquisition) 
and the fair value of the net identifiable assets acquired, and is 
allocated to cash generating units. Positive goodwill is recognised as 
an asset on the balance sheet. Negative goodwill, representing the 
excess of the fair value of assets acquired above the fair value of 
consideration paid, arising on acquisitions is recognised immediately  
in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income.
In respect of acquisitions announced prior to 1 April 2004, goodwill  
is included on the basis of its deemed cost, which represents the 
amount recorded under UK GAAP on transition to IFRS.
Goodwill is stated at cost or deemed cost less any impairment 
losses. The carrying value of goodwill is reviewed for impairment  
at each balance sheet date.
Goodwill is not amortised but is reviewed for impairment at least 
annually. On disposal of a subsidiary undertaking, the attributable 
amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the profit  
or loss on disposal. 
Other intangible assets that are acquired by the Group are stated  
at cost less accumulated amortisation. Amortisation is charged  
to administrative expenses in the Consolidated Statement of 
Comprehensive Income over the estimated useful life of the asset.  
The useful life of each asset is assessed based on discussions with 
management and takes account of the differing natures of each of the 
intangible assets assessed. The useful lives of order books, customer 
relationships and contracts are between one and nine years.
Expenditure on internally generated goodwill is recognised as an 
expense in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income  
as incurred.
Group Accounting Policies continued
For the year to 31 March 2012
Next Page
Back to Contents
Previous Page Overview Business Review Company Information Directors
37 Umeco plc Annual Report 2012
Financial Statements Governance
Employee benefits
(a) retirement benefit obligations
The Group operates pension schemes providing benefits based on final 
pensionable salaries and on contributions made by members. The 
assets of the schemes are held separately from those of the Group. For 
defined contribution pension schemes, amounts payable are charged to 
the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income as they fall due.
For defined benefit pension schemes, the IAS19 cost of providing 
benefits is calculated annually by independent actuaries using the 
projected unit method. The charge to the Consolidated Statement  
of Comprehensive Income reflects the current service cost of such 
obligations and, where applicable, past service cost. The expected 
return on defined benefit pension scheme assets and the interest 
cost on retirement benefit obligations are included within financial 
income and expense in the Consolidated Statement of 
Comprehensive Income.
The retirement benefit obligation recognised in the Consolidated 
Balance Sheet represents the present value of the liabilities of the 
defined benefit schemes as reduced by the fair value of the assets  
of those schemes. Differences between the actual and expected 
returns on assets and experience gains and losses arising on  
scheme liabilities, together with differences arising from changes  
in assumptions, are recognised as other comprehensive income  
in the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity.
The Group’s contributions to the pension schemes are paid  
in accordance with the pension schemes’ rules and the 
recommendations of the pension schemes’ actuaries.
(b) share based payments
The fair value of awards granted under share based payment schemes  
is recognised as an expense with a corresponding increase in equity.  
Fair values of awards are estimated using the Black-Scholes model and 
principles similar to the Monte Carlo approach, taking into account the 
terms and conditions under which the awards were granted. The fair 
value determined at grant date is expensed on a straight line basis over 
the vesting period, with the amount recognised as an expense being 
adjusted to reflect the actual number of awards that vest except where 
forfeiture is solely due to market conditions, for example the Company’s 
share price not achieving the threshold for vesting.
Any proceeds received, net of directly attributable transaction costs, 
are credited to share capital and share premium when awards 
are exercised.
Impairment
The carrying values of all non-current assets subject to amortisation 
and depreciation are reviewed for impairment when there is an 
indication that the assets might be impaired. In addition, non-current 
assets which have an indefinite useful life, including goodwill, are 
tested for impairment annually to determine whether there is any 
indication of impairment. If any indication of impairment exists, the 
asset’s recoverable amount is estimated. An impairment loss is 
recognised whenever the carrying amount of an asset or its cash 
generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount. The recoverable 
amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and the value in  
use. In determining the value in use, estimated future cash flows  
are discounted to their present value using a discount rate that  
reflects the time value of money and risks specific to the asset being 
assessed. Impairment losses are recognised immediately in the 
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income and, in the case  
of goodwill, are not subsequently reversed.
Revenue
Revenue is recognised in the Consolidated Statement of 
Comprehensive Income at the fair value of consideration received or 
receivable. Recognition is made when goods or services are supplied 
or made available to customers against orders received, the significant 
risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred to the customer 
and the amount of revenue can be measured reliably. Revenue 
excludes value added tax and other similar sales taxes.
Assessments are made in respect of Supply Chain contracts to 
determine whether the Group is acting as principal or agent. Where it is 
determined that the Group is acting as principal, revenue is recognised 
on a gross basis and includes the value of goods supplied. Where the 
Group acts as agent, the agency fee is recognised as revenue.
No revenue is recognised where the recovery of the consideration is  
not probable. Revenue is stated after the deduction of discounts and 
allowances for estimated future rebates and returns. The methodology 
and assumptions used to estimate rebates and returns are monitored 
and adjusted in the light of contractual and legal obligations, historical 
trends, past experience and projected market conditions.
Grant income
Grant income is recognised only when there is reasonable assurance 
that the Group will comply with the relevant conditions attached to  
the grant, and that the grant will be received. The grant income is 
recognised over the period necessary to match it with the related  
costs for which it is intended to compensate.
Significant items
Significant items are non-recurring items which are separately 
identified by virtue of their size or incidence so as to allow a better 
understanding of the underlying trading performance of the Group.
Next Page
Back to Contents
Previous Page 38 Umeco plc Annual Report 2012
Property, plant & equipment
Items of property, plant & equipment are stated at cost or deemed 
cost less accumulated depreciation. Cost includes expenditure that  
is directly attributable to the item of property, plant & equipment 
acquired. Assets held under lease finance arrangements are 
depreciated over the shorter of the lease term and the expected 
useful life of the asset. Depreciation is provided so as to write off the 
cost of property, plant & equipment over their estimated useful 
economic lives on a straight line basis as follows:
Freehold buildings and long leasehold  
property improvements 50 years
Short leasehold property improvements period of lease
Plant, machinery, fixtures & IT equipment 3-10 years
Motor vehicles 3-4 years
No depreciation is charged on freehold land. 
The residual values and useful lives of assets are reviewed annually for 
continued appropriateness and indications of impairment, and are 
adjusted if required.
On disposal of an item of property, plant & equipment, the cost and 
related accumulated depreciation are removed from fixed assets and 
the net amount, less any proceeds, is recognised in the Consolidated 
Statement of Comprehensive Income.
Inventories
Inventories are valued at the lower of cost (including, where 
applicable, raw materials, direct labour, other direct costs and related 
production overheads) and net realisable value. Cost is generally 
determined on a first in, first out basis. The net realisable value of 
inventory is assessed by reference to historic and expected future 
usage patterns, with provision being made for obsolete or slow 
moving items.
Research & development
Expenditure on research is charged to the Consolidated Statement of 
Comprehensive Income as incurred. Where development expenditure 
meets the criteria of IAS38, such expenditure will be capitalised and 
amortised over its useful life.
Interest
Interest receivable or payable is credited or charged to the 
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income using the 
effective interest method. 
Income tax
Income tax comprises current and deferred tax. Income tax is 
recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 
except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in  
other comprehensive income, in which case it is recognised in other 
comprehensive income.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on taxable income for the year, 
using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet 
date, and any adjustments to tax payable in respect of previous periods.
Deferred tax is provided for in full, using the balance sheet liability 
method, providing for temporary differences between the carrying 
amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and 
the amounts used for tax purposes. No deferred tax is provided for  
in relation to temporary differences relating to goodwill that is not 
deductible for tax purposes and differences relating to investments  
in subsidiaries, except to the extent that they are expected to reverse  
in the foreseeable future, and the Company is not able to control the 
timing of the reversal of the temporary difference.
The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner 
of realisation or settlement of the assets and liabilities, using tax rates 
enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date. A deferred 
tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future 
taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be utilised. 
Deferred tax assets are reduced to the extent that it is no longer 
probable that the related tax benefit will be realised.
Leases
Where the Group enters into a lease which entails taking substantially 
all the risks and rewards of ownership of an asset, the lease is treated 
as a finance lease. The asset is capitalised and recorded within 
property, plant & equipment at the lower of the fair value at the date of 
acquisition or the present value of the minimum lease payments, and is 
depreciated over the shorter of its estimated useful life and the lease 
term. Future instalments under such leases, net of finance charges, are 
included within loans & borrowings. Rentals payable are apportioned 
between the finance element, which is charged to the Consolidated 
Statement of Comprehensive Income as interest, and the capital 
element, which reduces the outstanding obligation for future 
instalments. All other leases are operating leases and the rentals 
payable are charged to the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive 
Income on a straight line basis over the life of each lease.
Provisions
A provision is recognised on the Consolidated Balance Sheet when 
the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of 
a past event, and where it is probable that a reliably estimated outflow 
will be required to settle the obligation. 
Share capital
The share capital of the Company is recorded at the proceeds 
received, net of directly attributable issue costs. Consideration paid 
for shares in the Company in respect of share based payments is 
deducted from retained earnings. Where such shares subsequently 
vest in the employees under the terms of the Group’s share option 
schemes or are sold, any consideration received up to the value that 
has been recognised for such shares is included in retained earnings. 
Any excess consideration is credited to share premium.
Foreign currencies
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded using the rate of 
exchange ruling at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and 
liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date 
are translated into sterling using the rate of exchange ruling at the 
balance sheet date and the gains or losses on translation are included 
in the profit attributable to owners of the Company. Goodwill and 
Group Accounting Policies continued
For the year to 31 March 2012
Next Page
Back to Contents
Previous Page Overview Business Review Company Information Directors
39 Umeco plc Annual Report 2012
Financial Statements Governance
intangible assets relating to overseas operations are denominated in 
the currency of the foreign operations’ primary economic environment 
and are translated using the rate of exchange ruling at the balance 
sheet date with gains or losses on translation taken to other 
comprehensive income.
Subsidiaries account in the currency of their primary economic 
environment of operation, determined having regard to the currency 
that mainly influences revenue and expenses. Statements of 
comprehensive income and cash flows of overseas subsidiaries are 
translated into sterling at the average rate of exchange for the year.  
On consolidation, the balance sheets of overseas entities are 
translated into sterling at the rates of exchange ruling at the balance 
sheet date. Foreign exchange differences arising from the translation 
into sterling of equity interests in overseas subsidiary undertakings 
are treated as movements in the translation reserve.
The currencies which most influence the Group’s financial statements 
are the US dollar and Euro. The relevant exchange rates for these 
currencies were:
2012 2011
Average rate
Sterling:US dollar 1.596 1.556
Sterling:Euro 1.160 1.177
Closing rate
Sterling:US dollar 1.598 1.603
Sterling:Euro 1.200 1.130
Financial instruments
Financial instruments are recognised when the Group becomes a 
party to the contractual provisions of the instrument. Financial assets 
are de-recognised when the rights to receive benefits have expired  
or have been transferred and the Group has transferred substantially 
all the risks and rewards of ownership. Financial liabilities are  
de-recognised when the obligation is extinguished. The principal 
financial assets and liabilities of the Group are as follows:
(a) trade receivables
Trade receivables are initially recognised at fair value and are then  
stated at amortised cost, net of any provision. A provision is made 
where there is evidence of a risk of non-payment, taking into account 
ageing, previous experience and general economic conditions. When  
a trade receivable is determined to be uncollectable it is written off, 
either against a provision or to the Consolidated Statement of 
Comprehensive Income.
(b) cash
Cash is carried in the Consolidated Balance Sheet at fair value. For 
the purposes of the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows, cash 
comprises cash at bank and in hand together with bank overdrafts, 
as these items are an integral part of the Group’s cash management. 
The Group does not have any short term deposit instruments.
(c) trade payables
Trade payables are initially recognised at fair value and are then 
stated at amortised cost.
(d) bank loans & other borrowings
Interest bearing bank loans and overdrafts are initially recognised  
at fair value less attributable transaction costs. All borrowings are 
subsequently stated at amortised cost with the difference between  
the initial proceeds and the repayment value being recognised in the 
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income over the period  
to repayment.
(e) derivative financial instruments
The Group uses derivative financial instruments to manage financial 
risks associated with the Group’s business activities and the financing 
of those activities. Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value  
on the date that the contract is entered into and subsequently 
re-measured in future periods at their fair value, with any change in 
value being recognised in the Consolidated Statement of 
Comprehensive Income. The Group does not apply hedge 
accounting in respect of these financial instruments.
The Group enters into forward foreign exchange contracts to provide 
a hedge against foreign currency exposures. Interest rate swap 
contracts are used to hedge the Group’s exposure to changes in 
interest rates.
Fair values are based on market prices at the balance sheet date.
The Group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments  
for speculative purposes.
(f) hedge of net investment in foreign operation
Where a foreign currency liability is a formally designated hedge of  
a net investment in a foreign operation, foreign exchange differences 
arising on translation of the foreign currency liability are recognised 
directly in equity to the extent the hedge is effective. The Group  
assesses the effectiveness of its net investment hedge based on  
the fair value changes of its net assets exposed to foreign exchange 
movements, including relevant goodwill designated as a foreign 
currency asset and the fair value changes of the debt designated  
as a hedge.
At the inception of a hedging transaction, the Group documents the 
relationship between the hedged item and the hedging instrument 
together with its risk management objective and the strategy 
underlying the proposed transaction. The Group also documents its 
assessment, both at the inception of the hedging relationship and 
subsequently on an ongoing basis, of the effectiveness of the hedge.
Next Page
Back to Contents
Previous Page 40 Umeco plc Annual Report 2012
1 Segmental reporting
The Group has two continuing reportable segments, as described below, which are the Group’s strategic business units. The strategic 
business units are the Structural Materials business stream, which undertakes the development, manufacture and supply of advanced 
composite materials, and the Process Materials business stream, which undertakes the development, manufacture and supply of vacuum 
bagging materials. The strategic business units offer different products and services, and are managed separately as they require different 
technology and marketing strategies. For each of the strategic business units, the Chief Executive reviews internal management reports on  
a monthly basis.
Details of the business segments can be found on page 98 and details of the calculation of adjusted operating profit, together with  
a reconciliation of reportable segment adjusted operating profit to total operating profit, are set out in note 8.
There are no material transactions between the Group’s two reportable segments.
The continuing operations’ biggest customer accounted for 2.7 per cent (2011: 3.3 per cent) of net revenue from continuing operations.
Information regarding reportable segments
Continuing operations
Structural Materials Process Materials Total
2012
£m
2011
£m
2012
£m
2011
£m
2012
£m
2011
£m
External revenue 139.0 120.0 84.0 87.4 223.0 207.4
Inter-segment revenue 0.3 0.3 0.1 0.1 0.4 0.4
Adjusted operating profit 11.4 10.8 10.3 8.7 21.7 19.5
Depreciation 2.3 2.1 1.4 1.5 3.7 3.6
Amortisation 2.9 3.8 1.1 1.5 4.0 5.3
Trading assets 38.3 33.3 31.9 25.9 70.2 59.2
Capital expenditure 7.9 5.1 3.9 1.4 11.8 6.5
Discontinued operations
ACG South Africa Supply Chain Total Total
2012
£m
2011
£m
2012
£m
2011
£m
2012
£m
2011
£m
2012
£m
2011
£m
External revenue – 0.6 88.9 251.9 88.9 252.5 311.9 459.9
Inter-segment revenue – – – – – – 0.4 0.4
Adjusted operating (loss)/profit – (0.1) 3.5 13.9 3.5 13.8 25.2 33.3
Depreciation – – 0.6 1.8 0.6 1.8 4.3 5.4
Amortisation – – – – – – 4.0 5.3
Trading assets – – – 81.3 – 81.3 70.2 140.5
Capital expenditure – – 0.3 1.1 0.3 1.1 12.1 7.6
Total adjusted operating profit is £25.2 million (2011: £33.3 million). The differences between the total and adjusted measures of operating 
profit, profit before tax and profit attributable to owners of the Company are reconciled in notes 8 and 22.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the year to 31 March 2012
Next Page
Back to Contents
Previous Page Overview Business Review Financial Statements Governance Company Information Directors
41 Umeco plc Annual Report 2012
1 Segmental reporting continued
Reconciliations of reportable segment information
2012
£m
2011
£m
Revenue
Total revenue for continuing reportable segments 223.4 207.8
Elimination of inter-segment revenue (0.4) (0.4)
Group revenue 223.0 207.4
2012
£m
2011
£m
Depreciation
Total depreciation for continuing reportable segments 3.7 3.6
Corporate depreciation 0.1 0.1
Group depreciation 3.8 3.7
 
2012
 £m
2011
£m
Net assets
Total trading assets for continuing reportable segments 70.2 59.2
Corporate net assets and unallocated items 7.5 –
Goodwill and intangible assets 106.8 111.5
Income tax and deferred tax (13.6) (13.0)
Financial liabilities – (0.2)
Provisions and retirement benefit obligations (5.8) (5.9)
Net cash/(debt) 8.6 (74.3)
Assets held for sale – excluding net debt – 94.3
Group net assets 173.7 171.6
Next Page
Back to Contents
Previous Page 42 Umeco plc Annual Report 2012
1 Segmental reporting continued
Geographical segments
In presenting information on the basis of geographical segments, segment revenue is provided based on the geographical location of the 
customer and the geographical location of the business unit. Segment assets are based on the geographical location of the assets.
2012 2011
Continuing
£m
Discontinued
£m
Total
£m
Continuing
£m
Discontinued
£m
Total
£m
Revenue by location of customer
UK 52.2 48.9 101.1 43.3 146.8 190.1
France 16.1 7.6 23.7 11.5 19.8 31.3
Italy 20.7 4.9 25.6 21.5 14.1 35.6
Rest of Europe 45.3 7.0 52.3 40.9 21.6 62.5
USA 62.6 14.6 77.2 59.3 34.8 94.1
Rest of World 26.1 5.9 32.0 30.9 15.4 46.3
Total 223.0 88.9 311.9 207.4 252.5 459.9
2012 2011
Continuing
£m
Discontinued
£m
Total
£m
Continuing
£m
Discontinued
£m
Total
£m
Revenue by location of business unit
UK 95.7 54.0 149.7 82.0 160.9 242.9
France 20.0 9.0 29.0 22.7 23.6 46.3
Italy 16.2 5.4 21.6 19.4 15.6 35.0
Rest of Europe 10.9 4.4 15.3 9.1 14.2 23.3
USA 80.1 14.5 94.6 74.2 34.5 108.7
Rest of World 0.1 1.6 1.7 – 3.7 3.7
Total 223.0 88.9 311.9 207.4 252.5 459.9
2012
£m
2011
£m
Non-current assets by location of business unit
UK 60.3 62.0
France 2.1 2.4
Italy 21.4 22.3
Rest of Europe 2.3 0.4
USA 60.3 59.8
Rest of World 1.1 0.5
Total 147.5 147.4
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
For the year to 31 March 2012
Next Page
Back to Contents
Previous Page Overview Business Review Financial Statements Governance Company Information Directors
43 Umeco plc Annual Report 2012
2 Employee numbers and payroll costs
2012
Number
2011
Number
Average number of employees, including Directors – continuing operations
Structural Materials 624 567
Process Materials 287 284
Holding company 10 12
921 863
 
2012
£m
2011
£m
Payroll costs – continuing operations
Wages and salaries 35.5 34.1 
Social security costs 4.0 3.3 
Contributions to defined contribution pension schemes 0.8 1.0 
Expenses relating to defined benefit pension arrangements 0.4 0.5
Equity settled transactions 0.1 0.2 
40.8 39.1
Details of Directors’ remuneration and share options are set out in the Remuneration Report.
The average number of staff employed by the discontinued operations during the period until disposal was 753 (2011: 737). Aggregate payroll 
costs of the discontinued operations for the period until disposal were £11.7 million (2011: £28.3 million).
3 Operating profit
2012
£m
2011 
£m
Operating profit is stated after charging/(crediting) – continuing operations
Depreciation of property, plant & equipment
– assets owned 3.7 3.5 
– assets held under lease finance agreements 0.1 0.2 
Profit on disposal of property, plant & equipment (0.2) –
Amortisation of intangible assets 4.0 5.3 
Inventories
– cost of inventory included in cost of sales 134.4 123.1 
Operating lease charges
– plant, machinery & vehicles 0.3 0.3 
– land & buildings 2.4 2.1 
Net loss/(gain) on foreign exchange translation 0.3 (0.5) 
Research & development 1.7 2.1 
Significant items – 2.8 
No significant items were incurred during the year. Significant items of £2.8 million in the year to 31 March 2011 mainly comprised £2.5 million 
for the restructuring of the North American sales organisation, including termination of a sales agency agreement relating to a significant 
number of Structural Materials’ North American customers.
Next Page
Back to Contents
Previous Page 44 Umeco plc Annual Report 2012
3 Operating profit continued
2012
£m
2011
£m
Auditor’s remuneration
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor for the audit of the annual accounts 0.1 0.1
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor and its associates for other services
 – audit of the Company’s subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 0.2 0.4
 – taxation services 0.1 0.1
 – services relating to corporate finance – 1.7 
4 Financial income and expense
2012
£m
2011
£m
Financial income – continuing operations
Revaluation of financial instruments 0.2 0.3 
Interest income – 0.1 
Expected return on pension scheme assets 1.3 1.1 
1.5 1.5 
2012
£m
2011
£m
Financial expense – continuing operations
Interest on bank loans and overdrafts 1.6 3.2 
Interest cost on retirement benefit obligation 1.1 1.1 
2.7 4.3 
5 Income tax
Notes
2012
£m
2011
£m
Income tax expense – continuing operations
Current tax expense/(credit)  – continuing operations
UK tax  – current year 3.5 2.5
  – prior years (2.1) (0.3)
Overseas tax – current year 2.2 2.4
  – prior years 0.3 (0.1)
3.9 4.5
Deferred tax expense/(credit) – continuing operations
Origination and reversal of UK temporary differences
  – current year 0.9 0.5
  – change in tax rate (0.1) (0.5)
  – prior years 0.3 –
Origination and reversal of overseas temporary differences
  – current year (0.1) (2.6)
  – prior years 0.3 –
1.3 (2.6)
Income tax expense – continuing operations 5.2 1.9
Income tax expense relating to discontinued operations 22 1.6 3.3
Total income tax expense 6.8 5.2
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
For the year to 31 March 2012
Next Page
Back to Contents
Previous Page Overview Business Review Financial Statements Governance Company Information Directors
45 Umeco plc Annual Report 2012
5 Income tax continued
2012 2011
Per cent £m Per cent £m
Reconciliation of effective tax rate
Profit before tax – continuing operations 16.5 8.6
Tax at standard rate of UK corporation tax 26.0 4.3 28.0 2.4
Effects of:
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 6.7 1.1 – –
Change in UK tax rate (0.6) (0.1) (5.6) (0.5)
Overseas tax rates above standard rate of UK corporation tax on overseas earnings 6.7 1.1 3.5 0.3
Adjustments in respect of prior years (7.3) (1.2) (3.5) (0.3)
Income tax expense – continuing operations 31.5 5.2 22.4 1.9
The effective tax rate on profit before tax from continuing operations was 31.5 per cent (2011: 22.4 per cent). The effective tax rate on adjusted 
profit before tax from continuing operations was 32.0 per cent (2011: 27.6 per cent), based on a tax expense on adjusted profit before tax of 
£6.5 million (2011: £4.5 million).
The deferred tax effects of actuarial gains and losses on retirement benefit obligations have been recognised directly in equity, and comprised  
a deferred tax credit of £0.5 million (2011: £0.4 million charge).
The aggregate amount of temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries of continuing operations of the Company for 
which deferred tax liabilities have not been recognised is £51.3 million (2011: £41.1 million). The unprovided deferred tax liability in relation to 
these temporary differences is minimal as the majority of these earnings are either from UK subsidiaries or they are overseas earnings which 
would qualify for the UK dividend exemption.
The 2012 Budget on 21 March 2012 announced that the UK corporation tax rate will reduce to 22.0 per cent by 2014. The reduction in the UK 
corporation tax rate from 28.0 per cent to 27 .0 per cent (effective from 1 April 2011) was substantively enacted on 20 July 2010 with the further 
reduction to 26.0 per cent (effective from 1 April 2011) being substantively enacted on 29 March 2011. A reduction in the rate from 26.0 per cent  
to 25.0 per cent (effective from 1 April 2012) was substantively enacted on 5 July 2011, and a further reduction to 24.0 per cent (effective from  
1 April 2012) was substantively enacted on 26 March 2012. This will reduce the future current tax charge accordingly. The deferred tax liability  
at 31 March 2012 has been calculated based on the rate of 24.0 per cent substantively enacted at the balance sheet date. It has not yet been 
possible to quantify the full anticipated effect of the announced further 2.0 per cent rate reduction, although this will further reduce the future 
current tax charge and reduce the deferred tax liability accordingly.
6 Dividends
2012 2011
Pence
per share
 
£m
Pence
per share
 
£m
Dividends paid
Previous year final 11.50 5.5 11.00 5.3
Current year interim 4.00 2.0 6.75 3.2
15.50 7.5 17.75 8.5
2012 2011
Pence
per share
 
£m
Pence
per share
 
£m
Dividends proposed
Interim 4.00 2.0 6.75 3.2
Final – – 11.50 5.5
4.00 2.0 18.25 8.7
The terms of the Umeco Bonus Plan, details of which are set out in the Remuneration Report, require that dividends are waived by participants  
in respect of deferred shares. Consequently, the final dividend declared in respect of the year to 31 March 2011 and the interim dividend 
declared in respect of the year to 31 March 2012 were each waived in relation to 205,086 shares.
Next Page
Back to Contents
Previous Page 46 Umeco plc Annual Report 2012
7 Earnings per share
Earnings per share is calculated on profit attributable to owners of the Company of £13.8 million (2011: £2.2 million). Adjusted profit attributable 
to owners of the Company, which provides a consistent measure of operating performance, was £13.8 million (2011: £11.9 million) as shown in 
note 8. 
Earnings per share from continuing operations is calculated on profit from continuing operations of £11.3 million (2011: £6.7 million). Earnings  
per share from discontinued operations is calculated on profit from discontinued operations of £2.5 million (2011: £4.5 million loss).
2012
Million
2011
Million
Weighted average number of shares in issue
Basic 48.2 48.1
Dilutive effect of share options 0.4 0.8
Diluted 48.6 48.9
8 Reconciliation of adjusted profit measures
Umeco uses adjusted figures as key performance indicators, as these are considered to provide a more consistent measure of operating 
performance. Adjusted figures are stated before the results of discontinued operations, amortisation and impairment charges relating  
to intangible assets, significant items, the revaluation of financial instruments based on their market values and associated tax effects.  
The total and adjusted profit measures are reconciled below.
2012
£m
2011
£m
Operating profit – continuing operations
Total operating profit 17.7 11.4
Exclude
– significant items – 2.8
– amortisation of intangible assets 4.0 5.3
Adjusted operating profit – continuing operations 21.7 19.5
Profit before tax – continuing operations
Total profit before tax 16.5 8.6
Exclude
– significant items – 2.8
– amortisation of intangible assets 4.0 5.3
– revaluation of financial instruments (0.2) (0.3)
Adjusted profit before tax – continuing operations 20.3 16.4
Profit attributable to owners of the Company
Total profit attributable to owners of the Company 13.8 2.2
Exclude
– significant items – 2.8
– amortisation of intangible assets 4.0 5.3
– revaluation of financial instruments (0.2) (0.3)
– loss after tax of discontinued operations 1.0 4.5
– profit on disposal of discontinued operation (3.5) –
– associated tax effects (1.3) (2.6)
Adjusted profit attributable to owners of the Company – continuing operations 13.8 11.9
Pence Pence
Adjusted earnings per share – continuing operations 28.6 24.6
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
For the year to 31 March 2012
Next Page
Back to Contents
Previous Page Overview Business Review Financial Statements Governance Company Information Directors
47 Umeco plc Annual Report 2012
9 Property, plant & equipment
Land & buildings 
Freehold
 property
£m
Long 
leasehold
property
improvements
£m
Short
leasehold
property
improvements 
£m
Plant
machinery 
fixtures & IT
equipment
£m
Motor
vehicles
£m
Total
£m
Cost
At 1 April 2011 (restated) 16.5 0.5 2.7 27.7 0.6 48.0
Additions 1.7 – 1.6 8.5 0.1 11.9
Disposals – – – (0.1) (0.2) (0.3)
Foreign exchange translation (0.4) – – (0.4) – (0.8)
At 31 March 2012 17.8 0.5 4.3 35.7 0.5 58.8
Depreciation
At 1 April 2011 (restated) 2.7 0.2 0.3 11.2 0.3 14.7
Charge 0.6 – 0.2 2.9 0.1 3.8
Disposals – – – (0.1) (0.2) (0.3)
At 31 March 2012 3.3 0.2 0.5 14.0 0.2 18.2
Net book value
At 31 March 2012 14.5 0.3 3.8 21.7 0.3 40.6
At 1 April 2011 13.8 0.3 2.4 16.5 0.3 33.3 
Net book value of tangible fixed assets at 31 March 2012 included £0.5 million (2011: £0.6 million) in respect of assets acquired under lease 
finance arrangements. The leased assets secure lease finance obligations as set out in note 17. The net book value of freehold land & buildings 
at 31 March 2012 included £1.0 million (2011: £1.0 million) in respect of land.
Additions of £11.9 million (2011: £6.5 million) were wholly funded by cash.
Land & buildings 
Freehold
 property
£m
Long 
leasehold
property
improvements
£m
Short
leasehold
property
improvements 
£m
Plant
machinery
fixtures & IT
equipment
£m
Motor
vehicles
£m
Total
£m
Cost
At 1 April 2010 28.2 0.6 1.0 37.1 1.8 68.7 
Additions 0.2 – 2.1 4.2 – 6.5 
Disposals – (0.1) – (3.0) (0.3) (3.4)
Transfer to assets held for sale (restated) (11.7) – (0.3) (9.9) (0.9) (22.8)
Foreign exchange translation (0.2) – (0.1) (0.7) – (1.0)
At 31 March 2011 (restated) 16.5 0.5 2.7 27.7 0.6 48.0
Depreciation
At 1 April 2010 3.1 0.2 0.4 17.2 1.3 22.2 
Charge 0.6 – 0.1 2.9 0.1 3.7 
Disposals – – – (2.4) (0.3) (2.7)
Transfer to assets held for sale (restated) (1.0) – (0.2) (6.3) (0.8) (8.3)
Foreign exchange translation – – – (0.2) – (0.2)
At 31 March 2011 (restated) 2.7 0.2 0.3 11.2 0.3 14.7
Net book value
At 31 March 2011 13.8 0.3 2.4 16.5 0.3 33.3 
At 1 April 2010 25.1 0.4 0.6 19.9 0.5 46.5
During the year to 31 March 2012, it was determined that the cost and associated depreciation amounts relating to the assets transferred  
to assets held for sale in relation to the Supply Chain business had been overstated. These amounts have been restated in the note above.  
The restatement had no impact on net book value or profit in the year (2011: £nil).
Next Page
Back to Contents
Previous Page 48 Umeco plc Annual Report 2012
10 Intangible assets
Goodwill
£m
Customer
relationships,
contracts
& orders
£m
Total
£m
Cost
At 1 April 2011 98.9 33.0 131.9
Foreign exchange translation (0.6) (0.3) (0.9)
At 31 March 2012 98.3 32.7 131.0
Amortisation & impairment losses
At 1 April 2011 0.8 19.6 20.4
Amortisation charge – 4.0 4.0
Foreign exchange translation – (0.2) (0.2)
At 31 March 2012 0.8 23.4 24.2
Net book value
At 31 March 2012 97.5 9.3 106.8
At 1 April 2011 98.1 13.4 111.5
Goodwill
£m
Customer
relationships,
contracts
& orders
£m
Total
£m
Cost
At 1 April 2010 125.2 36.2 161.4
Additions 0.1 – 0.1
Foreign exchange translation (2.7) (1.6) (4.3)
Transfer to assets held for sale (23.7) (1.6) (25.3)
At 31 March 2011 98.9 33.0 131.9
Amortisation & impairment losses
At 1 April 2010 0.8 16.5 17.3
Amortisation charge – 5.3 5.3
Foreign exchange translation – (0.6) (0.6)
Transfer to assets held for sale – (1.6) (1.6)
At 31 March 2011 0.8 19.6 20.4
Net book value
At 31 March 2011 98.1 13.4 111.5
At 1 April 2010 124.4 19.7 144.1
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
For the year to 31 March 2012
Next Page
Back to Contents
Previous Page Overview Business Review Financial Statements Governance Company Information Directors
49 Umeco plc Annual Report 2012
10 Intangible assets continued
Goodwill is allocated to cash generating units or groups of cash generating units expected to benefit from the synergies of the business 
combination. Cash generating units are generally considered to be individual businesses within the Group. Each unit or group of units to which 
the goodwill is allocated represents the lowest level within the Group at which goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes. 
Goodwill has been allocated to cash generating units or groups of cash generating units as shown in the table below.
2012
£m
2011
£m
Structural Materials
Umeco Structural Materials (Derby) Limited, Umeco Structural Materials (Manchester) Limited, Umeco Structural 
Materials (OK), Inc., Umeco Composites GmbH 39.7 39.7
Umeco Structural Materials (CA), Inc. 20.8 20.7
Process Materials 
Umeco Process Materials Limited, Umeco Process Materials Sarl, Umeco Composites S.r.l., Umeco Process 
Materials, Inc., Industria Plastica Monregalese – I.P.M. S.r.l. and Shanghai Umeco Composites Co., Limited 
(‘Shanghai Umeco Composites’) 37.0 37.7
97.5 98.1
Continuing operations
Each year, or whenever events or a change in the economic environment indicates a risk of impairment, the Group reviews the value of  
goodwill balances allocated to its cash generating units. Tests are performed based on internal valuations of each cash generating unit. The 
recoverable amount of goodwill attaching to cash generating units is based on value in use calculations using discounted cash flows. Those 
calculations are based on cash flow forecasts derived from the most recent forecast for the year to 31 March 2013 (2011: year to 31 March 
2012) approved by management and strategic plans for the subsequent two years. These forecasts provide cash flow projections covering  
the three year period ending on 31 March 2015 (2011: 31 March 2014). In order to produce projections for a 25 year horizon period, the cash 
flow forecast for the year to 31 March 2015 (2011: year to 31 March 2014) was then extrapolated for a further 22 years, using growth rates 
appropriate to each cash generating unit. For the calculation of discounted cash flows made as at 31 March 2012 and 31 March 2011, a 
terminal value was included in respect of forecast cash flows arising after the end of the 25 year horizon period. The following growth rates 
were used to derive the forecast for the year to 31 March 2016 (2011: year to 31 March 2015) and to derive the forecast for subsequent years:
2012
Per cent
2011
Per cent
Structural Materials
Years four to ten 3.0-7.0 2.0-7.0
Years 11 to 25 3.0 2.0
Process Materials
Years four to ten 3.0-7.0 2.0-7.0
Years 11 to 25 3.0 2.0
These growth rates are considered to be consistent with the long term average growth rates for the industries which the cash generating  
units serve. Growth rates are considered separately for each cash generating unit and are benchmarked against externally prepared industry 
growth projections. Management believe that the forecast period is appropriate given the long term nature of the build programmes within  
the relevant industries.
The key assumptions for the value in use calculations are those regarding the discount rates, growth rates, achievement of future revenues  
and expected changes in direct costs during the period. These assumptions have been reviewed to take account of the current economic 
environment and a prudent estimate about the future has been maintained.
Discount rates have been estimated based on pre-tax rates that reflect the current market assessment of the time value of money and the risks specific 
to the cash generating units. Whilst the Group has a number of cash generating units, the risks and rewards associated with these units’ operations are 
consistent and therefore the same market risk premium has been applied for these cash generating units.
Next Page
Back to Contents
Previous Page 50 Umeco plc Annual Report 2012
10 Intangible assets continued
In the cash generating units within Structural Materials, a pre-tax discount rate of 12.8 per cent (2011: 12.8 per cent) has been applied in 
determining the recoverable amounts of Umeco Structural Materials (CA), Inc. A pre-tax discount rate of between 13.2 and 17.5 per cent (2011: 
between 12.3 and 15.8 per cent) has been applied in determining the recoverable amounts of the other group of cash generating units within 
Structural Materials consisting of Umeco Structural Materials (Derby) Limited, Umeco Structural Materials (Manchester) Limited, Umeco 
Structural Materials (OK), Inc. and Umeco Composites GmbH. For cash generating units within Process Materials, a pre-tax discount rate of 
between 6.9 per cent and 14.4 per cent has been applied (2011: between 9.6 per cent and 13.6 per cent). The discount rates are estimated 
based on the Group’s weighted average cost of capital, using the capital asset pricing model to determine the cost of equity and then 
weighting the overall cost of capital for the Group by equity and debt. In calculating the cost of equity a market risk premium was used with a 
Beta value of 0.9 (2011: 0.9). A market premium of 5.0 per cent (2011: 5.0 per cent) was used to calculate a pre-tax discount rate reflecting 
market information and risk. 
Management believe that the calculations and assumptions on which the carrying value of goodwill is based are appropriate and any 
reasonable change in the assumptions would not lead to a materially different conclusion. The Group’s estimate of impairments is most 
sensitive to increases in the discount rate used and reductions in forecast cash flows. Sensitivity analysis has been carried out in relation to  
the discount rate assumption, which demonstrated that 8.4 per cent would need to be added to the pre-tax discount rate used for Structural 
Materials and Process Materials before any impairment would exist. Management do not consider such an increase in discount rates to  
be likely.
Although cash forecasts into perpetuity have been considered, the impairment tests at 31 March 2012 show that for Structural Materials, the 
number of years required to recover the carrying value of goodwill ranged from one to seven (2011: two to eleven years). The equivalent period 
for Process Materials was two to five years (2011: five years). Management consider that these payback periods are not excessive given the 
long term strategic benefits arising from the acquisitions that have given rise to goodwill.
There were no impairments recognised in the year to 31 March 2012. Cumulative impairment recognised in relation to goodwill is £0.8 million  
(2011: £0.8 million).
The Group made no acquisitions in the years to 31 March 2012 and 31 March 2011.
Discontinued operations
During the year to 31 March 2011, the Group announced the proposed disposal of Umeco Supply Chain and therefore its goodwill was 
classified as held for sale, as shown in note 22. An impairment of £12.5 million was recognised on this goodwill in the year to 31 March 2011  
as a result of reclassifying it as a held for sale asset.
11 Investment in joint venture
In September 2010, the Group acquired an interest of 51.0 per cent in Shanghai Umeco Composites. The joint venture has been accounted for 
using the proportionate consolidation method.
Joint venture
Country of
incorporation
2012
Ownership
Per cent
2011
Ownership
Per cent
Shanghai Umeco Composites China 51.0 51.0 
The share of the revenue, profits, assets and liabilities of the joint venture included in the consolidated financial statements is as follows:
Share of revenue and profits
2012
£m
2011
£m
Revenue 0.1 –
Expenses (0.5) –
Loss after tax for the year (0.4) –
Share of net assets
2012
£m
2011
£m
Non-current assets 1.2 0.5 
Current assets 1.4 0.3 
Non-current liabilities (1.2) –
Current liabilities (0.2) (0.6)
Net assets 1.2 0.2
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
For the year to 31 March 2012
Next Page
Back to Contents
Previous Page Overview Business Review Financial Statements Governance Company Information Directors
51 Umeco plc Annual Report 2012
12 Deferred tax assets and liabilities
Recognised deferred tax assets and liabilities
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are attributable to temporary differences relating to the following:
Assets Liabilities Net
2012
£m
2011
£m
2012
£m
2011
£m
2012
£m
2011
£m
Intangible assets & goodwill – – (6.3) (7.5) (6.3) (7.5)
Property, plant & equipment – – (3.8) (2.6) (3.8) (2.6)
Employee benefits 0.7 0.7 – – 0.7 0.7
Working capital 2.2 2.6 – – 2.2 2.6
Deferred tax assets/(liabilities) 2.9 3.3 (10.1) (10.1) (7.2) (6.8)
Set off of deferred tax (2.8) (0.7) 2.8 0.7 – –
Net deferred tax assets/(liabilities) 0.1 2.6 (7.3) (9.4) (7.2) (6.8)
2011
£m
Transfer
to held
for sale
£m
Foreign
exchange
translation
£m
Recognised
in income
statement
£m
Recognised
in equity
£m
2012
£m
Intangible assets & goodwill (7.5) – – 1.2 – (6.3)
Property, plant & equipment (2.6) – 0.1 (1.3) – (3.8)
Employee benefits 0.7 – – (0.8) 0.8 0.7
Working capital 2.6 – – (0.4) – 2.2
(6.8) – 0.1 (1.3) 0.8 (7.2)
2010
£m
Transfer
to held
for sale
£m
Foreign
exchange
translation
£m
Recognised
in income
statement
£m
Recognised
in equity
£m
2011
£m
Intangible assets & goodwill (9.1) – 0.2 1.4 – (7.5)
Property, plant & equipment (2.8) (0.2) – 0.4 – (2.6)
Employee benefits 1.3 – – (0.2) (0.4) 0.7
Working capital 2.6 (1.2) 0.2 1.0 – 2.6
(8.0) (1.4) 0.4 2.6 (0.4) (6.8)
On 21 March 2012, the Chancellor announced the reduction in the main rate of UK corporation tax to 24.0 per cent with effect from 1 April 
2012. This change became substantively enacted on 26 March 2012 and therefore the effect of the rate reduction creates a reduction in the 
deferred tax liability which has been included in the figures above.
The Chancellor also proposed changes to further reduce the main rate of corporation tax by 1.0 per cent per annum to 22.0 per cent by  
1 April 2014, but these changes have not yet been substantially enacted and therefore are not included in the figures above. The overall  
effect of the further reductions from 24.0 per cent to 22.0 per cent will be to reduce the deferred tax liability in future years.
Unrecognised deferred tax assets 
Deferred tax assets have not been recognised on tax losses of £0.7 million (2011: £nil), due to the lack of certainty concerning the quantum 
and timing of future years’ taxable profits of the companies concerned.
13 Inventories
2012
£m
2011
£m
Raw materials 10.6 9.5
Work in progress 0.2 0.3
Finished goods 20.7 15.8
31.5 25.6
Next Page
Back to Contents
Previous Page 52 Umeco plc Annual Report 2012
14 Trade & other receivables
2012
£m
2011
£m
Amounts falling due within one year
Trade receivables 44.6 45.6 
Other receivables 12.5 6.2 
Prepayments and accrued income 1.8 1.7
58.9 53.5
Changes in the provision for impairment of trade receivables are as follows:
2012
£m
2011
£m
At start of year 1.0 1.4
Charge 0.2 0.3
Utilised (0.3) (0.1)
Foreign exchange translation – (0.1)
Transfer to assets held for sale – (0.5)
At end of year 0.9 1.0
15 Cash
2012
£m
2011
£m
Continuing operations
Bank balances and cash in hand 15.4 5.6 
Bank overdrafts – (24.4)
15.4 (18.8)
Assets and liabilities classified as held for sale – note 22
Bank balances and cash in hand – 59.5 
Bank overdrafts – (2.3)
– 57.2 
Cash disclosed in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows 15.4 38.4 
16 Trade & other payables
2012
£m
2011
£m
Trade payables 38.2 35.5
Other tax and social security 2.3 2.2
Other payables 1.9 0.9
Accruals and deferred income 10.9 14.7
53.3 53.3
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
For the year to 31 March 2012
Next Page
Back to Contents
Previous Page Overview Business Review Financial Statements Governance Company Information Directors
53 Umeco plc Annual Report 2012
17 Loans & borrowings
This note provides information about the contractual terms of the Group’s interest bearing loans and borrowings on a continuing basis.  
More information about the Group’s exposure to interest rate and foreign currency risk is set out in note 27.
2012 2011
£m £m
Current liabilities
Bank overdrafts – 24.4
Bank loans 1.0 1.1
Lease finance obligations 0.1 0.1
1.1 25.6
Non-current liabilities
Bank loans 5.3 110.9
Lease finance obligations 0.4 0.5
5.7 111.4
Total loans & borrowings 6.8 137.0
All bank loans and overdrafts are unsecured and bear interest at floating rates based on LIBOR. Lease finance obligations of continuing 
operations are secured on the assets to which they relate, with these lease finance obligations payable as follows:
2012 2011
Minimum
lease
payments
£m
Interest
£m
Principal
£m
Minimum
lease
payments
£m
Interest
£m
Principal
£m
Less than one year 0.1 – 0.1 0.1 – 0.1
Between one and two years 0.1 – 0.1 0.1 – 0.1
Between two and five years 0.4 (0.1) 0.3 0.5 (0.1) 0.4
0.6 (0.1) 0.5 0.7 (0.1) 0.6
      
Under the terms of the lease agreements, no contingent rentals are payable.
18 Provisions
£m
At 1 April 2011 3.5
Utilised (0.4)
At 31 March 2012 3.1
Of the provision at 31 March 2012, £3.0 million (2011: £3.2 million) relates to costs of potential environmental work at a site in Toulouse, France, 
formerly operated by Umeco Repair & Overhaul and other costs to be incurred under the terms of the Repair & Overhaul divestment. Due to 
the nature of the costs, the period over which the provision is expected to be utilised is difficult to determine but is currently expected to be 
between two and ten years.
Next Page
Back to Contents
Previous Page 54 Umeco plc Annual Report 2012
19 Share capital
2012 2011
Number £m Number £m
Ordinary shares of 25 pence
Allotted, called up and fully paid
At start of year 48,140,816 12.0 48,134,248 12.0
Issued pursuant to the SAYE Share Option Scheme 348,317 0.1 6,568 –
At end of year 48,489,133 12.1 48,140,816 12.0
Details of the SAYE Share Option Scheme are set out in note 26 and in the Remuneration Report, which also includes full details of  
Directors’ share options. Between 31 March 2012 and the date of these financial statements, 4,737 options were exercised under the  
SAYE Share Option Scheme.
The rights attaching to holders of ordinary shares are set out in full in the Company’s Articles of Association. As regards rights to vote at a 
general meeting of the Company, subject to any prohibitions or restrictions, on a show of hands, every member personally present and every 
proxy has one vote. In the case of a poll every member has one vote for every share held. The Company’s Articles of Association allow for the 
payment of dividends out of the profits of the Company to members in proportion to the amounts paid up on their shares.
20 Reserves
The translation reserve comprises all foreign exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of foreign operations 
and the effective portion of the cumulative net change in fair value of hedging instruments. Retained earnings include the cost of the 
Company’s shares which have been acquired under the terms of deferred share awards made under the Umeco Bonus Plan and which are 
registered in the names of the award holders and transactions for awards made under the Performance Share Plan and Chairman’s 2010 
Share Award Plan. Details of these awards are set out in note 26. At 31 March 2012, the reserve for own shares within retained earnings was  
£0.5 million (2011: £nil) as a result of the deferred share awards made in June 2009, June 2011 and August 2011 and Performance Share  
Plan and Chairman’s 2010 Share Award Plan awards made in June 2011. Share premium represents the excess paid over the nominal value 
for each share.
21 Commitments
2012
£m
2011
£m
Capital commitments
Contracted 2.6 5.9
No provision has been made in the financial statements for these commitments.
The total minimum commitments payable under non-cancellable operating leases of continuing operations, analysed by the date of expiry of 
the lease agreements, are as follows:
2012 2011
Land &
buildings
£m
Other
assets
£m
Land &
buildings
£m
Other
assets
£m
Within one year 0.2 0.1 0.1 0.1
Between two and five years 1.5 0.9 0.7 1.0 
After more than five years 7.4 – 8.0 –
 9.1 1.0 8.8 1.1 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
For the year to 31 March 2012
Next Page
Back to Contents
Previous Page Overview Business Review Financial Statements Governance Company Information Directors
55 Umeco plc Annual Report 2012
22 Discontinued operations
On 20 May 2011, Umeco entered into a disposal agreement with Quicksilver Holdco Limited for the sale and purchase of the entire issued 
capital of the Pattonair companies, which at the time constituted one of Umeco’s three business streams. The disposal was approved  
by shareholders at a general meeting held on 13 June 2011 and completed on 29 July 2011 for a net consideration of approximately  
£112.5 million before transaction costs, excluding £8.0 million deferred consideration. The payment of the £8.0 million deferred consideration will 
be satisfied by four equal instalments of £2.0 million, to be paid on 29 June 2012, 29 September 2012, 31 December 2012 and 29 March 2013.
The following subsidiaries of Umeco plc, together with their place of operation and country of incorporation, formed the Supply Chain business 
and their results have accordingly been presented separately from continuing operations and are disclosed as a discontinued operation.
Incorporated and operated in Great Britain and registered in England and Wales
Pattonair (Derby) Limited;
Pattonair Limited;
Pattonair Properties Limited;
Pattonair (Wolverhampton) Limited;
Orchard House Limited – a non trading company; and
Aviation Supplies Co. Limited – a non trading company.
Incorporated and operated elsewhere
Pattonair (Berlin) GmbH, which is incorporated and operated in Germany;
Ulogistics Canada, Inc., which is incorporated and operated in Canada;
Pattonair USA, Inc., and Uniseal, Inc., which are incorporated and operated in the United States of America;
Pattonair SAS, which is incorporated and operated in France;
Pattonair S.R.L, which is incorporated and operated in Italy;
Pattonair Asia Pte. Limited, which is incorporated and operated in Singapore;
Pattonair do Brasil Serviços E Logística Ltda, which is incorporated and operated in Brazil; and
Pattonair (Xi’an) Trading Limited, which is incorporated and operated in China.
On 8 July 2010, the Group completed the sale of the business and assets of ACG South Africa which is incorporated and operated in South 
Africa. Its results have accordingly been presented separately from continuing operations and are disclosed as a discontinued operation.
The results of the discontinued operations included in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income were as follows:
2012 2011
Supply Chain
£m
ACG
South Africa
£m
Total
£m
Supply Chain
£m
ACG
South Africa
£m
Total
£m
Revenue 88.9 – 88.9 251.9 0.6 252.5
Cost of sales (72.3) – (72.3) (203.4) (0.7) (204.1)
Gross profit/(loss) 16.6 – 16.6 48.5 (0.1) 48.4
Administration expenses
(including curtailment gain of £0.6 million (201 1: £nil)) (14.2) – (14.2) (34.8) – (34.8)
Operating profit/(loss) 2.4 – 2.4 13.7 (0.1) 13.6
Net financial expense (1.8) – (1.8) (2.3) – (2.3)
Profit/(loss) before tax 0.6 – 0.6 11.4 (0.1) 11.3
Income tax – total (1.6) – (1.6) (3.1) (0.2) (3.3)
(Loss)/profit after tax (1.0) – (1.0) 8.3 (0.3) 8.0
Profit on disposal 3.5 – 3.5 – – –
Write down of assets held for sale – – – (12.5) – (12.5)
Profit/(loss) attributable to owners of the Company 2.5 – 2.5 (4.2) (0.3) (4.5)
Next Page
Back to Contents
Previous Page 56 Umeco plc Annual Report 2012
22 Discontinued operations continued
2012 2011
Supply Chain
£m
ACG
South Africa
£m
Total
£m
Supply Chain
£m
ACG
South Africa
£m
 Total
£m
Cash flows from discontinued operations
Net cash flow from operating activities (21.7) – (21.7) 9.6 0.1 9.7
Net cash flow from investing activities 106.1 – 106.1 (3.1) 0.5 (2.6)
Net cash flow from discontinued operations 84.4 – 84.4 6.5 0.6 7.1
The divestment had the following effect on the financial position of the Group:
£m
Property, plant & equipment 14.2
Intangible assets 11.2
Deferred tax assets 2.0
Inventories 160.7
Trade & other receivables 65.3
Income tax receivable 3.2
Cash 10.4
Trade & other payables (135.5)
Income tax payable (0.9)
Loans & borrowings (1.0)
Other payables (88.6)
Provisions (0.2)
Net assets disposed of 40.8
Consideration received (£48.5 million, net of disposal costs of £7.6 million) (40.9)
Recycling of cumulative currency translation reserve on disposal (3.4)
Profit arising on disposal (3.5)
Net consideration received of £48.5 million includes the £8.0 million deferred consideration, and intercompany debt of £81.4 million was paid 
by Supply Chain to the Group on completion. The net cash flow from discontinued operations of £84.4 million shown in the Consolidated 
Statement of Cash Flows comprises total cash received, net of cash disposed and expenses paid to date, and net of cash flows from 
discontinued operating, investing and financing activities.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
For the year to 31 March 2012
Next Page
Back to Contents
Previous Page Overview Business Review Financial Statements Governance Company Information Directors
57 Umeco plc Annual Report 2012
22 Discontinued operations continued
There were no assets held for sale at 31 March 2012. The major classes of assets and liabilities comprising the operations held for sale at  
31 March 2011 related to the Supply Chain business and were as follows:
2011 
£m
Assets
Non-current assets
Property, plant & equipment 14.5
Intangible assets 23.8
Deferred tax assets 1.4
39.7
Current assets
Inventories 151.5
Trade & other receivables 40.2
Income tax receivable 3.2
Cash 59.5
254.4
Total assets 294.1
Write down of assets held for sale (12.5)
Total assets classified as held for sale 281.6
Liabilities
Current liabilities
Trade & other payables (125.0)
Income tax payable (2.4)
Loans & borrowings (2.3)
(129.7)
Non-current liabilities
Other payables (0.2)
Provisions (0.2)
(0.4)
Total liabilities classified as held for sale (130.1)
Net assets classified as held for sale 151.5
Next Page
Back to Contents
Previous Page 58 Umeco plc Annual Report 2012
22 Discontinued operations continued
2012
£m
2011
£m
Operating profit – discontinued operations
Total operating profit – discontinued operations 2.4 13.6 
Exclude
– significant items 1.1 0.2 
Adjusted operating profit – discontinued operations 3.5 13.8 
Profit before tax – discontinued operations
Total profit before tax – discontinued operations 0.6 11.3
Exclude
– significant items 2.1 0.2 
– revaluation of financial instruments – (0.4)
Adjusted profit before tax – discontinued operations 2.7 11.1 
Profit attributable to owners of the Company
Total profit/(loss) attributable to owners of the Company – discontinued operations 2.5 (4.5)
Exclude
– significant items 3.3 0.2 
– write down of assets held for sale – 12.5
– profit on disposal of subsidiaries (3.5) –
– revaluation of financial instruments – (0.4)
– associated tax effects (0.5) (0.1)
Adjusted profit attributable to owners of the Company – discontinued operations 1.8 7.7
Pence Pence
Adjusted earnings per share – discontinued operations 3.7 16.2
Of the significant items disclosed above, £1.1 million (2011: £nil) is in respect of compensation to Directors for loss of office, £1.0 million  
(2011: £nil) is in respect of the write-off of prepaid bank fees, and £1.2 million (2011: £nil) relates to provisions for potential tax adjustments.
Off-balance sheet arrangements
In compliance with current reporting requirements, certain arrangements entered into by the Group’s discontinued operations in its normal 
course of business are not reported in the Consolidated Balance Sheet. Of such arrangements, those considered material by the Directors are 
trade receivable balances that have been subject to non-recourse factoring arrangements. 
Under its non-recourse factoring arrangements, the Group’s discontinued operations sold trade receivable balances to a third-party factoring 
company in exchange for a cash payment from the factoring company, net of fees. All the risks and rewards of the trade receivables subject to 
these arrangements were transferred to the factoring company and, accordingly, the trade receivables were derecognised in the Consolidated 
Balance Sheet. Such arrangements were used from time to time by the Group’s discontinued operations to manage the recovery of cash from 
its trade receivables. As at 31 March 2012, the Consolidated Balance Sheet included £nil (2011: £18.4 million) of cash that would otherwise 
have been reported as trade receivables if these arrangements were not in place, all of which related to Supply Chain. Factoring fees incurred 
during the year to 31 March 2012, which are written off to the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income within ordinary finance costs 
for discontinued operations amounted to £0.2 million (2011: £0.3 million).
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
For the year to 31 March 2012
Next Page
Back to Contents
Previous Page Overview Business Review Financial Statements Governance Company Information Directors
59 Umeco plc Annual Report 2012
22 Discontinued operations continued
The aggregate payroll costs and average number of persons employed by the discontinued operations were as follows:
2012
£m
2011
£m
Wages and salaries 9.5 24.4
Social security costs 1.5 3.4
Other pension costs 0.3 0.5
Equity settled transactions 0.4 –
11.7 28.3
2012
Number
2011
Number
Average number of employees 753 737
Operating profit of the discontinued operations is stated after charging:
2012 
£m
2011
£m
Depreciation of property, plant & equipment
– assets owned 0.6 1.8 
Inventories
– cost of inventory included in cost of sales 68.9 194.7 
– inventory provisions 0.4 1.0
Operating lease charges
– plant, machinery & vehicles 0.1 0.5 
– land & buildings 0.2 1.0 
Net loss on foreign exchange translation 0.4 0.6
Significant items 1.1 0.2 
Write down of assets held for sale – 12.5
Amounts in respect of tax relating to the discontinued operations which have been included in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive 
Income, and are shown in note 5, were as follows:
2012
£m
2011
£m
Current tax charge
Income tax – UK (0.9) (2.8)
Income tax – overseas (0.7) (0.5)
Income tax expense in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income (1.6) (3.3)
23 Reconciliation of net cash to movement in net cash/(debt)
 2012
 £m
2011
£m
Net decrease in cash (23.5) (18.3)
Drawdown of bank loans (16.2) (17.9)
Repayment of bank loans 120.6 37.0
Repayment of lease finance liabilities 0.2 0.2
81.1 1.0
Effect of exchange rate fluctuations 1.8 4.3
Movement in net debt 82.9 5.3
Net debt at start of year (74.3) (79.6)
Net cash/(debt) at end of year 8.6 (74.3)
Net cash/(debt) comprises cash balances, bank overdrafts, bank loans and lease finance obligations.
Next Page
Back to Contents
Previous Page 60 Umeco plc Annual Report 2012
24 Retirement benefit obligation
As explained in the Group Accounting Policies, the Group operates several pension schemes, the details of which are disclosed in this note.
The Umeco Pension and Life Assurance Plan (‘the Umeco Scheme’) has two sections. The defined benefit section of the Umeco Scheme, 
which was closed to new entrants in 2000, was closed to further accrual of benefits during the year following the disposal of the Supply 
Chain business, resulting in a curtailment gain. The Umeco Scheme provides benefits based on final pensionable pay with contributions 
being charged to the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income so as to spread the cost of pensions over employees’ working lives 
with the Group. The contributions are determined by a qualified independent actuary on the basis of valuations, conducted at least every 
three years, using the attained age method. Contribution rates are determined on the basis of advice from an independent professionally 
qualified actuary, with the objective of providing the funds required to meet pension obligations as they fall due. The most recent valuation 
was at 1 April 2010. The assumptions which have the most significant effects on the results of the valuation are those relating to the rate of 
return on investments before retirement (6.50 per cent per annum), the rate of return on investments after retirement (5.30 per cent per 
annum), the rate of increase in salaries (4.85 per cent per annum) and the rate of pensions increases (0.00-3.55 per cent per annum). The 
valuation adopted the PCxA00 mortality tables with medium cohort (minimum 1.0 per cent per annum) improvement adjustments as the 
basis for determining members’ mortality assumptions. The valuation showed that the actuarial value of the defined benefit section’s assets 
was £12.0 million which represented 90.5 per cent of the actuarial value of benefits that had accrued to members after allowing for expected 
future increases in earnings. 
Regular contributions of the Group during the year were 19.2 per cent of earnings. Regular contributions of employees ranged from 4.5 per cent  
to 6.5 per cent of earnings. Regular contributions payable in respect of the year were £0.1 million (2011: £0.2 million). As part of the deficit recovery 
plan agreed with the trustees of the Umeco Scheme, additional contributions of £0.8 million (2011: £0.9 million) were payable. On completion of the 
disposal of the Supply Chain business the Company paid £0.7 million to reduce the deficit. Total contributions outstanding at the year end were 
£0.1 million (2011: £0.5 million). The next actuarial valuation is due as at 1 April 2013. In the year to 31 March 2013, the Group expects to pay 
contributions of approximately £0.8 million.
The Umeco Scheme also has a defined contribution section. Members of this section contribute between 2.0 per cent and 6.0 per cent  
of pensionable earnings with the Group making contributions of between 4.0 per cent and 10.0 per cent. Contributions amounting to  
£0.1 million (2011: £0.6 million) were payable to this section of the Umeco Scheme in the year, of which £2,000 (2011: £23,000) was 
outstanding at the year end.
The trustees of the Umeco Scheme are chaired by John Harper, formerly one of the Company’s Non-executive Directors, and an 
independent expert in pension matters attends meetings of the trustees. Responsibility for investment of the Umeco Scheme’s funds has 
been delegated by the trustees to professional investment managers.
The Umeco Structural Materials (Derby) group of companies participate in the Advanced Composites Group Pension Scheme (‘the ACG 
Scheme’), which provides benefits on a defined benefit basis. The ACG Scheme was closed to new entrants in 2001. The assets of the ACG 
Scheme are held separately from those of the Group and responsibility for investment of the ACG Scheme’s funds has been delegated by the 
trustees to professional investment managers. Contribution rates are determined on the basis of advice from an independent professionally 
qualified actuary, with the objective of providing the funds required to meet pension obligations as they fall due. The trustees of the ACG 
Scheme are chaired by Jon Mabbitt, Group Managing Director of Structural Materials, and an independent expert in pension matters attends 
meetings of the trustees.
Contributions to the ACG Scheme are determined by a qualified independent actuary on the basis of valuations, conducted at least every three 
years, using the projected unit method. The most recent valuation was as at 1 June 2008. The assumptions which have the most significant 
effects on the results of the valuation are those relating to the rate of return on investments before retirement (7.2 per cent per annum), the rate  
of return after retirement (5.45 per cent per annum), the rate of increase in salaries (4.8 per cent per annum) and the rate of pension increases  
(3.8 per cent per annum). The valuation adopted the PMA92 and PFA92 year of birth medium cohort tables as the basis for determining 
members’ mortality assumptions. The valuation showed that the actuarial value of the ACG Scheme’s assets was £6.9 million which represented 
83.6 per cent of the actuarial value of benefits that had accrued to members after allowing for expected future increases in earnings. The 
contributions of the Group and employees are 15.7 per cent and 8.7 per cent of earnings respectively. Regular contributions payable in respect 
of the year were £0.3 million (2011: £0.3 million). As part of the deficit recovery plan agreed with the trustees of the ACG Scheme, additional 
contributions of £0.4 million (2011: £0.4 million) were made. Total contributions outstanding at the year end were £56,000 (2011: £25,000). The 
next actuarial valuation is due as at 1 June 2011. In the year to 31 March 2013, the Group expects to pay regular contributions of approximately 
£0.3 million, representing 15.7 per cent of pensionable salaries, and additional contributions of approximately £0.4 million.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
For the year to 31 March 2012
Next Page
Back to Contents
Previous Page Overview Business Review Financial Statements Governance Company Information Directors
61 Umeco plc Annual Report 2012
24 Retirement benefit obligation continued
Certain of the Group’s UK businesses operate separate defined contribution arrangements for qualifying employees. Employer contributions 
are a maximum of 10.0 per cent and employees are encouraged to contribute at similar rates. Total contributions of £0.3 million (2011:  
£0.6 million) were payable in respect of the year.
The Group participates in defined contribution arrangements in respect of certain of its businesses outside the UK. Contributions to these 
schemes during the year totalled £1.1 million (2011: £0.9 million).
As described in the Remuneration Report, the Company makes payments to defined benefit and defined contribution arrangements in respect 
of the Executive Directors. Andrew Moss’ total pension contribution entitlement was £86,000 (2011: £62,000). Of this entitlement, pension 
contributions of £11,000 (2011: £33,000) were paid to the defined benefit section of the Umeco Scheme. For the year to 31 March 2012, the 
remaining pension contribution entitlement of £75,000 was converted to additional salary at Andrew Moss’ request. Details of this conversion 
are set out in the Remuneration Report. For the year to 31 March 2011, £27,000 was paid into an independent SIPP arrangement and the 
remaining entitlement of £2,000 was converted to additional salary at the executive’s request. In respect of Steve Bowers, contributions of 
£9,000 were paid to the defined contribution section of the Umeco Scheme and contributions of £24,000 were paid into an independent SIPP 
arrangement at the executive’s request, £nil of which was outstanding at the year end. In respect of Clive Snowdon, contributions of £20,000 
(2011: £147,000) were payable to an independent SIPP arrangement, £nil of which was outstanding at the year end (2011: £12,000). In respect 
of Doug Robertson, contributions of £8,000 (2011: £40,000) were payable to an independent SIPP arrangement, £nil of which was outstanding 
at the year end (2011: £3,000). In addition, in the year to 31 March 2012, Doug Robertson elected to have a proportion of his salary converted 
to additional pension contribution entitlement. Details of this conversion are set out in the Remuneration Report. 
IAS19
The information required for accounting in accordance with the requirements of IAS19 has been obtained by updating the actuarial valuations 
referred to above, which were carried out by independent qualified actuaries. Combined values are shown for the Umeco Scheme and the  
ACG Scheme.
The assumptions used to calculate scheme liabilities are as follows:
2012
Per cent
2011
Per cent
Rate of increase in pensionable salaries 3.0 4.3
Rate of increase of pensions in payment – RPI 3.0 3.5
Rate of increase of pensions in payment – CPI 2.0 3.0
Discount rate 4.7 5.4
Inflation 3.0 3.5
The mortality assumptions used for these disclosures are in line with the basis used by the respective trustees at the most recent valuations, 
adjusted to reflect members’ dates of birth. The mortality assumptions imply the following expected future lifetimes from age 65:
 
2012
Years
2011
Years
Males currently aged 65 22.5 22.4
Females currently aged 65 24.9 24.8
Males currently aged 45 24.4 24.3
Females currently aged 45 26.8 26.7
The assumptions have been chosen by the Directors from a range of possible actuarial assumptions which, due to the timescales covered, 
may not be borne out in practice.
The market values of the schemes’ assets, which are not intended to be realised in the short term, may be subject to significant change  
before they are realised. The present values of the schemes’ liabilities are calculated by reference to the investment return on corporate  
bonds. The assumptions used do not necessarily represent the investment return that may be achieved.
Next Page
Back to Contents
Previous Page 62 Umeco plc Annual Report 2012
24 Retirement benefit obligation continued
The IAS19 valuations of the schemes and expected rates of return on the schemes’ assets are as follows:
2012 2011
Per cent £m Per cent £m
Equities 6.7 21.5 7.5 20.5
Gilts 3.1 1.8 4.4 1.5
Bonds 4.4 2.0 4.6 1.6
Cash 0.5 1.1 0.5 0.2
Weighted average return and market value of scheme assets 6.0 26.4 6.8 23.8
Present value of scheme liabilities (27.0) (25.8)
Unrecoverable surplus (1.1) –
Deficit in the schemes (1.7) (2.0)
Deferred tax 0.4 0.5
Net pension liability (1.3) (1.5)
The unrecoverable surplus relates to the Umeco Scheme, and arises due to the limitations on the Company being able to reduce future 
contributions to the scheme following its closure to the further accrual of benefits during the year.
2012
£m
2011
£m
Charge to administrative expenses – continuing operations
Current service cost 0.4 0.6 
2012
£m
2011
£m
(Credit)/charge to financial income and expense – continuing operations
Expected return on pension scheme assets (1.3) (1.1)
Interest cost on retirement benefit obligation 1.1 1.1
Net financial income (0.2) –
2012
£m
2011
£m
Total actuarial loss recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
Actual return less expected return on pension scheme assets (1.0) 0.5
Experience gains and losses arising on scheme liabilities 0.3 0.3
Changes in assumptions underlying the present value of scheme liabilities (0.8) 0.4
Adjustment for unrecoverable asset (1.1) –
Actuarial (loss)/gain (2.6) 1.2
The cumulative actuarial loss recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity from 1 April 2004 is £7.4 million (2011: £4.8 million).
2012
£m
2011
£m
Analysis of movement in retirement benefit obligation
Retirement benefit obligation at start of year (25.8) (24.8)
Continuing operations
Current service cost (0.4) (0.6)
Interest cost on retirement benefit obligation (1.1) (1.1)
Contributions from members (0.2) (0.2)
Benefits paid 0.6 0.5
Actuarial (losses)/gains (0.4) 0.7
Discontinued operations
Interest cost on retirement benefit obligation (0.3) (0.3)
Curtailment gain 0.6 –
Retirement benefit obligation at end of year (27.0) (25.8)
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
For the year to 31 March 2012
Next Page
Back to Contents
Previous Page Overview Business Review Financial Statements Governance Company Information Directors
63 Umeco plc Annual Report 2012
24 Retirement benefit obligation continued
2012
£m
2011
£m
Change in the fair value of scheme assets
Fair value at start of year 23.8 20.4
Continuing operations
Expected return on pension scheme assets 1.3 1.1
Contributions from employer 2.3 1.8
Contributions from members 0.2 0.2
Benefits paid (0.6) (0.5)
Actuarial (losses)/gains (1.0) 0.5
Discontinued operations
Expected return on scheme assets 0.4 0.3
Fair value at end of year 26.4 23.8
The amount included in the Consolidated Balance Sheet in respect of defined benefit schemes is as follows:
2012
£m
2011
£m
2010
£m
2009
£m
Present value of defined benefit obligation (27.0) (25.8) (24.8) (18.1)
Fair value of scheme assets 26.4 23.8 20.4 13.7
Unrecoverable surplus (1.1) – – –
Net deficit (reported within non-current liabilities) (1.7) (2.0) (4.4) (4.4)
2012 2011 2010 2009
History of experience gains and losses
Experience gains and losses on scheme liabilities (£m) 0.3 0.3 0.1 0.3
Percentage of retirement benefit obligation (per cent) 1.1 1.0 0.4 1.6
Difference between expected and actual return
 on scheme assets (£m) (1.0) 0.5 4.5 (4.7)
Percentage of scheme assets (per cent) (3.8) 2.2 22.3 (34.1)
25 Contingent liabilities
The contingent liability of the Group for bank guarantees and liabilities for bills of exchange discounted in the normal course of business at  
31 March 2012 amounted to £nil (2011: £1.8 million).
A claim for €1.5 million has been made against Umeco Structural Materials (Derby) Limited (‘USMD’), part of the Structural Materials business 
stream, from MultiOne Design S.A. in respect of material supplied by USMD. USMD does not admit liability and the Group considers the 
likelihood of a material claim being successful to be remote.
26 Share based payments
SAYE Share Option Scheme
The Group has established the SAYE Share Option Scheme, details of which are set out in the Remuneration Report. Share options have been 
granted to employees as follows:
2012 2011
Options
Number
Weighted
average
exercise
price
Pence
Options
Number
Weighted
average
exercise
price
Pence
At start of year 1,231,752 159.0 1,339,733 163.1
Exercised (348,317) 159.0 (6,568) 208.0
Lapsed (214,373) 159.0 (101,413) 209.7
At end of year 669,062 159.0 1,231,752 159.0
Exercisable at end of year 6,848 159.0 – –
Next Page
Back to Contents
Previous Page 64 Umeco plc Annual Report 2012
26 Share based payments continued
The options outstanding under the SAYE Share Option Scheme at 31 March 2012 had an exercise price of 159.0 pence and had a weighted 
average remaining contractual life of 0.5 years. In the year to 31 March 2012, the weighted average price of the Company’s shares on the dates 
that options were exercised under the SAYE Share Option Scheme was 345.1 pence.
The fair values of services received in return for share options granted under the SAYE Share Option Scheme are measured by reference to the 
fair value of options granted. The estimate of the fair value received is calculated using the Black-Scholes model, adopting the following 
weighted average assumptions:
2012
Pence
2011
Pence
Fair value at measurement date 47.4 121.6
Share price at grant date 198.2 413.8
Exercise price 159.0 331.2
Per cent Per cent
Expected volatility 18.5 11.3
Risk-free interest rate – 2.7
Years Years
Option life 1 1
Volatility was calculated with reference to the historic share price volatility of Umeco’s shares.
Umeco Bonus Plan
The cost of deferred shares awarded under the Umeco Bonus Plan, details of which are set out in the Remuneration Report, are amortised 
over the vesting period. The fair value of the deferred shares is deemed to be the cost to the Group of acquiring the deferred shares.
The number of deferred shares awarded are as follows:
2012
Number
2011
Number
At start of year 183,597 183,597
Granted 147,331 –
Vesting of awards (125,842) –
At end of year 205,086 183,597
Performance Share Plan
Details of the terms and conditions of the Performance Share Plan are given in the Remuneration Report. Awards are equity settled and were 
made as follows:
2012 
Options 
Number
2011 
Options 
Number
At start of year – –
Granted 303,827 –
Exercised – –
Lapsed – –
At end of year 303,827 –
Exercisable at end of year – –
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
For the year to 31 March 2012
Next Page
Back to Contents
Previous Page Overview Business Review Financial Statements Governance Company Information Directors
65 Umeco plc Annual Report 2012
26 Share based payments continued
The fair value of the equity settled awards granted in the year has been measured using the weighted average inputs below and a model that 
incorporates the Black-Scholes model for the earnings per share condition and follows similar principles as the Monte Carlo approach for the 
Total Shareholder Return condition, which is a market condition:
2012  
Pence
2011 
Pence
Fair value at measurement date 291.2 –
Share price at grant date 363.0 –
Exercise price nil –
Per cent Per cent
Volatility 35.0 –
Risk-free interest rate 1.29-1.35 –
Years Years
Option life 1-2 –
Volatility was calculated with reference to the historic share price volatility of Umeco’s shares and the median historic share price volatility of the 
comparator group companies over the expected life of the awards.
Chairman’s 2010 Share Award Plan
Details of the terms and conditions of the Chairman’s 2010 Share Award Plan are given in the Remuneration Report. An award was made as 
follows:
2012 
Options 
Number
2011 
Options 
Number
At start of year – –
Granted 300,000 –
Exercised – –
Lapsed – –
At end of year 300,000 –
Exercisable at end of year – –
 
The fair value of the equity settled award granted in the year has been measured using the weighted average inputs below and a model that 
follows similar principles as the Monte Carlo approach for the Total Shareholder Return and share price conditions, which are market conditions:
2012
Pence
2011
Pence
Fair value at measurement date 108.8 –
Share price at grant date 378.0 –
Exercise price nil –
Next Page
Back to Contents
Previous Page 66 Umeco plc Annual Report 2012
26 Share based payments continued
2012
Per cent
2011
Per cent
Volatility 35.0 –
Risk-free interest rate 1.35 –
Years Years
Option life 1 –
Volatility was calculated with reference to the historic share price volatility of Umeco’s shares and the median historic share price volatility of the 
comparator group companies over the expected life of the award.
The amount expensed in the year for share based payments was:
2012
£m 
2011
£m 
SAYE Share Option Scheme 0.1 0.2
Umeco Bonus Plan 0.4 0.2
Performance Share Plan 0.2 –
Chairman’s 2010 Share Award Plan 0.1 0.2
0.8 0.6
Included in the expense above is £0.3 million that relates to discontinued operations (2011: £nil).
The average market price of the Company’s shares during the year was 369.1 pence (2011: 423.3 pence).
27 Financial risk management and financial instruments
(a) financial risk management
Financial risk management is an integral part of the way the Group is managed. The Directors review and agree the broad policies for all 
significant areas of financial management. In the course of its business, the Group is exposed to foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk, 
liquidity risk and credit risk. The aim of the Group’s financial risk management policies is to minimise potential adverse effects on financial 
performance and net assets. The Group does not enter into speculative transactions.
(b) capital risk management
The Group’s objectives when managing capital are to safeguard its ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns  
for shareholders and for other stakeholders and to maintain an optimal capital structure. The Group considers capital to be £173.7 million  
(2011: £245.9 million), being the sum of equity attributable to owners of the Company and net debt.
The Group monitors capital on the basis of the ratio of net debt to earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation (‘EBITDA’) and 
interest cover. These measures are the principal financial covenants under the terms of the Group’s committed facilities with HSBC Bank plc 
and Santander UK plc. The calculation of the net debt to EBITDA covenant involves the translation of both net debt and EBITDA at the average 
exchange rates for the period. For the purposes of these facilities, the value at 31 March 2012 of these measures were as follows:
2012 2011
Net debt to EBITDA
Ratio of net debt to EBITDA – * 2.08 times 
†
Covenant – ratio of net debt to EBITDA not to exceed 2.75 times 3.00 times 
†
Interest cover 
Ratio of EBITDA to interest 14.82 times 5.78 times 
†
Covenant – ratio of EBITDA to interest not to be less than 4.00 times 4.00 times 
†
* At 31 March 2012, the Group was in a net cash position, accordingly it is not considered appropriate to calculate the ratio of net debt to EBITDA.
† This comparative information was calculated using the principal financial covenants in place at 31 March 2011, and is therefore calculated in line with the terms of the facility in place with 
Lloyds Banking Group at that date.
(c) market risk – foreign currency risk and exposure
The Group puts in place forward foreign exchange contracts where it is thought necessary to use such instruments to manage the exposure  
to foreign exchange movements. At 31 March 2012, the Group had 20 forward currency contracts outstanding (2011: 29 contracts) which had  
a total principal value of £3.2 million (2011: £6.0 million).
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
For the year to 31 March 2012
Next Page
Back to Contents
Previous Page Overview Business Review Financial Statements Governance Company Information Directors
67 Umeco plc Annual Report 2012
27 Financial risk management and financial instruments continued
The principal foreign currencies in which the Group transacts and holds assets and liabilities are the US dollar and the Euro. A change  
in value of the US dollar resulting in a 5.0 per cent rise in the sterling: US dollar exchange rate would result in a decrease of £0.2 million  
(2011: £0.1 million) in reported profit after tax and a reduction of £1.8 million (2011: £1.2 million) in net assets. A change in value of the Euro 
resulting in a 5.0 per cent rise in the sterling: Euro exchange rate would result in a reduction of £0.1 million (2011: £0.1 million) in reported profit 
before tax and a reduction of £0.8 million (2011: £0.6 million) in net assets.
The carrying amount of the Group’s borrowings denominated in foreign currencies is as follows:
2012
£m
2011
£m
US dollar – 79.7
Euro 2.2 2.3
2.2 82.0
Prior to repayment of the US dollar loans, of the total foreign currency borrowing of £88.0 million (2011: £82.0 million), the amount of borrowing 
used for hedging the currency risk on retranslating overseas operations amounted to £76.9 million (2011: £77.0 million). A foreign exchange 
gain of £0.6 million (2011: £0.5 million) has been recognised in the translation reserve and in other comprehensive income.
(d) market risk – interest rate risk
The Group is exposed to interest rate risk on both interest bearing assets and interest bearing liabilities. The effects of changes in interest rates 
could affect the Group’s future cash flows or the fair values of its financial instruments. It is the Group’s policy to maintain an appropriate 
balance between fixed and floating interest rates on borrowings in order to provide certainty as to the level of interest expense in the short term 
and to reduce the impact of interest rate fluctuations over the medium term. Interest rate risk arises on floating rate debt, which comprises 
bank loans, on which interest is based on LIBOR, and cash at bank and overdrafts, on which interest is related to bank base rates.
A one percentage point rise in respect of sterling denominated borrowings in place at the year end would increase the annual financial 
expense charge by approximately £0.1 million (2011: £0.4 million).
(e) liquidity risk
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due. The Group’s policy on liquidity risk is  
to ensure that sufficient cash and undrawn committed facilities are available to fund ongoing operations and to meet its medium term capital  
and funding obligations, and to meet any unforeseen obligations and opportunities.
Management monitor liquidity in terms of meeting the banking covenants described in note 27(b). The committed borrowing facilities available 
to the Group are reviewed regularly and are designed to exceed forecast peak gross debt levels. At 31 March 2012, the principal borrowing 
facilities available to the Group were a committed multi currency revolving credit bank facility with HSBC Bank plc and Santander UK plc, 
comprising £15.0 million and US$25.0 million facilities and a £10.0 million overdraft facility with HSBC Bank plc.
(f) credit risk
Credit risk arises on financial instruments such as trade receivables and derivative financial instruments. Policies and procedures exist to 
ensure that customers have an appropriate level of credit according to their trading history. Derivative financial instruments are executed only 
with highly credit-rated authorised counterparties based on ratings issued by the major rating agencies.
Trade & other receivables included in the Consolidated Balance Sheet are stated net of a provision for impairment which has been estimated 
by management following a review of individual receivable accounts and is based on prior experience and known factors at the balance sheet 
date. Receivables are written off against the provision when management consider that the debt is no longer recoverable. Details of changes 
in the provision are set out in note 14. For all financial instruments that are not impaired, a full recovery of their value is expected.
There are no indications as at 31 March 2012 that debtors will not meet their payment obligations in respect of the amount of trade receivables 
recognised in the Consolidated Balance Sheet that have not been provided for. For continuing operations there are £7.4 million (201 1: £7 .5 million)  
of trade receivables that are past due at 31 March 2012 that have not been provided against. While uncertainty surrounding counterparty risk has 
continued to remain high due to the current economic climate, the Group considers that debtors will meet their payment obligations in respect of trade 
receivables recognised in the Consolidated Balance Sheet that are past due and unprovided as at 31 March 2012. The Group considers that it has 
minimised its exposure to a significant amount of credit risk.
The Group’s largest customer accounted for 2.7 per cent (2011: 3.3 per cent) of net sales from continuing operations.
Next Page
Back to Contents
Previous Page 68 Umeco plc Annual Report 2012
27 Financial risk management and financial instruments continued
The maximum exposure to credit risk for trade receivables was as follows:
2012
£m
2011
£m
UK 10.7 9.5
France 3.2 2.8
Italy 5.9 7.6
Rest of Europe 9.5 10.8
USA 8.3 7.2
Rest of World 7.0 7.7
44.6 45.6
The maximum credit exposure on the carrying value of financial assets was as follows:
2012
£m
2011
£m
Trade & other receivables 58.9 53.5
Cash 15.4 5.6
74.3 59.1
(g) derivative financial instruments
2012 2011
Assets
£m
Liabilities
£m
Assets
£m
Liabilities
£m
Forward foreign exchange contracts – – 0.1 (0.1)
Interest rate swap contracts – – – (0.2)
– – 0.1 (0.3)
(h) total financial assets and liabilities
The table below sets out the Group’s accounting classification of its financial assets and liabilities at the balance sheet date. Under IAS39,  
all derivative financial instruments are derivatives at fair value through the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income. All transactions 
in derivative financial instruments are undertaken to manage risks arising from underlying business activities.
For cash, the fair values are the same as the carrying value. For derivative financial instruments, fair values are obtained from the counterparty 
providing the instrument. For floating rate borrowings, fair values have been calculated by discounting the cash flows at appropriate prevailing 
market rates. Other assets and liabilities reflect management’s estimate of value on an appropriate basis.
At fair value
through the 
Consolidated
Statement of 
Comprehensive
Income
£m
Amortised
cost
£m
Total
carrying value
£m
Fair value
£m
At 31 March 2012
Cash – 15.4 15.4 15.4
Bank loans – (6.3) (6.3) (6.3)
Other financial assets – 57.1 57.1 57.1
Other financial liabilities – (60.3) (60.3) (60.3)
– 5.9 5.9 5.9
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
For the year to 31 March 2012
Next Page
Back to Contents
Previous Page Overview Business Review Financial Statements Governance Company Information Directors
69 Umeco plc Annual Report 2012
27 Financial risk management and financial instruments continued
At fair value
through the 
Consolidated
Statement of 
Comprehensive
Income
£m
Amortised
cost
£m
Total
carrying value
£m
Fair value
£m
At 31 March 2011
Cash – 65.1 65.1 65.1 
Bank loans – (112.0) (112.0) (112.0)
Derivative liabilities (0.2) – (0.2) (0.2)
Other financial assets – 90.9 90.9 90.9 
Other financial liabilities – (215.2) (215.2) (215.2)
(0.2) (171.2) (171.4) (171.4)
The maturity profile of the Group’s financial liabilities is as follows:
Bank loans
£m
Bank
overdrafts
£m
Lease
finance
obligations
£m
Other
financial
liabilities
£m
Derivatives
£m
Total
contractual
cash flows
£m
Carrying
value
£m
At 31 March 2012
Less than one year 1.0 – 0.1 60.3 – 61.4 61.4
Between one and two years 0.6 – 0.1 – – 0.7 0.7
Between two and five years 4.7 – 0.3 – – 5.0 5.0
Due after five years – – – – – – –
6.3 – 0.5 60.3 – 67.1 67.1
Bank loans
£m
Bank
overdrafts
£m
Lease
finance
obligations
£m
Other
financial
liabilities
£m
Derivatives
£m
Total
contractual
cash flows
£m
Carrying
value
£m
At 31 March 2011
Less than one year 1.1 24.4 0.1 215.2 0.2 241.0 241.0 
Between one and two years 59.2 – 0.1 – – 59.3 57.6 
Between two and five years 57.7 – 0.4 – – 58.1 53.6 
Due after five years 0.1 – – – – 0.1 0.1 
118.1 24.4 0.6 215.2 0.2 358.5 352.3
(i) fair value hierarchy
The table below analyses financial instruments carried at fair value according to their valuation method. The different levels have been defined 
as follows:
•	 Level 1: unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities;
•	 Level 2:  inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either as a direct price or 
indirectly derived from prices; and
•	 Level 3: inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data.
2012
£m
2011
£m
Level 1 – –
Level 2
Derivative financial instruments – (0.2)
Level 3 – –
– (0.2)
Next Page
Back to Contents
Previous Page 70 Umeco plc Annual Report 2012
28 Accounting estimates and judgements
The key assumptions concerning the future and other key sources of estimation uncertainty at the balance sheet date that have a significant 
risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are as follows:
Defined benefit pension scheme valuations
In determining the valuation of defined benefit pension scheme assets and liabilities, a number of assumptions have been made,  
notably in relation to the expected return on plan assets, inflation and discount rates, mortality, salary increases and pension increases.  
These assumptions are largely dependent upon factors outside the Group’s control. Details of these assumptions are set out in note 24.
Impairment of goodwill
The determination of whether goodwill is impaired requires the conducting of an impairment test. Such tests involve an estimation of the future cash 
flows expected to be derived from the cash generating unit to which the goodwill is attached, discounted using appropriate interest rates. These cash 
flows are dependent upon future trading performance, which in turn is partially dependent upon prevailing market and economic conditions that are 
outside the Group’s control. The impairment tests are therefore inherently judgemental and future events could cause the assumptions used in the 
impairment tests to change, with a consequent adverse effect on the future results of the Group. Details of impairment testing are set out in note 10.
Disposal of Supply Chain business
At 31 March 2011, the Supply Chain disposal group was deemed available for immediate sale in its current condition and the sale was highly 
probable, evidenced by the announcement made in February 2011 regarding management’s intention to sell the Supply Chain disposal group 
and the announcement of the proposed disposal on 20 May 2011. On re-presentation as held for sale, the Supply Chain disposal group was 
measured at the lower of its carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell. Management identified the fair value of the Supply Chain disposal 
group to be £5.1 million less than its carrying amount and this, along with estimated costs to sell of £7.4 million, resulted in a loss on 
re-measurement of £12.5 million in the year to 31 March 2011.
Valuation of inventories
The Group has a formal policy for making appropriate reserves to ensure inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. 
This policy requires assumptions to be made regarding future demand levels and these assumptions are partly dependent upon prevailing 
market and economic conditions, which are outside the Group’s control.
Valuation of intangible assets
A review is conducted in respect of each acquisition made by the Group to identify separable intangible assets. These may include customer 
relationships, contracts or orders on hand and product qualifications or approvals. The valuation of these assets is set out in note 10.
Provisions
The carrying value of the disposal provision is assessed at each balance sheet date based upon the latest available information in relation  
to expected future outflows regarding the environmental issues referred to in note 18. This information includes reports from the Group’s 
environmental consultants.
29 Related parties
Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, and its share of transactions between the Company and its joint ventures which are 
related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in this note. 
The interests of the Directors in the ordinary share capital of the Company, together with details of their remuneration and share related 
benefits, are detailed in the Remuneration Report. The emoluments of those members of the Group’s executive management team, including 
Directors, who are responsible for planning, directing and controlling the activities of the Group are:
2012
£m
2011
£m
Emoluments including social security costs 3.6 1.4
Employer pension contributions 0.2 0.3
Equity settled transactions 0.5 –
4.3 1.7
The emoluments disclosed for the year include amounts relating to compensation for loss of office paid to Clive Snowdon and  
Doug Robertson and associated social security costs of £1.1 million (2011: £nil).
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
For the year to 31 March 2012
Next Page
Back to Contents
Previous Page Overview Business Review Financial Statements Governance Company Information Directors
71 Umeco plc Annual Report 2012
29 Related parties continued
Following the divestment of Supply Chain, the Group’s executive management team was expanded to include the Group Managing Director 
and the Strategic Marketing Director of the Structural Materials business stream, and the Managing Director and the Finance Director of the 
Process Materials business stream.
30 Changes of name following re-branding
The following businesses changed their names as part of the unification under a single brand – Umeco:
Previous name New name
Advanced Composites Group Limited  Umeco Structural Materials (Derby) Limited 
Advanced Composites Group (Manchester) Limited  Umeco Structural Materials (Manchester) Limited
Advanced Composites Group, Inc. Umeco Structural Materials (OK), Inc.
J.D. Lincoln, Inc.  Umeco Structural Materials (CA), Inc.
Aerovac Systems Limited Umeco Process Materials Limited
Aerovac Systemes France Sarl Umeco Process Materials Sarl
Aerovac Systems Italy S.r.l. Umeco Composites S.r.l.
Richmond Aircraft Products, Inc. Umeco Process Materials, Inc.
GRPMS Limited Umeco Distribution Limited
GRPMS Sweden AB Umeco Composites AB
GRPMS Estonia OÜ Umeco Composites OÜ
GRPMS Finland Oy  Umeco Composites Oy
GRPMS France SAS Umeco Distribution SAS
GRPMS MS Norge Umeco Composites MS Norge
31 Post balance sheet events
On 12 April 2012, the boards of Umeco and Cytec announced that they had reached agreement on the terms of a recommended cash offer  
by Cytec UK Holdings Limited, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Cytec, for the entire issued and to be issued share capital of Umeco. It is 
intended that the acquisition will be effected by way of a Court-sanctioned Scheme of Arrangement of Umeco under Part 26 of the  
Companies Act 2006.
Under the terms of the acquisition, Umeco shareholders will be entitled to receive 550 pence in cash for each Umeco share held at the 
reduction record time, valuing the entire issued and to be issued share capital of Umeco at approximately £274 million. 
On 28 May 2012, the Scheme of Arrangement was approved by Umeco shareholders in general meeting.
Completion of the acquisition remains subject to the satisfaction or waiver of the other conditions set out in the Scheme of Arrangement 
document dated 25 April 2012 sent to shareholders, including the receipt of certain competition clearances and the Court sanctioning the 
Scheme of Arrangement at the scheme court hearing and confirming the capital reduction at the reduction court hearing. The indicative dates 
for the scheme court hearing and the reduction court hearing are 18 July 2012 and 20 July 2012, respectively. Subject to the conditions as 
described above, the Scheme of Arrangement is expected to become effective on 20 July 2012.
Next Page
Back to Contents
Previous Page 72 Umeco plc Annual Report 2012
Company Balance Sheet Registered number: 1 48635
As at 31 March 2012
Notes
2012
£m
2011
£m
Fixed assets
Tangible assets 3 2.0 2.0
Investments 4 158.2 190.9
160.2 192.9
Current assets
Debtors 5 37.1 124.9
Cash at bank and in hand 4.4 –
41.5 124.9
Creditors falling due within one year 6 (17.0) (53.1)
Net current assets 24.5 71.8
 – due within one year 0.6 (44.8)
 – debtors due after more than one year 23.9 116.6
Total assets less current liabilities 184.7 264.7
Creditors falling due after one year 7 (16.5) (119.6)
Provisions for liabilities 8 (3.0) (3.3)
Net assets 165.2 141.8
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital 10 12.1 12.0
Share premium account 11 116.0 115.5
Other reserves 11 0.1 0.1
Profit and loss account 11 37.0 14.2
Equity shareholders’ funds 165.2 141.8
The financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 19 June 2012 and signed on its behalf by:
NA Johnson
Director
Next Page
Back to Contents
Previous Page Overview Business Review Company Information Directors
73 Umeco plc Annual Report 2012
Financial Statements Governance
Accounting policies
The following accounting policies have been applied consistently in 
dealing with items which are considered material in relation to the 
Company’s financial statements.
Basis of preparation
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with 
applicable UK accounting standards and law and under historical 
cost accounting rules, except for derivative financial instruments 
which are stated at their fair values. A cash flow statement has  
not been presented as permitted by FRS1 (revised) ‘Cash Flow 
Statements’. The Company has taken advantage of the exemptions 
contained in FRS8 ‘Related Party Disclosures’ and has not disclosed 
transactions or balances with entities which form part of the Group. 
Investments
Fixed asset investments in subsidiary undertakings are stated at cost, 
less provision for any impairment.
Depreciation
Depreciation is provided so as to write off the cost or valuation of 
tangible fixed assets over their estimated useful economic lives on  
a straight line basis as follows:
Freehold buildings 50 years
Plant, machinery, fixtures & IT equipment 3-10 years
Motor vehicles 3-4 years
No depreciation is charged on freehold land.
Tax
The charge for tax is based on the profit for the year and takes into 
account tax deferred because of timing differences between the 
treatment of certain items for tax and accounting purposes except as 
otherwise required by FRS19 ‘Deferred Tax’. Liabilities are calculated  
on a non-discounted full provision basis. Assets are recognised on  
the same basis, but only to the extent that it is probable they will  
be recovered.
Foreign currencies
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded using the rate of 
exchange ruling at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and 
liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated using the 
rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date and the gains or 
losses on translation are included in the profit and loss account.
Financial instruments
The Company has adopted the requirements of FRS29 ‘Financial 
Instruments: Disclosures’ and has taken the exemption under that 
standard from disclosure on the grounds that the Group’s financial 
statements contain disclosures in compliance with IFRS7 ‘Financial 
Instruments: Disclosures’. The Company does not hold or issue 
derivative financial instruments for trading purposes and the principal 
financial instruments utilised by the Company are interest rate swaps 
and forward foreign exchange contracts. 
Company Accounting Policies
For the year to 31 March 2012
(a) bank loans & other borrowings
Interest bearing bank loans and overdrafts are initially recognised  
at fair value less attributable transaction costs. All borrowings are 
subsequently stated at amortised cost with the difference between 
the initial proceeds and the repayment value being recognised in the 
profit and loss account over the period to repayment.
(b) derivative financial instruments
The Company uses derivative financial instruments to manage  
financial risks associated with the Company’s business activities  
and the financing of those activities. Derivatives are initially  
recognised at fair value on the date that the contract is entered into  
and subsequently re-measured in future periods at their fair value,  
with any change in value being recognised in the profit and loss 
account. The Company does not apply hedge accounting in respect  
of these financial instruments.
The Company enters into forward foreign exchange contracts to 
provide a hedge against foreign currency exposures. Interest rate 
swap contracts are used to hedge the Company’s exposure to 
changes in interest rates. These instruments are used to manage 
exposure in line with the Group’s risk management policy.
Fair values are based on quoted market prices at the balance sheet 
date.
(c) fair value hedge
Foreign currency borrowings (the hedging instrument) are treated as  
a fair value hedge against foreign currency investments (the hedged 
item). The hedging instrument is measured at fair value with changes 
in the fair value recognised in the profit and loss account. The hedged 
item is also re-measured with any change in the carrying value also 
being recognised in the profit and loss account.
Provisions
A provision is recognised on the Company Balance Sheet when the 
Company has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of 
a past event, and where it is probable that an outflow will be required 
to settle the obligation.
Impairment
The carrying values of investments are reviewed at each balance 
sheet date to determine whether there is any indication of impairment. 
If any such indication exists, the asset’s recoverable amount is 
estimated. An impairment loss is recognised whenever the carrying 
amount of an asset or its cash generating unit exceeds its 
recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is the higher of fair 
value less costs to sell and the value in use. In determining the value 
in use, estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present 
value using a discount rate that reflects the time value of money and 
risks specific to the asset being assessed. Impairment losses are 
recognised immediately in the profit and loss account and are not 
subsequently reversed.
Next Page
Back to Contents
Previous Page 74 Umeco plc Annual Report 2012
Retirement benefit obligation
Pension costs are recognised in the financial statements in 
accordance with the requirements of FRS17 ‘Retirement Benefits’.
The Company is a member of the defined benefit section of the 
Umeco Scheme. Since the Company is unable to identify its share 
of the scheme assets and liabilities on a consistent and reasonable 
basis, the scheme is accounted for by the Company as if it was a 
defined contribution scheme. Details of the Group’s pension schemes 
are set out in note 24 to the consolidated financial statements.
For defined contribution schemes, amounts payable by the Company 
are charged to the profit and loss account as they fall due.
Share based payments
The fair value of options granted after 7 November 2002 and not  
yet vested by 31 March 2004 are not recognised as an employee 
expense. Those granted since 1 April 2004 are expensed with a 
corresponding increase in equity. The fair value is measured at grant 
date and spread over the period during which the employees become 
unconditionally entitled to the options. The fair value of the awards 
granted is measured using the Black-Scholes model and principles 
similar to the Monte Carlo approach, taking into account the terms 
and conditions upon which the awards were granted. The amount 
recognised as an expense is adjusted to reflect the actual number  
of share awards that vest except where forfeiture is only due to  
share prices not achieving the threshold for vesting. Details of the 
Company’s share award schemes are set out in note 26 to the 
consolidated financial statements.
Where the Company grants options over its own shares to the 
employees of its subsidiaries, it recognises an increase in the cost  
of investment in its subsidiaries equivalent to the equity settled share 
based payment charge recognised in its subsidiary’s financial 
statements with the corresponding credit being recognised directly  
in equity. Amounts recharged to the subsidiaries are recognised as  
a reduction in the cost of investment in that subsidiary.
Company Accounting Policies continued
For the year to 31 March 2012
Next Page
Back to Contents
Previous Page Overview Business Review Financial Statements Governance Company Information Directors
75 Umeco plc Annual Report 2012
Notes to the Company Financial Statements
For the year to 31 March 2012
1 Profit for the year
As permitted by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the Company has elected not to present its own profit and loss account for the year.  
The Company reported a profit for the year to 31 March 2012 of £30.2 million (2011: £1.2 million). 
Fees payable to KPMG Audit Plc for non-audit services are not disclosed in the accounts of the Company because such fees are disclosed on 
a consolidated basis for the Group.
2 Directors emoluments
Details of Directors emoluments are set out in the Remuneration Report.
3 Tangible assets
Freehold
land & buildings 
£m
Fixtures &
equipment
£m
Motor
vehicles
£m
Total
£m
Cost
At 1 April 2011 2.2 0.3 0.3 2.8
Additions – 0.1 – 0.1
Disposals – – (0.3) (0.3)
At 31 March 2012 2.2 0.4 – 2.6
Depreciation
At 1 April 2011 0.2 0.3 0.3 0.8
Charge – 0.1 – 0.1
Disposals – – (0.3) (0.3)
At 31 March 2012 0.2 0.4 – 0.6
Net book value
At 31 March 2012 2.0 – – 2.0
At 1 April 2011 2.0 – – 2.0
The net book value of freehold land & buildings includes £0.4 million (2011: £0.4 million) in respect of land.
4 Investments
£m
Investments in Group undertakings
Cost
At 1 April 2011 193.2
Additions 85.9
Disposals (116.5)
Foreign exchange (1.5)
At 31 March 2012 161.1
Impairment losses
At 1 April 2011 2.3
Charge 0.6
At 31 March 2012 2.9
Net book value
At 31 March 2012 158.2
At 1 April 2011 190.9
All subsidiaries are wholly-owned. The principal Group undertakings are shown on page 98. Their share capital consists entirely of ordinary 
shares other than Umeco Structural Materials (Derby) Limited and Umeco Distribution Limited, whose share capital consists of ordinary and 
preference shares.
Next Page
Back to Contents
Previous Page 76 Umeco plc Annual Report 2012
5 Debtors
2012
£m
2011
£m
Amounts falling due within one year
Amounts owed by Group undertakings 4.2 7.0
Other debtors 8.8 1.1
Prepayments and accrued income 0.2 0.2
13.2 8.3
Amounts falling due after more than one year
Amounts owed by Group undertakings 23.6 116.1
Deferred tax 0.3 0.5
23.9 116.6
37.1 124.9
6 Creditors falling due within one year
2012
£m
2011
£m
Bank overdraft 4.1 31.4
Trade creditors 0.6 0.8
Amounts owed to Group undertakings 3.5 7.7
Other tax and social security 4.9 2.0
Financial liabilities – 0.2
Accruals and deferred income 3.9 11.0
17.0 53.1
Bank overdrafts are repayable on demand. Bank loans and overdrafts are unsecured. Interest is charged on bank loans at floating rates linked  
to LIBOR.
7 Creditors falling due after one year
2012
£m
2011
£m
Bank loans falling due between one and two years – 55.4
Bank loans falling due between two and five years 4.1 53.1
4.1 108.5
Amounts owed to Group undertakings 12.4 11.1
16.5 119.6
8 Provisions for liabilities
Disposal 
provision
£m
Restructuring
provision
£m
Total
£m
At 1 April 2011 3.2 0.1 3.3
Utilised (0.2) (0.1) (0.3)
At 31 March 2012 3.0 – 3.0
The disposal provision relates to costs of potential environmental work at a site in Toulouse, France, formerly operated by Umeco Repair & 
Overhaul and other costs to be incurred under the terms of the divestment. Due to the nature of the costs, the period over which the provision  
is expected to be utilised is difficult to determine but is currently expected to be between two and ten years.
Notes to the Company Financial Statements continued
For the year to 31 March 2012
Next Page
Back to Contents
Previous Page Overview Business Review Financial Statements Governance Company Information Directors
77 Umeco plc Annual Report 2012
9 Deferred tax
2012
£m
2011
£m
Opening net deferred tax asset 0.5 0.4
(Credit)/charge for the year (0.2) 0.1
Closing net deferred tax asset 0.3 0.5
The closing net deferred tax asset of £0.3 million (2011: £0.5 million) has been disclosed in note 5. The timing differences comprised:
2012
£m
2011
£m
Net deferred tax asset
Other timing differences 0.3 0.5
10 Share capital
2012 2011
Number £m Number £m
Ordinary shares of 25 pence
Allotted, called up and fully paid
At start of year 48,140,816 12.0 48,134,248 12.0
Issued pursuant to the SAYE Share Option Scheme 348,317 0.1 6,568 –
At end of year 48,489,133 12.1 48,140,816 12.0
Details of share options are shown in note 26 to the consolidated financial statements.
11 Reserves 
Other
reserves 
£m
Share
 premium
account
£m
Profit
and loss
account
£m
At 1 April 2011 0.1 115.5 14.2
Premium on shares issued – 0.5 –
Share option costs – – 0.1
Retained profit for the year – – 30.2
Dividends paid – – (7.5)
At 31 March 2012 0.1 116.0 37.0
Details of dividends declared and paid are shown in note 6 to the consolidated financial statements.
12 Reconciliation of movements in shareholders’ funds
2012
£m
2011
£m
Shareholders’ funds at start of year 141.8 149.0
Retained profit for the year 30.2 1.2
Share capital issued 0.6 –
Share option costs 0.1 0.1
Dividends paid (7.5) (8.5)
Shareholders’ funds at end of year 165.2 141.8
13 Contingent liabilities
Under a Group registration, the Company is jointly and severally liable for value added tax due by certain other Group companies. At 31 March 
2012, this contingent liability was £0.6 million (2011: £1.7 million).
Next Page
Back to Contents
Previous Page 78 Umeco plc Annual Report 2012
14 Share based payments
The Company has established share option schemes which entitle employees, including Directors, to purchase shares in the Company.  
Details of these schemes are shown in note 26 to the consolidated financial statements and in the Remuneration Report.
15 Financial instruments
Details of the Company’s financial instruments are discussed under accounting policies. The numerical financial instrument disclosures are set  
out below.
Derivative financial instruments
2012 2011
Assets
£m
Liabilities
£m
Assets
£m
Liabilities
£m
Forward foreign exchange contracts – – – (0.1)
Interest rate swap contracts – – – (0.1)
– – – (0.2)
The movement in the fair value of the above financial instruments has been recognised in the profit and loss account.
Foreign currency exposure
The carrying amount of the Company’s net borrowings denominated in foreign currency is as follows:
2012
£m
2011
£m
US dollar – 81.4
Euro 4.1 25.2
Other – 1.2
4.1 107.8
During the year exchange gains of £1.5 million were taken to the profit and loss account in respect of foreign currency borrowings, which  
are treated as a hedging instrument against foreign currency investments. Exchange losses of £1.5 million were taken to the profit and loss 
account in respect of foreign currency investments (the hedged item).
Fair values
Under FRS26, all derivative financial instruments not in a hedge relationship are derivatives at fair value through the profit and loss account.  
All transactions in derivative financial instruments are undertaken to manage risks arising from underlying business activities.
For cash, the fair values are the same as the carrying value. For derivative financial instruments, fair values are obtained from the counterparty 
providing the instrument. For floating rate borrowings, fair values have been calculated by discounting the cash flows at appropriate prevailing 
market rates. Other assets and liabilities reflect management’s estimate of value on an appropriate basis.
At fair value
through the 
profit and 
loss account
£m
 Amortised cost
£m
Total 
carrying value
£m
Fair value
£m
At 31 March 2012
Cash – 4.4 4.4 4.4
Bank overdrafts – (4.1) (4.1) (4.1)
Bank loans – (4.1) (4.1) (4.1)
Other financial assets – 36.8 36.8 36.8
Other financial liabilities – (25.3) (25.3) (25.3)
– 7.7 7.7 7.7
Notes to the Company Financial Statements continued
For the year to 31 March 2012
Next Page
Back to Contents
Previous Page Overview Business Review Financial Statements Governance Company Information Directors
79 Umeco plc Annual Report 2012
15 Financial instruments continued
At fair value
through the
profit and loss
account
£m
 Amortised cost
£m
 
Total  
carrying value
£m
Fair value
£m
At 31 March 2011
Bank overdrafts – (31.4) (31.4) (31.4)
Bank loans – (108.5) (108.5) (108.5)
Derivative liabilities (0.2) – (0.2) (0.2)
Other financial assets – 124.4 124.4 124.4
Other financial liabilities – (32.6) (32.6) (32.6)
(0.2) (48.1) (48.3) (48.3)
Maturity of financial liabilities
The maturity profile of the Company’s financial liabilities is as follows:
Bank 
loans
£m
Bank
overdrafts
£m
Other financial
liabilities
£m
Derivatives
£m
Total contractual 
cash flows
£m
At 31 March 2012
Less than one year – 4.1 25.3 – 29.4
Between one and two years – – – – –
Between two and five years 4.1 – – – 4.1
4.1 4.1 25.3 – 33.5
Bank 
loans
£m
Bank
overdrafts
£m
Other financial
liabilities
£m
Derivatives
£m
Total contractual 
cash flows
£m
At 31 March 2011
Less than one year – 31.4 32.6 0.2 64.2
Between one and two years 57.6 – – – 57.6
Between two and five years 58.0 – – – 58.0
115.6 31.4 32.6 0.2 179.8
16 Related parties
The Company has a related party relationship with its subsidiaries, details of which are set out on page 98, and with its Directors and officers. 
Details of the Company’s related party relationships with its Directors are set out in the Remuneration Report. Transactions the Company  
enters into with its subsidiaries, and transactions between subsidiaries for the sale and purchase of products or services, are priced on an 
arm’s length basis. 
Next Page
Back to Contents
Previous Page 80 Umeco plc Annual Report 2012
Statement of compliance
The Board is firmly committed to ensuring business integrity and  
high ethical values across the Group’s operations. As an essential  
part of this commitment, the Board supports high standards of 
corporate governance and has a policy of seeking to comply with  
the recommendations of the UK Corporate Governance Code (the 
‘Code’). Details of the mechanisms used by the Company to achieve 
compliance with the Code are shown in this Corporate Governance 
statement and in the Remuneration Report.
The Company was fully compliant with the provisions of  
the Code throughout the year. The Code is available at  
www.frc.org.uk/corporate/ukcgcode.cfm.
The Board
On 20 May 2011, the Company announced that Andrew Moss had 
been appointed as Chief Executive, and that Steve Bowers had been 
appointed as Finance Director, with immediate effect. On the same 
date, the Company announced that Clive Snowdon, formerly Chief 
Executive, and Doug Robertson, formerly Finance Director, resigned 
from the Board with immediate effect.
During the period from 1 April 2011 to 19 May 2011, the Board 
consisted of eight Directors: five Non-executive and three Executive.
During the period from 20 May 2011 to 31 March 2012, the Board 
consisted of seven Directors: five Non-executive and two Executive. 
The names, roles and biographical details of the Directors are set  
out on page 23.
Each of the Non-executive Directors, including the Chairman, is free 
from any business or other relationship which could materially 
interfere with the exercise of his judgement. Each of the Non-
executive Directors is considered by the Board to be independent.
The Board maintains a Practices and Procedures document which  
sets out the Board’s key administrative processes used to ensure 
information is provided to the Board and its committees to enable 
them to fulfil their roles properly. The Practices and Procedures 
document was updated by the Board in February 2008. The 
document contains the list of matters reserved for the Board which 
has been compiled to ensure that the Board is made aware of all 
matters that are appropriate for it to consider, and has also been 
communicated to the management of the Group’s companies to 
enable them to manage their operations within a clearly defined 
framework of control. Matters reserved for the Board include major 
investment decisions and changes in the composition of the Group. 
The Board approves the Group’s strategic plan, which includes 
financial and operational objectives, and considers detailed financial 
and operational reports on the progress of the Group. Senior 
executives below Board level are invited to attend certain Board 
meetings to make presentations and participate in discussions. 
Authority has been delegated to the executive management team  
to deal with specific matters, including capital expenditure, contract 
approval, acquisitions and disposals at certain levels as determined 
by the Board.
Corporate Governance 
Non-executive Directors are encouraged to become familiar with  
the Group’s businesses and there is regular communication between 
executive management and Non-executive Directors. The Chairman  
is responsible for ensuring that Board meetings operate to an 
appropriate agenda and that adequate information is provided 
sufficiently in advance of meetings to allow proper consideration.  
He is supported by the Company Secretary, to whom all Directors  
have access. The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Board  
and audit committee. 
The Board has an agreed procedure for any Director to obtain 
independent professional advice at the Company’s expense. 
Directors’ and officers’ liability insurance is held by the Company  
and details have been circulated to the Directors.
The Board membership and that of its committees is designed  
to ensure that no one individual or group of individuals dominates 
proceedings and that the wide variety of skills allows effective 
leadership across the Group’s business activities. In view of the 
nature of the Group and the details shown in this Corporate 
Governance statement, the Board believes that the current number 
and balance of Directors is appropriate.
The Chairman and Non-executive Directors meet to discuss matters 
outside of Board meetings. In addition, meetings of the Non-executive 
Directors are held annually without the Chairman being present. Such 
meetings are chaired by the Senior Independent Director.
The Senior Independent Director is responsible for appraising the 
performance of the Chairman and is available to meet shareholders  
to discuss concerns that they may have.
There is a clear division of responsibility between the Chairman  
and Chief Executive, which is reflected in the Board’s Practices and 
Procedures document. In summary, the Chairman is responsible  
for the leadership and running of the Board but does not have any 
executive powers or responsibilities. The Chief Executive leads the 
executive management team in running the Group’s businesses  
and in implementing operating and strategic plans under authority 
delegated by the Board. From 20 May 2011, the Group’s executive 
committee was comprised of Andrew Moss and Steve Bowers as 
Executive Directors, Mike Giles as Group Operations Finance Director 
together with senior executives from the Structural Materials and 
Process Materials business streams.
Standing committees of the Board
The principal standing committees of the Board are the audit 
committee, the remuneration committee and the nomination 
committee. Each of these committees operates under written  
terms of reference which clearly set out their respective delegated 
responsibilities and authorities, copies of which are available from the 
Company Secretary or on the Company’s website, www.umeco.com.
Next Page
Back to Contents
Previous Page Overview Business Review Company Information Directors
81 Umeco plc Annual Report 2012
Governance Financial Statements
Proposed acquisition of Umeco by Cytec
On 12 April 2012, the boards of Umeco plc (‘Umeco’) and Cytec Industries Inc. (‘Cytec’) announced that they had reached agreement on the 
terms of a recommended cash offer by Cytec UK Holdings Limited, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Cytec, for the entire issued and to be issued 
share capital of Umeco.
Certain aspects of the proposed acquisition of Umeco by Cytec are being managed by a Board committee, comprised of two Directors of the 
Company – one of whom must be a Non-executive Director. Prior to 10 April 2012, when this Board committee was established, the Board as 
a whole considered all aspects of the acquisition process. The Board committee is being advised by N M Rothschild & Sons Limited and 
Investec Bank plc.
The offer process has involved the commitment of additional time by the Board to ensure the process and associated risks are properly managed. 
There have been no changes in external commitments, which have affected the Board members’ ability to perform their roles with the Group.
The Board’s decision to recommend the offer to shareholders is explained further in the Chairman’s Statement on page 10.
Disposal of Supply Chain
The disposal of the Supply Chain business was managed by an independent committee of the Board, established during the year to  
31 March 2011. This committee comprised all Board members other than Clive Snowdon and Doug Robertson. This composition was a 
consequence of Clive Snowdon and Doug Robertson having expressed an interest in participating in a management buy-out of the Supply 
Chain business supported by one of the bidders for the business whose bid was ultimately unsuccessful. The Company is committed to high 
standards of corporate governance and, to ensure no conflicts of interest arose, the independent committee was established with 
responsibility for all matters relating to the disposal process. The independent committee was advised by N M Rothschild & Sons Limited. 
The disposal process involved the commitment of significant resources to ensure the process and associated risks were properly managed. 
This led to the Chairman committing significant additional time to his work with the Group. There have been no changes in the Chairman’s 
external commitments which have affected his ability to perform his role with the Group and Neil Johnson was able to commit a significantly 
higher proportion of his time to the Group in order to manage and support the disposal process. Neil Johnson was Chairman of the 
independent committee and Steve Bowers was secretary to the independent committee.
The independent committee met on five occasions during the year to 31 March 2012. Each meeting was fully attended, other than by 
Stephen Bird and Graham Zacharias, each of whom attended three of the five meetings.
Director of Projects and Compliance
On 17 March 2011, the Company appointed Mark Malitskie as Director of Projects and Compliance. Prior to this appointment, Mark Malitskie 
served as Finance Director of one of the Group’s major business units. During the year, the Director of Projects and Compliance has been 
responsible for, among other matters, revising the Policies and Procedures Manual and the Group’s compliance with the Bribery Act 2010. 
Meetings and attendance
The Directors ensure the effectiveness of the Board through the holding of regular Board meetings and by having open lines of communication 
between all Board members. During the year to 31 March 2012, the Board met eleven times. The audit committee met on three occasions and  
the remuneration committee met six times. The nomination committee did not meet during the year.
The following table shows the level of attendance by each of the Directors at meetings of the Board and its principal standing committees in 
the year to 31 March 2012:
Board Audit Remuneration
Held Attended Held Attended Held Attended
Neil Johnson 11 11 – – – –
Adrian Auer 11 9 3 2 3 2
Stephen Bird 11 11 3 3 6 6
Steve Bowers 10 10 – – – –
Chris Hole 11 9 – – 6 4
Andrew Moss 11 11 – – – –
Doug Robertson 1 1 – – – –
Clive Snowdon 1 1 – – – –
Graham Zacharias 11 11 3 3 6 6
The meetings held shown against each Director’s name represent the number of meetings held during the period for which the Director was  
in office or a member of a committee.
Next Page
Back to Contents
Previous Page 82 Umeco plc Annual Report 2012
Audit committee
The audit committee is chaired by Graham Zacharias. At 31 March 
2012, the committee’s other members are Stephen Bird and Adrian 
Auer. Graham Zacharias is a chartered accountant with recent and 
relevant financial experience and Stephen Bird and Adrian Auer  
are senior business executives who have significant experience of 
corporate financial matters. The members of the audit committee 
ensure that their knowledge of relevant legislation and best practice 
developments is maintained. The committee received reports from 
the external auditor who was invited regularly to attend the 
committee’s meetings. The committee also calls upon the Chief 
Executive, Finance Director and the Director of Projects and 
Compliance to attend portions of its meetings. The committee’s work 
included reviewing the financial statements, accounting policies and 
significant areas of judgement. The committee also assessed the 
proposed external audit approach and the independence and 
objectivity of the external auditor. In assessing auditor independence 
the committee obtained confirmation from the external auditor that its 
ethics and independence policies complied with the requirements of 
the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales. The use 
of the auditor for non-audit work is monitored by the committee. The 
Board’s approval is required prior to the Company’s external auditor 
undertaking significant due diligence or similar project-based advisory 
work for the Group. The Board and audit committee continue to 
believe that there are certain non-audit services where it is more 
efficient and more cost effective for the external auditor to be used. 
These include conducting financial due diligence in respect of 
potential acquisition opportunities and vendor due diligence in relation 
to the disposal of the Supply Chain business. Details of the amounts 
paid to the external auditor during the year for audit and other 
services are set out in note 3 to the consolidated financial statements 
on page 44.
The responsibilities and objectives of the audit committee are set  
out in the committee’s terms of reference, which are summarised  
as follows:
•	 to review the financial statements of the Group and report on 
matters of significance to the Board, particularly any changes in 
accounting policies and practices, major judgemental areas and 
significant adjustments arising from the external audit;
•	 to be responsible for the appointment, re-appointment and 
removal of the Company’s external auditor, subject to consultation 
with the Board and shareholder approval, and to oversee the 
relationship with the external auditor;
•	 to review the audit planning process and scope of work performed 
by the external auditor; and
•	 to review the Company’s internal financial control system and risk 
management systems and to periodically review the need for an 
internal audit function, unless these have been expressly 
addressed by the Board itself.
An annual assessment of the effectiveness of the Company’s system  
of internal controls was conducted in 2012. The Board reviewed 
changes in significant risks, the scope and quality of the ongoing 
monitoring of risks, the extent and frequency of the communication  
of the results of the monitoring to the Board and the incidence of 
significant control failings.
Three audit committee meetings were held during the year. These 
considered the results of the interim and full year audit processes,  
and also considered the planning and scope for the external auditor’s 
work in respect of these financial statements. 
Remuneration committee
The remuneration committee is chaired by Stephen Bird. Adrian Auer 
joined the committee on 28 September 2011 and has served from  
that date. The remuneration committee’s other members are Graham 
Zacharias and Chris Hole, who each served for the whole of the year  
to 31 March 2012. In order to avoid any compromise in the activities  
of the remuneration committee, the chairman of the committee  
takes responsibility for minuting meetings. The committee’s main 
responsibilities are to determine the specific remuneration packages of 
the Chairman, Executive Directors and Company Secretary including 
salaries, annual bonus and longer term incentive schemes, pensions  
and other benefits. Further information on the structure of remuneration 
implemented by the committee is contained in the Remuneration Report, 
which also contains further details of the work of the committee. There  
is a separate Non-executive Directors’ remuneration committee which 
has responsibility for reviewing the remuneration of the Non-executive 
Directors. The members of the Non-executive Directors’ remuneration 
committee are the Chairman, Chief Executive and Finance Director. The 
remuneration committee met on six occasions during the year and the 
Non-executive Director’s remuneration committee did not meet during 
the year. 
Nomination committee
The Board recognises the need to refresh its membership and 
properly manage the process by which new Directors are appointed. 
The nomination committee is responsible for identifying and selecting 
candidates to fill Board vacancies for both Executive and Non-
executive positions. The committee also keeps under review the 
structure, size and composition of the Board, to ensure the Board 
continues to have an appropriate balance of skills and experience.  
The committee comprises all members of the Board, other than the 
Director whose replacement is being selected. The Chairman of the 
Company is normally chairman of the committee, other than when  
the Chairman’s replacement is being selected, in which case the  
Senior Independent Director chairs the committee. 
Where appropriate, the nomination committee uses the services  
of external recruitment consultants. Details of potential candidates 
provided by consultants may be initially reviewed by a sub-committee 
of the nomination committee and meetings with selected candidates 
are then held with Directors. Subsequently, the nomination committee 
meets to discuss and confirm an appointment.
Corporate Governance continued 
Next Page
Back to Contents
Previous Page Overview Business Review Company Information Directors
83 Umeco plc Annual Report 2012
Governance Financial Statements
In conjunction with the Company Secretary, the committee will ensure 
that on appointment to the Board, Non-executive Directors receive a 
formal letter of appointment setting out clearly what is expected of 
them in terms of time commitment, including committee service and 
involvement outside Board meetings, and will ensure they receive an 
adequate introduction to the Group and its activities, including site 
visits to the Group’s principal operations. The nomination committee 
also reviews the Company’s succession plans. The Board as a whole 
also considers this subject and considers succession planning for 
senior corporate executives, with the nomination committee focusing 
specifically on succession planning for members of the Board.
During the year to 31 March 2011, the committee met in relation to the 
potential changes in the constitution of the Executive Directors resulting 
from the disposal of the Supply Chain business. 
The nomination committee did not meet during the year to 31 March 
2012. The changes to the composition of the Board that occurred in the 
year were considered by the independent committee of the Board and 
by the Board as a whole. 
Investor relations
On 22 March 2012, a Capital Markets Event was hosted by  
Andrew Moss, Steve Bowers and senior executives from the  
Group’s business streams. Umeco’s strategy for growth together  
with case studies from each of the business streams were explained 
to investors and analysts. The presentation represented an 
opportunity for investors to meet a wider group of the Company’s 
senior managers and to gain insight into the markets, products and 
opportunities of the Group. The event was very well received and a 
copy of the presentation is available on the Company’s website  
www.umeco.com.
The Annual General Meeting is recognised by the Board as an 
important opportunity to meet and communicate with shareholders, 
particularly private investors. The 2011 Annual General Meeting  
was held on 2 August 2011 and was chaired by Neil Johnson. The 
meeting was attended by all of the Directors. The Chairman of the 
meeting encouraged debate and questions at the formal meeting  
and informally during refreshments afterwards.
In recent years, the date of the Annual General Meeting has been 
stipulated and notice of the Annual General Meeting has been 
incorporated into the Annual Report. In light of the proposed 
acquisition by Cytec of Umeco which, following the Court and 
General Meetings held on 28 May 2012, is expected to become 
effective during July 2012 (subject to satisfaction or waiver of the 
conditions as set out in the Scheme of Arrangement document sent 
to shareholders), the Company has considered it would be 
inappropriate to table the usual business of the Annual General 
Meeting at an early stage. Accordingly, the Company has decided not 
to give notice of the 2012 Annual General Meeting at the present time.
Each substantially separate issue was put to the 2011 Annual General 
Meeting as an individual motion and the meeting was invited to adopt 
and approve the financial statements and the Directors’ Report for the 
year to 31 March 2011. A separate resolution for the approval of the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report was also put to the meeting. Notice 
of the 2011 Annual General Meeting was sent to shareholders more 
than twenty working days in advance of the meeting and the level of 
proxy votes lodged for and against each resolution, together with 
details of abstentions, were disclosed at the meeting. After the 
conclusion of each Annual General Meeting the results in respect  
of every resolution are published through a Regulatory Information 
Service and on the Company’s website. Full details are also available 
upon request from the Company Secretary. In addition to the Annual 
Report, the Company publishes interim results in the third quarter of 
its financial year, and interim management statements in the second 
and fourth quarters of its financial year. The Group’s website, www.
umeco.com, includes copies of certain key presentations made by 
senior management, recent annual and interim reports, press 
releases and links to the websites of the Group’s businesses.
The Board as a whole seeks to maintain a thorough understanding  
of the issues and concerns of major shareholders. Dialogue is 
maintained with shareholders and the Executive Directors regularly 
meet with institutional investors. The Chief Executive and Finance 
Director have primary responsibility for investor relations and updates 
on this subject are provided at all Board meetings. In addition, copies 
of analyst research notes and regular reports from the Company’s 
corporate broking advisors are provided to the Board. The Chairman, 
Senior Independent Director and other Non-executive Directors will 
consider requests for meetings with shareholders.
Board induction, development, evaluation and re-appointment
The Company ensures that all new Directors receive a tailored 
introduction to the Group and its activities, including site visits to the 
Group’s principal operations. In addition to the reporting contained in 
papers provided to the Board each month, members of the executive 
committee provide regular input at meetings to help keep the Board 
up-to-date with matters of significance to the Group. Board meetings 
are held at the Group’s principal operating units on a rolling basis, 
most recently in September 2011 at Process Materials’ facilities in 
Italy and Non-executive Directors are encouraged to make additional 
visits to the Group’s operations in order to ensure their knowledge 
remains current. The training and continuing professional 
development needs of Directors are kept under review with ongoing 
training being provided as necessary. The Group seeks to ensure that 
the composition of the Board results in Board members having a 
diverse mix of backgrounds, including executive and non-executive 
positions, and with perspectives of relevance to the Group, including 
experience of the Group’s markets, financing and investor experience.
Next Page
Back to Contents
Previous Page 84 Umeco plc Annual Report 2012
Formal evaluations of the performance of the Board and its 
committees are conducted annually. The most recent evaluation  
was made in 2012 by the Chairman in conjunction with the Company 
Secretary. The evaluation took into account the views of each of the 
Directors on a wide range of matters, including the performance of 
the Board, its committees and the Directors, and matters relating to 
the leadership and culture of the Group. The results of the evaluation 
process are compiled and summarised by the Company Secretary, 
and then reported to the Board. Where required, the Board has then 
acted in order to enhance further the effectiveness of the Board’s 
procedures and working practices.
Each new appointee to the Board is required to stand for re-
appointment at the next Annual General Meeting following their 
appointment. In addition, any Director who held office at the time of 
the two preceding Annual General Meetings and who did not retire 
at either of them, and any Non-executive Director who has been in 
office for a period of nine years or more will automatically stand for 
re-appointment.
Financial reporting
Nature of the Group
The Group has a clear organisational structure and well established 
reporting and control disciplines. Directors of the Group’s operating 
companies assume responsibility for, and exercise a high degree of 
autonomy in, running day-to-day trading activities. These activities  
are conducted within a framework of clear rules, authority limits and 
policies regarding business conduct, which are documented in the 
Group’s Policies and Procedures Manual. The Manual sets out minimum 
standards for accounting systems and controls, and has been updated 
during the year and distributed to all senior staff. The Manual is available 
on the Group’s intranet. Presentations concerning the content of the 
Manual have been made to a wide cross section of the management of 
each operating company within the Group. Certified quarterly reports are 
required from operating company management which confirm 
compliance with the Group’s key internal controls.
In view of the devolved nature of the Group, and the disciplines 
referred to above, the Company does not require an extensive  
head office function nor is it appropriate for it to operate with  
a large number of Executive Directors. The Board considers these  
to be commercial strengths for the Group and they have been 
important factors in the Board’s assessment of its Corporate 
Governance arrangements.
Through monthly Board meetings held by each operating company, 
the Executive Directors maintain close and frequent contact with 
operating company management. In addition to financial 
performance, the reporting made by operating companies covers 
non-financial matters, notably health & safety and the environment. 
The reporting includes key performance indicators relevant for each 
operating company. Summaries of the Group’s key performance 
indicators are provided to the Board each month.
All operating companies prepare rolling forecasts extending for four 
calendar quarters and a strategic plan, which includes projections  
for the next three financial years. These are reviewed in detail by  
the Executive Directors and are consolidated for review and approval  
by the Board. Performance against forecast is continually monitored  
by the Executive Directors, reviewed at monthly meetings of the 
executive committee and reported to all meetings of the Board.
Systems of internal control
As required by the UK Listing Authority, the Company has complied 
with the UK Corporate Governance Code provisions on internal 
control. The Company has in place risk assessment processes  
and established procedures necessary to implement the Turnbull 
Committee guidance, as updated by the Financial Reporting Council, 
and for reporting in accordance with that guidance.
The Board has overall responsibility for the Group’s system of  
internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness, while the role  
of management is to implement Board policies on risk and control.  
The system of internal control is designed to manage rather than 
eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can  
only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material 
misstatement or loss. There is a continuous process for identifying, 
evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group, 
which has been in place for the year under review and up to the date 
of approval of this Annual Report.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the Group’s system  
of internal controls during the year, including strategic, operational,  
legal and compliance, risk management and financial controls. The 
processes used by the Board for their review include the following:
•	 the Board receives regular reports from management which 
highlight any material control weaknesses and discusses actions 
taken on weaknesses identified;
•	 the audit committee, based on reports provided by the external 
auditor, reviews the effectiveness of the internal financial control 
system, and any significant matters are referred to the Board for 
consideration. The chairman of the audit committee reports the 
outcome of the audit committee meetings to the Board; and 
•	 the Board considers all significant financing and investment 
opportunities relating to the Group, including the granting of 
guarantees, and monitors policy in respect of managing treasury  
and exchange risks.
Consistent with the Turnbull Committee guidance, the Group’s 
management operated a risk management process during the year 
which identifies the key risks facing each of the Group’s businesses, 
and reports to the Board on how those risks are being addressed. 
This is based on each operating company producing a risk register, 
which identifies the key risks facing the operating company, the 
probability of those risks occurring and the actions being taken to 
mitigate those risks to the desired level.
These reports, which are regularly updated, are combined to provide 
the Board with a report of the significant risks faced by the Group as 
a whole, together with details of the controls in place over those risks.
Corporate Governance continued
Next Page
Back to Contents
Previous Page Overview Business Review Company Information Directors
85 Umeco plc Annual Report 2012
Governance Financial Statements
Whistleblowing policy
The Group is committed to the highest standards of openness and 
accountability and encourages its members of staff to raise genuine 
concerns about malpractice at the earliest practicable stage rather 
than wait for proof. The Group Policies and Procedures Manual 
encourages concerns to be disclosed, in confidence, orally or in 
writing, to the Group Operations Finance Director or the Company 
Secretary. The Group will take appropriate action against any person 
victimising another for using this procedure or deterring any person 
from reporting genuine concerns under it.
Internal audit
The Group does not have a separate internal audit function. However 
head office staff conduct detailed reviews of the financial records, 
compliance procedures, taxation records and related controls of  
the Group’s operating companies. The results of these reviews  
are provided to the Board and to the external auditor. The Board 
periodically reviews the need for a separate internal audit function  
and has done so during 2012. In light of these reviews, the current 
conclusion of the Board is that a separate internal audit function is  
not necessary.
Through the procedures outlined above, the Board has considered all 
significant aspects of internal control for the year and up to the date  
of this Annual Report. The Board believes that the Group’s system of 
internal control, which is designed to manage rather than eliminate 
risk, provides reasonable but not absolute assurance against material 
misstatement or loss.
Corporate social responsibility
The Board takes account of social, environmental and ethical 
considerations when managing the Group and when considering new 
investment opportunities. This is monitored as part of the Group’s 
annual risk assessment process. The direct environmental impact  
of the Group’s activities is limited. However, the Group considers the 
environmental impact of all significant investment opportunities  
and is engaged in a continuing effort to improve the environmental 
performance of all of its businesses. The Group aims to reduce its 
impact on the environment by controlling energy usage, which  
may be achieved by avoiding any unnecessary expenditure,  
improving cost-effectiveness or taking any other appropriate  
steps to reduce energy consumption levels. 
Health & safety remains a key component of the Group’s corporate 
social responsibility strategy. Reporting of health & safety matters  
is made to the Board every month. The Group’s health & safety  
policy statement is regularly updated and circulated to the Group’s 
operating companies. Specialist staff at each of these companies 
ensure compliance with this statement. Root cause analysis and 
similar investigative work is carried out following all health & safety 
incidents. The Group maintains accident reporting systems which are 
primarily used to identify trends with a view to developing strategies 
for reducing the number of accidents. There were no major health & 
safety incidents during the year to 31 March 2012.
The Group’s current system of risk management and control, which 
includes social responsibility matters, is led by each of the Group’s 
operations. Senior staff at these operating companies are responsible 
for complying with the relevant environmental regulations in all the 
geographical areas in which they operate. During the year they 
reported to the Board on such issues through the Chief Executive, 
who has ultimate responsibility for such matters, as part of the 
Group’s system of internal control and risk management reporting. 
Overall the Group continues to believe that its activities have a limited 
environmental impact. However, the Group recognises that it has a 
responsibility to understand the impact that its activities have at local, 
national and global level. These have been monitored and assessed, 
and solutions have been implemented as appropriate according to 
best practice, local legal and other requirements.
The Group continues to focus attention on areas where its impact on 
stakeholders is most beneficial, by delivering an improved and more 
secure environment for our employees, customers and suppliers, and 
by operating ethically as an international Group. The Group’s values 
statements, set out below, are key to the Group’s success and the 
way in which it conducts business:
•	 build with integrity, fairness and trust;
•	 challenge and innovate;
•	 always put delivery first; and
•	 make ambition work.
Employment
Employment policies throughout the Group have been established  
to comply with relevant legislation and codes of practice relating  
to employment, health & safety and equal opportunities. The  
Group provides high quality working environments and facilities for 
employees, and training and development appropriate to each of their 
roles. The Group does not discriminate against employees in any way 
and provides a competitive range of employee benefits. The Group 
keeps employees informed on matters relating to their employment 
and on financial and economic factors affecting the Group. This is 
achieved through management briefings, the Group’s website and  
by distribution of press releases and internal announcements. This 
enables employees to gain a better understanding of the Group’s 
business objectives and their roles in achieving them. Building and 
developing the skills, competencies, motivation and teamwork of 
employees is recognised by the Board as being key to achieving the 
Group’s business objectives. The Group places importance on the 
contributions to be made by all employees to the progress of the  
Group and aims to keep them informed by the use of formal and 
informal meetings.
The Group’s commitment to rewarding employees and valuing 
qualities such as determination are enshrined in the Group’s  
values statements. Encouragement is given to all UK employees to 
participate in the Group’s SAYE Share Option Scheme under which 
options over the Company’s shares are granted to employees who 
enter into contracts to save agreed amounts each month. The most 
recent invitation under the SAYE Share Option Scheme was made in 
July 2009.
Next Page
Back to Contents
Previous Page 86 Umeco plc Annual Report 2012
Ability and aptitude are the determining factors in the selection, 
training, career development and promotion of all employees. The 
Group provides a range of training and development opportunities  
for employees, including induction training, health & safety training 
and support with programmes leading to relevant professional or 
academic qualifications, in addition to specific training related to the 
role of each employee. The Group recognises its responsibility under 
the UK’s Disability Discrimination Act 1995 and does not discriminate 
against disabled people. If an employee is, or becomes, disabled 
during their period of employment, the Group will, if necessary and  
to the extent possible, adapt the working environment to enable the 
employee to continue in their current position or retrain the employee 
for duties suited to their abilities following disablement. It continues to 
be the Group’s policy to consider applications for employment from 
disabled people on the same basis as other potential employees.
Health & safety training is part of the induction process for new 
employees. Specific training is given where relevant, for example 
regarding forklift truck operation and chemical handling, as well  
as fire safety and first aid matters.
Risk assessments are used in all parts of the Group, with these  
being updated on a regular basis and also when new equipment  
or machinery is acquired or new processes are introduced.
Going concern
For the reasons given in the statements relating to going concern 
provided on pages 27 and 35, the Directors continue to adopt the 
going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Environment
Umeco operates at the leading edge of environmental change in its 
principal markets, with the Group’s advanced composite materials 
and services being used to improve fuel efficiency and reduce 
emissions. The Group’s customers operate in industries that demand 
high environmental standards from their suppliers and the Group 
continually raises its standards in response. 
Well established environmental management systems and 
comprehensive policies are in place. The Group strives to make 
continuous improvements to its usage of natural resources, in areas 
such as recycling and the efficient use of energy and water. Recycling 
processes have been in use in the Group for many years, and 
recycled materials are used where possible. Improvements to reduce 
the environmental impact of the Group’s operations are regularly 
implemented. Further details are set out on page 21.
Community impact and involvement
The Group encourages employees to support local worthwhile 
causes and charities, and ensures that the Group’s operations cause 
minimal negative impact within the community. In common with all 
companies, the Group has limited resources and the amount of 
money available for charitable purposes varies over time.
Relationships with suppliers, customers and other stakeholders
The Group recognises the obligations it has towards the parties with 
whom it has business dealings including customers, shareholders, 
employees, suppliers and advisors. Dealings with these parties  
depend upon the honesty and integrity of the Group’s staff and  
every effort is made to ensure that a high standard of expertise  
and business principles is maintained in such dealings. Where 
appropriate, training is given to maintain and to raise standards.
The Group’s policy towards suppliers is that each operating company 
is responsible for negotiating the terms and conditions under which 
they trade with suppliers. Once terms are agreed, payments to 
suppliers are made in accordance with those terms and conditions, 
subject always to the supplier having complied with them.
Corporate Governance continued 
Next Page
Back to Contents
Previous Page Overview Business Review Company Information Directors
87 Umeco plc Annual Report 2012
Governance Financial Statements
The Remuneration Report is presented to shareholders by the Board 
and sets out the remuneration policy and details of the remuneration 
of each Director in respect of the year to 31 March 2012.
Remuneration committee
The remuneration committee is chaired by Stephen Bird and the 
committee’s other members are Graham Zacharias, Chris Hole and 
Adrian Auer. The committee has access to the Company’s professional 
advisors and is empowered to seek further independent professional 
advice if this is required. The committee is responsible for all aspects  
of the remuneration packages of the Chairman, the Executive Directors 
and certain other members of senior management. The members of 
the committee have no personal financial interest in the Company, 
other than as shareholders and in respect of the fees received in  
their capacity as Non-executive Directors. They have no day-to-day 
involvement in the management of the Group nor do they have any 
potential conflicts of interest arising from cross-directorships, and they 
do not participate in any form of performance related pay or pension 
arrangements. The Chairman, Chief Executive and Company Secretary 
may attend meetings of the remuneration committee by invitation. No 
Executive Director or other attendee participates in discussions relating 
to their own remuneration.
Remuneration policy
The remuneration policy is set by the Board as a whole with the 
remuneration committee then working within this policy to set 
individual levels of remuneration. The aim of the policy is for the 
Group to attract, motivate and retain high calibre executives by 
rewarding them with competitive salary, benefit and incentive 
packages which are linked to performance and which are designed  
to enhance the business and the creation of shareholder value. The 
remuneration committee uses the services of Deloitte LLP, whom it 
appoints to provide remuneration advice and salary benchmarking 
data. During the year, Deloitte LLP also provided corporate tax 
advisory services to the Group.
During the year to 31 March 2010, the remuneration committee 
reviewed the structure of Executive Directors’ remuneration and 
concluded that changes be made for the year to 31 March 2011 and 
beyond. These changes are designed to strengthen alignment of 
management and shareholder interests, as well as to bring the total 
remuneration package more in line with market practice. These 
changes were implemented during the year to 31 March 2011  
and comprised: 
•	 the introduction of a Performance Share Plan (‘PSP’), which was 
approved by shareholders at the Company’s 2010 Annual General 
Meeting. Typically the PSP will operate with an annual award of  
50 per cent of salary in performance shares. In respect of awards 
made under the PSP, half is subject to EPS growth targets and half 
is subject to relative Total Shareholder Return (‘TSR’) performance;
•	 the introduction of a shareholding guideline of 1 x salary for 
Executive Directors. Holdings of deferred shares will be taken  
into account when determining status against this guideline; and
•	 a reduction in the maximum opportunity under the annual 
performance related bonus (the ‘Umeco Bonus Plan’) from  
150 per cent of salary to 125 per cent of salary. The amount 
deferred under the Umeco Bonus Plan has been reduced from  
three fifths of the total bonus entitlement to two fifths of the  
total bonus entitlement.
Taken together, the remuneration committee considers that these 
changes in remuneration package for Executive Directors will create 
greater alignment with shareholders interests.
The following sections set out the elements of the remuneration 
package for Executive Directors. Senior managers below Board  
level have similar arrangements.
Basic salaries
The basic salaries of Executive Directors are reviewed annually with 
effect from 1 April, or when a change in the scope of an Executive 
Director’s role occurs. The remuneration committee does not have
a formal positioning policy for basic salary levels as it is aware of  
the issues arising from the setting of salary levels solely by reference 
to a benchmark. Instead, when reviewing salaries, the committee
uses external salary information and also takes into account the 
performance of the Group, the calibre of the individual and their 
contribution to the success of the Group. The committee considers
market data for executives of comparable status and skills in 
companies of similar size and complexity. At the executive’s choosing 
and subject to the approval of the remuneration committee, salary 
may be converted into additional employer pension contributions.
Benefits in kind
Benefits in kind provided are primarily a fully expensed company car 
and private medical insurance. Directors may choose to forego the 
company car benefit in return for an additional payment of salary,  
such payment being calculated so as to leave the Company no worse 
off from the change.
Annual performance related bonus
Executive Directors participate in the Umeco Bonus Plan. The 
performance targets set under the Umeco Bonus Plan are integrated 
with financial projections, prepared at the start of the year. 
Performance targets are reviewed in detail to ensure that they are 
sufficiently stretching and that they continue to be aligned with the 
Group’s strategy and the creation of shareholder value. Performance 
targets used in respect of the year to 31 March 2012 comprise 
targets in respect of the Group’s adjusted profit before tax (44 per 
cent of total entitlement), the Group’s working capital to sales ratio 
(16 per cent of total entitlement) and personal objectives determined 
with regard to the responsibilities of each Executive Director (40 per 
cent of total entitlement). 
For the year to 31 March 2012, in line with the changes to the 
structure of remuneration referred to earlier, Executive Directors  
were eligible for a maximum award of 125 per cent of basic salary. 
Three fifths of the total value of any award is paid in cash (i.e. up to  
a maximum of 75 per cent of basic salary) and the remaining two 
fifths is delivered in the form of a deferred share award (i.e. up to a 
maximum of 50 per cent of basic salary).
Remuneration Report 
Next Page
Back to Contents
Previous Page 88 Umeco plc Annual Report 2012
Although awards of deferred shares will have been earned as a 
result of performance in a particular year, full entitlement to these 
shares is deferred, normally until the third anniversary of the award 
date. An Executive Director whose employment ceases during  
this three year period, other than for reasons acceptable to the 
committee, will forfeit their right to the deferred shares. Payments 
under the Umeco Bonus Plan are non-pensionable. Any shares 
required in respect of these deferred share arrangements will be 
acquired in the market and no new shares will be allotted.
PSP
Following shareholder approval at the Company’s 2010 Annual 
General Meeting, Executive Directors participate in the PSP. 
Typically, an award of 50 per cent of salary will be made annually  
in performance shares under the PSP. Half of the award is subject  
to EPS growth targets and half of the award is subject to relative 
TSR performance against an appropriate comparator group, in each 
case adopting stretching performance criteria. Performance against 
these targets will in normal circumstances be assessed over a three 
year period.
The following targets apply to PSP awards:
•	 for the EPS portion, 25 per cent will vest for EPS growth of  
RPI + 5.0 per cent per annum over the three year performance 
period and 100 per cent will vest for EPS growth of  
RPI + 10.0 per cent per annum over the same three year 
performance period; and
•	 for the TSR portion, 25 per cent will vest for median performance 
over the three year performance period against the FTSE 
Industrial Goods and Services Index and 100 per cent will vest  
for upper quartile performance. 
Straight line pro rating will apply for EPS and TSR performance 
between these points.
The PSP enables executives to earn shares in the Company  
based on the achievement of stretching performance conditions. 
Participation in the PSP is offered to Executive Directors and certain 
selected members of the Group’s senior executive management 
team. Award levels to participants below Executive Director level  
are appropriately scaled to reflect their role.
Under the rules of the PSP, the maximum face value of PSP awards 
granted to a participant in any financial year may not exceed 100 per 
cent of their salary at the date of grant, other than in exceptional 
circumstances as determined by the remuneration committee, in 
which case the maximum would be 150 per cent. The committee 
considers that the delay in granting first awards under the PSP  
due to the disposal of the Supply Chain business represents an 
exceptional circumstance.
Chairman’s 2010 Share Award Plan (‘SAP’)
At the Company’s 2010 Annual General Meeting, shareholders 
approved the SAP which is a specific share incentive arrangement  
for the Chairman. This share matching plan is designed to align  
the Chairman’s interests with shareholders and also to incentivise  
him and reward him for superior performance of the Company. The 
remuneration committee consider that the targets are challenging and 
any rewards for the Chairman will thus be linked to material increases  
in shareholder value. Conditional on the Chairman purchasing 50,000 
ordinary shares in the Company (which he has already purchased), he 
received a matching share award of up to 300,000 shares. In order for 
these shares to vest both a share price condition and a TSR condition 
must be satisfied and he must continue to hold his own shareholding 
and generally remain appointed by the Company until 19 October 
2012, which is the normal vesting date for the award. The award may 
also vest on the occurrence of a change of control event. The award 
does not form part of pensionable earnings. No further similar awards 
can be made under the SAP.
The award will normally vest on 19 October 2012 subject to continued 
appointment, and the satisfaction of the share price and TSR 
performance conditions. The share price condition is that the average 
closing share price over the period of 60 consecutive days ending on 
19 October 2012 exceeds the share price in the table below:
Price (pence)
Number of
potential Award 
Shares 
(cumulative)
300 0
356 25,000
400 52,252
450 83,221
500 114,189
550 145,158
600 176,126
650 207,095
700 238,063
750 269,032
800 300,000
The number of Award Shares will be calculated on a straight line basis 
for other share prices (based on an additional 619 shares for every  
1 pence rise in the share price above the relevant threshold). The final 
number of Award Shares is then subject to scaling pursuant to the  
TSR condition. 
The TSR condition is that the Company’s performance measured 
against the TSR for the FTSE Small Cap Index over the three year 
period ending on 19 October 2012 will be as follows:
Top decile (91-100) 100 per cent
76-90 75 per cent
61-75 62.5 per cent
51-60 50 per cent
Median or lower 0 per cent
Remuneration Report continued 
Next Page
Back to Contents
Previous Page Overview Business Review Company Information Directors
89 Umeco plc Annual Report 2012
Governance Financial Statements
Share options
Executive options
Executive Directors have been eligible to participate in the Umeco 2001 
Share Option Plan (‘2001 Plan’) under which options were granted at  
the prevailing market price at the time of grant, and were not normally 
exercisable before the expiry of three years from the date of grant. 
Options were not exercisable more than ten years after the date of grant. 
In line with the remuneration policy detailed in this report, no further 
grants of options are planned to be made under the 2001 Plan and no 
options were outstanding as at 31 March 2011 or 31 March 2012. When 
granting options under the 2001 Plan, the remuneration committee took 
into account the salary level of the individuals concerned.
SAYE Share Option Scheme
The Group’s SAYE Share Option Scheme is open to Directors 
spending at least 25 hours per week on Group business. Options 
under the SAYE Share Option Scheme are normally exercisable during 
a six month period commencing three years from the date of grant.
Directors’ pension entitlements
Details of Executive Directors pension entitlements are shown  
below. Executive Directors may convert an element of their pension 
entitlement into salary, or convert an element of their salary into 
pension contributions. All such conversions are subject to the 
approval of the remuneration committee. 
Andrew Moss
Andrew Moss was entitled to employer’s pension contributions 
equivalent to 20.0 per cent of basic salary to 19 May 2011 and  
25.0 per cent of basic salary from 20 May 2011. Until 31 July 2011, 
Andrew Moss was an active member of the defined benefit section of 
the Umeco Scheme which is approved by HM Revenue & Customs. 
Andrew Moss elected to cease accruing future benefits under the 
Umeco Scheme on 31 July 2011 and became a deferred member of 
the Umeco Scheme from that date. Until 31 July 2011, Andrew Moss 
contributed 6.5 per cent of pensionable salary and the Group 
contributed 19.2 per cent of pensionable salary. The defined benefit 
section of Umeco Scheme had a cap on pensionable salary of 
£129,600 during the year. The defined benefit section of the Umeco 
Scheme provides members with a pension of up to two thirds of 
pensionable salary on retirement. It also provides a lump sum death 
in service benefit and pensions for dependants of members on their 
death in service or following retirement. Normal retirement age is 65. 
Steve Bowers
Steve Bowers was entitled to employer’s pension contributions 
equivalent to 20.0 per cent of basic salary from his appointment on 
20 May 2011. Steve Bowers is a member of the defined contribution 
section of the Umeco Scheme.
Clive Snowdon
Clive Snowdon was entitled to employer’s pension contributions 
equivalent to 39.0 per cent of basic salary. The Company was the 
principal employer under a funded unapproved retirement benefits 
scheme (‘FURBS’) in respect of Clive Snowdon.
Doug Robertson
Doug Robertson was entitled to employer’s pension contributions 
equivalent to 15.0 per cent of basic salary.
Remuneration of Non-executive Directors
The policy of Non-executive remuneration is to pay an appropriate  
fee based on each Director’s time and work on the Board and its 
committees. The remuneration of the Non-executive Directors is 
determined by the Non-executive Directors’ remuneration committee. 
No Non-executive Director is involved in setting his own remuneration.
Policy on external appointments and retention of fees
Subject to the approval of the Board in each case, Executive 
Directors may accept external appointments as Non-executive 
Directors of other companies and retain any related fees paid to them, 
provided always that such external appointments are not considered 
by the Board to prevent or reduce the ability of the Executive to 
perform their role to the required standard. Such appointments  
are seen as a way in which Executive Directors can gain a broader 
business experience and, in turn, benefit the Company. During the 
year to 31 March 2012, Clive Snowdon was a Non-executive Director 
of Hill & Smith Holdings PLC and has retained the fees paid to him for 
his services in that year whilst a director of the Company which were 
£11,000 (2011: £44,000). 
Next Page
Back to Contents
Previous Page 90 Umeco plc Annual Report 2012
Service contracts
The Company has agreed service contracts with Executive Directors which are considered consistent with normal practice in quoted 
companies wishing to attract and retain suitably qualified executives. The dates of these service contracts and the letters of appointment of the 
Non-executive Directors, copies of which are available from the Company Secretary, are as follows:
Neil Johnson 16 October 2009, amended 4 January 2012
Adrian Auer 30 April 2010
Stephen Bird 26 September 2006
Steve Bowers 20 May 2011
Chris Hole 30 May 2007
Andrew Moss 29 September 1999, amended 23 August 2006 and 20 May 2011
Doug Robertson 19 July 2007
Clive Snowdon 21 April 1997
Graham Zacharias 23 September 2005
In the year to 31 March 2012, Neil Johnson received fees totalling £175,000 for his services to the Company, £125,000 relating to regular annual 
fees and £50,000 relating to additional fees for the disposal of the Supply Chain business. Of the regular annual fees, £25,000 is a Non-executive 
Director fee, paid as earnings, and £100,000 is paid as consultancy fees to a consultancy company C1 (International-Consulting) Limited under 
the terms of an agreement dated 19 October 2009 and amended on 4 January 2012. Under the terms of the consultancy agreement, the 
Company may make payment of additional fees in respect of any exceptional time commitment by Neil Johnson in relation to the Company’s 
affairs. For his time commitment in relation to the disposal of the Supply Chain business, during the year to 31 March 2012 Neil Johnson was paid 
an additional monthly fee of £10,000 for April, May and June and £5,000 for July, August, September and October, all of which were paid to C1 
(International-Consulting) Limited.
Andrew Moss has a contract which is terminable by the Company giving one year’s notice, or by Andrew Moss giving six months’ notice. 
Under Andrew Moss’ service contract there is no discretion for the Company to make any payments in lieu of notice.
Steve Bowers has a service contract which is terminable by the Company giving one year’s notice, or by Steve Bowers giving six months’ 
notice. Under Steve Bowers’ service contract the Company can, in its absolute discretion, make phased payments in lieu of notice equal to 
basic salary and pension contributions.
The letters of appointment of the Non-executive Directors require six months’ notice or, in the case of Adrian Auer, three months’ notice to be 
given by the Director or the Company to terminate the appointment. None of the letters provide for the payment of compensation.
Board changes in May 2011
This report focuses on remuneration in respect of the year to 31 March 2012 relating to Directors who served during that year. On 20 May 2011, 
the Company announced that Andrew Moss (formerly Chief Operating Officer) had been appointed as Chief Executive and Steve Bowers 
(formerly Group Financial Controller) had been appointed as Finance Director, in each case with immediate effect. Steve Bowers also remained  
as Company Secretary. On the same date, the Company announced that Clive Snowdon, formerly Chief Executive, and Doug Robertson, 
formerly Finance Director, had resigned from the Board with immediate effect, though they both remained as employees of the Company until 
30 June 2011 to assist with the transition of the Group as part of the disposal of the Supply Chain business. Compensation for loss of office  
of £573,000 was paid by the Company to Clive Snowdon and compensation for loss of office of £359,000 was paid by the Company to  
Doug Robertson in line with contractual terms. These costs have been classified as a significant item within discontinued operations.
As a result of the changes in responsibilities of Andrew Moss and Steve Bowers, their salaries from 20 May 2011 were increased to £360,000 
per annum and £190,000 per annum respectively. From that date, contractual entitlements to employer’s pension contributions are equivalent 
to 25.0 per cent of basic salary for Andrew Moss and 20.0 per cent of basic salary for Steve Bowers.
Following completion of the disposal of the Supply Chain business, Andrew Moss was paid a loyalty bonus of £360,000 consisting of 
£180,000 in cash and £180,000 in deferred shares, and Steve Bowers was paid a loyalty bonus of £190,000 consisting of £95,000 in cash and 
£95,000 in deferred shares. These deferred share awards are subject to the rules applying to other deferred share awards and are therefore 
subject to restrictions in accordance with the rules of the Umeco Bonus Plan.
Remuneration Report continued 
Next Page
Back to Contents
Previous Page Overview Business Review Company Information Directors
91 Umeco plc Annual Report 2012
Governance Financial Statements
TSR
The graph below compares the Company’s TSR over the five years to 31 March 2012 with that for the FTSE All Share index, FTSE Small Cap 
share index and the FTSE Aerospace & Defence sector index. The base for the three data series has been taken as 100 on 31 March 2007. 
The FTSE Small Cap share index has been chosen as it is a relevant broad equity market index for smaller quoted companies.
FTSE Aerospace & Defence FTSE All Share FTSE Small Cap Umeco
0
50
100
150
200
250
0
50
100
150
200
250
March 2012 March 2011 March 2010 March 2009 March 2008 March 2007
Directors’ interests
The beneficial interests of the Directors who held office at the end of the year and their spouses in the ordinary shares of the Company are 
shown below. Details are given at the start of the year, or date of appointment in the case of Steve Bowers, and at the end of the year:
At end of year At start of year
Number
Per cent
of issued
shares Number
Per cent of 
issued 
shares
Neil Johnson 50,000 0.1 50,000 0.1
Adrian Auer – – – –
Stephen Bird 20,000 – 20,000 –
Steve Bowers 16,232 – 6,948 –
– deferred shares 50,672 0.1 18,621 –
Chris Hole 5,000 – 5,000 –
Andrew Moss 129,499 0.3 97,808 0.2
– deferred shares 118,484 0.2 42,516 0.1
Graham Zacharias 5,000 – 5,000 –
The deferred shares held by Andrew Moss and Steve Bowers at the end of the year relate to awards made in June 2009, June 2011 and 
August 2011 under the terms of the Umeco Bonus Plan.
There have been no changes in Directors’ interests in the period between 31 March 2012 and the signing date of these financial statements. 
Directors are not required to maintain a minimum shareholding in the Company, however a shareholding guideline of 1 x salary applies for 
Executive Directors.
Next Page
Back to Contents
Previous Page 92 Umeco plc Annual Report 2012
The individual aspects of remuneration for each Director
The auditors are required to report on the information contained in this section of the report.
Directors’ remuneration
Fees
£000 
Salary
£000
Cash
bonus
£000
Compensation 
for loss  
of office 
£000
Deferred
shares
£000
Non cash
benefits
£000
Sums by
way of taxable
allowances
£000
2012
Total
£000
2011
Total
£000
Chairman 
Neil Johnson 175 – – – – – – 175 240 
Executive Directors 
Andrew Moss – 355 302 – 71 16 66 810 550 
Steve Bowers  
(appointed 20 May 2011) – 165 158 – 40 18 – 381 – 
Non-executive Directors 
Stephen Bird 40 – – – – – – 40 40 
Chris Hole 35 – – – – – – 35 35 
Graham Zacharias 40 – – – – – – 40 40 
Adrian Auer 40 – – – – – – 40 37 
Former Directors 
Clive Snowdon  
(resigned 20 May 2011) – 52 – 573 240 1 5 871 854
Doug Robertson  
(resigned 20 May 2011) – 34 – 359 152 1 5 551 590
 330 606 460 932 503 36 76 2,943 2,386 
 
Comparative values in the table above include remuneration relating to Adrian Auer since 30 April 2010, the date of his appointment to  
the Board.        
        
The annual basic salaries of the Executive Directors, before any conversions of salary to or from pension entitlements, for the years to  
31 March 2012 and 2011 are as follows:        
 2012 2011
From 20 May 
£000
To 19 May 
£000 £000
Andrew Moss 360 319 310
Steve Bowers 190 – –
From 1 April 2012, the annual basic salary for Andrew Moss is £367,000 and for Steve Bowers is £215,000.
Benefits comprise the value of benefits in kind including company cars, fuel and medical insurance. Sums by way of taxable allowances  
comprise payments made to Directors in lieu of pension contributions and contractual entitlements to company cars. Payments in lieu of 
company cars were made to Clive Snowdon £5,000 (2011: £19,000) and Doug Robertson £5,000 (2011: £19,000). A payment of £66,000 
(2011: £2,000) was made to Andrew Moss in lieu of pension contributions.
Remuneration Report continued 
Next Page
Back to Contents
Previous Page Overview Business Review Company Information Directors
93 Umeco plc Annual Report 2012
Governance Financial Statements
Annual bonus awards made to Executive Directors as a percentage of salary earned are as follows:
2012 2011
Cash
bonus
Per cent
Deferred
shares
Per cent
Total
Per cent
Cash
bonus
Per cent
Deferred
shares
Per cent
Total
Per cent
Andrew Moss 34.4 23.0 57.4 72.2 48.2 120.4
Steve Bowers 34.4 23.0 57.4 – – –
Clive Snowdon – – – 120.4 – 120.4
Doug Robertson – – – 120.4 – 120.4
Clive Snowdon and Doug Robertson left employment shortly after the granting of deferred share awards relating to the year to 31 March 2011 
and, as restrictions over this deferred share award would have been lifted immediately on cessation of their employment in view of their status 
as good leavers, it was agreed that their total bonus entitlement for the year to 31 March 2011 would be paid in cash.
Deferred share awards
Deferred share awards are recognised as remuneration upon the lifting of the restrictions attaching to the awards. The June 2008 award 
vested in June 2011. The deferred share awards held by the Executive Directors under the Umeco Bonus Plan are as follows: 
Number of shares
Date by which
qualifying
conditions must
be fulfilled
Mid-market
price on date
of award
Pence
Value at date
of award
£000
As at
31 March
2012 Granted Vested
As at
1 April
2011
Date of
award
Andrew Moss
June 2008 award – – (16,691) 16,691 18 June 2008 18 June 2011 581.0 97
June 2009 award 25,465 – – 25,465 12 June 2009 19 June 2012 230.0 59
June 2011 award 39,288 39,288 – – 20 June 2011 20 June 2014 374.5 149
August 2011 award 53,731 53,731 – – 8 August 201 1 8 August 2014 328.5 177
118,484 93,019 (16,691) 42,156
Steve Bowers
June 2008 award – – (9,284) 9,284 18 June 2008 18 June 2011 581.0 54
June 2009 award 9,337 – – 9,337 12 June 2009 19 June 2012 230.0 21
June 2011 award 12,977 12,977 – – 20 June 2011 20 June 2014 374.5 49
August 2011 award 28,358 28,358 – – 8 August 201 1 8 August 2014 328.5 93
50,672 41,335 (9,284) 18,621
Clive Snowdon
June 2008 award – – (25,986) 25,986 18 June 2008 18 June 2011 581.0 151
June 2009 award – – (30,982) 30,982 12 June 2009 30 June 2011 230.0 72
– – (56,968) 56,968
Doug Robertson
June 2008 award – – (14,922) 14,922 18 June 2008 18 June 2011 581.0 87
June 2009 award – – (21,221) 21,221 12 June 2009 30 June 2011 230.0 49
– – (36,143) 36,143
Values shown in the table for Andrew Moss in relation to the June 2008 award represents an award made in respect of his employment as  
Chief Executive of Umeco Composites. Values shown in the table for Steve Bowers in relation to the June 2008, June 2009 and June 2011 
awards represent awards made in respect of his employment as Company Secretary and Group Financial Controller.
The August 2011 awards represent the deferred shares portion of the loyalty bonuses to Andrew Moss and Steve Bowers following completion 
of the disposal of the Supply Chain business.
Next Page
Back to Contents
Previous Page 94 Umeco plc Annual Report 2012
The vesting of awards in the year to 31 March 2012 is summarised as follows:
  Number of shares Date of vesting
Mid-market price 
on date of vesting 
Pence
Total award value 
at date of vesting 
£000
Andrew Moss
June 2008 award 16,691 20 June 2011 374.5 71
Steve Bowers
June 2008 award 9,284 20 June 2011 374.5 40
Clive Snowdon
June 2008 award 25,986 20 June 2011 374.5 113
June 2009 award 30,982 30 June 2011 375.0 127
  56,968     240 
Doug Robertson
June 2008 award 14,922 20 June 2011 374.5 65
June 2009 award 21,221 30 June 2011 375.0 87
  36,143     152 
The June 2009 awards for Clive Snowdon and Doug Robertson vested on 30 June 2011. Vesting of these awards was accelerated from  
their normal vesting date of 12 June 2012 as restrictions over these awards were lifted immediately on cessation of Clive Snowdon’s and  
Doug Robertson’s employment in view of their status as good leavers.
The total value of the awards at the date of vesting comprises the value of the deferred shares and the payment, made under the terms of the 
Umeco Bonus Plan, equivalent to dividends that would otherwise have been paid on those shares during the vesting period. The total value of 
awards is included in the table of Directors’ remuneration on page 92.
Directors’ share options – SAYE Share Option Scheme
Earliest date
of exercise
Expiry
date
Exercise
price
Pence 
Number of 
options
outstanding at
31 March 2012 Granted Lapsed Exercised
Number of
options
outstanding at
1 April 2011
Andrew Moss October 2012 April 2013 159.0 5,707  –  –  – 5,707 
Steve Bowers October 2012 April 2013 159.0 5,707  –  –  – 5,707 
Clive Snowdon October 2012 – 159.0  –  – (1,446) (4,261) 5,707 
Doug Robertson October 2012 – 159.0  –  – (1,446) (4,261) 5,707 
Options outstanding for Steve Bowers at 1 April 2011 were granted in August 2009, prior to his appointment to the Board in May 2011.
Exercise of the share options under the SAYE Share Option Scheme by Clive Snowdon and Doug Robertson was accelerated from the  
normal earliest exercise date of 1 October 2012 on cessation of their employment in view of their status as good leavers. The market price  
of the Company’s shares on the date Clive Snowdon and Doug Robertson exercised options under the SAYE Share Option Scheme was  
358.5 pence. Clive Snowdon and Doug Robertson each made gains of £8,500.
The mid-market price of the Company’s shares on 6 August 2009, the date on which the above options were granted to Directors,  
was 208.0 pence. No options were granted to, or exercised by, any Director in the period between 31 March 2012 and the signing date  
of these financial statements.
The mid-market price of the Company’s shares as quoted in the Official List of the London Stock Exchange on 31 March 2012 was 
388.5 pence and the mid-market price ranged between 243.5 pence and 499.9 pence during the year to March 2012.
Remuneration Report continued
Next Page
Back to Contents
Previous Page Overview Business Review Company Information Directors
95 Umeco plc Annual Report 2012
Governance Financial Statements
PSP
The awards made under the PSP are as follows:
Date by which  
qualifying 
conditions must 
be fulfilled
Mid-market  
price on date  
of award  
Pence
Value at date 
of award  
£000
Number of shares
As at  
31 March 
2012 Granted Vested
As at  
1 April 
2011 Date of award
Andrew Moss
2010 award 39,407 39,407 – – 21 June 2011 31 July 2013 363.0 155
2011 award 47,946 47,946 – – 21 June 2011 21 June 2014 363.0 180
87,353 87,353 – – 335
Steve Bowers
2010 award 16,271 16,271 – – 21 June 2011 31 July 2013 363.0 64
2011 award 25,304 25,304 – – 21 June 2011 21 June 2014 363.0 95
41,575 41,575 – – 159
It had been intended that the first awards (‘2010 awards’) under the PSP would be granted in July 2010, immediately following shareholder 
approval. However work ongoing at that date in relation to the disposal of the Supply Chain business meant that, following the guidelines of the 
Model Code, the granting of awards at that time was not possible. Following the disposal of the Supply Chain business, the 2010 awards were 
granted and were structured on the same basis as they would have been had the awards been granted in July 2010, i.e. they were granted 
based upon 50 per cent of salary at that date and the number of shares comprising the award was calculated using the share price levels 
prevailing at that time. The share price used in the calculation was 393.3 pence being the average closing mid-market price on the three days 
commencing with the date of approval of the PSP by the shareholders in July 2010. The 2010 awards include performance targets based  
upon the three year period from 1 April 2010 to 31 March 2013.
The second awards (‘2011 awards’) under the PSP were granted following publication of the Company’s results in respect of the year to 
31 March 2011 with targets being assessed based upon the three year period from 1 April 2011 to 31 March 2014. The share price used  
in the calculation was 375.4 pence being the average closing mid-market price on the three days commencing with the date of the preliminary 
announcement of results for the year to 31 March 2011.
On 21 June 2011, Clive Snowdon and Doug Robertson were granted awards of 47,924 and 33,686 shares respectively in relation to the 2010 
award. The date by which the qualifying conditions must be fulfilled in relation to these awards is 31 July 2013, the mid-market price on the 
date of these awards was 363.0 pence and the value at the date of these awards was £189,000 in relation to Clive Snowdon and £133,000 in 
relation to Doug Robertson.
Where possible, in the event of a change of control of the Company, participants would be offered the opportunity by the acquiring company 
to exchange their awards for equivalent awards over shares in the acquiring company. Alternatively, unvested awards may vest at the 
discretion of the remuneration committee, taking into account the level of performance achieved in the period between the date of the award 
and the change of control.
SAP
The award made under the SAP during the year was as follows:
Number of shares
Date of award
Date by which 
qualifying 
conditions must 
be fulfilled
Mid-market 
price on date 
of award 
Pence
Value at date 
of award  
£000 
As at  
31 March 
2012 Granted Vested
 As at  
1 April 
2011
Neil Johnson 300,000 300,000 – – 16 June 2011 19 October 2012 378.0 1,134
In common with the PSP, it had been intended that the award under the SAP would be granted in July 2010, immediately following shareholder 
approval. However work ongoing at that date in relation to the disposal of the Supply Chain business meant that, following the guidelines of the 
Model Code, the granting of the award at that time was not possible. Following the disposal of the Supply Chain business, the award was granted.
Under the SAP, Neil Johnson is entitled to an award of up to 300,000 Umeco shares provided that he continues to hold his own shareholding 
and generally remains appointed by Umeco until 19 October 2012 or the occurrence of a change of control event. In order for the shares to 
vest, both a price condition and a TSR condition (in relation to the FTSE Small Cap Index) must be satisfied.
Next Page
Back to Contents
Previous Page 96 Umeco plc Annual Report 2012
Directors’ pensions
Andrew Moss
Following the disposal of the Supply Chain business, Andrew Moss elected to cease accruing future benefits under the Umeco Scheme from 
31 July 2011 and became a deferred member of the Umeco Scheme on that date. Until 31 July 2011, as with other members before normal 
retirement date, Andrew Moss contributed 6.5 per cent of pensionable salary and the Group contributed 19.2 per cent of pensionable salary. 
Of Andrew Moss’ total pension contribution entitlement of £86,000 (2011: £62,000), pension contributions of £11,000 (2011: £33,000) were 
paid to the Umeco Scheme. The remaining entitlement of £75,000 was converted into additional salary at the executive’s request. The 
converted entitlement was reduced by 13.8 per cent to reflect the additional employer National Insurance Contributions arising as a result of 
the conversion, leading to additional salary of £66,000 being paid. For the year to 31 March 2011, £27,000 was paid into an independent SIPP 
arrangement and the remaining entitlement of £2,000 was converted to additional salary at the executive’s request.
Details of Andrew Moss’ entitlements under the Umeco Scheme were as follows:
Accrued
pension at
Increase in 
accrued pension
Increase in 
accrued pension
during the period
Change in
transfer value
less Director’s
Transfer value of accrued benefits
31 March 2012
£000
during the period 
£000
(net of inflation)
£000
2012
£000
2011
£000
Change
£000
contributions
£000
26 2 1 408 336 72 69
Notes:
•	 the accumulated accrued pension entitlement shown is that which would be paid annually based on service to the end of the period;
•	 Director’s contributions of £3,000 (2011: £8,000) were paid or payable in the period under the terms of the Umeco Scheme;
•	 members of the Umeco Scheme have the option to pay additional voluntary contributions. No such contributions nor any resulting benefits 
are included in the above table;
•	 normal retirement age is 65;
•	 pensions increase in line with inflation with a minimum of 3.0 per cent and a maximum of 5.0 per cent per annum during retirement; and
•	 the Umeco Scheme provides for a spouse’s pension of 50.0 per cent of the member’s pension to be paid following the member’s death  
during retirement.
Steve Bowers
Total contributions payable from the date of appointment to the Board were £33,000, of which £9,000 was paid to the defined contribution 
section of the Umeco Scheme. The remaining contributions of £24,000 were paid into an independent SIPP arrangement.
Clive Snowdon
Total contributions payable for the period until his resignation from the Board were £20,000 (2011: £147,000). 
Doug Robertson
Total contributions payable for the period until his resignation from the Board were £8,000 (2011: £56,000). At the executive’s request £2,000 
(2011: £15,000) of salary was converted into additional pension contributions. The converted contributions were increased by 5.0 per cent to 
reflect the reduced National Insurance Contributions payable by the Company as a result of the conversion, leading to additional pension 
contributions of £2,000 (2011: £16,000) being paid. These additional contributions are included within the total contributions payable for the 
year of £8,000 (2011: £56,000). 
The Remuneration Report was approved by the Board of Directors on 19 June 2012 and signed on its behalf by:
Stephen Bird
Chairman, remuneration committee
Remuneration Report continued
Next Page
Back to Contents
Previous Page Overview Business Review Company Information Directors
97 Umeco plc Annual Report 2012
Governance Financial Statements
We have audited the financial statements of Umeco plc for the year 
ended 31 March 2012 set out on pages 30 to 79. The financial 
reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of  
the Group financial statements is applicable law and International 
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the EU.  
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the 
preparation of the parent company financial statements is applicable 
law and UK Accounting Standards (UK Generally Accepted 
Accounting Practice).
This report is made solely to the company’s members, as a body, in 
accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.  
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the 
company’s members those matters we are required to state to them  
in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent 
permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to 
anyone other than the company and the company’s members,  
as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions  
we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement 
set out on page 28, the Directors are responsible for the preparation 
of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a  
true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit, and express an 
opinion on, the financial statements in accordance with applicable  
law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those 
standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s 
(APB’s) Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements  
is provided on the APB’s website at: 
www.frc.org.uk/apb/scope/private.cfm
Opinion on financial statements
In our opinion:
•	 the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the 
Group’s and of the parent company’s affairs as at 31 March 2012 
and of the Group’s profit for the year then ended;
•	 the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in 
accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU;
•	 the parent company financial statements have been properly 
prepared in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting 
Practice; and
•	 the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with 
the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the 
Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Independent Auditor’s Report to the Members of Umeco plc
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion:
•	 the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited has 
been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 
2006; and
•	 the information given in the Directors’ Report for the financial year 
for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with 
the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following:
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if,  
in our opinion:
•	 adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent 
company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received 
from branches not visited by us; or
•	 the parent company financial statements and the part of the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not in 
agreement with the accounting records and returns; or
•	 certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law  
are not made; or
•	 we have not received all the information and explanations  
we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review:
•	 the Directors’ statement, set out on page 27, in relation to going 
concern;
•	 the part of the Corporate Governance statement on page 80 
relating to the company’s compliance with the nine provisions  
of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review; and
•	 certain elements of the report to the shareholders by the Board on 
Directors’ Remuneration.
M Froom 
Senior Statutory Auditor
for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc, Statutory Auditor
Chartered Accountants
One Snowhill
Snow Hill Queensway
Birmingham
B4 6GH
19 June 2012
Next Page
Back to Contents
Previous Page 98 Umeco plc Annual Report 2012
The strategic business units are the Structural Materials business stream, which undertakes the development, manufacture and supply of 
advanced composite materials, and the Process Materials business stream, which undertakes the development, manufacture and supply  
of vacuum bagging materials. The Group re-branded in April 2012 and is now unified around the single Umeco brand. Further details on the 
Group can be found at www.umeco.com. The businesses which comprise the strategic business units and members of the Group’s senior 
management are:
Principal Businesses
Structural Materials 
Jon Mabbitt  Group Managing Director
Nigel Blatherwick  Strategic Marketing Director
Hisham Alameddine President – Structural Materials North America
Umeco Structural Materials (Derby) Limited, Umeco Structural 
Materials (Manchester) Limited, Umeco Structural Materials (OK), Inc., 
Umeco Structural Materials (CA), Inc., and Umeco Composites GmbH. 
These companies develop, manufacture and supply advanced 
composite materials principally to the aerospace & defence, 
recreation and automotive industries.
Umeco Distribution Limited, Umeco Composites AB, Umeco 
Composites OÜ, Umeco Composites Oy, Umeco Composites MS 
Norge, Umeco Distribution SAS.
These companies distribute polyester resins, glass fibre and ancillary 
materials to the reinforced plastic products industry.
 
All the trading subsidiaries of Umeco plc are wholly-owned and are 
incorporated and operated in Great Britain and registered in England 
and Wales, with the following exceptions:
•	 Umeco Structural Materials (OK), Inc., Umeco Structural Materials 
(CA), Inc., and Umeco Process Materials, Inc., which are 
incorporated and operated in the United States of America;
•	 Umeco Composites GmbH which is incorporated and operated  
in Germany;
•	 Umeco Process Materials Sarl and Umeco Distribution SAS which  
are incorporated and operated in France;
•	 Umeco Composites S.r.l., and Industria Plastica Monregalese 
– I.P.M. S.r.l., which are incorporated and operated in Italy;
•	 Umeco Composites AB, which is incorporated and operated  
in Sweden;
•	 Umeco Composites OÜ, which is incorporated and operated  
in Estonia;
•	 Umeco Composites Oy, which is incorporated and operated  
in Finland; 
•	 Umeco Composites MS Norge, which is incorporated and 
operated in Norway; and
•	 Shanghai Umeco Composites Co., Limited which is a 51 per cent 
owned joint venture incorporated and operated in China.
All of the subsidiary companies have financial years which are 
coterminous with that of the Company, other than Shanghai Umeco 
Composites Co., Limited whose financial year end was on  
31 December 2011.
Process Materials 
Tony Steels  Managing Director 
 
Umeco Process Materials Limited, Umeco Process Materials Sarl, 
Umeco Composites S.r.l., Umeco Process Materials, Inc.
These companies distribute vacuum bagging materials and  
provide value added services principally to the aerospace and  
wind energy industries. 
Industria Plastica Monregalese – I.P.M. S.r.l.
Manufacturer and supplier of vacuum bagging films for the 
composites industry and other markets.
Med-Lab Limited
Distributor of materials used in the overhaul and maintenance  
of aircraft engines and the testing of aviation fuel.
Shanghai Umeco Composites Co., Limited
Manufacturer of vacuum bagging films for the wind energy industry.
Next Page
Back to Contents
Previous Page Overview Business Review Directors
99 Umeco plc Annual Report 2012
Financial Statements Company Information Governance
Summary income statement
2012
£m
2011
£m
2010
re-presented
£m
2009
£m
2008
£m
Revenue 223.0 207.4  174.8 415.3 335.2
Gross profit 66.3 63.5  54.0 108.9 92.2
Operating profit 21.7 19.5 16.6 35.2 27.1
Net financial expense (1.4) (3.1) (3.6) (6.2) (5.2)
Profit before tax 20.3 16.4 13.0 29.0 21.9
Income tax (6.5) (4.5) (4.4) (9.5) (4.2)
Profit attributable to owners of the Company – continuing 
operations 13.8 11.9 8.6 19.5  17.7 
Pence Pence Pence Pence Pence
Earnings per share – continuing operations 28.6 24.6  17.9  30.6  20.7 
Summary balance sheet
2012
£m
2011
£m
2010
£m
2009
£m
2008
£m
Non-current assets
Property, plant & equipment 40.6 33.3  46.5 48.9 37.8 
Intangible assets 106.8 111.5  144.1 154.2 117.2 
Deferred tax assets 0.1 2.6  2.4  3.4  3.5 
147.5 147.4  193.0 206.5 158.5 
Current assets 106.4 367.7  309.9  327.7  246.7 
Total assets 253.9 515.1  502.9  534.2 405.2 
Current liabilities (61.4) (216.8) (170.8) (168.0) (137.1)
Non-current liabilities (18.8) (126.7) (153.7) (187.5) (105.7)
Total liabilities (80.2) (343.5) (324.5) (355.5) (242.8)
Net assets 173.7 171.6  178.4  178.7  162.4 
Net cash/(debt) 8.6 (74.3) (79.6) (120.2) (57.6)
Per cent Per cent Per cent Per cent Per cent
Gearing – 43.3 44.6  67.3  35.5 
Year 2010 has been re-presented for the disposal of the Supply Chain business.
Years 2009 to 2008 have not been re-presented for the disposal of the Supply Chain business or for the ACG South Africa discontinued operation.
Umeco uses adjusted figures as key performance indicators. The summary income statement and earnings per share measures shown above 
are therefore presented on an adjusted basis. The differences between total and adjusted measures of profit under IFRS are shown in note 8 to 
the consolidated financial statements. 
The values shown in the five year summary have been prepared in accordance with IFRS and are for continuing operations only.
Five Y ear Summary 
Next Page
Back to Contents
Previous Page 100 Umeco plc Annual Report 2012
Shareholder Information and Financial Calendar
Analysis of shareholdings as at 31 March 2012
Number of
holders
Per cent
of holders
Number
of shares
Per cent
of shares
Shares held
Up to 1,000 397 35.2 184,965 0.4
1,001 to 5,000 449 39.8 1,140,820 2.3
5,001 to 10,000 108 9.6 808,048 1.7
10,001 to 50,000 93 8.2 2,076,137 4.3
50,001 to 100,000 70 6.2 17,543,978 36.2
100,001 and over 11 1.0 26,735,185 55.1
1,128 100.0 48,489,133 100.0
Type of shareholder
Institutions and companies 555 49.2 47,013,528 97.0
Individuals, including Directors 573 50.8 1,475,605 3.0
1,128 100.0 48,489,133 100.0
Financial calendar
As discussed on pages 10 and 81, Cytec has made an offer for Umeco plc, which, subject to the conditions being satisfied (or, where 
applicable, waived) is expected to complete in July 2012.
In the event that the offer from Cytec lapses, Umeco will publish an updated financial calendar.
Information on shareholdings, including details of how to arrange for dividends to be paid by direct credit transfer, can be found on the Group’s 
website at www.umeco.com.
Next Page
Back to Contents
Previous Page Overview Business Review Directors
101 Umeco plc Annual Report 2012
Financial Statements Company Information Governance
Advisors
Auditor
KPMG Audit Plc
One Snowhill  
Snow Hill Queensway  
Birmingham  
B4 6GH
Bankers
HSBC Bank plc
Midlands Corporate Banking Centre
4th Floor
120 Edmund Street
Birmingham 
B3 2QZ
Santander UK plc
Birmingham Corporate Banking Centre
3rd Floor
1 Cornwall Street
Birmingham 
B3 2DX
Corporate brokers
Investec Bank plc 
2 Gresham Street 
London
EC2V 7QP
Investment bankers
N M Rothschild & Sons Limited
67 Temple Row
Birmingham
B2 5LS
Corporate public relations
Hudson Sandler
29 Cloth Fair
London
EC1A 7NN
Registrars
Capita Registrars
Northern House
Woodsome Park
Fenay Bridge
Huddersfield
HD8 0GA
Shareholder helpline 0871 664 0300*
or +44 208 639 3399 if calling from outside the UK, lines are open 
8.30am to 5.30pm, Monday to Friday
www.capitaregistrars.com
* calls cost 10 pence per minute plus network extras
Lawyers
Slaughter and May
One Bunhill Row
London
EC1Y 8YY
Pinsent Masons LLP
3 Colmore Circus
Birmingham
B4 6BH
Baker Hostetler 
PNC Center
1900 East 9th Street, Suite 3200
Cleveland
Ohio 44114 - 3482
USA
Next Page
Back to Contents
Previous Page 102 Umeco plc Annual Report 2012
Notes
Next Page
Back to Contents
Previous Page Overview Business Review Governance Directors
103 Umeco plc Annual Report 2012
Financial Statements Company Information
Notes
Next Page
Back to Contents
Previous Page 104 Umeco plc Annual Report 2012
Notes
Next Page
Back to Contents
Previous Page Printed on Hello Matt (300gsm cover & 170gsm pages 1-28) and Soporset Offset 
(110gsm pages 29-104). Hello Matt and Soporset are FSC® certified papers, 
produced from well managed forests. This publication was printed using vegetable 
oil-based inks by an FSC & ISO14001 certified printer.
Next Page
Back to Contents
Previous Page Umeco plc
Concorde House
Warwick New Road
Leamington Spa
Warwickshire
CV32 5JG
United Kingdom
Tel: +44 (0)1926 331800 
Fax: +44 (0)1926 312680
www.umeco.com
Registered number: 148635
Umeco plc 
 
Annual Report 2012
Next Page
Back to Contents
Previous Page
