 Disclaimer
Notes to the Annual Report and Accounts This PDF version of the Unilever Annual Report 
and Accounts 2007 is an exact copy of the document provided to Unilever’s shareholders.
Certain sections of the Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007 have been audited. 
Sections that have been audited are set out on pages 69 to 121, 125 to 126, 128 to 130 
and 133 to 135. The auditable part of the report of the Remuneration Committee as set  
out on page 49 has also been audited.
The maintenance and integrity of the Unilever website is the responsibility of the Directors; 
the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters. 
Accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred  
to the financial statements since they were initially placed on the website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom and the Netherlands governing the preparation and 
dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Disclaimer Except where you are a shareholder, this material is provided for information 
purposes only and is not, in particular, intended to confer any legal rights on you.
This Annual Report and Accounts does not constitute an invitation to invest in Unilever 
shares. Any decisions you make in reliance on this information are solely your responsibility.
The information is given as of the dates specified, is not updated, and any forward-looking 
statements are made subject to the reservations specified on the final page of the Report.
Unilever accepts no responsibility for any information on other websites that may be 
accessed from this site by hyperlinks. Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Adding Vitality to life
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Growing as One
Unilever N.V.
Weena 455, PO Box 760
3000 DK Rotterdam
The Netherlands
T +31 (0)10 217 4000
F +31 (0)10 217 4798
Commercial Register Rotterdam
Number: 24051830
Unilever PLC
Unilever House
100 Victoria Embankment
London EC4Y 0DY
United Kingdom
T +44 (0)20 7822 5252
F +44 (0)20 7822 5951
Unilever PLC registered office
Unilever PLC
Port Sunlight 
Wirral
Merseyside CH62 4ZD
United Kingdom
Registered in England and Wales
Company Number: 41424
www.unilever.com
8519_ARA_Eng_Cover_10_03_08.inddB   B 8519_ARA_Eng_Cover_10_03_08.inddB   B 11/3/08   08:55:23 11/3/08   08:55:23 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007 1
Contents The Unilever Group
Report of the Directors
Highlights 2
Chairman’s statement 3
Group Chief Executive 4
About Unilever 6
Outlook and risks 13
Operating Review – Regions 15
Operating Review – Categories 20
Financial Review 23
Corporate governance 33
Report of the Nomination Committee 48
Report of the Remuneration Committee 49
Report of the Audit Committee 62
Report of the Corporate Responsibility
and Reputation Committee 63
Financial statements
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities 66
Auditors’ reports 67
Consolidated income statement 69
Consolidated statement of recognised
income and expense 69
Consolidated balance sheet 70
Consolidated cash ﬂow statement 71
Notes to the consolidated accounts 72
Financial record 122
Principal group companies and
non-current investments 125
Company accounts 127
Shareholder information
Analysis of shareholding 137
Exchange controls affecting 
security holders 138
Nature of the trading market 139
Dividend record 141
Financial calendar 142
Contact details 142
Website 143
Publications 143
Share registration 143
Index 144
Unilever N.V. (NV) is a public limited company registered in the Netherlands, which
has listings of shares and depositary receipts for shares on Euronext Amsterdam and
of New York Registry Shares on the New York Stock Exchange. 
Unilever PLC (PLC) is a public limited company registered in England and Wales 
which has shares listed on the London Stock Exchange and, as American Depositary
Receipts, on the New York Stock Exchange.
The two parent companies, NV and PLC, together with their group companies,
operate as a single economic entity (the Unilever Group, also referred to as Unilever 
or the Group). NV and PLC and their group companies constitute a single reporting
entity for the purposes of presenting consolidated accounts. Accordingly, the accounts
of the Unilever Group are presented by both NV and PLC as their respective
consolidated accounts.
Basis of reporting
Our accounting policies are based on International Financial Reporting Standards
(IFRS) as adopted by the European Union (EU), and on United Kingdom and Dutch
law. They are also in accordance with IFRS as issued by the International Accounting
Standards Board (IASB). Certain measures used in our reporting are not deﬁned under
IFRS. For further information about these measures, and the reasons why we believe
they are important for an understanding of the performance of the business, please
refer to the Operating Review on page 15 and the Financial Review on page 29.
The brand names shown in italics in this report are trademarks owned by or licensed
to companies within the Unilever Group.
Exchange rates
Details of key exchange rates used in preparation of these accounts are given on page
124, together with Noon Buying Rates in New York for the equivalent dates.
Forward-looking statements
This document contains certain statements that are neither reported ﬁnancial results
nor other historical information. These statements are forward-looking statements,
including within the meaning of the United States Private Securities Litigation Reform
Act of 1995. For a description of factors that could affect future results, reference
should be made to the full ‘Cautionary statement’ on the inside back cover. 2 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Highlights
Highlights
2007 2006 2005
Turnover (€ million) 40 187 39 642 38 401
Underlying sales growth (%) 5.5 3.8 3.4
Operating proﬁt (€ million) 5 245 5 408 5 074
Operating margin (%) 13.1 13.6 13.2
Earnings per share (euros) 1.32 1.19 1.07
Dividend per NV ordinary share (euros):
Interim 0.25 0.23 0.22
Proposed ﬁnal 0.50 0.47 0.44
Dividend per PLC ordinary share (pence):
Interim 17.00 15.62 15.04
Proposed ﬁnal 34.11 32.04 30.09
Notes
Turnover, underlying sales growth, operating proﬁt, operating margin and earnings per share are based on continuing operations.
Underlying sales growth is not a GAAP measure. In our Financial Review on page 32 we reconcile underlying sales growth with changes
in turnover. Dividend ﬁgures for each year comprise dividends declared or proposed for that year. Under International Financial
Reporting Standards (IFRS) dividends are only recorded against the years in which they become payable. In addition to the dividends
shown above, one-off dividends of €0.26 per NV share and 17.66p per PLC share were paid in December 2006. For further information
and commentary on these measures please refer to the Directors’ Report and the Financial Statements within this Annual Report and
Accounts.  
Our mission and corporate purpose
Unilever’s mission is to add Vitality to life. We meet everyday needs for nutrition, hygiene and personal care with brands that help
people feel good, look good and get more out of life. 
Our deep roots in local cultures and markets around the world give us our strong relationship with consumers and are the foundation
for our future growth. We will bring our wealth of knowledge and international expertise to the service of local consumers – a truly
multi-local multinational. Our long-term success requires a total commitment to exceptional standards of performance and productivity,
to working together effectively, and to a willingness to embrace new ideas and learn continuously. To succeed also requires, we believe,
the highest standards of corporate behaviour towards everyone we work with, the communities we touch, and the environment on
which we have an impact. This is our road to sustainable, proﬁtable growth, creating long-term value for our shareholders, our people,
and our business partners. Chairman’ s statement
When I joined Unilever in May 2007 I was aware that the Unilever
Executive led by Patrick Cescau was driving a process of sweeping
change aimed at transforming the Group. Since then I have
visited a number of Unilever operations in Asia and Europe. I have
met with many employees and learned a great deal about the
brands which the Group sells and the technology which underpins
them. I have also spoken to investors to get their perceptions of
the business. 
All of these encounters have conﬁrmed the preconceptions which
I had before joining the Group: Unilever is a business with an
extraordinary portfolio of brands, talented people, deep roots in
developing and emerging markets, a strong commitment to
sustainability and a distinctive corporate culture.
The Group’s strong performance in 2007, with higher growth and
an improvement in underlying margin, is something about which
the entire business can feel proud. It is also further validation that
the strategy being pursued by Patrick and his team is the right
one, and that this strategy is being executed very effectively.
This strategy with its sharp focus on Vitality products, developing
markets and faster growing product areas like personal care has
dramatically changed the business. The structure is much leaner
and simpler. It is enabling Unilever to maximise its considerable
advantages of buying, manufacturing and marketing scale.
Some of the restructuring which has taken place has led to a
reduction in employee numbers. Decisions which have an impact
on employees’ lives and livelihoods are never taken lightly.
However, I have been impressed and reassured by the caring and
responsible way in which the Group has executed these changes.  
The Boards in 2007
Corporate governance in Unilever has undergone radical change
in the period since 2004. We continue to ensure that we meet
the highest standards in all the markets in which we operate.
The composition of the Boards themselves has also evolved. We
have enriched their diversity and experience with three new Non-
Executive Directors: Narayana Murthy, Hixonia Nyasulu and
Genevieve Berger. 
Narayana, co-founder and Chairman of Infosys Technologies
Limited, brings a deep knowledge of emerging markets and
expertise in IT as well as impressive business leadership skills.
Hixonia is a highly experienced Non-Executive Director with Sasol
Ltd. She is also an Advisory Board Member of JP Morgan South
Africa and brings ﬁrst-hand experience of African markets.
Genevieve contributes her impressive expertise in research and
development; she is Professor of Biophysics and Medical Imaging
at Paris University VI and Chairman of the Advisory Board ‘Health’
for the EU Commission for Research. 
All three joined our Corporate Responsibility and Reputation
Committee when they took up their posts in May. Their
appointment to this committee, now chaired by Lord Brittan,
signals its growing importance and the Group’s commitment to
keeping sustainability at the heart of its activities.
Each of the newcomers was given an extensive programme of
induction covering key issues facing the business.
In September 2007 we also welcomed Jim Lawrence as our new
Chief Financial Ofﬁcer; he will be proposed for election as an
Executive Director at the AGMs in May 2008. Jim, who came
from General Mills, is a Non-Executive Director of British Airways
and Avnet. He replaced Rudy Markham who retired in 2007 after
a distinguished career spanning four decades. 
Whilst welcoming Jim, we will be saying goodbye to two
Directors who are leaving. Kees van der Graaf after 32 years
service in the business, most recently as President, Europe and
Ralph Kugler, currently President, Home and Personal Care, who
has served the business for 29 years. On behalf of the Boards I
thank them both for the signiﬁcant contribution they have made
to our business throughout their careers.
During the year, we also said goodbye to Jean-Cyril Spinetta who
stepped down as a member of the Boards and the Remuneration
Committee. I would like to acknowledge his wise counsel and
experience during his term as a Non-Executive Director.
In our Board meetings, we have discussed a wide range of topics
including the Group’s annual plan, performance in key markets
such as Russia and China, organisation and talent, and the role of
science and technology. We also reviewed and fully agreed the
Unilever strategy and the new plans to accelerate change,
including portfolio change and business restructuring. 
An important part of my role is consistently to evaluate the
effectiveness of the Boards. In 2007 our Senior Independent
Director and I conducted a formal assessment, including
performance-related interviews with each Board member. The
ﬁndings were discussed by the Boards and will result in further
improvements. 
I am proud that we have Boards that are properly equipped to
give Patrick and his team all the support that they need.
On a personal note, I ﬁnd this an exciting time to work for
Unilever. The business is doing well and, with its wealth of
talented people, its great global brands and its ambitious business
plans, is on track to do even better. On behalf of the Boards, I
would like to thank all the Group’s employees around the world
for all that they have done in 2007. I look forward to serving the
Unilever Group to the very best of my ability in the years ahead.
Michael Treschow
Chairman
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007 3
Report of the Directors An endorsement of our strategy
These results are testimony to the fact that our strategy of
focusing resources on brands, categories and countries with the
highest growth and proﬁt potential is working.
One key area is developing and emerging markets. Over the next
few years consumer spending in these markets will overtake
developed countries in terms of purchasing power parity. Unilever
has an unparalleled footprint in the developing world, as well as
an extensive knowledge of local consumers, and a proven ability
to deliver health, hygiene and nutrition products which meet the
needs of populations which are growing in size, wealth and
aspiration.
Personal care – another strategic priority – saw continued strong
growth, at nearly 7%. It continues to be our fastest-growing
business, with strong global brands like Dove, Pond’s, Lux and
Rexona.  
Our Vitality mission – to help people feel good, look good and
get more out of life – remains central to our strategy, inspiring
products such as a very low-fat variant of Hellmann’s mayonnaise;
Amaze snacks, with nutrients to help support the mental
development of school-aged children; Lipton Linea slimming teas;
and the Dove pro
•
age range with beneﬁts for mature women.
Of course, our brands must be constantly refreshed to retain their
edge. In 2007, across each of our major categories, growth was
driven by a combination of innovation – new products and new
mixes – and renovation – the strengthening of existing brands
through new variants, new packaging or new marketing. 
In 2007 we focused on bigger innovations and rolled them out
faster around the world. Clear, a shampoo with superior anti-
dandruff active delivery technology, was launched simultaneously
in several countries, including three of the biggest hair care
markets in the world – China, Russia and Brazil. We also achieved
a better transfer of mixes across continents and cultures, in some
cases creating new markets. For example, we successfully
launched our male deodorant brand Axe in Japan. After just six
months it is the leader in its market.
A leaner, ﬁtter business
During the year we made signiﬁcant progress in reshaping the
organisation to create a leaner, more ﬂexible business structure. 
Our One Unilever operating model is being implemented in every
major country. We are now taking this a step further with the
creation of new multi-country organisations – clusters of
neighbouring countries with one central management structure,
leveraging regional scale through shared services for functions
such as HR, IT and Finance. These changes are all part of our
accelerated programme of restructuring announced last summer.
4 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Report of the Directors continued
Group Chief Executive
I am pleased to report on a good year for Unilever – one in which
we continued to grow competitively, consistently and proﬁtably.
With a clear growth strategy and an organisational structure to
support it, there is growing evidence of improved momentum in
our business.
In 2007 underlying sales grew by 5.5% – the third consecutive
year of accelerating sales growth. At the same time, we achieved
an underlying improvement in our operating margin, despite
sharply rising commodity costs. Our growth was broad-based,
across all our major regions and categories.  
In Europe we achieved growth of nearly 3% – up from 1% the
year before. The beneﬁts of all the structural changes we have
made in this region over the past three years are now coming
through both in terms of growth and underlying margin.
Russia was the star performer – with growth in the high teens –
but all our major European businesses grew in 2007.
In the Americas full year growth was 4%. Brazil and Mexico
showed an improving performance during the year, while the US
grew solidly at 3%.
In Asia Africa we recorded 11% growth. The performance reﬂects
not just the vibrancy of these markets but also the high priority
which we place on building our business in this part of the world.
Once again, India and China were important contributors to our
success.
The picture was equally strong across our categories driven by
some great innovations.
Home care had a strong year, fuelled by an excellent performance
from our laundry business where the Dirt is Good brands
strengthened still further on the back of innovations like Persil
Small & Mighty. We also had great success in household care with
innovative new variants of brands like Cif and Domestos.   
Our Foods category also did very well. Our largest brand Knorr
came close to €4 billion in sales. Lipton tea prospered from a
series of good innovations and so too did ice cream. Unilever
Foodsolutions, our global food service business, also turned in
another good performance, conﬁrming the important opportunity
that out-of-home consumption offers us. Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007 5
Report of the Directors continued
Group Chief Executive continued
We further shaped our portfolio through disposals and
acquisitions, including the announced sale of Boursin and Lawry’s
– brands that offered limited growth potential for Unilever. We
also announced agreements to acquire the Buavita vitality drinks
brand in Indonesia and – only recently – Inmarko, the leading ice
cream business in Russia. These transactions accelerate our
strategy of building leadership positions in fast-growing markets.
This is the right strategy for Unilever but – like any strategy – it is
only as good as the execution. That is why we also continue to
build our strengths in critical areas such as consumer marketing
and customer development. In both cases our progress was
recognised externally. In marketing, we received a clutch of
awards at the Cannes International Advertising Festival, with Dove
and Axe achieving three ‘Grand Prix’ trophies. In customer
development, Unilever was named International Supplier of the
Year by Tesco for the second year running.
We are also raising our game in research and development (R&D),
recognising the crucial role technology can play in the quality of
our innovations. Underlining the importance of R&D, we
appointed our ﬁrst Chief Technology Ofﬁcer, Neal Matheson, in
2007. Neal leads the development of world class capabilities in
science and technology and champions excellence in all our
innovation activity. 
Of course, some changes required difﬁcult decisions. In Europe,
the restructuring is leading to signiﬁcant job losses. But painful 
as these decisions have been, they are the right ones for the long-
term health of the business. 
Keeping sustainability at the heart of Unilever
We believe Unilever can only continue to thrive if we conduct our
business in a sustainable manner.
Integrating social, economic and environmental considerations
therefore sits at the heart of many of our brand strategies. A
great demonstration of this was the decision to source all of our
tea from sustainable, ethical sources. To support this signiﬁcant
change, we asked the Rainforest Alliance to start auditing our tea
suppliers with immediate effect. The aim is to have all Lipton
Yellow Label and PG Tips tea bags sold in Western Europe
certiﬁed by 2010 and all Lipton tea bags sold globally by 2015. 
We also set the ambitious target of a further 25% reduction in
the business’s CO2 emissions from energy sources used in
production by 2012. And we continued to develop our
partnerships with key retail customers, sharing our sustainability
expertise to support them in achieving their goals. Wal-Mart
responded by naming us 2007 Supplier of the Year for
Sustainable Engagement. 
The year ahead
Notwithstanding some economic uncertainty and the rising costs
of many materials, we are conﬁdent that Unilever can grow
consistently, proﬁtably and competitively in 2008.
The changes we have made in recent years leave Unilever more
resilient and better placed than ever before to meet challenges
and respond to opportunities. We have a more ﬂexible, dynamic
structure, an increasingly powerful brand portfolio, an
unparalleled footprint in the developing world and – in 2008 –
we have another exciting programme of innovations and new
product launches. Furthermore, we operate in sectors less
susceptible than others to the effects of an economic downturn:
people will always need to eat, wash and clean their homes.
For all these reasons we remain optimistic about the year ahead
and conﬁdent of making further progress towards our longer-
term ﬁnancial objectives.
On a personal note I would like to thank two members of the
Unilever Executive who will leave us in 2008 - Kees van der Graaf
and Ralph Kugler. They have been valued colleagues over many
years and I thank them for their contribution. Indeed, I would
thank the whole of my Executive team, including two great
additions during the year, Mike Polk and Jim Lawrence, the latter
joining from outside as our new Chief Financial Ofﬁcer. Thanks
also to my colleagues on the Boards, under our new Chairman,
Michael Treschow, and especially to every one of our employees
around the world for their invaluable contribution to the
business's progress in 2007.
Working together, as One Unilever, I am conﬁdent that we can
look forward to delivering continued success in 2008.
Patrick Cescau
Group Chief Executive 6 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Report of the Directors continued
About Unilever
Description of business
Unilever is one of the world’s leading suppliers of fast moving
consumer goods across Foods and Home and Personal Care
categories. Unilever’s portfolio includes some of the world’s best
known and most loved brands.
Strategy and long-term ﬁnancial targets
At the heart of Unilever's strategy is a concentration of resources
on areas where we have leading category and brand positions
and which offer excellent opportunities for proﬁtable growth,
especially in personal care, developing and emerging markets and
Vitality. The focus is primarily on developing the business
organically, but acquisitions and disposals can also play a role in
accelerating the portfolio development.  
To execute this strategy we have reorganised the business to
simplify the organisation and management structure and to
improve capabilities in marketing, customer management, and
research and development. The result is better allocation of
resources, faster decision-making and a lower cost level. This
transformation, known as the One Unilever programme, allows us
to leverage our scale both globally and locally.
Unilever's long-term ambition is to be in the top third of our peer
group in terms of total shareholder return. We expect underlying
sales growth of 3-5% per annum and an operating margin in
excess of 15% by 2010 after a normal level of restructuring
charges of 0.5 to 1 percent of turnover. Return on invested capital
is targeted to increase over the 2004 base of 11%. Over the
period 2005 – 2010, we aim to deliver ungeared free cash ﬂow of
€25-30 billion. It should be noted that previous and planned
disposals and the additional restructuring plans will have reduced
ungeared free cash ﬂow by about €2.5 billion over this period,
while enhancing the ongoing cash generating capacity of the
business.
Key indicators – performance and portfolio
These long-term ﬁnancial targets determine the scope of our key
ﬁnancial performance indicators. The values for these indicators
for the last three reporting years are as follows:
2007 2006 2005
Underlying sales growth (%) 5.5 3.8 3.4
Operating margin (%) 13.1 13.6 13.2
Ungeared free cash ﬂow (€ billion) 3.8 4.2 4.0
Return on invested capital (%) 12.7 14.6 12.5
Total shareholder return (ranking) 8 13 14
Underlying sales growth (USG), ungeared free cash ﬂow (UFCF)
and return on invested capital (ROIC) are not recognised measures
under IFRS. The IFRS measure most comparable with USG is
turnover. In our Financial Review on page 32 we reconcile USG
with changes in turnover. There is no IFRS measure directly
comparable with either UFCF or ROIC. In our Financial Review we
reconcile ROIC to net proﬁt, and UFCF to both net proﬁt and cash
ﬂow from operations. The values of turnover, net proﬁt and cash
ﬂow from operating activities for the last three reporting years are
as follows:
€ million € million € million
2007 2006 2005
Turnover 40 187 39 642 38 401
Net proﬁt 4 136 5 015 3 975
Cash ﬂow from operating activities 5 188 5 574 5 924
In 2007, we set out simultaneously to deliver a higher and more
consistent level of underlying sales growth in combination with an
underlying improvement in operating margin. Underlying sales
growth has indeed shown a marked increase to 5.5% in 2007,
driven by better innovation rolled out faster to more countries
and better execution in local markets. 
We also achieved an underlying improvement in operating margin
of 0.2 percentage points in 2007, as the combination of volume
leverage, higher prices, cost savings and mix improvement
successfully offset a sharp rise in commodity costs and other
inﬂation.
Our reported operating margin declined by 0.5 percentage points,
due to a signiﬁcantly higher level of restructuring charges related
to our plans to accelerate change, which were announced in
August 2007. These plans aim to deliver a reduction in our annual
cost base by around €1.5 billion by the end of 2010, compared
with our 2006 cost base, through the creation of multi-country
organisations (MCOs), the closure or streamlining of 50-60
factories, and a further reduction in regional and global
overheads. 
Ungeared free cash ﬂow was €3.8 billion, which was €0.4 billion
lower than a year earlier, including the effect of the higher cash
restructuring costs and increased capital expenditure. Return on
invested capital was 12.7% in 2007. This represented an
improvement from 11.5% in 2006, when adjusted for the proﬁt
on the disposal of frozen foods. Before allowing for this
adjustment, return on invested capital in 2006 was 14.6%.
On our three-year average Total Shareholder Return key
performance measure, which forms part of the basis for top
management remuneration, we remained just outside the top
third of our peer group, although we further improved our
position to the 8th place out of 21 companies.
Further information about these measures, including deﬁnitions
and, where appropriate, reconciliation to GAAP measures, can be
found in our Financial Review starting on page 29.
In addition to these ﬁnancial indicators, we track other measures
in support of our strategic goals. We believe that the share of our
business that is generated in developing and emerging (D&E)
markets, and the proportion of our turnover that is generated by
our top 25 brands are particularly relevant. In the latter context
we group together brands that have a common consumer
proposition and are supported by common innovation
programmes, although in some cases the brand names may vary
between countries. The results for these measures for the last
three reporting years are as follows:  
2007 2006 2005
Share of turnover in D&E markets (%) 44 42 40
Share of turnover in top 25 brands (%) 73 73 72 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007 7
Report of the Directors continued
About Unilever continued
Our D&E businesses continue to show strong growth, in Asia,
Africa, Central and Eastern Europe and Latin America, and now
make up 44% of our total turnover. Our D&E strategy is focused
on leveraging and further strengthening our existing leading
positions in many D&E markets, such as India and Brazil, as well
as building our brands and business in countries where we
currently have a relatively smaller presence, notably China and
Russia. Our sustained growth is reﬂecting the strength of our D&E
business model which is characterised by a differentiated portfolio
of strong global and regional brands addressing the needs of the
different income groups, high quality innovation and
communication, scale and depth in distribution, and an excellent
track record and reputation for developing management talent.
Our focus on our best global and regional brands, with increased
investment in advertising and faster roll-out of innovation, has
resulted in a focused portfolio, with 12 brands having a
worldwide turnover in excess of €1 billion and our top 25 brands
collectively delivering 73% of our turnover in 2007.
We also monitor the development of our brands through market
information that gives us insights into our leading positions versus
our direct competitors. In our section on Operating environment
on page 8 below we indicate the product areas in which we have
leading or key strategic positions.
Key indicators – people and sustainability
Unilever has for many years recognised the signiﬁcance of social
and environmental issues as a critical dimension of its operations,
and has established many indicators to track its performance in
these areas.
We regard safety as an essential element of a successful and
sustainable business and take seriously our responsibility to
provide a safe workplace. We aim to improve continuously the
health, safety and well-being of everyone working for or on
behalf of Unilever to a standard on a par with the very best of our
peers. A key measure of our progress in this area is our total
recordable accident frequency rate which counts all workplace
accidents except those requiring only simple ﬁrst aid treatment. In
2007 this decreased to 0.26 accidents per 100 000 hours worked,
declining from 0.46 in 2004.
We are committed to meeting the needs of customers and
consumers in an environmentally sound and sustainable 
manner, through continuous improvement in environmental
performance in all our activities. We exercise the same concern
for the environment wherever we operate and aim to reduce 
the environmental footprint of our business and brands. The
environmental measures that we regard as the most signiﬁcant in
relation to our business are those relating to the amounts of CO2
from energy that we produce, the water that we consume as part
of our production processes, and the amount of waste that we
generate. We continue to improve our performance across these
measures, having reduced our CO2 emissions from energy by
33.5%, our water use by 58.6% and our total waste by 69.3%
per tonne of production over the period 1995 – 2006. In 2007
we set ourselves the further goal of achieving a 25% reduction in
CO2 emissions by 2012 (from a 2004 baseline), to give a total
reduction of around 43% since 1995.
The table below shows the results for these indicators for the last
three years for which independently assured (performed by ﬁrms
other than Unilever’s external auditors) data are available:
2006 2005 2004
Total recordable accident frequency rate
per 100 000 hours 0.33 0.39 0.46
CO2 from energy per tonne of 
production (kg) 164.59 171.75 185.67
Water per tonne of production (m
3
) 3.29 3.52 3.67
Total waste per tonne of production (kg) 7.46 8.74 9.79
The type of assurance undertaken has been limited to enquiries of
company personnel and analytical procedures together with
review on a sample basis of the operation of processes relating to
performance data noted in the table above. Assurance of this
nature is substantially less in scope than a ﬁnancial audit and does
not include detailed sample testing of source data, processes or
internal controls.
A comprehensive review of Unilever’s social and environmental
performance can be found in our annual Sustainable
Development Report, available online at www.unilever.com
Published in May 2008, our next Report will contain updated and
independently assured results for 2007 for the measures above, as
well as trend information that demonstrates our consistent
performance over the longer term. 
Please refer also to the Corporate responsibility and sustainability
section on page 12 which highlights a number of key issues and
activities in this area in 2007. Our Operating Review starting on
page 15 also gives examples of the ways in which our brands are
addressing consumers’ social and environmental concerns.
Ten-year trends in many of the measures described above,
together with a range of other indicators, are included in the
document ‘Unilever Charts’ which can be found on our website at
www.unilever.com/ourcompany/investorcentre/annual_reports
Organisation
The three building blocks of our organisation are regions,
categories and functions.
Three regions – Europe, the Americas and Asia Africa – are
responsible for managing Unilever’s business and local market
operations in their regions. They are primarily responsible for
building relationships with customers, managing supply chain
networks, and deploying brands and innovations effectively,
focused on excellent execution in the marketplace. The regions
are accountable for the delivery of in-year ﬁnancial results
including growth, proﬁts and cash ﬂow, and in-year development
of market shares. The Europe region includes our operations in
Western Europe and Central and Eastern Europe, and in 2007
accounted for approximately 38% of turnover. The Americas
region includes our operations in North America and Latin
America and represented around 33% of turnover. The Asia
Africa region accounted for 29% of turnover, and includes our
operations in the Middle East, Africa, South Asia, South East Asia,
North East Asia and Australasia.
During 2008 changes will be made to the regional structures.
Notably Central and Eastern Europe, will be managed as part of
the Asia Africa region - further concentrating our focus on
emerging markets. 8 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Report of the Directors continued
About Unilever continued
Two category teams – Foods and Home and Personal Care – are
responsible for the development of category and brand strategies,
the development of brand communication, and the delivery of
relevant innovation. Categories also lead the strategic direction of
the supply chain and are accountable for long-term value creation
in the business, as measured by longer-term market share
development, category growth, innovation metrics and brand
health.
Building on the success of the One Unilever programme, Foods
and Home and Personal Care will be brought together in 2008 
in a single category structure.
Five functional teams – Finance, HR, IT, Communications and 
Legal – are responsible for providing value-adding business
partnering, strategic support and competitive services to the whole
business. They are each organised around the same basic principles
of business partners, shared services and expertise teams.
Since 2005, the One Unilever programme has streamlined 
our business by creating a single operating company for each
country – combining previously separate Foods and Home and
Personal Care operating units into a One Unilever company – and
by creating and outsourcing shared services centres for the back
ofﬁce operations of our Finance, HR and IT functions. In 2007, we
announced new plans to accelerate change including the creation
of multi-country organisations (MCOs) – clusters of countries with
a single centralised management and shared functions – and
further simpliﬁcation of our regional supply chains.
Operating environment
We have a wide and diverse set of competitors in our categories.
Many competitors also operate on an international scale, while
others have a narrower regional or local focus.
Competition is a normal part of business. We aim to compete 
and provide added value to our consumers, customers and
shareholders in three ways:
• by continually developing new and improved products that
address relevant consumer needs and aspirations;
• by rolling out innovations and brand concepts across our
businesses around the world; and
• by striving to lower the cost of our sourcing, manufacturing
and distribution processes while ensuring the quality of our
products.
Our businesses have established strong leadership positions –
typically number 1 or number 2 – in the markets in which we are
operating. In Foods, we hold the global number 1 position in
savoury and dressings, spreads, tea-based beverages and ice
cream. In home care, we hold the global number 2 position in
laundry, with a number 1 position in many developing and
emerging markets. In personal care, we hold the global number 1
position in mass skin care and deodorants, and the number 2
position in hair care. In oral care and household care, our strategy
is focused on strong regional and local leadership positions in
selected makets in Europe, Asia and Latin America.
Unilever’s products are generally sold through our own sales force
as well as through independent brokers, agents and distributors
to chain, wholesale, co-operative and independent grocery
accounts, food service distributors and institutions. Products are
physically distributed through a network of distribution centres,
satellite warehouses, company-operated and public storage
facilities, depots and other facilities.
We sell our products in over 150 countries around the world. In
many countries we manufacture the products that we sell, while
we also export products to countries where we do not have
manufacturing operations. The chosen manufacturing network is
generally determined by an optimised regional sourcing strategy
which takes account of requirements for innovation, quality,
service, cost and ﬂexibility.
Certain of our businesses, such as ice cream, are subject to
signiﬁcant seasonal ﬂuctuations in sales. However, Unilever
operates globally in many different markets and product
categories. No individual element of seasonality is likely to be
material to the results of the Group as a whole.
Transactions with related parties are conducted in accordance
with agreed transfer pricing policies and include sales to joint
ventures and associates. Other than those disclosed in this report,
there were no related party transactions that were material to the
Group or to the related parties concerned that are required to be
reported in 2007 or the two preceding years.
For more information about related party transactions please refer
also to note 30 on page 120. 
Resources
Our brands
We have a strong and well differentiated portfolio of global and
regional brands, which are positioned to meet the needs and
aspirations of our consumers across a variety of price points,
segments and channels, allowing us to compete effectively in our
key categories and countries.
Twelve of our brands have global turnover in excess of €1 billion.
These are Knorr, Hellmann’s, Lipton, Becel/Flora (Healthy Heart),
Rama/Blue Band (Family Goodness), Wall’s/Algida (Heart brand),
Omo, Surf, Dove, Lux, Rexona (including Sure and Degree) and
Sunsilk (including Seda and Sedal).
We manage our brands under the following four category
headings: savoury, dressings and spreads; ice cream and
beverages; personal care; and home care.
Savoury, dressings and spreads includes soups, bouillons, sauces,
snacks, mayonnaise, salad dressings, olive oil, margarines, spreads
and cooking products such as liquid margarines, and some frozen
foods. Our key brands here are Knorr, Hellmann’s, Becel/Flora
(Healthy Heart), Rama/Blue Band (Family Goodness), Calvé, Wish-
Bone, Amora, Ragú and Bertolli.
Ice cream and beverages includes ice cream sold under the
international Heart brand, including Cornetto, Magnum, Carte
d’Or and Solero, Wall’s, Kibon, Algida and Ola. Our portfolio also
includes Ben & Jerry’s, Breyers, Klondike and Popsicle. This
category also includes tea-based beverages, where our principal
brands are Lipton, Brooke Bond and PG Tips. This group also
includes weight management products, principally Slim
•
Fast, and
nutritionally enhanced products sold in developing markets,
including Annapurna and AdeS/Adez. Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007 9
Report of the Directors continued
About Unilever continued
Within these groups, we also include sales of our Unilever
Foodsolutions, which is a global food service business providing
solutions for professional chefs and caterers.
In Personal Care, six global brands are the core of our business in
the mass skin care, daily hair care and deodorants product areas –
Dove, Lux, Rexona (including Sure and Degree), Sunsilk (including
Seda/Sedal), Axe and Pond’s. Other important brands include
Suave, Clear, Lifebuoy and Vaseline, together with Signal and
Close Up in oral care.
Our Home Care ranges include laundry products, such as tablets,
traditional powders and liquids for washing of clothing by hand
or machine. Tailored products including soap bars are available for
lower-income consumers. Our brands include Omo (‘Dirt is Good’
platform), Surf, Comfort, Radiant, Skip and Snuggle. Our
household care products include surface cleaners and bleach, sold
under the Cif, Domestos and Sun/Sunlight brands. 
Corporate venture activities
Unilever has allocated €350 million to its venturing activities in
order to create new business opportunities that have the potential
to help build our core brands and business interests in Foods and
Home and Personal Care. These activities include:
• Unilever Ventures, an early-stage business development fund
for businesses from both inside and outside Unilever;
• Langholm Capital, an independent fund investing in private
European companies with above-average longer-term growth
prospects; and
• Physic Ventures, an early-stage venture capital fund investing in
technology driven, consumer-directed health, wellness and
sustainable living companies.
Our employees
Our One Unilever programme is already streamlining the business
by creating single operating companies for each country and
outsourcing parts of our IT, HR and Finance functions. In 2007 we
announced plans to accelerate our change programme further by
developing more multi-country organisations (MCOs) – clusters of
countries with a single centralised management and shared
functions. MCOs reduce duplication and free up resources to
focus on customers and consumers. All regions announced or
continued to implement MCOs in the year. The newly announced
MCOs include Benelux; Germany, Austria and Switzerland;
UK/Ireland; and Central Africa.
Our leaders make diversity a top business priority. Signalling this
commitment, the Global Diversity Board draws together 15
leaders from all business functions and is chaired by Group Chief
Executive Patrick Cescau. The board focuses on driving the
diversity agenda into our business processes and tracking the
progress of diversity initiatives. It also champions new ways of
working to boost employees’ personal vitality.
The Senior Executive Seminar, our pioneering leadership
development programme, was led this year by leading business
academic C K Prahalad. The event brought together 28 of our top
leaders to examine key business issues, with a particularly strong
external focus. They concentrated on developing and emerging
markets, visiting more than 50 companies and 20 NGOs to gain
insights into global trends and practices for opening up
opportunities at the ‘bottom of the economic pyramid’. The
group’s ﬁndings have been shared with the Unilever Executive and
Board of Directors, and are helping to shape further our approach
in these markets. 
Our Standards of Leadership programme is a set of behaviours
aimed at ensuring that every manager takes personal
responsibility for delivering Unilever’s agenda through excellence
in strategy execution. During the year, the framework was rolled
out globally to an enthusiastic response. In Asia the process was
particularly effective, with managers across 15 countries attending
interactive workshops. Individuals made personal commitments to
‘live the behaviours’ and to model them in their daily working
lives.
We aim to offer our people stimulating ways to broaden their
skills and experience while at the same time giving something
back to the community. Salvatore Lucia, a Supply Chain Manager
from Italy, was one of the Unilever specialists seconded to the
World Food Programme (WFP) as part of their professional
development. He is helping WFP Ghana deliver its school feeding
and nutrition programme – and learning valuable skills to bring
back to the business.
We are committed to ﬁnding fresh ways of working that improve
business effectiveness, enhance work-life balance and beneﬁt the
environment. We created four ‘Telepresence’ video-conferencing
rooms: in Englewood Cliffs, Rotterdam, London and Singapore.
Telepresence uses high-deﬁnition video screens with life-size
images around a single ‘virtual’ table, to replicate as closely as
possible a face-to-face meeting. It is also the ﬁrst technology of
its kind to be certiﬁed by the CarbonNeutral Company. A further
eight rooms will be added in 2008.
Our total employee numbers over the last ﬁve years were as
follows:
Year end in thousands 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003
Europe 43 44 49 52 55
The Americas 43 45 47 47 50
Asia Africa 88 90 110 124 129
Total 174 179 206 223 234
The total reported numbers included approximately 26 000 part-
time or seasonal employees in both 2007 and 2006.
Diversity
Diversity in Unilever is about inclusion, embracing differences,
creating possibilities and growing together for better business
performance. We embrace diversity in our workforce: this means
giving full and fair consideration to all applicants and continuing
development to all employees regardless of gender, nationality,
race, creed, disability, style or sexuality. Diversity plays a vital role
in ensuring we understand consumers’ needs.
The commitment to diversity is set right at the top of our
business. It is driven by the Global Diversity Board, chaired by
Group Chief Executive Patrick Cescau, who has emphasised that
“diversity is critical to our business competitiveness and long-term
sustainability”. 10 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Report of the Directors continued
About Unilever continued
Unilever is one of the world’s most culturally diverse companies,
with 21 different nationalities represented among our top level
group of 113 managers worldwide. 
In 2007 we worked to embed diversity even more ﬁrmly into our
day-to-day business decisions, via our talent management and
people processes, from appointments to development. As part of
the Human Resources planning process our businesses units are
also developing specific diversity plans that are aligned to the
priorities and needs of their regions and categories. 
We continue to carry out quarterly measurement and tracking of
diversity against our objectives, using the HR Strategy in Action
tool. Gender remains an important priority and is reviewed by the
Unilever Executive team (UEx).
Information technology
Unilever Information Technology is a global function, headed by a
global Chief Information Ofﬁcer, with a strategy to deliver
competitive and cost effective IT solutions to support the business.  
A common technology framework and standards for architecture,
key technologies, processes, information and services allow
Unilever to leverage its scale in IT. For example, this approach is
supporting the setting up and the operation of regional shared
services centres for ‘back-ofﬁce’ operations, notably in Finance
and Human Resources, which in some cases are outsourced.  
The IT function is a key enabler for the One Unilever change from
a multi-local to a globally aligned business through:
• strategic alliances and partnerships with key global suppliers;
• improving IT capabilities and processes;
• improving overall IT infrastructure and service value; and
• strategic outsourcing in selected key areas.
The implementation across the Group of a world-class
harmonised ERP system in each region in support of the One
Unilever programme is progressing well. The Americas
implementation has already been completed across the region,
while two-thirds of our European business is now on a single
instance ERP system with full implementation expected to be
largely completed by the end of 2008. In Asia Africa, a phased
implementation towards 2010 has seen the ﬁrst four countries
completed in 2007.
Unilever partners with a few major suppliers to develop the
minimum number of non-overlapping IT systems needed to
deliver the business objectives. This promotes radical simpliﬁcation
with ﬂexibility and agility, faster implementation and reduced
costs.
Intellectual property
We have a large portfolio of patents and trademarks, and we
conduct some of our operations under licences which are based
on patents or trademarks owned or controlled by others. We are
not dependent on any one patent or group of patents. We use
our best efforts to protect our brands and technology. 
Property, plant and equipment
We have interests in properties in most of the countries where
there are Unilever operations. However, none is material in the
context of the Group as a whole. The properties are used
predominantly to house production and distribution activities 
and as ofﬁces. There is a mixture of leased and owned property
throughout the Group. There are no environmental issues
affecting the properties which would have a material impact 
upon the Group, and there are no material encumbrances on our
properties. Any difference between the market value of properties
held by the Group and the amount at which they are included in
the balance sheet is not signiﬁcant. Please refer also to the
schedule of principal group companies and non-current
investments on page 125 and to details of property, plant and
equipment in note 10 on page 88. We currently have no plans to
construct new facilities or expand or improve our current facilities
in a manner that is material to the Group.
Laws and regulation
Unilever businesses are governed by laws and regulations
designed to ensure that products may be safely used for their
intended purpose and that labelling and advertising are truthful
and not misleading. Unilever businesses are further regulated by
data protection and anti-trust legislation. Important regulatory
bodies in respect of our businesses include the European
Commission and the US Food and Drug Administration.
We have processes in place to ensure that products, ingredients,
manufacturing processes, marketing materials and activities
comply with the above-mentioned laws and regulations.
Legal proceedings
We are not involved in any legal or arbitration proceedings which
might lead to material loss or expenditure in the context of the
Group results. Similarly we do not have any material obligations
under environmental legislation. None of our Directors or Ofﬁcers
is involved in any legal proceedings which are material as aforesaid.
Nonetheless, we comment on certain proceedings below:
Ice cream cases
Unilever has businesses in many countries and from time to time
these are subject to investigation by competition and other
regulatory authorities. One such matter under review is our ice
cream distribution in Europe, speciﬁcally the exclusivity for the use
of freezer cabinets provided to retailers free-on-loan for the sale
of impulse ice cream. In September 2006 the European Court of
Justice in Luxembourg (‘ECJ’) dismissed the appeal by Unilever’s
Irish ice cream business, HB Ice Cream, of the 2003 Court of First
Instance ('CFI') judgment that upheld the European Commission’s
1998 decision to ban HB Ice Cream from imposing cabinet
exclusivity in Ireland in circumstances where these were the only
cabinets used by the retailer. The ECJ ruling is ﬁnal as regards
Ireland and ends 14 years of legal debate. Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007 11
Report of the Directors continued
About Unilever continued
Unilever has been fully compliant with the ruling in the Irish case
since October 2003, when we lifted cabinet exclusivity from
outlets that only have HB freezers (Unilever was not ordered to
abandon cabinet exclusivity altogether). Parallel proceedings
between HB Ice Cream and Masterfoods (re-named Mars) before
the Irish High Court, which had been deferred pending the ECJ
ruling, were reopened in 2007 at the request of Mars to claim
damages from Unilever. We will resist any claim for compensation
for losses that cannot be directly attributed to the practices
prohibited by the European Commission’s 1998 decision as
regards Ireland. 
The Commission decision applied only to Ireland. The relevance of
its reasoning to other markets depends on a detailed factual
assessment of the effects of cabinet exclusivity in each market.
Unilever has given careful consideration to the potential
application of the reasoning in the Irish case to its cabinet policies
in other EU countries. The majority of markets are not affected by
this development. However we have taken a number of
commercial steps to avoid extending the debate further, in the
interest of focusing on our day-to-day business.
Since the ECJ ruling, Mars has nonetheless sought to bring claims
against Unilever before authorities and courts in a number of
countries. Mars’ allegations must be scrutinised in the light of
prevailing national market conditions, this can be a complex and
lengthy process. However by 26 October 2007 a civil claim by
Mars in Germany had already been dismissed by the Hamburg
Regional Court. Although Mars has appealed this decision, we
will continue vigorously to resist Mars’ claim.
Mars also brought a claim before the Swedish Market Court,
which on 25 September 2007 issued an interim order that broadly
reﬂects Unilever’s current policy as regards the loan of freezer
cabinets, namely that retail customers in Sweden must be free to
decide what products to store in Unilever cabinets where these
are the only cabinets used by the retailer. The Court’s order did
not require material changes beyond those already made by
Unilever’s Swedish business, GB Glace. The main proceedings
remain ongoing but the Market Court does not have jurisdiction
to make damages awards.
An investigation by the Portuguese competition authority is
ongoing since March 2007. Portuguese law prevents us from
disclosing details of this investigation. Unilever engages
proactively with the authority.
In Italy the Consiglio di Stato overturned a 2003 decision by the
Italian competition authority (‘ICA’) that responded positively to a
notiﬁcation by Unilever of its policy in relation to outlet exclusivity.
The Consiglio di Stato made its decision on 24 July 2007 on the
basis that Unilever’s market position in Italy had not been
sufﬁciently investigated by the ICA. Unilever has always engaged
proactively with the ICA and continues to do so to secure a
prompt resolution to the outstanding issues.
We cannot exclude that Mars may seek to bring claims in other
jurisdictions, in which case Unilever can be expected to defend its
position vigorously. We believe that our true strength lies in the
appeal and quality of our ice cream brands. By way of illustration
of the point, in the UK since 2000, when cabinet exclusivity was
effectively abandoned by Unilever, there has not been any
material change in Unilever’s relevant market share.
Other competition issues
In 2006 the French competition authorities commenced an inquiry
into potential competition law infringements in France involving a
number of consumer goods companies in the home and personal
care sector, including Unilever France and Lever Fabergé France,
both subsidiaries of the Unilever Group. Interviews have been
conducted with present and former members of our staff and
documents have been supplied to the French authorities. No
statement of objections or proposals for ﬁnes have yet been
lodged against either Unilever France or Lever Fabergé France as
the authorities’ investigation has had to be restarted following
procedural challenge. Accordingly, the potential ﬁnancial
implications, if any, of this investigation cannot yet be assessed. A
statement of objections is however expected in the near future.
On 14 March 2007 representatives from the German Federal
Cartel Ofﬁce carried out an inspection at the ofﬁces of Unilever
Deutschland GmbH in Hamburg. The inspection was in relation to
the home and personal care market in Germany. Statements of
objections have been received by and ﬁnes have been imposed on
Unilever Deutschland, which currently intends to defend its
position by way of appeal.
On 25 February 2008, a purported class action lawsuit was ﬁled
in the United States of America in the United States District Court
for the Northern District of Illinois alleging, relying upon the
German investigation described above, that Unilever N.V., Unilever
PLC and Unilever United States, Inc. allegedly conspired with
certain other companies to ﬁx prices of oral, home and personal
care products in the United States. The Unilever parties deny the
claims and intend to defend the action.
Tax cases Brazil
During 2004 the Federal Supreme Court in Brazil (local acronym
STF) announced a review of certain cases that it had previously
decided in favour of taxpayers. Because of this action we
established a provision in 2004 for the potential repayment 
of sales tax credits in the event that the cases establishing
precedents in our favour are reversed. Since that time we have
continued to monitor the situation and have made changes 
as appropriate to the amount provided.
In June 2007, the Supreme Court ruled against the taxpayers in
one of these cases. Management believes that the amount
provided in Unilever’s accounts should be sufﬁcient to cover the
amount of the tax in question, but industry associations (of which
Unilever is a member) are currently attempting to negotiate a
settlement with the Federal Revenue Service to reduce or avoid
the payment of interest and/or penalties on such amounts.
Management is optimistic that such negotiations will lead to a
settlement, but no assurance can be given that a settlement will
be reached or that the amount of any interest or penalties will be
covered by such provision.
Also during 2004 in Brazil, and in common with many other
businesses operating in that country, one of our Brazilian
subsidiaries received a notice of infringement from the Federal
Revenue Service. The notice alleges that a 2001 reorganisation 
of our local corporate structure was undertaken without valid
business purpose. If upheld, the notice could result in a tax claim
in respect of prior years. The 2001 reorganisation was comparable
with that used by many companies in Brazil and we believe that
the likelihood of a successful challenge by the tax authorities is
remote. While this view is supported by the opinion of outside
counsel there can be no guarantee of success on the merits. 12 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Report of the Directors continued
About Unilever continued
Preference shares
In 1999, NV issued cumulative preference shares, with a notional
value of €6.58 (Fl.14.50), as an alternative to a cash dividend. On
24 March 2004, NV announced its intention to convert part
(€6.53 – equivalent to Fl.14.40) of the notional value of the
preference shares, in accordance with its Articles of Association,
into NV ordinary shares in the ﬁrst quarter of 2005. This
conversion took place in February 2005 for a value of €4.55 for
each preference share. In May 2005, NV’s Annual General
Meeting decided to cancel the preference shares and cancellation
took effect in July 2005. 
In November 2006 NV announced that it had agreed a settlement
with the main parties in a legal dispute over the conversion of the
preference shares. Former preference shareholders who held
preference shares on 24 March 2004 were entitled to participate
in the settlement. These shareholders could apply for the
settlement from 20 January 2007 up to and including 30 June
2007. Unilever has paid €304 million in respect of the settlement
(further information in note 19 on page 102).
A group of former preference shareholders who had bought their
preference shares after 24 March 2004 and who are not entitled
to the settlement, instituted claims with the Rotterdam District
Court for nulliﬁcation of the NV Board’s decision to convert the
preference shares and NV’s Annual General Meeting decision to
cancel the preference shares. The Rotterdam District Court has
not yet decided on these claims. They also claim damages in the
amount of approximately €81 million. These claims will be
vigorously contested.
Corporate responsibility and sustainability
We aim to manage and grow our business around the world in a
responsible and sustainable way, creating long-term value for all
those with a stake in our business.  
We believe our brands must be at the forefront of delivering our
sustainability commitments. The successful brands of the future
will be those that satisfy both the functional needs of consumers
and address their concerns as citizens – including concerns about
the environment and social justice. 
To enable our brands to integrate social and environmental drivers
into their development plans in a structured way, we are rolling
out a programme called Brand Imprint. This helps our managers
to understand and assess the challenges and opportunities that
sustainability presents for our business. An early example of the
potential of Brand Imprint is our decision to put the sourcing of
all our tea on to a sustainable, ethical basis and to work with the
Rainforest Alliance to achieve certiﬁcation for our tea estates.
Lipton the world’s largest tea brand, and PG Tips, one of the UK’s
leading brands, became the ﬁrst to carry the Rainforest Alliance
logo, showing that they meet the independent organisation’s
strict sustainability criteria.
Another signiﬁcant step was taken by our ice cream brand Ben &
Jerry’s, which announced plans to invest €2.4 million over the ﬁve
years 2007-2012 in reducing its impact on climate change
through initiatives covering every stage of its European production
process.
Our ambitions for our brands are underpinned by our Mission and
Corporate Purpose and our Code of Business Principles. These
encapsulate the values and standards by which we expect our
employees and our business to be judged. We communicate and
monitor these standards actively and any lapses are fully
investigated: in 2007 we dismissed 54 people for conduct that
breached our Code of Business Principles.
To reinforce this commitment and maintain our operational
integrity, we seek to share these standards with our suppliers and
contractors through our Business Partner Code. This sets out
standards on ten key points of business ethics, labour standards,
consumer safety and the environment.  
In 2007 we reviewed our sustainability strategies for agriculture
(from which about two-thirds of our raw materials come),
packaging, water and greenhouse gases to connect them more
closely to our business objectives.   
Our targets in these areas will help us control costs, respond to
our customers’ and consumers’ desire to reduce waste and open
up avenues for innovation that beneﬁt our consumers, for
example concentrated laundry products such as all Small &
Mighty. Small & Mighty’s consumer and environmental beneﬁts
were promoted by Wal-Mart, helping the brand to grow its sales
in the US to US $140 million in 2007. Small & Mighty, which uses
less water, less packaging and less fuel for transport, has now
launched in Europe across the brand portfolio, for example Persil,
Surf and Omo.
Many of our major retail customers are focusing on sustainability
and, by sharing our expertise in this area, we are able to
strengthen our relationships with them and grow our business.
For example, the success of our ongoing partnership with Wal-
Mart led the world’s largest retailer to name us 2007 Supplier of
the Year for Sustainable Engagement.
We continue to work in partnership in ﬁelds where we can
contribute our expertise. The breadth of our portfolio means we
are uniquely placed to share our understanding of how to run
effective programmes to improve both nutrition and hygiene. For
example, through our partnership with the UN World Food
Programme we are working to improve the health and nutrition
of poor children through school feeding programmes, providing
over 15 million school meals to 80 000 children in 2007. With the
FDI World Dental Federation we are running projects to improve
oral care in 38 countries. In 2007 we contributed €89 million to
communities through corporate and brand initiatives.
In 2007 the strength of our commitment to sustainable
development was recognised by our ranking as foods producers
sector leader of the Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes for the ninth
year running. We were also ranked best in class in the food
products sector of the ﬁfth Carbon Disclosure Project (a coalition
of over 315 global investors with combined assets in excess of 
US $41 trillion) and named in its Climate Disclosure Leadership
Index in recognition of our efforts to address the challenges of
climate change.
Further details of the progress we are making to integrate
sustainability into our day-to-day business operations can be
found in our annual Sustainable Development Report, available at
www.unilever.com The following discussion about outlook and risk management
activities includes ‘forward-looking’ statements that involve risk
and uncertainties. The actual results could differ materially from 
those projected. See the ‘Cautionary statement’ on the inside
back cover.
Outlook
Our strategy is to focus our resources on our priority areas of
Vitality, personal care, and developing and emerging markets,
where we are well placed to achieve sustainable proﬁtable growth
with our brands and strong value creation for our shareholders.
This is the basis for our strategic plan which aims to deliver
consistent and competitive underlying sales growth in the 3-5%
growth range per annum and an operating margin improving to a
level in excess of 15% by 2010. The underlying sales growth
range is based on market growth of typically around 3-4%, and
reﬂects our ambition to strengthen our leadership positions over
time.
In August 2007, we announced new plans to accelerate change
of Unilever, including a step-up in innovation, plans to shape our
portfolio, and measures to improve our margins, to strengthen
and further enhance Unilever’s ﬁnancial performance.
These plans include the creation of multi-country organisations in
all regions, closure or streamlining of 50-60 factories and a
further reduction in global and regional overheads. These changes
aim to deliver a reduction in our annual cost base by around 
€1.5 billion by the end of 2010, compared with our 2006 cost
base. The related restructuring charges are estimated to amount
to about 2.5% of sales on average per annum in the period
2007–2009. For 2010 and beyond, we expect restructuring costs
to come down to a ‘normal’ level of 0.5% to 1% of turnover per
annum. 
We also announced our intention to dispose of brands and
businesses with a combined turnover in excess of €2 billion,
including the sale of our North American laundry business. The
focus is on brands that do not have a longer-term strategic ﬁt
with our strategy and business model or have a strategically
disadvantaged position in their particular markets. These value-
enhancing disposals are expected to collectively improve the
underlying sales growth rate of our business by around 0.4
percentage points and will be neutral to operating margin, after
removal of uncovered costs.
We also expect to improve our return on invested capital over
time, above the base level of 11% in 2004, and to generate
ungeared free cash ﬂow of €25-30 billion over the period 
2005–2010. It should be noted that previous and planned
disposals and the additional restructuring plans will have reduced
ungeared free cash ﬂow by about €2.5 billion over this period,
while enhancing the ongoing cash generating capacity of the
business.
In February 2008 we indicated that in 2008 we expect underlying
sales growth to be towards the upper end of our 3-5% target
range, and to see a further underlying improvement in operating
margin. In the three-year period 2005–2007, Unilever generated a
cumulative ungeared free cash ﬂow of €12 billion, towards the 
€25-30 billion target for the six-year period 2005–2010.
Risk management
Unilever’s system of risk management is outlined on page 66.
Responsibility for establishing a coherent framework for the
Group to manage risk resides with the Boards. The remit of the
Boards is outlined on page 33.
Particular risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to
vary from those described in forward-looking statements within
this document, or which could impact on our ability to meet our
published targets, have been identiﬁed. Unilever has described
some mitigating actions it intends to take to address the risks set
out below. These actions may not succeed in mitigating these
risks. Additionally, Unilever may not be successful in deploying
some or all of these mitigating actions, which may impair
Unilever's proﬁtability or adversely impact its reputation.
Sales and proﬁt growth
The increasingly competitive environment, the further
consolidation in the marketplace and continued growth of
discounters could adversely impact our rate of sales growth and
our proﬁt margins. In the light of this, we will continue to invest
in selected brands and high growth market areas in an effort to
deliver proﬁtable sales growth. 
During 2007 we have reinforced our ability to deliver growth by
continuing to dispose of low growth or non relevant components
in the category portfolio (i.e. those that do not ﬁt with the
strategy). This we believe has the impact of concentrating brand
strength and therefore reducing the risk of brand equity loss or
impairment in our global brands. It also improves our overall
competitive position on a global basis by shifting more turnover
weight into high growth-high share business as a percentage of
our total portfolio. We will continue to actively manage our
portfolio with the goal of improving investor returns by
strengthening the competitive position of our business. This, we
believe, will also reduce business risk by minimising the weakness
in our portfolio.
Our continued sales and proﬁt growth depends in large part on
our ability to generate and implement a stream of consumer-
relevant improvements to our products. The contribution of
innovation is affected by the level of funding that can be made
available, the technical capability of the research and
development functions, and the success of operating
management in rolling out quickly the resulting improvements.
Our focus will continue to be on developing our brands in ways
that are distinctive and are relevant for our customers.
We have a number of large global brands, including 12 with an
annual turnover greater than €1 billion, which often depend on
global or regional development and supply chains. Any adverse
event affecting consumer conﬁdence or continuity of supply of
such a brand could have an impact in many markets. The carrying
value of intangible assets associated with our brands is signiﬁcant,
and depends on the future success of those brands. There
remains a risk that events affecting one or more of our global
brands could potentially impair the value of those brands. 
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007 13
Report of the Directors continued
Outlook and risks 14 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Report of the Directors continued
Outlook and risks continued
As the retail market place through which our products are
distributed continues to evolve, our growth and proﬁtability can
be threatened if we do not adapt our strategies and enhance our
operational capabilities. It is important that we continue to build
and deepen relationships with our customers. Plans to raise our
effectiveness in the trade, where necessary, receive increasing
attention at all levels.
Change initiatives
The continuing restructuring of the business which is designed to
simplify our operations and leverage our scale more effectively,
includes outsourcing back ofﬁce support operations, forming
multi-country organisations and converging regional processes
and systems. Building on the experiences of 2007, we will
continue to manage the risks in this area diligently and develop
clear action plans in an attempt to mitigate these risks. Key to this
is the establishment and maintenance of project management
processes to monitor progress against milestones and targets
together with appropriate communication programmes.
People
Unilever’s performance targets require it to have the right calibre
of people at all levels. We must compete to obtain capable
recruits for the business, and then train them in the skills and
competencies that we need to deliver proﬁtable growth. At a
time of substantial change in the business there is a particular
focus on creating alignment and energetic leadership.
Corporate reputation
Unilever has created a strong corporate reputation over many
years, and many of our businesses have a high local proﬁle. This
reputation is underpinned by ensuring that all employees embrace
the principles prescribed in our Code of Business Principles.
Unilever products carrying our well-known brand names are sold
in over 150 countries. Should we fail to meet high product safety,
social, environmental and ethical standards in all our operations
and activities, Unilever’s corporate reputation could be damaged,
leading to the rejection of our products by consumers, damage to
our brands and diversion of management time into rebuilding our
reputation.
Potential economic instability
Around 44% of Unilever’s turnover comes from the developing
and emerging economies. We have long experience in these
markets, which are also an important source of our growth. These
economies are typically more volatile than those in the developed
world, and there is a risk of downturns in consumer demand that
would reduce the sales of our products. We will continue to
monitor closely performance in the most volatile markets and
respond quickly in an effort to protect our business. In cases of
extreme social disruption, protecting our people is always the
priority.
Price and supply of raw materials and 
commodities contracts
We faced signiﬁcant increases in the cost of various commodities
and raw and packing materials throughout the year. We have
been able to substantially mitigate these through a combination
of price increases, supply chain savings and mix improvements.
We see a trend of increasing commodity prices going into 2008.
In addition to our ongoing actions to mitigate these risks, and
where appropriate, we purchase forward contracts for raw
materials and commodities. Where appropriate, we also use
futures contracts to hedge future price movements, however, the
amounts are not material.
Insurance of risks
As a multinational group with diverse product offerings and
operations in around 100 countries, Unilever is subject to varying
degrees of risk and uncertainty. It does not take out insurance
against all risks and retains a signiﬁcant element of exposure to
those risks against which it does insure. However, it insures its
business assets in each country against insurable risks as it deems
appropriate.
Financial risks
In addition to the above, Unilever is exposed to various speciﬁc
risks in connection with its ﬁnancial operations and results. 
These include the following:
• the impact of movement in equity markets, interest rates and
life expectancy on net pension liabilities;
• maintenance of group cash ﬂows at an appropriate level;
• exposure of debt and cash positions to changes in interest rates;
• potential impact of changes in exchange rates on the Group’s
earnings and on the translation of its underlying net assets;
• market liquidity and counterparty risks; and
• risks associated with the holding of our own shares in
connection with share-based remuneration schemes.
Further information about these, including sensitivity analysis to
changes in certain of the key measures, is given in note 17 on
pages 100 and 101 and note 20 on page 105.
Other risks
Unilever’s businesses are exposed to varying degrees of risk and
uncertainty related to other factors including competitive pricing,
consumption levels, physical risks, legislative, ﬁscal, tax and
regulatory developments, terrorism and economic, political, and
social conditions in the environments where we operate. All of
these risks could materially affect the Group’s business, our
turnover, operating proﬁt, net proﬁt, net assets and liquidity.
There may be risks which are unknown to Unilever or which are
currently believed to be immaterial. Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007 15
Report of the Directors continued
Operating Review – Regions
Basis of reporting
In this Operating Review we comment on our changes in revenue
on the basis of underlying sales growth (USG). This measure
reﬂects the change in revenue at constant rates of exchange,
(average exchange rates for the preceding year) excluding the
effects of acquisitions and disposals. It is a measure that provides
valuable additional information on the underlying performance 
of the business. In particular, it presents the organic growth of 
our business year on year and is used internally as a core measure
of sales performance.
USG is not a measure which is deﬁned under IFRS. It should not
be considered in isolation from, or as a substitute for, ﬁnancial
information presented in compliance with IFRS. This measure as
reported by us may not be comparable with similarly titled
measures reported by other companies.
The reconciliation of USG to changes in turnover for each of our
reporting regions is given in the following section, and for the
Group in total on page 32.
The reporting in this section is based on results for continuing
operations. Information about discontinued operations is given in
note 27 on page 114.
Europe
2007 compared with 2006
€ million € million
2007 2006
Turnover 15 205 15 000
Operating proﬁt 1 678 1 903
Operating margin 11.0% 12.7%
Restructuring, business disposals, impairment charges 
and one-time gain (2006) on UK pension 
plans included in operating margin (4.0)% (1.4)%
%
Underlying sales growth at constant rates 2.8
Effect of acquisitions 0.0
Effect of disposals (1.5)
Effect of exchange rates 0.0
Turnover growth at current rates 1.4
%
Operating proﬁt 2007 vs 2006
Change at current rates (11.9)
Change at constant rates (11.7)
Turnover at current rates of exchange rose by 1.4%, after the
impact of acquisitions, disposals and exchange rate changes as set
out in the table above. Operating proﬁt at current rates of
exchange fell by 11.9%, after including an adverse currency
movement of 0.2%. The underlying performance of the business
after eliminating these exchange translation effects and the
impact of acquisitions and disposals is discussed below at
constant exchange rates.
The region sustained its improving trend in 2007 with underlying
sales growth of 2.8% for the year. The improvement was driven
by relentless focus on better in-market execution, rejuvenation of
the quality and value of our core products, and an introduction of
new innovations. Consumer demand in our categories was steady
throughout the year.
Overall we saw improving trends almost everywhere. Russia was
the outstanding performer, but all major countries grew in the
year, including the UK, Germany, Italy and the Netherlands. In
France sales were slightly up in a challenging market.
The operating margin, at 11.0% for the year, reﬂects a higher net
charge for restructuring, disposals and one-off items compared
with 2006. Before these items, the operating margin showed an
underlying improvement of 0.9 percentage points, driven by
lower overheads as a result of the One Unilever programme and
reduced advertising and promotions costs.
We made substantial progress with portfolio development and
restructuring.
At the start of 2008 we completed the expansion of the
successful international partnership for Lipton ready-to-drink tea
with PepsiCo to include all countries in Europe. We also
completed the sale of Boursin, and announced the acquisition of
the leading Russian ice cream company Inmarko. 
We formed four new multi-country organisations and announced
the streamlining or closure of ten factories. The roll-out of a single
SAP system across the region continues, with two-thirds of
turnover in the region now on stream and full implementation
expected to be largely completed by the end of 2008.
We continued to target innovations mainly at Vitality
opportunities. In ice cream, we introduced Frusì frozen yoghurt
with wholegrain cereals and real fruit pieces and low calorie
Solero smoothies. Lipton Linea slimming teas were launched in
France, Switzerland and Portugal. Growth in Hellmann’s was
boosted by new extra light mayonnaise with citrus ﬁbre
technology.
The new Dove pro •
age range of products is building well in
Europe as well as elsewhere, and Dove Summer Glow self-tanning
and body lotions are now available in most countries. Clear anti-
dandruff shampoo was launched in Russia, with good consumer
response. Small & Mighty concentrated liquid laundry detergents
were launched in seven European countries. 16 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Report of the Directors continued
Europe (continued)
2006 compared with 2005
€ million € million
2006 2005
Turnover 15 000 14 940
Operating proﬁt 1 903 2 064
Operating margin 12.7% 13.8%
Restructuring, business disposals, impairment charges 
and one-time gain (2006) on UK pension 
plans included in operating margin (1.4)% (0.9)%
%
Underlying sales growth at constant rates 1.0
Effect of acquisitions 0.1
Effect of disposals (0.9)
Effect of exchange rates 0.2
Turnover growth at current rates 0.4
%
Operating proﬁt 2006 vs 2005
Change at current rates (7.7)
Change at constant rates (7.9)
Turnover at current rates of exchange rose by 0.4%, after the
impact of acquisitions, disposals and exchange rate changes as 
set out in the table above. Operating proﬁt at current rates of
exchange fell by 7.7%, after including a favourable currency
movement of 0.2%. The underlying performance of the business
after eliminating these exchange translation effects and the
impact of acquisitions and disposals is discussed below at
constant exchange rates.
The UK, our largest European business, returned to growth in 
the year with good results across several foods and personal care
ranges. Although laundry sales declined, there were promising
signs of progress in market share with Persil regaining its position
as the country’s leading laundry brand. The Netherlands had a
strong year. A pioneer of One Unilever, it beneﬁted from
operating as a single company. Highlights were rapid growth for
Lipton, Dove, Rexona and Axe. France remained a difﬁcult market
with sales lower in spreads, laundry and hair care. New
management was put in place and there was an improvement in
the second half of the year. Sales in Germany held up better in
2006. There was good growth for personal care brands but some
turnover in Lipton ice tea was lost following changes in rules for
bottle returns. Central and Eastern Europe continued to do well,
driven by double-digit growth in Russia. 
The sale of the majority of our European frozen foods businesses
to Permira was successfully completed during the year.
Our 2006 innovation programmes resulted in our Foods brands
wholeheartedly embracing the concept of Vitality, with new
products designed to deliver the health beneﬁts that consumers
seek. Rama/Blue Band Idea! – spreads with added nutrients which
are beneﬁcial to children’s mental development – was launched in
2006.
Operating Review – Regions continued
A range of Knorr bouillon cubes with selected natural ingredients
and a better, richer taste was rolled out across the region, while
Knorr Vie one-shot fruit and vegetable products became available
in 12 countries. Meanwhile, Latin America’s AdeS drink, a healthy
blend of fruit juices and soya, was launched successfully in the UK
as AdeZ.
Product launches with clear functional or emotional beneﬁts in
Home and Personal Care brands were rolled out rapidly across the
region. A range of new Dove launches included the moisturising
self-tan Dove Summer Glow. Meanwhile in household care, we
introduced Domestos 5x which continues to kill germs even after
several ﬂushes and the cleaning power of Cif was applied to a
series of power sprays.
The operating margin, at 12.7%, was 1.1 percentage points
lower than in 2005, with higher net costs for restructuring,
disposals and impairments, partially offset by a one-time gain of
€120 million from changes to the UK pensions plan. Before these
items, the operating margin would have been 0.6 percentage
points lower than in 2005. Margins in Foods were lower than in
2005 as we absorbed signiﬁcant increases in commodity costs
which were only partly compensated by savings programmes.
The Americas
2007 compared with 2006
€ million € million
2007 2006
Turnover 13 442 13 779
Operating proﬁt 1 971 2 178
Operating margin 14.7% 15.8%
Restructuring, business disposals, impairment charges 
and one-time gain (2006) on US healthcare 
plans included in operating margin (0.7)% 0.0%
%
Underlying sales growth at constant rates 4.1
Effect of acquisitions 0.1
Effect of disposals (0.6)
Effect of exchange rates (5.8)
Turnover growth at current rates (2.4)
%
Operating proﬁt 2007 vs 2006
Change at current rates (9.5)
Change at constant rates (3.4)
Turnover at current rates of exchange fell by 2.4%, after the
impact of acquisitions, disposals and exchange rate changes as set
out in the table above. Operating proﬁt at current rates of
exchange fell by 9.5%, after including an adverse currency
movement of 6.1%. The underlying performance of the business
after eliminating these exchange translation effects and the
impact of acquisitions and disposals is discussed below at
constant exchange rates. Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007 17
Report of the Directors continued
Operating Review – Regions continued
The Americas (continued)
Underlying sales grew by 4.1% in the year, with an increasing
contribution from pricing which was up 2.6% for the year.
In the US, overall consumer demand held up well in our
categories. Market growth in home care and personal care slowed
somewhat in the second half year, but this was compensated for
by robust demand in foods. Our own sales in the US grew solidly,
up 3.2% for the year, despite lower sales of ice cream.
Our business in Mexico made good progress in the second half of
the year and Brazil showed an improved performance in the
fourth quarter. Argentina, Andina and Central America performed
well throughout.
The operating margin, at 14.7% for the year, was 1.1 percentage
points lower than the previous year. Before the impact of
restructuring, disposals and one-off items, the margin was 0.4
percentage points lower than last year. This was due to an
increase in advertising and promotions and the impact of
substantial cost increases, which have not yet been fully offset by
price increases and savings programmes.
The One Unilever programme is simplifying operations throughout
the region. Argentina, Mexico and Brazil all moved to single head
ofﬁces in 2007, while the US will follow in early 2008. Sales force
integration is under way in a number of countries. A single SAP
system has been implemented in the US, with Latin America
already on one system.
We set up a joint venture with Perdigão to develop our heart-
health margarine Becel in Brazil and disposed of our local Brazilian
margarine brands. We also announced an agreement for the
disposal of Lawry’s seasonings, while the sale process of the North
American laundry business is under way.
New varieties of Knorr bouillons and soups in Latin America
further advanced the brand’s Vitality credentials. Hellmann’s ‘real’
campaign highlights its simple ingredients which are naturally rich
in Omega 3, in both the US and Latin America. In the US, we
introduced Promise Activ SuperShots, a Vitality shot with added
natural plant sterols, ingredients that are clinically proven to help
actively remove cholesterol as part of a diet low in saturated fat
and cholesterol.
Innovation in personal care reﬂected the more global approach.
Clear anti-dandruff shampoo was successfully launched in Brazil,
while the Dove pro •
age range of skin care, deodorants and
shampoos was introduced in the US at the same time as in
Europe. In laundry, the Dirt is Good platform continued to build
across Latin America, now including a variant with built-in fabric
softener.
2006 compared with 2005
€ million € million
2006 2005
Turnover 13 779 13 179
Operating proﬁt 2 178 1 719
Operating margin 15.8% 13.0%
Restructuring, business disposals, impairment charges 
and one-time gain (2006) on US healthcare 
plans included in operating margin 0.0% (3.4)%
%
Underlying sales growth at constant rates 3.7
Effect of acquisitions 0.1
Effect of disposals (0.7)
Effect of exchange rates 1.4
Turnover growth at current rates 4.6
%
Operating proﬁt 2006 vs 2005
Change at current rates 26.7
Change at constant rates 25.0
Turnover at current rates of exchange rose by 4.6%, after the
impact of acquisitions, disposals and exchange rate changes as 
set out in the table above. Operating proﬁt at current rates of
exchange rose by 26.7%, after including a favourable currency
movement of 1.4%. The underlying performance of the business
after eliminating these exchange translation effects and the
impact of acquisitions and disposals is discussed below at
constant exchange rates.
Sales in Brazil picked up well after a slow start, with very good
innovation-driven performances in hair, deodorants and laundry.
Omo’s brand share was at its highest level for many years.
Sales in Mexico were lower for the year, affected by a combination
of a decline in the traditional retail trade and local low-priced
competition. In addition, there were several operational issues
which have since been addressed. The business returned to 
growth in the fourth quarter. Elsewhere there was good growth in
Argentina, Central America and Venezuela. Taken together, sales in
Latin America were ahead by 5.8% with Home and Personal Care
brands continuing to do well. However, there was more modest
growth in Foods brands due to tough local competition.
New products introduced in the US included Wish-Bone Salad
Spritzers with one calorie per spray, further development of the
Bertolli premium frozen meal range, and Lipton pyramid tea bags.
Across the region, new Knorr soups and bouillons catered for
local tastes. The highly successful AdeS nutritional drink has been
extended with a ‘light’ variant, new fruit ﬂavours and the launch
of soymilk in Brazil and Mexico. 
We strengthened our hair portfolio with the launch of Sunsilk,
improved both the Suave and Dove haircare lines and sold the
Aquanet and Finesse brands. We had a good sales response to  18 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Report of the Directors continued
Operating Review – Regions continued
The Americas (continued)
all Small & Mighty concentrated liquid detergents. These use
reduced-size packaging to save water, cardboard and energy in
production, packaging and transport. They are also easier for
consumers to carry, pour and store. We then applied all Small &
Mighty’s product technology to fabric conditioners, creating
Snuggle Exhilarations – a three-times more concentrated premium
sub-range delivering superior fragrance. In Brazil, Omo has been
further strengthened with a new top-performance product
including baby and foam control variants.
The operating margin, at 15.8%, was 2.8 percentage points
higher than in 2005. There were lower costs for restructuring,
disposals and impairments, and a one-time beneﬁt in 2006 of
€146 million from changes to US healthcare plans. In 2005 there
was a gain on the sale of an ofﬁce. Before these items the
operating margin would have been 0.3 percentage points lower
than the previous year. Innovation-driven marketing mix, pricing
and productivity offset high commodity costs. Advertising and
promotions were increased to support major brand launches.
Asia Africa 
2007 compared with 2006
€ million € million
2007 2006
Turnover 11 540 10 863
Operating proﬁt 1 596 1 327
Operating margin 13.8% 12.2%
Restructuring, business disposals and impairment 
charges included in operating margin 1.1% (0.3)%
%
Underlying sales growth at constant rates 11.1
Effect of acquisitions 0.1
Effect of disposals (0.4)
Effect of exchange rates (4.0)
Turnover growth at current rates 6.2
%
Operating proﬁt 2007 vs 2006
Change at current rates 20.2
Change at constant rates 27.6
Turnover at current rates of exchange rose by 6.2%, after the
impact of acquisitions, disposals and exchange rate changes as set
out in the table above. Operating proﬁt at current rates of
exchange rose by 20.2%, after including an adverse currency
movement of 7.4%. The underlying performance of the business
after eliminating these exchange translation effects and the
impact of acquisitions and disposals is discussed below at
constant exchange rates.
The strong underlying growth of 11.1% for the year reﬂects both
the vibrancy of these markets and the high priority we place on
building our business in the region. It includes a healthy balance
of volume and price, up by over 7% and 3% respectively.
Growth was consistent throughout the year and was broad-based
across categories and countries, including established markets
such as India, Indonesia, the Philippines, South Africa and Turkey,
which all grew in double digits; signiﬁcant product areas such as
laundry and personal wash; and emerging product areas like ice
cream and deodorants. China remains a key priority and grew
strongly for the third consecutive year.
We drove growth across all income levels, from highly affordable
packs to premium positions. This was supported by new brands
and products that leveraged our global platforms and excellent in-
market execution.
The operating margin, at 13.8%, was 1.6 percentage points
higher than last year. This included the €214 million accounting
proﬁt resulting from the reorganisation of our shareholdings in
South Africa. Before the effects of this transaction, disposals and
restructuring charges, the operating margin showed an underlying
increase of 0.2 percentage points. The improvement was driven
by volume growth, pricing actions and savings programmes which
more than offset higher input costs and increased advertising and
promotions.
We announced the acquisition of the Buavita brand of fruit-based
vitality drinks in Indonesia, which was completed early in January
2008.
As part of the One Unilever programme we now have a single
SAP system in place in four countries as the basis for a common
regional platform, while the reorganisation of our shareholdings
in South Africa and Israel facilitates the new organisation.
The new, more global, approach to innovation was evident in the
2007 programme. Clear anti-dandruff shampoo was launched in
China, Arabia, Egypt, Pakistan and the Philippines. In Japan, we
launched the Axe brand and Dove pro •
age skin care products. An
improved range of Dove shower products was extended to North
East Asia, while Lifebuoy soap was launched in South Africa and a
new variant brought to India. In laundry, the new Dirt is Good
product, packaging and communication were introduced to
Thailand.
The Moo range of ice creams was extended throughout the
region. Knorr seasonings were rejuvenated with premium
ingredients, as in Europe, and in China we launched a new form
of Knorr bouillons for preparing thick soups. At the same time
new, more affordable, tubs and sachets are attracting new users
of spreads in several countries. Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007 19
Report of the Directors continued
Asia Africa (continued)
2006 compared with 2005
€ million € million
2006 2005
Turnover 10 863 10 282
Operating proﬁt 1 327 1 291
Operating margin 12.2% 12.6%
Restructuring, business disposals and impairment 
charges included in operating margin (0.3)% 0.0%
%
Underlying sales growth at constant rates 7.7
Effect of acquisitions 0.0
Effect of disposals (0.8)
Effect of exchange rates (1.1)
Turnover growth at current rates 5.7
%
Operating proﬁt 2006 vs 2005
Change at current rates 2.8
Change at constant rates 4.0
Turnover at current rates of exchange rose by 5.7%, after the
impact of acquisitions, disposals and exchange rate changes as 
set out in the table above. Operating proﬁt at current rates of
exchange rose by 2.8%, after including an adverse currency
movement of 1.2%. The underlying performance of the business
after eliminating these exchange translation effects and the
impact of acquisitions and disposals is discussed below at
constant exchange rates.
Markets remained buoyant in most of the key countries though
there was a slowdown in consumer spending in Thailand.
Underlying sales growth of 7.7% was broadly based and our
aggregate market shares remained stable. 
India grew well across major sectors. A mix of global, regional
and local brands drove growth, notably Wheel and Surf Excel in
laundry, and Clinic in haircare. A second year of excellent growth
in China stemmed from a combination of market growth, better
distribution and innovations behind global brands such as Omo,
Lux and Pond’s, as well as the local toothpaste brand, Zhonghua.
Indonesia sustained good momentum, not only in the large 
Home and Personal Care ranges but also in Foods as a result 
of strong performances in ice cream and savoury. Thailand had 
a disappointing year through weak demand and intense
competition. A major programme of activities was undertaken to
correct this. 
Australia experienced a much improved performance with share
gains in a number of areas. In Japan, Lux Super Rich – the leading
brand – performed well despite a major brand launch by a
competitor. However, Dove and Mod’s lost share. 
Savoury, ice cream, laundry and household care brands were the
main drivers of strong growth in Turkey, while sales in Arabia
were well ahead. 
In South Africa, aggressive price promotions by a local competitor
have reduced laundry sales, but there were strong growth and
share gains in Foods. 
Innovation was increasingly driven globally and regionally, rather
than locally. The new Sunsilk range was introduced in most major
markets, and in laundry the Dirt is Good positioning was
established across the region. Pond’s Age Miracle, incorporating
unique technology and designed speciﬁcally for Asian skin, was
launched in four countries. Meanwhile the latest global Axe/Lynx
fragrance, Click, was introduced in Australia and New Zealand.
As in the rest of the world, the Foods innovation programme
focused on Vitality. Moo, a wholesome children’s ice cream range
based on the goodness of milk, was very well received by mothers
and children alike and proved successful in South East Asia.
Healthy green tea innovations were rolled out extensively, while in
South Africa marketing for Rama margarine now communicates
the product’s healthy oils. Addressing the needs of lower income
consumers, low-priced Knorr stock cubes – already successful in
Latin America – were also introduced in the region.
The operating margin at 12.2% was 0.4 percentage points lower
than in 2005. Before the impact of restructuring, disposals and
impairments, the operating margin would have been in line with
the previous year. The beneﬁts to margin of strong volume
growth and savings programmes were fully offset by higher
commodity costs and other cost inﬂation which could not be fully
recovered in pricing.
Operating Review – Regions continued 20 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Report of the Directors continued
Operating Review – Categories
Our brands are household names in many countries around the
world. We create products that appeal to people’s different
preferences, based on our deep understanding of consumers’
varied habits and lifestyles. 
Food and nutrition
We aim to provide foods which both taste great and are good for
you, and, in so doing, become the world’s leading food and
nutrition business.
To fulﬁl our goal, we are systematically improving the nutritional
proﬁle of our product range through our Nutrition Enhancement
Programme. By the end of 2007 we had assessed the nutritional
composition of all our products – totalling over 22 000 recipes –
and removed a further 2 750 tonnes of saturated fat, 170 tonnes
of salt and 5 000 tonnes of sugar. This is in addition to the
substantial reductions already made by 2006.
We are also committed to ensuring that consumers are able to
make informed choices when buying our products. As well as
listing nutritional information on the back of packaging, we are
implementing the Choices programme, with a front-of-pack
stamp that identiﬁes products which meet internationally
accepted dietary advice. In 2007 we continued rolling the
programme out globally together with other food companies,
under the auspices of the Choices International Foundation. This
was launched during 2007 and is advised by an independent
scientiﬁc committee. The stamp can now be found on products in
more than 50 countries around the world. See
www.choicesinternational.org for more information.
We focus on three key areas of consumer beneﬁt when
developing new products: functional foods, lighter options, and
naturalness and authenticity. For example, in 2007 we developed
Promise Activ SuperShots, a Vitality shot with added natural plant
sterols, ingredients that are clinically proven to help actively
remove cholesterol as part of a diet low in saturated fat and
cholesterol.
Meanwhile, Hellmann’s Extra Light uses citrus ﬁbre to create a
great tasting, very low-fat mayonnaise. Because of its low-fat
content the product has a higher margin – particularly valuable at
a time of increasing edible oil costs. 
Lipton Green Tea in the US, Lipton Linea slimming teas in Europe,
and Lipton Milk Teas in Asia all ﬂourished by exploiting tea’s
credentials as a healthy beverage. And a new range of restaurant-
quality frozen meals from Bertolli, which are packed with fresh
vegetables and ready to eat in minutes, was a hit with North
American consumers. 
Health, hygiene and beauty 
The desire to be clean and healthy and to look good is universal.
Our home and personal care brands have promoted health,
hygiene and beauty since the late 19th century and continue to
play a vital role in millions of homes around the world today. 
In 2007 our household cleaning business had a particularly
successful year, with brands such as Cif and Domestos helping it
grow by 9%. From simple soap bars to the most technically
advanced concentrated liquids, our laundry brands are also
growing fast. 
In skin care, the Pond’s brand went from strength to strength in
South East Asia, China and India, powered in part by the launch
of a new anti-ageing range. Vaseline was our fastest-growing
global skin brand, with underlying sales growth of more than 8%.
Vaseline Cocoa Butter range was its most successful launch in the
US in ten years. The brand also announced the Vaseline Skin
Fund, which is expected to launch in the UK and the US in 2008 –
and give 1 million people better access to information about
managing skin complaints. 
Our deodorant brands also made good progress in 2007, with
Axe and Rexona both achieving double-digit growth. Rexona is
the world’s leading deodorant brand and Axe holds a leading
position in male deodorants. 
Oral Care returned to growth in Europe while continuing its
robust performance in Indonesia, China and Africa – aided by
innovations such as a combined toothpaste and mouthwash.
During the year we announced the extension of our partnership
with the FDI World Dental Federation, which represents more
than 1 million dentists and we work together with the FDI in oral
health promotion and education programmes.
Science and technology
We are proud of our reputation as a world leader in research and
development (R&D). In 2007 we achieved growth across our
categories both through innovation – new products and new
mixes – and through renovation – the strengthening of existing
brands with new variants, packaging or advertising.
We strive to bring innovations to market more swiftly than ever
before. Following the completion of a major reorganisation of our
R&D activities, we have concentrated research and development
in global and regional centres in order to make the very best use
of our resources and create centres which are innovation
powerhouses. We are also increasingly working on fewer, larger
scale projects, having carefully chosen those that we think will
deliver the most value to the business either in terms of product
sales or margin improvements. Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007 21
Report of the Directors continued
Operating Review – Categories continued
Recent developments include Amaze Brainfood – a range of
nutritious snacks and drinks that are speciﬁcally designed to
support mental development in children. The 2006 launch was
the result of a €40 million, four-year R&D project. Already selling
well in Turkey, Amaze is expected to launch in India in 2008. 
We have also developed a breakthrough technology that includes
the use of Ice Structuring Proteins (ISP) in ice cream. This enables
a wide range of ice cream innovations, including signiﬁcantly
healthier options and better quality ice cream. Ice creams that
contain ISP are available in a number of countries in the Americas
and Asia Africa regions. For Europe, regulatory approval is being
sought under the EC Novel Foods Regulation.
In the kitchen, new Sunlight hand dishwashing liquid keeps
working on the sponge for longer because it turns to gel on
contact with water. Its ultra-concentrated formula uses less water
in the production process and less packaging. It is being rolled out
in eight countries. And the environmentally friendly lightweight
design and fast-drying formulation of our new roll-on deodorant,
launched under the Rexona, Axe and Dove brands, also proved
popular with consumers.
This year also saw the simultaneous launch in a number of
countries of Clear anti-dandruff shampoo with superior anti-
dandruff active delivery technology. Its formulation is based on
one common ‘chassis’ with add-on reﬁnements for different scalp
and hair types. 
Brands with missions 
Our brands have the power to change people’s lives for the
better.
The second-biggest preventable killer of children in the world is
diarrhoea, and yet simple hand-washing with soap can cut
diarrhoeal diseases signiﬁcantly. In 2007, in partnership with
UNICEF, we piloted an education programme for schoolchildren in
Uganda highlighting the importance of hand-washing with soap,
underpinned by our soap brand Lifebuoy. Coupled with this, the
Unilever Marketing Academy helped develop health promotion
campaigns in Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda. During the year the
brand grew by 9%.
Throughout the year, our Goodness of Margarine campaign
spread the message in Europe that margarine contains essential
fats and vitamins helpful in maintaining a healthy heart. The
results were excellent and the campaign is rolling out further in
2008. 
The Family Goodness spreads brand is raising funds as part of our
three-year partnership with the World Food Programme (WFP) to
provide nutritious school meals for children living in poverty. We
are also sharing our nutrition and hygiene expertise and helping
WFP develop a school education campaign as well as review the
need for fortiﬁed foods.
Meanwhile, a major healthy eating campaign, Knorr Eat Colour,
encouraged consumers to eat colourful vegetables, with the help
of a range of new colour-themed products. The campaign was
based on the insight that vegetables’ bright hues indicate the
presence of different beneﬁcial antioxidants. 
The Dove Campaign for Real Beauty made strides in its mission to
raise the self-esteem of women. By the end of 2008 the Dove
Self-Esteem Fund aims to have reached 1 million young girls in 20
countries through partnerships with organisations such as the
Eating Disorders Association and Girl Scouts of America. Sales of
Dove products are growing rapidly. 
Our Dirt is Good positioning – which is used across countries on
our main brands including Persil, Omo and Skip – is also
ﬂourishing. It promotes children’s learning and development
through physical activity – while the brands’ innovative
formulations mean parents don’t need to worry about getting
their children’s clothes clean after outdoor play. 
Other highlights in 2007
Unilever took a historic step in 2007 when it committed to buying
all its tea from sustainable, ethical sources – transforming the tea
industry and improving the crops, income and livelihood of 2
million people across three continents. Lipton, the world’s largest
tea brand, and PG Tips, one of the UK’s leading brands, became
the ﬁrst to carry the Rainforest Alliance logo, showing they meet
the independent organisation’s strict sustainability criteria –
covering areas such as wildlife protection, water conservation and
fair treatment of workers. The ﬁrst certiﬁed tea was supplied to
restaurants and the catering trade in Europe; all Lipton tea bags
sold globally are expected to be certiﬁed by 2015. 
One of our top priorities in 2007 was the simultaneous launch of
Clear anti-dandruff shampoo in a number of countries – China,
Russia, Brazil (three of the biggest hair care markets in the world),
the Philippines, Pakistan, Egypt and Arabia. The brand has an
innovative formula with superior anti-dandruff active delivery
technology and is our ﬁrst major Asian hair brand mix to go
global. Its success shows the power of a centralised, consistent
global approach to packaging, formulation and marketing. Clear
shampoo is now winning consumer preference in all its markets
and there are plans to consolidate growth while continuing its
global roll-out in 2008. Operating Review – Categories continued
Magnum Temptation ice cream offered European consumers the
ultimate indulgence: a sensual shape containing Madagascan
vanilla ice cream, caramel sauce and almond pieces, wrapped in
Belgian dark chocolate. It has the highest quantity of ‘added
extras’ ever contained in a Magnum, thanks to new technology
which involves bringing together two mould halves around the
stick. Launched in Italy, Spain, Switzerland and Portugal, Magnum
Temptation is the ﬁrst expression of the brand’s long-term super
premium platform.
European consumers were given a powerful new weapon in the
ﬁght against limescale and germs, with the launch of Domestos
Zero Limescale bleach. Its development was inspired by research
showing that many more germs are present in toilets with
limescale because germs cluster there, protecting themselves from
being washed away. Its three-times-thicker formulation helps
Domestos Zero Limescale bleach stick to and destroy limescale,
even on vertical surfaces.
Mayonnaise lovers in Latin America responded enthusiastically to
a campaign highlighting the health beneﬁts of Hellmann’s Light, a
variant of global leader Hellmann’s. The campaign, aired in
Argentina, Chile and Brazil, made consumers aware that three
spoonfuls of Hellmann’s Light mayonnaise contain the same
calories as one spoonful of olive oil. Underlying sales growth for
the year was outstanding, particularly in Argentina and Brazil. 
The newly launched Dove pro
•
age range proved popular among
women aged 50 and over in North America and Europe. The
multimedia campaign, shot by top celebrity photographer Annie
Leibovitz, featured middle-aged women looking natural, gorgeous
– and completely naked. The pro
•
age range does not make
unrealistic anti-ageing promises, but instead meets the speciﬁc
hair and skin care needs of older consumers. 
In Chinese households soup is a part of many people’s daily diet.
Knorr Bouillon Gel, launched in China under the Knorr Dense
Soup Treasure name, captured the imagination of consumers
eager to replicate the nutritional beneﬁts of home-boiled soup
without the hassle. Made with high-quality fresh ingredients, the
gel reverts to dense-textured soup when stirred into boiling water,
into which consumers can add their own choice of fresh
vegetables. 
Axe/Lynx, the world’s second-largest deodorant brand, made a
triumphant entry into the Japanese market and quickly became
the country’s top-selling male deodorant. The launch followed an
extensive study of the young Japanese male, examining his
attitude towards dating, use of deodorants and purchasing habits.
The brand’s range was given a substantial makeover in 2007 to
ensure packaging and formulations are consistent the world over. 
22 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Report of the Directors continued Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007 23
Report of the Directors continued
Financial Review
Basis of reporting
Certain discussions within this Financial Review include measures
that are not deﬁned by generally accepted accounting principles
(GAAP) such as IFRS. These include Ungeared Free Cash Flow
(UFCF), Return on Invested Capital (ROIC), Underlying Sales
Growth (USG), and Net Debt. For further information please refer
to the section entitled ‘Non-GAAP measures’ on page 29.
The accounting policies that are most signiﬁcant in connection
with our ﬁnancial reporting are set out on pages 27 and 28.
Foreign currency amounts for results and cash ﬂows are translated
from underlying local currencies into euros using annual average
exchange rates; balance sheet amounts are translated at year-end
rates except for the ordinary capital of the two parent companies.
These are translated at the rate referred to in the Equalisation
Agreement of 3
1
⁄ 9p = €0.16 (see Corporate governance on 
page 40).
Results and earnings per share
The following discussion summarises the results of the Group
during the years 2007, 2006 and 2005. The ﬁgures quoted are in
euros, at current rates of exchange, being the average or year-end
rates of each period, unless otherwise stated. Information about
exchange rates between the euro, pound sterling and US dollar is
given on page 124.
The results reﬂected in the consolidated income statement and
supporting notes arise from the Group’s continuing operations. In
2007, no disposals qualiﬁed to be disclosed as discontinued
operations. During 2006, we successfully completed the sale of
the majority of our European frozen foods businesses. The results
of the businesses disposed of have been presented as
discontinued operations for 2005, and in 2006 for the period up
to the date of sale. During 2005, we completed the sale of
Unilever Cosmetics International (UCI) to Coty Inc., United States.
The results of UCI are presented as discontinued operations for
2005 for the period up to the date of sale.
€ million € million € million
2007 2006 2005
Continuing operations:
Turnover 40 187 39 642 38 401
Operating proﬁt 5 245 5 408 5 074
Net proﬁt 4 056 3 685 3 335
Net proﬁt from discontinued operations 80 1 330 640
Net proﬁt – total 4 136 5 015 3 975
€ €€
2007 2006 2005
EPS – continuing operations 1.32 1.19 1.07
EPS – total 1.35 1.65 1.29
Results for 2007 compared with 2006
Turnover for the period increased by 1.4% to €40 187 million.
The increase was a consequence of USG of 5.5% in the year,
offset by unfavourable currency movements of (3.1)% and the
impact of disposals of (0.9)%. The USG was a result of both price
and volume increases, respectively contributing 1.8% and 3.7%.
Operating proﬁt for the year was 3% lower and the operating
margin at 13.1% was 0.5 percentage points lower than a year
ago. The lower margin and operating proﬁt were due to a higher
net charge for restructuring, disposals and one-off items. Before
the impact of these items, the operating margin showed an
underlying increase of 0.2 percentage points. Savings and price
increases more than offset signiﬁcant increases in product input
costs. Advertising and promotions as a percentage of sales was in
line with last year. An overview of performance by regions is
included in the Operating Review on pages 15 to 19.
The net charge for restructuring, disposals and one-off items in
2007 was €569 million. This was made up of restructuring
charges of €875 million, partly offset by disposal proﬁts of 
€297 million and other items of €9 million. The disposal proﬁts
include €214 million arising from the reorganisation of our
interests in South Africa and Israel, which was a fair value
economic swap that resulted in an accounting proﬁt. In
comparison, the net charge for restructuring, disposals and one-
off items in 2006 was €242 million.
Costs of ﬁnancing net borrowings were 13% lower in the year
with the impact of movements in the US dollar exchange rate
more than offsetting higher rates. The credit on pensions
ﬁnancing increased to €158 million, reﬂecting an improved
funding position of our schemes in 2007 compared with 2006.
The tax rate was 22% for the year, compared with 24% in 2006,
and beneﬁted from the favourable settlement of prior year tax
audits. We also beneﬁted from a lower tax charge on disposals
during 2007.
Our share in net proﬁt from joint ventures increased by 31% in
the year, mainly driven by continuing strong growth in the
partnerships between Lipton and PepsiCo for ready-to-drink tea.
For the full year, net proﬁt from continuing operations grew by
10%, while EPS on the same basis grew by 12%.
Net proﬁt, including discontinued operations, was 18% lower
than prior year, which included the proﬁt on disposal of European
frozen foods businesses in the fourth quarter.   
ROIC was 12.7% in 2007. This represented an improvement from
11.5% in 2006, adjusted for the proﬁt on disposal of European
frozen foods businesses.
Results for 2006 compared with 2005
Turnover for the period increased by 3.2% to €39 642 million.
The increase was driven by USG of 3.8%, with contributions from
both volume and price, as well as favourable currency effects of
0.3%. Offsetting the increase was the impact of disposals of
(0.8)% in the period. 
Operating proﬁt for the period increased by 7% to €5 408 million
with operating margin increasing to 13.6%, up by 0.4 percentage
points compared with 2005. This was after charging restructuring,
disposals and impairments costs equivalent to 1.3 percentage
points of sales (compared with 1.5 percentage points in 2005). 
It also included €266 million of one-off gains from changes to US
healthcare and UK pension plans, equivalent to 0.7 percentage
points of sales. Before these items, and the proﬁt on the sale of
an ofﬁce in the US in 2005, the operating margin would have
been 0.3 percentage points lower than the prior year. Gross
margins held steady during the year, with supply chain savings
programmes, pricing action and a positive mix fully offsetting Financial Review continued
24 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Report of the Directors continued
around €600 million of higher input costs. Investment in
advertising and promotions increased by nearly €300 million, from
12.8% to 13.1% of sales.
Net ﬁnance costs were 18% higher in the year at €721 million.
2006 includes the provision of €300 million relating to preference
shares. The costs of ﬁnancing net borrowings were lower than
prior year with the beneﬁt of a lower level of debt. Pensions
ﬁnancing, which was a net expense of €53 million in 2005,
showed a net income of €41 million in 2006, reﬂecting a lower
gross pension fund deﬁcit.
The tax rate for the year was 24%, compared with 26% in 2005,
including the beneﬁts of a better country mix.
Share of net proﬁt from joint ventures was ahead of the prior year
due to the continued growth in the partnerships between Lipton
and PepsiCo for ready-to-drink tea. Share of net proﬁt from
associates increased signiﬁcantly compared with the prior year,
principally because of the placement of equity by one of our
venture capital fund investments.
Net proﬁt and earnings per share from continuing operations
grew by 10% and 11% respectively in 2006. Including the proﬁts
of the discontinued operations, net proﬁt and earnings per share
increased by 26% and 27% respectively.
ROIC increased from 12.5% in 2005 to 14.6% in 2006. Both
years included signiﬁcant proﬁts from the sale of discontinued
operations. Excluding these, ROIC increased from 11.3% to
11.5%.
Acquisitions and disposals
2007
During 2007, we reached agreement with our partners in South
Africa and Israel to exchange respective shareholdings such that
Unilever now own 74.25% of a newly combined South African
entity and 100% of Unilever Israel. The share swaps were effected
as at 1 October 2007 and as a result we recognised a gain on
disposal of €214 million.
On 1 January 2007, Unilever completed the restructuring of its
Portuguese businesses. The result of the reorganisation is that
Unilever now has a 55% share of the combined Portuguese
entity, called Unilever Jerónimo Martins. The combined business
includes the foods and home and personal care businesses. The
remaining 45% is held by Jerónimo Martins Group. The structure
of the agreement is such that there is joint control of the newly
formed entity and therefore it is accounted for by Unilever as a
joint venture.
Other business disposals in 2007 involved the sale of local
Brazilian margarine brands. To further develop our heart health
brand margarine Becel in Brazil we have established a joint
venture with Perdigão.
During the year, we announced the disposal of Boursin to Le
Groupe Bel for €400 million, and the disposal of Lawry’s and
Adolph’s seasoning blends and marinades business to McCormick
and Company for US $605 million. Both will be effective during
2008 (see note 33 on page 121 for further details). Furthermore,
we announced plans to dispose of our North American laundry
business, the process for which is ongoing.
In 2007 we purchased minority interests in several countries,
including Greece and India.
2006
On 4 September 2006, Unilever announced a public offer to
purchase all ordinary shares of Elais-Unilever S.A. held by third
party shareholders. Elais-Unilever S.A. was reported as a subsidiary
and is Unilever’s main foods business in Greece. The offer price
was €24.50 per share, with the public offer closing on 25 October
2006. A total of 2 234 692 shares were purchased by the end of
2006, increasing Unilever’s ownership of Elais-Unilever S.A. 
to 83.52%. This shareholding was increased to 99.2% as at 
31 December 2007.
On 3 November 2006 we announced the completion of the sale
of the majority of our frozen foods businesses in Europe to the
Permira Funds. Unilever received proceeds of €1.7 billion, and
recorded a proﬁt on disposal of €1.2 billion. The businesses sold
included operations in Austria, Belgium, France, Germany, Ireland,
the Netherlands, Portugal and the United Kingdom.
In 2006 we disposed of various other businesses and brands with
a combined turnover of around €280 million, including Mora in
the Netherlands and Belgium, Finesse in North America and Nihar
in India.
2005
There were no material acquisitions during 2005.
On 11 July 2005, we completed the sale of our Prestige fragrance
business, UCI, to Coty Inc. of the United States. Unilever received
US $800 million in cash, with the opportunity for further deferred
payments contingent upon future sales. Additional payments have
been made by Coty Inc. since the disposal, and during 2007 we
recorded a receivable for the future payments expected.
Business disposals in 2005 included Stanton Oil in the UK and
Ireland, Dextro in various countries in Europe, Opal in Peru, Karo
and Knax in Mexico, spreads and cooking products in Australia
and New Zealand, Crispa, Mentadent, Marmite, Bovril and
Maizena in South Africa, frozen pizza in Austria, Biopon in
Hungary and tea plantations in India. The combined annual
turnover of these businesses was approximately €200 million. 
In March 2005 Unilever carried out a previous phase of the
restructuring of its Portuguese foods business. Before the
restructuring Unilever Portugal held an interest in FIMA/VG –
Distribuição de Produtos Alimentares, Lda. (FIMA) foods business,
a joint venture with Jerónimo Martins Group – in addition to its
wholly owned Bestfoods business acquired in 2000. As a result of
the transaction the two foods businesses – FIMA and Unilever
Bestfoods Portugal – were uniﬁed and the joint venture stakes
were re-balanced so that Unilever held 49% of the combined
foods business and Jerónimo Martins Group 51%.  Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007 25
Report of the Directors continued
Financial Review continued
Dividends and market capitalisation
Dividends per share
Per €0.16 Per 3
1
⁄9p
NV ordinary share PLC ordinary share
€ € pence pence
2007 2006 2007 2006
Interim 0.25 0.23 17.00 15.62
Final – 0.47 – 32.04
Proposed ﬁnal 0.50 – 34.11 –
One-off – 0.26 – 17.66
Final dividends for 2007 are subject to approval at the Annual
General Meetings. If approved, this will bring the total regular
dividend to €0.75 per share for NV and 51.11p for PLC, an
increase of 7% excluding the additional one-off payment of 
€751 million made in 2006. In accordance with IFRS, no provision
for the amount of this dividend, estimated as €1 427 million, has
been recognised in the ﬁnancial statements for the year ended
31 December 2007. The €1.5 billion share buy-back programme
announced in March 2007 was completed by the end of the year.
A further programme of at least €1.5 billion is planned for 2008.
Unilever’s combined market capitalisation at 31 December 2007
was €72.5 billion (2006: €60.5 billion).
Balance sheet
€ million € million
2007 2006
Goodwill and intangible assets 16 755 17 206
Other non-current assets 10 619 10 365
Current assets 9 928 9 501
Current liabilities (13 559) (13 884)
23 743 23 188
Non-current liabilities 10 924 11 516
Shareholders’ equity 12 387 11 230
Minority interest 432 442
23 743 23 188
Goodwill and intangibles at 31 December 2007 were €0.5 billion
lower than in 2006. The movement was because of currency
movements and acquisition and disposal activity. Property, plant
and equipment was at a similar level to last year. The increase in
other non-current assets of €0.2 billion is principally explained by
the capital injection in the international Pepsi/Lipton partnership
which is extended, effective 1 January 2008, and by the improved
funding position of our pension funds. This improvement results
from accelerated funding contributions and increases in asset
values. Inventories and trade receivables show little movement
when compared with the prior year.
Current liabilities decreased by €0.3 billion compared with 2006.
This decrease is because of a €0.3 billion reduction in current
ﬁnancial liabilities, an increase of €0.2 billion in trade payables
and other current liabilities and a decrease of €0.2 billion in
current tax liabilities. 
Non-current liabilities have decreased by €0.6 billion compared
with 2006. The movement is explained by an increase of €1.1
billion in ﬁnancial liabilities due after more than one year, offset
by a decrease in pensions and post-retirement healthcare liabilities
of €1.7 billion.
The increase in ﬁnancial liabilities is because of the reﬁnancing
activity during 2007, offset to some extent by the appreciation of
the euro against the US dollar, as a signiﬁcant portion of our
ﬁnancial liabilities are US dollar denominated. The currency
distribution of total ﬁnancial liabilities was as follows: 53% in US
dollars (2006: 69%), and 32% in euros (2006: 24%), the
remainder spread across a number of countries. 
The funding position of the Group’s main pension arrangements
has improved since the end of 2006 due largely to accelerated
funding contributions and reduced liabilities from higher discount
rates, net of slightly increased inﬂation and life expectancy
assumptions. The overall net liability for all arrangements was
€1.1 billion at the end of 2007, a reduction from €3.1 billion at
31 December 2006. Funded schemes show an aggregate surplus
of €1.2 billion, while unfunded arrangements show a liability of
€2.3 billion. During 2007, some previously unfunded
arrangements were partially funded with €0.3 billion reported as
part of contributions paid. The movement of the Group’s pension
funding position has resulted in a release of €0.5 billion of related
deferred tax asset.
Unilever manages interest rate and currency exposures based on
the net debt position. Taking into account the various cross
currency swaps and other derivatives, 61% of Unilever’s net debt
was in US dollars (2006: 81%) and 32% in euros (2006: 25%)
and ((18)% – ﬁnancial assets) in sterling (2006: (33)%), with the
remainder spread over a large number of other currencies.
Unilever has committed credit facilities in place to support its
commercial paper programmes and for general corporate
purposes. The undrawn committed credit facilities in place at 
the end of 2007 were: bilateral committed credit facilities 
totalling US $3.6 billion, bilateral notes commitments totalling 
US $0.2 billion and bilateral money market commitments totalling
US $1.7 billion. Further details regarding these facilities are given
in note 17 on page 97.
During 2007, a €750 million ﬂoating rate bond was issued with a
maturity date of 29 May 2009, a US $500 million extendible
ﬂoating rate bond was issued having an initial maturity date of 
11 July 2008 and a ﬁnal maturity date of 11 June 2012 and a
€750 million ﬁxed rate 4.625% Eurobond was issued with a
maturity of ﬁve years. During 2007 Unilever repaid amongst
others the 4.25% €1 000 million euro bonds and the 5% US
$650 million bonds.
Total shareholders’ equity has increased by €1.2 billion in the year.
Net proﬁt added €3.9 billion and currency and fair value/actuarial
gains added €0.2 billion. Dividends paid in the year totalled 
€2.1 billion and there was an adverse effect of €1.1 billion as a
result of higher treasury stock, explained by the share buy-back
programme of €1.5 billion and the €(0.4) billion effect of the
exercise of share options.
Unilever is satisﬁed that its ﬁnancing arrangements are adequate
to meet its working capital needs for the foreseeable future.
Unilever’s contractual obligations at the end of 2007 included
capital expenditure commitments, borrowings, lease commitments
and other commitments. A summary of certain contractual
obligations at 31 December 2007 is provided in the table below.
Further details are set out in the following notes to the accounts:
note 10 on page 88, note 16 on page 94, note 17 on pages 97
to 101 and note 25 on page 112. 26 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Report of the Directors continued
Financial Review continued
Contractual obligations at 31 December 2007
€ million € million € million € million € million
Due Due in 
within Due in Due in over
Total one year 1-3 years 3-5 years 5 years
Long-term debt 5 851 632 2 367 792 2 060
Operating lease 
obligations 1 663 363 527 332 441
Purchase obligations
(a)
299 234 46 17 2
Finance leases 520 82 77 48 313
Other long-term
commitments 1 454 412 488 404 150
(a) Raw and packaging materials and ﬁnished goods.
Off-balance sheet arrangements
IFRS interpretation SIC 12 requires that entities with which we
have relationships are considered for consolidation in the
consolidated accounts based on relative sharing of economic risks
and rewards rather than based solely on share ownership and
voting rights. We periodically review our contractual
arrangements with potential special purpose entities (SPEs) as
deﬁned by SIC 12. The most recent review has concluded that
that there are no signiﬁcant SPE relationships which are not
already appropriately reﬂected in the accounts. Information
concerning guarantees given by the Group is stated in note 25 
on page 112.
Cash ﬂow
€ million € million € million
2007 2006 2005
Net cash ﬂow from
operating activities 3 876 4 511 4 353
Net cash ﬂow from/(used in) 
investing activities (623) 1 155 515
Net cash ﬂow from/(used in) 
ﬁnancing activities (3 009) (6 572) (4 821)
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash
equivalents 244 (906) 47
Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 2007 were 
€0.2 billion higher than at 31 December 2006. Net cash ﬂow
from operating activities, at €3.9 billion, was €0.6 billion lower
than in 2006 because of higher cash costs of restructuring and
increased income tax payments. Income tax paid was €0.2 billion
higher than in 2006 because of the timing of payments. Taking
the last two years together, cash tax paid was at a similar level to
the tax charges in the income statement. There was a further
small improvement in working capital. 
The movement of €1.8 billion in net cash ﬂow used in investing
activities when compared with 2006 is explained by the decrease
in completed disposal activity in the year and a small increase in
net capital expenditure. The increase in net capital expenditure
was entirely in Asia Africa, supporting the priority for growth in
the region.
The decrease of €3.6 billion cash used in ﬁnancing activities from
2006 is a consequence of the changes in ﬁnancial liabilities of
€4.6 billion, offset by the impact of the treasury stock movement.
The net €1.1 billion movement in treasury stocks reﬂects the net
effect of share buy-backs of €1.5 billion and the exercise of share
options of €(0.4) billion. 
At 31 December 2007, the net debt position was €8.3 billion, an
increase of €0.8 billion compared with 2006. The increase is due
to the fact that cash generation was more than offset by the
outﬂows relating to dividends, share buy-backs and additional
pension funding. We also beneﬁted from the appreciation of the
euro against the US dollar.
Finance and liquidity
Unilever aims to be in the top third of a reference group including
20 other international consumer goods companies for Total
Shareholder Return, as explained on page 32. The Group’s
ﬁnancial strategy supports this objective and provides the ﬁnancial
ﬂexibility to meet its strategic and day-to-day needs. The key
elements of the ﬁnancial strategy are:
• appropriate access to equity and debt capital;
• sufﬁcient ﬂexibility for acquisitions that we fund out of current
cash ﬂows;
• A1/P1 short-term credit rating;
• sufﬁcient resilience against economic turmoil; and
• optimal weighted average cost of capital, given the constraints
above.
Unilever aims to concentrate cash in the parent and ﬁnance
companies in order to ensure maximum ﬂexibility in meeting
changing business needs. Operating subsidiaries are ﬁnanced
through the mix of retained earnings, third-party borrowings and
loans from parent and group ﬁnancing companies that is most
appropriate to the particular country and business concerned.
Unilever maintains access to global debt markets through an
infrastructure of short-term debt programmes (principally US
domestic and euro commercial paper programmes) and long-term
debt programmes (principally a US Shelf registration and
euromarket Debt Issuance Programme). Debt in the international
markets is, in general, issued in the name of NV, PLC, Unilever
Finance International BV or Unilever Capital Corporation. NV and
PLC will normally guarantee such debt where they are not the
issuer.
Unilever has been unaffected by the credit issues prevalent in
some ﬁnancial markets and we have been able to raise debt as
required to fulﬁl our capital requirements.
Treasury
Unilever Treasury’s role is to ensure that appropriate ﬁnancing is
available for all value-creating investments. Additionally, Treasury
delivers ﬁnancial services to allow operating companies to
manage their ﬁnancial transactions and exposures in an efﬁcient,
timely and low-cost manner.  Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007 27
Report of the Directors continued
Financial Review continued
Unilever Treasury operates as a service centre and is governed by
policies and plans approved by the Boards. In addition to policies,
guidelines and exposure limits, a system of authorities and
extensive independent reporting covers all major areas of activity.
Performance is monitored closely. Reviews are undertaken by the
corporate internal audit function. 
The key ﬁnancial instruments used by Unilever are short- and
long-term borrowings, cash and cash equivalents and certain
straightforward derivative instruments, principally comprising
interest rate swaps and foreign exchange contracts. The
accounting for derivative instruments is discussed in note 1 on
page 74. The use of leveraged instruments is not permitted. 
Other relevant disclosures are given in notes 15, 16 and 17 on
pages 92, 94 and 97.
Unilever Treasury manages a variety of market risks, including the
effects of changes in foreign exchange rates, interest rates and
liquidity. Further details of the management of these risks are
given in note 17 on page 97.
Pensions investment strategy
The Group’s investment strategy in respect of its funded 
pension plans is implemented within the framework of the
various statutory requirements of the territories where the 
plans are based. The Group has developed policy guidelines for
the allocation of assets to different classes with the objective of
controlling risk and maintaining the right balance between risk
and long-term returns in order to limit the cost to the Group of
the beneﬁts provided. To achieve this, investments are well
diversiﬁed, such that the failure of any single investment would
not have a material impact on the overall level of assets. The
plans invest the largest proportion of the assets in equities, which
the Group believes offer the best returns over the long term
commensurate with an acceptable level of risk. The pension funds
also have a proportion of assets invested in property, bonds,
hedge funds and cash. The majority of the assets are managed by
a number of external fund managers with a small proportion
managed in-house. Unilever has a pooled investment vehicle
(Univest) which it believes offers its pension plans around the
world a simpliﬁed externally managed investment vehicle to
implement their strategic asset allocation models currently for
equities and hedge funds. The aim is to provide a high quality,
well diversiﬁed risk controlled vehicle.
Signiﬁcant events after the balance sheet date
Effective 1 January 2008, Unilever and PepsiCo have entered into
an expanded international partnership for the marketing and
distribution of ready-to-drink tea products under the Lipton
brand. The new agreement adds 11 counties to the partnership’s
existing Lipton ready-to-drink tea business – eight in Europe
(Germany, Italy, France, Netherlands, Switzerland, Austria, Belgium
and Portugal) as well as Korea, Taiwan and South Africa.
On 5 November 2007, Unilever announced the disposal of
Boursin to Le Groupe Bel for €400 million. The sale was effective
on 3 January 2008.
On 4 February 2008, we announced that we had reached an
agreement to acquire the leading Russian ice cream business
Inmarko, for an undisclosed amount. The deal is subject to
regulatory approval and is expected to be completed in the ﬁrst
half of 2008.
On 11 February 2008, Unilever announced a share buy-back
programme of at least €1.5 billion for 2008.
On 21 February 2008, Unilever launched a bond composed of
two tranches; i) CHF 250 million ﬁxed rate bond which will
mature in four years, and ii) CHF 350 million ﬁxed rate bond
which will mature in seven years. Completion is expected in late
March 2008.
On 28 February 2008 Unilever announced a number of changes
affecting its organisation. As a further extension of the One
Unilever programme, Foods and Home and Personal Care will be
combined into a single category structure. To reﬂect our strategic
focus on growth in developing markets, operations in Central and
Eastern Europe will be managed as part of an enlarged region
comprising Asia, Africa and Central and Eastern Europe, with
Western Europe becoming a separate region.
A number of Board and senior executive changes were
announced simultaneously. Kees van der Graaf will step down
from the Boards of Unilever and from his role as President Europe
at the AGMs on 14 and 15 May 2008. Ralph Kugler, President
Home and Personal Care, will similarly step down at the AGMs.
Harish Manwani, currently President Asia Africa, will lead the new
expanded region. Doug Baillie, previously Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
of Hindustan Unilever, will join the Unilever Executive as President
Western Europe. The roles of President Home and Personal Care
and President Foods will be merged under the leadership of Vindi
Banga, currently President Foods.
Critical accounting policies
The accounts presented comply in all material respects with IFRS
as adopted by the EU and with UK and Dutch law. They are also
in accordance with IFRS as issued by the International Accounting
Standards Board. To prepare these accounts, we are required to
make estimates and assumptions, using judgement based on
available information, including historical experience. These
estimates and assumptions are reasonable and are re-evaluated
on an ongoing basis. However, actual amounts and results could
differ. Critical accounting policies are those which are most
important to the portrayal of Unilever’s ﬁnancial position and
results of operations. Some of these policies require difﬁcult,
subjective or complex judgements from management, the most
important being:
Goodwill and intangible assets 
Impairment reviews in respect of goodwill and indeﬁnite-lived
intangible assets are performed at least annually. More regular
reviews, and impairment reviews in respect of other assets, are
performed if events indicate that this is necessary. Impairment
reviews are performed by comparing the carrying value of the
asset concerned to that asset’s recoverable amount (being the
higher of value in use and fair value less costs to sell). Value in use
is a valuation derived from discounted future cash ﬂows. The
most important assumptions when preparing these forecast cash
ﬂows are long-term growth rates and discount rates. These are
challenged at least anually and although these are believed to be
appropriate, changes in these assumptions could change the
outcomes of the impairment reviews. 28 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Report of the Directors continued
Financial Review continued
The most signiﬁcant balances of goodwill and intangible assets
relate to the global savoury and dressings sub-product group. 
We have reviewed the carrying value of this cash generating unit
by considering expected future cash ﬂows based on historical
experience and planned growth rates and margins for this
product group. No signiﬁcant impairment losses have been
identiﬁed in 2007.
Please refer also to note 9 on page 86.
Financial instruments
Financial instruments are classiﬁed according to the purpose for
which the instruments were acquired. This gives rise to the
following classes: held-to-maturity investments, loans and
receivables, available-for-sale ﬁnancial assets and ﬁnancial assets
at fair value through proﬁt or loss. Please refer to note 1 on pages
73 and 74 for a description of each of these categories.
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments are reported at fair value, with
changes in fair values booked through proﬁt or loss unless the
derivatives are designated and effective as hedges of future cash
ﬂows, in which case the changes are recognised directly in equity.
At the time the hedged cash ﬂow results in the recognition of an
asset or a liability, the associated gains or losses on the derivative
that had previously been recognised in equity are included in the
initial measurement of the asset or liability. For hedged items that
do not result in the recognition of an asset or liability, amounts
deferred in equity are recognised in the income statement in the
same period in which the hedged item affects net proﬁt or loss. 
Changes in fair value of net investment hedges in relation to
foreign subsidiaries are recognised directly in equity.
Pensions and similar obligations
The assets and liabilities of the plans are recognised at fair values
in the balance sheet.
Pension accounting requires certain assumptions to be made in
order to value our obligations and to determine the charges to 
be made to the income statement. These ﬁgures are particularly
sensitive to assumptions for discount rates, inﬂation rates,
mortality rates and expected long-term rates of return on assets.
Information about sensitivity to certain of these assumptions is
given in note 20 on page 103 and 104.
The following table sets out these assumptions (except for
mortality rates), as at 31 December 2007, in respect of the four
largest Unilever pension plans. Further details of assumptions
(including mortality rates) made are given in note 20 on pages
103 and 104.
%%%%
Nether- United
UK lands States Germany
Discount rate 5.8 5.5 5.9 5.5
Inﬂation 3.0 1.9 2.3 1.9
Expected long-term rate of return:
Equities 8.0 8.1 7.8 8.1
Bonds 5.0 4.7 4.5 4.7
Property 6.5 6.6 6.3 6.6
Others 6.3 4.1 3.7 5.8
These assumptions are set by reference to market conditions at
the valuation date. Actual experience may differ from the
assumptions made. The effects of such differences are recognised
through the statement of recognised income and expense.
Demographic assumptions, such as mortality rates, are set having
regard to the latest trends in life expectancy, plan experience and
other relevant data. The assumptions are reviewed and updated
as necessary as part of the periodic actuarial valuation of the
pension plans. Mortality assumptions for the four largest plans 
are given in more detail in note 20 on page 104.
Provisions
Provision is made, amongst other reasons, for legal matters,
disputed indirect taxes, employee termination costs and
restructuring where a legal or constructive obligation exists at the
balance sheet date and a reliable estimate can be made of the
likely outcome.
Advertising and promotion costs
Expenditure on items such as consumer promotions and trade
advertising is charged against proﬁt in the year in which it is
incurred. At each balance sheet date, we are required to estimate
the part of expenditure incurred but not yet invoiced based on
our knowledge of customer, consumer and promotional activity.
Deferred tax
Full provision is made for deferred taxation at the rates of tax
prevailing at the year end unless future rates have been
substantively enacted, as detailed in note 12 on page 91.
Deferred tax assets are regularly reviewed for recoverability, and a
valuation allowance is established to the extent that recoverability
is not considered likely. Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007 29
Report of the Directors continued
Financial Review continued
Non-GAAP measures
Certain discussions and analyses set out in this Annual Report and
Accounts include measures which are not deﬁned by generally
accepted accounting principles (GAAP) such as IFRS. We believe
this information, along with comparable GAAP measurements, is
useful to investors because it provides a basis for measuring our
operating performance, ability to retire debt and invest in new
business opportunities. Our management uses these ﬁnancial
measures, along with the most directly comparable GAAP
ﬁnancial measures, in evaluating our operating performance and
value creation. Non-GAAP ﬁnancial measures should not be
considered in isolation from, or as a substitute for, ﬁnancial
information presented in compliance with GAAP . Non-GAAP
ﬁnancial measures as reported by us may not be comparable to
similarly titled amounts reported by other companies. 
In the following sections we set out our deﬁnitions of the
following non-GAAP measures and provide reconciliations to
relevant GAAP measures:
• Ungeared free cash ﬂow;
• Return on invested capital;
• Underlying sales growth; and
• Net debt.
We set out ‘Measures of long-term value creation’ as an
introduction to the following section, in order to explain the
relevance of the above measures. At the end of this section we
summarise the impact on Total Shareholder Return (TSR) which is
a key metric.
Measures of long-term value creation
Unilever’s ambition for the creation of value for shareholders is
measured by Total Shareholder Return over a rolling three-year
period compared with a peer group of 20 other international
consumer goods companies. 
Unilever believes that the contribution of the business to this
objective can best be measured and communicated to investors
through the following measures:
• The delivery, over time, of Ungeared Free Cash Flow (UFCF),
which expresses the translation of proﬁt into cash, and thus
longer-term economic value; and
• The development, over time, of Return on Invested Capital
(ROIC), which expresses the returns generated on capital
invested in the Group.
Unilever communicates progress against these measures 
annually, and management remuneration is aligned with these
objectives. The UFCF over a three-year period is incorporated as a
performance element of Unilever’s management incentive
scheme.
UFCF and ROIC are non-GAAP measures. We comment on these
in detail here since they are the way in which we communicate
our ambition and monitor progress towards our longer-term value
creation goals and in order to:
• improve transparency for investors;
• assist investors in their assessment of the long-term value 
of Unilever;
• ensure that the measures are fully understood in the light of
how Unilever reviews long-term value creation for shareholders;
• properly deﬁne the metrics used and conﬁrm their calculation;
• share the metrics with all investors at the same time; and
• disclose UFCF as it is one of the drivers of management
remuneration and therefore management behaviour.
As investor measures, we believe that there are no GAAP
measures directly comparable with UFCF and ROIC. However, 
in the tables on pages 30 and 31, we reconcile each as follows:
UFCF to cash ﬂow from operating activities and also to net proﬁt;
ROIC to net proﬁt.
Caution
Unilever cautions that, while UFCF and ROIC are widely used as
tools for investment analysis, they are not deﬁned terms under
IFRS and therefore their deﬁnitions should be carefully reviewed
and understood by investors. Investors should be aware that their
application may vary in practice and therefore these measures
may not be fully comparable between companies. In particular:
• We recognise that the usefulness of UFCF and ROIC as
indicators of investment value is limited, as such measures 
are based on historical information;
• UFCF and ROIC measures are not intended to be a substitute
for, or superior to, GAAP measures in the ﬁnancial statements;
• The fact that ROIC is a ratio inherently limits its use, and
management uses ROIC only for the purposes discussed above.
The relevance and use of net proﬁt for the year (being the 
most relevant comparable GAAP measure) is clearly more
pervasive; and
• UFCF is not the residual cash available to pay dividends but
represents cash generated by the business and broadly available
to the providers of ﬁnance, both debt and equity. Financial Review continued
Ungeared free cash ﬂow (UFCF)
UFCF expresses the generation of proﬁt by the business and how this is translated into cash, and thus economic value. It is therefore
not used as a liquidity measure within Unilever. The movement in UFCF is used by Unilever to measure progress against our longer-term
value creation goals as outlined to investors.
UFCF is cash ﬂow from group operating activities, less net capital expenditure, less charges to operating proﬁt for share-based
compensation and pensions, and less tax (adjusted to reﬂect an ungeared position and, in 2006, for the impact on proﬁt on sales of
frozen foods businesses), but before the ﬁnancing of pensions. 
In 2007, UFCF was €3.8 billion (2006: €4.2 billion; 2005: €4.0 billion). The reconciliation of UFCF to the GAAP measures net proﬁt and
cash ﬂow from operating activities is shown below.
The tax charge used in determining UFCF can be either the income statement tax charge or the actual cash taxes paid. Our consistently
applied deﬁnition uses the income statement tax charge in order to eliminate the impact of volatility due to the variable timing of
payments around the year end. For 2006 the income statement tax charge on this basis was materially impacted by the tax effect of
non-cash charges for the provision for preference shares and certain other non-cash items. UFCF for 2007 based on actual cash tax
paid would have been €3.6 billion (2006: €4.5 billion; 2005: €3.7 billion).
€ million € million € million
Ungeared free cash ﬂow 2007 2006 2005
Net proﬁt 4 136 5 015 3 975
Taxation 1 137 1 332 1 301
Share of net proﬁt of joint ventures/associates and other income from non-current investments (191) (144) (55)
Net ﬁnance costs 252 725 618
Depreciation, amortisation and impairment 943 982 1 274
Changes in working capital 27 87 193
Pensions charges in operating proﬁt less payments (910) (1 038) (532)
Movements in provisions less payments 145 107 (230)
Elimination of proﬁts on disposals (459) (1 620) (789)
Non-cash charge for share-based compensation 118 120 192
Other adjustments (10) 8 (23)
Cash ﬂow from operating activities 5 188 5 574 5 924
Less charge for share-based compensation (118) (120) (192)
Add back pension payments less pension charges in operating proﬁt 910 1 038 532
Less net capital expenditure (983) (934) (813)
Less tax charge adjusted to reﬂect an ungeared position (1 228) (1 336) (1 440)
Taxation on proﬁt (1 137) (1 332) (1 301)
Taxation on proﬁt on sales of frozen foods businesses – 159 –
Tax relief on net ﬁnance costs (91) (163) (139)
Ungeared free cash ﬂow 3 769 4 222 4 011
30 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Report of the Directors continued Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007 31
Report of the Directors continued
Financial Review continued
Return on invested capital (ROIC)
ROIC expresses the returns generated on capital invested in the Group. The progression of ROIC is used by Unilever to measure
progress against our longer-term value creation goals outlined to investors.
ROIC is proﬁt after tax but excluding net interest on net debt and impairment of goodwill and indeﬁnite-lived intangible assets both net
of tax, divided by average invested capital for the year. Invested capital is the sum of property, plant and equipment and other non-
current investments, software and ﬁnite-lived intangible assets, working capital, goodwill and indeﬁnite-lived intangible assets at gross
book value and cumulative goodwill written off directly to reserves under an earlier accounting policy.
In 2007, ROIC was 12.7% (2006: 14.6%). The reconciliation of ROIC to the GAAP measure net proﬁt is shown below.
There were no disposals of discontinued operations in 2007; the impact of such disposals in 2006 and 2005 was €1.2 billion and €0.5
billion respectively. ROIC is based on total business proﬁt, including proﬁt on such disposals. ROIC excluding this impact in 2007 is
12.7% (2006: 11.5%; 2005: 11.3%).
€ million € million € million
Return on invested capital 2007 2006 2005
Net proﬁt 4 136 5 015 3 975
Add back net interest expense net of tax 314 365 424
Add back impairment charges net of tax
(a)
1 15 245
Proﬁt after tax, before interest and impairment of goodwill and indeﬁnite-lived intangible assets 4 451 5 395 4 644
Year-end positions for invested capital:
Property, plant and equipment and other non-current investments 7 276 7 142 7 333
Software and ﬁnite-lived intangible assets 590 608 642
Inventories 3 894 3 796 4 107
Trade and other receivables 4 965 4 667 5 185
Trade payables and other creditors due within one year (8 545) (8 513) (8 782)
Elements of invested capital included in assets and liabilities held for sale 150 15 200
Goodwill and indeﬁnite-lived intangible assets at gross book value 20 029 20 705 21 621
Total 28 359 28 420 30 306
Add back cumulative goodwill written off directly to reserves 6 427 6 427 6 870
Year-end invested capital 34 786 34 847 37 176
Average invested capital for the year 35 122 36 850 37 012
Return on average invested capital 12.7% 14.6% 12.5%
Return on average invested capital excluding proﬁt on disposal of discontinued operations 12.7% 11.5% 11.3%
(a) Excluding write-downs of goodwill and indeﬁnite-lived intangible assets taken in connection with business disposals. Financial Review continued
Underlying sales growth (USG)
USG reﬂects the change in revenue from continuing operations at
constant rates of exchange, excluding the effects of acquisitions
and disposals. It is a measure that provides valuable additional
information on the underlying performance of the business. 
In particular, it presents the organic growth of our business year
on year and is used internally as a core measure of sales
performance.
The reconciliation of USG to changes in the GAAP measure
turnover is as follows:
2007 2006
vs 2006 vs 2005
Underlying sales growth (%) 5.5 3.8
Effect of acquisitions (%) 0.1 0.1
Effect of disposals (%) (0.9) (0.8)
Effect of exchange rates (%) (3.1) 0.3
Turnover growth (%) 1.4 3.2
Net debt
Net debt is deﬁned as the excess of total ﬁnancial liabilities,
excluding trade and other payables, over cash, cash equivalents
and ﬁnancial assets, excluding amounts held for sale. It is a
measure that provides valuable additional information on the
summary presentation of the Group’s net ﬁnancial liabilities and is
a measure in common use elsewhere. The net debt deﬁnition in
our 2007 reporting has not changed in substance from previous
years, however, the terminology has been updated to correspond
with that appearing on the balance sheet.
The reconciliation of net debt to the GAAP measure total ﬁnancial
liabilities is as follows:
€ million € million
2007 2006
Total ﬁnancial liabilities (9 649) (8 835)
Financial liabilities due within one year (4 166) (4 458)
Financial liabilities due after one year (5 483) (4 377)
Cash and cash equivalents as per balance sheet 1 098 1 039
Cash and cash equivalents as per 
cash ﬂow statement 901 710
Add bank overdrafts deducted therein 197 329
Financial assets 216 273
Net debt (8 335) (7 523)
Total Shareholder Return (TSR)
TSR measures the returns received by a shareholder, capturing
both the increase in share price and the value of dividend income
(assuming dividends are re-invested). Unilever’s TSR performance
is compared with a peer group of competitors over a three-year
rolling performance period. This period is sensitive enough to
reﬂect changes but long enough to smooth out short-term
volatility. The return is expressed in US dollars, based on the
equivalent US dollar share price for NV and PLC. US dollars were
chosen to facilitate comparison with companies in Unilever’s
chosen reference group. The choice of currency affects the
absolute TSR but not the relative ranking. 
Unilever’s TSR target is to be in the top third of a reference group
including 20 other international consumer goods companies on a
three-year rolling basis. At the end of 2006 we were positioned
13th, and at the end of 2007 the ranking was 8th. In 2007, 
the following companies formed the peer group of comparative
companies:
Avon Kraft
Beiersdorf Lion
Cadbury Schweppes L’Oréal
Clorox Nestlé
Coca-Cola Orkla
Colgate PepsiCo
Danone Procter & Gamble
Heinz Reckitt Benckiser
Kao Sara Lee
Kimberly-Clark Shiseido
2007 2006 2003 2004 2005
7
14
21
Unilever’s position relative to the TSR reference group
The reference group, including Unilever, consists of 21 companies. Unilever’s position is
based on TSR over a three-year rolling period. 
32 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Report of the Directors continued Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007 33
Report of the Directors continued
Corporate governance
Introduction
Unilever aspires to high standards of corporate governance. 
We constantly keep our corporate governance arrangements
under review. NV and PLC are subject to various corporate
governance requirements and best practice codes, the most
relevant being those in the Netherlands, the United Kingdom 
and the United States. It is Unilever’s practice to comply, where
practicable, with the highest level of these codes and respond 
to developments appropriately.
The Unilever Group 
Unilever N.V. and Unilever PLC are the two parent companies 
of the Unilever Group. Together with the group companies, NV
and PLC operate effectively as a single economic entity. This is
achieved by a series of agreements between NV and PLC (the
Foundation Agreements, see page 40), together with special
provisions in the Articles of Association of NV and PLC. NV and
PLC have the same Directors and adopt the same accounting
principles. Shareholders of both companies receive dividends on
an equalised basis. NV and PLC and their group companies
constitute a single reporting entity for the purposes of presenting
consolidated accounts. Accordingly, the accounts of the Unilever
Group are presented by both NV and PLC as their respective
consolidated accounts.
NV and PLC have agreed to co-operate in all areas and ensure
that all group companies act accordingly. NV and PLC are holding
and service companies, and the business activity of Unilever is
carried out by their subsidiaries around the world. Shares in group
companies may ultimately be held wholly by either NV or PLC, or
jointly by the two companies, in varying proportions.
NV was incorporated under the name Naamlooze Vennootschap
Margarine Unie in the Netherlands in 1927. Its objects and
purposes are set out in Article 2 of its Articles of Association. 
PLC was incorporated under the name Lever Brothers Limited in
England and Wales in 1894. Its objects and purposes can be
found in Clause 3 of its Memorandum of Association. The two
companies have different shareholder constituencies and
shareholders cannot convert or exchange the shares of one
company for shares of the other. NV is listed in Amsterdam and
New York. PLC is listed in London and New York.
Unilever policies 
The implementation of and compliance with our governance
structure is facilitated through a business-orientated policy
framework. Unilever policies are universally applicable within the
Unilever Group. They are mandatory and have been developed to
ensure consistency in key areas within our worldwide operations.
They cover operational and functional matters, and govern how
we run our business, in order to comply with applicable laws and
regulations.
Unilever policies include: the Code of Business Principles, the
Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Ofﬁcers, the Compliance
Manual for the Listing Rules and Disclosure and Transparency
Rules (including the Unilever Share Dealing Code), the Risk
Management Policy, the Corporate Pensions Policy and the
Accounting and Reporting Policy.
The Code of Business Principles is Unilever’s statement of values
and represents the standard of conduct we require from all of our
employees. Our Code of Ethics applies to the senior executive,
ﬁnancial and accounting ofﬁcers and comprises the standards
prescribed by the US Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).
The Code of Business Principles Hotline is a conﬁdential way for
employees to submit concerns regarding accounting and auditing
issues anonymously and handles all alleged violations of the Code
of Business Principles. Copies of the Code of Business Principles,
the Code of Ethics and the Share Dealing Code are posted on our
website at www.unilever.com/investorcentre/corpgovernance
Our internal risk management and control systems are described
on pages 13 and 14.
Developments in corporate governance 
Following his appointment as a Non-Executive Director at the
AGMs in May 2007, Unilever appointed its ﬁrst independent Non-
Executive Chairman, Michael Treschow, in succession to Antony
Burgmans who retired as Chairman at those meetings.
In September 2007, the ofﬁces of the Joint Secretaries came to an
end, and the position of a single Group Secretary was introduced
and adopted by the Boards.
The text that follows describes the corporate governance
arrangements operating within Unilever and the changes
anticipated in 2008. More information on our corporate
governance arrangements is set out in ‘The Governance of
Unilever’, the Boards’ statement of their internal arrangements,
which can be found at
www.unilever.com/investorcentre/corpgovernance
The Boards 
The Boards of NV and PLC comprise the same Directors and have
the same Chairman. This ensures unity of governance and
management by ensuring that all matters are considered by the
Boards as a single intellect, reaching the same conclusions on the
same set of facts (save where speciﬁc local factors apply).
The Boards are one-tier boards, comprising Executive Directors
and, in a majority, Non-Executive Directors. The Boards have
ultimate responsibility for the management, general affairs,
direction and performance of the business as a whole. The
responsibility of the Directors is collective, taking into account
their respective roles as Executive Directors and Non-Executive
Directors. The Executive Directors have additional responsibilities
for the operation of our business as determined by the Group
Chief Executive.
Our Directors have set out a number of areas of responsibility
which are reserved to themselves and other areas for which
matters are delegated to the Group Chief Executive and
committees whose actions are regularly reported to and
monitored by the Boards. These are described on pages 35 to 38.
Further details of how our Boards effectively operate as one
board, govern themselves and delegate their authorities are set
out in ‘The Governance of Unilever’, which can be found at
www.unilever.com/investorcentre/corpgovernance 34 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Report of the Directors continued
Corporate governance continued
Appointment of Directors 
Directors are appointed by shareholders at the AGMs. All existing
Directors, unless they are retiring, submit themselves for election
every year and shareholders can remove any of them by a simple
majority vote.
In order to seek to ensure that NV and PLC have the same
Directors, the Articles of Association of NV and PLC contain
provisions which are designed to ensure that both NV and PLC
shareholders are presented with the same candidates for election
as Directors. This is achieved through a nomination procedure
operated by the Boards of NV and PLC through Unilever’s
Nomination Committee.
Based on the evaluation of the Boards, its Committees and its
individual members, the Nomination Committee recommends to
the Boards a list of candidates for nomination at the AGMs of
both NV and of PLC. In addition, since 2006 shareholders have
been able to nominate Directors for this list although to do so
they must put a resolution to both meetings in line with local
requirements for requisitioning a resolution. In order to ensure
that the Boards remain identical, anyone being elected as a
Director of NV must also be elected as a Director of PLC and vice
versa. If an individual fails to be elected to both companies then
he or she will be unable to take their place on the Boards.
The provisions in the Articles of Association for appointing
Directors cannot be changed without the permission, in the case
of NV, of the holders of the special ordinary shares numbered 
1 - 2400 inclusive and, in the case of PLC, of the holders of 
PLC's deferred stock. The NV special ordinary shares may only be
transferred to one or more other holders of such shares. The 
joint holders of both the NV special ordinary shares and the 
PLC deferred stock are N.V. Elma and United Holdings Limited, 
which are joint subsidiaries of NV and PLC. The boards of N.V.
Elma and United Holdings Limited comprise the members of the
Nomination Committee. The Nomination Committee comprises
Non-Executive Directors only.
Board meetings 
Our Boards meet at least seven times a year to consider important
corporate events and actions, such as: 
• approval of corporate strategy; 
• approval of the corporate Annual Plan; 
• review of risks and controls; 
• authorisation of major transactions; 
• preparation of the Annual Report and Accounts; 
• declaration of dividends; 
• agreement of quarterly results announcements; 
• convening of shareholders’ meetings; 
• nominations for Board appointments; 
• approval of Board remuneration policy; and
• review of the functioning of the Boards and their Committees. 
The following table shows the attendance of Directors at Board
meetings for the year ended 31 December 2007. If Directors are
unable to attend a meeting, they have the opportunity before the
meeting to discuss with the Chairman any agenda items or Board
papers:
Name Attendance
(a)
Antony Burgmans (Chairman to 16 May 2007) 3 of 3
Michael Treschow (Chairman from 16 May 2007) 5 of 5
Patrick Cescau 8 of 8
Kees van der Graaf 7 of 8
Ralph Kugler 7 of 8
Rudy Markham (to 16 May 2007) 3 of 3
Genevieve Berger (from 16 May 2007) 5 of 5
Leon Brittan 7 of 8
Lynda Chalker (to 16 May 2007) 2 of 3
Wim Dik 8 of 8
Charles Golden 8 of 8
Byron Grote 8 of 8
Narayana Murthy (from 16 May 2007) 4 of 5
Hixonia Nyasulu (from 16 May 2007) 5 of 5
David Simon 8 of 8
Jean-Cyril Spinetta (to 14 September 2007) 1 of 6
Kees Storm 7 of 8
Jeroen van der Veer 6 of 8
(a) Attendance is expressed as number of meetings attended out of
number eligible to attend.
Board meetings are normally held either in London or Rotterdam,
with at least one off site Board meeting a year. The Chairman is
assisted by the Group Secretary, who ensures that the Boards are
supplied with all the information necessary for their deliberations.
The Chairman and the Group Secretary involve the Senior
Independent Director (see page 36) in the arrangements for Board
meetings.
Board induction and training 
Upon election, Directors receive a comprehensive Directors’
Manual and are briefed thoroughly on their responsibilities and
our business. Updates on corporate governance developments
and investor relations matters are frequent items at Board
meetings. Ongoing training is provided for Directors by way of
site visits, presentations, circulated updates, teach-ins and agenda
items at Board or Board committee meetings on, among other
things, Unilever’s business, corporate governance, regulatory
developments, and investor relations matters. In particular, during
2007 the Boards were given a presentation by our external legal
advisers on the new directors’ duties under the UK Companies
Act 2006, which came into force on 1 October 2007. In 2007, a
Board meeting was held in Durban, South Africa which included a
visit to our factory operations, certain retail outlets and charitable
organisations supported by Unilever in South Africa. Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007 35
Report of the Directors continued
Corporate governance continued
Board evaluation 
The evaluation process of our Boards consists of a three-year cycle
with an independent third party evaluation carried out once every
three years and internal evaluations in each of the two years in
between. The internal evaluations are based on the independent
third party evaluation materials. An independent third party
evaluation was last carried out in 2006. In 2007 our Chairman, in
conjunction with the Senior Independent Director, conducted the
internal evaluation process. An extensive questionnaire for all
Board members formed part of the evaluation process. In
addition, our Chairman conducted a process of evaluating the
performance of each individual Board member, including an
interview with each. A similar process with respect to the
performance of the Chairman was conducted by the Senior
Independent Director after consulting Board members. 
Committees of the Boards evaluate themselves under supervision
of their respective chairmen taking into account the views of
respective committee members. The results of the evaluations
were discussed by the Boards.
Board support 
The Group Secretary is available to advise all Directors and ensure
that Board procedures are complied with. The position is
appointed and can be removed by the Boards.
A procedure is in place to enable Directors, if they so wish, to
seek independent professional advice at Unilever’s expense.
Board changes 
The current Directors, with their biographies, are shown on page
46. All the current Executive Directors held ofﬁce throughout the
year.
Leon Brittan, Wim Dik, Charles Golden, Byron Grote, David
Simon, Jean-Cyril Spinetta, Kees Storm and Jeroen van der Veer
were re-elected as Non-Executive Directors of NV and PLC at the
2007 AGMs. In addition, Genevieve Berger, Narayana Murthy and
Hixonia Nyasulu were appointed as Non-Executive Directors, and
Michael Treschow became our ﬁrst independent Non-Executive
Chairman. Michael Treschow was appointed a member of the
Nomination Committee in 2007 and, following a change in the
UK Combined Code on Corporate Governance, a member of the
Remuneration Committee in February 2008.
In 2007, Genevieve Berger, Narayana Murthy and Hixonia Nyasulu
became members of the Corporate Responsibility and Reputation
Committee.
At the 2007 AGMs, Rudy Markham retired as an Executive
Director but remained as Chief Financial Ofﬁcer until his successor,
Jim Lawrence, was appointed on 1 September 2007. Lynda
Chalker also retired as a Non-Executive Director at the 2007
AGMs, and in September 2007 Jean-Cyril Spinetta stepped down
as Non-Executive Director due to personal reasons.
At the 2008 AGMs all of the Executive Directors and the Non-
Executive Directors will be nominated for re-election, with the
exception of Kees van der Graaf and Ralph Kugler, who will be
stepping down at the meetings. In addition, Jim Lawrence will be
proposed for election as an Executive Director at the 2008 AGMs
following his appointment as Chief Financial Ofﬁcer in September
2007. Biographical details for Mr Lawrence are contained in the
2008 AGM Notices, and on our website at
www.unilever.com/ourcompany/investorcentre
Chairman and Group Chief Executive 
Unilever has a separate independent Non-Executive Chairman and
Group Chief Executive. There is a clear division of responsibilities
between their roles. The Chairman is primarily responsible for
leadership of the Boards, ensuring their effectiveness and setting
their agendas. He is also responsible for ensuring that the Boards
receive accurate, timely and clear information.
The Group Chief Executive has been entrusted, within the
parameters set out in the Articles of Association of NV and PLC
and ‘The Governance of Unilever’, with all the Boards’ powers,
authorities and discretions in relation to the operational
management of Unilever. The Group Chief Executive has the
authority to determine which duties regarding the operational
management of the companies and their business enterprises will
be carried out under his responsibility by one or more Executive
Directors or by one or more other persons. This provides a basis
for the Unilever Executive team (UEx) that is chaired by and
reports to the Group Chief Executive. For UEx members’
biographies see page 47. For our business structure, please refer
to ‘About Unilever’ on pages 7 and 8.
Executive Directors 
All Executive Directors are members of the UEx: Patrick Cescau
and, currently, Kees van der Graaf and Ralph Kugler, who will
both be leaving the Boards at the 2008 AGMs. Jim Lawrence 
will be proposed for election as an Executive Director at those
AGMs. He is currently a member of UEx in his capacity as Chief
Financial Ofﬁcer.
The Executive Directors are full-time employees of Unilever.
Information about their remuneration can be found in the report
of the Remuneration Committee and on our website.
The Remuneration Committee takes the view that the entitlement
of the Executive Directors to the security of twelve months’ notice
of termination of employment is in line both with the practice of
many comparable companies and the entitlement of other senior
executives within Unilever. It is our policy to set the level of
severance payments for Directors at no more than one year’s
salary, unless the Boards, at the proposal of the Remuneration
Committee, ﬁnd this manifestly unreasonable given circumstances
or unless dictated by applicable law.
The Executive Directors submit themselves for re-election at the
AGMs each year. The Nomination Committee carefully considers
each nomination for reappointment.
The Directors stop holding executive ofﬁce on ceasing to be
Directors. Those appointed prior to 2004 retire at the latest by 
the age of 62. Appointees from 2004 onwards retire at an age
between 60 and 65, as decided by either them or Unilever. 36 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Report of the Directors continued
Corporate governance continued
We do not grant our Executive Directors any personal loans or
guarantees.
There are no family relationships between any of our Executive
Directors, other key management personnel or Non-Executive
Directors. None of our Executive Directors are elected or
appointed under any arrangement or understanding.
Outside Appointments
Unilever recognises the beneﬁt to the individual and to the Group
of involvement by Unilever Executives acting as directors of other
companies outside the Unilever Group, broadening their
experience and knowledge. The number of outside directorships
of listed companies is generally limited to one per individual. In
the case of publicly listed companies approval is required from the
Chairman. Outside directorships must not involve an excessive
commitment or conﬂict of interest. Unilever Executives must at all
times ensure that their time commitment to Unilever takes
precedence over any outside directorship. As of 2008 fees paid in
connection with an outside directorship may be retained by the
individual. This reﬂects that any outside directorship is for the sole
responsibility of the individual and that Unilever takes no
responsibility in this regard. For Executive Directors’ biographies
see page 46.
Non-Executive Directors 
The Non-Executive Directors share responsibility for the execution
of the Boards’ duties, taking into account their speciﬁc
responsibilities, which are essentially supervisory. In particular, 
they comprise the principal external presence in the governance
of Unilever, and provide a strong independent element. See 
page 46 for their biographies.
Role and Responsibility 
The key elements of the role and responsibilities of our Non-
Executive Directors are: 
• supervision of and advice to the Group Chief Executive; 
• developing strategy with the Group Chief Executive; 
• scrutiny of performance; 
• oversight of controls; 
• reporting of performance; 
• remuneration of and succession planning for Executive
Directors; and 
• governance and compliance.
Our Non-Executive Directors are chosen for their broad and
relevant experience and international outlook, as well as 
their independence. They form the Audit Committee, the
Nomination Committee, the Remuneration Committee and 
in majority the Corporate Responsibility and Reputation
Committee. The roles and membership of these key Board
committees are described on pages 37 and 38. The proﬁle set by
the Boards for the Non-Executive Directors and the chart used for
orderly succession planning can be seen on our website at
www.unilever.com/investorcentre/corpgovernance
Meetings 
The Non-Executive Directors meet as a group, without the
Executive Directors present, under the chairmanship of Mr
Treschow. In 2007 they met three times as a group. In addition,
the Non-Executive Directors (including the Chairman) usually meet
before each Board meeting with the Group Chief Executive and
the Group Secretary.
Senior Independent Director 
Our Non-Executive Directors have appointed David Simon as
Senior Independent Director. He acts as their spokesman. The
Senior Independent Director is consulted by the Chairman on 
the agenda and arrangements for Board meetings. He is also, 
in appropriate cases, a point of contact for shareholders and
other stakeholders. 
Tenure 
Our Non-Executive Directors submit themselves for re-election
each year. Their nomination for re-election is subject to continued
good performance which is evaluated by the Boards, based on
the recommendations of the Nomination Committee. The
Nomination Committee carefully considers each nomination for
reappointment. The Non-Executive Directors normally serve for a
maximum of nine years.
Remuneration 
The remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors is determined by
the Boards, within the overall limit set by the shareholders at the
AGMs in 2007, and it is reported on page 59. Details of the
engagement of our Non-Executive Directors can be seen on the
Unilever website.
Other appointments
Non-Executive Directors may serve on boards of other companies,
provided they do not involve a conﬂict of interest or restrict their
ability to discharge their duties to Unilever.
Independence 
Taking into account the role of Non-Executive Directors, which is
essentially supervisory, and the fact that they make up the key
committees of the Boards, it is important that our Non-Executive
Directors can be considered to be independent.
Our deﬁnition of ‘independence’ for Directors is set out in 
‘The Governance of Unilever’. It is derived from the applicable
deﬁnitions in use in the Netherlands, UK and US. Our current
Non-Executive Directors are considered to be independent of
Unilever. Our Boards reached this conclusion after conducting a
thorough review of all relevant relationships of the Non-Executive
Directors, and their related or connected persons.
A number of relationships, such as non-executive directorships,
exist between various of our Non-Executive Directors and
companies that provide banking, insurance or ﬁnancial advisory
services to Unilever. Our Boards considered in each case the
number of other companies that also provide or could readily
provide such services to Unilever, the signiﬁcance to those
companies of the services they provide to Unilever, the roles 
of the Non-Executive Directors within those companies and 
the signiﬁcance of that role to our Non-Executive Directors.  Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007 37
Report of the Directors continued
Corporate governance continued
It concluded that none of these relationships threaten the
independence of the Non-Executive Directors concerned. For
example, the Boards have satisﬁed themselves that Leon Brittan’s
position at UBS Investment Bank and UBS Securities Company
Limited does not involve him in any way in its broking relationship
with Unilever. The Boards have also formed the view that the fact
that David Simon is a senior adviser of Morgan Stanley
International is not material. The Boards have also satisﬁed
themselves that the services provided by Paton Tupper Associates
(Pty) Limited and Barloworld Limited, of which Hixonia Nyasulu is
a director and 12.5% shareholder and director respectively, to
Unilever South Africa is not material.
None of our Non-Executive Directors are elected or appointed
under any arrangement or understanding.
Committees
Board committees 
The Boards have established the committees described below, all
formally set up by Board resolution with carefully deﬁned remits.
They are made up solely of Non-Executive Directors with the
exception of the Corporate Responsibility and Reputation
Committee which currently has an Executive Director as a
member, and report regularly to the Boards. For all committees, if
Directors are unable to attend a meeting, they are given the
opportunity before the meeting to discuss with the Chairman of
the committee any agenda items or committee papers. All
committees are provided with sufﬁcient resources to undertake
their duties. The terms of reference for each committee can be
found on our website.
Audit Committee 
The Audit Committee is comprised only of independent Non-
Executive Directors with a minimum requirement of three. It is
chaired by Kees Storm, and its other members are Wim Dik,
Charles Golden and Byron Grote. The Boards have satisﬁed
themselves that all the current members of the Committee are
competent in ﬁnancial matters and have recent and relevant
experience and that, for the purposes of the US Sarbanes-Oxley
Act of 2002, Kees Storm is the Audit Committee’s ﬁnancial
expert. The Committee’s meetings are attended, by invitation, by
the Chief Financial Ofﬁcer, the Chief Legal Ofﬁcer, the Group
Controller, the Chief Auditor and our external auditors.
The Audit Committee assists the Boards in fulﬁlling their oversight
responsibilities in respect of the integrity of Unilever’s ﬁnancial
statements; risk management and internal control arrangements;
compliance with legal and regulatory requirements; the
performance, qualiﬁcations and independence of the external
auditors; and the performance of the internal audit function. The
Committee is directly responsible, subject to local laws regarding
shareholder approval, for the nomination, compensation and
oversight of the external auditors.
The Audit Committee is fully compliant with the rules regarding
audit committees that are applicable in the Netherlands, UK and
US. The Committee’s responsibilities and powers are fully aligned
with all requirements in the Netherlands, UK and US. The Audit
Committee is supplied with all information necessary for the
performance of its duties by the Chief Auditor, Chief Financial
Ofﬁcer, and Group Controller. Both the Chief Auditor and the
external auditors have direct access to the Audit Committee
separately from management.
The following table shows the attendance of Directors at Audit
Committee meetings for the year ended 31 December 2007:
Name Attendance
(a)
Kees Storm (Chairman) 6 of 7
Wim Dik 7 of 7
Charles Golden 7 of 7
Byron Grote 7 of 7
(a) Attendance is expressed as number of meetings attended out of
number eligible to attend.
See page 62 for the Report of the Audit Committee to the
shareholders.
Nomination Committee 
Our Nomination Committee comprises a minimum of three
independent Non-Executive Directors. It is chaired by David Simon
and its other members are Michael Treschow and Jeroen van der
Veer. Jean-Cyril Spinetta stepped down from the Committee
following his retirement as a Non-Executive Director in September
2007. The Committee recommends to the Boards candidates for
the positions of Director. It also has responsibilities for succession
planning and oversight of corporate governance matters. It is
supplied with information by the Group Secretary.
The following table shows the attendance of Directors at
Nomination Committee meetings for the year ended 31
December 2007:
Name Attendance
(a)
David Simon (Chairman) 6 of 6
Antony Burgmans (to 16 May 2007) 3 of 3
Jean-Cyril Spinetta (to 14 September 2007) 3 of 4
Michael Treschow (from 27 June 2007) 3 of 3
Jeroen van der Veer 6 of 6
(a) Attendance is expressed as number of meetings attended out of
number eligible to attend.
See page 48 for the Report of the Nomination Committee 
to shareholders.
Remuneration Committee 
On 31 December 2007, our Remuneration Committee comprised
two independent Non-Executive Directors following Jean-Cyril
Spinetta stepping down from the Committee following his
retirement as a Non-Executive Director in September 2007. It is
chaired by David Simon and its other member is Jeroen van der
Veer. Michael Treschow was appointed as an additional member
of the Committee in February 2008.
The Committee reviews Directors’ remuneration and is responsible
for the executive share-based incentive plans. It determines,
within the parameters set by our shareholders, speciﬁc
remuneration arrangements for each of the Executive Directors,
the remuneration scales and arrangements for Non-Executive
Directors and the remuneration of the tier of management
directly below the Boards. The Committee is advised by the Group
Secretary on matters of Corporate Governance. 38 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Report of the Directors continued
Corporate governance continued
The following table shows the attendance of Directors at
Remuneration Committee meetings for the year ended 31
December 2007:
Name Attendance
(a)
David Simon (Chairman) 5 of 5
Jean-Cyril Spinetta (to 14 September 2007) 1 of 3
Jeroen van der Veer 5 of 5
(a) Attendance is expressed as number of meetings attended out of
number eligible to attend.
The detailed report of the Remuneration Committee to
shareholders on Directors’ remuneration is on pages 49 to 61.
Corporate Responsibility and Reputation Committee 
The Corporate Responsibility and Reputation Committee currently
comprises four Non-Executive Directors and one Executive
Director. It is chaired by Leon Brittan and its other members 
are Genevieve Berger, Narayana Murthy, Hixonia Nyasulu and
Ralph Kugler. The Committee has responsibility for the oversight
of Unilever’s conduct with regard to its corporate and societal
obligations and its reputation as a responsible corporate citizen.
The following table shows the attendance of Directors at
Corporate Responsibility and Reputation Committee meetings for
the year ended 31 December 2007:
Name Attendance
(a)
Leon Brittan (Chairman from 16 May 2007) 3 of 4
Lynda Chalker  (Chair to 16 May 2007) 2 of 2
Genevieve Berger (from 16 May 2007) 2 of 2
Antony Burgmans (to 16 May 2007) 0 of 2
Wim Dik (to 13 September 2007) 2 of 3
Ralph Kugler 4 of 4
Narayana Murthy (from 16 May 2007) 2 of 2
Hixonia Nyasulu (from 16 May 2007) 2 of 2
(a) Attendance is expressed as number of meetings attended out of
number eligible to attend.
See page 63 for the Report of the Corporate Responsibility and
Reputation Committee to shareholders.
Routine business committees 
Committees are also set up to conduct routine business as and
when they are necessary. They comprise any two of the Directors
and certain senior executives and ofﬁcers. They administer or
implement certain matters previously agreed by our Boards or the
Group Chief Executive. The Group Secretary is responsible for the
operation of these committees.
Disclosure Committee 
The Boards have set up a Disclosure Committee which is
responsible for helping the Boards ensure that ﬁnancial and 
other information that ought to be disclosed publicly is disclosed
in a timely manner and that the information that is disclosed 
is complete and accurate. The Committee comprises the 
Group Controller, the Group Secretary, the Chief Legal Ofﬁcer and
the Group Treasurer.
Director matters
Various formal matters 
The borrowing powers of NV Directors on behalf of NV are not
limited by the Articles of Association of NV. PLC Directors have
the power to borrow on behalf of PLC up to three times the
adjusted capital and reserves of PLC, as deﬁned in its Articles of
Association, without the approval of shareholders (any exceptions
requiring an ordinary resolution).
The Articles of Association of NV and PLC do not require Directors
of NV or Directors of PLC to hold shares in NV or PLC. However,
the remuneration arrangements applicable to our Executive
Directors require them to build and retain a personal shareholding
in Unilever equal to at least 150% of their annual base pay.
Indemniﬁcation 
Directors’ indemniﬁcation, including the terms thereof, is provided
for in Article 19 of NV’s Articles of Association. The power to
indemnify Directors is provided for in PLC’s Articles of Association.
Deeds of indemnity have been issued to all PLC Directors.
Appropriate Directors’ and Ofﬁcers’ liability insurance is in place
for all Unilever Directors.
Conﬂicts of interest 
We attach special importance to avoiding conﬂicts of interest
between on the one hand NV and PLC and on the other hand
their Directors. The Boards are responsible for ensuring that there
are rules in place to avoid conﬂicts of interest by Board members.
Conﬂicts of interest are not understood to include transactions
and other activities between companies in the Unilever Group.
Shareholder matters
Relations with shareholders and other investors 
We believe it is important both to explain our business
developments and ﬁnancial results to investors and to understand
their objectives.
The Chief Financial Ofﬁcer has lead responsibility for investor
relations, with the active involvement of the Group Chief
Executive. They are supported by our Investor Relations
department which organises presentations for analysts and
investors. Such presentations are generally made available on our
website. Brieﬁngs on quarterly results are given via teleconference
and are accessible by telephone or via our website. For further
information visit our website at www.unilever.com/investorcentre
The Boards are regularly briefed on reactions to the quarterly
results announcements. They, or the relevant Board Committee,
are briefed on any issues raised by shareholders that are relevant
to their responsibilities.
Our shareholders can, and do, raise issues directly with the
relevant Executive Director or the Chairman and, if appropriate, 
a relevant Non-Executive Director or the Senior Independent
Director. Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007 39
Report of the Directors continued
Corporate governance continued
Both NV and PLC communicate with their respective shareholders
through the AGMs as well as responding to their questions and
enquiries during the course of the year. We take the views of our
shareholders into account and, in accordance with all applicable
legislation and regulations, may consult them in an appropriate
way before putting major new proposals to our AGMs.
General Meetings of Shareholders 
The business to be conducted at the AGMs of NV and PLC is set
out in the separate Notices of AGM for NV and PLC. It typically
includes appointment of Directors, declaration/approval of ﬁnal
dividend, appointment of external auditors, approval of changes
to the Articles of Association, and authorisation for the Boards to 
allot and repurchase shares, and to restrict pre-emptive rights 
of shareholders. 
At the AGMs, a full account is given of the progress of the
business over the last year and there is a review of current issues.
Shareholders are encouraged to attend the meetings and ask
questions, and the question-and-answer sessions form an
important part of the meetings.
General Meetings of shareholders of NV and PLC are held at
times and places decided by our Boards. NV meetings are held in
Rotterdam and PLC meetings are held in London on consecutive
days. The notices calling the meetings normally go out more than
thirty days prior to the meetings and include further information
on how to gain access to the AGMs and how to vote by proxy.
We welcome our external auditors to the AGMs and they are
entitled to address the meetings.
Electronic Communication
We are committed to efforts to establish more effective ways 
of communication with our shareholders around the AGMs.
Electronic communication is becoming an important medium for
shareholders, providing ready access to shareholder information
and reports, and for voting purposes.
NV was one of the founders of the Dutch Shareholders’
Communication Channel. NV shareholders participating in the
Dutch Shareholders’ Communication Channel are able to appoint
electronically a proxy to vote on their behalf at the NV AGM and
NV shareholders who wish to participate should contact their
bank or broker. Shareholders of PLC in the UK can choose to
receive electronic notiﬁcation that the Annual Review, Annual
Report and Accounts and Notice of AGMs have been published
on our website, instead of receiving printed copies, and can also
electronically appoint a proxy to vote on their behalf at the AGM. 
Registration for electronic communication by shareholders of PLC
can be made at www.unilever.com/shareholderservices The UK
Companies Act 2006 contains provisions facilitating
communications between companies and their shareholders
electronically. PLC consulted with its shareholders in 2007 to offer
them the opportunity to review their method of receiving
shareholder communications in the future.
At the 2007 NV AGM shareholders voted for an amendment to
the NV Articles of Association allowing Unilever to implement the
opportunity of electronic communication. Accordingly, the Board
of Directors is now authorised to decide upon the use of this
means of communication.
Voting rights 
To be entitled to attend and vote at NV General Meetings
shareholders must hold their NV shares on the record date, which
is set by the Board of NV at a date not more than thirty days
before the meeting. Shareholders do not need to block their
shares. NV shareholders can cast one vote for each €0.16 nominal
capital that they hold. This means that they can cast one vote for
each NV ordinary share, or NV New York Registry Share.
Shareholders can vote in person or by proxy. Similar arrangements
apply to holders of depositary receipts issued for NV shares and
the holders of NV preference shares (see pages 42 and 43).
PLC shareholders can cast one vote for each 3
1
⁄ 9p nominal capital
that they hold. Shareholders can vote in person at the meeting or
by proxy. This means shareholders can cast one vote for each PLC
ordinary share, or PLC American Depositary Receipts of shares.
Proxies should be submitted at least 48 hours before the General
Meeting to the Registrars, whose details can be found on page
143.
More information on the exercise of voting rights can be found 
in NV’s and PLC’s Articles of Association and in the respective
Notices of Meetings.
Holders of NV New York Registry Shares or PLC American
Depositary Receipts of shares will receive a proxy form enabling
them to authorise and instruct ABN AMRO N.V. or Citibank, N.A.
respectively to vote on their behalf at the General Meeting of NV
or PLC. N.V. Elma and United Holdings Limited (the holders of
NV’s special shares), other group companies of NV which hold
ordinary or preference shares, and United Holdings Limited, which
owns half of PLC’s deferred stock, are not permitted to vote at
General Meetings.
Voting on each of the resolutions contained in the Notice of
AGMs is conducted by poll. The ﬁnal vote is published at the
meetings and the outcome of the votes, including the proxy
votes, is put on Unilever’s website. For each resolution, proxy
appointment forms in 2007 provided shareholders with the
option to direct their proxy to vote either for or against the
resolution or to withhold their vote. Proxy forms and voting result
announcements make it clear that a vote withheld is not a vote in
law, and will not be counted in the calculation of the proportion
of votes for and against the resolution voted on.
Shareholder proposed resolutions 
Shareholders of NV may propose resolutions if they individually or
together hold 1% of NV’s issued capital in the form of shares or
depositary receipts for shares, or if they individually or together
hold shares or depositary receipts worth or representing the
market value in shares as set in respect thereto by or pursuant to
the law (currently €50 million). They must submit these requests
at least 60 days before the date of the General Meeting, and the
request will be honoured unless, in the opinion of the Boards, it is
against a substantive interest of the Company. Shareholders who
together represent at least 10% of the issued capital of NV can
also requisition Extraordinary General Meetings to deal with
speciﬁc resolutions. 40 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Report of the Directors continued
Corporate governance continued
The Equalisation Agreement provides that if one company had
losses, or was unable to pay its preference dividends, the loss or
shortfall would be made up out of: 
• the current proﬁts of the other company (after it has paid its
own preference shareholders); 
• then its own free reserves; and 
• then the free reserves of the other company.
If either company could not pay its ordinary dividends, we would
follow the same procedure, except that the current proﬁts of the
other company would only be used after it had paid its own
ordinary shareholders and if the Directors thought this more
appropriate than, for example, using its own free reserves.
So far, NV and PLC have always been able to pay their own
dividends, so we have never had to follow this procedure. If we
did, the payment from one company to the other would be
subject to any United Kingdom and Dutch tax and exchange
control laws applicable at that time.
Under the Equalisation Agreement, the two companies are
permitted to pay different dividends in the following exceptional
circumstances: 
• If the average annual sterling/euro exchange rate changed 
so substantially from one year to the next that to pay equal
dividends at the current exchange rates, either NV or PLC
would have to pay a dividend that was unreasonable (that is to
say, substantially larger or smaller in its own currency than the
dividend it paid in the previous year); or 
• The governments of the Netherlands or the United Kingdom
could in some circumstances place restrictions on the
proportion of a company’s proﬁts which can be paid out as
dividends. This could mean that in order to pay equal dividends
one company would have to pay out an amount which would
breach the limitations in place at the time, or that the other
company would have to pay a smaller dividend.
In either of these rare cases, NV and PLC could pay different
amounts of dividend if the Boards thought it appropriate. The
company paying less than the equalised dividend would put the
difference between the dividends into a reserve: an equalisation
reserve in the case of exchange rate ﬂuctuations, or a dividend
reserve in the case of a government restriction. The reserves
would be paid out to its shareholders when it became possible or
reasonable to do so, which would ensure that the shareholders of
both companies would ultimately be treated the same.
If both companies were to go into liquidation, NV and PLC would
each use any funds available for shareholders to pay the prior
claims of their own preference shareholders. Then they would 
use any surplus to pay each other’s preference shareholders, if
necessary. After these claims had been met, they would pay out
any equalisation or dividend reserve to their own shareholders
before pooling the remaining surplus. This would be distributed 
to the ordinary shareholders of both companies on an equal basis. 
If one company were to go into liquidation, we would apply the
same principles as if both had gone into liquidation
simultaneously.
Shareholders who together hold shares representing at least 5%
of the total voting rights of PLC, or 100 shareholders who hold
on average £100 each in nominal value of PLC capital, can 
require PLC to propose a resolution at a General Meeting. 
PLC shareholders holding in aggregate 10% of the issued PLC
ordinary shares are able to convene a General Meeting of PLC.
Required majorities 
Resolutions are usually adopted at NV and PLC shareholder
meetings by an absolute majority of votes cast, unless there are
other requirements under the applicable laws or NV’s or PLC’s
Articles of Association. For example, there are special
requirements for resolutions relating to the alteration of the
Articles of Association, the liquidation of NV or PLC and the
alteration of the Equalisation Agreement (see below).
A proposal to alter the Articles of Association of NV can only 
be made by the Board. A proposal to alter the Memorandum and
Articles of Association of PLC can be made either by the Board or
by shareholders in the manner permitted under the UK
Companies Acts. Proposals to alter the provisions in the Articles of
Association of NV and PLC respectively relating to the unity of
management require the prior approval of meetings of the
holders of the NV special shares and the PLC deferred stock. The
Articles of Association of NV and the Memorandum and Articles
of Association of PLC can be found on our website.
Right to hold shares 
Unilever places no limitations on the right to hold NV and PLC
shares.
Foundation Agreements
Equalisation Agreement 
The Equalisation Agreement makes the economic position of the
shareholders of NV and PLC, as far as possible, the same as if they
held shares in a single company. The Agreement regulates the
mutual rights of the shareholders of NV and PLC. Under the
Equalisation Agreement, NV and PLC must adopt the same
ﬁnancial periods and accounting policies. Dividends are paid in
accordance with a formula relating to the nominal values of NV’s
and PLC’s issued share capital.
Since the AGMs in 2006 which agreed to split the NV ordinary
shares and to consolidate the PLC ordinary shares, each NV
ordinary share represents the same underlying economic interest
in the Unilever Group as each PLC ordinary share.
We pay ordinary dividends for NV and PLC on the same day. 
NV and PLC allocate funds for the dividend from their parts of 
our current proﬁts and free reserves. We pay the same amount 
on each NV share as on one PLC share calculated at the relevant
exchange rate. For interim dividends this exchange rate is the
average rate for the quarter before we declare the dividend. For
ﬁnal dividends it is the average rate for the year. In arriving at the
equalised amount we include any tax payable by the Company in
respect of the dividend, but calculate it before any tax deductible
by the Company from the dividend. Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007 41
Report of the Directors continued
Corporate governance continued
In principle, issues of bonus shares and rights offerings can only
be made in ordinary shares. Again we would ensure that
shareholders of NV and PLC received shares in equal proportions.
The subscription price for one new NV share would have to be
the same, at the prevailing exchange rate, as the price for one
new PLC share. Neither company can issue or reduce capital
without the consent of the other.
The Articles of Association of NV establish that any payment
under the Equalisation Agreement will be credited or debited to
the income statement for the ﬁnancial year in question. 
Under Article 2 of the Articles of Association of NV and Clause 3
of the Memorandum of Association of PLC, each company is
required to carry out the Equalisation Agreement with the other.
Both documents state that the Agreement cannot be changed or
terminated without the approval of shareholders. For NV, the
General Meeting can decide to alter or terminate the Equalisation
Agreement at the proposal of the Board. The necessary approval
of the General Meeting is then that at least one half of the total
issued ordinary capital must be represented at an ordinary
shareholders’ meeting, where the majority must vote in favour;
and (if they would be disadvantaged or the agreement is to be
terminated), at least two-thirds of the total issued preference
share capital must be represented at a preference shareholders’
meeting, where at least three-quarters of them must vote in
favour. For PLC, the necessary approval must be given by the
holders of a majority of all issued shares voting at a General
Meeting and the holders of the ordinary shares, by a simple
majority voting at a General Meeting where the majority of the
ordinary shares in issue are represented.
In addition, Article 3 of the PLC Articles of Association states that
PLC’s Board must carry out the Equalisation Agreement and that
the other provisions of the Articles of Association are subject to it.
We are advised by counsel that these provisions oblige our Boards
to carry out the Equalisation Agreement, unless it is amended or
terminated with the required approval of the shareholders of 
both companies. If the Boards fail to enforce the Agreement,
shareholders can compel them to do so under Dutch and United
Kingdom law.
A copy of the Equalisation Agreement can be found on our
website at www.unilever.com/investorcentre/corpgovernance
The Deed of Mutual Covenants 
The Deed of Mutual Covenants provides that NV and PLC and
their respective subsidiary companies shall co-operate in every
way for the purpose of maintaining a common operating policy.
They shall exchange all relevant information about their respective
businesses – the intention being to create and maintain a
common operating platform for the Unilever Group throughout
the world. The Deed illustrates some of the information which
makes up this common platform, such as the mutual exchange
and free use of know-how, patents, trade marks and all other
commercially valuable information. The Deed contains provisions
which allow the Directors of NV and PLC to take any actions to
ensure that the dividend-generating capacity of each of NV and
PLC is aligned with the economic interests of their respective
shareholders. These provisions also allow assets to be transferred
between NV and PLC and their associated companies (as deﬁned
in the Deed) to ensure that assets are allocated in the most
efﬁcient manner. These arrangements are designed to create a
balance between the two parent companies and the funds
generated by them, for the beneﬁt of their respective sets 
of shareholders. 
The Agreement for Mutual Guarantees of Borrowing 
Under the Agreement for Mutual Guarantees of Borrowing
between NV and PLC, each company will, if asked by the other,
guarantee the borrowings of the other. The two companies 
can also agree jointly to guarantee the borrowings of their
subsidiaries. These arrangements are used, as a matter of ﬁnancial
policy, for certain signiﬁcant public borrowings. They enable
lenders to rely on our combined ﬁnancial strength.
Share capital matters 
Combined earnings per share 
We calculate earnings per share on a combined basis. The
calculation is based on the average amount of NV’s and PLC’s
ordinary share capital in issue during the year.
In our combined earnings per share calculation, we assume that
both companies will be able to pay their dividends out of their
part of our proﬁts. This has always been the case in the past, 
but if we did have to make a payment from one to the other 
it could result in additional taxes, and reduce our combined
earnings per share.
Further information about the calculation of earnings per share,
including the calculation on a diluted basis, can be found in note
7 on page 85.
Share capital 
NV’s issued share capital on 31 December 2007 was made up of:
• €274 356 432 split into 1 714 727 700 ordinary shares of
€0.16 each; 
• €1 028 568 split into 2 400 ordinary shares numbered 1 to 
2 400, known as special shares; and 
• €113 599 014 split into several classes (4%, 6% and 7%) of
cumulative preference shares (‘ﬁnancing preference shares’).
The total number of voting rights attached to NV's outstanding
shares is shown hereunder:
Total number of votes % of issued capital
1 714 727 700 ordinary shares 1 714 727 700
(a)
70.53
2 400 special shares 6 428 550 0.26
750 000 4% cumulative 
preference shares 200 906 250 8.26
161 060 6% cumulative 
preference shares 431 409 276 17.75
29 000 7% cumulative 
preference shares 77 678 312 3.20
(a) Of which 81 337 992 shares were held in treasury and 
40 958 255 shares were held in connection with share-based
payments as at 31 December 2007. 42 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Report of the Directors continued
Corporate governance continued
NV may issue shares not yet issued and grant rights to subscribe
for shares only pursuant to a resolution of the General Meeting 
of Shareholders or of another corporate body designated for such
purpose by a resolution of the General Meeting. At the AGM held
on 15 May 2007 the Board of Directors was designated, in
accordance with Articles 96 and 96a of Book 2 of the Netherlands
Civil Code, as the corporate body which is authorised until
15 November 2008 to resolve on the issue of – or on the granting
of rights to subscribe for – shares not yet issued and to restrict or
exclude the statutory pre-emption rights that accrue to
shareholders upon issue of shares, on the understanding that this
authority is limited to 10% of the issued share capital of the
Company, plus an additional 10% of the issued share capital of
the Company in connection with or on the occasion of mergers
and acquisitions.
At the 2007 AGM the Board of Directors of NV was authorised, 
in accordance with Article 98 of Book 2 of the Netherlands Civil
Code, until 15 November 2008 to cause the Company to buy in
its own shares and depositary receipts therefor, within the limits
set by law (10% of the issued share capital), either through
purchase on a stock exchange or otherwise, at a price, excluding
expenses, not lower than the nominal value of the shares and not
higher than 10% above the average of the closing price of the
shares on Eurolist by Euronext Amsterdam for the ﬁve business
days before the day on which the purchase is made. 
The above mentioned authorities are renewed annually.
PLC’s issued share capital on 31 December 2007 was made up of:
• £40 760 420 split into 1 310 156 361 ordinary shares of 3
1
⁄ 9p
each; and 
• £100 000 of deferred stock.
The total number of voting rights attached to PLC’s outstanding
shares are shown hereunder:
Total number of votes % of issued capital
1 310 156 361 ordinary shares 1 310 156 361
(a)
99.76
£100 000 deferred stock 3 214 285 0.24
(a) Of which 11 556 216 shares were held by PLC in treasury and 
37 973 522 shares were held by NV group companies or by
share trusts as at 31 December 2007.
The Board of Directors of PLC under sections 80 and 89 of the UK
Companies Act 1985 may, subject to the passing of the
appropriate resolutions at a meeting of shareholders, issue shares
within the limits prescribed within the resolutions. At the 2007
AGM the Directors were authorised to issue new shares pursuant
to section 80 of that Act, limited to a maximum of £13 450 000
nominal value, and pursuant to section 89 of that Act, to disapply
pre-emption rights up to approximately 5% of PLC’s issued
ordinary share capital. These authorities are renewed annually.
At the 2007 AGM the Board of Directors of PLC was authorised
in accordance with its Articles of Association to make market
purchases of its ordinary shares within the limits prescribed within
the resolution until the earlier of the 15 month anniversary after
the passing of the resolution or the conclusion of the 2008 AGM.
Margarine Union (1930) Limited: Conversion Rights
The ﬁrst Viscount Leverhulme was the founder of the company
which became PLC. When he died in 1925, he left in his will a
large number of PLC shares in various trusts.
When the will trusts were varied in 1983, the interests of the
beneﬁciaries of his will were also preserved. Four classes of special
shares were created in Margarine Union (1930) Limited, a
subsidiary of PLC. One of these classes can be converted at the
end of the year 2038 into 70 875 000 PLC ordinary shares of
3
1
⁄ 9p each. This currently represents 5.4% of PLC’s issued ordinary
capital. These convertible shares replicate the rights which the
descendants of the ﬁrst Viscount would have had under his will.
This class of the special shares only has a right to dividends in
speciﬁed circumstances, and no dividends have yet been paid. 
PLC guarantees the dividend and conversion rights of the 
special shares.
Foundation Unilever NV Trust Ofﬁce
As at 1 March 2008, around 74.48% of NV’s ordinary shares and
around 33.71% of NV’s 7% cumulative preference shares were
held by the Foundation Unilever NV Trust Ofﬁce (Stichting
Administratiekantoor Unilever N.V.), a trust ofﬁce with a board
independent from Unilever. As part of its corporate objects, the
Foundation issues depositary receipts in exchange for these
shares. These depositary receipts are listed on Euronext
Amsterdam, as are the NV ordinary and 7% preference shares
themselves.
Holders of depositary receipts can under all circumstances
exchange their depositary receipts for the underlying shares 
(and vice versa).
Holders of depositary receipts are entitled to dividends that are
paid on the underlying shares held by the Foundation.
The members of the board are Mr J H Schraven (Chairman), 
Mr P P de Koning, Prof Dr L Koopmans and Mr A A Olijslager.
Their biographies can be found on the website of the Foundation
www.administratiekantoor-unilever.nl
The Foundation reports periodically, but at least once a year, on 
its activities.
Voting by holders of depositary receipts 
Although the depositary receipts themselves do not formally have
voting rights, holders of depositary receipts are in practice
equated with shareholders. Holders of depositary receipts can
attend all NV’s General Meetings, either personally or by proxy,
and will then automatically, without limitation and under all
circumstances, receive a voting proxy on behalf of the Foundation
to vote on the underlying shares. 
Holders of depositary receipts not attending a shareholders’
meeting and who participate in the Dutch Shareholders’
Communication Channel can also issue binding voting
instructions to the Foundation. The Foundation is obliged 
to follow these instructions. The same applies to all holders 
of depositary receipts who instruct the Foundation outside 
the Shareholders’ Communication Channel. Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007 43
Report of the Directors continued
Corporate governance continued
Voting by the Foundation Unilever NV Trust Ofﬁce 
Shares for which the Foundation has not granted voting proxies
or for which it has not received voting instructions are voted 
on by the Foundation in such a way as it deems to be in the
interests of the holders of the depositary receipts. This voting
policy is laid down in the Conditions of Administration that 
apply to the depositary receipts. Both the Articles of Association
and the Conditions of Administration can be found on the
Foundation’s website.
Speciﬁc provisions apply in the event that a meeting of holders of
NV 7% cumulative preference shares is convened.
If a change to shareholders’ rights is proposed, the Foundation
will let shareholders know if it intends to vote, at least 14 days 
in advance if possible. It will do this by advertising in the press.
Hitherto the majority of votes cast by ordinary shareholders at 
NV meetings have been cast by the Foundation. Unilever and 
the Foundation have a policy of actively encouraging holders 
of depositary receipts to exercise their voting rights in 
NV meetings.
Unilever considers the arrangements of the Foundation
appropriate and in the interest of NV and its shareholders given
the voting rights attached to the ﬁnancing preference shares and
the relatively low attendance of the holders of the ordinary shares
in its AGMs.
Foundation Unilever NV Trust Ofﬁce’s shareholding 
Foundation NV Trust Ofﬁce’s shareholding ﬂuctuates daily – its
holdings on 1 March 2008 were: 
• NV ordinary shares of €0.16: 1 277 186 652 (74.48%);
• NV 7% cumulative preference shares of €428.57: 9 776
(33.71%);
• NV 6% cumulative preference shares of €428.57: 5 (0.00%);
and
• NV 4% cumulative preference shares of €42.86: 23 (0.00%).
Further information on the Foundation, its arrangements 
and its activities can be found on its website at
www.administratiekantoor-unilever.nl
Requirements and compliance – general 
Unilever is subject to corporate governance requirements in the
Netherlands, the UK and as a foreign private issuer in the US. 
In the following section we report on our compliance with the
corporate governance regulations and best practice codes
applicable in the Netherlands and the UK and we also describe
compliance with corporate governance regulations in the US.
Our governance arrangements are designed and structured to
promote and further the interests of our companies and their
shareholders. The Boards reserve the right, in cases where they
decide such to be conducive to the interests of the companies
and the enterprise connected therewith or our shareholders, to
depart from that which is set out in the present and previous
sections in relation to our corporate governance. Further changes
will be reported in future Annual Reports and Accounts and,
when necessary, through changes to the relevant documents
published on our website. As appropriate, proposals for change
will be put to our shareholders for approval.
Further information can be found on our website and in ‘The
Governance of Unilever’, the Boards’ own constitutional
document. This describes the terms of reference of our Board
Committees, including their full responsibilities. It will be kept up
to date with changes in our internal constitutional arrangements
that our Boards may make from time to time and it is available on
our website at www.unilever.com/Investorcentre/corpgovernance
Following implementation of the EU Takeover Directive, certain
information is required to be disclosed in relation to control and
share structures and interests of NV and PLC. Such disclosures,
which are not covered elsewhere in this Annual Report, include
the following:
• there are no requirements to obtain the approval of NV or PLC,
or of other holders of securities in NV or PLC, for a transfer of
securities;
• the Trustees of the PLC employee share trusts may vote or
abstain in any way they think ﬁt and in doing so may take into
account both ﬁnancial and non-ﬁnancial interests of the
beneﬁciaries of the employee share trusts or their dependents;
• there are no arrangements by which, with NV or PLC's co-
operation, ﬁnancial rights carried by securities are held by a
person other than the holder of securities;
• NV and PLC are not aware of any agreements between holders
of securities which may result in restrictions on the transfer of
securities or on voting rights;
• neither NV or PLC are parties to any signiﬁcant agreement
which include provisions that take effect, alter or terminate
such an agreement upon a change of control following a
takeover bid; and
• NV and PLC do not have any agreements with any Director or
employee that would provide compensation for loss of ofﬁce or
employment resulting from a takeover except that most of
Unilever's share schemes contain provisions which operate in
the event of a takeover of Unilever, which provisions may for
instance cause options or awards granted to employees under
such schemes to vest after a takeover or be exchanged into
new awards for shares in another entity.
Requirements – the Netherlands 
General 
NV is required to state in its Annual Report and Accounts whether
it complies or will comply with the Principles (‘P’) and best
practice provisions (‘bpp’) of the Dutch Corporate Governance
Code (the Dutch Code) and, if it does not comply, to explain the
reasons for this. As will be clear from the preceding description of
our governance arrangements, NV complies with almost all of the
principles and best practice provisions of the Dutch Code. The
text that follows sets out areas of non-compliance, as well as
certain statements that the Dutch Code invites us to make to 
our shareholders that are not included elsewhere in this Annual
Report and Accounts. 44 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Report of the Directors continued
Corporate governance continued
Board and Committee structures 
NV is a multinational company with activities and shareholders
located all over the world. It has a one-tier board, consisting of
both Executive and, as a majority, Non-Executive Directors. 
We achieve compliance of our board arrangements with the
Dutch Code, which is for the most part based on the customary
two-tier structure in the Netherlands, by, as far as is possible and
practicable, applying the provisions of the Dutch Code relating to
members of a management board to our Executive Directors and
the provisions relating to members of a supervisory board to our
Non-Executive Directors. Management tasks not capable of
delegation are performed by the Board. Reference is made to Ps II
and III and corresponding bpps. Reference is also made to the UK
Combined Code on Corporate Governance, which is fully tailored
to the one-tier board model (see page 33).
Risk management and control 
Reference is made to pages 13 and 14 where Unilever’s control
framework is described. This incorporates risk management,
internal control procedures and disclosure controls and
procedures. Our procedures cover ﬁnancial, operational, social,
strategic and environmental risks and regulatory matters. They are
in line with the latest recommendations of ‘Internal Control –
Revised Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code’ published
by the Internal Control Working Party of the Institute of
Chartered Accountants in England and Wales in October 2005
(‘The Turnbull Guidance’) and in line with the Recommendations
of the Dutch Monitoring Committee. On pages 13 and 14 we
have identiﬁed certain speciﬁc risks that are areas of focus in
2008. Unilever has designed its internal risk management and
control systems to provide reasonable (not absolute) assurance to
ensure compliance with regulatory matters and to safeguard
reliability of the ﬁnancial reporting and its disclosures.
The Board considers that the internal risk management and
control systems are appropriate for our business and in
compliance with bpp II.1.3. 
In bpp II.1.4 the Dutch Code invites our Board to make a
statement on our internal risk management and control systems.
In its reports, published on 20 December 2005 and 19 December
2007, the Dutch Corporate Governance Code Monitoring
Committee has made recommendations concerning the
application of this best practice provision. In accordance with its
recommendation and in the light of the above, the Board believes
that, as regards ﬁnancial reporting risks: 
• the risk management and control systems provide reasonable
assurance that this Annual Report does not contain any
material inaccuracies; 
• the risk management and control systems have worked
properly in 2007; 
• there are no indications that the risk management and control
systems will not work properly in 2008; 
• no material failings in the risk management and control systems
were discovered in the year under review or the current year up
to the date of signing of these accounts; 
and, as regards operational, strategic, legislative and regulatory 
risks:
• no material failings in the risk management and control systems
were discovered in the year under review. 
This statement is not a statement in accordance with the 
requirements of Section 404 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002.
Share options and awards
In line with bpp II.2.2, the awards and grants of shares and
options to our Executive Directors are in the material cases subject
to performance criteria, as referred to on pages 51 and 52 of the
Report of the Remuneration Committee.
Retention period of shares 
The Dutch Code recommends that shares granted to executive
directors without a ﬁnancial consideration must be retained for 
a period of at least ﬁve years (bpp II.2.3). In 2001 we introduced 
a new remuneration policy with shareholder approval which
requires our Executive Directors to build and retain a personal
shareholding in Unilever equal to at least 150% of their annual
base pay. We believe that this is in line with the spirit of the
Dutch Code.
Severance pay 
It is our policy to set the level of severance payments for Directors
at no more than one year’s salary, unless the Board, at the
proposal of the Remuneration Committee, ﬁnds this manifestly
unreasonable given circumstances or unless otherwise dictated by
applicable law (bpp II.2.7).
Regulations for transactions in securities in other
companies 
The Dutch Code recommends that a director shall give periodic
notice of any changes in his holding of securities in other Dutch
listed companies (bpp II.2.6 and bpp III.7.3). We are a
multinational company operating all over the world and our
Directors come from a wide variety of countries. We therefore
have a broader more general requirement for our Directors,
requiring them, upon request, to disclose to the compliance
ofﬁcer their holdings and transactions in securities in any listed
company.
Conﬂicts of interest 
In the event of a (potential) conﬂict of interest, the provisions of
the Dutch Code (P II.3 and III.6) are applied. Conﬂicts of interest
are not understood to include transactions and other activities
between companies in the Unilever Group.
Financing preference shares 
NV issued 4%, 6% and 7% cumulative preference shares
between 1927 and 1970. Their voting rights are based on their
nominal value, as prescribed by Dutch law. The Dutch Code
recommends that the voting rights on such shares should, in any
event when they are newly issued, be based on their economic
value rather than on their nominal value (bpp IV.1.2). NV agrees
with this principle but cannot unilaterally reduce voting rights of
its outstanding preference shares.
Anti-takeover constructions and control over the company 
With reference to bpp IV.3.9, NV has no anti-takeover
constructions, in the sense of constructions that are intended
solely, or primarily, to block future hostile public offers for its
shares. Nor does NV have any constructions whose speciﬁc
purpose is to prevent a bidder, after acquiring 75% of the capital,
from appointing or dismissing members of the Board and Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007 45
Report of the Directors continued
Corporate governance continued
subsequently altering the Articles of Association. The acquisition
through a public offer of a majority of the shares in a company
does not under Dutch law preclude in all circumstances the
continued right of the Board of the company to exercise its
powers.
Provision of information 
We consider it important to comply with all applicable statutory
regulations on the equal treatment of shareholders and provision
of information and communication with shareholders and other
parties (P IV.2 and P IV.3).
Meetings of analysts and presentations to investors 
We have extensive procedures for handling relations with and
communicating with shareholders, investors, analysts and the
media (see description on page 38). The important presentations
and meetings are conducted as far as practicable in accordance
with bpp IV.3.1. Due to their large number and overlap in
information, some of the less important ones are not announced
in advance, made accessible to everyone or put on our website.
Requirements – the United Kingdom 
PLC is required, as a company that is incorporated in the UK and
listed on the London Stock Exchange, to state how it has applied
the principles and how far it has complied with the provisions set
out in Section 1 of the 2006 UK Combined Code on Corporate
Governance (‘the Combined Code’).
In the preceding pages we have described how we have applied
the principles and the provisions in the Combined Code. In 2007,
Unilever complied with the Combined Code except in the
following areas:
• Since the 2007 AGMs, Michael Treschow has been Unilever’s
ﬁrst independent Non-Executive Chairman. His predecessor,
Antony Burgmans, was not considered to be independent
during his period as Chairman of Unilever, as he was before
May 2005 an Executive Director. 
• The Remuneration Committee, following the stepping down
from that committee by Jean-Cyril Spinetta upon his retirement
as a Non-Executive Director of Unilever in September 2007, has
had two independent Non-Executive Directors on its
membership. Michael Treschow was appointed a member of
the Remuneration Committee in February 2008. The
Committee and the Board are currently working to replace
Jean-Cyril Spinetta with a new Non-Executive Director.
• Due to the requirement for Unilever to hold two AGMs for its
respective companies on consecutive days, it may not always be
possible for all Directors, and possibly the Chairmen of the
Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees, to be
present at both meetings. The Chairman ensures that a majority
of Directors attend both meetings and that at least one
member of each Committee attends each AGM.
Requirements – the United States 
Both NV and PLC are listed on the New York Stock Exchange and
must therefore comply with such of the requirements of US
legislation, such as the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, regulations
enacted under US securities laws and the Listing Standards of the
New York Stock Exchange as are applicable to foreign private
issuers. In some cases the requirements are mandatory and in
other cases the obligation is to ’comply or explain’.
We have complied with the requirements concerning corporate
governance that were in force during 2007. Attention is drawn 
in particular to the remit of the Audit Committee on page 37 
and the Report of the Audit Committee on page 62.
Actions already taken to ensure compliance that are not
speciﬁcally disclosed elsewhere or otherwise clear from reading
this document include: 
• the issuance of a Code of Ethics for senior ﬁnancial ofﬁcers; 
• the issuance of instructions restricting the employment of
former employees of the audit ﬁrm; and 
• the establishment of a policy on reporting requirements under
the US Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) relating to
the standards of professional conduct for US attorneys.
In each of these cases, existing practices were revised and/or
documented in such a way as to conform to the new
requirements.
The Code of Ethics applies to the senior executive, ﬁnancial and
accounting ofﬁcers and comprises the standards prescribed by the
SEC, and a copy has been posted on our website at
www.unilever.com/investorcentre/corpgovernance
The Code of Ethics comprises an extract of the relevant provisions
of Unilever’s Code of Business Principles and the more detailed
rules of conduct that implement it. The only amendment to these
pre-existing provisions and rules that was made in preparing the
Code of Ethics was made at the request of the Audit Committee
and consisted of a strengthening of the explicit requirement to
keep proper accounting records. No waiver from any provision 
of the Code of Ethics was granted to any of the persons falling
within the scope of the SEC requirement in 2007.
We are required by US securities laws and the Listing Standards 
of the New York Stock Exchange to have an Audit Committee
that satisﬁes Rule 10A-3 under the Exchange Act and the Listing
Standards of the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE). We are fully
compliant with these requirements. We are also required to
disclose any signiﬁcant ways in which our corporate governance
practices differ from those typically followed by US companies
listed on the NYSE. In addition to the information we have 
given you in this document about our corporate governance
arrangements, further details are provided in ‘The Governance of
Unilever’, which is on our website at
www.unilever.com/investorcentre/corpgovernance
We are fully compliant with the Listing Standards of the 
New York Stock Exchange applicable to foreign private issuers.
Our corporate governance practices do not signiﬁcantly differ
from those followed by US companies listed on the New York
Stock Exchange.
We also conﬁrm that our shareholders have the opportunity to
vote on equity compensation plans. 46 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Report of the Directors continued
Chairman
Michael Treschow
1,2
Nationality: Swedish. Aged 64. Chairman since May 2007. Chairman,
Telefonaktiebolaget L M Ericsson. Non-Executive Director, ABB Group.
Board member, Knut and Alice Wallenberg Foundation. Chairman, AB
Electrolux 1997-2007 and Confederation of Swedish Enterprise 2004-
2007. 
Vice-Chairman
The Lord Simon of Highbury CBE
3,4,5
Nationality: British. Aged 68. Appointed 2000. Non-Executive Director,
Suez Group. Director, CEPS, Belgium. Member of the International
Advisory Council, FITCH, France. Member of the International Advisory
Board, Dana Gas Corporation. Senior Advisor, Morgan Stanley
International. UK Government Minister 1997-1999. Group Chief
Executive, BP p.l.c. 1992-1995 and Chairman 1995-1997.
Executive Directors
Patrick Cescau
Group Chief Executive
Nationality: French. Aged 59. Group Chief Executive since April 2005.
Joined Unilever 1973. Appointed Director 4 May 1999. Previous posts
include: Chairman, Unilever PLC and Vice-Chairman, Unilever N.V.
2004-2005. Foods Director 2001. Financial Director 1999. Controller
and Deputy Financial Director 1998-1999. President, Lipton USA
1997-1998. President and CEO, Van den Bergh Foods USA 1995-
1997. Chairman, Indonesia 1991-1995. External appointments
include: Non-Executive Director, Pearson plc.
Kees van der Graaf
President Europe
Nationality: Dutch. Aged 57. President Europe since April 2005. Joined
Unilever 1976. Appointed Director 12 May 2004. Previous posts
include: Foods Director 2004, Business Group President, Ice Cream
and Frozen Foods 2001. Executive Vice-President, Foods and
Beverages Europe 1998. Senior Vice-President, Global Ice Cream
category 1995. External appointments include: Board member, ECR
(Efﬁcient Consumer Response). Member, Supervisory Boards of ANWB
Club (Algemene Nederlandse Wielrijdersbond) and ANWB B.V.
Ralph Kugler
6
President Home and Personal Care
Nationality: British. Aged 52. President Home and Personal Care since
April 2005. Joined Unilever 1979. Appointed Director 11 May 2005.
Previous posts include: President Home and Personal Care Europe
2001. Business Group President, Latin America 1999. Chairman,
Unilever Thai Holdings 1995. Chairman, Unilever Malaysia 1992.
External appointments include: Non-Executive Director,
InterContinental Hotels Group PLC.
Non-Executive Directors
Professor Genevieve Berger
6
Nationality: French. Aged 53. Appointed 2007. Professor, Medical
University Teaching Hospital, Paris. Member, Technical Committee,
Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE). Chairman,
Advisory Board, Health for the European Commission. Director,
Biotech and Agri-Food Department 1998-2000 and Director of
Technology 2000, the French Ministry for Education. Director General,
National Centre for Scientiﬁc Research (CNRS), France 2000-2003.
The Rt Hon The Lord Brittan of Spennithorne QC, DL
7
Nationality: British. Aged 68. Appointed 2000. Vice-Chairman,  
UBS Investment Bank and Chairman, UBS Limited. Director, UBS
Securities Company Limited. Member, International Advisory
Committee of Total. Member, European Commission and Vice-
President 1989-1999. Member, UK Government 1979-1986. Home
Secretary 1983-1985 and Secretary of State for Trade and Industry
1985-1986.
Professor Wim Dik
8
Nationality: Dutch. Aged 69. Appointed 2001. Professor at Delft
University of Technology. Chairman, Supervisory Boards of Tele Atlas
N.V., Zesko Holding B.V. and Chairman, Advisory Board of Spencer
Stuart Netherlands. Non-Executive Director, Aviva plc, LogicaCMG plc
and Stage Entertainment B.V. Chairman and CEO, Koninklijke PTT
Nederland (KPN) 1988-1998 and Koninklijke KPN N.V. (Royal Dutch
Telecom) 1998-2000. Minister for Foreign Trade, Netherlands
1981-1982.
Charles Golden
8
Nationality: American. Aged 61. Appointed 2006. Executive Vice-
President, Chief Financial Ofﬁcer and Director, Eli Lilly and Company
1996-2006. Non-Executive Director, Clarian Health Partners,
Hillenbrand Industries, Inc. and Eaton Corporation. Member of
Finance Committee, Indianapolis Museum of Art.
Byron Grote
8
Nationality: American/British. Aged 60. Appointed 2006. Chief
Financial Ofﬁcer, BP p.l.c.
Narayana Murthy
6
Nationality: Indian. Aged 61. Appointed 2007. Chairman, Asia
Business Council, Indian Institute of Information Technology and
Infosys Technologies Limited. Director, DBS Bank, DBS Group Holdings,
Infosys Consulting, Inc., Infosys Technologies (China) Company
Limited, New Delhi Television Ltd. 
Hixonia Nyasulu
6
Nationality: South African. Aged 53. Appointed 2007. Non-Executive
Director, Barloworld Ltd, JP Morgan SA, Sasol Ltd and Tongaat-Hulett
Group Ltd. Member, Banking Enquiry Panel, South African
Competition Commission.
Kees Storm
9
Nationality: Dutch. Aged 65. Appointed 2006. Chairman, Executive
Board, AEGON N.V. 1993-2002. Chairman, Supervisory Board KLM
Royal Dutch Airlines N.V. Board member and Chairman of Audit
Committee, InBev S.A. Board member and Audit Committee member,
Baxter International, Inc. Member, Supervisory Board, Pon Holdings
B.V. Member, Supervisory Board, AEGON N.V.
Jeroen van der Veer
1,2
Nationality: Dutch. Aged 60. Appointed 2002. Chief Executive 
Royal Dutch Shell plc. Former Member, Supervisory Board of De
Nederlandsche Bank N.V. 2000-2004.
1
Member Nomination Committee
2
Member Remuneration Committee
3
Chairman Nomination Committee
4
Chairman Remuneration Committee
5
Senior Independent Director
6
Member Corporate Responsibility and Reputation Committee
7
Chairman Corporate Responsibility and Reputation Committee
8
Member Audit Committee
9
Chairman Audit Committee
Corporate governance Biographical details  Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007 47
Report of the Directors continued
Corporate governance Biographical details continued
Unilever Executive (UEx)*
Patrick Cescau
Group Chief Executive
(see previous details on page 46)
Vindi Banga
President Foods
Nationality: Indian. Aged 53. Appointed President Foods April 2005.
Joined Unilever 1977. Previous posts include: Business Group President
Home and Personal Care, Asia 2004 in addition to Non-Executive
Chairman, Hindustan Lever 2004-2005. Chairman and Managing
Director, Hindustan Lever 2000-2004.
Kees van der Graaf
President Europe
(see previous details on page 46)
Ralph Kugler
President Home and Personal Care
(see previous details on page 46)
James Lawrence**
Chief Financial Ofﬁcer
Nationality: American. Aged 55. Appointed Chief Financial Ofﬁcer
1 September 2007. External appointments include: Non-Executive
Director, British Airways Plc and Avnet, Inc. Previous posts include:
various senior positions at General Mills, Inc. 1998-2007, including
Vice Chairman 2006-2007, Executive Vice President-International
2000-2006 and Chief Financial Ofﬁcer 1998-2007, Executive Vice
President and CFO, Northwest Airlines 1996-1998, President and
CEO, Pepsi-Cola International (Asia, Middle East, Africa) 1992-1996,
and Chairman, LEK Partnership 1983-1992. 
Harish Manwani
President Asia Africa
Nationality: Indian. Aged 54. Appointed President Asia Africa April
2005. Joined Unilever 1976. He is also Non-Executive Chairman,
Hindustan Lever. Previous posts include: Business Group President,
Home and Personal Care, North America 2004. Business Group
President, Home and Personal Care, Latin America 2001 and Senior
Vice President, Hair Care and Oral Care 2000.
Sandy Ogg
Chief Human Resources Ofﬁcer
Nationality: American. Aged 54. Appointed Chief HR Ofﬁcer April
2005. Joined Unilever 2003. Previous posts include: SVP Human
Resources, Foods 2003. Prior to joining Unilever he worked for
Motorola as SVP , Leadership, Learning and Performance Management.
Michael Polk
President Americas
Nationality: American. Aged 47. Appointed March 2007. External
appointments include: Director, Grocery Manufacturers of America
and Food Products Association, GS1, Retail Industry Leaders
Association, and Yellowstone National Park Foundation. Prior to
joining Unilever he was at Kraft Foods as President, Biscuits and
Snacks Sector and President, Asia Paciﬁc Region. 
* UEx members are treated as executive ofﬁcers and senior management for US purposes and key management personnel for IFRS
purposes. All members of the UEx have existing agreements with varying terms, however, all agreements include a notice period
of twelve months. Details of the remuneration paid and share awards are shown in aggregate in note 31 on page 120.
**James Lawrence will be proposed for election as an Executive Director at the 2008 AGMs. Terms of Reference
The Nomination Committee comprises two Independent Non-
Executive Directors and the Chairman. It is chaired by David
Simon, Vice Chairman and Senior Independent Director. Its other
members are Michael Treschow and Jeroen van der Veer. The
Group Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee.
The Committee is responsible for drawing up selection criteria and
appointment procedures for Directors. Under Unilever’s corporate
governance arrangements all Executive and Non-Executive
Directors offer themselves for election each year at the Annual
General Meetings, unless they are retiring. The Nomination
Committee is responsible for recommending candidates for
nomination as Executive Directors, including Group Chief
Executive, and Non-Executive Directors each year. The Committee
does so on the basis of an evaluation of the Boards, its
Committees and its individual members. The Committee
periodically assesses the size and the composition of the Board,
and makes proposals for the composition proﬁle of the Board.
After Directors have been appointed by shareholders the
Committee recommends to the Board candidates for election as
Chairman and Vice-Chairman.
In addition to its responsibility for succession planning within and
to the Board, under its Terms of Reference the Committee has
responsibility for supervising the policy of the Group Chief
Executive on the selection criteria and appointment procedures
for senior management.
The Committee keeps oversight of all matters relating to
corporate governance and brings any issues to the attention of
the Boards. The Committee’s full Terms of Reference and the
information used by it for succession planning are available on
our website www.unilever.com/investorcentre/corpgovernance
Process for the appointment of Directors
Unilever has formal procedures for evaluation of the Boards, the
Board Committees and the individual Directors. The results of the
evaluations are provided to the Committee when it discusses the
nominations for election as Directors. All Directors offer
themselves for re-election every year, unless they are retiring.
Where a vacancy arises on the Boards, the Committee seeks the
services of specialist recruitment ﬁrms and other external experts
to assist in ﬁnding individuals with the appropriate skills and
expertise. 
In nominating Directors to the Boards, the Committee follows the
agreed Board Proﬁle of potential Non-Executive Directors, which
takes into account the roles of Non-Executive Directors set out in
the Dutch Corporate Governance Code and the UK Combined
Code on Corporate Governance. Under the terms of the
Governance of Unilever the Boards should comprise a majority of
Non-Executive Directors and the Proﬁle provides that three of
these have strong ﬁnancial experience, and staff the Audit
Committee. To represent Unilever’s areas of interest, the Proﬁle
also indicates there should be a strong representation from
Developing and Emerging markets as well as from Europe and
North America. Non-Executives should be independent of Unilever
and free from any conﬂicts of interest.
The Proﬁle looks at diversity in terms of nationality, race, gender
and relevant expertise and directs that, wherever possible, the
Boards should reﬂect Unilever’s consumer base. For more details
see www.unilever.com/investorcentre/corpgovernance
Activities of the Committee during the year
The Committee met six times in 2007. David Simon and Jeroen
van der Veer attended all meetings. The other Committee
members attended all meetings that they were eligible to attend,
except Jean-Cyril Spinetta who attended three out of four
meetings he was eligible to attend.
The Committee proposed the nomination of all Directors offering
themselves for re-election at the 2007 AGMs. In 2007, the
Committee also proposed the nomination of the new Chairman,
and three new Non-Executive Directors. These were Michael
Treschow, Genevieve Berger, Narayana Murthy and Hixonia
Nyasulu respectively. 
Michael Treschow is the ﬁrst person from outside Unilever to hold
the ofﬁce of Chairman and, following the restructuring of the
Boards in recent years, is the ﬁrst independent, Non-Executive
Chairman. Michael has been a member of the Nomination
Committee since June 2007.
The three new Non-Executive Directors appointed in 2007 were
chosen speciﬁcally to strengthen the Boards’ knowledge in IT and
science as well as to increase representation from the D&E
markets and enhance diversity of both background and expertise.
All three Non-Executive Directors are members of the Corporate
Responsibility and Reputation Committee. 
In 2007 an outside executive search ﬁrm was engaged to identify
candidates for the role of Chief Financial Ofﬁcer, following the
retirement of Rudy Markham at the 2007 AGMs. Jim Lawrence
was chosen by the Boards, through the selection process, to
become Chief Financial Ofﬁcer with effect from 1 September
2007, and he will be nominated for election as an Executive
Director at the 2008 AGMs.
Following the appointment of an outside consultant to support
the 2006 evaluation process, an internal review was undertaken
during 2007 in relation to the evaluation of the Boards, the
Chairman, the individual Directors and the Board Committees
based on the completion of a questionnaire. 
The Committee discussed general matters of succession planning
and talent management with the Group Chief Executive. The
Committee reviewed and agreed new the terms of appointment
of Non-Executive Directors in line with best practice. 
Changes to composition
Antony Burgmans left the Committee when stepping down as
Chairman in May 2007 and Jean-Cyril Spinetta stepped down
when he resigned as a Director in September 2007. Michael
Treschow was appointed to the Committee on 27 June 2007. At
all times, the majority of the Nomination Committee consisted of
independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Board evaluated the performance of the Committee and the
Committee carried out a self assessment of its performance.
David Simon Chairman of the Nomination Committee
Michael Treschow
Jeroen van der Veer
Report of the Nomination Committee
48 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Report of the Directors continued Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007 49
Report of the Directors continued
Report of the Remuneration Committee
During 2007, the Committee continued to progress on the ﬁve
strategic principles that serve as the platform for Unilever's
approach to remuneration for the Unilever Executive. These
principles not only pertain to our Executive Directors but to all
Unilever's leadership levels. They provide the basis for our
remuneration structure as explained in greater detail in the
following pages, and direct that pay should be:
• aligned with shareholders' interests;
• robustly linked to performance;
• aligned with strategic priorities;
• market competitive; and
• easy to understand and communicate.
The overriding objective is to ensure that Unilever recruits and
retains the best performers, and effectively incentivises them to
achieve superior results. It is also our aim to manage the differing
elements of total remuneration in a fully integrated manner.
During 2007 these ﬁve principles provided the foundation for
important changes to the level and structure of Unilever’s
incentive plans. At our 2007 AGMs, shareholders approved the
introduction of a new share-based incentive plan which
appropriately aligned our programme with our peer company
market. The Committee also increased the annual incentive
opportunity for Executive Directors while leaving base salary levels
unchanged. Together, these changes have placed a greater
emphasis on performance-based rewards relative to ﬁxed pay, and
play a critical role in driving improved business results.
During the second half of 2007, Jim Lawrence was appointed as
Chief Financial Ofﬁcer of Unilever. Jim Lawrence’s election to the
Boards is subject to shareholders’ approval at the AGMs in May
2008. However, in the interests of transparency and good
governance, a summary of his remuneration arrangements has
been included in this year’s report.
The year 2007 marked a continuation of the Group’s momentum
of improved performance. The focus on growth priorities,
together with stronger innovation, improved speed to market and
better in-market execution, has delivered consistent, and we
believe sustainable, growth. Underlying operating margins have
improved and a strong start was made in implementing an
acceleration to the implementation of the One Unilever
reorganisation programme.
Based on the performance over 2007 the annual incentive awards
were on average 128% of base salary across the Unilever
Executive team. A Global Performance Share Plan (GPSP) long-
term incentive award will vest in 2008 for 121% based on the
performance period 2005 – 2007. The minimum vesting level for
the performance period 2005 – 2007 was in 2005 set at 2% per
annum average underlying sales growth (USG) and €12.2 billion
ungeared free cash ﬂow (UFCF), whereas up to 200% could vest
for USG exceeding 4% per annum and with UFCF more than
€13.2 billion. Targets were set before the disposal of European
Frozen Foods and before the disposal of UCI. The targets have
been adjusted by the impacts of these disposals. A total
shareholder return (TSR) long-term incentive award will also vest
in 2008. The vesting was 50% for the performance period 2005
to 2007. Unilever ranked 8th within the comparator group of
peer companies (see page 51).
Over the three years to December 2007 Unilever has created more
than €20 billion of shareholder value. Looking forward to 2008,
we expect the Group leadership to deliver improvement against
our longer-term objectives and, as a result, our shareholders and
our executives will be duly rewarded.
In September 2007, Jean-Cyril Spinetta stepped down as a Non-
Executive Director for personal reasons. We would like to take this
opportunity to thank Jean-Cyril for his contributions to Unilever
and our Committee. His wise counsel and experience have been
most helpful. We wish him all the best for the future. We are
currently working to replace Jean-Cyril with a new recruit for our
Committee during 2008. 
Michael Treschow was also appointed a member of our
Committee on 6 February 2008. 
David Simon Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
Jeroen van der Veer
Deﬁnition of auditable part of the Report of the Remuneration Committee
In compliance with the UK Directors’ Remuneration Report Regulation 2002, and under Title 9, Book 2 of the Civil Code in the
Netherlands, the auditable part of the report of the Remuneration Committee comprises the ’Aggregate remuneration for Executive
Directors’ on page 53, the ’Remuneration for individual Executive Directors’ on page 53, the ‘Executive Directors’ Global Share Incentive
Plan and the ‘Executive Directors’ Global Performance Share Plan’ on page 54, the ’Executive Directors’ conditional share awards under
the TSR Long-Term Incentive Plan’ on page 55, the ‘Executive Directors’ Share Matching Plan’ on page 55, ’Executive Directors’ share
options’ on page 56, ’Executive Directors’ pensions’ on page 57, ’Executive Directors’ interests – share capital’ on page 58,
‘Non-Executive Directors’ remuneration’ on page 59 and ‘Non-Executive Directors’ interests – share capital’ on page 60. 50 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Report of the Directors continued
Remuneration policy
Unilever reward policy table 2007
Element Payment vehicle Value determination Plan objectives/Key drivers
FIXED
Base salary Cash Market median Attraction and retention of high performing
executives
Pension Cash Directors stay in their home country pension fund Attraction and retention of high performing 
or an alternative of similar value executives
Bonus not pensionable
VARIABLE Indicative levels at face value as % of base pay
Annual incentive Cash (75%) Executive Directors: target 87% (range 0% – 150%) Delivery of trading contribution (Unilever’s 
Group Chief Executive: target 113% primary internal measure of economic value 
Shares (25%) (range of 0% – 200%) added – see page 51) and top-line growth targets
Individual responsibility for key Unilever business 
objectives
Global Share Shares Grant level for Executive Directors: up to 120% Shareholder return at upper half of peer group
Incentive Plan in 2007 (from 2008 onwards up to 180% (see page 51)
is allowable)
Top-line revenue growth as essential to Unilever’s
Grant level for Group Chief Executive: up to 135% long-term value creation
(from 2008 onwards up to 200% is allowable)
Ungeared Free Cash Flow as the basic driver of 
In exceptional circumstances the committee may Unilever’s shareholder returns
exceed the limits
Vesting level: 0% – 200% of grant
Share Matching Shares 25% of annual incentive is paid in shares, Alignment with shareholders’ interests
Plan these shares are matched one for one
A signiﬁcant proportion of the Executive Directors’ total reward 
is linked to a number of key measures of Group performance 
to create alignment with strategy, business priorities, and
shareholder value. 
The total remuneration package for Executive Directors is
intended to be competitive in a global market, with a strong
emphasis on performance related pay.
Internal and external comparisons are made with the reward
arrangements for other senior executives within Unilever to
support consistent application of Unilever’s executive reward
policies.
In setting targets for the performance measures, the Committee 
is guided by what would be required to deliver top third
shareholder value. This is reﬂected in both the short-term and 
long-term performance targets.
Report of the Remuneration Committee continued Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007 51
Report of the Directors continued
Report of the Remuneration Committee continued
Base salary
The Remuneration Committee reviews base salary levels annually,
taking into account external benchmarks within the context of
Group and individual performance. 
The Committee decided not to increase the salaries in 2007 in
order to place more emphasis on performance related pay and
less on ﬁxed pay.
Annual incentive
The annual incentive plan rewards Executive Directors for the
delivery of trading contribution (Unilever’s primary internal
measure of economic value added) and top-line growth targets,
as well as for their individual contribution to Unilever’s business
strategy.
In 2007 the Remuneration Committee reviewed annual incentive
levels in light of the strategic remuneration principles. Given the
desire to enhance the focus on performance-linked pay and to
ensure arrangements are market competitive, the Committee
decided to increase annual incentive opportunities. In 2007 the
opportunity for Executive Directors was increased to a maximum
of 150% of base salary and for the Group Chief Executive up to
200%. Up to 120% of salary will be based on Unilever’s business
results targets (133.3% for Group Chief Executive) and a
maximum of 30% of salary will be based on individual business
targets (66.7% for Group Chief Executive). The target levels are
around 60% of maximum. Aggressive business targets mean that
maximum levels are only payable for exceptional performance. 
The performance criteria for the annual incentive are: 
• trading contribution: Unilever’s primary internal measure of
economic value added. It is calculated from Trading Result after
a deduction for tax and a charge for asset use. (Trading result 
is the internal management measure of proﬁt that is the most
consistent with operating proﬁt). Increases in trading
contribution reﬂect the combined impact of top-line growth,
margin improvement and capital efﬁciency gains. It is well
aligned with our objective of a progressive improvement in
return on invested capital and with shareholder value creation;
• underlying sales growth: focus on the organic growth of
Unilever’s turnover; and
• individual business and leadership targets: tailored to each
individual’s responsibilities to deliver certain business objectives
supporting the strategy. Individual contribution is assessed
against robustly set measures and targets to ensure both
objectivity and ‘stretch’.
Achievement of targets is measured at the end of the year and
the payment takes place the following March. 25% of the annual
incentive is delivered to the Executive Directors in the form of
shares in NV and PLC, which are matched by a conditional award
of ‘matching shares’, as further described under the section on
long-term incentives below.
Long-term incentives
At the 2007 AGM’s, shareholders approved the new Unilever
Global Share Incentive Plan (GSIP) for employees and Executive
Directors.
The new plan supports the Committee’s strategic remuneration
principles for executives. The number of shares vesting is linked to
improvements in Unilever’s performance over a three-year period.
The plan integrates and replaces two previous long-term plans,
the Global Performance Share Plan and TSR Long-Term Incentive
Plan, making Unilever’s long-term arrangements simpler and
easier to understand. 
The long-term incentive for Executive Directors now consists 
of two elements, both of which are delivered in shares:
• Global Share Incentive Plan; and
• Share Matching Plan (linked to annual incentive).
Executive Directors are required to demonstrate a signiﬁcant
personal shareholding commitment to Unilever. Within ﬁve years
of appointment, they are expected to hold shares worth 150% 
of their annual base salary. This reinforces the link between the
executives and other shareholders.
Global Share Incentive Plan (GSIP)
Under the GSIP , annual awards of shares in NV and PLC are
granted to Executive Directors. The actual number of shares
received at vesting after three years depends on the satisfaction
of performance conditions.
For the 2007 awards, the vesting of shares is conditional on the
achievement of three distinct performance conditions over the
performance period. The performance period is the three-year
period which began on 1 January 2007 and ends on 
31 December 2009.
The vesting of 40% of the shares in the award is based on a
condition measuring Unilever’s relative total shareholder return
(TSR) against a comparator group of 20 other companies over
that three-year period. TSR measures the return received by a
shareholder, capturing both the increase in share price and the
value of dividend income (assuming dividends are reinvested). The
TSR results are compared on a single reference currency basis. No
shares (in the portion of the award subject to TSR) will vest if
Unilever is ranked below position 11 of the TSR ranking table over
the three-year period. 50% of the shares will vest if Unilever is
ranked 11th among the peer group, 100% if ranked 7th, and
200% will vest if Unilever is ranked 3rd or above in the table.
Straight-line vesting will occur between these points.
The TSR peer group is as follows:
Avon Kraft
Beiersdorf Lion
Cadbury Schweppes L’Oréal
Clorox Nestlé
Coca-Cola Orkla
Colgate PepsiCo
Danone Procter & Gamble
Heinz Reckitt Benckiser
Kao Sara Lee
Kimberly-Clark Shiseido 52 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Report of the Directors continued
The vesting of a further 30% of the shares in the award is
conditional on achieving an underlying sales growth target.  
The vesting of the ﬁnal 30% of the shares in the award is
conditional on achieving an ungeared free cash ﬂow target which
is the basic driver of the returns that Unilever is able to generate
for shareholders. 
Vesting of the business performance-focused parts of an award
depends on meeting challenging objectives. There will be no
vesting if performance is below the minimum of the range, 25%
vesting for achieving minimum, and 200% vesting only at or
substantially above the top end of the range.
Performance for each condition will be assessed independently
from the other conditions over the performance period. Shares
will only vest if and to the extent that the respective performance
conditions are satisﬁed. There will be no re-testing. 
Target and actual performance levels will be shown in the
Remuneration Report detailing the number of awards that have
actually vested. 
Share Matching Plan (linked to the annual incentive)
The Share Matching Plan enhances the alignment with
shareholders’ interests and supports the retention of key
executives. In addition, the necessity to hold the shares for 
a minimum period of three years supports the shareholding
requirements. 
The Executive Directors receive 25% of their annual incentive 
in the form of NV and PLC shares. These are matched with an
equivalent number of matching shares. The matching shares will
vest after three years provided that the underlying shares have
been retained during this period and the Executive Director has
not resigned or been dismissed. 
The Remuneration Committee considers that there is no need for
further performance conditions on the vesting of the matching
shares because the number of shares is directly linked to the
annual incentive (which is itself subject to demanding
performance conditions). In addition, during the three-year
vesting period the share price of NV and PLC will be inﬂuenced by
the performance of Unilever. This, in turn, will affect the ultimate
value of the matching shares on vesting.
Executive Directors’ pensions
The policy beginning in 2007 is that new Executive Directors will
be members of the all-employee pension arrangement in their
home country (or an alternative of similar value) and will pay
employee contributions at the same rate as other employees in
that arrangement.
Executive Directors appointed prior to 2007 have a deﬁned
beneﬁt pension of two-thirds of ﬁnal salary, payable at retirement
from age 60. Annual incentive is not pensionable except for
Executive Directors appointed prior to the change of policy in
2005 (Patrick Cescau, Kees van der Graaf and Rudy Markham
who retired in 2007) for whom annual incentive is pensionable up
to a maximum of 20% of base salary.
Other beneﬁts and allowances
Executive Directors enjoy similar beneﬁts to those enjoyed by
many other employees of Unilever. 
Serving as non-executive on the Board of another company
Some of the Executive Directors serve as a non-executive on the
Board of another company. In 2007 Unilever required that all
remuneration and fees earned from outside directorships are paid
directly to Unilever.
This policy has been amended in 2008 (see Outside appointments
on page 36).
Arrangements for Jim Lawrence
Jim Lawrence joined Unilever in September 2007 as Chief
Financial Ofﬁcer. He will be proposed for election to the Boards of
NV and PLC at the AGMs in May 2008. Given Unilever’s objective
of balancing remuneration more clearly towards performance
linked variable pay the agreed package follows this policy
direction. His salary in 2007 was set at US $1 100 000 per
annum; the maximum annual incentive in 2007 was 150% of
salary and the grant under the GSIP in 2007 was 49 962 each of
NV shares and PLC shares. He will be in a pension plan similar to
that of Unilever in the USA, which is a deﬁned contribution plan. 
To compensate for the forfeiture of incentives from his former
employer, a cash allowance was paid on appointment of 
US $1 million (with a pro rata claw back over 3 years) and
restricted shares of 35 565 each of NV and PLC were granted (at
award value US $2.5 million). These will vest one-third after one
year of service, one-third after two years of service and one-third
after 3 years of service.
Jim Lawrence has purchased 295 508 NV shares and 240 000 PLC
ADRs.
Future developments
The Remuneration Committee continues to monitor trends and
changes in the market. It keeps a watching brief on the
continuing alignment between Unilever’s strategic objectives and
the reward policy for Executive Directors. 
From 1 January 2008, the UK all-employee pension plan beneﬁt
for new hires changed from ﬁnal salary to a combination of
career average earnings (up to a limit of £38 000) and deﬁned
contribution above the limit. Existing employees are being given
the option to move to the new plan or to remain in the previous
plan (subject to certain changes including paying higher individual
contributions). The latter impacts the UK-based Executive
Directors Patrick Cescau and Ralph Kugler.
The performance range for the GSIP (Global Share Incentive 
Plan) 2008 award (performance period 2008 - 2010) will be 
4% - 6.4% per annum in respect of average underlying sales
growth and €10.5 billion - €15.5 billion for cumulative ungeared
free cash ﬂow.
Report of the Remuneration Committee continued Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007 53
Report of the Directors continued
Report of the Remuneration Committee continued
Remuneration information for 2007
The following section contains detailed information and commentary on the Executive Directors’ annual remuneration, long-term
incentives, pension beneﬁts and share interests in respect of 2007.
Aggregate remuneration for Executive Directors
The following table gives details of the aggregate remuneration (including value of the vesting of matching shares and exercise of
options) as a group.
2007 2006
€ ’000 € ’000
Annual emoluments
Base salary 3 491 4 061
Allowances and other payments 221 913
Beneﬁts 82 111
Performance-related payments (annual incentive) 4 865 2 409
Sub-total of annual emoluments 8 659 7494
Other income arising from vesting/exercise of long-term incentives
(a)
Gains on exercise of share options 50 427
Vesting of matching shares 230 566
Vesting of awards under TSR Long-Term Incentive Plan – –
Total of annual emoluments and other income arising from long-term incentives 8 939 8487
(a) Includes the gains realised in 2007 following the exercise of share options granted in earlier years and the value of matching shares vested
in 2007.
Comments on base salary
In 2007, base salary levels were benchmarked against those paid in other major global companies based in Europe, excluding
companies in the ﬁnancial sector. The Committee decided not to increase base salaries for 2007 and to place greater emphasis on
performance-based pay.
Comments on annual incentive
The annual incentive awards for 2007 were subject to achievement of underlying sales growth and trading contribution targets in
combination with individual key strategic business targets. The Committee measured the results against the targets set and determined
the annual incentive amounts for 2007. 
Remuneration for individual Executive Directors
The following table gives details of the remuneration received in 2007 (including the value of vested share match and options
exercised) by each Executive Director individually.
Other income arising from
long-term incentives and
Annual Emoluments 2007 exercise of options in 2007
Allowances Grand Grand
Base and other Value of T otal Total Option Share total total
salary payments
(a)
beneﬁts
(b)
Bonus
(c)
2007 2006 gains match TSR/LTIP 2007 2006
Name and Base Country € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 € ’000 € ’000
Patrick Cescau (UK)
(d)
1 426 129 47 2 346 3 948 2 727 50 63 – 4 061 2 940
Kees van der Graaf (NL) 798 27 9 988 1 822 1 202 – 60 – 1 882 1 287
Ralph Kugler (UK) 861 56 11 1 033 1 961 1 313 – 53 – 2 014 1 414
Rudy Markham (UK)
(e)
406 9 15 498 928 1 517 – 54 – 982 2 111
(a) Includes: allowance in lieu of company car; blind trust fees compensation; compensation for loss of net income because part of the salary
was paid in the Netherlands; entertaining allowance and employers’ cost for the all-employee savings plan in the Netherlands. All
allowances are taxable in the country of residence apart from the entertaining allowance which is currently tax free in the Netherlands.
(b) Includes: beneﬁts for company car; housing (for business use) instead of hotel; medical insurance and private use of chauffeur driven cars.
Included are beneﬁts that are taxable in the country of residence. In addition, Unilever provides support to Executive Directors in relation to
spouse’s travel expenses when travelling together on company business. This amount is capped at 5% of base salary and for 2007 totalled
€168 559 (including related taxes payable).
(c) Bonus of the year 2007. Includes: the value of both the cash element and the element paid in shares of NV and PLC. In addition to the
element of the bonus paid in shares each Executive Director is awarded, on a conditional basis, an equivalent number of matching shares.
(d) Group Chief Executive.
(e) Rudy Markham stepped down as a Director at the May 2007 AGMs. He retired from Unilever at 31 October 2007. In the table above are
the emoluments for the period January – May 2007. His emoluments for the period June – October were in total: €1 140 000.
Figures have been translated into euros using the following exchange rate: €1 = £0.6822 (2006: €1 = £0.6818). 54 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Report of the Directors continued
Comments on long-term incentive arrangements
• Global Share Incentive Plan
The ﬁrst award was made in 2007 with a performance period 1 January 2007 to 31 December 2009. Vesting will be in May 2010 
(three years after award) 
• Global Performance Share Plan
The performance period for the ﬁrst awards made under the plan ended on 31 December 2007. Vesting will be in May 2008 (three
years after award).
• TSR Plan
In 2007 the conditional shares awarded in 2004 lapsed. Vesting was based on the TSR performance of Unilever (when ranked against
its deﬁned peer group with competitors) over the three-year performance period which ended 31 December 2006. For this period,
Unilever ranked 13th in its peer group and therefore no vesting occurred for this award and the shares lapsed in March 2007.
• Share Matching Plan
In 2007 the matching shares originally granted in 2004 on a conditional basis vested, subject to fulﬁlment of the retention
conditions.
• Executive Share Options
The grants of executive share options made in 2004 became exercisable as from 2007. As the 2004 grant was based on Unilever’s
EPS performance, the options at vesting were subject to no further conditions.
Executive Directors’ Global Share Incentive Plan
The Global Share Incentive Plan was approved by shareholders at the 2007 AGMs.
The following conditional shares were granted during 2007 and outstanding at 31 December 2007 under the Global Share 
Incentive Plan:
Balance of
Conditional grant made 22 May 2007 conditional shares at
(Performance period 1 January 2007 to 31 December 2009)
(a)
31 December 2007
Share type No. of shares
(a)
Price at award No. of shares
Patrick Cescau NV 40 505 €22.20 40 505
PLC 40 505 1 582.00p 40 505
Kees van der Graaf NV 20 550 €22.20 20 550
PLC 20 550 1 582.00p 20 550
Ralph Kugler NV 22 145 €22.20 22 145
PLC 22 145 1 582.00p 22 145
Rudy Markham
(b)
NV––
PLC––
(a) Each award of performance shares is conditional and vests subject to certain conditions three years after the date of the award.
(b) Was not awarded under this new Scheme as he stepped down as a Director at the May 2007 AGMs. 
Executive Directors’ Global Performance Share Plan
The following conditional shares were outstanding from grants made in 2005 and 2006.
No new awards from 2007 onwards will be made under this Plan as a new plan was approved by shareholders at the 2007 AGMs and
as from 2007 LTI awards will be made only under the new plan. 
Balance of Balance of
conditional shares at conditional shares at
1 January 2007 31 December 2007
Share type No. of shares
(a)
No. of shares
(a)
Patrick Cescau NV 18 000 18 000
PLC 18 000 18 000
Kees van der Graaf NV 12 000 12 000
PLC 12 150 12 150
Ralph Kugler NV 12 000 12 000
PLC 12 150 12 150
Rudy Markham NV 12 000 12 000
(b)
PLC 12 150 12 150
(b)
(a) Each award of performance shares is conditional and vests subject to performance conditions three years after the date of the award. 
(b) Balance is at May 2007 when he stepped down as an Executive Director.
Report of the Remuneration Committee continued Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007 55
Report of the Directors continued
Report of the Remuneration Committee continued
Executive Directors’ conditional share awards under the TSR Long-Term Incentive Plan
The following conditional shares were outstanding from grants made in 2004 to 2006.
From 2007 onwards no new awards will be made under this Plan as a new plan was approved by shareholders at the 2007 AGMs.
From 2007 LTI awards will be made only under the new plan. 
Balance of Balance of
conditional Conditional awards conditional
shares lapsed 24 March 2007 shares at
at 1 January (Performance period 31 December
2007 2004 to 2006)
(a)
2007
Original
Share No. of No. of price at No. of
type shares shares award shares
Patrick Cescau NV 58 476 (13 863) €18.03 44 613
PLC 60 449 (14 391) 1 154.00p 46 058
Kees van der Graaf NV 36 201 (8 319) €18.03 27 882
PLC 37 422 (8 634) 1 154.00p 28 788
Ralph Kugler NV 36 201 (8 319) €18.03 27 882
PLC 37 422 (8 634) 1 154.00p 28 788
Rudy Markham NV 41 745 (13 863) €18.03 27 882
(b)
PLC 43 179 (14 391) 1 154.00p 28 788
(b)
(a) The conditional awards made in 2004 lapsed in 2007, based on the TSR performance of Unilever over the three-year performance period
ending 31 December 2006. For this period, Unilever ranked 13th in its peer group and therefore no vesting occurred for this award.
(b) Balance is at May 2007 when he stepped down as an Executive Director.
Executive Directors’ Share Matching Plan
The following conditional shares were outstanding, awarded or vested during 2007 under the share matching plan:
Balance of Balance of
conditional conditional
shares shares at
at 1 January Conditional shares 31 December
2007 awarded in 2007
(a)
Shares vested on 24 March 2007
(b)
2007
Market Original
Share No. of No. of Price at No. of price price No. of
type shares shares award shares at vesting at award shares
Patrick Cescau NV 8 778 6 627 €21.33 (1 413) €21.66 €18.03 13 992
PLC 8 992 6 627 1 488.00p (1 469) 1 505.11p 1 154.00p 14 150
Kees van der Graaf NV 4 266 2 121
(c)
€21.33 (1 341) €21.66 €18.03 2 925
PLC 4 394 2 121
(c)
1 488.00p (1 392) 1 505.11p 1 154.00p 3 002
Ralph Kugler NV 3 831 2 402 €21.33 (1 191) €21.66 €18.03 5 042
PLC 3 936 2 402 1 488.00p (1 238) 1 505.11p 1 154.00p 5 100
Rudy Markham NV 4 932 2 830 €21.33 (1 209) €21.66 €18.03 6 553
(d)
PLC 5 071 2 830 1 488.00p (1 257) 1 505.11p 1 154.00p 6 644
(d)
(a) Each award of matching shares is conditional and vests three years after the date of the award subject to certain conditions. The 2007
award was made at grant date 21 March 2007.
(b) The conditional shares awarded on 24 March 2004 (relating to the 2003 performance period) vested on 24 March 2007.
(c) Kees van der Graaf (based in the Netherlands) was granted a conditional right to receive at the vesting date a cash amount equal to the
value on that date of 2 121 NV shares and 2 121 PLC shares.
(d) Balance is at May 2007 when he stepped down as an Executive Director.
2005 2006 2007
7
14
21
Unilever’s position relative to the TSR reference group
The reference group, including Unilever, consists of 21 companies. Unilever’s position is
based on TSR over a three-year rolling period.  56 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Report of the Directors continued
Executive Directors’ share options
Options to acquire NV ordinary shares of €0.16 each and options to acquire PLC ordinary shares of 3
1
⁄ 9p each were outstanding, were
exercised or lapsed during 2007. No option awards were made in 2007.
Options outstanding Options outstanding
below market price above market price
at 31 December 2007 at 31 December 2007
Number
Balance of of options Balance of Weighted Weighted
options at exercised/ options at average average First Final
Share 1 January lapsed 31 December Number exercise Number exercise exercisable expiry
type 2007 in 2007 2007 of options price of options price date date
Patrick Cescau
Executive Plan NV 269 166 (27 000)
(a)
242 166 242 166 €19.50 – – 24/03/02 08/11/15
Executive Plan PLC 272 967 (27 000)
(b)
245 967 245 967 1 175p – – 24/03/02 08/11/15
NL All-Employee Plan NV 750 (150)
(c)
600 600 €17.53 – – 02/06/03 17/05/11
UK ShareSave Plan PLC 1 374 – 1 374 1 374 1 171p – – 01/10/11 31/03/12
Kees van der Graaf
Executive Plan NV 135 450 – 135 450 135 450 €19.70 – – 24/03/02 08/11/15
Executive Plan PLC 135 450 – 135 450 135 450 1 203p – – 24/03/02 08/11/15
NL All-Employee Plan NV 750 (150)
(d)
600 600 €17.53 – – 02/06/03 17/05/11
UK ShareSave Plan PLC 1 374 – 1 374 1 374 1 202p – – 01/10/10 31/03/11
Ralph Kugler
Executive Plan NV 176 625 – 176 625 176 625 €19.41 – – 24/03/02 20/03/15
Executive Plan PLC 176 625 – 176 625 176 625 1 163p – – 24/03/02 20/03/15
NL All-Employee Plan NV 300 – 300 300 €17.59 – – 18/05/05 17/05/11
UK ShareSave Plan PLC 1 374 – 1 374 1 374 1 202p – – 01/10/10 31/03/11
Rudy Markham
Executive Plan NV 237 150 – 237 150
(e)
237 150 €19.67 – – 24/03/02 31/10/09
Executive Plan PLC 237 150 – 237 150
(e)
237 150 1 212p – – 24/03/02 31/10/09
NL All-Employee Plan NV 750 (150)
(d)
600
(e)
600 €17.53 – – 02/06/03 17/05/11
UK ShareSave Plan PLC 1 373 – 1 373
(e)
1 373 1 190p – – 01/11/07 30/04/08
(a) Options in respect of 27 000 shares exercised on 1 November 2007 at a market value of €23.24. The options would have expired 
7 November 2007 if not exercised before. The options had originally been granted on 8 May 1998 at a price (after taking into account the
share split in May 2006) of €23.10.
(b) Options in respect of 5 355 shares exercised on 8 May 2007 at a market price of 1 658p. Further options in respect of 21 645 shares
exercised on 26 September 2007 at a market price of 1 585p. The options would have expired 7 November 2007 if not exercised before.
The options had originally been granted on 8 May 1998 at a price (after taking into account the share consolidation in May 2006) of
1 483p.
(c) Options lapsed without value on 12 June 2007.
(d) Options exercised on 8 May 2007 at a market value of €23.75. The options had originally been granted on 12 June 2002 at a price (after
taking into account the share split in May 2006) of €22.63.
(e) Balances are at May 2007 when he stepped down as a Director. On 2 November 2007, 33 750 options each of NV and PLC were exercised
at €23.64 and 1 725p respectively. The original grant prices were €23.10 and 1 483p. On 27 December 2007, a further 96 750 
NV and 164 250 PLC options were exercised at €25.32 and 1 902p. The original grant prices were on average €17.21 and 1 158p.
The term ‘Executive Plan’ refers to options granted under the PLC or NV Executive Option Plans.
The closing market prices of ordinary shares at 31 December 2007 were €25.15 (NV shares) and 1 890p (PLC shares). During 2007 the highest
market prices were €25.72 and 1 924p respectively, and the lowest market prices were €18.89 and 1 320p respectively.
Report of the Remuneration Committee continued Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007 57
Report of the Directors continued
Report of the Remuneration Committee continued
Comments on pensions
The Netherlands all-employee pension plan beneﬁt basis was changed from ﬁnal salary to career average earnings at 31 December
2006. This had a small impact on the accrued pension of the Netherlands-based Executive Director. 
During 2007, individual contributions paid by Executive Directors in the UK were paid through a salary sacriﬁce arrangement.
Executive Directors’ pensions
(a)
Pension values for the year ended 31 December 2007 are set out below.
Movement
Movement in Transfer in transfer T ransfer
accrued value of value during Individual value of
Accrued pension Accrued accrued 2007 (less contributions accrued
pension at during pension at pension at individual made during pension at
Age at 31/12/06
(b)
2007
(c)
31/12/07
(b)
31/12/06
(d)
contributions)
(e)
2007
(f)
31/12/07
(d)
Name and base country 31/12/07 €’000 pa €’000 pa €’000 pa €’000 €’000 €’000 €’000 
Patrick Cescau (UK) 59 1 000 29 1 029 18 662 1 951 4 20 617
Kees van der Graaf
(g)
(NL) 5760237 639 8 098 868 9 8 975
Ralph Kugler (UK) 51 441 (23) 418 6 283 219 – 6 502
Rudy Markham
(h)
(UK) 61 793 (68) 725 15 909 (1 928) – 13 981
(a) Figures have been translated into euros where necessary using the following exchange rates: 31 December 2007 €1.00 = £0.7342; 
31 December 2006 €1.00 = £0.6712; Average for the year ended 31 December 2007 €1.00 = £0.6822. 
(b) Based on the Executive Directors’ current pension letters and calculated on a deferred basis using the Executive Directors’ service to 
31 December 2006 and 31 December 2007 respectively on the basis that the Executive Directors remain in service until at least age 60 
and that the pension payment commences at that time. It includes all pensions provided from Unilever pension plans. In the event that 
an Executive Director leaves service prior to age 60 and the payment of pension commences earlier than age 60, the pension payable 
would be on a reduced basis.
(c) Includes the effect of inﬂation on the accrued pension at 31 December 2006.
(d) For the Netherlands-based Executive Director the arrangement is calculated on the basis used by the Unilever Netherlands pension plan
(‘Progress’), as prescribed by the Netherlands Ministry of Social Affairs and Employment. These prescriptions changed on 1 January 2008 as
illustrated in footnote (g). For the UK-based Executive Directors’ the arrangement is calculated on the market related basis used by Unilever
United Kingdom pension plan (UUKPF), in line with the GN11 guidance note published by the Board for Actuarial Standards in the United
Kingdom. 
(e) The movement in transfer value during 2007 of market changes for the UK based Executive Directors together with additional service and
the Executive Directors being one year closer to retirement and exchange rate movements (for pensions denominated in currency other than
euros). There have been no salary increases in 2007.
(f) Consistent with employees in the current Netherlands pension plan, the rate of individual contributions paid by Kees van der Graaf is 0.5%
of pensionable salary between €11 872 and €56 990 and 1% on balance. Consistent with employees in the United Kingdom pension plan,
Ralph Kugler’s and Rudy Markham’s contributions are paid through salary sacriﬁce and at a rate of 5% of pensionable salary (above the UK
Lower Earnings Limit), and as such no individual contributions are shown above. Patrick Cescau’s contributions on the part of his salary paid
in the Netherlands are paid based on the basis of the old Unilever Netherlands pension plan, at 1% above €56 990, and on the part of his
salary paid in the UK are consistent with employees in the Unilever United Kingdom pension plan.
(g) The increase in accrued pension and transfer value during 2007 includes the effect of revaluation on the accrued pension in the Unilever
Netherlands pension plan at January 2008. The basis for calculation of the transfer value in the Netherlands as prescribed by the
Netherlands Ministry of Social Affairs and Employment changed for accounting periods ending after 1 January 2008. Calculated on this new
basis the transfer value at 31 December 2007 for Kees van der Graaf would be €7 951 000.
(h) Attained age 60 in 2006 and accrued no additional pension. Stepped down as a Director at the 2007 AGMs. The values shown are at 31
May 2007, or the period ending on that date, as appropriate. Schedule 7A of the UK Companies Act requires the disclosure of pension
values at retirement as he performed qualifying services during 2007. The accrued pension at 31 October 2007 (the date he retired from
Unilever) is unchanged from that shown in the table. The transfer value of the accrued pension at 31 October 2007 was €14 055 000.
The Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority are different from the Directors’ Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 and 
require the following disclosures for deﬁned benef ﬁt pension plans which are calculated on an alternative basis to those disclosed in 
the previous table.
The Dutch Corporate Governance Code requires the disclosure of pension service costs charged to operating proﬁt:
Dutch
Corporate
Listing rules of the Financial Services Authority Governance Code
€’000
(a)
€’000
(b)
€’000
Patrick Cescau (UK) (9) (192) 552
Kees van der Graaf (NL) 32 450 249
Ralph Kugler (UK) (1) (14) 294
Rudy Markham (UK) (31) (601) 50
(c)
(a) Movement in accrued pension during 2007 (excluding the effect of inﬂation on the accrued pension at 31 December 2006).
(b) Transfer value at 31 December 2007 of the movement in accrued pension during 2007 (excluding the effect of inﬂation on the accrued 
pension at 31 December 2006 and less individual contributions).
(c) This includes €28 000 that was incurred up to May 2007 when he left the Board and €22 000 that was incurred subsequently up to 
31 October 2007. 58 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Report of the Directors continued
Executive Directors’ interests – share capital
The interests in the share capitals of NV and PLC and their group companies of those who were Executive Directors at 31 December
2007 and of their connected persons were as shown in the table below:
Shares held at Shares held at
Share type
(a)
1 January 2007
(b)
31 December 2007
(b)
Patrick Cescau
(c)
NV 85 059 93 099
PLC 52 347 65 798
Kees van der Graaf NV 23 157 32 499
PLC 16 718 20 339
Ralph Kugler NV 45 396 48 489
PLC 20 124 23 366
(a) NV shares are ordinary €0.16 shares and PLC shares are ordinary 3
1
⁄9p shares.
(b) Numbers are excluding unvested matching shares.
(c) Balances include under NV 38 715 NV New York shares and under PLC 10 220 PLC ADRs.
The Executive Directors, in common with other employees of PLC and its United Kingdom subsidiaries, had beneﬁcial interests in 
16 678 871 PLC ordinary shares at 1 January 2007 and 10 920 385 PLC ordinary shares at 31 December 2007, acquired by the
Unilever Employee Share Trust (Jersey) for the purpose of satisfying options and vesting of shares under various group share plans
(including the PLC Executive Option Plans and the UK Employee ShareSave Plan). Further information, including details of the NV and
PLC ordinary shares acquired by certain group companies in connection with other share-based compensation plans, is given in note 29
on pages 117 to 119.
The voting rights of the Directors who hold interests in the share capitals of NV and PLC are the same as for other holders of the class
of shares indicated. None of the Directors’ or other executive ofﬁcers’ shareholdings amounts to more than 1% of the issued shares in
that class of share. Except as stated above, all shareholdings are beneﬁcial.
The only changes in the interests of the Executive Directors and their connected persons in NV and PLC ordinary shares between 31
December 2007 and 1 March 2008 were that:
• The holding of the Unilever Employee Share Trust (Jersey) has reduced to 10 814 117 PLC ordinary shares; and 
• Kees van der Graaf and Ralph Kugler each acquired an additional 14 PLC ordinary shares during January and February as a result of
regular contributions to an employee share investment plan.
Report of the Remuneration Committee continued Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007 59
Report of the Directors continued
Report of the Remuneration Committee continued
Non-Executive Directors
The following section contains detailed information and commentary on the Non-Executive Directors’ annual fees and share interests.
The Non-Executive Directors receive fees from both NV and PLC. No other remuneration is given in respect of their non-executive duties
from either NV or PLC, such as annual incentives, share-based incentives or pension beneﬁts.
The level of their fees reﬂects their commitment and contribution to Unilever. The Chairman’s levels were reviewed and increased with
the appointment of Michael Treschow as Chairman in 2007. No other fee changes have been made since the 2006 AGMs.
Non-Executive Directors’ remuneration
The total fees payable to each Non-Executive Director in 2007 are set out below: 
T otal fees paid Total fees paid
in 2007
(a)
in 2006
(a)
Current Non-Executive Directors €’000 €’000
Michael Treschow
(b)(c)
469 n/a
Genevieve Berger
(b)
60 n/a
Leon Brittan 97 83
Wim Dik 92 85
Charles Golden 134 89
Byron Grote 90 60
Narayana Murthy
(b)
97 n/a
Hixonia Nyasulu
(b)
82 n/a
David Simon 131 110
Kees Storm 113 75
Jeroen van der Veer 90 83
Former Non-Executive Directors
Antony Burgmans
(d)(e)
246 300
Lynda Chalker
(d)(g)
42 94
Jean-Cyril Spinetta
(f)
68 60
(a) Covers fees and allowances received from both NV and PLC. Includes fees for travel from outside Europe if applicable.
(b) Appointed at the 2007 AGMs. 
(c) Chairman NV and PLC since the 2007 AGMs.
(d) Stepped down at the 2007 AGMs.
(e) Chairman until the 2007 AGMs. Total fees include some beneﬁts that occured after retirement.
(f) Stepped down in September 2007.
(g) Started to work for Unilever under a consultancy agreement as from 1 June 2007 to support Unilever in the African world. Total amount
paid for period June 2007 – December 2007 €85 508.
Please see page 46 for details on committee memberships. 60 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Report of the Directors continued
Prior to being a Non-Executive Director Mr Burgmans was awarded shares and options in his capacity as an Executive Director. 
Mr Burgmans received no further share-based awards in his capacity as Non-Executive Director.
Details of the balance and lapsing under the TSR Long-Term Incentive Plan:
Balance Conditional award lapsed Balance
1 January 2007 24 March 2007 May 2007
NV 22 182 (22 182) –
PLC 23 024 (23 024) –
Details of the balance and vesting under the Share Matching Plan:
Balance Shares vested Balance
1 January 2007 27 March 2007 May 2007
NV 4 569 (1 815) 2 754
PLC 4 712 (1 886) 2 826
Details of his outstanding options can be found below:
Number
Number of of options Balance of Balance Weighted Balance Weighted
options exercised/ options at below average above average First Final
Share granted in lapsed May market exercise market exercise exercisable expiry
type 2007 in 2007 2007 price price price price date date
(a)
Executive Plan NV 316 800 – 316 800 316 800 €19.10 – – 24/03/02 01/06/09
Executive Plan PLC 316 800 – 316 800 316 800 1 163p – – 24/03/02 01/06/09
NL All-Employee Plan NV 450 (150)
(a)
300 300 €17.47 – – 02/06/03 12/05/09
(a) Exercised 8 May 2007 at market price of €23.75 (originally awarded 12 June 2002 at €22.63).
Non-Executive Directors’ interests – share capital
The interests in the share capitals of NV and PLC and their group companies of those who were Non-Executive Directors as at 
31 December 2007 and had share holdings (including those of their connected persons) were as shown below:
Shares held at Shares held at
Share type
(a)
1 January 2007
(a)
31 December 2007
(a)
Michael Treschow NV –
(b)
15 000
PLC –
(b)
15 000
Byron Grote NV NY 3 000 3 000
PLC ADRs 1 800 1 800
David Simon NV – –
PLC 1 492 1 536
Jeroen van der Veer NV 16 800 16 800
PLC––
(a) NV shares are ordinary €0.16 shares and PLC shares are ordinary 3
1
⁄9p shares.
(b) Shareholding is as from date of appointment.
There were no changes in the interests of the Non-Executive Directors and their connected persons in NV and PLC ordinary shares
between 31 December 2007 and 1 March 2008.
Report of the Remuneration Committee continued Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007 61
Report of the Directors continued
Report of the Remuneration Committee continued
Additional statutory and other disclosures
The Board evaluated the performance of the Committee and the Committee carried out a self assessment of its performance.
Unilever’s share performance relative to broad-based equity indices
The UK Companies Act 1985 (schedule 7A) requires us to show Unilever’s relative share performance, based on Total Shareholder
Return, against a holding of shares in a broad-based equity index for the last ﬁve years. The Remuneration Committee has decided to
show Unilever’s performance against two indices, namely the FTSE 100 Index, London, and the Euronext AEX Index, Amsterdam as
these are the most generally used indices in the UK and the Netherlands, where we have our principal listings.
Role and responsibilities
The Committee is responsible for making proposals to the Boards on the reward policy for Executive Directors. It is also responsible for
setting individual reward packages for Executive Directors and for monitoring and approving all share-based incentive arrangements.
The Committee meets at least three times a year and, during 2007, it met on ﬁve occasions.
Structure and role
During 2007 David Simon served as Chairman of the Committee with Jeroen van der Veer and Jean-Cyril Spinetta as Non-Executive
members. Jean-Cyril Spinetta stepped down as a Director in September 2007. Michael Treschow was appointed a member of the
Committee on 6 February 2008.
Advice and assistance
The Committee does not formally retain remuneration consultants. It seeks professional advice from external advisers as and when
required. During 2007, the Committee sought advice from Towers Perrin (an independent ﬁrm of human resources specialists) on
market data, reward trends and performance-related pay. Towers Perrin also provides general consultancy advice to Unilever group
companies on employee rewards, pension, communications and other human resource matters.
The Group Secretary attends all Committee meetings and advises on matters of corporate governance.
The Group Chief Executive can be invited to attend Committee meetings to provide his own insights to the Committee on business
objectives and the individual performance of his direct reports. Naturally, he does not attend when his own remuneration is being
discussed.
During 2007, the Non-Executive Chairman could, in his role as Chairman of the Boards, also attend meetings.
The Report has been approved by the Boards. Signed on behalf of the Boards by Sven Dumoulin (Group Secretary).
Unilever
AEX
Dec 2002 Dec 2003 Dec 2004 Dec 2005 Dec 2006 Dec 2007
200
160
180
120
140
100
80
60
Growth in the value of a hypothetical investment over five years
AEX comparison based on 30 day average values
Unilever
FTSE 100
Dec 2002 Dec 2003 Dec 2004 Dec 2005 Dec 2006 Dec 2007
200
160
180
140
120
100
80
60
Five-Year Historical TSR Performance
  
Growth in the value of a hypothetical £100 holding over five years
FTSE 100 comparison based on 30 trading day average values Report of the Audit Committee
The role of the Audit Committee is to assist the Unilever Boards in
fulﬁlling their oversight responsibilities regarding the integrity of
Unilever’s ﬁnancial statements, risk management and internal
control, compliance with legal and regulatory requirements, the
external auditors’ performance, qualiﬁcations and independence,
and the performance of the internal audit function. During the
year ended 31 December 2007 the principal activities of the
Committee were as follows:
Financial statements
The Committee considered reports from the Chief Financial
Ofﬁcer on the quarterly and annual ﬁnancial statements including
other ﬁnancial statements and disclosures prior to their
publication, issues reviewed by the Disclosure Committee, and
reviewed the Annual Report and Accounts and Annual Report on
Form 20-F prior to publication.
Audit of the Annual Accounts
PricewaterhouseCoopers, Unilever’s external auditors, reported in
depth to the Committee on the scope and outcome of the annual
audit, including their audit of internal control over ﬁnancial
reporting as required by Section 404 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley
Act of 2002. Their reports included accounting matters,
governance and control, and accounting developments.
Risk management and internal control arrangements
The Committee reviewed Unilever's overall approach to risk
management and control, and its processes, outcomes and
disclosure, including speciﬁcally:
• review of level of disclosure in quarterly ﬁnancial results
announcements;
• review of accounting principles and judgements with respect 
to ﬁnancial statements, including the annual impairment review
of goodwill and intangibles;
• Corporate Audit’s interim and year-end reports on the Status of
Risk Management and Control, and management’s response;
• annual report from the Chief Financial Ofﬁcer on business risks and
positive assurance on operating controls and corporate policies; and
a quarterly review of business risks and safeguards;
• the interim and year-end reports from the Code of Business
Principles Compliance Committee;
• monitoring the resolution of complaints received through the
global Ethics hotline including procedures for handling
complaints and concerns relating to accounting, internal control
and auditing matters;
• quarterly review of progress of the application of the
requirements under Section 404 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act
of 2002 with respect to internal controls over ﬁnancial
reporting;
• review of the application of information and communication
technology;
• a review of the annual pension report and pensions related
accounting and proposals;
• annual review of anti-fraud arrangements;
• a review of tax planning policy; and
• review of treasury policies, the annual ﬁnancial plan and
consideration of proposals relating to debt issuance, investment
hedge, dividends and a review of the ﬁnancial implications of
acquisitions.
External auditors 
The Audit Committee conducted a formal evaluation of the
effectiveness of the external audit process. The Committee has
approved the extension of the current external audit contract by
one year, and recommended to the Boards the reappointment of
the external auditors. On the recommendation of the Audit
Committee, the Directors will be proposing the reappointment of
PricewaterhouseCoopers at the AGMs in May 2008 (see pages
131 and 136).
Both Unilever and the auditors have for many years had safeguards
in place to avoid the possibility that the auditors’ objectivity 
and independence could be compromised. The Committee
reviewed the report from PricewaterhouseCoopers on the actions
they take to comply with the professional and regulatory
requirements and best practice designed to ensure their
independence from Unilever.
The Committee also reviewed the statutory audit, other audit,
tax and other services provided by PricewaterhouseCoopers, and
compliance with Unilever’s policy, which prescribes in detail the
types of engagements for which the external auditors can and
cannot be used:
• statutory audit services – as detailed above, including audit of
subsidiaries;
• other audit services – work which regulations or agreements
with third parties require the auditors to undertake e.g. in
connection with borrowings and shareholder services;
• other services – statutory auditors may carry out work that they
are best placed to undertake, including internal control reviews;
• acquisition and disposal services – where the auditors are best
placed to do this work;
• tax services – all signiﬁcant tax consulting work is put to tender,
except where the auditors are best placed to do this; and
• general consulting – external auditors may not tender for
general consulting work.
All engagements over €100 000 require speciﬁc advance approval
of the Audit Committee Chairman. The overall policy is regularly
reviewed and, where necessary, updated in the light of internal
developments, external developments and best practice.
The Committee held independent meetings with the external
auditors during the year.
Internal audit function
The Committee engaged in discussion and review of the
Corporate Audit Department’s audit plan for the year, and
approved its budget and resource requirements.
The Committee carried out a formal evaluation of the
performance of the internal audit function and conﬁrmed that
they were satisﬁed with their relationship with the Chief Auditor.
The Committee held independent meetings with the Chief Auditor
during the year.
Audit Committee terms of reference
The Audit Committee’s terms of reference can be viewed on
Unilever’s website at www.unilever.com or supplied on request. 
In June 2007, the terms of reference were updated to include the
review of ‘other ﬁnancial statements and disclosures’ prior to their
publication.
Board Assessment of the Audit Committee
The Board evaluated the performance of the Committee and the
Committee carried out a self assessment of its performance.
Kees Storm Chairman of the Audit Committee
Wim Dik
Charles Golden
Byron Grote
62 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Report of the Directors continued Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007 63
Report of the Directors continued
Terms of reference
The Corporate Responsibility and Reputation Committee (CRRC)
comprises four independent Non-Executive Directors and one
Executive Director, the latter being the person who chairs
Unilever’s Corporate Responsibility Council. 
In May 2007 three new independent members were appointed to
the Committee – Genevieve Berger, Narayana Murthy and Hixonia
Nyasulu. They replaced Antony Burgmans and Lynda Chalker who
retired. Wim Dik stood down from the Committee in September
2007. Leon Brittan replaced Lynda Chalker as Chairman of the
Committee and thanked departing members for their support and
the valuable insights they had contributed to the Group’s
thinking.
The Committee has responsibility for overseeing Unilever's
conduct as a responsible corporate citizen. It is also charged with
ensuring that Unilever’s reputation is protected and enhanced.
Inherent in this is the need to identify any external developments
which are likely to have an inﬂuence upon Unilever’s standing in
society and to bring these to the attention of the executive team.
One of the issues the Committee oversees is that of sustainable
development. In this capacity the Committee is building links with
the Unilever Sustainable Development Group (USDG) – a body of
ﬁve eminent people who advise on Unilever’s sustainability
strategy. To facilitate greater synergy between the two groups,
members of the CRRC share the brieﬁngs of the USDG and are
invited to join their meetings.
Full details of the Corporate Responsibility and Reputation
Committee’s terms of reference and details of the members of the
Unilever Sustainable Development Group are available at
www.unilever.com/investorcentre/corpgovernance
Meetings 
Committee meetings are held quarterly. In 2007 the Committee
discussed a range of topics including Unilever’s Code of Business
Principles, human rights, its Business Partner Code and supplier
assurance, corporate responsibility strategy, reporting and
measurement. Further details of these discussions are set out
below.
Code of Business Principles
At its April meeting in Durban, the Committee discussed the
practices of Unilever South Africa in implementing and
communicating the Code of Business Principles. Committee
members commended Unilever on its thorough and rigorous
approach to procedures for upholding the principles and its
ongoing efforts to maintain awareness of the Code through
diverse communications channels.
Human rights
The Committee supported a review of Unilever’s approach to
human rights. The aim of the review was to ensure that Unilever
continues to live up to its ethical standards, as deﬁned in the
Code of Business Principles, and that effective communications
and compliance mechanisms are in place. It concluded that
further training was needed and that clearer deﬁnition of the
various elements of human rights was required in order to
increase employee awareness and understanding. 
Currently, compliance monitoring of Unilever’s human rights
obligations is delivered via the positive assurance process. The
review proposed that this should be complemented by a system
of continuous improvement (akin to the systems Unilever uses for
safety, health and environment), based primarily on self-
assessment at site level and supported by periodic external audits.
The self-assessment methodology is designed to be consistent
with that used to monitor suppliers’ compliance with our Business
Partner Code.
Business Partner Code
Unilever’s Business Partner Code is based on its Code of Business
Principles. It makes clear our expectations of suppliers in the areas
of health and safety at work, business integrity, labour standards,
consumer safety and the environment. Unilever’s supply
management is responsible for the roll-out of the Business Partner
Code and for gaining supplier assurance.  
As these areas are of increasing concern to both manufacturers
and retailers, many companies are launching similar assurance
initiatives, leading to multiple demands on suppliers to provide
evidence of appropriate management policies and compliance
with recognised social, environmental and labour standards.  
As both a customer and a supplier, Unilever has a clear interest in
avoiding this resource-intensive duplication of effort. To this end,
Unilever initiated a collaborative forum with peer fast-moving
consumer goods manufacturers to develop a common approach
to supplier evaluation through self-assessment and shared audit.
The Committee endorsed Unilever’s commitment to responsible
sourcing and offered suggestions to reinforce communication
around the Business Partner Code. 
Corporate responsibility strategy
Committee members reviewed Unilever’s updated corporate
responsibility strategy, including its CO2 reduction targets. The
importance of pursuing clear and realistic targets was
emphasised, along with the need to engage retail customers on
this agenda, which is becoming an increasingly important part of
their business activities. The Committee recommended that the
elements of the strategy be reﬂected clearly in Unilever’s next
sustainable development report. Members also studied the metrics
Unilever uses to measure progress in its corporate responsibility
initiatives and suggested ways in which these should be
reinforced.  
As part of its watching brief on current issues of concern to
society, the Committee also received and commented on updates
on a range of issues, including Unilever’s approach to biofuels as a
source of renewable energy, carbon footprinting, marketing to
children, the use of ‘size zero’ models in advertising, sustainable
sourcing of tea, packaging, and feedback on Unilever’s
participation in the World Economic Forum at Davos.
Board assessment of the Committee
The Board evaluated the performance of the Committee and the
Committee carried out a self assessment of its performance.
More information about Unilever’s corporate responsibility
initiatives is available at www.unilever.com
Leon Brittan Chairman of the Corporate Responsibility and
Reputation Committee
Genevieve Berger
Narayana Murthy
Hixonia Nyasulu 
Ralph Kugler  Executive Director
Report of the Corporate Responsibility and Reputation Committee 64 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007
This page has been intentionally left blank Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007 65
Financial statements
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities 66
Auditors’ reports 67
Consolidated income statement 69
Consolidated statement of recognised income and expense 69
Consolidated balance sheet 70
Consolidated cash ﬂow statement 71
Notes to the consolidated accounts 72
1 Accounting information and policies 72
2 Segment information 77
3 Gross proﬁt and operating costs 81
4 Staff costs 82
5 Net f ﬁnance costs 82
6 Taxation 83
7 Combined earnings per share 85
8 Dividends on ordinary capital 86
9 Goodwill and intangible assets 86
10 Property, plant and equipment 88
11 Other non-current assets 90
12 Deferred taxation 91
13 Inventories 91
14 Trade and other receivables 92
15 Cash and cash equivalents and other ﬁnancial assets 92
16 Financial liabilities 94
17 Financial instruments and treasury risk management 97
18 Trade payables and other liabilities 102
19 Provisions 102
20 Pensions and similar obligations 103
21 Equity 108
22 Share capital 109
23 Other reserves 110
24 Retained proﬁt 111
25 Commitments and contingent liabilities 112
26 Acquisitions and disposals 113
27 Assets held for sale and discontinued operations 114
28 Reconciliation of net proﬁt to cash ﬂow from 
operating activities 116
29 Share-based compensation plans 117
30 Related party transactions 120
31 Key management personnel 120
32 Remuneration of auditors 121
33 Events after the balance sheet date 121
Contents
Financial record 122
Principal group companies and non-current investments 125
Company accounts – Unilever N.V. 127
Notes to the company accounts – Unilever N.V. 129
Further statutory and other information – Unilever N.V. 131
Company accounts – Unilever PLC 132
Notes to the company accounts – Unilever PLC 134
Further statutory and other information – Unilever PLC 136 Statement of Directors’ responsibilities
Annual accounts
The Directors are required by Title 9, Book 2 of the Civil Code in
the Netherlands and the United Kingdom Companies Act 1985 
to prepare accounts for each ﬁnancial year which give a true and
fair view of the state of affairs of the Unilever Group, and the NV
and PLC entities as at the end of the ﬁnancial year and of the
proﬁt or loss and cash ﬂows for that year.
The Directors consider that, in preparing the accounts, the Group
and the NV and PLC entities have used the most appropriate
accounting policies, consistently applied and supported by
reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates, and that all
International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU
and as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (in
the case of the consolidated accounts) and United Kingdom
accounting standards (in the case of the parent company accounts)
which they consider to be applicable have been followed.
The Directors have responsibility for ensuring that NV and PLC
keep accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy
their ﬁnancial position and which enable the Directors to ensure
that the accounts comply with the relevant legislation. They also
have a general responsibility for taking such steps as are
reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group,
and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
This statement, which should be read in conjunction with the
Auditors’ report, is made with a view to distinguishing for
shareholders the respective responsibilities of the Directors 
and of the auditors in relation to the accounts.
A copy of the ﬁnancial statements of the Unilever Group is
placed on our website at www.unilever.com/investorcentre The
maintenance and integrity of the website are the responsibility of
the Directors, and the work carried out by the auditors does not
involve consideration of these matters. Accordingly, the auditors
accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred 
to the ﬁnancial statements since they were initially placed on the
website. Legislation in the United Kingdom and the Netherlands
governing the preparation and dissemination of ﬁnancial
statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
UK law sets out additional responsibilities for the Directors of 
PLC regarding disclosure of information to auditors. Disclosure 
in respect of these is made on page 136.
Going concern
The Directors continue to adopt the going concern basis
in preparing the accounts. This is because the Directors,
after making enquiries and following a review of the Group’s
budget for 2008 and 2009, including cash ﬂows and borrowing
facilities, consider that the Group has adequate resources to
continue in operation for the foreseeable future.
Internal and disclosure controls and procedures
Unilever has a well-established control framework, which is
documented and regularly reviewed by the Boards. This
incorporates risk management, internal control procedures and
disclosure controls and procedures (including the operation of 
the Disclosure Committee – see page 38) which are designed to
provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance that assets are
safeguarded, the risks facing the business are being addressed
and all information required to be disclosed is reported to the
Group’s senior management, including where appropriate the
Group Chief Executive and Chief Financial Ofﬁcer, within the
required timeframe. 
Our procedures cover ﬁnancial, operational, social, strategic and
environmental risks and regulatory matters. The Boards of NV 
and PLC have also established a clear organisational structure,
including delegation of appropriate authorities. The Group’s
control framework is supported through a Code of Business
Principles, which sets standards of professionalism and integrity
for its operations worldwide, and through an Operational
Controls Assessment process, which requires the senior
management in each business unit to assess the effectiveness of
ﬁnancial controls. In our major units ﬁnancial controls are subject
to a comprehensive risk-based assessment annually with controls
in the remaining units being reviewed over a one- to three-year
cycle.
The Boards have overall responsibility for establishing key
procedures designed to achieve systems of internal control 
and disclosure control and for reviewing and evaluating their
effectiveness. The day-to-day responsibility for implementation 
of these procedures and ongoing monitoring of risk and 
the effectiveness of controls rests with the Group’s senior
management at individual operating company and regional 
level. Regions review, on an ongoing basis, the risks faced by 
their group and the related internal control arrangements, and
provide written reports to the Group Chief Executive.
Unilever’s corporate internal audit function plays a key role in
providing an objective view and continuous reassurance of the
effectiveness of the risk management and related control systems
throughout Unilever to both operating management and the
Boards. The Group has an independent Audit Committee, 
comprised entirely of independent Non-Executive Directors. 
This Committee meets regularly with the Chief Auditor and 
the external auditors.
Unilever has a comprehensive budgeting system with an annual
budget approved by the Boards, which is regularly reviewed and
updated. Performance is monitored against budget and the
previous year through monthly and quarterly reporting routines.
The Group reports to shareholders quarterly.
Unilever’s system of risk management has been in place
throughout 2007 and up to the date of this report, and complies
with the recommendations of ’Internal Control – Revised
Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code’, published by 
the Internal Control Working Party of the Institute of Chartered
Accountants in England & Wales in October 2005. The Boards
have carried out an annual review of the effectiveness of the
systems of risk management and internal control during 2007 
in accordance with this guidance, and have ensured that the
necessary actions have been or are being taken to address
any signiﬁcant failings arising out of that review.
Based on an evaluation by the Boards, the Group Chief Executive
and the Chief Financial Ofﬁcer concluded that the design and
operation of the Group’s disclosure controls and procedures as at
31 December 2007 were effective, and that subsequently there
have been no signiﬁcant changes in the Group’s internal controls,
or in other factors that could signiﬁcantly affect those controls.
It is Unilever’s practice to bring acquired companies within the
Group’s governance procedures as soon as is practicable and
in any event by the end of the ﬁrst full year of operation.
Unilever is required by Section 404 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley 
Act of 2002 to report on the effectiveness of internal control 
over ﬁnancial reporting. This requirement will be reported on
separately and will form part of Unilever’s Annual Report on 
Form 20-F.
66 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Financial statements continued Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007 67
Financial statements continued
Auditor’s report Netherlands
Independent auditor’s report to the shareholders 
of Unilever N.V.
Report on the consolidated accounts
We have audited the consolidated accounts which are part of 
the Annual Report 2007 of the Unilever Group for the year ended
31 December 2007 which comprise the consolidated income
statement, consolidated balance sheet, consolidated cash ﬂow
statement, consolidated statement of recognised income and
expense and the related notes on pages 69 to 121 and 125 to
126. These consolidated accounts have been prepared under the
accounting policies set out in note 1 on pages 72 to 76. 
We have reported separately on the company accounts of
Unilever N.V. for the year ended 31 December 2007.
Directors’ responsibility
The Directors are responsible for the preparation and fair
presentation of the consolidated accounts in accordance with
International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the
European Union and as issued by the International Accounting
Standards Board and with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Netherlands
Civil Code, and for the preparation of the Report of the Directors
in accordance with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Netherlands Civil
Code. This responsibility includes: designing, implementing and
maintaining internal control relevant to the preparation and fair
presentation of the consolidated accounts that are free from
material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error; selecting
and applying appropriate accounting policies; and making
accounting estimates that are reasonable in the circumstances.
Auditor’s responsibility
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the consolidated
accounts based on our audit. We conducted our audit in
accordance with Dutch law. This law requires that we comply 
with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance whether the consolidated accounts
are free from material misstatement.
An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence
about the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated accounts.
The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgement,
including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement 
of the consolidated accounts, whether due to fraud or error. In
making those risk assessments, the auditor considers internal
control relevant to the entity’s preparation and fair presentation 
of the consolidated accounts in order to design audit procedures
that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose
of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the entity’s
internal control. An audit also includes evaluating the
appropriateness of accounting policies used and the
reasonableness of accounting estimates made by the Directors, 
as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the consolidated
accounts. 
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufﬁcient
and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion.
Opinion
In our opinion, the consolidated accounts give a true and 
fair view of the ﬁnancial position of the Unilever Group as at 
31 December 2007, and of its result and its cash ﬂows for the
year then ended in accordance with International Financial
Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union and as
issued by the International Accounting Standards Board and 
with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Netherlands Civil Code.
Report on other legal and regulatory requirements
Pursuant to the legal requirement under 2:393 sub 5 part e 
of the Netherlands Civil Code, we report, to the extent of our
competence, that the Report of the Directors is consistent with
the consolidated accounts as required by 2:391 sub 4 of the
Netherlands Civil Code.
Rotterdam, The Netherlands, 10 March 2008
PricewaterhouseCoopers Accountants N.V.
Prof Dr J A van Manen RA 68 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Financial statements continued
Auditors’ report United Kingdom
Independent auditors’ report to the shareholders of
Unilever PLC on the consolidated accounts
We have audited the consolidated accounts of the Unilever 
Group for the year ended 31 December 2007 which comprise 
the consolidated income statement, consolidated balance sheet,
consolidated cash ﬂow statement, consolidated statement of
recognised income and expense and the related notes on pages
69 to 121 and 125 to 126. These consolidated accounts have
been prepared under the accounting policies set out in note 1 on
pages 72 to 76. 
We have reported separately on the parent company accounts of
Unilever PLC for the year ended 31 December 2007 and on the
information in the Report of the Remuneration Committee that 
is described as having been audited. 
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors
The Directors’ responsibilities for preparing the consolidated
accounts in accordance with applicable law and International
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the European
Union and as issued by the International Accounting Standards
Board are set out in the Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities on
page 66, and on page 136. The Directors are also responsible for
preparing the Annual Report.
Our responsibility is to audit the consolidated accounts in
accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and
International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). This report,
including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the
shareholders of Unilever PLC as a body in accordance with 
Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other
purpose. We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume
responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to
whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come 
save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the consolidated
accounts give a true and fair view and whether the consolidated
accounts have been properly prepared in accordance with the
Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. We also
report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the
Directors’ Report is consistent with the consolidated accounts.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, we have not
received all the information and explanations we require for 
our audit, or if information speciﬁed by law regarding directors’
remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement
reﬂects the company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the
Combined Code (2006) speciﬁed for our review by the Listing
Rules of the United Kingdom Financial Services Authority, and 
we report if it does not. We are not required to consider whether
the Directors’ statements on internal control cover all risks and
controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Group’s
corporate governance procedures or its risk and control
procedures.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and
consider whether it is consistent with the audited consolidated
accounts. The other information comprises only the Report of 
the Directors and the Shareholder information. We consider the
implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent
misstatements or material inconsistencies with the consolidated
accounts. Our responsibilities do not extend to any other
information.
Basis of audit opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with International
Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) issued by the Auditing
Practices Board. An audit includes examination, on a test basis, 
of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the
consolidated accounts. It also includes an assessment of the
signiﬁcant estimates and judgements made by the Directors in 
the preparation of the consolidated accounts, and of whether the
accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s circumstances,
consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the
information and explanations which we considered necessary in
order to provide us with sufﬁcient evidence to give reasonable
assurance that the consolidated accounts are free from material
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or
error. In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall
adequacy of the presentation of information in the consolidated
accounts. 
Opinion
In our opinion:
• the consolidated accounts give a true and fair view, in
accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union, 
of the state of the Group’s affairs as at 31 December 2007 
and of its proﬁt and cash ﬂows for the year then ended;
• the consolidated accounts have been properly prepared in
accordance with the United Kingdom Companies Act 1985 
and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation; and
• the information given in the Report of the Directors is
consistent with the consolidated accounts.
Separate opinion in relation to IFRS
As explained in note 1 to the consolidated accounts, the Group in
addition to complying with its legal obligation to comply with IFRS
as adopted by the European Union has also complied with IFRS as
issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
In our opinion the consolidated accounts give a true and fair 
view, in accordance with IFRS as issued by the International
Accounting Standards Board, of the state of the Group’s affairs as
at 31 December 2007 and of its proﬁt and cash ﬂows for the year
then ended.
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors
London, United Kingdom
10 March 2008 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007 69
Financial statements continued
Consolidated income statement
for the year ended 31 December
€ million € million € million
2007 2006 2005
Continuing operations
Turnover 2 40 187 39 642 38 401
Operating proﬁt 2 5 245 5 408 5 074
After (charging)/crediting:
Restructuring 3 (875) (704) (328)
Business disposals, impairments and other 3 306 196 (249)
Gain on US healthcare and UK pensions 3 – 266 –
Net ﬁnance costs 5 (252) (721) (613)
Finance income 147 128 129
Finance costs (550) (590) (689)
Preference shares provision (7) (300) –
Pensions and similar obligations 158 41 (53)
Share of net proﬁt/(loss) of joint ventures 102 78 47
Share of net proﬁt/(loss) of associates 50 36 (25)
Other income from non-current investments 11 39 30 33
Proﬁt before taxation 5 184 4 831 4 516
Taxation 6 (1 128) (1 146) (1 181)
Net proﬁt from continuing operations 4 056 3 685 3 335
Net proﬁt from discontinued operations 27 80 1 330 640
Net proﬁt 4 136 5 015 3 975
Attributable to:
Minority interests 248 270 209
Shareholders’ equity 3 888 4 745 3 766
Combined earnings per share 7
From continuing operations
Basic earnings per share €1.32 €1.19 €1.07
Diluted earnings per share €1.28 €1.15 €1.04
From discontinued operations
Basic earnings per share €0.03 €0.46 €0.22
Diluted earnings per share €0.03 €0.45 €0.21
From total operations
Basic earnings per share €1.35 €1.65 €1.29
Diluted earnings per share €1.31 €1.60 €1.25
References in the consolidated income statement, consolidated statement of recognised income and expense, consolidated cash ﬂow statement
and consolidated balance sheet relate to notes on pages 72 to 121, which form an integral part of the consolidated ﬁnancial statements. 
Accounting policies of the Unilever Group are set out in note 1 on pages 72 to 76.
Consolidated statement of recognised income and expense
for the year ended 31 December
€ million € million € million
2007 2006 2005
Fair value gains/(losses) net of tax:
On cash ﬂow hedges 84 614
On available-for-sale ﬁnancial assets 2 15 –
Actuarial gains/(losses) on pension schemes net of tax 542 853 (49)
Currency retranslation gains/(losses) net of tax
(a)
(413) (335) 513
Net income/(expense) recognised directly in equity 215 539 478
Net proﬁt 4 136 5 015 3 975
Total recognised income and expense 21 4 351 5 554 4 453
Attributable to:
Minority interests 237 242 249
Shareholders’ equity 4 114 5 312 4 204
(a) Includes fair value gains/(losses) on net investment hedges of €(692) million (2006: €(779) million; 2005: €332 million).
Financial statements Unilever Group Financial statements Unilever Group
Consolidated balance sheet
as at 31 December
€ million € million
2007 2006
Goodwill 9 12 244 12 425
Intangible assets 9 4 511 4 781
Property, plant and equipment 10 6 284 6 276
Pension asset for funded schemes in surplus 20 2 008 1 697
Deferred tax assets 12 1 003 1 266
Other non-current assets 11 1 324 1 126
Total non-current assets 27 374 27 571
Inventories 13 3 894 3 796
Trade and other current receivables 14 4 194 4 254
Current tax assets 367 125
Cash and cash equivalents 15 1 098 1 039
Other ﬁnancial assets 15 216 273
Assets held for sale 27 159 14
Total current assets 9 928 9 501
Financial liabilities 16 (4 166) (4 458)
Trade payables and other current liabilities 18 (8 017) (7 838)
Current tax liabilities (395) (579)
Provisions 19 (968) (1 009)
Liabilities associated with assets held for sale 27 (13) –
Total current liabilities (13 559) (13 884)
Net current assets/(liabilities) (3 631) (4 383)
Total assets less current liabilities 23 743 23 188
Financial liabilities due after one year 16 5 483 4 377
Non-current tax liabilities 233 272
Pensions and post-retirement healthcare liabilities:
Funded schemes in deﬁcit 20 827 1 379
Unfunded schemes 20 2 270 3 398
Provisions 19 694 826
Deferred tax liabilities 12 1 213 1 003
Other non-current liabilities 204 261
Total non-current liabilities 10 924 11 516
Called up share capital 21 484 484
Share premium account 21 153 165
Other reserves 21 (3 412) (2 143)
Retained proﬁt 21 15 162 12 724
Shareholders’ equity 12 387 11 230
Minority interests 21 432 442
Total equity 12 819 11 672
Total capital employed 23 743 23 188
Commitments and contingent liabilities are shown in note 25 on page 112.
These ﬁnancial statements, together with the Report of the Directors, were approved by the Directors on 10 March 2008.
70 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Financial statements continued Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007 71
Financial statements continued
Financial statements Unilever Group
Consolidated cash ﬂow statement
for the year ended 31 December
€ million € million € million
2007 2006 2005
Cash ﬂow from operating activities 28 5 188 5 574 5 924
Income tax paid (1 312) (1 063) (1 571)
Net cash ﬂow from operating activities 3 876 4 511 4 353
Interest received 146 125 130
Purchase of intangible assets (136) (113) (92)
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (1 046) (1 013) (914)
Disposal of property, plant and equipment 163 192 124
Sale and leaseback transactions resulting in operating leases 36 –69
Acquisition of group companies, joint ventures and associates (214) (96) (20)
Disposal of group companies, joint ventures and associates 164 1 873 804
Acquisition of other non-current investments (50) (90) (50)
Disposal of other non-current investments 33 61 83
Dividends from joint ventures, associates and other non-current investments 188 120 65
(Purchase)/sale of ﬁnancial assets 93 96 316
Net cash ﬂow from/(used in) investing activities (623) 1 155 515
Dividends paid on ordinary share capital (2 182) (2 602) (1 804)
Interest and preference dividends paid (552) (605) (643)
Additional ﬁnancial liabilities 4 283 2 154 3 968
Repayment of ﬁnancial liabilities (2 896) (5 364) (4 795)
Sale and leaseback transactions resulting in ﬁnance leases 25 2–
Capital element of ﬁnance lease rental payments (74) (73) (53)
Share buy-back programme (1 500) – (500)
Other movements on treasury stock 442 98 (776)
Other ﬁnancing activities (555) (182) (218)
Net cash ﬂow from/(used in) ﬁnancing activities (3 009) (6 572) (4 821)
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 244 (906) 47
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 710 1 265 1 406
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes (53) 351 (188)
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 15 901 710 1 265
The cash ﬂows of pension funds (other than contributions and other direct payments made by the Group in respect of pensions and similar
obligations) are not included in the consolidated cash ﬂow statement. Cash ﬂows relating to discontinued operations included above are set 
out in note 27 on page 114. Notes to the consolidated accounts Unilever Group
1 Accounting information and policies
The accounting policies adopted are the same as those which applied
for the previous ﬁnancial year, except as set out below under the
heading of ‘Companies legislation and accounting standards’.
Unilever
The two parent companies, NV and PLC, together with their group
companies, operate as a single economic entity (the Unilever Group,
also referred to as Unilever or the Group). NV and PLC have the same
Directors and are linked by a series of agreements, including an
Equalisation Agreement, which are designed so that the position of
the shareholders of both companies is as nearly as possible the same
as if they held shares in a single company. 
The Equalisation Agreement provides that both companies adopt 
the same accounting principles and requires as a general rule 
the dividends and other rights and beneﬁts (including rights on
liquidation) attaching to each €0.16 nominal of ordinary share capital
of NV to be equal in value at the relevant rate of exchange to the
dividends and other rights and beneﬁts attaching to each 3
1
⁄9p
nominal of ordinary share capital of PLC, as if each such unit of
capital formed part of the ordinary capital of one and the same
company. For additional information please refer to ‘Corporate
governance’ on page 40.
Basis of consolidation
Due to the operational and contractual arrangements referred to
above, NV and PLC form a single reporting entity for the purposes 
of presenting consolidated accounts. Accordingly, the accounts of
Unilever are presented by both NV and PLC as their respective
consolidated accounts. Group companies included in the consolidation
are those companies controlled by NV or PLC. Control exists when the
Group has the power to govern the ﬁnancial and operating policies of
an entity so as to obtain beneﬁts from its activities.
The net assets and results of acquired businesses are included in the
consolidated accounts from their respective dates of acquisition, being
the date on which the Group obtains control. The results of disposed
businesses are included in the consolidated accounts up to their date
of disposal, being the date control ceases.
Companies legislation and accounting standards
The consolidated accounts have been prepared in accordance with
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by 
the European Union (EU) and in accordance with Book 2 of the Civil
Code in the Netherlands and the United Kingdom Companies Acts
1985 and 2006. They are also in accordance with IFRS as issued by
the International Accounting Standards Board.
The accounts are prepared under the historical cost convention unless
otherwise indicated.
The accounting policies adopted are consistent with those of the
previous ﬁnancial year except that the Group has adopted
International Financial Reporting Standard 7 ‘Financial Instruments:
Disclosures’ and the following IFRIC interpretations with effect from 
1 January 2007: IFRIC 7, ‘Applying the Restatement Approach’ under
IAS 29 ‘Financial Reporting in Hyperinﬂationary Economies’; IFRIC 9
‘Reassessment of embedded derivatives’; and IFRIC 10 ‘Interim
Financial Reporting and Impairment’. Adoption of IFRS 7 and these
interpretations did not have a material effect on the ﬁnancial
statements of the Group.
The Group also applied the amendment to IAS 1 ‘Presentation of
Financial Statements’ which requires Unilever to make new disclosures
to enable the users of the ﬁnancial statements to evaluate the Group’s
objectives, policies and processes for managing capital. 
In addition, the Group has applied the following changes in
presentation of the ﬁnancial statements within the balance sheet:
• Finance lease creditors and funding-related derivatives have been
reclassiﬁed in order to facilitate the presentation of net debt.
Comparatives for 31 December 2006 have been restated
accordingly; and 
• Line items relating to borrowings have been renamed to ﬁnancial
liabilities to align with the requirements of IFRS 7.
Foreign currencies
Items included in the ﬁnancial statements of group companies are
measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in
which each entity operates (its functional currency). The consolidated
ﬁnancial statements are presented in euros. The functional currencies
of NV and PLC are euros and sterling respectively.
Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional
currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the
transactions. Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the
settlement of such transactions and from the translation at year-end
exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in
foreign currencies are recognised in the income statement, except
when deferred in equity as qualifying hedges. Those arising on trading
transactions are taken to operating proﬁt; those arising on cash,
ﬁnancial assets and ﬁnancial liabilities are classiﬁed as ﬁnance income
or cost.
In preparing the consolidated ﬁnancial statements, the income
statement, the cash ﬂow statement and all other movements in assets
and liabilities are translated at annual average rates of exchange. 
The balance sheet, other than the ordinary share capital of NV and
PLC, is translated at year-end rates of exchange. In the case of hyper-
inﬂationary economies, which are those in which inﬂation exceeds
100% cumulatively over a three-year period, the accounts are
adjusted to reﬂect current price levels and remove the inﬂuences 
of inﬂation before being translated.
The ordinary share capital of NV and PLC is translated in accordance
with the Equalisation Agreement. The difference between the
resulting value for PLC and the value derived by applying the year-end
rate of exchange is taken to other reserves (see note 23 on page 110).
The effects of exchange rate changes during the year on net 
assets at the beginning of the year are recorded as a movement in
shareholders’ equity, as is the difference between proﬁt of the year
retained at average rates of exchange and at year-end rates of
exchange. For these purposes net assets include loans between group
companies and related foreign exchange contracts, if any, for which
settlement is neither planned nor likely to occur in the foreseeable
future. Exchange gains/losses on hedges of net assets are also
recorded as a movement in equity.
Cumulative exchange differences arising since the transition date 
of 1 January 2004 are reported as a separate component of other
reserves (see note 23 on page 110). In the event of disposal or part
disposal of an interest in a group company either through sale or as 
a result of a repayment of capital, the cumulative exchange difference
is recognised in the income statement as part of the proﬁt or loss 
on disposal of group companies.
72 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Financial statements continued Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007 73
Financial statements continued
1 Accounting information and policies (continued)
Business combinations
Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition
accounting method. This involves recognising identiﬁable assets 
and liabilities of the acquired business at fair value.
Acquisitions of minority interests are accounted for using the parent
entity method, whereby the difference between the consideration 
and the book value of the share of the net assets acquired is recognised
as goodwill.
Goodwill
Goodwill (being the difference between the fair value of consideration
paid for new interests in group companies, joint ventures and
associates and the fair value of the Group’s share of their net
identiﬁable assets and contingent liabilities at the date of acquisition)
is capitalised. Goodwill is not amortised, but is subject to an annual
review for impairment (or more frequently if necessary). Any
impairment is charged to the income statement as it arises. 
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired in a
business combination is, from the acquisition date, allocated to each
of the Group’s cash generating units, or groups of cash generating
units, that are expected to beneﬁt from the synergies of the
combination, irrespective of whether other assets or liabilities of the
acquired business are assigned to those units or group of units. Each
unit or group of units to which the goodwill is allocated represents
the lowest level within the Group at which the goodwill is monitored
for internal management purposes, and is not larger than a segment
based on either the Group’s primary or the Group’s secondary
reporting format.
Intangible assets
On acquisition of group companies, Unilever recognises any
speciﬁcally identiﬁable intangible assets separately from goodwill,
initially measuring the intangible assets at fair value. Separately
purchased intangible assets are initially measured at cost. Finite-lived
intangible assets mainly comprise patented and non-patented
technology, know-how and software. These assets are capitalised 
and amortised on a straight-line basis in the income statement over
the period of their expected useful lives, or the period of legal rights 
if shorter, none of which exceeds ten years. Periods in excess of ﬁve
years are used only where the Directors are satisﬁed that the life of
these assets will clearly exceed that period.
Indeﬁnite-lived intangibles are not amortised, but are subject to an
annual review for impairment (or more frequently if necessary).
Unilever monitors the level of product development costs against 
all the criteria set out in IAS 38. These include the requirement to
establish that a ﬂow of economic beneﬁts is probable before costs are
capitalised. For Unilever this is evident only shortly before a product is
launched into the market. The level of costs incurred after these
criteria have been met is currently insigniﬁcant.
Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less depreciation 
and impairment. Depreciation is provided on a straight-line basis at
percentages of cost based on the expected average useful lives of the
assets and their residual values which are reviewed periodically.
Estimated useful lives by major class of assets are as follows:
Freehold buildings 40 years
(no depreciation on freehold land)
Leasehold buildings 40 years*
Plant and equipment 2–20 years
*or life of lease if less than 40 years
Property, plant and equipment is subject to review for impairment
if triggering events or circumstances indicate that this is necessary.
Any impairment is charged to the income statement as it arises.
Other non-current assets
Joint ventures are undertakings in which the Group has an interest
and which are jointly controlled by the Group and one or more other
parties. Associates are undertakings in which the Group has an
investment and can exercise signiﬁcant inﬂuence.
Interests in joint ventures and associates are accounted for using the
equity method and are stated in the consolidated balance sheet at 
cost, adjusted for the movement in the Group’s share of their net
assets and liabilities. The Group’s share of the proﬁt or loss after tax 
of joint ventures and associates is included in the Group’s consolidated
proﬁt before taxation.
Biological assets are stated at fair value less estimated 
point-of-sale costs.
Financial instruments
Financial instruments are recognised when the Group becomes party
to the contract. They are initially measured at fair value (the transaction
price) adjusted, in the case of instruments not classiﬁed as fair value
through proﬁt or loss, by directly attributable transaction costs.
Financial assets
Market purchases and sales of ﬁnancial assets are recognised using
value date accounting. Financial assets, other than those which are
ﬁnancial assets at fair value through proﬁt or loss, are initially
recognised at fair value plus directly attributable transaction costs. Any
impairment of a ﬁnancial asset is charged to the income statement as
it arises.
Financial assets are classiﬁed according to the purpose for which 
the investments were acquired. This gives rise to the following
categories: held-to-maturity investments, loans and receivables,
available-for-sale ﬁnancial assets and ﬁnancial assets at fair value
through proﬁt or loss. Unilever determines the classiﬁcation of its
investments at initial recognition.
Held-to-maturity investments
Held-to-maturity investments are non-derivative ﬁnancial assets with
ﬁxed or determinable payments and ﬁxed maturities that management
has the positive intention and ability to hold to maturity. They are
included in non-current investments at amortised cost using the effective
interest method, less any amounts written off to reﬂect impairment.
Loans and receivables
Loans and receivables are non-derivative ﬁnancial assets with ﬁxed 
or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
They arise when the Group provides money, goods or services directly
to a counterparty with no intention of trading the receivable. Loans
and receivables are included in trade and other receivables in the
balance sheet at amortised cost.
Short-term loans and receivables are initially measured at original
invoice amount and subsequently measured after deducting any
provision for impairment.
Available-for-sale ﬁnancial assets
Available-for-sale ﬁnancial assets are non-derivative ﬁnancial assets
that are either designated in this category or not classiﬁed in any of
the other categories. They are included in non-current assets unless
management intends to dispose of the investment within 12 months
of the balance sheet date. When securities classiﬁed as available-for-
sale are sold or impaired, the accumulated fair value adjustments
recognised in equity are included in the income statement. Interest on
available-for-sale securities calculated using the effective interest rate
method is recognised in the income statement as part of other
income. Dividends on available-for-sale equity instruments are
recognised in the income statement as part of other income when the
Group’s right to receive payment is established.
Notes to the consolidated accounts Unilever Group Notes to the consolidated accounts Unilever Group
74 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Financial statements continued
1 Accounting information and policies (continued)
Financial assets at fair value through proﬁt or loss
A ﬁnancial asset is classiﬁed in this category if acquired principally for
the purpose of selling in the short term or if so designated. Derivatives
are also classiﬁed in this category unless they are designated as
hedges. Assets in this category are classiﬁed as current assets if they
are either held-for-trading or are expected to be realised within 12
months of the balance sheet date. Directly attributable transaction
costs related to the purchase of the assets are expensed as incurred.
Gains and losses arising from changes in fair value are included in the
income statement.
Financial liabilities
Financial liabilities are recognised initially at fair value, net of
transaction costs incurred. Financial liabilities are subsequently stated
at amortised cost unless they are part of a fair value hedge
accounting relationship; any difference between the amount on initial
recognition and the redemption value is recognised in the income
statement over the period of the ﬁnancial liabilities using the effective
interest method. Those ﬁnancial liabilities that are part of a fair value
hedge accounting relationship are also recorded on an amortised cost
basis, plus or minus the fair value attributable to the risk being
hedged with a corresponding entry in the income statement.
Short-term ﬁnancial liabilities are measured at original invoice 
amount. Borrowing costs are not capitalised as part of property, 
plant and equipment.
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments
Derivatives are measured on the balance sheet at fair value. The
activities of the Group expose it primarily to the ﬁnancial risks of
changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. The
Group uses foreign exchange forward contracts, interest rate swap
contracts and forward rate agreements to hedge these exposures. 
The Group also uses commodity contracts to hedge future
requirements for certain raw materials, almost always for physical
delivery. Those contracts that can also be settled in cash are treated 
as a ﬁnancial instrument. The Group does not use derivative ﬁnancial
instruments for speculative purposes. The use of leveraged
instruments is not permitted.
Changes in the fair value of derivative ﬁnancial instruments that 
are designated and effective as hedges of future cash ﬂows are
recognised directly in equity, and any ineffective portion is recognised
immediately in the income statement. If the cash ﬂow hedge of a ﬁrm
commitment or forecasted transaction subsequently results in the
recognition of a non-ﬁnancial asset or a liability, then, at the time the
non-ﬁnancial asset or liability is recognised, the associated gains or
losses on the derivative that had previously been recognised in equity
are included in the initial measurement of the non-ﬁnancial asset or
liability. For hedged items that do not result in the recognition of a
non-ﬁnancial asset or a liability, amounts deferred in equity are
recognised in the income statement in the same period in which 
the hedged item affects net proﬁt or loss.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument no
longer qualiﬁes for hedge accounting. At that time, any cumulative
gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in equity is
retained in equity until the forecasted transaction occurs. If a hedged
transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain 
or loss recognised in equity is transferred to the income statement.
For an effective hedge of an exposure to changes in the fair value 
of recognised assets and liabilities, the hedged item is adjusted for
changes in fair value attributable to the risk being hedged with 
the corresponding entry in the income statement. Gains or losses 
from re-measuring the derivative, or for non-derivatives the foreign
currency component of its carrying amount, are recognised in the
income statement.
Changes in fair value of net investment hedges in relation to foreign
subsidiaries are recognised directly in equity. Gains and losses
accumulated in equity are included in the income statement when 
the foreign operation is partially disposed of or sold.
Changes in the fair value of derivative ﬁnancial instruments that 
do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised in the income
statement as they arise.
Derivatives embedded in other ﬁnancial instruments or other host
contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risks and
characteristics are not closely related to those of host contracts and
the host contracts are carried at fair value with unrealised gains 
or losses reported in the income statement.
The Group also uses commodity contracts to hedge future
requirements. Those contracts that can also be settled in cash are
treated as ﬁnancial instruments.
Valuation principles
The fair values of quoted investments are based on current bid prices.
For unlisted and for listed securities where the market for a ﬁnancial
asset is not active the Group establishes fair value using valuation
techniques. These include the use of recent arm’s length transactions,
reference to other instruments that are substantially the same and
discounted cash ﬂow analysis.
Impairment of ﬁnancial instruments
At each balance sheet date the Group assesses whether there is
objective evidence that a ﬁnancial asset or a group of ﬁnancial assets
is impaired. In the case of equity securities classiﬁed as available-for-
sale, a signiﬁcant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the security
below its cost is considered in determining whether the securities are
impaired. If any such evidence exists for available-for-sale ﬁnancial
assets, the cumulative loss – measured as the difference between the
acquisition cost and the current fair value, less any impairment loss on
that ﬁnancial asset previously recognised in proﬁt or loss – is removed
from equity and recognised in the income statement. Impairment
losses recognised in the income statement on equity instruments are 
not subsequently reversed through the income statement.
Inventories
Inventories are valued at the lower of weighted average cost and net
realisable value. Cost comprises direct costs and, where appropriate, 
a proportion of attributable production overheads.
Cash and cash equivalents
For the purpose of preparation of the cash ﬂow statement, cash and
cash equivalents includes cash at bank and in hand, highly liquid
interest bearing securities with original maturities of three months 
or less, and bank overdrafts.
Pensions and similar obligations
The operating and ﬁnancing costs of deﬁned beneﬁt plans are
recognised separately in the income statement. Service costs are
systematically allocated over the service lives of employees, and
ﬁnancing costs are recognised in the periods in which they arise. The
costs of individual events such as past service beneﬁt enhancements,
settlements and curtailments are recognised immediately in the
income statement. Variations from expected costs, arising from the
experience of the plans or changes in actuarial assumptions, are
recognised immediately in the statement of recognised income 
and expense. The assets and liabilities of deﬁned beneﬁt plans 
are recognised at fair value in the balance sheet. 
The charges to the income statement for deﬁned contribution plans
are the company contributions payable, and the assets and liabilities
of such plans are not included in the balance sheet of the Group.
All deﬁned beneﬁt plans are subject to regular actuarial review using
the projected unit method, either by external consultants or by
actuaries employed by Unilever. Group policy is that the most
important plans, representing approximately 80% of the deﬁned
beneﬁt liabilities, are formally valued every year; other principal plans,
accounting for approximately a further 15% of liabilities, have their
liabilities updated each year. Group policy for the remaining plans
requires a full actuarial valuation at least every three years. Asset
values for all plans are updated every year. Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007 75
Financial statements continued
1 Accounting information and policies (continued)
Taxation
Income tax on the proﬁt or loss for the year comprises current and
deferred tax. Income tax is recognised in the income statement except
to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity. 
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for 
the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the 
balance sheet date, and any adjustments to tax payable in respect 
of previous years.
Deferred taxation is recognised using the liability method on taxable
temporary differences between the tax base and the accounting base 
of items included in the balance sheet of the Group. The following
temporary differences are not provided for: goodwill not deductible for
tax purposes, the initial recognition of assets or liabilities that affect
neither accounting nor taxable proﬁt, and differences relating to
investments in subsidiaries to the extent that they will probably not
reverse in the forseeable future. The amount of deferred tax provided 
is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the
carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using tax rates prevailing at the
year end unless future rates have been enacted or substantively enacted.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable
that future taxable proﬁts will be available against which the asset can
be utilised. Deferred tax assets are reduced to the extent that it is no
longer probable that the related tax beneﬁt will be realised. 
Provisions
Provisions are recognised when either a legal or constructive
obligation, as a result of a past event, exists at the balance sheet date
and where the amount of the obligation can be reliably estimated.
Segment information
Segmental information is provided on the basis of geographical
segments and product categories. The primary format, geographic
regions, is based on the management structure of the Group, which
operates in three geographical regions. 
Revenue recognition
Turnover comprises sales of goods and services after deduction of
discounts and sales taxes. It does not include sales between group
companies. Discounts given by Unilever include rebates, price
reductions and incentives given to customers, promotional couponing
and trade communication costs. 
Turnover is recognised when the risks and rewards of the underlying
products and services have been substantially transferred to the
customer. Revenue from services is recognised as the services 
are performed. Interest revenue is recognised as interest accrues 
using the effective interest method.
Research and market support costs
Expenditure on research and market support, such as advertising, 
is charged to the income statement when incurred.
Leases
Leases are classiﬁed as ﬁnance leases whenever the terms of the lease
transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the
lessee. All other leases are classiﬁed as operating leases.
Assets held under ﬁnance leases are recognised as non-current assets
of the Group at their fair value at the date of commencement of 
the lease or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease
payments. The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in 
the balance sheet as a ﬁnance lease obligation. Lease payments are
apportioned between ﬁnance charges and reduction of the lease
obligation so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the
remaining balance of the liability. Finance charges are charged 
directly against income. 
A proﬁt or loss is recognised on a sale and leaseback transaction
based on the difference between sales proceeds and the carrying
amount of the asset. Where the transaction results in a ﬁnance lease,
the proﬁt or loss is deferred and amortised over the lease term. 
Where the transaction results in an operating lease, any proﬁt or 
loss is recognised immediately with reference to the proceeds of 
sale and the fair value of the asset.
Lease payments relating to operating leases are charged to the
income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Share-based payments
The economic cost of awarding shares and share options to
employees is reﬂected by recording a charge in the income statement
equivalent to the fair value of the beneﬁt awarded over the vesting
period. The fair value is determined with reference to option pricing
models, principally adjusted Black-Scholes models or a multinomial
pricing model.
Shares held by employee share trusts
The assets and liabilities of certain PLC trusts, NV and group
companies which purchase and hold NV and PLC shares to satisfy
options granted are included in the consolidated accounts. The 
book value of shares held is deducted from other reserves, and trusts’
borrowings are included in the Group’s liabilities. The costs of the
trusts are included in the results of the Group. These shares are
excluded from the calculation of earnings per share.
Assets held for sale
Assets and groups of assets and liabilities which comprise disposal
groups are classiﬁed as ‘held for sale’ when all of the following criteria
are met: a decision has been made to sell, the assets are available for
sale immediately, the assets are being actively marketed, and a sale
has been or is expected to be concluded within twelve months of 
the balance sheet date. Assets and disposal groups held for sale
are valued at the lower of book value or fair value less disposal 
costs. Assets held for sale are not depreciated.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements
Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are based 
on historical experience and other factors, including expectations 
of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the
circumstances.
The preparation of ﬁnancial statements requires management to make
estimates and assumptions concerning the future. The resulting
accounting estimates will, by deﬁnition, seldom equal the related
actual results. The estimates and assumptions that have a signiﬁcant
risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of
assets and liabilities within the next ﬁnancial year are discussed below.
Income statement presentation
On the face of the income statement, costs and revenues relating 
to restructuring, business disposals and impairments are disclosed. 
In addition, individual items judged to be signiﬁcant are disclosed
separately. These are material in terms of nature and amount. These
disclosures are given in order to provide additional information to help
users better understand ﬁnancial performance.
Impairment of goodwill and indeﬁnite-lived intangible assets
Impairment reviews in respect of goodwill and intangible assets are
performed at least annually. More regular reviews are performed if
events indicate that this is necessary. Examples of such triggering
events would include a signiﬁcant planned restructuring, a major
change in market conditions or technology, expectations of future
operating losses, or negative cash ﬂows.
The recoverable amounts of cash-generating units are determined
based on the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value-in-use
calculations. These calculations require the use of estimates. Details
of key assumptions made are set out in note 9 on page 86.
Notes to the consolidated accounts Unilever Group Notes to the consolidated accounts Unilever Group
76 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Financial statements continued
1 Accounting information and policies (continued)
Retirement beneﬁts
Pension accounting requires certain assumptions to be made in order
to value our obligations and to determine the charges to be made 
to the income statement. These ﬁgures are particularly sensitive to
assumptions for discount rates, mortality, inﬂation rates and expected
long-term rates of return on assets. Details of assumptions made are
given in note 20 on pages 103 and 104.
Taxation
The Group is subject to taxes in numerous jurisdictions. Signiﬁcant
judgement is required in determining worldwide provision for taxes.
There are many transactions and calculations during the ordinary
course of business for which the ultimate tax determination is
uncertain. The Group recognises liabilities for anticipated tax audit
issues based on estimates of whether additional taxes will be due.
Where the ﬁnal tax outcome of these matters is different from the
amounts that were initially recorded, such differences will impact the
income tax and deferred tax provisions in the period in which such
determination is made.
Provisions
Provision is made, among other reasons, for legal matters, disputed
indirect taxes, employee termination costs and restructuring where 
a legal or constructive obligation exists at the balance sheet date and
a reliable estimate can be made of the likely outcome. The nature of
these costs is such that judgement has to be applied to estimate the
timing and amount of cash outﬂows.
Recent accounting developments
We are currently assessing the impact of the following revised
standards or interpretations. These changes are not expected to have
a material impact on the Group’s results of operations, ﬁnancial
position or disclosures.
• Amendments in IAS 1 ‘Presentation of Financial Statements’
(effective from 1 January 2009) requiring information in ﬁnancial
statements to be aggregated on the basis of shared characteristics
and introducing a statement of comprehensive income.
• Amendments in IAS 23 ‘Borrowing Costs’ (effective from 1 January
2009) removing the option for expensing borrowing costs and
requiring mandatory capitalisation of qualifying borrowing costs.
• IFRS 8 'Operating Segments' (effective from 1 January 2009)
introduces a management reporting approach to segment
reporting. The information reported would be that which
management uses internally for evaluating the performance of
operating segments and allocating resources to those segments. It
replaces disclosure requirements in IAS 14 'Segment Reporting'.
• IFRIC 14 ‘Limit on a deﬁned beneﬁt asset minimum funding
requirement and their interaction’ (effective from 1 January 2008)
clariﬁes that a pension plan surplus can be recognised only when a
company has the unconditional right to receive the beneﬁts of it,
regardless of whether the surplus is immediately available.
• Amendments in IFRS 3 ‘Business Combinations’ and IAS 27
‘Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements’ (effective from 
1 July 2009) changing and updating the existing requirements or
practice on accounting for partial acquisitions, step acquisitions,
acquisition-related costs, contingent consideration and transactions
with non-controlling interests. Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007 77
Financial statements continued
2 Segment information
Our primary reporting segments are geographic, comprising our three operating regions of Europe, The Americas and Asia Africa. The home
countries of the Unilever Group are the Netherlands and the United Kingdom. Turnover for these two countries combined in 2007 was 
€3 768 million (2006: €3 710 million; 2005: €3 679 million). The combined operating proﬁt in 2007 was €444 million (2006: €555 million; 
2005: €648 million). Turnover for the United States for 2007 was €7 120 million (2006: €7 627 million; 2005: €7 550 million). No other country
had turnover of more than 10% of the Group total.
The analysis of turnover by geographical area is stated on the basis of origin. Turnover on a destination basis would not be materially different.
Inter-segment sales between geographical areas and between product areas as on page 79 are not material. Total assets and capital expenditure
are based on the location of the assets. Segment results are presented on the basis of operating proﬁt. Segment assets consist primarily of
property, plant and equipment, goodwill and other intangible assets, inventories and receivables. Corporate assets consist of current and
deferred tax and pension assets, cash and cash equivalents, and other current or non-current ﬁnancial assets. Segment liabilities consist primarily
of trade payables and other liabilities. Corporate liabilities include ﬁnancial liabilities, tax balances payable, provisions and pension and deferred
tax liabilities. Capital expenditure comprises additions to property, plant and equipment and intangible assets, including additions resulting from
acquisitions. Other non-cash charges include charges to the income statement during the year in respect of share-based compensation,
restructuring and other provisions.
€ million € million € million € million
The Asia
Analysis by geographical segment Europe Americas Africa Total
2007
Turnover 15 205 13 442 11 540 40 187
Operating proﬁt 1 678 1 971 1 596 5 245
Net ﬁnance costs (252)
Share of net proﬁt/(loss) of joint ventures 26 74 2 102
Share of net proﬁt/(loss) of associates 50–– 50
Other income from non-current investments 39
Proﬁt before taxation 5 184
Taxation (1 128)
Net proﬁt from continuing operations 4 056
Net proﬁt from discontinued operations 80
Net proﬁt 4 136
2006
Turnover 15 000 13 779 10 863 39 642
Operating proﬁt 1 903 2 178 1 327 5 408
Net ﬁnance costs (721)
Share of net proﬁt/(loss) of joint ventures 17 60 1 78
Share of net proﬁt/(loss) of associates 36 – – 36
Other income from non-current investments 30
Proﬁt before taxation 4 831
Taxation (1 146)
Net proﬁt from continuing operations 3 685
Net proﬁt from discontinued operations 1 330
Net proﬁt 5 015
2005
Turnover 14 940 13 179 10 282 38 401
Operating proﬁt 2 064 1 719 1 291 5 074
Net ﬁnance costs (613)
Share of net proﬁt/(loss) of joint ventures 11 36 – 47
Share of net proﬁt/(loss) of associates (25) 1 (1) (25)
Other income from non-current investments 33
Proﬁt before taxation 4 516
Taxation (1 181)
Net proﬁt from continuing operations 3 335
Net proﬁt from discontinued operations 640
Net proﬁt 3 975
Notes to the consolidated accounts Unilever Group Notes to the consolidated accounts Unilever Group
78 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Financial statements continued
2 Segment information (continued)
€ million € million € million € million
The Asia
Analysis by geographical segment Europe Americas Africa Total
Assets
2007
Segment assets 14 502 10 867 6 279 31 648
Joint ventures/associates 201 11 12 224
Total assets by geographical segment 14 703 10 878 6 291 31 872
Corporate assets 5 430
Total assets 37 302
2006
Segment assets 14 411 11 548 5 875 31 834
Joint ventures/associates 78 16 9 103
Total assets by geographical segment 14 489 11 564 5 884 31 937
Corporate assets 5 135
Total assets 37 072
Liabilities
2007
Segment liabilities 3 964 1 702 2 568 8 234
Joint ventures/associates 15 10 5 30
Total liabilities by geographical segment 3 979 1 712 2 573 8 264
Corporate liabilities 16 219
Total liabilities 24 483
2006
Segment liabilities 4 078 1 790 2 231 8 099
Joint ventures/associates 18 11 5 34
Total liabilities by geographical segment 4 096 1 801 2 236 8 133
Corporate liabilities 17 267
Total liabilities 25 400
Capital expenditure
2007 672 342 411 1 425
2006 511 396 294 1 201
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 
2007 (381) (249) (174) (804)
2006 (368) (239) (180) (787)
2005 (390) (230) (150) (770)
Amortisation of ﬁnite-lived intangible assets and software
2007 (76) (48) (16) (140)
2006 (63) (76) (18) (157)
2005 (52) (38) (9) (99) Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007 79
Financial statements continued
Notes to the consolidated accounts Unilever Group
2 Segment information (continued)
€ million € million € million € million
The Asia
Analysis by geographical segment Europe Americas Africa Total
Impairment charges
2007
Goodwill ––––
Intangible assets ––––
Total impairment charge ––––
2006
Goodwill (12) – – (12)
Intangible assets – (2) – (2)
Total impairment charge (12) (2) – (14)
2005
Goodwill – (129) (2) (131)
Intangible assets – (241) (10) (251)
Other – – (15) (15)
Total impairment charge – (370) (27) (397)
Other non-cash charges
2007 (366) (216) (66) (648)
2006 (679) (231) (52) (962)
2005 (224) (311) (53) (588)
Analysis by product area
Although the Group’s operations are managed on a geographical basis, the two Foods and Home and Personal Care categories manage brands
which we group into our principal product areas; these are secondary reporting segments and are listed below.
Savoury, dressings and spreads – including sales of soups, bouillons, sauces, snacks, mayonnaise, salad dressings, olive oil, margarines and
spreads, and cooking products such as liquid margarines.
Ice cream and beverages – including sales of ice cream, tea, weight management products, and nutritionally enhanced staples sold in
developing markets.
Personal care – including sales of skin care and hair care products, deodorants and anti-perspirants, and oral care products.
Home care and other operations – including sales of home care products, such as laundry powders and liquids, and a wide range of cleaning
products. To support our consumer brands, we own tea plantations, the results of which are reported within this segment. 
€ million € million € million € million € million
Home
Savoury, Ice cream care
dressings and Personal and
Analysis by product area and spreads beverages care other Total
2007
Turnover 13 988 7 600 11 302 7 297 40 187
Operating proﬁt 2 059 809 1 786 591 5 245
Net ﬁnance costs (252)
Share of net proﬁt/(loss) of joint ventures 15 85 1 1 102
Share of net proﬁt/(loss) of associates – – – 50 50
Other income from non-current investments 39
Proﬁt before taxation 5 184
Taxation (1 128)
Net proﬁt from continuing operations 4 056
Net proﬁt from discontinued operations 80
Net proﬁt 4 136
2006
Turnover 13 767 7 578 11 122 7 175 39 642
Operating proﬁt 1 993 900 1 913 602 5 408
Net ﬁnance costs (721)
Share of net proﬁt/(loss) of joint ventures 13 64 1 – 78
Share of net proﬁt/(loss) of associates – – – 36 36
Other income from non-current investments      30
Proﬁt before taxation 4 831
Taxation (1 146)
Net proﬁt from continuing operations 3 685
Net proﬁt from discontinued operations 1 330
Net proﬁt 5 015 80 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Financial statements continued
Notes to the consolidated accounts Unilever Group
2 Segment information (continued)
€ million € million € million € million € million
Home
Savoury, Ice cream care
dressings and Personal and
Analysis by product area and spreads beverages care other Total
2005
Turnover 13 557 7 332 10 485 7 027 38 401
Operating proﬁt 2 026 609 1 793 646 5 074
Net ﬁnance costs (613)
Share of net proﬁt/(loss) of joint ventures 10 36 1 – 47
Share of net proﬁt/(loss) of associates – – – (25) (25)
Other income from non-current investments 33
Proﬁt before taxation 4 516
Taxation (1 181)
Net proﬁt from continuing operations 3 335
Net proﬁt from discontinued operations 640
Net proﬁt 3 975
Assets
2007 
Segment assets 19 794 4 434 3 752 3 668 31 648
Joint ventures/associates 19 134 12 59 224
Total assets by product area 19 813 4 568 3 764 3 727 31 872
Corporate assets 5 430
Total assets 37 302
2006 
Segment assets 20 435 4 485 3 616 3 298 31 834
Joint ventures/associates 29 24 7 43 103
Total assets by product area 20 464 4 509 3 623 3 341 31 937
Corporate assets 5 135
Total assets 37 072
Capital expenditure 
2007 451 350 383 241 1 425
2006 387 327 195 292 1 201 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007 81
Financial statements continued
Notes to the consolidated accounts Unilever Group
3 Gross proﬁt and operating costs
€ million € million € million
2007 2006 2005
Turnover 40 187 39 642 38 401
Cost of sales (20 558) (20 093) (19 539)
Gross proﬁt 19 629 19 549 18 862
Distribution and selling costs (9 489) (9 486) (9 078)
Administrative expenses
(a)
(4 895) (4 655) (4 710)
Operating proﬁt 5 245 5 408 5 074
(a) Includes amortisation of ﬁnite-lived intangible assets and impairment of goodwill and intangible assets.
The following items are disclosed on the face of the income statement as separate disclosure provides additional information to users to help 
them better understand underlying business performance.
€ million € million € million
2007 2006 2005
Restructuring (875) (704) (328)
Business disposals, impairments and other:
Gain/(loss) on disposals of group companies 297 179 132
Impairments – (14) (397)
(Provision for)/release of Brazilian sales tax 9 31 16
Gains on US healthcare and UK pensions – 266 –
Restructuring costs are incurred as Unilever continues to simplify the organisation, reorganise operations and support functions and redevelop the
portfolio. They primarily relate to redundancy and retirement costs. The signiﬁcant costs incurred in 2007 are in respect of new multi-country
organisations announced and several factory closures. Business disposals generate both costs and revenues which are not reﬂective of underlying
performance. Impairment charges are primarily recognised for goodwill other than where included in restructuring or as part of business disposals.
In 2005 an impairment charge of €363 million was recognised in respect of Slim
•
Fast.
The gains on US healthcare arose from the introduction of an annual cap on the beneﬁts which each participant can claim. The gain in the UK
resulted from reducing deferred pensions where they are taken early.
Other items within operating costs include:
€ million € million € million
2007 2006 2005
Staff costs (5 537) (5 355) (5 745)
Raw and packaging materials and goods purchased for resale (15 588) (15 655) (15 106)
Amortisation of ﬁnite-lived intangible assets and software (140) (157) (99)
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment (804) (787) (770)
Advertising and promotions (5 289) (5 203) (4 918)
Exchange gains/(losses): (15) (25) 19
On underlying transactions (10) (10) (6)
On covering forward contracts (5) (15) 25
Lease rentals: (477) (451) (421)
Minimum operating lease payments (488) (455) (423)
Contingent operating lease payments – (3) (3)
Less: Sub-lease income relating to operating lease agreements 11 75
Total expenditure on research and development in 2007, including costs incurred under some of the headings reported above, was €868 million
(2006: €906 million; 2005: €932 million). 82 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Financial statements continued
Notes to the consolidated accounts Unilever Group
4 Staff costs
€ million € million € million
Staff costs 2007 2006 2005
Remuneration of employees (4 409) (4 377) (4 456)
Emoluments of Executive Directors (9) (8) (11)
Pensions and other post-employment beneﬁts
(a)
(321) (132) (384)
Social security costs (646) (718) (702)
Share-based compensation costs (152) (120) (192)
(5 537) (5 355) (5 745)
(a) In 2006 includes gains of €266 million arising from changes in US post-retirement healthcare plans and UK pension plans.
’000 ’000 ’000
Average number of employees during the year 2007 2006 2005
Europe 44 47 51
The Americas 44 46 46
Asia Africa 87 96 115
175 189 212
5 Net f ﬁnance costs
€ million € million € million
Finance costs 2007 2006 2005
Finance costs (550) (590) (689)
Bank loans and overdrafts (62) (93) (90)
Bonds and other loans (493) (499) (569)
Dividends paid on preference shares (7) (6) (11)
Net gain/(loss) on derivatives designated as a fair value hedge for which no hedge accounting is applied: 12 8 (19)
On interest rate swaps (1) (6) (11)
On foreign exchange derivatives 538 1 035 (798)
Exchange difference on underlying items (525) (1 021) 790
Preference shares provision
(a)
(7) (300) –
Finance income 147 128 129
Pensions and similar obligations
(b)
158 41 (53)
(252) (721) (613)
(a) For further information please refer to note 19 on page 102.
(b) Net ﬁnance costs in respect of pensions and similar obligations are analysed in note 20 on page 106. Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007 83
Financial statements continued
Notes to the consolidated accounts Unilever Group
6 Taxation
€ million € million € million
Tax charge in income statement 2007 2006 2005
Current tax
Current year (1 118) (1 171) (1 172)
Over/(under) provided in prior years
(a)
226 206 107
(892) (965) (1 065)
Deferred tax
Origination and reversal of temporary differences (261) (171) (123)
Changes in tax rates 21 (15) 2
Utilisation of unrecognised losses brought forward 4 55
(236) (181) (116)
(1 128) (1 146) (1 181)
(a) Provisions have been released following the favourable settlement of prior year tax audits for amounts provided for tax in prior years in a
number of countries, including the Netherlands, the UK and the US, none of which is individually material. 
Europe is considered to be Unilever’s domestic tax base. The reconciliation between the computed weighted average rate of income tax
expense, which is generally applicable to Unilever’s European companies, and the actual rate of taxation charged is as follows:
% %%
Reconciliation of effective tax rate 2007 2006 2005
Computed rate of tax
(b)
27 30 31
Differences due to:
Other rates applicable to non-European countries 2 1–
Incentive tax credits (6) (7) (5)
Withholding tax on dividends 2 12
Adjustments to previous years (5) (4) (2)
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 2 22
Utilisation of previously unrecognised tax losses – –(1)
Other – 1(1)
Effective tax rate 22 24 26
(b) The computed tax rate used is the average of the standard rate of tax applicable in the European countries in which Unilever operates,
weighted by the amount of proﬁt before taxation generated in each of those countries. 84 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Financial statements continued
Notes to the consolidated accounts Unilever Group
6 Taxation (continued)
The following tables analyse proﬁt before taxation and actual taxation charges between those arising in Europe and elsewhere.
€ million € million € million
2007 2006 2005
Proﬁt before taxation
Europe
Parent and group companies 2 332 2 266 2 379
Share of net proﬁt/(loss) of joint ventures 26 17 11
Share of net proﬁt/(loss) of associates 50 36 (20)
2 408 2 319 2 370
Outside Europe
Group companies 2 700 2 451 2 115
Share of net proﬁt/(loss) of joint ventures 76 61 36
Share of net proﬁt/(loss) of associates – –(5)
2 776 2 512 2 146
5 184 4 831 4 516
Taxation
Europe
Parent and group companies:
Current taxes payable (208) (359) (414)
Deferred taxation (202) (174) (162)
Accelerated depreciation 27 222
Pensions (196) (196) (123)
Provisions 35 24 (25)
Goodwill and intangible assets (59) 4 (48)
Other (9) (8) 12
(410) (533) (576)
Outside Europe
Group companies:
Current taxes payable (684) (606) (651)
Deferred taxation (34) (7) 46
Accelerated depreciation 2 25 (40)
Pensions (2) (142) 28
Provisions 63 16 (78)
Goodwill and intangible assets (62) 98 123
Other (35) (4) 13
(718) (613) (605)
(1 128) (1 146) (1 181) Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007 85
Financial statements continued
Notes to the consolidated accounts Unilever Group
7 Combined earnings per share
€ €€
Combined earnings per share 2007 2006 2005
From continuing operations
Basic earnings per share 1.32 1.19 1.07
Diluted earnings per share 1.28 1.15 1.04
From discontinued operations
Basic earnings per share 0.03 0.46 0.22
Diluted earnings per share 0.03 0.45 0.21
From total operations
Basic earnings per share 1.35 1.65 1.29
Diluted earnings per share 1.31 1.60 1.25
Basis of calculation
The calculations of combined earnings per share are based on the net proﬁt attributable to ordinary capital divided by the average number of
share units representing the combined ordinary capital of NV and PLC in issue during the year, after deducting shares held as treasury stock.
Earnings per share are calculated on the basis of the revised nominal share values which have been applied since 22 May 2006 and which
resulted in a one-to-one equivalence of ordinary shares of NV and PLC as regards their economic interest in the Group. For further information
please refer to note 22 on page 109.
The calculations of diluted earnings per share are based on: (i) conversion into PLC ordinary shares of the shares in a group company which are
convertible in the year 2038, as described in Corporate governance on page 42; (ii) conversion of the €0.05 NV preference shares, details of
which are set out below and in note 16 on page 94; (iii) the effect of share-based compensation plans, details of which are set out in note 29
on pages 117 to 119; and (iv) the forward equity contract described in note 29 on page 119.
On 15 February 2005, Unilever converted its €0.05 NV preference shares into ordinary €0.51 NV shares. The conversion was made using shares
already held by Unilever for the purposes of satisfying the Group’s share-based compensation plans. Unilever bought further ordinary shares in
the market during 2005 to the extent required to restore the hedging position. Until the date of conversion, the €0.05 preference shares were
potentially dilutive for the purposes of the calculation of fully diluted earnings per share, as shown below. At midnight on 13 July 2005 the
€0.05 NV preference shares were cancelled.
Millions of share units
Calculation of average number of share units 2007 2006 2005
Average number of shares: NV 1 714.7 1 714.7 1 714.7
PLC 1 310.2 1 310.2 1 310.2
Less shares held by employee share trusts and companies (150.3) (141.6) (111.9)
Combined average number of share units for all bases except diluted earnings per share 2 874.6 2 883.3 2 913.0
Add shares issuable in 2038 70.9 70.9 70.9
Add shares for conversion – –7.1
Add dilutive effect of share-based compensation plans and forward equity contract 30.6 18.3 16.0
Adjusted combined average number of share units for diluted earnings per share basis 2 976.1 2 972.5 3 007.0
€ million € million € million
Calculation of earnings 2007 2006 2005
For earnings per share from total operations:
Net proﬁt attributable to ordinary capital for total operations 3 888 4 745 3 766
For earnings per share from continuing operations:
Net proﬁt from continuing operations 4 056 3 685 3 335
Minority interest in continuing operations (248) (266) (205)
Net proﬁt attributable to ordinary capital for continuing operations 3 808 3 419 3 130
The numbers of shares included in the calculation of earnings per share is an average for the period. These numbers are inﬂuenced by the share
buy-back programme that we undertook during 2007. During that period the following movements in shares took place:
Millions of share units
Number of shares at 31 December 2006 (net of treasury stock) 2 889.9
Net movements in shares under incentive schemes  29.7
Share buy-back (66.5)
Number of shares at 31 December 2007 2 853.1
On 11 February 2008, Unilever announced a share buy-back programme of at least €1.5 billion in 2008. 86 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Financial statements continued
Notes to the consolidated accounts Unilever Group
8 Dividends on ordinary capital
€ million € million € million
Dividends paid on ordinary capital during the year 2007 2006 2005
Final NV dividend for the prior year of €0.47 per share (2006: €0.44; 2005 €0.42) (767) (722) (710)
Final PLC dividend for the prior year of 32.04p per share (2006: 30.09p; 2005: 28.49p) (589) (547) (519)
Interim NV dividend for the year of €0.25 per share (2006: €0.23; 2005 €0.22) (400) (379) (363)
Interim PLC dividend for the year of 17.00p per share (2006: 15.62p; 2005 15.04p) (314) (285) (275)
One-off NV dividend of €0.26 per share in 2006 – (428) –
One-off PLC dividend of 17.66p per share in 2006 – (323) –
(2 070) (2 684) (1 867)
Of which:
NV dividends (1 167) (1 529) (1 073)
PLC dividends (903) (1 155) (794)
The proposed ﬁnal dividends on ordinary capital for the year 2007 have to be approved by shareholders at the Annual General Meetings. In
accordance with IFRS, no provision for the amount of this dividend, estimated at €1 427 million, has been recognised in the ﬁnancial statements 
for the year ended 31 December 2007.
Full details of dividends per share for the years 2003 to 2007 are given on page 141.
9 Goodwill and intangible assets
Indeﬁnite-lived intangible assets principally comprise those trademarks for which there is no foreseeable limit to the period over which they are
expected to generate net cash inﬂows. These are considered to have an indeﬁnite life, given the strength and durability of our brands and the 
level of marketing support. Brands that are classiﬁed as indeﬁnite have been in the market for many years, and the nature of the industry we
operate in is such that brand obsolescence is not common, if appropriately supported by advertising and marketing spend. Finite-lived intangible
assets, which primarily comprise patented and non-patented technology, know-how, and software, are capitalised and amortised in operating
proﬁt on a straight-line basis over the period of their expected useful lives, none of which exceeds ten years. The level of amortisation for ﬁnite-
lived intangible assets is not expected to change materially over the next ﬁve years.
€ million € million
At cost less amortisation and impairment 2007 2006
Goodwill 12 244 12 425
Intangible assets: 4 511 4 781
Indeﬁnite-lived intangible assets 3 921 4 174
Finite-lived intangible assets 273 343
Software 317 264
16 755 17 206
€ million € million € million € million € million
Indeﬁnite- Finite-
lived lived
intangible intangible
Movements during 2007 Goodwill assets assets Software T otal
Cost
1 January 2007 13 454 4 409 642 392 18 897
Acquisitions of group companies 334––– 334
Disposals of group companies (4) (1) – – (5)
Change in useful life assumptions – (2) 2 – –
Additions – – 3 133 136
Disposals – – – (16) (16)
Currency retranslation (602) (272) (26) (8) (908)
31 December 2007 13 182 4 134 621 501 18 438
Amortisation and impairment
1 January 2007 (1 029) (235) (299) (128) (1 691)
Amortisation for the year – – (64) (76) (140)
Disposals – – – 16 16
Currency retranslation 91 22 15 4 132
31 December 2007 (938) (213) (348) (184) (1 683)
Net book value 31 December 2007 12 244 3 921 273 317 16 755 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007 87
Financial statements continued
Notes to the consolidated accounts Unilever Group
9 Goodwill and intangible assets (continued)
€ million € million € million € million € million
Indeﬁnite- Finite-
lived lived
intangible intangible
Movements during 2006 Goodwill assets assets Software T otal
Cost
1 January 2006 14 080 4 713 631 291 19 715
Acquisitions of group companies 60 8 1 – 69
Disposals of group companies (1) – – – (1)
Change in useful life assumptions – (32) 32 – –
Additions – – 3 110 113
Currency retranslation (685) (280) (25) (9) (999)
31 December 2006 13 454 4 409 642 392 18 897
Amortisation and impairment
1 January 2006 (1 117) (263) (215) (65) (1 660)
Amortisation for the year – – (94) (63) (157)
Impairment (12) – – (2) (14)
Currency retranslation 100 28 10 2 140
31 December 2006 (1 029) (235) (299) (128) (1 691)
Net book value 31 December 2006 12 425 4 174 343 264 17 206
There are no signiﬁcant carrying amounts of goodwill and intangible assets that are allocated across multiple cash generating units (CGUs).
Impairments charges in the year
There were no impairments in 2007. The impairments charged in 2006 principally related to business disposals that were completed during
2007.
In 2006, Slim
•
Fast was fully integrated into The Americas business as part of the North American beverage operations. As a result of the
integration, Slim
•
Fast is no longer evaluated on a stand-alone basis but as part of the North American beverage CGU. The 2007 and 2006
impairment reviews on this basis did not result in any impairments (2005: €363 million). 
Signiﬁcant CGUs
The goodwill and indeﬁnite-lived intangible assets (predominantly Knorr and Hellmann’s) held in the global savoury and dressings CGU,
comprising €11.1 billion (2006: €11.6 billion) and €3.2 billion (2006: €3.4 billion) respectively, are considered signiﬁcant in comparison to 
the total carrying amounts of goodwill and indeﬁnite-lived intangible assets at 31 December 2007. No other CGUs are considered signiﬁcant 
in this respect.
During 2007, we conducted an impairment review of the carrying value of these assets. Value in use of the global savoury and dressings CGU
has been calculated as the present value of projected future cash ﬂows. A pre-tax discount rate of 10% was used. 
The following key assumptions were used in the discounted cash ﬂow projections for the savoury and dressings CGU:
• a longer-term sustainable growth rate of 4%, adjusted for market fade, used to determine an appropriate terminal value multiple; 
• average near-term nominal growth for the major product groups within the CGU of 4%; and
• average operating margins for the major product groups within the CGU ranging from 15% to 18%.
The growth rates and margins used to estimate future performance are based on past performance and our experience of growth rates and
margins achievable in our key markets as a guide. We believe that the assumptions used in estimating the future performance of the savoury
and dressings CGU are consistent with past performance.  
The projections covered a period of ten years as we believe this to be a suitable timescale over which to review and consider annual
performance before applying a ﬁxed terminal value multiple to the ﬁnal year cash ﬂows of the detailed projection. Stopping the detailed
projections after ﬁve years and applying a terminal value multiple thereafter would not result in a value in use that would cause impairment.
The growth rates used to estimate future performance beyond the periods covered by our annual planning and strategic planning processes do
not exceed the long-term average rates of growth for similar products.  
We have performed sensitivity analysis around the base case assumptions and have concluded that no reasonably possible changes in key
assumptions would cause the recoverable amount of the global savoury and dressings CGU to be less than the carrying amount. 88 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Financial statements continued
Notes to the consolidated accounts Unilever Group
10 Property, plant and equipment
€ million € million
At cost less depreciation and impairment 2007 2006
Land and buildings 1 989 1 944
Plant and equipment 4 295 4 332
6 284 6 276
Includes freehold land 207 205
Commitments for capital expenditure at 31 December 321 231
€ million € million € million
Land and Plant and
Movements during 2007 buildings equipment T otal
Gross
1 January 2007 2 992 10 371 13 363
Disposals of group companies (12) (142) (154)
Additions 346 943 1 289
Disposals (98) (429) (527)
Currency retranslation (116) (333) (449)
Reclassiﬁcation as held for sale (41) (165) (206)
Other adjustments (52) 9 (43)
31 December 2007 3 019 10 254 13 273
Depreciation
1 January 2007 (1 048) (6 039) (7 087)
Disposals of group companies 8 102 110
Depreciation charge for the year (106) (698) (804)
Disposals 37 372 409
Currency retranslation 36 186 222
Reclassiﬁcation as held for sale 24 114 138
Other adjustments 19 4 23
31 December 2007 (1 030) (5 959) (6 989)
Net book value 31 December 2007 1 989 4 295 6 284
Includes payments on account and assets in course of construction 80 542 622 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007 89
Financial statements continued
Notes to the consolidated accounts Unilever Group
10 Property, plant and equipment (continued)
€ million € million € million
Land and Plant and
Movements during 2006 buildings equipment T otal
Gross
1 January 2006 3 014 10 845 13 859
Acquisitions of group companies 268
Disposals of group companies (130) (291) (421)
Additions 150 921 1 071
Disposals (80) (586) (666)
Currency retranslation (136) (446) (582)
Reclassiﬁcation as held for sale
(a)
95 (69) 26
Other adjustments 77 (9) 68
31 December 2006 2 992 10 371 13 363
Depreciation 
1 January 2006 (1 020) (6 347) (7 367)
Disposals of group companies 50 185 235
Depreciation charge for the year
(b)
(74) (731) (805)
Disposals 45 512 557
Currency retranslation 38 251 289
Reclassiﬁcation as held for sale
(a)
(18) 69 51
Other adjustments (69) 22 (47)
31 December 2006 (1 048) (6 039) (7 087)
Net book value 31 December 2006 1 944 4 332 6 276
Includes payments on account and assets in course of construction 71 478 549
(a) After reinstating certain assets with gross value of €112 million and accumulated depreciation of €28 million which were previously
classiﬁed as held for sale.
(b) Includes €(18) million relating to discontinued operations.
Included in the above is property, plant and equipment under a number of ﬁnance lease agreements, for which the book values are as follows:
€ million € million € million
Plant and
Net book value Buildings equipment Total
Gross book value 223 342 565
Depreciation (16) (204) (220)
31 December 2007 207 138 345
Gross book value 62 369 431
Depreciation (20) (201) (221)
31 December 2006 42 168 210 90 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Financial statements continued
Notes to the consolidated accounts Unilever Group
11 Other non-current assets
€ million € million
2007 2006
Interest in net assets of joint ventures 150 57
Interest in net assets of associates 74 46
Other non-current ﬁnancial assets
(a)
: 738 735
Held-to-maturity investments 473 453
Loans and receivables 13 13
Available-for-sale ﬁnancial assets 201 257
Financial assets at fair value through proﬁt or loss 51 12
Long-term trade and other receivables
(b)
187 199
Fair value of biological assets 37 36
Other non-ﬁnancial assets 138 53
1 324 1 126
(a) Predominantly consist of investments in a number of companies and ﬁnancial institutions in India, Europe and the US, including €162 million
(2006: €181 million) of assets in a trust to fund beneﬁt obligations in the US (see also note 20 on page 103). 
(b) Classiﬁed as loans and receivables.
€ million € million
Movements during 2007 and 2006 2007 2006
Joint ventures
(c)
1 January 57 67
Additions
(d)
115 –
Dividends received/reductions (122) (85)
Share in net proﬁt 102 78
Currency retranslation (2) (3)
31 December 150 57
Associates
(e)
1 January 12 (20)
Acquisitions/(disposals) 31 5
Dividends received/reductions (48) (13)
Share in net proﬁt 50 36
Currency retranslation (1) 4
44 12
Of which: Net liabilities of JohnsonDiversey reclassiﬁed to provisions 30 34
31 December 74 46
(c) Our principal joint ventures are the FIMA business in Portugal, Pepsi/Lipton International and the Pepsi/Lipton Partnership in the US.
(d) In January 2007, the reorganisation of our Portuguese businesses was completed, whereby Unilever now has a 55% share of the combined
Portuguese entity, called Unilever Jerónimo Martins. The structure of the newly formed entity is such that there is joint control and it is
therefore accounted for by Unilever as a joint venture. In December 2007 a capital contribution of €103 million was made to Pepsi/Lipton
International.
(e) Associates primarily comprise our investments in JohnsonDiversey Holdings Inc., Palmci, Langholm Capital Partners and Physic Ventures.
Other Unilever Ventures assets (excluding Langholm) are included under ‘Other non-current ﬁnancial assets’ above.
€ million € million
Analysis of listed and unlisted investments 2007 2006
Investments listed on a recognised stock exchange 388 402
Unlisted investments 350 333
738 735
€ million € million € million
Other income from non-current investments 2007 2006 2005
Income from other non-current investments 19 21 20
Proﬁt/(loss) on disposal 20 913
39 30 33
The joint ventures and associates have no signiﬁcant contingent liabilities to which the Group is exposed, and the Group has no signiﬁcant
contingent liabilities in relation to its interest in the joint ventures and associates.
The Group has no outstanding capital commitments to joint ventures.
Outstanding balances with joint ventures and associates are shown in note 30 on page 120. Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007 91
Financial statements continued
Notes to the consolidated accounts Unilever Group
12 Deferred taxation
€ million € million € million € million € million
Reclassiﬁcation
As at 1 to liabilities As at 31
January Income held for December
Movements during the year 2007 statement
(a)
Equity
(b)
disposal 2007
Pensions and similar obligations 714 (198) (316) – 200
Provisions 692 93 – 1 786
Goodwill and intangible assets (684) (121) 25 – (780)
Accelerated tax depreciation (649) 29 20 2 (598)
Tax losses 113 (32) 3 – 84
Fair value gains (1) (1) (6) – (8)
Fair value losses 4– 4– 8
Share-based payments 92 (26) 35 – 101
Other (18) 15 – – (3)
263 (241) (235) 3 (210)
(a) Includes €5 million charge reported under discontinued operations in the income statement.
(b) Of the total movement in equity of €235 million, €7 million arises as a result of currency retranslation.
At the balance sheet date, the Group has unused tax losses of €1 471 million and tax credits amounting to €503 million available for offset
against future taxable proﬁts. Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of unused tax losses of €1 146 million and tax credits 
of €503 million, as it is not probable that there will be future taxable proﬁts within the entities against which the losses can be utilised. The
majority of these tax losses and credits arise in tax jurisdictions where they do not expire with the exception of €456 million of state and 
federal tax losses in the US which expire between now and 2027.
Other deductible temporary differences of €123 million have not been recognised as a deferred tax asset. There is no expiry date for these
differences.
At the balance sheet date, the aggregate amount of temporary differences associated with undistributed earnings of subsidiaries for which
deferred tax liabilities have not been recognised was €1 059 million (2006: €755 million). No liability has been recognised in respect of these
differences because the Group is in a position to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences, and it is probable that such
differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax
liabilities and when the deferred income taxes relate to the same ﬁscal authority. The following amounts, determined after appropriate
offsetting, are shown in the consolidated balance sheet:
€ million € million € million € million € million € million
Assets Assets Liabilities Liabilities T otal Total
Deferred tax assets and liabilities 2007 2006 2007 2006 2007 2006
Pensions and similar obligations 514 925 (314) (211) 200 714
Provisions 750 670 36 22 786 692
Goodwill and intangible assets (223) (194) (557) (490) (780) (684)
Accelerated tax depreciation (234) (328) (364) (321) (598) (649)
Tax losses 85 112 (1) 1 84 113
Fair value gains (3) (1) (5) – (8) (1)
Fair value losses 8 4 – – 8 4
Share-based payments 101 92 – – 101 92
Other 5 (14) (8) (4) (3) (18)
1 003 1 266 (1 213) (1 003) (210) 263
Of which deferred tax to be recovered/(settled) after 
more than 12 months 484 460 (1 111) (621) (627) (161)
13 Inventories
€ million € million
Inventories 2007 2006
Raw materials and consumables 1 406 1 360
Finished goods and goods for resale 2 488 2 436
3 894 3 796
Inventories with a value of €101 million (2006: €96 million) are carried at net realisable value, this being lower than cost. During 2007,
€177 million (2006: €160 million) was charged to the income statement for damaged, obsolete and lost inventories. In 2007, €25 million 
(2006: €34 million) was utilised or released to the income statement from inventory provisions taken in earlier years.
In 2007, inventories with a carrying amount of €4 million were pledged as security for certain of the Group’s borrowings (2006: €6 million). 92 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Financial statements continued
Notes to the consolidated accounts Unilever Group
14 Trade and other receivables
€ million € million
Trade and other receivables 2007 2006
Due within one year
Trade receivables 2 965 3 054
Prepayments and accrued income 467 441
Other receivables 762 759
4 194 4 254
Credit terms for customers are determined in individual territories. Concentrations of credit risk with respect to trade receivables are limited, due
to the Group’s customer base being large and diverse. Our historical experience of collecting receivables, supported by the level of default, is
that credit risk is low across territories and so trade receivables are considered to be a single class of ﬁnancial assets. Other receivables comprise
loans and receivables of €362 million (2006: €413 million) and other non-ﬁnancial assets of €400 million (2006: €346 million).
€ million € million
Ageing of trade receivables 2007 2006
Total trade receivables 3 112 3 214
Less impairment provision for trade receivables (147) (160)
2 965 3 054
Of which:
Not overdue 2 240 2 433
Past due less than three months 649 534
Past due more than three months but less than six months 85 82
Past due more than six months but less than one year 57 53
Past due more than one year 81 112
Impairment provision for trade receivables (147) (160)
2 965 3 054
€ million € million
Impairment provision for trade and other receivables – movements during the year 2007 2006
1 January 180 258
Charged to current year income statement 39 38
Reductions/releases (40) (107)
Currency retranslation (3) (9)
31 December 176 180
15 Cash and cash equivalents and other ﬁnancial assets
€ million € million
Cash and cash equivalents and other ﬁnancial assets 2007 2006
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash at bank and in hand 507 469
Short-term deposits with maturity of less than three months 500 390
Other cash equivalents
(a)
: 91 180
1 098 1 039
Other ﬁnancial assets
(b)
Held-to-maturity investments 15 36
Loans and receivables 2 9
Available-for-sale ﬁnancial assets 91 171
Financial assets at fair value through proﬁt or loss
(c)
108 57
216 273
Of which:
Listed 41 47
Unlisted 175 226
216 273
(a) Other cash equivalents are wholly comprised of available-for-sale ﬁnancial assets.
(b) Other ﬁnancial assets include government securities, A minus or higher rated money, capital market instruments and derivatives.
(c) Financial assets at fair value through proﬁt and loss include derivatives amounting to €78 million (2006: €36 million). Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007 93
Financial statements continued
Notes to the consolidated accounts Unilever Group
15 Cash and cash equivalents and other ﬁnancial assets (continued)
€ million € million € million
Cash and cash equivalents included in the cash ﬂow statement 2007 2006 2005
Cash and cash equivalents as per balance sheet 1 098 1 039 1 529
Cash and cash equivalents in businesses held for sale – –1
Bank overdrafts (197) (329) (265)
901 710 1 265
Interest rate proﬁle and currency analysis of ﬁnancial assets
The table set out below takes into account the various interest rate swaps and forward foreign currency contracts entered into by the Group,
details of which are set out in note 17 on pages 97 to 101.
The interest rate proﬁles of the Group’s ﬁnancial assets analysed by principal currency are set out in the table below:
€ million € million € million
Fixed Fixed Fixed Floating Floating
rate rate rate rate rate Total 
Amount Average Weighted Interest
of ﬁxing interest rate average rate for
for following for following ﬁxing following
year year period year
Assets – 2007
Euro 12 4.6% 0.5 years 358 4.5% 370
Sterling 541 6.2% 0.7 years 1 250 5.3% 1 791
(a)
US dollar –4 3.4% 4
Indian rupee – 205 9.0% 205
Brazilian real – 151 11.2% 151
Other – 577 7.5% 577
553 2 545 3 098
Sterling leg of currency derivatives mainly relating to intra-group loans
(a)
(1 784)
Total 1 314
(b)
Assets – 2006
Euro 1 3.1% 0.1 years 243 4.1% 244
Sterling 1 549 5.3% 1.0 years 1 196 5.6% 2 745
(a)
US dollar – 8 5.4% 8
Indian rupee – 403 8.8% 403
Brazilian real – 49 13.2% 49
Other – 586 6.5% 586
1 550 2 485 4 035
Sterling leg of currency derivatives mainly relating to intra-group loans
(a)
(2 723)
Total 1 312
(b)
(a) Includes the sterling leg of the currency derivatives mainly relating to intra-group loans, amounting to €1 784 million for 2007 
(2006: €2 723 million). These derivatives create a sterling interest rate exposure. However, to reconcile the assets with the balance sheet,
the total value is eliminated again. The other leg of the currency derivatives is shown in note 16 as a liability.
(b) Includes fair value of ﬁnancial liability-related derivatives amounting to €78 million (2006: €36 million). 94 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Financial statements continued
Notes to the consolidated accounts Unilever Group
16 Financial liabilities
€ million € million
Financial liabilities 2007 2006
Preference shares 124 124
Bank loans and overdrafts 1 212 1 307
Bonds and other loans
At amortised cost 7 907 6 561
Subject to fair value hedge accounting – 609
Finance lease creditors 311 187
Derivatives 95 47
9 649 8 835
All the preference shares and the bank loans and overdrafts are valued at amortised cost.
€ million € million
Financial liabilities – additional details 2007 2006
The repayments fall due as follows
Within one year:
Bank loans and overdrafts 785 743
Bonds and other loans 3 239 3 619
Finance lease creditors 65 61
Derivatives 77 35
Total due within one year 4 166 4 458
After one year but within two years 1 087 448
After two years but within three years 1 325 330
After three years but within four years 34 1 358
After four years but within ﬁve years 797 10
After ﬁve years 2 240 2 231
Total due after more than one year 5 483 4 377
Secured ﬁnancial liabilities 5 –
Of which secured against property, plant and equipment – –
€ million € million € million € million
Issued,
Number Nominal Number called up
of shares value of shares and fully Statutory
authorised Authorised per share issued paid Reserve T otal
Preference shares NV as at 31 December 2007
7% Cumulative Preference 75 000 32 €428.57 29 000 12 1 13
6% Cumulative Preference
(a)
200 000 86 €428.57 161 060 69 4 73
4% Cumulative Preference 750 000 32 €42.86 750 000 32 2 34
Share premium 44
150 117 7 124
Preference shares NV as at 31 December 2006
7% Cumulative Preference 75 000 32 €428.57 29 000 12 1 13
6% Cumulative Preference
(a)
200 000 86 €428.57 161 060 69 4 73
4% Cumulative Preference 750 000 32 €42.86 750 000 32 2 34
Share premium 44
150 117 7 124
(a) The 6% cumulative preference shares are traded in the market in units of one tenth of their nominal value.
The 7%, 6% and 4% cumulative preference shares of NV are entitled to dividends at the rates indicated. The 4% preference capital of NV is
redeemable at par at the company‘s option either wholly or in part. The other classes of preferential share capital of NV are not unilaterally
redeemable by the company.
At the Annual General Meeting of NV held on 8 May 2006 it was agreed to convert the nominal value of all classes of shares from guilders into
euros. The 7% and 6% preference shares with a nominal value of Fl.1 000 each, were converted into shares with a nominal value of €428.57
each, and the 4% preference shares with a nominal value of Fl.100 each, were converted into shares with a nominal value of €42.86 each. 
The effect of this was to adjust their reported value, with the difference being held as a statutory reserve.
In order to maintain the same economic rights for the preference shares as before the euro conversion, it was decided that their entitlement to
dividend and liquidation proceeds remains linked, using the ofﬁcial euro conversion rate, to the amount in Dutch guilders originally paid up on
these shares. The euro conversion did not alter the dividend entitlements of the cumulative preference shares. Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007 95
Financial statements continued
Notes to the consolidated accounts Unilever Group
16 Financial liabilities (continued)
Additional details
Details of speciﬁc bonds and other loans are given below:
€ million € million € million € million
Amortised Fair Amortised Fair
cost value cost value
2007 2007
(a)
2006 2006
(a)
Unilever N.V.
4.250% Bonds 2007 (€) –– 505 500
5.000% Bonds 2007 (US $) –– 490 –
Floating rate note 2009 (€) 750 – ––
4.625% Bonds 2012 (€) 747 – ––
3.375% Bonds 2015 (€) 747 – 747 –
Other –– 7–
Total Unilever N.V. 2 244 – 1 749 500
Other group companies
Netherlands
Commercial paper (€) 1 526 – 770 –
Commercial paper (£) 45 – 532 –
Commercial paper (US $) 487 – 236 –
Commercial paper (Swiss francs) 29 – 63 –
Commercial paper (Canadian $) 12 – ––
United States
Floating rate extendible note 2009 (US $)
(b)
340 – ––
7.125% Bonds 2010 (US $) 1 184 – 1 321 –
7.000% Bonds 2017 (US $) 99 – 110 –
7.250% Bonds 2026 (US $) 195 – 217 –
6.625% Bonds 2028 (US $) 149 – 166 –
5.900% Bonds 2032 (US $) 668 – 746 –
5.600% Bonds 2097 (US $) 62 – 69 –
Commercial paper (US $) 732 – 259 –
Other 8– 8–
Thailand
3.300% Bonds 2007 (Thai baht) –– 139 –
South Africa
10.200% Bonds 2008 (South African rand) 100 – –109
Commercial paper (South African rand) –– 27 –
Other countries 27 – 149 –
Total other group companies 5 663 – 4 812 109
Total bonds and other loans 7 907 – 6 561 609
(a) Values are based on fair value hedge accounting and do not include a valuation of the credit risk.
(b) Of which €292 million will be repaid in 2008.
Reclassiﬁcations
During 2007, Unilever discontinued fair value hedge accounting for 10.200% Bonds 2008 (South African Rand). On the date the hedge 
accounting discontinued, the fair value became the new value at amortised cost. 96 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Financial statements continued
Notes to the consolidated accounts Unilever Group
16 Financial liabilities (continued)
Interest rate
The average interest rate on short-term borrowings in 2007 was 4.5% (2006: 3.6%).
Interest rate proﬁle and currency analysis of ﬁnancial liabilities
The table set out below takes into account the various interest rate swaps and forward foreign currency contracts entered into by the Group,
details of which are set out in note 17 on pages 97 to 101. The interest rate proﬁles of the Group’s ﬁnancial liabilities analysed by principal
currency are set out in the table below:
€ million € million € million
Fixed Fixed Fixed Floating Floating
rate rate rate rate rate Total
Amount Average Weighted Interest
of ﬁxing interest rate average rate for
for following for following ﬁxing following
year year period year
Liabilities – 2007
Euro
(c)
2 073 4.3% 5.0 years 980 4.5% 3 053
Sterling 168 6.4% 19.8 years 98 5.3% 266
US dollar 3 259 6.2% 10.9 years 1 853 3.4% 5 112
Swedish krona – 741 4.9% 741
Swiss francs – 699 3.1% 699
Japanese yen 240 1.0% 1.5 years 99 1.1% 339
Thai baht 139 3.5% 0.9 years 43 4.2% 182
Australian dollar 3 5.3% 12.0 years 192 7.7% 195
Other 90 11.8% 2.5 years 756 6.7% 846
5 972 5 461 11 433
Euro leg of currency derivatives mainly relating to intra-group loans
(d)
(1 784)
Total 9 649
(e)
Liabilities – 2006
Euro
(c)
1 771 3.4% 4.5 years 383 4.1% 2 154
Sterling 140 7.8% 20.8 years 143 5.6% 283
US dollar 3 444 6.6% 12.2 years 2 687 5.4% 6 131
Swedish krona – 830 3.8% 830
Swiss francs – 519 2.4% 519
Japanese yen 1 4.0% 0.5 years 377 0.8% 378
Thai baht 139 3.2% 0.9 years 85 5.2% 224
Australian dollar 3 5.3% 12.0 years 387 6.7% 390
Other 99 11.9% 3.6 years 550 8.3% 649
5 597 5 961 11 558
Euro leg of currency derivatives mainly relating to intra-group loans
(d)
(2 723)
Total 8 835
(e)
(c) Euro ﬁnancial liabilities include €124 million preference shares that provide for a ﬁxed preference dividend.
(d) Includes the euro leg of the currency derivatives mainly relating to intra-group loans, amounting to €1 784 million for 2007 (2006: €2 723
million). These derivatives create an interest rate exposure in euros. However, to reconcile the liability with the balance sheet, the total value
is eliminated again. The other leg of the currency derivatives is shown in note 15 on page 93 as an asset.
(e) Includes ﬁnance lease creditors amounting to €311 million (2006: €187 million) and fair value of ﬁnancial liability-related derivatives
amounting to €95 million (2006: €47 million). Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007 97
Financial statements continued
17 Financial instruments and treasury risk management
Treasury Risk Management
Unilever manages a variety of market risks, including the effects of changes in foreign exchange rates, interest rates, liquidity and counterparty
risks.
Currency risks
Because of Unilever’s broad operational reach, it is subject to risks from changes in foreign currency values that could affect earnings. As a practical
matter, it is not feasible to fully hedge these ﬂuctuations. Additionally, Unilever believes that most currencies of major countries in which it operates
will equalise against the euro over time. Unilever does have a foreign exchange policy that requires operating companies to manage trading and
ﬁnancial foreign exchange exposures within prescribed limits. This is achieved primarily through the use of forward foreign exchange contracts. On
a case by case basis, depending on potential income statement volatility that can be caused by the fair value movement of the derivative,
companies decide whether or not to apply cash ﬂow hedge accounting. Regional groups monitor compliance with this foreign exchange policy. At
the end of 2007, there was no material exposure from companies holding assets and liabilities other than in their functional currency.
In addition, as Unilever conducts business in many foreign currencies but publishes its ﬁnancial statements and measures its performance in euros,
it is subject to exchange risk due to the effects that exchange rate movements have on the translation of the underlying net assets of its foreign
subsidiaries. Unilever aims to minimise its foreign exchange exposure in operating companies by borrowing in the local currency, except where
inhibited by local regulations, lack of local liquidity or local market conditions. For those countries that in the view of management have a
substantial retranslation risk, Unilever may decide on a case by case basis, taking into account amongst others the impact on the income
statement, to hedge such net investment. This is achieved through the use of forward foreign exchange contracts on which hedge accounting is
applied. Nevertheless, from time to time, currency revaluations on unhedged investments will trigger exchange translation movements in the
balance sheet.
Interest rate risks
Unilever has an interest rate management policy aimed at achieving an optimal balance between ﬁxed and ﬂoating rate interest rate exposures on
expected net debt (gross borrowings minus cash and cash equivalents) levels for the next ﬁve calendar years. The objective of the policy is to
minimise annual interest costs and to reduce volatility. This is achieved by issuing ﬁxed rate long-term debt and by modifying the interest rate
exposure of debt and cash positions through the use of interest rate swaps. The ﬁxing levels per calendar year are determined by ﬁxing bands, with
minimum and maximum ﬁxing level percentages, decreasing by 10 percentage points per calendar year. The minimum level in the ﬁrst year
amounts to 50% and the maximum level amounts to 90%. The minimum level is set to avoid unacceptable interest cost volatility and the
maximum level is set to prevent over-ﬁxing, recognising that future debt levels can be volatile.
At the end of 2007, interest rates were ﬁxed on approximately 68% of the projected net of cash and ﬁnancial liability positions for 2008 and 53%
for 2009 (compared with 48% for 2007 and 52% for 2008 at the end of 2006).
Liquidity risk
A material and sustained shortfall in our cash ﬂow could undermine our credit rating and overall investor conﬁdence and could restrict the Group’s
ability to raise funds.
Operational cash ﬂow provides the funds to service the ﬁnancing of ﬁnancial liabilities and enhance shareholder return. Unilever manages the
liquidity requirements by the use of short-term and long-term cash ﬂow forecasts. Unilever maintains access to global debt markets through an
infrastructure of short-term and long-term debt programmes. In addition to this, Unilever has committed credit facilities in place to support its
commercial paper programmes and for general corporate purposes. 
Unilever had the following undrawn committed facilities at 31 December 2007:
• revolving 364-day bilateral credit facilities of in aggregate US $3 630 million (2006: US $3 930 million) with a 364-day term out;
• revolving 364-day notes commitments of US $200 million (2006: US $200 million) with the ability to issue notes with a maturity up to
364 days; and
• 364-day bilateral money market commitments of in aggregate US $1 720 million (2006: US $1 420 million), under which the
underwriting banks agree, subject to certain conditions, to subscribe for notes with maturities of up to three years.
These facilities have been renewed until November 2008.
The revolving ﬁve-year bilateral credit facilities of in aggregate US $334 million and a revolving 364-day bilateral credit facility of in aggregate 
US $333 million matured in November 2007 and were not renewed. 
The ﬁnancial market turbulence and associated illiquidity in credit markets during the second half of 2007 did not impact Unilever’s ability to meet
its ﬁnancing requirements.
Notes to the consolidated accounts Unilever Group Notes to the consolidated accounts Unilever Group
98 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Financial statements continued
17 Financial instruments and treasury risk management (continued)
The following table shows Unilever’s contractually agreed (undiscounted) cash ﬂows payable under ﬁnancial liabilities and derivative assets and
liabilities as at the balance sheet date:
€ million € million € million € million € million € million
Net carrying
amount as
Due within Due between Due between Due 3 years shown in
Undiscounted cash ﬂows 1 year 1 and 2 years 2 and 3 years and beyond Total balance sheet
2007
Non derivative ﬁnancial liabilities:
Financial liabilities excluding related derivatives 
and ﬁnance lease creditors (4 101) (1 060) (1 314) (2 877) (9 352) (9 243)
Interest on ﬁnancial liabilities (304) (270) (236) (1 916) (2 726)
Finance lease creditors including related ﬁnance cost (81) (41) (36) (362) (520) (311)
Trade payables and other liabilities
excluding social security and sundry taxes
(a)
(7 643) (204) – – (7 847) (7 847)
(12 129) (1 575) (1 586) (5 155) (20 445)
Derivative ﬁnancial liabilities:
Interest rate derivatives:
Derivative contracts - receipts 6432 15
Derivative contracts - payments (9) (4) (3) (2) (18)
Foreign exchange derivatives:
Derivative contracts - receipts 5 315 22 22 45 5 404
Derivative contracts - payments (5 411) (26) (26) (52) (5 515)
(99) (4) (4) (7) (114) (116)
(b)
31 December (12 228) (1 579) (1 590) (5 162) (20 559)
2006
Non derivative ﬁnancial liabilities:
Financial liabilities excluding related derivatives
and ﬁnance lease creditors (4 338) (405) (280) (3 601) (8 624) (8 601)
Interest on ﬁnancial liabilities (328) (234) (219) (2 251) (3 032)
Finance lease creditors including related ﬁnance cost (71) (68) (22) (135) (296) (187)
Trade payables and other liabilities
excluding social security and sundry taxes
(a)
(7 452) (261) – – (7 713) (7 713)
(12 189) (968) (521) (5 987) (19 665)
Derivative ﬁnancial liabilities:
Interest rate derivatives:
Derivative contracts - receipts 2 – – – 2
Derivative contracts - payments (3) (3) (2) (1) (9)
Foreign exchange derivatives:
Derivative contracts - receipts 5 272 100 – – 5 372
Derivative contracts - payments (5 302) (121) – – (5 423)
(31) (24) (2) (1) (58) (60)
(b)
31 December (12 220) (992) (523) (5 988) (19 723)
(a) See note 18 on page 102.
(b) Includes ﬁnancial liability-related derivatives amounting to €(95) million (2006: €(47) million).
Credit risk on banks and received collateral
Credit risk related to the use of treasury instruments is managed on a group basis. This risk arises from transactions with banks like cash and cash
equivalents, deposits and derivative ﬁnancial instruments. To reduce the credit risk, Unilever has concentrated its main activities with a limited
group of banks that have secure credit ratings. Per bank, individual risk limits are set based on its ﬁnancial position, credit ratings, past experience
and other factors. The utilisation of credit limits is regularly monitored. To reduce the credit exposures, netting agreements are in place with
Unilever’s principal banks that allow Unilever, in case of a default, to net assets and liabilities across transactions. To further reduce Unilever’s credit
exposures, Unilever has collateral agreements with Unilever’s principal banks based on which they need to deposit securities and/or cash as a
collateral for their obligations in respect of derivative ﬁnancial instruments. At 31 December 2007 the collateral received by Unilever amounts to
€nil (2006: €2 million). At 31 December 2007 there was no signiﬁcant concentration of credit risk with any single counterparty. Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007 99
Financial statements continued
Notes to the consolidated accounts Unilever Group
17 Financial instruments and treasury risk management (continued)
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments
The Group has comprehensive policies in place, approved by the Boards, covering the use of derivative ﬁnancial instruments. These instruments are
used for hedging purposes. The Group has an established system of control in place covering all ﬁnancial instruments; including policies, guidelines,
exposure limits, a system of authorities and independent reporting, that is subject to periodic review by internal audit. Hedge accounting principles
are described in note 1 on page 74. The use of leveraged instruments is not permitted. In the assessment of hedge effectiveness the credit risk
element on the underlying hedged item has been excluded. Hedge ineffectiveness is immaterial.
The Group uses the following types of hedges:
• cash ﬂow hedges used to hedge the risk on future foreign currency cash ﬂows, ﬂoating interest rate cash ﬂows, and the price risk on future
purchases of raw materials;
• fair value hedges used to convert the ﬁxed interest rate on ﬁnancial liabilities into a ﬂoating interest rate; 
• net investment hedges used to hedge the investment value of our foreign subsidiaries; and 
• natural hedges used to hedge the risk on exposures that are on the balance sheet. No hedge accounting is applied.
Details of the various types of hedges are given below.
The fair values of forward foreign exchange contracts represent the unrealised gain or loss on revaluation of the contracts at the year-end forward
exchange rates. The fair values of interest rate derivatives are based on the net present value of the anticipated future cash ﬂows.
Cash ﬂow hedges
The fair values of derivatives hedging the risk on future foreign currency cash ﬂows, ﬂoating interest rate cash ﬂows and the price risk on future
purchases of raw materials amount to €85 million (2006: €9 million) of which €88 million relates to commodity contracts (2006: €5 million),
€(10) million to foreign exchange contracts (2006: €2 million) and €7million to interest rate derivatives (2006: €2 million). Of the total fair value
of €85 million, €82 million is due within one year (2006: €7 million).
The following table shows the amounts of cash outﬂows that are designated as hedged item in the cash ﬂow hedge relations (no cash inﬂows
are designated as hedged item):
€ million € million € million € million € million
Due Due Due Due Total
within between between between
1 year 1-2 years 2-3 years 3-4 years
2007
Foreign exchange cash ﬂows (235) – – – (235)
Interest rate cash ﬂows (18) (19) (21) – (58)
Commodity contracts cash ﬂows (310) (1) – – (311)
2006
Foreign exchange cash ﬂows (298) – – – (298)
Interest rate cash ﬂows (31) (43) (19) (20) (113)
Commodity contracts cash ﬂows (107) – – – (107)
Fair Value hedges
The fair values of derivatives hedging the fair value interest rate risk on ﬁxed rate debt at 31 December 2007 amounted to €nil million (2006:
€5 million) of which €nil million (2006 €5 million) is included under other ﬁnancial assets.
Net investment hedges
The following table shows the fair values of derivatives outstanding at year end designated as hedging instruments in hedges of net
investments in foreign operations:
€ million € million € million € million
Assets Assets Liabilities Liabilities
Fair values of derivatives used as hedges of net investments in foreign entities 2007 2006 2007 2006
Current
Foreign exchange derivatives – 11 337 350
Of the above mentioned fair values, an amount of €nil million (2006: €11 million) is included under other ﬁnancial assets and €(337) million
(2006: €(350) million) is included under ﬁnancial liabilities. 
The impact of exchange rate movements on the fair value of forward exchange contracts used to hedge net investments is recognised in
reserves. 100 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Financial statements continued
Notes to the consolidated accounts Unilever Group
17 Financial instruments and treasury risk management (continued)
Natural hedges
A natural hedge  – sometimes known as an economic hedge – is where exposure to a risk is offset, or partly offset, by an opposite exposure to
that same risk. Hedge accounting is not applied to these relationships.
The following table shows the fair value of derivatives outstanding at year end that are natural hedges. 
€ million € million € million € million
Assets Assets Liabilities Liabilities
Fair values of natural hedges 2007 2006 2007 2006
Current
Interest rate derivatives 1 2 3 1
Cross currency swaps – – – 6
Foreign exchange derivatives 377 371 41 31
378 373 44 38
Non-current
Interest rate derivatives – – – 1
Cross currency swaps – – 18 12
– – 18 13
378 373 62 51
Of the fair values disclosed above, the fair value of ﬁnancial liability-related derivatives at 31 December 2007 amounted to €320 million 
(2006: €323 million) of which €78 million (2006: €20 million) is included under other ﬁnancial assets and €242 million (2006: €301 million) is
included under ﬁnancial liabilities as a positive amount partly offsetting the €(337) million (2006: €(350) million) included under ﬁnancial
liabilities relating to the fair values of derivatives used as net investment hedges. The remaining balances are shown under trade and other
receivables and other liabilities. 
Sensitivity to not applying hedge accounting
Derivatives have to be reported at fair value. Those derivatives used for cash ﬂow hedging and net investment hedging for which we do not
apply hedge accounting will cause volatility in the income statement. Such derivatives did not have a material impact on the 2007 income
statement.
Embedded derivatives
In accordance with IAS 39, 'Financial instruments: Recognition and Measurement', Unilever has reviewed all contracts for embedded derivatives
that are required to be separately accounted for if they do not meet speciﬁc requirements set out in the standard; no material embedded
derivatives have been identiﬁed.
Fair values of ﬁnancial assets and ﬁnancial liabilities
The following table summarises the fair values and carrying amounts of the various classes of ﬁnancial assets and ﬁnancial liabilities. All trade
and other receivables and trade payables and other liabilities have been excluded from the analysis below and from the interest rate and
currency proﬁles in note 15 on page 93 and note 16 on page 96, as their carrying amounts are a reasonable approximation of their fair value,
because of their short-term nature.
€ million € million € million € million
Fair Fair Carrying Carrying
value value amount amount
2007 2006 2007 2006
Financial assets
Other non-current assets 733 748 738 735
Cash and cash equivalents 1 098 1 039 1 098 1 039
Other ﬁnancial assets 138 237 138 237
Derivatives related to ﬁnancial liabilities 78 36 78 36
2 047 2 060 2 052 2 047
Financial liabilities
Bank loans and overdrafts (1 212) (1 307) (1 212) (1 307)
Bonds and other loans (8 073) (7 402) (7 907) (7 170)
Finance lease creditors (313) (192) (311) (187)
Preference shares (114) (122) (124) (124)
Derivatives related to ﬁnancial liabilities (95) (47) (95) (47)
(9 807) (9 070) (9 649) (8 835) Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007 101
Financial statements continued
Notes to the consolidated accounts Unilever Group
17 Financial instruments and treasury risk management (continued)
The fair values and the carrying amount of listed investments included in ﬁnancial assets and preference shares included in ﬁnancial liabilities are
based on their market values. Cash and cash equivalents, other ﬁnancial assets, bank loans and overdrafts have fair values that approximate to
their carrying amounts because of their short-term nature. The fair values of listed bonds are based on their market value; non-listed bonds and
other loans are based on the net present value of the anticipated future cash ﬂows associated with these instruments. Fair values for ﬁnance
lease creditors have been assessed by reference to current market rates for comparable leasing arrangements.
Commodity contracts
The Group uses commodity forward contracts and futures to hedge against price risk in certain commodities. All commodity forward contracts
and futures hedge future purchases of raw material. Settlement of these contracts will be in cash or by physical delivery. Those contracts that
will be settled in cash are reported in the balance sheet at fair value and, to the extent that they are considered as an effective hedge under 
IAS 39, fair value movements are recognised in the cash ﬂow reserve.
Capital management
The Group’s ﬁnancial strategy supports Unilever’s aim to be in the top third of a reference group including 20 other international consumer
goods companies for Total Shareholder Return, as explained on page 32. The key elements of the ﬁnancial strategy are:
• appropriate access to equity and debt markets;
• sufﬁcient ﬂexibility for acquisitions that we fund out of current cash ﬂows;
• A1/P1 short-term credit rating;
• sufﬁcient resilience against economic turmoil; and
• optimal weighted average cost of capital, given the constraints above.
For the A1/P1 sort-term credit rating the company monitors the qualitative and quantitative factors utilised by the rating agencies. This
information is publicly available and is updated by the credit rating agencies on a regular basis.  
The capital structure of the company is based on management’s judgement of the appropriate balancing of all key elements of its ﬁnancial
strategy in order to meet the company’s strategic and day-to-day needs. Annually the overall funding plan is presented to the Board for
approval.
Return on Invested Capital is one of Unilever's key performance measures. Within this deﬁnition we deﬁned the components of our Invested
Capital. See page 31 for the details of this deﬁnition and the calculation of Unilever's Return on Invested Capital.
Income statement sensitivity to changes in foreign exchange rates
The values of debt, investments and related hedging instruments, denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the entities
holding them, are subject to exchange rate movements. The translation risk on the foreign exchange debtors and creditors is excluded from this
sensitivity analysis as the risk is considered to be immaterial because positions will remain within prescribed limits (see currency risks on page
97). 
The remaining foreign exchange positions at 31 December 2007 mainly relate to unhedged US $ loans (total amount at 31 December 2007 
US $37 million). A reasonably possible 10% change in rates would lead to a €7 million movement in the income statement (2006: €16 million).
Income statement sensitivity to changes in interest rate 
Interest rate risks are presented by way of sensitivity analysis. As described on page 97, Unilever has an interest rate management policy aimed
at optimising net interest cost and reducing volatility in the income statement. As part of this policy, part of the funds/debt have ﬁxed interest
rates and are no longer exposed to changes in the ﬂoating rates. The remaining ﬂoating part of our funds/debt (see interest rate proﬁle tables
on pages 93 for the assets and 96 for the liabilities) is exposed to changes in the ﬂoating interest rates.
The analysis below shows the sensitivity of the income statement to a reasonably possible one percentage point change in ﬂoating interest rates
on a full-year basis. 
Sensitivity to a reasonably possible 
one percentage point change in 
ﬂoating rates as at 31 December
€ million € million
2007 2006
Funds 25 24
Debt (55) (59)
Net investment hedges: sensitivity relating to changes in foreign exchange rates
To reduce the retranslation risk of Unilever's investments in foreign subsidiaries, Unilever uses net investment hedges. The fair values of these
net investment hedges are subject to exchange rate movements and changes in these fair values are recognised directly in equity and will offset
the retranslation impact of the related subsidiary. 
At 31 December 2007 the nominal value of these net investment hedges amounts to €7.5 billion (2006: €7.6 billion) mainly consisting of US$/€
contracts. A reasonably possible 10% change in rates would lead to a fair value movement of €750 million (2006: €760 million). This
movement would be fully offset by an opposite movement on the retranslation of the book equity of the foreign subsidiary.
Cash ﬂow hedges: sensitivity relating to changes in interest rates and foreign exchange rates
Unilever uses on a limited scale both interest rate and forex cash ﬂow hedges. The fair values of these instruments are subject to changes in
interest rates and exchange rates. Because of the limited use of these instruments and the amount of Unilever's equity, possible changes in
interest rates and exchange rates will not lead to fair value movements that will have a material impact on Unilever's equity. 102 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Financial statements continued
Notes to the consolidated accounts Unilever Group
18 Trade payables and other liabilities
€ million € million
Trade and other payables 2007 2006
Due within one year
Trade payables 3 690 3 833
Accruals 2 970 2 706
Social security and sundry taxes 374 386
Others 983 913
8 017 7 838
Due after more than one year
Accruals 138 185
Others 66 76
204 261
Total trade payables and other liabilities 8 221 8 099
The amounts shown above do not include any creditors due after more than ﬁve years. Trade payables and other liabilities are valued at historic
cost, which where appropriate, approximates their amortised cost.
19 Provisions
€ million € million
Provisions 2007 2006
Due within one year
Restructuring provisions 518 439
Preference shares provision 3 300
Disputed indirect taxes 269 –
Other provisions 178 270
968 1 009
Due after one year
Restructuring provisions 63 53
Legal provisions 55 51
Disputed indirect taxes 422 560
Net liability of associate 30 34
Other provisions 124 128
694 826
Total restructuring and other provisions 1 662 1 835
€ million € million € million € million € million € million € million
Preference
Restructuring Legal shares Disputed Net liability Other
Movements during 2007 provisions provisions provision indirect taxes of associate provisions T otal
1 January 2007 492 51 300 560 34 398 1 835
Disposal of group companies 3–––– (37) (34)
Income statement:
New charges 457 19 15 161 – 29 681
Releases (43) (2) (8) (61) – (59) (173)
Utilisation (312) (10) (304) (11) – (22) (659)
Currency retranslation (16) (3) – 42 (4) (7) 12
31 December 2007 581 55 3 691 30 302 1 662
Restructuring provisions primarily relate to early retirement and redundancy costs, the most signiﬁcant of which relate to the formation of new
multi-country organisations and several factory closures; no projects are individually material. Legal provisions are comprised of many claims, of
which none is individually material. 
The provision for disputed indirect taxes is comprised of a number of small disputed items. The largest elements of the provision relate to
disputes with the Brazilian authorities. Because of the nature of the disputes, the timing of the utilisation of the provisions, and any associated
cash outﬂows, is uncertain. The majority of the disputed items attract an interest charge. For further information please refer to page 11.
No individual item within the other provisions balance is signiﬁcant. Unilever expects that the issues relating to these restructuring, legal and
other provisions will be substantively resolved over the next ﬁve years. Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007 103
Financial statements continued
Notes to the consolidated accounts Unilever Group
20 Pensions and similar obligations
Description of plans
In many countries the Group operates deﬁned beneﬁt pension plans based on employee pensionable remuneration and length of service. 
The majority of these plans are externally funded. The Group also provides other post-employment beneﬁts, mainly post-employment healthcare
plans in the United States. These plans are predominantly unfunded. The Group also operates a number of deﬁned contribution plans, the
assets of which are held in external funds.
The majority of the Group’s externally funded plans are established as trusts, foundations or similar entities. The operation of these entities 
is governed by local regulations and practice in each country, as is the nature of the relationship between the Group and the trustees (or
equivalent) and their composition. 
Exposure to risks
Pension assets and liabilities (pre-tax) of €17 253 million and €18 342 million respectively are held on the Group’s balance sheet as at
31 December 2007. Movements in equity markets, interest rates, inﬂation and life expectancy could materially affect the level of surpluses and
deﬁcits in these schemes, and could prompt the need for the Group to make additional pension contributions, or to reduce pension
contributions, in the future. The key assumptions used to value our pension liabilities are set out below and on page 104.
Investment strategy
The Group’s investment strategy in respect of its funded pension plans is implemented within the framework of the various statutory
requirements of the territories where the plans are based. The Group has developed policy guidelines for the allocation of assets to different
classes with the objective of controlling risk and maintaining the right balance between risk and long-term returns in order to limit the cost to
the Group of the beneﬁts provided. To achieve this, investments are well diversiﬁed, such that the failure of any single investment would not
have a material impact on the overall level of assets. The plans invest the largest proportion of the assets in equities which the Group believes
offer the best returns over the long term commensurate with an acceptable level of risk. The pension funds also have a proportion of assets
invested in property, bonds, hedge funds and cash. The majority of assets are managed by a number of external fund managers with a small
proportion managed in-house. Unilever has a pooled investment vehicle (Univest) which it believes offers its pension plans around the world a
simpliﬁed externally managed investment vehicle to implement their strategic asset allocation models currently for equities and hedge funds.
The aim is to provide a high quality, well diversiﬁed risk-controlled vehicle.
Assumptions
With the objective of presenting the assets and liabilities of the pensions and other post-employment beneﬁt plans at their fair value on the
balance sheet, assumptions under IAS 19 are set by reference to market conditions at the valuation date. The actuarial assumptions used to
calculate the beneﬁt obligations vary according to the country in which the plan is situated. The following table shows the assumptions,
weighted by liabilities, used to value the principal deﬁned beneﬁt pension plans (which cover approximately 95% of total pension liabilities and
plans providing other post-employment beneﬁts) and in addition the expected long-term rates of return on assets, weighted by asset value.
31 December 2007 31 December 2006 31 December 2005 31 December 2004
Principal Other Principal Other Principal Other Principal Other
deﬁned post- deﬁned post- deﬁned post- deﬁned post-
beneﬁt employment beneﬁt employment beneﬁt employment beneﬁt employment
pension beneﬁt pension beneﬁt pension beneﬁt pension beneﬁt
plans plans plans plans plans plans plans plans
Discount rate 5.8% 6.1% 5.1% 5.9% 4.6% 5.5% 5.0% 5.7%
Inﬂation 2.6% n/a 2.5% n/a 2.4% n/a 2.4% n/a
Rate of increase in salaries 3.8% 4.0% 3.7% 4.0% 3.5% 4.0% 3.6% 4.5%
Rate of increase for pensions in payment 2.5% n/a 2.3% n/a 2.1% n/a 2.2% n/a
Rate of increase for pensions in deferment 
(where provided) 2.7% n/a 2.7% n/a 2.5% n/a 2.6% n/a
Long-term medical cost inﬂation n/a 5.0% n/a 5.0% n/a 4.8% n/a 4.8%
Expected long-term rates of return:
Equities 8.0% 7.8% 7.4% 7.9%
Bonds 4.9% 4.9% 4.2% 4.5%
Property 6.6% 6.3% 5.8% 6.3%
Others 6.3% 6.3% 6.1% 6.1%
Weighted average asset return 7.0% 6.9% 6.4% 6.8% 104 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Financial statements continued
Notes to the consolidated accounts Unilever Group
20 Pensions and similar obligations (continued)
The valuations of other post-employment beneﬁt plans generally assume a higher initial level of medical cost inﬂation, which falls from 9.3% 
to the long-term rate within the next ﬁve years. Assumed healthcare cost trend rates have a signiﬁcant effect on the amounts reported for
healthcare plans. A one percentage point change in assumed healthcare cost trend rates would have the following effect:
€ million € million
1% point 1% point
increase decrease
Effect on total of service and interest cost components 3(3)
Effect on total beneﬁt obligation 29 (26)
The expected rates of return on plan assets were determined, based on actuarial advice, by a process that takes the long-term rates of return
on government bonds available at the balance sheet date and applies to these rates suitable risk premiums that take account of historic market
returns and current market long-term expectations for each asset class.
For the most important pension plans, representing approximately 80% of all deﬁned beneﬁt plans by liabilities, the assumptions used at 
31 December 2007, 2006, 2005 and 2004 were:
United Kingdom Netherlands
Assumptions 2007 2006 2005 2004 2007 2006 2005 2004
Discount rate 5.8% 5.1% 4.7% 5.3% 5.5% 4.6% 4.0% 4.5%
Inﬂation 3.0% 2.9% 2.7% 2.8% 1.9% 1.9% 1.8% 1.8%
Rate of increase in salaries 4.5% 4.4% 4.2% 4.3% 2.4% 2.4% 2.3% 2.3%
Rate of increase for pensions in payment 3.0% 2.9% 2.7% 2.9% 1.9% 1.9% 1.8% 1.8%
Rate of increase for pensions in deferment 
(where provided) 3.0% 2.9% 2.7% 2.9% 1.9% 1.9% 1.8% 1.8%
Expected long-term rates of return:
Equities 8.0% 8.0% 7.6% 8.0% 8.1% 7.6% 7.0% 7.6%
Bonds 5.0% 5.2% 4.5% 5.0% 4.7% 4.4% 3.7% 4.1%
Property 6.5% 6.5% 6.1% 6.5% 6.6% 6.1% 5.5% 6.1%
Others 6.3% 7.2% 6.7% 7.2% 4.1% 4.0% 3.7% 3.5%
Weighted average asset return 7.2% 7.3% 6.9% 7.3% 6.8% 6.6% 6.0% 6.6%
United States Germany
2007 2006 2005 2004 2007 2006 2005 2004
Discount rate 5.9% 5.8% 5.5% 5.7% 5.5% 4.6% 4.0% 4.5%
Inﬂation 2.3% 2.5% 2.4% 2.5% 1.9% 1.9% 1.8% 1.8%
Rate of increase in salaries 4.0% 4.0% 4.0% 4.5% 2.8% 2.6% 2.5% 2.5%
Rate of increase for pensions in payment 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 1.9% 1.9% 1.8% 1.8%
Rate of increase for pensions in deferment 
(where provided) 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0%
Expected long-term rates of return:
Equities 7.8% 8.3% 8.0% 8.4% 8.1% 7.6% 7.0% 7.6%
Bonds 4.5% 5.2% 4.8% 4.7% 4.7% 4.4% 3.7% 4.1%
Property 6.3% 6.8% 6.5% 6.9% 6.6% 6.1% 5.5% 6.1%
Others 3.7% 4.8% 4.2% 2.1% 5.8% 3.0% 3.7% 3.7%
Weighted average asset return 6.8% 7.4% 7.0% 7.3% 6.5% 5.8% 5.3% 5.7%
Demographic assumptions, such as mortality rates, are set having regard to the latest trends in life expectancy (including expectations for future
improvements), plan experience and other relevant data. The assumptions are reviewed and updated as necessary as part of the periodic
actuarial valuation of the pension plans.
Mortality assumptions for the most important countries are based on the following post-retirement mortality tables: (i) United Kingdom: PNMA 00
and PNFA 00 with medium cohort adjustment subject to a minimum annual improvement of 1% and scaling factors of 110% for current male
pensioners, 125% for current female pensioners and 105% for future male and female pensioners; (ii) the Netherlands: GBMV (2000–2005) with
age set back of four years for males and two years for females; (iii) United States: RP2000 with a projection period of 10–15 years; and (iv)
Germany: Heubeck 1998 (Periodentafel) with a scaling factor of 85%.
These tables translate into the following years of life expectancy for current pensioners aged 65:
United United
Kingdom Netherlands States Germany
Males 21 20 19 18
Females 23 22 22 21
With regard to future improvements in life expectancy, in the UK for example, males and females currently aged 45 are assumed to have a life
expectancy of 24 years and 26 years respectively on retirement at age 65.
Assumptions for the remaining deﬁned beneﬁt plans vary considerably, depending on the economic conditions of the countries where they 
are situated. Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007 105
Financial statements continued
Notes to the consolidated accounts Unilever Group
20 Pensions and similar obligations (continued)
Balance sheet
The assets, liabilities and surplus/(deﬁcit) position of the pension and other post-employment beneﬁt plans and the expected rates of return on
the plan assets at the balance sheet date were:
€ million € million % € million € million % € million € million %
31 December 2007 31 December 2006 31 December 2005
Other post- Long-term Other post- Long-term Other post- Long-term
employment rates of employment rates of employment rates of
Pension beneﬁt return Pension beneﬁt return Pension beneﬁt return
plans plans expected plans plans expected plans plans expected
Assets of principal plans:
Equities 9 957 – 8.0% 10 274 – 7.8% 9 670 – 7.4%
Bonds 4 278 – 4.9% 3 946 – 4.9% 3 854 – 4.2%
Property 1 381 – 6.6% 1 421 – 6.3% 1 326 – 5.8%
Other 1 220 – 6.3% 1 221 – 6.3% 752 – 6.1%
Assets of other plans 404 13 7.5% 403 13 7.3% 387 17 6.9%
17 240 13 17 265 13 15 989 17
Present value of liabilities:
Principal plans (16 798) – (18 711) – (19 081) –
Other plans (748) (796) (722) (925) (1 059) (1 306)
(17 546) (796) (19 433) (925) (20 140) (1 306)
Aggregate net deﬁcit of the plans (306) (783) (2 168) (912) (4 151) (1 289)
Irrecoverable surplus
(a)
–– – – (141) –
Pension liability net of assets (306) (783) (2 168) (912) (4 292) (1 289)
Of which in respect of
Funded plans in surplus:
Liabilities (12 396) – (5 200) – (4 728) –
Assets 14 404 – 6 897 – 5 905 –
Aggregate surplus 2 008 – 1 697 – 1 177 –
Irrecoverable surplus
(a)
–– – – (141) –
Pension asset net of liabilities 2 008 – 1 697 – 1 036 –
Funded plans in deﬁcit:
Liabilities (3 627) (49) (11 716) (44) (12 444) (72)
Assets 2 836 13 10 368 13 10 084 17
Pension liability net of assets (791) (36) (1 348) (31) (2 360) (55)
Unfunded plans:
Pension liability (1 523) (747) (2 517) (881) (2 968) (1 234)
(a) A surplus is deemed recoverable to the extent that the Group is able to beneﬁt economically from the surplus.
The constituents of the ‘Principal plans’ and ‘Other plans’ were reviewed in both 2006 and 2007, such that some ‘Other plans’ were moved 
into ‘Principal plans’ in 2006 and a smaller number of plans were moved out of ‘Principal plans’ into ‘Other plans’ in 2007.
During 2007, a contractual trust arrangement was established in Germany to partially fund previously unfunded pension liabilities. The initial
funding was €300 million whilst the value of the previously unfunded liabilities at 1 January 2007 was approximately €850 million. As a
consequence of this funding, the liabilities have been transferred from unfunded to funded in the table above.
Equity securities include Unilever securities amounting to €32 million (0.2% of total plan assets) and €32 million (0.2% of total plan assets) 
at 31 December 2007 and 2006 respectively. Property includes property occupied by Unilever amounting to €69 million and €75 million at 
31 December 2007 and 2006 respectively.
The pension assets above exclude the assets in a Special Beneﬁts Trust amounting to €162 million (2006: €181 million) to fund pension and
similar obligations in the US (see also note 11 on page 90).
The sensitivity of the overall pension liabilities to changes in the weighted key ﬁnancial assumptions are: 
Impact on
Change in overall
assumption liabilities
Discount rate Increase/decrease by 0.5% Decrease/increase by 6.6%
Inﬂation rate Increase/decrease by 0.5% Increase/decrease by 5.3% 106 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Financial statements continued
Notes to the consolidated accounts Unilever Group
20 Pensions and similar obligations (continued)
Income statement
The charge to the income statement comprises:
€ million € million € million
2007 2006 2005
Charged to operating proﬁt:
Deﬁned beneﬁt pension and other beneﬁt plans
Current service cost (329) (369) (349)
Employee contributions 12 13 18
Special termination beneﬁts (59) (56) (73)
Past service cost 35 293 (12)
Settlements/curtailments 72 48 95
Deﬁned contribution plans (52) (61) (63)
Total operating cost (321) (132) (384)
Charged to other ﬁnance income/(cost):
Interest on retirement beneﬁts (1 013) (977) (984)
Expected return on assets 1 171 1 018 931
Total other ﬁnance income/(cost) 158 41 (53)
Net impact on the income statement (before tax) (163) (91) (437)
Signiﬁcant Items on the face of the income statement
During 2006 we updated certain terms of the deﬁned beneﬁt plan in the UK which resulted in a one-off credit to the income statement in
2006 of €120 million. During 2006 a number of initiatives were taken to reduce the cost of post employment healthcare beneﬁts, principally in
the United States, through changes to the design of the plans. As a consequence, a reduction in liability of €146 million was recognised in the
income statement for 2006. 
Cash ﬂow
Group cash ﬂow in respect of pensions and similar post employment beneﬁts comprises company contributions paid to funded plans and
beneﬁts paid by the company in respect of unfunded plans. In 2007, the beneﬁts paid in respect of unfunded plans amounted to €280 million
(2006: €333 million; 2005: €328 million). Company contributions to funded deﬁned beneﬁt plans are subject to periodic review, taking account
of local legislation. In 2007, contributions to funded deﬁned beneﬁt plans including funding of previously unfunded beneﬁts amounted to 
€878 million (2006: €758 million; 2005: €508 million). Contributions to deﬁned contribution plans including 401k plans amounted to 
€52 million (2006: €61 million; 2005: €63 million). In 2007, a €50 million refund of assets was received out of recognised surplus from Finland
(2005: €15 million from unrecognised surplus). Total contributions by the Group to funded plans, net of refunds, are currently expected to be
about €235 million in 2008 (2007 Actual: €878 million). In addition, we may make further contributions in 2008 to fund currently unfunded
obligations. Beneﬁt payments by the Group in respect of unfunded plans are currently expected to be about €243 million in 2008 (2007 Actual:
€280 million).
Statement of recognised income and expense
Amounts recognised in the statement of recognised income and expense:
€ million € million € million € million € million
Cumulative
since
1 January
2007 2006 2005 2004 2004
Actual return less expected return on pension and other beneﬁt plan assets (236) 533 1 592 369 2 258
Experience gains/(losses) arising on pension plan and other beneﬁt plan liabilities 103 51 27 (47) 134
Changes in assumptions underlying the present value of the pension and other 
beneﬁt plan liabilities 946 474 (1 706) (1 047) (1 333)
Actuarial gain/(loss) 813 1 058 (87) (725) 1 059
Change in unrecognised surplus – 142 (41) 2 103
Refund of unrecognised assets – –15 –15
Net actuarial gain/(loss) recognised in statement of recognised 
income and expense (before tax) 813 1 200 (113) (723) 1 177 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007 107
Financial statements continued
Notes to the consolidated accounts Unilever Group
20 Pensions and similar obligations (continued)
Reconciliation of change in assets and liabilities
Movements in assets and liabilities during the year:
€ million € million € million € million € million € million
Assets Assets Assets Liabilities Liabilities Liabilities
2007 2006 2005 2007 2006 2005
1 January 17 278 16 006 13 419 (20 358) (21 446) (18 773)
Acquisitions/disposals (3) (63) (3) 5 123 18
Current service cost – –– (329) (384) (367)
Employee contributions 12 14 19 – ––
Special termination beneﬁts – –– (59) (54) (79)
Past service costs(
b
) – –– 35 293 (13)
Settlements/curtailments (4) (17) (10) 76 76 105
Expected returns on plan assets 1 171 1 021 931 – ––
Interest on pension liabilities – –– (1 013) (982) (986)
Actuarial gain/(loss) (236) 533 1 592 1 049 525 (1 679)
Employer contributions 1 158 1 091 836 – ––
Beneﬁt payments (1 247) (1 267) (1 247) 1 247 1 267 1 247
Reclassiﬁcation of beneﬁts
(c)
(7) 38 39 7 (32) (140)
Currency retranslation (869) (78) 430 998 256 (779)
31 December 17 253 17 278 16 006 (18 342) (20 358) (21 446)
(b) The reduction in liabilities in 2006 includes the €266 million reported on the face of the income statement.
(c) Certain obligations have been reclassiﬁed as employee beneﬁt obligations.
Funded status of plans at the year end
€ million € million € million € million
2007 2006 2005 2004
Total assets 17 253 17 278 16 006 13 419
Total pension liabilities (18 342) (20 358) (21 446) (18 773)
Net liabilities (1 089) (3 080) (5 440) (5 354)
Less unrecognised surplus – – (141) (100)
Pension liabilities net of assets (1 089) (3 080) (5 581) (5 454)
History of experience gains and losses
€ million € million € million € million
2007 2006 2005 2004
Actual return less expected return on plan assets (236) 533 1 592 369
As % of plan assets at beginning of year (1.4)% 3.3% 11.9% 2.9%
Experience gains/(losses) on plan liabilities 103 51 27 (47)
As % of present value of plan liabilities at beginning of year 0.5% 0.2% 0.1% (0.3)%
Changes in actuarial assumptions underlying the present value of the 
pension beneﬁt and other beneﬁt plan liabilities 946 474 (1 706) (1 047)
As % of present value of plan liabilities at beginning of year 4.6% 2.2% (9.1)% (5.9)%
Total actuarial gain/(loss) 813 1 058 (87) (725)
As % of present value of plan liabilities at beginning of year 4.0% 4.9% (0.5)% (4.1)% 108 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Financial statements continued
Notes to the consolidated accounts Unilever Group
21 Equity
Shareholders’ equity T otal equity
€ million € million € million € million € million € million € million
Called up Share Total
share premium Other Retained shareholders’ Minority Total
Consolidated statement of changes in equity capital account reserves proﬁt equity interests equity
1 January 2005 512 158 (2 574) 8 054 6 150 365 6 515
Total recognised income and expense for the year – – 379 3 825 4 204 249 4 453
Dividends on ordinary capital – – – (1 867) (1 867) – (1 867)
Conversion of preference shares – – 1 129 (199) 930 – 930
(Purchase)/sale/reduction of treasury stock – – (1 262) – (1 262) – (1 262)
Share-based payment credit
(a)
– – – 186 186 – 186
Dividends paid to minority shareholders ––––– (217) (217)
Currency retranslation gains/(losses) net of tax – 4 – – 4 9 13
Other movements in equity – – – 16 16 (2) 14
31 December 2005 512 162 (2 328) 10 015 8 361 404 8 765
Total recognised income and expense for the year – – (263) 5 575 5 312 242 5 554
Dividends on ordinary capital – – – (2 684) (2 684) – (2 684)
(Purchase)/sale/reduction of treasury stock
(b)
– – 403 (285) 118 – 118
Share-based payment credit
(a)
– – – 111 111 – 111
Dividends paid to minority shareholders ––––– (184) (184)
Currency retranslation gains/(losses) net of tax (12) 3 14 – 5 (11) (6)
Other movements in equity (16) – 31 (8) 7 (9) (2)
31 December 2006 484 165 (2 143) 12 724 11 230 442 11 672
Total recognised income and expense for the year – – (314) 4 428 4 114 237 4 351
Dividends on ordinary capital – – – (2 070) (2 070) – (2 070)
(Purchase)/sale/reduction of treasury stock – – (955) (99) (1 054) – (1 054)
Share-based payment credit
(a)
– – – 140 140 – 140
Dividends paid to minority shareholders ––––– (251) (251)
Currency retranslation gains/(losses) net of tax – (12) – – (12) (6) (18)
Other movements in equity – – – 39 39 10 49
31 December 2007 484 153 (3 412) 15 162 12 387 432 12 819
(a) The share-based payment credit relates to the reversal of the non-cash charge recorded against operating proﬁt in respect of the fair value
of share options and awards granted to employees.
(b) Includes transfer from treasury stock to retained proﬁt of share settled schemes arising from prior years and differences between exercise
and grant price of share options. Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007 109
Financial statements continued
Notes to the consolidated accounts Unilever Group
22 Share capital
€ million € million
Called up share capital 2007 2006
Ordinary share capital of NV 274 274
Ordinary share capital of PLC 210 210
484 484
Issued, Issued,
Number Nominal Number called up and called up and
of shares Authorised Authorised value of shares fully paid fully paid
Ordinary share capital authorised 2007 2006 per share issued 2007 2006
€ million € million € million € million
NV ordinary shares 3 000 000 000 480 480 €0.16 1 714 727 700 274 274
NV ordinary shares (shares numbered 
1 to 2 400 – ’Special Shares’) 1 1 €428.57 2 400 1 1
Internal holdings eliminated
on consolidation (€428.57 shares) – – (1) (1)
481 481 274 274
£ million £ million £ million £ million
PLC ordinary shares 4 377 075 492 136.2 136.2 3
1
⁄9p 1 310 156 361 40.8 40.8
PLC deferred stock 100 000 0.1 0.1 £1 stock 100 000 0.1 0.1
Internal holding eliminated
on consolidation (£1 stock) – – (0.1) (0.1)
136.3 136.3 40.8 40.8
Euro equivalent in millions (at £1.00 = €5.143) 210 210
For information on the rights of shareholders of NV and PLC and the operation of the Equalisation Agreement, see Corporate governance on
pages 40 and 41.
At the Annual General Meetings of NV and PLC held on 8 May and 9 May 2006 respectively, shareholders approved proposals that the NV
ordinary shares be split in the ratio 3 to 1 and that the PLC ordinary shares be consolidated in the ratio 9 to 20. At the same time, amendments
were made to NV’s Articles of Association to convert into euros the share capital amounts previously denominated in Dutch guilders. Following
these changes, which became effective on 22 May 2006, the nominal value of each NV ordinary share is €0.16 and the nominal value of each
PLC ordinary share is 3
1
⁄9p. A nominal dividend of 6% is paid on the deferred stock of PLC, which is not redeemable.
Internal holdings
The ordinary shares numbered 1 to 2 400 (inclusive) in NV (‘Special Shares’) and deferred stock of PLC are held as to one half of each class by
N.V. Elma – a subsidiary of NV – and one half by United Holdings Limited – a subsidiary of PLC. This capital is eliminated on consolidation. For
information on the rights related to the aforementioned ordinary shares, see Corporate Governance on pages 39 and 40. The subsidiaries
mentioned above have waived their rights to dividends on their ordinary shares in NV.
Share-based compensation
The Group operates a number of share-based compensation plans involving options and awards of ordinary shares of NV and PLC. Full details
of these plans are given in note 29 on pages 117 to 119. 110 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Financial statements continued
Notes to the consolidated accounts Unilever Group
23 Other reserves 
€ million € million € million € million € million € million € million € million € million
NV NV NV PLC PLC PLC T otal Total Total
2007 2006 2005 2007 2006 2005 2007 2006 2005
Fair value reserves 92 9 (3) 9 7 (2) 101 16 (5)
Cash ﬂow hedges 86 4(3) (1) (3) (2) 85 1(5)
Available-for-sale ﬁnancial assets 6 5– 10 10 – 16 15 –
Currency retranslation of group companies 104 318 548 (204) (19) 35 (100) 299 583
Adjustment on translation of PLC’s ordinary
capital at 3
1
⁄ 9p = €0.16 – –– (155) (150) (164) (155) (150) (164)
Capital redemption reserve 16 16 – 16 16 16 32 32 16
Book value treasury stock (2 741) (1 623) (2 010) (549) (717) (748) (3 290) (2 340) (2 758)
(2 529) (1 280) (1 465) (883) (863) (863) (3 412) (2 143) (2 328)
€ million € million
Cash ﬂow hedges – movements during the year 2007 2006
1 January 1 (5)
Additions 74 12
Transfers to income statement: 1 (4)
Operating proﬁt 1 (2)
Financing – (2)
Transfers to inventories/non-current assets 9 (2)
31 December 85 1
Unilever acquired 68 891 470 ordinary shares of NV and 2 461 202 ordinary shares of PLC through purchases on the stock exchanges during 
the year. These shares are held as treasury stock as a separate component of other reserves. The total number held at 31 December 2007 is
122 296 247 (2006: 70 319 259) NV shares and 49 529 738 (2006: 64 656 456) PLC shares. Of these, 40 958 255 NV shares and 37 973 522
PLC shares were held in connection with share-based compensation plans (see note 29 on pages 117 to 119).
€ million € million
Treasury stock – movements during the year 2007 2006
1 January (2 340) (2 758)
Purchases and other utilisations (950) 418
31 December (3 290) (2 340)
€ million € million
Currency retranslation reserve – movements during the year 2007 2006
1 January 299 583
Currency retranslation during the year 294 495
Movement in net investment hedges (692) (779)
Recycled to income statement (1) –
31 December (100) 299 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007 111
Financial statements continued
Notes to the consolidated accounts Unilever Group
24 Retained proﬁt
€ million € million € million € million € million € million € million € million € million
NV NV NV PLC PLC PLC T otal Total Total
Movements during the year 2007 2006 2005 2007 2006 2005 2007 2006 2005
1 January 8 404 8 721 6 831 4 320 1 294 1 223 12 724 10 015 8 054
Recognised income and expense through
retained proﬁt 2 599 3 727 3 092 1 829 1 848 733 4 428 5 575 3 825
Dividends on ordinary capital (1 167) (1 529) (1 073) (903) (1 155) (794) (2 070) (2 684) (1 867)
Conversion of preference shares – – (199) – –– – – (199)
Utilisation of treasury stock (53) (217) – (46) (68) – (99) (285) –
Share-based compensation credit
(a)
90 70 132 50 41 54 140 111 186
Adjustment arising from change in structure 
of group companies
(b)
499 (2 368) (70) (499) 2 368 70 – ––
Other movements in retained proﬁt 31 –8 8 (8) 8 39 (8) 16
31 December 10 403 8 404 8 721 4 759 4 320 1 294 15 162 12 724 10 015
Of which retained by:
Parent companies 10 009 9 755 9 463 2 344 2 306 2 145 12 353 12 061 11 608
Other group companies 345 (1 294) (668) 2 555 2 006 (837) 2 900 712 (1 505)
Joint ventures and associates 49 (57) (74) (140) 8 (14) (91) (49) (88)
10 403 8 404 8 721 4 759 4 320 1 294 15 162 12 724 10 015
(a) The share-based compensation credit relates to the reversal of the non-cash charge recorded against operating proﬁt in respect of the fair
value of share options and awards granted to employees.
(b) As part of the review of Unilever's corporate structure, and in the light of the constitutional and operational arrangements which enable
Unilever N.V. and Unilever PLC to operate as nearly as practicable as a single company, the Directors have been authorised to take any
action necessary or desirable in order to ensure that the ratio of the dividend generating capacity of PLC to that of NV does not differ
substantially from the ratio of the dividend entitlement of ordinary shareholders in PLC to that of ordinary shareholders in NV. During 2007,
Unilever’s shareholding in Unilever Jerónimo Martins in Portugal was transferred from NV to PLC for no consideration. In addition, a part 
of indirect shareholdings in Unilever US was sold by NV to PLC and the fair value economic swap in South Africa led to further adjustments
between NV and PLC. In 2006, shareholdings in the Unilever companies in Czech Republic, Hungary, Russia and Turkey, as well as a part 
of indirect shareholdings in Unilever US, were transferred from NV to PLC for no consideration. In addition, part of a dividend which would
otherwise be due from a Unilever US intermediate company to a company within the NV part of the Group was instead paid to a company
within the PLC part of the Group. Re-organisations of group companies have produced similar types of adjustments in previous years.
Cumulative goodwill written off directly to reserves prior to the transition to IFRS on 1 January 2004 was €5 199 million for NV and 
€2 063 million for PLC.  112 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Financial statements continued
Notes to the consolidated accounts Unilever Group
25 Commitments and contingent liabilities
€ million € million € million € million € million € million
Future Future
minimum minimum
lease Finance Present lease Finance Present
payments cost value payments cost value
Long-term ﬁnance lease commitments 2007 2007 2007 2006 2006 2006
Buildings
(a)
410 198 212 137 94 43
Plant and machinery 110 11 99 159 15 144
520 209 311 296 109 187
The commitments fall due as follows:
Within 1 year 82 17 65 71 10 61
Later than 1 year but not later than 5 years 125 59 66 117 25 92
Later than 5 years 313 133 180 108 74 34
520 209 311 296 109 187
(a) All leased land is classiﬁed as operating leases.
€ million € million
Long-term operating lease commitments 2007 2006
Land and buildings 1 328 1 257
Plant and machinery 335 360
1 663 1 617
€ million € million € million € million
Other Other
Operating Operating commit- commit-
leases leases ments ments
Operating lease and other commitments fall due as follows 2007 2006 2007 2006
Within 1 year 363 342 646 471
Later than 1 year but not later than 5 years 859 875 955 781
Later than 5 years 441 400 152 528
1 663 1 617 1 753 1 780
The Group has sublet part of the leased properties under operating leases. Future minimum sublease payments are not signiﬁcant.
Other commitments principally comprise commitments under contracts to purchase materials and services. They do not include commitments
for capital expenditure, which are reported in note 10 on page 88.
The estimated total of our contingent liabilities at 31 December 2007 was €430 million (2006: €439 million). The principal components of the
contingent liabilities relate to legal proceedings, obligations arising under environmental legislation. Guarantees issued by group companies at
31 December 2007 amounted to some €81 million (2006: €105 million), Included in this are discounted trade bills with value of €4 million
(2006: €23 million). No individual contingent liability is signiﬁcant. The fair value of guarantees is not material in either 2007 or 2006.
We are not involved in any legal or arbitration proceedings which might lead to material loss or expenditure in the context of the Group results.
Similarly we do not have any material obligations under environmental legislation. None of our Directors or Ofﬁcers is involved in any legal
proceedings which are material as aforesaid. Nonetheless, we give further information on pages 10 and 11 about certain current legal
proceedings. Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007 113
Financial statements continued
Notes to the consolidated accounts Unilever Group
26 Acquisitions and disposals
2007
During 2007 we purchased minority interests in subsidiary companies in Greece and India. We invested in a new venture fund, Physic Ventures,
which is accounted for as an associate, and made additional investments in two other venture companies, Spa and Salon International Limited
and Langholm Capital, both of which are accounted for as associates.
With effect from 1 October 2007, Unilever and Remgro Ltd. reached agreement to reorganise their respective shareholdings in the Unilever
businesses in South Africa and Israel. In the reorganised shareholding Unilever has a majority share in a single South African business and fully
owns the Unilever Israel foods and home and personal care business. As a result of this transaction, Unilever has reported a proﬁt on disposal of
€214 million and goodwill of €168 million. 
On 1 January 2007, Unilever completed the restructuring of its Portuguese businesses. The result of the reorganisation is that Unilever now has
a 55% share of the combined Portuguese entity, called Unilever Jerónimo Martins. The combined business includes the foods and home and
personal care businesses. The remaining 45% interest is held by Jerónimo Martins Group. The structure of the agreement is such that there is
joint control of the newly formed entity and so it is accounted for by Unilever as a joint venture.
Other disposals in 2007 included the sale of local Brazilian margarine brands. In addition, to further develop our healthy heart brand margarine,
Becel, in Brazil we have established a joint venture with Perdigão. During 2007, we have also announced the disposal of Boursin to Le Groupe
Bel for €400 million, and the disposal of Lawry’s and Adolph’s seasoning blends and marinades business to McCormick and Company for 
US $605 million. Both will be effective during 2008. See note 33 on page 121 for further details. Furthermore, we announced plans to dispose
of our North American laundry business, the process for which is ongoing.
2006
During 2006 we purchased minority interests in subsidiary companies in Greece and Algeria, trademarks in Czech Republic, distribution in
Tunisia and Vashisti business in India. Also an additional investment into Langholm Capital Partners Fund was made and classiﬁed as an
acquisition of associates (see note 11 on page 90).
On 3 November 2006, Unilever announced that it had reached a ﬁnal agreement with Permira Funds to sell the majority of its European frozen
foods business for €1.7 billion. The Unilever businesses being sold in this transaction include the frozen foods operations in Austria, Belgium,
France, Germany, Ireland, Netherlands, Portugal and the United Kingdom.
Other disposals in 2006 were Mora in the Netherlands and Belgium, Finesse in the US, Canada and Sweden, Friol in Italy and Nihar and
tea plantations in India.
2005
The principal disposals in 2005 were Unilever Cosmetics International across the world, Stanton Oil in the UK and Ireland, Dextro in various
countries in Europe, Opal in Peru, Karo and Knax in Mexico, spreads and cooking products in Australia and New Zealand, Crispa, Mentadent,
Marmite, Bovril and Maizena in South Africa, frozen pizza in Austria, Biopon in Hungary and tea plantations in India. 
In March 2005 Unilever restructured its Portuguese foods business. Before the restructuring Unilever Portugal held an interest in FIMA/VG –
Distribuição de Produtos Alimentares, Lda. (FIMA) foods business, a joint venture with Jerónimo Martins Group, in addition to its wholly owned
Bestfoods business acquired in 2000. As a result of the transaction the two foods businesses – FIMA and Unilever Bestfoods Portugal – were
uniﬁed and the joint venture stakes were re-balanced so that Unilever holds 49% of the combined foods business and Jerónimo Martins Group
51%. During 2006, Unilever signed an agreement with Jerónimo Martins to restructure the ownership of the Portuguese operations effective 1
January 2007.
€ million € million € million
Disposals 2007 2006 2005
Goodwill and intangible assets 5 1150
Other non-current assets 44 242 78
Current assets 117 354 207
Trade creditors and other payables (48) (157) (106)
Provisions for liabilities and charges (34) (91) (15)
Minority interest 71 –(1)
Net assets sold 155 349 313
(Gain)/loss on recycling of currency retranslation on disposal (1) –(5)
Proﬁt on sale attributable to Unilever 399 1 528 655
Consideration
(a)
553 1 877 963
Cash 168 1 870 845
Cash balances of businesses sold (4) – (17)
Financial assets, cash deposits and ﬁnancial liabilities of businesses sold 113 (5) 8
Non-cash items and deferred consideration
(a)
276 12 26
Payment received in prior year – –101
(a) For 2007, includes €214 million fair value economic swap in South Africa.
The results of disposed businesses are included in the consolidated accounts up to their date of disposal. 114 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Financial statements continued
Notes to the consolidated accounts Unilever Group
26 Acquisitions and disposals (continued)
The following table sets out the effect of acquisitions in 2007, 2006 and 2005 on the consolidated balance sheet. The fair values currently
established for all acquisitions made in 2007 are provisional. The goodwill arising on these transactions has been capitalised and is subject to an
annual review for impairment (or more frequently if necessary) in accordance with our accounting policies as set out in note 1 on page 72. Any
impairment is charged to the income statement as it arises. Detailed information relating to goodwill is given in note 9 on pages 86 and 87.
€ million € million € million
Acquisitions 2007 2006 2005
Net assets acquired 94 42 7
Goodwill arising in subsidiaries 334 60 13
Consideration 428 102 20
Consideration consisted of €214 million cash, principally relating to acquisitions of minority interest, and €214 million fair value economic swap in
South Africa.
27 Assets held for sale and discontinued operations
Included under this heading are the results of the majority of Unilever’s European frozen foods businesses following the sale to Permira Funds in
November 2006 and Unilever Cosmetics International (UCI) following the sale of this business to Coty Inc. in July 2005.
An analysis of the result of discontinued operations, and the result recognised on disposal of discontinued operations is as follows:
€ million € million € million
Income statement of discontinued operations 2007 2006 2005
Turnover – 1 033 1 501
Expenses – (863) (1 253)
Operating proﬁt – 170 248
Net ﬁnance costs – (3) (6)
Proﬁt before tax – 167 242
Taxation – (25) (72)
Proﬁt after taxation – 142 170
Gain/(loss) on disposal of discontinued operations
(a)
89 1 349 513
Recycling of currency retranslation upon disposal – –5
Taxation arising on disposal (9) (161) (48)
Gain/(loss) after taxation on disposal 80 1 188 470
Net proﬁt from discontinued operations 80 1 330 640
(a) In 2007, a one-off gain of €50 million was recognised for future performance based consideration from the sale of UCI.
€ million € million € million
Segment analysis of discontinued operations 2007 2006 2005
Turnover
Europe – 1 033 1 397
The Americas – –102
Asia Africa – –2
– 1 033 1 501
Foods – 1 033 1 271
Personal care – –230
– 1 033 1 501
Operating proﬁt
Europe – 170 227
The Americas – –20
Asia Africa – –1
– 170 248
Foods – 164 226
Personal care – 622
– 170 248 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007 115
Financial statements continued
27 Assets held for sale and discontinued operations (continued)
€ million € million € million
Summary cash ﬂow statement of discontinued operations 2007 2006 2005
Net cash ﬂow from/(used in) operating activities (4) 79 62
Net cash ﬂow from/(used in) investing activities 80 1 618 621
Net cash ﬂow from/(used in) ﬁnancing activities – (1) (4)
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 76 1 696 679
The most signiﬁcant items included as assets held for sale at 31 December 2007 are:
• North American laundry business – disposal process announced 2 August 2007 for completion in 2008.
• Boursin business – sale to Le Groupe Bel for €400 million announced on 5 November 2007, completed 3 January 2008.
• Lawry’s and Adolph’s branded seasoning blends and marinades business in the US and Canada – sale to McCormick & Company for
US $605 million announced on 14 November 2007, for completion in 2008.
In 2006, various non-current assets were classiﬁed as held for sale.
€ million € million
Assets classiﬁed as held for sale 2007 2006
Disposal groups held for sale
Property, plant and equipment 66 –
Inventories 83 –
Trade and other receivables 4 –
153 –
Non-current assets held for sale
Property, plant and equipment 6 14
6 14
€ million € million
Liabilities classiﬁed as held for sale (part of disposal groups) 2007 2006
Trade payables and other liabilities (10) –
Deferred taxation (3) –
(13) –
Total assets at 31 December 2007 are included in the geographical segments as follows: Europe €31 million; The Americas €127 million; 
and Asia Africa €1 million.
Notes to the consolidated accounts Unilever Group 28 Reconciliation of net proﬁt to cash ﬂow from operating activities
€ million € million € million
Cash ﬂow from operating activities 2007 2006 2005
Net proﬁt 4 136 5 015 3 975
Taxation 1 137 1 332 1 301
Share of net proﬁt of joint ventures/associates and other income from non-current investments (191) (144) (55)
Net ﬁnance costs: 252 725 618
Finance income (147) (138) (130)
Finance cost 550 602 693
Preference shares provision 7 300 –
Pensions and similar obligations (158) (39) 55
Operating proﬁt (continuing and discontinued operations) 5 334 6 928 5 839
Depreciation, amortisation and impairment 943 982 1 274
Changes in working capital: 27 87 193
Inventories (333) (156) (153)
Trade and other current receivables (43) (172) (36)
Trade payables and other current liabilities 403 415 382
Pensions and similar provisions less payments (910) (1 038) (532)
Provisions less payments 145 107 (230)
Elimination of (proﬁts)/losses on disposals (459) (1 620) (789)
Non-cash charge for share-based compensation 118 120 192
Other adjustments (10) 8 (23)
Cash ﬂow from operating activities 5 188 5 574 5 924
The cash ﬂows of pension funds (other than contributions and other direct payments made by the Group in respect of pensions and similar
obligations) are not included in the Group cash ﬂow statement.
Major non-cash transactions
During 2006 the Group took a provision of €300 million for possible compensation payments relating to the 2005 conversion of 
preference shares, issued by Unilever N.V. in 1999. See note 19 on page 102 for further details.
During 2007 the Group entered into new ﬁnance lease arrangements in respect of equipment with a capital value at inception of the lease of
€51 million (2006: €51 million). In addition a lease for €181 million related to the sale and leaseback transaction carried out for the head ofﬁce 
building in UK was signed during 2007.
On 15 February 2005 €1 129 million of treasury stock was used in the conversion of the €0.05 preference shares into ordinary NV shares.
Notes to the consolidated accounts Unilever Group
116 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Financial statements continued Notes to the consolidated accounts Unilever Group
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007 117
Financial statements continued
29 Share-based compensation plans
As at 31 December 2007, the Group had share-based compensation plans in the form of Share Option Plans, Performance Share Plans, and
Other Plans.
The numbers in this note include those for Executive Directors shown in the report of the Remuneration Committee on pages 49 to 61 
and those for key management personnel shown in note 31 on page 120. No awards were made to Executive Directors in 2005, 2006 
and 2007 under the North America Performance Share Programme, the Restricted Share Plan or the cash-settled share-based retention plan.
Non-Executive Directors do not participate in any of the share-based compensation plans.
The economic fair value of the awards is calculated using option pricing models and the resulting cost is recognised as remuneration cost
amortised over the vesting period of the grant.
Disclosures, including a description of the method and signiﬁcant assumptions used to estimate the fair values of options and the weighted
average information, are given below for each type of plan, for NV, PLC and New York shares on a combined basis.
Unilever will not grant share options in total in respect of Executive Option Plans for more than 5% of its issued ordinary capital, and for all
Plans together, for more than 10% of its issued ordinary capital. The Board does not apportion these limits to each plan separately.
The actual remuneration cost charged in each period is shown below, and relates almost wholly to equity settled plans:
€ million € million € million
Income statement charge 2007 2006 2005
Share option plans (16) (41) (76)
Performance share plans (103) (48) (78)
Other plans
(a)
(33) (31) (38)
(152) (120) (192)
(a) The Group also provides a Share Matching Plan, a Restricted Share Plan, TSR-LTIP (no awards after 2006) and a cash-settled share-based
retention plan.
(i) Share Option Plans
Unilever has All-Employee Share Option Plans in 15 countries: Austria, Belgium, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Ireland, Italy,
the Netherlands, Portugal, Spain, Sweden and Switzerland, and with a share save element in South Africa and the United Kingdom. Generally
the vesting periods range between three and ﬁve years and the maximum term is ﬁve years.
Under the Executive Option Plans options are granted to key employees of the Group on a discretionary basis. The exercise price is the market
price at the date of grant. The options become exercisable after a three-year period from the date of grant and have a maximum term of ten
years. In view of the introduction of the Global Performance Share Plan in 2005, no further grants were made under the Executive Option Plans
after 2005. The plans consist of the NV, the PLC Plans and the North America Programme which is covered by the Unilever North America 2002
Omnibus Equity Compensation Plan. 
The fair value per option is estimated using the Black-Scholes option pricing method. The expected option terms are based on historic data.
Figures for expected volatility are set with regard to historic volatility over the last six years. The expected dividend yield is based on the dividend
yield in the year of grant. Forfeiture rates are set annually with regard to historic forfeiture rates.
Managers working in India can participate in an Executive Option Plan relating to Hindustan Unilever Limited’s shares. As these are neither NV
nor PLC shares, no ﬁgures for this plan are disclosed in this note, but the fair value costs for 2007 were €1 million (2006: €1 million; 2005: 
€2 million) and are included in the costs of share option plans in the table above.
A summary of the status of the All-Employee and Executive Option Plans as at 31 December 2007, 2006 and 2005 and changes during the
years ended on these dates is presented below:
2007 2006 2005
Weighted Weighted Weighted
average average average
Number of exercise Number of exercise Number of exercise
options price options price options price
Outstanding at 1 January 96 296 565 €17.58 114 772 471 €18.33 128 972 689 €18.28
Granted 2 626 506 €22.10 4 356 278 €17.65 5 878 792 €17.53
Exercised (33 535 234) €17.53 (14 380 347) €16.87 (9 464 155) €15.42
Forfeited (3 877 793) €18.75 (5 171 316) €19.57 (9 045 452) €19.13
Expired (2 815 087) €22.01 (3 280 521) €21.22 (1 569 403) €17.93
Outstanding at 31 December 58 694 957 €17.53 96 296 565 €18.35 114 772 471 €18.42
Exercisable at 31 December 47 975 809 €17.35 71 189 331 €18.57 66 586 233 €18.65
The weighted average market price of the shares at the time of exercise was €23.02 (2006: €19.68; 2005: €18.66). Notes to the consolidated accounts Unilever Group
118 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Financial statements continued
29 Share-based compensation plans (continued)
2007 2006 2005
Option value information
Fair value per option €4.33 €3.10 €3.12
Valuation assumptions:
Expected option term 3.5 years 3.5 years 3.9 years
Expected volatility 27.5% 27.5% 27.5%
Expected dividend yield 3.2% 3.8% 3.6%
Risk-free interest rate 4.6% 3.8% 3.1%
The exercise prices and remaining life of the All-Employee and Executive Option Plans as at 31 December 2007 are as follows:
Options outstanding Options exercisable
Number Weighted
Range of outstanding at average remaining Weighted average Number exercisable at Weighted average
exercise prices 31 December 2007 contractual life exercise price 31 December 2007 exercise price
€8.41 – €11.70 1 681 642 3 years €10.98 1 681 642 €10.98
€12.40 – €16.97 18 327 615 4 years €14.87 15 633 936 €14.65
€17.00 – €24.66 38 685 700 4 years €19.07 30 660 231 €19.07
(ii) Performance Share Plans
The Global Performance Share Plan (GPSP) was introduced in 2005. Under this plan, managers can be awarded conditional shares which will vest
three years later at a level between 0% and 150% (for middle management) or 200% (for higher executives) depending on Unilever’s achievement
of set targets for Underlying Sales Growth and Ungeared Free Cash Flow over the three-year performance period. The amount to be paid by
participants to obtain the shares at vesting is zero.
In 2007 we introduced the Leadership Performance Share Plan (LPSP) under the Global Share Incentive Plan (GSIP) rules. The structure of this Plan is
comparable to the GPSP but the Plan has an additional third performance condition which is based on TSR ranking over the three year period.
North American managers participate in the North American Performance Share Programme, introduced in 2001, that awards Unilever shares if
North American company performance targets are met over a three-year period. The amount to be paid to the company by participants to obtain
the shares at vesting is zero.
A summary of the status of the Performance Share Plans as at 31 December 2007, 2006 and 2005 and changes during the years ended on these
dates is presented below:
2007 2006 2005
Number of Number of Number of
shares shares shares
Outstanding at 1 January 15 270 180 13 286 992 10 749 007
Awarded 6 209 781 6 162 489 6 514 252
Vested (3 465 990) (3 057 630) (3 510 939)
Forfeited (1 170 202) (1 121 671) (465 328)
Outstanding at 31 December 16 843 769 15 270 180 13 286 992
Exercisable at 31 December – ––
2007 2006 2005
Share award value information
Fair value per share award €19.06 €17.22 €17.26 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007 119
Financial statements continued
Notes to the consolidated accounts Unilever Group
29 Share-based compensation plans (continued)
Additional information
As a result of the share-based compensation plans for employees, we are exposed to movements in our own share price. We take a ﬂexible
approach to the buying of shares to meet these obligations, not automatically buying shares at grant. In 2001, we entered into a contract with
a bank for the forward purchase of Unilever shares. This contract was terminated in March 2006.
At 31 December 2007, there were options outstanding to purchase 61 579 485 (2006: 88 937 770) ordinary shares in NV or PLC in respect 
of share-based compensation plans of NV and its subsidiaries and the North American plans, and 18 296 234 (2006: 29 315 519) ordinary
shares in NV or PLC in respect of share-based compensation plans of PLC and its subsidiaries.
To satisfy the options granted, certain NV group companies hold 68 011 392 (2006: 91 935 752) ordinary shares of NV or PLC, and trusts in
Jersey and the United Kingdom hold 10 920 385 (2006: 16 678 871) PLC shares. The trustees of these trusts have agreed, until further notice,
to waive dividends on these shares, save for the nominal sum of 0.01p per 3
1
⁄9p ordinary share. Shares acquired during 2007 represent 0.2% 
of the Group’s called up capital. The balance at 31 December 2007 was 2.6% (2006: 3.6%).
The book value of €1 305 million (2006: €1 836 million) of all shares held in respect of share-based compensation plans for both NV and PLC 
is eliminated on consolidation by deduction from other reserves (see note 23 on page 110). Their market value at 31 December 2007 was 
€2 008 million (2006: €2 279 million).
At 31 December 2007 the exercise price of nil (2006: 14 989 001) NV and PLC options were above the market price of the shares.
Shares held to satisfy options are accounted for in accordance with IAS 32 and SIC12. All differences between the purchase price of the shares
held to satisfy options granted and the proceeds received for the shares, whether on exercise or lapse, are charged to reserves. In 2007 this
includes €nil million (2006: €7 million) for shares held to meet options expiring in the short term which are priced above market value. The basis
of the charge to operating proﬁt for the economic value of options granted is discussed on page 117.
Obligations over the following number of shares were granted, exercised, forfeited or expired between 31 December 2007 and 1 March 2008.
Number of shares
Exercised,
Granted forfeited or expired
Share Option Plans – 2 104 963
Performance Share Plans – 118 881 Notes to the consolidated accounts Unilever Group
120 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Financial statements continued
30 Related party transactions
The following related party balances existed with associate or joint venture businesses at 31 December:
€ million € million
Related party balances 2007 2006
Trading and other balances due (to)/from joint ventures 157 93
Trading balances due (to)/from associates (21) (14)
Joint ventures
As discussed in note 26 on page 113, Unilever completed the restructuring of its Portuguese business as at 1 January 2007. Balances owed
by/(to) FIMA and PLI at 31 December 2007 were €258 million and €(101) million (2006: €91 million and €2 million) respectively.
Associates
Following the sale of DiverseyLever, our institutional and industrial cleaning business, to Johnson Professional Holdings Inc. in 2002, Unilever has
a one-third equity stake in the combined JohnsonDiversey business, with an option to exit the business from 2007. This option had a fair value
of zero at 31 December 2007 and 31 December 2006. At 31 December 2007 the outstanding balance payable to JohnsonDiversey Holdings
Inc. was €21 million (2006: €14 million). Sales agency fees to JohnsonDiversey were incurred of approximately €67 million in 2007 
(2006: €68 million; 2005: €76 million).
Langholm Capital Partners invests in private European companies with above-average longer-term growth prospects. It has invested in: Lumene
OY, a Finnish personal care business specialising in natural personal care for fair skins in harsh climates; Dorset Cereals, a UK manufacturer of
cereal products aimed at the healthy eating and luxury niche of the cereals market; Just Retirement, a specialist ﬁnancial services company
based in the UK, providing customised retirement solution for those in and approaching retirement, and Elvi, a UK retailer of plus-size women’s
clothing. During 2007 Langholm placed 30 million shares of the Langholm Fund’s remaining shares in Just Retirement. As a result of sale of
shares, Langholm returned €47 million to Unilever. Langholm remains a majority shareholder of Just Retirement. To build business opportunities
that ﬁt our core business interests in Foods and Home and Personal Care, we have committed €97 million to Langholm Capital Partners on a
total of €242 million funds raised. At 31 December 2007, the outstanding balance with Langholm Capital Partners was €36 million 
(2006: €45 million).
Other related parties
In September 2006 Harish Manwani, President Asia Africa and a member of the Unilever Executive Team, and his wife purchased an apartment
from Hindustan Lever Limited (now Hindustan Unilever Limited), a group company ultimately owned by PLC, for Rs.118 million (€2 042 255).
The purchase was made at full market value via an open bidding/tendering process managed by independent property consultants.
31 Key management personnel
Key management personnel are deﬁned as the members of UEx together with the Non-Executive Directors.
€ million € million € million
Key management compensation 2007 2006 2005
Salaries and short-term employee beneﬁts (19) (14) (13)
Non-Executive Directors’ fees (2) (1) (1)
Post-employment beneﬁts (2) (3) (4)
Other long-term beneﬁts (all share-based) (2) (2) (1)
Termination payments – –(1)
(25) (20) (20)
Of which:
Executive Directors (12) (11) (16)
Non-Executive Directors (2) (1) (1)
Other (11) (8) (3)
(25) (20) (20)
Details of the remuneration of Directors are given in the auditable part of the report of the Remuneration Committee as deﬁned on page 49.
See also note 30 above for information on related party transactions. 32 Remuneration of auditors
€ million € million € million
2007 2006 2005
Fees payable to PricewaterhouseCoopers
(a)
for the audit 
of the annual accounts of Unilever N.V. and Unilever PLC (5) (6) (4)
Fees payable to PricewaterhouseCoopers
(b)
for the audit of accounts of 
subsidiaries of Unilever N.V. and Unilever PLC pursuant to the legislation (17) (20) (11)
Total statutory audit fees
(c)
(22) (26) (15)
Other services supplied pursuant to such legislation
(d)
(1) (1) (2)
Other services relevant to taxation (2) (2) (3)
Services relating to corporate ﬁnance transactions
(e)
(1) (2) (1)
All other services
(f)
(1) (1) (2)
(a) Of which:
€1 million was paid to PricewaterhouseCoopers Accountants N.V. (2006: €1 million; 2005: €1 million); and
€4 million was paid to PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (2006: €5 million; 2005: €3 million).
(b) Comprises fees paid to the network of separate and independent member ﬁrms of PricewaterhouseCoopers International Limited for audit
work on statutory ﬁnancial statements and group reporting returns of subsidiary companies.
(c) In addition, €1 million of statutory audit fees were payable to PricewaterhouseCoopers in respect of services supplied to associated pension
schemes (2006: €1 million; 2005: €1 million).
(d) Comprises other audit services, including audit and similar work that regulations or agreements with third parties require the auditors to
undertake and other circulars and regulatory reports.
(e) Comprises work in respect of acquisitions and disposals.
(f) Comprises other services, including risk management assurance and advisory work and training, that are compatible with
PricewaterhouseCoopers' audit work.
33 Events after the balance sheet date
Effective 1 January 2008, Unilever and PepsiCo have entered into an expanded international partnership for the marketing and distribution on
ready-to-drink tea products under the Lipton brand. The new agreement adds 11 counties to the partnership’s existing Lipton ready-to drink tea
business – eight in Europe (Germany, Italy, France, Netherlands, Switzerland, Austria, Belgium and Portugal) as well as Korea, Taiwan and South
Africa.
On 5 November 2007, Unilever announced the disposal of Boursin to Le Groupe Bel for €400 million. The sale was effective on 3 January 2008.
On 4 February 2008, we announced that we had reached an agreement to acquire the leading Russian ice cream business Inmarko, for an
undisclosed amount. The deal is subject to regulatory approval and is expected to be completed in the ﬁrst half of 2008.
On 11 February 2008, Unilever announced a share buy-back programme for at least €1.5 billion for 2008.
On 21 February 2008, Unilever launched a bond composed of two tranches; i) CHF 250 million ﬁxed rate bond which will mature in four
years, and ii) CHF 350 million ﬁxed rate bond which will mature in seven years. Completion is expected in late March 2008.
On 28 February 2008 Unilever announced a number of changes affecting its organisation. As a further extension of the One Unilever
programme, Foods and Home and Personal Care will be combined into a single category structure. To reﬂect our strategic focus on growth in
developing markets, operations in Central and Eastern Europe will be managed as part of an enlarged region comprising Asia, Africa and
Central and Eastern Europe, with Western Europe becoming a separate region.
A number of Board and senior executive changes were announced simultaneously. Kees van der Graaf will step down from the Boards of
Unilever and from his role as President Europe at the AGMs on 14 and 15 May 2008. Ralph Kugler, President Home and Personal Care, will
similarly step down at the AGMs. Harish Manwani, currently President Asia Africa, will lead the new expanded region. Doug Baillie, previously
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer of Hindustan Unilever, will join the Unilever Executive as President Western Europe. The roles of President Home and
Personal Care and President Foods will be merged under the leadership of Vindi Banga, currently President Foods.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007 121
Notes to the consolidated accounts Unilever Group
Financial statements continued 122 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Financial statements continued
Financial record Unilever Group
Financial record under IFRS
In the schedules below, ﬁgures within the income statement and for earnings per share reﬂect the classiﬁcation between continuing and
discontinued operations, which has applied for our reporting during 2006 and 2007. Figures for 2005 and 2004 also reﬂect this classiﬁcation,
and therefore differ from those originally published for those years.
€ million € million € million € million
Consolidated income statement 2007 2006 2005 2004
Continuing operations:
Turnover 40 187 39 642 38 401 37 168 
Operating proﬁt 5 245 5 408 5 074 3 981 
Net ﬁnance costs (252) (721) (613) (623)
Income from non-current investments 191 144 55 95 
Proﬁt before taxation 5 184 4 831 4 516 3 453 
Taxation (1 128) (1 146) (1 181) (725)
Net proﬁt from continuing operations 4 056 3 685 3 335 2 728 
Net proﬁt from discontinued operations 80 1 330 640 213
Net proﬁt 4 136 5 015 3 975 2 941 
Attributable to:
Minority interests 248 270 209 186 
Shareholders’ equity 3 888 4 745 3 766 2 755 
€ € € € 
Combined earnings per share
(a)
2007 2006 2005 2004
Continuing operations:
Basic earnings per share 1.32 1.19 1.07 0.87
Diluted earnings per share 1.28 1.15 1.04 0.84
Total operations:
Basic earnings per share 1.35 1.65 1.29 0.94
Diluted earnings per share 1.31 1.60 1.25 0.91
€ million € million € million € million
Consolidated balance sheet 2007 2006 2005 2004
Non-current assets 27 374 27 571 28 358 26 368
Current assets 9 928 9 501 11 142 10 490
Current liabilities (13 559) (13 884) (15 394) (14 186)
Total assets less current liabilities 23 743 23 188 24 106 22 672
Non-current liabilities 10 924 11 516 15 341 15 043
Shareholders’ equity 12 387 11 230 8 361 7 264
Minority interests 432 442 404 365
Total equity 12 819 11 672 8 765 7 629
Total capital employed 23 743 23 188 24 106 22 672
€ million € million € million € million
Consolidated cash ﬂow statement 2007 2006 2005 2004
Net cash ﬂow from operating activities 3 876 4 511 4 353 5 547 
Net cash ﬂow from/(used in) investing activities (623) 1 155 515 (120)
Net cash ﬂow from/(used in) ﬁnancing activities (3 009) (6 572) (4 821) (5 938)
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 244 (906) 47 (511)
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 710 1 265 1 406 1 428 
Effect of foreign exchange rates (53) 351 (188) 489 
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 901 710 1 265 1 406 
Ratios and other metrics 2007 2006 2005 2004
Operating margin (%) 13.1 13.6 13.2 10.7
Net proﬁt margin (%)
(b)
9.7 12.0 9.8 7.4
Ungeared free cash ﬂow (€ million)
(c)
3 769 4 222 4 011 5 346
Return on invested capital (%)
(d)
12.7 14.6 12.5 10.7
Ratio of earnings to ﬁxed charges (times)
(e)
8.3 7.5 6.5 5.1
(a) For the basis of the calculations of combined earnings per share see note 7 on page 85.
(b) Net proﬁt margin is expressed as net proﬁt attributable to shareholders’ equity as a percentage of turnover from continuing operations.
(c) As deﬁned on page 30.
(d) As deﬁned on page 31.
(e) In the ratio of earnings to ﬁxed charges, earnings consist of net proﬁt from continuing operations excluding net proﬁt or loss of joint
ventures and associates increased by ﬁxed charges, income taxes and dividends received from joint ventures and associates. Fixed charges
consist of interest payable on debt and a portion of lease costs determined to be representative of interest. This ratio takes no account of
interest receivable although Unilever’s treasury operations involve both borrowing and depositing funds. Financial record under IFRS (continued)
€ million € million € million € million
By geographical area 2007 2006 2005 2004
Turnover
Europe 15 205 15 000 14 940 15 252
The Americas 13 442 13 779 13 179 12 296
Asia Africa 11 540 10 863 10 282 9 620
40 187 39 642 38 401 37 168
Operating proﬁt
Europe 1 678 1 903 2 064 2 045
The Americas 1 971 2 178 1 719 896
Asia Africa 1 596 1 327 1 291 1 040
5 245 5 408 5 074 3 981
Total assets
Europe 14 703 14 489 15 164 15 586
The Americas 10 878 11 564 12 569 11 486
Asia Africa 6 291 5 884 6 320 4 369
Corporate 5 430 5 135 5 447 5 417
37 302 37 072 39 500 36 858
Capital expenditure
Europe 672 511 447 497
The Americas 342 396 305 297
Asia Africa 411 294 298 305
1 425 1 201 1 050 1 099
€ million € million € million € million
By operation 2007 2006 2005 2004
Turnover
Foods 21 588 21 345 20 889 20 566
Home and Personal Care 18 599 18 297 17 512 16 602
40 187 39 642 38 401 37 168
Operating proﬁt
Foods 2 868 2 893 2 635 1 850
Home and Personal Care 2 377 2 515 2 439 2 131
5 245 5 408 5 074 3 981
Total assets
Foods 24 381 24 973 26 798 25 382
Home and Personal Care 7 491 6 964 7 255 6 059
Corporate 5 430 5 135 5 447 5 417
37 302 37 072 39 500 36 858
Capital expenditure
Foods 801 714 572 588
Home and Personal Care 624 487 478 511
1 425 1 201 1 050 1 099
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007 123
Financial statements continued
Financial record Unilever Group 124 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Financial statements continued
Financial record Unilever Group
Exchange rates 
The information in the following table is based on exchange rates between euros and US dollars and between euros and sterling. These
translation rates were used in preparation of the accounts:
2007 2006 2005 2004 2003
Year end
€1 = US $ 1.471 1.317 1.184 1.366 1.261
€1 = £ 0.734 0.671 0.686 0.707 0.708
Annual average
€1 = US $ 1.364 1.254 1.244 1.238 1.126
€1 = £ 0.682 0.682 0.684 0.678 0.691
Noon Buying Rates in New York for cable transfers in foreign currencies as certiﬁed for customs purposes by the Federal Reserve Bank of 
New York were as follows:
2007 2006 2005 2004 2003
Year end
€1 = US $ 1.460 1.320 1.184 1.354 1.260
Annual average
€1 = US $ 1.371 1.256 1.245 1.239 1.132
High
€1 = US $ 1.486 1.333 1.348 1.363 1.260
Low
€1 = US $ 1.290 1.186 1.167 1.180 1.036
High and low exchange rate values for each of the last six months:
September October November December January February
2007 2007 2007 2007 2008 2008
High
€1 = US $ 1.422 1.447 1.486 1.476 1.488 1.519
Low
€1 = US $ 1.361 1.409 1.444 1.434 1.457 1.450
On 1 March 2008, the exchange rates between euros and US dollars and between euros and sterling were as follows: €1.00 = US $1.521 and 
€1.00 = £0.767. The companies listed below and on page 126 are those which, in the
opinion of the Directors, principally affect the amount of proﬁt and
assets shown in the Unilever Group accounts. The Directors consider
that those companies not listed are not signiﬁcant in relation to
Unilever as a whole.
Full information as required by Articles 379 and 414 of Book 2 of the
Civil Code in the Netherlands has been ﬁled by Unilever N.V. with the
Commercial Registry in Rotterdam.
Particulars of PLC group companies and other signiﬁcant holdings
as required by the United Kingdom Companies Act 1985 will be
annexed to the next Annual Return of Unilever PLC.
Unless otherwise indicated, the companies are incorporated and
principally operate in the countries under which they are shown.
The aggregate percentage of equity capital directly or indirectly held 
by NV or PLC is shown in the margin, except where it is 100%. All
these percentages are rounded down to the nearest whole number.
The percentage of Unilever’s shareholdings held either directly or
indirectly by NV and PLC are identiﬁed in the tables according to the
following code:
NV 100% a
PLC 100% b
NV 56%; PLC 44% c
NV 84%; PLC 16% d
NV 19%; PLC 81% e
NV 26%; PLC 74% f
NV 23%; PLC 77% g
Due to the inclusion of certain partnerships in the consolidated
group accounts of Unilever, para 264(b) of the German trade law
grants an exemption from the duty to prepare individual statutory
ﬁnancial statements and management reports in accordance with the
requirements for limited liability companies and to have these audited
and published.
Group companies
% Ownership
Argentina
Unilever de Argentina S.A. d
Australia
Unilever Australia Ltd. b
Belgium
Unilever Belgium BVBA/SPRL (Unibel) d
Brazil
Unilever Brasil Ltda. d
Canada
Unilever Canada Inc. e
Chile
Unilever Chile Home and Personal Care Ltda. d
China
Unilever Services (He Fei) Co Limited a
France 
99 Unilever France d
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007 125
Financial statements continued
Principal group companies and non-current investments Unilever Group
as at 31 December 2007
Group companies (continued)
% Ownership
Germany
Maizena Grundstücksverwaltungs 
GmbH & Co. OHG d
Pfanni GmbH & Co. OHG Stavenhagen d
Pfanni Werke Grundstücksverwaltungs 
GmbH & Co. OHG d
UBG Vermietungs GmbH & Co. OHG d
Unilever Deutschland GmbH d
Unilever Deutschland Holding GmbH d
Unilever Deutschland Immobilien Leasing 
GmbH & Co. OHG d
Wizona IPR GmbH & Co. OHG d
Greece
Unilever Hellas A.E.B.E. a
India
52 Hindustan Unilever Ltd. b
Indonesia
85 P .T. Unilever Indonesia Tbk a
Italy
Unilever Italia SrL d
Japan 
Unilever Japan KK a
Mexico
Unilever de México S. de R.L. de C.V. d
The Netherlands
Mixhold B.V. d
Unilever Finance International B.V. a
Unilever N.V.
(a)
Unilever Nederland B.V. d
UNUS Holding B.V. c
Poland
Unilever Polska S.A. d
Russia
Unilever Rus g
South Africa
74 Unilever South Africa (Pty) Limited f
Spain 
Unilever España S.A. a
Sweden
Unilever Sverige AB a
Switzerland 
Unilever Supply Chain Company AG a
Unilever Schweiz GmbH d
Thailand
Unilever Thai Trading Ltd. d
(a) See ‘Basis of consolidation’ in note 1 on page 72. Group companies (continued)
% Ownership
Turkey
Unilever Sanayi ve Ticaret Türk A.S ,.b
United Kingdom 
Unilever UK Ltd. e
Unilever PLC
(a)
Unilever UK Holdings Ltd. b
Unilever UK & CN Holdings Ltd. e
United States of America
Conopco, Inc. c
Unilever Capital Corporation c
Unilever United States, Inc. c
(a) See ‘Basis of consolidation’ in note 1 on page 72
Joint ventures
% Ownership
Portugal
55 Unilever Jerónimo Martins, Lda b
United States of America 
50 Pepsi/Lipton Partnership c
Associates
% Ownership
Côte d’Ivoire
40 Palmci b
United Kingdom
40 Langholm Capital Partners L.P . b
United States of America
33 JohnsonDiversey Holdings, Inc. a
In addition, we have revenues either from our own operations or
through agency agreements in the following locations: Abu Dhabi,
Algeria, Austria, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Bolivia, Bulgaria, Cambodia,
Cameroon, Colombia, Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, Croatia, Cuba,
Cyprus, Czech Republic, Democratic Republic of Congo, Denmark,
Dominican Republic, Dubai, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Estonia,
Finland, Ghana, Guatemala, Honduras, Hong Kong, Hungary, Iran,
Ireland, Israel, Jordan, Kenya, Latvia, Lebanon, Lithuania, Malawi,
Malaysia, Morocco, Mozambique, Namibia, Nepal, Netherlands
Antilles, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Oman,
Pakistan, Palestine, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Portugal,
Puerto Rico, Romania, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Serbia, Singapore,
Slovakia, Slovenia, South Korea, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Syria, Taiwan,
Tanzania, Trinidad & Tobago, Tunisia, Uganda, Ukraine, United Arab
Emirates, Uruguay, Venezuela, Vietnam, Zambia and Zimbabwe.
126 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Principal group companies and non-current investments Unilever Group
as at 31 December 2007
Financial statements continued Company accounts Auditor’s report – Unilever N.V .
Independent auditor’s report to the shareholders of
Unilever N.V.
Report on the company accounts
We have audited the company accounts which are part of the
Annual Report 2007 of Unilever N.V., Rotterdam, for the year
ended 31 December 2007 which comprise the balance sheet,
income statement and the related notes on pages 128 to 130.
These company accounts have been prepared under the
accounting policies set out therein. 
We have reported separately on the consolidated accounts of the
Unilever Group for the year ended 31 December 2007.
Directors’ responsibility
The Directors are responsible for the preparation and fair
presentation of the company accounts in accordance with United
Kingdom accounting standards and with Part 9 of Book 2 of the
Netherlands Civil Code, and for the preparation of the Report 
of the Directors in accordance with Part 9 of Book 2 of the
Netherlands Civil Code. This responsibility includes: designing,
implementing and maintaining internal control relevant to the
preparation and fair presentation of the company accounts that
are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or
error; selecting and applying appropriate accounting policies; 
and making accounting estimates that are reasonable in 
the circumstances.
Auditor’s responsibility
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the company
accounts based on our audit. We conducted our audit in
accordance with Dutch law. This law requires that we comply 
with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance whether the company accounts 
are free from material misstatement.
An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence
about the amounts and disclosures in the company accounts. 
The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgement,
including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of
the company accounts, whether due to fraud or error. In making
those risk assessments, the auditor considers internal control
relevant to the entity’s preparation and fair presentation of the
company accounts in order to design audit procedures that are
appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of
expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the entity’s internal
control. An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of
accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting
estimates made by the Directors, as well as evaluating the overall
presentation of the company accounts. 
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufﬁcient
and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion.
Opinion
In our opinion, the company accounts give a true and fair view 
of the ﬁnancial position of Unilever N.V. as at 31 December 2007,
and of its result for the year then ended in accordance with
United Kingdom accounting standards and with Part 9 of Book 2
of the Netherlands Civil Code.
Report on other legal and regulatory requirements 
Pursuant to the legal requirement under 2:393 sub 5 part e 
of the Netherlands Civil Code, we report, to the extent of 
our competence, that the Report of the Directors is consistent
with the company accounts as required by 2:391 sub 4 of 
the Netherlands Civil Code.
Rotterdam, The Netherlands, 10 March 2008
PricewaterhouseCoopers Accountants N.V.
Prof Dr J A van Manen RA
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007 127
Financial statements continued 128 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Financial statements continued
Company accounts Unilever N.V .
Balance sheet as at 31 December
(after proposed appropriation of proﬁt)
€ million € million
2007 2006
Fixed assets
Fixed investments 24 423 26 405
Current assets
Debtors 3 215 6 007
Cash at bank and in hand 2 7
Total current assets 3 217 6 014
Creditors due within one year (17 163) (20 646)
Net current assets/(liabilities) (13 946) (14 632)
Total assets less current liabilities 10 477 11 773
Creditors due after more than one year 2 420 2 451
Provisions for liabilities and charges (excluding pensions and similar obligations) 40 336
Net pension liability for unfunded schemes 134 148
Capital and reserves 7 883 8 838
Called up share capital 275 275
Share premium account 20 20
Legal reserves 16 16
Other reserves (2 437) (1 228)
Proﬁt retained 10 009 9 755
Total capital employed 10 477 11 773
Proﬁt and loss account for the year ended 31 December
€ million € million
2007 2006
Income from ﬁxed investments after taxation 1 508 1 916
Other income and expenses (102) (69)
Proﬁt for the year 1 406 1 847
For the information required by Article 392 of Book 2 of the Civil Code in the Netherlands, refer to pages 127 and 131. Pages 129 and 130 are
part of the notes to the Unilever N.V. company accounts.
The company accounts of Unilever N.V. are included in the consolidated accounts of the Unilever Group. Therefore, and in accordance with
Article 402 of Book 2 of the Civil Code in the Netherlands, the proﬁt and loss account only reﬂects the income from ﬁxed investments after
taxation and other income and expenses after taxes. The company accounts of Unilever N.V. do not contain a cash ﬂow statement as this is
not required by book 2 of the Civil Code in the Netherlands. 
The Board of Directors
10 March 2008 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007 129
Financial statements continued
Notes to the company accounts Unilever N.V .
Accounting information and policies
Basis of preparation
The company accounts of Unilever N.V. comply in all material respects
with legislation in the Netherlands. As allowed by Article 362.1 of
Book 2 of the Civil Code in the Netherlands, the company accounts
are prepared in accordance with United Kingdom accounting
standards, unless such standards conﬂict with the Civil Code in 
the Netherlands which would in such case prevail.
The accounts are prepared under the historical cost convention as
modiﬁed by the revaluation of ﬁnancial assets classiﬁed as ‘available-
for-sale investments’, ‘ﬁnancial assets at fair value through proﬁt 
or loss’, and ‘derivative ﬁnancial instruments’ in accordance with
the accounting policies set out below which have been 
consistently applied.
Accounting policies
The principal accounting policies are as follows:
Fixed investments
Shares in group companies are stated at cost less any amounts written
off to reﬂect a permanent impairment. Any impairment is charged 
to the proﬁt and loss account as it arises. In accordance with Article
385.5 of Book 2 of the Civil Code in the Netherlands, Unilever N.V.
shares held by Unilever N.V. subsidiaries are deducted from the
carrying value of those subsidiaries. This differs from the accounting
treatment under UK GAAP , which would require these amounts to be
included within ﬁxed investments.
Financial instruments and derivative ﬁnancial instruments
The company’s accounting policies under United Kingdom generally
accepted accounting principles (UK GAAP) namely FRS 25 ‘Financial
Instruments: Presentation’, FRS 26 ‘Financial Instruments:
Measurement’ and FRS 29 ‘Financial Instruments: Disclosures’ are the
same as the Unilever Group’s accounting policies under International
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) namely IAS 32 ‘Financial
Instruments: Presentation’, IAS 39 ‘Financial Instruments: Recognition
and Measurement’ and IFRS 7 ‘Financial Instruments: Disclosures’. The
policies are set out under the heading ‘Financial instruments’ in note 1
to the consolidated accounts on pages 73 and 74. NV is taking the
exemption for not providing all the ﬁnancial instruments disclosures,
because IFRS 7 disclosures are given in note 17 to the consolidated
accounts on pages 97 to 101.
Deferred taxation
Full provision is made for deferred taxation on all signiﬁcant timing
differences arising from the recognition of items for taxation purposes
in different periods from those in which they are included in the
company's accounts. Full provision is made at the rates of tax
prevailing at the year end unless future rates have been enacted 
or substantively enacted. Deferred tax assets and liabilities have 
not been discounted. 
Own shares held 
Own shares held by the company are accounted for in accordance
with Dutch law and UK GAAP , namely FRS 25 ‘Financial Instruments:
Presentation’. All differences between the purchase price of the shares
held to satisfy options granted and the proceeds received for the
shares, whether on exercise or lapse, are charged to reserves.
Retirement beneﬁts
Unilever N.V. has accounted for pensions and similar beneﬁts under
the United Kingdom Financial Reporting Standard 17 'Retirement
beneﬁts' (FRS 17). The operating and ﬁnancing costs of deﬁned
beneﬁt plans are recognised separately in the proﬁt and loss account;
service costs are systematically spread over the service lives of
employees, and ﬁnancing costs are recognised in the periods in which
they arise. Variations from expected costs, arising from the experience
of the plans or changes in actuarial assumptions, are recognised
immediately in the statement of total recognised gains and losses. The
costs of individual events such as past service beneﬁt enhancements,
settlements and curtailments are recognised immediately in the proﬁt
and loss account. The liabilities and, where applicable, the assets of
deﬁned beneﬁt plans are recognised at fair value in the balance sheet.
The charges to the proﬁt and loss account for deﬁned contribution
plans are the company contributions payable and the assets of such
plans are not included in the company balance sheet.
Dividends
Under Financial Reporting Standard 21 ‘Events after the Balance Sheet
Date’ (FRS 21), proposed dividends do not meet the deﬁnition of a
liability until such time as they have been approved by shareholders at
the Annual General Meeting. Therefore, we do not recognise a liability 
in any period for dividends that have been proposed but will not be
approved until after the balance sheet date. This holds for external
dividends as well as intra-group dividends paid to the parent company. 130 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Financial statements continued
Notes to the company accounts Unilever N.V .
Fixed investments € million € million
2007 2006
Shares in group companies 24 428 26 241
PLC shares held in connection with 
share options 184 375
Less NV shares held by group companies (189) (211)
24 423 26 405
Movements during the year:
1 January 26 405 11 276
PLC shares held in connection 
with share options (191) (57)
NV shares held by group companies 22 27
Additions
(a)
4 966 15 342
Decreases (6 779) (183)
31 December 24 423 26 405
(a) In 2006 Unilever decided to transfer its group ﬁnancing activities 
into a separate ﬁnancing entity, Unilever Finance International B.V., 
a 100% subsidiary of NV based in the Netherlands. The transfer 
was executed as a contribution in kind on issued shares.
Debtors € million € million
2007 2006
Loans to group companies 2 262 3 269
Other amounts owed by group companies 847 2 288
Amounts owed by undertakings in which 
the company has a participating interest – 43
Taxation 38 –
Prepayments and accrued income 12 335
Other 56 72
3 215 6 007
Of which due after more than one year 2 250 2 312
Cash at bank and in hand
At 31 December 2007 there is no cash at bank and in hand for which
payment notice is required (2006: nil).
Creditors € million € million
2007 2006
Due within one year:
Other amounts owed to group companies 15 743 17 244
Loans from group companies 1 258 1 248
Bonds and other loans – 1 503
Taxation and social security 16 48
Accruals and deferred income 58 400
Other 88 203
17 163 20 646
Due after more than one year:
Bonds and other loans 2 244 746
Loans from group companies – 1 521
Accruals and deferred income 52 60
Preference shares
(a)
124 124
2 420 2 451
(a) Information on the euro conversion of the preference shares is 
given in note 16 to the consolidated accounts on page 94.
Creditors due after ﬁve years amount to €870 million 
(2006: €1 630 million) (Article 375.2 of Book 2 of the Civil Code in 
the Netherlands).
Ordinary share capital
Shares numbered 1 to 2 400 are held by a subsidiary of NV and a
subsidiary of PLC, each holding 50%. Additionally, 122 296 247 
(2006: 72 484 322) €0.16 ordinary shares are held by NV and other
group companies. Full details as well as information on the euro
conversion and subsequent split of ordinary shares are given in note
22 to the consolidated accounts on page 109.
Share premium account
The share premium shown in the balance sheet is not available for the
issue of bonus shares or for repayment without incurring withholding
tax payable by the company. This is despite the change in tax law in
the Netherlands, as a result of which dividends received from 2001
onwards by individual shareholders who are resident in the
Netherlands are no longer taxed.
Other reserves € million € million
2007 2006
1 January (1 228) (1 321)
Change in own shares held (1 209) 93
31 December (2 437) (1 228)
Proﬁt retained € million € million
2007 2006
1 January 9 755 9 463
Proﬁt for the year 1 406 1 847
Ordinary dividends – ﬁnal 2005 – (729)
Ordinary dividends – interim 2006 – (382)
One-off dividend 2006 – (432)
Ordinary dividends – ﬁnal 2006 (775) –
Ordinary dividends – interim 2007 (404) –
Taxation charge 3 –
Fair value adjustments for cash ﬂow hedges – (4)
Realised proﬁt/(loss) on shares/certiﬁcates held 
to meet employee share options 15 (6)
Changes in present value of net pension liability 9 (2)
31 December 10 009 9 755
Proﬁt retained shown in the company accounts and the notes thereto
differs from the amount shown in note 24 to the consolidated
accounts on page 111 mainly because of certain inter-company
transactions which are eliminated in the consolidated accounts.
€ million € million
2007 2006
Difference as at 1 January 1 351 742
Changes in equity of consolidated participations (3 305) (1 667)
Changes in accumulated intercompany results 1 560 2 276
Difference as at 31 December (394) 1 351
Provisions for liabilities and charges (excluding pensions
and similar obligations)
€ million € million
2007 2006
Preference shares provision 3 300
Deferred taxation and other provisions 37 36
40 336
Of which due within one year 40 332
Contingent liabilities
Contingent liabilities are not expected to give rise to any material 
loss and include guarantees given for group companies. The estimated
total of such liabilities as at 31 December 2007 was some
€5 204 million (2006: €4 635 million) of which €3 706 million
(2006: €3 203 million) was also guaranteed by PLC. The fair value 
of such guarantees was not signiﬁcant in either 2006 or 2007. The
guarantees issued to other companies were immaterial.
NV has issued joint and several liability undertakings, as deﬁned in
Article 403 of Book 2 of the Civil Code in the Netherlands, for almost
all Dutch group companies. These written undertakings have been
ﬁled with the ofﬁce of the Company Registry in whose area of
jurisdiction the group company concerned has its registered ofﬁce. Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007 131
Financial statements continued
Further statutory and other information Unilever N.V .
The rules for proﬁt appropriation in the Articles of Association
(summary of Article 38)
The proﬁt for the year is applied ﬁrstly to the reserves required by law
or by the Equalisation Agreement, secondly to cover losses of previous
years, if any, and thirdly to the reserves deemed necessary by the
Board of Directors. Dividends due to the holders of the Cumulative
Preference Shares, including any arrears in such dividends, are then
paid; if the proﬁt is insufﬁcient for this purpose, the amount available
is distributed to them in proportion to the dividend percentages of
their shares. Any proﬁt remaining thereafter shall be distributed to
them in proportion to the dividend percentages of their shares. The
General Meeting can only decide to make distributions from reserves
on the basis of a proposal by the Board and in compliance with the
law and the Equalisation Agreement.
Proposed proﬁt appropriation € million € million
2007 2006
Proﬁt for the year (available for distribution) 1 406 1 847
Interim dividend already paid (404) (382)
One-off dividend 2006 – (432)
To proﬁt retained 1 002 1 033
Post balance sheet event
The directors propose a ﬁnal dividend of €0.50 per share (totalling
€796 million) out of the proﬁts retained for the year ended 
31 December 2007. The dividend will be submitted for formal
approval at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 15 May
2008. In accordance with FRS 21, these ﬁnancial statements do
not reﬂect this dividend payable, which will be accounted for in
shareholders’ equity as an appropriation of retained earnings in
the year ended 31 December 2008. During 2007, a ﬁnal dividend
of €0.47 per share (totalling €775 million) was paid in respect of
the dividend declared for the year ended 31 December 2006.
Special controlling rights under the Articles of Association
See note 22 to the consolidated accounts on page 109.
Auditors
A resolution will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting on
15 May 2008 for the reappointment of PricewaterhouseCoopers
Accountants N.V. as auditors of NV. The present appointment will 
end at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting.
Corporate Centre
Unilever N.V.
Weena 455
PO Box 760
3000 DK Rotterdam
The Netherlands
S H M A Dumoulin
Secretary of Unilever N.V.
10 March 2008 132 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Financial statements continued
Company accounts Auditors’ report – Unilever PLC
Independent auditors’ report to the shareholders of
Unilever PLC on the parent company accounts
We have audited the parent company accounts of Unilever PLC
for the year ended 31 December 2007 which comprise the
balance sheet and the related notes. These parent company
accounts have been prepared under the accounting policies set
out therein. We have also audited the information in the Report
of the Remuneration Committee that is described as having 
been audited. 
We have reported separately on the consolidated accounts of the
Unilever Group for the year ended 31 December 2007.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors
The Directors’ responsibilities for preparing the parent company
accounts in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and
United Kingdom accounting standards (United Kingdom Generally
Accepted Accounting Practice) are set out in the Statement of
Directors’ Responsibilities on page 66. The Directors are also
responsible for preparing the Annual Report, including the Report
of the Remuneration Committee.
Our responsibility is to audit the parent company accounts and
the part of the Report of the Remuneration Committee to be
audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory
requirements and International Standards on Auditing (UK and
Ireland). This report, including the opinion, has been prepared 
for and only for the shareholders of Unilever PLC as a body in
accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for
no other purpose. We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or
assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other
person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may
come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent company
accounts give a true and fair view and whether the parent
company accounts and the part of the Report of the
Remuneration Committee to be audited have been properly
prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. We also
report to you whether in our opinion the information given 
in the Report of the Directors is consistent with the parent
company accounts. 
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has
not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all
the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if
information speciﬁed by law regarding directors’ remuneration
and other transactions is not disclosed.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report
and consider whether it is consistent with the audited parent
company accounts. The other information comprises only Report
of the Directors and the Shareholder information. We consider
the implications for our report if we become aware of any
apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the
parent company accounts. Our responsibilities do not extend 
to any other information.
Basis of audit opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with International
Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) issued by the Auditing
Practices Board. An audit includes examination, on a test basis, 
of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the 
parent company accounts and the part of the Report of the
Remuneration Committee to be audited. It also includes an
assessment of the signiﬁcant estimates and judgements made 
by the Directors in the preparation of the parent company
accounts, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate
to the company’s circumstances, consistently applied and
adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the
information and explanations which we considered necessary in
order to provide us with sufﬁcient evidence to give reasonable
assurance that the parent company accounts and the part of the
Report of the Remuneration Committee to be audited are free
from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other
irregularity or error. In forming our opinion we also evaluated 
the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the
parent company accounts and the part of the Report of the
Remuneration Committee to be audited.
Opinion
In our opinion:
• the parent company accounts give a true and fair view, in
accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted
Accounting Practice, of the state of the company’s affairs as at
31 December 2007;
• the parent company accounts and the part of the Report of the
Remuneration Committee to be audited have been properly
prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985; and
• the information given in the Report of the Directors is
consistent with the parent company accounts.
10 March 2008
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors
London, United Kingdom Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007 133
Financial statements continued
Company accounts Unilever PLC
Balance sheet as at 31 December
£ million £ million
2007 2006
Fixed assets
Intangible assets 20 23
Fixed asset investments 2 294 2 237
Current assets
Debtors due within one year 1 565 134
Debtors due after more than one year 3 45
Total current assets 1 568 179
Creditors due within one year (2 286) (1 091)
Net current assets/(liabilities) (718) (912)
Total assets less current liabilities 1 596 1 348
Provision for liabilities and charges (excluding pensions and similar obligations) 10 7
Capital and reserves 1 586 1 341
Called up share capital 41 41
Share premium account 94 94
Capital redemption reserve 11 11
Other reserves (281) (353)
Proﬁt retained 1 721 1 548
Total capital employed 1 596 1 348
As permitted by Section 230 of the United Kingdom Companies Act 1985, an entity proﬁt and loss account is not included as part of the
published company accounts for PLC. Under the terms of Financial Reporting Standard 1 (revised 1996) ‘Cash Flow Statements’ (FRS 1) a cash
ﬂow statement is not included, as the cash ﬂows are included in the consolidated cash ﬂow statement of the Unilever Group.
On behalf of the Board of Directors
M Treschow Chairman
P Cescau Group Chief Executive
10 March 2008 134 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Financial statements continued
Notes to the company accounts Unilever PLC
Accounting information and policies
Basis of preparation
The accounts have been prepared in accordance with applicable
United Kingdom accounting standards and the United Kingdom
Companies Act 1985.
The accounts are prepared under the historical cost convention as
modiﬁed by the revaluation of ﬁnancial assets classiﬁed as ‘available-for-
sale investments’, ‘ﬁnancial assets at fair value through proﬁt or loss’,
and ‘derivative ﬁnancial instruments’ in accordance with the accounting
policies set out below which have been consistently applied.
Accounting policies
The principal accounting policies are as follows:
Intangible assets
Intangible assets comprise trademarks purchased after 1 January 1998
and are amortised in the proﬁt and loss account over their expected
useful lives of up to a maximum of 20 years. They are subject to
review for impairment in accordance with United Kingdom Financial
Reporting Standard 11 ‘Impairment of Fixed Assets and Goodwill’ 
(FRS 11). Any impairment is charged to the proﬁt and loss account 
as it arises.  
Fixed asset investments
Shares in group companies are stated at cost less any amounts written
off to reﬂect a permanent impairment. Any impairment is charged to
the proﬁt and loss account as it arises. 
Financial instruments 
The company’s accounting policies under United Kingdom generally
accepted accounting principles (UK GAAP) namely FRS 25 ‘Financial
Instruments: Presentation’, FRS 26 ‘Financial Instruments:
Measurement’ and FRS 29 ‘Financial Instruments: Disclosures’ are the
same as the Unilever Group’s accounting policies under International
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) namely IAS 32 ‘Financial
Instruments: Presentation’, IAS 39 ‘Financial Instruments: Recognition
and Measurement’ and IFRS 7 ‘Financial Instruments: Disclosures’. The
policies are set out under the heading ‘Financial instruments’ in note 1
to the consolidated accounts on pages 73 and 74. PLC is taking the
exemption for not providing all the ﬁnancial instruments disclosures,
because IFRS 7 disclosures are given in note 17 to the consolidated
accounts on pages 97 to 101. 
Deferred taxation
Full provision is made for deferred taxation on all signiﬁcant timing
differences arising from the recognition of items for taxation purposes
in different periods from those in which they are included in the
company’s accounts. Full provision is made at the rates of tax
prevailing at the year end unless future rates have been enacted 
or substantively enacted. Deferred tax assets and liabilities have not
been discounted. 
Shares held by employee share trusts
Shares held to satisfy options are accounted for in accordance with
UK GAAP , namely FRS 25 ‘Financial Instruments: Presentation’ and
Urgent Issues Task Force abstract 38 ‘Accounting for ESOP Trusts’
(UITF 38). All differences between the purchase price of the shares
held to satisfy options granted and the proceeds received for the
shares, whether on exercise or lapse, are charged to other reserves. 
Dividends
Under Financial Reporting Standard 21 ‘Events after the Balance Sheet
Date’ (FRS 21), proposed dividends do not meet the deﬁnition of a
liability until such time as they have been approved by shareholders 
at the Annual General Meeting. Therefore, we do not recognise a
liability in any period for dividends that have been proposed but will
not be approved until after the balance sheet date. This holds for
external dividends as well as intra-group dividends paid to the parent
company. Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007 135
Financial statements continued
Notes to the company accounts Unilever PLC
Fixed asset investments £ million £ million
2007 2006
Shares in group companies
(a)
2 294 2 237
(a) The only movement in the year is an additional investment in a 
group company.
Debtors £ million £ million
2007 2006
Due within one year:
Amounts owed by group companies 1 562 80
Amounts owed by undertakings in which
the company has a participating interest 1 28
Other 2 26
1 565 134
Due after more than one year:
Amounts owed by group companies 3 44
Other – 1
3 45
Creditors £ million £ million
2007 2006
Due within one year:
Amounts owed to group companies 2 162 914
Taxation and social security 123 151
Other 1 26
2 286 1 091
Provisions for liabilities and charges (excluding pensions and
similar obligations)
£ million £ million
2007 2006
Deferred taxation 10 7
Ordinary share capital
Information on the consolidation of ordinary shares is given in note 22
to the consolidated accounts on page 109.
Other reserves £ million £ million
2007 2006
1 January (353) (385)
Change in book value of shares 72 32
31 December (281) (353)
Proﬁt retained £ million £ million
2007 2006
1 January 1 548 1 466
Proﬁt for the year 803 893
Final dividend 2005 on ordinary and 
deferred shares – (385)
Interim dividend 2006 on ordinary and
deferred shares – (200)
One-off dividend 2006 – (226)
Final dividend 2006 on ordinary and 
deferred shares (412) –
Interim dividend 2007 on ordinary and
deferred shares (218) –
31 December 1 721 1 548
Contingent liabilities
Contingent liabilities are not expected to give rise to any material loss
and include guarantees given for group companies. The estimated total
of such liabilities at 31 December 2007 was some £4 372 million 
(2006: £3 656 million) of which £2 720 million (2006: £2 150 million)
was also guaranteed by NV. The fair value of such guarantees is not
signiﬁcant in either 2006 or 2007. The guarantees issued to other
companies were immaterial.
Remuneration of auditors
The parent company accounts of Unilever PLC are required to comply
with The Companies (Disclosure of Auditor Remuneration) Regulations
2005. Auditors’ remuneration in respect of Unilever PLC is included
within the disclosures in note 32 on page 121.
Proﬁt appropriation £ million £ million
2007 2006
Proﬁt for the year (available for distribution) 803 893
Interim dividend already paid (218) (200)
One-off dividend 2006 – (226)
To proﬁt retained 585 467
Post balance sheet event
The directors propose a ﬁnal dividend of 34.11p per share 
(totalling £430 million) out of the proﬁts retained for the year 
ended 31 December 2007. The dividend will be submitted for formal
approval at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 14 May 2008.
In accordance with FRS 21, these ﬁnancial statements do not reﬂect
this dividend payable, which will be accounted for in shareholders’
equity as an appropriation of retained earnings in the year ending 
31 December 2008. During 2007, a ﬁnal dividend of 32.04p per share
(totalling £412 million) was paid in respect of the dividend declared for
the year ended 31 December 2006. 136 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Financial statements continued
Further statutory and other information Unilever PLC
Employee involvement and communication
Unilever’s UK companies maintain formal processes to inform, consult
and involve employees and their representatives. A high proportion of
the United Kingdom sites are accredited to the Investors in People
standard. Our sites also use tools such as Total Productive
Maintenance which rely heavily on employee involvement,
contribution and commitment.
A European Works Council, embracing employee and management
representatives from countries within Europe, has been in existence
for several years and provides a forum for discussing issues that
extend across national boundaries.
The directors’ reports of the United Kingdom group companies
contain more details about how they have communicated with their
employees during 2007.
Equal opportunities and diversity
The heads of all operating companies and units in the UK have
committed their businesses to achieving greater diversity. Every
Unilever company in the United Kingdom has an equal opportunities
policy and actively pursues equality of opportunity for all employees.
Our equal opportunities policy is designed, among other things, to
ensure that people with disabilities, and other under-represented
groups, are given the same training, development and prospects as
other employees.
The company carries out regular employee monitoring surveys and has
also conducted an equal pay audit. The company continues to review
ways in which greater diversity can be achieved in recruitment and
selection. 
The company continues to put in place policies which promote the
achievement of diversity in the business. We have policies on home
working, ﬂexible working, maternity and paternity leave, child care
provision and career breaks, which help us to meet this objective.
Charitable and other contributions
Unilever collates the cost of its community involvement activities using
the London Benchmarking Group model. The model recommends 
the separation of charitable donations, community investment,
commercial initiatives in the community and management costs
relating to the programme of activity.
During 2007 UK group companies made a total contribution of 
£6.6 million, analysed as follows:
• Charitable donations: £1 million.
• Community investment: £1.24 million.
• Commercial initiatives in the community: £4.1 million.
• Management costs: £0.25 million.
No donation or contribution was made or expenditure incurred for
political purposes.
Supplier payment policies
Individual operating companies are responsible for agreeing the 
terms and conditions under which business transactions with their
suppliers are conducted. The directors’ reports of the United Kingdom
operating companies give information about their supplier payment
policies as required by the UK Companies Act 1985. PLC, as a holding
company, does not itself make any relevant payments in this respect.
Auditors and disclosure of information to auditors
A resolution will be proposed at the AGM on 14 May 2008 for the 
re-appointment of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as auditors of PLC.
The present appointment will end at the conclusion of the AGM.
To the best of each of the Directors’ knowledge and belief, and
having made appropriate enquiries of other ofﬁcers of the Unilever
Group, all information relevant to enabling the auditors to provide
their opinions on PLC’s consolidated and parent company accounts
has been provided. Each of the Directors has taken all reasonable
steps to ensure their awareness of any relevant audit information and
to establish that the company’s auditors are aware of any such
information.
Authority to purchase own shares
At the AGM of PLC held on 16 May 2007, authority was given
pursuant to Article 64 of the PLC Articles of Association to make
market purchases of PLC ordinary shares of 3
1
⁄9p each, to a maximum
of 290 million shares. This authority will expire at the AGM on 14
May 2008, and a resolution will be proposed to renew the authority.
Details of shares purchased by an employee share trust and Unilever
group companies to satisfy options granted under PLC’s employee
share schemes are given in the report of the Remuneration
Committee on page 58 and in note 29 to the consolidated accounts
on pages 117 to 119.
Directors’ report of PLC
For the purposes of Section 234 of the Companies Act 1985, the
Directors’ Report of Unilever PLC for the year ended 31 December
2007 comprises this page and the information contained in the report
of the Directors on pages 2 to 63 which includes the Company’s
position on environment and corporate responsibility matters, the
report of the Remuneration Committee in respect of Directors’
interests in shares or debentures of the Group on pages 58 and 60,
Dividends on page 86, Principal group companies and non-current
investments on pages 125 and 126, signiﬁcant shareholders of PLC as
disclosed on page 137, and ﬁnancial instruments and treasury risk
management on page 97. The information required to be given
pursuant to Section 992 of the UK Companies Act 2006 is covered
elsewhere in this Annual Report.
Business review
The UK Companies Act 2006 requires Unilever PLC to set out in this
report a fair review of the business of the Group during the ﬁnancial
year ended 31 December 2007 including a description of the principal
risks and uncertainties facing the Group and an analysis of the
position of the Group’s business at the end of the ﬁnancial year,
known as a ‘Business review’.
The information that fulﬁls the current Business review requirements
can be found on the following pages of this Annual Report which are
incorporated into this report by reference:
• a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the
Group see pages 13 and 14;
• the development and performance of the Group’s business during
the year see pages 15 to 32;
• the position of the Group’s business at the end of the year see
pages 25, 26 and 70;
• key performance indicators see page 6;
• other key indicators see pages 6 and 7;
• main trends and factors likely to affect the future development,
performance and position of the Group see pages 13 and 14;
• environmental matters and policy, including the impact of the
Group’s business on the environment see page 12; and
• employee matters and policy see pages 9, 10 and 136.
In accordance with Section 463 of the UK Companies Act 2006, the
Directors’ responsibility for the Directors’ report and the report of the
Remuneration Committee, which responsibility shall be governed by
English law, shall be owed only to PLC (to the extent envisaged in
Section 463) and not to any other person.
Corporate Centre Unilever PLC Registered Ofﬁce
Unilever PLC Port Sunlight
Unilever House Wirral
100 Victoria Embankment Merseyside CH62 4ZD
London EC4Y 0DY
Unilever PLC Registrars
Computershare Investor Services PLC
The Pavilions
Bridgwater Road
Bristol BS99 6ZY
By Order of the Board
S H M A Dumoulin
Secretary of Unilever PLC
10 March 2008 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007 137
Shareholder information
Shareholder information
Analysis of shareholding
Signiﬁcant shareholders of NV
As far as we are aware the only holders of more than 5% (as referred to in the Act on Financial Supervision in the Netherlands) in 
the NV share capital (apart from the Foundation Unilever NV Trust Ofﬁce, see page 42 and shares held in treasury by NV, see page 41)
are ING Groep N.V. (‘ING’), Fortis Utrecht N.V. (‘Fortis’) and AEGON N.V. (‘AEGON’). We were informed that ING transferred part of its
shareholding in NV to Fortis in July 2007 which is reﬂected in the information provided below. 
The voting rights of such shareholders are the same as for other holders of the class of share indicated. All three shareholders have
each notiﬁed the Netherlands Authority for the Financial Markets (AFM) of their holdings. As at 2 July 2007 ING and Fortis indirectly
held an interest in the NV issued share capital of 16.94% and 5.10% respectively, and as at 1 November 2006 AEGON indirectly held
an interest of 5.57%. Detailed below are the interests in NV shares provided to the Company by ING, Fortis and AEGON in the second
half of 2007. All interests are mainly held in cumulative preference shares.
ING
• 31 171 093 (1.82%) ordinary shares (€4 987 375)
• 20 665 (71.26%) 7% cumulative preference shares (€8 856 399)
• 74 088 (46.0%) 6% cumulative preference shares (€31 751 894)
• 504 440 (67.26%) 4% cumulative preference shares (€21 620 298)
Fortis
• 4 453 850 (0.26%) ordinary shares (€712 616)
• 46 000 (28.56%) 6% cumulative preference shares (€19 714 220)
AEGON
• 399 689 (0.02%) ordinary shares (€63 950)
• 4 995 (17.22%) 7% cumulative preference shares (€2 140 707)
• 29 540 (18.34%) 6% cumulative preference shares (€12 659 957)
• 157 106 (20.95%) 4% cumulative preference shares (€6 733 563)
Signiﬁcant shareholders of PLC
The following table gives notiﬁed details of shareholders who held more than 3% of, or 3% of voting rights attributable to, PLC’s
shares or deferred stock (excluding treasury shares) on 1 March 2008. The voting rights of such shareholders are the same as for other
holders of the class of share indicated.
Number of Approximate
Title of class Name of holder shares held % held
Deferred Stock Naamlooze Vennootschap Elma 50 000 50
United Holdings Limited 50 000 50
Ordinary shares Trustees of the Leverhulme Trust and the 
Leverhulme Trade Charities Trust 70 566 764 5
Legal & General Group plc 54 184 916 4
Barclays PLC 40 319 254 3
Between 1 January 2005 and 31 December 2007, Barclays PLC, The Capital Group Companies, inc. and Legal & General Group plc
have held more than 3% of, or 3% of voting rights attributable to, PLC’s ordinary shares. During this period, and as notiﬁed, certain of
these holdings reduced to below the reporting 3% threshold. The table above sets out the notiﬁable interest of shares or voting rights
attributable to PLC as at 1 March 2008. 138 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Shareholder information continued
Analysis of PLC registered holdings
At 31 December 2007 PLC had 63 825 ordinary shareholdings.
The following table analyses the registered holdings of PLC’s 3
1
⁄9p ordinary shares at 31 December 2007:
Number Total
Number of shares of holdings % shares held %
1 – 1 000 41 044 64.31 16 842 627 1.29
1 001 – 2 500 13 290 20.82 21 198 976 1.62
2 501 – 5 000 5 262 8.24 18 451 027 1.41
5 001 – 10 000 2 149 3.37 14 723 218 1.12
10 001 – 25 000 876 1.37 13 019 461 0.99
25 001 – 50 000 316 0.50 11 058 969 0.84
50 001 – 100 000 214 0.34 15 165 228 1.16
100 001 –1 000 000 513 0.80 175 415 138 13.39
Over1 000 000 161 0.25 1 024 281 717 78.18
63 825 100.00 1 310 156 361 100.00
Share purchases during 2007
€ million
Of which, numbers of Maximum value that
shares purchased may yet be purchased
Total number of Average price as part of publicly as part of publicly
shares purchased paid per share announced plans
(a)
announced plans
January ––––
February 485 177 €20.37 – 1 500
March 7 465 293 €21.13 3 917 782 1 418
April 6 600 000 €22.09 6 600 000 1 273
May 11 849 090 €22.81 11 195 731 1 018
June 7 273 454 €22.10 7 146 817 860
July 8 787 712 €23.40 8 787 712 654
August 7 092 471 €21.74 7 092 471 500
September 6 495 886 €22.19 6 495 886 356
October 5 431 376 €21.98 5 431 376 236
November 2 501 055 €23.62 2 501 055 177
December 7 371 158 €24.11 7 364 282 –
Total 71 352 672 €22.49 66 533 112 –
(a) Shares were also purchased to satisfy commitments to deliver shares under our share-based plans as described in note 29 on page 117 to
119.
Exchange controls affecting security holders
The Netherlands Act on Financial Supervision (Wet op het ﬁnancieel toezicht (Wft)) came into effect on 1 January 2007. The Wft brings
together practically all the rules and conditions that applied to the ﬁnancial markets and their supervision. Under this Act the Minister
of Finance is authorised to issue regulations relating to ﬁnancial transactions concerning the movement of capital to or from third
countries with respect to direct investments, establishment, the performing of ﬁnancial services, the admission of negotiable
instruments or goods with respect to which regulations have been issued under the Import and Export Act in the interest of the
international legal system or an arrangement relevant thereto. These regulations may contain a prohibition to perform any of the
actions indicated in those regulations without a licence. To date no regulations of this type have been issued which are applicable to
Unilever N.V.
There are currently no exchange controls affecting PLC shareholders.
Shareholder information continued Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007 139
Shareholder information continued
Shareholder information continued
Nature of the trading market
The principal trading markets upon which Unilever shares are
listed are Euronext Amsterdam for NV depositary receipts of
ordinary and preference shares and the London Stock Exchange
for PLC ordinary shares. NV ordinary shares mainly trade in the
form of depositary receipts for shares.
In the United States, NV ordinary shares and PLC American
Depositary Receipts are traded on the New York Stock Exchange.
Citibank, N.A. acts for NV and PLC as issuer, transfer agent and,
in respect of the American Depositary Receipts, depositary.
There have not been any signiﬁcant trading suspensions in the
past three years.
At 1 March 2008 there were 6 104 registered holders of NV
New York Registry shares and 790 registered holders of PLC
American Depositary Receipts in the United States. We estimate
that approximately 18% of NV’s ordinary shares were held in the
United States (approximately 21% in 2006), while most holders 
of PLC ordinary shares are registered in the United Kingdom –
approximately 99% in 2007 and in 2006.
NV and PLC are separate companies with separate stock exchange
listings and different shareholders. Shareholders cannot convert 
or exchange the shares of one for shares of the other and the
relative share prices on the various markets can, and do,
ﬂuctuate. Each NV ordinary share now represents the same
underlying economic interest in the Unilever Group as each PLC
ordinary share (save for exchange rate ﬂuctuations).
If you are a shareholder of NV, you have an interest in a Dutch
legal entity, your dividends will be paid in euros (converted into
US dollars if you have shares registered in the United States) and
you may be subject to tax in the Netherlands. If you are a
shareholder of PLC, your interest is in a UK legal entity, your
dividends will be paid in sterling (converted into US dollars if you
have American Depositary Receipts) and you may be subject to
UK tax. Nevertheless, the Equalisation Agreement means that as
a shareholder of either company you effectively have an interest
in the whole of Unilever. You have largely equal rights over our
combined net proﬁt and capital reserves as shown in the
consolidated accounts. See Equalisation Agreement on pages 40
and 41.
The high and low trading prices for the separate stock exchange
listings are shown in the tables on the following page. 140 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Shareholder information continued
Shareholder information continued
Nature of the trading market (continued)
Share prices at 31 December 2007
The share price of the ordinary shares at the end of the year were as follows:
NV per €0.16 ordinary share in Amsterdam €25.15
NV per €0.16 ordinary share in New York US $36.46
PLC per 3
1
⁄9p ordinary share in London £18.90
PLC per American Depositary Receipt in New York US $37.42
Monthly high and low prices for the most recent six months:
September October November December January February
NV per €0.16 ordinary share in Amsterdam (in €) High 22.91 23.11 24.62 25.72 25.61 22.46
Low 21.42 21.22 22.89 23.57 20.13 20.41
NV per €0.16 ordinary share in New York (in US $) High 31.97 33.21 36.18 37.31 37.18 33.26
Low 30.12 30.08 33.24 34.10 29.94 30.16
PLC per 3
1
⁄9p ordinary share in London (in £) High 16.44 16.72 18.09 19.24 19.47 17.17
Low 15.36 15.15 16.57 17.32 15.16 15.53
PLC per American Depositary Receipt in New York (in US $) High 32.88 34.38 37.16 38.25 38.02 33.88
Low 31.18 31.11 34.46 35.07 29.90 30.46
Quarterly high and low prices for 2007 and 2006
2007 1st 2nd 3rd 4th
NV per €0.16 ordinary share in Amsterdam (in €) High 21.96 23.94 24.64 25.72
Low 18.89 21.32 20.70 21.22
NV per €0.16 ordinary share in New York (in US $) High 29.33 32.39 33.73 37.31
Low 24.94 28.63 28.11 30.08
PLC per 3
1
⁄9p ordinary share in London (in £) High 15.41 16.74 17.22 19.24
Low 13.20 14.95 14.49 15.15
PLC per American Depositary Receipt in New York (in US $) High 30.16 33.31 34.86 38.25
Low 25.57 29.64 28.95 31.11
2006 1st 2nd 3rd 4th
NV per €0.16 ordinary share in Amsterdam (in €) High 19.78 19.27 19.59 20.84
Low 18.53 16.53 17.26 19.22
NV per €0.16 ordinary share in New York (in US $) High 23.86 24.34 24.90 27.32
Low 22.69 20.72 21.74 24.20
PLC per 3
1
⁄9p ordinary share in London (in £) High 13.54 13.16 13.25 14.28
Low 12.74 11.25 11.84 12.94
PLC per American Depositary Receipt in New York (in US $) High 23.79 24.31 25.19 27.95
Low 22.45 20.66 21.77 24.28
Annual high and low prices
2007 2006 2005 2004 2003
NV per €0.16 ordinary share in Amsterdam (in €) High 25.72 20.84 20.27 19.92 19.98
Low 18.89 16.53 16.13 14.80 15.27
NV per €0.16 ordinary share in New York (in US $) High 37.31 27.32 24.02 24.80 21.63
Low 24.94 20.72 20.89 18.94 17.65
PLC per 3
1
⁄9p ordinary share in London (in £) High 19.24 14.28 13.39 12.80 13.96
Low 13.20 11.25 10.83 9.85 10.56
PLC per American Depositary Receipt in New York (in US $) High 38.25 27.95 23.67 24.17 21.93
Low 25.57 20.66 20.34 18.22 17.46 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007 141
Shareholder information continued
Shareholder information continued
Dividend record
Our interim ordinary dividends are normally announced in November and paid in December. Final ordinary dividends are normally
proposed in February and, if approved by shareholders at the Annual General Meetings, paid in June.
The following tables show the dividends paid by NV and PLC for the last ﬁve years, expressed in terms of the revised share
denominations which became effective from 22 May 2006. Dividends have been translated into US dollars at the exchange rates
prevailing on the dates of declaration of the dividend with the exception of the proposed ﬁnal dividend for 2007 (see below).
Differences between the amounts ultimately received by US holders of NV and PLC shares are the result of changes in exchange rate
between the equalisation of the dividends and the date of payment.
The interim dividend is normally 35% of the previous year’s total normal dividend per share, based on the stronger of our two parent
currencies over the ﬁrst nine months of the year. Equalisation of the interim dividend in the other currency takes place at the average
exchange rate of the third quarter. Equalisation of the ﬁnal dividend takes place at the average exchange rate for the full year.
Final dividends for 2007 are payable on 19 June 2008, subject to approval at the AGMs. For purposes of illustration, the amounts
payable in respect of NV New York Registry Shares and PLC ADRs have been translated in the table below at rates of exchange on
6 February 2008, which was the day before the date on which the proposed dividends were announced. The actual amounts payable
in US dollars will be calculated by reference to the exchange rates on the day on which the dividends are approved (15 May 2008 in
the case of NV and 14 May 2008 in the case of PLC).
The dividend timetable for 2008 is shown on page 142.
NV Dividends
2007 2006 2005 2004 2003
Interim dividend per €0.16 (Euros) 0.2500 0.2300 0.2200 0.2100 0.1967
Final dividend per €0.16 (Euros) – 0.4700 0.4400 0.4200 0.3833
Proposed ﬁnal dividend per €0.16 (Euros) 0.5000 ––––
One-off dividend per €0.16 (Euros) – 0.2600–––
Interim dividend per €0.16 (US Registry) (US dollars) 0.3612 0.2934 0.2638 0.2685 0.2296
Final dividend per €0.16 (US Registry) (US dollars) – 0.6363 0.5613 0.5399 0.4545
Proposed ﬁnal dividend per €0.16 (US Registry) (US dollars) 0.7311 ––––
One-off dividend per €0.16 (US Registry) (US dollars) – 0.3316–––
PLC Dividends
2007 2006 2005 2004 2003
Interim dividend per 3
1
⁄9p (Pounds) 0.1700 0.1562 0.1504 0.1407 0.1369
Final dividend per 3
1
⁄9p (Pounds) – 0.3204 0.3009 0.2849 0.2649
Proposed ﬁnal dividend per 3
1
⁄9p (Pounds) 0.3411 ––––
One-off dividend per 3
1
⁄9p (Pounds) – 0.1766–––
Interim dividend per 3
1
⁄9p (US Registry) (US dollars) 0.3525 0.2983 0.2655 0.2586 0.2315
Final dividend per 3
1
⁄9p (US Registry) (US dollars) – 0.6357 0.5583 0.5366 0.4694
Proposed ﬁnal dividend per 3
1
⁄9p (US Registry) (US dollars) 0.6684 ––––
One-off dividend per 3
1
⁄9p (US Registry) (US dollars) – 0.3372––– 142 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Shareholder information continued
Shareholder information continued
Financial calendar
Annual General Meetings
PLC 11:00am 14 May 2008 London
NV 10:30am 15 May 2008 Rotterdam
Announcements of results
First Quarter 8 May 2008 Third Quarter 30 October 2008
First Half Year 31 July 2008 Final for Year 5 February 2009
Final ordinary dividends for 2007
Announced 7 February 2008 and to be declared 14 May 2008 (PLC)  and 15 May 2008 (NV).
Ex-dividend Record Payment
date date date
NV 19 May 2008 21 May 2008 19 June 2008
PLC 21 May 2008 23 May 2008 19 June 2008
NV – New York Registry Shares 19 May 2008 21 May 2008 19 June 2008
PLC – American Depositary Receipts 21 May 2008 23 May 2008 19 June 2008
Interim dividends for 2008
To be announced 30 October 2008.
Ex-dividend Record Payment
date date date
NV 5 November 2008 7 November 2008 3 December 2008
PLC 5 November 2008 7 November 2008 3 December 2008
NV – New York Registry Shares 5 November 2008 7 November 2008 3 December 2008
PLC – American Depositary Receipts 5 November 2008 7 November 2008 3 December 2008
Preferential dividends – NV
Ex-dividend Record Payment
Announced date date date
4% Cumulative Preference 5 December 2008 8 December 2008 10 December 2008 2 January 2009
6% Cumulative Preference 5 September 2008 8 September 2008 10 September 2008 1 October 2008
7% Cumulative Preference 5 September 2008 8 September 2008 10 September 2008 1 October 2008
Contact details
Rotterdam London
Unilever N.V. Unilever PLC
Investor Relations Department Investor Relations Department
Weena 455, PO Box 760 Unilever House
3000 DK Rotterdam 100 Victoria Embankment
The Netherlands London EC4Y 0DY 
United Kingdom
Telephone +44 (0)20 7822 6830 Telephone +44 (0)20 7822 6830
Telefax +44 (0)20 7822 5754 Telefax +44 (0)20 7822 5754
Any queries can also be sent to us electronically via www.unilever.com/contactus Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007 143
Shareholder information continued
Shareholder information continued
Website
Shareholders are encouraged to visit our website 
www.unilever.com which has a wealth of information
about Unilever.
There is a section designed speciﬁcally for investors at 
www.unilever.com/investorcentre It includes detailed coverage 
of the Unilever share price, our quarterly and annual results,
performance charts, ﬁnancial news and investor relations
speeches and presentations. It also includes conference and
investor/analyst presentations.
You can also view this year’s and prior years’ Annual Review 
and Annual Report and Accounts documents at 
www.unilever.com/investorcentre
PLC shareholders can elect not to receive paper copies of 
the Annual Review, the Annual Report and Accounts and 
other shareholder documents by registering at
www.unilever.com/shareholderservices if they prefer to view 
these on our website.
Share registration
The Netherlands
N.V. Algemeen Nederlands 
Trustkantoor ANT
Claude Debussylaan 24
1082 MD Amsterdam
Telephone +31 (0)20 522 2555 
Telefax +31 (0)20 522 2500
Website www.ant-trust.nl/
Email registers@ant-trust.nl
UK
Computershare Investor Services PLC
The Pavilions
Bridgwater Road
Bristol BS99 6ZY
Telephone +44 (0)870 600 3977
Telefax +44 (0)870 703 6119
Website www.unilever.com/shareholderservices
Email web-queries@computershare.co.uk
USA
Citibank Shareholder Services
PO Box 43077
Providence   RI 02940-3077
Toll free phone (inside US) 888 502 6356
Toll phone (outside US) +1 781 575 455
Website www.citibank.com/adr
Email citibank@shareholders-online.com
Publications
Copies of the following publications can be accessed directly 
or ordered through www.unilever.com/investorcentre or
www.unilever.nl/onsbedrijf/beleggers
Unilever Annual Review 2007
Including Summary Financial Statement. Available in English or
Dutch, with ﬁnancial information in euros, pounds sterling and
US dollars.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Available in English or Dutch, with ﬁgures in euros. It forms 
the basis for the Form 20-F that is ﬁled with the United States
Securities and Exchange Commission. 
Quarterly Results Announcements
Available in English or Dutch, with ﬁgures in euros; supplements
in English, with pounds sterling or US dollar ﬁgures, are
also available. Accounting policies 1, 27-28, 72-76
Acquisitions 24, 73, 113
Advertising and promotion 28
Americas, The 16-18, 77-79
Annual General Meetings 39, 142
Asia Africa 18-19, 77-79
Associates 90, 120
Audit Committee 37, 62
Auditors 62, 67-68, 121, 127, 132
Balance sheet 25, 70
Biographical details 46-47
Biological assets 90
Board committees 37-38
Board remuneration 49-61
Boards 33
Brands 8-9, 21
Capital expenditure 78, 80, 88-89
Cash 74, 93
Cash ﬂow 26, 71, 116
Categories 8-9
Chairman 3, 35
Commitments 112
Company accounts, statutory and other information 127-136
Competition 8
Contingent liabilities 112
Corporate governance 33-47
Corporate responsibility 12
Corporate Responsibility and Reputation Committee 38, 63
Deferred tax 28, 91
Depreciation 78, 90-91
Directors’ responsibilities 66
Discontinued operations 114-115
Disposals 24, 113-114
Distribution 8
Diversity 9-10
Dividends 25, 86, 141, 142
Earnings per share 41, 69, 85
Employees 9
Equalisation Agreement 40-41
Equity 108
Europe 15-16, 77-79
Exchange rates 1, 23, 72, 124
Executive Directors 35-36, 46, 51-58
Exports 8
Finance and liquidity 26
Finance costs and income 82
Financial calendar 142
Financial instruments 28, 73-74, 97-101
Financial liabilities 74, 94-96
Financial record 122-124
Financial Review 23-32
Foods 8, 20-22
Functions 8
Goodwill 27-28, 73, 86-87
Gross proﬁt 81
Group Chief Executive 4-5, 35
Group structure 1
Home and Personal Care 8, 20-22
Home care 8, 79-80
Ice cream and beverages 8, 79-80
Impairment 86-87
Income statement 69
Information technology 10
Innovation 20-22
Intangible assets 27-28, 73, 86-87
Intellectual property 10
Internal and disclosure controls 66
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) 1, 72
Inventories 74, 91
Joint ventures 90, 120
Key management 120
Key performance indicators 6-7
Laws and regulation 10
Leases 75, 112
Legal proceedings 10-12
Market capitalisation 25
Net debt 32
Nomination Committee 37, 48
Non-Executive Directors 36, 46, 59-60
Non-GAAP measures 29, 32
Off-balance sheet arrangements 26
Operating costs 81
Operating proﬁt 77-80
Operating Review 15-22
Payables 102
Pensions and similar obligations 27, 28, 74, 103-107
Personal care 8, 79-80
Post balance sheet events 27, 121
Preference shares and dividends 94, 142
Principal group companies 125-126
Property, plant and equipment 10, 73, 88-89
Provisions 28, 75, 102
Receivables 92
Regions 7, 15-19
Related party transactions 8, 120
Remuneration Committee 37, 49-61
Research and development 20-21
Reserves 110
Restructuring 81, 102
Retained proﬁt 111
Return on invested capital (ROIC) 29, 31
Revenue recognition 75
Risk management 13-14, 62, 97
Savoury, dressings and spreads 8, 79-80
Seasonality 8
Segment information 75, 77-80
Share-based payments 75, 117-119
Share capital 41-42, 109
Shareholders 38-40, 137-138
Share prices 140
Share registration 143
Staff costs 82
Statement of recognised income and expense 69
Strategy 6
Taxation 76, 83-84
Total shareholder return (TSR) 29, 32
Treasury 26-27
Turnover 77-80
Unilever Executive (UEx) 47
Unilever Foodsolutions 9
Underlying sales growth (USG) 29, 32
Ungeared free cash ﬂow (UFCF) 29, 30
Ventures 9
Voting 39
Website 143
144 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Index
Shareholder information continued Designed and produced by Unilever Communications 
in conjunction with Addison Corporate Marketing
Typeset by Paufﬂey, London
Printed by St Ives Westerham Press Ltd. ISO 14001: 2004, 
FSC certiﬁed and CarbonNeutral
This document is printed on Greencoat Plus Velvet which 
has been independently certiﬁed according to the rules 
of the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC). Greencoat Plus 
Velvet contains 80% recycled ﬁbre. The manufacturing 
mill is accredited with the ISO 14001 Environmental 
Standard. In recognition of its recycled content Greencoat 
Plus Velvet has also been awarded the NAPM recycled 
mark. This document is completely recyclable. If you have 
ﬁnished with it and no longer wish to retain it, please pass 
it on to other interested readers or dispose of it in your 
recycled paper waste, thank you.
Cautionary statement
This document may contain forward-looking statements, including ‘forward-looking statements’ within the meaning of the United States Private Securities Litigation
Reform Act of 1995. Words such as ‘expects’, ‘anticipates’, ‘intends’ or the negative of these terms and other similar expressions of future performance or results,
including ﬁnancial objectives to 2010, and their negatives, are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are based
upon current expectations and assumptions regarding anticipated developments and other factors affecting the Group. They are not historical facts, nor are they
guarantees of future performance. Because these forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, there are important factors that could cause actual
results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements, including, among others, competitive pricing and activities,
consumption levels, costs, the ability to maintain and manage key customer relationships and supply chain sources, currency values, interest rates, the ability to
integrate acquisitions and complete planned divestitures, the ability to complete planned restructuring activities, physical risks, environmental risks, the ability to
manage regulatory, tax and legal matters and resolve pending matters within current estimates, legislative, ﬁscal and regulatory developments, political, economic
and social conditions in the geographic markets where the Group operates and new or changed priorities of the Boards. Further details of potential risks and
uncertainties affecting the Group are described in the Group’s ﬁlings with the London Stock Exchange, Euronext Amsterdam and the US Securities and Exchange
Commission, including the Annual Report and Accounts on Form 20-F. These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this document. Except as
required by any applicable law or regulation, the Group expressly disclaims any obligation or undertaking to release publicly any updates or revisions to any forward-
looking statements contained herein to reﬂect any change in the Group’s expectations with regard thereto or any change in events, conditions or circumstances on
which any such statement is based. 
This document does not comply with US GAAP and should not therefore be relied upon by readers as such. The Group’s Annual Report on Form 20-F for 2007 is
separately ﬁled with the US Securities and Exchange Commission and is available on our corporate website www.unilever.com In addition, a printed copy of the
Annual Report on Form 20-F is available, free of charge, upon request to Unilever PLC, Investor Relations Department, Unilever House, 100 Victoria Embankment,
London EC4Y 0DY, United Kingdom. Unilever N.V.
Weena 455, PO Box 760
3000 DK Rotterdam
The Netherlands
T +31 (0)10 217 4000
F +31 (0)10 217 4798
Commercial Register Rotterdam
Number: 24051830
Unilever PLC
Unilever House
100 Victoria Embankment
London EC4Y 0DY
United Kingdom
T +44 (0)20 7822 5252
F +44 (0)20 7822 5951
Unilever PLC registered office
Unilever PLC
Port Sunlight 
Wirral
Merseyside CH62 4ZD
United Kingdom
Registered in England and Wales
Company Number: 41424
www.unilever.com Disclaimer
Notes to the Annual Review 2007 This PDF version of the Unilever Annual Review 2007  
is an exact copy of the document provided to Unilever’s shareholders. It is a short form  
document that contains extracts and summaries only of the information given in the  
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007 (“the Full Report”). The Full Report should  
be referred to for a fuller understanding of the results and state of affairs of Unilever
The Summary Financial Statement in the Unilever Annual Review 2007 has been 
examined by our auditors.
The maintenance and integrity of the Unilever website are the responsibility of the Directors; 
the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters.  
Accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have 
occurred to the financial statements since they were initially placed on the website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom and the Netherlands governing the preparation and  
dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Disclaimer Except where you are a shareholder, this material is provided for information  
purposes only and is not, in particular, intended to confer any legal rights on you.
This Annual Review does not constitute an invitation to invest in Unilever shares.  
Any decisions you make in reliance on this information are solely your responsibility.
The information is given as of the dates specified, is not updated, and any forward-looking 
statements are made subject to the reservations specified on page 37 of this Annual Review.
Unilever accepts no responsibility for any information on other websites that may be 
accessed from this site by hyperlinks. Adding Vitality to life
Annual Review 2007
Growing as One Unilever made good progress in 2007. Our underlying 
growth was 5.5% – the third consecutive year of 
accelerating sales growth.
These results are a tribute to our success in implementing  
our strategy. We made big strides in each of our key priority 
areas – the fast-growing markets of Asia, Africa and Latin 
America; growth in personal care; and a higher proportion  
of our sales coming from Vitality products.
The success of our One Unilever programme, the 
introduction of more multi-country organisations and  
other changes to our operating model have streamlined  
the business, simplified decision making and made  
Unilever a leaner, fitter, more responsive company.
Growing as One 
Who we are
Who we are 
01 | Highlights of the year
 01 | Financial highlights
 02 | Global highlights
 02 | Regional highlights
 03 | Key facts
04 | Our global brands
Chairman’s statement 
06 | A message from Michael Treschow Highlights of the year
How we performed 
08 | Group Chief Executive’s review
 12 | Global review
 16 | Regional performance: Europe 
 18 | Regional performance: The Americas
20 | Regional performance: Asia Africa
Governance and 
financial statements 
22 | Board of Directors 
24 | Summary Financial Statement
28 | Corporate governance
31 | Summary remuneration report
Shareholder 
information 
36 | Contact details
37 | Financial calendar and addresses
Important note
 The two parent companies, Unilever N.V. (NV) and Unilever PLC (PLC), together with their group companies, operate effectively as a single economic entity (the Unilever 
Group, also referred to as Unilever or the Group). This Annual Review therefore deals with the operations and the results of the Unilever Group as a whole. The Unilever 
Annual Review (which contains the Summary Financial Statement) and Annual Report and Accounts are produced in Dutch and English. 
Forward-looking statements
This document contains certain statements that are neither reported ﬁ nancial results nor other historical information. These statements are forward-looking statements 
including within the meaning of the US Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. For a description of factors that could affect future results, reference should be 
made to the full ‘Cautionary statement’ on page 37.
 Financial highlights
•  Underlying sales 
growth of 5.5%
•  Operating margin of 
13.1%, with an underlying 
improvement of 
0.2 percentage points
•  Earnings per share 
from continuing 
operations up 12%
 •  Total regular dividends 
to rise by 7%
40 187 2007
2006 39 642
Turnover
(1)(2)(3)
€ million
27 416 2007
2006 27 028
£ million
13.1 2007
2006 13.6
Operating margin
(1)
%
0.75 2007
2006 0.70
Dividends
(3)(4)
€ 
per Ordinary €0.16 share of NV
51.11 2007
2006 47.66
pence
per Ordinary 3
1
/9p share of PLC
(1)  From continuing operations.
(2)  Sterling translated for convenience only. 
(3)  For $ conversions, see the Summary Financial Statement on pages 25 and 26.
(4)  In addition, a one-off dividend of €0.26 per Ordinary NV share and 17.66p per 
Ordinary PLC share was paid in December 2006.
5 245 2007
2006 5 408
Operating proﬁ t
(1)(2)(3)
€ million
3 578 2007
2006 3 687
£ million
5.5 2007
2006 3.8
Underlying sales growth
(1)
%
Unilever Annual Review 2007   1 Regional highlights
Who we are
Highlights of the year continued
The Americas
Turnover of €13 442 million (33% of Group)
Underlying sales growth of 4.1%
Operating profit of €1 971 million
Operating margin of 14.7%
Sustained good performance in the US
 Increased momentum in Brazil and Mexico
 Our One Unilever programme simplified 
operations across the region
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
 Global highlights
•  Widespread growth across regions 
and categories
•  Key driver is strategic focus on 
developing and emerging markets, 
personal care and Vitality
•  Increasing contribution from price in 
response to rising commodity costs
•  Strong cost savings programmes 
delivering €1 billion in the year
•  Substantial progress made with 
portfolio development and 
accelerated restructuring
•  Named International Supplier of 
the Year by Tesco for the second 
year running
•  Wal-Mart’s 2007 Supplier of the 
Year for Sustainable Engagement
2   Unilever Annual Review 2007 Europe
Turnover of €15 205 million (38% of Group)
Underlying sales growth of 2.8%
Operating profit of €1 678 million
Operating margin of 11.0%
Marked improvement in Western Europe
Outstanding performance in Russia
 Improved growth in all major countries including UK, 
Germany, Italy and the Netherlands
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
Asia Africa
 Turnover of €11 540 million (29% of Group)
Underlying sales growth of 11.1%
Operating profit of €1 596 million
Operating margin of 13.8%
 Strong growth reflecting vibrant markets and priority placed on 
building business in this region
 All major developing and emerging businesses growing strongly
Continued good progress in China
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
Key facts
 1 74 000
employees at the end of 2007
 21
nationalities among our top level 
group of 113 managers
 around 1 00
countries in which we operate
 over 81 000
employees given access to the web-
enabled Learning Management System 
in the ﬁ rst year
 €89m
contributed to communities around 
the world in 2007
 9 years
as foods producers sector leader of 
the Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes
 €868m
spent on R&D worldwide
 over 
1
/3
reduction in CO 2 emissions from 
energy per tonne of product produced 
over 1995-2006
Unilever Annual Review 2007   3 Who we are
Our global brands
Our strong portfolio of foods, home and 
personal care brands is trusted by consumers 
the world over. Among them, the top 
25 brands account for over 70% of our sales.
Knorr 
Hellmann’s
Blue Band
Becel/Flora
Bertolli
Savoury, dressings and spreads
• Turnover of €7 600 million
• Underlying sales growth of 4.2%
Ice cream and beverages
Some of our brands may be marketed under alternative names in certain countries.
Lipton
Heartbrand ice creams (Magnum)
Slim •Fast
• Turnover of €13 988 million
• Underlying sales growth of 5.0%
4   Unilever Annual Review 2007 Becel/Flora
Blue Band
Dove
Heartbrand ice creams
Hellmann’s
Knorr
Lipton 
Lux
Omo
Rexona
Sunsilk
Surf
Our €1 billion global brands
Lux
Sunsilk 
Dove 
Rexona
Axe
Pond’s
Vaseline
Lifebuoy
Signal
Personal care
Surf
Omo (Persil)
Radiant (Rin)
Comfort 
Cif
Domestos
Sunlight
Home care
• Turnover of €11 302 million
• Underlying sales growth of 6.7%
• Turnover of €7 297 million
• Underlying sales growth of 6.1%
Unilever Annual Review 2007   5 Chairman’s statement
A message from Michael Treschow
Michael Treschow became the first 
independent Non-Executive Chairman 
of the Boards of Unilever in May 2007. 
When I joined Unilever in May 2007 I was aware that the Unilever Executive led by 
Patrick Cescau was driving a process of sweeping change aimed at transforming the 
Group. Since then I have visited a number of Unilever operations in Asia and Europe. 
I have met with many employees and learned a great deal about the brands which 
the Group sells and the technology which underpins them. I have also spoken to 
investors to get their perceptions of the business. 
All of these encounters have conﬁ rmed the preconceptions which I had before joining 
the Group: Unilever is a business with an extraordinary portfolio of brands, talented 
people, deep roots in developing and emerging markets, a strong commitment to 
sustainability and a distinctive corporate culture.
The Group’s strong performance in 2007, with higher growth and an improvement 
in underlying margin, is something about which the entire business can feel proud. 
It is also further validation that the strategy being pursued by Patrick and his team 
is the right one, and that this strategy is being executed very effectively.
This strategy with its sharp focus on Vitality products, developing markets and 
faster growing product areas like personal care has dramatically changed the business. 
The structure is much leaner and simpler. It is enabling Unilever to maximise its 
considerable advantages of buying, manufacturing and marketing scale.
Some of the restructuring which has taken place has led to a reduction in employee 
numbers. Decisions which have an impact on employees’ lives and livelihoods are 
never taken lightly. However, I have been impressed and reassured by the caring and 
responsible way in which the Group has executed these changes. 
The Boards in 2007
Corporate governance in Unilever has undergone radical change in the period since 
2004. We continue to ensure that we meet the highest standards in all the markets 
in which we operate.
The composition of the Boards themselves has also evolved. We have enriched their
diversity and experience with three new Non-Executive Directors: Narayana Murthy, 
Hixonia Nyasulu and Genevieve Berger. 
Our mission
Unilever’s mission is 
to add Vitality to life. 
We meet everyday 
needs for nutrition, 
hygiene and personal 
care with brands that 
help people feel good, 
look good and get 
more out of life.
 Michael Treschow
 Chairman
6   Unilever Annual Review 2007 Narayana, co-founder and Chairman of Infosys Technologies Limited, brings a deep 
knowledge of emerging markets and expertise in IT as well as impressive business 
leadership skills. Hixonia is a highly experienced Non-Executive Director with Sasol Ltd. 
She is also an Advisory Board Member of JP Morgan South Africa and brings ﬁ rst-hand 
experience of African markets. Genevieve contributes her impressive expertise in research 
and development; she is Professor of Biophysics and Medical Imaging at Paris University VI 
and Chairman of the Advisory Board ‘Health’ for the EU Commission for Research. 
All three joined our Corporate Responsibility and Reputation Committee when they took 
up their posts in May. Their appointment to this committee, now chaired by Lord Brittan, 
signals its growing importance and the Group’s commitment to keeping sustainability at 
the heart of its activities.
Each of the newcomers was given an extensive programme of induction covering key issues 
facing the business.
In September 2007 we also welcomed Jim Lawrence as our new Chief Financial Ofﬁ cer; 
he will be proposed for election as an Executive Director at the AGMs in May 2008. 
Jim, who came from General Mills, is a Non-Executive Director of British Airways and 
Avnet. He replaced Rudy Markham who retired in 2007 after a distinguished career 
spanning four decades. 
Whilst welcoming Jim, we will be saying goodbye to two Directors who are leaving. 
Kees van der Graaf after 32 years service in the business, most recently as President, 
Europe and Ralph Kugler, currently President, Home and Personal Care, who has served 
the business for 29 years. On behalf of the Boards I thank them both for the signiﬁ cant 
contribution they have made to our business throughout their careers.
During the year, we also said goodbye to Jean-Cyril Spinetta who stepped down as a 
member of the Boards and the Remuneration Committee. I would like to acknowledge 
his wise counsel and experience during his term as a Non-Executive Director. 
In our Board meetings, we have discussed a wide range of topics including the Group’s 
annual plan, performance in key markets such as Russia and China, organisation and 
talent, and the role of science and technology. We also reviewed and fully agreed the 
Unilever strategy and the new plans to accelerate change, including portfolio change 
and business restructuring. 
An important part of my role is consistently to evaluate the effectiveness of the Boards. 
In 2007 our Senior Independent Director and I conducted a formal assessment, 
including performance-related interviews with each Board member. The ﬁ ndings were 
discussed by the Boards and will result in further improvements. 
I am proud that we have Boards that are properly equipped to give Patrick and his team 
all the support that they need.
On a personal note, I ﬁ nd this an exciting time to work for Unilever. The business is doing 
well and, with its wealth of talented people, its great global brands and its ambitious 
business plans, is on track to do even better. On behalf of the Boards, I would like to thank 
all the Group’s employees around the world for all that they have done in 2007. I look 
forward to serving the Unilever Group to the very best of my ability in the years ahead.
Michael Treschow
Chairman
Kenya
It was with great sadness that we learned 
in January 2008 of the deaths of nine 
of our employees on the Unilever tea 
plantation in Kericho. All of them were 
victims of the violence which followed 
the presidential elections.
I have been heartened by the Group’s 
response to the tragedy. It made a 
donation of $1 million to the World Food 
Programme to assist with food aid in the 
country at large. In parallel the Lipton and 
PG Tips brands, which source much of 
their tea from Kenya, made available 
funds to help both the bereaved and the 
many other employees who lost their 
homes and possessions in the troubles.
“ I am proud that we 
have Boards that are 
properly equipped to 
give Patrick and his 
team all the support 
that they need.”
Unilever Annual Review 2007   7 How we performed
Group Chief Executive’s review
2007 was a good year for Unilever. We
have grown consistently, achieving our
best underlying sales growth in a decade.
Despite a challenging cost environment,
we also delivered an increase in underlying
operating margin.
I am pleased to report on a good year for Unilever – one in which we continued to grow
competitively, consistently and proﬁ tably. With a clear growth strategy and an organisational 
structure to support it, there is growing evidence of improved momentum in our business.
In 2007 underlying sales grew by 5.5% – the third consecutive year of accelerating sales
growth. At the same time, we achieved an underlying improvement in our operating
margin, despite sharply rising commodity costs. Our growth was broad-based, across
all our major regions and categories. 
 
In Europe we achieved growth of nearly 3% – up from 1% the year before. The beneﬁ ts
of all the structural changes we have made in this region over the past three years are now
coming through both in terms of growth and underlying margin. 
Russia was the star performer – with growth in the high teens – but all our major European
businesses grew in 2007.
In the Americas full year growth was 4%. Brazil and Mexico showed an improving
performance during the year, while the US grew solidly at 3%. 
In Asia Africa we recorded 11% growth. The performance reﬂ ects not just the vibrancy of
these markets but also the high priority which we place on building our business in this part
of the world. Once again, India and China were important contributors to our success.
The picture was equally strong across our categories, driven by some great innovations.
“ With a clear growth 
strategy and an 
organisational 
structure to support 
it, there is growing 
evidence of improved 
momentum in 
our business.”
 Patrick Cescau
 Group Chief Executive
8   Unilever Annual Review 2007 Home care had a strong year, fuelled by an excellent performance from our laundry business 
where the Dirt is Good brands strengthened still further on the back of innovations like 
Persil Small & Mighty. We also had great success in household care with innovative new 
variants of brands like Cif and Domestos. 
Our Foods category also did very well. Our largest brand Knorr came close to €4 billion 
in sales. Lipton tea prospered from a series of good innovations and so too did ice cream. 
Unilever Foodsolutions, our global food service business, also turned in another good 
performance, conﬁ rming the important opportunity that out-of-home consumption offers us.
An endorsement of our strategy
These results are testimony to the fact that our strategy of focusing resources on brands, 
categories and countries with the highest growth and proﬁ t potential is working.
One key area is developing and emerging (D&E) markets. Over the next few years 
consumer spending in these markets will overtake developed countries in terms of 
purchasing power parity. Unilever has an unparalleled footprint in the developing world, 
as well as an extensive knowledge of local consumers and a proven ability to deliver 
health, hygiene and nutrition products which meet the needs of populations which are 
growing in size, wealth and aspiration.
Personal care – another strategic priority – saw continued strong growth, at nearly 7%. 
It continues to be our fastest-growing business, with strong global brands like Dove, Pond’s, 
Lux and Rexona. 
Our Vitality mission – to help people feel good, look good and get more out of life – remains 
central to our strategy, inspiring products such as a very low fat variant of Hellmann’s 
mayonnaise; Amaze snacks, with nutrients to help support the mental development of 
school-aged children; Lipton Linea slimming teas; and the Dove pro·age range with beneﬁ ts 
for mature women.
Of course, our brands must be constantly refreshed to retain their edge. In 2007, across 
each of our major categories, growth was driven by a combination of innovation – new 
products and new mixes – and renovation – the strengthening of existing brands through 
new variants, new packaging or new marketing. 
“ In 2007 we focused 
on bigger innovations 
and rolled them 
out faster around 
the world.“
A strategy 
for growth 
Our strategy of focusing resources on 
brands, categories and countries with 
the highest potential has delivered 
three consecutive years of accelerating 
sales growth.
Growth at a glance
A leaner, 
fitter business
The One Unilever programme underpins 
our growth – creating a leaner, more 
resilient and ﬂ exible organisation, which 
is better placed than ever before to meet 
challenges and respond to opportunities. 
Expanding 
D&E markets
Our unparalleled footprint in the 
developing world helps fuel our growth. 
We draw on our knowledge of local 
consumers to create health, hygiene 
and nutrition products which meet the 
needs of fast-growing populations.
www.unilever.com/annualreview/questions
on the web
Unilever Annual Review 2007   9 Group Chief Executive’s review continued
In 2007 we focused on bigger innovations and rolled them out faster around the world. 
Clear, a shampoo with superior anti-dandruff active delivery technology, was launched 
simultaneously in several countries, including three of the biggest hair care markets in 
the world – China, Russia and Brazil. We also achieved a better transfer of mixes across 
continents and cultures, in some cases creating new markets. For example, we successfully 
launched our male deodorant brand Axe in Japan. After just six months it is the leader in 
its market.
A leaner, ﬁ tter business
During the year we made signiﬁ cant progress in reshaping the organisation to create 
a leaner, more ﬂ exible business structure. 
Our One Unilever operating model is being implemented in every major country. We are 
now taking this a step further with the creation of new multi-country organisations – 
clusters of neighbouring countries with one central management structure, leveraging 
regional scale through shared services for functions such as HR, IT and Finance. These 
changes are all part of our accelerated programme of restructuring announced last summer. 
We further shaped our portfolio through disposals and acquisitions, including the announced 
sale of Boursin and Lawry’s – brands that offered limited growth potential for Unilever. 
We also announced agreements to acquire the Buavita vitality drinks brand in Indonesia 
and – only recently – Inmarko, the leading ice cream business in Russia. These transactions 
accelerate our strategy of building leadership positions in fast-growing markets.
This is the right strategy for Unilever but – like any strategy – it is only as good as the 
execution. That is why we also continue to build our strengths in critical areas such as 
consumer marketing and customer development. In both cases our progress was recognised 
externally. In marketing, we received a clutch of awards at the Cannes International 
Advertising Festival, with Dove and Axe achieving three ‘Grand Prix’ trophies. In customer 
development, Unilever was named International Supplier of the Year by Tesco for the second 
year running.
We are also raising our game in research and development (R&D), recognising the crucial 
role technology can play in the quality of our innovations. Underlining the importance of 
R&D, we appointed our ﬁ rst Chief Technology Ofﬁ cer, Neal Matheson, in 2007. Neal leads 
the development of world class capabilities in science and technology and champions 
excellence in all our innovation activity. 
Of course, some changes required difﬁ cult decisions. In Europe, the restructuring is leading 
to signiﬁ cant job losses. But painful as these decisions have been, they are the right ones for 
the long-term health of the business. 
“ During the year 
we made significant 
progress in reshaping 
the organisation 
to create a leaner, 
more flexible 
business structure.“
Reaching the world’s 
newest consumers
Shakti Unilever Executive
The Unilever Executive (UEx) is responsible 
for the performance of the Group, guided 
by the Group Chief Executive.
1   Sandy Ogg
Chief HR Ofﬁ cer
2  Patrick Cescau
Group Chief Executive
3  James Lawrence
Chief Financial Ofﬁ cer
4  Ralph Kugler
President Home and Personal Care
5  Harish Manwani
President Asia Africa
6  Kees van der Graaf
President Europe
7  Vindi Banga
President Foods
8  Michael Polk
President Americas
One in eight people on the planet live 
in an Indian village. Hindustan Unilever’s 
Shakti Entrepreneur Programme 
helps women in rural India set up 
small businesses as direct-to-consumer 
retailers. The scheme equips women 
with business skills and a way out of 
poverty as well as creating a crucial new 
distribution channel for Unilever products
in the large and fast-growing global 
market of low-spending consumers. 
By 2010 the Shakti network aims to 
have reached 600 million consumers. 
How we performed
10   Unilever Annual Review 2007 Keeping sustainability at the heart of Unilever
We believe Unilever can only continue to thrive if we conduct our business in a 
sustainable manner.
Integrating social, economic and environmental considerations therefore sits at the heart 
of many of our brand strategies. A great demonstration of this was the decision to source 
all of our tea from sustainable, ethical sources. To support this signiﬁ cant change, we asked 
the Rainforest Alliance to start auditing our tea suppliers with immediate effect. The aim is 
to have all Lipton Yellow Label and PG Tips tea bags sold in Western Europe certiﬁ ed by 
2010 and all Lipton tea bags sold globally by 2015. 
We also set the ambitious target of a further 25% reduction in the business’s CO 2 emissions 
from energy sources used in production by 2012. And we continued to develop our 
partnerships with key retail customers, sharing our sustainability expertise to support 
them in achieving their goals. Wal-Mart responded by naming us 2007 Supplier of the 
Year for Sustainable Engagement. 
The year ahead
Notwithstanding some economic uncertainty and the rising costs of many materials, we 
are conﬁ dent that Unilever can grow consistently, proﬁ tably and competitively in 2008.
The changes we have made in recent years leave Unilever more resilient and better placed than 
ever before to meet challenges and respond to opportunities. We have a more ﬂ exible, 
dynamic structure, an increasingly powerful brand portfolio, an unparalleled footprint in the 
developing world, and – in 2008 – we have another exciting programme of innovations and 
new product launches. Furthermore, we operate in sectors less susceptible than others to the 
effects of an economic downturn: people will always need to eat, wash and clean their homes.
For all these reasons we remain optimistic about the year ahead and conﬁ dent of making 
further progress towards our longer-term ﬁ nancial objectives.
On a personal note I would like to thank two members of the Unilever Executive who will leave 
us in 2008 – Kees van der Graaf and Ralph Kugler. They have been valued colleagues over 
many years and I thank them for their contribution. Indeed, I would thank the whole of my 
Executive team, including two great additions during the year, Mike Polk and Jim Lawrence, the 
latter joining from outside as our new Chief Financial Ofﬁ cer. Thanks also to my colleagues on 
the Boards, under our new Chairman, Michael Treschow, and especially to every one of our 
employees around the world for their invaluable contribution to the business’s progress in 2007 .
Working together, as One Unilever, I am conﬁ dent that we can look forward to delivering 
continued success in 2008.
Accelerating 
transformation 
Our One Unilever programme is already streamlining 
the business by creating single operating companies 
for each country and outsourcing parts of our IT, 
HR and Finance functions. In 2007 we announced 
plans to accelerate our change programme further 
by developing more multi-country organisations 
(MCOs) – clusters of countries with a single centralised 
management and shared functions. MCOs reduce 
duplication and free up resources to focus on customers 
and consumers. All regions announced or continued 
to implement MCOs in the year. The newly announced 
MCOs include Benelux; Germany, Austria and 
Switzerland; UK/Ireland; and Central Africa.
1  2 3 4 5 6 7 8 
Unilever Annual Review 2007   11 How we performed
Global review
Our products are 
chosen by consumers
 160 million times every 
day. On sale in over 
 150 countries around 
the world, they meet 
everyday needs for 
nutrition, hygiene and 
personal care.
Growing 
brands globally Our brands are household names in many 
countries around the world.
We create products that appeal to people’s 
different preferences, based on our deep 
understanding of consumers’ varied habits 
and lifestyles. 
Food and nutrition
We aim to provide foods which both taste 
great and are good for you, and, in so 
doing, become the world’s leading food 
and nutrition business.
To fulﬁ l our goal, we are systematically 
improving the nutritional proﬁ le of our 
product range through our Nutrition 
Enhancement Programme. By the end 
of 2007 we had assessed the nutritional 
composition of all our products – totalling 
over 22 000 recipes – and removed a 
further 2 750 tonnes of saturated fat, 
170 tonnes of salt and 5 000 tonnes of 
sugar. This is in addition to the substantial 
reductions already made by 2006.
We are also committed to ensuring that 
consumers are able to make informed 
choices when buying our products. As well 
as listing nutritional information on the 
back of packaging, we are implementing 
the Choices programme, with a front-of-
pack stamp that identiﬁ es products which 
meet internationally accepted dietary advice. 
In 2007 we continued rolling the programme 
out globally together with other food 
companies, under the auspices of the 
Choices International Foundation. This was 
launched during 2007 and is advised by an 
independent scientiﬁ c committee. The 
stamp can now be found on products in 
more than 50 countries around the world. 
See www.choicesinternational.org for 
more information.
We focus on three key areas of consumer 
beneﬁ t when developing new products: 
functional foods, lighter options, and 
naturalness and authenticity. For example, 
in 2007 we developed Promise Activ 
SuperShots, a Vitality shot with added 
natural plant sterols, ingredients that are 
clinically proven to help actively remove 
cholesterol as part of a diet low in 
saturated fat and cholesterol. 
Meanwhile, Hellmann’s Extra Light uses 
citrus ﬁ bre to create a great tasting, very 
low fat mayonnaise. Because of its low 
fat content the product has a higher 
margin – particularly valuable at a time 
of increasing edible oil costs. 
Lipton Green Tea in the US, Lipton Linea 
slimming teas in Europe, and Lipton Milk 
Tea in Asia all ﬂ ourished by exploiting 
tea’s credentials as a healthy beverage. 
And a new range of restaurant-quality 
frozen meals from Bertolli, which are 
packed with fresh vegetables and ready 
to eat in minutes, was a hit with North 
American consumers. 
Health, hygiene and beauty 
The desire to be clean and healthy and 
to look good is universal. Our home 
and personal care brands have promoted 
health, hygiene and beauty since the 
late 19
th
 century and continue to play 
a vital role in millions of homes around 
the world today. 
In 2007 our household cleaning business 
had a particularly successful year, with 
brands such as Cif and Domestos helping 
it grow by 9%. From simple soap bars 
to the most technically advanced 
concentrated liquids, our laundry brands 
are also growing fast. 
In skin care, the Pond’s brand went from 
strength to strength in South East Asia, 
China and India, powered in part by 
the launch of a new anti-ageing range. 
Vaseline was our fastest-growing global 
skin brand, with underlying sales growth 
of more than 8%. Vaseline Cocoa Butter 
range was its most successful launch 
in the US in ten years. The brand also 
announced the Vaseline Skin Fund, which 
is expected to launch in the UK and the US 
in 2008 – and give 1 million people better 
access to information about managing 
skin complaints. 
Landmark pledge on sustainable tea 
Unilever took a historic step in 2007 when it committed 
to buying all its tea from sustainable, ethical sources – 
transforming the tea industry and improving the crops, 
income and livelihood of 2 million people across three 
continents. Lipton, the world’s largest tea brand, and PG Tips, 
one of the UK’s leading brands, became the ﬁ rst to carry 
the Rainforest Alliance logo, showing they meet the 
independent organisation’s strict sustainability criteria – 
covering areas such as wildlife protection, water 
conservation and fair treatment of workers. The ﬁ rst 
certiﬁ ed tea was supplied to restaurants and the catering 
trade in Europe; all Lipton tea bags sold globally are 
expected to be certiﬁ ed by 2015. 
www.unilever.com
on the web
Senior Executive Seminar 
The Senior Executive Seminar, our pioneering leadership development programme, 
was led this year by leading business academic C K Prahalad. The event brought 
together 28 of our top leaders to examine key business issues, with a particularly 
strong external focus. They concentrated on developing and emerging markets, 
visiting more than 50 companies and 20 NGOs to gain insights into global trends 
and practices for opening up opportunities at the ‘bottom of the economic 
pyramid’. The group’s ﬁ ndings have been shared with the Unilever Executive and 
Board of Directors, and are helping to shape further our approach in these markets.
www.unilever.com/lipton
on the web
Unilever Annual Review 2007   13 Our deodorant brands also made good 
progress in 2007, with Axe and Rexona 
both achieving double-digit growth. 
Rexona is the world’s leading deodorant 
brand and Axe holds a leading position 
in male deodorants (see box, page 21).
Oral Care returned to growth in Europe 
while continuing its robust performance 
in Indonesia, China and Africa – aided 
by innovations such as a combined 
toothpaste and mouthwash. During 
the year we announced the extension 
of our partnership with the FDI World 
Dental Federation, which represents
more than 1 million dentists, and we 
work together with the FDI in oral health 
promotion and education programmes.
Science and technology
We are proud of our reputation as a 
world leader in research and development. 
In 2007 we achieved growth across our 
categories both through innovation – new 
products and new mixes – and through 
renovation – the strengthening of existing 
brands with new variants, packaging 
or advertising.
We strive to bring innovations to market 
more swiftly than ever before. Following 
the completion of a major reorganisation 
of our research and development (R&D) 
activities, we have concentrated R&D in 
global and regional centres in order to 
make the very best use of our resources 
and create centres which are innovation 
powerhouses. We are also increasingly 
working on fewer, larger scale projects, 
having carefully chosen those that we 
think will deliver the most value to the 
business either in terms of product sales 
or margin improvements. 
Recent developments include Amaze 
Brainfood – a range of nutritious snacks 
and drinks that are speciﬁ cally designed 
to support mental development in 
children. The 2006 launch was the result 
of a €40 million, four-year R&D project. 
Already selling well in Turkey, Amaze is 
expected to launch in India in 2008. 
We have also developed a breakthrough 
technology that includes the use of Ice 
Structuring Proteins (ISP) in ice cream. 
This enables a wide range of ice cream 
innovations, including signiﬁ cantly 
healthier options and better quality 
ice cream. Ice creams that contain ISP 
are available in a number of countries 
in the Americas and Asia Africa regions. 
For Europe, regulatory approval is 
being sought under the EC Novel 
Foods Regulation. 
In the kitchen, new Sunlight hand 
dishwashing liquid keeps working on the 
sponge for longer because it turns to gel 
on contact with water. Its ultra-concentrated 
formula uses less water in the production 
process and less packaging. It is being 
rolled out in eight countries. And the 
environmentally friendly lightweight design 
and fast-drying formulation of our new 
roll-on deodorant, launched under the 
Rexona, Axe and Dove brands, also proved 
popular with consumers.
This year also saw the simultaneous 
launch in a number of countries of Clear 
anti-dandruff shampoo with superior 
anti-dandruff active delivery technology 
(see box, page 15). Its formulation is 
based on one common ‘chassis’ with 
add-on reﬁ nements for different scalp 
and hair types. 
Corporate responsibility 
and sustainability
We aim to manage and grow our business 
in a responsible and sustainable way. 
Our new Brand Imprint programme 
enables brands to integrate social, 
economic and environmental drivers into 
their development plans. An early example 
of Brand Imprint’s potential is our decision 
to source all our tea sustainably and 
work with the Rainforest Alliance to 
achieve certiﬁ cation for our tea estates 
(see box, page 13). 
Another signiﬁ cant step was taken by 
our ice cream brand Ben & Jerry’s, which 
announced plans to invest €2.4 million 
over the ﬁ ve years 2007 to 2012 in 
reducing its impact on climate change 
through initiatives covering every stage 
of its European production process. 
During the year we reviewed our 
sustainability strategies for agriculture 
(from which about two-thirds of our raw 
materials come), packaging, water and 
greenhouse gases. Many of our major retail 
customers are focusing on sustainability 
and, by sharing our expertise in this area, 
we are able to strengthen our relationships 
with them and grow our business. 
For example, the consumer and environ-
mental beneﬁ ts of our concentrated 
laundry detergent, all Small & Mighty, 
were promoted by Wal-Mart, helping the 
brand grow sales in the US to $140 million 
in 2007. Small & Mighty, which uses less 
water, less packaging and less fuel for 
transport, has now launched in Europe 
across the brand portfolio, for example 
Persil, Surf and Omo. The success of 
our ongoing partnership with Wal-Mart 
led the world’s largest retailer to name 
us 2007 Supplier of the Year for 
Sustainable Engagement.
How we performed
Global review continued
Global Diversity Board 
Our leaders make diversity a top business priority. Signalling this commitment, the 
Global Diversity Board draws together 15 leaders from all business functions and is 
chaired by Group Chief Executive Patrick Cescau. The board focuses on driving the 
diversity agenda into our business processes and tracking the progress of diversity 
initiatives. It also champions new ways of working to boost employees’ personal vitality.
Our new Brand Imprint 
programme enables 
brands to integrate 
social, economic 
and environmental 
drivers into their 
development plans.
14   Unilever Annual Review 2007 Meanwhile, a major healthy eating 
campaign, Knorr Eat Colour, encouraged 
consumers to eat colourful vegetables, 
with the help of a range of new colour-
themed products. The campaign was based 
on the insight that vegetables’ bright 
hues indicate the presence of different 
beneﬁ cial antioxidants. 
The Dove Campaign for Real Beauty made 
strides in its mission to raise the self-esteem 
of women. By the end of 2008 the Dove 
Self-Esteem Fund aims to have reached 
1 million young girls in 20 countries through 
partnerships with organisations such as 
the Eating Disorders Association and Girl 
Scouts of America. Sales of Dove products 
are growing rapidly. 
Our Dirt is Good positioning – which is 
used across countries on our main brands 
including Persil, Omo and Skip – is also 
ﬂ ourishing. It promotes children’s learning 
and development through physical activity – 
while the brands’ innovative formulations 
mean parents don’t need to worry about 
getting their children’s clothes clean after 
outdoor play. 
Brands with missions 
Our brands have the power to change 
people’s lives for the better.
The second-biggest preventable killer 
of children in the world is diarrhoea, 
and yet simple hand-washing with soap 
can cut diarrhoeal diseases signiﬁ cantly. 
In 2007, in partnership with UNICEF, 
we piloted an education programme for 
schoolchildren in Uganda highlighting 
the importance of hand-washing with 
soap, underpinned by our soap brand 
Lifebuoy. Coupled with this, the Unilever 
Marketing Academy helped develop 
health promotion campaigns in Kenya, 
Tanzania and Uganda. During the year 
the brand grew by 9%.
Throughout the year, our Goodness 
of Margarine campaign spread the 
message in Europe that margarine 
contains essential fats and vitamins 
helpful in maintaining a healthy heart. 
The results were excellent and the 
campaign is rolling out further in 2008. 
The Family Goodness spreads brand 
is raising funds as part of our three-
year partnership with the World Food 
Programme (WFP) to provide nutritious 
school meals for children living in 
poverty. We are also sharing our 
nutrition and hygiene expertise 
and helping WFP develop a school 
education campaign as well as review 
the need for fortiﬁ ed foods.
Putting safety ﬁ rst 
We regard safety as an essential element of a successful and sustainable business 
and take seriously our responsibility to provide a safe workplace. We aim to improve 
continuously the health, safety and well-being of everyone working for or on behalf 
of Unilever to a standard on a par with the very best of our peers. A key measure 
of our progress in this area is our total recordable accident frequency rate, which 
counts all workplace accidents except those requiring only simple ﬁ rst aid treatment. 
In 2007 this decreased to 0.26 accidents per 100 000 hours worked, declining from 
0.46 in 2004. 
www.unilever.com
on the web
Clear thinking goes global
One of our top priorities in 2007 was the simultaneous 
launch of Clear anti-dandruff shampoo in a number of 
countries – China, Russia, Brazil (three of the biggest hair 
care markets in the world), the Philippines, Pakistan, 
Egypt and Arabia. The brand has an innovative formula 
with superior anti-dandruff active delivery technology 
and is our ﬁ rst major Asian hair brand mix to go global. 
Its success shows the power of a centralised, consistent 
global approach to packaging, formulation and marketing. 
Clear shampoo is now winning consumer preference in all 
its markets and there are plans to consolidate growth 
while continuing its global roll-out in 2008.
www.unilever.pk/clear
on the web
Unilever Annual Review 2007   15 Nowhere is the pace 
of change greater 
A relentless focus 
on better in-market 
execution, rejuvenation 
of the quality and value 
of our core products, 
and new innovations.
How we performed
Regional performance: Europe Growth
The region sustained its improving trend 
in 2007 with underlying sales growth 
of 2.8% for the year. The improvement 
was driven by relentless focus on better 
in-market execution, rejuvenation of the 
quality and value of our core products, 
and an introduction of new innovations. 
Consumer demand in our categories was 
steady throughout the year.
Overall we saw improving trends almost 
everywhere. Russia was the outstanding 
performer, but all major countries grew in 
the year, including the UK, Germany, Italy 
and the Netherlands. In France sales were 
slightly up in a challenging market.
Proﬁ tability
The operating margin, at 11.0% for 
the year, reﬂ ects a higher net charge 
for restructuring, disposals and one-off 
items compared with 2006. Before 
these items, the operating margin 
showed an underlying improvement 
of 0.9 percentage points, driven by 
lower overheads as a result of the One 
Unilever programme and reduced 
advertising and promotions costs.
Accelerating change
We made substantial progress with 
portfolio development and restructuring.
At the start of 2008 we completed the 
expansion of the successful international 
partnership for Lipton ready-to-drink tea 
with PepsiCo to include all countries in 
Europe. We also completed the sale of 
Boursin, and announced the acquisition 
of the leading Russian ice cream 
company Inmarko.
We formed four new multi-country 
organisations and announced the 
streamlining or closure of ten factories. 
The roll-out of a single SAP system across 
the region continues with two-thirds of 
turnover in the region now on stream 
and full implementation expected to be 
largely completed by the end of 2008.
Innovation
We continued to target innovations 
mainly at Vitality opportunities. In ice 
cream, we introduced Frusì frozen yoghurt 
with wholegrain cereals and real fruit 
pieces and low calorie Solero smoothies. 
Lipton Linea slimming teas were launched 
in France, Switzerland and Portugal. 
Growth in Hellmann’s was boosted by 
new extra light mayonnaise with citrus 
ﬁ bre technology.
The new Dove pro·age range of products is 
building well in Europe as well as elsewhere, 
and Dove Summer Glow self-tanning and 
body lotions are now available in most 
countries. Clear anti-dandruff shampoo 
was launched in Russia, with good consumer 
response. Small & Mighty concentrated 
liquid laundry detergents were launched 
in seven European countries.
Highlights – Europe
at current rates of exchange
€ million 2007 2006 Change
Turnover 15 205 15 000 1.4%
Operating profit 1 678 1 903 (11.9)%
Operating margin 11.0% 12.7% 
£ million 2007 2006 Change
Turnover 10 373 10 227 1.4%
Operating profit 1 145 1 298 (11.8)%
$ million 2007 2006 Change
Turnover 20 740 18 810 10.3%
Operating profit 2 289 2 387 (4.1)%
at constant 2006 rates of exchange
    Change
Turnover   1.3%
Underlying sales   2.8%
Operating profit   (11.7)%
www.unilever.com/heartbrand
on the web
www.unilever.com/domestos
on the web
No hiding place 
for toilet germs 
European consumers 
were given a powerful 
new weapon in the ﬁ ght 
against limescale and 
germs, with the launch 
of Domestos Zero Limescale 
bleach. Its development 
was inspired by research 
showing that many more 
germs are present in toilets 
with limescale because 
germs cluster there, 
protecting themselves 
from being washed away. 
Its three-times-thicker 
formulation helps Domestos 
Zero Limescale bleach stick 
to and destroy limescale, 
even on vertical surfaces.
Magnum tempts
European consumers 
Magnum Temptation ice 
cream offered European 
consumers the ultimate 
indulgence: a sensual shape 
containing Madagascan 
vanilla ice cream, caramel 
sauce and almond pieces, 
wrapped in Belgian dark 
chocolate. It has the highest 
quantity of ‘added extras’ 
ever contained in a Magnum, 
thanks to new technology 
which involves bringing 
together two mould halves 
around the stick. Launched 
in Italy, Spain, Switzerland 
and Portugal, Magnum 
Temptation is the ﬁ rst 
expression of the brand’s 
long-term super premium 
platform.
Developing people in innovative ways 
We aim to offer our people stimulating ways to broaden their skills and experience 
while at the same time giving something back to the community. Salvatore Lucia, 
a Supply Chain Manager from Italy, was one of the Unilever specialists seconded 
to the World Food Programme (WFP) as part of their professional development. 
He is helping WFP Ghana deliver its school feeding and nutrition programme – 
and learning valuable skills to bring back to the business. 
www.unilever.com
on the web
Unilever Annual Review 2007   17 One Unilever is 
simplifying operations. 
In 2007 Argentina, 
Mexico and Brazil 
moved to single head 
offices; the US will 
follow in 2008.
Regional performance: The Americas
A solid performance 
in a tough market
How we performed Growth
Underlying sales grew by 4.1% in the 
year, with an increasing contribution from 
pricing which was up 2.6% for the year.
In the US, overall consumer demand held 
up well in our categories. Market growth 
in home care and personal care slowed 
somewhat in the second half year, but this 
was compensated for by robust demand 
in foods. Our own sales in the US grew 
solidly, up 3.2% for the year, despite lower 
sales of ice cream.
Our business in Mexico made good 
progress in the second half of the year and 
Brazil showed an improved performance 
in the fourth quarter. Argentina, Andina 
and Central America performed well 
throughout.
Proﬁ tability
The operating margin, at 14.7% for the 
year, was 1.1 percentage points lower 
than the previous year. Before the impact 
of restructuring, disposals and one-off 
items, the margin was 0.4 percentage 
points lower than last year. This was 
due to an increase in advertising and 
promotions and the impact of substantial 
cost increases, which have not yet been 
fully offset by price increases and 
savings programmes.
Accelerating change
The One Unilever programme is simplifying 
operations throughout the region. 
Argentina, Mexico and Brazil all moved 
to single head ofﬁ ces in 2007, while the 
US will follow in early 2008. Sales force 
integration is under way in a number of 
countries. A single SAP system has been 
implemented in the US, with Latin America 
already on one system.
We set up a joint venture with Perdigão to 
develop our heart-health margarine Becel 
in Brazil and disposed of our local Brazilian 
margarine brands. We also announced an 
agreement for the disposal of Lawry’s 
seasonings, while the sale process of 
the North American laundry business 
is under way.
Innovation
New varieties of Knorr bouillons and 
soups in Latin America further advanced 
the brand’s Vitality credentials. Hellmann’s 
‘real’ campaign highlights its simple 
ingredients which are naturally rich 
in Omega 3, in both the US and Latin 
America. In the US, we introduced Promise 
Activ SuperShots, a Vitality shot with 
added natural plant sterols, ingredients 
that are clinically proven to help actively 
remove cholesterol as part of a diet low 
in saturated fat and cholesterol.
Innovation in personal care reﬂ ected the 
more global approach. Clear anti-dandruff 
shampoo was successfully launched in 
Brazil, while the Dove pro·age range of 
skin care, deodorants and shampoos was 
introduced in the US at the same time 
as in Europe. In laundry, the Dirt is Good 
platform continued to build across Latin 
America, now including a variant with 
built-in fabric softener.
Highlights – The Americas
at current rates of exchange
€ million 2007 2006 Change
Turnover 13 442 13 779 (2.4)%
Operating profit 1 971 2 178 (9.5)%
Operating margin 14.7% 15.8% 
£ million 2007 2006 Change
Turnover 9 170 9 395 (2.4)%
Operating profit 1 344 1 484 (9.4)%
$ million 2007 2006 Change
Turnover 18 334 17 279 6.1%
Operating profit 2 689 2 731 (1.5)%
at constant 2006 rates of exchange
    Change
Turnover   3.5%
Underlying sales   4.1%
Operating profit   (3.4)%
Dove pro·age woos 
fabulous ﬁ fty-somethings 
The newly launched 
Dove pro· ·age range proved 
popular among women 
aged 50 and over in North 
America and Europe. 
The multimedia campaign, 
shot by top celebrity 
photographer Annie 
Leibovitz, featured 
middle-aged women 
looking natural, gorgeous – 
and completely naked. 
The pro· ·age range doesn’t 
make unrealistic anti-ageing 
promises, but instead 
meets the speciﬁ c hair 
and skin care needs of 
older consumers. 
Guilt-free mayonnaise 
Mayonnaise lovers in 
Latin America responded 
enthusiastically to a 
campaign highlighting 
the health beneﬁ ts of 
Hellmann’s Light, a variant 
of global leader Hellmann’s. 
The campaign, aired in 
Argentina, Chile and Brazil, 
made consumers aware 
that three spoonfuls of 
Hellmann’s Light mayonnaise 
contain the same calories 
as one spoonful of olive oil. 
Underlying sales growth 
for the year was outstanding, 
particularly in Argentina 
and Brazil. 
www.unilever.com/dove
on the web
www.unilever.com/hellmanns
on the web
New ways of working 
We are committed to ﬁ nding fresh ways of working that improve business 
effectiveness, enhance work-life balance and beneﬁ t the environment. We created 
four ‘Telepresence’ video-conferencing rooms: in Englewood Cliffs, Rotterdam, 
London and Singapore. Telepresence uses high-deﬁ nition video screens with life-size 
images around a single ‘virtual’ table, to replicate as closely as possible a face-to-face 
meeting. It is also the ﬁ rst technology of its kind to be certiﬁ ed by the CarbonNeutral 
Company. A further eight rooms will be added in 2008.
www.unilever.com
on the web
Unilever Annual Review 2007   19 Regional performance: Asia Africa
Strong growth in 
all major markets 
Bringing the power 
of our branding, 
innovation and 
execution to bear 
in some of the 
fastest-growing 
consumer markets 
in the world.
How we performed Growth
The strong underlying growth of 11.1% 
for the year reﬂ ects both the vibrancy of 
these markets and the high priority we 
place on building our business in the region. 
It includes a healthy balance of volume and 
price, up by over 7% and 3% respectively.
Growth was consistent throughout the year 
and was broad-based across categories and 
countries, including established markets 
such as India, Indonesia, the Philippines, 
South Africa and Turkey, which all grew 
in double digits; signiﬁ cant product areas 
such as laundry and personal wash; and 
emerging product areas like ice cream 
and deodorants. China remains a key 
priority and grew strongly for the third 
consecutive year.
We drove growth across all income 
levels, from highly affordable packs to 
premium positions. This was supported 
by new brands and products that 
leveraged our global platforms and 
excellent in-market execution.
Proﬁ tability
The operating margin, at 13.8%, was 
1.6 percentage points higher than last year. 
This included the €214 million accounting 
proﬁ t resulting from the reorganisation of 
our shareholdings in South Africa. Before 
the effects of this transaction, disposals 
and restructuring charges, the operating 
margin showed an underlying increase of 
0.2 percentage points. The improvement 
was driven by volume growth, pricing 
actions and savings programmes which 
more than offset higher input costs and 
increased advertising and promotions.
Accelerating change
We announced the acquisition of the 
Buavita brand of fruit-based vitality drinks 
in Indonesia, which was completed early 
in January 2008.
As part of the One Unilever programme we 
now have a single SAP system in place in 
four countries as the basis for a common 
regional platform, while the reorganisation 
of our shareholdings in South Africa and 
Israel facilitates the new organisation.
Innovation
The new, more global, approach to 
innovation was evident in the 2007 
programme. Clear anti-dandruff shampoo 
was launched in China, Arabia, Egypt, 
Pakistan and the Philippines. In Japan, 
we launched the Axe brand and Dove 
pro·age skin care products. An improved 
range of Dove shower products was 
extended to North East Asia, while 
Lifebuoy soap was launched in South 
Africa and a new variant brought to India. 
In laundry, the new Dirt is Good product, 
packaging and communication were 
introduced to Thailand.
The Moo range of ice creams was extended 
throughout the region. Knorr seasonings 
were rejuvenated with premium ingredients, 
as in Europe, and in China we launched a 
new form of Knorr bouillons for preparing 
thick soups. At the same time new, more 
affordable, tubs and sachets are attracting 
new users of spreads in several countries.
Highlights – Asia Africa
at current rates of exchange
€ million 2007 2006 Change
Turnover 11 540 10 863 6.2%
Operating profit 1 596 1 327 20.2%
Operating margin 13.8% 12.2% 
£ million 2007 2006 Change
Turnover 7 873 7 406 6.3%
Operating profit 1 089 905 20.3%
$ million 2007 2006 Change
Turnover 15 741 13 622 15.6%
Operating profit 2 177 1 665 30.8%
at constant 2006 rates of exchange
    Change
Turnover   10.6%
Underlying sales   11.1%
Operating profit   27.6%
www.unilever.com/knorr
on the web
Soup solution causes
a stir in China
In Chinese households soup 
is part of many people’s 
daily diet. Knorr Bouillon 
Gel, launched in China 
under the Knorr Dense 
Soup Treasure name, 
captured the imagination of 
consumers eager to replicate 
the nutritional beneﬁ ts of 
home-boiled soup without 
the hassle. Made with high-
quality fresh ingredients, 
the gel reverts to dense-
textured soup when stirred 
into boiling water, into 
which consumers can add 
their own choice of fresh 
vegetables. 
Standards of Leadership
Our ‘Standards of Leadership’ programme is a set of behaviours aimed at ensuring 
that every manager takes personal responsibility for delivering Unilever’s agenda 
through excellence in strategy execution. During the year, the framework was rolled 
out globally to an enthusiastic response. In Asia the process was particularly effective, 
with managers across 15 countries attending interactive workshops. Individuals 
made personal commitments to ‘live the behaviours’ and to model them in their 
daily working lives.
www.unilever.com
on the web
Axe/Lynx scores in Japan
Axe/Lynx, the world’s 
second-largest deodorant 
brand, made a triumphant 
entry into the Japanese 
market and quickly became 
the country’s top-selling 
male deodorant. The launch 
followed an extensive study 
of the young Japanese 
male, examining his attitude 
towards dating, use of 
deodorants and purchasing 
habits. The brand’s range 
was given a substantial 
makeover in 2007 to 
ensure packaging and 
formulations are consistent 
the world over. 
www.unilever.com/axe
on the web
Unilever Annual Review 2007   21 Chairman
1. Michael Treschow
1,2
Nationality: Swedish. Aged 64. 
Chairman since May 2007. Chairman, 
Telefonaktiebolaget L M Ericsson. 
Non-Executive Director, ABB Group. 
Board member, Knut and Alice Wallenberg 
Foundation. Chairman, AB Electrolux 
1997-2007 and Confederation of Swedish 
Enterprise 2004-2007. 
Vice-Chairman
2. The Lord Simon of Highbury CBE
3,4,5
Nationality: British. Aged 68. Appointed 
2000. Non-Executive Director, Suez Group. 
Director, CEPS, Belgium. Member of the 
International Advisory Council, FITCH, 
France. Member of the International 
Advisory Board, Dana Gas Corporation. 
Senior Advisor, Morgan Stanley 
International. UK Government Minister 
1997-1999. Group Chief Executive, BP p.l.c. 
1992-1995 and Chairman 1995-1997.
 
Executive Directors
3. Patrick Cescau
Group Chief Executive
Nationality: French. Aged 59. Group Chief 
Executive since April 2005. Joined Unilever 
1973. Appointed Director 4 May 1999. 
Previous posts include: Chairman, Unilever 
PLC and Vice-Chairman, Unilever N.V. 
2004-2005. Foods Director 2001. Financial 
Director 1999. Controller and Deputy 
Financial Director 1998-1999. President, 
Lipton USA 1997-1998. President and CEO, 
Van den Bergh Foods USA 1995-1997. 
Chairman, Indonesia 1991-1995. External 
appointments include: Non-Executive 
Director, Pearson plc.
4. Kees van der Graaf
President Europe 
Nationality: Dutch. Aged 57. President 
Europe since April 2005. Joined Unilever 
1976. Appointed Director 12 May 2004. 
Previous posts include: Foods Director 
2004, Business Group President, Ice Cream 
and Frozen Foods 2001. Executive Vice-
President, Foods and Beverages Europe 
1998. Senior Vice-President, Global Ice 
Cream category 1995. External 
appointments include: Board member, 
ECR (Efﬁ cient Consumer Response). 
Member, Supervisory Boards of ANWB 
Club (Algemene Nederlandse 
Wielrijdersbond) and ANWB B.V.
5. Ralph Kugler
6
President Home and Personal Care
Nationality: British. Aged 52. President 
Home and Personal Care since April 2005. 
Joined Unilever 1979. Appointed Director 
11 May 2005. Previous posts include: 
President Home and Personal Care Europe 
2001. Business Group President, Latin 
America 1999. Chairman, Unilever Thai 
Holdings 1995. Chairman, Unilever 
Malaysia 1992. External appointments 
include: Non-Executive Director, 
InterContinental Hotels Group PLC.
6. James Lawrence*
Chief Financial Ofﬁ cer
Nationality: American. Aged 55. 
Appointed Chief Financial Ofﬁ cer 
1 September 2007 . External appointments 
include: Non-Executive Director, British 
Airways Plc and Avnet, Inc. Previous 
posts include: various senior positions 
at General Mills, Inc. 1998-2007, 
including Vice Chairman 2006-2007, 
Executive Vice President-International 
2000-2006 and Chief Financial Ofﬁ cer 
1998-2007, Executive Vice President and 
CFO, Northwest Airlines 1996-1998, 
President and CEO, Pepsi-Cola International 
(Asia, Middle East, Africa) 1992-1996, and 
Chairman, LEK Partnership 1983-1992.
Governance and financial statements
Board of Directors
614 11 3 2 15 5
12 10 9 13 1 7
22   Unilever Annual Review 2007 Non-Executive Directors
7. Professor Genevieve Berger
6
Nationality: French. Aged 53. Appointed 
2007. Professor, Medical University 
Teaching Hospital, Paris. Member, 
Technical Committee, Institute of 
Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE). 
Chairman, Advisory Board, Health for the 
European Commission. Director, Biotech 
and Agri-Food Department 1998-2000 
and Director of Technology 2000, the 
French Ministry for Education. Director 
General, National Centre for Scientiﬁ c 
Research (CNRS), France 2000-2003. 
8. The Rt Hon The Lord Brittan of 
Spennithorne QC, DL
7
Nationality: British. Aged 68. Appointed 
2000. Vice-Chairman, UBS Investment 
Bank and Chairman, UBS Limited. Director, 
UBS Securities Company Limited. Member, 
International Advisory Committee of Total. 
Member, European Commission and 
Vice-President 1989-1999. Member, UK 
Government 1979-1986. Home Secretary 
1983-1985 and Secretary of State for 
Trade and Industry 1985-1986.
9. Professor Wim Dik
8
Nationality: Dutch. Aged 69. Appointed 
2001. Professor at Delft University of 
Technology. Chairman, Supervisory Boards 
of Tele Atlas N.V., Zesko Holding B.V., 
and Chairman, Advisory Board of Spencer 
Stuart Netherlands. Non-Executive 
Director, Aviva plc, LogicaCMG plc and 
Stage Entertainment B.V. Chairman and 
CEO, Koninklijke PTT Nederland (KPN) 
1988-1998 and Koninklijke KPN N.V. (Royal 
Dutch Telecom) 1998-2000. Minister for 
Foreign Trade, Netherlands 1981-1982.
10. Charles Golden
8
Nationality: American. Aged 61. Appointed 
2006. Executive Vice-President, Chief 
Financial Ofﬁ cer and Director, Eli Lilly and 
Company 1996-2006. Non-Executive 
Director, Clarian Health Partners, Hillenbrand 
Industries, Inc. and Eaton Corporation. 
Member of Finance Committee, 
Indianapolis Museum of Art.
11. Byron Grote
8
Nationality: American/British. Aged 60. 
Appointed 2006. Chief Financial Ofﬁ cer, 
BP p.l.c. 
12. Narayana Murthy
6
Nationality: Indian. Aged 61. Appointed 
2007. Chairman, Asia Business Council, 
Indian Institute of Information Technology 
and Infosys Technologies Limited. Director, 
DBS Bank, DBS Group Holdings, Infosys 
Consulting, Inc., Infosys Technologies 
(China) Company Limited, New Delhi 
Television Ltd. 
13. Hixonia Nyasulu
6
Nationality: South African. Aged 53. 
Appointed 2007. Non-Executive Director, 
Barloworld Ltd, JP Morgan SA, Sasol Ltd 
and Tongaat-Hulett Group Ltd. Member, 
Banking Enquiry Panel, South African 
Competition Commission.
14. Kees Storm
9
Nationality: Dutch. Aged 65. Appointed 
2006. Chairman, Executive Board AEGON 
N.V. 1993-2002. Chairman, Supervisory 
Board KLM Royal Dutch Airlines N.V. 
Board member and Chairman of Audit 
Committee, InBev S.A. Board member 
and Audit Committee member, Baxter 
International, Inc. Member, Supervisory 
Board, Pon Holdings B.V. Member, 
Supervisory Board, AEGON N.V.
15. Jeroen van der Veer
1,2
Nationality: Dutch. Aged 60. Appointed 
2002. Chief Executive, Royal Dutch Shell 
plc. Former Member, Supervisory Board of 
De Nederlandsche Bank N.V. 2000-2004.
Member Nomination Committee
Member Remuneration Committee
Chairman Nomination Committee
Chairman Remuneration Committee
Senior Independent Director
Member Corporate Responsibility and Reputation Committee
Chairman Corporate Responsibility and Reputation Committee
Member Audit Committee
Chairman Audit Committee
James Lawrence will be proposed for election as an Executive 
Director at the 2008 AGMs
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
*
8 4
Unilever Annual Review 2007   23 Summary Financial Statement
Governance and financial statements
 This Summary Financial Statement is a summary of information 
contained in Unilever’s financial statements, Report of the Directors 
and the Report of the Remuneration Committee as set out in the 
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007.
 This statement does not contain sufﬁ cient information to allow as full 
an understanding of the results and state of affairs of Unilever, and 
of its policies and arrangements concerning Directors’ remuneration, 
as would be provided by the full Annual Report and Accounts.
Copies of the Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007, 
which are produced in both English and Dutch, can be accessed 
directly or ordered through www.unilever.com/investorcentre
Shareholders may also elect to receive the Annual Report and 
Accounts for all future years by request to the appropriate share 
registrars. Further details are provided on page 36.
The auditors have issued unqualiﬁ ed audit reports on the full 
accounts and the auditable part of the Report of the Remuneration 
Committee. The United Kingdom Companies Act 1985 requires 
the auditors to report if the accounting records are not properly 
kept or if the required information and explanations are 
not received. They are also required to report whether the 
information in the Report of the Directors is consistent with 
the audited consolidated accounts. Their reports on the full 
ﬁ nancial statements and the auditable part of the Report of 
the Remuneration Committee contain no such statements.
The following Summary Financial Statement should be read 
together with the narrative set out earlier in this Annual Review 
which includes, to the extent applicable, any important future 
developments or post-balance sheet events.
Reporting currency and exchange rates
The sterling and US dollar ﬁ gures shown in this document have 
been provided for the convenience of users and do not form part 
of the audited accounts of the Unilever Group. These ﬁ gures have 
been translated from euros using the following rates of exchange:
 Annual average rates Year-end rates
 2007 2006 2007 2006
€1 = £ 0.6822 0.6818 0.7342 0.6712
€1 = $ 1.3640 1.2540 1.4710 1.3170
The summary consolidated balance sheet is translated at year-
end rates and the summary consolidated income statement and 
summary consolidated cash ﬂ ow statement are translated at 
annual average rates.
Summary accounting policies
The consolidated accounts have been prepared in accordance with 
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by 
the European Union (EU) and in accordance with Book 2 of the 
Civil Code in the Netherlands and the United Kingdom Companies 
Acts 1985 and 2006. They are also in accordance with IFRS as issued 
by the International Accounting Standards Board.
The consolidated accounts are prepared under the historical cost 
convention unless otherwise indicated in the Accounting information 
and policies as set out in note 1 to the Annual Report and Accounts.
Due to the operational and contractual arrangements in place 
between NV and PLC, they form a single reporting entity for the 
purposes of presenting consolidated accounts. Accordingly, the 
accounts of the Unilever Group are presented by both NV and PLC 
as their respective consolidated accounts. 
 Dividends
The Boards have resolved to recommend to the Annual General 
Meetings on 14 May and 15 May 2008 the declaration of ﬁ nal 
dividends on the ordinary capital of PLC and of NV respectively 
in respect of 2007 at the rates shown in the tables below. 
The dividend information given below, including the comparative 
amounts for 2006, is expressed in terms of the nominal share values 
which have applied since 22 May 2006 following the split of NV 
shares and the consolidation of PLC shares which were approved 
at the 2006 AGMs.
IFRS requires that dividends approved after the balance sheet date 
are not reﬂ ected in the ﬁ nancial statements for the current reporting 
period. As a result, the ﬁ nal 2006 dividends are reﬂ ected in the 
ﬁ nancial statements for 2007 , and the proposed ﬁ nal 2007 dividends, 
if approved by shareholders at the AGMs, will be reﬂ ected in the 
ﬁ nancial statements for 2008.
The proposed ﬁ nal dividends will be paid in accordance with the 
timetable set out on page 37.
 NV    2007 2006
Per Ordinary €0.16 share of NV 
Interim    €0.25 €0.23
Final    – €0.47
Proposed final   €0.50 –
      €0.75 €0.70
One-off    – €0.26
Total    €0.75 €0.96
PLC    2007 2006
Per Ordinary 3
1
/ 9p share of PLC
Interim    17.00p 15.62p
Final    – 32.04p
Proposed final   34.11p –
      51.11p 47.66p
One-off     – 17.66p
Total    51.11p 65.32p
 
24   Unilever Annual Review 2007 Dividends for US shareholders
 Per Ordinary €0.16  Per Ordinary 3
1
/9p
 share of NV share of PLC
 2007 2006 2007 2006
Interim $0.3612 $0.2934 $0.3525 $0.2983
Final – $0.6363 – $0.6357
Proposed final* $0.7311 – $0.6684 –
  $1.0923 $0.9297 $1.0209 $0.9340
One-off – $0.3316 – $0.3372
Total $1.0923 $1.2613 $1.0209 $1.2712
 * Proposed ﬁ nal dividends have been translated into US dollars at the rate of exchange 
ruling on 6 February 2008 (€1 = $1.4621, £1 = $1.9595). These dividends will be paid 
using the exchange rates ruling on 14 May 2008 for PLC and 15 May 2008 for NV.
Unilever website
The maintenance and integrity of the Unilever website are the 
responsibility of the Directors; the work carried out by the auditors 
does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, 
the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may 
have occurred to the ﬁ nancial statements since they were initially 
presented on the website. 
Legislation in the Netherlands and the UK governing the preparation 
and dissemination of ﬁ nancial statements may differ from legislation 
in other jurisdictions. 
Independent auditors’ statement to the shareholders 
of Unilever PLC
We have examined the Summary Financial Statement in euros which 
comprises the summary consolidated income statement, summary 
consolidated statement of recognised income and expense, 
summary consolidated balance sheet and summary consolidated 
cash ﬂ ow statement and Summary Report of the Remuneration 
Committee in euros set out on pages 26 and 27 and 31 to 35.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Review and 
Summary Financial Statement in accordance with applicable law. 
Our responsibility is to report to you our opinion on the consistency 
of the Summary Financial Statement within the 2007 Annual Review 
with the full annual accounts, the Report of the Directors and the 
Report of the Remuneration Committee, and its compliance with 
the relevant requirements of section 251 of the United Kingdom 
Companies Act 1985 and the regulations made thereunder. 
We also read the other information contained in the Annual Review 
and consider the implications for our report if we become aware 
of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the 
Summary Financial Statement.
This statement, including the opinion, has been prepared for and 
only for the shareholders of Unilever PLC as a body in accordance 
with section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other 
purpose. We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume 
responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to 
whom this statement is shown or into whose hands it may come 
save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Basis of opinion
We conducted our work in accordance with Bulletin 1999/6, ‘The 
auditors’ statement on the Summary Financial Statement’ issued 
by the Auditing Practices Board for use in the United Kingdom. 
Our reports on the Unilever Group full annual accounts describe the 
basis of our audit opinions on those ﬁ nancial statements and the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report. 
Opinion
In our opinion the Summary Financial Statement is consistent with 
the full annual accounts, the Report of the Directors and the Report 
of the Remuneration Committee of Unilever Group for the year 
ended 31 December 2007 and complies with the applicable 
requirements of section 251 of the Companies Act 1985, and the 
regulations made thereunder. 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors 
London, United Kingdom
10 March 2008
Independent auditor’s report to the shareholders 
of Unilever N.V.
We have audited whether the Summary Financial Statement of the 
Unilever Group in euros for the year 2007, as set out on pages 26 
and 27 , has been derived consistently from the audited consolidated 
accounts of the Unilever Group for the year 2007. In our auditor’s 
report dated 10 March 2008 we expressed an unqualiﬁ ed opinion 
on these consolidated accounts. The Directors are responsible for the 
preparation of the Summary Financial Statement in accordance with 
the accounting policies as applied in the 2007 full annual accounts 
of Unilever Group. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the 
Summary Financial Statement.
Scope
We conducted our audit in accordance with Dutch law. This law 
requires that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable 
assurance that the Summary Financial Statement has been derived 
consistently from the consolidated accounts. We believe that the 
audit evidence we have obtained is sufﬁ cient and appropriate to 
provide a basis for our audit opinion.
Opinion
In our opinion, the Summary Financial Statement has been derived 
consistently, in all material respects, from the consolidated accounts. 
Emphasis of matter
For a better understanding of the Group’s ﬁ nancial position 
and results and the scope of our audit, we emphasise that the 
Summary Financial Statement should be read in conjunction with 
the consolidated accounts, from which the Summary Financial 
Statement has been derived and our unqualiﬁ ed auditor’s report 
thereon dated 10 March 2008. Our opinion is not qualiﬁ ed 
in respect of this matter. 
Rotterdam, The Netherlands, 10 March 2008
PricewaterhouseCoopers Accountants N.V.
Prof Dr J A van Manen RA
Unilever Annual Review 2007   25 Summary Financial Statement continued
 Summary consolidated income statement for the year ended 31 December
 € million £ million $ million
       2007 2006 2007 2006  2007 2006
Continuing operations
Turnover     40 187 39 642 27 416 27 028 54 815 49 711
Operating profit     5 245 5 408 3 578 3 687 7 155 6 783
After (charging)/crediting:
 Restructuring     (875) (704) (597) (480) (1 194) (883)
 Business disposals, impairments and other   306 196 209 134 416 246
 Gains on US healthcare and UK pensions   – 266 – 181 – 334
Net finance costs     (252) (721) (171) (491) (345) (904)
 Finance income     147 128 100 87 201 160
  Finance costs     (550) (590) (374) (402) (752) (741)
 Preference shares provision    (7) (300) (5) (204) (10) (374)
 Pensions and similar obligations    158 41 108 28 216 51
Share of net profit/(loss) of joint ventures   102 78 69 53 139 98
Share of net profit/(loss) of associates    50 36 34 25 69 46
Other income from non-current investments   39 30 27 20 53 36
Profit before taxation     5 184 4 831 3 537 3 294 7 071 6 059
Taxation       (1 128) (1 146) (770) (782) (1 539) (1 438)
Net profit from continuing operations   4 056 3 685 2 767 2 512 5 532 4 621
Net profit from discontinued operations   80 1 330 54 907 109 1 668
Net profit     4 136 5 015 2 821 3 419 5 641 6 289
 
Attributable to:
 Minority interests     248 270 169 185 338 339
 Shareholders’ equity     3 888 4 745 2 652 3 234 5 303 5 950
Combined earnings per share
From continuing operations
Basic earnings per share     €1.32 €1.19 £0.90 £0.81 $1.81 $1.49
Diluted earnings per share    €1.28 €1.15 £0.87 £0.78 $1.75 $1.44
From discontinued operations
Basic earnings per share     €0.03 €0.46 £0.02 £0.31 $0.03 $0.57
Diluted earnings per share    €0.03 €0.45 £0.02 £0.31 $0.03 $0.56
From total operations
Basic earnings per share     €1.35 €1.65 £0.92 £1.12 $1.84 $2.06
Diluted earnings per share    €1.31 €1.60 £0.89 £1.09 $1.78 $2.00
Summary consolidated statement of recognised income and expense for the year ended 31 December
 € million £ million $ million
       2007 2006 2007 2006  2007 2006
Fair value gains/(losses) net of tax:
 On cash flow hedges     84 6 57 4 113 8
 On available-for-sale financial assets    2 15 1 10 3 19
Actuarial gains/(losses) on pension schemes net of tax   542 853 369 582 739 1 070
Currency retranslation gains/(losses) net of tax   (413) (335) 470 (379) 1 249 823
Net income/(expense) recognised directly in equity  215 539 897 217 2 104 1 920
Net profit        4 136 5 015 2 821 3 419 5 641 6 289
Total recognised income and expense   4 351 5 554 3 718 3 636 7 745 8 209
Attributable to:
 Minority interests     237 242 184 161 379 346
 Shareholders’ equity     4 114 5 312 3 534 3 475 7 366 7 863
Governance and financial statements
26   Unilever Annual Review 2007  Summary consolidated balance sheet as at 31 December
 € million £ million $ million
       2007 2006 2007 2006  2007 2006
Goodwill     12 244 12 425 8 989 8 340 18 011 16 363
Intangible assets      4 511 4 781 3 312 3 209 6 636 6 296
Property, plant and equipment    6 284 6 276 4 614 4 213 9 244 8 266
Pension asset for funded schemes in surplus   2 008 1 697 1 474 1 139 2 953 2 235
Deferred tax assets     1 003 1 266 736 849 1 475 1 667
Other non-current assets     1 324 1 126 974 755 1 950 1 484
Total non-current assets    27 374 27 571 20 099 18 505 40 269 36 311
Inventories     3 894 3 796 2 859 2 549 5 728 5 001
Trade and other current receivables    4 194 4 254 3 079 2 854 6 170 5 601
Current tax assets     367 125 269 84 539 164
Cash and cash equivalents    1 098 1 039 806 697 1 615 1 368
Other financial assets     216 273 159 184 318 360
Assets held for sale     159 14 117 9 234 17
Total current assets     9 928 9 501 7 289 6 377 14 604 12 511
Financial liabilities     (4 166) (4 458) (3 059) (2 992) (6 128) (5 871)
Trade payables and other current liabilities   (8 017) (7 838) (5 886) (5 261) (11 793) (10 323)
Current tax liabilities     (395) (579)  (289) (388) (580) (761)
Provisions     (968) (1 009) (711) (677) (1 425) (1 329)
Liabilities associated with assets held for sale   (13) – (9) – (19) –
Total current liabilities     (13 559) (13 884) (9 954) (9 318) (19 945) (18 284)
Net current assets/(liabilities)    (3 631) (4 383) (2 665) (2 941) (5 341) (5 773)
Total assets less current liabilities    23 743 23 188 17 434 15 564 34 928 30 538
Financial liabilities due after one year    5 483 4 377 4 026 2 938 8 066 5 765
Non-current tax liabilities     233 272  171 182 343 359
Pensions and post-retirement healthcare liabilities: 
 Funded schemes in deficit     827 1 379 607 925 1 217 1 816
 Unfunded schemes      2 270 3 398 1 667 2 281 3 340 4 475
Provisions     694 826 510 555 1 020 1 088
Deferred tax liabilities     1 213 1 003 891 673 1 785 1 321
Other non-current liabilities    204 261 150 176 300 343
Total non-current liabilities     10 924 11 516 8 022 7 730 16 071 15 167
Shareholders’ equity     12 387 11 230 9 095 7 537 18 221 14 789
Minority interests     432 442 317 297 636 582
Total equity       12 819 11 672 9 412 7 834 18 857 15 371
Total capital employed     23 743 23 188 17 434 15 564 34 928 30 538
Summary consolidated cash ﬂ ow statement for the year ended 31 December
 € million £ million $ million
       2007 2006 2007 2006  2007 2006
Cash flow from operating activities    5 188 5 574 3 540 3 801 7 076 6 990
Income tax paid      (1 312) (1 063) (895) (726) (1 790) (1 333)
Net cash flow from operating activities   3 876 4 511 2 645 3 075 5 286 5 657
Interest received     146 125 100 86 200 157
Net capital expenditure     (983) (934) (671) (637) (1 341) (1 171)
Acquisitions and disposals    (50) 1 777 (34) 1 211 (68) 2 228
Other investing activities     264 187 179 128 360 235
Net cash flow from/(used in) investing activities   (623) 1 155 (426) 788 (849) 1 449
Dividends paid on ordinary share capital   (2 182) (2 602) (1 489) (1 774) (2 976) (3 264)
Interest and preference dividends paid    (552) (605) (377) (412) (753) (758)
Change in borrowings and finance leases   1 338 (3 281) 913 (2 238) 1 824 (4 114)
Share buy-back programme    (1 500) – (1 024) – (2 046) –
Other movements on treasury stock    442 98 302 67 603 123
Other financing activities      (555) (182) (378) (124) (758) (228)
Net cash flow from/(used in) financing activities   (3 009) (6 572) (2 053) (4 481) (4 106) (8 241)
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents  244 (906) 166 (618) 331 (1 135)
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year  710 1 265 477 868 935 1 498
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes   (53) 351 18 227 58 572
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year  901 710 661 477 1 324 935
Unilever Annual Review 2007   27 The Unilever Group
Unilever N.V. (NV) and Unilever PLC (PLC) are the two parent 
companies of the Unilever Group, having separate legal identities 
and separate stock exchange listings for the shares of NV and 
PLC, which are not interchangeable. However, together with their 
group companies, they operate effectively as a single economic 
entity and constitute a single reporting entity for the purposes 
of presenting consolidated accounts.
In order to ensure unity of governance and management, 
they have the same Directors and are linked by a number 
of co-operation agreements. In particular, the Equalisation 
Agreement regulates the mutual rights of the two sets of 
shareholders, including a formula for paying dividends. These 
features mean that all shareholders, whether of NV or PLC, 
share in the prosperity of the whole business.
Further details of these agreements are contained in the 
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 and are also available on 
www.unilever.com/investorcentre/corpgovernance
NV and PLC are holding and service companies. Unilever’s 
businesses are carried out by their subsidiaries around the world. 
Shares in group companies are held ultimately by either NV or 
PLC, or jointly by the two companies, in varying proportions.
Unilever has divided its business into three regions, The Americas, 
Asia Africa and Europe, which are responsible for delivering top 
and bottom line results, implementing proven brand mixes in 
their region and focusing on building capabilities with customers. 
The regions are complemented by two category teams, Foods, 
and Home and Personal Care, which are responsible for the brand 
development process including innovation, brand positioning 
and communication and category strategies. In 2008 these teams 
will be brought together under a single leadership.
Unilever policies
The implementation of and compliance with our governance 
structure is facilitated through a business-orientated policy 
framework. Unilever policies are universally applicable within the 
Unilever Group. They are mandatory and have been developed 
to ensure consistency in key areas within our worldwide operations. 
They cover operational and functional matters, and govern how 
we run our business, in order to comply with applicable laws 
and regulations.
Unilever policies include: the Code of Business Principles, the 
Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Ofﬁ cers, the Compliance 
Manual for Listing Rules and Disclosure and Transparency Rules 
(including the Unilever Share Dealing Code), the Risk Management 
Policy, the Corporate Pensions Policy and the Accounting and 
Reporting Policy.
 
Corporate governance
Governance and financial statements
Unilever constantly keeps its corporate governance arrangements 
under review, and it is our practice to comply, where practicable, 
with the highest standards of applicable codes and respond to 
developments appropriately.
The Code of Business Principles is Unilever’s statement of values 
and represents the standard of conduct we require from all of 
our employees. Our Code of Ethics applies to the senior executive, 
ﬁ nancial and accounting ofﬁ cers and comprises the standards 
prescribed by the US Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). 
The Code of Business Principles Hotline is a conﬁ dential way for 
employees to submit concerns regarding accounting and auditing 
issues anonymously and handles all alleged violations of the Code 
of Business Principles. Copies of the Code of Business Principles, 
the Code of Ethics and the Share Dealing Code are posted on our 
website at www.unilever.com/investorcentre/corpgovernance
Unilever aims to share these standards and values with its suppliers 
and contractors through its Business Partner Code which, in turn, 
is based on its Code of Business Principles. It sets out standards 
on ten key points of business integrity, labour standards, consumer 
safety and the environment.
Developments in corporate governance
Unilever constantly keeps its corporate governance arrangements 
under review. NV and PLC are subject to various corporate 
governance requirements and best practice codes, the most 
relevant being those in the Netherlands, the United Kingdom 
and the United States. It is Unilever’s practice to comply, where 
practicable, with the highest level of these codes, and respond 
to developments appropriately.
Following his appointment as a Non-Executive Director at the 
AGMs in May 2007, Unilever appointed its ﬁ rst independent 
Non-Executive Chairman, Michael Treschow, in succession to 
Antony Burgmans who retired as Chairman at those meetings. 
In September 2007, the ofﬁ ce of the Joint Secretaries came to an 
end, and the position of a single Group Secretary was introduced 
and adopted by the Boards.
More information on our corporate governance arrangements 
is set out in ‘The Governance of Unilever’, the Boards’ statement 
of their internal arrangements, which can be found at 
www.unilever.com/investorcentre/corpgovernance
28   Unilever Annual Review 2007 The Boards
Unilever’s Directors are Directors of both NV and PLC. Taking into 
account their respective roles as Executive and Non-Executive 
Directors, collectively they are ultimately responsible for the 
management, general affairs, direction and performance of the 
business as a whole.
Directors are elected by shareholders at the AGMs of NV and PLC 
and make themselves fully accountable by submitting themselves 
for re-election each year. Our nomination procedures are designed 
to ensure that the same people are the Directors of both companies.
Based on the evaluation of the Boards, its Committees and its 
individual members, the Nomination Committee recommends 
to the Boards a list of candidates for nomination at the AGMs 
of both NV and PLC. In addition, since 2006 shareholders have 
been able to nominate Directors to this list although to do so they 
must put a resolution to both the NV and PLC AGMs in line 
with local requirements for requisitioning a resolution. In order 
to ensure that the Boards remain identical anyone being elected 
a Director of NV must also be elected as a Director of PLC and vice 
versa. If an individual fails to be elected to both companies then 
they will be unable to take their place on the Boards.
The Boards currently comprise a Chairman, three Executive 
Directors and ten independent Non-Executive Directors. They 
meet at least seven times a year to consider material matters 
for NV, PLC and the Unilever Group. These matters include, 
for example, results announcements, the Annual Report and 
Accounts, dividends, corporate strategy, annual plans, risks and 
controls, major business transactions, and Board appointments 
and remuneration.
Unilever has a separate Chairman and Group Chief Executive. 
There is a clear division of responsibilities between their roles.
The Chairman is an independent Non-Executive Director and he 
is primarily responsible for leadership of the Boards, ensuring their 
effectiveness and setting their agendas. He is also responsible 
for ensuring that the Boards receive accurate, timely and clear 
information.
The Group Chief Executive has been entrusted, within the 
parameters set out in the Articles of Association of NV and PLC 
and The Governance of Unilever, with all the Boards’ powers, 
authorities and discretions in relation to the operational 
management of Unilever.
The Non-Executive Directors share responsibility for the execution 
of the Boards’ duties, taking into account their speciﬁ c responsibilities, 
which are essentially supervisory. They, in particular, comprise the 
principal external presence in the governance of Unilever and 
provide a strong independent element. Our Non-Executive 
Directors are chosen for their broad and relevant experience 
and international outlook, as well as their independence. 
Key elements of their role and responsibilities as Non-Executive 
Directors include strategy, scrutiny of performance, risk 
management, controls, remuneration, succession planning, 
reporting to shareholders, governance and compliance. They 
also form the Audit Committee which is fully compliant with 
the applicable rules in the Netherlands, UK and the US, the 
Nomination Committee, the Remuneration Committee, and in 
majority the Corporate Responsibility and Reputation Committee. 
The Non-Executive Directors meet as a group, without the 
Executive Directors present, under the chairmanship of Mr Treschow. 
In addition they usually meet before each Board meeting with the 
Group Chief Executive and the Group Secretary.
Board induction and training
Upon election, Directors receive a comprehensive Directors’ 
Manual and are briefed thoroughly on their responsibilities and 
our business. Ongoing training is provided by way of site visits, 
presentations, circulated updates, teach-ins and agenda items 
at Board meetings on, among other things, Unilever’s business, 
corporate governance, regulatory developments, and investor 
relations matters.
In particular, during 2007 the Boards were given a presentation 
by our external legal advisers on the new directors’ duties under 
the UK Companies Act 2006. 
A more detailed corporate governance statement, as well as 
the annual reports of the Audit, Nomination, Remuneration, and 
Corporate Responsibility and Reputation Committees, is contained 
in the Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007. This Annual 
Report, our Code of Business Principles, NV’s and PLC’s Articles 
of Association and The Governance of Unilever are available on 
our website at www.unilever.com/investorcentre/corpgovernance 
The Governance of Unilever contains, amongst other things, 
our rules on ‘Independence’ of Directors and the terms of 
reference of the Board Committees.
Executive Directors’ service contracts
The Executive Directors are full-time employees of Unilever. 
Information about their remuneration can be found on pages 
31 to 35 of this Annual Review. More detailed information can 
be found in the Report of the Remuneration Committee in the 
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 and on our website at 
www.unilever.com/investorcentre
The Remuneration Committee takes the view that the entitlement 
of the Executive Directors to the security of 12 months’ notice of 
termination of employment is in line both with the practice of 
many comparable companies and the entitlement of other senior 
executives within Unilever.
It is our policy to set the level of severance payments for Directors 
at no more than one year’s salary, unless the Boards, at the 
proposal of the Remuneration Committee, ﬁ nd this manifestly 
unreasonable given circumstances or unless otherwise dictated 
by applicable law.
The Executive Directors submit themselves for re-election at the 
AGMs each year. The Nomination Committee carefully considers 
each nomination for re-appointment.
Unilever Annual Review 2007   29 The Directors stop holding executive ofﬁ ce on ceasing to be 
Directors. Those appointed prior to 2004 retire at the latest by 
the age of 62. Appointees from 2004 onwards retire at an age 
between 60 and 65, as decided by either them or Unilever.
Compliance
Unilever is subject to the corporate governance requirements 
in the Netherlands, the UK and, as a foreign private issuer, in the 
US. All of these requirements were taken into account when 
structuring our Board arrangements, details of which are set out 
in The Governance of Unilever.
Details of our compliance with governance requirements in 
the Netherlands, UK and US are contained in the Annual Report 
and Accounts 2007 and can also be found on our website at 
www.unilever.com/investorcentre
In the US, we are fully compliant with the Listing Standards 
of the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) applicable to foreign 
private issuers, and our corporate governance practices do 
not signiﬁ cantly differ from those followed by US companies 
listed on the NYSE.
Disclosures in relation to the implementation of the EU Takeover 
Directive can be found in the Annual Report and Accounts 2007.
Board changes
The current Executive Directors held ofﬁ ce throughout the year, 
and their biographical details are shown on page 22.
Leon Brittan, Wim Dik, Charles Golden, Byron Grote, David Simon, 
Jean-Cyril Spinetta, Kees Storm and Jeroen van der Veer were 
re-elected as Non-Executive Directors of NV and PLC at the 2007 
AGMs. In addition, Genevieve Berger, Narayana Murthy and 
Hixonia Nyasulu were appointed as Non-Executive Directors, and 
Michael Treschow became our ﬁ rst independent Non-Executive 
Chairman. Biographical details for the existing Non-Executive 
Directors are found on pages 22 and 23.
At the 2007 AGMs, Rudy Markham retired as an Executive 
Director but remained as Chief Financial Ofﬁ cer until his successor, 
Jim Lawrence, was appointed on 1 September 2007. Lynda 
Chalker also retired as a Non-Executive Director at the 2007 
AGMs, and in September 2007 Jean-Cyril Spinetta stepped down 
as a Non-Executive Director due to personal reasons.
At the 2008 AGMs all of the current Executive Directors and 
the Non-Executive Directors will be nominated for re-election 
with the exception of Kees van der Graaf and Ralph Kugler 
who will step down from the Boards. In addition, Jim Lawrence 
will be proposed for election as an Executive Director at the 
2008 AGMs following his appointment as Chief Financial Ofﬁ cer 
in September 2007. Biographical details for Mr Lawrence are 
contained in the 2008 AGM Notices and on our website at 
www.unilever.com/investorcentre
Corporate governance continued
Governance and financial statements
Diversity statement 
Diversity in Unilever is about inclusion, embracing differences, creating possibilities 
and growing together for better business performance. We embrace diversity in 
our workforce: this means giving full and fair consideration to all applicants and 
continuing development to all employees regardless of gender, nationality, race, 
creed, disability, style or sexuality. Diversity plays a vital role in ensuring we 
understand consumers’ needs.
The commitment to diversity is set right at the top of our business. It is driven by the 
Global Diversity Board, chaired by Group Chief Executive Patrick Cescau, who has 
emphasised that “diversity is critical to our business competitiveness and long-term 
sustainability”.
Unilever is one of the world’s most culturally diverse companies, with 21 different 
nationalities represented among our top level group of 113 managers worldwide. 
In 2007 we worked to embed diversity even more ﬁ rmly into our day-to-day business 
decisions, via our talent management and people processes, from appointments 
to development. As part of the Human Resources planning process our business 
units are also developing speciﬁ c diversity plans that are aligned to the priorities and 
needs of their regions and categories.
We continue to carry out quarterly measurement and tracking of diversity against 
our objectives, using the HR Strategy in Action tool. Gender remains an important 
priority and is reviewed by the UEx.
www.unilever.com/investorcentre
on the web
30   Unilever Annual Review 2007 During 2007 the Remuneration Committee continued to progress 
on the ﬁ ve strategic principles that serve as the platform for 
Unilever’s approach to remuneration for the Unilever Executive. 
These principles not only pertain to our Executive Directors but 
to all Unilever’s leadership levels. They provide the basis for our 
remuneration structure, as explained in greater detail in the 
following pages, and direct that pay should be:
• aligned with shareholders’ interests;
• robustly linked to performance;
• aligned with strategic priorities;
• market competitive; and
• easy to understand and communicate.
The overriding objective is to ensure that Unilever recruits and 
retains the best performers, and effectively incentivises them to 
achieve superior results. It is also our aim to manage the differing 
elements of total remuneration in a fully integrated manner.
During 2007 these ﬁ ve principles provided the foundation for 
important changes to the level and structure of Unilever’s incentive 
plans. At our 2007 AGMs shareholders approved the introduction 
of a new share-based incentive plan which appropriately aligned our 
programme with our peer company market. The Committee also 
increased the annual incentive opportunity for Executive Directors 
while leaving base salary levels unchanged. Together these changes 
have placed a greater emphasis on performance-based rewards 
relative to ﬁ xed pay and play a critical role in driving improved 
business results.
During the second half of 2007 Jim Lawrence was appointed 
as Chief Financial Ofﬁ cer of Unilever. Jim Lawrence’s election to 
the Boards is subject to shareholders’ approval at the AGMs in 
May 2008. However, in the interests of transparency and good 
governance, a summary of his remuneration arrangements has 
been included in this year’s report. 
The year 2007 marked a continuation of the Group’s momentum 
of improved performance. The focus on growth priorities, together 
with stronger innovation, improved speed to market and better 
in-market execution, has delivered consistent, and we believe, 
sustainable growth. Underlying operating margins have improved 
and a strong start was made in implementing an acceleration to 
the implementation of the One Unilever reorganisation programme.
Based on the performance over 2007 the annual incentive awards 
were on average 128% of base salary across the Unilever Executive 
team. A GPSP (Global Performance Share Plan) long-term incentive 
award will vest in 2008 for 121% based on the performance period 
2005-2007. The minimum vesting level for the performance period 
2005-2007 was in 2005 set at 2% per annum average USG 
(underlying sales growth) and €12.2 billion UFCF (ungeared free 
cash ﬂ ow), whereas up to 200% could vest for USG exceeding 
4% per annum and with UFCF more than €13.2 billion. Targets were 
set before the disposal of European Frozen Foods and before 
the disposal of UCI. The targets have been adjusted by the impacts 
of these disposals. A TSR (total shareholder return) long-term 
incentive award will also vest in 2008. The vesting was 50% for 
the performance period 2005-2007. Unilever ranked 8
th
 within 
the comparator group of peer companies.
Over the last three years to December 2007 Unilever has created 
more than €20 billion of shareholder value. Looking forward to 
2008 we expect the group leadership to deliver improvement 
against our longer-term objectives and, as a result, our shareholders 
and our executives will be duly awarded.
In September 2007 Jean-Cyril Spinetta stepped down as a Non-
Executive Director for personal reasons. We would like to take 
this opportunity to thank Jean-Cyril for his contributions to Unilever 
and our Committee. His wise counsel and experience have been 
most helpful. We wish him all the best for the future. We are currently 
working to replace Jean-Cyril with a new recruit for our Committee 
during 2008. Michael Treschow was also appointed a member of 
our Committee on 6 February 2008.
David Simon Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
Jeroen van der Veer
Summary remuneration report
Remuneration policy 2007
Fixed
Element Payment Value determination Plan objectives/Key drivers
Base salary Cash Market median Attraction and retention of high performing key executives
Pension Cash Directors stay in their home country pension fund or an 
alternative of similar value. Bonus not pensionable 
Attraction and retention of high performing key executives
Variable
Element Payment Indicative levels at face value as % of base pay Plan objectives/Key drivers
Annual 
incentive
Cash (75%)
Shares (25%)
Executive Directors: target 87% (range 0%-150%)
Group Chief Executive: target 113% (range 0%-200%)
Delivery of trading contribution (Unilever’s primary internal 
measure of economic value added) and top-line growth targets
Individual responsibility for key Unilever business objectives
Global Share 
Incentive Plan
Shares Grant level for Executive Directors: up to 120% in 2007 
(from 2008 onwards up to 180% is allowable)
Grant level for Group Chief Executive: up to 135% 
(from 2008 onwards up to 200% is allowable) 
In exceptional circumstances the Committee may exceed 
the limits
Vesting level: 0-200% of grant
Shareholder return at upper half of peer group. See page 32
Ungeared free cash ﬂ ow as the basic driver of Unilever 
shareholder returns
Top-line revenue growth as essential to Unilever’s long-term 
value creation
Share Matching 
Plan
Shares 25% of annual incentive is paid in shares: these shares are 
matched one for one
Alignment with shareholders’ interests
Unilever Annual Review 2007   31 A signiﬁ cant proportion of the Executive Directors’ total reward 
is linked to a number of key measures of Group performance 
to create alignment with the strategy, business priorities and 
shareholder value. 
The total remuneration package for Executive Directors is 
intended to be competitive in a global market with a strong 
emphasis on performance related pay.
Internal and external comparisons are made with the reward 
arrangements for other senior executives within Unilever to support 
consistent application of Unilever’s executive reward policies.
In setting targets for the performance measures, the Committee 
is guided by what would be required to deliver top third 
shareholder value. This is reﬂ ected in both the short-term and 
long-term performance targets.
Base salary
The Remuneration Committee reviews base salary levels annually, 
taking into account external benchmarks, within the context of 
Group and individual performance. The Committee decided not 
to increase the salaries in 2007 in order to place more emphasis 
on performance related pay and less on ﬁ xed pay.
Annual incentive
The annual incentive arrangement rewards Executive Directors for 
the delivery of trading contribution (Unilever’s primary internal 
measure of economic value added) and top-line growth targets, as 
well as for their individual contribution to Unilever’s business strategy.
In 2007 the Remuneration Committee reviewed annual incentive 
levels in light of the strategic remuneration principles. Given the 
desire to enhance the focus on performance-linked pay and to 
ensure arrangements are market competitive, the Committee 
decided to increase annual incentive opportunities. In 2007 the 
opportunity for Executive Directors was increased to a maximum 
of 150% of base salary and for the Group Chief Executive up to 
200%. Up to 120% of salary will be based on Unilever’s business 
result targets (133.3% for Group Chief Executive) and a maximum 
of 30% of salary will be based on individual business targets 
(66.7% for Group Chief Executive). The target levels are around 
60% of maximum. Aggressive business targets mean that 
maximum levels are only payable for exceptional performance. 
The performance criteria for the annual incentive are:
•  trading contribution: this is Unilever’s primary internal measure 
of economic value added. It is calculated from trading result 
after a deduction for tax and a charge for asset use. Trading 
result is the internal management measure of proﬁ t that is the 
most consistent with operating proﬁ t. Increases in trading 
contribution reﬂ ect the combined impact of top-line growth, 
margin improvement and capital efﬁ ciency gains. It is well 
aligned with our objective of a progressive improvement in 
return on invested capital and with shareholder value creation;
•  underlying sales growth: this focuses on the organic growth of 
Unilever’s turnover; and
•  individual business and leadership targets: these are tailored 
to each individual’s responsibilities to deliver certain business 
objectives supporting the strategy. Individual contribution is 
assessed against robustly set measures and targets to ensure 
both objectivity and ‘stretch’.
Summary remuneration report continued
Achievement of targets is measured at the end of the year and 
the payment takes place the following March. 25% of the annual 
incentive is delivered to the Executive Directors in the form of 
shares in NV and PLC, which are matched by a conditional award 
of ‘matching shares’, as further described under the section on 
long-term incentives below.
Long-term incentives
At the 2007 AGMs shareholders approved the new Unilever Global 
Share Incentive Plan (GSIP) for employees and Executive Directors.
 
The new plan supports the Committee’s strategic remuneration 
principles for executives. The number of shares vesting is linked to 
improvements in Unilever’s performance over a three-year period. 
The plan integrates and replaces two previous long-term plans, 
the GPSP and TSR Long-Term Incentive Plan, making Unilever’s 
long-term arrangements simpler and easier to understand. 
The long-term incentive for Executive Directors now consists 
of two elements, both of which are delivered in shares: 
• Global Share Incentive Plan; and
• Share Matching Plan (linked to annual incentive). 
Executive Directors are required to demonstrate a signiﬁ cant 
personal shareholding commitment to Unilever. Within ﬁ ve years 
of appointment, they are expected to hold shares worth 150% 
of their annual base salary. This reinforces the link between the 
executives and other shareholders.
Global Share Incentive Plan (GSIP)
Under the GSIP annual awards of shares in NV and PLC are 
granted to Executive Directors. The actual number of shares 
received at vesting after three years depends on the satisfaction 
of performance conditions. 
For the 2007 awards, the vesting of shares is conditional on 
the achievement of three distinct performance conditions 
over the performance period. The performance period is the 
three-year period which began on 1 January 2007 and ends 
on 31 December 2009.
The vesting of 40% of the shares in the award is based on a 
condition measuring Unilever’s relative TSR against a comparator 
group of 20 other companies over that three-year period. TSR 
measures the return received by a shareholder, capturing both 
the increase in share price and the value of dividend income 
(assuming dividends are reinvested). The TSR results are compared 
on a single reference currency basis. No shares (in the portion of 
the award subject to TSR) will vest if Unilever is ranked below 
position 11 of the TSR ranking table over the three-year period. 
50% of the shares will vest if Unilever is ranked 11
th
 among the 
peer group, 100% if ranked 7
th
, and 200% will vest if Unilever 
is ranked 3
rd
 or above in the table. Straight-line vesting will occur 
between these points.
The TSR peer group is as follows:
Avon Colgate Kraft PepsiCo
Beiersdorf Danone Lion Procter & Gamble
Cadbury Schweppes Heinz L’Oréal Reckitt Benckiser
Clorox Kao Nestlé Sara Lee
Coca-Cola Kimberly-Clark Orkla Shiseido
Governance and financial statements
32   Unilever Annual Review 2007 The vesting of a further 30% of the shares in the award is 
conditional on achieving an underlying sales growth target. 
The vesting of the ﬁ nal 30% of the shares in the award is 
conditional on achieving an ungeared free cash ﬂ ow target which 
is the basic driver of the returns that Unilever is able to generate 
for shareholders. 
Vesting of the business performance-focused parts of an award 
depends on meeting challenging objectives. There will be no vesting 
if performance is below the minimum of the range, 25% vesting 
for achieving minimum and 200% vesting only at or substantially 
above the top end of the range.
Performance for each condition will be assessed independently 
from the other conditions over the performance period. Shares 
will only vest if and to the extent that the respective performance 
conditions are satisﬁ ed. There will be no re-testing. 
Share Matching Plan (linked to the annual incentive)
The Share Matching Plan enhances the alignment with shareholders’ 
interests and supports the retention of key executives. In addition, 
the necessity to hold the shares for a minimum period of three years 
supports the shareholding requirements.
The Executive Directors receive 25% of their annual incentive 
in the form of NV and PLC shares. These are matched with an 
equivalent number of matching shares. The matching shares will 
vest after three years provided that the underlying shares have 
been retained during this period and the Executive Director has 
not resigned or been dismissed.
The Remuneration Committee considers that there is no need for 
further performance conditions on the vesting of the matching 
shares because the number of shares is directly linked to the 
annual incentive (which is itself subject to demanding performance 
conditions). In addition, during the three-year vesting period the 
share price of NV and PLC will be inﬂ uenced by the performance 
of Unilever. This, in turn, will affect the ultimate value of the 
matching shares on vesting.
Executive Directors’ pensions
The policy beginning in 2007 is that new Executive Directors will 
be members of the all-employee pension arrangement in their 
home country (or an alternative of similar value) and will pay 
employee contributions at the same rate as other employees 
in that arrangement.
Executive Directors appointed prior to 2007 have a deﬁ ned 
beneﬁ t pension of two-thirds of ﬁ nal salary, payable at retirement 
from age 60. 
Annual incentive is not pensionable except for Executive Directors 
appointed prior to the change of policy in 2005 (Patrick Cescau, 
Kees van der Graaf and Rudy Markham who retired in 2007) for 
whom annual incentive is pensionable up to a maximum of 20% 
of base salary.
Other beneﬁ ts and allowances
Executive Directors enjoy similar beneﬁ ts to those enjoyed by many 
other employees of Unilever. 
Serving as Non-Executive on the Board of another company
Some of the Executive Directors serve as a Non-Executive on 
the Boards of other companies. In 2007 Unilever required that 
all remuneration and fees earned from outside directorships are 
paid directly to Unilever. The policy has been amended in 2008.
Arrangements for Jim Lawrence 
Jim Lawrence joined Unilever in September 2007 as Chief Financial 
Ofﬁ cer. He will be proposed for election to the Boards of NV and PLC 
at the AGMs in May 2008. Given Unilever’s objective of balancing 
remuneration more clearly towards performance-linked variable 
pay the agreed package follows this policy direction. His salary in 
2007 was set at US$1 100 000 per annum; the maximum annual 
incentive in 2007 was 150% of salary and the grant under the GSIP 
in 2007 was 49 962 each of NV shares and PLC shares. He will be 
in a pension plan similar to that of Unilever in the US, which is a 
deﬁ ned contribution plan. To compensate for the forfeiture of 
incentives from his former employer, a cash allowance was paid 
on appointment of US$1 million (with a pro rata claw back over 
three years) and restricted shares of 35 565 each of NV and PLC 
were granted (at award value US$2.5 million). These will vest for 
¹⁄3 after one year of service, ¹⁄3 after two years of service and ¹⁄3 
after three years of service.
Jim Lawrence has purchased 295 508 NV shares and 240 000 
PLC ADRs.
Future developments
The Remuneration Committee continues to monitor trends and 
changes in the market. It keeps a watching brief on the continuing 
alignment between Unilever’s strategic objectives and the reward 
policy for Executive Directors.
From 1 January 2008 the UK all-employee pension plan beneﬁ t 
changed for new hires from ﬁ nal salary to a combination of career 
average earnings (up to a limit of £38 000) and deﬁ ned contribution 
above the limit. Existing employees are being given the option to 
move to the new plan or to remain in the previous plan (subject to 
certain changes including paying higher individual contributions). 
The latter affects the UK-based Executive Directors Patrick Cescau 
and Ralph Kugler.
The performance range for the GSIP 2008 award (performance 
period 2008-2010) will be in respect of average underlying sales 
growth 4%-6.4% per annum and for cumulative ungeared free 
cash ﬂ ow €10.5 billion-€15.5 billion.
 
Commentary on 2007 remuneration
Base salary
In 2007, base salary levels were benchmarked against those 
paid in other major global companies based in Europe, excluding 
companies in the ﬁ nancial sector. The Committee decided not 
to increase base salaries for 2007 and to place greater emphasis 
on performance-based pay. 
Annual incentive
The annual incentive awards for 2007 were subject to achievement 
of underlying sales growth and trading contribution targets 
in combination with individual key strategic business targets. 
The Committee measured the results against the targets set and 
determined the annual incentive amounts for 2007. 
Unilever Annual Review 2007   33 Summary remuneration report continued
Governance and financial statements
Long-term incentive arrangements
•   Global Share Incentive Plan
The ﬁ rst award was made in 2007 with a performance period 
2007-2009. Vesting will be in 2010.
•   Global Performance Share Plan 
The performance period for the ﬁ rst awards made under the 
plan ended on 31 December 2007. Vesting will be in May 2008 
(three years after award). 
•  TSR Plan 
In 2007 the conditional shares awarded in 2004 lapsed. Vesting 
was based on the TSR performance of Unilever (when ranked 
against its deﬁ ned peer group with competitors) over the three-
year performance period which ended 31 December 2006. 
For this period, Unilever was ranked 13
th
 in its peer group and 
therefore no vesting occurred for this award and the shares 
lapsed in March 2007.
•   Share Matching Plan
In 2007 the matching shares originally granted in 2004 
on a conditional basis vested, subject to fulﬁ lment of the 
retention conditions.
•   Executive Share Options
The grants of executive share options made in 2004 became 
exercisable as from 2007. As the 2004 grant was based on 
Unilever’s EPS performance, the options at vesting were subject 
to no further conditions.
Pensions
The Netherlands all-employee pension plan beneﬁ t basis 
was changed from ﬁ nal salary to career average earnings at 
31 December 2006. This had a small impact on the accrued 
pension of the Netherlands-based Executive Director.
During 2007 individual contributions paid by Executive Directors 
in the UK were paid through salary sacriﬁ ce arrangement.
Non-Executive Directors
The Non-Executive Directors receive fees from both NV and PLC. 
No other remuneration is given in respect of their Non-Executive 
duties from either NV or PLC, such as annual incentives, share-
based incentives or pension beneﬁ ts.
The level of their fees reﬂ ects their commitment and contribution to 
the companies. The Chairman’s levels were reviewed and increased 
with the appointment of Michael Treschow as Chairman in 2007.
 
Additional statutory and other disclosures
Unilever’s share performance relative to broad-based 
equity indices
The UK Companies Act 1985 (schedule 7A) requires us to show 
Unilever’s relative share performance, based on total shareholder 
return, against a holding of shares in a broad-based equity index 
for the last ﬁ ve years. The Remuneration Committee has decided 
to show Unilever’s performance against two indices, namely the 
FTSE 100 Index, London, and the Euronext AEX Index, Amsterdam 
as these are the most generally used indices in the UK and the 
Netherlands, where we have our principal listings.
Five-year historical TSR performance
Growth in the value of a hypothetical £100 holding over ﬁ ve years
FTSE 100 comparison based on 30 trading day average values
Unilever
FTSE 100
Dec 2002 Dec 2003 Dec 2004 Dec 2005 Dec 2006 Dec 2007
200
180
160
140
120
100
80
60
Growth in the value of a hypothetical investment over ﬁ ve years 
AEX comparison based on 30 day average values
Unilever
AEX
Dec 2002 Dec 2003 Dec 2004 Dec 2005 Dec 2006 Dec 2007
200
180
160
140
120
100
80
60
Role and responsibilities
The Committee is responsible for making proposals to the Boards
on the reward policy for Executive Directors. It is also responsible 
for setting individual reward packages for Executive Directors
and for monitoring and approving all share-based incentive 
arrangements. The Committee meets at least three times a year 
and, during 2007, it met on ﬁ ve occasions.
Structure and role
During 2007 David Simon served as Chairman of the Committee 
with Jeroen van der Veer and Jean-Cyril Spinetta as Non-Executive 
members. Jean-Cyril Spinetta stepped down as a Director in 
September 2007. Michael Treschow was appointed a member 
of the Committee on 6 February 2008.
34   Unilever Annual Review 2007      Allowances        Grand Grand
    Base and other Value of  Total Total Option Share  total total
    salary payments
(a)
 benefits
(b)
 Bonus
(c)
 2007 2006 gains match TSR/LTIP 2007 2006
Name and Base Country ‘000 ‘000 ‘000 ‘000 ‘000 ‘000 ‘000 ‘000 ‘000 ‘000 ‘000
Patrick Cescau (UK)
(d)
 €1 426 €129 €47 €2 346 €3 948 €2 727 €50 €63 – €4 061 €2 940
    [£973] [£88] [£32] [£1 600] [£2 693] [£1 860] [£34] [£43]   [£2 770] [£2 005]
Kees van der Graaf (NL) €798 €27 €9 €988 €1 822 €1 202 – €60 – €1 882 €1 287
    [£544] [£19] [£6] [£674] [£1 243] [£819]  [£41]  [£1 284] [£877]
Ralph Kugler (UK) €861 €56 €11 €1 033 €1 961 €1 313 – €53 – €2 014 €1 414
    [£587] [£38] [£8] [£705] [£1 338] [£895]  [£36]  [£1 374] [£964]
Rudy Markham (UK)
(e)
 €406 €9 €15 €498 €928 €1 517 – €54 – €982 €2 111
    [£277] [£6] [£10] [£340] [£633] [£1 035]  [£37]  [£670] [£1 440]
(a)   Includes: allowance in lieu of company car; blind trust fees compensation; compensation for loss of net income because part of the salary was paid in the Netherlands; 
entertaining allowance and employers cost for the all-employee savings plan in the Netherlands. All allowances are taxable in the country of residence apart from the 
entertaining allowance which is currently tax free in the Netherlands.
(b)   Includes: beneﬁts for company car; housing (for business use) instead of hotel; medical insurance and private use chauffeur driven cars. Included are beneﬁts that are 
taxable in the country of residence. In addition, Unilever provides support to Executive Directors in relation to spouse’s travel expenses when travelling together on 
company business. This amount is capped at 5% of base salary and for 2007 totalled €168 559 (£114 991) (including related taxes payable).
(c)   Bonus of the year 2007. Includes: the value of both the cash element and the element paid in shares of NV and PLC. In addition to the element of the bonus paid in shares 
each Executive Director is awarded, on a conditional basis, an equivalent number of matching shares.
(d)  Group Chief Executive.
(e)   Rudy Markham stepped down as Director at the May 2007 AGMs. He retired from Unilever at 31 October 2007. In the table above are the emoluments for the period 
January – May 2007. His emoluments for the period June – October were in total: €1 140 000 (£777 708). 
Figures have been translated into euros using the following exchange rate: €1 = £0.6822 (2006: €1 = £0.6818).
The Summary Financial Statement was approved by the Boards of Directors on 10 March 2008.
 
M Treschow P Cescau
Chairman  Group Chief Executive
Remuneration for individual Executive Directors 
The following table gives details of the remuneration received in 2007 (including the value of vested share match and options exercised) 
by each Executive Director individually.
Other income arising from
long-term incentives and
exercise of options in 2007 Annual Emoluments 2007
Advice and assistance
The Committee does not formally retain remuneration 
consultants. It seeks professional advice from external advisers as 
and when required. During 2007, the Committee sought advice 
from Towers Perrin (an independent ﬁ rm of human resources 
specialists) on market data, reward trends and performance 
related pay. Towers Perrin also provides general consultancy 
advice to Unilever group companies on employee rewards, 
pension, communications and other human resource matters.
The Group Secretary attends all Committee meetings and advises 
on matters of corporate governance. 
The Group Chief Executive can be invited to attend Committee 
meetings to provide his own insights to the Committee on business 
objectives and the individual performance of his direct reports. 
Naturally, he does not attend when his own remuneration is 
being discussed.
During 2007 the Non-Executive Chairman could, in his role 
as Chairman of the Boards, also attend meetings. 
Unilever Annual Review 2007   35 Electronic communications
Shareholders of PLC can elect not to receive paper copies of the 
Annual Review and other shareholder documents but to be alerted 
by email to view these documents on our website. To register, or 
to ﬁ nd out more, please visit www.unilever.com/shareholderservices 
and select the e-communication option.
NV shareholders participating in the Shareholders’ Communication 
Channel will be able to appoint a Proxy electronically to vote on 
their behalf at the AGM in 2008.
Dividend reinvestment plans
NV and PLC shareholders have the opportunity to reinvest their 
cash dividends in order to buy additional shares in those companies 
through its dividend reinvestment plans.
Shareholders in NV, who hold their (depositary receipts for) 
ordinary shares in Euroclear Nederland through an admitted 
institution of Euronext Amsterdam, can participate in a dividend 
reinvestment plan arranged and administered by ABN AMRO 
Bank N.V. Further details of this plan can be found within the 
‘Dividends’ section of our corporate website www.unilever.com or 
by contacting ABN AMRO Bank N.V. on +31 (0)76 57 99 600.
Shareholders in PLC are able to purchase additional shares at low
commission rates through a dividend reinvestment plan that is
administered by the registrars, Computershare Investor Services PLC.
Further details of this plan can be found within the ‘Dividends’
section of our corporate website www.unilever.com or by contacting
Computershare Investor Services on +44 (0)870 600 3977.
In addition, for holders of NV New York Registry Shares or PLC ADRs,
it is possible through Citibank, N.A. to open an International Direct
Investment Plan account that takes advantage of reduced brokerage
commissions and service costs to purchase additional New York
Registry Shares or ADRs, as appropriate, with cash dividends.
Further details of the International Direct Investment Plan can 
be gained by contacting IDI Plan, Citibank, N.A., PO Box 43077,
Providence, RI 02940-3077, USA or by calling toll free on 
888 502 6356 if you are within the US or on +1 781 575 4555
from outside the US.
Quarterly results announcements
These are available on our website at www.unilever.com/investorcentre 
in English, with ﬁ gures in euros, sterling or US dollars. In Dutch they 
are available at www.unilever.nl/onsbedrijf/beleggers
UK capital gains tax
The market value of PLC 3¹⁄9p ordinary shares at 31 March 1982
would have been 76.84p per share. Since 1982, PLC ordinary
shares have been sub-divided on two occasions and consolidated
on two occasions. First, with effect on 26 June 1987, the 25p
shares were split into ﬁ ve shares of 5p each. Secondly, with effect
on 13 October 1997, the 5p shares were split into four shares of
1.25p each. Thirdly, with effect on 10 May 1999, the shares were
consolidated by replacing every 112 shares of 1.25p each with 
100 shares of 1.4p each. Lastly, with effect on 22 May 2006, the
shares were consolidated by replacing every 20 shares of 1.4p 
each with nine shares of 3
1
/ 9p each.
Listing details
NV ordinary shares and depositary receipts for ordinary shares 
are listed on Euronext Amsterdam and as New York Registry
Shares on the New York Stock Exchange. The ordinary shares, 
the depositary receipts for ordinary shares and the New York
Registry Shares are exchangeable on a 1:1 basis. NV (depositary
receipts for) cumulative preference shares are listed only on
Euronext Amsterdam.
PLC ordinary shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange and 
as American Depositary Receipts on the New York Stock Exchange.
Each ADR represents one underlying ordinary PLC share.
Further information relating to our shares is available on our
website at www.unilever.com/investorcentre
Shareholder questionnaire
We would welcome your views on our online Annual Review. 
A questionnaire in English is available on our website at 
www.unilever.com/annualreview 
Contact details
Shareholder information
Share registration
Netherlands
N.V. Algemeen Nederlands
Trustkantoor ANT
Claude Debussylaan 24
1082 HD Amsterdam
Telephone +31 (0)20 522 2555
Telefax +31 (0)20 522 2500
Website www.ant-trust.nl
Email registers@ant-trust.nl
UK
Computershare Investor Services PLC
The Pavilions
Bridgwater Road
Bristol BS99 6ZY
Telephone +44 (0)870 600 3977
Telefax +44 (0)870 703 6119
Website www.unilever.com/shareholderservices
Email web.queries@computershare.co.uk
USA
Citibank Shareholder Services
PO Box 43077
Providence, RI 02940-3077
Toll free phone (inside US) 888 502 6356
Toll phone (outside US) +1 781 575 4555
Website www.citibank.com/adr
Email citibank@shareholders-online.com
www.unilever.com/investorcentre
on the web
36   Unilever Annual Review 2007 Financial calendar and addresses
 The two parent companies, Unilever N.V. (NV) and Unilever 
PLC (PLC), together with their group companies, operate 
effectively as a single economic entity (the Unilever Group, 
also referred to as Unilever or the Group). This Annual 
Review therefore deals with the operations and the results 
of the Unilever Group as a whole. The Unilever Annual 
Review and Annual Report and Accounts are produced in 
Dutch and English. 
The brand names shown in italics in this Annual Review 
are trademarks owned by or licensed to companies within 
the Unilever Group.
Unilever has adopted the euro as its principal reporting 
currency. The ﬁ gures in this Annual Review are expressed 
in euros with translations, for convenience purposes, into 
sterling and US dollars. 
In the commentary on pages 16 to 21, sales growth is 
stated on an underlying basis at constant exchange rates 
and excluding the effects of acquisitions and disposals. 
For further information, please refer to our website at 
www.unilever.com/investorcentre
The term shares as used in this document should, with 
respect to shares issued by NV be construed to include 
depositary receipts for shares issued by Foundation 
Unilever N.V. Trust Ofﬁ ce, unless the context otherwise 
requires or unless it is clear from the context that this is 
not the case. The exchange rates used in the preparation 
of this Annual Review are given on page 24.
Cautionary statement
This document may contain forward-looking statements, 
including ‘forward-looking statements’ within the meaning 
of the United States Private Securities Litigation Reform Act 
of 1995. Words such as ‘expects’, ‘anticipates’, ‘intends’ or 
the negative of these terms and other similar expressions of 
future performance or results, including ﬁ nancial objectives 
to 2010, and their negatives, are intended to identify such 
forward-looking statements. These forward-looking 
statements are based upon current expectations and 
assumptions regarding anticipated developments and 
other factors affecting the Group. They are not historical 
facts, nor are they guarantees of future performance. 
Because these forward-looking statements involve risks 
and uncertainties, there are important factors that could 
cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed 
or implied by these forward-looking statements, including, 
among others, competitive pricing and activities, 
consumption levels, costs, the ability to maintain and 
manage key customer relationships and supply chain 
sources, currency values, interest rates, the ability to 
integrate acquisitions and complete planned divestitures, 
the ability to complete planned restructuring activities, 
physical risks, environmental risks, the ability to manage 
regulatory, tax and legal matters and resolve pending 
matters within current estimates, legislative, ﬁ scal and 
regulatory developments, political, economic and social 
conditions in the geographic markets where the Group 
operates and new or changed priorities of the Boards. 
Further details of potential risks and uncertainties affecting 
the Group are described in the Group’s ﬁ lings with the 
London Stock Exchange, Euronext Amsterdam and the US 
Securities and Exchange Commission, including the Annual 
Report and Accounts on Form 20-F. These forward-looking 
statements speak only as of the date of this document. 
Except as required by any applicable law or regulation, the 
Group expressly disclaims any obligation or undertaking 
to release publicly any updates or revisions to any forward-
looking statements contained herein to reﬂ ect any change 
in the Group’s expectations with regard thereto or any 
change in events, conditions or circumstances on which 
any such statement is based.
This document does not comply with accounting principles 
generally accepted in the United States (US GAAP) and 
should not therefore be relied upon by readers as such. The 
Group’s Annual Report on Form 20-F for 2007 is separately 
ﬁ led with the US Securities and Exchange Commission and 
is available on our corporate website www.unilever.com 
In addition, a printed copy of the Annual Report on Form 20-F 
is available, free of charge, upon request to Unilever PLC, 
Investor Relations Department, Unilever House, 100 Victoria 
Embankment, London EC4Y 0DY, United Kingdom.
 Financial calendar
Annual General Meetings
PLC  11.00am 14 May 2008 London
NV   10.30am 15 May 2008 Rotterdam
Announcements of results
First Quarter   8 May 2008 Third Quarter  30 October 2008 
First Half Year   31 July 2008 Final for Year 5 February 2009
Dividends on ordinary capital
Final for 2007 – announced 7 February 2008 and to be declared 14 May 2008 for PLC and 15 May 2008 for NV
     Ex-dividend Record Payment
     date date date
NV     19 May 2008 21 May 2008 19 June 2008
PLC    21 May 2008 23 May 2008 19 June 2008
NV – New York Registry Shares  19 May 2008 21 May 2008 19 June 2008
PLC – American Depositary Receipts  21 May 2008 23 May 2008 19 June 2008
Interim for 2008 – to be announced 30 October 2008
     Ex-dividend Record Payment
     date date date
NV     5 November 2008 7 November 2008 3 December 2008
PLC    5 November 2008 7 November 2008 3 December 2008
NV – New York Registry Shares  5 November 2008 7 November 2008 3 December 2008
PLC – American Depositary Receipts  5 November 2008 7 November 2008 3 December 2008
Cumulative preference shares NV
    Announced Ex-dividend Record Payment
    date date date date
4%   5 December 2008 8 December 2008 10 December 2008 2 January 2009
6% and 7%  5 September 2008 8 September 2008 10 September 2008 1 October 2008
Addresses
Rotterdam London
 Designed and produced by Unilever Communications in conjunction with Addison Corporate Marketing
Board photography by Jaap van den Beukel
Product photography by The Pack Shot Company
Main photography mostly from Unilever image library
Printed by St Ives Westerham Press Ltd. ISO 14001: 2004, FSC certiﬁ ed and CarbonNeutral
This document is printed on Greencoat Plus Velvet which has been independently certiﬁ ed according 
to the rules of the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC). Greencoat Plus Velvet contains 80% recycled ﬁ bre. 
The manufacturing mill is accredited with the ISO 14001 Environmental Standard. In recognition of its 
recycled content Greencoat Plus Velvet has also been awarded the NAPM recycled mark. This document 
is completely recyclable. If you have ﬁ nished with it and no longer wish to retain it, please pass it on to 
other interested readers or dispose of it in your recycled paper waste, thank you.
Any queries can also be sent to us electronically via www.unilever.com/contactus
 
Unilever website
Shareholders are encouraged to visit our website www.unilever.com which has a wealth of 
information about the Unilever Group. There is a section designed speciﬁ cally for investors 
at www.unilever.com/investorcentre
Unilever N.V.
Investor Relations Department
Weena 455, PO Box 760
3000 DK Rotterdam
The Netherlands
Telephone +44 (0)20 7822 6830
Telefax  +44 (0)20 7822 5754
Unilever PLC
Investor Relations Department
Unilever House
100 Victoria Embankment 
London EC4Y 0DY
United Kingdom
Telephone +44 (0)20 7822 6830
Telefax +44 (0)20 7822 5754
www.unilever.com/annualreview
on the web
Unilever Annual Review 2007   37 Unilever N.V.
Weena 455, PO Box 760
3000 DK Rotterdam
The Netherlands
T +31 (0)10 217 4000
F +31 (0)10 217 4798
Commercial Register Rotterdam
Number: 24051830
Unilever PLC
Unilever House
100 Victoria Embankment
London EC4Y 0DY
United Kingdom
T +44 (0)20 7822 5252
F +44 (0)20 7822 5951
Unilever PLC registered office
Unilever PLC
Port Sunlight 
Wirral
Merseyside CH62 4ZD
United Kingdom
Registered in England and Wales
Company Number: 41424
www.unilever.com
