 Creating a better
 future every day
 Annual Report  
and Accounts 2010 Welcome to our  
Annual Report  
and Accounts 2010
Report of the Directors
	 About 	 Unilever
1 Our brands
2 Operational highlights
4 Chairman's statement
6 Chief Executive Officer's review
8 Our footprint
10 Our ambition
12 Winning with brands and innovation
14 Winning in the market place
16 Winning through continuous improvement
18 Winning with people
20 Sustainable Living Plan
22 Financial review 2010
33 Outlook and risks
	 	 Governance
40 Biographies
41 Corporate governance
56 Report of the Audit Committee
58  Report of the Corporate  
Responsibility and  
Reputation Committee
60  Report of the Nomination  
Committee
61  Directors’ Remuneration  
Report
Financial statements
69  Statement of Directors’  
responsibilities
70 Auditors’ reports
72 Consolidated income statement
73  Consolidated statement  
of comprehensive income
73  Consolidated statement of changes  
in equity
74 Consolidated balance sheet
75 Consolidated cash flow statement
76  Notes to the consolidated  
financial statements
124 Financial record
126  Principal group companies and  
non-current investments
128 Company accounts
Shareholder information
139 Share capital
140 Analysis of shareholding
141 Financial calendar
141 Contact details
142 Website
142 Share registration
142 Publications
144 Index
Our	 mission
We work to create a better future every day.
We help people feel good, look good and get 
more out of life with brands and services that are 
good for them and good for others.
We will inspire people to take small, everyday 
actions that can add up to a big difference 
for the world.
We will develop new ways of doing business 
with the aim of doubling the size of our company 
while reducing our environmental impact. Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2010	1
Report	of	the	Directors	About Unilever
Our	brands
• Axe/Lynx
• Blue Band
• Dove
• Becel/Flora
We	have	some	of	the	world’s	best	known	and	most	trusted	brands,	with	
leadership	positions	in	many	of	the	home	and	personal	care	and	food	
categories	in	which	we	compete.	Our	top	12	brands	all	have	sales	of	more	
than	a	billion	euros,	and	with	a	further	eight	brands	with	sales	of	more	
than	half	a	billion	euros,	our	top	20	brands	represent	around	70%	of	sales.
* Some of our brands are marketed under alternative names in certain countries.
Our	12	€1bn	global	
brands	are*:
Other	information
The brand names shown in this report are trademarks 
owned by or licensed to companies within the Unilever 
Group. This document contains certain statements 
that are neither reported financial results nor other 
historical information. These statements are forward-
looking statements, including within the meaning of 
the United States Private Securities Litigation Reform 
Act of 1995. Actual results may differ from those 
disclosed in our forward-looking statements. For a 
description of factors that could affect future results, 
reference should be made to the full ‘Cautionary 
statement’ on the inside back cover and to the section 
entitled ‘Outlook and risks’ on pages 33 to 39. In 
our report we make reference to Unilever’s website. 
Information on our website does not form part of this 
document. This Annual Report comprises regulated 
information within the meaning of sections 1:1 and 
5:25c of the Act on Financial Supervision (“Wet 
op het financieel toezicht (Wft)”) in the Netherlands.
For	 further	 information,	 please	 	
visit	 www.unilever.com/ourbrands
•  Heartbrand ice creams
• Hellmann’s
• Knorr
• Lipton
• Lux
• Omo
• Rexona
• Sunsilk 2  Unilever  Annual  Report  and  Accounts  2010
Report of the Directors About  Unilever
In  2010  we  continued  the  transformation  of  Unilever.  Volume  momentum  is strong,  driven  by  innovations  that  are  bigger,  better  and  faster,  and  by  the  rapid  introduction  of  our  brands  into  new  markets.  Financial  performance  was again  robust,  moving  us  closer  to  our  long-term  model  of  consistent  top and  bottom  line  growth.  We  are  now  fit  to  compete.
Operational  highlights
Group highlights
Strong  volume  growth  ahead  of  market
• Best volume growth for more than 30 years.
•  Volume share up in all regions and most categories, with double digit 
growth in Asia, Africa and Central & Eastern Europe (Asia Africa CEE).
•  More than 60% of the business gaining or holding value share. 
•  Innovation rate up to 33% of turnover, with bigger projects hitting 
more markets more quickly.
•  More than 100 launches of Unilever brands into new markets.
•  Steady and sustainable improvement in underlying operating margin.
•  Strong cash flow and cost discipline, with savings of €1.4bn.
Key  financial  indicators*
Key  non-financial  indicators
◊
Underlying sales growth
4.1%
2009:  3.5%
Total recordable accident frequency  
rate (per 1m hours worked)
1.61
2009:  1.91
Water per tonne 
of production (m
3
)
2.67
2009:  2.81
C0
2
 from energy per tonne 
of production (kg)
132.62
2009:  142.16
Total waste per tonne 
of production (kg)
6.46
2009:  6.52
Underlying volume growth
5.8%
2009:  2.3%
Underlying operating margin
15.0%
2009:  14.8%
Free cash flow
€3.4bn
2009:  €4.1bn
Financial headlines
•  Turnover up 11% to 
€44.3bn, with 7% due 
to currency effects.
•  Operating profit up 26% 
to €6.3bn.
•  Fully diluted earnings per 
share of €1.46, up 25%.
•  Dividends paid in 2010 
of €0.819 per NV share 
(up 5.1%) and of £0.7053 
per PLC share (up 9.5%).
Sustainable Living Plan
•  Help more than a billion people 
take action to improve their 
health and well-being.
•  Halve the environmental 
impact of the making and 
use of our products.
•  Enhance the livelihoods of 
thousands of people in our 
supply chain.
 Basis  of  reporting:  our  accounting  policies  are  in  accordance  with  International  Financial  Reporting  Standards  (IFRS),  as  adopted  by  the  European  Union  (EU),  and  based  on  United Kingdom  and  Dutch  law.  They  are  also  in  accordance  with  IFRS  as  issued  by  the  International  Accounting  Standards  Board  (IASB).  Certain  measures  used  in  our reporting  are  not  defined  under  IFRS  or  other  generally  accepted  accounting  principles.  For  further  information  about  these  measures,  and  the  reasons  why  we  believe they  are  important  for  an  understanding  of  the  performance  of  the  business,  please  refer  to  our  commentary  on  non-GAAP  measures  on  pages  31  and  32.
*   Further  details  of  our  key  financial  indicators  can  be  found  in  our  financial  review  starting  on  page  22.
◊
   2010  data  is  preliminary.  It  will  be  independently  assured  and  reported  in  our  online  Sustainable  Development  Report  2010  at  www.unilever.com/sustainability.
Underlying volume growth Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2010	3
Report	of	the	Directors	About Unilever
The	Unilever	Group
Unilever N.V. (NV) is a public limited 
company registered in the Netherlands. 
It has listings of shares and depositary 
receipts for shares on Euronext Amsterdam 
and on the New York Stock Exchange. 
Unilever PLC (PLC) is a public limited 
company registered in England and Wales. 
It has shares listed on the London Stock 
Exchange and, as American Depositary 
Receipts, on the New York Stock Exchange.
The two parent companies, NV and PLC, 
together with their group companies, 
operate as a single economic entity (the 
Unilever Group, also referred to as Unilever 
or the Group). NV and PLC and their group 
companies constitute a single reporting 
entity for the purposes of presenting 
consolidated financial statements. 
Accordingly, the accounts of the Unilever 
Group are presented by both NV and PLC 
as their respective consolidated financial 
statements. The same people sit on the 
Boards of the two parent companies. Any 
references to the Board in this document 
mean the Boards of NV and PLC.
Over
167,000
employees	 at	 the	 end	
of 2010
Consumers	 buy
170bn
Unilever	 packs	 around	
the world	 every	 year
2bn
consumers	 worldwide	
use	 a	 Unilever	 product	
on any given	 day
More	 than
50yrs
experience	 in	 Brazil,	
China, India	 and	 	
Indonesia
Products	 sold	 in	 more	 than
180
countries
Well	positioned	for	growth 4 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Report	of	the	Directors	About Unilever
This was a significant achievement 
in a world struggling to come to terms 
with an economic crisis, weighed down 
by low consumer confidence, high 
unemployment and sluggish growth 
in developed markets.
Unilever’s already strong reputation 
for responsible business practice was 
enhanced still further by the launch 
of the Unilever Sustainable Living Plan – 
a ground-breaking contribution which 
sets out our social and environmental 
ambitions for the coming decade 
(see page 20).
Innovation is the lifeblood of any 
consumer goods company and the Board 
is also pleased to see Unilever’s brands 
getting stronger and its pipeline of 
innovations becoming even more robust. 
The portfolio is also being sharpened 
through a number of acquisitions, 
in particular the Sara Lee Personal Care 
business and the announced acquisition 
of Alberto Culver.
In 2010 we welcomed two new Directors 
to the Board. Joining the non-executive 
ranks was Sir Malcolm Rifkind who 
has taken over the chairmanship of our 
Corporate Responsibility and Reputation 
Committee. Jean-Marc Huët was also 
elected to the Board in his capacity 
as Chief Financial Officer.
At the 2011 AGMs in May we will be 
saying goodbye to Jeroen van der Veer 
who will be retiring after nine years. 
Over the last few years, Jeroen has made 
an outstanding contribution in his role 
as Vice-Chairman & Senior Independent 
Director. He has also been an invaluable 
source of advice and support to me. 
We wish him well.
It is our intention to nominate Sunil 
Bharti Mittal from India for election to the 
Board as a Non-Executive Director at the 
2011 AGMs. I am very pleased that Sunil 
has agreed to join us. We believe his 
business acumen and experience in 
developing markets will further 
strengthen the expertise of the Board.
The focus of the Board in 2010 has been 
on strategy and governance. The strategy 
was reviewed in detail by the Board 
during a visit to Brazil with an emphasis 
on sharpening the Group’s vision and on 
the choices needed to enable Unilever to 
win in increasingly competitive markets. 
A key element of the strategy is the 
ambitious plan to take advantage of the 
enormous growth opportunities offered 
by the emerging markets of Asia Africa 
CEE and Latin America. These markets 
already account for more than 50% 
of Unilever’s business. We start from 
a strong base therefore in reaching the 
growing number of people in these 
markets who share the same aspirations 
as consumers in the West. We could not 
have chosen a better venue since Brazil is 
home to one of Unilever’s fastest growing 
and most dynamic companies. The Board 
also visited Germany in the year to review 
the Western European business, which 
returned to volume growth in 2010.
We conducted a review of our corporate 
governance procedures during the year. 
This has been recorded and published 
in an updated version of our document 
entitled ‘The Governance of Unilever’. 
The Board participated in enhanced 
training programmes in 2010, 
concentrating on further instruction 
and familiarisation with Unilever and its 
business. This has been achieved in formal 
knowledge sessions for the Non-Executive 
Directors on Unilever’s operations.
Most importantly, the Board also spent 
a lot of time during the year reviewing 
the talent pool of senior management. 
We were pleased, as part of this review, 
to see the significant step up being 
made in leadership development, as well 
as the continuing progress in the area 
of diversity and the award of most desired 
employer status in many places around 
the world.
This could not have been achieved 
without the commitment, dedication 
and hard work of Unilever’s 167,000 
employees spread across over a hundred 
countries. On behalf of the Board I would 
like to thank them for their efforts.
Michael Treschow
Chairman
2010 has been another year of solid progress for Unilever. 
The Group saw accelerated volume growth ahead of our markets, 
continued improvement in underlying operating margin and 
strong cash generation.
Chairman’s statement Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2010	5
Report	of	the	Directors	About Unilever
1
2
3 4
7
10 11
6
9
5
8
Engaging	with	the	business
In addition to providing governance oversight, 
our experienced Board members actively engage 
with the business, helping to advance strategic 
issues by gaining a stronger insight into the Group 
and sharing their expertise.
For	 Directors’	 biographies	 please	 go	 to	 page	 40
3.  Jean-Marc Huët –  
Chief Financial Officer
1.  Jeroen van der Veer –  
Vice-Chairman & Senior 
Independent Director
2.  Paul Polman –  
Chief Executive Officer
5.  Ann Fudge –  
Non-Executive Director
8.  Hixonia Nyasulu –  
Non-Executive Director
4.  Louise Fresco – 
Non-Executive Director
7.  Byron Grote –  
Non-Executive Director
10.  Kees Storm –  
Non-Executive Director
11.  Paul Walsh –  
Non-Executive Director
6.  Charles Golden –  
Non-Executive Director
9.  Sir Malcolm Rifkind –  
Non-Executive Director
Michael Treschow – Chairman (pictured on page 4) 6  Unilever  Annual  Report  and  Accounts  2010
Report of the Directors About  Unilever
3 2 1
During  the  year  we  also  launched  an  audacious  plan  to  meet  our  energising  vision  of  doubling  the  size  of  the  company  while  reducing  the  overall  impact  on  the  environment.  In  an  increasingly  resource-
constrained  world,  this  decoupling  of  growth  from  the  impact  on the  planet  is  the growth  model  that consumers  will  ultimately  demand.
In  addition  to  halving  our  overall  environmental  impact,  the  Unilever  Sustainable  Living  Plan  (the  Plan)  commits  us  to helping  more  than  a  billion  people  to  improve  their  health  and  well-being  and  to  sourcing  100%  of  our  agriculturally-based  materials  sustainably.  We  will  achieve  this  across  the  whole  value  chain,  with  specific,  time-bound  commitments  and  with  the  active  participation  of  many  partners.
These  are  not  acts  of  charity  or  a  tick  in the  box  for  corporate  responsibility.  The Plan  makes  sound  business  sense.  As an  integral  part  of  our  business  model,  it  will  enable  us  to  accelerate  innovation,  ensure  security  of  resources,  reduce  overall  costs  and  build  sustainability  into our  brand  propositions,  ultimately  winning  consumer preference  and  loyalty well  into the  future.
Meeting  our  growth  ambition  also  requires  us to  stick  to  our  strategy.  This  is  set  out  in  ‘the  Compass’,  which  is  based  on  winning  in  four  key  areas.
Winning with brands and innovation
Brands  and  innovation  are  the  lifeblood  of  our  business,  which  is  why  strengthening  brand  equities  and  building  a  pipeline  of bigger  and  better  innovations,  rolled  Slow  economic  growth  in  2010,  food  price  volatility  and  geopolitical  instability  remind  us  that  we  live  in  challenging  times.  We  expect  economic  recovery  to be  protracted  and  uneven.  All  except  emerging  markets  remain  sluggish  and  consumer  spending  continues  to  be  held  back  by  high  levels  of  personal  debt  and  fear  of  continuing  unemployment.
Despite  this  backdrop,  we  achieved  volume  growth  of  5.8%  in  2010,  significantly  higher  than  growth  in  the  previous  year and  Unilever’s  best  volume  growth  performance  for  more  than  30  years.  Growth  was  both  competitive  –  we gained  market  share  in  many  of  our  leading  categories  –  and  profitable,  with  a steady  improvement  in  underlying  operating  margin.  The  emerging  markets  –  now  53%  of  our  total  business  –  continue  to  be  our  growth  engine.  We  are  also  encouraged  that  our  Western  European  business  returned  to  volume  growth  in  2010.
In  this  environment,  as  well  as  improving efficiencies,  we  continue  to  take  a  long-term  view  of  our  business  by investing  in  our  people  and  our  brands, strengthening  our  portfolio  and building  innovation  and  R&D capabilities.
We  expanded  our  underlying  operating  margins  again,  by  20bps,  and  generated  strong  free  cash  flow  at  €3.4  billion.  We delivered  savings  of  €1.4 billion  and  maintained  negative  working  capital  at  close to  best-in-class  levels.  These  were  significant  achievements.
2010  was  a  very  positive  year  for  Unilever,  both  in  terms  of results  and  also  in  our  continuing  transformation  to  a  business  that  delivers  consistent  top  and  bottom  line growth.
Chief  Executive  Officer’s review
Paul  Polman  –  Chief  Executive  Officer  (pictured  above)
1.   Doug  Baillie  –  Chief  Human  Resources  Officer  2.      Professor  Geneviève  Berger  –  Chief  Research  & Development  Officer
3.   Jean-Marc  Huët  –  Chief  Financial  Officer
4.   Dave  Lewis  –  President  Americas
5.   Harish  Manwani  –  President  Asia  Africa  CEE
6.   Michael  Polk  –  President  Global  Foods,    Home & Personal  Care
7.   Pier  Luigi  Sigismondi  –  Chief  Supply  Chain  Officer
8.   Keith  Weed  –  Chief  Marketing  and  Communication Officer
9.  Jan   Zijderveld  –  President  Western  Europe
For UEx biographies please go to page 40
Unilever Executive (UEx) Unilever  Annual  Report  and  Accounts  2010 7
Report of the Directors About  Unilever
5
8
4
7
6
9
out  faster  to  more  countries,  is  at  the  heart  of  our  strategy.  In  2010  we  made  good  progress.  Innovations  launched  in over  ten  countries  increased  more  than  fourfold,  to  40.  Innovations  like Dove  Men+Care,  Clear  anti-dandruff  shampoo  and  Magnum  Gold?!  rolled  out  to  around  30 countries.  We  also  extended  our  brands  into  new  markets,  with  more  than 100  new  launches  in  the  year.  The  percentage  of  turnover  from  innovation  increased  and is  now  a  third  of  company  revenues.  We  rely  on  many  outside  partners  for  innovation  and  are  increasingly  seen  as  a desired  partner for  our  strong  growth  in emerging  markets.
Winning in the market place
The  way  we  deploy  our  brands  and  innovations  in  the  market  is  key  to  their  success  and  again  we  made  great  strides  in 2010.  We  accelerated  joint  business  planning  with  key  customers,  improved  customer  service  in  every  region  and continued  to  develop  a network  of leading-edge  Customer  Insight  and  Innovation  Centres  (CiiCs),  which  are  well received  by  our  retail  partners.  We  expanded  our  footprint  in  general  trade  and  modern  trade  and  significantly  improved  our  in-store  execution  in  emerging  markets.  Both  Walmart  and  Tesco  recognised  us as their  Global  Supplier  of the  Year  –  a measure  of how  far  we  have  come.
Winning through 
continuous improvement
Small  improvements  every  day,  the  length  and  breadth  of  our  supply  chain,  are  enabling  us  to  increase  speed,  raise  quality  and  leverage  scale.  The  move  to  a global  supply  chain  organisation  has  improved  responsiveness  and  brought  costs  more  into  line  with  competitive  levels.  The  successful  launch  last  year  of  our  global  shared  services  organisation,  Enterprise  Support,  is  also  helping  us  to  drive  cost  and  other  efficiencies  through  the  whole  organisation.  These  elements  of  our  programme  of  continuous  improvement  are  generating  the  fuel  for growth.  Winning with people
Winning  in  today’s  competitive  markets  requires  the  best  people,  motivated  to  succeed  and  equipped  with  the  right  capabilities  and  the  best  training.  This  is our  focus  as  we  look to  build  an  organisation  capable  of  meeting  the  company’s  ambitious  vision.  We  made  significant  progress  in  2010.  Employee  engagement  reached  its  highest  level;  a new  compensation  scheme  brought  a sharper  focus  on  performance  and  the  long  term;  and  100 of  our  most  senior  managers  went  through  a  tailored  leadership  development  programme,  which  is  now being  rolled  out  to  the  next 500  managers.
We  achieved  progress  against  the  Compass  objectives,  while  we  embarked  on  our  most  active  acquisition  and  disposals  programme  for  many  years.  This included  the  purchase  of Sara  Lee’s  Personal  Care  brands,  such  as  Radox  and  Duschdas,  and  the  announced  acquisition  of  Alberto  Culver.  We  also  disposed  of  businesses  with a combined  turnover  of more than  €600 million,  notably  the  frozen foods  business  in  Italy.
These  developments  have  left  us  with  a sharper  portfolio  and  an  even  stronger  presence  in  faster  growing  categories.  Combined  with  our  highly  competitive  geographical  footprint  in  emerging  markets,  we  are  increasingly  well placed  to  win  consistently  in  the  areas  of fastest  growth.
Conclusion
Progress  in  2010  was  significant,  but  2011  will be  a  challenging  year  and  we need  to  quicken  the  pace  of  transformation  if  we  are to  stay  ahead.  I have  every  confidence  in the  167,000  wonderful  men  and  women  of Unilever.  They  achieved  some  of  the  best  results  in the  company’s  recent  history  while  staying  true  to  the  values  that  make  Unilever  such  a  special  organisation.  It  is  a tribute  to  them  that  2010  ended  with  Unilever  being  named  Most  Admired  Company  of  the  Year  in  a  poll  of  industry peers.  Well  deserved  praise  indeed,  but also  a  recognition  that  expectations  have  been  raised.  We need  therefore  to  set  the  bar  higher  in passionately  serving  our  consumers  across the  world.
Paul  Polman
Chief  Executive  Officer 8  Unilever  Annual  Report  and  Accounts  2010
Report of the Directors About  Unilever
Unilever’s  products  are  sold  in  over  180  countries  and  used  by  2 billion  consumers  every  day.  Our  impressive  presence  in  emerging  markets,  together  with  a  brand  portfolio  that  is  becoming progressively  stronger,  tells  us  that we  have  the  right  footprint  for  growth.
Our  footprint
We  compete  in  11  categories  and  have  global  leadership  in seven.  More  than  75%  of  our  business  is  in  a  leadership  or number  two  position.  We  are  continually  strengthening  our  portfolio.  We  do  this  by  expanding  existing  categories  into  new  geographies  or by  making  ‘bolt  on’  acquisitions  that  help to  build  our  presence,  either  in  more countries  or  at  a  wider  range  of price  points.  With  more  than  half  our  business  in  fast-growing  emerging  markets  we  are  well  positioned  for  future  growth.  Asia  Africa  CEE  is now  our  largest  region  and  the  fastest  growing.  We  are  also  experiencing  good  growth  in  Latin  America.  In  many  of  these  markets  we  have  a  reach  and  scale  that  are  a  source  of  significant  competitive  advantage.  Whether  it  be  favelas  in  Brazil  or  villages  in  rural  India,  our  depth  of  distribution  is  impressive.  In developed  markets,  our  supply  chain  ensures  we  give  high  quality  service  to our modern  trade  customers  in  places  like the  US  and  Western  Europe.
Accelerate emerging markets
Our growth is increasingly led by emerging 
markets. We already have just over half our 
turnover in these markets, and with their 
strong economic momentum we expect them 
to become even more significant over time.
Market value growth
Share of revenue from 
emerging markets
53%
and growing
Our strong performance in 2010 came in the context of a continuing tough 
economic environment. 
•  Western Europe and North America remained soft, with markets flat  
at best. We do not anticipate significant improvements in the near future.
•  Emerging markets were in a much healthier state, particularly in the early 
part of 2010. Although the latter part of the year saw a modest slowdown 
the momentum remains strong and we expect this to continue through 2011.
All  numbers  are  at  31  December  2010.
Asia Africa CEE
Underlying  volume  growth
10.2%
Turnover
€17.7bn
The Americas
Underlying  volume  growth
4.8%
Turnover
€14.6bn
Western Europe
Underlying  volume  growth
1.4%
Turnover
€12.0bn
Our regions
Our markets Unilever  Annual  Report  and  Accounts  2010 9
Report of the Directors About  Unilever
•  Global leadership in Savoury, 
Dressings and Spreads.
•  Key brands include Knorr, 
Becel/Flora, Hellmann’s 
and Rama/Blue Band.
•  35% of turnover in 
emerging markets.
•  Global leadership in 
deodorants and mass skin, 
world number two in daily 
hair care, significant local 
strength in toothpaste.
•  Key brands include Dove, 
Rexona, Lux, Axe/Lynx, Suave, 
Signal, Pond’s and Lifebuoy.
•  61% of turnover in 
emerging markets.
•  World number two in laundry 
and significant local strength 
in household cleaning.
•  Key brands include Omo/
Persil, Surf, Comfort, 
Cif and Pureit.
•  78% of turnover in 
emerging markets.
•  Global leadership in ice cream 
and tea.
•  Key brands include the 
Heartbrand and Ben & Jerry’s 
in ice cream, and Lipton 
and Brooke Bond in tea. 
•  45% of turnover in 
emerging markets.
Savoury, 
Dressings and 
Spreads
Underlying  volume growth
2.5%
Turnover
€14.2bn
Ice Cream and 
Beverages
Underlying  volume growth
5.9%
Turnover
€8.6bn
Home Care
Underlying  volume growth
8.2%
Turnover
€7.7bn
Personal Care
Underlying  volume growth
7.9%
Turnover
€13.8bn
In  September  2010  we  announced  an  agreement  to  acquire  Alberto  Culver.
Alberto Culver
The Alberto Culver company includes 
brands such as TRESemmé, Nexxus and 
St. Ives. These brands would complement 
our existing portfolio, transforming our 
hair business in North America, the UK 
and elsewhere, and adding substantially 
to our presence in the skin category. 
This transaction remains subject to 
regulatory approval.
Sara Lee
The acquisition of the 
Personal Care business of 
Sara Lee was completed 
in the fourth quarter of 2010. 
It added leading brands 
such as Radox, Duschdas 
and Neutral to our portfolio 
in Western Europe.
Ice cream
We strengthened our ice 
cream business in Western 
Europe, announcing 
acquisitions in both Greece 
and Denmark that will further 
enhance our leadership 
position in this attractive 
category.
In  2010  we  strengthened  our  portfolio  through  a  number  of  acquisitions.
Our categories New additions
Great portfolio, and strengthening Environmental impact
€80bn
€40bn
€44bn
10  Unilever  Annual  Report  and  Accounts  2010
Report of the Directors About  Unilever
Our  ambition
Our  Compass  strategy  sets  out  our  ambition.  It  is  to  double  the  size  of  Unilever  while  reducing  our  environmental footprint.
This  is  an  audacious  goal  which  has  energised  our  people  and  builds  on  our  heritage  of  combining  social  mission  with  commercial  success.  We  are  one  of  the first  consumer  goods  companies  which  has  set  itself  the  objective  of decoupling  growth  from  environmental  impact.  The Unilever  Sustainable  Living  Plan  sets  out  specific  commitments  to  reducing  our  environmental  footprint  while  increasing  the  social  benefit  arising  from  our  activities  (see  page  20).
The  Compass  has  invigorated  and  aligned  the  organisation.  It  balances  bolder  long-term  aspirations  with  a  higher  focus  on  execution  and results  delivery.
Unilever brand
On  any  given  day,  2  billion  people  use  a Unilever  product.  These multiple  small  actions  add  up  to  make  a big difference  to their  lives,  the  lives  of  others  and  to  the  planet.  As  consumers  become  more  aware  of  the  impact  they  have  on  the  world  through  their  daily  choices  and  habits,  they  want  to  know  more  about  the  company  behind  their  favourite  brands.  This  is  why  we  have  added  the  Unilever  name  and  logo  to  our  products  and  advertising,  which  will  extend  to  all  countries  in  2011,  and we  are  starting  to  talk  more  about  what  we  do  as  a company  and  the  positive  impacts  we  have.  Savoury, Dressings and Spreads
 Ice Cream and Beverages
 Personal Care
 Home Care
Unilever  Annual  Report  and  Accounts  2010 11
Report of the Directors About  Unilever
“ Meeting  our  growth  ambition  requires  us  to  stick  to our strategy.  This  is  set  out  in  ‘the  Compass’,  which  is  based  on  winning  in four  key  areas.”  Paul  Polman
Share of growth in 2010
Growth priorities
Our  aim  is  to  win  share  and  grow  volume  profitably  across  our  categories  and  countries.  We  have  a  strong  portfolio  of  leading  brands  and  market  positions.  Our  outstanding  presence  in  the  emerging  markets  leaves  us  well  positioned  to  win  where  much  of  the  world’s  future  growth  will  be.  We  will  also  grow  in  the  developed  world  which  is  almost  50%  of the  business.  €4.6  billion  of  acquisitions  have  been  announced  since  2009.  These  underpin  our  determination  to  have  scale  and  grow  in Europe  and  the  US  as  we  accelerate  growth in  the  emerging  markets.
Winning  with  brands  and  innovation
Brands  and  innovation  are  at  the  heart  of  our  business  model.  We  aim  to  offer  a  broad  portfolio  that  appeals  to  consumers  with  different  needs  and  budgets.  Unilever  brands  must  also  offer  superior  product  quality  and  be  supported  by  excellent  marketing.  Our  innovation  programme  is  focused  on  being  ‘bigger,  better  and  faster’.  This  means  using  technology  to  create  bigger,  better  innovation  platforms  that  are then  rolled  out  rapidly  to  multiple  markets.
Winning  in  the  market  place
New  markets  are  our  biggest  opportunity  for  growth.  We  can  achieve  this  by  being  best-in-class  at  market  development.  When  working  with our  customers,  the  challenge  is  to  grow  the  size  of  the  categories  in  which  we  operate.  In  a  fast  changing  world,  this  requires  flexibility  in our  approach  to  different  channels  and  responsiveness  to different  customer  strategies.  To  sustain  winning  relationships  and  to  enable  growth,  we  need  to  be  consistently  brilliant  at  customer  service  and  in-store  execution.
Winning  through  continuous  improvement
Winning  in  consumer  goods  requires  a  continuous  improvement  philosophy  –  a  little  better  every  day.  Our  goal  is  to  be  faster  and  simpler  and  translate  efficiency  into  more  competitive  costs.  We  are  prioritising  speed  and  flexibility  in  the  supply  chain  to  deliver  growth.  We  are  leveraging  our  scale  more  aggressively,  especially  in  support  services.  And  we  are  working  to get  a  better  return  on  our  advertising  and  promotional  expenditure  –  one  of  our  most  significant  areas  of cost.
Winning  with  people
We  will  only  meet  our  growth  ambition  if  we  have  the  necessary  talent  and  organisation  in  place.  Across  the  business  we  are  conducting  reviews  of  people,  skills  and  capabilities  and  are  taking  appropriate  action  and  investing  for  the  future.  We  know  that  high  employee  engagement  and  a  performance  culture  are  critical  enablers  of  growth;  our  goal  is  to  be  employer  of  choice  in  our  key  markets.  We  have  made  necessary  changes  in  our  remuneration  and working  practices  and  are  increasing  investment  in  training  and  leadership  development.
For more go to page 12
For more go to page 14
For more go to page 16
For more go to page 18
Underlying volume growth in 2010 was 
underpinned by strong growth across our 
categories and regions, but particularly in 
Personal Care and the emerging markets.
Developed
Share  of  growth:  17%
Emerging
Share  of  growth:  83%
Where we will win How we will win
Our Compass strategy 12  Unilever  Annual  Report  and  Accounts  2010
Report of the Directors About  Unilever
Solid gold from Magnum
It’s  on  everyone’s  lips!  Magnum  Gold?!,  the  first  ever  golden  ice  cream  on  a  stick,  launched  in  29  countries  in  2010  with  a  Hollywood  blockbuster  of  a  campaign  featuring  Academy  Award  winner  Benicio  del  Toro.
Brands  and  innovation  are  at  the  heart  of  everything  we  do. Success  means  developing  products  that  keep  pace  with  changes  in  consumer  lifestyles  and  that  appeal  to  people  at  all  income  levels.  We’re  using  breakthrough  technology  to  get  bigger  and  better  innovations  into  the  market  faster,  supported  by  the  very  best  marketing.
Winning  with  brands  and  innovation
Superior products
Our  aim  is  to  give  consumers  an  unbeatable  product  experience.  We  are investing  in  our  formulations  and  constantly  assessing  our  product  performance  in  order  to  drive  consumer  preference  in  branded  and  unbranded  product  tests.  We’re  doing  this  both  for our  innovations  and  for  our  existing mixes.
Our  vision  of  quality  is  not  just  about  the functional  delivery,  but  it’s  also  about  sensorials:  packaging  design,  textures,  taste  and fragrance.
For  example,  the  Rexona  for  women  deodorant  re-launch  in  2010  has  delivered  great  business  results  in  some  markets  through  quality  improvement.  Product  testing  of  the  antiperspirant  aerosol  has  shown  that,  overall,  women  prefer  Rexona  to  the  closest  competitor  and,  specifically,  rate  it  higher  on  dryness,  odour  control  and  absence  of  white  marks  on  clothing.  As  a  result,  Rexona  was  one  of  our  fastest  growing  brands  in  2010.
Bigger, better, faster innovation
Successful  innovation  is  the  lifeblood  of any  consumer  goods  company.  For  a business  like  Unilever,  success  means  innovations  that  work  globally,  rather  than  in  just  one  or  two  countries.  For  example,  Dove Men+Care,  a  bold  move  into  the  men’s  personal  grooming  category,  was  launched  in  over  30  countries  in 2010.
This  kind  of  achievement  starts  with  what  we  call  ‘disruptive  technology’,  namely  technology  that  makes  a  big  impact  on  the  market  by  meeting  consumer  needs  better  than  all  available  alternatives.  Sharp consumer  insight  and  R&D  are  core to  delivering  on  that  aim.
Sunsilk Co-Creations 
rolled out to over
50
countries in less than 
12 months
54
awards won by Axe at the 
Cannes Lions Advertising 
Festival over the past 
five years Unilever  Annual  Report  and  Accounts  2010 13
Report of the Directors About  Unilever
Sunsilk Co-Creations shows 
its expert credentials
The  power  of  seven  of  the  world’s  top  hair  experts  is  behind  new  Sunsilk  Co-Creations.  Following  the  brand’s  biggest  ever  launch,  it  was  rolled  out  to  over  50  countries  worldwide  in  less  than  12  months.  Sunsilk  achieved  an  unprecedented  improvement  in brand  equity  across  the  globe.
In  2009  we  launched  the  Genesis  Programme,  a  more  robust  process  for fuelling  our  longer-term  innovation  pipeline.  Genesis  is  now  a  way  of  life  for  us,  applying  breakthrough  technology  across  categories,  enabling  us  to  benefit  from  much  bigger  market  opportunities.
For  example,  whitening  is  an  essential  benefit  in  fabric  care  but  also  in  oral  care. We’ve  fast  adapted  the  whitening  technology  from  the  laundry  category  and  applied  its  active  system  to  toothpaste  to deliver  instant  whitening  in  one  brush.  Three years  after  launch,  this  breakthrough  White  Now  innovation  is  still  unmatched  by  competition.  As  a  consequence,  Signal  had  a  fantastic  year  in  2010.
We  are  building  more  strategic  relationships  with  our  suppliers,  defining  joint  innovation  programmes  with  many.  We  have  also  amplified  our  open  innovation  activities,  working  with  academic  institutions  as  well as  small  and medium  enterprises.
This  new  way  of  working  has  already  delivered  results  and,  we  are  confident,  will  deliver  even  greater  results  in  the  future.
World-class brands and marketing
Unilever  has  some  of  the  world’s  greatest  brands,  such  as  Lipton,  Ben  &  Jerry’s,  Persil,  Clear,  Dove  and  Axe.  Twelve  of  our  brands  generate  more  than  €1  billion  turnover  and  another  eight  brands  deliver above  €0.5  billion  turnover  each.
Despite  their  size  and  presence  in  consumers’  lives,  we  have  tremendous  opportunity  to  build  them  further,  as  they  are  not  yet  present  everywhere.  In  2010,  we  initiated  100  new  brand  country  launches,  twice  as  many  as  in  2009.
We  continue  to  optimise  the  portfolio  by acquiring  brands  that  strengthen  our market  positions  and  support  our  strategy,  and  we  have  acquired  brands  in  fast-growing  categories  like  ice  cream  and  personal  care.  We  purchased  ice  cream  brands  in  Greece  and  Denmark,  and  the  Sara Lee  Personal  Care  business  in  Europe,  South  Africa  and  the  Philippines.  In  September  we  announced  an  agreement  to  acquire  the  Alberto  Culver  company,  which  includes  a  range  of  outstanding  hair  and  skin  care  brands  such  as  TRESemmé,  Nexxus  and  St.  Ives.  This  transaction  remains  subject  to  regulatory  approval.
Great  products,  great  innovation  and  great  marketing  are  essential  for  building  world-class  brands.  Throughout  our  history,  we’ve  been  at  the  forefront  in  inventing  innovative  and  impactful  ways  to  build  our  brands.  In  fact,  Unilever  was  one  of  the  first  to  advertise  on  television,  and  today  we  are  one  of  the  world’s  leading  advertisers.  As  consumers’  media  habits  change,  we  are  evolving  the  way  our  brands  are  engaging  with  them,  through  digital  marketing  and  market  launches  encompassing  all  media  channels.  As  a  result,  Unilever  was  recognised  as  the  Global  Advertiser  of  the Year  at  the  Cannes  Lions  Advertising  Festival  2010,  with  Axe  alone  claiming  seven  awards,  taking  the  brand’s  total  to 54  over  the  past  five  years.
Dove cares for men 
Dove  Men+Care  came  on  the  scene  in  2010.  Dove  is  our  biggest  personal  care  brand  and  our  men’s  range  stands  out  with  its  emphasis  on  ‘care’.  It  was  a launch like  no  other,  with  an  aggressive  roll-out  in  over  30  countries  delivering  over  €120  million  in  sales.  Dove  Men+Care  was  launched  with an  award-winning  ad campaign  (Silver  Lion  at Cannes),  the first  ever  iAd  for Apple  devices  and  a US  launch  at  the Super  Bowl. 14  Unilever  Annual  Report  and  Accounts  2010
Report of the Directors About  Unilever
Winning  in  the    market  place
Lead market development
Today,  5.9  billion  people  live  in  developing  and  emerging  markets  –  in  countries  like  Brazil,  India  and  Indonesia.  Unilever  has  deep  roots  and  a  wide  presence  in  such  markets  –  where  we  already  reach  many  more  consumers  than  our  competitors.  But  we  need  to  develop  these  markets  further,  a  goal  we’ll  achieve  in  three  main ways:
•  more  users  (increasing  market  penetration);
•  more  usage  (increasing  consumption);  and
•  more  benefits  (trading  up  to  higher  value  products).
Our  strategy  produced  a  string  of  successes  in  2010.  In  China,  our  Comfort  brand  reached  5.7  million  new  consumers.  In  Nigeria,  where  the  toothpaste  category  has  84%  market  penetration,  we  found  that  only  32%  of consumers  brushed  twice  daily  –  and  launched  a  campaign  to increase  usage.  And  in  Indonesia,  5.3 million  new  users  converted  from  deodorant  powder  to  using  Rexona  deodorant  lotion.
Winning partners, winning customers
The  retail  industry  is  increasingly  dominated  by  fewer,  larger  retailers.  Because  we  combine  global  scale  with  local  market  knowledge,  Unilever  can  help  these  retail  customers  achieve  their own  growth  ambitions  as  they  extend  their  operations  into  new  geographic  areas.
In  2010,  we  expanded  our  network  of  Customer  Insight  and  Innovation  Centres  (CiiCs),  which  allow  us  to  work  closely  with  retailers  to  trial  new  strategies  Convincing the consumer – Sunlight
In  Indonesia,  Sunlight  is  converting  consumers  from  cream  detergents  to  washing-up  liquid  through  a  successful  market  development  campaign  focusing  on  size,  price,  consumer  education  and  community  engagement.  Sunlight  has  strengthened  its  market  leadership,  grown  the  category  and  delivered  an  average  yearly  volume  growth  well  above 30%  over  the  past  five  years.
84%
market penetration for 
toothpaste in Nigeria
New  markets  are  our  biggest  opportunity  for  growth.  Developing  and  emerging  countries  offer  huge  potential.  Not  only  is  the  population  rising  rapidly,  but  more  and  more  people  are  reaching  income  levels  where  they  can  start  consuming  our  products  for  the  first  time.
5.7 m
new Comfort consumers 
in China Unilever  Annual  Report  and  Accounts  2010 15
Report of the Directors About  Unilever
Fast and flexible – winning in India
Unilever  has  strong  roots  in  India  –  a  fast-developing  market.  Our  performance  across  a  broad  portfolio  illustrates  how  we will  win  in  this  highly  competitive  market  place:
Dove:  From  cream  bar  to  leading  personal  care  brand  across  skin  cleansing,  skin  care,  hair  and  deodorants  in  just  three  years,  Dove  quadrupled  its  turnover  between  2007  and  2010.
Tea:  By  marketing  across  price  segments,  re-packaging  and  re-sizing  faster  than  ever  before,  we  achieved  faster-than-
market  volume  growth,  strengthening  our  leadership.
Expanding  footprint:  Direct  distribution  has  been  a  source  of  competitive  advantage  for  us,  reaching  a  million  stores  across  urban  and  rural  markets.  In  2010,  we  expanded  this  to  a  further  630,000  stores  covering  110,000  new  villages.
for merchandising,  displays  and  packaging  without  having  to  run  in-store  pilots.  The success  in  2009  of  our  centre  in  New Jersey  has  led  us  to  open  similar  state-of-the-art  centres  in  London,  Paris,  Singapore,  Shanghai  and  São  Paulo.  The  concept  has  been  embraced  by  our  partners.  Carrefour,  for  example,  followed  its  inaugural  visit  to  our  Paris  CiiC  by  sending  country  teams  to  our  London,  Shanghai  and  São  Paulo  centres  where  all  experienced  the  same  capabilities  tailored  to  their  own  markets.  We’ve  already  started  working  together  to  grow  sales  in key  categories  like  hair,  health  and  beauty,  and  ice  cream.
Meeting retailers’ ambitions
Helping  retailers  meet  their  ambitions  helps  us  meet  ours.  Walmart,  for  example,  drew  on  our  deep  understanding  of  the  Indian  market  prior  to  entry  into  the country,  which  contributed  to  an  even  better  working  relationship  and  understanding  when  it  began  opening  its  stores  there.  Or take Tesco.  Operating  in  markets  across  Europe,  Asia  and  North  America,  in 2010/11  it  once  again  awarded  Unilever  International  Supplier  of the  Year.  The  2010  Advantage  International  Survey,  the  industry  standard  for  measuring  business  relationships  in  fast-moving  consumer  goods,  showed  that  our  position  has  improved  in  nine  out  of  15 countries  surveyed,  while  holding  steady  in  two  others.  Unilever  is  ranked  among  the  top  third  of  suppliers  in nine  out  of  15  countries  –  compared  to  five  out of  14  in  2009.
Be an execution powerhouse
Our  progress  in  market  development  and customer  satisfaction  is  encouraging,  but  it  must  be  supported  by  excellence  in execution.  The  everyday  disciplines  of ensuring  that  we  are  delivering  the  products  customers  want,  in  the  quantities  they  order,  at  the  time  they  are  needed,  have  never  been  more  important.  In  2010,  we  continued  to  focus  on  ‘sales  fundamentals’  –  company-wide  standards  which  measure  our  in-store  performance  in  key  markets.  We  developed  a  scorecard  to  track  progress  against  these  standards  and  this  has  led  to  sustained  improvement  in  areas  like  on-shelf  availability  and  speed  of  building  distribution  for  new  products.
‘Perfect stores’
Focusing  on  sales  fundamentals  has  added  momentum  to  our ‘perfect  store’  programme.  The programme  is  based  on the  concept  that  for  every  variation  in geography  and outlet  size,  from  a  US  superstore  to  a small-town  independent  in  China,  there  is  an  optimal  merchandising  layout  for  selling  Unilever  categories  and  brands.  We are  promoting  those  ‘perfect’  models to  retailers.
In  2010,  we  enlisted  more  than  a  million  stores  across  the  Asia  Africa  CEE  region.  Already,  retail  outlets  enrolled  in the  programme  have  shown  faster  growth  than  their  competitors,  while  those  outlets  which  have  taken  on  all  our  ‘perfect  store’  recommendations  are  growing  faster  still.
We  will  extend  the  ‘perfect  store’  programme  to  developed  markets  in  Europe  and  North  America.
The 2015 market place
We  want  to  harness  the  energy  from  our  progress  in  customer  development,  and  in October  2010  we  outlined  a  strategy  for  the next  five  years  –  identifying  the  most  significant  growth  opportunities  across  markets,  channels  and  categories.  We  believe  that  implementing  this  strategy  will  accelerate  our  growth  rates still further.
This is the way we brush our teeth
In  Nigeria,  our  oral  care  brand  leads  the  market.  But  while  it  has  84%  market  penetration,  only  32%  of  people  brush  their  teeth  twice  daily,  as  dentists  recommend.  In  2010,  we  partnered  with  schools  and the  Nigerian  Dental  Association  to  encourage  day  and  night  brushing  –  which  will  lead  to  healthier  teeth,  and healthier  revenues. 16  Unilever  Annual  Report  and  Accounts  2010
Report of the Directors About  Unilever
Shampoo opera makes every 
yuan count – Clear China
Reaching  448  million  people  every  time  they  tune  in  to  a  TV  series  lasting  36  episodes  is  an  advertiser’s  dream  –  and  an  example  of  our  constant  search  for  better  returns  on  brand  investment.  Sponsoring  a  popular  Chinese  drama  won  huge  exposure  for  Clear  shampoo  –  at  less  than  15%  of  the  cost  of conventional advertising.
Winning  through  continuous  improvement
Fast and flexible – and  
increasingly competitive
Being  competitive  on  cost  is  vital.  But  our  customers’  needs  are  constantly  changing,  and  our  markets  are  fast-moving  –  so  we also  need  to  be  fast  and  flexible  along  our whole  supply  chain,  from  the  field  to the  shelf.
In  2010,  our  philosophy  of  continuous  improvement  was  expressed  through  simplifying  the  supply  chain,  superior  service  and  quality.
Simplifying the supply chain
We  have  consolidated  our  single  global  supply  strategy,  creating  a  globally-led,  flatter  structure  that  makes  decision-
making  faster  and  makes  us  more  responsive  to  customers’  needs.  By  thinking  differently  about  the  supply  chain,  we  have  become  more  flexible  –  and  created  savings  to  reinvest in  the business.
The  European  Supply  Chain  Responsiveness  Programme  (ESCRP)  is driving  the  delivery  of  Unilever’s  top  products  to  customers  faster  –  on  average  50%  faster.  To  achieve  this,  we  have  developed  various  solutions  across  the  value  chain,  for  example,  alternative  sourcing,  collaboration  with  suppliers,  advanced  technology  and  improved  production  efficiency.  The  success  in  Europe has  prompted  a  global  roll-out  of the  programme.
Superior service
‘On-shelf  availability’  (OSA)  measures  our ability  to  get  the  right  product  on  the right  shelf  at  the  right  time  –  in  other  words,  ensuring  shoppers  can  always  find  our  products  in  a  store.  However  efficient  our  supply  chain,  Unilever  products  cannot  sell  if  they  are  not  on  the  shelf.  So we  work  with  retailers  to  ensure  that  our  products  are  readily  available  when  Speeding up innovation – 
Wheel India
It  took  just  49  days…  and  left  the  competition  standing.  Wheel  detergent  powder  was  re-launched  across  25  states  in  India  in  February 2010  –  after  a  planned  April  launch  was  brought  forward.  Three  formulations,  amounting  to 650,000  tonnes  of  powder,  were  produced  by  21 factories  to make  the  deadline.
Continuous  improvement  means  doing  everything  a  little  better,  every  day.  It  is  the  key  to  sustainable  growth.  In  2010,  we  concentrated  on  improving  speed  and  agility  in  the  supply  chain,  while  keeping  costs  competitive. Unilever  Annual  Report  and  Accounts  2010 17
Report of the Directors About  Unilever
customers  come  shopping.  We  have  developed  a  unique  capability  for  this  collaboration  with  retailers:  the  5  Step  Approach,  which  helps  to  identify  inefficiencies  and  designs  specific  solutions.  We  work  alongside  customers  to improve  our  systems  and  theirs.  The global  programme  has  increased  our OSA  to  92%
†
.
Quality
We  are  determined  that  consumer-
perceived  quality  is  at  the  core  of  all  that  we  do.  We  are  intensifying  our  focus  on  quality  at  every  level  of  the  organisation  and  at  every  step  in  our  processes,  from the  raw  material  to  presentation  on the shelf  –  and  our  results  have  been  encouraging.  In  2010,  we  had  11%  fewer  consumer  complaints  and  market  quality  incidents  were  down  46%.
Advantages of global scale
Our  global  reach  is  the  envy  of  many  competitors  and  we  need  to  make  the  most  of  our  opportunities  for  finding  efficiencies  through  scale.  Key  areas  we  are  focusing  on  include  procurement  and business  services.
Procurement
Our  move  to  a  single  global  procurement  strategy  has  brought  significant  benefits.  We  have  achieved  significant  savings  in indirect  spend.  Success  like  this gets  noticed  –  Unilever’s Marc  Engel  was  named  Chief  Procurement  Officer  of the year  at  the International  Supply  Management  Congress.
A  phased  global  supply  chain  change  programme  gives  an  idea  of  the  scope  and  pace  of  improvement.  Rolled  out  first  across  Europe  and  Asia,  we  launched  the  programme  in  the  Americas  in  April  2010  to  create  a  new  business  unit,  the  Unilever  Americas  Supply  Chain  Company,  which  will  become  operational  in  late  2011.  Bringing  together  common  systems  and  processes  across  all  Unilever’s  supply  chain  operations,  this  will  deliver  even  better  service  to  our  customers  and  consumers  around  the  world.
Business services
Business  services  account  for  nearly  half  of  Unilever’s  indirect  costs,  and  they  can  benefit  from  economies  of  scale  and  qualitative  improvements  just  as  much  as the  supply  chain.  In  April  2010  we  launched  Enterprise  Support  (ES)  as  our global  shared  services  organisation,  bringing  together  our  HR,  IT, finance,  workplace  and  information  management  support  services.  ES  has  already  secured  new  global  contracts  with  providers  like  BT,  Vodafone  and  Accenture  as  part  of  a drive  towards  better  services  for  less.
The best return on brand 
and customer investment
Unilever  is  the  second  biggest  advertiser  in  the  world.  In  2010  alone,  we  spent  around  €6  billion  on  advertising  and  promotions.  Improving  the  return  on  our  brand  and  customer  support  is  one  of  the  most  effective  ways  to  achieve  growth.  We  do  not  accept  that  this  sort  of  return  on  investment  cannot  be  measured  –  and we  have  challenged  everyone  in  the business  to  consider  this  return  and  find  ways  to  improve  it.
The  result  has  been  an  increase  in  rigour  across  the  board;  in  2010  we  ran  over  500 more  advertising  pre-tests,  and  more  than  doubled  the  number  of  projects  that were  tracked  globally.  We  expanded  our  analytical  modelling  and  created  a  strategy  for improving  agency  costs  and  trade  promotional  spend.
†
   Unilever’s  OSA  measurement  considers  both  Out of Stock  (OOS)  and  Void.
Winning at the shelf
When  shoppers  go  into  a  store,  we  want  them  always  to  find  our  products  on  the  shelf.  That  sounds  simple  –  but  we  can  lose  millions  of  sales  globally  because  our  products  are  not  displayed  to  best  advantage.  ‘On-shelf  availability’  is  so  critical  to  our  success  that  we  have  devised  an  industry-leading  collaboration  with  customers:  Unilever  experts  go  into  a  retailer’s  operations  to  coach  staff  through  our  5  Step  Approach.  For  example,  Ian  Christian  (right)  has  been working  in  numerous  stores  and  retail  head  offices  in  Europe,  helping  customers  boost  their  sales  –  and  ours.
€6bn
spent on advertising and 
promotions in 2010
Top products delivered 
to customers
50%
faster 18  Unilever  Annual  Report  and  Accounts  2010
Report of the Directors About  Unilever
Winning    with  people
Leveraging our global scale
Our  operating  framework  seeks  to  combine  global  scale  with  local  consumer  intimacy.  Getting  that  balance  right  as  the  business  changes  is  essential.  This  year,  we  assessed  the  effectiveness  of  some  of  our  most  critical  teams,  such  as  the  global  and  local  marketing  teams,  with  the  aim  of  further  improving  consumer  understanding  and  speed  of  execution.  We  also  reorganised  some  of  our  key  business  functions  to  take  advantage  of  the  benefits  that  come  from  operating  as a  single  global  team.  Supply  chain  and  communications  are  good  examples  of  this  change.
Developing a team fit for growth
Some  of  our  major  markets  are  doubling  in  size  every  five  to  six  years.  Having  enough  people  with  the  right  skills  in  the  right  jobs  is  a  challenge.  Getting  the  number  and  quality  of  people  in  the  pipeline  requires  an  understanding  of  what  is  already  in  the  business  that  can  be  built  upon  and  what  will  be  needed  as  markets  develop.
In  2009  we  launched  our  ‘talent  and  organisation  readiness  programme’,  which  assesses  four  areas  –  talent,  skills,  organisation  and  culture,  identifying  the  issues  and  putting  plans  in  place  to  address  them.  Having  a  standard  global  approach  enables  us  to  identify  common themes  and  focus  resources  on developing  the  right  plans.
By  the  end  of  2010  we  had  completed  assessments  in  units  representing  around  75%  of  Unilever’s  turnover.  Many  are  already  delivering  results.
Doubling  the  size  of  the  company  presents  major  human  resource  challenges.  We need  to  have  in  place  the  people  and  structures  necessary  to  succeed  on  double  the  scale.  This  year  we  made  great  progress  in developing  a  team  capable  of  delivering  growth,  and  in  offering the  career  development  possibilities  and  an  environment  that  make Unilever  an  attractive  place  to  work.
22 
nationalities among 
our top tier managers
Closer to consumers, 
closer to customers
A  performance  culture  demands  excellence  from  teams  as  well  as  from  individuals.  In  August,  400  Unilever  Germany  employees  worked  together  in  outlets  of  the  REWE  supermarket  network,  getting  closer  to  a  key  customer,  selling  margarine  to  consumers  –  and  raising  €100,000  for the  World  Food  Programme’s  school  meals  project  in  Kenya.  Employee numbers
At year end in thousands Unilever  Annual  Report  and  Accounts  2010 19
Report of the Directors About  Unilever
Building a winning culture
Ensuring  a  winning  culture  truly  comes  alive  involves  everyone  from  senior  management  to  the  shop  floor.  One  of  our  Compass  Award  winners  in  2010  was  Unilever  South  Africa.  They  revitalised  their  business  through  an  employee  engagement  drive,  dramatically  reducing  staff  turnover  and  strengthening  our  business  where  it  counts  –  in  the market  place.
In  China,  for  example,  we  identified  a shortage  of  talent  in  the  leadership  pipeline  and  difficulties  in  retaining  young  talent.  So  we  developed  a  recruitment  scheme  for  students  studying  overseas,  offering  opportunities  back  home  once  they  have  finished  their  initial  training  at Unilever  after  graduation.  In  Latin  America,  our  Unilever  in  your  Class  campus  programme  targeted  college  students  across  eight  countries.  The  programme  has  helped  almost  1,700  students  learn  more  about  Unilever  and  the  consumer  goods  industry.  We  will  roll it  out  to  more  countries  in  2011.
Business  Week  Turkey  recognised  us  as  the  best  consumer  goods  employer  in  the  country,  the  first  time  we  have  achieved  this  honour.  We  were  named  most  preferred  employer  in  the  Benelux  countries  in  a  number  of  surveys,  including  Universum  and  Qompas,  and  Unilever  Indonesia  received  Asia’s  Best  Employer  Brand  Award  from  the  Employer  Branding  Institute  in  conjunction  with  the  Chief  Marketing  Officer  (CMO)  Council  in  Asia.  Meanwhile  in  India,  Unilever  came  in  ahead  of  all  other  consumer  goods  companies  and  achieved  a  ranking  of  third overall  for  business  school  students  in the  Nielsen  Employer  of  Choice  national  employer  survey.
Diversity
Unilever  needs  a  diverse  team  –  across  gender,  nationality,  race,  creed  and  culture  –  to  be  able  to  connect  with  the  widest  range  of  consumers.  Currently,  we have  six  nationalities  represented  on  the  Unilever  Executive  team  and  five  on  the  Board  of  Directors.  This  diversity  delivers  a wealth  of  experience  which  is  critical  to our  success.
In  terms  of  gender,  the  number  of  women  in  senior  positions  increased  from  23%  in  2007  to  27%  at  the  end  of  2010.
Unilever: the place to succeed
With  the  launch  of  the  Compass  strategy,  we  developed  a  performance  culture  toolkit  and  held  workshops  for  all  managers  across  the  company.  The  programme,  run  and  owned  by  leaders  within  the  business,  places  strong  emphasis  on  leadership  and  personal  responsibility.
We  know  this  is  resonating  with  people  from  the  outstanding  results  of  our  annual  Global  People  Survey  (GPS).  Engagement  scores  had  been  hovering  around  65%  for a  number  of  years;  in  2010  it  was  73%.  We  learnt  that  people  are  inspired  by  the  strategy  and,  while  it  is  presenting  them  with  big  challenges,  they  understand  what’s  expected  of  them.
This  level  of  engagement  was  also  reflected  in  our  Compass  Awards,  launched  in  2010  to  celebrate  employees  who  are  making  a big  contribution  to  our  success.  In  all,  we  received  over  1,400  entries,  representing  every  part  of  our  business,  way  beyond  what  we  expected.
One  of  the  winning  entries  was  an  employee  engagement  programme  run  in South  Africa.  Aiming  to  revitalise  the  culture  among  all  employees,  from  senior  management  to  the  shop  floor,  the  results  speak  for  themselves  with  the  business  achieving  one  of  the  most  positive  trends  in  the  GPS  survey.
A  genuine  performance  culture  needs  to reward  people  and  teams  who  deliver.  This  year  we  changed  our  incentives  and remuneration  plans  for  all  Unilever  managers.  They  are  now  based  entirely  on  personal  achievement,  with  personal  development  goals  also  contributing  to people’s  overall  rating.
But  changing  a  company’s  culture  takes  time.  We  are  looking  at  a  period  of  sustained  effort  over  some  time  to  get  all our  people  to  work  in  new  ways.
Safety is essential
We  take  seriously  our  responsibility  to  provide  a  safe  workplace.  For  us  this  means  the  health,  safety  and  well-being  of  everyone  working  for  or  on  behalf  of  Unilever.  A  key  measure  of  progress  is  our  total  recordable  accident  frequency  rate,  which  counts  all  employee  workplace  accidents  except  those  requiring  only  simple  first  aid  treatment.  There  was  a  15.7%
◊
  reduction  in  our  total  recordable  accident  frequency  rate  in  2010.
Winning in the universities – China
Talent  is  the  most  valuable  resource  in  China’s  developing  market  place.  Last  year,  Unilever  China ran  an  initiative  to  assess  how  our  talent  and  organisational  capabilities  could  best  be  harnessed  to our  strategic  ambitions  for  2015  –  with  a  particular  focus  on  attracting  the  best  graduates.
And  we’re  winning  graduates  over.  After  scaling  up  our  recruitment  programme  and  strengthening  its  international  appeal,  Unilever  China’s  employer  brand  among  graduating  students  at  ten  targeted  universities  across  the  country  moved  from  38th  in  2008  to  the  top  ten  in  2010,  according  to  Universum.
◊
   2010  data  is  preliminary.  It  will  be  independently  assured  and  reported  in  our  online  Sustainable  Development Report  2010  at  www.unilever.com/sustainability. 20  Unilever  Annual  Report  and  Accounts  2010
Report of the Directors About  Unilever
Sustainable    Living  Plan
It’s  not  a  new  concept  for  Unilever.  We  have  long  been  working  and  reporting  on  our  impact  on  society  and  the  environment.  One  example  is  our  work  to  improve  the nutritional  quality  of  our  products.  Since  2005  our  Nutrition  Enhancement  Programme  has  reviewed  our  entire  portfolio  of  foods  –  some  30,000  products.  As  a  result  of  this  review  we  have  made  reductions  in  saturated  and  trans  fat,  sugar  and  salt  in  thousands  of  our  products,  in  line  with  globally  recognised  dietary  guidelines.  Another  example  is  the  progress  we  have  made  in  reducing  our  CO
2
  emissions,  water  and  waste  in  factories.  Measured  per  tonne  of  production,  since  1995  we  have  achieved  reductions  of  44%
◊
  in  CO
2
  from  energy,  66%
◊
  in  our  use  of  water  and  73%
◊
  in  the  total  waste  sent  for disposal.  For  2010,  these  equate  to  annual  reductions  of  6.7%
◊
,  5%
◊
  and  0.9%
◊
  respectively.
The  Sustainable  Living  Plan  (the  Plan)  brings  together  all  the  work  we  have  been  doing  and  at  the  same  time  sets  many  new  targets  to  enable  us  to  achieve  our  growth  ambitions  sustainably.
The Plan’s three outcomes
The  Plan  will  result  in  three  significant  outcomes  by  2020:
•  We  will  help  more  than  a  billion  people  take  action  to  improve  their  health  and  well-being.
•  We  will  halve  the  environmental  impact  of  the  making  and  use  of  our  products.
•  We  will  enhance  the  livelihoods  of  thousands  of  people  in  our  supply  chain.
To read more about our 
Sustainable Living Plan, please visit 
www.unilever.com/sustainability
Saving every drop
Many  of  our  consumers  do  their  laundry  by  hand,  particularly  in  developing  and  emerging  markets.  Our  Comfort  One  Rinse  fabric  conditioner  needs  only  one  bucket  of  water  for  rinsing  rather  than  three  –  saving  consumers  time,  effort  and  around  30  litres  of  water  per  wash.  We  have  ambitious  plans  to  grow  the  company.  But  we  recognise  that  growth  at  any  cost  is  not  viable.  We  have  to  develop  new  ways  of  doing  business  which  will  decouple  our  growth  from  our  environmental  impacts  while  at  the  same  time  increasing  the  positive  social  benefits  arising  from  Unilever’s  activities.  The  Unilever  Sustainable  Living  Plan,  launched  in  2010,  is  our blueprint  for  doing  this.
12
consecutive years as foods 
industry leader in the Dow Jones 
Sustainability Indexes, with an 
overall score of 82% in 2010, well 
ahead of the average industry 
score of 49%
44%
◊
reduction in 
CO
2 
from energy per tonne of 
production 1995-2010
66%
◊
reduction in water 
per tonne of production 1995-2010
73%
◊
reduction in total 
waste per tonne of production  
1995-2010
◊
   2010  data  is  preliminary.  It  will  be  independently  assured  and  reported  in  our  online  Sustainable  Development  Report  2010  at www.unilever.com/sustainability. Unilever  Annual  Report  and  Accounts  2010 21
Report of the Directors About  Unilever
Changing behaviour, saving lives
Lifebuoy  soap  is  one  of  our  fastest  growing  personal  care  brands.  Introduced  to  make  hygiene  affordable  to  the  majority  of  people  in  Victorian  Britain,  it  is  now  making  a  difference  to  people’s  lives  on  a  global  scale.  A  clinical  trial  has  shown  that  using  Lifebuoy  at  key  hygiene  occasions  can  reduce  diarrhoeal  disease  by  25%  and  acute  respiratory  infections  by  19%.  By  2015  Lifebuoy  aims  to  change  the  hygiene  behaviour  of  1  billion  consumers  across  Asia, Africa  and  Latin  America  by  promoting  the  benefits  of  handwashing  with soap  at  key  times.
Why are we doing it?
The  Plan  is  the  right  thing  to  do  for  people  and  the  environment.  But  it’s  also  right  for  Unilever:  the  business  case  for  integrating  sustainability  into  our  brands  is clear  and  persuasive.
•  A  growing  number  of  consumers  want  reassurance  that  the  products  they  buy  are  sustainably  sourced  and  protect  the  earth’s  natural  resources.
•  Many  retailers  have  sustainability  goals  of  their  own  and  need  the  support  of suppliers  like  Unilever  if  they  are  to achieve  them.  This  collaboration  is broadening  and  deepening  the  relationships  we  have  with  our  customers.  •  Sustainability  is  a  fertile  area  for  product  and  packaging  innovation.  It  is  allowing  us  to  deliver  new  products  with  new  consumer  benefits.
•  Over  half  of  Unilever’s  sales  are  in  developing  countries,  the  very  places  which  face  the  greatest  sustainability  challenges  –  deforestation,  water  scarcity  and  poor  sanitation.  These  countries  represent  major  growth  markets  for  Unilever,  so  if  we  can  develop  products  today  that  help  people  adapt  to  the  changing  environment  of tomorrow,  it  will  help  us  grow  faster  in  future.  •  Managing  our  business  sustainably  not  only  generates  cost  savings,  it  can  also  save  consumers  money.
Improving health and well-being
Health  and  well-being  are  the  starting  point  of  the  Plan  because  these  are  the  benefits  which  our  brands  provide.  By  delivering  good  nutrition  and  improved  hygiene  our  products  have  a  positive  impact  on  two  of the  world’s  biggest  health  issues  –  cardiovascular  disease  and  diarrhoea.
Nutrition
We  continually  work  to  improve  the  taste  and  nutritional  quality  of  our  products.  By 2020  we  will  double  the  proportion  of our  portfolio  that  meets  the  highest  nutritional  standards,  based  on  globally  recognised  dietary  guidelines.  This  will  Sourcing tomatoes, sustainably
We  are  one  of  the  world’s  largest  buyers  of  tomatoes  for  processing,  taking  an  estimated  6%  of  the  global  yield.  In  California  we  have  been  working  with  our  tomato  growers  to  test  drip  irrigation  versus  traditional  furrow  irrigation.  Studies  show  drip  irrigation  can  reduce  water  use  by  up  to  20%,  an important  consideration  in  a state  where  water  is  costly  and  often  in  short  supply.
help  hundreds  of  millions  of  people  achieve  a  healthier  diet.
Hygiene
From  our  earliest  days  we  have  sought  to  meet  people’s  need  for  good  health  and  hygiene.  By  2020  we  will  help  more  than  a  billion  people  improve  their  hygiene  habits  and  bring  safe  drinking  water  to 500  million  people.
Reducing our environmental impact
Our  aim  is  to  halve  the  environmental  footprint  associated  with  the  making  and  use  of  our  products  by  2020.  This  commitment  covers  our  entire  ‘value  chain’,  from  how  we  source  our  raw  materials  to  how  consumers  use  and  dispose  of  our  products.  The  vast  majority  of  the  impacts of  our  products  come  from these two  ends  of  the  value  chain.  In analysing  our  environmental  impact, we  focus  on  the  biggest  contributors:  greenhouse  gases  (GHG),  water,  waste  and  sustainable  agricultural  sourcing.  Our  targets  for  2020  are:
•  Greenhouse  gases:  to  halve  the  GHG impact  per  consumer  use  of  our products.
•  Water:  to  halve  the  water  associated  with  the  consumer  use  of  our  products,  focusing  on  countries  that  are    water-scarce.
•  Waste:  to  halve  the  waste  (per  consumer  use)  associated  with  the  disposal  of  our  products.
•  Sustainable  agricultural  sourcing:  to source  100%  of  our  agricultural  raw materials  sustainably.
Enhancing livelihoods
We  work  with  many  thousands  of smallholder  farmers,  small-scale  distributors  and  micro-entrepreneurs,  particularly  in  the  developing  world,  helping  them  improve  their  skills  and  increase  productivity.  By  2020  we will link more  than  500,000  smallholder  farmers  and  small-scale  distributors  into  our  supply  chain. Report of the Directors About Unilever
22 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2010
The virtuous circle of growth is starting to work for us. We have 
successfully accelerated our growth and at the same time have 
continued the steady and sustainable expansion of our underlying 
operating margin and strong cash flow.
Financial review 2010
Volume growth ahead of our markets
Underlying volume growth accelerated in 2010 to 5.8%, the best that Unilever has 
achieved for more than 30 years. We set out two years ago to reignite our volume 
growth and to grow ahead of our markets. That is what we are starting to do; our 
volume shares are up in all regions and in most categories.
Volume growth was broad based. In our emerging markets business we grew volumes 
by around 10% over the year as a whole, with the key businesses of China, India and 
Turkey all delivering growth well into double digits. Only in Central and Eastern Europe 
did we see more subdued growth, although even here volumes were comfortably up in 
difficult markets. In the developed world, where growth has been very hard to achieve 
over the recent past, our volumes were also up by around 2%, again ahead of the 
market, in both Western Europe and North America.
We gained volume share in all regions, with particularly strong performance in key emerging markets such as China, Indonesia, South 
Africa and Argentina. Western Europe also saw strong volume share gains, led by the Netherlands, France and Italy. Volume shares 
were also up in most of our core categories, with deodorants, skin cleansing, household care, ice cream and dressings all achieving 
notable gains during the year.
Steady improvement in margin
Underlying Operating Margin for the year increased by 20 basis points. It was another year 
of the steady and sustainable improvement that we have been targeting.
Cost saving programmes again delivered strongly, with €1.4 billion of savings in 
the year following a similar amount in 2009. Much of the success in savings came in 
the supply chain, and as a result gross margin, at constant currency, improved for the year 
despite negative underlying price growth and modestly higher commodity costs. Positive 
mix and improved volume leverage also contributed positively to gross margin.
At the same time as increasing underlying operating margin we also increased substantially 
the advertising and promotions investment put behind our brands – at constant currency 
the increase was more than €300 million or 30 basis points in the year. This came after an 
even bigger increase in 2009, meaning an additional €700 million behind the building of 
Healthy cash delivery
Working capital reduced as a percentage of turnover and has now been negative for 
over 12 months. The cash conversion cycle improved by 17 days, from 20 days in 2009 
to just three in 2010. We are close to best in class in our management of payables and 
receivables, but in inventories we still see scope for further improvement.
This strong performance in working capital management was reflected in free cash flow, 
which was again healthy at €3.4 billion. Over the last two years our combined free cash 
flow of €7.4 billion represents around 90% of net profit. This is robust performance, 
particularly at a time when we are investing heavily in the future growth of the business 
in areas such as capital expenditure, as we build new capacity to support our rapid 
volume growth in emerging markets. The €0.7 billion reduction versus 2009 reflected  
a smaller inflow from working capital in 2010, following the exceptional benefit of  
€1.7 billion taken in 2009.
Delivering against our priorities
Underlying volume growth*
Volume growth: accelerated
Underlying operating margin: 
increased
Change in underlying operating margin*
Free cash flow*
Strong cash flow: delivered
€bn
our brand equities over the last two years. Aside from the gross margin increase, the key driver of margin improvement was a 
reduction in indirect costs, with the organisation now leaner and a new discipline exerted in all areas of the cost base. Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2010 23
Report of the Directors About Unilever
Turnover at €44.3 billion increased 11.1%, with 7.3% due to 
currency. Underlying sales growth increased to 4.1%, driven in 
particular by an improvement in performance in Western Europe. 
Underlying volume growth of 5.8% was partially offset by the full 
year price effect of negative 1.6%, though in the fourth quarter 
pricing turned positive on an in-quarter basis.
Operating profit was €6.3 billion, compared with €5.0 billion 
in 2009, with higher one-off profits arising from the disposal 
of group companies and lower restructuring costs. Underlying 
operating profit increased by 12% to €6.6 billion, with underlying 
operating margin increasing by 20 basis points to 15.0%. 
The cost of financing net borrowings was €414 million, €15 
million lower than last year, as the adverse impact of currency 
was more than offset by lower average net debt. The interest rate 
on borrowings was 4.4% and on cash deposits was 1.7%. 
The charge for pensions financing was a credit of €20 million 
compared with a net charge of €164 million in 2009.
The effective tax rate was 25.5% compared with 26.2% in 2009 
reflecting the geographic mix of profits and the impact of the 
Italian frozen foods disposal. The underlying tax rate excluding 
the effect of restructuring, disposals and impairments was 27.1%.
Net profit from joint ventures and associates, together with other 
income from non-current investments contributed €187 million 
compared to €489 million in the prior year which benefited from 
the €327 million gain on disposal of the majority of the equity in 
JohnsonDiversey.
Fully diluted earnings per share increased 25%, to €1.46. This 
was driven by improved underlying operating profit, lower 
restructuring charges, lower pension costs, the favourable impact 
of foreign exchange and higher profit on business disposal 
partially offset by a provision in respect of the European 
Commission investigation into consumer detergents. Business 
disposals include the disposal of the Italian frozen foods business.
Financial overview 2010
Cleaning up in Asia
Consumers in Vietnam, 
Indonesia, Malaysia and the 
Philippines have taken a shine 
to Cif in a big way. The roll- 
out of our household cleaner 
to these new markets was 
behind its impressive volume 
growth in 2010.
Key performance indicators*
     
  2010 2009 2008
Underlying sales growth (%) 4.1 3.5 7.4
Underlying volume growth (%) 5.8 2.3 0.1
Underlying operating margin (%) 15.0 14.8 14.6
Free cash flow (€ million) 3,365 4,072 2,390
Consolidated income statement
(highlights) for the year ended 31 December
      Increase/
€ million 2010 2009 (Decrease)
Turnover 44,262 39,823 11.1%
Operating profit 6,339 5,020 26%
Profit before taxation 6,132 4,916 25%
Net profit 4,598 3,659 26%
Diluted earnings per share € 1.46 € 1.17 25%
Consolidated balance sheet
as at 31 December
€ million  2010 2009
Non-current assets  28,683 26,205
Current assets  12,484 10,811
Current liabilities  (13,606) (11,599)
Total assets less current liabilities  27,561 25,417
Non-current liabilities  12,483 12,881
Shareholders’ equity  14,485 12,065
Non-controlling interests  593 471
Total capital employed  27,561 25,417
Consolidated cash flow statement
for the year ended 31 December
€ million  2010 2009
Net cash flow from operating activities  5,490 5,774
Net cash flow from/(used in) investing activities (1,164) (1,263)
Net cash flow from/(used in) financing activities (4,609) (4,301)
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents (283) 210
Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January  2,397 2,360
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes  (148) (173)
Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December  1,966 2,397
*  Certain measures used in our reporting are not defined under IFRS. 
For further information about these measures, please refer to the 
commentary on non-GAAP measures on pages 31 to 32.
Key performance indicators (KPIs)
We report our performance against four key financial indicators:
• underlying sales growth;
• underlying volume growth;
• underlying operating margin; and
• free cash flow (this has replaced operating cash flow).
The performance of the KPIs is described on page 22, on this 
page and within the segmental commentaries on pages 24 to 27. 
The KPIs are described on pages 31 to 32. The non-financial KPIs 
are described on pages 2, 19 and 20. 24 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Report of the Directors About Unilever
Financial review 2010 continued
The Americas
        € million € million %
      Increase/
        2010 2009 (Decrease)
 
Turnover       14,562 12,850 13.3
Operating profit       2,169 1,843 17.7
 
Underlying operating margin (%)    16.0 16.1 (0.1)
 
Underlying sales growth at constant rates (%) 4.0 4.2  
Underlying volume growth (%)   4.8 2.5  
Effect of price changes (%)    (0.7) 1.6  
Turnover at current rates of exchange grew by 13.3%. The 
relative strength of most major currencies in the region against 
the euro meant that the impact of exchange rates was significant, 
contributing 9.0% of the overall turnover growth. Operating 
profit at current rates of exchange grew by 17.7%. 
Market conditions in North America remained challenging 
throughout the year, with consumer confidence at low levels 
and competition proving increasingly intense. Latin American 
markets were generally much stronger, although levels of 
competition were again increased, particularly in Brazil.
Underlying sales growth was 4.0%. This was driven by strong 
performance in Latin America, but was also supported by 
encouraging levels of growth in North America. Underlying price 
growth was negative for the year as a whole, but had returned to 
positive territory by the year end. Given the competitive climate, 
volume growth of 4.8% represented strong performance, with 
good momentum maintained throughout the year and all major 
units contributing positive growth. Leading contributions to 
volume growth were made by our businesses in Argentina, Brazil 
and Mexico. 
Volume market share performance was positive for the region as 
a whole, and for most major units. Particularly strong progress 
was made over the year in the food categories in Brazil and 
Mexico, and in the Personal Care categories in Argentina. In the 
USA overall volume share was flat for the year as a whole, with 
gains in hair and skin cleansing offset by share loss in spreads and 
the weight management business. 
Underlying price growth was negative 0.7%, reflecting actions 
taken to ensure market positions were protected against high 
levels of price competition, particularly in Brazil and the USA. 
Pricing trends improved through the year, led by the Latin 
American businesses, and underlying price growth had turned 
positive by the fourth quarter. Underlying operating margin for 
the year was down by 10 basis points, with investment in 
advertising and promotions increased from 2009. Gross margin 
was slightly higher, at constant currency, with strong 
performance in cost saving programmes more than 
compensating for the impact of lower prices and higher 
commodity costs.
A key development in the year was the announcement of an 
agreement to acquire the Alberto Culver business. This 
transaction, which is still subject to regulatory approval, will 
significantly strengthen our positions in the hair and skin 
categories in the USA and other markets in the region.
Asia, Africa and Central & Eastern Europe 
        € million € million %
      Increase/
        2010 2009 (Decrease)
 
Turnover       17,685 14,897 18.7
Operating profit       2,253 1,927 16.9
   
Underlying operating margin (%)    13.4 13.9 (0.5)
 
Underlying sales growth at constant rates (%) 7.7 7.7  
Underlying volume growth (%)   10.2 4.1  
Effect of price changes (%)    (2.2) 3.4  
 
Turnover at current rates of exchange grew by 18.7%. The 
relative strength of most major currencies in the region against 
the euro meant that the impact of exchange rates was significant, 
contributing 10.1% of the overall turnover growth. Operating 
profit at current rates of exchange grew by 16.9%. 
Market conditions were robust in most parts of the region 
throughout the year, although the second half saw a modest 
slowdown in markets like China as interest rates were increased 
in an attempt to contain inflationary pressures. Market conditions 
in Central and Eastern Europe, though improved from 2009, 
were more subdued than in the rest of the region. Competitive 
intensity reached new heights in several key countries in 2010, 
with increased levels of mostly price-based competitive activity 
particularly in India, China, Indonesia and Turkey.
Against this competitive background, underlying sales growth 
of 7.7% and volume growth of 10.2% represent strong and fully 
competitive performance. Volume momentum was maintained 
throughout the year, with all major units contributing volume 
growth of at least 5%. Several major markets achieved strong 
double digit volume growth for the year, including China, India, 
Vietnam and Turkey. Amongst the smaller businesses volume 
strength was also broad-based. Double digit volume growth 
was achieved in South Asian markets such as Bangladesh and 
Pakistan, in Malaysia and the Philippines in South East Asia, 
and in African markets such as Kenya. 
Volume market share performance was positive for the region 
as a whole, and for most major units. Particularly strong progress 
was made in China, Indonesia, Turkey and South Africa. In the 
highly competitive Indian market, volume growth was strong, 
with improved performance throughout the year and the fourth 
quarter seeing the return of positive share momentum. 
Underlying price growth was negative 2.2%, reflecting actions 
taken to ensure market positions were protected against high 
levels of price competition. Pricing trends improved through 
the year, and by the end of 2010 in-quarter pricing had turned 
positive. Underlying operating margin for the year was down by 
50 basis points, with gross margin stable, at constant currency, 
but investment in advertising and promotions significantly 
increased.
Other key developments in the year included the continued 
successful roll-out of the regional IT platform to a variety of 
countries, including China, Australia and Vietnam, and the 
opening of ‘Customer Insight and Innovation Centres’ in 
Singapore and Shanghai. Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2010 25
Report of the Directors About Unilever
Western Europe
        € million € million %
      Increase/
    2010 2009 (Decrease)
 
Turnover       12,015 12,076 (0.5)
Operating profit       1,917 1,250 53.4
 
Underlying operating margin (%)    16.1 14.4 1.7
 
Underlying sales growth at constant rates (%)  (0.4) (1.9)  
Underlying volume growth (%)   1.4 (0.1)  
Effect of price changes (%)    (1.8) (1.8)  
Turnover at current rates of exchange fell by 0.5%. Operating 
profit at current rates of exchange grew by 53.4%. Although 
underlying margin improvement made an important contribution, 
the most significant factor behind this substantial increase was 
the profit achieved on the disposal of the Italian frozen foods 
business in the fourth quarter. 
Market conditions were difficult in most parts of the region 
throughout 2010, with Greece, Ireland and Spain proving 
especially challenging. Northern European markets were 
more positive, particularly the UK and France, with consumer 
confidence remaining relatively stable despite the imminent onset 
of austerity packages. Competition continued to be intense, 
and in some markets and categories levels of price promotional 
activity accelerated towards the end of the year. This trend was 
particularly marked in the Home Care category. 
Against this competitive background, underlying sales growth 
of negative 0.4% represented robust performance. Particularly 
encouraging was volume growth, which at 1.4% was a step up 
from the slight decline seen in 2009. Key countries contributing to 
this positive growth momentum were the UK, France, Italy and the 
Netherlands, all of which grew volumes by 2% or more, in all cases 
ahead of their respective markets. Volumes in Germany were 
broadly flat, and in Greece, Spain and Ireland volumes were down, 
reflecting the very difficult conditions in each of those markets.
Volume market share performance was positive for the region 
as a whole, and for most major units with the exception of Spain. 
Particularly strong progress was made in the Netherlands, where 
over the year major share gains were seen in ice cream and 
deodorants. In the UK strong gains were made in dressings, 
tea and laundry, and in Germany performance was strong in 
ice cream, spreads and deodorants.
Underlying price growth was negative 1.8%, reflecting actions 
taken to ensure market positions were protected against high 
levels of price competition. Underlying operating margin for the 
year was up sharply, by 170 basis points. This reflected the 
success of cost saving initiatives, which reduced indirect costs 
significantly. Advertising and promotions spend was also lower, 
although investment levels remained competitive as reflected in 
the improved volume and share performance.
Other key developments in the year focused on the sharpening 
of the portfolio through acquisitions and disposals. The sale 
of the Italian frozen foods business was completed in the fourth 
quarter, as was the acquisition of the Personal Care business of 
Sara Lee. In addition, smaller bolt-on acquisitions were 
announced in the ice cream business in Denmark and Greece, 
and have subsequently been completed. 26 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Report of the Directors About Unilever
Financial review 2010 continued
Ice Cream and Beverages 
        € million € million %
      Increase/
        2010 2009 (Decrease)
 
Turnover       8,605 7,753 11.0
Operating profit       724 731 (1.0)
 
Underlying sales growth at constant rates (%) 6.1    
Underlying volume growth(%)    5.9    
Effect of price changes (%)    0.1    
 
Turnover at current rates of exchange grew by 11.0%. The 
relative weakness of the euro in the year meant that the impact 
of exchange rates was significant, contributing 6.8% of the 
overall turnover growth. Operating profit at current rates of 
exchange fell by 1.0%.
Underlying sales growth was 6.1%, almost entirely due to volume 
which grew by 5.9%. The fastest growth was in the soy-based 
drinks business in Latin America, where impactful new packaging 
and advertising drove another year of strong performance. Tea 
also performed well, with volume share gains in a number of key 
markets including the UK and positive price growth alongside 
mid-single digit volume growth. As well as actions to strengthen 
the brand equity of Lipton, the tea category also benefited from 
up-trading to new formats such as green tea in pyramid bags, the 
development of milk teas in China and ongoing conversion from 
loose tea to tea bags across many emerging markets.
Ice cream also saw robust volume growth and share gains in 
most markets. Volume share performance was particularly strong 
in Western Europe, Mexico, Indonesia and Australia. Innovation 
performance was consistently high, with major success driven 
by Magnum Gold?! and Cornetto Enigma in multiple markets. 
Product quality improvements helped Klondike achieve strong 
results in the USA, and the successful Fruttare brand was 
expanded from its Latin American base into South East Asia. 
The Inmarko business in Russia also made good progress.
Underlying price growth was 0.1%, with higher price growth 
in tea and modestly negative growth in ice cream. Operating 
margin for the year was down by 100 basis points. This largely 
reflected slightly lower gross margins, at constant currency, with 
commodity costs higher in both tea and ice cream. An additional 
factor driving the minor reduction in margins was a step-up in 
restructuring costs, particularly in the tea category.
Savoury, Dressings and Spreads 
        € million € million %
      Increase/
        2010 2009 (Decrease)
 
Turnover       14,164 13,256 6.8
Operating profit       2,846 1,840 54.7
 
Underlying sales growth at constant rates (%) 1.4    
Underlying volume growth (%)   2.5    
Effect of price changes (%)     (1.0)    
 
Turnover at current rates of exchange grew by 6.8%. Operating 
profit at current rates of exchange grew by 54.7%. Although 
underlying margin improvement made an important contribution, 
a significant factor behind this substantial increase was the profit 
achieved on the disposal of the Italian frozen foods business in 
the fourth quarter.
Underlying sales growth was 1.4% and volume growth was 
2.5%. Growth was strongest in the savoury category, driven by 
a series of bigger and more impactful innovations. Knorr jelly 
bouillon has proved a success across many markets in Europe and 
Latin America, Knorr Season and Shake baking bags have been 
successfully launched in more than 20 markets, and PF Chang’s 
restaurant quality frozen meals have been a great success in the 
USA. Volume shares were up in most areas of the savoury 
business, with good progress in both bouillons and soups.
Dressings also saw positive volume growth, with volume share 
gains in key markets in Western Europe and the Americas 
including the UK, USA, Brazil and Mexico. Performance was 
particularly strong in Latin America, where double digit volume 
growth was achieved through a series of actions to broaden the 
range of consumption occasions for mayonnaise. Spreads saw 
modestly negative underlying sales growth, but volume was 
positive and performance improved through the year. Pro.activ 
spreads continued to drive growth with their emphasis on core 
heart health benefits. Volume shares in spreads grew in the year, 
especially in Western Europe.
Underlying price growth was negative 1.0%, mostly reflecting 
actions taken in Western Europe to ensure market positions were 
protected against high levels of price competition. Operating 
margin for the year was substantially up, by 620 basis points. 
Gross margins, at constant currency, were up in all three 
categories, and advertising and promotions spend was broadly 
unchanged from 2009 levels. The major change in margins came 
in restructuring, disposals and impairments, with significant 
restructuring spend in 2009 replaced by the profit on disposal of 
the Italian frozen foods business in 2010. Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2010 27
Report of the Directors About Unilever
Home Care
        € million € million %
      Increase/
        2010 2009 (Decrease)
 
Turnover       7,726 6,968 10.9
Operating profit       473 615 (23.1)
Underlying sales growth at constant rates (%) 3.0    
Underlying volume growth (%)   8.2    
Effect of price changes (%)    (4.8)    
 
Turnover at current rates of exchange grew by 10.9%. The 
relative weakness of the euro in the year meant that the impact 
of exchange rates was significant, contributing 8.3% of the 
overall turnover growth. Operating profit at current rates of 
exchange fell by 23.1%. A significant element of this fall was 
a provision taken in relation to a European Commission 
investigation into potential competition law infringements. 
Underlying sales growth was 3.0%, with volume growth 
significantly higher at 8.2%. This strong growth came in the 
context of increasingly competitive markets, particularly in fabric 
cleaning, with high levels of price-based activity in both emerging 
markets such as India or Brazil and developed markets such as the 
UK. 
Volume growth was particularly strong in India, where the Rin 
and Wheel detergents brands were successfully re-launched, and 
in China, where the launch of Omo liquids helped to further close 
the share gap to the market leader. Liquids were also introduced 
into a number of other markets during the year, including Turkey 
and Vietnam, and the roll-out of the Surf brand continued into 
several new markets. Although our laundry business is strongest 
in emerging markets, performance was also encouraging in a 
number of Western European markets, with good volume 
growth and share gains in the UK, France and the Netherlands.
Household cleaning continued to perform well, with high single 
digit volume growth and share gains in a number of key markets. 
New market launches played a major role, with Cif rolled out to 
various countries particularly in South East Asia and Domestos 
launched into Italy and the Philippines. Good progress was also 
made in dishwash with the launch of Sun Turbo All-in-1 
concentrated gel in Europe.
Underlying price growth was negative 4.8%, with high levels 
of price competition in laundry for much of the year. Operating 
margin for the year fell by 270 basis points. This reflected the 
provision noted above, but also the impact of the highly 
competitive environment in Home Care, with lower gross 
margins, at constant currency, due to pricing and higher levels of 
advertising and promotions spend.
Personal Care
        € million € million %
      Increase/
        2010 2009 (Decrease)
 
Turnover       13,767 11,846 16.2
Operating profit       2,296 1,834 25.2
Underlying sales growth at constant rates (%) 6.4    
Underlying volume growth (%)   7.9    
Effect of price changes (%)    (1.4)    
 
Turnover at current rates of exchange grew by 16.2%. The 
relative weakness of the euro in the year meant that the impact 
of exchange rates was significant, contributing 8.5% of the 
overall turnover growth. Operating profit at current rates of 
exchange grew by 25.2%.
Underlying sales growth was 6.4% and volume growth was 7.9%. 
Growth was strongest in the deodorants category, driven by the 
roll-out of Dove Men+Care, the launch of Rexona Clinical, various 
new market launches and continued success with the Axe brand. 
Global market share continued to grow despite high levels of 
competition. Good progress was also made in skin, particularly in 
skin cleansing where Dove Nutrium moisture performed strongly 
and several new market launches of Lifebuoy were completed. 
The hair category saw improved performance through the year, 
with healthy volume growth and improved market share in 
several key countries including the USA, China and India. 
Innovation and new market launches were again key drivers, with 
Dove Damage Therapy successfully rolled out, the Clear brand 
extended into Latin America and a series of new launches under 
the TiGi brand. The oral category had a year of solid growth, 
despite intensified competition in a number of markets. The 
White Now range has proved successful across more than 30 
markets, and launches of anti-age variants in Western Europe 
have also made a contribution. 
Underlying price growth was negative 1.4%, with similar levels 
seen in each of the Personal Care categories. Operating margin 
for the year was up by 120 basis points. This reflected improved 
gross margins, at constant currency, particularly in the skin 
category and savings in Indirects, partly offset by increased 
advertising and promotions spend.
Acquisition activity in 2010 was concentrated in Personal Care, 
with the announcement in September of an agreement to 
acquire the Alberto Culver hair and skin business, and the 
completion in December of the acquisition of the Personal Care 
business of Sara Lee.  28 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Report of the Directors About Unilever
Financial review 2010 continued
Contractual obligations at 31 December 2010
    € million € million € million € million € million
      Due      Due in 
      within Due in Due in over
    Total 1 year 1-3 years 3-5 years  5 years
 
Long-term debt   8,003 958 2,611 2,017 2,417
Interest on financial
 liabilities   2,907 344 572 385 1,606
Operating lease
 obligations   1,600 364 500 344 392
Purchase obligations
(a)
 610 493 68 26 23
Finance leases   357 31 49 45 232
Other long-term
 commitments   2,344 688 1,085 453 118
Total  15,821 2,878 4,885 3,270 4,788
 
(a) For raw and packaging materials and finished goods.
Off-balance sheet arrangements
SIC interpretation 12 ‘Consolidation – Special Purpose Entities’ 
(SIC 12) requires that entities with which we have relationships 
are considered for consolidation in the financial statements based 
on relative sharing of economic risks and rewards rather than 
based solely on share ownership and voting rights. We 
periodically review our contractual arrangements with potential 
special purpose entities (SPEs) as defined by SIC 12. The most 
recent review has concluded that there are no significant SPE 
relationships which are not already appropriately reflected in  
the consolidated financial statements. Information concerning 
guarantees given by the Group is stated in note 15 on page 99.
Cash flow
        € million € million € million
        2010 2009 2008
Net cash flow from 
 operating activities      5,490 5,774 3,871
Net cash flow from/(used in) 
 investing activities      (1,164) (1,263) 1,415
Net cash flow from/(used in) 
 financing activities      (4,609) (4,301) (3,130)
Net increase/(decrease) in cash
 and cash  equivalents     (283) 210 2,156
 
Cash and cash equivalents reduced by €0.4 billion when 
translated at average 2010 exchange rates. After recognising the 
changes in exchange rates, amounts in the balance sheet at 
31 December 2010 were €0.3 billion lower at €2.3 billion.
Net cash flow from operating activities of €5.5 billion was 
€0.3 billion lower than in 2009. Cash flow from operating 
activities increased €0.1 billion, reflecting higher operating profit 
and lower pension payments. Further progress was made in 
reducing working capital, building on the strong performance in 
2009. Tax payments increased to €1.3 billion. Net capital 
expenditure was €0.4 billion higher than in 2009. There was a 
net cash outflow from acquisition and disposal activities, primarily 
the acquisition of the Sara Lee brands and the disposal of the 
Italian frozen foods business. The movement in financing 
activities is explained by an increase in dividends paid, an increase 
in treasury stock purchases, partially offset by lower net outflow 
on third party borrowings. 
At 31 December 2010, the net debt position was €6.7 billion, an 
increase of €0.3 billion compared to 2009.
Balance sheet
 
         € million € million
          2010 2009
 
Goodwill and intangible assets       18,278 17,047
Other non-current assets       10,405 9,158
Current assets         12,484 10,811
Current liabilities         (13,606) (11,599)
 
Total assets less current liabilities     27,561 25,417
 
Non-current liabilities       12,483 12,881
Shareholders’ equity         14,485 12,065
Non-controlling interest       593 471
 
Total capital employed       27,561 25,417
 
Goodwill and intangibles at 31 December 2010 were €1.2 billion 
higher than in 2009, as a result of currency movements and the 
Sara Lee acquisition, net of disposals, and the movements to 
assets held for disposal. The increase in other non-current assets 
is mainly due to currency and an increase in property, plant and 
equipment to €7.9 billion compared to €6.6 billion in 2009.
Inventories were higher by €0.7 billion and trade and other 
receivables were higher by €0.7 billion. Cash and cash equivalents 
were €0.3 billion lower at €2.3 billion.
Current liabilities were €2.0 billion higher at €13.6 billion mainly 
due to an increase in trade payables and currency movements. 
Provisions remained at €0.4 billion.
The overall net liability for all pension arrangements was 
€2.1 billion at the end of 2010, down from €2.6 billion at the end 
of 2009. Funded schemes showed an aggregate deficit of 
€0.2 billion and unfunded arrangements a liability of €1.9 billion. 
The reduction in the overall balance sheet liability was due to 
cash contributions made and good asset returns over the year 
offset by the impact of lower corporate bond rates on the 
calculation of pension liabilities.
Shareholders’ equity rose by €2.4 billion in the year. Net profit 
added €4.2 billion, with currency and other movements adding 
a further €0.5 billion. Dividends paid in the year totalled 
€2.3 billion.
Unilever’s contractual obligations at the end of 2010 included 
capital expenditure commitments, borrowings, lease 
commitments and other commitments. A summary of certain 
contractual obligations at 31 December 2010 is provided in the 
table below. Further details are set out in the following notes to 
the consolidated financial statements: note 10 on page 89,  
note 14 on pages 94 and 95, and note 25 on page 115. Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2010 29
Report of the Directors About Unilever
On 1 November 2010 we redeemed the US $1,750 million bonds. 
We did not issue new notes during 2010.
The main source of liquidity continues to be cash generated from 
operations. Unilever is satisfied that its financing arrangements 
are adequate to meet its working capital needs for the 
foreseeable future. 
The currency distribution of total financial liabilities (excluding the 
currency leg of currency derivatives relating to intra-group loans) 
at the end of 2010 was as follows: 31% in US dollars (2009: 
36%) 28% in euros (2009: 28%) and 22% in sterling (2009: 
18%), with the remainder spread across a number of currencies.
Unilever manages interest rate and currency exposures of its net debt 
position. Taking into account the various cross-currency swaps and 
other derivatives, 82% of Unilever’s net debt was in US dollars (2009: 
89%) and 57% in sterling (2009: 44%), partly offset by financial 
asset balances in euros amounting to 70% of net debt (2009: 59%) 
and with the remainder spread over a large number of other 
currencies. 
Treasury
Unilever Treasury’s role is to ensure that appropriate financing 
is available for all value-creating investments. Additionally, 
Treasury delivers financial services to allow operating companies 
to manage their financial transactions and exposures in an 
efficient, timely and low-cost manner.
Unilever Treasury operates as a service centre and is governed 
by plans approved by the Boards. In addition to guidelines 
and exposure limits, a system of authorities and extensive 
independent reporting covers all major areas of activity. 
Performance is monitored closely. Reviews are undertaken 
periodically by the corporate internal audit function.
The key financial instruments used by Unilever are short-term 
and long-term borrowings, cash and cash equivalents, and 
certain straightforward derivative instruments, principally 
comprising interest rate swaps and foreign exchange contracts. 
The accounting for derivative instruments is discussed in note 15 
on page 100. The use of leveraged instruments is not permitted.
Unilever Treasury manages a variety of market risks, including the 
effects of changes in foreign exchange rates, interest rates and 
liquidity. Further details of the management of these risks are 
given in note 15 on pages 98 to 100, which are incorporated and 
repeated here by reference.
Acquisitions and disposals
During 2010 Unilever has continued to shape the portfolio 
through M&A activities. 
The most significant were the acquisition of Sara Lee’s personal 
care business, which completed on 6 December 2010, and the 
definitive agreement to acquire the Alberto Culver Company, 
which was announced on 27 September 2010. This remains 
subject to regulatory approval.
Details of other acquisitions and disposals during 2008, 2009 and 
2010 can be found in note 26 on page 118.
Dividends and market capitalisation
Dividends per share
Final dividends in respect of 2008 of €0.5100 per NV ordinary 
share and £0.4019 per PLC ordinary share and interim dividends 
in respect of 2009 of €0.2700 per NV ordinary share and 
£0.2422 per PLC ordinary share were declared and paid in 2009.
Four quarterly interim dividends were declared and paid during 
2010. These totalled €0.8190 per NV ordinary share and £0.7053 
per PLC ordinary share.
Quarterly dividends of €0.2080 per NV ordinary share and 
£0.1775 per PLC ordinary share were declared on 3 February 
2011, to be payable in March 2011.
Unilever’s combined market capitalisation rose from €63.4 billion 
at the end of 2009 to €64.8 billion at 31 December 2010.
Finance and liquidity
The Group’s financial strategy provides the financial flexibility to 
meet strategic and day-to-day needs. The key elements of the 
financial strategy are:
• appropriate access to equity and debt capital;
• sufficient flexibility for acquisitions that we fund out 
of current cash flows;
• A+/A1 long-term credit rating;
• A1/P1 short-term credit rating;
• sufficient resilience against economic and financial 
uncertainty; and
• optimal weighted average cost of capital, given the 
constraints above.
Unilever aims to concentrate cash in the parent and finance 
companies in order to ensure maximum flexibility in meeting 
changing business needs. Operating subsidiaries are financed 
through the mixture of retained earnings, third-party borrowings 
and loans from parent and group financing companies that is 
most appropriate to the particular country and business concerned. 
Unilever maintains access to global debt markets through an 
infrastructure of short-term debt programmes (principally US 
domestic and euro commercial paper programmes) and long-term 
debt programmes (principally a US Shelf registration and euromarket 
Debt Issuance Programme). Debt in the international markets is, 
in general, issued in the name of NV, PLC, Unilever Finance 
International BV or Unilever Capital Corporation. NV and PLC 
will normally guarantee such debt where they are not the issuer.
In this uncertain environment, we have continued to monitor closely 
all our exposures and counterparty limits. We were comfortable to 
run a cash balance which was at a higher level than was historically 
the case.
Unilever has committed credit facilities in place to support 
its commercial paper programmes and for general corporate 
purposes. The undrawn committed credit facilities in place on 
31 December 2010 were US $6,050 million, of which bilateral 
committed credit facilities totalled US $5,495 million and bilateral 
money market commitments totalled US $555 million. Further 
details regarding these facilities are given in note 15 on page 98. 30 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Report of the Directors About Unilever
Financial review 2010 continued
Critical accounting policies
The financial statements are prepared in accordance with IFRS  
as adopted by the EU, as issued by the International Accounting 
Standards Board, and with UK and Dutch law. In preparing these 
accounts, we are required to make estimates and assumptions, 
using judgement based on available information, including 
historical experience. We believe these estimates and assumptions 
are reasonable and we re-evaluate them on an ongoing basis. 
However, some of these policies require difficult, subjective or 
complex estimates from management and therefore the actual 
amounts and future results could differ.
Critical accounting policies and estimates are those which are 
most important to the portrayal of Unilever’s financial position 
and results of operations and where it is reasonably likely that 
future financial performance could be impacted by changes in 
the estimates and assumptions made. These critical accounting 
policies and estimates are set out below.
The Group’s critical accounting policies and estimates are:
• goodwill and intangible assets;
• financial instruments;
• pensions and similar obligations;
• provisions;
• taxation; and
• business combinations.
The above critical accounting estimates and policies are described 
in note 1 to the consolidated financial statements on pages 79 to 
80, under the heading ‘Critical accounting estimates and 
judgements’: goodwill and intangible assets; pensions and similar 
obligations; provisions; taxation; and business combinations. The 
critical accounting policy relating to financial instruments is 
described below.
Financial instruments 
The Group uses certain financial instruments to manage foreign 
currency exchange rate, commodity price and interest rate risks. 
Financial instruments are classified according to the purpose 
for which the instruments were acquired. This gives rise to the 
following classes: held-to-maturity investments, loans and 
receivables, financial assets at fair value through profit or loss, 
and available-for-sale financial assets. Please refer to note 1 
on pages 77 and 78 for a description of each of these categories.
Derivative financial instruments are reported at fair value, with 
changes in fair values booked through profit or loss unless the 
derivatives are designated otherwise and effective as hedges 
of future cash flows, in which case the changes are recognised 
directly in equity. When the hedged cash flow results in the 
recognition of an asset or a liability, the associated gains or losses 
on the derivative that had previously been recognised in equity 
are included in the measurement of the asset or liability. For 
hedged items that do not result in the recognition of an asset or 
liability, amounts deferred in equity are recognised in the income 
statement in the same period in which the hedged item affects 
net profit or loss.
Changes in fair value of net investment hedges in relation to 
foreign subsidiaries are recognised directly in equity.
Significant events after the balance sheet date
On 10 February 2011 Unilever issued a bond composed of two 
senior notes: (i) US $500 million 2.75% fixed rate note which will 
mature in five years and (ii) US $1,000 million 4.25% fixed rate 
note which will mature in ten years.
Basis of reporting
The accounting policies that are most significant in connection 
with our financial reporting are set out on this page.
Foreign currency amounts for results and cash flows are translated 
from underlying local currencies into euros using average exchange 
rates. Balance sheet amounts are translated at year-end rates, 
except for the ordinary capital of the two parent companies. These 
are translated at the rate referred to in the Equalisation Agreement 
of 3
1
⁄9p = €0.16 (see Corporate governance on page 51).
Certain discussions within this Financial Review 2010 include 
measures that are not defined by the generally accepted 
accounting principles (GAAP) of IFRS. These include underlying 
sales growth (USG), underlying volume growth (UVG), 
restructuring, business disposals, impairments and other one-off 
items (RDIs), underlying operating margin, free cash flow (FCF) 
and net debt. We believe that these measures provide valuable 
additional information on the underlying performance of the 
business.
These measures should not be considered in isolation from, or  
as a substitute for, financial information presented in compliance 
with IFRS. These measures as reported by us may not be comparable 
with similarly titled measures reported by other companies.
Further information about these measures is given on pages 
31 to 32, including a reconciliation of the measures to GAAP 
measures.
Further information on underlying operating margin and the 
impact of RDIs is given on the face of our income statement 
and in note 3 on page 83. Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2010 31
Report of the Directors About Unilever
The Americas
          2010 2009
          vs 2009 vs 2008
 
Underlying sales growth (%)       4.0 4.2
Effect of acquisitions (%)       0.3 0.7
Effect of disposals (%)       (0.4) (6.0)
Effect of exchange rates (%)       9.0 (1.2)
Turnover growth (%)         13.3 (2.6)
 
Western Europe
          2010 2009
          vs 2009 vs 2008
 
Underlying sales growth (%)       (0.4) (1.9)
Effect of acquisitions (%)       0.5 0.5
Effect of disposals (%)       (2.0) (2.2)
Effect of exchange rates (%)       1.4 (2.5)
Turnover growth (%)         (0.5) (6.0)
 
Underlying volume growth (UVG)
Underlying volume growth is underlying sales growth after 
eliminating the impact of price changes. The relationship 
between the two measures is set out below:
          2010 2009
          vs 2009 vs 2008
 
Underlying volume growth (%)     5.8 2.3
Effect of price changes (%)       (1.6) 1.2
Underlying sales growth (%)       4.1 3.5
 
The UVG and price effect for each region and each category are 
included within the tables on pages 24 to 27.
Underlying operating margin 
In our commentary on results of operations in each of our regions 
and at Group level, we discuss trends in underlying operating 
margins, by which we mean operating margin before the impact 
of restructuring costs, business disposals, impairments and other 
one-off items, which we refer to collectively as RDIs. We believe 
that giving this information allows readers of our financial 
statements to have a better understanding of underlying trends. 
There is no recognised GAAP measure that corresponds to this 
measure.
The reconciliation of underlying operating profit and underlying 
operating margin to the reported measures is as follows:
          € million € million
          2010 2009
 
Operating profit         6,339 5,020
Restructuring costs         589 897
Business disposals         (468) (4)
Impairments and other one-off items    160 (25)
 
Underlying operating profit       6,620 5,888
 
Turnover         44,262 39,823
Operating margin         14.3% 12.6%
Underlying operating margin       15.0% 14.8%
 
Further details of RDIs can be found in note 3 on page 83.
Non-GAAP measures
Certain discussions and analyses set out in this Annual Report 
and Accounts include measures which are not defined by generally 
accepted accounting principles (GAAP) such as IFRS. We believe 
this information, along with comparable GAAP measurements, 
is useful to investors because it provides a basis for measuring 
our operating performance, ability to retire debt and invest in 
new business opportunities. Our management uses these financial 
measures, along with the most directly comparable GAAP financial 
measures, in evaluating our operating performance and value 
creation. Non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered 
in isolation from, or as a substitute for, financial information 
presented in compliance with GAAP. Non-GAAP financial 
measures as reported by us may not be comparable with 
similarly titled amounts reported by other companies. 
In the following sections we set out our definitions of the 
following non-GAAP measures and provide reconciliations 
to relevant GAAP measures:
• underlying sales growth;
• underlying volume growth;
• underlying operating margin (including explanation 
of restructuring, business disposals and other one-off 
items (RDIs));
• free cash flow; and
• net debt.
Underlying sales growth (USG)
USG reflects the change in revenue from continuing operations 
at constant rates of exchange, excluding the effects of 
acquisitions and disposals. It is a measure that provides valuable 
additional information on the underlying performance of the 
business. In particular, it presents the organic growth of our 
business year on year and is used internally as a core measure 
of sales performance.
The reconciliation of USG to changes in the GAAP measure 
turnover is as follows:
Total Group
          2010 2009
          vs 2009 vs 2008
 
Underlying sales growth (%)       4.1 3.5
Effect of acquisitions (%)       0.3 0.6
Effect of disposals (%)       (0.8) (3.0)
Effect of exchange rates (%)       7.3 (2.7)
Turnover growth (%)         11.1 (1.7)
 
Asia, Africa and Central & Eastern Europe 
          2010 2009
          vs 2009 vs 2008
 
Underlying sales growth (%)       7.7 7.7
Effect of acquisitions (%)       0.2 0.5
Effect of disposals (%)       (0.1) (0.9)
Effect of exchange rates (%)       10.1 (4.0)
Turnover growth (%)         18.7 2.9
  32 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Report of the Directors About Unilever
Financial review 2010 continued
Longer-term trends
Financial records
Five years’ trends of the KPIs and other financial measures can 
be found under the heading ‘Financial record’ on pages 124 and 
125.
Unilever charts
Unilever charts available at www.unilever.com/investorrelations 
provide ten years’ trends for selected financial and non-financial 
measures.
Laws and regulation
Unilever businesses are governed by laws and regulations 
designed to ensure that products may be safely used for their 
intended purpose and that labelling and advertising are truthful 
and not misleading. Unilever businesses are further regulated by 
data protection and anti-trust legislation. Important regulatory 
bodies in respect of our businesses include the European 
Commission and the US Food and Drug Administration.
We have processes in place to ensure that products, ingredients, 
manufacturing processes, marketing materials and activities 
comply in all material respects with the above-mentioned laws 
and regulations.
Legal proceedings
We are involved from time to time in legal and arbitration 
proceedings arising in the ordinary course of business. For 
information on current outstanding legal proceedings and 
ongoing regulatory investigations please refer to ‘Legal 
proceedings’ within note 25 on page 116.
Free cash flow (FCF)
Free cash flow represents the cash generation from the operation 
and financing of the business. The movement in FCF measures 
our progress against the commitment to deliver strong cash flows. 
FCF is not used as a liquidity measure within Unilever.
FCF includes the cash flow from Group operating activities, less 
income tax paid, less net capital expenditure less net interest and 
preference dividends paid.
The reconciliation of FCF to net profit is as follows:
     € million € million
          2010 2009
Net profit     4,598 3,659
Taxation       1,534 1,257
Share of net profit of joint ventures/associates 
 and other income from non-current investments   (187) (489)
Net finance cost        394 593
Depreciation, amortisation and impairment   993 1,032
Changes in working capital     169 1,701
Pensions and similar provisions less payments    (472) (1,028)
Restructuring and other provisions less payments  72 (258)
Elimination of (profits)/losses on disposals  (476) 13
Non-cash charge for share-based compensation  144 195
Other adjustments     49 58
Cash flow from operating activities   6,818 6,733
Income tax paid     (1,328) (959)
Net capital expenditure    (1,701) (1,258)
Net interest and preference dividends paid  (424) (444)
Free cash flow     3,365 4,072
Net debt
Net debt is defined as the excess of total financial liabilities, 
excluding trade and other payables, over cash, cash equivalents 
and financial assets, excluding amounts held for sale and excluding 
trade and other receivables. It is a measure that provides valuable 
additional information on the summary presentation of the 
Group’s net financial liabilities and is a measure in common 
use elsewhere. 
The reconciliation of net debt to the GAAP measure total 
financial liabilities is as follows:
         € million € million
         2010 2009
Total financial liabilities       (9,534) (9,971)
Financial liabilities due within one year    (2,276) (2,279)
Financial liabilities due after one year    (7,258) (7,692)
Cash and cash equivalents as per balance sheet 2,316 2,642
Cash and cash equivalents as per  
 cash flow statement       1,966 2,397
Add bank overdrafts deducted therein   350 245
Financial assets         550 972
Net debt         (6,668) (6,357) Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2010 33
Report of the Directors About Unilever
Outlook and risks
The competitive environment for our business is likely to remain 
intense in 2011. Our key competitors, both global and local, will 
be eager to rebuild market share in many of our markets and 
categories, and will design their activity plans accordingly. We 
expect continued high levels of competitive challenge to our 
many category leadership positions. Some of this will be  
price-based, as in 2010, but we also expect strong  
innovation-based competition backed by wide-ranging brand 
support. With the improvements we have been making to our 
business we are well prepared for these challenges.
Faced with these challenges we will continue to focus on our long 
term strategic priorities of driving volume growth ahead of our 
markets whilst providing a steady improvement in underlying 
operating margin and strong cash flow. We are well placed, with 
an impressive presence in emerging markets, more than 75% of 
our business in either category leadership or number two 
positions, a portfolio of strong brands, an increasingly effective 
innovation programme and a dynamic new performance culture. 
These give us confidence that Unilever is fit to compete, whatever 
the circumstances.
Principal risk factors
Risks and uncertainties could cause actual results to vary from 
those described in forward-looking statements made within this 
document, or could impact on our ability to meet our targets or 
be detrimental to our profitability or reputation. The risks that we 
regard as the most relevant to our business are identified below. 
We have also commented on certain mitigating actions that we 
believe help us manage such risks; however, we may not be 
successful in deploying some or all of these mitigating actions.
The following discussion about outlook and risk management 
activities includes ‘forward-looking’ statements that involve risk 
and uncertainties. The actual results could differ materially from 
those projected. See the ‘Cautionary statement’ on the inside 
back cover.
Outlook
Market conditions for our business were challenging in 2010 and 
we do not anticipate this changing significantly in 2011. 
Economic pressures are expected to continue to weigh heavily on 
consumer spending, particularly in developed markets where the 
combined impact of austerity measures and high unemployment 
is likely to constrain disposable incomes. Emerging market growth 
should continue to be robust, although even here we expect to 
see a modest slowdown. The most difficult environment is likely 
to be in Western Europe, where higher taxes, lower public 
expenditure and potentially rising interest rates mean that, for the 
short term at least, growth will be limited. In these conditions, 
consumer confidence is not expected to rise significantly in the 
year ahead and the search for value by the consumer will 
continue unabated.
A further source of volatility in the year ahead is the return of 
inflationary pressure, particularly in respect of key commodity 
costs. We anticipate significant commodity cost inflation for at 
least the first half of 2011. If current trends continue then this 
inflationary pressure will extend also into the second half and 
beyond. In this environment we expect prices to rise, albeit at a 
lower rate than costs as competitors seek to protect market 
positions and offset higher commodity costs with savings 
elsewhere.
Description of risk What we are doing to manage the risk
Economic
• Decline in business during an economic downturn
• Avoiding customer and supplier default
Unilever’s business is dependent on continuing consumer demand 
for our brands. Reduced consumer wealth driven by adverse 
economic conditions may result in our consumers becoming 
unwilling or unable to purchase our products, which could adversely 
affect our cash flow, turnover, profits and profit margins. In addition 
we have a large number of global brands, some of which have a 
significant carrying value as intangible assets: adverse economic 
conditions may reduce the value of those brands which could require 
us to impair their balance sheet value.
During economic downturns access to credit could be constrained. 
This could impact the viability of our suppliers and customers and 
could temporarily inhibit the flow of day-to-day cash transactions 
with suppliers and customers via the banks.
Adverse economic conditions may affect one or more countries 
within a region, or may extend globally. The impact on our overall 
portfolio will depend on the severity of the economic slowdown, 
the mix of countries affected and any government response to 
reduce the impact such as fiscal stimulus, changes to taxation 
and measures to minimise unemployment.
The breadth of Unilever’s portfolio and our geographic reach help 
to mitigate local economic risks. We carefully monitor economic 
indicators and regularly model the impact of different economic 
scenarios. We monitor consumer behaviour through regular market 
research and adopt a flexible business model which allows us to 
adapt our portfolio and respond quickly to develop new offerings 
that suit consumers’ and customers’ changing needs during economic 
downturns. We regularly update our forecast of business results and 
cash flows and, where necessary, rebalance investment priorities. We 
undertake impairment testing reviews in accordance with the relevant 
accounting standards.
We regularly monitor and review the health of our customers 
and suppliers and implement credit limits and supply substitution 
arrangements. These reviews are undertaken more frequently 
during economic downturns.  34 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Report of the Directors About Unilever
Outlook and risks continued
Description of risk What we are doing to manage the risk
Markets
• Managing the business across globally competitive markets
• Volatility of emerging markets
• Building strategic alliances and partnerships
Unilever operates globally in competitive markets where the activities 
of other multinational companies, local and regional companies and 
customers which have a significant private label business may 
adversely affect our market shares, cash flow, turnover, profits  
and/or profit margins.
In 2010, more than half of Unilever’s turnover came from developing 
and emerging markets including Brazil, India, Indonesia, Turkey, 
South Africa, China, Mexico and Russia. These markets are typically 
more volatile than developed markets, so we are continually exposed 
to changing economic, political and social developments outside our 
control, any of which could adversely affect our business. Failure to 
understand and respond effectively to local market developments 
could put at risk our cash flow, turnover, profit and/or profit margins.
Our strategy focuses on investing in markets and segments which 
we identify as attractive, i.e. where we have or can build competitive 
advantage and where we can consistently grow sales and margins. 
Many years of exposure to D&E markets has given us the ability to be 
able to operate and develop our business successfully during periods 
of economic, political or social change.
We seek in-fill acquisitions to support our category and geographic 
ambitions and our New Business Board actively monitors 
opportunities to invest in potential future businesses, new 
technologies and different business models.
We identify strategic partnerships with specialists that enable us to 
leverage external expertise to more efficiently and cost-effectively 
develop and manage our business.
Brands and Innovation
• Design, development and roll-out of consumer/customer 
relevant products and services
Unilever’s Mission is to help people feel good, look good and get 
more out of life with brands and services that are good for them 
and good for others. This is achieved by designing and delivering 
superior branded products/services at relevant price points to 
consumers across the globe. Failure to provide sufficient funding 
to develop new products, lack of technical capability in the research 
and development function, lack of prioritisation of projects and/or 
failure by operating management to successfully and quickly roll out 
the products may adversely impact our cash flow, turnover, profit 
and/or profit margins and may impact our reputation.
We have processes to monitor external market trends and collate 
consumer, customer and shopper insight in order to develop  
long-term category and brand strategies. Our established innovation 
management process uses comprehensive marketing tools and 
techniques to convert category strategies into a series of projects, 
building on internally developed know-how and expertise. It further 
identifies, prioritises and allocates resources and develops relevant 
brand communications. We have well-established procedures to 
plan and execute roll-out of products to our customers.
Customer
• Building long-term, mutually beneficial relationships  
with customers
• Customer consolidation and growth of discount sector
Maintaining successful relationships with our customers is key to 
ensuring our brands are successfully presented to our consumers 
and are available for purchase at all times. Any breakdown in the 
relationships with customers could reduce the availability to our 
consumers of existing products and new product launches and 
therefore impact our cash flow, turnover, profits and/or profit 
margins.
The retail industry continues to consolidate in many of our markets. 
Further consolidation and the continuing growth of discounters 
could increase the competitive retail environment by increasing 
customers’ purchasing power, increasing the demand for competitive 
promotions and price discounts, increase cross-border sourcing to 
take advantage of pricing arbitrage and thus adversely impact our 
cash flow, turnover, profits and/or profit margins. Increased 
competition between retailers could place pressure on retailer 
margins and increase the counterparty risk to Unilever.
We build and maintain trading relationships across a broad 
spectrum of channels ranging from centrally managed, multinational 
customers, to ‘discount’ chains and to the ‘traditional’ trade via 
distributors in many developing countries. We develop joint business 
plans with all our key customers, including detailed investment plans 
and customer service objectives, and regularly monitor progress. Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2010 35
Report of the Directors About Unilever
Description of risk What we are doing to manage the risk
Financial/Treasury
• Funding the ongoing operation of the business
• Counterparty default in a financial institution
• Managing currency and interest rate differences 
and movements
• Efficiently meeting our pension fund and tax obligations
As a global organisation Unilever’s asset values, earnings and cash 
flows are influenced by a wide variety of currencies, interest rates, 
tax jurisdictions and differing taxes. If we are unable to manage our 
exposures to any one, or a combination, of these factors, this could 
adversely impact our cash flow, profits and/or profit margins. 
A material and significant shortfall in net cash flow could undermine 
Unilever’s credit rating, impair investor confidence and hinder our 
ability to raise funds, whether through access to credit markets, 
commercial paper programmes, long-term bond issuances 
or otherwise. In times of financial market volatility, we are also 
potentially exposed to counterparty risks with banks.
We are exposed to market interest rate fluctuations on our floating 
rate debt. Increases in benchmark interest rates could increase 
the interest cost of our floating rate debt and increase the 
cost of future borrowings. Our inability to manage the interest 
cost effectively could have an adverse impact on our cash flow, 
profits and/or profit margins.
Because of the breadth of our international operations we are 
subject to risks from changes to the relative value of currencies 
which can fluctuate widely and could have a significant impact on 
our assets, cash flow, turnover, profits and/or profit margins. Further, 
because Unilever consolidates its financial statements in euros it is 
subject to exchange risks associated with the translation of the 
underlying net assets of its foreign subsidiaries. We are also subject 
to the imposition of exchange controls by individual countries which 
could limit our ability to import materials paid by foreign currency or 
to remit dividends to the parent company.
Certain businesses have defined benefit pension plans, most now 
closed to new employees, which are exposed to movements in 
interest rates, fluctuating values of underlying investments and 
increased life expectancy. Changes in any or all of these inputs could 
potentially increase the cost to Unilever of funding the schemes and 
therefore have an adverse impact on profitability and cash flow.
In view of the current economic climate and deteriorating 
government deficit positions, tax legislation in the countries in 
which we operate may be subject to change, which may have 
an adverse impact on our profits.
A key target for the Group is to manage our financial affairs so as 
to maintain our A1/A+ credit rating, which gives us continued access 
to the global debt markets, even when the overall financial markets 
are under stress. We seek to manage our liquidity requirements by 
maintaining access to global debt markets through short-term and 
long-term debt programmes. In addition, we have committed credit 
facilities to underpin our commercial paper programme and for 
general corporate purposes. We regularly update our cash flow 
forecasts and assess the range of volatility due to pension asset 
values, interest rates and currencies. We concentrate cash in parent 
and finance companies to ensure maximum flexibility for meeting 
changing business needs. We finance our operating subsidiaries 
through a mixture of retained earnings, third-party borrowings and 
loans from parent and group companies. Group Treasury regularly 
monitors exposure to our third-party banks, tightening counterparty 
limits where appropriate. The Group actively manages its banking 
exposures on a daily basis.
In order to minimise interest costs and reduce volatility, our interest 
rate management approach aims to achieve an appropriate balance 
between fixed and floating rate interest exposures on forecast net 
debt levels for the next five years. We achieve this through a 
combination of issuing fixed rate long-term debt and by modifying 
the interest rate exposure of debt and cash positions through the 
use of interest rate swaps.
In order to manage currency exposures Unilever’s operating 
companies are required to manage trading and financial foreign 
exchange exposures within prescribed limits and by the use of 
forward foreign exchange contracts. Regional groups monitor 
compliance with this requirement. Further, operating companies 
borrow in local currency except where inhibited by local regulations, 
lack of local liquidity or local market conditions. For those countries 
that, in the view of management, have a substantial retranslation 
risk we may decide to hedge such net investment through the use 
of foreign currency borrowing or forward exchange contracts.
Our pension investment standards require us to invest across a range 
of equities, bonds, property, hedge funds and cash such that the 
failure of any single investment will not have a material impact on 
the overall value of assets. The majority of assets, including those 
held in our ‘pooled’ investment vehicle, ‘Univest’, are managed by 
external fund managers and are regularly monitored by pension 
trustees and central pensions and investment teams.
On tax, we maintain high quality tax compliance procedures and 
documentation, execute prudent tax planning strategies and make 
proper provision for current and deferred taxation. Deferred tax 
assets are reviewed regularly for recoverability.
Further information on financial instruments and treasury risk 
management is included in note 15 on pages 98 to 104. 36 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Report of the Directors About Unilever
Outlook and risks continued
Description of risk What we are doing to manage the risk
Consumer safety and sustainability
• Maintaining high social and environmental standards
• Designing and producing products that are safe  
for consumers
• Building a sustainable business
Unilever has developed a strong corporate reputation over many years 
for its focus on social and environmental issues, including promoting 
sustainable renewable resources.
The Unilever brand logo is now displayed on all our products, and 
increasingly displayed in our advertising, increasing our external 
exposure. In 2010 we launched the Unilever Sustainable Living Plan 
that sets out our social and environmental ambitions for the 
coming decade.
The environmental measures that we regard as most significant are 
those relating to CO2 from energy that we use, the water we 
consume as part of our production processes and the amount of 
waste that we generate for disposal (see page 2). Failure to design 
products with a lower environmental footprint could damage our 
reputation and hence long-term cash flow, turnover, profits and/or 
profit margins.
Should we fail to meet high product safety, social, environmental 
and ethical standards across all our products and in all our operations 
and activities it could impact our reputation, leading to the rejection 
of products by consumers, damage to our brands including growth 
and profitability, and diversion of management time into rebuilding 
our reputation.
Our Code of Business Principles, Supplier Code and other operational 
and business policies are designed to ensure that we consistently 
maintain high social and environmental standards, and we have 
established processes to track performance in these areas. The 
Unilever Sustainable Living Plan benefits from the insights of the 
Unilever Sustainable Development Group, comprising five external 
specialists in corporate responsibility and sustainability, that guide 
and critique the development of our strategy.
Progress against the ambitions in the Sustainable Living Plan will 
be monitored by the Unilever Executive and Board and progress 
published annually.
Detailed operational policies and procedures ensure that quality and 
safety are built in to the design, manufacture and distribution of all 
of our products. Procedures are also in place to respond quickly to 
consumer safety and quality incidents including provision to initiate 
product recalls where necessary.
Operations
• Securing raw materials and key third-party services
• Maintaining safe, secure and operational production 
and distribution capability
• Maintaining a competitive cost structure
• Handling major incidents and crises
Our ability to make products is dependent on securing timely and 
cost-effective supplies of production materials, some of which are 
globally traded commodities. The price of commodities and other key 
materials, labour, warehousing and distribution fluctuates according 
to global economic conditions, which can have a significant impact 
on our product costs. We saw commodity prices rise during the 
second half of 2010 and this looks set to continue in 2011. If we are 
unable to increase prices to compensate for higher input costs, this 
could reduce our cash flow, profits and/or profit margins. If we 
increase prices more than our competitors, this could undermine our 
competitiveness and hence market shares.
Further, two-thirds of the raw materials that we buy come from 
agriculture. Changing weather patterns, water scarcity and 
unsustainable farming practices threaten the long-term viability 
of agricultural production. A reduction in agricultural production 
may limit our ability to manufacture products in the long term.
We are dependent on regional and global supply chains for the 
supply of raw materials and services and for the manufacture, 
distribution and delivery of our products. We may be unable to 
respond to adverse events occurring in any part of this supply 
chain such as changes in local legal and regulatory schemes, labour 
shortages and disruptions, environmental and industrial accidents, 
bankruptcy of a key supplier or failure to deliver supplies on time 
and in full, which could impact our ability to deliver orders to our 
customers. Any of the foregoing could adversely impact our cash 
flow, turnover, profits and/or profit margins and harm our reputation 
and our brands.
We have processes in place to monitor short- and long-term raw 
material demand forecasts. These are used to determine future 
production requirements and facilitate the forward-buying of traded 
commodities to reduce future volatility of commodity costs.
We have contingency plans to enable us to secure alternative 
key material supplies at short notice, to transfer/share production 
between manufacturing sites and to use substitute materials in 
our product formulations and recipes. 
We have programmes of regular preventative maintenance for key 
lines and production sites. We have in place mandatory occupational 
health and safety policies to ensure the well-being and safety of our 
employees, including procedures for regular self-certification.
We regularly undertake value improvement programmes to identify 
cost/value opportunities in direct and indirect costs. We benchmark 
internal product and service costs against external providers and we 
regularly model our production, distribution and warehousing 
capability to optimise capacity utilisation and cost.
We routinely assess potential threats to our operations that could, if 
they materialise, give rise to a major incident or crisis. We review the 
appropriateness of our incident response, business continuity and 
disaster recovery plans taking into account external developments. Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2010 37
Report of the Directors About Unilever
Description of risk What we are doing to manage the risk
People and talent
• Attracting, developing and retaining a skilled workforce 
to build and maintain a fit-for-purpose organisation
Attracting, developing and retaining talented employees is essential 
to the delivery of our strategy. If we fail to determine the appropriate 
mix of skills required to implement our strategy and subsequently 
fail to recruit or develop the right number of appropriately qualified 
people, or if there are high levels of staff turnover, this could 
adversely affect our ability to operate successfully, and hence 
grow our business and effectively compete in the marketplace.
Resource Committees have been established and implemented 
throughout our business. These committees have responsibility for 
identifying future skills and capability needs, defining career paths 
and professional training programmes, benchmarking the elements 
of reward structures, both short- and long-term, and identifying the 
key talent and leaders of the future. Regular internal surveys are 
conducted to gauge employee views and obtain feedback.
We have an integrated management development process which 
includes regular performance review, underpinned by a common set 
of ‘Standards of Leadership’ behaviours, skills and competency 
profiling, mentoring, coaching and training.
Legal and regulatory
• Complying with and anticipating new legal 
and regulatory requirements
Unilever is subject to local, regional and global rules, laws and 
regulations, covering such diverse areas as product safety, product 
claims, trademarks, copyright, patents, employee health and safety, 
the environment, corporate governance, listing and disclosure, 
employment and taxes. Important regulatory bodies in respect of 
our business include the European Commission and the US Food 
and Drug Administration. Failure to comply with laws and regulations 
could leave Unilever open to civil and/or criminal legal challenge and, 
if upheld, fines or imprisonment imposed on us or our employees. 
Further, our reputation could be significantly damaged by adverse 
publicity relating to such a breach of laws or regulations and such 
damage could extend beyond a single geography. 
There is a Code Policy on legal consultation which sets out our 
commitment to complying with laws and regulations of the countries 
in which we operate and the specific activities and processes for 
which employees must seek the agreement of internal legal counsel 
in advance of making a commitment. In specialist areas the relevant 
teams at global, regional or local level are responsible for setting 
detailed standards and ensuring that all employees are aware and 
comply with regulations and laws specific and relevant to their roles. 
Internal competition law compliance procedures and training are 
reinforced and enhanced on an ongoing basis. 
Integration of acquisitions, restructuring and change 
management
• M&A integration
• Delivering major restructuring projects effectively
Since 2009, Unilever has announced €4.6 billion of acquisitions and 
our global and regional restructuring programmes will continue in 
2011. In the event that we are unable to successfully implement 
these changes in a timely manner or at all, or effectively manage 
third-party relationships and/or outsourced processes, we may not 
be able to realise some or all of the anticipated expense reductions. 
In addition, because some of the restructuring changes involve 
important functions, any disruption could harm the operations of our 
business, our reputation and/or relationship with our employees.
All M&A and significant global and regional restructuring projects 
are sponsored by a Unilever Executive member. Regular progress 
updates are provided to the Unilever Executive. 
Sound project disciplines are used in all M&A and restructuring 
projects: clearly articulated project objectives, scope and deliverables; 
an approved and properly authorised business case updated over 
time as necessary; detailed and up-to-date project planning; 
resourcing by appropriately qualified personnel; an effective 
communication and change management plan; and proper 
closure, where learnings are captured and disseminated.
Other risks
Unilever is exposed to varying degrees of risk and uncertainty related 
to other factors including physical, environmental, political, social and 
terrorism risks within the environments in which we operate, failure to 
complete planned divestments, taxation risks, failure to resolve 
insurance matters within current estimates and changing priorities of 
our boards of directors. All these risks could materially affect the 
Group’s business, our turnover, operating profits, net profits, net 
assets and liquidity. There may be risks which are unknown to Unilever 
or which are currently believed to be immaterial. 38 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Report of the Directors About Unilever
We have a framework of Code Policies that underpin the Code 
and set out the non-negotiable standards of behaviour expected 
from all our employees and those acting on our behalf. Unilever’s 
Standards define detailed mandatory requirements for a range of 
specialist areas. Together these cover many areas of the business 
including employee health & safety, product safety & quality, the 
environment, ethical research, use of certain ingredients in our 
products, risk management, accounting and reporting, share 
dealing, corporate disclosure, pension fund management, 
treasury management and transfer pricing.
Processes 
Unilever operates a wide range of processes and activities 
across all its operations covering strategy, planning, execution 
and performance management. These are formalised and 
documented as procedures at a global, regional or local 
level as appropriate. Increasingly, these procedures are being 
centralised globally and automated into transactional and 
other information technology systems.
Assurance and Re-Assurance
Senior management provide an annual Code and Code Policy 
Declaration that is monitored by the Chief Legal Officer and 
Regional Presidents.
There are also specialist ongoing compliance programmes that 
supplement the Code and Code Policy declaration. Examples 
of these include Health, Safety & Environment, Product Safety 
and Quality, Information Technology, Finance and Pensions 
Management.
The Corporate Audit function plays a key role in providing to both 
management and the Boards an objective view and reassurance 
of the effectiveness of the systems of internal control and risk 
management throughout Unilever.
Outlook and risks continued
Risk Management Approach
The identification and management of risk is integral to Unilever’s 
strategy and to achieving its long-term goals. The Boards have 
overall responsibility for the management of risk and for 
reviewing the effectiveness of the system of internal control 
and risk management approach. 
We believe that good risk management is fundamental to good 
business management and that our success as an organisation 
depends on our ability to identify and then exploit the key risks 
and opportunities for the business. Successful businesses 
manage risks and opportunities in a considered, structured, 
controlled and effective way. Our risk management approach 
is embedded in the normal course of business and is summarised 
in the diagram below.
Our approach is designed to provide reasonable, but not 
absolute, assurance that our assets are safeguarded, the risks 
facing the business are being addressed and all information 
required to be disclosed is reported to the Group’s senior 
management including, where appropriate, the Chief 
Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer. 
Organisation
The Boards have established a clear organisational structure, 
including formally delegated authorities, that responds to the 
Principal Risk Factors that Unilever faces in the short, medium 
and longer term.
Foundation and Principles
Unilever’s approach to doing business is framed by our Corporate 
Mission. Our Code of Business Principles sets out the standards of 
behaviour that we expect all employees to adhere to. Day-to-day 
responsibility for ensuring these principles are applied throughout 
Unilever rests with senior management across regions, categories, 
functions and operating companies. A network of Code Officers 
and Committees supports the responsible operational leaders 
with the activities necessary to communicate the Code, deliver 
training, maintain processes and procedures to report and 
respond to alleged breaches (including ‘hotlines’), and to capture 
and communicate learnings. Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2010 39
Report of the Directors About Unilever
Boards’ assessment of compliance with the 
Risk Management frameworks
The Boards, through Committees where appropriate, regularly 
review significant risk areas and decisions that could have a 
material impact on Unilever. These reviews consider the risks 
that Unilever is prepared to accept or tolerate, and how to 
manage and control those risks.
The Boards, through the Audit Committee, have reviewed the 
assessment of risks, internal controls and disclosure controls and 
procedures that operate in the Group and have considered the 
effectiveness and remedial actions where applicable for the year 
covered by this report and up to the date of its approval by 
the Boards of Directors. Details of the activities of the Audit 
Committee in relation to this can be found in the Report of 
the Audit Committee on pages 56 and 57.
Further statements on compliance with the specific risk 
management and control requirements in the Dutch Corporate 
Governance Code, the UK Combined Code and the US Securities 
Exchange (1934) & Sarbanes-Oxley (2002) Acts can be found on 
pages 52 and 53, 54 and 55 respectively. 40 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Report of the Directors Governance
Board of Directors
Chairman
Michael Treschow
Nationality: Swedish. Aged 67.
Chairman since May 2007. Chairman, 
Telefonaktiebolaget L M Ericsson. Non-
Executive Director, ABB Group. Board 
member, Knut and Alice Wallenberg 
Foundation, Member of the European 
Advisory, Eli Lilly and Company. 
Chairman, AB Electrolux 2004-2007 
and Confederation of Swedish 
Enterprise 2004-2007.
Vice-Chairman &  
Senior Independent Director
Jeroen van der Veer
Nationality: Dutch. Aged 63.
Appointed 2002. Non-Executive 
Director, Royal Dutch Shell plc. 
Member, Supervisory Board of Philips, 
and Vice-Chairman ING. Member, 
Supervisory Board of De Nederlandsche 
Bank N.V. 2000-2004.
Executive Directors
Paul Polman
Chief Executive Officer
Nationality: Dutch. Aged 54.
Appointed Chief Executive Officer 
January 2009. Appointed Director 
October 2008. Non-Executive Director, 
The Dow Chemical Company. President, 
Kilimanjaro Blind Trust. Procter & Gamble 
Co. 1979-2001, Group President Europe 
and Officer, Procter & Gamble Co. 2001-
2006. Chief Financial Officer, Nestlé S.A. 
2006-2008. Executive Vice President and 
Zone Director for the Americas 2008.
Jean-Marc Huët
Chief Financial Officer
Nationality: Dutch. Aged 41.
Appointed Chief Financial Officer 
February 2010. Executive Vice President 
and Chief Financial Officer, Bristol-
Myers Squibb Company 2008-2009. 
Non-Executive Director Mead Johnson 
Nutrition 2009. Chief Financial 
Officer Royal Numico NV 2003-2007. 
Investment Banking, Goldman Sachs 
International 1993-2003. Clement 
Trading 1991-1993.
Non-Executive Directors
Louise Fresco
Nationality: Dutch. Aged 59.
Appointed May 2009. Professor 
of International Development and 
Sustainability at the University of 
Amsterdam. Supervisory Director, 
RABO Bank. Member, SER. Trustee, 
Roosevelt Academy.
Hixonia Nyasulu
Nationality: South African. Aged 56.
Appointed 2007. Chairman, Sasol Ltd.
Non-Executive Director, Barloworld 
Ltd. Member, Advisory Board of JP 
Morgan SA.
Doug Baillie
Chief HR Officer
Nationality: British. Aged 55.
Appointed Chief HR Officer in February 
2011. Joined Unilever 1978. Previous 
posts include: Appointed to UEx as 
President of Western Europe in May 
2008. CEO Hindustan Unilever Limited, 
Group Vice President South Asia 2006, 
Group Vice-President – Africa, Middle 
East & Turkey (AMET) 2005, President 
Africa Regional Group 2004, National 
Manager Unilever South Africa 2000.
Michael Polk
President Global Foods,  
Home & Personal Care
Nationality: American. Aged 50.
Appointed President Global Foods, 
Home and Personal Care in March 2010. 
Previous posts: Appointed to UEx as 
President Americas in March 2007, 
President Unilever USA. Joined Unilever 
2003. Prior to Unilever, he held senior 
positions at Kraft Foods including 
President Nabisco Sector and President 
Asia Pacific. External: Non-Executive 
Director Newell-Rubbermaid, Director 
Students in Free Enterprise and Grocery 
Manufacturers of America.
Ann Fudge
Nationality: American. Aged 59.
Appointed May 2009. Non-Executive 
Director, Novartis AG, General Electric 
Co., and Buzzient Inc. Chairman, 
US Programs Advisory Panel of Gates 
Foundation. Honorary director 
of Catalyst.
Sir Malcolm Rifkind
Nationality: British. Aged 64.
Appointed May 2010. A Queen’s 
Counsel. Served in Cabinets of 
Margaret Thatcher and John Major, 
last position being that of Foreign 
Secretary. Non-Executive Director, 
Aberdeen Asset Management.  
Non-Executive Director, Adam 
Smith International.
Professor Geneviève Berger
Chief Research & Development Officer
Nationality: French. Aged 56.
Appointed to UEx in July 2008. 
Previously, Chairman of the Health 
Advisory Board for the European 
Commission and a Professor at the 
University of Paris and La Pitié-Salpêtrière 
Teaching Hospital and Director General 
of the French Centre National de la 
Recherche Scientifique. Appointed Non-
Executive Director to Smith & Nephew in 
March 2010.
Pier Luigi Sigismondi
Chief Supply Chain Officer
Nationality: Italian. Aged 45.
Appointed to UEX in September 2009. 
Prior to his appointment at Unilever, he 
joined Nestlé S.A. in 2002. Moved to 
Nestlé Mexico in 2005 as Vice President 
of Operations and R&D. Prior to 
Nestlé S.A. he was Vice President 
of Operations for A T Kearney.
Charles E Golden
Nationality: American. Aged 64.
Appointed 2006. Non-Executive Director, 
Indiana University Health, Hill-Rom 
Holdings, Eaton Corporation and the 
Lilly Endowment. Member of Finance 
Committee, Indianapolis Museum of Art. 
Executive Vice-President, Chief Financial 
Officer and Director, Eli Lilly and 
Company 1996-2006.
Kees J Storm
Nationality: Dutch. Aged 68.
Appointed 2006. Chairman, Supervisory 
Board and Member of the Audit 
Committee, KLM Royal Dutch Airlines N.V. 
Member, Supervisory Board, AEGON N.V. 
Board member and Chairman of Audit 
Committee, Anheuser-Busch InBev S.A. 
Board member and member of the 
Audit Committee, Baxter International, 
Inc. Chairman, Supervisory Board, 
Pon Holdings B.V. Chairman, Executive 
Board, AEGON N.V. 1993-2002.
Dave Lewis
President Americas
Nationality: British. Aged 45.
Appointed to UEx in May 2010. Joined 
Unilever 1987. Previous posts include: 
Chairman Unilever UK and Ireland. 
Managing Director UK home and 
personal care business. Senior Vice 
President for Home and Personal Care 
Central and Eastern Europe. Managing 
Director in Indonesia. Marketing 
Director in South America.
Keith Weed
Chief Marketing and 
Communication Officer
Nationality: British. Aged 49.
Appointed to UEx in April 2010. Joined 
Unilever 1983. Previous posts include: 
Executive Vice President for Global 
Home Care & Hygiene, Chairman of 
Lever Fabergé, SVP Hair and Oral Care, 
senior positions in France, the United 
States, and global roles. Outside 
Unilever: a Non-Executive Director of 
Sun Products Corporation.
Byron E Grote
Nationality: American/British. Aged 62.
Appointed 2006. Chief Financial
Officer, BP p.l.c. Member, UK Business 
– Government Forum on Tax and 
Globalisation 2008-2010. Vice-
chairman, UK Government’s Public 
Services Productivity Panel 1998-2000.
Paul Walsh
Nationality: British. Aged 55.
Appointed May 2009. Chief Executive 
Officer of Diageo. Non-Executive 
Director, FedEx Corporation Inc. 
Chairman, The Scotch Whisky 
Association. Member, Business 
Advisory Group. Advisor to the 
Department of Energy and Climate 
Change. Member, International 
Business Leaders Forum.
Harish Manwani
President Asia Africa CEE
Nationality: Indian. Aged 57.
Appointed to UEx in April 2005 as 
President Asia Africa. Appointed 
President Asia Africa Central & Eastern 
Europe in May 2008. Joined Unilever 
1976. He is also Non-Executive 
Chairman Hindustan Lever. Previous 
posts include: Business Group President 
Home and Personal Care North America 
2004.
Jan Zijderveld
President Western Europe
Nationality: Dutch. Aged 46.
Appointed to UEx in February 2011. 
Joined Unilever in 1988. Previous posts 
include: EVP of South East Asia and 
Australasia, Chairman of Unilever 
Middle East North Africa, Chairman of 
the Nordic ice-cream business, 
Marketing Director Italy, European Olive 
Oil Category Director, and General 
Manager – Sauces and Dressings 
Europe, the first Europeanisation of 
Unilever’s foods business based in 
the Netherlands.
Unilever Executive (UEx) For Paul Polman and Jean-Marc Huët see above
Biographies  Report of the Directors Governance
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2010 41
Corporate governance
“Unilever recognises the importance of good 
corporate governance and behaviour, and this 
has been a primary focus for the Boards.”
Michael Treschow
Our Governance Structure and the Boards
However, they remain separate legal entities with different 
shareholder constituencies and separate stock exchange 
listings. Shareholders cannot convert or exchange the shares 
of one for the shares of the other.
NV and PLC have the same Directors, adopt the same 
accounting principles, and pay dividends to their respective 
shareholders on an equalised basis. NV and PLC and their 
group companies constitute a single reporting entity for the 
purposes of presenting consolidated accounts. Accordingly, 
the accounts of the Unilever Group are presented by both 
NV and PLC as their respective consolidated accounts.
NV and PLC are holding and service companies, and the 
business activity of Unilever is carried out by their subsidiaries 
around the world. Shares in group companies may ultimately 
be held wholly by either NV or PLC or by the two companies 
in varying proportions.
Introduction
Unilever is subject to various corporate governance 
requirements and best practice codes, the most relevant being 
those in the Netherlands, the United Kingdom and the United 
States. As stated in our Code of Business Principles, Unilever 
“will conduct its operations in accordance with internationally 
accepted principles of good corporate governance”. It is 
therefore Unilever’s practice to comply where practicable with 
the best practice represented by the aggregate of these best 
practice codes.
The Dual Structure 
Since 1930 when the Unilever Group was formed, NV and PLC, 
together with their group companies, have operated as nearly 
as practicable as a single economic entity. This is achieved by 
a series of agreements between NV and PLC (the Foundation 
Agreements, further described on page 51), together with 
special provisions in the Articles of Association of NV and PLC. 
PLC
PLC Owned Operating Companies
Equalisation and other agreements
Jointly Owned Operating Companies
NV
NV Owned Operating Companies
PLC shareholders NV shareholders
Directors
Michael Treschow, Chairman 42 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Report of the Directors Governance
Our Governance Structure and the Boards continued
Board meetings
There is a minimum of five meetings held throughout the 
calendar year. These are comprised of quarterly meetings, 
to consider the results statements of the Group, and a meeting 
to approve the Annual Report and Accounts. Board meetings 
are also held to discuss matters such as Group strategic issues 
and the Financial Plan.
In addition to the above, our Boards will consider during the year 
important corporate events and actions, such as:
• oversight of the performance of the business;
• review of risks and controls;
• authorisation of major transactions;
• declaration of dividends;
• convening of shareholders’ meetings;
• nominations for Board appointments;
• approval of Board remuneration policy;
• review of the functioning of the Boards and their 
Committees; and
• Corporate Social Responsibility.
Our risk management approach and associated systems of 
internal control are of upmost importance to the Boards and 
are described further on pages 33 to 39.
Meetings of the Boards may be held either in London or 
Rotterdam or such other locations as the Boards think fit, 
with one or two off-site Board meetings a year.
Board induction, training and support
Upon election, Directors receive a comprehensive Directors’ 
Information Pack and are briefed thoroughly on their 
responsibilities and the business. Ongoing training is provided 
for Directors by way of site visits, presentations, circulated 
updates, and teach-ins at Board or Board Committee meetings 
on, among other things, Unilever’s business, environmental, 
social and corporate governance, regulatory developments and 
investor relations matters. In 2010, Board meetings were held at 
the offices of Unilever in both São Paulo in Brazil and Hamburg 
in Germany. In both locations the Boards visited Unilever factories 
and learnt more about the supply chain in both these regions, 
and in Brazil included customer visits to local retail outlets. Visits 
such as these allow the Non-Executive Directors to meet senior 
managers around Unilever’s global business and in turn allow 
them to gain a deeper understanding of the business.
A procedure is in place to enable Directors, if they so wish, 
to seek independent advice at Unilever’s expense.
The Boards
The Boards are responsible for the long-term success of Unilever 
and are accountable to their respective shareholders for the 
performance of the business.
It is of profound significance for Unilever, with its dual structure 
of two parent companies and two different shareholder 
constituencies, that it is able to operate effectively as a single 
economic entity. This objective is achieved by securing unity 
of management of NV and PLC.
It has always been a requirement of Unilever that the same 
people be on the Boards of the two parent companies. This 
ensures that all matters are considered by the Boards as a single 
intellect, reaching the same conclusions on the same set of 
facts save where specific local factors apply. It is essential that in 
reaching the same decisions the NV and PLC Boards identify and 
resolve any potential conflicts of interest between NV and PLC.
This is of significance both to the strategic and the day-to-day 
operation of Unilever. It ensures that Unilever achieves the 
substance of a single parent group but without the form.
The Boards are one-tier boards, comprising Executive Directors 
and, in a majority, Non-Executive Directors. The Boards have 
ultimate responsibility for the management, general affairs, 
direction and performance and long-term success of our business 
as a whole. The responsibility of the Directors is collective, taking 
into account their respective roles as Executive Directors and 
Non-Executive Directors.
The Boards are responsible for the overall conduct of the Group, 
including the management, direction and performance of NV and 
PLC. The Boards have, with the exception of certain matters 
which are reserved for them, delegated the operational running 
of the Group to the Chief Executive Officer. The Chief Executive 
Officer is responsible to the Boards as a whole, and is in turn able 
to sub-delegate any of his powers and discretions. Matters 
reserved for the Boards include structural and constitutional 
matters, corporate governance, approval of dividends, approval 
of overall strategy for the Group and approval of significant 
transactions or arrangements in relation to mergers, acquisitions, 
joint ventures and disposals, capital expenditure, contracts, 
litigation, financing and pensions. 
The Boards have also established committees whose actions are 
regularly reported to and monitored by the Boards, and these are 
described on pages 47 and 48. Further details of how our Boards 
effectively operate as one board, govern themselves and delegate 
their authorities, are set out in the document entitled 
‘The Governance of Unilever’, which can be found at  
www.unilever.com/investorrelations/corp_governance. Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2010 43
Report of the Directors Governance
Appointment of Directors
Directors are normally appointed by shareholders at the AGMs. 
All existing Directors, unless they are retiring, submit themselves 
for re-election every year, and shareholders vote to re-appoint 
them by a simple majority vote. A list of our current Directors 
and the periods during which they have served as such is set 
out on page 40.
In order to seek to ensure that NV and PLC have the same 
Directors, the Articles of Association of NV and PLC contain 
provisions which are designed to ensure that both NV and PLC 
shareholders are presented with the same candidates for election 
as Directors. This is achieved through a nomination procedure 
operated by the Boards of NV and PLC through Unilever’s 
Nomination Committee.
Based on the evaluation of the Boards, its Committees and its 
individual members, the Nomination Committee recommends 
to each Board a list of candidates for nomination at the AGMs 
of both NV and PLC. In addition, shareholders are able to 
nominate Directors, and to do so they must put a resolution 
to both AGMs in line with local requirements. However, in order 
to ensure that the Boards remain identical, anyone being elected 
as a Director of NV must also be elected as a Director of PLC 
and vice versa. Therefore, if an individual fails to be elected to 
both companies then he or she will be unable to take their place 
on either Board.
The provisions in the Articles of Association for appointing 
Directors cannot be changed without the permission, in the 
case of NV, of the holders of the special ordinary shares 
numbered 1 to 2,400 inclusive and, in the case of PLC, of the 
holders of PLC’s deferred stock. The NV special ordinary shares 
may only be transferred to one or more other holders of such 
shares. The joint holders of both the NV special ordinary shares 
and the PLC deferred stock are N.V. Elma and United Holdings 
Limited, which are joint subsidiaries of NV and PLC. The Boards 
of N.V. Elma and United Holdings Limited comprise the members 
of the Nomination Committee, which comprise Non-Executive 
Directors of Unilever only.
Group Secretary
The Group Secretary supports the Chairman in ensuring that 
Unilever’s governance framework remains fit for purpose at all 
times and is subject to regular review, and has a key role to play 
in facilitating the effective functioning of the Boards, advising 
of any improvements and initiatives which could add value 
to the governance of the Group. The Group Secretary is available 
to advise all Directors and ensure that Board procedures are 
complied with.
The Group Secretary works with the Chairman and Chief Executive 
Officer to facilitate the timely presentation of board information 
in order to aid their deliberations and decision making, whilst 
ensuring that the Boards’ time is used effectively and is focused 
on relevant issues.
The Boards have the power to appoint and remove the Group 
Secretary. The current Group Secretary is Tonia Lovell, who 
replaced Steve Williams in that role in July 2010.
Board evaluation
The Chairman, in conjunction with the Vice-Chairman & Senior 
Independent Director, leads the process whereby the Boards 
formally assess their own performance, with the aim of helping 
to improve the effectiveness of the Boards and their Committees. 
The evaluation process consists of an internal exercise performed 
annually with an independent third-party evaluation carried 
out when the Boards consider appropriate. The last time an 
independent third-party evaluation was carried out was in 2006.
The Boards have acknowledged the recommendation of the 
new UK Corporate Governance Code to conduct an external 
board evaluation at least once every three years and have 
determined to conduct their 2011 evaluation process using 
an independent external third-party consultant. The Boards 
then intend to continue to conduct annual evaluations with 
an evaluation facilitated by an independent third-party 
consultant at least once every three years.
The internal evaluation process includes an extensive bespoke 
and confidential questionnaire for all Directors to complete. 
The detailed questionnaire invites comments on a number of 
areas, including board responsibility, performance, operations, 
effectiveness, training and knowledge. In addition, each year the 
Chairman conducts a process of evaluating the performance and 
contribution of each Director, including an interview with each. 
The evaluation of the performance of the Chairman is led by the 
Vice-Chairman & Senior Independent Director and the Chairman 
leads the evaluation of the Chief Executive Officer, both by means 
of confidential, bespoke questionnaires. Committees of the 
Boards evaluate themselves annually under supervision of their 
respective chairmen taking into account the views of respective 
Committee members and the Boards.
Action taken in 2010
Following the 2009 evaluations, the Boards agreed to an enhanced 
Board training programme in 2010 that would concentrate on 
further instruction and familiarisation with Unilever and its 
businesses, and this has been achieved via formal knowledge 
sessions for the Non-Executive Directors on Unilever’s operations. 
In addition, Directors were, and continue to be, actively 
encouraged to attend events of importance in Unilever’s calendar 
such as Investor Relations seminars.
2010 process and recommendations
In 2010 the results of the various evaluations were discussed 
by the Boards to address any issues or areas for improvement. 
The results of the 2010 Board evaluation were summarised in 
a presentation by the Chairman at its meeting in December. 
Comparison was made with the 2009 Board evaluation results, 
and in general, the results showed an improvement in scores 
from the 2009 process indicating that the Directors considered 
that no major changes were required to Board and Committee 
processes. The overall conclusion was that individual Directors 
continue to be satisfied that the Boards work well, and function 
efficiently during the year, and that all the Directors continue to 
contribute effectively and demonstrate full commitment to their 
duties. 
There were however various recommendations of opportunities 
for enhancement in certain areas. Notably, going forward, Board 
meetings will be organised to ensure there is sufficient time to 
allow for greater contributions from the Non-Executive Directors. 44  Unilever  Annual  Report  and  Accounts  2010
Report of the Directors Governance
Our  Governance  Structure    and  the  Boards  continued Our Directors
Non-Executive Directors
Chairman
Unilever  has  a  separate  independent  Non-Executive  Chairman  and  Chief  Executive  Officer.  There  is  a  clear  division  of  responsibilities  between  their  roles.
The  Chairman  is  primarily  responsible  for  leadership  of  the  Boards  and  ensuring  their  effectiveness.  The  Chairman  also  takes  the  lead  in  creating  effective  Boards,  managing  the  relationships  between  Directors,  and  working  closely  with  the  Chief  Executive  Officer  to  ensure  the  successful  functioning  of  the  Boards  whilst  evaluating  and  monitoring  compliance  with  Unilever’s  Code  Policies  and  governance  processes.
The  Chairman  ensures  that  the  Directors  receive  accurate,  timely and  clear  information,  in  particular  about  the  Group’s  performance,  to  enable  the  Boards  to  take  sound  decisions,  monitor  effectively  and  provide  advice  to  promote  the success  of the  Group.
In  conjunction  with  the  Chief  Executive  Officer  and  the  Group  Secretary,  the  Chairman  sets  the  agenda  and  is  pivotal  in  creating the  conditions  for  overall  Board  and  individual  Director  effectiveness.  With  the  Group  Secretary,  the  Chairman  will  take  the lead  in  providing  a  properly  constructed  induction  programme  for  new  Directors  that  is  comprehensive,  formal  and  tailored.  The  Chairman’s  role  is  also  to  promote  effective  relationships  and  open  communication,  both  inside  and  outside  the  boardroom,  between  the  Non-Executive  Directors  and  the  Executive  Directors,  and  to create  an  environment  that  allows  constructive  debate  and  challenge  from  all  Board  members.  The  Chairman  will  also  act  on the  results  of  the  annual Board  evaluation.
The  Chairman  makes  sure  that  effective  processes  are  established  relating  to  succession  planning  and  the  composition  of  the  Boards.  The  Chairman  addresses  the  development  needs  of  the  Boards  as  a  whole  with  a  view  to  enhancing  its  overall  effectiveness  as  a  team,  and  identifies  the  development  needs  of  individual  Directors  by  regularly  reviewing  a  personalised  approach  to  training  and  development  with  each Director.
Together  with  the  Vice-Chairman  &  Senior  Independent  Director  and  the  Chief  Executive  Officer,  the  Chairman  maintains  effective  communication  with  major  shareholders  so  as  to  ensure  that  the  Boards  develop  an  understanding  of  their  views.
Senior Independent Director
The  Non-Executive  Directors  have  appointed  Jeroen  van  der  Veer  as  Senior  Independent  Director.  He  acts  as  their  spokesman,  and  serves  as  an  intermediary  for  the  other  Directors  when  necessary.  He  is  also,  in  appropriate  cases,  a  point  of  contact  for  shareholders  and  other  stakeholders  in  order  to  help  develop  a  balanced  understanding  of  their  issues  and  concerns.  Upon  Jeroen  van  der  Veer’s  retirement,  it  is  intended  that  he  will  be  succeeded  by  Kees  Storm,  with  effect  from  the  conclusion  of  the  2011  AGMs.
Board changes
The  current  Directors,  with  their  biographies,  are  shown  on    page  40.
At  the  2010  AGMs,  Leon  Brittan,  Wim  Dik  and  Narayana  Murthy  retired  as  Non-Executive  Directors.
Following  his  appointment  as  Chief  Financial  Officer  in  February  2010,  Jean-Marc  Huët  was  elected  as  an  Executive  Director  at  the 2010  AGMs.
Paul  Polman  was  re-elected  as  an  Executive  Director,  and  Louise Fresco,  Ann  Fudge,  Charles  Golden,  Byron  Grote,  Hixonia  Nyasulu,  Kees  Storm,  Michael  Treschow,  Jeroen  van  der  Veer  and  Paul  Walsh  were  re-elected  as  Non-Executive  Directors,  at  the  2010  AGMs.  In  addition,  Sir  Malcolm  Rifkind  was  appointed  as  a Non-Executive  Director.
At  the  2011  AGMs  all  current  Executive  and  Non-Executive  Directors  will  be  nominated  for  re-election,  with  the  exception  of Jeroen  van  der  Veer  who  will  be  retiring  as  a  Non-Executive  Director,  and  will  also  step  down  as  Vice-Chairman  &  Senior  Independent  Director,  and  Chairman  of  the  Nomination  Committee  and  Remuneration  Committee.  In  addition,  Mr  Sunil  Bharti  Mittal  will  be  proposed  for election  as  a  Non-Executive  Director  at  the  2011  AGMs.  Mr Mittal  is  the  Founder,  Chairman  & Group  CEO  of  Bharti  Enterprises  and  his  appointment  will bring business  building  experience  in  developing  markets  ranging from  the  entrepreneurial  to  large-scale  corporate  activities.  Biographical  details  for  Mr  Mittal  are  contained  in  the 2011  AGM Notices,  which  are  available  on  our  website  at    www.unilever.com/agm.
Balance  of  Non-Executive  Directors  and  Executive  Directors
	 Executive	 Directors	 2
	 	 Independent	
Non-Executive	 Directors	 10
	 	 Non-Independent	 	
Non-Executive	 Directors	 0
Length  of  tenure  of  Non-Executive  Directors
	 0-3	 years	 6
	 	 3-6	 years	 5
	 6-9	 years	 1
	 	 +9	 years	 0
Gender  split  of  Directors
	 	 Male	 9
	 Female	 3 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2010 45
Report of the Directors Governance
Non-Executive Directors
The Non-Executive Directors share responsibility for the 
execution of the Boards’ duties, taking into account their specific 
responsibilities, which are essentially supervisory. In particular, 
they comprise the principal external presence in the governance 
of Unilever, and provide a strong independent element.
Role and Responsibilities
The key elements of the role and responsibilities of our  
Non-Executive Directors are:
• supervision of and advice to the Chief Executive Officer;
• developing strategy with the Chief Executive Officer;
• scrutiny of performance of the business and 
Chief Executive Officer;
• oversight of risks and controls;
• reporting of performance;
• remuneration of and succession planning for Executive 
Directors; and
• governance and compliance.
Our Non-Executive Directors are chosen for their broad and 
relevant experience and international outlook, as well as for their 
independence. They form the Audit Committee, the Nomination 
Committee, the Remuneration Committee and the Corporate 
Responsibility and Reputation Committee, and the roles and 
membership of these Board committees are described below.  
In consultation with the Nomination Committee, the Boards 
review both the adequacy of succession planning processes  
and succession planning itself at both Board and UEx level.  
The profile set by the Boards for the Non-Executive Directors 
provides guiding principles for the composition of the Unilever 
Boards in line with the recommendations of applicable 
governance regulations and best practice, and takes into 
account the balance of skills, knowledge and experience 
on the Boards. The profile set by the Boards for the  
Non-Executive Directors and the schedule used for orderly 
succession planning can be found on our website at  
www.unilever.com/investorrelations/corp_governance.
Meetings
The Non-Executive Directors meet as a group, without the 
Executive Directors present, under the leadership of the Chairman 
to consider specific agenda items and wide-ranging business 
matters of relevance to the Group. In 2010 they met 5 times. 
In addition, the Non-Executive Directors (including the Chairman) 
usually meet before each Board meeting with the Chief Executive 
Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, other senior executives and 
the Group Secretary.
Independence
Taking into account the role of Non-Executive Directors, which 
is essentially supervisory, and the fact that they make up the key 
Committees of the Boards, it is important that our Non-Executive 
Directors can be considered to be independent. Our definition of 
independence for Directors is set out in the document entitled 
‘The Governance of Unilever’, and is derived from the applicable 
definitions in use in the Netherlands, the UK and the US.
The UK Combined Code suggests that length of tenure is a 
factor to consider when determining independence of a  
Non-Executive Director. The UK Combined Code also provides 
that a Non-Executive Director who serves more than six years 
should be subject to particularly rigorous review, and if more than 
nine years should be subject to annual re-election. However, it is 
Unilever’s standard practice for all Directors to seek re-election 
annually.
Following the conclusion of a thorough review of all relevant 
relationships of the Non-Executive Directors, and their related or 
connected persons, our Boards consider all of our Non-Executive 
Directors to be independent of Unilever. A number of 
relationships, such as non-executive directorships, exist between 
various of our Non-Executive Directors and companies that 
provide banking, insurance or financial advisory services to 
Unilever. Our Boards considered in each case the number of other 
companies that also provide or could readily provide such services 
to Unilever, the significance to those companies of the services 
they provide to Unilever, the roles of the Non-Executive Directors 
within those companies and the significance of those roles to our 
Non-Executive Directors.
The Boards concluded that none of these relationships impact 
the independence of the Non-Executive Directors concerned, 
and have satisfied themselves that the services provided by 
Barloworld Limited, of which Hixonia Nyasulu is a director, 
to Unilever South Africa is not material. The Boards also gave 
special consideration to the position of Jeroen van der Veer 
following his appointment as supervisory director of ING Group, 
holder of a large number of preference shares in NV and with 
whom Unilever has a commercial relationship. The Boards 
concluded that Mr van der Veer continues to demonstrate the 
essential characteristics of independence.
None of our Non-Executive Directors are elected or appointed 
under any arrangement or understanding with any major 
shareholder, customer, supplier or otherwise.
Remuneration
The remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors is determined 
by the Boards, within the overall limit set by the shareholders 
at the AGMs in 2007, and is reported on page 67. We do not 
grant our Non-Executive Directors any personal loans or 
guarantees nor are they entitled to any severance payments. 
Details of the engagement of our Non-Executive Directors 
can be seen on the Unilever website at  
www.unilever.com/investorrelations/corp_governance.
Tenure
Our Non-Executive Directors submit themselves for re-election 
each year at the AGMs. Although the Dutch Corporate 
Governance Code sets the suggested length of tenure at a 
maximum of twelve years for Non-Executive Directors, they 
normally serve for a maximum of nine years in accordance 
with the UK Combined Code. Their nomination for re-election 
is subject to continued good performance which is evaluated by 
the Boards, based on the recommendations of the Nomination 
Committee. The Nomination Committee carefully considers 
each nomination for re-appointment. 46 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Report of the Directors Governance
Our Directors continued
Director matters
Conflicts of interest
We attach special importance to avoiding conflicts of interest 
between NV and PLC and their Directors. The Boards are 
responsible for ensuring that there are rules in place to avoid 
conflicts of interest by Board members. Conflicts of interest 
are understood not to include transactions and other activities 
between companies in the Unilever Group.
Authorisation of situational conflicts is given by the Boards to the 
relevant Director in accordance with the Articles of Association of 
PLC. The authorisation includes conditions relating to keeping 
Unilever information confidential and to the exclusion from 
receiving and discussing relevant information at Board meetings. 
Situational conflicts are reviewed annually by the Boards as part 
of the determination of Director independence, and in between 
those reviews Directors have a duty to inform the Boards of any 
relevant changes to the situation. A Director may not vote on, 
or be counted in a quorum in relation to, any resolution of 
the Boards in respect of any contract in which he or she has 
a material interest. The procedures that Unilever have put in 
place to deal with conflicts of interest have operated effectively.
Various formal matters
The borrowing powers of NV Directors on behalf of NV are not 
limited by the Articles of Association of NV. PLC Directors have 
the power to borrow on behalf of PLC up to three times the 
adjusted capital and reserves of PLC, as defined in its Articles 
of Association, without the approval of shareholders (any 
exceptions requiring an ordinary resolution).
The Articles of Association of NV and PLC do not require 
Directors of NV or Directors of PLC to hold shares in NV or PLC. 
However, the remuneration arrangements applicable to our 
Executive Directors require them to build and retain a personal 
shareholding in Unilever.
Indemnification
Directors’ indemnification, including the terms thereof, is 
provided for in Article 19 of NV’s Articles of Association. The 
power to indemnify Directors is provided for in PLC’s Articles 
of Association and deeds of indemnity have been issued to all 
PLC Directors. Appropriate qualifying third-party Directors’ and 
Officers’ liability insurance was in place for all Unilever Directors 
throughout 2010 and is currently in force.
In addition, PLC provides indemnities (including, where 
applicable, a qualifying pension scheme indemnity provision) 
to the Directors from time to time of two subsidiaries that act 
as trustee respectively of two of Unilever’s UK pension schemes. 
Appropriate trustee liability insurance is also in place.
Other appointments
Non-Executive Directors may serve on boards of other companies, 
provided such service does not involve a conflict of interest or 
restrict their ability to discharge their duties to Unilever.
Executive Directors
Chief Executive Officer
The Chief Executive Officer has the authority to determine which 
duties regarding the operational management of the companies 
and their business enterprises will be carried out under his 
responsibility, by one or more Executive Directors or by one or 
more other persons. This provides a basis for the Unilever 
Executive team (UEx) that is chaired by and reports to the Chief 
Executive Officer. For UEx members’ biographies see page 40.
Executive Directors
During 2010, Unilever had two Executive Directors, the Chief 
Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, who were also 
members of UEx, and are full-time employees of Unilever.
The Executive Directors submit themselves for re-election at 
the AGMs each year, and the Nomination Committee carefully 
considers each nomination for re-appointment. Executive Directors 
stop holding executive office on ceasing to be Directors. The 
Remuneration Committee takes the view that the entitlement 
of the Executive Directors to the security of twelve months’ notice 
of termination of employment is in line with both the practice 
of many comparable companies and the entitlement of other 
senior executives within Unilever. It is our policy to set the level 
of severance payments for Executive Directors at no more than 
one year’s salary, unless the Boards, at the proposal of the 
Remuneration Committee, find this manifestly unreasonable 
given the circumstances or unless dictated by applicable law.
We do not grant our Executive Directors any personal loans 
or guarantees.
There are no family relationships between any of our Executive 
Directors, other key management personnel or Non-Executive 
Directors, and none of our Executive Directors or other key 
management personnel are elected or appointed under any 
arrangement or understanding with any major shareholder, 
customer, supplier or otherwise.
Outside appointments
Unilever recognises the benefit to the individual and to the Group 
of involvement by Unilever senior management acting as directors 
of other companies outside the Unilever Group, broadening their 
experience and knowledge. The number of outside directorships of 
listed companies is generally limited to one per individual, and in the 
case of publicly listed companies approval is required from the 
Chairman. Outside directorships must not involve an excessive 
commitment or conflict of interest, and Unilever senior 
management must at all times ensure that their time commitment 
to Unilever takes precedence over any outside directorship. Fees 
paid in connection with an outside directorship may be retained by 
the individual, reflecting that any outside directorship is for the 
responsibility of the individual and that Unilever takes no 
responsibility in this regard. Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2010 47
Report of the Directors Governance
All committees are provided with sufficient resources 
to undertake their duties, and the terms of reference 
for each committee are contained within ‘The Governance of 
Unilever’ and are also available on our website at  
www.unilever.com/investorrelations/corp_governance.
Board Committees
The Boards have established the committees described below, 
all formally set up by Board resolutions with carefully defined 
remits. They are made up solely of Non-Executive Directors and 
report regularly to the Boards. For all committees, if Directors 
are unable to attend a meeting, they are given the opportunity 
before the meeting to discuss with the Chairman of the 
committee any agenda items or committee papers.
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee assists the Boards in fulfilling 
their oversight responsibilities in respect of: the integrity 
of Unilever’s financial statements; risk management and 
internal control arrangements; compliance with legal and 
regulatory requirements; the performance, qualifications 
and independence of the external auditors; and the 
performance of the internal audit function. The Audit 
Committee is supplied with all information necessary for 
the performance of its duties by the Chief Auditor, Chief 
Financial Officer, Group Controller and external auditors, 
and both the Chief Auditor and the external auditors have 
direct access to the Audit Committee separately from 
management. The Audit Committee is directly responsible, 
subject to local laws regarding shareholder approval, for the 
nomination, compensation and oversight of the external 
auditors. The Audit Committee is compliant with the rules 
regarding audit committees applicable in the Netherlands, the 
UK and the US.
The Audit Committee is comprised only of independent  
Non-Executive Directors with a minimum requirement of 
three such members. It is chaired by Kees Storm, and its 
other members are Charles Golden and Byron Grote. Wim 
Dik stepped down as a member of the Committee following 
his retirement as a Director at the 2010 AGMs in May. The 
Boards have satisfied themselves that all the current members 
of the Audit Committee are competent in financial matters 
and have recent and relevant experience and that, for the 
purposes of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, Kees Storm 
is the Audit Committee’s financial expert. The Audit 
Committee’s meetings are attended, by invitation, by the 
Chief Financial Officer, the Chief Legal Officer, the Group 
Controller, the Chief Auditor and our external auditors.
See the Report of the Audit Committee to the shareholders 
on pages 56 and 57.
Corporate Responsibility and Reputation Committee
The Corporate Responsibility and Reputation Committee 
has responsibility for the oversight of Unilever’s conduct 
with regard to its corporate and societal obligations and its 
reputation as a responsible corporate citizen. It comprises a 
minimum of three Non-Executive Directors. It is chaired by 
Sir Malcolm Rifkind and its other members are Louise Fresco 
and Hixonia Nyasulu. Narayana Murthy stepped down 
as a member of the Committee following his retirement 
as a Director at the 2010 AGMs in May.
See the Report of the Corporate Responsibility and 
Reputation Committee to shareholders on pages 58 and 59.
Nomination Committee
The Nomination Committee recommends to the Boards 
candidates for the positions of Director. It also has 
responsibilities for succession planning and oversight 
of corporate governance matters. It is supplied with 
information by the Group Secretary.
The Nomination Committee comprises a minimum of two 
independent Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman. 
The Nomination Committee is chaired by Jeroen van 
der Veer, and its other members are Michael Treschow 
and Paul Walsh. Following Jeroen van der Veer’s retirement 
at the end of the 2011 AGMs, it is intended that Paul Walsh 
will succeed him as Chairman of the Nomination Committee 
and both Ann Fudge and Kees Storm will become members 
of the Committee.
See the Report of the Nomination Committee to the 
shareholders on page 60.
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee reviews Directors’ 
remuneration and is responsible for the executive  
share-based incentive plans. It makes proposals to the 
Boards, within the parameters set by our shareholders, on 
specific remuneration arrangements for each of the 
Executive Directors, the remuneration scales and 
arrangements for Non-Executive Directors and the policy for 
the remuneration of the tier of management directly below 
the Boards. The Committee is advised by the Group 
Secretary on matters of corporate governance.
The Remuneration Committee comprises a minimum of three 
independent Non-Executive Directors. The Remuneration 
Committee is chaired by Jeroen van der Veer. Its other 
members are Ann Fudge, Michael Treschow and Paul Walsh. 
Following Jeroen van der Veer’s retirement at the end of the 
2011 AGMs, it is intended that Paul Walsh will succeed him 
as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and Kees 
Storm will become a member of the Committee.
The Directors’ Remuneration Report is found on pages 
61 to 67.
Our Committees 48  Unilever  Annual  Report  and  Accounts  2010
Report of the Directors Governance
Audit Committee
Name  Attendance
Kees  Storm  (Chairman)    5  of  5
Wim  Dik  (to  12  May  2010)      3  of  3
Charles  Golden    5  of  5
Byron  Grote    5  of  5
Corporate Responsibility and Reputation Committee
Name  Attendance
Leon  Brittan  (Chairman  to  12  May  2010)    2  of  2
Sir  Malcolm  Rifkind  (Chairman  from  12  May  2010)    4  of  4
Louise  Fresco    6  of  6
Narayana  Murthy  (to  12  May  2010)    2  of  2  Hixonia  Nyasulu    5  of  6
Nomination Committee
Name  Attendance
Jeroen  van  der  Veer  (Chairman)    7  of  7
Michael  Treschow    7  of  7
Paul  Walsh    7  of  7
Remuneration Committee
Name  Attendance
Jeroen  van  der  Veer  (Chairman)    7  of  7
Ann  Fudge    7  of  7
Michael  Treschow    7  of  7
Paul  Walsh    7  of  7
Attendance
The  following  tables  show  the  attendance  of  Directors  at  Board  and  Committee  meetings  for  the  year  ended  31  December  2010.  If  Directors  are  unable  to  attend  a  meeting,  they  have  the  opportunity  before  the  meeting  to  discuss  with  the  Chairman  any  agenda  items  or Board  papers.
Attendance  is  expressed  as  the  number  of  meetings  attended  out  of the  number  eligible  to  attend.
Board Directors
Name   Attendance
Michael  Treschow        10  of  10
Jeroen  van  der  Veer        9  of  10
Paul  Polman*        10  of  10
Jean-Marc  Huët*  (from  12  May  2010)         6  of  6
Leon  Brittan  (to  12  May  2010)        4  of  4
Wim  Dik  (to  12  May  2010)         3  of  4
Louise  Fresco         10  of  10
Ann  Fudge        10  of  10
Charles  Golden        9  of  10
Byron  Grote        10  of  10
Narayana  Murthy  (to  12  May  2010)         3  of  4
Hixonia  Nyasulu         8  of  10
Sir  Malcolm  Rifkind  (from  12  May  2010)        6  of  6
Kees  J  Storm      10  of  10
Paul  Walsh         9  of  10
*Executive  Director
Our  Committees  continued
Disclosure Committee
The  Boards  have  set  up,  through  the  Chief  Executive  Officer,  a  Disclosure  Committee  which  is  responsible  for  helping  the  Boards  ensure  that  financial  and  other  information  required  to  be  disclosed  publicly  is  disclosed  in  a  timely  manner  and  that  the  information  that  is  disclosed  is  complete  and  accurate  in  all  material  aspects.
The  Committee  comprises  the  Group  Controller  (Chairman),  the  Group  Secretary  and  Chief  Legal  Officer,  the  Group  Treasurer  and the  NV  Deputy  Secretary.
Corporate governance framework Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2010 49
Report of the Directors Governance
arrangements apply to holders of depositary receipts issued 
for NV shares and the holders of NV preference shares. PLC 
shareholders can cast one vote for each 3
1
⁄9p nominal capital that 
they hold. This means shareholders can cast one vote for each PLC 
ordinary share, or PLC American Depositary Receipt of shares. Proxy 
appointments need to be with our Registrars 48 hours before the 
meeting, and the shareholding at this time will determine both the 
right to vote and the ability to attend the meeting.
More information on the exercise of voting rights can be found 
in NV’s and PLC’s Articles of Association and in the respective 
Notices of Meetings which can be found on our website at  
www.unilever.com/investorrelations/corp_governance.
Holders of NV New York Registry Shares or PLC American Depositary 
Receipts of shares will receive a proxy form enabling them to 
authorise and instruct a notary public or Citibank, N.A. respectively 
to vote on their behalf at the General Meeting of NV or PLC.
N.V. Elma and United Holdings Limited (the holders of NV’s special 
shares), other group companies of NV which hold ordinary or 
preference shares, and United Holdings Limited, which owns half of 
PLC’s deferred stock, are not permitted to vote at General Meetings.
Voting on each of the resolutions contained in the Notice of 
AGMs is conducted by poll. The final vote is published at the 
meetings and the outcome of the votes, including the proxy 
votes, is put on Unilever’s website.
Shareholder proposed resolutions
Shareholders of NV may propose resolutions if they individually 
or together hold 1% of NV’s issued capital in the form of shares 
or depositary receipts for shares, or if they individually or together 
hold shares or depositary receipts worth or representing the 
market value in shares as set in respect thereto by or pursuant 
to the law (currently €50 million). They must submit these 
requests at least 60 days before the date of the General Meeting. 
Shareholders who together represent at least 10% of the issued 
capital of NV can also requisition Extraordinary General Meetings 
to deal with specific resolutions.
Shareholders who together hold shares representing at least 5% 
of the total voting rights of PLC, or 100 shareholders who hold on 
average £100 each in nominal value of PLC capital, can require PLC 
to propose a resolution at a General Meeting. PLC shareholders 
holding in aggregate 5% of the issued PLC ordinary shares are able 
to convene a General Meeting of PLC.
Required majorities
Resolutions are usually adopted at NV and PLC shareholder 
meetings by an absolute majority of votes cast, unless there 
are other requirements under the applicable laws or NV’s or 
PLC’s Articles of Association. For example, there are special 
requirements for resolutions relating to the alteration of the 
Articles of Association, the liquidation of NV or PLC and the 
alteration of the Equalisation Agreement.
A proposal to alter the Articles of Association of NV can only 
be made by the Board of NV. A proposal to alter the Articles 
of Association of PLC can be made either by the Board of PLC 
or by shareholders in the manner permitted under the UK 
Companies Act 2006. Unless expressly specified to the contrary 
in the Articles of Association of PLC, PLC’s Articles of Association 
Shareholder matters
Relations with shareholders and other investors
We believe it is important both to explain our business developments 
and financial results to investors and to understand their objectives.
The Chief Financial Officer has lead responsibility for investor 
relations, with the active involvement of the Chief Executive 
Officer. They are supported by our Investor Relations department 
which organises presentations for analysts and investors, and 
such presentations are generally made available on our website. 
Briefings on quarterly results are given via teleconference and are 
accessible by telephone or via our website. For further information 
visit our website at www.unilever.com/investorrelations.
The Boards are briefed on reactions to quarterly results 
announcements. They, or the relevant Board Committee, are 
briefed on any issues raised by shareholders that are relevant to 
their responsibilities. Our shareholders can, and do, raise issues 
directly with the Chairman and, if appropriate, the Senior 
Independent Director.
Both NV and PLC communicate with their respective shareholders 
at the AGMs as well as responding to their questions and 
enquiries during the course of the year. We take the views of our 
shareholders into account and, in accordance with all applicable 
legislation and regulations, may consult them in an appropriate 
way before putting proposals to our AGMs.
General Meetings of shareholders
The business to be conducted at the AGMs of NV and PLC 
is set out in the separate Notices of AGM for NV and PLC. It 
typically includes approval/consideration of the Annual Report 
and Accounts and remuneration framework, appointment of 
Directors, appointment of external auditors, and authorisation 
for the Boards to allot and repurchase shares, and to restrict  
pre-emptive rights of shareholders.
At the AGMs, a review is given of the progress of the business 
over the last year and there is a discussion of current issues. 
Shareholders are encouraged to attend the meetings and ask 
questions, and the question and answer sessions form an 
important part of the meetings.
General Meetings of shareholders of NV and PLC are held 
at times and places decided by our Boards. NV meetings are 
normally held in Rotterdam and PLC meetings are normally held 
in London, on consecutive days. The notices calling the meetings 
normally go out more than 42 days prior to the meetings and 
are placed on the website.
We welcome our external auditors to the AGMs and they are 
entitled to address the meetings.
Voting rights
Shareholders that hold NV shares on the record date are entitled 
to attend and vote at NV General Meetings. Dutch law requires 
that the record date is set at a date 28 days before the meeting, 
and shares are not blocked between the record date and the date 
of the meeting. NV shareholders can cast one vote for each €0.16 
nominal capital that they hold. This means that they can cast one 
vote for each NV ordinary share, or NV New York Registry Share. 
Shareholders can vote in person or by proxy. Similar 
Our Shareholders 50 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Report of the Directors Governance
Holders of depositary receipts can under all circumstances 
exchange their depositary receipts for the underlying shares 
(and vice versa), and are entitled to dividends and all economic 
benefits on the underlying shares held by the Foundation.
The Foundation’s shareholding fluctuates daily – its holdings on 
28 February 2011 were:
• NV ordinary shares of €0.16: 1,268,224,230 (73.96%); and
• NV 7% cumulative preference shares of €428.57: 9,776 
(33.71%).
The members of the board at the Foundation are Mr J H Schraven 
(chairman), Mr P P de Koning, Prof Emeritus Dr L Koopmans and Mr 
A A Olijslager. The Foundation reports periodically on its activities.
Further information on the Foundation, including its Articles of 
Association and Conditions of Administration, can be found on 
its website at www.administratiekantoor-unilever.nl.
Voting by holders of depositary receipts
Although the depositary receipts themselves do not formally have 
voting rights, holders of depositary receipts are in practice equated 
with shareholders. They can attend all General Meetings of NV, 
either personally or by proxy, and also have the right to speak. The 
holders of the depositary receipts will then automatically, without 
limitation and under all circumstances, receive a voting proxy on 
behalf of the Foundation to vote on the underlying shares.
The Foundation is obliged to follow the voting instructions of 
holders of depositary receipts. The same applies to the voting 
instructions of holders of depositary receipts not attending a 
shareholders’ meeting and who issue voting instructions to the 
Foundation via the Dutch Shareholders’ Communication Channel.
Voting by the Foundation Unilever NV Trust Office
Shares for which the Foundation has not granted voting proxies 
or for which it has not received voting instructions are voted on 
by the Foundation in such a way as it deems to be in the interests 
of the holders of the depositary receipts. This voting policy is laid 
down in the Conditions of Administration that apply to the 
depositary receipts.
Specific provisions apply in the event that a meeting of the 
holders of NV 7% cumulative preference shares is convened.
If a change to shareholders’ rights is proposed, the Foundation 
will let shareholders know if it intends to vote, at least 14 days 
in advance of the meeting if possible.
Hitherto the majority of votes cast by ordinary shareholders at 
NV meetings have been cast by the Foundation. Unilever and 
the Foundation have a policy of actively encouraging holders of 
depositary receipts to exercise their voting rights in NV meetings.
Unilever considers the arrangements of the Foundation 
appropriate and in the interest of NV and its shareholders 
given the size of the voting rights attached to the financing 
preference shares and the relatively low attendance of holders 
of ordinary shares at the General Meetings of NV.
Further information on the share capital of NV and PLC is given 
on pages 139 and 140.
may be amended by a special resolution. Proposals to alter the 
provisions in the Articles of Association of NV and PLC respectively 
relating to the unity of management require the prior 
approval of meetings of the holders of the NV special shares 
and the PLC deferred stock. The Articles of Association 
of both NV and PLC can be found on our website at  
www.unilever.com/investorrelations/corp_governance.
Right to hold shares
Unilever’s constitutional documents place no limitations on the 
right to hold NV and PLC shares. There are no limitations on the 
right to hold or exercise voting rights on the ordinary shares of 
NV and PLC imposed by foreign law. 
Electronic communication
We are committed to efforts to continue more effective ways 
of communication with our shareholders around the AGMs. 
Electronic communication is already an important and established 
medium for shareholders, providing ready access to shareholder 
information and reports, and for voting purposes.
Shareholders of PLC can choose to receive electronic notification 
that the Annual Report and Accounts and Notice of AGMs have 
been published on our website, instead of receiving printed 
copies, and can also electronically appoint a proxy to vote on 
their behalf at the AGM.
Registration for electronic communication by shareholders of 
PLC can be made at www.unilever.com/shareholderservices. 
The UK Companies Act 2006 contains provisions facilitating 
communications between companies and their shareholders 
electronically and PLC has established such a facility after consulting 
with its shareholders to offer them the opportunity to review their 
method of receiving shareholder communications in the future.
Share capital matters
Margarine Union (1930) Limited: Conversion Rights
The first Viscount Leverhulme was the founder of the company 
which became PLC. When he died in 1925, he left in his will a 
large number of PLC shares in various trusts.
When the will trusts were varied in 1983, the interests of the 
beneficiaries of his will were also preserved. Four classes of 
special shares were created in Margarine Union (1930) Limited, 
a subsidiary of PLC. One of these classes can be converted at the 
end of the year 2038 into 70,875,000 PLC ordinary shares of 
3
1
⁄9p each. This currently represents 5.4% of PLC’s issued ordinary 
capital. These convertible shares replicate the rights which the 
descendants of the first Viscount would have had under his will. 
This class of the special shares only has a right to dividends in 
specified circumstances, and no dividends have yet been paid. PLC 
guarantees the dividend and conversion rights of the special shares.
Foundation Unilever NV Trust Office
The Foundation Unilever NV Trust Office (Stichting 
Administratiekantoor Unilever N.V.) is a trust office with a board 
independent of Unilever. As part of its corporate objects, the 
Foundation issues depositary receipts in exchange for the ordinary 
and 7% preference shares it holds in NV. These depositary receipts 
are listed on Euronext Amsterdam, as are the NV ordinary and 7% 
preference shares themselves.
Our Shareholders continued Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2010 51
Report of the Directors Governance
Foundation Agreements
The Unilever Group is created and maintained by a series of 
agreements between the parent companies, NV and PLC, together 
with special provisions in their respective articles of association, 
which are together known as the Foundation Agreements. These 
agreements enable Unilever to achieve unity of management, 
operations, shareholders’ rights, purpose and mission and further 
information on these agreements is provided in the document 
entitled ‘The Governance of Unilever’ which is available on our 
website at www.unilever.com/investorrelations/corp_governance.
NV’s Articles of Association contain, among other things, the 
objects clause, which sets out the scope of activities that NV is 
authorised to undertake. They are drafted to give a wide scope 
and provide that the primary objectives are: to carry on business 
as a holding company, to manage any companies in which it has 
an interest and to operate and carry into effect the Equalisation 
Agreement. At the 2010 PLC AGM, the shareholders agreed that 
the objects clause be removed from PLC’s Articles of Association 
so that there are no restrictions on its objects.
Equalisation Agreement
The Equalisation Agreement makes the economic position 
of the shareholders of NV and PLC, as far as possible, the same 
as if they held shares in a single company. The Equalisation 
Agreement regulates the mutual rights of the shareholders of 
NV and PLC. Under the Equalisation Agreement, NV and PLC 
must adopt the same financial periods and accounting policies.
Each NV ordinary share represents the same underlying economic 
interest in the Unilever Group as each PLC ordinary share.
The Equalisation Agreement can be found on our website at 
www.unilever.com/investorrelations/corp_governance.
The Deed of Mutual Covenants
The Deed of Mutual Covenants provides that NV and PLC and 
their respective subsidiary companies shall co-operate in every 
way for the purpose of maintaining a common operating policy. 
They shall exchange all relevant information about their respective 
businesses – the intention being to create and maintain a 
common operating platform for the Unilever Group throughout 
the world. The Deed also contains provisions for the allocation 
of assets between NV and PLC.
The Deed of Mutual Covenants can be found on our website at 
www.unilever.com/investorrelations/corp_governance.
The Agreement for Mutual Guarantees of Borrowing
Under the Agreement for Mutual Guarantees of Borrowing 
between NV and PLC, each company will, if asked by the other, 
guarantee the borrowings of the other. The two companies 
also jointly guarantee the borrowings of their subsidiaries. These 
arrangements are used, as a matter of financial policy, for certain 
significant public borrowings. They enable lenders to rely on our 
combined financial strength.
The Agreement for Mutual Guarantees of Borrowing can be found on 
our website at www.unilever.com/investorrelations/corp_governance.
Our Foundation Agreements
Requirements and compliance – general
Unilever is subject to corporate governance requirements in the 
Netherlands, the UK and as a foreign private issuer in the US. 
In this section we report on our compliance with the corporate 
governance regulations and best practice codes applicable in the 
Netherlands and the UK and we also describe compliance with 
corporate governance standards in the US.
Under the European Takeover Directive as implemented in the 
Netherlands and the UK, the UK Companies Act 2006 and rules 
of the US Securities and Exchange Commission, we are required 
to provide information on contracts and other arrangements 
essential or material to the business of the Group. We believe 
we do not have any such contracts or arrangements.
Our governance arrangements are designed and structured 
to promote and further the interests of our companies and their 
shareholders. The Boards however reserve the right, in cases 
where they decide such to be in the interests of the companies 
or our shareholders, to depart from that which is set out in 
the present and previous sections in relation to our corporate 
governance. Any such changes will be reported in future Annual 
Reports and Accounts and, when necessary, through changes 
to the relevant documents published on our website. As 
appropriate, proposals for change will be put to our shareholders 
for approval.
Further information can be found on our website and in the 
document entitled ‘The Governance of Unilever’. This describes 
the terms of reference of our Board Committees, including their 
full responsibilities. It will be kept up to date with changes in 
our internal constitutional arrangements that our Boards may 
make from time to time and it is available on our website at 
www.unilever.com/Investorrelations/corp_governance.
Our requirements and compliance 52 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Report of the Directors Governance
The Netherlands
NV is required to state in its Annual Report and Accounts whether 
it complies or will comply with the Principles and best practice 
provisions (‘bpp’) of the Dutch Corporate Governance Code (the 
Dutch Code) and, if it does not comply, to explain the reasons for 
this. As will be clear from the description of our governance 
arrangements, NV complies with almost all of the principles and 
best practice provisions of the Dutch Code, a copy of which is 
available at www.commissiecorporategovernance.nl. The text that 
follows sets out certain statements that the Dutch Code invites us 
to make to our shareholders that are not included elsewhere in this 
Annual Report and Accounts as well as areas of non-compliance.
Unilever places a great deal of importance on corporate 
responsibility and sustainability as is evidenced by our mission to 
double the size of the company while reducing our environmental 
impact. With respect to our performance measures Unilever is 
keen to ensure focus on key financial performance measures 
which we believe to be the drivers of shareholder value creation 
and relative total shareholder return. Unilever therefore believes 
that the interests of the business and shareholders are best served 
by linking the long-term share plans to the measures as described 
in the Directors’ Remuneration Report and has not included a 
non-financial performance indicator (Principle II.2 and bpp II.2.3).
Board and Committee structures
NV has a one-tier board, consisting of both Executive and, in a 
majority, Non-Executive Directors. We achieve compliance of our 
board arrangements with the Dutch Code, which is for the most 
part based on the customary two-tier structure in the Netherlands, 
by, as far as is possible and practicable, applying the provisions of 
the Dutch Code relating to members of a management board to 
our Executive Directors and by applying the provisions relating to 
members of a supervisory board to our Non-Executive Directors. 
Management tasks not capable of delegation are performed by 
the NV Board as a whole.
Risk management and control
Our principal risks are described on pages 33 to 37. Our approach 
to risk management and systems of internal control is based on 
the COSO framework and is described on page 38.
As a result of the review of the Audit Committee (as described in 
its report on pages 56 and 57) the NV Board believes that as 
regards financial reporting risks the risk management and control 
systems provide reasonable assurance that the financial 
statements do not contain any errors of material importance and 
the risk management and control systems have worked properly 
in 2010 (bpp ll.1.5).
The aforesaid statements are not statements in accordance with 
the requirements of Section 404 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act 
of 2002.
Retention period of shares
The Dutch Code recommends that shares granted to Executive 
Directors must be retained for a period of at least five years  
(bpp II.2.5). Our shareholder-approved remuneration policy 
requires Executive Directors to build and retain a personal 
shareholding in Unilever. The Boards believe that this is in line 
with the spirit of the Dutch Code.
Requirements – European Union
Following implementation of the European Takeover Directive, 
certain information is required to be disclosed in relation to 
control and share structures and interests of NV and PLC. Such 
disclosures, which are not covered elsewhere in this Annual 
Report, include the following:
• there are no requirements to obtain the approval of NV 
or PLC, or of other holders of securities in NV or PLC, for a 
transfer of such securities. The NV special ordinary shares may 
only be transferred to one or more holders of such shares;
• there are no arrangements by which, with NV’s or PLC’s 
cooperation, financial rights carried by securities are held by 
a person other than the holder of such securities;
• NV and PLC are not aware of any agreements between 
holders of securities which may result in restrictions on the 
transfer of such securities or on voting rights;
• neither NV nor PLC are parties to any significant agreements 
which include provisions that take effect, alter or terminate 
such agreement upon a change of control following a 
takeover bid;
• NV and PLC do not have any agreements with any Director or 
employee that would provide compensation for loss of office 
or employment resulting from a takeover except that most of 
Unilever’s share schemes contain provisions which operate in 
the event of a takeover of Unilever, which provisions may for 
instance cause options or awards granted to employees under 
such schemes to vest after a takeover or be exchanged into 
new awards for shares in another entity; and
• the Trustees of the PLC employee share trusts may vote or 
abstain in any way they think fit and in doing so may take 
into account both financial and non-financial interests of the 
beneficiaries of the employee share trusts or their dependants. 
Historically the Trustees tend not to exercise this right.
Our requirements and compliance continued Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2010 53
Report of the Directors Governance
Meetings of analysts and presentations to investors
We have extensive procedures for handling relations with 
and communicating with shareholders, investors, analysts 
and the media (also see page 49). The important presentations 
and meetings are conducted as far as practicable in accordance 
with the Dutch Code (bpp IV.3.1). Due to their large number and 
overlap in information, however, some of the less important ones 
are not announced in advance, made accessible to everyone 
or put on our website.
Corporate Governance Statement
NV is required to make a statement concerning corporate 
governance as referred to in article 2a of the decree on 
additional requirements for annual reports (Vaststellingsbesluit 
nadere voorschriften inhoud jaarverslag) with effect from 
1 January 2010 (the ‘Decree’). The information required to be 
included in this corporate governance statement as described 
in articles 3, 3a and 3b of the Decree can be found in the 
following sections of this report:
• the information concerning compliance with the Dutch 
Corporate Governance Code, as required by article 3 of the 
Decree, can be found under ‘Corporate Governance’ within 
the section ‘Requirements – the Netherlands’ in this report;
• the information concerning Unilever’s risk management and 
control frameworks relating to the financial reporting process, 
as required by article 3a(a) of the Decree, can be found under 
‘Outlook and risks’ on pages 33 to 39 and within the relevant 
sections under ‘Corporate Governance’ in this report;
• the information regarding the functioning of NV’s General 
Meeting of shareholders, and the authority and rights of NV’s 
shareholders, as required by article 3a(b) of the Decree, can 
be found within the relevant sections under ‘Corporate 
Governance’ in this report;
• the information regarding the composition and functioning 
of NV’s Board and its Committees, as required by article 3a(c) 
of the Decree, can be found within the relevant sections 
under ‘Corporate Governance’ in this report; and
• the information concerning the inclusion of the information 
required by the decree Article 10 European Takeover Directive, 
as required by article 3b of the Decree, can be found within 
the relevant sections under ‘Corporate Governance’ and 
within the section ‘Shareholder information, Analysis of 
shareholding’ in this report.
Severance pay
It is our policy to set the level of severance payments for Directors 
at no more than one year’s salary, unless the NV Board, at the 
proposal of the Remuneration Committee, finds this manifestly 
unreasonable given circumstances or unless otherwise dictated 
by applicable law (bpp II.2.8).
Conflicts of interest
In the event of a potential conflict of interest, the provisions 
of the Dutch Code (Principles II.3 and III.6) are applied. Conflicts 
of interest are not understood to include transactions and other 
activities between companies in the Unilever Group.
Financing preference shares
NV issued 4%, 6% and 7% cumulative preference shares 
between 1927 and 1970. Their voting rights are based on 
their nominal value, as prescribed by Dutch law. The Dutch 
Code recommends that the voting rights on such shares should, 
in any event when they are newly issued, be based on their 
economic value rather than on their nominal value (bpp IV.1.2). 
NV agrees with this principle but cannot unilaterally reduce 
voting rights of its outstanding preference shares.
Following the approval by the NV shareholders during the NV 
AGM on 11 May 2010 to reduce the capital with regard to 
the 4% cumulative preference shares against repayment and 
amendment of the Articles of Association, the 4% cumulative 
preference shares were cancelled by way of an amendment of 
the NV Articles of Association, effective 9 August 2010.
Anti-takeover constructions and control over the company
NV confirms that it has no anti-takeover constructions, in the 
sense of constructions that are intended solely, or primarily, 
to block future hostile public offers for its shares (bpp IV.3.11). 
Nor does NV have any constructions whose specific purpose is 
to prevent a bidder, after acquiring 75% of the capital, from 
appointing or dismissing members of the Board and subsequently 
altering the Articles of Association. The acquisition through a 
public offer of a majority of the shares in a company does not 
under Dutch law preclude in all circumstances the continued 
right of the board of the company to exercise its powers.
Provision of information
We consider it important to comply with all applicable statutory 
regulations on the equal treatment of shareholders and provision 
of information and communication with shareholders and other 
parties (Principles IV.2 and IV.3). 54 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Report of the Directors Governance
Risk management and control
Our principal risks and our approach to risk management and 
systems of internal control are described on pages 33 to 39.
This approach to risk management and systems of internal 
control is in line with the recommendations in the report on 
‘Internal Control – Revised Guidance for Directors on the UK 
Combined Code’ (‘The Turnbull Guidance’).
The effectiveness of the system of internal control, including 
processes in relation to financial reporting and preparation 
of consolidated financial statements, has been reviewed by the 
Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee reviewed Unilever’s overall approach  
to risk management and control, and its processes, outcomes 
and disclosure, and details of the activities of the Audit 
Committee in relation to this can be found in the Report of the 
Audit Committee on pages 56 and 57.
It is Unilever’s practice to bring acquired companies within the 
Group’s governance procedures as soon as is practicable and 
in any event by the end of the first full year of operation.
The United Kingdom
PLC is required, as a company that is incorporated in the UK 
and listed on the London Stock Exchange, to state how it has 
applied the main principles and how far it has complied with 
the provisions set out in Section 1 of the 2008 UK Combined 
Code on Corporate Governance (‘the Combined Code’), 
a copy of which is available at www.frc.org.uk.
In the preceding pages we have described how we have applied 
the main principles and the provisions in the Combined Code. 
In 2010, PLC complied with all Code provisions.
Our requirements and compliance continued Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2010 55
Report of the Directors Governance
We are required by US securities laws and the Listing 
Standards of the NYSE to have an Audit Committee that 
satisfies Rule 10A-3 under the Exchange Act and the Listing 
Standards of the NYSE. We are compliant with these 
requirements. We are also required to disclose any significant 
ways in which our corporate governance practices differ from 
those typically followed by US companies listed on the NYSE. 
In addition to the information we have given to you in this 
report about our corporate governance arrangements, further 
details are provided in the document entitled ‘The Governance 
of Unilever’, which is on our website at 
www.unilever.com/investorrelations/corp_governance.
We are compliant with the Listing Standards of the NYSE 
applicable to foreign private issuers. Our corporate governance 
practices do not significantly differ from those required of US 
companies listed on the NYSE.
We also confirm that our shareholders have the opportunity 
to vote on certain equity compensation plans.
Risk management and control
Our principal risks and our approach to risk management and 
systems of internal control are described on pages 33 to 39.
Based on an evaluation by the Boards, the Chief Executive 
Officer and the Chief Financial Officer concluded that the 
design and operation of the Group’s disclosure controls and 
procedures, including those defined in United States Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934 – Rule 13a – 15(e), as at 31 December 
2010 were effective, and that subsequently until the date of 
the approval of the Annual Report by the Boards, there have 
been no significant changes in the Group’s internal controls, 
or in other factors that could significantly affect those controls.
Unilever is required by Section 404 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley 
Act of 2002 to report on the effectiveness of internal control 
over financial reporting. This requirement will be reported 
on separately and will form part of Unilever’s Annual Report 
on Form 20-F.
The United States
Both NV and PLC are listed on the New York Stock Exchange 
and must therefore comply with such of the requirements of 
US legislation, such as the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, 
regulations enacted under US securities laws and the Listing 
Standards of the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) as are 
applicable to foreign private issuers, copies of which are 
available at www.sec.gov and www.nyse.com. In some cases 
the requirements are mandatory and in other cases the 
obligation is to ‘comply or explain’.
We have complied in all material respects with the requirements 
concerning corporate governance that were in force during 
2010. Attention is drawn in particular to the remit of the 
Audit Committee on page 47 and the Report of the Audit 
Committee on pages 56 and 57.
Actions already taken to ensure compliance in all material 
respects that are not specifically disclosed elsewhere or 
otherwise clear from reading this report include:
• the Code of Business Principles and Code Policy declaration 
undertaken by all senior financial officers;
• the issuance of instructions restricting the employment of 
former employees of the audit firm; and
• the establishment of a policy on reporting requirements 
under SEC rules relating to standards of professional 
conduct for US attorneys.
In each of these cases, existing practices were revised  
and/or documented in such a way as to conform to the 
new requirements.
All senior executives and senior financial officers have declared 
their understanding of and compliance with Unilever’s Code 
of Business Principles and the underpinning Code Policies. 
No waiver from any provision of the Code of Business Principles 
or Code Policies was granted to any of the persons falling within 
the scope of the SEC requirements in 2010. The Code Policies 
include mandatory requirements covering (but not limited to) 
the following areas: Accurate records, reporting & accounting; 
Anti-bribery; Avoiding conflicts of interest; Gifts & entertainment; 
Preventing insider trading; Political activities & political donations; 
Contact with government, regulators & non-governmental 
organisations; Respect, dignity & fair treatment; External 
communications – the media, investors & analysts. Our Code of 
Business Principles is available on our website at 
www.unilever.com/investorrelations/corp_governance. 56 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Report of the Directors Governance
In fulfilling its oversight responsibilities in relation to risk 
management, internal control and the financial statements, the 
Committee met regularly with senior members of management 
and are fully satisfied with the key judgements taken. 
Internal audit function
The Committee reviewed Corporate Audit’s audit plan for the year 
and agreed its budget and resource requirements. It reviewed 
interim and year-end summary reports and management’s 
response. The Committee carried out a formal evaluation of the 
performance of the internal audit function and were satisfied with 
the effectiveness of the function. The Committee met 
independently with the Chief Auditor during the year and 
discussed the results of the audits performed during the year. The 
Committee approved the appointment of the new Chief Auditor.
Audit of the Annual Accounts
PricewaterhouseCoopers, Unilever’s external auditors, reported in 
depth to the Committee on the scope and outcome of the annual 
audit, including their audit of internal controls over financial 
reporting as required by Section 404 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act 
of 2002. Their reports included accounting matters, governance 
and control, and accounting developments.
The Committee held independent meetings with the external 
auditors during the year and discussed and challenged their audit 
plan, including their assessment of the financial reporting risk 
profile of the Group. The Committee discussed the views and 
conclusions of PricewaterhouseCoopers regarding management’s 
treatment of significant transactions and areas of judgement 
during the year and PricewaterhouseCoopers confirmed they were 
satisfied that these had been treated appropriately in the financial 
statements.
External auditors 
The Audit Committee conducted a formal evaluation of the 
effectiveness of the external audit process. The Committee has 
considered the tenure, quality and fees of the auditors and 
determined that a tender for the audit work is not necessary. As a 
result, the Committee has approved the extension of the current 
external audit contract by one year, and recommended to the 
Boards the re-appointment of the external auditors. On the 
recommendation of the Audit Committee, the Directors will be 
proposing the re-appointment of PricewaterhouseCoopers at the 
AGMs in May 2011 (see pages 132 and 137).
Both Unilever and the auditors have for many years had safeguards 
in place to avoid the possibility that the auditors’ objectivity and 
independence could be compromised. The Committee reviewed 
the report from PricewaterhouseCoopers on the actions they take 
to comply with the professional and regulatory requirements and 
best practice designed to ensure their independence from Unilever.
The Committee also reviewed the statutory audit, other audit, tax 
and other services provided by PricewaterhouseCoopers, and 
compliance with Unilever’s documented approach, which 
prescribes in detail the types of engagements for which the 
external auditors can and cannot be used:
• statutory audit services – including audit of subsidiaries;
• other audit services – work which regulations or agreements 
with third parties require the auditors to undertake;
The role and terms of reference of the Audit Committee are to 
assist the Boards in fulfilling their oversight responsibilities 
regarding the integrity of Unilever’s financial statements, risk 
management and internal control, compliance with legal and 
regulatory requirements, the external auditors’ performance, 
qualifications and independence, and the performance of the 
internal audit function. During the year, principal activities were 
as follows:
Financial statements
The Committee considered reports from the Chief Financial 
Officer on the quarterly and annual financial statements, 
including other financial statements and disclosures prior to their 
publication and issues reviewed by the Disclosure Committee. 
They also reviewed the Annual Report and Accounts and Annual 
Report on Form 20-F, the quarterly results and accompanying 
press releases prior to publication. These reviews incorporated the 
accounting policies and key judgements and estimates 
underpinning the financial statements including:
• goodwill and intangible assets
• provisions
• business combinations 
• financial instruments
• pensions
• taxation; and
• going concern assessment 
The Committee was satisfied with the accounting treatment 
adopted.
Risk management and internal control arrangements
The Committee reviewed Unilever’s overall approach to risk 
management and control, and its processes, outcomes and 
disclosure. It reviewed:
• the Controller’s Quarterly Risk & Control Status Report (which 
includes matters arising from the Global Code and Policy 
Committee), including Code cases relating to frauds, and 
significant complaints received through the global Ethics 
Hotline;
• Corporate Risks, including the 2011 Focus Risks identified by 
the Unilever Executive; 
• Management’s work to introduce a simplified policy 
framework that directly underpins the Code of Business 
Principles; 
• the application of information and communication 
technology; 
• tax planning and related risk management;
• treasury policies, including debt issuance and hedging; 
• commodity risk management, governance and derivatives 
hedging; and
• litigation and regulatory investigations presented by the Chief 
Legal Officer.
The Committee reviewed the application of the requirements 
under Section 404 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 with 
respect to internal controls over financial reporting.
In addition, the Committee reviewed the annual financial plan and 
Unilever’s dividend policy and dividend proposals.
Report of the Audit Committee Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2010 57
Report of the Directors Governance
• other services – statutory auditors may carry out work that 
they are best placed to undertake, including internal control 
reviews;
• acquisition and disposal services – where the auditors are 
best placed to do this work;
• tax services – all significant tax consulting work is put to 
tender, except where the auditors are best placed to do 
this; and 
• general consulting – external auditors may not tender for 
general consulting work.
All engagements over €100,000 require specific advance 
approval of the Audit Committee Chairman. These authorities 
are reviewed regularly and, where necessary, updated in the 
light of internal developments, external developments and best 
practice.
Audit Committee terms of reference
The Audit Committee’s terms of reference are reviewed 
annually by the Committee taking into account relevant 
legislation and recommended good practice. The terms of 
reference are contained within ‘The Governance of Unilever’ 
and are also available on our website at 
www.unilever.com/investorrelations/corp_governance.
Board Assessment of the Audit Committee
The Board evaluated the performance of the Committee and 
the Committee carried out a self-assessment of its performance. 
Kees Storm 
Chairman of the Audit Committee
Charles Golden
Byron Grote 58 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Report of the Directors Governance
A review of all corporate policies was undertaken in 2010. The 
review was led by the Controller’s Department and formed part 
of the ongoing work to simplify business processes across the 
company. The previous 86 policies have been replaced by a 
more concise framework of 26 Code Policies, such as the Unilever 
Supplier Code and our Occupational Health and Safety Policy, that 
complement and support the Code of Business Principles. More 
detailed mandatory requirements in specialist areas have been 
reclassified as Unilever Standards. The new Code Policies were 
communicated to all senior managers and their review and 
acknowledgement of these is underway. The communication and 
training programme will be extended to all managers during 2011 
and will include the development of new training and sign-off 
systems.
The Committee followed the review during the course of the 
year and scrutinised a number of the revised policies. Members 
welcomed the outcome of the review as it ensures that the 
principles of the Code are embedded directly in Unilever policy 
and the simplified processes give employees a better 
understanding of Unilever’s standards and provide clarity as 
to where they will be held accountable.
Competition investigations
Pursuant to the remit of the Committee, the Boards have expressly 
delegated to the Committee day-to-day oversight of the conduct 
of Unilever’s response to the ongoing investigations by the 
European Commission and other national authorities into alleged 
infringements of competition law. The Chief Legal Officer and 
external counsel report to the Committee in this regard and 
matters are then considered by the full Boards. For further 
information, please refer to ‘legal proceedings’ within note 25 on 
page 116. 
Human rights
The Committee reviewed the United Nation’s Framework for 
Business and Human Rights. The Framework outlines three 
principles: the state’s duty to protect against human rights abuses 
by third parties, including business; the corporate responsibility 
to respect human rights; and the need for greater access by 
victims to effective remedies.
Unilever has supported the Framework by working with nine 
other companies as part of the Netherlands chapter of the United 
Nations Global Compact to publish a practical toolkit called ‘How 
to do business with respect for Human Rights’. It has also 
contributed to research for the ‘State of Play’, a review of human 
rights due diligence conducted by the Institute for Human 
Rights and Business that will inform further development of 
the UN Framework.
Terms of reference
The Corporate Responsibility and Reputation Committee 
oversees Unilever’s conduct as a responsible multinational 
business. The Committee is also charged with ensuring that 
Unilever’s reputation is protected and enhanced. A key element 
of the role is the need to identify any external developments 
which are likely to have an influence upon Unilever’s standing 
in society and to bring these to the attention of the Boards.
The Committee comprises three independent Non-Executive 
Directors: Sir Malcolm Rifkind, Hixonia Nyasulu and Louise Fresco. 
Two members of the Committee retired at the AGM in May 
2010 – Leon Brittan and Narayana Murthy. Sir Malcolm Rifkind 
joined the Board at the AGM and succeeded Leon Brittan as 
Chairman of the Committee.
In addition to the expertise that individual members bring 
to Unilever, the Committee’s discussions are informed by the 
perspectives of our two sustainability leadership groups. The first 
is the Unilever Sustainable Development Group (USDG) – five 
experts from outside the company who meet formally twice a 
year to advise Unilever’s senior leadership on the development of 
its sustainability strategy. The second is the Unilever Sustainable 
Living Plan Steering Team, the group of senior executives who are 
accountable for the delivery of the Plan (see below). Drawing on 
the insights from these groups helps to keep the Boards informed 
of current and emerging trends and any potential risks arising 
from sustainability issues.
The Committee’s Terms of Reference are contained within ‘The 
Governance of Unilever’ and are also available on our website at 
www.unilever.com/investorrelations/corp_governance. Details of 
the Unilever Sustainable Development Group are available on our 
website at www.unilever.com.
Meetings
Meetings are held quarterly and ad hoc as required. The 
Committee Chairman reports the conclusions to the Boards.
In 2010 the Committee reviewed a range of topics including: 
Unilever’s Code of Business Principles and supporting corporate 
policies; competition-related issues; nanotechnology; animal 
testing; sensitive territories such as Zimbabwe; human rights; 
labour relations; and particular elements of the Unilever 
Sustainable Living Plan such as packaging and sustainable 
agricultural sourcing as well as the development of the Plan itself.
Code of Business Principles and supporting policy review
The Committee is responsible for the oversight of the Unilever 
Code of Business Principles which sets out the standards of 
conduct we expect of our employees.
The Committee ensures that the Code remains fit for purpose 
and is appropriately applied. Infringements of the Code are 
monitored by the Committee. In this regard the Committee 
complements the role of the Audit Committee which considers 
the Code as part of its remit to review risk management.
Report of the Corporate Responsibility and Reputation Committee Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2010 59
Report of the Directors Governance
Labour relations 
The Committee maintains a watching brief on Unilever’s 
relationships with its workforce. In November 2007 a complaint 
was brought to Unilever’s attention by the International Union 
of Food, Agricultural, Hotel, Restaurant, Catering, Tobacco and 
Allied Workers’ Associations (IUF). The complaint was refuted by 
our Indian business, Hindustan Unilever. It alleged that Hindustan 
Unilever had conspired to force workers at its Doom Dooma 
factory in Assam to join a new trade union as a pre-condition 
for their continued employment at the factory. If proven this 
would have constituted a breach of the freedom of association 
provisions of the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises. 
Under the terms of the OECD procedures, the unions referred 
their complaint to the OECD’s National Contact Point in the UK 
for investigation.
After a series of meetings with the IUF and with the help of 
the National Contact Point’s conciliation service, a methodology 
for resolving the issue was agreed with the IUF. This centres on 
a process for verifying union membership to the satisfaction of 
the IUF, the local trade union and the state government labour 
department. Hindustan Unilever is seeking to implement this 
approach and discussions are ongoing to ensure that all 
concerned acknowledge the validity of the process.
Unilever Sustainable Living Plan
The year was a significant one for Unilever: November marked 
the launch of an ambitious set of sustainability targets in the 
shape of the Unilever Sustainable Living Plan. The Plan aims to 
improve sustainability across not only Unilever’s own business 
practices, but those of its suppliers and consumers (see pages 20 
and 21).
The Committee played an active role in monitoring the 
development of the Plan throughout the year. It reviewed some 
of the potential risks that could damage the credibility of the Plan, 
commented in detail on the ambition of the targets and advised 
how they should be communicated. As the Plan is central to 
Unilever’s mission, the Committee will continue to monitor its 
delivery.
Evaluation of the Committee
The Committee carried out a self-assessment of its performance, 
led by the Committee Chairman. Members agreed to adopt a 
more forward-looking approach and to review issues according 
to strategic business and reputational priorities. The Boards also 
evaluated the performance of the Committee.
Sir Malcolm Rifkind
Chairman of the Corporate Responsibility 
and Reputation Committee
Louise Fresco
Hixonia Nyasulu 60 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Report of the Directors Governance
relevant the Chief Executive Officer, may broaden the knowledge 
and experience to the benefit of the Group (see page 40 for details 
in the biographies).
Activities of the Committee during the year
The Committee met seven times in 2010. All meetings were 
attended by Jeroen van der Veer, Michael Treschow and Paul 
Walsh. Other attendees at Committee meetings (or part thereof) 
were the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief HR Officer, the Group 
Secretary and, where appropriate, external advisers.
The Committee proposed the nomination of all Directors offering 
themselves for re-election at the 2010 AGMs in May 2010. During 
2010, the Committee also proposed the nominations of Jean-Marc 
Huët as an Executive Director and Sir Malcolm Rifkind as a  
Non-Executive Director at the 2010 AGMs in May. Jean-Marc Huët was 
chosen because the Boards believe that his experience in the 
corporate and financial world would be a great asset to the business, 
and Sir Malcolm Rifkind was chosen because, with his broad 
background in international affairs, he would be a valuable addition to 
the Boards. Upon appointment as a Non-Executive Director Sir Malcolm 
Rifkind was subsequently appointed as Chairman of the Corporate 
Responsibility and Reputation Committee. In making these 
appointments the Nomination Committee was supported by an 
independent executive search firm chosen by the Committee which 
had been engaged to identify suitable candidates for the roles required. 
Following his appointment at the 2010 AGMs, the Committee 
approved an extensive induction programme for Sir Malcolm Rifkind.
The Nomination Committee recommended the appointment 
of Tonia Lovell as the Group Secretary following Steve Williams’ 
retirement in July 2010.
Supported by an independent executive search firm, the Committee 
carried out a search for a new Non-Executive Director and is 
delighted that Mr Sunil Bharti Mittal has agreed to join our Boards. 
It is believed that Mr Mittal would further strengthen the range of 
expertise available on the Boards, as well as meeting our  
Non-Executive Director profile. Mr Mittal has been proposed by the 
Committee for election as a Non-Executive Director at the 2011 
AGMs in May 2011.
As part of its corporate governance responsibilities, during the year 
the Committee considered the new UK Corporate Governance 
Code, which will apply to Unilever from 1 January 2011, and will 
continue to ensure that Unilever complies with the new provisions, 
where appropriate, for our 2011 reporting year.
An internal evaluation was undertaken by the Chairman and the  
Vice-Chairman & Senior Independent Director with the assistance of the 
Group Secretary during 2010 in relation to the performance of the 
Boards, of the Chairman, of the individual Directors and of the Board 
Committees. Feedback from Directors was obtained through detailed 
questionnaires which were used as the basis for the overall evaluation of 
the Boards and Board Committees, and a series of interviews with the 
Chairman and individual Directors. The Committee also carried out an 
assessment of its own performance, led by the Committee Chairman. 
The results of the Board, the Board Committees and Chairman 
evaluations were discussed at the December 2010 Board Meetings.
Jeroen van der Veer Chairman of the Nomination Committee
Michael Treschow
Paul Walsh
Terms of Reference
The Nomination Committee comprises two Independent  
Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman. It is chaired by Jeroen 
van der Veer and its other members are Michael Treschow 
and Paul Walsh. Jeroen van der Veer will step down from the 
Committee at the conclusion of the 2011 AGMs, and Paul Walsh 
will be recommended to the Boards to Chair the Committee. 
The Group Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee.
The Nomination Committee is responsible for drawing up 
selection criteria and appointment procedures. Under Unilever’s 
corporate governance arrangements Executive and Non-Executive 
Directors offer themselves for election each year at the Annual 
General Meetings. The Nomination Committee is responsible for 
recommending candidates for nomination as Executive Directors 
(including the Chief Executive Officer) and Non-Executive Directors 
each year based on the process of evaluations referred to below. 
After Directors have been appointed by shareholders the 
Committee recommends to the Boards candidates for election 
as Chairman and the Vice-Chairman & Senior Independent 
Director. The Committee also has responsibility for supervising 
the policy of the Chief Executive Officer on the selection 
criteria and appointment procedures for senior management 
and it keeps oversight of all matters relating to corporate 
governance, bringing any issues to the attention of the Boards. 
The Committee’s Terms of Reference are contained within 
‘The Governance of Unilever’ and are also available on our website  
www.unilever.com/investorrelations/corp_governance.
Process for the appointment of Directors
Unilever has formal procedures for the evaluation of the Boards, the 
Board Committees and the individual Directors. The Chairman, in 
conjunction with the Vice-Chairman & Senior Independent Director, 
leads the process whereby the Boards assess their own performance 
and the results of the evaluations are provided to the Committee 
when it discusses the nominations for re-election as Directors.
Where a vacancy arises on the Boards, the Committee may 
seek the services of specialist recruitment firms and other external 
experts to assist in finding individuals with the appropriate skills 
and expertise. The Committee reviews candidates presented 
by the recruitment firm, or by Directors and members of 
the Unilever Executive, and all members of the Committee are 
involved in the interview process before making their 
recommendations to the full Boards for approval.
In nominating Directors, the Committee follows the agreed 
Board profile of potential Non-Executive Directors, which takes 
into account the roles of Non-Executive Directors set out in 
the Dutch Corporate Governance Code and the UK Combined 
Code on Corporate Governance. Under the terms of ‘The 
Governance of Unilever’ the Boards should comprise a majority 
of Non-Executive Directors. To represent Unilever’s areas of 
interest, the profile also indicates there should be a strong 
representation from Developing and Emerging markets as 
well as from Europe and North America. Non-Executive Directors 
should be independent of Unilever and free from any conflicts 
of interest. The profile looks at diversity in terms of nationality, 
race, gender and relevant expertise and directs that, wherever 
possible, the Boards should reflect Unilever’s consumer base.
It is recognised that Executive Directors may be invited to become 
a Non-Executive Director of another company and that such an 
appointment, subject to the approval of the Chairman and where 
Report of the Nomination Committee Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2010 61
Report of the Directors Governance
Remuneration Committee
The role of the Remuneration Committee is to make proposals 
to the Boards for decisions on:
• the remuneration and benefits of Directors;
• the remuneration policy for the Unilever Executive and the 
Chief Auditor, Group Controller, Chief Legal Officer and 
Group Secretary; and
• the design and terms of all share-based incentive plans.
The Committee’s key responsibilities in respect of Executive 
Directors include making proposals to the Boards on:
• the remuneration policy;
• individual salary levels, bonuses and other benefits;
• performance frameworks, targets setting and performance 
review; and
• determining contractual terms.
The Committee’s Terms of Reference are contained within ‘The 
Governance of Unilever’ and are also available on Unilever’s 
website at www.unilever.com/investorrelations/corp_governance. 
Details of Committee meeting attendance are contained in the 
section on ‘Corporate Governance’ on page 48.
During 2010 the Committee comprised Jeroen van der Veer 
(Chairman), Michael Treschow, Ann Fudge and Paul Walsh.
While it is the Committee’s responsibility to exercise independent 
judgement, the Committee does request advice from 
management and professional advisers, as appropriate, to ensure 
that its decisions are fully informed given the internal and external 
environment. In 2010 the Committee engaged Deloitte LLP to act 
as advisor to review the performance conditions proposed for 
the Global Share Incentive Plan (GSIP) from 2010 onwards and, 
where comparisons could be made, to provide assurance that the 
Committee had set conditions that were no easier to satisfy than 
those which had previously applied. During the year, Deloitte 
has also provided specific tax services, mainly outside the UK, 
and some technology consultancy services to Unilever. These 
additional services did not raise any conflict of interest. The 
Committee does not have any formal advisory arrangements 
with other professional advisers.
During the year the Committee also sought input from the 
Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Human Resources Officer 
on various subjects including the remuneration of senior 
management. The Committee also received legal and compliance 
advice from the Chief Legal Officer and Group Secretary.
Executive Directors
Our aims and guiding principles
The overriding aim of the Committee is to ensure that the 
remuneration arrangements for Executive Directors support the 
longer-term objectives of Unilever and, in turn, the longer-term 
interests of shareholders.
This means that we must ensure that:
• the fixed elements of the remuneration package offered 
to Executive Directors are sufficiently competitive to attract 
and retain highly experienced and talented individuals; and 
• the performance-related elements are structured so that 
target levels are competitive but Executive Directors can 
only earn higher rewards if they exceed the ongoing 
standards of performance that Unilever requires.
Directors’ Remuneration Report
The Committee aims to ensure that remuneration arrangements 
for Unilever’s Executive Directors support the achievement of the 
company’s strategic goals and the delivery of competitive 
performance relative to our peers.
As disclosed in last year’s report and following consultation with 
shareholders, the Committee has overseen the introduction of 
a new remuneration structure, which enables us to place more 
focus on rewarding higher standards of long-term performance 
through variable pay.
Executive Directors and Unilever senior managers now need to 
achieve and maintain higher personal shareholding limits than 
before; 400% of salary for the Chief Executive Officer and 300% 
of salary for the Chief Financial Officer. Senior managers also 
have the opportunity under the Management Co-Investment 
Plan (MCIP) to invest up to 60% of their annual bonus in respect 
of 2010 in Unilever shares and subject to the maintenance of that 
investment they may earn matching shares from Unilever if 
demanding performance conditions are achieved over the 
following three years. Executive Directors are excluded from the 
MCIP in respect of their annual bonus for 2010.
Despite strong business results in a challenging economic 
environment, the Committee has decided not to raise our 
Executive Directors’ base salaries for the third consecutive year. 
During 2011 the Committee will need to take a close look at the 
competitive position of our Executive Directors’ salaries.
The old Executive Directors’ Share Matching Plan expires in 2011 
and we have decided to invite the Chief Executive Officer and the 
Chief Financial Officer to participate in the MCIP alongside their 
senior management colleagues in respect of any bonus awarded 
to them for 2011. Under the MCIP approved by shareholders 
last year, Executive Directors, like other senior managers, will be 
required to invest a minimum of 25% of their bonus in shares but 
may elect to invest up to 60%. Additional matching shares are 
earned from Unilever under the MCIP only to the extent that 
stretching performance conditions are met.
Given Unilever’s success in achieving strong trade working capital 
levels well ahead of target in 2010, the Committee has decided 
to replace that performance indicator. For the annual bonus in 
2011, our three main performance indicators will be underlying 
sales growth, underlying volume growth and improvement in 
underlying operating margin. These align closely with our  
long-term strategic goals and continue to raise our standards of 
performance in a challenging inflationary environment. 
Our new remuneration structure encourages greater commitment 
and engagement around the business with clearer long-term 
focus. Having noted the step-up in this year’s results, the 
Committee will keep the effectiveness of our new approach to 
pay and performance under further review during 2011.
Jeroen van der Veer Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 
Ann Fudge
Michael Treschow
Paul Walsh 62  Unilever  Annual  Report  and  Accounts  2010
Report of the Directors Governance
Directors’  Remuneration  Report  continued
The  Committee’s  guiding  principles  are  therefore  that  the  remuneration  arrangements  for  Executive  Directors  should:
•  support  Unilever’s  business  strategy;  •  sharpen  Unilever’s  performance  culture  through  more  exacting  standards;
•  increase  the  difference  in  reward  between  modest,  target and  outstanding  performance  achievements;
•  support  share  ownership  and  strong  shareholder  alignment; and
•  be  simple  and  transparent.
Below  we  have  summarised  the  key  remuneration  policies  for Executive  Directors  that  flow  from  and  support  the  Committee’s  aims.
The supporting policies
Our emphasis on performance-related pay
It  is  Unilever’s  policy  that  the  total  remuneration  package  for  Executive  Directors  should  be  competitive  with  other  global  companies  and  that  a  significant  proportion  should  be  performance-
related.  Over  two-thirds  of  the  target  remuneration  for  the  Executive  Directors  are  linked  to  performance,  with  the  majority  of  this  linked  to  shareholder-aligned  longer-term  performance.
The  Committee  has  reviewed  the  impact  of  different  performance  scenarios  on  the  reward  opportunities  potentially  to  be  received  by  Executive  Directors  and  the  alignment  of  this  with  the  returns  that  might  be  received  by  shareholders.
The  remuneration  structure  is  generally  consistent  for  Executive  Directors  and  senior  management  of  Unilever.  Executive  Directors’  benefits  are  also  established  in  line  with  those  for  other  employees  on  the  basis  of  local  market  practices.  The  Committee  periodically  monitors  pay  and  employment  conditions  of  other  employees  within  Unilever  to  ensure  alignment  and  consistency  with  remuneration  of  senior  management  and  Unilever’s  remuneration  objectives.  The  Committee  believes  that  Unilever’s  risk  management  processes  provide  the  necessary  controls  to  prevent  inappropriate  risk  taking.  For  example,  when  the  Committee  reviews  the  structure  and  levels  of  performance-related  pay  for  Executive  Directors  and  other  members  of  the  Unilever  Executive,  it  considers  whether  these  might  encourage  behaviours  incompatible  with  the  long-term  interests  of  Unilever  and  its  shareholders.  The  Committee  believes  that  the  significant  shareholding  requirements  placed  on  Executive  Directors  and  other  senior  managers  guard  against  this  risk;  400%  of  salary  for the  Chief  Executive  Officer,  300%  for  the  other  Executive  Directors  and  the  members  of  the  Unilever  Executive  and  150%  for  the  ‘top  100’  management  layer  below.
Our linkage between business objectives and  
performance-related pay 
It  is  Unilever’s  policy  for  the  performance-related  pay  of  Executive  Directors  to  be  linked  to  key  Group  measures  that  are  aligned  with  strategy,  business  objectives  and  shareholder  value.
Unilever’s  main  business  objective  is  to  restore  volume  and  underlying  sales  growth  while  steadily  improving  operating  margins  and  cash  flow.  There  are  a  number  of  strategic  priorities  which  support  this  objective.  It  is  this  combination  of  top-line  revenue  growth  and  bottom-line  profits  growth  that  Unilever  believes  will  build  shareholder  value  over  the  longer  term.  It  is  Unilever’s  objective  to  be  among  the  best  performers  in  its  peer  group.
In  line  with  these  objectives:
–   the  annual  bonus  measures  for  the  Executive  Directors  for  2011 are:
•  underlying  volume  growth;
•  underlying  operating  margin  improvement;  and
•  underlying  sales  growth  (replacing  trade  working  capital  improvement).
–   the  GSIP  and  the  MCIP  measures  from  2010  onwards  are  three-year:
•  underlying  sales  growth;
•  underlying  operating  margin  improvement;
•  operating  cash  flow;  and
•  relative  total  shareholder  return.
Further  details  are  in  the  Annual  Bonus,  Share  Matching  Plan,  GSIP  and  MCIP  sections  later  in  this  report.
Claw back 
The  Committee  is  authorised  to  reclaim  or ‘claw  back’  performance-related  pay  components  paid  to Executive  Directors  in  the  event  of  a  significant  downward  revision  of  the  financial  results  of  the  Group.  This  includes  the  annual  bonus  and  awards  that  have  been  made  and/or  vested  shares  that  have  been  issued  or  transferred  under  the  Share  Matching  Plan,  the  GSIP  and  the  MCIP.
  Executive Directors’ contracts 
Executive  Directors  are  required  to  submit  themselves  for    re-election  at  the  AGMs  each  year  and  the  Nomination  Committee  carefully  considers  each  nomination  for  reappointment.  Executive  Directors  stop  holding  executive  office  on  ceasing  to  be  Directors.  The  Committee  takes  the  view  that  the  entitlement  of  Executive  Directors  to  the  security  of  twelve  months’  notice  of  termination  of  employment  is  in  line  with  both  the  practice  of  many  comparable  companies  and  the  entitlement  of  other  senior  executives  in  Unilever.  It  is  our  policy  to  set  the  level  of  severance  payments  for  Executive  Directors  at  no  more  than  one  year’s  salary,  unless  the  Boards,  at  the  proposal  of  the  Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2010 63
Report of the Directors Governance
average trade working capital reduced further than we had 
targeted. Based on this, the Committee took the view that 
performance was above target and in line with last year despite 
overall better results. This rigour accords with our ambition to 
consistently raise standards of performance and establish a 
stronger performance culture within Unilever.
Share Matching Plan
Under the Share Matching Plan, Executive Directors are required to 
invest 25% of their bonus into shares and hold them for a minimum 
period of three years. The Executive Directors receive a matching 
award of 25% of their annual bonus in the form of NV and PLC 
shares. The matching shares normally vest after three years provided 
that the underlying shares have been retained during this period 
and the Executive Director has not resigned or been dismissed.
The Committee considers that there is no need for further 
performance conditions on the vesting of the matching shares 
because the number of shares is directly linked to the annual bonus 
(which is itself subject to demanding performance conditions). In 
addition, during the three-year vesting period the share price of NV 
and PLC is influenced by the performance of Unilever. This, in turn, 
affects the ultimate value of the matching shares on vesting.
The 2011 grant relating to the annual bonus earned for 2010 will be 
the last grant under the Share Matching Plan. From 2011 Executive 
Directors, like all other senior managers of Unilever, will participate 
in the MCIP.
Global Share Incentive Plan
Executive Directors receive annual awards of NV and PLC shares 
under the GSIP. The number of shares that vest after three years 
depends on the satisfaction of performance conditions.
The current maximum grant levels were agreed by shareholders 
in 2008 and are 200% of salary for the Chief Executive Officer 
and just below 180% for other Executive Directors. The vesting 
range is between 0% and 200% of grant level.
When the GSIP was introduced in 2007 the performance 
conditions were:
• underlying sales growth;
• ungeared free cash flow performance; and 
• relative total shareholder return.
In 2010 the performance conditions were changed to the 
following:
• underlying sales growth;
• operating cash flow;
• underlying operating margin improvement; and
• relative total shareholder return.
These performance conditions are identical to the performance 
conditions of the MCIP.
The new conditions apply to GSIP awards made in 2010 and 
onwards and to the final two performance years of the GSIP 
awards made in 2009.
The structure of vesting will remain the same as for previous 
awards except that for Executive Directors and the Unilever 
Executive the four measures will be equally weighted (25% each).
Committee, find this manifestly unreasonable given the 
circumstances or unless dictated by applicable law. The date of 
contract for Paul Polman was 7 October 2008 and for Jean-Marc 
Huët 19 March 2010. Executive Directors’ contracts end by notice 
of either party.
Our remuneration practices
Base salary
Base salaries for Executive Directors are reviewed annually taking 
into account our competitive market position, individual 
performance, Unilever’s overall performance and levels of 
increase in the rest of the organisation.
2010 outcomes
Base salaries for Executive Directors were not increased from 
1 January 2010. As Executive Directors’ salaries were not 
increased in 1 January 2009, this means that there have been no 
increases for three years.
Pension and other benefits
The policy is that Executive Directors are members of the  
all-employee pension arrangement in their home country (or an 
alternative of similar value) and make personal contributions at 
the same rate as other employees in that arrangement. Both the 
Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer are members 
of a defined contribution arrangement.
Executive Directors enjoy similar benefits to those enjoyed by 
many other senior management employees of Unilever.
 
Annual bonus
For 2010 the target bonus for the Chief Executive Officer was 
113% of salary and the maximum would have been 200% of 
salary. The target bonus opportunity for the Chief Financial Officer 
was 100% of salary and the maximum would have been 150% of 
salary. Demanding targets for financial results mean that maximum 
bonus levels are only payable for exceptional performance.
The Executive Director’s annual bonus opportunity is based on 
Unilever’s results referenced against financial targets set at the 
beginning of the year. For 2010, targets were set by the 
Committee for underlying volume growth, underlying operating 
margin improvement and trade working capital improvement 
over the previous year. With these results in view, the Committee 
then assessed the quality of performance; both in terms of 
business results and leadership, including corporate social 
responsibility, to determine the actual bonus award for Executive 
Directors.
2010 outcomes
The annual bonus awards for 2010 reflect Unilever’s strong 
performance achieved across the business and were 160% of 
base salary for the Chief Executive Officer and 120% for the 
Chief Financial Officer.
Actual performance against the three main indicators for the 
annual bonus met or exceeded the mid-point of the performance 
ranges set by the Committee at the beginning of 2010. Underlying 
volume growth at 5.8% was towards the top end of the range, 
well above the market overall and demonstrated the strongest 
growth achieved by Unilever in over 30 years. Underlying 
operating margin improvement was on target at 20bps and  64  Unilever  Annual  Report  and  Accounts  2010
Report of the Directors Governance
Directors’  Remuneration  Report  continued
long-term  incentives  we  intend,  after  the  vesting,  to  disclose  where  each  performance  condition  ended  up  on  a  range  from  threshold  to  maximum.  Executive  Directors,  the  Unilever  Executive  and  the  top  100  managers  are  required  to  invest  at  least  25%  of  their  annual  bonus  in  Unilever’s  shares.
The  MCIP  will  first  be  operated  in  2011  in  respect  of  annual  bonuses  relating  to  the  2010  financial  year.
Ultimate remedy
Grants  under  the  GSIP  and  MCIP  are  subject  to  ultimate  remedy. Upon  vesting  of  an  award,  the  Committee  shall  have  the discretionary  power  to  adjust  the  value  of  the  award  if  the  award,  in  the  Committee’s  opinion  taking  all  circumstances  into  account,  produces  an  unfair  result.  In  exercising  this  discretion  the  Committee  may  take  into  account  Unilever’s  performance  against  non-financial  measures.  The  Committee  will  only  adjust  the  value  of  a  vesting  award  upwards  after  obtaining  shareholder  consent.
Dividend reinvestment
Both  GSIP  and  MCIP  provide  that  dividends  will  also  be    re-invested  in  respect  of  the  shares  under  award  but  will  only  be paid  out  to  the  extent  that  the  underlying  shares  vest.
Serving as non-executive on the board of another company
Executive  Directors  serving  as  a  non-executive  director  on  a  board  of  another  company  are  permitted  to  retain  all  remuneration  and  fees  earned  from  outside  directorships  subject  to  a  maximum  of  one  outside  listed  directorship  (see  Other  appointments  on  page  40  for  further  details).  Paul  Polman  is  a  non-executive  director  of  The  Dow  Chemical  Company  and  received  an  annual  fee  of  €86,727  (based  on  the  average  exchange  rate  over  the  year:  €1 = US  $1.326).  In  addition  he  received  a  restricted  award  of  3,540  ordinary  shares  with  a  nominal  value  of  US  $2.50  per  share  in  the  capital  of  The  Dow  Chemical  Company.  The  shares  include  the  rights  to  vote  and  to  receive  dividend  thereon.  The  shares  cannot  be  sold  or  transferred  until  Paul  Polman  leaves  the  board  of  directors  of  The  Dow  Chemical  Company,  but  not  earlier  than  5 March  2012.
Arrangements for Jim Lawrence
Jim  Lawrence  left  Unilever  in  December  2009.  The  final  tranche  of  the  2007  restricted  share  award  vested  in  September  2010,  the 2007  GSIP  performance  award  vested  in  November  2010  but has  been  time-proportioned.  The  shares  awarded  in  2008  under  the  Share  Matching  Plan  will  vest  in  March  2011.
Proposed changes from 2011 onwards
The  Committee  will  continue  to  place  emphasis  on  variable  pay and  performance  but,  having  frozen  the  salaries  of  Executive  Directors  and  other  senior  managers  for  three  consecutive  years,  which  was  the  right  decision  in  the  economic  circumstances  at  the time,  the  Committee  will  take  a  close  look  at  the  competitive  position  of  Unilever’s  senior  management  pay  during  2011  to  determine  whether  salary  adjustments  are  justified.  For  2011,  the  Committee  has  adjusted  the  Chief  Executive  Officer’s  target  annual  bonus  upwards  from  113%  to  120%  of  salary.  With  the  expiry  of  the  Share  Matching  Plan  we  have  decided  to  invite  the  Executive  Directors  to  participate  in  the  MCIP in  2012  in  respect  of  any  bonus  earned  for  2011.  Under  the  MCIP  Executive  Directors  will  continue  to  be  required  to  invest  a  minimum  of  25%  of  their  bonus  in  shares  but  may  elect  to  invest  For  the  three  internal  business-focused  conditions  there  will  be  no  vesting  if  performance  is  below  the  minimum  of  the  range,  25%  vesting  for  achieving  threshold  performance  and  200%  vesting  only  for  performance  at  or  above  the  top  end  of  the  range.  In  addition,  the  performance  conditions  underlying  sales  growth  and  underlying  operating  margin  improvement  must  reach  the  threshold  of  the  performance  range  for  both  performance  conditions  before  any  shares  subject  to  either  performance  condition  can  vest.  At  the  end  of  the  three-year  performance  period  the  Committee  will  also  assess  Unilever’s  performance  against  the  three  internal  conditions  relative  to  the  performance  of  peer  group  companies  to  ensure  that  vesting  levels  are  appropriate.
For  the  relative  total  shareholder  return  (TSR)  performance  condition,  Unilever’s  TSR  is  measured  relative  to  a  group  of  20  other  companies.  TSR  measures  the  return  received  by  a  shareholder,  capturing  both  the  increase  in  share  price  and  the  value  of  dividend  income  (assuming  dividends  are  reinvested).  The TSR  results  are  compared  on  a  single  reference  currency  basis.  No  shares  in  the  portion  of  the  award  subject  to  TSR  vest  if Unilever  is  ranked  below  position  11  in  the  peer  group  at  the  end  of  the  three-year  period,  50%  vest  if  Unilever  is  ranked  11th,  100%  if  Unilever  is  ranked  7th  and  200%  if  Unilever  is  ranked  3rd  or  above.  Straight-line  vesting  occurs  between  these  points.
As  per  2010  the  current  TSR  peer  group  is:
Avon    Heinz    Nestlé
Beiersdorf  Henkel    PepsiCo
Campbell   Kao    Procter  &  Gamble
Coca-Cola  Kellogg    Reckitt  Benckiser
Colgate    Kimberly-Clark  Sara  Lee
Danone    Kraft    Shiseido
General  Mills  L’Oréal
2010 outcomes
As  the  Chief  Executive  Officer  and  Chief  Financial  Officer  joined  Unilever  in  2008  and  2010  respectively  they  have  no  grants  under  the  GSIP  that  vested  in  2010.
New Management Co-Investment Plan
This  new  plan  was  approved  by  shareholders  at  the  2010  AGMs.  When  proposing  the  MCIP  last  year  we  notified  shareholders  that  the  Executive  Directors  were  technically  eligible  to  participate  in  the  plan,  although  the  Remuneration  Committee  had  decided  to  defer  their  participation  for  at  least  the  first  year  of  the  plan’s  operation.  It  was  introduced  to  support  Unilever’s  drive  for  profitable  growth  by  encouraging  Unilever’s  managers  to  take  a  greater  financial  interest  in  the  performance  of  the  Group  and  the  value  of  Unilever  shares  over  the  long  term.  The  MCIP  replaces  the  Share  Matching  Plan  and  allows  Unilever’s  managers  to  invest  up  to  60%  of  their  annual  bonus  in  shares  in  Unilever  (‘Investment  Shares’)  and  to  receive  a  corresponding  award  of  performance-related  shares  (the  ‘Award’).  The  Award  will  vest  after  three  years,  depending  on  Unilever’s  performance,  continued  employment  and  maintenance  of  the  underlying  Investment  Shares.  The  performance  conditions  are  identical  to  the  performance  conditions  of  the  GSIP  to  ensure  alignment  with  the  drive  for  profitable  growth.  As  under  the  GSIP,  vesting  levels  will  be  between  0%  and  200%.  However,  the  Remuneration  Committee  has  decided  to  limit  the  maximum  vesting  level  for  the  Executive  Directors  to  150%.  To  allow  shareholders  more  transparency  around  the  performance  conditions  related  to  our  Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2010 65
Report of the Directors Governance
Executive Directors’ remuneration in 2010
Remuneration for individual Executive Directors (audited)
         Annual Emoluments 2010
       Allowances      
     Base and other Value of    
     salary payments* benefits Bonus Total
Name and base country    € ‘000 € ‘000 € ‘000 € ‘000 € ‘000
Jean-Marc Huët (UK)
(a)
    528 934
(b)
 5
(c)
 634 2,101
Paul Polman (UK)
(d)
    1,072 88
(e)
 2
(f)
 1,715
(g)
 2,877
Total 2010    1,600 1,022 7 2,349 4,978
Total 2009 (including former Directors)    1,849 419 6 2,605 4,879
*  This does not include the cash bonus of £680,000 paid to Jean-Marc Huët for forfeiture of incentives from his former employer which was paid 
before he was appointed as Executive Director, as disclosed in last year’s report.
(a)   Chief Financial Officer, appointed as Executive Director at May 2010 AGMs. Base salary set in sterling was £680,000 per annum.
(b)   Includes allowance in lieu of company car, entertaining allowance and, as Mr Huët had to re-locate to the UK on appointment in 2010, he was 
compensated for the costs associated with purchasing a home in the UK. €795,844 of the payment reported above represents once-only, 
non-recurring payments.
(c)   Includes benefits for private use of chauffeur-driven car and medical insurance.
(d)  Chief Executive Officer. Base salary set in sterling was £920,000 per annum.
(e)   Includes allowance in lieu of company car, entertaining allowance and payment for social security obligations in country of residence in 2010.
(f)   Includes benefits for private use of chauffeur-driven car.
(g)   Bonus for the year 2010. Includes the value of both the cash element and the element paid in shares of NV and PLC under the Share Matching 
Plan. It does not include matching shares awarded on a conditional basis in addition to the element of the bonus paid in shares which is 
disclosed in the Share Matching Plan table below.
In addition, Unilever provides support to Executive Directors in relation to spouses’ travel expenses when travelling together on 
company business. This amount is capped at 5% of base salary and the maximum limit for 2010 was €80,031.
Amounts have been translated into euros using the average exchange rate over the year: €1 = £0.858 (2009: €1 = £0.8905) 
and €1 = US $1.326 (2009: €1 = US $1.388).
Pensions (audited)
Both Jean-Marc Huët and Paul Polman are members of a defined contribution pension arrangement. The total pension cost for  
Jean-Marc Huët including death in service benefits and administration costs was €112,000. This included a company pension 
contribution of €77,000, a further company contribution of €15,000 made in return for his individual salary sacrifice and €20,000 
for death in service and administration costs. The total pension cost for Paul Polman including death in service benefits and 
administration costs was €352,000. This included a company pension contribution of €280,000 (of which €124,000 accrued to 
compensate for the forfeiture of pension from his previous employer, which will vest at age 60 or later at actual retirement date), 
a further company contribution of €31,000 which was made in return for his individual salary sacrifice and €41,000 for death in 
service benefits and administration costs.
Share Matching Plan (audited)
       Balance of     Balance of
       conditional     conditional
       shares     shares at
       at 1 January   Conditional shares 31 December
       2010   awarded in 2010
(a)
 2010
     Share No. of  No. of Price at No. of
     type shares  shares award shares
 
Paul Polman    NV 3,413 9,484 €22.53 12,897
      PLC 3,413 9,484 £19.44 12,897
 
(a)  Each award of matching shares is conditional and vests three years after the date of the award subject to continued employment and 
maintenance of the underlying bonus shares. The 2010 award was made at grant date 18 March 2010.
up to 60%. Unlike the Share Matching Plan, which had no performance targets, additional matching shares under the MCIP are 
earned only to the extent that stretching performance targets are met.
Following our review of 2010 performance the Committee has decided to replace trade working capital improvement with underlying 
sales growth as one of the three main performance indicators for the annual bonus in 2011. This more closely aligns these indicators 
with our long-term strategic goals. Nonetheless, we will continue to monitor a wider range of performance indicators to ensure that 
annual bonus outcomes for Unilever’s Executive Directors and senior managers continue to reflect fairly the performance of the 
business and their individual contribution. 66 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Report of the Directors Governance
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued
Global Share Incentive Plan (audited)
The following conditional shares were granted during 2010 and outstanding at 31 December 2010 under the Global Share 
Incentive Plan:
       Balance of Conditional grant 2010 Balance of
       conditional shares at (Performance period conditional shares at
      1 January 2010 1 January 2010 to 31 December 2012)
(a)
 31 December 2010
      Share type No. of shares No. of shares
(a)
 Price at award No. of shares
 
Jean-Marc Huët  NV  –  30,906  €22.53  30,906
    PLC  –  30,906  £19.44  30,906
 
Paul Polman  NV  127,962
(b)
  44,137  €22.53  172,099
    PLC  127,962
(b)
  44,137  £19.44  172,099
 
(a)  Each award of conditional shares vests three years after the date of the award, subject to performance conditions as set out on page 63. 
The 2010 award was made at grant date 18 March 2010. 
(b)  This includes a grant of 58,752 of each of Unilever NV and PLC shares made on 6 November 2008 and a grant of 69,210 of each of Unilever NV 
and PLC shares made on 19 March 2009, that will vest on 6 November 2011 and 19 March 2012 respectively.
Both Jean-Marc Huët and Paul Polman received a one-off restricted stock award on joining Unilever under the GSIP. Details of balances, 
grants and vesting during 2010 are shown below.
    Balance of        Balance of
    shares at        shares at
    1 January        31 December
    2010  Granted in 2010  Vesting in 2010 2010
   Share type  No. of shares Price at award No. of shares Price at vesting No. of shares
 
Jean-Marc Huët
(a)
   NV – 65,650 €22.53 n/a   65,650
     PLC – 65,650 £19.44 n/a   65,650
 
Paul Polman
(b)
   NV 45,102 n/a   22,551 €22.56 22,551
     PLC 45,102 n/a   22,551 £19.01 22,551
 
(a)  Award agreed on joining Unilever. Award was made 18 March 2010 and will vest 1/3, 1/3, 1/3 on respectively the first, second and third 
anniversary of the award, provided he has not resigned or been dismissed as a Executive Director at each vesting date.
(b)  Vesting on 6 November 2010 of 1/3 of original award (made 6 November 2008 at €18.93 and £14.39). The first 1/3 of the original award 
vested on 6 November 2009. The remaining 1/3 of the original award is expected to vest on 6 November 2011 provided he has not resigned or 
been dismissed as a Executive Director before such date.
Share Save plan (audited)
Options under the PLC Share Save Plan are subject to five-year vesting periods and vesting is contingent on continued employment 
with Unilever.
     Balance of   Balance of    
     options at   options at First Final
   Share 1 January Granted 31 December exercisable expiry
   type 2010
(a)
 in 2010 2010 date date
 
Paul Polman  PLC 1,042 – 1,042 01/10/2014 01/04/2015
(a) Option price at grant was £14.92.
The highest and lowest share price per ordinary PLC 3
1
⁄9p share during the year were £19.97 and £16.88.
Executive Directors’ interests in shares (audited)
        Shares held at  Shares held at
     Share type
(a)
  1 January 2010
(b)
 31 December 2010
(b)
 
Jean-Marc Huët     NV  –  23,000
       PLC  –  23,000
 
Paul Polman     NV  25,964  111,953
       PLC  25,964  70,033
 
(a) NV shares are ordinary €0.16 shares and PLC shares are ordinary 3
1
⁄9p shares.
(b) Numbers are excluding awards and options over shares which are disclosed above.
The table shows the interest in NV and PLC ordinary shares of Executive Directors and their connected persons as at 31 December 
2010. There has been no change in these interests between 31 December 2010 and 1 March 2011.
The voting rights of the Directors who hold interests in the share capital of NV and PLC are the same as for other holders of the class 
of shares indicated. None of the Directors’ (Executive and Non-Executive) or other executive officers’ shareholdings amounts to more 
than 1% of the issued shares in that class of share. Except as stated above, all shareholdings are beneficial. Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2010 67
Report of the Directors Governance
Non-Executive Directors’ interests in share capital (audited)
      Shares Shares
      held at 1 held at 31
     Share January December
     type
(a)
 2010
(a)
 2010
(a)
Charles Golden    NV NY – 1,000
      PLC ADRs – –
Byron Grote    NV NY 4,300 5,300
      PLC ADRs 3,500 5,000
Louise Fresco    NV – 1,000
      PLC – –
Ann Fudge    NV NY – –
      PLC ADRs – 1,000
Michael Treschow    NV 15,158 15,158
      PLC 15,000 15,000
Jeroen van der Veer    NV 16,800 16,800
      PLC – –
Paul Walsh    NV – –
      PLC – 1,000
(a)  NV shares are ordinary €0.16 shares and PLC shares are ordinary 
3
1
⁄9p shares.
The table shows the interests in NV and PLC ordinary shares of 
Non-Executive Directors and their connected persons as at 
31 December 2010. There has been no change in these interests 
between 31 December 2010 and 1 March 2011 other than Byron 
Grote purchased 700 NV NY shares on 18 February 2011 at a 
share price of US $29.95 each.
Additional statutory disclosures
Unilever is required by UK regulation to show its relative share 
performance, based on Total Shareholder Return, against 
a holding of shares in a broad-based equity index for the last 
five years. The Committee has decided to show Unilever’s 
performance against the FTSE 100 Index, London and also the 
Euronext 100 index (AEX), Amsterdam as these are the most 
relevant indices in the UK and the Netherlands where we have 
our principal listings.
Five-Year Historical TSR Performance
The table below includes:
–  Growth in the value of a hypothetical £100 holding over five years 
FTSE 100 comparison based on 30-trading-day average values; and 
–  Growth in the value of a hypothetical €100 investment over five 
years AEX comparison based on 30-trading-day average values.
This Directors’ Remuneration Report has been approved by the 
Boards and signed on their behalf by Tonia Lovell – Chief Legal 
Officer and Group Secretary.
Non-Executive Directors
Policy
Non-Executive Directors receive annual fees from NV and PLC. No 
other remuneration is given in respect of their non-executive duties.
The Boards determine non-executive fee levels within a total 
annual limit specified in PLC’s Articles of Association. In 2007 
shareholders approved an increase in the limit for PLC to 
£2,000,000 and €3,000,000 for NV.
Unilever’s fee levels reflect the commitment and contribution 
expected by the Group. Fee levels are also benchmarked at 
regular intervals against those paid in other global non-financial 
companies based in Europe.
Fee levels
The fee levels remained unchanged over 2010 and are as follows:
     NV  PLC
 
Chairman    €355,000 and £237,500
Vice-Chairman/Senior Independent 
 Director    €85,800 and £82,500
Chairman of the Audit Committee  €55,000 and £38,000
Board Committee Chairman   €50,000 and £35,000
Non-Executive Directors   €45,000 and £31,000
Non-Executive Directors’ remuneration in 2010 (audited)
      Total fees Total fees
      paid  paid
      in 2010
(a)
 in 2009
(a)
Non-Executive Directors €’000 €’000
Michael Treschow
(b)
     638 635
Leon Brittan
(c)
     38 96
Wim Dik
(c)
     34 93
Louise Fresco     88 60
Ann Fudge     120 79
Charles Golden     120 112
Byron Grote     88 93
Narayana Murthy
(c)
     53 106
Hixonia Nyasulu     120 112
Sir Malcolm Rifkind
(d)
     64 –
Kees Storm     106 107
Jeroen van der Veer     188 152
Paul Walsh     88 60
Total      1,745 1,786
(a)   Covers fees received from both NV in euros and PLC in sterling. 
Includes set fees for intercontinental travel of €3,625 (via NV) and 
£2,500 (via PLC) per Board meeting, if applicable. Total amount for 
travel fee in 2010 is €183,000.
(b)   Chairman.
(c)   Retired at AGMs in May 2010.
(d)   Appointed at 2010 AGMs. 68 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Financial statements
 Notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued)
 19 Pensions and similar obligations 107
 20 Comprehensive income 111
 21 Equity 112
 22 Share capital 113
 23 Other reserves 113
 24 Retained profit 114
 25 Commitments and contingent liabilities 115
 26 Acquisitions and disposals 117
 27 Assets held for sale 120
 28  Reconciliation of net profit to cash flow from   
operating activities 120
 29 Share-based compensation plans 121
 30 Related party transactions 122
 31 Remuneration of auditors 123
 32 Events after the balance sheet date 123
Financial record 124
Principal group companies and non-current investments 126
Auditor’s report – Unilever N.V. 128
Company accounts – Unilever N.V. 129
Notes to the company accounts – Unilever N.V. 130
Further statutory and other information – Unilever N.V. 132
Auditor’s report – Unilever PLC 133
Company accounts – Unilever PLC 134
Notes to the company accounts – Unilever PLC 135
Further statutory and other information – Unilever PLC 137
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities 69
Auditors’ reports 70
Consolidated income statement 72
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 73
Consolidated statement of changes in equity 73
Consolidated balance sheet 74
Consolidated cash flow statement 75
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 76
 1 Accounting information and policies 76
 2 Segment information 81
 3 Gross profit and operating costs 83
 4 Staff and management costs  84
 5 Net finance costs 84
 6 Taxation 85
 7 Combined earnings per share 86
 8 Dividends on ordinary capital 87
 9 Goodwill and intangible assets 87
 10 Property, plant and equipment 89
 11 Other non-current assets 91
 12 Inventories 92
 13 Trade and other receivables 92
 14 Financial assets and liabilities 93
 15 Financial instruments and treasury risk management 98
 16 Trade payables and other liabilities 104
 17 Deferred taxation 105
 18 Provisions 106 
Contents Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2010 69
Financial statements
Directors’ responsibility statement
Each of the Directors confirms that, to the best of his or her 
knowledge:
• The financial statements which have been prepared in accordance 
with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the 
EU and as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board 
(in the case of the consolidated financial statements) and United 
Kingdom accounting standards (in the case of the PLC parent 
company accounts) and United Kingdom accounting standards 
and Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code (in the case of the NV 
parent company accounts), give a true and fair view of the assets, 
liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Group and 
the NV and PLC entities taken as a whole.
• The Report of the Directors includes a fair review of the 
development and performance of the business and the position 
of the Group and the NV and the PLC entities taken as a whole, 
together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties 
they face.
The Directors and their functions are listed on pages 40 and 48.
Going concern
The activities of the Group, together with the factors likely to affect 
its future development, performance the financial position of the 
Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are 
described in About Unilever and the Financial review 2010 on pages 
1 to 32. In addition, we describe in note 15 on pages 98 to 104: the 
Group’s objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital; its 
financial risk management objectives; details of its financial 
instruments and hedging activities; and its exposures to credit and 
liquidity risk. 
The Group has considerable financial resources together with 
established business relationships with many customers and suppliers 
in countries throughout the world. As a consequence, the Directors 
believe that the Group is well placed to manage its business risks 
successfully despite the current uncertain outlook.
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation 
that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational 
existence for the foreseeable future. Accordingly, they continue to 
adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Annual Report 
and Accounts.
Internal and disclosure controls and procedures
Please refer to pages 33 to 37 for a discussion of Unilever’s principal 
risk factors and to pages 38 and 39 for commentary on the Group’s 
approach to risk management and control.
Annual accounts
The Directors are required by Part 9 of Book 2 of the Civil Code in 
the Netherlands and the United Kingdom Companies Act 2006 
to prepare accounts for each financial year which give a true and fair 
view of the state of affairs of the Unilever Group, and the NV and 
PLC entities, as at the end of the financial year and of the profit or 
loss and cash flows for that year.
The Directors consider that, in preparing the accounts, the Group 
and the NV and PLC entities have used the most appropriate 
accounting policies, consistently applied and supported by 
reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates, and that all 
International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU 
and as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board 
(in the case of the consolidated financial statements) and United 
Kingdom accounting standards (in the case of the parent company 
accounts) which they consider to be applicable have been followed.
The Directors have responsibility for ensuring that NV and PLC keep 
accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy their 
financial position and which enable the Directors to ensure that the 
accounts comply with the relevant legislation. They also have a 
general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open 
to them to safeguard the assets of the Group, and to prevent and 
detect fraud and other irregularities.
This statement, which should be read in conjunction with the 
Auditors’ reports, is made with a view to distinguishing for 
shareholders the respective responsibilities of the Directors 
and of the auditors in relation to the accounts.
A copy of the financial statements of the Unilever Group 
is placed on our website at www.unilever.com/investorrelations. The 
maintenance and integrity of the website are the responsibility of the 
Directors, and the work carried out by the auditors does not involve 
consideration of these matters. Accordingly, the auditors accept no 
responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial 
statements since they were initially placed on the website. Legislation 
in the United Kingdom and the Netherlands governing the 
preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ 
from legislation in other jurisdictions.
UK law sets out additional responsibilities for the Directors of PLC 
regarding disclosure of information to auditors. Disclosure in respect 
of these responsibilities is made on page 137.
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities 70 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Financial statements
An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence 
about the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated financial 
statements. The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s 
judgement, including the assessment of the risks of material 
misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether due 
to fraud or error. In making those risk assessments, the auditor 
considers internal control relevant to the company’s preparation and 
fair presentation of the consolidated financial statements in order to 
design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, 
but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness 
of the company’s internal control. An audit also includes evaluating 
the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the 
reasonableness of accounting estimates made by the directors, as 
well as evaluating the overall presentation of the consolidated 
financial statements.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and 
appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion.
Opinion with respect to the consolidated financial 
statements
In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements give a true and 
fair view of the financial position of the Unilever Group as at 
31 December 2010, and of its result and its cash flows for the year 
then ended in accordance with International Financial Reporting 
Standards as adopted by the European Union and as issued by the 
International Accounting Standards Board and with Part 9 of Book 2 
of the Dutch Civil Code.
Separate report on company accounts
We have reported separately on the company accounts of Unilever 
N.V. for the year ended 31 December 2010.
Report on other legal and regulatory requirements
Pursuant to the legal requirement under Section 2: 393 sub 5 at 
e and f of the Dutch Civil Code, we have no deficiencies to report as 
a result of our examination whether the Report of the Directors, to 
the extent we can assess, has been prepared in accordance with Part 
9 of Book 2 of this Code, and whether the information as required 
under Section 2: 392 sub 1 at b-h has been annexed. Further we 
report that the Report of the Directors, to the extent we can assess, 
is consistent with the consolidated financial statements as required 
by Section 2: 391 sub 4 of the Dutch Civil Code.
Amsterdam, The Netherlands, 1 March 2011
PricewaterhouseCoopers Accountants N.V.
R A J Swaak RA
Independent auditor’s report
To: the General Meeting of Shareholders of Unilever 
N.V. 
Report on the consolidated financial statements
We have audited the consolidated financial statements as set out on 
pages 72 to 123 and 126 to 127 which are part of the Annual Report 
and Accounts 2010 of the Unilever Group for the year ended 31 
December 2010, which comprise the consolidated income statement, 
consolidated statement of comprehensive income, consolidated 
statement of changes in equity, consolidated balance sheet, 
consolidated cash flow statement and the notes to the consolidated 
financial statements, comprising a summary of significant accounting 
policies and other explanatory information.
Directors’ responsibility
The directors are responsible for the preparation and fair 
presentation of these consolidated financial statements in 
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as 
adopted by the European Union and as issued by the International 
Accounting Standards Board and with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch 
Civil Code, and for the preparation of the Report of the Directors in 
accordance with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. 
Furthermore, the directors are responsible for such internal control as 
they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of the 
consolidated financial statements that are free from material 
misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
Auditor’s responsibility
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated 
financial statements based on our audit. We conducted our audit in 
accordance with Dutch law, including the Dutch Standards on 
Auditing. This requires that we comply with ethical requirements and 
plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about 
whether the consolidated financial statements are free from material 
misstatement.
Auditor’s report Netherlands Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2010 71
Financial statements
Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs as issued by the IASB
As explained in note 1 to the Group financial statements, the Group 
in addition to complying with its legal obligation to apply IFRSs as 
adopted by the European Union, has also applied IFRSs as issued by 
the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB).
In our opinion the Group financial statements comply with IFRSs as 
issued by the IASB.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies 
Act 2006
In our opinion, the information given in the Report of the Directors 
for the financial year for which the Group financial statements are 
prepared is consistent with the Group financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following:
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, 
in our opinion:
• certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law are 
not made; or
• we have not received all the information and explanations we 
require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review:
• the Directors’ statement, set out on page 69, in relation to going 
concern; 
• the part of the Corporate Governance statement relating to the 
company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the June 2008 
Combined Code specified for our review and
• certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on 
directors’ remuneration.
Other matters
We have reported separately on the parent company financial 
statements of Unilever PLC for the year ended 31 December 2010 
and on the information in the Directors’ Remuneration Report that is 
described as having been audited.
Richard Sexton 
(Senior Statutory Auditor)
For and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors
London, United Kingdom
1 March 2011
Independent auditor’s report to the members of 
Unilever PLC
We have audited the group financial statements of Unilever Group 
for the year ended 31 December 2010 which comprise the 
consolidated income statement, consolidated statement of 
comprehensive income, consolidated statement of changes in equity, 
consolidated balance sheet, consolidated cash flow statement, and 
the related notes on pages 72 to 123 and 126 to 127. The financial 
reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is 
applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) 
as adopted by the European Union.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors
As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors’ responsibilities 
set out on page 69, the directors are responsible for the preparation 
of the Group financial statements and for being satisfied that they 
give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit and express an 
opinion on the group financial statements in accordance with 
applicable law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and 
Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing 
Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors. 
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only 
for the company’s members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 
of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose. We 
do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for 
any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is 
shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly 
agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and 
disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable 
assurance that the financial statements are free from material 
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an 
assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to 
the Group’s circumstances and have been consistently applied and 
adequately disclosed; the reasonableness of significant accounting 
estimates made by the directors; and the overall presentation of the 
financial statements. 
Opinion on financial statements
In our opinion the Group financial statements:
• give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s affairs as at 
 31 December 2010 and of its profit and cash flows for the year 
then ended;
• have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted 
by the European Union; and
• have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the 
Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the lAS Regulation.
Auditor’s report United Kingdom 72 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Financial statements
Consolidated income statement
for the year ended 31 December
       € million € million € million
       2010 2009 2008
 
Turnover 2      44,262 39,823 40,523
Operating profit 2      6,339 5,020 7,167
After (charging)/crediting:
 Restructuring 3      (589) (897) (868)
 Business disposals, impairments and other one-off items 3     308 29 2,137
 
Net finance costs 5      (394) (593) (257)
 Finance income       77 75 106
 Finance costs      (491) (504) (506)
 Pensions and similar obligations      20 (164) 143
 
Share of net profit/(loss) of joint ventures 11      120 111 125
Share of net profit/(loss) of associates 11      (9) 4 6
Other income from non-current investments 11      76 374 88
Profit before taxation      6,132 4,916 7,129
Taxation 6      (1,534) (1,257) (1,844)
Net profit      4,598 3,659 5,285
Attributable to:
Non-controlling interests      354 289 258
Shareholders’ equity      4,244 3,370 5,027
Combined earnings per share 7
Basic earnings per share      1.51 1.21 1.79
Diluted earnings per share      1.46 1.17 1.73
References in the consolidated income statement, consolidated statement of comprehensive income, consolidated statement of changes 
in equity, consolidated balance sheet and consolidated cash flow statement relate to notes on pages 76 to 123, which form an integral part 
of the consolidated financial statements.
Accounting policies of the Unilever Group are set out in note 1 on pages 76 to 80.
Financial statements Unilever Group Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2010 73
Financial statements
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
for the year ended 31 December
       € million € million € million
       2010 2009 2008
 
Fair value gains/(losses) net of tax:
 On cash flow hedges      41 40 (118)
 On available-for-sale financial assets      2 65 (46)
Actuarial gains/(losses) on pension schemes net of tax      105 18 (2,293)
Currency retranslation gains/(losses) net of tax
(a)
      460 396 (1,688)
Net income/(expense) recognised directly in equity      608 519 (4,145)
Net profit      4,598 3,659 5,285
Total comprehensive income 20      5,206 4,178 1,140
Attributable to:
Non-controlling interests      412 301 205
Shareholders’ equity      4,794 3,877 935
(a) Includes fair value gains/(losses) on net investment hedges of €107 million (2009: €(58) million; 2008:  €(560) million).
See also note 20 on page 111.
Consolidated statement of changes in equity
for the year ended 31 December
       € million € million € million
       2010 2009 2008
 
Equity at 1 January      12,536 10,372 12,819
Total comprehensive income for the year      5,206 4,178 1,140
Dividends on ordinary capital      (2,309) (2,115) (2,052)
Movement in treasury stock      (126) 129 (1,417)
Share-based payment credit      144 195 125
Dividends paid to non-controlling interests      (289) (244) (208)
Currency retranslation gains/(losses) net of tax      2 3 (38)
Other movements in equity      (86) 18 3
Equity at 31 December 21      15,078 12,536 10,372
For further information on movements in equity please refer to note 21 on page 112. 74 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Financial statements
Consolidated balance sheet
as at 31 December
        € million € million
        2010 2009
 
Goodwill 9       13,178 12,464
Intangible assets 9       5,100 4,583
Property, plant and equipment 10       7,854 6,644
Pension asset for funded schemes in surplus 19       910 759
Deferred tax assets 17       607 738
Other non-current assets 11       1,034 1,017
Total non-current assets       28,683 26,205
Inventories 12       4,309 3,578
Trade and other current receivables 13       4,135 3,429
Current tax assets        298 173
Cash and cash equivalents 14       2,316 2,642
Other financial assets 14       550 972
Non-current assets held for sale 27       876 17
Total current assets       12,484 10,811
Financial liabilities 14       (2,276) (2,279)
Trade payables and other current liabilities 16       (10,226) (8,413)
Current tax liabilities       (639) (487)
Provisions 18       (408) (420)
Liabilities directly associated with non-current assets held for sale 27      (57) –
Total current liabilities       (13,606) (11,599)
Net current assets/(liabilities)       (1,122) (788)
Total assets less current liabilities       27,561 25,417
Financial liabilities due after one year 14       7,258 7,692
Non-current tax liabilities       184 107
Pensions and post-retirement healthcare liabilities:
 Funded schemes in deficit 19       1,081 1,519
 Unfunded schemes 19       1,899 1,822
Provisions 18       886 729
Deferred tax liabilities 17       880 764
Other non-current liabilities 16       295 248
Total non-current liabilities       12,483 12,881
Share capital 21       484 484
Share premium 21       134 131
Other reserves 21       (5,406) (5,900)
Retained profit 21       19,273 17,350
Shareholders’ equity       14,485 12,065
Non-controlling interests 21       593 471
Total equity        15,078 12,536
Total capital employed        27,561 25,417
Commitments and contingent liabilities are shown in note 25 on pages 115 and 116.
These financial statements, together with the Report of the Directors, have been approved by the Directors.
The Board of Directors
1 March 2011 
   
Financial statements Unilever Group Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2010 75
Financial statements
Consolidated cash flow statement
for the year ended 31 December
       € million € million € million
       2010 2009 2008
 
Cash flow from operating activities 28      6,818 6,733 5,326
Income tax paid      (1,328) (959) (1,455)
Net cash flow from operating activities      5,490 5,774 3,871
Interest received      70 73 105
Purchase of intangible assets      (177) (121) (147)
Purchase of property, plant and equipment      (1,638) (1,248) (1,142)
Disposal of property, plant and equipment      114 111 190
Acquisition of group companies, joint ventures and associates     (1,252) (409) (211)
Disposal of group companies, joint ventures and associates     891 270 2,476
Acquisition of other non-current investments      (85) (95) (126)
Disposal of other non-current investments      151 224 47
Dividends from joint ventures, associates and other non-current investments    184 201 132
(Purchase)/sale of financial assets      578 (269) 91
Net cash flow (used in)/from investing activities      (1,164) (1,263) 1,415
Dividends paid on ordinary share capital      (2,323) (2,106) (2,086)
Interest and preference dividends paid      (494) (517) (487)
Additional financial liabilities       40 2,913 4,544
Repayment of financial liabilities      (1,391) (4,456) (3,427)
Sale and leaseback transactions resulting in finance leases     – – (1)
Capital element of finance lease rental payments      (22) (24) (66)
Share buy-back programme      – – (1,503)
Other movements on treasury stock      (124) 103 103
Other financing activities      (295) (214) (207)
Net cash flow (used in)/from financing activities      (4,609) (4,301) (3,130)
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents     (283) 210 2,156
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year     2,397 2,360 901
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes      (148) (173) (697)
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 14     1,966 2,397 2,360
The cash flows of pension funds (other than contributions and other direct payments made by the Group in respect of pensions and similar 
obligations) are not included in the consolidated cash flow statement.  76  Unilever  Annual  Report  and  Accounts  2010
Financial statements 
Intangible assets
On  acquisition  of  new  interests  in  group  companies,  Unilever  recognises  any  specifically  identifiable  intangible  assets  separately  from  goodwill.  Intangible  assets  are  initially  measured  at  fair  value  as  at  the  date  of  acquisition.  Separately  purchased  intangible  assets  are  initially  measured  at  cost.
Finite-lived  intangible  assets  mainly  comprise  patented  and  non-patented  technology,  know-how  and  software.  These  assets  are  capitalised  and  amortised  on  a  straight-line  basis  in  the  income  statement  over  the  period  of  their  expected  useful  lives,  or  the period  of  legal  rights  if  shorter.  None  of  the  amortisation  periods  exceeds  ten  years  and  periods  in  excess  of  five  years  are  used  only  where  Unilever  is  satisfied  that  the  life  of  these  assets  will  clearly  exceed  that  period.
Indefinite-lived  intangibles  mainly  comprise  trademarks.  These  assets  are  capitalised  but  are  not  amortised.  They  are  subject  to  an  annual  review  for  impairment  or  more  frequently  if  events  or  circumstances  indicate  this  is  necessary.  Any  impairment  is  charged  to  the  income  statement  as  it  arises.
Unilever  monitors  the  level  of  product  development  costs  against  all  the criteria  set  out  in  IAS  38.  These  include  the  requirement  to  establish  that  a  flow  of  economic  benefits  is  probable  before  costs  are  capitalised.  For  Unilever  this  is  evident  only  shortly  before  a  product  is  launched  into  the  market.  The  level  of  costs  incurred  after  these  criteria  have  been  met  is  currently  insignificant.
Pensions and similar obligations
For  defined  benefit  plans,  the  operating  and  financing  costs  are  recognised  separately  in  the  income  statement.  The  amount  charged  to  operating  cost  in  the  income  statement  is  the  cost  of  accruing  pension  benefits  promised  to  employees  over  the  year,  plus  the  costs  of  individual  events  such  as  past  service  benefit  enhancements,  settlements  and  curtailments  (such  events  are  recognised  immediately  in  the  income  statement).  The amount  charged  to  financing  costs  includes  a  credit  equivalent  to  the  Group’s  expected  return  on  the  pension  plans’  assets  over  the  year,  offset  by  a  charge  equal  to  the  expected  increase  in  the  plans’  liabilities  over  the  year.  Any  differences  between  the  expected  return  on  assets  and  the  return  actually  achieved,  and  any  changes  in  the  liabilities  over  the  year  due  to  changes  in  assumptions  or  experience  within  the  plans,  are  recognised  immediately  in  the  statement  of  comprehensive  income.
The  defined  benefit  plan  surplus  or  deficit  in  the  balance  sheet  comprises  the  total  for  each  plan  of  the  fair  value  of  plan  assets  less  the  present  value  of  the  defined  benefit  obligation  (using  a  discount  rate  based  on  high  quality  corporate  bonds).
All  defined  benefit  plans  are  subject  to  regular  actuarial  review  using  the  projected  unit  method,  either  by  external  consultants  or  by  actuaries  employed  by  Unilever.  The  Group  policy  is  that  the  most  important  plans,  representing  approximately  80%  of  the  defined  benefit  liabilities,  are  formally  valued  every  year.  Other  principal  plans,  accounting  for  approximately  a  further  15%  of  liabilities,  have  their  liabilities  updated  each  year.  Group  policy  for  the  remaining  plans  requires  a  full  actuarial  valuation  at  least  every  three  years.  Asset  values for  all  plans  are  updated  every  year.
For  defined  contribution  plans,  the  charges  to  the  income  statement  are  the  company  contributions  payable,  as  the  company’s  obligation  is  limited  to  contributions  paid  into  the  plans.  The  assets  and  liabilities  of  such plans  are  not  included  in  the  balance  sheet  of  the  Group.
Taxation
Income  tax  on  the  profit  or  loss  for  the  year  comprises  current  and  deferred  tax.  Income  tax  is  recognised  in  the  income  statement  except  to  the  extent  that  it  relates  to  items  recognised  directly  in  equity.
Current  tax  is  the  expected  tax  payable  on  the  taxable  income  for  the  year,  using  tax  rates  enacted  or  substantively  enacted  at  the  balance  sheet  date,  and  any  adjustments  to  tax  payable  in  respect  of  previous  years.
1 Accounting information and policies
The  accounting  policies  adopted  are  the  same  as  those  which  applied  for  the  previous  financial  year,  except  as  set  out  below  under  the  heading  ‘Recent  accounting  developments’.
Unilever
The  two  parent  companies,  NV  and  PLC,  together  with  their  group  companies,  operate  as  a  single  economic  entity  (the  Unilever  Group,  also  referred  to  as  Unilever  or  the  Group).  NV  and  PLC  have  the  same  Directors  and  are  linked  by  a  series  of  agreements,  including  an  Equalisation  Agreement,  which  are  designed  so  that  the  position  of  the shareholders  of  both  companies  is  as  nearly  as  possible  the  same  as if  they  held  shares  in  a  single  company.
The  Equalisation  Agreement  provides  that  both  companies  adopt  the  same  accounting  principles  and  requires  as  a  general  rule  the  dividends  and  other  rights  and  benefits  (including  rights  on  liquidation)  attaching  to  each  €0.16  nominal  of  ordinary  share  capital  of  NV  to  be  equal  in  value  at  the  relevant  rate  of  exchange  to  the  dividends  and  other  rights  and  benefits  attaching  to  each  3
1
/9p  nominal  of  ordinary  share  capital  of  PLC,  as  if  each  such  unit  of  capital  formed  part  of  the  ordinary  capital  of  one  and  the  same  company.  For  additional  information  please refer  to  ‘Corporate  governance’  on  page  51.
Basis of consolidation
Due  to  the  operational  and  contractual  arrangements  referred  to  above,  NV  and  PLC  form  a  single  reporting  entity  for  the  purposes  of  presenting  consolidated  financial  statements.  Accordingly,  the  accounts  of  Unilever  are  presented  by  both  NV  and  PLC  as  their  respective  consolidated  financial  statements.  Group  companies  included  in  the  consolidation  are  those  companies  controlled  by  NV  or  PLC.  Control  exists  when  the  Group  has  the  power  to  govern  the  financial  and  operating  policies  of  an  entity  so as  to  obtain  benefits  from  its  activities.
The  net  assets  and  results  of  acquired  businesses  are  included  in  the  consolidated  financial  statements  from  their  respective  dates  of  acquisition,  being  the  date  on  which  the  Group  obtains  control.  The  results  of  disposed  businesses  are  included  in  the  consolidated  financial  statements  up  to  their  date  of disposal,  being  the  date  control  ceases.
Inter-company  transactions  and  balances  are  eliminated.
Companies legislation and accounting standards
The  consolidated  financial  statements  have  been  prepared  in  accordance  with  International  Financial  Reporting  Standards  (IFRS)  as  adopted  by  the  European  Union  (EU),  IFRIC  Interpretations  and  in  accordance  with  Part 9  of  Book  2  of  the  Civil  Code  in  the  Netherlands  and  the  United  Kingdom  Companies  Act  2006.  They  are  also  in  compliance  with  IFRS  as  issued  by  the  International  Accounting  Standards  Board.
These  accounts  are  prepared  under  the  historical  cost  convention  unless  otherwise  indicated.
Goodwill
Goodwill  arises  on  business  combinations.  It  is  calculated  as  the  excess  of  the  total  fair  value  of  consideration  transferred  plus  the  amount  of  any  non-controlling  interest  in  the  acquiree  plus  the  acquisition-date  fair  value  of  any  previous  equity  interest  in  the  acquiree,  less  the  fair  value  of  the  Group’s  share  of  the  identifiable  net  assets  acquired.  Goodwill  is  capitalised  and  is  not  subject  to  amortisation.  It  is  carried  at cost  but  subject  to  impairment  testing  annually,  or  more  frequently  if events  or  circumstances  indicate  this  is  necessary.  Any  impairment  is charged  to  the  income  statement  as  it  arises.
Goodwill  acquired  in  a  business  combination  is  allocated  to  the  Group’s  cash  generating  units,  or  groups  of  cash  generating  units,  that  are  expected  to  benefit  from  the  synergies  of  the  combination.  These  might  not  always  be  precisely  the  same  as  the  cash  generating  units  that  the  assets  or  liabilities  of  the  acquired  business  are  assigned  to. Each  unit  or  group  of  units  to  which  the  goodwill  is  allocated  represents  the  lowest  level  within  the  Group  at  which  the  goodwill  is  monitored  for  internal  management  purposes,  and  is  not  larger  than  an operating  segment.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements Unilever  Group  Unilever  Annual  Report  and  Accounts  2010  77
Financial statements
prevailing  at  the  dates  of  the  transactions.  Foreign  exchange  gains  and  losses  resulting  from  the  settlement  of  such  transactions  and  from  the  translation  at  year-end  exchange  rates  of  monetary  assets  and  liabilities  denominated  in  foreign  currencies  are  recognised  in  the  income  statement,  except  when  deferred  in  equity  as  qualifying  hedges.  Foreign  exchange  gains  and  losses  arising  on  trading  transactions  are  taken  to  operating  profit;  those  arising  on  cash,  financial  assets  and  financial  liabilities  are  classified  as  finance  income  or  cost.
In  preparing  the  consolidated  financial  statements,  the  balances  in  individual  group  companies  are  translated  from  their  functional  currency  into  euros.  The  income  statement,  the  cash  flow  statement  and  all  other  movements  in  assets  and  liabilities  are  translated  at  average  rates  of  exchange  except  where  the  use  of  such  average  rates  does  not  approximate  to  the  exchange  rate  at  the  date  of  the  transaction,  in  which  case  the  transaction  rate  is  used.  The  balance  sheet,  other  than  the  ordinary  share  capital  of  NV  and  PLC,  is  translated  at  year-end  rates  of  exchange.  In  the  case  of  hyperinflationary  economies  the  accounts  are  adjusted  to  reflect  current  price  levels  and  remove  the  influences  of  inflation  before  being  translated  into  euros.
The  ordinary  share  capital  of  NV  and  PLC  is  translated  in  accordance  with  the  Equalisation  Agreement.  The  difference  between  the  resulting  value  for  PLC  and  the  value  derived  by  applying  the  year-end  rate  of  exchange  is  taken  to  other  reserves  (see  note  23  on  page  113).
The  effects  of  exchange  rate  changes  during  the  year  on  net  assets  at  the  beginning  of  the  year  are  recorded  as  a  movement  in  shareholders’  equity,  as  is  the  difference  between  profit  of  the  year  retained  at  average  rates  of  exchange  and  at  year-end  rates  of  exchange.  For  these  purposes  net  assets  include  loans  between  group  companies  and  any  related  foreign  exchange  contracts  where  settlement  is  neither  planned  nor  likely  to  occur  in  the  foreseeable  future.  Exchange  gains/losses  on  hedges  of  net  assets  are  also  recorded  as  a  movement  in  equity.
Cumulative  exchange  differences  arising  since  the  date  of  transition  to  IFRS  of  1  January  2004  are  reported  as  a  separate  component  of  other  reserves  (see  note  23  on  page  114).  In  the  event  of  disposal  or  part  disposal  of  an  interest  in  a  group  company  either  through  sale  or  as  a  result  of  a  repayment  of  capital,  the  cumulative  exchange  difference  is recognised  in  the  income  statement  as  part  of  the  profit  or  loss  on disposal  of  group  companies.
Financial instruments
Financial assets
Financial  assets  are  classified  into  one  of  four  categories.  The  classification  of  financial  assets  is  determined  at  initial  recognition  depending  on  the  purpose  for  which  they  were  acquired.  Any  impairment  is  recognised  in the  income  statement  as  it  arises.
Held-to-maturity  investments
Held-to-maturity  investments  are  assets  with  set  cash  flows  and  fixed  maturities  which  Unilever  intends  to  hold  to  maturity.  They  are  held  at  cost  plus  interest  using  the  effective  interest  method,  less  any  impairments.
Loans  and  receivables
Loans  and  receivables  have  set  payments  and  are  not  quoted  in  an  active  market.  They  arise  when  the  Group  provides  money,  goods  or  services.  Loans  and  receivables  are  included  in  the  balance  sheet  at  amortised  cost.
Short-term  loans  and  receivables  are  initially  measured  at  original  invoice  amount  less  any  impairments.
Financial  assets  at  fair  value  through  profit  or  loss
Financial  assets  are  in  this  category  if  they  are  intended  to  be  sold  in  the  short  term.  They  are  current  assets  if  they  are  expected  to  be  realised  within  12  months.  Transaction  costs  related  to  the  purchase  of  the  assets  are  expensed  as  incurred.  Derivatives  are  classified  here  unless  they  are  designated  as  hedges.  Gains  and  losses  arising  from  changes  in  value  are  included  in  the  income  statement.
1 Accounting information and policies (continued)
Deferred  taxation  is  recognised  using  the  liability  method  on  taxable  temporary  differences  between  the  tax  base  and  the  accounting  base  of  items  included  in  the  balance  sheet  of  the  Group.  Certain  temporary  differences  are  not  provided  for:  goodwill  not  deductible  for  tax  purposes;  the  initial  recognition  of  assets  or  liabilities  that  affect  neither  accounting  nor  taxable  profit;  and  differences  relating  to  investments  in subsidiaries  to  the  extent  that  they  will  probably  not  reverse  in  the  forseeable  future.  The  amount  of  deferred  tax  provided  is  based  on  the  expected  manner  of  realisation  or  settlement  of  the  carrying  amount  of assets  and  liabilities,  using  tax  rates  prevailing  at  the  year  end  unless  future  rates  have  been  enacted  or  substantively  enacted.
A  deferred  tax  asset  is  recognised  only  to  the  extent  that  it  is  probable  that  future  taxable  profits  will  be  available  against  which  the  asset  can  be  utilised.  Deferred  tax  assets  are  reduced  to  the  extent  that  it  is  no  longer  probable  that  the  related  tax  benefit  will  be  realised.
Provisions
Provisions  are  recognised  where  a  legal  or  constructive  obligation  exists  at  the  balance  sheet  date,  as  a  result  of  a  past  event  and  where  the  amount  of  the  obligation  can  be  reliably  estimated.
Business combinations
Business  combinations  are  accounted  for  using  the  acquisition  accounting  method.  This  involves  recognising  identifiable  assets  and  liabilities  of  the  acquired  business  at  fair  value  as  at  the  date  of  acquisition.  Adjustments  are  made  to  align  accounting  policies,  and  the  fair  value  of  the  assets  and  liabilities  of  the  acquired  entity  is  calculated.  Changes  in  ownership  interest  that  do  not  result  in  a  change  of  control  are  accounted  for  as  equity  transactions  whereby  the  difference  between  the  consideration  and  the  non-controlling  share  of  the  net  assets  acquired  is  recognised  in  reserves  within  shareholders’  equity.
Property, plant and equipment
Property,  plant  and  equipment  is  stated  at  cost  less  depreciation  and  impairment.  It  is  initially  recognised  at  cost,  including  eligible  borrowing  costs.  Depreciation  is  provided  on  a  straight-line  basis  based  on  the  expected  average  useful  lives  of  the  assets  and  their  residual  values.  Residual  values  are  reviewed  at  least  annually.  Estimated  useful  lives  by major  class  of  assets  are  as  follows:
Freehold  buildings  40  years
(no  depreciation  on  freehold  land)
Leasehold  buildings  40  years*
Plant  and  equipment  2-20  years
*or  life  of  lease  if  less  than  40  years
Property,  plant  and  equipment  is  subject  to  review  for  impairment  if  triggering  events  or  circumstances  indicate  that  this  is  necessary.  Any  impairment  is  charged  to  the  income  statement  as  it  arises.
Revenue recognition
Turnover  comprises  sales  of  goods  and  services  after  the  deduction  of  discounts,  sales  taxes  and  estimated  returns.  It  does  not  include  sales  between  group  companies.  Discounts  given  by  Unilever  include  rebates,  price  reductions  and  incentives  given  to  customers,  promotional  couponing  and  trade  communication  costs.
Turnover  is  recognised  when  the  risks  and  rewards  of  the  underlying  products  and  services  have  been  substantially  transferred  to  the  customer.  Depending  on  individual  customer  terms,  this  can  be  at  the time  of  dispatch,  delivery  or  upon  formal  customer  acceptance.  Revenue  from  services  is  recognised  as  the  services  are  performed.
Foreign currencies
The  consolidated  financial  statements  are  presented  in  euros.  The  functional  currencies  of  NV  and  PLC  are  euros  and  sterling  respectively.  Items  included  in  the  financial  statements  of  individual  group  companies  are  recorded  in  their  respective  functional  currency  which  is  the  currency  of  the  primary  economic  environment  in  which  each  entity  operates.
Foreign  currency  transactions  in  individual  group  companies  are  translated  into  the  functional  currency  using  the  exchange  rates  78  Unilever  Annual  Report  and  Accounts  2010
Financial statements 
Impairment of financial instruments
At  each  balance  sheet  date  the  Group  assesses  whether  there  is  evidence  that  financial  assets  are  impaired.  A  significant  or  prolonged  fall  in  value  below  cost  is  considered  in  determining  whether  an  asset  is impaired.  For  available-for-sale  financial  assets  the  cumulative  loss  is  removed  from  equity  and  recognised  in  the  income  statement.  Any  subsequent  reversals  of  impairment  losses  on  available-for-sale  equity  instruments  are  not  recognised  in  the  income  statement.
Cash and cash equivalents
In  the  cash  flow  statement,  cash  and  cash  equivalents  includes  cash  at  bank  and  in  hand,  short-term  highly  liquid  interest-bearing  securities  with  original  maturities  of  three  months  or  less,  investments  in  money  market  funds  that  are  readily  convertible  into  cash  with  insignificant  risk  of  changes  in  value,  and  bank  overdrafts.
Other non-current assets
Joint  ventures  are  undertakings  in  which  the  Group  has  an  interest  and which  are  jointly  controlled  by  the  Group  and  one  or  more  other  parties.  Associates  are  undertakings  where  the  Group  has  an  investment  in  which  it  does  not  have  control  or  joint  control  but  can  exercise  significant  influence.
Interests  in  joint  ventures  and  associates  are  accounted  for  using  the  equity  method  and  are  stated  in  the  consolidated  balance  sheet  at  cost,  adjusted  for  the  movement  in  the  Group’s  share  of  their  net  assets  and  liabilities.  The  Group’s  share  of  the  profit  or  loss  after  tax  of  joint  ventures  and  associates  is  included  in  the  Group’s  consolidated  profit  before  taxation.
Segment information
Segment  information  is  provided  based  on  the  geographic  segments  of the  management  structure  of  the  Group.  Additional  information  is  provided  by  product  area.
Inventories
Inventories  are  valued  at  the  lower  of  weighted  average  cost  and  net  realisable  value.  Cost  comprises  direct  costs  and,  where  appropriate,  a proportion  of  attributable  production  overheads.
Assets held for sale
Assets  and  groups  of  assets  and  liabilities  which  comprise  disposal  groups  are  classified  as  ‘held  for  sale’  when  all  of  the  following  criteria  are  met:  a  decision  has  been  made  to  sell;  the  assets  are  available  for  sale  immediately;  the  assets  are  being  actively  marketed;  and  a  sale  has been  or  is  expected  to  be  concluded  within  twelve  months  of  the  balance  sheet  date.  Assets  and  disposal  groups  held  for  sale  are  valued  at  the  lower  of  book  value  or  fair  value  less  disposal  costs.  Assets  held  for  sale  are  not  depreciated.
Leases
Leases  are  classified  as  finance  leases  whenever  the  terms  of  the  lease  transfer  substantially  all  the  risks  and  rewards  of  ownership  to  the  lessee.  All  other  leases  are  classified  as  operating  leases.
Assets  held  under  finance  leases  are  recognised  as  non-current  assets of  the  Group  at  the  lower  of  their  fair  value  at  the  date  of  commencement  of  the  lease  and  at  the  present  value  of  the  minimum  lease  payments.  These  assets  are  depreciated  on  a  straight-line  basis  over  the  shorter  of  the  useful  life  of  the  asset  and  the  lease  term.  The  corresponding  liability  to  the  lessor  is  included  in  the  balance  sheet  as  a finance  lease  obligation.  Lease  payments  are  apportioned  between  finance  costs  in  the  income  statement  and  reduction  of  the  lease  obligation  so  as  to  achieve  a  constant  rate  of  interest  on  the  remaining  balance  of  the  liability.
Lease  payments  under  operating  leases  are  charged  to  the  income  statement  on  a  straight-line  basis  over  the  term  of  the  lease.
Research and market support costs
Expenditure  on  research  and  market  support,  such  as  advertising,  is charged  to  the  income  statement  when  incurred.
1 Accounting information and policies (continued)
Available-for-sale  financial  assets
Available-for-sale  financial  assets  are  assets  that  are  designated  in  this  category  or  not  classified  in  any  of  the  other  categories.  They  are  non-current  assets  unless  the  Group  intends  to  dispose  of  them  within  12  months.  Changes  in  value  are  recognised  in  equity  until  the  investment  is  sold  or  impaired,  when  they  are  included  in  the  income  statement.
Interest  on  available-for-sale  securities  is  calculated  using  the  effective  interest  method  and  recognised  within  other  income.  Dividends  on  equity  investments  are  also  recognised  within  other  income.
Financial liabilities
Financial  liabilities  are  recognised  initially  at  fair  value,  net  of  transaction  costs.  They  are  subsequently  held  at  amortised  cost  unless  they  are  part  of  a  fair  value  hedge.  Any  difference  between  the  amount  on  initial  recognition  and  the  redemption  value  is  recognised  in  the  income  statement  using  the  effective  interest  method.
Short-term  financial  liabilities  are  measured  at  original  invoice  amount.
Derivatives
Derivatives  are  measured  on  the  balance  sheet  at  fair  value  and  are  used  primarily  to  manage  the  risks  of  changes  in  exchange  and  interest  rates.  The  Group  uses  derivatives  such  as  foreign  exchange  forward  contracts,  interest  rate  swap  contracts  and  forward  rate  agreements  to hedge  these  exposures.  The  Group  also  uses  commodity  contracts  to hedge  some  raw  materials.  Contracts  that  can  be  settled  in  cash  are treated  as  financial  instruments.  The  Group  does  not  use  derivative  financial  instruments  for  speculative  purposes.
Changes  in  the  fair  value  of  derivatives  that  do  not  qualify  for  hedge  accounting  and  any  hedge  ineffectiveness  are  recognised  in  the  income  statement  as  they  arise.  Cash  flow  hedges
Changes  in  the  value  of  derivatives  used  as  hedges  of  future  cash  flows  are  recognised  in  equity  with  any  ineffective  portion  recognised  in  the  income  statement.  If  the  cash  flow  hedge  results  in  the  recognition  of  a non-financial  asset  or  a  liability  the  gain  or  loss  on  the  derivative  is  included  in  the  initial  measurement  of  that  asset  or  liability.  For  other  cash  flow  hedges  amounts  deferred  in  equity  are  taken  to  the  income  statement  when  the  hedged  item  affects  profit  or  loss.
When  a  hedging  instrument  no  longer  qualifies  for  hedge  accounting,  any  cumulative  gain  or  loss  is  retained  in  equity  until  the  forecasted  transaction  occurs.  If  a  hedged  transaction  is  no  longer  expected  to  occur,  the  cumulative  gain  or  loss  is  transferred  to  the  income  statement.
Fair  value  hedges
In  an  effective  fair  value  hedge,  the  hedged  item  is  adjusted  for  changes  in  fair  value,  with  the  corresponding  entry  in  the  income  statement.  Gains  and  losses  on  the  hedging  instrument  are  recognised  in  the  income  statement.  In  a  fully  effective  hedge  the  adjustments  to the  income  statement  are  of  equal  and  opposite  value.  For  non-derivatives  only  the  foreign  currency  element  can  be  a  hedging  instrument.
Net  investment  hedges
Net  investment  hedges  are  hedges  of  exchange  risks  from  investments  in  foreign  subsidiaries.  Gains  and  losses  are  recognised  in  equity.  The  accumulated  gains  and  losses  are  taken  to  the  income  statement  when  the  foreign  operation  is  sold  or  partially  disposed.
Valuation principles
The  fair  values  of  quoted  investments  are  based  on  current  bid  prices.  For  listed  securities  where  the  market  is  not  liquid,  and  for  unlisted  securities,  the  Group  uses  valuation  techniques.  These  include  the  use  of  recent  arm’s-length  transactions,  reference  to  other  instruments  that  are  substantially  the  same  and  discounted  cash  flow  calculations.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements Unilever  Group  Unilever  Annual  Report  and  Accounts  2010  79
Financial statements
The  Group  has  reviewed  the  carrying  value  of  the  cash  generating  units  by  considering  expected  future  cash  flows  based  on  historical  experience  and  planned  growth  rates  and  margins  for  the  product  groups.
Please  refer  also  to  note  9  on  pages  87  and  88.
Pensions and similar obligations
The  Group  operates  a  number  of  pension  plans,  including  defined  benefit  plans.  The  defined  benefit  plan  surplus  or  deficit  in  the  balance  sheet  comprises  the  total  for  each  plan  of  the  fair  value  of  plan  assets  less  the  present  value  of  the  defined  benefit  obligation  (using  a  discount  rate  based  on  high-quality  corporate  bonds).
Pension  accounting  requires  certain  assumptions  to  be  made  in  order  to value  our  obligations  and  to  determine  the  charges  to  be  made  to the  income  statement.  These  figures  are  particularly  sensitive  to assumptions  for  discount  rates,  inflation  rates,  mortality  rates  and expected  long-term  rates  of  return  on  assets.  Information  about  sensitivity  to  certain  of  these  assumptions  is  given  in  note  19  on  page  108.
The  following  table  sets  out  these  assumptions  (except  for  mortality  rates),  as  at  31  December  2010,  in  respect  of  the  four  largest  Unilever  pension  plans.  Further  details  of  assumptions  (including  mortality  rates)  made  are  given  in  note  19  on  pages  108  and  109.
       %  %  %  %
         Nether-  United           UK  lands  States  Germany
Discount  rate      5.4  4.7  5.2  4.7
Inflation      3.1  1.8  2.3  1.8
Expected  long-term  rate  of  return:
Equities      7.7  7.0  7.4  7.0
Bonds      4.6  4.3  4.4  4.2
Property      6.2  5.5  5.9  5.5
Others      7.1  5.6  1.7  5.5
These  assumptions  are  set  annually  by  reference  to  market  conditions  at  the  valuation  date.  Actual  experience  may  differ  from  the  assumptions  made.  The  effects  would  be  recognised  in  the  statement  of  comprehensive  income.
Demographic  assumptions,  such  as  mortality  rates,  are  set  having  regard  to  the  latest  trends  in  life  expectancy,  plan  experience  and  other  relevant  data.  The  assumptions  are  reviewed  annually  and  updated  as necessary  as  part  of  the  periodic  actuarial  valuation  of  the  pension  plans.  Provisions
The  Group  records  provision  for  matters  where  a  legal  or  constructive  obligation  exists  at  the  balance  sheet  date,  as  a  result  of  a  past  event  and  a  reliable  estimate  can  be  made  of  the  obligation.  These  matters  might  include  restructuring  projects,  legal  matters,  disputed  indirect  taxes  and  other  items.  These  obligations  may  not  be  settled  for  a  number  of  years  and  a  reliable  estimate  has  to  be  made  of  the  likely  outcome  of  each  of  these  matters.
These  provisions  represent  our  best  estimate  of  the  costs  that  will  be incurred  but  actual  experience  may  differ  from  the  estimates  made  and  therefore  affect  future  financial  results.  The  effects  would  be  recognised  in  the  income  statement,  primarily  through  operating  profit  and  finance  costs.  See  also  note  18  on  page  106.
1 Accounting information and policies (continued)
Share-based payments
The  fair  value  of  the  share  awards  and  the  share  options  at  the  grant  date  is  determined  by  option  pricing  models,  principally  adjusted  Black-Scholes  models  or  a  multinomial  pricing  model.  The  fair  value  of  the  share  awards  and  the  share  options  is  charged  to  the  income  statement  over  the  vesting  period.  The  value  of  the  charge  is  adjusted  to  reflect  expected  and  actual  levels  of  awards  vesting,  except  where  the  failure  to  vest  is  as  a  result  of  not  meeting  a  market  condition.  Cancellations  of  equity  instruments  are  treated  as  an  acceleration  of  the  vesting  period  and  any outstanding  charge  is  recognised  in  the  income  statement  immediately.
Shares held by employee share trusts
Certain  PLC  trusts,  NV  and  group  companies  purchase  and  hold  NV  and  PLC  shares  to  satisfy  options  granted.  Their  assets  and  liabilities  are  included  in  the  consolidated  financial  statements.  The  book  value  of  shares  held  is  deducted  from  other  reserves,  and  trusts’  borrowings  are  included  in  the  Group’s  liabilities.  The  costs  of  the  trusts  are  included  in  the  results  of  the  Group.  These  shares  are  excluded  from  the  calculation  of  earnings  per  share.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements
Estimates  and  judgements  are  continually  evaluated  and  are  based  on  historical  experience  and  other  factors,  including  expectations  of  future  events  that  are  believed  to  be  reasonable  under  the  circumstances.
The  preparation  of  financial  statements  requires  management  to  make estimates  and  assumptions  concerning  the  future.  The  resulting  accounting  estimates  will,  by  definition,  seldom  equal  the  related  actual  results.  The  estimates  and  assumptions  that  have  a  significant  risk  of  causing  a  material  adjustment  to  the  carrying  amounts  of  assets  and  liabilities  within  the  next  financial  year  are  discussed  below.
Income statement presentation
On  the  face  of  the  income  statement,  costs  and  revenues  relating  to  restructuring,  business  disposals  and  impairments  are  disclosed.  In  addition,  individual  items  judged  to  be  significant  are  disclosed  separately.  These  are  material  in  terms  of  nature  and  amount.  IAS  1,  Presentation  of  Financial  Statements,  provides  no  definitive  guidance  as  to  the  format  of  the  income  statement,  but  states  key  lines  which  should  be  disclosed.  It  also  encourages  the  disclosure  of  additional  line  items  and  the  re-ordering  of  items  presented  on  the  face  of  the  income  statement  when  appropriate.  These  disclosures  are  given  in  order  to  provide  additional  information  to  help  users  better  understand  financial  performance.
Goodwill and intangible assets
The  Group  recognises  goodwill  and  intangible  assets  which  have  arisen through  acquisitions.  The  most  significant  balances  of  goodwill  and  intangible  assets  relate  to  the  regional  savoury  and  dressings  sub-product  groups.  These  assets  are  subject  to  impairment  reviews  to  ensure  that  the  assets  are  not  carried  above  their  recoverable  amounts:  for  goodwill  and  indefinite-lived  intangible  assets,  reviews  are  performed  at  least  annually  or  more  frequently  if  events  or  circumstances  indicate  that  this  is  necessary;  for  other  intangible  assets,  reviews  are  performed  if  events  or  circumstances  indicate  that  this  is  necessary.
Impairment  reviews  are  performed  by  comparing  the  carrying  value  of the  cash  generating  unit  concerned  to  that  cash  generating  unit’s  recoverable  amount,  being  the  higher  of  value  in  use  and  fair  value  less costs  to  sell.  Value  in  use  is  a  valuation  derived  from  the  discounted  future  cash  flows  of  cash  generating  units.  The  most  important  estimates  in  these  forecast  cash  flows  are  the  long-term  growth  rates  used  to  calculate  revenue  growth  in  perpetuity  and  the  discount  rates which  are  applied  to  the  future  cash  flows.  These  estimates  are reviewed  at  least  annually  and  are  believed  to  be  appropriate.  However,  changes  in  these  estimates  could  change  the  outcomes  of  the impairment  reviews  and  therefore  affect  future  financial  results.  The  effects  would  be  recognised  in  the  income  statement,  through  operating  profit. 80  Unilever  Annual  Report  and  Accounts  2010
Financial statements 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements Unilever  Group  The  Group  has  also  adopted  the  following  new  and  amended  IFRSs  and IFRIC  interpretations  with  no  material  impact:
•  IFRS  2  (Amendments)  ‘Group  cash-settled  and  share-based  payment  transactions’  was  effective  from  1  January  2010.
•  Amendment  to  IAS  39  ‘Financial  Instruments:  Recognition  and  Measurement  –  Eligible  Hedged  Items’  was  effective  for  periods  beginning  on  or  after  1  July  2009.
•  IFRIC  17  ‘Distribution  of  non-cash  assets  to  owners’  was  effective  for  periods  beginning  on  or  after  1  July  2009.
•  ‘Improvements  to  IFRS’  (issued  April  2009)  was  effective  for  periods  beginning  on  or  after  1  January  2010.
Not adopted by the Group
The  Group  is  currently  assessing  the  impact  of  the  following  revised  standards  and  interpretations  or  amendments  that  are  not  yet  effective.  These  changes  will  be  adopted  on  the  effective  dates  noted  and  are  not expected  to  have  a  material  impact  on  the  Group’s  results  of  operations,  financial  position  or  disclosures:
•  IAS  24  ‘Related  Party  Disclosures  (Revised)’  will  be  effective  for  periods  beginning  on  or  after  1  January  2011.  The  changes  primarily  relate  to  government-related  entities  and  the  definition  of a  related  party.
•  IAS  32  (Amendments)  ‘Financial  Instruments:  Disclosure’  will  be effective  for  periods  beginning  on  or  after  1  February  2010.  The changes  primarily  relate  to  the  classification  of  rights,  options  and  warrants.
•  IFRIC  19  ‘Extinguishing  Financial  Liabilities  with  Equity  Instruments’  is  effective  for  periods  beginning  on  or  after  1  July  2010.
•  IFRIC  14  ‘Minimum  Funding  Requirement  (Amendment)’  is  effective  for  periods  beginning  on  or  after  1  January  2011.
•  ‘Improvements  to  IFRS’  (issued  May  2010)  is  effective  for  periods  beginning  on  or  after  1  July  2010.
The  Group  is  currently  assessing  the  impact  of  the  following  revised  standards  and  interpretations  or  amendments  that  are  not  yet  effective.  These  changes  have  not  yet  been  endorsed  by  the  EU  so  will  not  necessarily  be  adopted  by  the  effective  dates  noted:
•  IFRS  9  ‘Financial  Instruments’  is  effective  for  periods  beginning  on or  after  1  January  2013  amends  the  classification  and  measurement  for  financial  assets.
1 Accounting information and policies (continued)
Taxation
The  Group  makes  estimates  in  respect  of  tax  liabilities  and  tax  assets.  Full  provision  is  made  for  deferred  and  current  taxation  at  the  rates  of tax  prevailing  at  the  year  end  unless  future  rates  have  been  substantively  enacted.  These  calculations  represent  our  best  estimate  of  the  costs  that  will  be  incurred  and  recovered  but  actual  experience  may  differ  from  the  estimates  made  and  therefore  affect  future  financial  results.  The  effects  would  be  recognised  in  the  income  statement,  primarily  through  taxation.  See  also  note  6  on  page  85.
Companies  within  the  Group  have  tax  liabilities  on  their  taxable  profits  and  some  are  involved  in  tax  audits  and  local  enquiries  usually  in  relation  to  prior  years.  Investigations  and  negotiations  with  local  tax  authorities  are  ongoing  in  various  jurisdictions  at  the  balance  sheet  date  and,  by  their  nature,  these  can  take  considerable  time  to  conclude.  In  assessing  the  amount  of  any  provisions  to  be  recognised  in  the  financial  statements  for  these  matters,  estimation  is  made  of  the  expected  successful  settlement  of  these  matters.  Estimates  of  interest  and  penalties  on  tax  liabilities  are  also  recorded.
Deferred  tax  assets  arise  in  respect  of  unutilised  losses  and  other  timing  differences  to  the  extent  that  it  is  probable  that  future  taxable  profits  will  be  available  against  which  the  asset  can  be  utilised.  In  assessing  recoverability,  estimation  is  made  of  the  future  forecasts  of  taxable  profit.  If  these  forecast  profits  do  not  materialise,  they  change,  or  there  are  changes  in tax  rates  or  to  the  period  over  which  the  losses  or  timing  differences  might  be  recognised,  then  the  value  of  deferred  tax  assets  will  need  to be  revised  in  a  future  period.
The  Group  has  losses  and  other  timing  differences  for  which  no  value  has  been  recognised  for  deferred  tax  purposes  in  these  financial  statements.  This  situation  can  arise  in  loss-making  subsidiaries  where  the  future  economic  benefit  of  these  timing  differences  is  estimated  to be  not  probable.  It  can  also  arise  where  the  timing  differences  are  of such  a  nature  that  their  value  is  dependent  on  only  certain  types  of profit  being  earned,  such  as  capital  profits.  If  trading  or  other  appropriate  profits  are  earned  in  future  in  these  companies,  these  losses  and  other  timing  differences  may  yield  benefit  to  the  Group  in the  form  of  a  reduced  tax  charge.
Business combinations
During  2010,  the  Group  completed  the  acquisition  of  the  Personal  Care business  of  the  Sara  Lee  Corporation.  The Group  has  recorded  a  provisional  valuation  of  the  assets  and  liabilities  of  the  Personal  Care  business.  The  most  important  estimates  in  the  provisional  valuation  relate  to  the  intangible  assets  and  the  fair  value  adjustments  to  the  existing  assets  and  liabilities  of  the  business.  For  intangible  assets,  the  following  are  estimated:  useful  economic  life;  expected  profitability;  long-term  growth  rates;  product  lifecycles  and  market  position.  The  Group  has  also  estimated  the  value  of  the  Sanex  brand  in  the  European  market  which  will  be  disposed  of  during  2011.
Changes  in  these  estimates  could  change  the  provisional  valuations  within  the  balance  sheet,  primarily  goodwill,  intangible  assets  and  other  assets  and  liabilities.  Changes  in estimates  later  than  one  year  from  the  acquisition  date  would  most  likely  be  recorded  in  the  income  statement.
Recent accounting developments
Adopted by the Group
From  1  January  2010,  the  Group  adopted  IFRS  3  ‘Business  Combinations  (Revised)’  and  IAS 27  ‘Consolidated  and  Separate  Financial  Statements  (Amended)’  (effective  for  periods  beginning  on  or after  1  July  2009)  which  affects  acquisitions  or  loss  of  control  of  subsidiaries  and  transactions  with  non-controlling  interests.  Prior  year  numbers  are  not  restated. Unilever  Annual  Report  and  Accounts  2010  81
Financial statements
2 Segment information
Our  operating  and  reportable  segments  are  the  three  operating  regions  of  Asia,  Africa  and  Central  &  Eastern  Europe  (Asia  Africa  CEE),  The Americas  and  Western  Europe.  Additional  information  is  provided  by  product  area;  our  products  are  sold  across  all  operating  regions.
The  analysis  of  turnover  by  geographical  area  is  stated  on  the  basis  of  origin.  Inter-segment  sales  are  carried  out  at  arm’s  length.  Inter-segment  sales  were  not  material.  Other  non-cash  charges  include  charges  to  the  income  statement  during  the  year  in  respect  of  the  share-based  compensation,  impairment  and  provisions.  Segment  results  are  presented  on  the  basis  of operating  profit.
           € million  € million  € million  € million
           Asia  Africa  The  Western               CEE  Americas  Europe  Total
  2010
Turnover          17,685  14,562  12,015  44,262
Operating  profit          2,253  2,169  1,917  6,339
Restructuring,  disposals,  impairments  and  other  one-off  items  (RDIs)
(a)
   (108) (159) (14) (281)
Operating  profit  before  RDIs          2,361 2,328 1,931 6,620
Share  of  net  profit/(loss)  of  joint  ventures          (1) 69 52 120
Share  of  net  profit/(loss)  of  associates          – – (9) (9)
Depreciation  and  amortisation          (323)  (292)  (378)  (993)
Impairment  and  other  non-cash  charges          (48) (188) (290) (526)
2009
Turnover          14,897  12,850  12,076  39,823
Operating  profit          1,927  1,843  1,250  5,020
Restructuring,  disposals,  impairments  and  other  one-off  items  (RDIs)
(a)
      (147)  (231)  (490)  (868)
Operating  profit  before  RDIs          2,074  2,074  1,740  5,888
Share  of  net  profit/(loss)  of  joint  ventures          –  62  49  111
Share  of  net  profit/(loss)  of  associates          –  –  4  4
Depreciation  and  amortisation          (301)  (311)  (407)  (1,019)
Impairment  and  other  non-cash  charges          (111)  (196)  (194)  (501)
2008
Turnover          14,471  13,199  12,853  40,523
Operating  profit          1,701  2,945  2,521  7,167
Restructuring,  disposals,  impairments  and  other  one-off  items  (RDIs)
(a)
      6  907  356  1,269
Operating  profit  before  RDIs          1,695  2,038  2,165  5,898
Share  of  net  profit/(loss)  of  joint  ventures          2  63  60  125
Share  of  net  profit/(loss)  of  associates          –  –  6  6
Depreciation  and  amortisation          (247)  (283)  (426)  (956)
Impairment  and  other  non-cash  charges          (27)
(b)
  (236)  (293)  (556)
(a)  Restructuring,  disposals,  impairments  and  other  one-off  items.  See  note  3  on  page  83  for  further  information.
(b)  Including  the  reversal  of  provisions  following  sale  of  edible  oil  business  in  Côte  d’Ivoire  (see  note  26  on  page  118). 82  Unilever  Annual  Report  and  Accounts  2010
Financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements Unilever  Group
2 Segment information (continued)
The  home  countries  of  the  Unilever  Group  are  the  Netherlands  and  the  United  Kingdom.  Turnover  and  non-current  assets  (other  than  other  non-current  financial  assets,  deferred  tax  assets  and  pension  assets  for  funded  schemes  in  surplus)  for  these  two  countries  combined,  the  USA  and  Brazil  (being  the  two  largest  countries  outside  the  home  countries)  and  all  other  countries  are:
     € million € million € million € million € million
         Netherlands/                   United       All  other    2010        Kingdom  USA  Brazil  countries  Total
Turnover        3,490 6,725 3,502 30,545 44,262
Non-current assets        2,602 5,960 2,681 15,412 26,655
2009
Turnover        3,384  6,332  2,796  27,311  39,823
Non-current assets        2,434  5,498  2,412  13,879  24,223
2008
Turnover        3,543  6,606  2,746  27,628  40,523
No  other  country  had  turnover  or  non-current  assets  (as  shown  above)  greater  than  10%  of  the  Group  total.
Additional information by product area
Although  the  Group’s  operations  are  managed  on  a  geographical  basis,  we  provide  additional  information  based  on  brands  grouped  into  four  principal  areas,  as  set  out  below.
Savoury, Dressings and Spreads  –  including  sales  of  soups,  bouillons,  sauces,  snacks,  mayonnaise,  salad  dressings,  margarines  and  spreads,  and cooking  products  such  as  liquid  margarines.
Ice Cream and Beverages  –  including  sales  of  ice  cream,  tea-based  beverages,  weight  management  products,  and  nutritionally  enhanced  staples  sold  in  developing  markets.  Personal Care  –  including  sales  of  skin  care  and  hair  care  products,  deodorants  and  anti-perspirants,  and  oral  care  products.
Home Care –  including  sales  of  home  care  products,  such  as  laundry  tablets,  powders  and  liquids,  soap  bars  and  a  wide  range  of  cleaning  products.
     € million € million € million € million € million
         Savoury,  Ice  Cream                   Dressings  and  Personal  Home              and  Spreads  Beverages  Care  Care  Total
2010
Turnover        14,164 8,605 13,767 7,726 44,262
Operating profit        2,846 724 2,296 473 6,339
 Share of net profit/(loss) of joint ventures        18 92 7 3 120
Share of net profit/(loss) of associates        – – – (9) (9)
2009
Turnover        13,256  7,753  11,846  6,968  39,823
Operating profit        1,840  731  1,834  615  5,020
 Share of net profit/(loss) of joint ventures        14  87  4  6  111
Share of net profit/(loss) of associates        –  –  –  4  4
2008
Turnover        14,232  7,694  11,383  7,214  40,523
Operating profit        3,216  915  1,824  1,212  7,167
Share of net profit/(loss) of joint ventures        15  98  5  7  125
Share of net profit/(loss) of associates        –  –  –  6  6 Unilever  Annual  Report  and  Accounts  2010  83
Financial statements  3 Gross profit and operating costs
             € million  €  million  €  million
             2010  2009  2008
  Turnover            44,262 39,823  40,523
Cost  of  sales            (23,054) (20,580)  (21,342)
Gross  profit            21,208 19,243  19,181
Distribution  and  selling  costs
(a)
            (11,730) (9,468)  (9,309)
Administrative  expenses            (3,139) (4,755)  (2,705)
  Research  and  development            (928)  (891)  (927)
  Other
(b)
            (2,211) (3,864)  (1,778)
  Operating  profit            6,339 5,020  7,167
(a)  During  2010,  the  Group  reassessed  the  presentation  of  certain  costs  which  in  prior  years  have  been  presented  within  “Administrative    expenses  –  other”.  These  are  considered  to  be  more  appropriately  recorded  in  “Distribution  and  selling  costs”  and  in  2010  €1,445  million  has  been  reported  here,  rather  than  within  “Administrative  expenses  –  other”  as  they  would  have  been  in  prior  years.  The  comparative  information  has  not  been  re-presented.  There  is  no  impact  on  gross  profit  or  operating  profit  in  2010,  2009  or  2008.
(b)  Includes  gain  on  disposals  of  group  companies,  amortisation  of  finite-lived  intangible  assets  and  impairment  of  goodwill  and  intangible  assets.  Gains  on  business  disposals  were  particularly  significant  in  2008  (see  below  and  note  26  on  page  119).
The  following  items  are  disclosed  on  the  face  of  the  income  statement  to  provide  additional  information  to  users  to  help  them  better  understand  underlying  business  performance.
             € million  €  million  €  million
             2010  2009  2008
  Restructuring            (589) (897)  (868)
Business  disposals,  impairments  and  other  one-off  items:
  Gain/(loss)  on  disposals  of  group  companies            468  4  2,190
  Impairments            –  –  (53)
  (Provision  for)/release  of  Brazilian  sales  tax            –  25  –
  Provision  for  EU  competition  investigations            (110)  – –
  Acquisition  and  integration  costs            (50)  –  –
Restructuring  costs  are  incurred  as  Unilever  continues  to  simplify  the  organisation,  reorganise  operations  and  support  functions  and  redevelop  the  portfolio.  They  primarily  relate  to  redundancy  and  retirement  costs.  Business  disposals  generate  both  costs  and  revenues  which  are  not  reflective  of underlying  performance.  Impairment  charges  are  primarily  recognised  for  goodwill  other  than  where  included  in  restructuring  or  as  part  of  business  disposals.  Acquisition  and  integration  costs  are  one-off  expenses  incurred  in  relation  to  the  purchase  of  businesses.
Other  items  within  operating  costs  include:
             € million  €  million  €  million
             2010  2009  2008
  Staff  costs  4            (5,599)  (5,223)  (5,274)
Raw  and  packaging  materials  and  goods  purchased  for  resale          (17,636)  (15,267)  (16,489)
Amortisation  of  finite-lived  intangible  assets  and  software          (174)  (168)  (168)
Depreciation  of  property,  plant  and  equipment            (819)  (851)  (788)
Advertising  and  promotions            (6,064)  (5,302)  (5,055)
Exchange  gains/(losses):            7  (33)  108
  On  underlying  transactions            (36)  (19)  77
  On  covering  forward  contracts            43  (14)  31
  Lease  rentals:            (465)  (472)  (487)
  Minimum  operating  lease  payments            (465)  (475)  (495)
  Contingent  operating  lease  payments            (4)  (3)  –
  Less:  Sub-lease  income  relating  to  operating  lease  agreements          4  6  8
  84  Unilever  Annual  Report  and  Accounts  2010
Financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements Unilever  Group
4 Staff and management costs
             € million  €  million  €  million
Staff costs            2010  2009  2008
Remuneration  of  employees            (4,572) (4,162)  (4,193)
Pensions  and  other  post-employment  benefits            (276) (256)  (329)
Social  security  costs            (607) (610)  (627)
Share-based  compensation  costs            (144) (195)  (125)
               (5,599) (5,223)  (5,274)
               ’000  ’000  ’000
Average number of employees during the year            2010  2009  2008
Asia,  Africa  and  Central  &  Eastern  Europe            96 98  100
The  Americas            40 41  42
Western  Europe            29 29  32
                 165 168  174
               € million  €  million  €  million
Key management compensation            2010  2009  2008
Salaries  and  short-term  employee  benefits            (17) (13)  (16)
Non-Executive  Directors’  fees            (2) (2)  (2)
Post-employment  benefits            (2) (2)  (5)
Share-based  benefits            (10) (7)  (7)
                  (31) (24)  (30)
  Of  which:
  Executive  Directors            (7) (7)  (16)
  Non-Executive  Directors            (2) (2)  (2)
  Other            (22) (15)  (12)
               (31) (24)  (30)
  Key  management  personnel  are  defined  as  the  members  of  UEx  and  the  Non-Executive  Directors.
Details  of  the  remuneration  of  Directors  are  given  in  the  parts  noted  as  audited  in  the  Directors’  Remuneration  Report  on  pages  61  to  67.  5 Net finance costs
             € million  €  million  €  million
Finance costs            2010  2009  2008
Finance  costs            (491) (504)  (506)
  Bank  loans  and  overdrafts            (38) (47)  (73)
  Bonds  and  other  loans            (441) (429)  (429)
  Dividends  paid  on  preference  shares            (6) (7)  (7)
  Net  gain/(loss)  on  derivatives  for  which  hedge  accounting  is  not  applied
(a)
        (6)  (21)  3
  On  foreign  exchange  derivatives            (601) (168)  (221)
  Exchange  difference  on  underlying  items            595  147  224
  Finance  income            77 75  106
Pensions  and  similar  obligations
(b)
            20  (164)  143
                 (394) (593)  (257)
  (a)  For  further  details  of  derivatives  for  which  hedge  accounting  is  not  applied  please  refer  to  note  15  on  page  101.
(b)  Net  finance  costs  in  respect  of  pensions  and  similar  obligations  are  analysed  in  note  19  on  page  110. Unilever  Annual  Report  and  Accounts  2010  85
Financial statements  6 Taxation
             € million  €  million  €  million
Tax charge in income statement            2010  2009  2008
Current tax
Current year            (1,479) (1,263)  (1,650)
Over/(under) provided in prior years
(a)
            88 151  80
                 (1,391) (1,112)  (1,570)
Deferred tax
Origination and reversal of temporary differences            (237) (276)  (271)
Changes in tax rates            (2) 3  (3)
Recognition of previously unrecognised losses brought forward          96 128  –
                 (143) (145)  (274)
                 (1,534) (1,257)  (1,844)
  (a)  Provisions  have  been  released  following  the  favourable  settlement  of  prior  year  tax  audits  in  a  number  of  countries,  none  of  which  is  individually  material.
The  reconciliation  between  the  computed  weighted  average  rate  of  income  tax  expense,  which  is  generally  applicable  to  Unilever  companies,  and the  actual  rate  of  taxation  charged  is  as  follows:
             %  %  %
Reconciliation of effective tax rate            2010  2009  2008
Computed rate of tax
(b)
            28  29  30
Differences  due  to:
Incentive  tax  credits            (5)  (6)  (5)
Withholding  tax  on  dividends            2  2  2
Adjustments  to  previous  years            (3)  (3)  (2)
Expenses  not  deductible  for  tax  purposes            1  1  1
Other            3 3  –
Effective tax rate            26 26  26
(b)  The  computed  tax  rate  used  is  the  average  of  the  standard  rate  of  tax  applicable  in  the  countries  in  which  Unilever  operates,  weighted  by  the  amount  of  profit  before  taxation  generated  in  each  of  those  countries.  For  this  reason  the  rate  may  vary  from  year  to  year  according  to  the  mix  of  profit  and  related  tax  rates. 86  Unilever  Annual  Report  and  Accounts  2010
Financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements Unilever  Group
7 Combined earnings per share
             €  €  €
Combined earnings per share            2010  2009  2008
Basic  earnings  per  share            1.51 1.21  1.79
Diluted  earnings  per  share            1.46 1.17  1.73
Basis of calculation
The  calculations  of  combined  earnings  per  share  are  based  on  the  net  profit  attributable  to  ordinary  capital  divided  by  the  average  number  of  share  units  representing  the  combined  ordinary  share  capital  of  NV  and  PLC  in  issue  during  the  year,  after  deducting  shares  held  as  treasury  stock.
The  calculations  of  diluted  earnings  per  share  are  based  on:  (i)  conversion  into  PLC  ordinary  shares  of  those  shares  in  a  group  company  which  are  convertible  in  the  year  2038,  as  described  in  Corporate  governance  on  page  50;  and  (ii)  the  effect  of  share-based  compensation  plans,  details  of which  are  set  out  in  note  29  on  pages  121  to  122.
               Millions  of  share  units
Calculation of average number of share units            2010  2009  2008
Average  number  of  shares:  NV            1,714.7 1,714.7  1,714.7
     PLC            1,310.2 1,310.2  1,310.2
Less  shares  held  by  employee  share  trusts  and  companies          (212.6) (228.6)  (215.3)
Combined  average  number  of  share  units  for  all  bases  except  diluted  earnings  per  share      2,812.3 2,796.3  2,809.6
Add  shares  issuable  in  2038            70.9 70.9  70.9
Add  dilutive  effect  of  share-based  compensation  plans           21.9 22.8  25.4
Adjusted  combined  average  number  of  share  units  for  diluted  earnings  per  share  basis      2,905.1 2,890.0  2,905.9
             € million  €  million  €  million
Calculation of earnings            2010  2009  2008
For  earnings  per  share  from  total  operations:
Net  profit  from  total  operations            4,598 3,659  5,285
Non-controlling  interest  in  total  operations            (354) (289)  (258)
Net  profit  attributable  to  ordinary  capital  for  total  operations          4,244 3,370  5,027
The  numbers  of  shares  included  in  the  calculation  of  earnings  per  share  is  an  average  for  the  period.  These  numbers  are  influenced  by  the  share  buy-back  programmes  that  we  undertook  during  2008.  During  this  period  the  following  movements  in  shares  took  place:
               Millions  of  share  units
             2010  2009  2008
  Number  of  shares  at  1  January  (net  of  treasury  stock)            2,804.2 2,789.1  2,853.1
Net  movements  in  shares  under  incentive  schemes             5.6 15.1  11.4
Share  buy-back            – –  (75.4)
Number  of  shares  at  31  December             2,809.8 2,804.2  2,789.1 Unilever  Annual  Report  and  Accounts  2010  87
Financial statements  8 Dividends on ordinary capital
            € million  €  million  €  million
Dividends paid on ordinary capital during the year          2010  2009  2008
Final NV dividend for the prior year             – (786)  (779)
Final PLC dividend for the prior year             – (570)  (548)
Interim NV dividend for the current year             – (417)  (397)
Interim PLC dividend for the current year             – (342)  (328)
NV quarterly dividend announced with Q4 2009 results            (301)  –  –
NV quarterly dividend announced with Q1 2010 results            (323)  –  –
NV quarterly dividend announced with Q2 2010 results            (323)  –  –
NV quarterly dividend announced with Q3 2010 results            (323)  –  –
PLC quarterly dividend announced with Q4 2009 results          (251)  –  –
PLC quarterly dividend announced with Q1 2010 results          (265)  –  –
PLC quarterly dividend announced with Q2 2010 results          (255)  –  –
PLC quarterly dividend announced with Q3 2010 results          (268)  –  –
                 (2,309) (2,115)  (2,052)
  Of which:
  NV dividends             (1,270) (1,203)  (1,176)
  PLC dividends            (1,039) (912)  (876)
Full  details  of  dividends  per  share  for  the  years  2006  to  2010  are  given  on  page  125.
9 Goodwill and intangible assets
Indefinite-lived  intangible  assets  principally  comprise  those  trademarks  for  which  there  is  no  foreseeable  limit  to  the  period  over  which  they  are  expected  to  generate  net  cash  inflows.  These  are  considered  to  have  an  indefinite  life,  given  the  strength  and  durability  of  our  brands  and  the  level of  marketing  support.  Brands  that  are  classified  as  indefinite-lived  have  been  in  the  market  for  many  years,  and  the  nature  of  the  industry  we  operate  in  is  such  that  brand  obsolescence  is  not  common,  if  appropriately  supported  by  advertising  and  marketing  spend.  Finite-lived  intangible  assets,  which  primarily  comprise  patented  and  non-patented  technology,  know-how,  and  software,  are  capitalised  and  amortised  in  operating  profit  on  a  straight-line  basis  over  the  period  of  their  expected  useful  lives,  none  of  which  exceeds  ten  years.  The  level  of  amortisation  for  finite-lived  intangible  assets  is  not  expected  to  change  materially  over  the  next  five  years.
                  € million  €  million
At cost less amortisation and impairment                 2010  2009
Goodwill                 13,178 12,464
Intangible assets:                 5,100 4,583
  Indefinite-lived intangible assets                 4,532 4,050
  Finite-lived intangible assets                 104 153
  Software                 464 380
                      18,278 17,047
           € million  € million  € million  € million  € million
          Indefinite- Finite-    
       lived lived    
       intangible intangible       Movements during 2010        Goodwill assets assets Software Total
Cost
1 January 2010        13,408 4,269 611 687 18,975
Acquisitions of group companies        259 256 1 – 516
Disposals of group companies        (222) (1) – – (223)
Reclassed to held for disposal        (82) – – – (82)
Additions        – 1 1 180 182
Disposals        (1) (8) – (16) (25)
Currency retranslation        823 250 31 48 1,152
31 December 2010        14,185 4,767 644 899 20,495
Amortisation and impairment
1 January 2010        (944) (219) (458) (307) (1,928)
Disposal of group companies        – – – – –
Amortisation for the year        – – (58) (116) (174)
Disposals        – – – 6 6
Currency retranslation        (63) (16) (24) (18) (121)
31 December 2010        (1,007) (235) (540) (435) (2,217)
Net book value 31 December 2010        13,178 4,532 104 464 18,278 88  Unilever  Annual  Report  and  Accounts  2010
Financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements Unilever  Group
9 Goodwill and intangible assets (continued)
         €  million  €  million  €  million  €  million  €  million
            Indefinite-  Finite-                   lived  lived                   intangible  intangible       Movements during 2009        Goodwill  assets  assets  Software  Total
Cost
1 January 2009        12,617  4,107  598  580  17,902
Acquisitions of group companies        350  105  1  –  456
Disposals of group companies        –  (1)  –  –  (1)
Additions        –  1  –  149  150
Disposals        –  –  –  (72)  (72)
Currency retranslation        441  57  12  30  540
31 December 2009        13,408  4,269  611  687  18,975
Amortisation and impairment
1 January 2009        (952)  (221)  (392)  (246)  (1,811)
Disposal of group companies        –  –  –  –  –
Amortisation for the year        –  –  (58)  (110)  (168)
Disposals        –  –  –  62  62
Currency retranslation        8  2  (8)  (13)  (11)
31 December 2009        (944)  (219)  (458)  (307)  (1,928)
Net book value 31 December 2009        12,464  4,050  153  380  17,047
There  are  no  significant  carrying  amounts  of  goodwill  and  intangible  assets  that  are  allocated  across  multiple  cash  generating  units  (CGUs).
Impairments charge in the year
There  were  no  material  impairments  in  either  2010  or  2009.  Significant CGUs
The  goodwill  and  indefinite-lived  intangible  assets  (predominantly  Knorr  and  Hellmann’s)  held  in  the  regional  Savoury,  Dressings  and  Spreads  CGUs  are  considered  significant  in  comparison  to  the  total  carrying  amounts  of  goodwill  and  indefinite-lived  intangible  assets  at  31  December  2010.  No other  CGUs  are  considered  significant  in  this  respect.
The  goodwill  and  indefinite-lived  intangible  assets  held  in  the  regional  Savoury  and  Dressings  CGUs  are:
           € billion € billion €  billion  €  billion
           2010  2010  2009  2009
              Indefinite-     Indefinite-
              lived     lived
           Goodwill  intangibles  Goodwill  intangibles
  Western  Europe            5.2  1.4  5.2  1.3
The  Americas            4.2  1.5  3.9  1.3
Asia  Africa  CEE            1.8 0.6  1.9  0.6
During  2010,  we  conducted  an  impairment  review  of  the  carrying  value  of  these  assets.  Value  in  use  in  the  regional  Savoury,  Dressings  and  Spreads  CGUs  has  been  calculated  as  the  present  value  of  projected  future  cash  flows.  A  pre-tax  discount  rate  of  10%  was  used.
The  following  key  assumptions  were  used  in  the  discounted  cash  flow  projections  for  the  regional  Savoury,  Dressings  and  Spreads  CGUs:
•  a  longer-term  sustainable  growth  rate  of  2%  to  3%  for  Western  Europe,  3%  to  5%  for  The  Americas  and  8%  to  9%  for  Asia  Africa  CEE;
•  average  near-term  nominal  growth  rates  for  the  major  product  groups  within  the  CGUs  of  2%  Western  Europe,  4%  The  Americas,  10% for Asia  Africa  CEE;  and
•  average  operating  margins  for  the  major  product  groups  within  the  CGUs  ranging  from  18%  to  21%  Western  Europe,  17%  to  23%  The Americas  and  10%  to  14%  Asia  Africa  CEE.
The  growth  rates  and  margins  used  to  estimate  future  performance  are  based  on  past  performance  and  our  experience  of  growth  rates  and  margins  achievable  in  our  key  markets.  We  believe  that  the  assumptions  used  in  estimating  the  future  performance  of  the  regional  Savoury,  Spreads  and  Dressings  CGUs  are  consistent  with  past  performance.
The  projections  covered  a  period  of  ten  years  as  we  believe  this  to  be  a  suitable  timescale  over  which  to  review  and  consider  annual  performance  before  applying  a  fixed  terminal  value  multiple  to  the  final  year  cash  flows  of  the  detailed  projection.  Stopping  the  detailed  projections  after  five  years  and  applying  a  terminal  value  multiple  thereafter  would  not  result  in  a  value  in  use  that  would  cause  impairment.
The  growth  rates  used  to  estimate  future  performance  beyond  the  periods  covered  by  our  annual  planning  and  strategic  planning  processes  do not exceed  the  long-term  average  rates  of  growth  for  similar  products.
We  have  performed  sensitivity  analyses  around  the  base  case  assumptions  and  have  concluded  that  no  reasonable  possible  changes  in  key  assumptions  would  cause  the  recoverable  amount  of  the  regional  Savoury,  Spreads  and  Dressings  CGUs  to  be  less  than  the  carrying  amount. Unilever  Annual  Report  and  Accounts  2010  89
Financial statements  10 Property, plant and equipment
                € million  €  million
At cost less depreciation and impairment               2010  2009
Land and buildings               2,373 2,148
Plant and equipment               5,481 4,496
                    7,854 6,644
  Includes freehold land               211 160
Commitments for capital expenditure at 31 December               409 291
             € million  € million  € million
             Land and Plant and    Movements during 2010      buildings equipment Total
Gross
1 January 2010            3,237 10,408 13,645
Acquisition of group companies            46 28 74
Disposals of group companies            (18) (142) (160)
Additions            215 1,486 1,701
Disposals            (65) (496) (561)
Currency retranslation            224 671 895
Reclassification as held for sale            (40) (105) (145)
Other adjustments            (17) (14) (31)
31 December 2010            3,582 11,836 15,418
Depreciation
1 January 2010            (1,089) (5,912) (7,001)
Disposals of group companies            7 85 92
Depreciation charge for the year            (119) (700) (819)
Disposals            51 436 487
Currency Retranslation            (65) (358) (423)
Reclassification as held for sale            14 56 70
Other adjustments            (8) 38 30
31 December 2010            (1,209) (6,355) (7,564)
Net book value 31 December 2010            2,373 5,481 7,854
Includes payments on account and assets in course of construction          153 997 1,150
  90  Unilever  Annual  Report  and  Accounts  2010
Financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements Unilever  Group
10 Property, plant and equipment (continued)
             €  million  €  million  €  million
             Land  and  Plant  and    Movements during 2009            buildings  equipment  Total
Gross
1 January 2009            2,840  9,519  12,359
Acquisition of group companies            21  5  26
Disposals of group companies            (11)  (3)  (14)
Additions            315  1,047  1,362
Disposals            (36)  (513)  (549)
Currency retranslation            114  406  520
Reclassification as held for sale            (9)  (17)  (26)
Other adjustments            3  (36)  (33)
31 December 2009            3,237  10,408  13,645
Depreciation 
1 January 2009            (981)  (5,421)  (6,402)
Disposals of group companies            8  2  10
Depreciation charge for the year            (103)  (748)  (851)
Disposals            15  431  446
Currency retranslation            (34)  (203)  (237)
Reclassification as held for sale            3  6  9
Other adjustments            3  21  24
31 December 2009            (1,089)  (5,912)  (7,001)
Net book value 31 December 2009            2,148  4,496  6,644
Includes payments on account and assets in course of construction          203  709  912
Included  in  the  above  is  property,  plant  and  equipment  under  a  number  of  finance  lease  agreements,  for  which  the  book  values  are  as  follows:
             € million € million € million
                Plant  and    Net book value             Buildings  equipment  Total
Gross book value            197 205 402
Depreciation             (36) (160) (196)
31 December 2010            161 45 206
Gross book value            189  207  396
Depreciation             (24)  (150)  (174)
31  December  2009            165  57  222  Unilever  Annual  Report  and  Accounts  2010  91
Financial statements  11 Other non-current assets
               € million  €  million
               2010  2009    Interest  in  net  assets  of  joint  ventures              44 60
Interest  in  net  assets  of  associates              45 42
Other  non-current  financial  assets
(a)
:              511 485
  Loans  and  receivables              2 2
  Available-for-sale  financial  assets
(b)(c)
              406 436
  Financial  assets  at  fair  value  through  profit  or  loss
(c)              103 47
  Long-term  trade  and  other  receivables
(d)
              154 212
Fair  value  of  biological  assets              34 32
Other  non-financial  assets              246 186
                 1,034 1,017
  (a)  Predominantly  consist  of  investments  in  a  number  of  companies  and  financial  institutions  in  India,  Europe  and  the  US,  including  €128  million  (2009:  €129  million)  of  assets  in  a  trust  to  fund  benefit  obligations  in  the  US  (see  also  note  19  on  page  110).
(b)  Includes  unlisted  preferred  shares  arising  in  connection  with  US  laundry  disposal.
(c)  Methods  of  valuation  techniques  used  to  determine  fair  values  are  given  in  note  15  on  page  102.
(d)  Classified  as  loans  and  receivables.
               € million  €  million
Movements during 2010 and 2009              2010  2009
Joint ventures
(e)
1  January              60 73
Additions              3 –
Dividends  received/reductions              (148) (145)
Share  in  net  profit              120 111
Currency  retranslation              9 21
31  December              44 60
Associates
(f)
1  January               42 67
Acquisitions/(disposals)              18 –
Dividends  received/reductions              (6) (32)
Share  in  net  profit              (9) 4
Currency  retranslation              – 3
31  December              45 42
(e)  Our  principal  joint  ventures  are  Unilever  Jerónimo  Martins  in  Portugal,  Pepsi  Lipton  International  and  the  Pepsi/Lipton  Partnership  in  the  US.
(f)  Associates  as  at  31  December  2010  primarily  comprise  our  investments  in  Langholm  Capital  Partners  and  Physic  Ventures.  Other  Unilever  Ventures  assets  are  included  under  ‘Other  non-current  financial  assets’  above.
               € million  €  million
Analysis of listed and unlisted investments              2010  2009
Investments  listed  on  a  recognised  stock  exchange              50 60
Unlisted  investments              461 425
                 511 485
              € million  €  million  €  million
Other income from non-current investments            2010  2009  2008
Income  from  other  non-current  investments            76 47  19
Profit/(loss)  on  disposal
(g)
            – 327  69
               76 374  88
  (g)  For  2008  includes  disposal  of  Palmci  plantations.
  For  2009  includes  €327  million  profit  from  the  disposal  of  the  majority  of  our  equity  interest  in  JohnsonDiversey.
The  joint  ventures  and  associates  have  no  significant  contingent  liabilities  to  which  the  Group  is  exposed,  and  the  Group  has  no  significant  contingent  liabilities  in  relation  to  its  interest  in  the  joint  ventures  and  associates.
The  Group  has  no  outstanding  capital  commitments  to  joint  ventures.  Outstanding  balances  with  joint  ventures  and  associates  are  shown  in  note  30  on  page  122. 92  Unilever  Annual  Report  and  Accounts  2010
Financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements Unilever  Group
12 Inventories
               € million  €  million
Inventories              2010  2009
Raw materials and consumables              1,554 1,298
Finished goods and goods for resale              2,755 2,280
                   4,309 3,578
  Inventories  with  a  value  of  €132  million  (2009:  €91  million)  are  carried  at  net  realisable  value,  this  being  lower  than  cost.  During  2010,  €135  million  (2009:  €200  million)  was  charged  to  the  income  statement  for  damaged,  obsolete  and  lost  inventories.  In  2010,  €42  million  (2009: €19 million)  was  utilised  or  released  to  the  income  statement  from  inventory  provisions  taken  in  earlier  years.
In  2010,  inventories  with  a  carrying  amount  of  €3  million  were  pledged  as  security  for  certain  of  the  Group’s  borrowings  (2009:  €10  million).
13 Trade and other receivables
               € million  €  million
Trade and other receivables              2010  2009
Due within one year
Trade receivables              2,541 2,314
Prepayments and accrued income              622 472
Other receivables              972 643
                 4,135 3,429
  Credit  terms  for  customers  are  determined  in  individual  territories.  Concentrations  of  credit  risk  with  respect  to  trade  receivables  are  limited,  due  to the  Group’s  customer  base  being  large  and  diverse.  Our  historical  experience  of  collecting  receivables,  supported  by  the  level  of  default,  is  that  credit  risk  is  low  across  territories  and  so  trade  receivables  are  considered  to  be  a  single  class  of  financial  assets.  Other  receivables  comprise  loans  and  receivables  of  €286  million  (2009:  €221  million)  and  other  non-financial  assets  of  €686  million  (2009:  €422  million).  We  do  not  consider  the  fair  values  of  trade  and  other  receivables  to  be  significantly  different  from  their  carrying  values.  Balances  are  considered  for  impairment  on  an  individual  basis  rather  than  by  reference  to  the  extent  that  they  become  overdue.
               € million  €  million
Ageing of trade receivables               2010  2009
Total trade receivables              2,658 2,443
Less impairment provision for trade receivables              (117) (129)
                 2,541 2,314
Of which:
Not overdue              2,228 1,768
Past due less than three months              242 443
Past due more than three months but less than six months            56 81
Past due more than six months but less than one year              22 57
Past due more than one year              110 94
Impairment provision for trade receivables              (117) (129)
                   2,541 2,314
                 € million  €  million
Impairment provision for trade and other receivables – current and non-current impairments      2010  2009
1 January              157 165
Charged to current year income statement              24 27
Reductions/releases              (35) (40)
Currency retranslation              10 5
31 December              156 157
Other  classes  of  assets  in  trade  and  other  receivables  do  not  include  any  impaired  assets. Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2010 93
Financial statements 
14 Financial assets and liabilities
        € million € million
Summary of financial assets and liabilities
(a)
       2010 2009
Financial liabilities as per balance sheet       (9,534) (9,971)
Financial liabilities due within one year       (2,276) (2,279)
Financial liabilities due after one year       (7,258) (7,692)
  
Cash and cash equivalents as per balance sheet       2,316 2,642
Cash and cash equivalents as per cash flow statement       1,966 2,397
Add bank overdrafts deducted therein       350 245
  
Other financial assets       550 972
Net financial assets and liabilities       (6,668) (6,357)
(a) Excluding trade and other payables/receivables.
        € million € million
Cash and cash equivalents and other financial assets      2010 2009
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash at bank and in hand       732 744
Short-term deposits with maturity of less than three months      888 748
Other cash equivalents
(b)
       696 1,150
         2,316 2,642
Other financial assets
(c)
Loans and receivables       3 –
Available-for-sale financial assets
(e)(f)
       127 613
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss
(d)(e)(f)
       420 359
         550 972
Of which:
Listed       40 94
Unlisted       510 878
         550 972
 
(b) Other cash equivalents are wholly comprised of available-for-sale financial assets and include investments in money market funds 
of €603 million (2009: €1,096 million) for which the risk of changes in value is insignificant.
(c) Other financial assets include government securities, A-minus or higher rated money and capital market instruments and derivatives.
(d) Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss include derivatives amounting to €403 million (2009: €271 million). The fair value of 
derivatives is determined by calculating the discounted value of the related future cash flows. Discounting of the cash flows is done based 
on the relevant yield curves and exchange rates as per the end of the year.
(e) Methods of valuation technique used to determine fair value are given in note 15 on page 102.
(f) Includes €4 million (2009: €70 million) fair value through profit or loss and €nil (2009: €393 million) available-for-sale, both relating 
to an employee savings programme. 94 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements Unilever Group 
14 Financial assets and liabilities (continued)
        € million € million
Financial liabilities       2010 2009
Preference shares       90 124
Bank loans and overdrafts       1,678 1,415
Bonds and other loans
 At amortised cost       4,924 5,805
 Subject to fair value hedge accounting       2,331 2,308
Finance lease creditors 25       208 212
Derivatives        303 107
         9,534 9,971
 
All the preference shares and the bank loans and overdrafts are valued at amortised cost.
        € million € million
Financial liabilities – additional details       2010 2009
The repayments fall due as follows
Within one year:
Bank loans and overdrafts       1,164 450
Bonds and other loans       814 1,713
Finance lease creditors       19 22
Derivatives       279 94
Total due within one year       2,276 2,279
After one year but within two years       1,469 834
After two years but within three years       1,188 1,328
After three years but within four years       988 1,159
After four years but within five years       1,054 929
After five years       2,559 3,442
Total due after more than one year       7,258 7,692
Secured financial liabilities       93 83
Of which secured against property, plant and equipment      90 76
     € million     € million € million € million
           Issued,    
   Number   Nominal Number called up    
   of shares   value of shares and fully Statutory  
Preference shares  authorised Authorised per share issued paid Reserve Total
Preference shares NV as at 31 December 2010
7% Cumulative Preference  75,000 32 €428.57 29,000 12 1 13
6% Cumulative Preference
(g)
  200,000 86 €428.57 161,060 69 4 73
Share premium          4 –  4
      118     85 5 90
 
Preference shares NV as at 31 December 2009
7% Cumulative Preference  75,000 32 €428.57 29,000 12 1 13
6% Cumulative Preference
(g)
  200,000 86 €428.57 161,060 69 4 73
4% Cumulative Preference
(h)
  750,000 32 €42.86 750,000 32 2 34
Share premium          4   4
  
      150     117 7 124
 
(g)  The 6% cumulative preference shares are traded in the market in units of one tenth of their nominal value. 
The 6% and 7% cumulative preference shares of NV are entitled to dividends at the rates indicated.
(h) The 4% cumulative preference shares were redeemed on 9 August 2010 against repayment of the face value. Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2010 95
Financial statements 
14 Financial assets and liabilities (continued)
Additional details
Details of specific bonds and other loans are given below:
      € million € million € million € million
      Amortised Fair Amortised Fair
      cost value cost value
      2010 2010
(i)
 2009 2009
(i)
 
Unilever N.V.
3.625% notes 2011 (Swiss francs)     320 – 271 –
3.125% notes 2012 (Swiss francs)     200 – 169 –
4.625% Bonds 2012 (€)
(j)
     – 759 – 749
4.875% Bonds 2013 (€)     – 806 – 811
3.125% Bonds 2013 (US $)     336 – 313 –
3.500% notes 2015 (Swiss francs)     279 – 236 –
3.375% Bonds 2015 (€)
(j)
     – 766 – 748
Other     33 – 33 –
Total Unilever N.V.     1,168 2,331 1,022 2,308
Unilever PLC
4.000% Bonds 2014 (£)     403 – 391 –
4.750% Bonds 2017 (£)     461 – 447 –
Total Unilever PLC     864 – 838 –
Other group companies
At amortised cost:
Netherlands
Commercial paper (€)     203 – – –
Other
(k)
     39 – 440 –
United States
7.125% Bonds 2010 (US $)     – – 1,219 –
3.650% Notes 2014 (US $)     559 – 521 –
7.000% Bonds 2017 (US $)     109 – 102 –
4.800% Notes 2019 (US $)     559 – 521 –
7.250% Bonds 2026 (US $)     215 – 200 –
6.625% Bonds 2028 (US $)     165 – 153 –
5.900% Bonds 2032 (US $)     735 – 686 –
5.600% Bonds 2097 (US $)     68 – 64 –
Commercial paper (US $)     224 – 10 –
Other     11 – 10 –
South Africa
Commercial paper (South African rand)     – – 14 –
Other countries     5 – 5 –
Total other group companies     2,892 – 3,945 –
Total bonds and other loans     4,924 2,331 5,805 2,308
(i) As required by fair value hedge accounting, the fair value of the bonds and other loans is based on their amortised cost adjusted for the fair 
value effect of the risk being hedged. 
(j) Reclassifications: During 2009 Unilever started fair value hedge accounting for the 4.625% Euro bonds and the 3.375% Euro bonds.
(k) 2009 included €427 million financial liabilities repaid during 2010 in relation to the closure of an employee savings programme. 
For related assets see page 93. 96 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements Unilever Group 
14 Financial assets and liabilities (continued)
Interest rate profile and currency analysis of financial assets
The table set out below takes into account the various interest rate swaps and forward foreign currency contracts entered into by the Group, 
details of which are set out in note 15 on pages 98 to 104.
The interest rate profiles of the Group’s financial assets analysed by principal currency are set out in the table below:
    € million     € million   € million
    Fixed Fixed Fixed Floating Floating  
    rate rate rate rate rate Total
 
    Amount Average Weighted   Interest 
    of fixing interest rate average   rate for 
    for following for following fixing   following 
    year year period   year 
 
Assets – 2010
Euro   66 3.1% 0.3 years 9,469 1.1% 9,535
(l)
Sterling   –     24 0.8% 24
US dollar   –     47 0.3% 47
Indian rupee   –     628 9.6% 628
Brazilian real   –     67 10.7% 67
Other   –     648 4.2% 648
     66     10,883   10,949
Euro leg of currency derivatives mainly relating to intra-group loans
(l) 
         (8,083)
Total             2,866
(m)
Assets – 2009
Euro   351 2.3% 0.2 years 7,802 0.9% 8,153
(l)
Sterling   –     36 0.8% 36
US dollar   –     71 0.4% 71
Indian rupee   –     472 6.6% 472
Brazilian real   –     36 8.7% 36
Other   –     735 5.2% 735
     351     9,152   9,503
Euro leg of currency derivatives mainly relating to intra-group loans
(l)
           (5,889)
Total             3,614
(m)
(l)  Includes the euro leg of the currency derivatives relating to intra-group loans, amounting to €8,083 million (2009: €5,889 million). These 
derivatives create a euro interest rate exposure. However, to reconcile the total assets with the balance sheet, the total value is eliminated 
again. The other leg of the currency derivatives is shown on page 97 as part of the interest rate profile of financial liabilities.
(m) Includes fair value of financial liability-related derivatives amounting to €403 million (2009: €271 million).  Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2010 97
Financial statements 
14 Financial assets and liabilities (continued)
Interest rate profile and currency analysis of financial liabilities
The table set out below takes into account the various interest rate swaps and forward foreign currency contracts entered into by the Group, 
details of which are set out in note 15 on pages 98 to 104. The interest rate profiles of the Group’s financial liabilities analysed by principal 
currency are set out in the table below:
    € million     € million   € million
    Fixed Fixed Fixed Floating Floating
    rate rate rate rate rate Total
 
    Amount Average Weighted   Interest  
    of fixing interest rate average   rate for  
    for following for following fixing   following  
    year year period   year  
 
Liabilities – 2010
Euro
(n)
   90 6.1% 5.0 years 4,770 1.2% 4,860
Sterling   1,014 4.8% 7.3 years 2,816 1.0% 3,830
US dollar   2,838 5.3% 13.1 years 2,704 0.5% 5,542
Swiss francs   773 3.5% 2.1 years (145) 0.2% 628
Japanese yen   –     551 1.2% 551
Swedish krona   –     415 2.5% 415
Russian rouble   –     262 5.2% 262
Chinese yuan   –     200 6.4% 200
Thai baht   58 4.0% 0.9 years 148 2.0% 206
Australian dollar   –   138 5.1% 138
Other   239 8.7% 2.5 years 746 6.2% 985
     5,012     12,605   17,617
Foreign currency leg of currency derivatives relating to intra-group loans
(o)
           (8,083)
Total
   
          9,534
(p)
Liabilities – 2009
Euro
(n)
   124 5.6% 5.0 years 4,274 1.0% 4,398
Sterling   1,428 3.8% 5.7 years 1,436 0.9% 2,864
US dollar   4,391 5.1% 8.8 years 1,368 0.5% 5,759
Swiss francs   678 3.6% 3.1 years (106) 0.4% 572
Japanese yen   –     451 0.3% 451
Swedish krona   –     352 1.0% 352
Russian rouble   –     190 10.8% 190
Chinese yuan   –     186 2.3% 186
Thai baht   52 4.0% 1.9 years 124 1.3% 176
Australian dollar   2 5.3% 10.0 years 164 4.8% 166
Other   108 10.4% 3.4 years 638 5.6% 746
     6,783     9,077   15,860
Foreign currency leg of currency derivatives relating to intra-group loans
(o)
           (5,889)
Total
   
          9,971
(p)
(n)  Euro financial liabilities include €90 million (2009: €124 million) preference shares that provide for a fixed preference dividend.
(o) Includes the foreign currency leg of the currency derivatives relating to our intra-group loans, amounting to €8,083 million 
 (2009: €5,889 million). These derivatives create an interest rate exposure in mainly sterling and US dollars. However to reconcile the total 
liability with the balance sheet, the total value is eliminated again. The other leg of the currency derivatives is shown on page 96 as part of 
the interest rate profile of financial assets.
(p)  Includes finance lease creditors amounting to €208 million (2009: €212 million) and fair value of financial liability-related derivatives amounting 
to €303 million (2009: €107 million).
Interest rate
The average interest rate on short-term borrowings in 2010 was 2.4% (2009: 2.3%). 98 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements Unilever Group 
15 Financial instruments and treasury risk management
Uncertainty and volatility in the financial markets: impact on Treasury
To cope with the continuing uncertainty in the financial markets, we maintained a cautious funding strategy. 
 
Liquidity management:
• We have run a cash balance during most of 2010, resulting from a strong cash delivery of the business, proceeds from bond issuances in 2009 
and disposal proceeds;
• We have invested this cash conservatively with safe counterparties at short maturities up to six months.
Counterparty exposures:
We regularly reviewed and tightened counterparty limits. Banking exposures were actively monitored on a daily basis. Unilever benefits from 
collateral agreements with our principal banks (see also page 100) based on which banks need to deposit securities and/or cash as collateral for 
their obligations in respect of derivative financial instruments.
 
Bank facility renewal: 
Our bank facilities are renewed annually. On 31 December 2010 we had US $6,050 million of undrawn committed facilities. For further details, 
see ’Liquidity risk’ section below.
Treasury risk management
Unilever manages a variety of market risks, including the effects of changes in foreign exchange rates, interest rates, liquidity and counterparty risks.
Currency risks
Because of Unilever’s broad operational reach, it is subject to risks from changes in foreign currency values that could affect earnings. As a 
practical matter, it is not feasible to fully hedge these fluctuations. In order to manage currency exposures, operating companies are required to 
manage trading and financial foreign exchange exposures within prescribed limits. This is achieved primarily through the use of forward foreign 
exchange contracts. Regional groups monitor compliance with this requirement. At the end of 2010, there was no material exposure from 
companies holding assets and liabilities other than in their functional currency.
In addition, as Unilever conducts business in many foreign currencies but publishes its financial statements and measures its performance in euros, 
it is subject to exchange risk due to the effects that exchange rate movements have on the translation of the underlying net assets of its foreign 
subsidiaries. Unilever aims to minimise its foreign exchange exposure in operating companies by borrowing in the local currency, except where 
inhibited by local regulations, lack of local liquidity or local market conditions. For those countries that in the view of management have a 
substantial re-translation risk, Unilever may decide on a case-by-case basis, taking into account amongst other factors the impact on the income 
statement, to hedge such net investments. This is achieved through the use of forward foreign exchange contracts on which hedge accounting 
is applied. Nevertheless, from time to time, currency revaluations on unhedged investments will trigger exchange translation movements in the 
balance sheet.
Interest rate risks
Unilever has an interest rate management approach aimed at achieving an optimal balance between fixed and floating rate interest rate exposures 
on expected net debt (gross borrowings minus cash and cash equivalents) for the next five years. The objective of this approach is to minimise 
annual interest costs and to reduce volatility. This is achieved by issuing fixed rate long-term debt and by modifying the interest rate exposure of 
debt and cash positions through the use of interest rate swaps.
At the end of 2010, interest rates were fixed on approximately 66% of the projected net of cash and financial liability positions for 2011 and 63% 
for 2012 (compared with 95% for 2010 and 75% for 2011 at the end of 2009).
Liquidity risk
A material and sustained shortfall in our cash flow could undermine our credit rating and overall investor confidence and could restrict the Group’s 
ability to raise funds.
Operational cash flow provides the funds to service the financing of financial liabilities and enhance shareholder return. Unilever manages the 
liquidity requirements by the use of short-term and long-term cash flow forecasts. Unilever maintains access to global debt markets through an 
infrastructure of short-term and long-term debt programmes. In addition to this, Unilever has committed credit facilities in place to support its 
commercial paper programmes and for general corporate purposes. During 2010 we did not utilise the committed facilities.
Unilever had US $6,050 million of undrawn committed facilities on 31 December 2010 as follows:
• revolving 364-day bilateral credit facilities of in aggregate US $5,495 million (2009: US $5,285 million) out of which US $5,495 million 
(2009: US $5,285 million) with a 364-day term out; and
• 364-day bilateral money market commitments of in aggregate US $555 million (2009: US $765 million), under which the underwriting banks 
agree, subject to certain conditions, to subscribe for notes with maturities of up to three years.
As part of the regular annual process these facilities are to be renewed in 2011. Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2010 99
Financial statements 
15 Financial instruments and treasury risk management (continued)
The following table shows Unilever’s contractually agreed (undiscounted) cash flows payable under financial liabilities and derivative assets and 
liabilities as at the balance sheet date:
    € million € million € million € million € million € million € million € million
                  Net
                  carrying
      Due Due Due Due     amount as
    Due between between between between Due   shown in
    within 1 and 2 and 3 and 4 and after   balance
Undiscounted cash flows   1 year 2 years 3 years 4 years 5 years 5 years Total sheet
2010
Non-derivative financial liabilities:
Financial liabilities excluding related derivatives
 and finance lease liabilities   (1,983) (1,436) (1,113) (979) (1,031) (2,466) (9,008) (9,023)
Interest on financial liabilities   (344) (313) (259) (211) (174) (1,606) (2,907)
Finance lease creditors including related finance cost  (31) (25) (24) (23) (22) (232) (357) (208)
Trade payables and other liabilities
 excluding social security and sundry taxes
(a)
   (9,824) (295) – – – – (10,119) (10,119)
Issued financial guarantees   (69) – – – – – (69)  
     (12,251) (2,069) (1,396) (1,213) (1,227) (4,304) (22,460)  
Derivative financial liabilities:
Interest rate derivatives:
 Derivative contracts – receipts   52 60 239 73 27 36 487  
 Derivative contracts – payments   (62) (81) (256) (75) (27) (34) (535)  
Foreign exchange derivatives:
 Derivative contracts – receipts   11,477 – – – – – 11,477  
 Derivative contracts – payments   (11,797) – – – – – (11,797)  
     (330) (21) (17) (2) – 2 (368) (366)
(b)
31 December   (12,581) (2,090) (1,413) (1,215) (1,227) (4,302) (22,828)  
2009
Non-derivative financial liabilities:
Financial liabilities excluding related derivatives 
 and finance lease creditors   (2,167) (817) (1,317) (1,088) (928) (3,347) (9,664) (9,652)
Interest on financial liabilities   (411) (315) (299) (248) (201) (1,669) (3,143)
Finance lease creditors including related finance cost  (34) (28) (22) (21) (20) (244) (369) (212)
Trade payables and other liabilities
 excluding social security and sundry taxes
(a)
   (8,071) (248) – – – – (8,319) (8,319)
Issued financial guarantees   (48) – – – – – (48)  
     (10,731) (1,408) (1,638) (1,357) (1,149) (5,260) (21,543)  
Derivative financial liabilities:
Interest rate derivatives:
 Derivative contracts – receipts   66 64 62 23 – – 215  
 Derivative contracts – payments   (70) (68) (68) (24) – – (230)  
Foreign exchange derivatives:
 Derivative contracts – receipts   6,138 6 – – – – 6,144  
 Derivative contracts – payments   (6,265) (7) – – – – (6,272)  
     
     (131) (5) (6) (1) – – (143) (143)
(b)
31 December   (10,862) (1,413) (1,644) (1,358) (1,149) (5,260) (21,686)  
(a) See note 16 on page 104.
(b) Includes financial liability-related derivatives amounting to €(303) million (2009: €(107) million). 100 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements Unilever Group 
15 Financial instruments and treasury risk management (continued) 
Credit risk on banks and received collateral
Credit risk related to the use of treasury instruments is managed on a group basis. This risk arises from transactions with banks like cash and cash 
equivalents, deposits and derivative financial instruments. To reduce the credit risk, Unilever has concentrated its main activities with a limited 
group of banks that have secure credit ratings. Per bank, individual risk limits are set based on its financial position, credit ratings, past experience 
and other factors. The utilisation of credit limits is regularly monitored. The carrying amount of financial assets best represents the Group’s 
exposure of credit risk at the reporting date without taking account of any collateral held or other credit enhancements. To reduce the credit 
exposures, netting agreements are in place with Unilever’s principal banks that allow Unilever, in case of a default, to net assets and liabilities 
across transactions. To further reduce Unilever’s credit exposures, Unilever has collateral agreements with Unilever’s principal banks based on 
which they need to deposit securities and/or cash as a collateral for their obligations in respect of derivative financial instruments. At 31 December 
2010 the collateral received by Unilever amounted to €58 million (2009: €208 million), of which €38 million (2009: €14 million) was cash and the 
fair value of the bond securities amounted to €20 million (2009: €194 million). Although contractually Unilever has the right to sell or re-pledge 
the collateral, it has no intention to do so. As a consequence, the non-cash collateral has not been recognised as an asset in our balance sheet. 
Derivative financial instruments
The Group has an established system of control in place covering all derivative financial instruments; including guidelines, exposure limits, a system 
of authorities and independent reporting, that is subject to periodic review by internal audit. These instruments are used for hedging purposes. 
Hedge accounting principles are described in note 1 on page 78. The use of leveraged instruments is not permitted. In the assessment of hedge 
effectiveness the credit risk element on the underlying hedged item has been excluded. Hedge ineffectiveness is immaterial.
The Group uses the following types of hedges:
• cash flow hedges used to hedge the risk on future foreign currency cash flows, floating interest rate cash flows, and the price risk on future 
purchases of raw materials;
• fair value hedges used to convert the fixed interest rate on financial liabilities into a floating interest rate; 
• net investment hedges used to hedge the investment value of our foreign subsidiaries; and 
• derivatives for which hedge accounting is not applied.
Details of the various types of hedges are given below.
The fair values of forward foreign exchange contracts represent the gain or loss on revaluation of the contracts at the year-end forward exchange 
rates. The fair values of interest rate derivatives are based on the net present value of the anticipated future cash flows.
Cash flow hedges
The fair values of derivatives hedging the risk on future foreign currency cash flows, floating interest rate cash flows and the price risk 
on future purchases of raw materials amount to €35 million (2009: €(10) million) of which €59 million relates to commodity contracts 
(2009: €7 million), €(14) million to foreign exchange contracts (2009: €(19) million) and €(9) million to interest rate derivatives (2009: €2 million). 
Of the total fair value of €35 million (2009: €(10) million), €45 million is due within one year (2009: €(12) million).
The following table shows the amounts of cash flows that are designated as hedged items in the cash flow hedge relations:
   € million € million € million € million € million € million € million
   Due Due Due Due Due Due  
   within between between between between after  
   1 year 1 and 2 years 2 and 3 years 3 and 4 years 4 and 5 years 5 years Total
 
2010
Foreign exchange cash inflows  844 – – – – – 844
Foreign exchange cash outflows  (411) – – – – – (411)
Interest rate cash flows  – (27) (37) (51) (51) (88) (254)
Commodity contracts cash flows  (317) – – – – – (317)
2009
Foreign exchange cash inflows  797 – – – – – 797
Foreign exchange cash outflows  (304) – – – – – (304)
Interest rate cash flows  – – (9) (9) (9) (17) (44)
Commodity contracts cash flows  (125) – – – – – (125)
Fair value hedges
The fair values of derivatives hedging the fair value interest rate risk on fixed rate debt at 31 December 2010 amounted to €114 million 
(2009: €92 million) which is included under other financial assets.
Net investment hedges
The following table shows the fair values of derivatives outstanding at year end designated as hedging instruments in hedges of net investments in 
foreign operations:
      € million € million € million € million
      Assets Assets Liabilities Liabilities
Fair values of derivatives used as hedges of net investments in foreign entities  2010 2009 2010 2009
Current
Foreign exchange derivatives     125 38 76 100
Of the above-mentioned fair values, an amount of €125 million (2009: €38 million) is included under other financial assets and €(76) million 
(2009: €(100) million) is included under financial liabilities. Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2010 101
Financial statements 
15 Financial instruments and treasury risk management (continued)
The impact of exchange rate movements on the fair value of forward exchange contracts used to hedge net investments is recognised in reserves.
Derivatives for which hedge accounting is not applied
This relates to derivatives that hedge a balance sheet item. Both the derivative and hedged item revalue through profit or loss. This also relates 
to certain commodity derivatives that are entered into for risk management purposes but that cannot be brought under hedge accounting due 
to the strict requirements in IAS 39, ‘Financial instruments: Recognition and Measurement’.
The following table shows the fair value of derivatives outstanding at year end for which hedge accounting is not applied.
      € million € million € million € million
      Assets Assets Liabilities Liabilities
Fair values of derivatives for which hedge accounting is not applied    2010 2009 2010 2009
Current
Interest rate derivatives     – 1 – 1
Commodity contracts     1 – – –
Cross-currency swaps     – – 6 4
Foreign exchange derivatives     172 267 210 117
       173 268 216 122
Non-current
Interest rate derivatives     – – 1 1
Cross-currency swaps     – – 23 13
       – – 24 14
       173 268 240 136
Of the fair values of derivatives disclosed above, the fair value of financial liability-related derivatives at 31 December 2010 amounted to 
€(63) million (2009: €132 million) of which €164 million (2009: €139 million) is included under other financial assets and €(227) million 
(2009: €(7) million) is included under financial liabilities. 
Sensitivity to not applying hedge accounting
Derivatives have to be reported at fair value. Those derivatives used for cash flow hedging and net investment hedging for which we do not apply 
hedge accounting will cause volatility in the income statement. Such derivatives did not have a material impact on the 2010 income statement.
Embedded derivatives
In accordance with IAS 39, Unilever has reviewed all contracts for embedded derivatives that are required to be separately accounted for if they do 
not meet specific requirements set out in the standard; no material embedded derivatives have been identified.
Fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities
The following table summarises the fair values and carrying amounts of the various classes of financial assets and financial liabilities. All trade 
and other receivables and trade payables and other liabilities have been excluded from the analysis below and from the interest rate and currency 
profiles in note 14 on pages 96 to 97 , as their carrying amounts are a reasonable approximation of their fair value, because of their short-term nature.
      € million € million € million € million
      Fair Fair Carrying Carrying
      value value amount amount
      2010 2009 2010 2009
 
Financial assets
Other non-current assets     511 485 511 485
Cash and cash equivalents     2,316 2,642 2,316 2,642
Other financial assets     147 701 147 701
Derivatives related to financial liabilities     403 271 403 271
       3,377 4,099 3,377 4,099
Financial liabilities
Bank loans and overdrafts     (1,678) (1,419) (1,678) (1,415)
Bonds and other loans     (7,775) (8,569) (7,255) (8,113)
Finance lease creditors     (220) (218) (208) (212)
Preference shares     (116) (118) (90) (124)
Derivatives related to financial liabilities     (303) (107) (303) (107)
       (10,092) (10,431) (9,534) (9,971)
  102 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements Unilever Group 
15 Financial instruments and treasury risk management (continued) 
The fair values of the financial assets and liabilities are included at the amount at which the instruments could be exchanged in a current 
transaction between willing parties other than in a forced or liquidation sale. The following methods and assumptions were used to estimate 
the fair values:
• Cash and cash equivalents, other financial assets, bank loans and overdrafts have fair values that approximate to their carrying amounts because 
of their short-term nature.
• The fair value of unquoted available-for-sale assets is based on recent trades in liquid markets, observable market rates and statistical modelling 
techniques such as Monte Carlo simulation.
• The fair values and the carrying amounts of all other listed investments included in financial assets and preference shares included in financial 
liabilities are based on their market values.
• The fair values of listed bonds are based on their market value.
• Non-listed bonds and other loans are based on the net present value of the anticipated future cash flows associated with these instruments 
using rates currently available for debt on similar terms, credit risk and remaining maturities.
• Fair values for finance lease creditors have been assessed by reference to current market rates for comparable leasing arrangements.
• The Group enters into derivative financial instruments with various counterparties. Derivatives valued using valuation techniques with 
market observable inputs are mainly interest rate swaps, foreign exchange forward contracts and commodity forward contracts. The models 
incorporate various inputs including the credit quality of counterparties, foreign exchange spot and forward rates, interest rate curves and 
forward rate curves of the underlying commodity. In the balance sheet the value of bonds and other loans is shown at amortised cost unless 
the bonds are part of an effective fair value hedge accounting relationship, in which case the value of the bond is adjusted with the market 
value of the related derivative.
Fair value hierarchy 
IFRS 7, ‘Financial instruments: Disclosures’, requires disclosure of fair value measurements by level of the following fair value measurement 
hierarchy:
• Level 1: quoted prices for identical instruments;
• Level 2: directly or indirectly observable market inputs other than Level 1 inputs;
• Level 3: inputs which are not based on observable market data.
As at 31 December 2010, the Group held the following financial instruments measured at fair value in each level described above: 
      € million € million € million € million
            Total fair
            value
      Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 2010
 
Assets measured at fair value
Other non-current financial assets 11
 Available-for-sale financial assets  197 187 22 406
 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss  56 – 47 103
Cash and cash equivalents 14
 Available-for-sale financial assets  – 696 – 696
Other financial assets 14
 Available-for-sale financial assets  – 127 – 127
 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss  – 17 – 17
 Derivatives related to financial liabilities  – 403 – 403
Derivatives used for hedging trading activities (part of Trade and other receivables)  – 94 – 94
Other derivatives (part of Trade and other receivables)  – – – –
Liabilities measured at fair value
Bonds and other loans, subject to fair value hedge accounting 14  – (2,331) – (2,331)
Derivatives related to financial liabilities 14  – (303) – (303)
Derivatives used for hedging trading activities (part of Trade payables and other liabilities)  – (63) – (63) Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2010 103
Financial statements 
15 Financial instruments and treasury risk management (continued) 
As at 31 December 2009, the Group held the following financial instruments measured at fair value in each level described above:
      € million € million € million € million
            Total fair
         value
      Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 2009
 
Assets measured at fair value
Other non-current financial assets 11
 Available-for-sale financial assets  178 237 21 436
 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss  47 – – 47
Cash and cash equivalents 14
 Available-for-sale financial assets  – 1,150 – 1,150
Other financial assets 14
 Available-for-sale financial assets  – 613 – 613
 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss  – 88 – 88
 Derivatives related to financial liabilities  – 271 – 271
Derivatives used for hedging trading activities (part of Trade and other receivables)  – 22 – 22
Other derivatives (part of Trade and other receivables)  – – 25 25
 
Liabilities measured at fair value
Bonds and other loans, subject to fair value hedge accounting 14  – (2,308) – (2,308)
Derivatives related to financial liabilities 14  – (107) – (107)
Derivatives used for hedging trading activities (part of Trade payables and other liabilities)  – (36) – (36)
During the reporting period ending 31 December 2010, there were no transfers between Level 1 and 2 fair value measurements, and no transfers 
into and out of Level 3 fair value measurements.
Reconciliation of Level 3 fair value measurements of financial assets is given below:
   € million € million € million € million  € million € million € million € million
   Assets at    Assets at  
  Other fair value    Other fair value  
 derivative through Available  derivative through Available 
 financial profit for sale  financial profit for sale 
 assets or loss assets Total assets or loss assets Total
  2010 2010 2010 2010 2009 2009 2009 2009
 
Opening balances 25 – 21 46 – – 11 11
Total gains or losses:
In profit or loss – 22 – 22 – – – –
In other comprehensive income – – 1 1 – – 10 10
Purchases, issuances and settlements – – – – 25 – – 25
Transfers in and out of Level 3 (25) 25 – – – – – –
Closing balances – 47 22 69 25 – 21 46
Commodity contracts
The Group uses commodity forward contracts and futures to hedge against price risk in certain commodities. All commodity forward contracts 
and futures hedge future purchases of raw materials. Settlement of these contracts will be in cash or by physical delivery. Those contracts that will 
be settled in cash are reported in the balance sheet at fair value and, to the extent that they are considered as an effective hedge under IAS 39, 
fair value movements are recognised in the cash flow reserve.
Capital management
The Group’s financial strategy provides the financial flexibility to meet strategic and day-to-day needs. The key elements of the financial strategy 
are:
• appropriate access to equity and debt markets;
• sufficient flexibility for acquisitions that we fund out of current cash flows;
• A+/A1 long-term credit rating;
• A1/P1 short-term credit rating;
• sufficient resilience against economic and financial uncertainty; and
• optimal weighted average cost of capital, given the constraints above.
For the A1/P1 short-term credit rating and for the A+/A1 long-term credit rating, Unilever monitors the qualitative and quantitative factors utilised 
by the rating agencies. This information is publicly available and is updated by the credit rating agencies on a regular basis.
The capital structure of Unilever is based on management’s judgement of the appropriate balancing of all key elements of its financial strategy in order 
to meet its strategic and day-to-day needs. We consider the amount of capital in proportion to risk and manage the capital structure and make 
adjustments to it in the light of changes in economic conditions and the risk characteristics of the underlying assets. Unilever will take appropriate 
steps in order to maintain, or if necessary adjust, the capital structure. Annually the overall funding plan is presented to the Board for approval.
Unilever is not subject to covenants in any of its significant financing agreements. 104 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements Unilever Group 
15 Financial instruments and treasury risk management (continued) 
Income statement sensitivity to changes in foreign exchange rates
The values of debt, investments and related hedging instruments, denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the entities 
holding them, are subject to exchange rate movements. The translation risk on the foreign exchange receivables and payables is excluded from this 
sensitivity analysis as the risk is considered to be immaterial because positions will remain within prescribed limits (see currency risks on page 98).
The remaining unhedged foreign exchange positions at 31 December 2010 amount to €52 million (2009: €2 million). A reasonably possible 10% 
change in rates would lead to a €5 million movement in the income statement (2009: €0.2 million), based on a linear calculation of our exposure.
Income statement sensitivity to changes in interest rate 
Interest rate risks are presented by way of sensitivity analysis. As described on page 98, Unilever has an interest rate management approach aimed 
at optimising net interest cost and reducing volatility in the income statement. As part of this approach, part of the financial assets and financial 
liabilities have fixed interest rates and are no longer exposed to changes in the floating rates. The remaining floating part of our financial assets 
and financial liabilities (see interest rate profile tables on pages 96 for the assets and 97 for the liabilities) is exposed to changes in the floating 
interest rates.
The analysis below shows the sensitivity of the income statement to a reasonably possible one percentage point increase in floating interest rates 
on a full-year basis. 
       Sensitivity to a reasonably possible
       one percentage point increase in
       floating rates as at 31 December
        € million € million
        2010 2009
 
Financial assets       109 92
Financial liabilities       (126) (91)
A reasonably possible one percentage point decrease in floating interest rates on a full-year basis would have the equal but opposite effect.
Net investment hedges: sensitivity relating to changes in foreign exchange rates
To reduce the re-translation risk of Unilever’s investments in foreign subsidiaries, Unilever uses net investment hedges. The fair values of these net 
investment hedges are subject to exchange rate movements and changes in these fair values are recognised directly in equity and will offset the 
re-translation impact of the related subsidiary.
At 31 December 2010 the nominal value of these net investment hedges amounted to €4.4 billion (2009: €4.9 billion) mainly consisting of US $/€ 
contracts. A reasonably possible 10% strengthening of the euro against all other currencies would lead to a fair value movement of €395 million 
(2009: €486 million). A reasonably possible 10% weakening of the euro against all other currencies would have the equal but opposite effect. 
The fair value movement would be fully offset by an opposite movement on the re-translation of the book equity of the foreign subsidiary.
 
Cash flow hedges: sensitivity relating to changes in interest rates and foreign exchange rates
Unilever uses on a limited scale both interest rate and forex cash flow hedges. The fair values of these instruments are subject to changes in 
interest rates and exchange rates. Because of the limited use of these instruments and the amount of Unilever’s equity, possible changes in interest 
rates and exchange rates will not lead to fair value movements that will have a material impact on Unilever’s equity.
16 Trade payables and other liabilities
        € million € million
Trade and other payables       2010 2009
Due within one year
Trade payables       6,017 3,982
Accruals       3,318 3,504
Social security and sundry taxes       402 342
Others        489 585 
         10,226 8,413
Due after more than one year
Accruals       109 104
Others       186 144
         295 248
Total trade payables and other liabilities       10,521 8,661
The amounts shown above do not include any payables due after more than five years. Trade payables and other liabilities are valued at historic 
cost, which where appropriate approximates their amortised cost. Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2010 105
Financial statements 
17 Deferred taxation
      € million € million € million € million
      As at 1     As at 31
      January Income   December
Movements in 2010     2010 statement Equity
(a)
 2010
Pensions and similar obligations     592 (133) (19) 440
Provisions     651 10 40 701
Goodwill and intangible assets     (944) (53) (125) (1,122)
Accelerated tax depreciation     (525) 12 (27) (540)
Tax losses     82 27 8 117
Fair value gains     (24) – (1) (25)
Fair value losses     2 – 11 13
Share-based payments     146 (25) (1) 120
Other     (6) 19 10 23
 
       (26) (143) (104) (273)
 
      € million € million € million € million
      As at 1     As at 31
      January Income   December
Movements in 2009     2009 statement Equity 2009
Pensions and similar obligations     809 (206) (11) 592
Provisions     612 (46) 85 651
Goodwill and intangible assets     (823) (61) (60) (944)
Accelerated tax depreciation     (555) 49 (19) (525)
Tax losses     105 61 (84) 82
Fair value gains     (6) – (18) (24)
Fair value losses     40 2 (40) 2
Share-based payments     100 24 22 146
Other     (4) 8 (10) (6)
 
       278 (169) (135) (26)
 
(a) Of the total movement in equity of €(104) million, €(1) million arises as a result of currency re-translation and €(55) million as a result of 
acquisitions and disposals.
At the balance sheet date, the Group has unused tax losses of €1,515 million and tax credits amounting to €78 million available for offset against 
future taxable profits. Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of unused tax losses of €1,109 million and tax credits of €78 million, 
as it is not probable that there will be future taxable profits within the entities against which the losses can be utilised. The majority of these tax 
losses and credits arise in tax jurisdictions where they do not expire with the exception of €524 million of state and federal tax losses in the US 
which expire between now and 2030.
Other deductible temporary differences of €83 million have not been recognised as a deferred tax asset. There is no expiry date for these 
differences.
At the balance sheet date, the aggregate amount of temporary differences associated with undistributed earnings of subsidiaries for which 
deferred tax liabilities have not been recognised was €1,633 million (2009: €1,319 million). No liability has been recognised in respect of these 
differences because the Group is in a position to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences, and it is probable that such 
differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future. 106 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Financial statements 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements Unilever Group 
17 Deferred taxation (continued)
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax 
liabilities and when the deferred income taxes relate to the same fiscal authority. The following amounts, determined after appropriate offsetting, 
are shown in the consolidated balance sheet:
    € million € million € million € million € million € million
    Assets Assets Liabilities Liabilities Total Total
Deferred tax assets and liabilities   2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009
Pensions and similar obligations   556 674 (116) (82) 440 592
Provisions   537 556 164 95 701 651
Goodwill and intangible assets   (475) (370) (647) (574) (1,122) (944)
Accelerated tax depreciation   (238) (302) (302) (223) (540) (525)
Tax losses   71 68 46 14 117 82
Fair value gains   (18) (17) (7) (7) (25) (24)
Fair value losses   1 3 12 (1) 13 2
Share-based payments   120 104 – 42 120 146
Other   53 22 (30) (28) 23 (6)
 
     607 738 (880) (764) (273) (26)
 
Of which deferred tax to be recovered/(settled) after  
 more than 12 months   296 408 (957) (741) (661) (333)
18 Provisions
        € million € million
Provisions       2010 2009
Due within one year       408 420
Due after one year       886 729
Total provisions       1,294 1,149
     € million € million € million € million € million
         Disputed     
       indirect   
Movements during 2010    Restructuring Legal taxes Other Total
1 January 2010    400 36 447 266 1,149
Disposal of group companies    – (2) – (4) (6)
Income statement:  
 New charges    185 138 164 69 556
 Releases    (73) (2) (71) (28) (174)
Utilisation    (233) (6) (20) (53) (312)
Currency translation    13 1 60 7 81
31 December 2010    292 165 580 257 1,294
Restructuring provisions primarily relate to early retirement and redundancy costs, the most significant of which relate to the formation of new 
multi-country organisations and several factory closures; no projects are individually material. Legal provisions are comprised of many claims, 
including a €110 million provision regarding potential competition law infringement in the European Union in relation to consumer detergents. Further 
information is given in note 25 on page 116.
The provision for disputed indirect taxes is comprised of a number of small disputed items. The largest elements of the provision relate to disputes 
with the Brazilian authorities. Because of the nature of the disputes, the timing of the utilisation of the provisions and any associated cash outflows 
is uncertain. The majority of the disputed items attract an interest charge.
No individual item within the other provisions balance is significant. Unilever expects that the issues relating to these restructuring, legal and other 
provisions will be substantively resolved over the next five years. Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2010 107
Financial statements 
19 Pensions and similar obligations
Description of plans
In many countries the Group operates defined benefit pension plans based on employee pensionable remuneration and length of service. 
The majority of these plans are externally funded. The Group also provides other post-employment benefits, mainly post-employment healthcare 
plans in the United States. These plans are predominantly unfunded. The Group also operates a number of defined contribution plans, the assets 
of which are held in external funds.
The majority of the Group’s externally funded plans are established as trusts, foundations or similar entities. The operation of these entities 
is governed by local regulations and practice in each country, as is the nature of the relationship between the Group and the trustees 
(or equivalent) and their composition.
Exposure to risks
Pension assets and liabilities (pre-tax) of €15,974 million and €18,044 million respectively are held on the Group’s balance sheet as at 31 December 
2010. Movements in equity markets, interest rates, inflation and life expectancy could materially affect the level of surpluses and deficits in these 
schemes, and could prompt the need for the Group to make additional pension contributions, or to reduce pension contributions, in the future. 
The key assumptions used to value our pension liabilities are set out below and on pages 108 and 109.
Investment strategy
The Group’s investment strategy in respect of its funded pension plans is implemented within the framework of the various statutory requirements 
of the territories where the plans are based. The Group has developed policy guidelines for the allocation of assets to different classes with the 
objective of controlling risk and maintaining the right balance between risk and long-term returns in order to limit the cost to the Group of the 
benefits provided. To achieve this, investments are well diversified, such that the failure of any single investment would not have a material impact 
on the overall level of assets. The plans invest the largest proportion of the assets in equities which the Group believes offer the best returns over 
the long term commensurate with an acceptable level of risk. The pension funds also have a proportion of assets invested in property, bonds, 
hedge funds and cash. The majority of assets are managed by a number of external fund managers with a small proportion managed in-house. 
Unilever has a pooled investment vehicle (Univest) which it believes offers its pension plans around the world a simplified externally managed 
investment vehicle to implement their strategic asset allocation models, currently for bonds, equities and hedge funds. The aim is to provide a 
high quality, well-diversified, risk-controlled vehicle.
Assumptions
With the objective of presenting the assets and liabilities of the pensions and other post-employment benefit plans at their fair value on the 
balance sheet, assumptions under IAS 19 are set by reference to market conditions at the valuation date. The actuarial assumptions used to 
calculate the benefit obligations vary according to the country in which the plan is situated. The following table shows the assumptions, weighted 
by liabilities, used to value the principal defined benefit plans (which cover approximately 95% of total pension liabilities) and the plans providing 
other post-employment benefits, and in addition the expected long-term rates of return on assets, weighted by asset value.
   31 December 2010 31 December 2009 31 December 2008 31 December 2007
 
      Other   Other   Other   Other
    Principal post- Principal post- Principal post- Principal post-
    defined employ- defined employ- defined employ- defined employ-
    benefit ment benefit ment benefit ment benefit ment
    pension benefit pension benefit pension benefit pension benefit
    plans plans plans plans plans plans plans plans
 
Discount rate   5.2% 5.5% 5.5% 5.8% 6.1% 5.8% 5.8% 6.1%
Inflation   2.5% n/a 2.6% n/a 2.4% n/a 2.6% n/a
Rate of increase in salaries   3.5% 4.0% 3.7% 4.0% 3.5% 4.0% 3.8% 4.0%
Rate of increase for pensions  
 in payment (where provided)   2.5% n/a 2.6% n/a 2.4% n/a 2.5% n/a
Rate of increase for pensions in  
 deferment (where provided)   2.7% n/a 2.8% n/a 2.6% n/a 2.7% n/a
Long-term medical cost inflation   n/a 5.0% n/a 5.0% n/a 5.0% n/a 5.0%
Expected long-term rates of return:
 Equities   7.4%  7.9%   7.4%   8.0%  
 Bonds   4.6%  4.8%   4.7%   4.9%  
 Property   5.9%  6.4%   5.8%   6.6%  
 Others   6.3%  6.0%   5.4%   6.3%  
Weighted average asset return   6.3%  6.7%   6.3%   7.0%   108 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Financial statements 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements Unilever Group 
19 Pensions and similar obligations (continued)
The valuations of other post-employment benefit plans generally assume a higher initial level of medical cost inflation, which falls from 8.0% 
to the long-term rate within the next five years. Assumed healthcare cost trend rates have a significant effect on the amounts reported for 
healthcare plans. A one percentage point change in assumed healthcare cost trend rates would have the following effect:
        € million € million
        1% point 1% point
        increase decrease
 
Effect on total of service and interest cost components       1 (1)
Effect on total benefit obligation       18 (17)
The expected rates of return on plan assets were determined, based on actuarial advice, by a process that takes the long-term rates of return on 
government bonds available at the balance sheet date and applies to these rates suitable risk premiums that take account of historic market returns 
and current market long-term expectations for each asset class.
For the most important pension plans, representing approximately 80% of all defined benefit plans by liabilities, the assumptions used at 
31 December 2010, 2009, 2008 and 2007 were:
   United Kingdom Netherlands
   2010 2009 2008 2007  2010 2009 2008 2007
 
Discount rate  5.4% 5.7% 6.5% 5.8%  4.7% 5.1% 5.9% 5.5%
Inflation  3.1% 3.1% 2.8% 3.0%  1.8% 1.9% 2.0% 1.9%
Rate of increase in salaries  4.1% 4.6% 4.3% 4.5%  2.3% 2.4% 2.4% 2.4%
Rate of increase for pensions  
 in payment (where provided)  3.0% 3.1% 2.8% 3.0%  1.8% 1.9% 2.0% 1.9%
Rate of increase for pensions in  
 deferment (where provided)  3.1% 3.1% 2.8% 3.0%  1.8% 1.9% 2.0% 1.9%
Expected long-term rates of return:
 Equities  7.7% 8.0% 7.8% 8.0%  7.0% 7.7% 7.2% 8.1%
 Bonds  4.6% 4.9% 5.0% 5.0%  4.3% 4.6% 5.0% 4.7%
 Property  6.2% 6.5% 6.0% 6.5%  5.5% 6.2% 5.7% 6.6%
 Others  7.1% 6.7% 5.6% 6.3%  5.6% 5.3% 5.6% 4.1%
Weighted average asset return  6.9% 7.2% 7.0% 7.2%  5.9% 6.4% 6.2% 6.8%
Number of years a current pensioner is expected to  
live beyond age 65:
 Men  21.5 21.4 21.3 21.2  21.4 20.8 20.7 20.7
 Women  23.4 22.8 22.8 22.7  23.3 21.9 21.9 21.9
Number of years a future pensioner currently aged
45 is expected to live beyond age 65:
 Men  23.3 23.5 23.5 23.5  23.0 20.8 20.7 20.7
 Women  25.1 25.9 25.9 25.9  24.2 21.9 21.9 21.9
   United States Germany
   2010 2009 2008 2007  2010 2009 2008 2007
Discount rate  5.2% 5.6% 5.6% 5.9%  4.7% 5.1% 5.9% 5.5%
Inflation  2.3% 2.4% 2.1% 2.3%  1.8%  1.9% 2.0% 1.9%
Rate of increase in salaries  4.0%  4.0% 4.0% 4.0%  2.8% 2.8% 2.8% 2.8%
Rate of increase for pensions  
 in payment (where provided)  0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0%  1.8% 1.9% 2.0% 1.9%
Rate of increase for pensions in  
 deferment (where provided)  0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0%  0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0%
Expected long-term rates of return:
 Equities  7.4% 7.8% 6.0% 7.8%  7.0% 7.7% 7.2% 8.1%
 Bonds  4.4% 5.0% 5.1% 4.5%  4.2% 4.6% 4.2% 4.7%
 Property  5.9% 6.3% 4.5% 6.3%  5.5% 6.2% 5.7% 6.6%
 Others  1.7% 2.0% 1.2% 3.7%  5.5% 5.5% 4.4% 5.8%
Weighted average asset return  6.2% 6.6% 5.7% 6.8%  5.5% 5.9% 5.3% 6.5%
Number of years a current pensioner is expected to  
live beyond age 65:
 Men  19.0 18.8 18.8 19.4  19.0 17.9 17.9 17.9
 Women  20.9 20.8 20.8 21.5  23.3 21.4 21.4 21.4
Number of years a future pensioner currently aged
45 is expected to live beyond age 65:
 Men   20.5 20.5 20.4 19.4  19.0 17.9 17.9 17.9
 Women  22.4 22.4 22.4 21.5  23.3 21.4 21.4 21.4 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2010 109
Financial statements 
19 Pensions and similar obligations (continued)
Demographic assumptions, such as mortality rates, are set having regard to the latest trends in life expectancy (including expectations of future 
improvements), plan experience and other relevant data. These assumptions are reviewed and updated as necessary as part of the periodic 
actuarial valuation of the pension plans. The years of life expectancy for 2010 above have been translated from the following tables:
(i)  UK: the year of use S1 series all pensioners (“S1AP”) tables have been adopted, which are based on the experience of UK pension schemes 
over the period 2000-2006. Scaling factors are applied reflecting the experience of our pension funds appropriate to the members’ gender 
and status. Future improvements in longevity have been allowed for in line with the 2009 CMI Core Projections and a 1% pa long-term 
improvement rate.
(ii)  the Netherlands: the Dutch Actuarial Society’s AG Prognosetafel 2010 – 2060 table is used with correction factors to allow for the typically 
longer life expectancy of pension fund members relative to the general population. This table has an in-built allowance for future 
improvements in longevity.
(iii)  United States: the table RP-2000 with projected mortality improvement using Projection Scale AA from 2000 to 2017 for annuitants and 
to 2025 for non-annuitants. This table has an in-built allowance for future improvements in longevity.
(iv)  Germany: fund specific tables are used which broadly equate to Heubeck 1998 with a scaling factor of 75%. 
Assumptions for the remaining defined benefit plans vary considerably, depending on the economic conditions of the countries where they 
are situated.
Balance sheet
The assets, liabilities and surplus/(deficit) position of the pension and other post-employment benefit plans and the expected rates of return on the 
plan assets at the balance sheet date were:
  31 December 2010  31 December 2009  31 December 2008
 € million € million % € million € million % € million € million %
   Other post- Long-term   Other post- Long-term   Other post- Long-term
   employment rates of   employment rates of   employment rates of
 Pension benefit return Pension benefit return Pension benefit return
 plans plans expected plans plans expected plans plans expected
Assets of principal plans:
 Equities 7,690 – 7.4% 7,359 – 7.9% 6,044 – 7.4%
 Bonds 5,013 – 4.6% 4,040 – 4.8% 3,244 – 4.7%
 Property 915 – 5.9% 792 – 6.4% 1,053 – 5.8%
 Other 1,931 – 6.3% 1,867 – 6.0% 1,069 – 5.4%
Assets of other plans 419 6 8.3% 348 7 7.9% 303 6 8.3%
     
   15,968 6   14,406 7   11,713 6  
Present value of liabilities:
 Principal plans (16,540) –   (15,602) –   (13,682) –  
 Other plans (842) (662)   (744) (649)   (682) (737)  
     
   (17,382) (662)   (16,346) (649)   (14,364) (737)  
Aggregate net deficit of the plans (1,414) (656)   (1,940) (642)   (2,651) (731)  
Irrecoverable surplus
(a)
 – –   – –   – –  
     
Pension liability net of assets (1,414) (656)   (1,940) (642)   (2,651) (731)  
Of which in respect of:
Funded plans in surplus:
 Liabilities (5,519) – – (4,733) –   (3,600) –  
 Assets 6,429 – – 5,492 –  4,025    
   
 Aggregate surplus 910  – – 759 –   425    
 Irrecoverable surplus
(a)
 – – – – –   – –  
  
  Pension asset net of liabilities 910 – – 759 –   425 –  
Funded plans in deficit:
 Liabilities (10,592) (34) – (10,407) (33)   (9,484) (30)  
 Assets 9,539 6 – 8,914 7   7,688 6  
 
 Pension liability net of assets (1,053) (28) – (1,493) (26)   (1,796) (24)  
 
Unfunded plans:
 Pension liability (1,271) (628) – (1,206) (616)   (1,280) (707)  
(a) A surplus is deemed recoverable to the extent that the Group is able to benefit economically from the surplus.
Liabilities of €150 million were transferred from the UK unfunded plan to the funded plan in 2009. This followed the payment to the UK funded 
plan in 2008 in expectation of a transfer in 2009 and 2010. During 2008 some previously unfunded liabilities were funded utilising existing 
surpluses. As a consequence of this the liabilities of €24 million were moved from unfunded to funded in the table above for 2008. 110 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Financial statements 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements Unilever Group 
19 Pensions and similar obligations (continued)
In 2010, agreement was reached with local insurers to externally insure most of our existing Swedish pension obligation. Consequently, 
€150 million liabilities were considered settled and removed from the table above. The remaining liability in Sweden of €6 million is included 
in unfunded plans.
Equity securities include Unilever securities amounting to €50 million (0.3% of total plan assets) and €37 million (0.3% of total plan assets) 
at 31 December 2010 and 2009 respectively. Property includes property occupied by Unilever amounting to €14 million and €12 million at 
31 December 2010 and 2009 respectively.
The pension assets above exclude the assets in a Special Benefits Trust amounting to €128 million (2009: €129 million) to fund pension and similar 
obligations in the US (see also note 11 on page 91).
The sensitivity of the overall pension liabilities to changes in the weighted key financial assumptions are:
          Impact on
    Change in     overall
    assumption     liabilities
 
Discount rate   Increase/decrease by 0.5%     Decrease/increase by 7.0%
Inflation rate   Increase/decrease by 0.5%     Increase/decrease by 6.0%
Income statement
The charge to the income statement comprises:
       € million € million € million
       2010 2009 2008
 
Charged to operating profit:
Defined benefit pension and other benefit plans
 Current service cost      (261) (228) (272)
 Employee contributions      13 12 12
 Special termination benefits      (22) (50) (54)
 Past service cost      60 50 24
 Settlements/curtailments      6 20 16
Defined contribution plans      (72) (60) (55)
Total operating cost 4      (276) (256) (329)
Charged to other finance income/(cost):
 Interest on retirement benefits      (963) (940) (988)
 Expected return on assets      983 776 1,131
Total other finance income/(cost) 5      20 (164) 143
Net impact on the income statement (before tax)      (256) (420) (186)
Cash flow
Group cash flow in respect of pensions and similar post-employment benefits comprises Company contributions paid to funded plans and benefits 
paid by the Company in respect of unfunded plans, as set out in the following table (including the current estimate of contributions for 2011): 
      € million € million € million € million
     2011E 2010 2009 2008
Company contributions to funded plans:
 Defined Benefit (DB)     295 482 968 531
 Defined Contribution (DC)     85 72 60 55
Benefits paid by the Company in respect of unfunded plans:
 Defined Benefit (DB)     170 187 234 233
 
Group cash flow in respect of pensions and similar benefits    550 741 1,262 819
 
Contributions to funded defined benefit plans are subject to periodic review, taking account of local legislation. 2009 contributions paid to funded 
plans include around €370 million of future years’ contributions accelerated into 2009. 2008 contributions to funded plans include €254 million to 
the UK pension plan to cover the transfer of unfunded liabilities into the plan in 2009 and 2010. Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2010 111
Financial statements 
19 Pensions and similar obligations (continued)
Statement of comprehensive income
Amounts recognised in the statement of comprehensive income:
    € million € million € million € million € million € million
              Cumulative
              since
              1 January
    2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2004
 
Actual return less expected return on pension and other benefit  
 plan assets   677 1,277 (4,243) (236) 533 (31)
Experience gains/(losses) arising on pension plan and other  
 benefit plan liabilities   197 250 – 103 51 581
Changes in assumptions underlying the present value of the  
 pension and other benefit plan liabilities   (716) (1,489) 1,116 946 474 (2,422)
Actuarial gain/(loss)   158 38 (3,127) 813 1,058 (1,872)
Change in unrecognised surplus   – – – – 142 103
Refund of unrecognised assets   – – – – – 15
Net actuarial gain/(loss) recognised in statement of comprehensive  
 income (before tax)   158 38 (3,127) 813 1,200 (1,754)
Reconciliation of change in assets and liabilities
Movements in assets and liabilities during the year:
    € million € million € million € million € million € million
    Assets Assets Assets Liabilities Liabilities Liabilities
    2010 2009 2008 2010 2009 2008
 
1 January   14,413 11,719 17,253 (16,995) (15,101) (18,342)
Acquisitions/disposals   3 – – (4) – 2
Current service cost   – – – (261) (228) (272)
Employee contributions   13 12 12 – – –
Special termination benefits   – – – (22) (50) (54)
Past service costs   – – – 60 50 24
Settlements/curtailments   (162) (9) (12) 168 29 28
Expected returns on plan assets   983 776 1,131 – – –
Interest on pension liabilities   – – – (963) (940) (988)
Actuarial gain/(loss)   677 1,277 (4,243) (519) (1,239) 1,117
Employer contributions   669 1,202 754 – – –
Benefit payments   (1,146) (1,204) (1,367) 1,146 1,204 1,367
Reclassification of benefits
(b)
   19 – (7) (28) – 7
Currency re-translation   505 640 (1,802) (626) (720) 2,010
31 December   15,974 14,413 11,719 (18,044) (16,995) (15,101)
(b) Certain obligations have been reclassified as employee benefit obligations.
The actual return on plan assets during 2010 was €1,660 million i.e. the sum of €983 million and €677 million from the table above (2009: €2,053 million).
Funded status of plans at the year end
     € million € million € million € million € million
     2010 2009 2008 2007 2006
 
Total assets    15,974 14,413 11,719 17,253 17,278
Total pension liabilities    (18,044) (16,995) (15,101) (18,342) (20,358)
Net liabilities    (2,070) (2,582) (3,382) (1,089) (3,080)
Less unrecognised surplus    – – – – –
Pension liabilities net of assets    (2,070) (2,582) (3,382) (1,089) (3,080)
20 Comprehensive income
Tax effects of the components of other comprehensive income were as follows:
    € million € million € million € million € million € million
      Tax     Tax  
    Before (charged)/ After Before (charged)/ After
    tax credit tax tax credit tax
    2010 2010 2010 2009 2009 2009
 
Fair value gains/(losses) on financial instruments   41 2 43 163 (58) 105
Actuarial gains/(losses) on pension schemes   158 (53) 105 38 (20) 18
Currency redistribution gains/(losses)   460 –   460 396 – 396 112 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Financial statements 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements Unilever Group 
21 Equity
   € million € million € million € million € million € million € million
   Called up Share     Total Non-  
   share premium Other Retained shareholders’ controlling Total
Consolidated statement of changes in equity  capital account reserves profit equity interests equity
1 January 2008  484 153 (3,412) 15,162 12,387 432 12,819
Total comprehensive income for the year  – – (1,757) 2,692 935 205 1,140
Dividends on ordinary capital   – – – (2,052) (2,052) – (2,052)
Movements in treasury stock
(a)
  – – (1,304) (113) (1,417) – (1,417)
Share-based payment credit
(b)
  – – – 125 125 – 125
Dividends paid to non-controlling interests  – – – – – (208) (208)
Currency re-translation gains/(losses) net of tax  – (32) – – (32) (6) (38)
Other movements in equity  – – 4 (2) 2 1 3
31 December 2008  484 121 (6,469) 15,812 9,948 424 10,372
Total comprehensive income for the year  – – 339 3,538 3,877 301 4,178
Dividends on ordinary capital   – – – (2,115) (2,115) – (2,115)
Movements in treasury stock
(a)
  – – 224 (95) 129 – 129
Share-based payment credit
(b)
  – – – 195 195 – 195
Dividends paid to non-controlling interests  – – – – – (244) (244)
Currency re-translation gains/(losses) net of tax  – 10 – – 10 (7) 3
Other movements in equity  – – 6 15 21 (3) 18
31 December 2009  484 131 (5,900) 17,350 12,065 471 12,536
Total comprehensive income for the year  – – 465 4,329 4,794 412 5,206
Dividends on ordinary capital   – – – (2,309) (2,309) – (2,309)
Movements in treasury stock
(a)
  – – 28 (154) (126) – (126)
Share-based payment credit
(b)
  – – – 144 144 – 144
Dividends paid to non-controlling interests  – – – – – (289) (289)
Currency re-translation gains/(losses) net of tax  – 3 – – 3 (1) 2
Other movements in equity  – – 1 (87) (86) – (86)
31 December 2010  484 134 (5,406) 19,273 14,485 593 15,078
(a) Includes purchases and sales of treasury stock, and transfer from treasury stock to retained profit of share settled schemes arising from prior 
years and differences between exercise and grant price of share options.
(b) The share-based payment credit relates to the reversal of the non-cash charge recorded against operating profit in respect of the fair value 
of share options and awards granted to employees. Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2010 113
Financial statements 
22 Share capital
         € million € million
Called up share capital       2010 2009
Ordinary share capital of NV       274 274
Ordinary share capital of PLC       210 210
 
         484 484
 
              Issued, Issued,
    Number     Nominal Number called up and called up and
    of shares Authorised Authorised value of shares fully paid fully paid
Ordinary share capital  authorised
(a)
 2010 2009 per share issued 2010 2009
      € million € million     € million € million
NV ordinary shares 3,000,000,000 480 480 €0.16 1,714,727,700 274 274
NV ordinary shares (shares numbered  
 1 to 2,400 – ’Special Shares’)   1 1 €428.57 2,400 1 1
Internal holdings eliminated 
 on consolidation (€428.57 shares)   – –     (1) (1)
    481 481     274 274
            £ million £ million
PLC ordinary shares    3
1
⁄ 9p 1,310,156,361 40.8 40.8
PLC deferred stock    £1 stock 100,000 0.1 0.1
Internal holding eliminated 
 on consolidation (£1 stock)        (0.1)  (0.1)
         40.8  40.8
Euro equivalent in millions (at £1.00 = €5.143)            210  210
(a) The requirement for a UK company to have an authorised share capital was abolished by the UK companies Act 2006. In May 2010 shareholders 
approved new Articles of Association which reflect this.
For information on the rights of shareholders of NV and PLC and the operation of the Equalisation Agreement, see Corporate governance on  
page 51.
A nominal dividend of 6% is paid on the deferred stock of PLC, which is not redeemable.
Internal holdings
The ordinary shares numbered 1 to 2,400 (inclusive) in NV (‘Special Shares’) and deferred stock of PLC are held as to one half of each class 
by N.V. Elma – a subsidiary of NV – and one half by United Holdings Limited – a subsidiary of PLC. This capital is eliminated on consolidation. 
For information on the rights related to the aforementioned ordinary shares, see Corporate governance on pages 49 and 50. The subsidiaries 
mentioned above have waived their rights to dividends on their ordinary shares in NV.
Share-based compensation
The Group operates a number of share-based compensation plans involving options and awards of ordinary shares of NV and PLC. Full details 
of these plans are given in note 29 on pages 121 and 122.
23 Other reserves
(a)
   € million € million € million € million € million € million € million € million € million
   NV NV NV PLC PLC PLC Total Total Total
   2010 2009 2008 2010 2009 2008 2010 2009 2008
 
Fair value reserves  61 16 (41) 13 26 (22) 74 42 (63)
 Cash flow hedges  45 1 (22) 3 6 (11) 48 7 (33)
 Available-for-sale financial assets  16 15 (19) 10 20 (11) 26 35 (30)
 
Currency retranslation of group companies  861 42 (640) (1,887) (1,501) (1,053) (1,026) (1,459) (1,693)
Adjustment on translation of PLC’s ordinary
 capital at 3
1
/ 9p = €0.16  – – – (164) (165) (169) (164) (165) (169)
Capital redemption reserve  16 16 16 16 16 16 32 32 32
Book value treasury stock  (3,725) (3,703) (3,886) (597) (647) (690) (4,322) (4,350) (4,576)
 
    (2,787) (3,629) (4,551) (2,619) (2,271) (1,918) (5,406) (5,900) (6,469)
(a) The movements in other reserves are analysed between the NV and PLC parts of the Group, aggregated according to the relative legal 
ownership of individual entities by NV or PLC.
Unilever acquired 9,059,547 NV ordinary shares through purchases on the stock exchanges during the year. These shares are held as treasury stock 
as a separate component of other reserves. No PLC ordinary shares were purchased during the year. The total number held at 31 December 2010 is 
170,380,550 (2009: 170,178,644) NV shares and 44,748,743 (2009: 50,546,994) PLC shares. Of these, 28,819,921 NV shares and 18,051,749 PLC 
shares were held in connection with share based compensation plans (see note 29 on pages 121 and 122). 114 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Financial statements 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements Unilever Group 
23 Other reserves (continued)
        € million € million
Treasury stock – movements during the year       2010 2009
1 January       (4,350) (4,576)
Purchases and other utilisations        28 226
31 December       (4,322) (4,350)
        € million € million
Currency retranslation reserve – movements during the year      2010 2009
1 January       (1,459) (1,693)
Currency re-translation during the year       314 292
Movement in net investment hedges       118 (58)
Recycled to income statement       1 –
31 December       (1,026) (1,459)
24 Retained profit
(a)
   € million € million € million € million € million € million € million € million € million
   NV NV NV PLC PLC PLC Total Total Total
Movements during the year  2010 2009 2008 2010 2009 2008 2010 2009 2008
1 January  16,458 15,343 10,403 892 469 4,759 17,350 15,812 15,162
Recognised income and expense through  
 retained profit  2,556 2,583 1,742 1,773 955 950 4,329 3,538 2,692
Dividends on ordinary capital  (1,270) (1,203) (1,176) (1,039) (912) (876) (2,309) (2,115) (2,052)
Utilisation of treasury stock  (60) (33) (66) (94) (62) (47) (154) (95) (113)
Share-based compensation credit
(b)
  75 115 79 69 80 46 144 195 125
Adjustment arising from change in structure  
 of group companies
(c)
  1,126 (363) 4,346 (1,126) 363 (4,346) – – –
Other movements in retained profit  (40) 16 15 (47) (1) (17) (87) 15 (2)
31 December  18,845 16,458 15,343 428 892 469 19,273 17,350 15,812
Of which retained by:
 Parent companies  10,790 10,657 10,602 2,425 2,373 1,996 13,215 13,030 12,598
 Other group companies  8,003 5,730 4,732 (1,780) (1,267) (1,348) 6,223 4,463 3,384
 Joint ventures and associates  52 71 9 (217) (214) (179) (165) (143) (170)
    18,845 16,458 15,343 428 892 469 19,273 17,350 15,812
(a) The movements in retained profit are analysed between the NV and PLC parts of the Group, aggregated according to the relative legal 
ownership of individual entities by NV or PLC.
(b) The share-based compensation credit relates to the reversal of the non-cash charge recorded against operating profit in respect of the fair 
value of share options and awards granted to employees.
(c) As part of the review of Unilever’s corporate structure, and in the light of the constitutional and operational arrangements which enable Unilever 
N.V. and Unilever PLC to operate as nearly as practicable as a single company, the Directors have been authorised to take any action necessary or 
desirable in order to ensure that the ratio of the dividend generating capacity of PLC to that of NV does not differ substantially from the ratio of 
the dividend entitlement of ordinary shareholders in PLC to that of ordinary shareholders in NV. In 2008 shareholdings in the Unilever companies 
in Belgium, Austria, the Netherlands, Poland and Switzerland were transferred to 100% NV ownership. In addition, shareholdings in Canada and 
Indonesia were re-aligned between NV and PLC. In 2009 there were no significant changes in group structure. In 2010 shareholdings in the 
Unilever companies in Poland were transferred to 100% PLC ownership. In addition, further re-alignments of shareholdings, mainly in Turkey, 
were made between NV and PLC intermediate holding companies. Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2010 115
Financial statements 
25 Commitments and contingent liabilities
    € million € million € million € million € million € million
    Future     Future    
    minimum     minimum    
    lease Finance Present lease Finance Present
    payments cost value payments cost value
Long-term finance lease commitments    2010 2010 2010 2009 2009 2009
Buildings
(a)
   336  148  188 340 156 184
Plant and machinery   21  1  20 29 1 28
 
     357  149  208 369 157 212
The commitments fall due as follows:
Within 1 year   31  12  19 34 12 22
Later than 1 year but not later than 5 years   94  47  47 91 46 45
Later than 5 years   232  90  142 244 99 145
 
     357  149  208  369 157 212
 
(a) All leased land is classified as operating leases.
The Group has not sublet any part of the leased properties under finance leases.
        € million € million
Long-term operating lease commitments       2010 2009
Land and buildings       1,243 1,240
Plant and machinery       357 248
 
         1,600 1,488
 
      € million € million € million € million
          Other Other
      Operating Operating commit- commit-
      leases leases ments ments
Operating lease and other commitments fall due as follows    2010 2009 2010 2009
Within 1 year     364 301 1,181 884
Later than 1 year but not later than 5 years     844 782 1,632 1,328
Later than 5 years     392 405 141 164
 
       1,600 1,488 2,954 2,376
 
The Group has sublet part of the leased properties under operating leases. Future minimum sublease payments of €57 million are expected to 
be received.
Other commitments principally comprise commitments under contracts to purchase materials and services. They do not include commitments for 
capital expenditure, which are reported in note 10 on page 89.
Contingent liabilities are either possible obligations that will probably not require a transfer of economic benefits, or present obligations that may, 
but probably will not, require a transfer of economic benefits. It is not appropriate to make provisions for contingent liabilities, but there is a chance 
that they will result in an obligation in the future. The Group does not believe that any of these contingent liabilities will result in a material loss.
Contingent liabilities arise in respect of litigation against group companies, investigations by competition, regulatory and fiscal authorities and 
obligations arising under environmental legislation. The estimated total of such contingent liabilities at 31 December 2010 was some €228 million 
(2009: €205 million). 116 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Financial statements 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements Unilever Group 
25 Commitments and contingent liabilities (continued)
Legal proceedings
Details of significant outstanding legal proceedings and ongoing regulatory investigations are as follows:
Competition investigations
As previously reported, in June 2008 the European Commission initiated an investigation into potential competition law infringements in the 
European Union in relation to consumer detergents. While the investigation is ongoing, Unilever has concluded that it is appropriate to take 
a provision of €110 million.
In addition and as previously reported, Unilever is involved in a number of other ongoing investigations by national competition authorities in a 
number of European countries including Greece, France, the Netherlands, Belgium and Germany. These investigations are at various stages and 
concern a variety of product markets. Provisions have been made to the extent appropriate. 
It is Unilever’s policy to co-operate fully with the competition authorities in the context of all ongoing investigations. In addition, Unilever reinforces 
and enhances its internal competition law compliance procedures on an ongoing basis.
Tax case Brazil
During 2004 in Brazil, and in common with many other businesses operating in that country, one of our Brazilian subsidiaries received a notice 
of infringement from the Federal Revenue Service. The notice alleges that a 2001 reorganisation of our local corporate structure was undertaken 
without valid business purpose. The dispute is in court and if upheld, will result in a tax payment relating to years from 2001 to the present day. The 
2001 reorganisation was comparable with restructurings done by many companies in Brazil. We believe that the likelihood of a successful challenge 
by the tax authorities is remote, however, there can be no guarantee of success in court. Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2010 117
Financial statements 
26 Acquisitions and disposals
Sara Lee’s Personal Care business
On 6 December 2010 we completed the purchase of 100% of Sara Lee’s Personal Care business. This acquisition adds brands including Radox, 
Duschdas and Neutral to Unilever’s existing portfolio.
The consideration was €1,456 million in cash. The fair values shown below are provisional and are based upon the fair value work that has 
been performed since the acquisition date. The acquisition accounting will be finalised in 2011.
The intangible assets of the Personal Care business are principally brands. Their fair values have been provisionally determined pending the 
completion of valuations in 2011.
The provisional estimate of the goodwill arising on the acquisition of the Personal Care business is €251 million. It relates to the value of the 
anticipated synergies to be realised from the acquisition, together with the market position and the assembled workforce. 
The following table summarises the consideration paid and assets and liabilities recognised at the acquisition date for the Group’s acquisition 
of the Personal Care business.
         € million
 
Intangible assets        256
Property, plant and equipment        64
Other non-current assets        5
Total non-current assets        325
Inventories        53
Trade and other current receivables        96
Current tax assets        2
Cash and cash equivalents        306
Assets held for sale        657
Total current assets        1,114
Financial liabilities         (7)
Trade payables and other current liabilities        (112)
Current tax liabilities        (19)
Liabilities associated with assets held for sale        (57)
Total current liabilities        (195)
Pensions and post-retirement healthcare liabilities        (11)
Deferred tax liabilities        (24)
Other non-current liabilities        (4)
Total non-current liabilities        (39)
Total identifiable net assets        1,205
Consideration – cash        1,456
Goodwill on acquisition        251
Acquisition-related costs of €12 million are included in administrative expenses in the income statement for the year ended 31 December 2010. 
These acquisition-related costs are presented within RDI in calculating underlying operating profit.
Since acquisition, the Personal Care business has contributed €43 million to Group revenue and €8 million to Group operating profit. If the 
personal care business acquisition had taken place at the beginning of the year, Group revenue would have been €754 million and Group 
operating profit would have been €118 million. 118 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Financial statements 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements Unilever Group 
26 Acquisitions and disposals (continued) 
Other 2010 acquisitions and disposals
On 18 January 2010 we announced a definitive agreement with Hormel Foods Corporation to sell our Shedd’s Country Crock branded side dish 
business in the US. The transaction was completed in February 2010. Under the terms of the agreement, Hormel will market and sell Shedd’s 
Country Crock chilled side-dish products, such as homestyle mashed potatoes, under a licence agreement.
On 26 April 2010 we announced the agreement with Strauss Holdings Ltd to increase the Unilever shareholding in Glidat Strauss Israel from 
51% to 90% for an undisclosed sum. The transaction was completed on 7 October 2010.
On 1 June 2010 we completed the disposal of the Brunch brand in Germany to Bongrain.
On 9 August 2010 we announced an asset purchase agreement with the Norwegian dairy group TINE, to acquire the Ice Cream operations 
of Diplom-Is in Denmark, as of 30 September 2010. The value of the transaction is undisclosed.
On 24 September 2010 we announced a definitive agreement to sell our consumer tomato products business in Brazil to Cargill for approximately 
R$600 million. The assets and liabilities related to this business are reported as held for sale. 
On 27 September 2010 we announced a definitive agreement to acquire Alberto Culver Company for US$3.7 billion in cash. The acquisition has 
received shareholders approval but it is subject to regulatory approval.
On 28 September 2010 we announced an agreement to buy EVGA’s ice cream brands and distribution network in Greece for an undisclosed sum. 
The transaction was completed on 27 January 2011.
The disposal of our frozen foods business in Italy for €805 million to Birds Eye Iglo was completed on 1 October 2010. 
2009
On 2 April 2009 we announced the completion of our purchase of the global TIGI professional hair product business and its supporting advanced 
education academies. TIGI’s major brands include Bed Head, Catwalk and S-Factor. Turnover of the business worldwide in 2008 was around 
US $250 million. The cash consideration of US $411.5 million was made on a cash and debt free basis. In addition, further limited payments related 
to future growth may be made contingent upon meeting certain thresholds.
On 23 June 2009 we announced that we had increased our holding in our business in Vietnam to 100%, following an agreement with Vinachem 
who previously owned 33.3% of the business.
On 3 July 2009 we completed the acquisition of Baltimor Holding ZAO’s sauces business in Russia. The acquisition includes the ketchup, 
mayonnaise and tomato paste business under the Baltimor, Pomo d’Oro and Vostochniy Gourmand brands – and a production facility at Kolpino, 
near St Petersburg.
On 3 September 2009 we announced the sale of our oil palm plantation business in the Democratic Republic of Congo to Feronia Inc, for an 
undisclosed sum.
On 24 November 2009 we completed the sale of our interest in JohnsonDiversey. The cash consideration received was US $390 million, which 
included both the originally announced cash consideration of US $158 million plus the proceeds of the sale of the 10.5% senior notes in 
JohnsonDiversey Holdings, Inc. We retain a 4% interest in JohnsonDiversey in the form of warrants. See also note 11 on page 91.
2008
With effect from 1 January 2008, we entered into an expanded international partnership with PepsiCo for the marketing and distribution 
of ready-to-drink tea products under the Lipton brand.
On 3 January 2008 we completed the sale of the Boursin brand to Le Groupe Bel for €400 million. The turnover of this brand in 2007 was 
approximately €100 million.
On 2 April 2008 we completed the acquisition of Inmarko, the leading Russian ice cream company. The company had a turnover in 2007 
of approximately €115 million.
On 31 July 2008 we completed the sale of our Lawry’s and Adolph’s branded seasoning blends and marinades business in the US and 
Canada to McCormick & Company, Incorporated for €410 million. The combined annual turnover of the business in 2007 was approximately 
€100 million.
On 9 September 2008 we completed the sale of our North American laundry business in the US, Canada and Puerto Rico to Vestar Capital 
Partners, a leading global private equity firm, for consideration of approximately US $1.45 billion, consisting mainly of cash, along with preferred 
shares and warrants. These businesses had a combined turnover in 2007 of approximately US $1.0 billion.
On 5 November 2008 we completed the sale of Komili, our olive oil brand in Turkey, to Ana Gida, part of the Anadolu Group.
On 4 December 2008 we completed the sale of our edible oil business in Côte d’Ivoire, together with interests in local oil palm plantations 
Palmci and PHCI, to SIFCA, the parent company of an Ivorian agro-industry group, and to a 50:50 joint venture between two Singapore-based 
companies, Wilmar International Limited and Olam International Limited. At the same time we acquired the soap business of Cosmivoire, 
a subsidiary of SIFCA.
On 23 December 2008 we completed the disposal of our Bertolli olive oil and vinegar business to Grupo SOS for a consideration of €630 million. 
The transaction was structured as a worldwide perpetual licence by Unilever of the Bertolli brand in respect of olive oil and premium vinegar. The 
transaction included the sale of the Italian Maya, Dante and San Giorgio olive oil and seed oil businesses, as well as the factory at Inveruno, Italy. Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2010 119
Financial statements 
26 Acquisitions and disposals (continued)
       € million € million € million
Disposals      2010 2009 2008
Goodwill and intangible assets      223 1 117
Other non-current assets      105 1 145
Current assets      151 3 227
Trade creditors and other payables      (51) – (61)
Provisions for liabilities and charges      (17) 1 (5)
Net assets sold      411 6 423
(Gain)/loss on recycling of currency re-translation on disposal     1 – (6)
Profit on sale attributable to Unilever      467 7 2,237
Consideration      879 13 2,654
 Cash      891 11 2,453
 Cash balances of businesses sold      1 – (15)
 Financial assets, cash deposits and financial liabilities of businesses sold    (14) 2 15
 Non-cash items and deferred consideration      1 – 201
 
The results of disposed businesses are included in the consolidated financial statements up to their date of disposal.
The following table sets out the effect of acquisitions in 2010, 2009 and 2008 on the consolidated balance sheet. The fair values currently 
established for all acquisitions made in 2010 are provisional. The goodwill arising on these transactions has been capitalised and is subject to an 
annual review for impairment (or more frequently if necessary) in accordance with our accounting policies as set out in note 1 on page 76. Any 
impairment is charged to the income statement as it arises. Detailed information relating to goodwill is given in note 9 on pages 87 and 88.
       € million € million € million
Acquisitions      2010 2009 2008
Net assets acquired      1,217 128 151
Goodwill arising in subsidiaries      259 350 60
Consideration      1,476 478 211 120 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Financial statements 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements Unilever Group 
27 Assets held for sale
        € million € million
        2010 2009
 
Disposal group held for sale on acquisition
Assets       657 –
Liabilities       (57) –
         600 –
Other disposal groups held for sale
Goodwill and intangibles       82 –
Property, plant and equipment       63 7
Inventories       53 1
Trade and other receivables       1 –
         199 8
Non-current assets held for sale
Property, plant and equipment       20 9
         20 9
On 6 December 2010, the Group acquired the Sanex brand as part of the acquisition of Sara Lee’s Personal Care business. The European 
Competition Authority’s approval of the acquisition was contingent on the divestiture of the Sanex brand in the European Economic Area. The 
divestiture will be completed during 2011.
28 Reconciliation of net profit to cash flow from operating activities
       € million € million € million
Cash flow from operating activities      2010 2009 2008
Net profit       4,598 3,659 5,285
Taxation      1,534 1,257 1,844
Share of net profit of joint ventures/associates and other income from non-current investments   (187) (489) (219)
Net finance costs:      394 593 257
 Finance income      (77) (75) (106)
 Finance cost      491 504 506
 Pensions and similar obligations      (20) 164 (143)
 
Operating profit      6,339 5,020 7,167
Depreciation, amortisation and impairment      993 1,032 1,003
Changes in working capital:      169 1,701 (161)
 Inventories      (573) 473 (345)
 Trade and other current receivables      (343) 640 (248)
 Trade payables and other current liabilities      1,085 588 432
 
Pensions and similar provisions less payments      (472) (1,028) (502)
Provisions less payments      72 (258) (62)
Elimination of (profits)/losses on disposals      (476) 13 (2,259)
Non-cash charge for share-based compensation      144 195 125
Other adjustments      49 58 15
Cash flow from operating activities      6,818 6,733 5,326
The cash flows of pension funds (other than contributions and other direct payments made by the Group in respect of pensions and similar 
obligations) are not included in the Group cash flow statement. Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2010 121
Financial statements 
29 Share-based compensation plans
As at 31 December 2010, the Group had share-based compensation plans in the form of performance shares, share options and other share 
awards. Starting in 2007, performance share awards and restricted stock awards were made under the Global Share Incentive Plan (GSIP), 
except in North America where awards were made under the Unilever North America 2002 Omnibus Equity Compensation Plan.
The numbers in this note include those for Executive Directors shown in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 61 to 67 and those 
for key management personnel shown in note 4 on page 84. No awards were made to Executive Directors in 2008, 2009 or 2010 under 
the Unilever North America 2002 Omnibus Equity Compensation Plan. Non-Executive Directors do not participate in any of the share-based 
compensation plans.
The economic fair value of the awards is calculated using option pricing models and the resulting cost is recognised as remuneration cost 
amortised over the vesting period of the grant. 
Unilever will not grant share options in total in respect of share-based compensation plans for more than 5% of its issued ordinary capital, 
and for all plans together, for more than 10% of its issued ordinary capital. The Board does not apportion these limits to each plan separately.
The actual remuneration cost charged in each period is shown below, and relates almost wholly to equity settled plans:
       € million € million € million
Income statement charge      2010 2009 2008
Performance share plans      (120) (166) (97)
Other plans
(a)
      (24) (29) (28)
 
        (144) (195) (125)
 
(a) The Group also provides a Share Matching Plan (no awards after 2011), an All-Employee Share Option Plan, a TSR Long-Term Incentive Plan 
(no awards after 2006) and an Executive Option Plan (no awards after 2005).
Performance Share Plans
In 2007 we introduced the Global Share Incentive Plan (GSIP). The provisions of this plan are comparable with the GPSP, with the same 
performance conditions of underlying sales growth and ungeared free cash flow for middle management, and the additional target based on 
TSR ranking for senior executives. Starting in 2008, awards made to GSIP participants normally vest at a level between 0% and 200%. Starting 
in 2010, GSIP performance conditions changed to underlying sales growth, underlying operating margin improvement and cumulative operating 
cash flow for middle management, and the additional target based on TSR ranking for senior executives. 2010 GSIP performance conditions apply 
to GSIP awards made in 2009 with respect to 2010 and 2011 performance years. Monte Carlo simulation is used to value the TSR component of 
the awards.
North America managers participate in the North America Performance Share Programme (NA PSP) (no awards after 2010), that awards Unilever 
shares if North America company performance conditions are met over a three-year period. The amount to be paid to the company by participants 
to obtain the shares at vesting is zero. Performance conditions for 2010 NA PSP awards are the same as GSIP performance conditions.
The Global Performance Share Plan (GPSP) was introduced in 2005. Under this plan, managers were awarded conditional shares which vest 
three years later at a level between 0% and 150% (for middle management) or 200% (for senior executives). The GPSP performance conditions 
for middle management were achievement of underlying sales growth and ungeared free cash flow targets over a three-year period. For senior 
executives, in addition to these two conditions, there was an additional target based on TSR ranking in comparison with a peer group over the 
three-year period (see description on page 63 and 64).
A summary of the status of the Performance Share Plans as at 31 December 2010, 2009 and 2008 and changes during the years ended on these 
dates is presented below:
      2010 2009 2008
      Number of Number of Number of
      shares shares shares
 
Outstanding at 1 January     17,536,148 16,353,251 16,843,769
Awarded     9,292,689 8,867,844 6,887,890
Vested     (8,626,746) (6,278,634) (6,415,295)
Forfeited     (961,715) (1,406,313) (963,113)
Outstanding at 31 December     17,240,376 17,536,148 16,353,251
Exercisable at 31 December     – – –
      2010 2009 2008
 
Share award value information
Fair value per share award during the year     €21.49 €13.02 €19.11 122 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Financial statements 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements Unilever Group 
29 Share-based compensation plans (continued)
Additional information
At 31 December 2010, there were options outstanding to purchase 32,928,940 (2009: 41,786,145) ordinary shares in NV or PLC in respect of 
share-based compensation plans of NV and its subsidiaries and the North American plans, and 12,217,128 (2009: 14,260,636) ordinary shares 
in NV or PLC in respect of share-based compensation plans of PLC and its subsidiaries.
To satisfy the options granted, certain NV group companies hold 42,033,393 (2009: 45,317,466) ordinary shares of NV or PLC, and trusts in Jersey 
and the United Kingdom hold 4,838,277 (2009: 7,150,549) PLC shares. The trustees of these trusts have agreed, until further notice, to waive 
dividends on these shares, save for the nominal sum of 0.01p per 3
1
/9p ordinary share. Shares acquired during 2010 represent 0.53% of the 
Group’s called up capital. The balance of shares held in connection with share plans at 31 December 2010 represented 1.5% (2009: 1.7%) of the 
Group’s called up capital.
The book value of €937 million (2009: €965 million) of all shares held in respect of share-based compensation plans for both NV and PLC 
is eliminated on consolidation by deduction from other reserves (see note 23 on page 113). Their market value at 31 December 2010 was 
€1,083 million (2009: €1,187 million).
At 31 December 2010 there were no options for which the exercise price was above market price.
Shares held to satisfy options are accounted for in accordance with IAS 32 and SIC 12. All differences between the purchase price of the shares 
held to satisfy options granted and the proceeds received for the shares, whether on exercise or lapse, are charged to reserves. The basis of the 
charge to operating profit for the economic value of options granted is discussed on page 121.
Between 31 December 2010 and 28 February 2011, no grants were made and 329,486 shares were forfeited related to the performance share plans.
30 Related party transactions
The following related party balances existed with associate or joint venture businesses at 31 December:
        € million € million
Related party balances       2010 2009
Trading and other balances due from joint ventures       233 231
Trading and other balances due from/(to) associates       – 5
Joint ventures
Sales by Unilever group companies to Unilever Jerónimo Martins and Pepsi Lipton International were €83 million and €12 million in 2010 (2009: 
€91 million and €14 million) respectively. Sales from Jerónimo Martins to Unilever group companies were €43 million in 2010 (2009: €46 million). 
Balances owed by/(to) Unilever Jerónimo Martins and Pepsi Lipton International at 31 December 2010 were €233 million and €0.3 million (2009: 
€230 million and €1 million) respectively.
Associates
Langholm Capital Partners invests in private European companies with above-average longer-term growth prospects. Since the Langholm I Fund 
was launched in 2002, Unilever has invested €83 million in Langholm I, with an outstanding commitment at the end of 2010 of €2.7 million. 
Unilever has received back a total of €127 million in cash from its investment in Langholm I.
Langholm Capital Partners II was launched in 2009, Unilever has invested €9 million in Langholm II, with an outstanding commitment at the end of 
2010 of €66 million.
Physic Ventures is an early stage venture capital fund based in San Francisco, focusing on consumer-driven health, wellness and sustainable living. 
Unilever has invested €33 million in Physic Ventures since the launch of the fund in 2007. At 31 December 2010 the outstanding commitment 
with Physic Ventures was €35 million. Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2010 123
Financial statements 
31 Remuneration of auditors
       € million € million € million
       2010 2009 2008
 
Fees payable to PricewaterhouseCoopers
(a)
 for the audit of the consolidated and parent 
 company accounts  of Unilever N.V. and Unilever PLC      (7)  (5) (7)
Fees payable to PricewaterhouseCoopers
(b)
 for the audit of accounts of subsidiaries of
 Unilever N.V. and Unilever PLC pursuant to the legislation     (11)  (14) (15)
Total statutory audit fees
(c)
      (18)  (19) (22)
Other services supplied pursuant to such legislation      (1) – (1)
Other services relevant to taxation      (1)  (2) (2)
Services relating to corporate finance transactions      (1) – (2)
All other services      (2)  (1) (1)
(a) Of which:
 €1 million was paid to PricewaterhouseCoopers Accountants N.V. (2009: €1 million; 2008: €2 million); and
 €6 million was paid to PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (2009: €4 million; 2008: €5 million).
(b) Comprises fees paid to the network of separate and independent member firms of PricewaterhouseCoopers International Limited for audit 
work on statutory financial statements and group reporting returns of subsidiary companies.
(c) In addition, €1 million of statutory audit fees were payable to PricewaterhouseCoopers in respect of services supplied to associated pension 
schemes (2009: €1 million; 2008: €1 million).
32 Events after the balance sheet date
On 3 February 2011 Unilever announced a quarterly dividend with the 2010 fourth quarter results of €0.2080 per NV ordinary share and £0.1775 
per PLC ordinary share.
On 10 February 2011 Unilever issued a bond composed of two senior notes: (i) US $500 million 2.75% fixed rate note which will mature in five 
years and (ii) US $1,000 million 4.25% fixed rate note which will mature in ten years. 124  Unilever  Annual  Report  and  Accounts  2010
Financial statements
Financial record Unilever  Group
In  the  schedules  below,  figures  within  the  income  statement  and  for  earnings  per  share  reflect  the  classification  between  continuing  and discontinued  operations  which  has  applied  for  our  reporting  during  2006-2010.
         € million  €  million  €  million  €  million  €  million
Consolidated income statement        2010  2009  2008  2007  2006
Continuing operations:
Turnover        44,262  39,823  40,523  40,187  39,642
Operating profit        6,339  5,020  7,167  5,245  5,408
Net  finance  costs        (394)  (593)  (257)  (252)  (721)
Income  from  non-current  investments        187  489  219  191  144
Profit before taxation        6,132  4,916  7,129  5,184  4,831
Taxation        (1,534)  (1,257)  (1,844)  (1,128)  (1,146)
Net profit from continuing operations        4,598  3,659  5,285  4,056  3,685
Net  profit  from  discontinued  operations        –  –  –  80  1,330
Net profit        4,598  3,659  5,285  4,136  5,015
Attributable  to:
  Non-controlling  interests        354  289  258  248  270
   Shareholders’  equity        4,244  3,370  5,027  3,888  4,745
         €  €  €    €    €
Combined earnings per share
(a)
        2010  2009  2008  2007  2006
Continuing operations:
  Basic  earnings  per  share        1.51  1.21  1.79  1.32  1.19
  Diluted  earnings  per  share        1.46  1.17  1.73  1.28  1.15
Total operations:
  Basic  earnings  per  share        1.51  1.21  1.79  1.35  1.65
  Diluted  earnings  per  share        1.46  1.17  1.73  1.31  1.60
         € million  €  million  €  million  €  million  €  million
Consolidated balance sheet        2010  2009  2008  2007  2006
Non-current  assets        28,683  26,205  24,967  27,374  27,571
Current  assets        12,484  10,811  11,175  9,928  9,501
Total  assets        41,167  37,016  36,142  37,302  37,072
Current  liabilities        (13,606)  (11,599)  (13,800)  (13,559)  (13,884)
Total assets less current liabilities        27,561  25,417  22,342  23,743  23,188
Non-current  liabilities        12,483  12,881  11,970  10,924  11,516
Shareholders’  equity        14,485  12,065  9,948  12,387  11,230
Non-controlling  interests        593  471  424  432  442
Total equity        15,078  12,536  10,372  12,819  11,672
Total capital employed        27,561  25,417  22,342  23,743  23,188
         € million  €  million  €  million  €  million  €  million
Consolidated cash flow statement        2010  2009  2008  2007  2006
Net  cash  flow  from  operating  activities        5,490  5,774  3,871  3,876  4,511
Net  cash  flow  from/(used  in)  investing  activities        (1,164)  (1,263)  1,415  (623)  1,155
Net  cash  flow  from/(used  in)  financing  activities        (4,609)  (4,301)  (3,130)  (3,009)  (6,572)
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents      (283)  210  2,156  244  (906)
Cash  and  cash  equivalents  at  the  beginning  of  the  year      2,397 2,360  901  710  1,265
Effect  of  foreign  exchange  rates        (148)  (173)  (697)  (53)  351
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year        1,966  2,397  2,360  901  710
(a)  For  the  basis  of  the  calculations  of  combined  earnings  per  share  see  note  7  on  page  86. Unilever  Annual  Report  and  Accounts  2010  125
Financial statements  Key performance indicators        2010  2009  2008  2007  2006
Underlying  sales  growth  (%)
(b)
        4.1  3.5  7.4  5.5  3.8
Underlying  volume  growth  (%)
(b)
        5.8  2.3  0.1  3.7  2.8
Underlying  operating  margin  (%)
(b)
        15.0  14.8  14.6  14.5  12.0
Free  cash  flow  (€  million)
(b)
        3,365  4,072  2,390  2,487  3,097
Ratios and other metrics        2010  2009  2008  2007  2006
Operating  margin  (%)        14.3  12.6  17.7  13.1  13.6
Net  profit  margin  (%)
(c)
        9.6  8.5  12.4  9.7  12.0
Net  debt  (€  million)
(b)
        6,668  6,357  8,012  8,335  7,523
Ratio  of  earnings  to  fixed  charges  (times)
(d)
        10.7  8.8  11.7  8.3  7.5
(b)  Non-GAAP  measures  are  defined  and  described  on  pages  31  and  32.
(c)  Net  profit  margin  is  expressed  as  net  profit  attributable  to  shareholders’  equity  as  a  percentage  of  turnover  from  continuing  operations.
(d)    In  the  ratio  of  earnings  to  fixed  charges,  earnings  consist  of  net  profit  from  continuing  operations  excluding  net  profit  or  loss  of  joint  ventures  and  associates  increased  by fixed charges,  income  taxes  and  dividends  received  from  joint  ventures  and  associates.  Fixed  charges  consist of  interest payable  on  debt  and a  portion  of  lease  costs  determined  to be  representative  of interest.  This  ratio  takes  no account  of  interest  receivable  although  Unilever’s  treasury  operations  involve  both  borrowing and  depositing  funds.
Exchange rates 
Unilever  reports  its  financial  results  and  balance  sheet  position  in  euros.  Other  currencies  which  may  significantly  impact  our  financial  statements  are  sterling  and  US  dollars.  Average  and  year-end  exchange  rates  for  these  two  currencies  for  the  last  five  years  are  given  below.
         2010  2009  2008  2007  2006
  Year end
€1  =  US  $        1.337  1.433  1.417  1.471  1.317
€1  =  £        0.862  0.888  0.977  0.734  0.671
Average
€1  =  US  $        1.326  1.388  1.468  1.364  1.254
€1  =  £        0.858  0.891  0.788  0.682  0.682
Dividend record
The  following  tables  show  the  dividends  declared  and  dividends  paid  by  NV  and  PLC for  the  last  five  years,  expressed  in  terms  of  the  revised  share  denominations  which  became  effective  from  22  May  2006.  Differences  between  the  amounts  ultimately  received  by  US  holders  of  NV  and  PLC  shares  are  the  result  of changes  in  exchange  rate  between  the  equalisation  of  the  dividends  and  the  date  of  payment.
Following  agreement  at  the  2009  AGMs  and  separate  meetings  of  ordinary  shareholders,  the  Equalisation  Agreement  was  modified  to  facilitate  the  payment  of  quarterly  dividends  from  2010  onwards.
         2010  2009  2008  2007  2006
(e)
  Dividends declared for the year
NV dividends
Dividend  per  €0.16         €0.83  €0.46  €0.77  €0.75  €0.70
Dividend  per  €0.16  (US  Registry)         $1.13  $0.67  $1.02  $1.13  $0.93
PLC dividends
Dividend  per  3
1
/9p        £0.71  £0.41  £0.61  £0.51  £0.48
Dividend  per  3
1
/9p  (US  Registry)        $1.13  $0.67  $0.94  $1.01  $0.93
Dividends paid during the year
NV dividends
Dividend  per  €0.16        €0.82  €0.78  €0.76  €0.72  €0.67
Dividend  per  €0.16  (US  Registry)        $1.11  $1.09  $1.11  $1.00  $0.85
PLC dividends
Dividend  per  3
1
/9p        £0.71  £0.64  £0.55  £0.49  £0.46
Dividend  per  3
1
/9p  (US  Registry)        $1.11  $1.00  $0.99  $0.99  $0.86
(e)  In  addition  to  the  amounts  shown  above  for  2006,  a  one-off  dividend  amounting  to  €0.2600  per  NV  share  (£0.1766  per  PLC  share;  $0.3316 per  NV  (US  registry)  share  and  $0.3372  per  PLC  (US  registry)  share)  was  declared  and  paid  in  that  year. 126  Unilever  Annual  Report  and  Accounts  2010
Financial statements
Group companies (continued)
%       Ownership
  Germany
  Maizena  Grundstücksverwaltung        GmbH  &  Co.  OHG    h
  Pfanni  GmbH  &  Co.  OHG  Stavenhagen    d
  Pfanni  Werke  Grundstücksverwaltung        GmbH  &  Co.  OHG    h
  UBG  Vermietungs  GmbH      i
  Unilever  Deutschland  GmbH    d
  Unilever  Deutschland  Holding  GmbH    d
  Unilever  Deutschland  Immobilien  Leasing        GmbH  &  Co.  OHG    i
  Unilever  Deutschland  Produktions  GmbH  &  Co.  OHG   d
  Greece
  Elais  Unilever  Hellas  SA    a
  India
52  Hindustan  Unilever  Ltd.    b
  Indonesia
85  P.T.  Unilever  Indonesia  Tbk    d
  Italy
  Unilever  Italy  Holdings  Srl    d
  Japan
  Unilever  Japan  KK    a
  Mexico
  Unilever  de  México  S.  de  R.L.  de  C.V.    d
  The Netherlands
  Mixhold  B.V.    d
  Unilever  Finance  International  B.V.    a
  Unilever  N.V.
(a)
        Unilever  Nederland  B.V.    a
  UNUS  Holding  B.V.    c
  Poland
  Unilever  Polska  S.A.    b
  Russia
  OOO  Unilever  Rus    g
  South Africa
74  Unilever  South  Africa  (Pty)  Limited    f
  Spain 
  Unilever  España  S.A.    a
  Sweden
  Unilever  Sverige  AB    a
  Switzerland 
  Unilever  Supply  Chain  Company  AG    a
  Unilever  Schweiz  GmbH    a
  Thailand
  Unilever  Thai  Trading  Ltd.    d
(a)  See  ‘Basis  of  consolidation’  in  note  1  on  page  76.
The  companies  listed  below  and  on  page  127  are  those  which,  in  the  opinion  of  the  Directors,  principally  affect  the  amount  of  profit  and  assets  shown  in  the  Unilever  Group  accounts.  The Directors  consider  that  those  companies  not  listed are  not  significant  in  relation  to  Unilever  as  a  whole.
Full  information  as  required  by  Articles  379  and  414  of  Book  2  of  the Civil  Code  in  the  Netherlands  has  been  filed  by  Unilever  N.V.  with the Commercial  Registry  in  Rotterdam.
Particulars  of  PLC  group  companies  and  other  significant  holdings  as required  by  the  United  Kingdom  Companies  Act  2006  will  be  annexed  to  the  next  Annual  Return  of  Unilever  PLC.
Unless  otherwise  indicated,  the  companies  are  incorporated  and  principally  operate  in  the  countries  under  which  they  are  shown.
The  aggregate  percentage  of  equity  capital  directly  or  indirectly  held  by NV  or  PLC  is  shown  in  the  margin,  except  where  it  is  100%.  All  these percentages  are  rounded  down  to  the  nearest  whole  number.
The  percentage  of  Unilever’s  shareholdings  held  either  directly  or  indirectly  by  NV  and  PLC  are  identified  in  the  tables  according  to  the  following  code:
NV  100%      a
PLC  100%      b
NV  55%;  PLC  45%      c
NV  65%;  PLC  35%      d
NV    3%;  PLC  97%      e
NV  15%;  PLC  85%      f
NV  18%;  PLC  82%      g
NV  64%;  PLC  36%      h
NV  66%;  PLC  34%      i
Due  to  the  inclusion  of  certain  partnerships  in  the  consolidated  group financial  statements  of  Unilever,  para  264(b)  of  the  German  trade  law  grants  an  exemption  from  the  duty  to  prepare  individual  statutory  financial  statements  and  management  reports  in  accordance  with  the requirements  for  limited  liability  companies  and  to  have  these  audited  and  published.
Group companies
%      Ownership
 Argentina
  Unilever  de  Argentina  S.A.    d
  Australia
  Unilever  Australia  Ltd.    b
 Belgium
  Unilever  Belgium  NV/SA    a
 Brazil
  Unilever  Brasil  Ltda.    d
  Canada
  Unilever  Canada  Inc.    d
  Chile
  Unilever  Chile  SA    d
  China
  Unilever  Services  (He  Fei)  Co  Limited    a
  France 
99  Unilever  France    d
Principal group companies and non-current investments Unilever  Group
as at 31 December 2010 Unilever  Annual  Report  and  Accounts  2010  127
Financial statements
Group companies (continued)
%       Ownership
  Turkey
  Unilever  Sanayi  ve  Ticaret  Türk  A.S ,.    d
  United Kingdom
  Unilever  UK  Ltd.    e
  Unilever  PLC
(a)
        Unilever  UK  Holdings  Ltd.    b
  Unilever  UK  &  CN  Holdings  Ltd.    e
 United States of America
  Conopco,  Inc.    c
  Unilever  Capital  Corporation    c
  Unilever  United  States,  Inc.    c
(a)  See  ‘Basis  of  consolidation’  in  note  1  on  page  76.
Joint ventures
%       Ownership
  Portugal
55  Unilever  Jerónimo  Martins,  Lda    b
  United States of America 
50  Pepsi/Lipton  Partnership    c
Associates
%       Ownership
 United Kingdom
40  Langholm  Capital  Partners  L.P.    b
In  addition,  we  have  revenues  either  from  our  own  operations  or through  agency  agreements  in  the  following  locations:  Albania,  Algeria,  Andorra,  Angola,  Antigua,  Armenia,  Austria,  Azerbaijan,  Bahamas,  Bahrain,  Bangladesh,  Barbados,  Belarus,  Belize,  Benin,  Bhutan,  Bolivia,  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina,  Botswana,  Brunei,  Bulgaria,  Burkina  Faso,  Burundi,  Cambodia,  Cameroon,  Cape  Verde,  Colombia,  Comoros,  Congo,  Costa  Rica,  Côte  d’Ivoire,  Croatia,  Cuba,  Cyprus,  Czech  Republic,  Democratic  Republic  of  Congo,  Denmark,  Djibouti,  Dominica,  Dominican  Republic,  Ecuador,  Egypt,  El  Salvador,  Equatorial  Guinea,  Eritrea,  Estonia,  Ethiopia,  Fiji,  Finland,  Gabon,  Gambia,  Georgia,  Ghana,  Grenada,  Guatemala,  Guinea,  Guinea-Bissau,  Guyana,  Haiti,  Honduras,  Hong  Kong,  Hungary,  Iceland,  Iran,  Iraq,  Ireland,  Israel,  Jamaica,  Jordan,  Kazakhstan,  Kenya,  Kiribati,  Kuwait,  Kyrgyzstan,  Latvia,  Lebanon,  Lesotho,  Liberia,  Libya,  Lithuania,  Luxembourg,  Macao,  Macedonia,  Madagascar,  Malawi,  Malaysia,  Mali,  Malta,  Marshall  Islands,  Mauritania,  Mauritius,  Moldova  (Republic  of),  Monaco,  Mongolia,  Montenegro,  Morocco,  Mozambique,  Namibia,  Nepal,  New  Zealand,  Nicaragua,  Niger,  Nigeria,  Norway,  Oman,  Pakistan,  Palestine,  Panama,  Papua  New  Guinea,  Paraguay,  Peru,  Philippines,  Portugal,  Qatar,  Réunion,  Romania,  Rwanda,  Saint  Kitts  and  Nevis,  Saint  Lucia,  Saint Vincent  and  the  Grenadines,  Samoa,  San  Marino,  Saudi  Arabia,  Senegal,  Serbia,  Seychelles,  Sierra  Leone,  Singapore,  Slovakia,  Slovenia,  Solomon  Islands,  Somalia,  South  Korea,  Sri  Lanka,  Sudan,  Suriname,  Swaziland,  Syria,  Taiwan,  Tajikistan,  Tanzania,  Timor-Leste,  Tonga,  Trinidad  &  Tobago,  Tunisia,  Turkmenistan,  Uganda,  Ukraine,  United  Arab  Emirates,  Uruguay,  Uzbekistan,  Vanuatu,  Venezuela,  Vietnam,  Yemen,  Zambia  and  Zimbabwe. 128  Unilever  Annual  Report  and  Accounts  2010
Financial statements
Company accounts Auditor’s  report  –  Unilever  N.V.
An  audit  involves  performing  procedures  to  obtain  audit  evidence  about  the  amounts  and  disclosures  in  the  company  accounts.  The  procedures  selected  depend  on  the  auditor’s  judgement,  including  the  assessment  of  the  risks  of  material  misstatement  of  the  company  accounts,  whether  due  to  fraud  or  error.  In  making  those  risk  assessments,  the  auditor  considers  internal  control  relevant  to  the  company’s  preparation  and  fair  presentation  of  the  company  accounts  in  order  to  design  audit  procedures  that  are  appropriate  in  the  circumstances,  but  not  for  the  purpose  of expressing  an  opinion  on  the  effectiveness  of  the  company’s  internal  control.  An  audit  also  includes  evaluating  the appropriateness  of  accounting  policies  used  and  the  reasonableness  of  accounting  estimates  made  by  the  directors,  as well  as  evaluating  the  overall  presentation  of  the  company accounts.
We  believe  that  the  audit  evidence  we  have  obtained  is  sufficient  and  appropriate  to  provide  a  basis  for  our  audit  opinion.
Opinion with respect to the company accounts
In  our  opinion,  the  company  accounts  give  a  true  and  fair  view  of the  financial  position  of  Unilever  N.V.  as  at  31  December  2010,  and  of  its  result  for  the  year  then  ended  in  accordance  with  United  Kingdom  accounting  standards  and  with  Part  9  of  Book  2  of  the  Dutch  Civil  Code.
Separate report on consolidated financial statements
We  have  reported  separately  on  the  consolidated  financial  statements  of  Unilever  Group  for  the  year  ended  31  December  2010.
Report on other legal and regulatory requirements 
Pursuant  to  the  legal  requirement  under  Section  2:  393  sub  5  at  e  and  f  of  the  Dutch  Civil  Code,  we  have  no  deficiencies  to  report  as  a  result  of  our  examination  whether  the  Report  of  the  Directors,  to  the  extent  we  can  assess,  has  been  prepared  in  accordance  with  Part  9  of  Book  2  of  this  Code,  and  whether  the  information  as  required  under  Section  2:  392  sub  1  at  b-h  has  been  annexed.  Further  we  report  that  the  Report  of  the  Directors,  to  the  extent  we  can  assess,  is  consistent  with  the  company  accounts  as  required  by  Section  2:  391  sub  4  of  the  Dutch  Civil  Code.
Amsterdam,  The  Netherlands,  1  March  2011
PricewaterhouseCoopers  Accountants  N.V.
R A J Swaak RA
Independent auditor's report
To: the General Meeting of Shareholders of Unilever N.V.
Report on the company accounts
We  have  audited  the  company  accounts  2010  as  set  out  on  pages  129  to  131  of  the  Annual  Report  and  Accounts  2010  of  Unilever  N.V.,  Rotterdam,  which  comprise  the  balance  sheet  as  at  31  December  2010,  the  profit  and  loss  account  for  the  year  then  ended  and  the  notes,  comprising  a  summary  of  accounting  policies and  other  explanatory  information.
Directors’ responsibility
The  directors  are  responsible  for  the  preparation  and  fair  presentation  of  these  company  accounts  in  accordance  with  United  Kingdom  accounting  standards  and  with  Part  9  of  Book  2  of  the  Dutch  Civil  Code,  and  for  the  preparation  of  the  Report  of  the  Directors  in  accordance  with  Part  9  of  Book  2  of  the  Dutch  Civil  Code.  Furthermore,  the  directors  are  responsible  for  such  internal  control  as  they  determine  is  necessary  to  enable  the  preparation  of  the  company  accounts  that  are  free  from  material  misstatement,  whether  due  to  fraud  or  error.
Auditor’s responsibility
Our  responsibility  is  to  express  an  opinion  on  these  company  accounts  based  on  our  audit.  We  conducted  our  audit  in  accordance  with  Dutch  law,  including  the  Dutch  Standards  on  Auditing.  This  requires  that  we  comply  with  ethical  requirements  and  plan  and  perform  the  audit  to  obtain  reasonable  assurance  about  whether  the  company  accounts  are  free  from  material misstatement. Unilever  Annual  Report  and  Accounts  2010  129
Financial statements  Balance sheet as  at  31  December
(after  proposed  appropriation  of  profit)
               € million  €  million
               2010  2009
  Fixed assets
Fixed  investments              27,294  26,289
Debtors  due  after  more  than  one  year              3,386  3,242
Deferred  taxation              14  18
Total non-current assets              3,400  3,260
Debtors  due  within  one  year              3,782  1,740
Deferred  taxation              30  20
Cash  at  bank  and  in  hand              –  14
Total current assets              3,812  1,774
Creditors due within one year              (20,407)  (17,163)
Net current assets/(liabilities)              (16,595)  (15,389)
Total assets less current liabilities              14,099  14,160
Creditors due after more than one year              6,330  6,515
Provisions for liabilities and charges (excluding pensions and similar obligations)        100  15
Net pension liability              89  90
Capital and reserves              7,580  7,540
Called  up  share  capital               275  275
Share  premium  account              20  20
Legal  reserves              16  16
Other  reserves              (3,521)  (3,428)
Profit  retained              10,790  10,657
  Total capital employed              14,099  14,160
Profit and loss account for  the  year  ended  31  December
               € million  €  million
               2010  2009
  Income  from  fixed  investments  after  taxation              1,084  1,306
Other  income  and  expenses              278  (19)
Profit for the year              1,362  1,287
For  the  information  required  by  Article  392  of  Book  2  of the  Civil  Code  in  the  Netherlands,  refer  to  pages  128  and  132.  Pages  130  and  131  are  part  of the  notes  to  the  Unilever  N.V.  company  accounts.
The  company  accounts  of  Unilever  N.V.  are  included  in  the  consolidated  accounts  of  the  Unilever  Group.  Therefore,  and  in  accordance  with  Article  402  of  Book  2  of  the  Civil  Code  in  the  Netherlands,  the  profit  and  loss  account  only  reflects  the  income  from  fixed  investments  after  taxation  and  other  income  and  expenses  after  taxes.  The  company  accounts  of  Unilever  N.V.  do  not  contain  a  cash  flow  statement  as  this  is  not  required  by  Book  2  of  the  Civil  Code  in  the  Netherlands.
Company accounts  Unilever  N.V. 130  Unilever  Annual  Report  and  Accounts  2010
Financial statements
Notes to the company accounts  Unilever  N.V.
Retirement  benefits
Unilever  N.V.  has  accounted  for  pensions  and  similar  benefits  under  the  United  Kingdom  Financial  Reporting  Standard  17  ‘Retirement  benefits’  (FRS  17).  The  operating  and  financing  costs  of  defined  benefit  plans  are  recognised  separately  in  the  profit  and  loss  account;  service  costs  are  systematically  spread  over  the  service  lives  of  employees,  and  financing  costs  are  recognised  in  the  periods  in  which  they  arise.  Variations  from  expected  costs,  arising  from  the  experience  of  the  plans  or  changes  in actuarial  assumptions,  are  recognised  immediately  in  the  statement  of comprehensive  income.  The  costs  of  individual  events  such  as  past service  benefit  enhancements,  settlements  and  curtailments  are recognised  immediately  in  the  profit  and  loss  account.  The  liabilities and,  where  applicable,  the  assets  of  defined  benefit  plans  are recognised  at  fair  value  in  the  balance  sheet.  The  charges  to  the  profit  and  loss  account  for  defined  contribution  plans  are  the  company  contributions  payable  and  the  assets  of  such  plans  are  not  included  in the  company  balance  sheet.
Dividends
Under  Financial  Reporting  Standard  21  ‘Events  after  the  Balance  Sheet  Date’  (FRS  21),  proposed  dividends  do  not  meet  the  definition  of  a  liability  until  such  time  as  they  have  been  approved  by  shareholders  at  the  Annual  General  Meeting.  Therefore,  we  do  not  recognise  a  liability  in  any  period  for  dividends  that  have  been  proposed  but  will  not  be  approved  until  after  the  balance  sheet  date.  This  holds  for  external  dividends  as  well  as  intra-group  dividends  paid  to  the  parent  company.
Taxation
Unilever  N.V.,  together  with  certain  of  its  subsidiaries,  is  part  of  a  tax  grouping  for  Dutch  corporate  income  tax  purposes.  The  members  of the  fiscal  entity  are  jointly  and  severally  liable  for  any  taxes  payable  by  the  Dutch  tax  grouping.
Fixed investments          € million  €  million
           2010  2009
  1  January          26,289  26,245
Additions
(a)
          1,136  3,840
Decreases
(b)
          (131)  (3,796)
31  December          27,294  26,289
(a)  The  additions  relate  to  two  investments  in  group  companies  and  to  capital  injections  in  the  subsidiary  Unilever  Finance  International  B.V.
(b)  The decreases  relate  to  the  divestment  of  two  group  companies.
Debtors          € million  €  million
           2010  2009
  Loans  to  group  companies        3,913  3,242
Other  amounts  owed  by  group  companies    3,188  1,668
Taxation          10  28
Other          57  44
               7,168  4,982
Of  which  due  after  more  than  one  year      3,386  3,242
Accounting information and policies
Basis of preparation
The  company  accounts  of  Unilever  NV  comply  in  all  material  respects  with  legislation  in  the  Netherlands.  As  allowed  by  Article  362.1  of  Book 2  of  the  Civil  Code  in  the  Netherlands,  the  company  accounts  are  prepared  in  accordance  with  United  Kingdom  accounting  standards,  unless  such  standards  conflict  with  the  Civil  Code  in  the  Netherlands  which  would  in  such  case  prevail.
The  accounts  are  prepared  under  the  historical  cost  convention  as  modified  by  the  revaluation  of  financial  assets  classified  as    ‘available-for-sale  investments’,  ‘financial  assets  at  fair  value  through  profit  or loss’,  and  ‘derivative  financial  instruments’  in  accordance  with  the accounting  policies  set  out  below  which  have  been  consistently applied.
Accounting policies
The  principal  accounting  policies  are  as  follows:
Fixed  investments
Shares  in  group  companies  are  stated  at  cost  less  any  amounts  written  off  to  reflect  a  permanent  impairment.  Any  impairment  is  charged  to the  profit  and  loss  account  as  it  arises.  In  accordance  with  Article  385.5  of  Book  2  of  the  Civil  Code  in  the  Netherlands,  Unilever  N.V.  shares  held  by  Unilever  N.V.  subsidiaries  are  deducted  from  the  carrying  value  of  those  subsidiaries.  This  differs  from  the  accounting  treatment  under  UK  GAAP,  which  would  require  these  amounts  to  be included  within  fixed  investments.
Financial  instruments  and  derivative  financial  instruments
The  company’s  accounting  policies  under  United  Kingdom  generally accepted  accounting  principles  (UK  GAAP)  namely  FRS  25  ‘Financial Instruments:  Presentation’,  FRS  26  ‘Financial  Instruments:  Measurement’  and  FRS  29  ‘Financial  Instruments:  Disclosures’  are  the same  as  the  Unilever  Group’s  accounting  policies  under  International  Financial  Reporting  Standards  (IFRS)  namely  IAS  32  ‘Financial  Instruments:  Presentation’,  IAS  39  ‘Financial  Instruments:  Recognition  and  Measurement’  and  IFRS  7  ‘Financial  Instruments:  Disclosures’.  The  policies  are  set  out  under  the  heading  ‘Financial  instruments’  in  note  1  to  the  consolidated  accounts  on  pages  77  and 78.  NV  is  taking  the  exemption  for  not  providing  all  the  financial  instruments  disclosures,  because  IFRS  7  disclosures  are  given  in  note 15 to  the  consolidated  accounts  on  pages  98  to  104.
Deferred  taxation
Full  provision  is  made  for  deferred  taxation  on  all  significant  timing  differences  arising  from  the  recognition  of  items  for  taxation  purposes  in  different  periods  from  those  in  which  they  are  included  in  the  company’s  accounts.  Full  provision  is  made  at  the  rates  of  tax  prevailing  at  the  year  end  unless  future  rates  have  been  enacted  or  substantively  enacted.  Deferred  tax  assets  and  liabilities  have  not  been  discounted.
Own  shares  held  Own  shares  held  by  the  company  are  accounted  for  in  accordance  with Dutch  law  and  UK  GAAP,  namely  FRS  25  ‘Financial  Instruments:  Presentation’.  All  differences  between  the  purchase  price  of  the  shares  held  to  satisfy  options  granted  and  the  proceeds  received  for  the  shares,  whether  on  exercise  or  lapse,  are  charged  to  other  reserves. Unilever  Annual  Report  and  Accounts  2010  131
Financial statements
Profit retained          € million  €  million
           2010  2009
  1  January          10,657  10,602
Profit  for  the  year          1,362  1,287
Ordinary  dividends  –  final  2008      –  (786)
Ordinary  dividends  –  interim  2009      –  (417)
Quarterly  dividend  announced  with  Q4  2009  results  (301)  –  Quarterly  dividend  announced  with  Q1  2010  results  (323) – 
Quarterly  dividend  announced  with  Q2  2010  results  (323)  –  Quarterly  dividend  announced  with  Q3  2010  results  (323)  –  Taxation  charge          1  2
Realised  profit/(loss)  on  shares/certificates  held      to  meet  employee  share  options      39  (8)
Changes  in  present  value  of  net  pension  liability    (5)  (9)
Other  charges          6  (14)
31  December          10,790  10,657
As  shown  in  note  24  on  page  114,  the  total  profit  retained  of  NV  amounts  to  €18,845  million  (2009:  €16,458  million).  This  is  made  up  of  the  Parent  Unilever  N.V.  €10,790  million  (2009:  €10,657  million),  other  NV  group  companies  €8,003  million  (2009:  €5,730 million)  and  joint  ventures  and  associates  €52 million  (2009:  €71 million).
Provisions for liabilities and charges (excluding pensions 
and similar obligations)
           € million  €  million
           2010  2009
  Other  provisions
(c)
          100  15
             100  15
Of  which  due  within  one  year        78  14
(c)  Other  provisions  include  €62  million  relating  to  NV's  share  of  a  provision  for  the  potential  infringement  of  competition  law  in  the  European  Union.  Further  information  is  given  in  note  25  on  page  116.
Net pension liability 
           € million  €  million
           2010  2009
  Funded  retirement  benefit        (6)  (9)
Unfunded  retirement  liability        95  99
             89  90
Contingent liabilities
Contingent  liabilities  are  not  expected  to  give  rise  to  any  material  loss and  include  guarantees  given  for  group  companies.  The  fair  value  of  such  guarantees  was  not  significant  in  either  2009  or  2010.  The  guarantees  issued  to  other  companies  were  immaterial.
NV  has  issued  joint  and  several  liability  undertakings,  as  defined  in  Article  403  of  Book  2  of  the  Civil  Code  in  the  Netherlands,  for  almost  all  Dutch  group  companies.  These  written  undertakings  have  been  filed  with  the  office  of  the  Company  Registry  in  whose  area  of  jurisdiction  the  group  company  concerned  has  its  registered  office.
Directors’ remuneration
Information  about  the  remuneration  of  Directors  is  given  in  the  tables  noted  as  audited  in  the  Directors’  Remuneration  Report  on  pages  61  to 67,  incorporated  and  repeated  here  by  reference.
Cash at bank and in hand
There  was  no  cash  at  bank  and  in  hand  for  which  payment  notice  was  required  at  either  31  December  2010  or  31  December  2009.
Creditors          € million  €  million
           2010  2009
  Due within one year:
Other  amounts  owed  to  group  companies    18,381  15,967
Loans  from  group  companies        1,317  972
Bonds  and  other  loans        556  33
Taxation  and  social  security        14  15
Accruals  and  deferred  income        55  67
Other          84  109
               20,407  17,163
Due after more than one year:
Bonds  and  other  loans        3,148  3,297
Loans  from  group  companies        3,089  3,089
Accruals  and  deferred  income        4  5
Preference  shares          89  124
               6,330  6,515
Creditors  due  after  five  years  amount  to  €90  million  (2009:  €1,107  million)  (Article  375.2  of  Book  2  of  the  Civil  Code  in the  Netherlands).
Ordinary share capital
The  called  up  share  capital  amounting  to  €275  million  consists  of  1,714,727,700  NV  ordinary  shares  and  2,400  NV  ordinary  special  shares.  These  special  shares  number  1  to  2,400  are  held  by  a  subsidiary  of  NV  and  a  subsidiary  of  PLC,  each  holding  50%.  Further  details  are  given  in note  22  to  the  consolidated  accounts  on  page  113.  169,731,275  (2009:  169,352,181)  of  the  ordinary  shares  are  held  by  Unilever  NV  (see  disclosure  'Other  reserves')  and  649,275  (2009:  826,463)  €0.16  ordinary  shares  are  held  by  other  group  companies.  Share premium account
The  share  premium  shown  in  the  balance  sheet  is  not  available  for  the  issue  of  bonus  shares  or  for  repayment  without  incurring  withholding  tax  payable  by  the  company.  This  is  despite  the  change  in  tax  law  in  the Netherlands,  as  a  result  of  which  dividends  received  from  2001  onwards  by  individual  shareholders  who  are  resident  in  the  Netherlands are  no  longer  taxed.
Legal reserve
In  2006  the  NV  ordinary  shares  were  split  in  the  ratio  3  to  1  and  at  the  same  time  the  share  capital,  previously  denominated  in  Dutch  guilders,  was  converted  into  euros.  Due  to  roundings  the  new  nominal  value  per share  differs  from  the  value  expressed  in  Dutch  guilders.  As  a  result,  the reported  share  capital  issued  at  31  December  2006  was  €16  million  lower  than  in  2005.
Other reserves          € million  €  million
           2010  2009
  1  January          (3,428)  (3,559)
Change  during  the  year        (93)  131
  31  December          (3,521)  (3,428)
The  own  ordinary  shares  held  by  NV  amount  to  169,731,275  (2009:  169,352,181)  €0.16  and  are  included  in  the  other  reserves.
The Board of Directors
1  March  2011 132  Unilever  Annual  Report  and  Accounts  2010
Financial statements
Further statutory and other information Unilever  N.V.
Post balance sheet event
On  3  February  2011  the  Directors  announced  a  dividend  of  €0.2080 per  Unilever  N.V.  ordinary  share.  The  dividend  is  payable  from 16  March  2011  to shareholders  registered  at  close  of  business  on 11  February  2011.
Special controlling rights under the Articles of Association
See  note  22  to  the  consolidated  accounts  on  page  113.
Auditors
A  resolution  will  be  proposed  at  the  Annual  General  Meeting  on  12 May  2011  for  the  re-appointment  of  PricewaterhouseCoopers  Accountants  N.V.  as  auditors  of  Unilever  N.V.  The  present  appointment  will  end  at  the  conclusion  of  the  Annual  General  Meeting.  For  details  of the  remuneration  of  the  auditors  please  refer  to  note  31  on  page  123.
The rules for profit appropriation in the Articles of Association
(summary  of  Article  38)
The  profit  for  the  year  is  applied  firstly  to  the  reserves  required  by law  or  by  the  Equalisation  Agreement,  secondly  to  cover  losses  of previous  years,  if  any,  and  thirdly  to  the  reserves  deemed  necessary  by  the  Board  of  Directors.  Dividends  due  to  the  holders  of the  Cumulative  Preference  Shares,  including  any  arrears  in  such  dividends,  are  then  paid;  if  the  profit  is  insufficient  for  this  purpose,  the  amount  available  is  distributed  to  them  in  proportion  to  the  dividend  percentages  of  their  shares.  Any profit  remaining  thereafter  shall  be  distributed  to  the  holders  of  ordinary  shares  in  proportion  to  the  nominal  value  of  their  respective  holdings  of  ordinary  shares.  The  General  Meeting  can  only  decide  to make  distributions  from  reserves  on  the  basis  of  a  proposal  by  the  Board  and  in  compliance  with  the  law  and  the  Equalisation  Agreement.
Proposed profit appropriation        € million  €  million
              2010  2009
Profit  for  the  year  (available  for  distribution)     1,362  1,287
Interim  dividend  already  paid           –  (417)
Dividend  announced  with  Q1  2010  results     (323)  –
Dividend  announced  with  Q2  2010  results     (323)  –
Dividend  announced  with  Q3  2010  results     (323)  –
To  profit  retained              393  870
Corporate Centre
Unilever  N.V.
Weena  455
PO  Box  760
3000  DK  Rotterdam
The  Netherlands Unilever  Annual  Report  and  Accounts  2010  133
Financial statements
Company accounts Auditor's  report  –  Unilever  PLC
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
In  our  opinion:
•  the  part  of  the  Directors’  Remuneration  Report  to  be  audited  has  been  properly  prepared  in  accordance  with  the  Companies  Act  2006;  and
•  the  information  given  in  the  Report  of  the  Directors  for  the  financial  year  for  which  the  parent  company  financial  statements  are  prepared  is  consistent  with  the  parent  company  financial  statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
We  have  nothing  to  report  in  respect  of  the  following  matters  where  the  Companies  Act  2006  requires  us  to  report  to  you  if,  in  our  opinion:
•  adequate  accounting  records  have  not  been  kept  by  the  parent  company,  or  returns  adequate  for  our  audit  have  not  been  received  from  branches  not  visited  by  us;  or
•  the  parent  company  financial  statements  and  the  part  of  the  Directors’  Remuneration  Report  to  be  audited  are  not  in  agreement  with  the  accounting  records  and  returns;  or
•  certain  disclosures  of  directors’  remuneration  specified  by  law  are  not  made;  or
•  we  have  not  received  all  the  information  and  explanations  we  require  for  our  audit.
Other matter
We  have  reported  separately  on  the  group  financial  statements  of  Unilever  Group  for  the  year  ended  31  December  2010.
Richard Sexton
(Senior  Statutory  Auditor)
For  and  on  behalf  of  PricewaterhouseCoopers  LLP
Chartered  Accountants  and  Statutory  Auditors
London,  United  Kingdom
1  March  2011
Independent auditor's report to the members of Unilever PLC
We  have  audited  the  parent  company  financial  statements  of  Unilever  PLC  for  the  year  ended  31  December  2010  which  comprise  the  balance  sheet  and  the  related  notes.  The  financial  reporting  framework  that  has  been  applied  in  their  preparation  is  applicable  law  and  United  Kingdom  Accounting  Standards  (United  Kingdom  Generally  Accepted  Accounting  Practice).
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors
As  explained  more  fully  in  the  Statement  of  Directors’  Responsibilities  set  out  on  page  69,  the  Directors  are  responsible  for  the  preparation  of  the  parent  company  financial  statements  and  for  being  satisfied  that  they  give  a  true  and  fair  view.  Our  responsibility  is  to  audit  and  express  an  opinion  on  the  parent  company  financial  statements  in  accordance  with  applicable  law  and  International  Standards  on  Auditing  (UK  and  Ireland).  Those  standards  require  us  to  comply  with  the  Auditing  Practices  Board’s  Ethical  Standards  for  Auditors.
This  report,  including  the  opinions,  has  been  prepared  for  and  only  for  the  company’s  members  as  a  body  in  accordance  with  Chapter  3  of  Part  16  of  the  Companies  Act  2006  and  for  no  other  purpose.  We  do  not,  in  giving  these  opinions,  accept  or  assume  responsibility  for  any  other  purpose  or  to  any  other  person  to  whom  this  report  is  shown  or  into  whose  hands  it  may  come  save  where  expressly  agreed  by  our  prior  consent  in  writing.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
An  audit  involves  obtaining  evidence  about  the  amounts  and  disclosures  in  the  financial  statements  sufficient  to  give  reasonable  assurance  that  the  financial  statements  are  free  from  material  misstatement,  whether  caused  by  fraud  or  error.  This  includes  an  assessment  of:  whether  the  accounting  policies  are  appropriate  to  the  parent  company’s  circumstances  and  have  been  consistently  applied  and  adequately  disclosed;  the  reasonableness  of  significant  accounting  estimates  made  by  the  directors;  and  the  overall  presentation  of  the  financial  statements.
Opinion on financial statements 
In  our  opinion  the  parent  company  financial  statements:  •  give  a  true  and  fair  view  of  the  state  of  the  company’s  affairs  as  at  31 December  2010;
•  have  been  properly  prepared  in  accordance  with  United  Kingdom  Generally  Accepted  Accounting  Practice;  and
•  have  been  prepared  in  accordance  with  the  requirements  of  the  Companies  Act  2006. 134  Unilever  Annual  Report  and  Accounts  2010
Financial statements
Balance sheet as  at  31  December
               £ million  £  million
               2010  2009
  Fixed assets
Intangible  assets              48  7
Fixed  asset  investments              5,942  5,929
Current assets
Debtors  due  within  one  year              545  375
Creditors due within one year              (3,933)  (3,761)
Net current assets/(liabilities)              (3,388)  (3,386)
Total assets less current liabilities              2,602  2,550
Creditors due after more than one year              744  743
Provision for liabilities and charges (excluding pensions and similar obligations)        50  10
Capital and reserves              1,808  1,797
Called  up  share  capital              41  41
Share  premium  account              94  94
Capital  redemption  reserve               11  11
Other  reserves              (428)  (455)
Profit  retained              2,090  2,106
  Total capital employed              2,602  2,550
As  permitted  by  Section  408  of  the  United  Kingdom  Companies  Act  2006,  an  entity  profit  and  loss  account  is  not  included  as  part  of  the published  company  accounts  for  PLC.  Under  the  terms  of  Financial  Reporting  Standard  1  (revised  1996)  ‘Cash  Flow  Statements’  (FRS  1)  a cash flow statement  is  not  included,  as  the  cash  flows  are  included  in  the  consolidated  cash  flow  statement  of  the  Unilever  Group.
On behalf of the Board of Directors
M Treschow  Chairman
P Polman  Chief  Executive  Officer
1  March  2011
Company accounts Unilever  PLC Unilever  Annual  Report  and  Accounts  2010  135
Financial statements
Notes to the company accounts  Unilever  PLC
Deferred  taxation
Full  provision  is  made  for  deferred  taxation  on  all  significant  timing  differences  arising  from  the  recognition  of  items  for  taxation  purposes  in  different  periods  from  those  in  which  they  are  included  in  the  company’s  accounts.  Full  provision  is  made  at  the  rates  of  tax  prevailing  at  the  year  end  unless  future  rates  have  been  enacted  or  substantively  enacted.  Deferred  tax  assets  and  liabilities  have  not  been  discounted.
Shares  held  by  employee  share  trusts
Shares  held  to  satisfy  options  are  accounted  for  in  accordance  with  UK GAAP,  namely  FRS  25  ‘Financial  Instruments:  Presentation’,  FRS 20 ‘Share  Based  Payments’  and  Urgent  Issues  Task  Force  abstract  38  ‘Accounting  for  ESOP  Trusts’  (UITF  38).  All  differences  between  the purchase  price  of  the  shares  held  to  satisfy  options  granted  and  the proceeds  received  for  the  shares,  whether  on  exercise  or  lapse,  are charged  to  other  reserves.
Dividends
Under  Financial  Reporting  Standard  21  ‘Events  after  the  Balance  Sheet  Date’  (FRS  21),  proposed  dividends  do  not  meet  the  definition  of  a  liability  until  such  time  as  they  have  been  approved  by  shareholders  at  the  Annual  General  Meeting.  Therefore,  we  do  not  recognise  a  liability  in  any  period  for  dividends  that  have  been  proposed  but  will  not  be  approved  until  after  the  balance  sheet  date.  This  holds  for  external  dividends  as  well  as  intra-group  dividends  paid  to  the  parent  company.
Accounting information and policies
Basis of preparation
The  accounts  have  been  prepared  in  accordance  with  applicable  United  Kingdom  accounting  standards  and  the  United  Kingdom  Companies  Act  2006.
The  accounts  are  prepared  under  the  historical  cost  convention  as  modified  by  the  revaluation  of  financial  assets  classified  as    ‘available-for-sale  investments’,  ‘financial  assets  at  fair  value  through  profit  or loss’,  and  ‘derivative  financial  instruments’  in  accordance  with  the  accounting  policies  set  out  below  which  have  been  consistently  applied.
Accounting policies
The  principal  accounting  policies  are  as  follows:
Intangible  assets
Intangible  assets  comprise  trademarks  purchased  after  1  January  1998  and  are  amortised  in  the  profit  and  loss  account  over  their  expected  useful  lives  of  up  to  a  maximum  of  20  years.  These  assets  are  held  at  cost  less  accumulated  amortisation.  They  are  subject  to  review  for  impairment  in  accordance  with  United  Kingdom  Financial  Reporting  Standard  11  ‘Impairment  of  Fixed  Assets  and  Goodwill’  (FRS  11).  Any  impairment  is  charged  to  the  profit  and  loss  account  as  it  arises.
Fixed  asset  investments
Shares  in  group  companies  are  stated  at  cost  less  any  amounts  written  off  to  reflect  a  permanent  impairment.  Any  impairment  is  charged  to  the  profit  and  loss  account  as  it  arises.
Financial  instruments  The  company’s  accounting  policies  under  United  Kingdom  generally accepted  accounting  principles  (UK  GAAP)  namely  FRS  25  ‘Financial  Instruments:  Presentation’,  FRS  26  ‘Financial  Instruments:  Measurement’  and  FRS  29  ‘Financial  Instruments:  Disclosures’  are  the  same  as  the  Unilever  Group’s  accounting  policies  under  International  Financial  Reporting  Standards  (IFRS)  namely  IAS  32  ‘Financial  Instruments:  Presentation’,  IAS  39  ‘Financial  Instruments:  Recognition  and  Measurement’  and  IFRS  7  ‘Financial  Instruments:  Disclosures’.  The policies  are  set  out  under  the  heading  ‘Financial  instruments’  in note  1  to  the  consolidated  accounts  on  pages  77  and  78.  PLC  is  taking  the  exemption  for  not  providing  all  the  financial  instruments  disclosures,  because  IFRS  7  disclosures  are  given  in  note  15  to  the  consolidated  accounts  on  pages  98  to  104. 136  Unilever  Annual  Report  and  Accounts  2010
Financial statements
Other reserves
The  own  ordinary  shares  held  by  PLC  amount  to  31,535,271  (2009: 33,874,834)  3
1
/9p  and  are  included  in  Other  reserves.
          £ million  £  million
           2010  2009
  1  January          (455)  (489)
Change  in  book  value  of  shares      27  34
31  December          (428)  (455)
Profit retained          £ million  £  million
           2010  2009
  1  January           2,106  1,951
Profit  for  the  year          879  977
Other  income          5  –
Final  dividend  2008  on  ordinary  and      deferred  shares          –  (513)
Interim  dividend  2009  on  ordinary  and      deferred  shares          –  (309)
Quarterly  dividend  announced  with  Q4  2009  results  (217)  –  Quarterly  dividend  announced  with  Q1  2010  results  (231)  –  Quarterly  dividend  announced  with  Q2  2010  results  (220)  –  Quarterly  dividend  announced  with  Q3  2010  results  (232)  –  31  December          2,090  2,106
Contingent liabilities
Contingent  liabilities  are  not  expected  to  give  rise  to  any  material  loss and  include  guarantees  given  for  group  companies.  The  fair  value  of  such  guarantees  is  not  significant  in  either  2009  or  2010.  The  guarantees  issued  to  other  companies  were  immaterial.
Remuneration of auditors
The  parent  company  accounts  of  Unilever  PLC  are  required  to  comply  with  The  Companies  (Disclosure  of  Auditor  Remuneration)  Regulations  2005.  Auditors’  remuneration  in  respect  of  Unilever  PLC  is  included  within  the  disclosures  in  note  31  on  page  123.
Profit appropriation        £ million  £  million
           2010  2009
  Profit  for  the  year  (available  for  distribution)    879  977
Interim  dividend  already  paid        –  (309)
Dividend  announced  with  Q1  2010  results    (231)  –
Dividend  announced  with  Q2  2010  results    (220)  –
Dividend  announced  with  Q3  2010  results    (232)  –
To  profit  retained          196  668
Post balance sheet event
On  3  February  2011  the  Directors  announced  a  dividend  of  £0.1775 per Unilever  PLC  ordinary  share.  The  dividend  is  payable  from 16  March  2011  to  shareholders  registered  at  close  of  business  on 11  February  2011.
Intangible assets     £ million  £  million
           2010  2009
  Indefinite-lived  intangible  assets
(a)
      47  6
Finite-lived  intangible  assets        1  1
              48  7
  (a)  The  movement  in  the  year  is  the  acquisition  of  several  Sara  Lee trademarks.
Fixed asset investments        £ million  £  million
           2010  2009
  Shares  in  group  companies
(b)
        5,942  5,929
(b)  The  movement  in  the  year  is  an  additional  investment  in  a  group company.
Debtors          £ million  £  million
           2010  2009
  Due within one year:
Amounts  owed  by  group  companies      544  374
Other          1  1
               545  375
  Creditors          £ million  £  million
           2010  2009
  Due within one year:
Amounts  owed  to  group  companies      3,857  3,687
Taxation  and  social  security        56  63
Accruals  and  deferred  income        11  11
Other          9  –
               3,933  3,761
Due after more than one year:
Bonds  and  other  loans
(c)
        744  743
(c)  In  2009  Unilever  PLC  issued  the  following  senior  notes:
•  on  19  March  £350  million  at  4.0%  maturing  December  2014  (year-end  value  at  amortised  cost  £347  million);  and
•  on  17  June  £400  million  at  4.75%  maturing  June  2017    (year-end  value  amortised  cost  £397  million).
Provisions for liabilities and charges (excluding pensions 
and similar obligations)
           £ million  £  million
           2010  2009
  Deferred  taxation          9  10
Other  provisions
(d)
          41  –
            50  10
Of  which  due  within  one  year        41  –
(d)  Other  provisions  comprise  of  PLC's  share  of  a  provision  for  the  potential  infringement  of  competition  law  in  the  European  Union.  Further  information  is  given  in  note  25  to  the  consolidated  accounts  on  page  116.
Ordinary share capital
The  called  up  share  capital  amounting  to  £41  million  consists  of  1,310,156,361  PLC  ordinary  shares  and  100,000  PLC  deferred  stock.  The  deferred  stock  of  PLC  are  held  as  to  one  half  of  each  class  by  N.V.  Elma  –  a  subsidiary  of  NV  –  and  one  half  by  United  Holdings  Ltd  –  a subsidiary  of  PLC.  Further  details  are  given  in  note  22  to  the  consolidated  accounts  on  page  113.  Notes to the company accounts  Unilever  PLC Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2010 137
Financial statements
Further statutory and other information Unilever PLC
The Directors’ Reports of the United Kingdom group companies 
contain more details about how they have communicated with their 
employees during 2010.
Equal opportunities and diversity
Under the umbrella of our Code of Business Principles, Unilever aims to 
ensure that applications for employment from people with disabilities, 
and other under-represented groups, are given full and fair 
consideration and that such people are given the same training, 
development and prospects as other employees. Every effort is also 
made to retrain and support employees who become disabled while 
working within the Group.
The Company continues to review ways in which greater diversity can 
be achieved in recruitment and selection. We have put in place policies 
which promote the achievement of diversity in our business and we 
review these regularly. For example, Unilever UK provides policies on 
home working, flexible working, maternity and paternity leave, child 
care provision and career breaks, which help us to meet the objective 
of greater employee diversity.
Charitable and other contributions
Unilever collates the cost of its community involvement activities using 
the London Benchmarking Group model. The model recommends the 
separation of charitable donations, community investment, commercial 
initiatives in the community and management costs relating to the 
programme of activity.
During 2010 UK group companies made a total contribution 
of £3 million, analysed as follows:
• Charitable donations: £0.3 million
• Community investment: £2.5 million
• Commercial initiatives in the community: £0.2 million
No donation or contribution was made or expenditure incurred for 
political purposes.
Supplier payment policies
Individual operating companies are responsible for agreeing the terms 
and conditions under which business transactions with their 
suppliers are conducted. The Directors’ Reports of the United Kingdom 
operating companies give information about their supplier payment 
policies as required by the Companies Act 2006. PLC, as a holding 
company, does not itself make any relevant payments in this respect.
Auditors and disclosure of information to auditors
A resolution will be proposed at the AGM on 11 May 2011 for the 
re-appointment of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as auditors of PLC. The 
present appointment will end at the conclusion of the AGM.
To the best of each of the Directors’ knowledge and belief,  
and having made appropriate enquiries of other officers of the Unilever 
Group, all information relevant to enabling the auditors to provide their 
opinions on PLC’s consolidated and parent company accounts has been 
provided. Each of the Directors has taken all reasonable steps to ensure 
their awareness of any relevant audit information and to establish that 
the Company’s auditors are aware of any such information.
Authority to purchase own shares
At the AGM of PLC held on 12 May 2010, authority was given  
pursuant to Article 64 of the PLC Articles of Association to make 
market purchases of PLC ordinary shares of 3
1
⁄9p each, to a maximum 
of 290 million shares. This authority will expire at the AGM on 11 May 
2011, and a resolution will be proposed to renew the authority.
Details of shares purchased by an employee share trust and Unilever 
group companies to satisfy options granted under PLC’s employee 
share schemes are given in note 29 to the consolidated accounts on 
pages 121 to 122 and on page 140.
Directors’ Report of PLC and limitations of liability
For the purposes of the UK Companies Act 2006, the Directors’ Report 
of Unilever PLC for the year ended 31 December 2010 comprises this 
and the following page and the information contained in the Report of 
the Directors on pages 2 to 55 which includes the Company’s position 
on environment and corporate responsibility matters, the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report in respect of Directors’ interests in shares or 
debentures of the Group on pages 66 and 67, Dividends on page 87, 
Principal group companies and non-current investments on pages 
126 and 127, Significant shareholders of PLC as disclosed on page 140, 
and Financial instruments and Treasury risk management on page 98. 
The information required to be given pursuant to Section 992 of the 
Companies Act 2006 is covered elsewhere in this Annual Report.
The Directors’ Report has been drawn up and presented in accordance 
with and in reliance upon English company law and liabilities of the 
Directors in connection with that report shall be subject to the 
limitations and restrictions provided by such law.
Under the Companies Act 2006, a safe harbour limits the liability of 
Directors in respect of statements in and omissions from the Directors’ 
Report. Under English Law the Directors would be liable to Unilever 
(but not to any third party) if the Directors’ Report contained errors as a 
result of recklessness or knowing misstatement or dishonest 
concealment of a material fact, but would not otherwise be liable. 
Business review
The Companies Act 2006 requires Unilever PLC to set out in this report 
a fair review of the business of the Group during the financial year 
ended 31 December 2010 including a description of the principal risks 
and uncertainties facing the Group and an analysis of the position of 
the Group’s business at the end of the financial year, known as a 
‘Business review’.
The information that fulfils the current Business review requirements 
can be found on the following pages of this Annual Report which are 
incorporated into this report by reference:
• a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing  
the Group – see pages 33 to 37;
• the development and performance of the Group’s business during 
the year – see pages 22 to 32;
• the position of the Group’s business at the end of the year –  
see pages 28 and 74;
• key performance indicators – see pages 2, 22 to 27, 31 and 32;
• other key indicators – see page 2 and pages 19 and 20;
• main trends and factors likely to affect the future development, 
performance and position of the Group – see page 33;
• environmental matters and policy, including the impact of  
the Group’s business on the environment – see pages 20 and 21;
• employee matters and policy – see pages 18 and 19 and also  
below; and
• a statement that the Directors do not believe that there are  
any contracts or other arrangements which are essential to  
the business of the Group is given on page 51.
Employee involvement and communication
Unilever’s UK companies maintain formal processes to inform,  
consult and involve employees and their representatives. We recognise 
collective bargaining on a number of sites and engage with employees 
via the Sourcing Unit Forum including officer representation from the 
three recognised trade unions. Our sites use tools such as 
Total Productive Maintenance which rely heavily on employee 
involvement, contribution and commitment.
A National Consultative Council covering employees and management 
representatives exists to provide a forum for discussing issues relating 
to the United Kingdom. A European Works Council, embracing 
employee and management representatives from countries within 
Europe, has been in existence for several years and provides a forum for 
discussing issues that extend across national boundaries.
The company carries out regular and wide-ranging monitoring surveys 
providing valuable insight into employee views, attitudes and levels of 
engagement. 138 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Financial statements
Further statutory and other information Unilever PLC
UK Capital Gains Tax
The market value of PLC 3
1
/9p ordinary shares at 31 March 1982 would 
have been 76.84p per share. Since 1982, PLC ordinary shares have 
been sub-divided on two occasions and consolidated on two occasions. 
First, with effect on 26 June 1987, the 25p shares were split into five 
shares of 5p each. Secondly, with effect on 13 October 1997, the 5p 
shares were split into four shares of 1.25p each. Thirdly, with effect on 
10 May 1999, the shares were consolidated by replacing every 112 
shares of 1.25p each with 100 shares of 1.4p each. Lastly, with effect 
on 22 May 2006, the shares were consolidated by replacing every 20  
shares of 1.4p each with nine shares of 3
1
/9p each.
Corporate Centre   Unilever PLC Registered Office
Unilever PLC  Port Sunlight
Unilever House  Wirral
100 Victoria Embankment Merseyside CH62 4ZD
London EC4Y 0DY  Registered number 41424
Unilever PLC Registrars
Computershare Investor Services PLC
The Pavilions
Bridgwater Road
Bristol BS99 6ZY
By Order of the Board
T E Lovell
Secretary of Unilever PLC
1 March 2011 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2010 139
Shareholder information
PLC’s issued share capital on 31 December 2010 was made up of:
•  £40,760,420 split into 1,310,156,361 ordinary shares  
of 3
1
⁄9p each; and 
•  £100,000 of deferred stock. 
The total number of voting rights attached to PLC’s outstanding 
shares are as follows:
   Total number of votes % of issued capital
1,310,156,361 ordinary shares 1,310,156,361
(a)
 99.76
£100,000 deferred stock 3,214,285 0.24
(a)  Of which 26,696,994 shares were held by PLC in treasury and 
18,051,749 shares were held by NV group companies or by share 
trusts as at 31 December 2010. These shares are not voted on. 
The Board of PLC may, under sections 551, 570 and 571 of the  
UK Companies Act 2006 and subject to the passing of the 
appropriate resolutions at a meeting of shareholders, issue shares 
within the limits prescribed within the resolutions. At the 2010 
PLC AGM the Directors were authorised to issue new shares 
pursuant to section 551 of the Companies Act 2006, limited to 
a maximum of £13,290,000 nominal value, which at the time 
represented approximately 33% of PLC’s issued Ordinary share 
capital and pursuant to section 570 of that Act, to disapply  
pre-emption rights up to approximately 5% of PLC’s issued 
ordinary share capital. These authorities are renewed annually.
At the 2010 PLC AGM the Board of PLC was authorised in 
accordance with its Articles of Association to make market 
purchases of its ordinary shares representing just under 10% 
of PLC’s issued capital and within the limits prescribed within 
the resolution until the earlier of the six-month anniversary after  
the 2010 year end or the conclusion of the 2011 PLC AGM. 
A similar authority will be sought at the 2011 AGM of PLC 
pursuant to the Companies Act 2006.
Share capital
NV’s issued share capital on 31 December 2010 was made up of:
•  €274,356,432 split into 1,714,727,700 ordinary shares  
of €0.16 each; 
•  €1,028,568 split into 2,400 ordinary shares numbered  
1 to 2,400, known as special shares; and 
•  €81,454,014 split into several classes (6% and 7%) of  
cumulative preference shares (‘financing preference shares’). 
The voting rights attached to NV’s outstanding shares are split  
as follows:
  Total number of votes % of issued capital
1,714,727,700 ordinary shares 1,714,727,700
(a)
 76.89
2,400 special shares 6,428,550 0.29
161,060 6% cumulative  
preference shares 431,409,276 19.34
29,000 7% cumulative  
preference shares 77,678,313 3.48
(a)  Of which 141,560,629 shares were held in treasury and 28,819,921 
shares were held to satisfy obligations under share-based incentive 
schemes as at 31 December 2010. These shares are not voted on.
NV may issue shares not yet issued and grant rights to subscribe 
for shares only pursuant to a resolution of the General Meeting 
of Shareholders or of another corporate body designated for such 
purpose by a resolution of the General Meeting. At the NV AGM 
held on 11 May 2010 the Board was designated, in accordance 
with Articles 96 and 96a of Book 2 of the Netherlands Civil Code, 
as the corporate body authorised until 11 November 2011 to 
resolve on the issue of – or on the granting of rights to subscribe 
for – shares not yet issued and to restrict or exclude the statutory 
pre-emption rights that accrue to shareholders upon issue of 
shares, on the understanding that this authority is limited to 10% 
of the issued share capital of NV, plus an additional 10% of the 
issued share capital of NV in connection with or on the occasion 
of mergers and acquisitions.
At the 2010 NV AGM the Board of NV was authorised, in 
accordance with Article 98 of Book 2 of the Netherlands Civil 
Code, until 11 November 2011 to cause NV to buy back its own 
shares and depositary receipts thereof, with a maximum of 
10% of issued share capital, either through purchase on a stock 
exchange or otherwise, at a price, excluding expenses, not lower 
than the nominal value of the shares and not higher than 10% 
above the average of the closing price of the shares on Eurolist 
by Euronext Amsterdam for the five business days before the 
day on which the purchase is made.
The above mentioned authorities are renewed annually.
Shareholder information 140 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Shareholder information
Shareholder information continued
Analysis of shareholding
Significant shareholders of NV
As far as Unilever is aware, the only holders of more than 5% (as referred to in the Act on Financial Supervision in the Netherlands) in  
the NV share capital (apart from the Foundation Unilever NV Trust Office, see page 50, and shares held in treasury by NV, see page  
139) are ING Groep N.V. (‘ING’), and ASR Nederland N.V. (‘ASR’).
The voting rights of such shareholders are the same as for other holders of the class of share indicated. The two shareholders have 
each notified the Netherlands Authority for the Financial Markets (AFM) of their holdings. Detailed below are the interests in NV shares 
provided to NV by ING and ASR in the second half of 2010. All interests are mainly held in cumulative preference shares.
ING 
• 11,809,050 (0.68%) ordinary shares (€1,889,448)
• 20,665 (71.26%) 7% cumulative preference shares (€8,856,399)
•  74,088 (46.0%) 6% cumulative preference shares (€31,751,894)
ASR
• 3,938,010 (0.22%) ordinary shares (€630,082)
• 46,000 (28.56%) 6% cumulative preference shares (€19,714,220)
Between 1 January 2008 and 31 December 2010, ING and ASR (previously Fortis Utrecht N.V.) have held more than 5% in the share 
capital of NV. As a result of the cancellation of the 4% cumulative preference shares on 9 August 2010, AEGON ceased to hold more 
than 5% in the share capital of NV on that date.
Significant shareholders of PLC
The following table gives notified details of shareholders who held more than 3% of, or 3% of voting rights attributable to, PLC’s 
shares or deferred stock (excluding treasury shares) on 28 February 2011. The voting rights of such shareholders are the same as for 
other holders of the class of share indicated. 
     Number of Approximate
Title of class Name of holder shares held % held
Deferred Stock Naamlooze Vennootschap Elma 50,000 50
   United Holdings Limited 50,000 50
       
Ordinary shares BlackRock, Inc. 74,570,243 5
   Trustees of the Leverhulme Trust and the 
    Leverhulme Trade Charities Trust 70,566,764 5
   Legal & General Group plc 51,295,103 3
Between 1 January 2008 and 31 December 2010, Barclays PLC, Legal & General Group plc and BlackRock, Inc. have held more  
than 3% of, or 3% of voting rights attributable to, PLC’s ordinary shares. During this period, and as notified, certain of these holdings 
reduced to below the reporting 3% threshold. The table above sets out the notifiable interest of shares or voting rights attributable  
to PLC as at 28 February 2011.
Controlling security holders
To our knowledge, the Unilever group is not owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by another corporation, any foreign 
government or by any other legal or natural person. We are not aware of any arrangements the operation of which may at a 
subsequent date result in a change of control of Unilever. 
Purchases of shares during 2010
During 2010 Unilever group companies purchased 9,059,547 NV ordinary shares, each with a nominal value of €0.16, for 
€202.2 million. This represents 0.53% of the called-up share capital of NV. The repurchase was undertaken to satisfy obligations 
under share-based incentive schemes.
No PLC ordinary shares were purchased by Unilever group companies during 2010. Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2010 141
Shareholder information
Financial calendar
Annual General Meetings
         Voting Record Voting &
       Date date  Registration date
PLC 11.00am 11 May 2011 9 May 2011 9 May 2011
NV 10.30am 12 May 2011 14 April 2011 5 May 2011
Announcements of results
First Quarter 28 April 2011 Third Quarter 3 November 2011
Second Quarter 4 August 2011 Fourth Quarter 2 February 2012
Quarterly Dividends for 2010
Dates listed below are applicable to all four Unilever listings (NV ordinary shares, PLC ordinary shares, NV New York shares, 
and PLC ADRs).
 Announced Ex-dividend Record Payment
   date date date
Quarterly Dividend announced with the 
Q4 2010 results  3 February 2011 9 February 2011 11 February 2011 16 March 2011
Quarterly Dividend announced with the 
Q1 2011 results 28 April 2011 11 May 2011 13 May 2011 15 June 2011
Quarterly Dividend announced with the 
Q2 2011 results 4 August 2011 10 August 2011 12 August 2011 14 September 2011
Quarterly Dividend announced with the 
Q3 2011 results 3 November 2011 9 November 2011 11 November 2011 14 December 2011
Preferential Dividends – NV
 Announced Ex-dividend Record Payment
   date date date
6% and 7% 9 September 2011 12 September 2011 14 September 2011 3 October 2011
Contact details
 
Rotterdam London
Unilever N.V. Unilever PLC 
Investor Relations Department Investor Relations Department 
Weena 455, PO Box 760 Unilever House 
3000 DK Rotterdam 100 Victoria Embankment 
The Netherlands London EC4Y 0DY  
 United Kingdom 
Telephone +44 (0)20 7822 6830  Telephone +44 (0)20 7822 6830 
Telefax +44 (0)20 7822 5754  Telefax +44 (0)20 7822 5754 
Any queries can also be sent to us electronically via www.unilever.com/resource/contactus.aspx. 142 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Shareholder information
Shareholder information continued
Publications
Copies of the following publications can be accessed directly 
or ordered through www.unilever.com/investorrelations or 
www.unilever.nl/onsbedrijf/beleggers.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Available in English with figures in euros. It forms the basis for 
the Form 20-F that is filed with the United States Securities and 
Exchange Commission, which is also available free of charge at 
www.sec.gov.
Quarterly Results Announcements
Available in English with figures in euros.
Website
Shareholders are encouraged to visit our website  
www.unilever.com which has a wealth of information 
about Unilever. Any information on or linked from the  
website is not incorporated by reference into this Annual  
Report and Accounts.
There is a section designed specifically for investors at  
www.unilever.com/investorrelations. It includes detailed 
coverage of the Unilever share price, our quarterly and annual 
results, performance charts, financial news and investor relations 
speeches and presentations. It also includes conference and 
investor/analyst presentations.
You can also view this year’s Annual Report and Accounts, and 
prior years’ Annual Review and Annual Report and Accounts 
documents at www.unilever.com/investorrelations.
PLC shareholders can elect to receive their shareholder 
communications such as Annual Report and Accounts and  
other shareholder documents electronically by registering at 
www.unilever.com/shareholderservices. 
Shareholders are also able to view documents on our website.
Share registration
The Netherlands
ANT Trust & Corporate Services N.V.
Claude Debussylaan 24
1082 MD Amsterdam
Telephone +31 (0)20 522 2555 
Telefax   +31 (0)20 522 2500
Website   www.ant-trust.nl
Email   registers@ant-trust.nl
UK
Computershare Investor Services PLC
The Pavilions
Bridgwater Road
Bristol BS99 6ZY
Telephone +44 (0)870 600 3977
Telefax   +44 (0)870 703 6119
Website   www.unilever.com/shareholderservices
Email   web.queries@computershare.co.uk
USA
Citibank Shareholder Services
PO Box 43077
Providence RI 02940-3077
Toll free phone (inside US) 888 502 6356
Toll phone (outside US) +1 781 575 4555
Website     www.citi.com/dr
Email     citibank@shareholders-online.com Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2010 143
Notes 144 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Index
Income statement 23, 72
Innovation 11–13
Intangible assets 76, 79, 87–88, 135–136
International Financial Reporting Standards 2, 76
Inventories 78, 92
Joint ventures 81–82, 91, 122, 127
Key management 84
Key performance indicators 2, 22-27, 31-32, 125
Laws and regulation 32
Leases 28, 78, 115
Legal proceedings 32, 116
Market capitalisation 29
Net debt 28, 32
Nomination Committee 47–48, 60
Non-Executive Directors 40, 44–46, 67
Non-GAAP measures 31–32
Off-balance sheet arrangements 28
Operating costs 83
Operating profit 23, 81–83, 124
Outlook 33
Payables 104
Pensions and similar obligations 79, 107–111
Personal Care 9, 27, 82
Post balance sheet events 30, 123, 132, 136
Preference shares and dividends 94, 141
Principal group companies 126–127
Property, plant and equipment 77, 89–90
Provisions 77, 79, 106
Receivables 92
Regions 8, 24–25, 31, 81, 88
Related party transactions 122
Remuneration Committee 47–48, 61, 67
Research and development 12, 83
Reserves 113–114, 131, 136
Restructuring 81, 83, 106
Retained profit 114
Revenue recognition 77
Risk management and control 38–39, 52, 54–56
Risks – principal risks 33–37
Savoury, Dressings and Spreads 9, 26, 82
Segment information 24-27, 78, 81–82
Share-based payments 79, 121–122
Share capital 50, 113, 131, 136, 139
Shareholders 49–50, 139–140
Share registration 142
Staff costs 84
Strategy 10-11
Taxation 76, 80, 85, 130
Total shareholder return 67
Treasury 29, 98–104
Turnover 81–82
Underlying operating margin 2, 22–25, 31, 125
Underlying volume growth 2, 8, 9, 11, 22–27, 31, 125
Underlying sales growth 2, 23–27, 31, 125
Unilever Executive 6-7, 40
Voting 49–50
Website 142
Accounting policies 2, 30, 76–80, 130, 135
Acquisitions 9, 29 80, 117–119
Advertising and promotion 17, 83
Americas, The 8, 24, 31, 81, 84,88
Annual General Meetings 49–50, 141
Asia Africa CEE 8, 24, 31, 81, 84, 88
Associates 72, 75, 81–82, 91, 122, 127
Audit Committee 47–48, 56
Auditors 56, 70–71, 123, 128, 132-133, 136–137
Balance sheet 23, 28, 74, 129, 134
Biographies 40
Board committees 47–48
Board remuneration 61–67
Boards 6, 42–44
Brands 1, 9–13
Capital expenditure 22, 89–90
Cash 78, 93
Cash flow 23, 28, 75
Categories 9, 26–27, 82
Cautionary statement Inside back cover
Chairman 4, 40, 44
Chief Executive Officer 6–7, 40, 46
Commitments 28, 115–116
Company accounts, statutory and other information 128–138
Comprehensive income 73, 111
Contingent liabilities 115–116, 131, 136
Corporate governance 41–55
Corporate responsibility 58–59
Corporate Responsibility and Reputation Committee 47, 58–59
Deferred tax 85, 105–106, 130, 135
Depreciation 77, 81, 83, 89–90
Directors’ responsibilities 69
Disposals 117–119
Diversity 19, 137
Dividends 2, 29, 87, 125, 130, 135, 141
Earnings per share 2, 23, 86, 124
Employees 3, 18–19, 84, 137
Equalisation Agreement 51
Equity 112
Europe, Western 8, 25, 31, 81, 84, 88
Exchange rates 30, 77, 125
Executive Directors 41, 46, 61–62, 65–66
Finance and liquidity 29, 98–99
Finance costs and income 84
Financial assets 77–78, 93–97
Financial calendar 141
Financial instruments 30, 77–78, 98–104, 130, 135
Financial liabilities 78, 93–97
Financial record 124–125
Financial review 22–32
Free cash flow 2, 22, 32
Goodwill 76, 87–88
Gross profit 83
Group structure 3, 76
Home Care 9, 27, 82
Ice Cream and Beverages 9, 26, 82
Impairment 78, 81, 83, 87–88 Cautionary statement
This document may contain forward-looking statements, including ‘forward-looking statements’ within the meaning of the United States Private Securities Litigation 
Reform Act of 1995. Words such as ‘expects’, ‘anticipates’, ‘intends’, ‘believes’ or the negative of these terms and other similar expressions of future performance or 
results, and their negatives, are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and 
assumptions regarding anticipated developments and other factors affecting the Group. They are not historical facts, nor are they guarantees of future performance.
Because these forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, there are important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those 
expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements, including, among others, competitive pricing and activities, economic slowdown, industry consolidation, 
access to credit markets, recruitment levels, reputational risks, commodity prices, continued availability of raw materials, prioritisation of projects, consumption 
levels, costs, the ability to maintain and manage key customer relationships and supply chain sources, consumer demands, currency values, interest rates, the ability 
to integrate acquisitions and complete planned divestitures, the ability to complete planned restructuring activities, physical risks, environmental risks, the ability to 
manage regulatory, tax and legal matters and resolve pending matters within current estimates, legislative, fiscal and regulatory developments, political, economic 
and social conditions in the geographic markets where the Group operates and new or changed priorities of the Boards. Further details of potential risks and 
uncertainties affecting the Group are described in the Group’s filings with the London Stock Exchange, Euronext Amsterdam and the US Securities and Exchange 
Commission, including the Group’s Annual Report on Form 20-F for the year ended 31 December 2010 and the Annual Report and Accounts 2010. These 
forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this document. Except as required by any applicable law or regulation, the Group expressly disclaims any 
obligation or undertaking to release publicly any updates or revisions to any forward-looking statements contained herein to reflect any change in the Group’s 
expectations with regard thereto or any change in events, conditions or circumstances on which any such statement is based.
This document does not comply with US GAAP and should not therefore be relied upon by readers as such. The Group’s Annual Report on Form 20-F for 2010 is 
separately filed with the US Securities and Exchange Commission and is available on our corporate website www.unilever.com. Any information on or linked from 
the website is not incorporated by reference into the Annual Report on Form 20-F. In addition, a printed copy of the Annual Report on Form 20-F is available, free 
of charge, upon request to Unilever PLC, Investor Relations Department, Unilever House, 100 Victoria Embankment, London EC4Y 0DY, United Kingdom.
Designed and produced by Unilever Communications in conjunction with Addison at www.addison.co.uk.
Board and UEx photography by Igor Emmerich, Philip Gatward, Martin Elsen, Trini Jacobs, Victor van Leeuwen, 
David Copeman and from the Unilever image library.
Feature photography by Chris Moyse and from the Unilever image library.
Printed by St Ives Westerham Press Ltd, ISO9001, ISO14001, FSC certified and CarbonNeutral.
This document forms part of the Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2010 suite of documents and is printed 
on Greencoat 80 Silk. This paper is made from 80% post consumer waste and virgin wood fibre, independently 
certified in accordance with the FSC (Forest Stewardship Council). It is manufactured at a mill that is certified 
to ISO14001 environmental management standards. The pulp is bleached using Elemental Chlorine Free (ECF) 
processes. The inks used are all vegetable oil based.
 
In addition, the carbon impacts of the paper for this suite have been estimated and an equivalent amount of 
carbon dioxide has been balanced through preservation of rainforest by the World Land Trust, an ecological 
charity. 11,944kg of carbon dioxide have been balanced; 2,352 m
2
 of ecologically important forests have been 
protected; and using recycled fibre has prevented an estimated 17.8 tonnes of waste paper going to landfill.
 
If you have finished with this document and no longer wish to retain it, please pass it on to other interested 
readers or dispose of it in your recycled paper waste. Thank you. Unilever N.V.
Weena 455, PO Box 760
3000 DK Rotterdam
The Netherlands
T +31 (0)10 217 4000
F +31 (0)10 217 4798
Commercial Register Rotterdam
Number: 24051830
Unilever PLC
Unilever House
100 Victoria Embankment
London EC4Y 0DY
United Kingdom
T +44 (0)20 7822 5252
F +44 (0)20 7822 5951
Unilever PLC registered office
Unilever PLC
Port Sunlight
Wirral
Merseyside CH62 4ZD
United Kingdom
Registered in England and Wales
Company Number: 41424
www.unilever.com Notes to the Annual Report and Accounts This PDF version of the Unilever Annual Report 
and Accounts 2010 is an exact copy of the document provided to Unilever’s shareholders.
Certain sections of the Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2010 have been audited. 
These are on pages 72 to 123, 126 to 138 and those parts noted as audited within the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 65 to 67.
The maintenance and integrity of the Unilever website is the responsibility of the Directors; 
the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters. 
Accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred 
to the financial statements since they were initially placed on the website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom and the Netherlands governing the preparation and 
dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Disclaimer Except where you are a shareholder, this material is provided for information 
purposes only and is not, in particular, intended to confer any legal rights on you.
This Annual Report and Accounts does not constitute an invitation to invest in Unilever 
shares. Any decisions you make in reliance on this information are solely your responsibility.
The information is given as of the dates specified, is not updated, and any forward-looking 
statements are made subject to the reservations specified on the final page of the Report.
Unilever accepts no responsibility for any information on other websites that may be 
accessed from this site by hyperlinks.
Disclaimer
