 ANNUAL REPORT  
AND ACCOUNTS 201 1
Creating a better future every day About Unilever
2 Chairman’s statement
4 Chief Executive Officer’s review
6 Operational highlights
8 Our business model for sustainable growth
10 Winning with brands and innovation
14 Winning in the market place
16 Winning through continuous improvement
18 Winning with people
20 Financial review 2011
28 Risks
61 Statement of Directors’ responsibilities
62 Auditors’ reports
64 Consolidated income statement
65 Consolidated statement of  
comprehensive income
65 Consolidated statement of changes in equity
66 Consolidated balance sheet
67 Consolidated cash flow statement
68 Notes to the consolidated financial 
statements
109 Principal group companies and  
non-current investments
111 Company accounts
Governance
34 Biographies
36 Corporate governance
46 Report of the Audit Committee
48 Report of the Corporate Responsibility  
and Reputation Committee
49 Report of the Nomination Committee
50 Directors’ Remuneration Report
WE WORK TO CREATE A BETTER  
FUTURE EVERY DAY
We help people feel good, look good and get 
more out of life with brands and services that 
are good for them and good for others. We will 
inspire people to take small, everyday actions 
that can add up to a big difference for the world. 
We will develop new ways of doing business with 
the aim of doubling the size of our company 
while reducing our environmental impact.
Our business model is designed to deliver sustainable growth. We are 
living in a world where temperatures are rising, water is scarce, energy is 
expensive, sanitation is poor, and food supplies are volatile and uncertain. 
We have to develop products that enable people to live well in a resource-
stressed world, and encourage behaviour and habits that help them to 
live sustainably. 
For us, sustainability is integral to our way of doing business. Executed 
well, it will be a powerful driver of business growth and is a core 
competence for any successful company.
PUREIT 
Provides people with safe and affordable 
drinking water where supplies are of poor 
quality, and without the need for gas, 
electricity or a pressurised supply.
KNORR
Goes to extraordinary lengths to provide 
great-tasting products which help people 
to prepare delicious and nutritious meals 
for their families every day.
LIPTON
Is committed to sourcing all its  
tea sustainably to help conserve the 
environment and improve the livelihoods 
of tea workers, their families and 
communities.
DOVE
Helps women to realise their personal 
potential for beauty and encourages 
men to take better care of themselves 
by engaging them with products that 
deliver superior care.
COMFORT ONE RINSE
Saves up to 30 litres of water per 
wash for the millions of people who 
do their laundry by hand in water-
scarce countries.
OUR MISSION
REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CONTENTS
EXAMPLES OF OUR 
BRANDS DELIVERING 
SUSTAINABLE GROWTH Other information
The brand names shown in this report are trademarks owned by or licensed to companies within the 
Unilever Group. This document contains certain statements that are neither reported financial results 
nor other historical information. These statements are forward-looking statements, including within 
the meaning of the United States Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Actual results may 
differ materially from those disclosed in our forward-looking statements. For a description of factors 
that could affect future results, reference should be made to the full ‘Cautionary statement’ on the inside 
back cover and to the section entitled ‘Risks’ on pages 28 to 33. For information about our non-GAAP 
measures, see pages 26 and 27. In our report we make reference to Unilever’s website. Information 
on our website is not incorporated herein and does not form part of this document. This Annual Report 
comprises regulated information within the meaning of sections 1:1 and 5:25c of the Act on Financial 
Supervision (“Wet op het financieel toezicht (Wft)”) in the Netherlands.
123 Share capital
124 Analysis of shareholding
125 Financial calendar
125 Contact details
126 Website
126 Share registration
126 Publications
128 Index
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2011 1
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Against the backdrop of a continuing tough economic 
environment, Unilever delivered a good performance in 2011.  
We have a stronger business, with a compelling vision, a sharper 
organisation and an increasingly effective performance culture. 
In a year marked by natural disasters 
and political turmoil, Unilever’s 
performance stands out all the more. 
Beyond delivering solid results, the 
Group has been taking the right actions 
for the long term, building a sustainable 
growth model for our business. 
This model reflects the values that are 
central to Unilever’s approach to doing 
business – knowing it can only prosper  
if the societies and communities in 
which it operates similarly benefit from 
its presence.
We also see good governance as an 
essential foundation for the long-term 
success of the Group, and your Directors 
firmly believe that acting with integrity 
and upholding the highest standards of 
corporate governance form an essential 
component of the delivery of the Group’s 
strategy. You will find a description of 
Unilever’s corporate governance 
structures and procedures, along with 
an explanation of the work of the Boards, 
beginning on page 36. Together these 
should give you a sense of how Unilever 
seeks to achieve these aspirations.
2011 was another busy year for the 
Boards, with a number of key initiatives 
undertaken.
Board evaluation
Following our internal evaluation of the 
Boards’ activities and effectiveness in 
2010, we appointed an external 
consultancy in 2011 to carry out the 
evaluation. Their report was presented 
to the Boards in December and 
concluded that overall the Boards were 
operating effectively. The report made a 
number of valuable recommendations 
and, as a result, Board meetings will 
now build knowledge-sharing sessions 
into the agenda where Directors can 
discuss experiences on specific topics  
of relevance to Unilever.
Understanding the business
During 2011 the Directors went out into 
the business and visited operations in 
Jakarta, Indonesia, and Rome, Italy. In 
both locations the Directors visited local 
markets and consumers in their homes. 
Rome is particularly important as the 
global centre for Unilever’s ice cream 
business. Visits such as these give 
Non-Executive Directors the opportunity 
to meet senior managers across 
Unilever and help them to gain a deeper 
understanding of the Group.
Diversity
At Unilever we have long understood the 
importance of diversity within our 
workforce because of the wide range of 
consumers we connect with globally. 
This goes right through our organisation, 
starting with the Boards.
The subject of gender diversity at Board 
level is receiving considerable attention 
within the EU. In nominating directors, 
Unilever considers diversity in terms of 
nationality, race, gender and relevant 
expertise and directs that, wherever 
possible, the Boards should reflect 
Unilever’s consumer base.
I am pleased that already 25% of 
Directors on our Boards are women, and 
we will continue in our aim to increase 
that percentage. However, Unilever feels 
that gender is only one part of diversity, 
and Unilever Directors will continue to 
be selected on the basis of their 
wide-ranging experience, backgrounds, 
skills, knowledge and insight.
Changes to the Boards
Jeroen van der Veer retired as a 
Non-Executive Director at the end of the 
2011 AGMs in May and, on behalf of the 
Boards, I would like to thank him for his 
valued contributions as Vice-Chairman 
and Senior Independent Director, and as 
Chairman of the Nomination and 
Remuneration Committees.
At the same AGMs Sunil B Mittal was 
elected as a Non-Executive Director 
bringing experience in developing 
markets that will further strengthen  
the expertise and independence of the 
Boards as well as broadening their 
diversity.
It remains for me to thank our 171,000 
employees across the world for their 
hard work in delivering good results in 
such a challenging environment.
Michael Treschow
Chairman
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Report of the Directors About Unilever
2
CHAIRMAN'S  
STATEMENT
1 The Unilever Group  
Unilever N.V. (NV) is a public limited company registered in the Netherlands. It has listings of shares and depositary 
receipts for shares on Euronext Amsterdam and on the New York Stock Exchange. Unilever PLC (PLC) is a public limited 
company registered in England and Wales. It has shares listed on the London Stock Exchange and, as American 
Depositary Receipts, on the New York Stock Exchange.
The two parent companies, NV and PLC, together with their group companies, operate as a single economic entity (the 
Unilever Group, also referred to as Unilever or the Group). NV and PLC and their group companies, regardless of legal 
ownership, constitute a single reporting entity for the purposes of presenting consolidated financial statements. 
Accordingly, the accounts of the Unilever Group are presented by both NV and PLC as their respective consolidated 
financial statements. The same people sit on the Boards of the two parent companies and other officers are officers of 
both companies. Any references to the Board in this document mean the Boards of NV and PLC.
1  Michael Treschow 
Chairman
2  Kees Storm 
Vice-Chairman & Senior 
Independent Director
3  Paul Polman 
Chief Executive Officer
4  Jean-Marc Huët 
Chief Financial Officer
5  Louise Fresco 
Non-Executive Director
6  Ann Fudge 
Non-Executive Director
7  Charles Golden 
Non-Executive Director
8  Byron Grote 
Non-Executive Director
9  Sunil B Mittal 
Non-Executive Director
10  Hixonia Nyasulu 
Non-Executive Director
11  Sir Malcolm Rifkind 
Non-Executive Director
12  Paul Walsh 
Non-Executive Director
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Report of the Directors About Unilever
3
5 7
9
11
2 3 4
6
8 10
12
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
For Directors’ biographies,  
please go to page 34. 2011 has been another year of real progress in delivering  
our Compass strategy. We made significant progress in the 
transformation of Unilever to a sustainable growth company 
despite difficult markets.
2010. This is a good performance, not 
least given that we also continued to 
invest for long-term success – adding,  
for example, an extra €150 million in 
advertising and promotional spend.
We maintained our record for efficiency 
gains, reducing overheads and delivering 
€1.5 billion in savings. We also re-affirmed 
our reputation for financial discipline, with 
strong free cash flow of €3.1 billion.
Last year’s performance should also be 
seen in the context of geopolitical 
disturbances and natural disasters. The 
uprisings in North Africa and the Middle 
East, together with earthquakes in New 
Zealand and Japan and floods in Thailand, 
were among events that had a major 
impact on our operations. Our first 
concern during these incidents is for the 
welfare of our people and for their 
families, and thankfully we suffered no 
loss of life or serious injury. 
How a company responds to these events 
says a lot about its values and we are 
proud that Unilever employees – working 
alongside partners such as the World 
Food Programme – were among the first 
to offer assistance to those caught up in 
these tragedies. In Thailand, for example, 
Unilever teams worked tirelessly to  
help get our customers – many of whose 
stores and warehouses were flooded – 
back in business.
One of the most pleasing aspects of the 
performance in 2011 was that we 
delivered strong results while continuing 
to make necessary long-term changes. 
Our vision is to double the size of the 
business while reducing our 
environmental impact. This requires us to 
operate very differently. At the heart of our 
new business model is the Unilever 
Sustainable Living Plan (USLP), which 
touches all aspects of our business: from 
the way we source our materials, develop 
our brands and make our products, to the 
way they are used and disposed of by our 
consumers. Its basic premise is that in a 
2011 was another turbulent year for the 
world economy, reflected in the instability 
of the Eurozone and sluggish consumer 
demand in North America. Growth in the 
emerging countries remained robust, 
although even here we saw some 
softening. It was also in these markets  
that we experienced our most intense 
competitor activity.
The uncertainty underpinning global 
markets gave rise to strong inflationary 
pressures and a sharp increase in 
commodity costs, stifling growth and 
significantly impacting costs. With 
unemployment rising and real incomes 
falling, there is no doubt that consumers 
are suffering.
Despite these conditions, 2011 was a 
strong year for Unilever. Underlying sales 
growth of 6.5% was ahead of our markets 
and continued the trend of improving top 
line performance. Growth was price and 
volume driven, reflecting the strength of 
our brands and their ability to compete in 
the most difficult conditions. Recent 
acquisition and disposal activity added a 
further 1.2% to turnover. 
Growth was broad-based, although 
fuelled by an outstanding performance in 
the emerging markets – a strategic focus 
for the business. Driven by markets like 
India, China, Turkey and South Africa –  
all of which grew by double digits – our 
emerging markets business grew by 
11.5% and now accounts for 54% of 
Unilever’s turnover. 
In the developed world, growth was more 
subdued, at 0.8%, although even here we 
saw some strong performances. Our 
biggest developed markets – the United 
States, Germany, the UK and France – 
which represent 61% of our developed 
world business, grew between 1% and 4%. 
The sharp rise in commodity prices 
meant we had to absorb an additional 
€2.4 billion of costs. Despite this, our 
operating profit was broadly in line with 
resource constrained world, it is possible 
and necessary to decouple growth from 
environmental impact. 
The USLP represents a long-term goal 
but progress during the first year was 
encouraging, not least our commitment to 
source agricultural raw materials from 
sustainable supplies. By the end of 2011, 
for example, almost two thirds of the 
palm oil used in our products was being 
purchased from certified sources. 
Our leadership in this area has caught the 
imagination of employees and customers 
alike. It has won Unilever widespread 
external recognition. Last year, the 
company was named winner of the 6th 
International Green Awards – just one  
of a number of high profile sustainability 
awards received in 2011.
Our business model is designed to provide 
long-term sustainable growth. This relies 
on delivering our corporate strategy, and 
in particular building our brands and 
providing bigger and better innovations. 
Again, we are making progress. The 
proportion of turnover coming from 
products launched in the past two years 
continues to be above 30%. Sales of Dove 
exceeded €3 billion in 2011 driven by 
innovations like Men+Care. And the use of 
advanced technology enabled our Knorr 
jelly platform to grow by 60% last year.
Our strategy relies equally on rolling out 
innovations faster and to more markets. 
The launch of Axe Excite to 100 markets  
in just over a year is typical of the speed  
and breadth we are able to achieve. 
We are also introducing brands into many 
more markets. Magnum, for example, has 
enjoyed remarkable success since being 
launched in North America and Indonesia. 
We have also introduced Dove in China 
and Clear shampoo in South Africa. Our 
Comfort and Surf fabric conditioner 
brands have performed strongly since 
being introduced in Australasia, South 
Africa and the Philippines.
4 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Report of the Directors About Unilever
CHIEF EXECUTIVE 
OFFICER’S REVIEW
1
∆ 1  Paul Polman
∆ Chief Executive Officer
2  Doug Baillie  
Chief Human Resources Officer
6  Alan Jope  
North Asia
10  Antoine de Saint-Affrique  
Foods
3  Professor Geneviève Berger  
Chief Research & Development Officer
7  Kees Kruythoff  
North America
11  Pier Luigi Sigismondi  
Chief Supply Chain Officer
4  Kevin Havelock  
Refreshment 
8  Dave Lewis  
Personal Care
12  Keith Weed  
Chief Marketing and  
Communication Officer
5  Jean-Marc Huët
∆ Chief Financial Officer
9  Harish Manwani  
Chief Operating Officer
13  Jan Zijderveld  
Europe
At the same time we are strengthening 
our portfolio. Following the integration  
of the Sara Lee personal care business 
and Alberto Culver, we are now acquiring 
the Russian personal care company, 
Concern Kalina, increasing our ability to 
compete in the personal care market. 
Alberto Culver was Unilever’s biggest 
acquisition in ten years and we have 
moved quickly to capitalise on these new 
assets. Within nine months, we had 
introduced TRESemmé into Brazil, Simple 
into the United States and Motions into 
South Africa – great brands and fantastic 
examples of speed in action. 
We are also changing the organisation. 
Today we are more agile, more consumer 
responsive and better able to leverage 
global scale. We see the emergence of  
a culture rooted in strong values but with 
a sharper performance edge – vital if we 
are to succeed in today’s markets. 
To support the transformation, we also 
continue to invest heavily in our people 
and their development. Last year, for 
example, we were proud to break ground 
on a new state-of-the-art training facility 
in Singapore. This 5.6 hectare site will act 
as a leading development centre for our 
emerging markets business.
So we look back on a year of progress, 
measured both by strong results and 
changes to the business. Unilever is 
moving from a company fit to compete  
to one that is fit to win. Shareholders are 
benefiting from the changes: last year, 
Unilever’s share price rose 14% on the 
AEX, making it the market’s best 
performing stock in 2011.
2012 will be a tough year. But we are well 
prepared, and – thanks to the dedication  
of our 171,000 wonderful employees – we  
are confident that we can continue to 
outperform our markets and deliver 
sustainable growth and long-term value  
to all stakeholders.
5 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Report of the Directors About Unilever
5
4
8
3
6
10 12
2 5
∆ 9 7
11 13
∆ Board member
UNILEVER LEADERSHIP EXECUTIVE (ULE)
Paul Polman
Chief Executive Officer
For ULE biographies, please go to page 35. In 2011, we implemented our strategy with discipline, growing 
ahead of our markets and gaining share overall despite a 
tough economic environment.
• Underlying sales growth ahead of our markets at 6.5% with price up 4.8%  
and volume growth 1.6%
• Emerging markets delivered 11.5% underlying sales growth
• Turnover up 5% at €46.5 billion despite a negative currency impact of (2.5)%
Basis of reporting: our accounting policies are in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the European Union (EU) and 
as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB), as well as United Kingdom and Dutch law. Certain measures used in our reporting are not 
defined under IFRS or other generally accepted accounting principles. For further information about these measures, and the reasons why we believe they are 
important for an understanding of the performance of the business, please refer to our commentary on non-GAAP measures on pages 26 and 27.
*  Further details of our key financial indicators can be found in our financial review starting on page 20.
†
  These key non-financial indicators form part of the Unilever Sustainable Living Plan. 2011 data is preliminary. It will be independently assured by the end of 
June 2012 and reported in the online version of the Unilever Sustainable Living Plan report 2011 at www.unilever.com/sustainability.
UNDERLYING SALES GROWTH UNDERLYING VOLUME GROWTH UNDERLYING OPERATING MARGIN FREE CASH FLOW
PEOPLE: 
TOTAL RECORDABLE  
ACCIDENT FREQUENCY RATE
HEALTH AND HYGIENE:  
PEOPLE REACHED WITH LIFEBUOY 
HANDWASHING PROGRAMMES
NUTRITION:  
PRODUCTS MEETING SALT LEVELS 
EQUIVALENT TO 5G PER DAY
GREENHOUSE GASES: 
CO
2
 FROM ENERGY PER TONNE 
OF PRODUCTION
WATER: 
WATER PER TONNE OF 
PRODUCTION 
WASTE: 
TOTAL WASTE PER TONNE OF 
PRODUCTION 
SUSTAINABLE SOURCING:  
PALM OIL PURCHASES FROM 
SUSTAINABLE SOURCES
BETTER LIVELIHOODS:  
NUMBER OF SHAKTI 
ENTREPRENEURS
 6.5%
2010: 4.1%
 2.48m
3
2010: 2.68m
3
 1 .6%
2010: 5.8%
 14. 9 %
2010: 15.0%
 €3. 1 billion
2010: €3.4 billion
 34.5 million
2010: 13.5 million
 6 1 %
2010: 60%
 1 1 7 .4 1 kg
2010: 133.59kg 
 4.77 kg
2010: 6.48kg
 64%
2010: 37%
 1 .26
2010: 1.63 per 1m hours worked
45,000
2010: 45,000
per 1m  
hours worked
6 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Report of the Directors About Unilever
OPERATIONAL HIGHLIGHTS
KEY FINANCIAL INDICATORS*
KEY NON-FINANCIAL INDICATORS
† Asia, Africa and Central & Eastern Europe
• Underlying sales growth 10.5%
• Underlying volume growth 4.5%
• Turnover €18.9 billion 
The Americas
• Underlying sales growth 6.3%
• Underlying volume growth 0.4%
• Turnover €15.3 billion 
Western Europe
• Underlying sales growth 0.7%
• Underlying volume growth (1.2)%
• Turnover €12.3 billion 
2 billion
1 70 billion
1 71,000
50 years’
1 90
• Underlying sales  
growth 8.2%
• Underlying volume  
growth 4.2%
• Turnover €15.5 billion 
• Value market shares up 
overall, with strong gains 
in North America, where 
hair care and deodorants 
performed well, and in 
China, where skin 
cleansing and hair care 
saw strong gains
• Underlying sales  
growth 4.9%
• Underlying volume  
growth 1.4%
• Turnover €8.8 billion 
• Value market shares 
stable overall. Ice cream 
saw strong gains, 
especially in Latin America 
and South East Asia, but 
tea shares were down 
overall and particularly in 
the US and Russia
• Underlying sales  
growth 8.1%
• Underlying volume  
growth 2.2%
• Turnover €8.2 billion 
• Value market shares 
higher, particularly in the 
laundry business where 
strong performance was 
seen in China, India, South 
Africa and Western Europe
• Underlying sales  
growth 4.9%
• Underlying volume  
growth (1.2)%
• Turnover €14.0 billion 
• Value market share 
performance was mixed, 
with gains in bouillons  
and seasonings, but  
a decline in spreads, 
dressings and soups
7 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Report of the Directors About Unilever
7
PERSONAL CARE REFRESHMENT
HOME CARE
REGIONAL HIGHLIGHTS
FOODS
More than 
Over
Consumers buy
Products sold  
in over
experience in Brazil,  
China, India and  
Indonesia
countries worldwide
consumers worldwide 
use a Unilever product  
on any given day
employees at the end of 2011
Unilever packs around  
the world every year Our vision is to double the size of Unilever 
while reducing our environmental footprint. 
The two elements of this are interlinked. 
Our growth ambition is dependent  
on operating sustainably. These two 
aspects of the vision shape and form  
our business model.
When we wrote in our previous report that 2011 would be 
challenging, we could not have known how right that prediction 
would be. The world has been through a year of almost 
unprecedented turmoil and uncertainty, and is facing some 
serious challenges. This in turn frames the way we must 
manage our business and the issues we face.
Short-term economic pressures have dominated 2011, with 
major instability in the Eurozone and a weak recovery by the 
US economy. Stubbornly high unemployment in many 
developed markets has created a continued squeeze on 
consumer spending. Commodity prices have been volatile  
and many have risen sharply. And the operating environment 
in emerging markets has seen increasing focus from 
competitors who all know that business success depends on 
driving growth in these markets.
2011 also saw a tragic series of natural disasters, from the 
earthquake and tsunami in Japan to the famine in the Horn  
of Africa. Each one required a response from us at a 
humanitarian, employer and operational level.
Furthermore, the interdependent challenges of food security, 
poverty reduction, sustainability of resources, climate change 
and social and economic development have never been greater.
We believe that many of these factors will continue for the 
medium term, and that this level of volatility and uncertainty  
is the ‘new normal’. Our business model has been evolved as  
a response to this operating environment, as we address the 
prospect of another 2 billion people on the planet by 2050.
In order to live within the natural limits of the planet there  
is no option but to decouple growth from social and 
environmental impact. The Unilever Sustainable Living Plan 
(USLP) sets out our path to achieving this. It includes around 60 
targets and embraces all aspects of our own operations, going 
beyond them to the entire lifecycle of our products. Innovation 
and technology will be key to achieving our goals. Equally 
important will be our ability to change consumer behaviour.
The USLP will result in three big outcomes:
We will help 
1 billion 
people improve their health and well-being 
halve 
the environmental footprint of our products
We will source 
1 00% 
of agricultural raw materials sustainably
We will
8
Report of the Directors About Unilever
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2011
OUR BUSINESS MODEL 
FOR SUSTAINABLE GROWTH
VISION
EXTERNAL CONTEXT
THE UNILEVER 
SUSTAINABLE  
LIVING PLAN OUR VISION IN ACTION  
MEANS THAT, IN FUTURE, 
EVERY TIME CONSUMERS 
CHOOSE A UNILEVER 
PRODUCT, IT IMPROVES 
THEIR LIFE, THEIR 
COMMUNITY AND THE 
WORLD WE ALL SHARE.
As a major employer, our business model is rooted in our 
people. We have a distinctive set of values and they attract 
people who bring a sense of purpose to their work. We 
reward in line with performance and create a climate where 
people are incentivised to excel. We develop leadership 
capabilities early and place priority on building tomorrow’s 
leaders today. All this combines to build a business of 
GREAT PEOPLE.
As a FMCG (fast-moving consumer goods) company, our 
business model centres on building GREAT BRANDS 
which consumers know, trust, like, and buy in 
conscious preference to competitors’ products. Our 
brands command loyalty and affinity and deliver 
superior performance. They help consumers to 
perform simple but essential everyday tasks. 
Innovation is nourishment for our brands. It 
helps to deliver superiority, increases our 
competitiveness and allows us to appeal  
to the widest range of consumers. 
Increasingly, our innovations are 
designed to enable sustainable living. 
Our aim is to deliver growth. But not growth at  
any cost – rather a new sustainable and equitable  
form of growth. Strong business performance  
is driven by our brands, people, and sustainability 
– which is increasingly giving us a true 
competitive advantage. We will invest in 
strengthening our brands so that they drive 
profitable growth as part of a sustainable 
business model: the more we sell, the 
more efficiently we can operate and, 
at the same time, by reducing the 
cost of running our business we 
can invest more in our brands, 
innovations, and advertising  
and promotions. This, in turn, 
enables us to sell more.
A further element of our business model is SUSTAINABLE 
LIVING. External factors will move it from being the choice 
of a concerned few to a new norm for billions in this decade. 
Companies who move quickly to enable it can seize major 
competitive advantage by doing so. Our aim is to help 
people move to a more sustainable way of using our 
products and reduce the current rate of consumption of 
scarce resources. 
Our business model is designed to deliver SUSTAINABLE GROWTH, where sustainable means four things: 
• it is consistent;
• it is competitive;
• it is profitable; and 
• it meets major social and environmental needs.
Our vision and other elements of our 
business strategy are articulated in ‘the 
Compass’, which was developed in 2009 
and has remained a constant guide and 
touchstone for all our employees. Key 
elements of it are elaborated on in the 
following pages.
Report of the Directors About Unilever
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2011 9
BUSINESS MODEL
BUSINESS  
STRATEGY Unilever owns some of the world’s best known and best loved brands. 
But ensuring they maintain their place in people’s lives requires  
us to innovate, improve and expand our brands every day.
Superior products, design, 
branding and marketing
At heart, our strategy with brands and 
marketing is simple: discover what 
consumers want and give it to them. 
But consumer needs are complex,  
and people are increasingly concerned 
about sustainability as well as 
functionality. The improvements we 
make to our products and the 
developments in our portfolio must  
be led by these needs if we are to beat 
our competitors at the point of sale.
For us, the product is the hero, and we 
focus on what’s important: striving 
towards sustainable products that 
consumers prefer.
We operate a rigorous system of testing 
our products against their main rivals  
in every key market to ensure we deliver  
the attributes that consumers want. 
Whether it’s toothpaste in India, tea  
bags in Russia, laundry liquids in Turkey 
or bouillon in South Africa, we want to 
find out what consumers desire from 
our products, whether they prefer  
them and why. Is it the taste, the 
fragrance, the cleaning properties or  
the packaging? 
MAGNUM HEADS EAST AND WEST 
Following its highly successful launch  
in Indonesia in 2010, the Magnum ice 
cream range was rolled out in North 
America in 2011. Thanks to a great 
product along with extremely effective 
advertising and marketing, Magnum 
achieved early success in these two 
highly competitive markets delivering  
more than €80 million in turnover.  
Its US advertisement was one of the 
most successful in Unilever food history.
We conduct a careful analysis of what it 
is about a product that consumers are 
searching for.
Bigger, better, faster innovation
Science is one of the key drivers of 
Unilever’s continuing success. We invest 
in research and development (R&D)  
to make sure we are first with the 
innovations that will make our brands 
bigger, better and more profitable. 
Central to innovation is our Genesis 
programme, an R&D process set up  
in 2009 which fuels our longer-term 
pipeline, applying breakthrough 
technology across categories. The 
programme is delivering results and  
we are already seeing some of these 
innovations in the market.
For example, we’ve discovered how to 
extract and preserve the essence of 
freshly picked tea leaves, a complicated 
piece of science which is already being 
used in our PG Tips and Lipton Yellow 
Label ranges to give a unique fresh taste. 
In PG Tips that innovation is coupled with 
our unique pyramid-shaped bags to 
make an even better cup of tea.
Another example is Rexona for Women 
with Motionsense technology. Rexona 
has long been one of the world’s biggest 
deodorant brands. We know from our 
consumer understanding that people 
love its performance and, most 
importantly, its fragrance.
However, as with all deodorants, the 
fragrance slowly faded over the course  
of the day. The conventional wisdom  
was that there was nothing that could be 
done about that, but we developed a new 
technology to combat the problem. We 
introduced Motionsense technology in 
2011 with Rexona deodorant products. It’s 
a new way of wrapping the fragrance up in 
tiny bundles that open slowly throughout 
the day when the body moves, releasing  
it when it’s most needed. Subsequent 
testing showed that this gives Rexona  
a clear win over its key competitors.
No matter how confident we are that our 
products deliver on what we claim, we 
need to give consumers and regulators 
strong proof to underscore this. This is 
just as important when trying to get a 
government to back a handwashing 
programme as it is when advertising  
a face cream. We have a clinicals 
organisation in place with leading-edge 
No. 1
hair care supplier  
in South Africa
2020
Commitment to source  
all agricultural raw  
materials sustainably by 
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Report of the Directors About Unilever
10
WINNING WITH  
BRANDS AND INNOVATION UNILEVER BUYS  
AROUND 3% OF THE  
WORLD’S TOMATOES  
FOR PROCESSING. 
expertise in clinical protocols, trials, 
analysis and data management that 
allows us to substantiate the claims  
we make for our products.
Getting the best ideas – wherever  
they are
Our world-class R&D facilities are 
constantly making breakthroughs that 
keep Unilever at the forefront of product 
development. Integral to the way we work 
are partnerships with universities, 
scientists, large and small companies 
and entrepreneurs. This ‘open innovation’ 
approach allows us to source the best 
ideas from across the world and 
contributes towards more than half the 
value of our innovation pipeline, allowing 
us to grow together with our partners.  
In 2011, around 500 partners had one or 
more of our projects under development.
KNORR GROWS GREEN
Knorr is one of our biggest brands and 
uses ingredients that are sourced from 
all over the world. We made the decision 
to source all Knorr’s ingredients 
sustainably to reduce the impact on the 
environment while enhancing the taste 
of our products. We aim to have all our 
top 13 vegetables and herbs grown 
sustainably by 2015 – one step in the 
Unilever Sustainable Living Plan’s 
commitment to source all Unilever’s 
agricultural raw materials sustainably 
by 2020.
11 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Report of the Directors About Unilever
11 LIFEBUOY HELPS SAVE LIVES 
To help achieve a core commitment of  
the Unilever Sustainable Living Plan,  
the Lifebuoy brand has launched a 
programme to bring hygiene education  
to a billion people. It’s called the School  
of Five and it’s already been launched in 
seven countries where we’re working with 
governments and NGOs to get across our 
vital message of developing a habit of 
washing hands on five occasions a day.  
In Vietnam it’s even become part of the 
school curriculum. The results are 
healthier children and 4.1% volume 
growth for Lifebuoy in Vietnam.
PNEUMONIA AND DIARRHOEA 
ARE TWO OF THE BIGGEST 
CAUSES OF DEATHS AMONG 
CHILDREN UNDER FIVE YEARS 
OLD, ACCOUNTING FOR ONE 
THIRD OF CHILD DEATHS.
◊ 
HANDWASHING WITH SOAP IS 
ONE OF THE MOST EFFECTIVE 
AND INEXPENSIVE WAYS TO 
PREVENT THIS.
◊
 Source: UN
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2011 12 CLEANING UP IN SOUTH EAST ASIA
Between 2009 and 2011 the liquids market for fabric cleaning 
in South East Asia almost tripled in size and Unilever was on 
the spot, ready to capitalise on that growth. We got there first, 
put our sales people on the ground talking to consumers, 
learned the market, and today we’re the market leaders in 
Vietnam, Thailand, the Philippines and Indonesia.
In addition, we have been working with 
our strategic suppliers to develop 
co-innovation programmes and to ensure 
that they bring great ideas to Unilever first.
Applying knowledge across the business
One of our key strengths is how we 
quickly leverage ideas across our 
geographies, categories and brands, 
which allows us to focus investment and 
resources more wisely and efficiently – 
for example, taking the fragrance 
technology expertise we used to improve 
Rexona and applying it to Skip detergent. 
Reaching more consumers
To grow, we need to reach more 
consumers with our products and we 
are well placed to do so. For example, 
we can take brands into markets that 
many companies do not have the 
resources and experience to develop.  
In 2011, consistent with our strategy  
of making bolt-on acquisitions to 
strengthen our portfolio in key countries 
and categories, Unilever acquired 
Alberto Culver, helping accelerate our 
transition to becoming one of the world’s 
leading personal care businesses. 
New markets, new opportunities
The Alberto Culver acquisition gave us 
brands such as TRESemmé, VO5 and 
Simple. TRESemmé already had a strong 
presence as a premium shampoo in 
North America and Western Europe,  
but it was unknown in the world’s second 
biggest hair care market: Brazil.
Within days of completion, Unilever 
began work on an ambitious plan to take 
the TRESemmé brand to Brazil. As a 
business we have wide experience of 
rolling out brands into new markets 
across the world and, coupled with our 
new agile structure, this ensured a swift, 
successful launch. TRESemmé was 
launched in Brazil less than six months 
after the acquisition completed. We’re 
already seeing considerable success 
in that market.
And the same is happening all over  
the world. With brands including 
TRESemmé, Dove and Suave, in 2011  
we reinforced our position as a leading 
hair care supplier in the US, and 
achieved similar success on the other 
side of the Atlantic by taking the number 
one position in South Africa. 
We’re continuing with our acquisition 
strategy and bought a controlling stake  
in Concern Kalina, one of the leading 
local personal care companies in Russia. 
Success here would establish Unilever as 
a key player in a big emerging market, as 
well as giving us invaluable knowledge of 
local supply and distribution.
Growing in developed markets 
Our aim is to grow in developed markets 
too. For example, we re-launched 
Domestos in Western Europe in 2011 on 
the back of new technology that allows 
the product to cling to the toilet, for 
longer lasting germ kill. In Personal 
Care, we accelerated the launch of 
Mentadent Total oral care range in Italy 
to take on the fierce local market, ahead 
of the global re-launch.
Looking ahead
Our Dove brand is a great example 
of Unilever’s ability to get it right with 
brands and innovation. In 2011 Dove 
became our first €3 billion Personal 
Care brand. This success has been 
made possible by focusing on three key 
objectives: better marketing – making 
Dove a premium brand; better innovation 
– for example, applying our leading-edge 
expertise to Dove hair care; and 
expansion into new markets, as with the 
Dove Men+Care range.
Already Unilever has new innovations, 
new patents, new brands and new 
markets in the pipeline for 2012. And 
every day we’re working on ways 
to make our brands the best, most 
innovative and most agile in the world.
Less than 
6
months to launch 
TRESemmé  
in Brazil
Dove – our first 
€3 billion
Personal Care brand
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Report of the Directors About Unilever
13
WINNING WITH BRANDS AND INNOVATION continued By 2020, the world’s population is expected to reach 7.6 billion, and  
we aim to reach a significant number of these consumers with our 
brands. Our biggest opportunity lies in addressing all consumer needs 
across all markets – and we’re already finding new ways to do so.
Driving growth through  
market development
Growth through market development 
means reaching more users, creating 
more usage and delivering more 
benefits to consumers everywhere. 
Already, 2 billion consumers worldwide 
use our products on any given day. We 
want to increase this substantially by 
2020 and we will do this by:
• reaching up (offering premium 
brands to more affluent consumers);
• reaching down (making our products 
more affordable and accessible for 
consumers on lower incomes); and 
• reaching wide (taking our brands to 
new geographies like Central Africa, 
to new consumer segments like male 
grooming and to new channels like 
e-commerce).
This approach is reaping rewards.  
In 2011 we continued rolling out our 
market development model to ensure  
a consistent approach across our 
markets. We proved this approach first 
in Asia and then in Latin America; now 
we are using it elsewhere to grow our 
markets by changing people’s habits  
and helping them find new ways to use 
our products. 
For example, in 2011 we grew the Magnum 
Mini range by 8.8% in the UK by offering 
consumers an ice cream in a smaller 
version of a standard Magnum, more 
suitable for eating at home. And in South 
East Asia, laundry liquids grew by 9.3%  
as consumers traded up from powder. 
In 2012, we will continue to target new 
consumers in new ways. Reaching up, 
we will compete for share in the 
fast-growing beauty segment by rolling  
out premium offerings such as Toni  
& Guy, Axe Hair, Dove Men+Care and 
Pond’s Anti Aging premium range to 
more markets.
We will reach down in developed markets 
to financially pressured shoppers. In 
2011, our highly successful launch of new 
pack sizes across many brands in the UK 
allowed retailers to sell our products at 
£1. In emerging markets, we will continue 
to offer small, affordable product sizes  
of our brands.
We will reach wide through our 
expansion in Africa, leading the market 
development of savoury, laundry and 
skin cleansing with great brands such as 
Knorr, Sunlight detergent and Lifebuoy.
Growing sustainably  
with customers
All over the world we are helping our 
retail partners to grow sustainably, 
combining scale with local knowledge. 
In Mexico for example, in 2011 we worked 
alongside Walmart to improve the supply 
chain for their Superama retail chain.
We also worked closely with drug store 
customers, resulting in our highest 
recorded underlying sales growth of 
9.2% in 2011 in this channel. 
Working with global retailers is essential 
for growth, but some markets require a 
different approach – India, for example, 
where reaching consumers is still about 
the local small shop. Through the 
Shakti programme, we have expanded 
a direct distribution network of micro-
entrepreneurs who sell our products, 
doubling their household income in the 
process (see picture story on page 15). 
PREMIUM ACROSS POND’S 
We have installed new premium counters for Pond’s skin care, 
making the product more appealing and upmarket in a 
competitive environment. Innovations included LED counter 
lighting to reduce environmental impact and a handheld skin 
diagnosis iPhone tool for beauty advisers. These initiatives 
have resulted in significantly improved customer sales.
3 million
shops signed up to 
our ‘Perfect Store’ 
programme
9 .3%
growth in laundry 
liquids in South 
East Asia
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Report of the Directors About Unilever
14
WINNING IN 
THE MARKET PLACE OUR DOOR-TO-DOOR 
SELLING OPERATION IN 
INDIA PROVIDES 
OPPORTUNITIES FOR 
BETTER LIVELIHOODS, 
HELPING COMMUNITIES 
AND OUR BUSINESS.
Focusing on shoppers
We are now focusing much more closely 
on marketing to shoppers in the store. 
We continue to concentrate on ‘sales 
fundamentals’ – standards which 
measure our in-store performance  
in an increasing number of markets. 
Meanwhile, our ‘Perfect Store’ 
programme is creating optimal 
merchandising layouts for retailers, 
regardless of geography or space.  
By the end of 2011 more than 3 million 
shops had already signed up to our 
‘Perfect Store’ programme. We  
know the strategy is working – in the 
Philippines, for example, our audit of 
3,800 stores showed that the ‘Perfect 
Store’ format is growing faster than 
those outside the programme. And  
in Germany, the ‘Perfect Store’ 
programme boosted the entire savoury 
category, with sales of Knorr products 
significantly outpacing category and 
competitor growth.
GROWING BUSINESS,  
GROWING LIVELIHOODS 
Project Shakti – meaning ‘strength’ in 
Sanskrit – is our distribution programme 
in India, creating opportunities for 
micro-entrepreneurs to sell our products 
in rural areas, enabling them to bring in 
extra money to support their families and 
earn respect within society. We employ 
around 45,000 female entrepreneurs, 
helping our brands reach over 100,000 
villages. In addition, more than 30,000 
male members of Shakti families are now 
involved, cycling to surrounding villages 
to sell Unilever products. As well as 
supporting the Unilever Sustainable 
Living Plan’s goal to enhance livelihoods, 
local distribution programmes such as 
this have added around €80 million in 
incremental turnover.
15 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Report of the Directors About Unilever
15 Small actions can make a big difference. Our focus on operational 
excellence – doing everything better, every day – is bringing consumers 
better quality and service, while substantial savings and better 
environmental performance are ensuring that growth is truly sustainable.
Lean, responsive, consumer-led
Consumer needs are changing and 
developing rapidly. To continue to meet 
them, we must take things we already 
do well – like high quality products  
and excellent service – and do them  
even better, faster and more efficiently.
Better quality
Almost a century ago, Lever Brothers 
offered consumers a £1,000 reward if 
they could show that their soap was 
anything less than ‘perfectly pure, 
genuine and unadulterated’. Consumer-
perceived quality driving sustainable 
growth remains at the heart of Unilever 
today. We are systematically improving 
the quality of our products. In 2011, 
consumer complaints per million units 
fell by 19% and product quality incidents 
more than halved.
For example, we listened to feedback 
from consumers about Lifebuoy soap, 
and improved its fragrance and bar 
structure, resulting in a 0.8% market 
share growth in the global skin 
cleansing market in 2011.
Better choice
Through our on-shelf availability (OSA) 
programme, we work with retailers to 
improve our service to them, and their 
service to the shopper – making our 
products available more of the time.  
In 2011, stores in our OSA programme 
reduced empty shelves by 27%. We are 
expanding this programme to other 
customer channels and geographies.
Better service
Our supply chain combines the 
advantages of global scale with local 
agility. Our reach, particularly in 
emerging markets, is a significant 
competitive advantage, and we are 
constantly seeking ways to differentiate 
our supply chain. In 2011, for example, in 
Indonesia we created a dedicated supply 
chain for a selection of beauty products 
that more than doubled our sales for 
these products.
And when floods hit Thailand, our teams 
moved quickly to protect our people, 
factories and stocks – carrying our 
products directly to customers’ shops. 
Unilever Thailand was ranked number 
one in the Advantage 2011 Customer 
Satisfaction Survey.
Agile and cost-competitive
We are making our operations more 
responsive to changes in demand, 
enabling us to optimise our capital 
investment, launch products more 
quickly and win market share. In 2011, 
for example, we delivered on our 
objective to increase the speed of factory 
building, saving up to 25% of build time 
on large factories (see picture story on 
page 17). Meanwhile, we never lose sight 
of the importance of reducing costs and 
conserving cash.
 
Better margins 
We look for improvements at every link 
in the value chain. Wherever we find 
savings, we aim to replicate them.  
This philosophy helped us to deliver  
record savings of €1.3 billion in 2011.
Managing cash 
We continued to have negative working 
capital in 2011 and aim to bring stocks 
down further in the future through 
continuous improvement of our business 
planning processes.
Partnerships with suppliers
We spent well over €30 billion on goods 
and services in 2011, and our suppliers 
are vital partners in our sustainable 
growth ambitions. We work with them to 
create better, faster innovations – and our 
suppliers are investing up to €1.3 billion to 
guarantee capacity for our future growth. 
In line with our commitments in the 
Unilever Sustainable Living Plan, we 
increased the amount of agricultural 
raw materials obtained from sustainable 
sources.
DRIVING DOWN COSTS, IMPROVING MARGINS 
Our market-leading washing powder, Wheel, has 
seen margins improve in India through our low cost 
business model (LCBM) approach, which optimises 
margins at every link in the value chain. For Wheel, 
LCBM included improvements in trade terms and 
advertising budgets as well as in the manufacturing 
and distribution network – upgrading the range of 
our existing factories.
€6. 1 billion
No.1
spent on advertising  
and promotion in 2011
in customer satisfaction 
survey in Thailand
16 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Report of the Directors About Unilever
WINNING THROUGH 
CONTINUOUS IMPROVEMENT THROUGH THE UNILEVER 
SUSTAINABLE LIVING PLAN  
WE HAVE SET NEW STANDARDS 
FOR SUSTAINABILITY IN THE 
DESIGN AND BUILD OF OUR  
NEW FACTORIES.
Driving return on brand support 
We spent €6.1 billion on advertising and 
promotion in 2011 with every brand, in 
every category, in every market focusing 
on the best possible returns.
Global scale, local agility
By evaluating the effectiveness of our 
marketing better, and rapidly adopting 
new cost-effective models that make us 
more competitive, we have been able to 
drive down advertising production and 
fees globally, reducing our overall 
spending in this area by more than 
€128 million. And we see equal potential 
for savings in local markets. 
In Russia, Ukraine and Belarus  
alone, we released €19 million for  
investment through an operational 
excellence drive that included  
improving customer management,  
using handheld computers to track 
in-store performance and order sizes, 
and improving the tracking of our 
point-of-sale materials.
GROWING FAST, AND SUSTAINABLY 
The Indonsa factory in Durban, South 
Africa, which opened in December, 
turned a flat-level site into an 
operational plant producing savoury 
brands like Knorr within 12 months.  
An investment of around €70 million, 
Indonsa aims to produce half the 
greenhouse gas emissions of the 
previous site and achieve zero waste  
to landfill. Critical in water-stressed 
Durban, it is ‘water neutral’ as it uses 
rainwater harvesting and recycling 
techniques to avoid taking water from 
the local community.
17 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Report of the Directors About Unilever
17 Our growth ambitions demand that our organisation has a structure 
and culture that make us fit to win in a fast-changing environment.  
Above all, they require us to find and develop the world’s best talent 
and leaders – a challenge we are striving to meet.
Leverage our operating 
framework for competitive 
advantage
Success in the future will depend on being 
lean, agile and competitive in a resource-
challenged world. In three years, we have 
transformed our structure to enable us to 
move faster, innovate better and take full 
advantage of our global scale. 
More focused categories
During 2011 we started to move from 
11 product categories to four: Foods, 
Refreshment, Home Care, and Personal 
Care. This streamlining makes our 
decision-making faster, lets us share 
best practice more effectively, and 
creates greater scale for innovation  
and sustainability initiatives. 
Getting closer to the consumer
We are also moving from 22 
geographical clusters to eight. The 
clusters – six of them primarily in 
emerging markets – allow us to focus 
more closely on the consumer, help us 
spot wider opportunities, and create 
regional economies of scale.
Our global function network, including 
IT, Finance, R&D, Supply Chain and HR, 
further drives the benefits of scale and 
shared best practice. 
Organisation and diverse talent 
pipeline ready to match our  
growth ambitions
Attracting, developing and retaining 
talent is essential if we are to meet our 
ambitions. We constantly audit the skills 
and leadership that will be needed 
across every cluster and in our key 
global functions to achieve our ambition 
of doubling the size of the business while 
reducing our environmental impact.
Seeking talent globally
The talent we need will come from all 
over the world. We’ve introduced global 
standards for graduate recruitment, so 
that people have the same experience 
wherever they start. We have targeted 
universities, particularly in emerging 
markets, with our campus recruitment 
programme. In 2011, we were 
recognised as the most preferred 
graduate FMCG (fast-moving consumer 
goods) employer in 14 countries.
Developing leaders
We are expanding our Unilever 
Leadership Development Programme 
to deliver high quality training to more 
managers. All our senior leaders have 
been through the programme and are 
now mentoring our next generation of 
leaders. In 2011, we began building our 
Four Acres leadership facility in 
Singapore (see picture story below) 
– reinforcing our presence in 
emerging markets.
Furthering diversity 
Our consumers come from every 
background, nationality and social 
group, and we want our people to 
reflect that diversity. Over the past 
few years, we have focused on 
improving the representation of women 
in the workplace. Today, 30% of our 
Non-Executive Directors are women, 
and the proportion of women in senior 
positions rose from 23% in 2007 to 
28% in 2011. In our annual Global People 
Pulse Survey, gauging managers’  
views of the company, approval of our 
diversity and inclusion measures rose  
by four percentage points in 2011 to 
reach 83%, well above the external 
benchmark of 74%.
Performance culture which 
respects our values
We are building a winning culture, in 
which every employee is encouraged  
to grow to his or her full potential. We 
have developed a new performance-
based reward structure that recognises 
INVESTING IN LEADERSHIP:  
FOUR ACRES, SINGAPORE 
In 2011, we broke ground on a new 
leadership development centre in 
Singapore. The new facility will bring to a 
vital emerging market the excellent training 
we have given managers at our existing 
Four Acres centre near London for 57 
years. Both learning centres will continue 
to look beyond Unilever for inspiration and 
best practice, forming partnerships with 
universities and business schools.
86%
Most preferred 
graduate FMCG 
employer in
of managers proud  
to work for Unilever
 14
countries
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Report of the Directors About Unilever
18
WINNING WITH  
PEOPLE
Artist’s impression CONSTANTLY LOOKING 
FOR EFFECTIVE WAYS TO 
HELP GROW SALES AND 
INCREASE PRIDE IN THE 
BUSINESS IS KEY  
TO SUCCESS.
people who not only have delivered 
results, but also have the right values  
for our business.
Clear goal-setting
We have changed the way we set goals 
for our employees to ensure clear 
direction on priorities and 
responsibilities. Closer measurement  
of performance has allowed us to 
introduce more differentiation into  
the way we reward people – further 
encouraging excellence.
Encouraging learning
In 2011 the Unilever Learning Academy, 
established in December 2010, had more 
than 128,000 employees registered for 
its e-learning and classroom courses, 
giving access to over 7,600 training 
modules.
Listening to our people
Our 2011 Global People Pulse Survey also 
confirmed that we are making progress 
in developing a performance culture. 86% 
of our managers are ‘proud to say they 
worked for Unilever’ and our overall 
performance culture index rose by 4%.
CHANGE IN OUR HANDS: TANZANIA
Unilever uses trucks to sell shop-to-shop to retailers 
in Tanzania’s capital, Dar es Salaam. When company 
driver Issa John Mgumba saw that the sales vehicles 
didn’t look the part, he identified the opportunity to 
smarten them up, transforming them into a fleet that 
he and his colleagues would be proud to drive. 
Improvements included enlivening the vehicles with 
vinyl stickers – costing just €300 in total – that grab 
people’s attention and promote Unilever’s brands. 
Small actions like Issa’s all add up to making a big 
difference, helping to grow our business wherever we 
are. “He feels that he really owns the business with a 
real stake in the long-term success of the company,” 
said country Customer Development Manager  
Martin Kariuki.
SAFETY IS ESSENTIAL 
The health, safety and well-being of everyone working for  
or on behalf of Unilever are of the utmost importance to us.  
A key measure of progress, set out in the Unilever 
Sustainable Living Plan, is our total recordable accident 
frequency rate, which counts all employee workplace 
accidents except those requiring only simple first aid 
treatment. There was a 22.7%
†
 reduction in our total 
recordable accident frequency rate in 2011.
†
 2011 data is preliminary. It will be independently assured 
by the end of June 2012 and reported in the online version  
of the Unilever Sustainable Living Plan report 2011 at  
www.unilever.com/sustainability.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2011 19
Report of the Directors About Unilever The virtuous circle of growth is starting to work for us.  
We have successfully accelerated our growth and at the  
same time have continued the steady and sustainable 
expansion of operating profit.
Underlying sales growth ahead of our markets, with volumes broadly in line
Markets continued to grow in value in 2011, with double digit growth in emerging markets and mid 
single digit growth overall. Market volume growth has slowed however, reflecting the impact of 
rising prices and weak consumer confidence especially in Western Europe and North America.
Against this background, underlying sales growth of 6.5% was a strong performance. It was growth 
ahead of our markets, and was driven by outstanding performance in emerging markets and in the 
Home Care and Personal Care categories. In Foods and Refreshment, whilst price increases have 
impacted volumes, growth was in line with relevant markets and several key businesses gained 
share. Volume growth overall was 1.6%, a step down from 2010 but broadly in line with our markets. 
Price growth of 4.8% was ahead of our markets as we increased prices more than others in a 
number of categories.
Performance was particularly strong in emerging markets, which delivered underlying sales growth 
of 11.5%, a significant proportion of this from volume. Double digit growth was achieved in a wide 
range of countries including China, India, Turkey, South Africa and Mexico.
Growth continued to be driven by innovation, with good progress in the year in rolling out bigger 
innovations more quickly across more markets. The launch of new brands into new markets was 
also accelerated and acquisitions played an important role, with Alberto Culver performing 
particularly strongly.
Underlying operating margins protected in a difficult environment
Underlying operating margin for the year was 14.9%, down slightly on the 15.0% achieved in 2010.  
In the context of substantial cost inflation and depressed consumer demand in the developed world 
we have built market shares and held margins to within 0.1% of the prior year, reflecting the strength 
of our business.
Gross margin was down by 1.8% at constant currency, reflecting unusually high levels of cost inflation. 
Strong pricing and excellent savings delivery were achieved in the year, but these were insufficient to 
fully compensate for the level of cost inflation suffered.
The lower gross margin was largely mitigated by overheads, where outstanding progress in savings 
programmes reduced the impact on margin by 1.0% for the year at constant currency. Although part 
of this reduction was one-off, the various continuous improvement initiatives across the business 
have been a major success, resulting in accelerated savings in a wide range of areas. 
Advertising and promotions expenditure increased by €150 million, but was 0.7% lower as a 
percentage of turnover, at constant currency.
Healthy cash delivery 
Cash generation was healthy, with free cash flow of €3.1 billion. This was below the 2010 figure of 
€3.4 billion, the difference largely reflecting a significant step up in net capital expenditure to €2.0 
billion, due to capacity expansion in the fast-growing emerging markets.
The net working capital movement was a small cash outflow in 2011. This related to a series of 
financial items, with no significant movement in trade working capital, which has now been negative 
overall for nine consecutive quarters.
Key positive drivers of cash flow in 2011 were improved operating profit, which contributed around 
€0.1 billion, and income tax payments, €0.1 billion lower.
20 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Report of the Directors About Unilever
FINANCIAL REVIEW 2011
Delivering against our priorities Consolidated income statement
(highlights) for the year ended 31 December
2011 2010 % change
Turnover (€ million) 46,467 44,262 5%
Operating profit (€ million) 6,433 6,339 1%
Profit before tax (€ million) 6,245 6,132 2%
Net profit (€ million) 4,623 4,598 1%
Diluted earnings per share (€) 1.46 1.46 0%
Turnover at €46.5 billion increased 5.0%, despite a negative 
impact of 2.5% due to currency. Underlying sales growth 
increased to 6.5%, driven by emerging markets. Underlying 
volume growth was 1.6% and the price effect was 4.8%.
Operating profit was €6.4 billion, compared with €6.3 billion in 
2010, with higher credits for one-off items, lower profits arising 
from the disposal of group companies and higher acquisition and 
integration costs. Underlying operating profit increased by 4.2% to 
€6.9 billion, with underlying operating margin decreasing by 0.1% 
to 14.9%.
The cost of financing net borrowings was €448 million,  
€34 million higher than last year. The average level of net debt 
increased, in part due to the acquisition of Alberto Culver. The 
average interest rate was 3.7% on borrowings and 2.3% on cash 
deposits. The net pensions financing credit was €71 million 
compared with €20 million in 2010.
The effective tax rate was 26.5% compared with 25.5% in 2010, 
reflecting the geographic mix of pre-tax profits and the impact of 
the Italian frozen foods disposal in the 2010 rate.
Net profit from joint ventures and associates, together with other 
income from non-current investments, contributed €189 million 
compared to €187 million in the prior year.
Fully diluted earnings per share were flat at €1.46. Higher 
underlying operating profit and lower pension costs were partially 
offset by lower profits from business disposals. In addition, 
restructuring charges (including acquisitions) were higher, the 
impact of foreign exchange was negative and finance costs and 
the tax charge increased.
We have presented some parts of the financial review 
within other sections of this Annual Report and 
Accounts, including the financial statements section. 
We believe this integrated approach provides a better 
flow of information and avoids duplication. 
Key performance indicators*
2011 2010 2009
Underlying sales growth (%) 6.5 4.1 3.5
Underlying volume growth (%) 1.6 5.8 2.3
Underlying operating margin (%) 14.9 15.0 14.8
Free cash flow (€ million) 3,075 3,365 4,072
We report our performance against four key financial indicators:
• underlying sales growth;
• underlying volume growth;
• underlying operating margin; and
• free cash flow.
The performance of the KPIs is described on page 20, on this page 
and within the segmental commentaries on pages 22 to 23. The 
KPIs are described on pages 26 to 27. The non-financial KPIs are 
described on pages 6 and 19.
Acquisitions and disposals
During 2011 Unilever continued to shape its portfolio through 
M&A activities. The most significant was the acquisition of Alberto 
Culver, Inc., completed on 10 May 2011, and the full year impact of 
the acquired Sara Lee’s personal care business, which completed 
on 6 December 2010.
Alberto Culver, Inc. was acquired for €2.7 billion in cash and the 
provisional estimate of goodwill arising on acquisition, recognised 
in our 2011 balance sheet, is €1.3 billion. The acquisition 
accounting will be finalised during 2012.
During the year, the Group has updated the provisional acquisition 
accounting recorded at 31 December 2010 for the Sara Lee 
acquisition. Certain adjustments to the 31 December 2010 balance 
sheet have been recorded, including the update of the valuation of 
assets held for sale in relation to the Sanex business which was 
disposed during 2011.
Further details of these and other acquisitions and disposals 
during 2009, 2010 and 2011 can be found in note 21 on pages  
104 to 106.
* Certain measures used in our reporting are not 
defined under IFRS. For further information about 
these measures, please refer to the commentary 
on non-GAAP measures on pages 26 to 27.
21 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Report of the Directors About Unilever
Financial overview 2011 Asia Africa CEE 
 
 
€ million
2011
€ million
2010
%
Change
Turnover 18,947 17,685 7.1
Operating profit 2,216 2,253 (1.6)
Underlying operating margin (%) 12.7 13.4 (0.7)
Underlying sales growth (%) 10.5 7.7
Underlying volume growth (%) 4.5 10.2
Effect of price changes (%) 5.8 (2.2)
 
Key developments
• Market growth remained strong throughout the region, with 
high single digit increases particularly in buoyant markets 
across East and South Asia. Conditions in Russia and CEE, 
however, were more subdued.
• Underlying sales growth of 10.5% was ahead of our markets 
and well balanced between volume and price. China and India 
both contributed double digit volume growth; South Africa, 
Turkey and Indonesia also performed strongly. 
• Value market shares were up for the region as a whole, driven 
by strong growth in Home Care, while Foods value shares 
were slightly down. Share gains were seen across many key 
markets, including China, Indonesia, the Philippines and South 
Africa. Volume shares were flat.
• Underlying operating margin was down 0.7%, primarily 
reflecting the impact of higher commodity costs. 
• Other key developments included further progress on the 
roll-out of the regional IT system and the acquisition of the 
Concern Kalina business in Russia.
The Americas 
 
 
€ million
2011
€ million
2010
%
Change
Turnover 15,251 14,562 4.7
Operating profit 2,250 2,169 3.7
Underlying operating margin (%) 15.6 16.0 (0.4)
Underlying sales growth (%) 6.3 4.0
Underlying volume growth (%) 0.4 4.8
Effect of price changes (%) 5.9 (0.7)
 
Key developments
• Market growth in Latin America continued at a healthy pace of 
around 10%. North America was more challenging as 
consumer demand remained sluggish. Overall market growth 
for the region was in mid single digits.
• Underlying sales growth of 6.3% was slightly ahead of the 
market. Volume growth reflected the pricing action taken to 
recover commodity cost inflation, especially in the North 
American Foods business.
• Value market shares were up for the year in Foods and 
Personal Care, with particularly strong performance in 
Mexico, Argentina and the US Personal Care business.
• Underlying operating margin was down by 0.4%, with savings 
only partially offsetting the pressure from higher input prices 
on gross margin. 
• Other key developments included the roll-out of the regional IT 
system to the US, the rapid integration of Alberto Culver, the 
acquisition of the Colombian laundry business from Colgate-
Palmolive and the disposal of the Brazilian tomato business.
Western Europe 
 
 
€ million
2011
€ million
2010
%
Change
Turnover 12,269 12,015 2.1
Operating profit 1,967 1,917 2.6
Underlying operating margin (%) 17.2 16.1 1.1
Underlying sales growth (%) 0.7 (0.4)
Underlying volume growth (%) (1.2) 1.4
Effect of price changes (%) 2.0 (1.8)
 
Key developments
• Market conditions in Western Europe were difficult, as 
austerity measures and continued uncertainty in the Eurozone 
continued to depress consumer demand. Market growth was 
marginally positive, due to price increases as volumes fell 
slightly.
• Underlying sales growth of 0.7% reflects stronger 
performance in the UK and France, partially offset by negative 
growth in markets such as Spain and Greece. Volumes overall 
were down by 1.2%, with 2.0% growth coming from price. 
• Value market shares overall were stable, with gains in the UK 
and France offset by declines in other markets. Volume shares 
were stable in Home Care and Personal Care, but declined 
slightly in Foods, reflecting the impact of price increases.
• Underlying operating margin improved by 1.1%, boosted by 
significant progress in reducing overheads. 
• Other key developments included the integration of the Sara 
Lee Personal Care brands and the Alberto Culver business, 
and the acquisition of ice cream businesses in Greece and 
Denmark.
22 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Report of the Directors About Unilever
FINANCIAL REVIEW 2011 continued Personal Care
 
€ million
2011
€ million
2010
%
Change
Turnover 15,471 13,767 12.4
Operating profit 2,536 2,296 10.5
Underlying operating margin (%) 18.0 18.0 –
Underlying sales growth (%) 8.2 6.4
Underlying volume growth (%) 4.2 7.9
Effect of price changes (%) 3.8 (1.4)
 
Key developments
• Personal Care grew strongly in 2011 to become Unilever’s 
largest category, with underlying sales growth of 8.2%. The 
acquisitions of Alberto Culver and the Sara Lee brands started 
to contribute positively.
• Growth was well balanced between volume and price, and 
reflected strong performance across the portfolio, particularly 
in deodorants, hair care and skin cleansing.
• Value market shares were up overall, with strong gains in 
North America where hair care and deodorants performed 
well, and in China where skin cleansing and hair care saw 
strong gains.
• Underlying operating margin was stable at 18.0%.
Home Care
 
€ million
2011
€ million
2010
%
Change
Turnover 8,206 7,726 6.2
Operating profit 481 473 1.7
Underlying operating margin (%) 6.9 8.6 (1.7)
Underlying sales growth (%) 8.1 3.0
Underlying volume growth (%) 2.2 8.2
Effect of price changes (%) 5.8 (4.8)
 
Key developments
• Home Care delivered underlying sales growth of 8.1% in the 
year, despite the pressure of high commodity cost inflation and 
intense competition.
• Underlying price growth of 5.8% reflected increases taken in 
most major markets as input costs were higher. Volume 
growth slowed as a result, but was ahead of the relevant 
market at 2.2%.
• Value market shares were higher, particularly in the laundry 
business where strong performance was seen in China, India, 
South Africa and Western Europe.
• Underlying operating margin was down by 1.7%, as higher 
input costs were not fully mitigated by pricing and savings. 
Refreshment
 
€ million
2011
€ million
2010
%
Change
Turnover 8,804 8,605 2.3
Operating profit 723 724 (0.1)
Underlying operating margin (%) 10.0 10.0 –
Underlying sales growth (%) 4.9 6.1
Underlying volume growth (%) 1.4 5.9
Effect of price changes (%) 3.4 0.1
 
Key developments
• Refreshment saw mixed performance resulting in underlying 
sales growth of 4.9%. Ice cream progressed well driven by 
innovation and new market launches, particularly with the 
Magnum brand. 
• Price growth was strong at 3.4%. Volume growth of 1.4% was 
driven by ice cream. 
• Value market shares were stable overall. Ice cream saw 
strong gains, especially in Latin America and South East Asia, 
but tea shares were down overall and particularly in the US 
and Russia.
• Underlying operating margin was stable at 10.0%, with lower 
gross margin offset by overhead savings. 
Foods
 
€ million
2011
€ million
2010
%
Change
Turnover 13,986 14,164 (1.3)
Operating profit 2,693 2,846 (5.4)
Underlying operating margin (%) 19.1 18.5 0.6
Underlying sales growth (%) 4.9 1.4
Underlying volume growth (%) (1.2) 2.5
Effect of price changes (%) 6.2 (1.0)
 
Key developments
• Underlying sales growth in Foods was 4.9%. Turnover fell 
slightly as a result of the disposal of the Brazilian tomato 
business.
• With commodity cost inflation at high levels, particularly in 
edible oils, underlying price growth was very strong at 6.2%. 
Volumes were down 1.2%, mainly in spreads where pricing was 
highest.
• Value market share performance was mixed, with gains in 
bouillons, meals and side dishes but decline in soups and 
spreads.
• Underlying operating margin improved by 0.6% to reach 19.1%, 
helped by strong overhead savings.
23 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Report of the Directors About Unilever Contractual obligations
Unilever’s contractual obligations at the end of 2011 included 
capital expenditure commitments, borrowings, lease 
commitments and other commitments. A summary of certain 
contractual obligations at 31 December 2011 is provided in the 
preceding table. Further details are set out in the following notes 
to the consolidated financial statements: note 10 on pages 86 to 
87, note 15 on pages 90 to 92, and note 20 on pages 102 to 103.
Off-balance sheet arrangements
SIC interpretation 12 ‘Consolidation – Special Purpose Entities’ 
(SIC 12) requires that entities which we do not control are 
considered for consolidation in the financial statements based on 
risks and rewards. We have reviewed our contractual 
arrangements and concluded that there are no significant 
relationships not already appropriately reflected in the 
consolidated financial statements. Information concerning 
guarantees given by the Group is stated in note 16B on page 96.
Finance and liquidity
The Group’s financial strategy provides the financial flexibility to 
meet strategic and day-to-day needs. Our current long-term 
credit rating is A+/A1 and our current short-term credit rating is 
A1/P1. We aim to maintain a competitive balance sheet which we 
consider to be the equivalent of a credit rating of A+/A1 in the long 
term. This provides us with:
• appropriate access to equity and debt markets;
• sufficient flexibility for acquisitions;
• sufficient resilience against economic and financial uncertainty 
ensuring ample liquidity; and
• optimal weighted average cost of capital, given the 
constraints above.
Unilever aims to concentrate cash in the parent and central 
finance companies in order to ensure maximum flexibility in 
meeting changing business needs. Operating subsidiaries are 
financed through the mixture of retained earnings, third-party 
borrowings and loans from parent and central finance companies. 
Unilever maintains access to global debt markets through an 
infrastructure of short-term debt programmes (principally US 
domestic and euro commercial paper programmes) and long-
term debt programmes (principally a US Shelf Registration 
programme and a European markets Debt Issuance Programme). 
Debt in the international markets is, in general, issued in the 
name of NV, PLC, Unilever Finance International BV or Unilever 
Capital Corporation. NV, PLC and Unilever United States Inc. will 
normally guarantee such debt where they are not the issuer.
In this uncertain environment, we have continued to closely 
monitor all our exposures and counterparty limits. We were 
comfortable with a higher cash balance in 2011.
Unilever has committed credit facilities in place for general 
corporate purposes. The undrawn committed credit facilities 
in place on 31 December 2011 were US $6,150 million. Bilateral 
committed credit facilities totalled US $5,950 million. Bilateral 
money market commitments totalled US $200 million. 
Further details are given in note 16B on page 95.
Balance sheet
 
€ million
2011
€ million
2010
Goodwill and intangible assets 21,913 18,233
Other non-current assets 11,308 10,405
Current assets 14,291 12,534
Total assets 47,512 41,172
Current liabilities 17,929 13,608
Non-current liabilities 14,662 12,486
Total liabilities 32,591 26,094
Shareholders’ equity 14,293 14,485
Non-controlling interest 628 593
Total equity 14,921 15,078
Total liabilities and equity 47,512 41,172
Goodwill and intangibles at 31 December 2011 were €3.7 billion 
higher than in 2010, mainly as a result of acquisitions, including 
Alberto Culver and Concern Kalina, after disposals. The increase 
in other non-current assets is mainly due to an increase in 
property, plant and equipment to €8.8 billion compared to 
€7.9 billion in 2010.
Inventories were higher by €0.3 billion and trade and other 
receivables were higher by €0.4 billion. Cash and cash 
equivalents were €1.1 billion higher at €3.5 billion.
Current liabilities were €4.3 billion higher at €17.9 billion mainly 
due to an increase in short term and maturing financial liabilities 
and currency movements. Provisions remained at €0.4 billion.
The overall net liability for all pension arrangements was 
€3.2 billion at the end of 2011, up from €2.1 billion at the end of 
2010. Funded schemes showed an aggregate deficit of €1.3 billion 
and unfunded arrangements a liability of €1.9 billion. The increase 
in the overall balance sheet liability was mainly due to the 
decrease in discount rates over the year. Cash expenditure on 
pensions was €553 million.
Shareholders’ equity fell by €0.2 billion in the year. Net profit 
added €4.3 billion, with currency and other movements negatively 
impacting by €2.0 billion. Dividends paid in the year totalled 
€2.5 billion.
Contractual obligations at 31 December 2011
 
€ million
Total
€ million
Due 
within
1 year
€ million
Due in
1-3 years
€ million
Due in
3-5 years
€ million
Due in 
over
 5 years
Long-term debt 9,193 1,526 2,452 2,446 2,769
Interest on 
financial 
liabilities 3,007 387 602 594 1,424
Operating lease 
obligations 1,628 381 499 337 411
Purchase 
obligations
(a)
515 459 32 8 16
Finance leases 346 28 52 46 220
Other long-term 
commitments 1,749 628 781 257 83
Total 16,438 3,409 4,418 3,688 4,923
(a)
 For raw and packaging material and finished goods.
24 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Report of the Directors About Unilever
FINANCIAL REVIEW 2011 continued Cash and cash equivalents increased by €1.4 billion when 
translated at average 2011 exchange rates. After recognising the 
changes in exchange rates, cash and cash equivalents in the 
balance sheet at 31 December 2011 were €1.0 billion higher at 
€3.0 billion.
Net cash flow from operating activities of €5.5 billion was in line 
with 2010. Net capital expenditure was €0.3 billion higher than 
2010. There was a net cash outflow of €1.7 billion for acquisition 
and disposal activities, primarily the acquisition of Alberto Culver 
and the disposal of the Sanex business. The movement in 
financing activities is explained by an inflow from third-party 
borrowings.
At 31 December 2011, the net debt position was €8.8 billion, an 
increase of €2.1 billion compared to 2010. The outflow from 
dividends, acquisitions, tax, net capital expenditure and interest 
plus the negative impact of foreign exchange rates together 
exceeded the cash inflow from operating activities and business 
disposals.
Market capitalisation and dividends
Unilever’s combined market capitalisation rose from €64.8 billion 
at the end of 2010 to €73.9 billion at 31 December 2011.
Information on dividends is set out in note 8 on page 83.
Basis of reporting and critical accounting policies
The accounting policies that are most significant in connection 
with our financial reporting are set out in note 1 on pages 68 to 69.
On 10 February 2011 we issued two series of senior notes:  
(a) US $500 million at 2.75% maturing in 2016; and  
(b) US $1.0 billion at 4.25% maturing in 2021. On 31 March 2011  
we issued CNY 300 million notes at 1.15% maturing in 2014. 
On 2 December 2011 we redeemed our Swiss francs 
400 million notes.
The main source of liquidity continues to be cash generated from 
operations. Unilever is satisfied that its financing arrangements 
are adequate to meet its working capital needs for the 
foreseeable future.
Treasury
Unilever Treasury’s role is to ensure that appropriate financing is 
available for all value-creating investments. Additionally, Treasury 
delivers financial services to allow operating companies to 
manage their financial transactions and exposures in an efficient, 
timely and low-cost manner.
Unilever Treasury operates as a service centre and is governed by 
plans approved by the Boards. In addition to guidelines and 
exposure limits, a system of authorities and extensive 
independent reporting covers all major areas of activity. 
Performance is monitored closely. Reviews are undertaken 
periodically by the corporate internal audit function.
The key financial instruments used by Unilever are short-term 
and long-term borrowings, cash and cash equivalents, and 
certain straightforward derivative instruments, principally 
comprising interest rate swaps and foreign exchange contracts. 
The accounting for derivative instruments is discussed in note  
16 on page 93 and on page 98. The use of leveraged instruments is 
not permitted.
Unilever Treasury manages a variety of market risks, including 
the effects of changes in foreign exchange rates, interest rates 
and liquidity. Further details of the management of these risks are 
given in note 16 on pages 94 to 97, which are incorporated and 
repeated here by reference.
Cash flow
 
€ million
2011
€ million
2010
€ million
2009
Net cash flow from  
operating activities 5,452 5,490 5,774
Net cash flow from/(used in)  
investing activities (4,467) (1,164) (1,263)
Net cash flow from/(used in)  
financing activities 411 (4,609) (4,301)
Net increase/(decrease) in cash 
and cash equivalents 1,396 (283) 210
Cash and cash equivalents 
at 1 January 1,966 2,397 2,360
Effect of foreign exchange 
rate changes (384) (148) (173)
Cash and cash equivalents  
at 31 December 2,978 1,966 2,397
 
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Report of the Directors About Unilever
25 The Americas
 
 
2011
vs 2010
2010
vs 2009
Underlying sales growth (%) 6.3 4.0
Effect of acquisitions (%) 3.6 0.3
Effect of disposals (%) (1.5) (0.4)
Effect of exchange rates (%) (3.4) 9.0
Turnover growth (%) 4.7 13.3
Western Europe
 
 
2011
vs 2010
2010
vs 2009
Underlying sales growth (%) 0.7 (0.4)
Effect of acquisitions (%) 4.8 0.5
Effect of disposals (%) (3.6) (2.0)
Effect of exchange rates (%) 0.4 1.4
Turnover growth (%) 2.1 (0.5)
Underlying volume growth (UVG)
Underlying volume growth is underlying sales growth after 
eliminating the impact of price changes. The relationship 
between the two measures is set out below:
 
 
2011
vs 2010
2010
vs 2009
Underlying volume growth (%) 1.6 5.8
Effect of price changes (%) 4.8 (1.6)
Underlying sales growth (%) 6.5 4.1
The UVG and price effect for each region and category are shown 
within the tables on pages 22 to 23.
Underlying operating margin 
In our commentary on results of operations for the Group and 
each region, we discuss trends in underlying operating margins. 
This means operating margin before the impact of restructuring 
costs, business disposals, impairments and other one-off items, 
which we refer to collectively as RDIs. We believe that giving this 
information allows readers of our financial statements to have a 
better understanding of underlying trends. There is no recognised 
GAAP measure that corresponds to this measure.
The reconciliation of underlying operating profit to operating profit 
is as follows:
 
 
€ million
2011
€ million
2010
Operating profit 6,433 6,339
Restructuring costs 612 589
Business disposals (221) (468)
Acquisition and integration costs and other 
one-off items 77 160
Underlying operating profit 6,901 6,620
Turnover 46,467 44,262
Operating margin 13.8% 14.3%
Underlying operating margin 14.9% 15.0%
 
Further details of RDIs can be found in note 3 on page 72.
Non-GAAP measures
Certain discussions and analyses set out in this Annual Report 
and Accounts include measures which are not defined by 
generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) such as IFRS. 
We believe this information, along with comparable GAAP 
measurements, is useful to investors because it provides a 
basis for measuring our operating performance, ability to retire 
debt and invest in new business opportunities. Our management 
uses these financial measures, along with the most directly 
comparable GAAP financial measures, in evaluating our operating 
performance and value creation. Non-GAAP financial measures 
should not be considered in isolation from, or as a substitute for, 
financial information presented in compliance with GAAP. 
Non-GAAP financial measures as reported by us may not be 
comparable with similarly titled amounts reported by other 
companies. 
In the following sections we set out our definitions of the following 
non-GAAP measures and provide reconciliations to relevant 
GAAP measures:
• underlying sales growth;
• underlying volume growth;
• underlying operating margin (including explanation 
of restructuring, business disposals and other one-off 
items (RDIs);
• free cash flow; and
• net debt.
Underlying sales growth (USG)
USG reflects the change in revenue from continuing operations 
at constant rates of exchange, excluding the effects of acquisitions 
and disposals. It is a measure that provides valuable additional 
information on the underlying performance of the business. In 
particular, it presents the organic growth of our business year on 
year and is used internally as a core measure of sales 
performance.
The reconciliation of USG to changes in the GAAP measure 
turnover is as follows:
Total Group
 
 
2011
vs 2010
2010
vs 2009
Underlying sales growth (%) 6.5 4.1
Effect of acquisitions (%) 2.7 0.3
Effect of disposals (%) (1.5) (0.8)
Effect of exchange rates (%) (2.5) 7.3
Turnover growth (%) 5.0 11.1
Asia, Africa CEE 
 
 
2011
vs 2010
2010
vs 2009
Underlying sales growth (%) 10.5 7.7
Effect of acquisitions (%) 0.7 0.2
Effect of disposals (%) 0.0 (0.1)
Effect of exchange rates (%) (3.7) 10.1
Turnover growth (%) 7.1 18.7
26 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Report of the Directors About Unilever
FINANCIAL REVIEW 2011 continued Free cash flow (FCF)
Free cash flow represents the cash generated from the operation 
and financing of the business. The movement in FCF measures 
our progress against the commitment to deliver strong cash flows. 
FCF is not used as a liquidity measure within Unilever. FCF includes 
the cash flow from Group operating activities, less income tax paid, 
net capital expenditure, net interest and preference dividends paid.
The reconciliation of FCF to net profit is as follows:
 
€ million
2011
€ million
2010
Net profit 4,623 4,598
Taxation 1,622 1,534
Share of net profit of joint ventures/associates  
and other income from non-current investments (189) (187)
Net finance costs 377 394
Depreciation, amortisation and impairment 1,029 993
Changes in working capital (177) 169
Pensions and similar provisions less payments (553) (472)
Provisions less payments 9 72
Elimination of (profits)/losses on disposals (215) (476)
Non-cash charge for share-based compensation 105 144
Other adjustments 8 49
Cash flow from operating activities 6,639 6,818
Income tax paid (1,187) (1,328)
Net capital expenditure (1,974) (1,701)
Net interest and preference dividends paid (403) (424)
Free cash flow 3,075 3,365
Net debt
Net debt is defined as the excess of total financial liabilities, 
excluding trade and other payables, over cash, cash equivalents 
and current financial assets, excluding trade and other 
receivables. It is a measure that provides valuable additional 
information on the summary presentation of the Group’s net 
financial liabilities and is a measure in common use elsewhere. 
The reconciliation of net debt to the GAAP measure total financial 
liabilities is as follows:
€ million
2011
€ million
2010
Total financial liabilities (13,718) (9,534)
Current financial liabilities (5,840) (2,276)
Non-current financial liabilities (7,878) (7,258)
Cash and cash equivalents as per balance sheet 3,484 2,316
Cash and cash equivalents as per  
cash flow statement 2,978 1,966
Add bank overdrafts deducted therein 506 350
Current financial assets 1,453 550
Net debt (8,781) (6,668)
Core operating margin
From 2012 the Group will refer to core operating margin as a 
non-GAAP measure. This means operating margin before the 
impact of business disposals, impairments, aquisition and 
integration costs and other one-off items. There is no recognised 
GAAP measure that corresponds to this measure.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Report of the Directors About Unilever
27 Outlook and risks 2012 
The following discussion of the risk outlook and our principal risk management activities includes ‘forward-looking’ statements that 
reflect Unilever’s view of the operating risk environment. The actual results could differ materially from those projected. See the 
‘Cautionary statement’ on the inside back cover.
Outlook
Market conditions for our business were challenging in 2011 and we do not anticipate this changing significantly in 2012. 
Economic pressures are expected to continue. We expect consumer markets to remain flat to slightly down in developed markets. In 
emerging markets consumer demand remains robust but there is nonetheless the risk of modest slowdown in key markets such as 
China, India and Brazil. Currency markets remain volatile and uncertain. Although we have seen rather more stable conditions in key 
commodity markets in recent months we remain watchful for further periods of volatility in 2012. A worsening economic scenario could 
be triggered by a major Eurozone crisis prompted by countries leaving the euro or by a break-up of the euro leading to significant 
contraction in financial markets, followed by a severe recession in Europe and knock-on effects globally. Terrorist activity and political 
unrest may also result in business interruptions and a decreased demand for our products. 
The competitive environment for our business is likely to remain intense in 2012. Our competitors, both global and local, will continue to 
shift resources into emerging markets. We expect continued high levels of competitive challenge to our many category leadership 
positions. Some of this may be price based, but we also expect strong innovation based competition. With the improvements we have 
been making to our business we are well prepared for these challenges. 
In a period of significant uncertainty and downside risk, we believe Unilever’s operational and financial flexibility, and speed of response 
to a fast changing environment are vital assets. We will continue to focus on our long term strategic priority of driving volume growth 
ahead of our markets whilst providing a steady improvement in core operating margin and strong cash flow. We are well placed in 
emerging markets and we expect these markets to continue to drive growth. Our recent strategy review sharpened the portfolio role of 
our categories and our 2012 outlook fully reflects the choices made. This gives us confidence that Unilever is fit to compete, whatever 
the circumstances.
Principal risk factors
Our business is subject to risks and uncertainties. The risks that we regard as the most relevant to our business are identified below. We have 
also commented on certain mitigating actions that we believe help us to manage these risks. However, we may not be successful in deploying 
some or all of these mitigating actions. If the circumstances in these risks occur or are not successfully mitigated, our cashflow, operating 
results, financial position, business and reputation could be materially adversely affected. In addition risks and uncertainties could cause 
actual results to vary from those described herein in the descriptions below, which may include forward-looking statements, or could impact 
on our ability to meet our targets or be detrimental to our profitability or reputation. 
Description of risk What we are doing to manage the risk
Consumer Preference
As a branded goods business, Unilever’s success depends on the 
value and relevance of our brands and products to consumers 
across the world and on our ability to innovate.
Consumer tastes, preferences and behaviours are constantly 
changing and Unilever’s ability to respond to these changes and to 
continue to differentiate our brands and products is vital to our 
business.
We are dependent on creating innovative products that continue to 
meet the needs of our consumers.
We continuously monitor external market trends and collate 
consumer, customer and shopper insight in order to develop category 
and brand strategies. 
Our Research and Development function actively searches for ways in 
which to translate the trends in consumer preference and taste into 
new technologies for incorporation into future products.
Our innovation management process deploys the necessary tools, 
technologies and resources to convert category strategies into 
projects and category plans, develop products and relevant brand 
communication and successfully roll out new products to our 
consumers. 
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Report of the Directors About Unilever
28
RISKS Description of risk What we are doing to manage the risk
Competition
The activities of our competitors may adversely impact our 
business.
Unilever operates globally in competitive markets where other local, 
regional and global companies are targeting the same consumer 
base. 
Our retail customers frequently compete with us through private 
label offerings. 
Industry consolidation amongst our direct competitors and in the 
retail trade can bring about significant shifts in the competitive 
landscape.
Our strategy focuses on investing in markets and segments which we 
identify as attractive because we have already built, or are confident 
that we can build, competitive advantage.
We continue to monitor developments in our markets across the 
world and to direct our resources accordingly to respond to 
competitive threats and opportunities.
Portfolio Management 
Unilever’s strategic investment choices will determine the long-
term growth and profits of our business.
Unilever’s growth and profitability are determined by our portfolio of 
categories, geographies and channels and how these evolve over 
time.
Our Compass strategy and our business plans are designed to ensure 
that resources are prioritised towards those categories and markets 
having the greatest long term potential for Unilever.
Our acquisition activity is driven by our portfolio strategy with a clear, 
defined evaluation process.
Sustainability
The success of our business depends on finding sustainable 
solutions to support long-term growth.
Unilever’s vision to double the size of our business while reducing 
our environmental impact will require more sustainable ways of 
doing business. This means increasing the positive social benefits of 
Unilever’s activities while reducing our environmental impact. 
The Unilever Sustainable Living Plan sets clear long-term 
commitments for health and well-being, environmental impact and 
enhancing livelihoods. These are underpinned by specific targets in 
areas such as sustainable sourcing, water availability and usage, 
waste and greenhouse gases.
The Unilever Sustainable Development Group, comprising five 
external specialists in corporate responsibility and sustainability, 
monitors the execution of this strategy. 
Progress towards the Unilever Sustainable Living Plan is monitored 
by the Unilever Leadership Executive and the Boards.
Customer Relationships
Successful customer relationships are vital to our business and 
continued growth.
Maintaining strong relationships with our customers is necessary 
for our brands to be well presented to our consumers and available 
for purchase at all times. 
The strength of our customer relationships also affects our ability to 
obtain pricing and secure favourable trade terms.
We build and maintain trading relationships across a broad spectrum 
of channels ranging from centrally managed multinational customers 
through to small traders accessed via distributors in many developing 
countries. 
We develop joint business plans with all our key customers that 
include detailed investment plans and customer service objectives 
and we regularly monitor progress.
We have developed capabilities for customer sales and outlet design 
which enable us to find new ways to improve customer performance 
and enhance our customer relationships. 
People
A skilled workforce is essential for the continued success of our 
business.
Our ability to attract, develop and retain the right number of 
appropriately qualified people is critical if we are to effectively 
compete and grow.
This is especially true in our key emerging markets where there can 
be a high level of competition for a limited talent pool.
Resource committees have been established and implemented 
throughout our business. These committees have responsibility for 
identifying future skills and capability needs, developing career paths 
and identifying the key talent and leaders of the future. 
We have an integrated management development process which 
includes regular performance reviews underpinned by a common set 
of leadership behaviours, skills and competencies. 
We have targeted programmes to attract and retain top talent and we 
actively monitor our performance in retaining talent within Unilever.
29 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Report of the Directors About Unilever Description of risk What we are doing to manage the risk
Supply Chain 
Our business depends on securing high quality materials, efficient 
manufacturing and the timely distribution of products to our 
customers.
Our supply chain network is exposed to potentially adverse events 
such as physical disruptions, environmental and industrial accidents 
or bankruptcy of a key supplier which could impact our ability to 
deliver orders to our customers. 
The quality and safety of our products are of paramount importance 
for our brands and our reputation.
The cost of our products can be significantly affected by the cost of 
the underlying commodities and materials from which they are 
made. Fluctuations in these costs cannot always be passed on to the 
consumer through pricing. 
We have contingency plans designed to enable us to secure 
alternative key material supplies at short notice, to transfer or share 
production between manufacturing sites and to use substitute 
materials in our product formulations and recipes.
These contingency plans also extend to an ability to intervene directly 
to support a key supplier should it for any reason find itself in difficulty 
or be at risk of negatively affecting a Unilever product. 
We have policies and procedures designed to ensure the health and 
safety of our employees and the products in our facilities and to deal 
with major incidents or crises including business continuity and 
disaster recovery.
Our product quality controls are extensive and are regularly tested to 
ensure that they are effective. All of our key suppliers are periodically 
reviewed to ensure they meet the rigorous quality standards that our 
products demand.
Commodity price risk is actively managed through forward-buying 
of traded commodities and other hedging mechanisms. Trends are 
monitored and modelled regularly and integrated into our forecasting 
process.
Systems and Information
Unilever’s operations are increasingly dependent on IT systems and 
the management of information. 
We interact electronically with customers, suppliers and consumers 
in ways which place ever greater emphasis on the need for secure 
and reliable IT systems and infrastructure and careful management 
of the information that is in our possession. 
This also increases the threat from unauthorised access and 
misuse of sensitive information.
Hardware that runs and manages core operating data is fully backed 
up with separate contingency systems to provide real time backup 
operations should they ever be required. 
We maintain a system of control at all times for access to our 
important information.
Our policies on data access, privacy and protection of information are 
regularly reviewed and our employees are trained to understand the 
requirements.
Business Transformation
Successful execution of business transformation projects is key to 
delivering their intended business benefits and avoiding disruption 
to other business activities.
Unilever is continually engaged in major change projects, including 
acquisitions and disposals, to drive continuous improvement in our 
business and to strengthen our portfolio and capabilities.
In 2011, this included several significant acquisitions (Alberto Culver, 
Concern Kalina), IT system implementations, the roll-out of 
Enterprise Support and changes to our management organisation.
All acquisitions, disposals and global restructuring projects are 
sponsored by a Unilever Leadership Executive member. Regular 
progress updates are provided to the Unilever Leadership Executive. 
Sound project disciplines are used in all merger, acquisitions and 
restructuring projects and these projects are resourced by dedicated 
and appropriately qualified personnel. 
Unilever also monitors the volume of change programmes underway 
in an effort to stagger the impact on current operations and to ensure 
minimal disruption.
30 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Report of the Directors About Unilever
RISKS continued Description of risk What we are doing to manage the risk
External economic and political risks, and natural disasters
Unilever operates across the globe and is exposed to a range of 
external economic and political risks and natural disasters that may 
affect the execution of our strategy or the running of our operations.
Adverse economic conditions may result in reduced consumer 
demand for our products, and may affect one or more countries 
within a region, or may extend globally. 
Government actions such as fiscal stimulus, changes to taxation and 
price controls can impact on the growth and profitability of our local 
operations. 
Social and political upheavals and natural disasters can disrupt 
sales and operations.
In 2011, more than half of Unilever’s turnover came from emerging 
markets including Brazil, India, Indonesia, Turkey, South Africa, 
China, Mexico and Russia. These markets offer greater growth 
opportunities but also expose Unilever to economic, political and 
social volatility in these markets.
The breadth of Unilever’s portfolio and our geographic reach help to 
mitigate our exposure to any particular localised risk to an extent. Our 
flexible business model allows us to adapt our portfolio and respond 
quickly to develop new offerings that suit consumers’ and customers’ 
changing needs during economic downturns. 
We regularly update our forecast of business results and cash flows 
and, where necessary, rebalance investment priorities. 
We have continuity planning designed to deal with crisis management 
in the event of political and social events and natural disasters.
We believe that many years of exposure to emerging markets has 
given us experience operating and developing our business 
successfully during periods of economic, political or social change.
Eurozone risk
Issues arising out of the sovereign debt crisis in Europe could have a 
material adverse effect on Unilever’s business in a number of ways.
Uncertainty, lack of confidence and any further deterioration in the 
situation could lead to lower growth and even recession in Europe 
and elsewhere.
Our operations would be affected if Eurozone countries were to 
leave the euro. In particular: 
• our European supply chain would face economic and operational 
challenges;
• our customers and suppliers may be adversely affected, leading 
to heightened counterparty credit risk; and
• our investment in the country concerned could be impaired and 
may be subject to exchange controls and translation risks going 
forward.
The likely contraction in the availability of credit from financial 
institutions and the impact this will have on Unilever’s liquidity risk 
are described under ‘Financial’ below.
Unilever is committed to maintaining its operations in all European 
countries.
We have conducted scenario planning in respect of a Eurozone 
break-up, or of countries leaving the Eurozone, and this has been 
reviewed by the Boards. 
We are taking measures designed to minimise the impact of the 
potential scenarios whilst continuing to trade as normal, including:
• developing contingency plans in respect of our supply chain 
operations;
• exercising additional caution with our counterparty exposures;
• taking prudent balance sheet measures in relation to high risk 
countries; and
• strengthening our short term liquidity positions.
31 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Report of the Directors About Unilever Description of risk What we are doing to manage the risk
Financial
Unilever is exposed to a variety of external financial risks. 
Changes to the relative value of currencies can fluctuate widely 
and could have a significant impact on business results. Further, 
because Unilever consolidates its financial statements in euros it 
is subject to exchange risks associated with the translation of the 
underlying net assets and earnings of its foreign subsidiaries.
We are also subject to the imposition of exchange controls by 
individual countries which could limit our ability to import materials 
paid in foreign currency or to remit dividends to the parent company.
Currency rates, along with demand cycles, can also result in 
significant swings in the prices of the raw materials needed to 
produce our goods.
Unilever may face liquidity risk, i.e. difficulty in meeting its 
obligations, associated with its financial liabilities. A material and 
sustained shortfall in our cash flow could undermine Unilever’s 
credit rating, impair investor confidence and also restrict Unilever’s 
ability to raise funds.
We are exposed to market interest rate fluctuations on our floating rate 
debt. Increases in benchmark interest rates could increase the interest 
cost of our floating rate debt and increase the cost of future borrowings.
In times of financial market volatility, we are also potentially exposed 
to counter party risks with banks, suppliers and customers.
Certain businesses have defined benefit pension plans, most now 
closed to new employees, which are exposed to movements in 
interest rates, fluctuating values of underlying investments and 
increased life expectancy. Changes in any or all of these inputs could 
potentially increase the cost to Unilever of funding the schemes and 
therefore have an adverse impact on profitability and cash flow.
Currency exposures are managed within prescribed limits and by 
the use of forward foreign exchange contracts. Further, operating 
companies borrow in local currency except where inhibited by local 
regulations, lack of local liquidity or local market conditions. We also 
hedge some of our exposures through the use of foreign currency 
borrowing or forward exchange contracts.
Our interest rate management approach aims to achieve an optimal 
balance between fixed and floating rate interest exposures on 
expected net debt. 
We seek to manage our liquidity requirements by maintaining 
access to global debt markets through short-term and long-term 
debt programmes. In addition, we have high committed credit 
facilities for general corporate purposes. 
Group Treasury regularly monitors exposure to our banks, tightening 
counter party limits where appropriate. Unilever actively manages its 
banking exposures on a daily basis. 
We regularly assess and monitor counterparty risk in our customers 
and take appropriate action to manage our exposures. 
Our pension investment standards require us to invest across a range 
of equities, bonds, property, alternative assets and cash such that the 
failure of any single investment will not have a material impact on the 
overall value of assets. 
The majority of our assets, including those held in our ‘pooled’ 
investment vehicle, Univest, are managed by external fund managers 
and are regularly monitored by pension trustees and central pensions 
and investment teams.
Further information on financial instruments and capital and treasury 
risk management is included in note 16 on pages 94 to 100.
Ethical
Acting in an ethical manner, consistent with the expectations of 
customers, consumers and other stakeholders is essential for the 
protection of the reputation of Unilever and its brands.
Unilever’s brand and reputation are valuable assets and the way in 
which we operate, contribute to society and engage with the world 
around us is always under scrutiny both internally and externally.
Our Code of Business Principles and our Code Policies govern the 
behaviour of our employees, suppliers, distributors and other third 
parties who work with us. 
Our processes for identifying and resolving cases of unethical 
practice are clearly defined and regularly communicated throughout 
Unilever. Data relating to instances of unethical practice is reviewed 
by the Unilever Leadership Executive and by relevant Board 
committees and helps to determine the allocation of resources for 
future policy development, training and awareness initiatives.
Legal, Regulatory and Other
Compliance with laws and regulations is an essential part of 
Unilever’s business operations.
Unilever is subject to local, regional and global laws and regulations 
in such diverse areas as product safety, product claims, 
trademarks, copyright, patents, competition, employee health and 
safety, the environment, corporate governance, listing and 
disclosure, employment and taxes. 
Failure to comply with laws and regulations could expose Unilever to 
civil and/or criminal actions leading to damages, fines and criminal 
sanctions against us and/or our employees with possible 
consequences for our corporate reputation. 
Changes to laws and regulations could have a material impact on 
the cost of doing business.
Unilever is also exposed to varying degrees of risk and uncertainty 
related to other factors including environmental, political, social and 
fiscal risks. All these risks could materially affect Unilever’s 
business. There may be other risks which are unknown to Unilever 
or which are currently believed to be immaterial.
The Code of Business Principles sets out our commitment to 
complying with the laws and regulations of the countries in which we 
operate. In specialist areas the relevant teams at global, regional or 
local level are responsible for setting detailed standards and ensuring 
that all employees are aware of and comply with regulations and laws 
specific and relevant to their roles. 
Our legal specialists are heavily involved in monitoring and reviewing 
our practices to provide reasonable assurance that we remain aware 
of and in line with all relevant laws and legal obligations.
Various mitigating processes exist within Unilever operating systems 
designed to help to mitigate other areas of risk including terrorism, 
fiscal and other forms of regulatory change or economic instability.
32 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Report of the Directors About Unilever
RISKS continued Our Risk Appetite and Approach to Risk Management 
Risk management is integral to Unilever’s strategy and to the 
achievement of Unilever’s long-term goals. Our success as an 
organisation depends on our ability to identify and exploit the 
opportunities generated by our business and the markets we are in. 
In doing this we take an embedded approach to risk management 
which puts risk and opportunity assessment at the core of the 
leadership team agenda, which is where we believe it should be.
Unilever adopts a risk profile that is aligned to our vision to double 
the size of our business while reducing our environmental impact. 
Our available capital and other resources are applied to underpin 
our priorities. We aim to maintain a strong single A credit rating 
on a long term basis, reflecting the strength of our balance sheet 
and cash flows.
Our approach to risk management is designed to provide 
reasonable, but not absolute, assurance that our assets are 
safeguarded, the risks facing the business are being assessed 
and mitigated and all information that may be required to be 
disclosed is reported to Unilever’s senior management including, 
where appropriate, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial 
Officer.
Organisation
The Unilever Boards assume overall accountability for the 
management of risk and for reviewing the effectiveness of 
Unilever’s risk management and internal control systems. 
The Boards have established a clear organisational structure 
with well defined accountabilities for the principal risks that 
Unilever faces in the short, medium and longer term. This 
organisational structure and distribution of accountabilities and 
responsibilities ensures that every country in which we operate 
has specific resources and processes for risk review and risk 
mitigation. This is supported by the Unilever Leadership Executive, 
which takes an active responsibility for focusing on the principal 
areas of risk to Unilever. The Boards regularly review these risk 
areas and retain responsibility for determining the nature and 
extent of the significant risks that Unilever is prepared to take to 
achieve its strategic objectives.
Foundation and Principles
Unilever’s approach to doing business is framed by our Corporate 
Mission. Our Code of Business Principles sets out the standards 
of behaviour that we expect all employees to adhere to. Day-to-
day responsibility for ensuring these principles are applied 
throughout Unilever rests with senior management across 
categories, geographies and functions. A network of Code 
Officers and Committees supports the activities necessary to 
communicate the Code, deliver training, maintain processes and 
procedures (including ‘hotlines’) to report and respond to alleged 
breaches, and to capture and communicate learnings.
We have a framework of Code Policies that underpin the Code and 
set out the non-negotiable standards of behaviour expected from 
all our employees. 
Unilever’s functional standards define mandatory requirements 
across a range of specialist areas such as health and safety, 
accounting and reporting and financial risk management.
Processes 
Unilever operates a wide range of processes and activities across 
all its operations covering strategy, planning, execution and 
performance management. Risk management is integrated into 
every stage of this business cycle. These procedures are 
formalised and documented and are increasingly being 
centralised and automated into transactional and other 
information technology systems.
Assurance and Re-Assurance
Assurance on compliance with the Code of Business Principles 
and all of our Code Policies is obtained annually from Unilever 
management via a formal Code declaration. In addition, there are 
specialist compliance programmes which run during the year and 
vary depending on the business priorities. These specialist 
compliance programmes supplement the Code declaration. Our 
Corporate Audit function plays a vital role in providing to both 
management and the Boards an objective and independent review 
of the effectiveness of risk management and internal control 
systems throughout Unilever.
Boards’ assessment of compliance with the Risk Management 
frameworks
The Boards, through the Committees where appropriate, 
regularly review the significant risks and decisions that could 
have a material impact on Unilever. These reviews consider the 
boundaries to the risks that Unilever is prepared to take in pursuit 
of the business strategy and the effectiveness of the management 
controls in place to mitigate the risk exposure. 
The Boards, through the Audit Committee, have reviewed the 
assessment of risks, internal controls and disclosure controls 
and procedures in operation within Unilever. They have also 
considered the effectiveness of any remedial actions taken for the 
year covered by this document and up to the date of its approval by 
the Boards. 
Details of the activities of the Audit Committee in relation to this 
can be found in the Report of the Audit Committee on pages 47 
and 48.
Further statements on compliance with the specific risk 
management and control requirements in the Dutch Corporate 
Governance Code, the UK Corporate Governance Code, the US 
Securities Exchange Act (1934) and the Sarbanes-Oxley (2002) Act 
can be found on pages 44 to 46.
33 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Report of the Directors About Unilever Michael Treschow
Nationality: Swedish. Aged 68.
Appointed Chairman May 2007.
Non-Executive Director, ABB Group. 
Board member, Knut and Alice 
Wallenberg Foundation. Member 
of the European Advisory, Eli Lilly 
and Company. Chairman, 
Telefonaktiebolaget L M Ericsson 
2002-2011. Chairman, AB Electrolux 
2004-2007 and Confederation of 
Swedish Enterprise 2004-2007. 
Kees J Storm
Nationality: Dutch. Aged 69.
Appointed May 2006.
Chairman, Supervisory Board, 
and member of the Audit Committee, 
KLM Royal Dutch Airlines N.V. 
Member, Supervisory Board, AEGON 
N.V. Vice-Chairman and Chairman 
of Audit Committee, Anheuser-Busch 
InBev S.A. Board member and Audit 
Committee member, Baxter 
International, Inc.. Vice-Chairman, 
Supervisory Board, Pon Holdings B.V.
Paul Polman
Chief Executive Officer
Nationality: Dutch. Aged 55.
Appointed Chief Executive Officer 
January 2009.
Appointed Director October 2008. 
Non-Executive Director, The Dow 
Chemical Company. President, 
Kilimanjaro Blind Trust. Procter 
& Gamble Co. 1979-2001, Group 
President Europe and Officer, Procter 
& Gamble Co. 2001-2006. Chief 
Financial Officer, Nestlé S.A. 2006-
2008. Executive Vice President and 
Zone Director for the Americas 2008. 
Jean-Marc Huët
Chief Financial Officer
Nationality: Dutch. Aged 42.
Appointed Director May 2010.
Appointed Chief Financial Officer 
February 2010.
Executive Vice President and Chief 
Financial Officer, Bristol-Myers 
Squibb Company 2008-2009.  
Non-Executive Director, Mead 
Johnson Nutrition 2009. Chief 
Financial Officer, Royal Numico NV 
2003-2007. Investment Banking, 
Goldman Sachs International 1993- 
2003. Clement Trading 1991-1993.
Louise Fresco
Nationality: Dutch. Aged 60.
Appointed May 2009.
Professor of International 
Development and Sustainability  
at the University of Amsterdam. 
Supervisory Director, RABO Bank. 
Member, Social and Economic 
Council of the Netherlands (SER). 
Ann Fudge
Nationality: American. Aged 60.
Appointed May 2009.
Non-Executive Director, Infosys, 
Novartis AG, General Electric Co., 
and Buzzient Inc. Chairman, US 
Programs Advisory Panel of Gates 
Foundation. Honorary director of 
Catalyst. Member, Foreign Affairs 
Policy Board, U.S. State Department. 
Member, Finance Committee of 
Harvard University.
Charles E Golden
Nationality: American. Aged 65.
Appointed May 2006.
Non-Executive Director Indiana 
University Health, Hill-Rom Holdings, 
Eaton Corporation and the Lilly 
Endowment. Member of Finance 
Committee, Indianapolis Museum 
of Art. Executive Vice-President, 
Chief Financial Officer and Director, 
Eli Lilly and Company 1996-2006.
Byron E Grote
Nationality: American/British.  
Aged 63.
Appointed May 2006.
Executive Vice President, Corporate 
Business Activities, BP p.l.c. Member, 
UK Business – Government Forum 
on Tax and Globalisation 2008-2010. 
Vice-Chairman, UK Government’s 
Public Services Productivity Panel 
1998-2000.
Sunil B Mittal
Nationality: Indian. Aged 54.
Appointed May 2011.
Founder, Chairman and Group CEO, 
Bharti Enterprises. Awarded Global 
Economy Prize by the Kiel Institute in 
Germany and Global Vision Award by 
the US-India Business Council. 
President, Confederation of Indian 
Industry. Co-chairman, World 
Economic Forum at Davos and 
member of its International Business 
Council.
Hixonia Nyasulu
Nationality: South African. Aged 57.
Appointed May 2007.
Chairman, Sasol Ltd. Non-Executive 
Director, Barloworld Ltd. Member, 
Advisory Board of JP Morgan S.A. 
Beneficiary, Sequel Property 
Investments.
Sir Malcolm Rifkind
Nationality: British. Aged 65.
Appointed May 2010.
A Queen’s Counsel. Served in 
Cabinets of Margaret Thatcher 
and John Major, last position 
being that of Foreign Secretary.  
Non-Executive Director, Adam Smith 
International and Continental 
Farmers Group plc.
Paul Walsh
Nationality: British. Aged 56.
Appointed May 2009.
Chief Executive Officer and Director, 
Diageo PLC. Non-Executive Director, 
FedEx Corporation Inc. and Avanti 
Communications Group PLC. 
Member, Business Advisory Group, 
Advisor to the Department of 
Energy and Climate Change.  
Member, International Business 
Leaders Forum.
34 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Report of the Directors Governance
BIOGRAPHIES
Chairman
Vice-Chairman & Senior 
Independent Director Executive Directors
Non-Executive Directors
Board of Directors  Doug Baillie
Chief HR Officer
Nationality: British. Aged 56.
Appointed Chief HR Officer in 
February 2011. Appointed to ULE as 
President of Western Europe in May 
2008. Joined Unilever 1978. Previous 
Unilever posts include: CEO 
Hindustan Unilever Limited; Group-
Vice President South Asia 2006; 
Group Vice-President – Africa, Middle 
East & Turkey 2005; President Africa 
Regional Group 2004; National 
Manager Unilever South Africa 2000.
Harish Manwani
Chief Operating Officer
Nationality: Indian. Aged 58.
Appointed Chief Operating Officer 
in November 2011.
Appointed to ULE April 2005 as 
President Asia Africa. Joined Unilever 
1976. Non-Executive Chairman, 
Hindustan Unilever. Previous Unilever 
posts include: President Asia, Africa, 
Central & Eastern Europe 2008; and 
Group President, Home and Personal 
Care, North America 2004.
Dave Lewis
Personal Care
Nationality: British. Aged 46.
Appointed to ULE May 2010.
Joined Unilever 1987. Previous posts 
include: President, Americas; 
Chairman, Unilever UK and Ireland; 
Managing Director, UK home and 
personal care business; Senior Vice 
President for Home and Personal 
Care, Central and Eastern Europe; 
Managing Director, Indonesia; 
Marketing Director, South America. 
Kevin Havelock
Refreshment
Nationality: British. Aged 54.
Appointed to ULE November 2011.
Joined Unilever 1985. Previous 
Unilever posts include: Chairman in 
Arabia and President Unilever USA. 
Previous external posts include: Vice 
President UK Advertising Association 
and Executive Committee of 
American Personal Care Council.
Alan Jope
North Asia
Nationality: British. Aged 47.
Appointed to ULE November 2011.
Joined Unilever 1985. Previous 
Unilever posts include: Chairman 
of Unilever Greater China; Global 
Category Leader for SCC and 
Dressings; Chief Operating Officer 
and subsequently President of 
Unilever’s combined Home and 
Personal Care business in North 
America; and Vice President, 
Personal Care Thailand.
Kees Kruythoff
North America
Nationality: Dutch. Aged 43.
Appointed to ULE November 2011.
Joined Unilever 1993. Previous 
Unilever posts include: Executive Vice 
President Brazil 2008; Chairman of 
Unilever Foods South Africa 2004; 
and a member of the board of 
Unilever Bestfoods Asia 2002.
Antoine de Saint-Affrique
Foods
Nationality: French. Aged 47.
Appointed to ULE November 2011.
First joined Unilever 1989 until 1997; 
re-joined Unilever 2000. Previous 
Unilever posts include: Executive 
Vice President Skin category; 
and Executive Vice President 
Unilever Central & Eastern Europe. 
Vice President Marketing for Liebig 
Maille Amora, Danone Group/PAI 
1997-2000. Non-Executive Director 
and member of the Audit Committee 
at Essilor International.
Professor Geneviève Berger
Chief Research & Development 
Officer
Nationality: French. Aged 57.
Appointed to ULE July 2008. 
Previous posts include: Chairman 
of the Health Advisory Board for 
the European Commission; Professor 
at the University of Paris and La Pitié-
Salpêtrière Teaching Hospital; and 
Director General of the French 
Centre National de la Recherche 
Scientifique. Appointed Non-
Executive Director of Smith 
& Nephew in March 2010.
Jan Zijderveld
Europe
Nationality: Dutch. Aged 47.
Appointed to ULE February 2011.
Joined Unilever in 1988. Previous 
Unilever posts include: Executive  
Vice President South East Asia and 
Australasia; Chairman of Unilever 
Middle East North Africa; Chairman 
of Nordic ice cream business; 
Marketing Director Italy; European 
Olive Oil Category Director; and 
General Manager – Sauces and 
Dressings Europe.
Keith Weed
Chief Marketing and 
Communication Officer
Nationality: British. Aged 50.
Appointed to ULE April 2010.
Joined Unilever 1983. Previous 
Unilever posts include: Executive  
Vice President for Global Home Care 
& Hygiene; Chairman of Lever 
Fabergé; SVP Hair and Oral Care. 
Non-Executive Director of Sun 
Products Corporation.
Pier Luigi Sigismondi
Chief Supply Chain Officer
Nationality: Italian. Aged 46.
Appointed to ULE September 2009.
Prior to joining Unilever, he joined 
Nestlé S.A. in 2002. Moved to Nestlé 
Mexico in 2005 as Vice President of 
Operations and R&D. Prior to Nestlé 
S.A. he was Vice President of 
Operations for A T Kearney.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Report of the Directors Governance
35
Unilever Leadership Executive (ULE) 
For Paul Polman and Jean-Marc Huët see page 34 Introduction
Since 1930 when the Unilever Group was formed, NV and PLC, 
together with their group companies, have operated as nearly as 
practicable as a single economic entity. This is achieved by a 
series of agreements between NV and PLC (the Foundation 
Agreements, further described on page 42), together with special 
provisions in the Articles of Association of NV and PLC.
However, NV and PLC remain separate legal entities with different 
shareholder constituencies and separate stock exchange listings. 
Shareholders cannot convert or exchange the shares of one for 
the shares of the other.
NV and PLC have the same Directors, adopt the same accounting 
principles and pay dividends to their respective shareholders on 
an equalised basis. NV and PLC and their group companies 
constitute a single reporting entity for the purposes of presenting 
consolidated accounts. Accordingly, the accounts of the Unilever 
Group are presented by both NV and PLC as their respective 
consolidated accounts.
Unilever is subject to various corporate governance requirements 
and best practice codes, the most relevant being those in the 
Netherlands, the United Kingdom and the United States. As stated 
in our Code of Business Principles, Unilever “will conduct its 
operations in accordance with internationally accepted principles 
of good corporate governance”. It is therefore Unilever’s  
practice to comply where practicable with the best practice 
represented by the aggregate of these best practice codes.
NV and PLC are holding and service companies, and the business 
activity of Unilever is carried out by their subsidiaries around the 
world. Shares in group companies may ultimately be held wholly 
by either NV or PLC or by the two companies in varying 
proportions.
The Boards
It has always been a requirement of Unilever that the same people 
be on the Boards of the two parent companies. This guarantees 
that all matters are considered by the Boards as a single intellect, 
reaching the same conclusions on the same set of facts save 
where specific local factors apply. It is essential that in reaching 
the same decisions the NV and PLC Boards identify and resolve 
any potential conflicts of interest between NV and PLC.
The Boards are one-tier boards, comprising Executive Directors 
and, in a majority, Non-Executive Directors. The Boards have 
ultimate responsibility for the management, general affairs, 
direction and performance and long-term success of our 
business as a whole. The responsibility of the Directors is 
collective, taking into account their respective roles as Executive 
Directors and Non-Executive Directors.
The Boards are responsible for the overall conduct of the Group, 
including the management, direction and performance of NV and 
PLC. The Boards have, with the exception of certain matters 
which are reserved for them, delegated the operational running of 
the Group to the Chief Executive Officer. The Chief Executive 
Officer is responsible to the Boards and is able to sub-delegate 
any of his powers and discretions. Matters reserved for the 
Boards include structural and constitutional matters, corporate 
governance, approval of dividends, approval of overall strategy for 
the Group and approval of significant transactions or 
arrangements in relation to mergers, acquisitions, joint ventures 
and disposals, capital expenditure, contracts, litigation, financing 
and pensions.
The Boards have also established committees whose actions are 
regularly reported to and monitored by the Boards, and these are 
described on page 39. Further details of how our Boards 
effectively operate as one board, govern themselves and delegate 
their authorities, are set out in the document entitled ‘The 
Governance of Unilever’, which can be found at
www.unilever.com/investorrelations/corp_governance.
Board meetings
A minimum of five meetings are held throughout the calendar 
year. These are comprised of quarterly meetings, to consider the 
results statements of the Group, and a meeting to approve the 
Annual Report and Accounts. There are additional Board 
meetings to discuss matters that arise as well as Group 
strategic issues.
In addition to the above, during the year our Boards will consider 
important corporate events and actions, such as:
• oversight of the performance of the business;
• review of risks and controls;
• authorisation of major transactions;
• declaration of dividends;
• convening of shareholders’ meetings;
• nominations for Board appointments;
• approval of Board remuneration policy;
• review of the functioning of the Boards and their Committees; 
and
• Corporate Social Responsibility.
Our risk management approach and associated systems of 
internal control are of utmost importance to the Boards and are 
described further on pages 28 to 33.
Meetings of the Boards may be held either in London or 
Rotterdam or such other locations as the Boards think fit, with 
one or two off-site Board meetings a year. In 2011, Board 
meetings were held at the offices of Unilever in both Jakarta, 
Indonesia and Rome, Italy. In both locations the Boards learnt 
more about the supply chain in these regions, and included 
customer visits to local retail outlets, together with visits to local 
consumers. Visits such as these allow the Non-Executive 
Directors to meet senior managers around Unilever’s global 
business and in turn allow them to gain a deeper understanding of 
the business.
Board induction, training and support
Upon election, Directors receive a comprehensive Directors’ 
Information Pack and are briefed thoroughly on their 
responsibilities and the business. Ongoing training is provided for 
Directors by way of site visits, presentations, circulated updates, 
and teach-ins at Board or Board Committee meetings on, among 
other things, Unilever’s business, environmental, social and 
corporate governance, regulatory developments and investor 
relations matters.
A procedure is in place to enable Directors, if they so wish, to seek 
independent advice at Unilever’s expense.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Report of the Directors Governance
36
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Based on the evaluation of the Boards, its Committees and its 
individual members, the Nomination Committee recommends to 
each Board a list of candidates for nomination at the AGMs of both 
NV and PLC. In addition, shareholders are able to nominate 
Directors. To do so they must put a resolution to both AGMs in line 
with local requirements. However, in order to ensure that the 
Boards remain identical, anyone being elected as a Director of NV 
must also be elected as a Director of PLC and vice versa. 
Therefore, if an individual fails to be elected to both companies 
then he or she will be unable to take their place on either Board.
The provisions in the Articles of Association for appointing 
Directors cannot be changed without the permission, in the case 
of NV, of the holders of the special ordinary shares numbered 1 to 
2,400 inclusive and, in the case of PLC, of the holders of PLC’s 
deferred stock. The NV special ordinary shares may only be 
transferred to one or more other holders of such shares. The joint 
holders of both the NV special ordinary shares and the PLC 
deferred stock are N.V. Elma and United Holdings Limited, which 
are joint subsidiaries of NV and PLC. The Boards of N.V. Elma and 
United Holdings Limited comprise the members of the 
Nomination Committee, which comprise Non-Executive Directors 
of Unilever only.
Group Secretary
The Group Secretary is available to advise all Directors on 
matters relating to the governance of the Group and ensures that 
Board procedures are complied with. The current Group 
Secretary is Tonia Lovell.
Board changes
The current Directors, with their biographies, are shown on page 
34.
At the 2011 AGMs, Jeroen van der Veer retired as a Non-Executive 
Director and Sunil B Mittal was appointed as a Non-Executive 
Director. At the same AGMs, Paul Polman and Jean-Marc Huët 
were re-elected as Executive Directors, and Louise Fresco, Ann 
Fudge, Charles Golden, Byron Grote, Hixonia Nyasulu, Sir 
Malcolm Rifkind, Kees Storm, Michael Treschow and Paul Walsh 
were re-elected as Non-Executive Directors. 
At the 2012 AGMs all current Executive and Non-Executive 
Directors will be nominated for re-election. 
The 2012 AGM Notices are available on our website at 
www.unilever.com/agm from 28 March 2012.
Board evaluation
The Chairman, in conjunction with the Vice-Chairman & Senior 
Independent Director, leads the process whereby the Boards 
formally assess their own performance, with the aim of helping to 
improve the effectiveness of the Boards and their Committees. 
The evaluation process consists of an internal exercise performed 
annually with an independent third-party evaluation carried out at 
least once every three years. 
The internal evaluation process includes an extensive bespoke 
and confidential questionnaire for all Directors to complete. The 
detailed questionnaire invites comments on a number of areas 
including board responsibility, performance, operations, 
effectiveness, training and knowledge. In addition, each year the 
Chairman conducts a process of evaluating the performance and 
contribution of each Director, including an interview with each. 
The evaluation of the performance of the Chairman is led by the 
Vice-Chairman & Senior Independent Director and the Chairman 
leads the evaluation of the Chief Executive Officer, both by means 
of confidential, bespoke questionnaires. Committees of the 
Boards evaluate themselves annually under supervision of their 
respective chairmen taking into account the views of respective 
Committee members and the Boards.
As a result of the recommendations from the 2010 evaluation, 
Board meetings were organised to ensure there was sufficient 
time to allow for greater contributions from the Non-Executive 
Directors.
Action taken in 2011
Following the commitment made in 2010, the Board conducted an 
external board evaluation process using an independent external 
third-party consultant, and further information is provided within 
the Chairman’s Statement on page 2.
Appointment of Directors
Directors are appointed by shareholders at the AGMs. All existing 
Directors, unless they are retiring, submit themselves for re-
election every year, and shareholders vote to re-appoint them by a 
simple majority vote. A list of our current Directors and the periods 
during which they have served as such is set out on page 34.
In order to seek to ensure that NV and PLC have the same 
Directors, the Articles of Association of NV and PLC contain 
provisions which are designed to ensure that both NV and PLC 
shareholders are presented with the same candidates for election 
as Directors. This is achieved through a nomination procedure 
operated by the Boards of NV and PLC through Unilever’s 
Nomination Committee.
37 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Report of the Directors Governance Our Directors
Non-Executive Directors
Chairman
Unilever has an independent Non-Executive Chairman and a Chief 
Executive Officer. There is a clear division of responsibilities 
between their roles.
The Chairman is primarily responsible for leadership of the 
Boards and ensuring their effectiveness. The Chairman sets the 
Boards’ agenda, ensures the Directors receive accurate, timely 
and clear information, promotes effective relationships and open 
communication between the Executive and Non-Executive 
Directors and maintains effective communication with major 
shareholders. With the Group Secretary, the Chairman will take 
the lead in providing a properly constructed induction programme 
for new Directors that is comprehensive, formal and tailored.
Senior Independent Director
Following the retirement of Jeroen van der Veer at the 2011 AGMs, 
the Boards have appointed Kees Storm as Vice-Chairman & Senior 
Independent Director. He acts as their spokesman, and serves as an 
intermediary for the other Directors when necessary. He is also a 
point of contact for shareholders if they have concerns which cannot 
be resolved through the Chairman or Chief Executive Officer.
Non-Executive Directors
The Non-Executive Directors share responsibility, together with 
the Executive Directors, for the execution of the Boards’ duties. 
The role of Non-Executive Directors is essentially supervisory. As 
they make up the Committees of the Boards, it is important that 
they can be considered to be independent.
Role and Responsibilities
The key elements of the role and responsibilities of the Non-
Executive Directors are:
• supervision of and advice to the Chief Executive Officer;
• developing strategy with the Chief Executive Officer;
• scrutiny of performance of the business and Chief Executive 
Officer;
• oversight of risks and controls;
• reporting of performance;
• remuneration of and succession planning for Executive 
Directors; and
• governance and compliance.
The Non-Executive Directors are chosen individually for their 
broad and relevant experience and international outlook, as well 
as for their independence and details of their various 
appointments can be found in their biographies on page 34. In 
consultation with the Nomination Committee, the Boards review 
both the adequacy of succession planning processes and 
succession planning itself at both Board and Unilever Leadership 
Executive (ULE) level. The profile set by the Boards for the 
Non-Executive Directors provides guiding principles for the 
composition of the Boards in line with the recommendations of 
applicable governance regulations and best practice, and takes 
into account the balance of skills, diversity, knowledge and 
experience on the Boards. The profile set by the Boards for the 
Non-Executive Directors and the schedule used for orderly 
succession planning can be found on our website at
www.unilever.com/investorrelations/corp_governance.
Meetings
The Non-Executive Directors meet as a group, without the 
Executive Directors present, under the leadership of the 
Chairman to consider specific agenda items and wide-ranging 
business matters of relevance to the Group. In 2011 they met five 
times. 
Independence
Following the conclusion of a thorough review of all relevant 
relationships of the Non-Executive Directors, and their related or 
connected persons, our Boards consider all of our Non-Executive 
Directors to be independent of Unilever by reference to the criteria 
set out in ‘The Governance of Unilever’ and derived from the 
relevant best practice guidelines in the Netherlands, United 
Kingdom and United States.
None of our Non-Executive Directors are elected or appointed 
under any arrangement or understanding with any major 
shareholder, customer, supplier or otherwise.
Remuneration
The remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors is determined 
by the Boards, within the overall limit set by the shareholders at 
the AGMs in 2007, and is reported on page 59. We do not grant our 
Non-Executive Directors any personal loans or guarantees nor 
are they entitled to any severance payments. Details of the terms 
of appointment of our Non-Executive Directors can be seen on the 
Unilever website at
www.unilever.com/investorrelations/corp_governance.
Tenure
Our Non-Executive Directors submit themselves for re-election 
each year at the AGMs. Although the Dutch Corporate Governance 
Code sets the suggested length of tenure at a maximum of 12 
years for Non-Executive Directors, they normally serve for a 
maximum of nine years in accordance with the UK Corporate 
Governance Code. Their nomination for re-election is subject to 
continued good performance which is evaluated by the Boards, 
based on the recommendations of the Nomination Committee. 
Executive Directors
Chief Executive Officer
The Chief Executive Officer has the authority to determine which 
duties regarding the operational management of the companies 
and their business enterprises will be carried out under his 
responsibility, by one or more Executive Directors or by one or 
more other persons. This provides a basis for the ULE that is 
chaired by and reports to the Chief Executive Officer. For ULE 
members’ biographies see page 35.
Executive Directors
During 2011, Unilever had two Executive Directors, the Chief 
Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, who were also 
members of the ULE and are full-time employees of Unilever.
The Executive Directors submit themselves for re-election at the 
AGMs each year, and the Nomination Committee carefully 
considers each nomination for re-appointment. Executive 
Directors stop holding executive office on ceasing to be Directors. 
We do not grant our Executive Directors any personal loans or 
guarantees.
38 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Report of the Directors Governance
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued In addition, PLC provides indemnities (including, where 
applicable, a qualifying pension scheme indemnity provision) to 
the directors from time to time of two subsidiaries that act as 
trustee respectively of two of Unilever’s UK pension schemes. 
Appropriate trustee liability insurance is also in place.
Our Committees
Board Committees
The Boards have established four Board Committees: the Audit 
Committee; the Corporate Responsibility and Reputation 
Committee; the Nomination Committee; and the Remuneration 
Committee, all formally set up by Board resolutions with defined 
remits. They are made up solely of Non-Executive Directors and 
report regularly to the Boards. 
All Committees are provided with sufficient resources to 
undertake their duties, and the terms of reference for each 
Committee are contained within ‘The Governance of Unilever’ 
which is available at
www.unilever.com/investorrelations/corp_governance.
The reports of each Committee can be found on pages 46 to 59.
Management Committee
Disclosure Committee
The Boards have set up, through the Chief Executive Officer, a 
Disclosure Committee which is responsible for helping the 
Boards ensure that financial and other information required to be 
disclosed publicly is disclosed in a timely manner and that the 
information that is disclosed is complete and accurate in all 
material aspects.
The Committee comprises the Group Controller (Chairman), the 
Group Secretary and Chief Legal Officer, the Group Treasurer and 
the NV and PLC Deputy Secretaries.
There are no family relationships between any of our Executive 
Directors, members of the ULE or Non-Executive Directors, and 
none of our Executive Directors or other key management 
personnel are elected or appointed under any arrangement or 
understanding with any major shareholder, customer, supplier or 
otherwise.
Outside appointments
Unilever recognises the benefit to the individual and to the Group 
of involvement by Unilever senior executives acting as directors of 
other companies outside the Unilever Group, broadening their 
experience and knowledge. For our Executive Directors, the 
number of outside directorships of listed companies is generally 
limited to one per individual, and in the case of publicly listed 
companies approval is required from the Chairman. Outside 
directorships must not involve an excessive commitment or 
conflict of interest. Fees paid in connection with an outside 
directorship may be retained by the individual, reflecting that any 
outside directorship is the responsibility of the individual and that 
Unilever takes no responsibility in this regard.
Director matters
Conflicts of interest
We attach special importance to avoiding conflicts of interest 
between NV and PLC and their Directors. The Boards are 
responsible for ensuring that there are rules in place to avoid 
conflicts of interest by Board members. Conflicts of interest are 
understood not to include transactions and other activities 
between companies in the Unilever Group.
Authorisation of situational conflicts is given by the Boards to the 
relevant Director in accordance with the Articles of Association of 
PLC. The authorisation includes conditions relating to keeping 
Unilever information confidential and to the exclusion from 
receiving and discussing relevant information at Board meetings. 
Situational conflicts are reviewed annually by the Boards as part 
of the determination of Director independence. In between those 
reviews Directors have a duty to inform the Boards of any relevant 
changes to the situation. A Director may not vote on, or be counted 
in a quorum in relation to, any resolution of the Boards in respect 
of any contract in which he or she has a material interest. The 
procedures that Unilever have put in place to deal with conflicts of 
interest have operated effectively. 
Various formal matters
The borrowing powers of NV Directors on behalf of NV are not 
limited by the Articles of Association of NV. PLC Directors have 
the power to borrow on behalf of PLC up to three times the PLC 
proportion of the adjusted capital and reserves of the Unilever 
Group, as defined in PLC’s Articles of Association, without the 
approval of shareholders (any exceptions requiring an ordinary 
resolution).
Indemnification
Directors’ indemnification, including the terms thereof, is 
provided for in NV’s Articles of Association. The power to 
indemnify Directors is provided for in PLC’s Articles of 
Association and deeds of indemnity have been issued to all PLC 
Directors. Appropriate qualifying third-party Directors’ and 
Officers’ liability insurance was in place for all Unilever Directors 
throughout 2011 and is currently in force.
39 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Report of the Directors Governance Attendance
The following table shows the attendance of Directors at Board and Committee meetings for the year ended 31 December 2011.  
If Directors are unable to attend a Board or Committee meeting, they have the opportunity beforehand to discuss any agenda items with 
the chairman of the meeting.
Attendance is expressed as the number of meetings attended out of the number eligible to attend.
Main 
Board
Audit 
Committee
Corporate 
Responsibility 
and Reputation 
Committee
Nomination 
Committee
Remuneration 
Committee
Michael Treschow 8/8
(a)
6/6 5/5
Jeroen van der Veer
(b)
4/4 2/2 2/2
Kees Storm 8/8 5/5
(a)
4/4
(f)
3/3
(f)
Paul Polman
(c)
8/8
Jean-Marc Huët
(c)
7/8
Louise Fresco 8/8 4/4
Ann Fudge 8/8 3/4
(f)
4/5
Charles Golden 7/8 5/5
Byron Grote 7/8 4/5
Sunil B Mittal
(d)
2/4
Hixonia Nyasulu 8/8 4/4
Sir Malcolm Rifkind 8/8 4/4
(a)
Paul Walsh
(e)
8/8 6/6
(a)
5/5
(a)
(a)
 Chairman.
(b)
 Jeroen van der Veer retired from the Boards and stepped down as Chairman of both the Nomination and Remuneration Committees on 12 May 2011.
(c)
 Executive Director.
(d)
 Sunil B Mittal was appointed to the Boards on 12 May 2011.
(e)
 Paul Walsh was appointed Chairman of the Nomination and Remuneration Committees on 12 May 2011.
(f)
 Appointed to the Committee on 12 May 2011.
Our Shareholders
Shareholder matters
Relations with shareholders and other investors
We believe it is important both to explain our business 
developments and financial results to investors and to understand 
their objectives.
The Chief Financial Officer has lead responsibility for investor 
relations, with the active involvement of the Chief Executive 
Officer. They are supported by our Investor Relations department 
which organises presentations for analysts and investors, and 
such presentations are generally made available on our website. 
Briefings on quarterly results are given via teleconference and are 
accessible by telephone or via our website. For further information 
visit our website at www.unilever.com/investorrelations.
The Boards are briefed on reactions to quarterly results 
announcements. They, or the relevant Board Committee, are 
briefed on any issues raised by shareholders that are relevant to 
their responsibilities. Our shareholders can raise issues directly 
with the Chairman and, if appropriate, the Vice-Chairman & 
Senior Independent Director.
Both NV and PLC communicate with their respective 
shareholders at the AGMs as well as responding to their questions 
and enquiries during the course of the year. We take the views of 
our shareholders into account and, in accordance with all 
applicable legislation and regulations, may consult them in an 
appropriate way before putting proposals to our AGMs.
General Meetings of shareholders
At the AGMs, a review is given of the progress of the business over 
the last year and there is a discussion of current issues. 
Shareholders are encouraged to attend the meetings and ask 
questions, and the question and answer sessions form an important 
part of the meetings. The business generally conducted includes 
approval/adoption of the Annual Report and Accounts, appointment 
of directors, appointment of external auditors, and authorisation for 
the Boards to allot and repurchase shares.
General Meetings of shareholders of NV and PLC are held at 
times and places decided by our Boards. NV meetings are 
normally held in Rotterdam and PLC meetings are normally held 
in London. These AGMs have historically been held on consecutive 
days, but advances in technology mean that Unilever is able to 
begin to explore new approaches to the way it holds company 
meetings, with the aim of bringing the NV and PLC shareholders 
closer together. Therefore in 2012 we will be holding the NV and 
PLC meetings on the same day, with the NV meeting being held in 
the morning in Rotterdam, and the PLC meeting being held in the 
afternoon in London. At each AGM, half the Board will attend in 
person, and the other half of the Board will attend the meeting via 
satellite link. It is our intention that both the Chairman and Chief 
Executive Officer will attend both meetings in person.
The external auditors are welcomed to the AGMs and they are 
entitled to address the meetings.
40 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Report of the Directors Governance
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued A proposal to alter the Articles of Association of NV can only be 
made by the Board of NV. A proposal to alter the Articles of 
Association of PLC can be made either by the Board of PLC or by 
shareholders in the manner permitted under the UK Companies 
Act 2006. Unless expressly specified to the contrary in the Articles 
of Association of PLC, PLC’s Articles of Association may be 
amended by a special resolution. Proposals to alter the provisions 
in the Articles of Association of NV and PLC respectively relating 
to the unity of management require the prior approval of meetings 
of the holders of the NV special shares and the PLC deferred 
stock. The Articles of Association of both NV and PLC can be 
found on our website at
www.unilever.com/investorrelations/corp_governance.
Right to hold shares
Unilever’s constitutional documents place no limitations on the 
right to hold NV and PLC shares. There are no limitations on the 
right to hold or exercise voting rights on the ordinary shares of NV 
and PLC imposed by foreign law.
Electronic communication
Shareholders of NV and PLC can electronically appoint a proxy to 
vote on their behalf at the respective AGM. Shareholders of PLC 
can also choose to receive electronic notification that the Annual 
Report and Accounts and Notice of AGMs have been published on 
our website, instead of receiving printed copies. 
Share capital matters
Margarine Union (1930) Limited: Conversion Rights
The first Viscount Leverhulme was the founder of the company 
which became PLC. When he died in 1925, he left in his will a large 
number of PLC shares in various trusts.
When the will trusts were varied in 1983, the interests of the 
beneficiaries of his will were also preserved. Four classes of 
special shares were created in Margarine Union (1930) Limited, a 
subsidiary of PLC. One of these classes can be converted at the 
end of the year 2038 into 70,875,000 PLC ordinary shares of 3
1
⁄9p 
each. This currently represents 5.4% of PLC’s issued ordinary 
capital. These convertible shares replicate the rights which the 
descendants of the first Viscount would have had under his will. 
This class of the special shares only has a right to dividends in 
specified circumstances, and no dividends have yet been paid. 
Foundation Unilever NV Trust Office
The Foundation Unilever NV Trust Office (Stichting 
Administratiekantoor Unilever N.V.) is a trust office with a board 
independent of Unilever. As part of its corporate objects, the 
Foundation issues depositary receipts in exchange for the 
ordinary and 7% preference shares it holds in NV. These 
depositary receipts are listed on Euronext Amsterdam, as are the 
NV ordinary and 7% preference shares themselves.
Voting rights
Shareholders that hold NV shares on the record date are entitled to 
attend and vote at NV General Meetings. Dutch law requires that 
the record date is set at a date 28 days before the meeting, and 
shares are not blocked between the record date and the date of the 
meeting. NV shareholders can cast one vote for each €0.16 nominal 
capital that they hold. This means that they can cast one vote for 
each NV ordinary share, or NV New York Registry Share. 
Shareholders can vote in person or by proxy. Similar arrangements 
apply to holders of depositary receipts issued for NV shares and the 
holders of NV preference shares. PLC shareholders can cast one 
vote for each 3
1
⁄9p nominal capital that they hold. This means 
shareholders can cast one vote for each PLC ordinary share, or 
PLC American Depositary Receipt of shares. Proxy appointments 
need to be with our Registrars 48 hours before the meeting and the 
shareholding at this time will determine both the right to vote and 
the ability to attend the meeting.
More information on the exercise of voting rights can be found in 
NV’s and PLC’s Articles of Association and in the respective 
Notices of Meetings which can be found on our website at
www.unilever.com/agm.
Holders of NV New York Registry Shares or PLC American 
Depositary Receipts of shares will receive a proxy form enabling 
them to authorise and instruct a notary public or Citibank, N.A. 
respectively to vote on their behalf at the General Meeting of NV 
or PLC.
Shares held in treasury will not be voted upon.
Voting on each of the resolutions contained in the Notice of AGMs 
is conducted by poll. The final vote is published at the meetings 
and the outcome of the votes, including the proxy votes, is put on 
Unilever’s website.
Shareholder proposed resolutions
Shareholders of NV may propose resolutions if they individually or 
together hold 1% of NV’s issued capital in the form of shares or 
depositary receipts for shares, or if they individually or together 
hold shares or depositary receipts worth €50 million. 
Shareholders who together represent at least 10% of the issued 
capital of NV can also requisition Extraordinary General Meetings 
to deal with specific resolutions.
Shareholders of PLC who together hold shares representing at 
least 5% of the total voting rights of PLC, or 100 shareholders who 
hold on average £100 each in nominal value of PLC share capital, 
can require PLC to propose a resolution at a General Meeting. 
PLC shareholders holding in aggregate 5% of the issued PLC 
ordinary shares are able to convene a General Meeting of PLC.
Required majorities
Resolutions are usually adopted at NV and PLC shareholder 
meetings by an absolute majority of votes cast, unless there are 
other requirements under the applicable laws or NV’s or PLC’s 
Articles of Association. For example, there are special 
requirements for resolutions relating to the alteration of the 
Articles of Association, the liquidation of NV or PLC and the 
alteration of the Equalisation Agreement.
41 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Report of the Directors Governance Our Foundation Agreements
Foundation Agreements
The Unilever Group is created and maintained by a series of 
agreements between the parent companies, NV and PLC, 
together with special provisions in their respective Articles of 
Association, which are together known as the Foundation 
Agreements. These agreements enable Unilever to achieve unity 
of management, operations, shareholders’ rights, purpose and 
mission and further information on these agreements is provided 
below and in the document entitled ‘The Governance of Unilever’ 
which is available on our website at 
www.unilever.com/investorrelations/corp_governance.
NV’s Articles of Association contain, among other things, the 
objects clause, which sets out the scope of activities that NV is 
authorised to undertake. They are drafted to give a wide scope 
and provide that the primary objectives are: to carry on business 
as a holding company; to manage any companies in which it has 
an interest; and to operate and carry into effect the Equalisation 
Agreement. At the 2010 PLC AGM, the shareholders agreed that 
the objects clause be removed from PLC’s Articles of Association 
so that there are no restrictions on its objects.
NV’s and PLC’s Articles of Association, together with the 
additional three Foundation Agreements detailed below, can be 
found on our website at 
www.unilever.com/investorrelations/corp_governance.
Equalisation Agreement
The Equalisation Agreement makes the economic position of the 
shareholders of NV and PLC, as far as possible, the same as if 
they held shares in a single company. The Equalisation Agreement 
regulates the mutual rights of the shareholders of NV and PLC. 
Under the Equalisation Agreement, NV and PLC must adopt the 
same financial periods and accounting policies.
Each NV ordinary share represents the same underlying economic 
interest in the Unilever Group as each PLC ordinary share.
The Deed of Mutual Covenants
The Deed of Mutual Covenants provides that NV and PLC and their 
respective subsidiary companies shall co-operate in every way for 
the purpose of maintaining a common operating policy. They shall 
exchange all relevant information about their respective 
businesses – the intention being to create and maintain a common 
operating platform for the Unilever Group throughout the world. 
The Deed also contains provisions for the allocation of assets 
between NV and PLC.
The Agreement for Mutual Guarantees of Borrowing
Under the Agreement for Mutual Guarantees of Borrowing 
between NV and PLC, each company will, if asked by the other, 
guarantee the borrowings of the other. The two companies also 
jointly guarantee the borrowings of their subsidiaries. These 
arrangements are used, as a matter of financial policy, for certain 
significant public borrowings. They enable lenders to rely on our 
combined financial strength.
Holders of depositary receipts can under all circumstances 
exchange their depositary receipts for the underlying shares (and 
vice versa), and are entitled to dividends and all economic benefits 
on the underlying shares held by the Foundation. They can attend 
all General Meetings of NV, either personally or by proxy, and also 
have the right to speak. They can under all circumstances and 
without limitation exercise their voting rights. The Foundation only 
votes shares that are not represented at a General Meeting. The 
Foundation votes in such a way as it deems to be in the interests of 
the holders of the depositary receipts. This voting policy is laid 
down in the Conditions of Administration that apply to the 
depositary receipts.
The Foundation’s shareholding fluctuates daily. Its holdings on 
28 February 2012 were 1,252,279,716 NV ordinary shares (73.03%) 
and 9,776 NV 7% cumulative preference shares (33.71%).
The members of the board at the Foundation are Mr J H Schraven 
(chairman), Mr P P de Koning, Prof Emeritus Dr L Koopmans and 
Mr A A Olijslager. The Foundation reports periodically on its 
activities. Further information on the Foundation, including its 
Articles of Association and Conditions of Administration, can be 
found on its website at www.administratiekantoor-unilever.nl.
Unilever considers the arrangements of the Foundation 
appropriate and in the interest of NV and its shareholders given 
the size of the voting rights attached to the financing preference 
shares and the relatively low attendance of holders of ordinary 
shares at the General Meetings of NV.
Further information on the share capital of NV and PLC is given on 
pages 123 and 124.
42 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Report of the Directors Governance
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued Our requirements and compliance
Requirements and compliance – general
Unilever is subject to corporate governance requirements in the 
Netherlands, the UK and as a foreign private issuer in the US. In 
this section we report on our compliance with the corporate 
governance regulations and best practice codes applicable in the 
Netherlands and the UK and we also describe compliance with 
corporate governance standards in the US.
Under the European Takeover Directive as implemented in the 
Netherlands and the UK, the UK Companies Act 2006 and rules of 
the US Securities and Exchange Commission, Unilever is required 
to provide information on contracts and other arrangements 
essential or material to the business of the Group. We believe we 
do not have any such contracts or arrangements.
Our governance arrangements are designed and structured to 
promote and further the interests of our companies and their 
shareholders. The Boards however reserve the right, in cases 
where they decide such to be in the interests of the companies or 
our shareholders, to depart from that which is set out in the 
present and previous sections in relation to our corporate 
governance. Any such changes will be reported in future Annual 
Reports and Accounts and, when necessary, through changes to 
the relevant documents published on our website. As appropriate, 
proposals for change will be put to our shareholders for approval.
Our principal risks and our approach to risk management and 
systems of internal control are described on pages 28 to 33.
Further information can be found on our website and in the 
document entitled ‘The Governance of Unilever’ which is available 
on our website at
www.unilever.com/Investorrelations/corp_governance.
Requirements – European Union
Following implementation of the European Takeover Directive, 
certain information is required to be disclosed in relation to 
control and share structures and interests of NV and PLC. Such 
disclosures, which are not covered elsewhere in this Annual 
Report and Accounts, include the following:
• there are no requirements to obtain the approval of NV or PLC, 
or of other holders of securities in NV or PLC, for a transfer of 
such securities. The NV special ordinary shares may only be 
transferred to one or more holders of such shares;
• there are no arrangements by which, with NV’s or PLC’s 
co-operation, financial rights carried by securities are held by 
a person other than the holder of such securities;
• NV and PLC are not aware of any agreements between holders 
of securities which may result in restrictions on the transfer of 
such securities or on voting rights;
• neither NV nor PLC are parties to any significant agreements 
which include provisions that take effect, alter or terminate such 
agreement upon a change of control following a takeover bid;
• NV and PLC do not have any agreements with any Director or 
employee that would provide compensation for loss of office or 
employment resulting from a takeover except that most of 
Unilever’s share schemes contain provisions which operate in 
the event of a takeover of Unilever, which provisions may for 
instance cause options or awards granted to employees under 
such schemes to vest after a takeover or be exchanged into 
new awards for shares in another entity; and
• the Trustees of the PLC employee share trusts may vote or 
abstain in any way they think fit and in doing so may take into 
account both financial and non-financial interests of the 
beneficiaries of the employee share trusts or their dependants. 
Historically the Trustees tend not to exercise this right.
The Netherlands
NV is required to state in its Annual Report and Accounts whether 
it complies or will comply with the Principles and best practice 
provisions (‘bpp’) of the Dutch Corporate Governance Code (the 
Dutch Code) and, if it does not comply, to explain the reasons for 
this. NV complies with almost all of the principles and best 
practice provisions of the Dutch Code, a copy of which is available 
at www.commissiecorporategovernance.nl. The text that follows 
sets out certain statements that the Dutch Code invites us to 
make to our shareholders that are not included elsewhere in this 
Annual Report and Accounts as well as areas of non-compliance.
Unilever places a great deal of importance on corporate 
responsibility and sustainability as is evidenced by our vision to 
double the size of the company while reducing our environmental 
impact. With respect to our performance measures Unilever is 
keen to ensure focus on key financial performance measures 
which we believe to be the drivers of shareholder value creation 
and relative total shareholder return. Unilever therefore believes 
that the interests of the business and shareholders are best 
served by linking the long-term share plans to the measures as 
described in the Directors’ Remuneration Report and has not 
included a non-financial performance indicator (Principle II.2 and 
bpp II.2.3).
Risk management and control
As a result of the review of the Audit Committee (as described in 
its report on pages 46 and 47) the Boards believe that as regards 
financial reporting risks, the risk management and control 
systems provide reasonable assurance that the financial 
statements do not contain any errors of material importance and 
the risk management and control systems have worked properly 
in 2011 (bpp ll.1.5).
The aforesaid statements are not statements in accordance with 
the requirements of Section 404 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act 
of 2002.
Retention period of shares
The Dutch Code recommends that shares granted to Executive 
Directors must be retained for a period of at least five years (bpp 
II.2.5). Our shareholder-approved remuneration policy requires 
Executive Directors to build and retain a personal shareholding in 
Unilever. The Boards believe that this is in line with the spirit of the 
Dutch Code.
Severance pay
It is our policy to set the level of severance payments for Directors 
at no more than one year’s salary, unless the Boards, at the 
proposal of the Remuneration Committee, find this manifestly 
unreasonable given circumstances or unless otherwise dictated 
by applicable law (bpp II.2.8).
Conflicts of interest
In the event of a potential conflict of interest, the provisions of the 
Dutch Code (Principles II.3 and III.6) are applied. Conflicts of 
interest are not understood to include transactions and other 
activities between companies in the Unilever Group.
43 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Report of the Directors Governance • the information regarding the functioning of NV’s General 
Meeting of shareholders, and the authority and rights of NV’s 
shareholders, as required by article 3a(b) of the Decree, can be 
found within the relevant sections under ‘Corporate 
Governance’;
• the information regarding the composition and functioning of 
NV’s Board and its Committees, as required by article 3a(c) of 
the Decree, can be found within the relevant sections under 
‘Corporate Governance’; and
• the information concerning the inclusion of the information 
required by the decree Article 10 European Takeover Directive, 
as required by article 3b of the Decree, can be found within the 
relevant sections under ‘Corporate Governance’ and within the 
section ‘Shareholder information, Analysis of shareholding’.
The United Kingdom
PLC is required, as a company that is incorporated in the UK and 
listed on the London Stock Exchange, to state how it has applied 
the main principles and how far it has complied with the 
provisions set out in the 2010 UK Corporate Governance Code, a 
copy of which is available at www.frc.org.uk.
In the preceding pages we have described how we have applied 
the main principles and the provisions in the UK Code. In 2011, 
PLC complied with all UK Code provisions, with the exception of 
provision E.2.3 of the Code (which provides that the chairmen of 
the audit, remuneration and nomination committees be available 
to answer questions at the AGM and that all directors attend the 
AGM) as Kees Storm, who is Chairman of the Audit Committee, 
was unable to attend the AGM in May because he was required to 
attend a scheduled board meeting of another public company on 
the same day.
Risk management and control
Our approach to risk management and systems of internal control 
is in line with the recommendations in the report on ‘Internal 
Control – Revised Guidance for Directors on the UK Combined 
Code’ (‘The Turnbull guidance’).
It is Unilever’s practice to bring acquired companies within the 
Group’s governance procedures as soon as is practicable and in 
any event by the end of the first full year of operation.
The United States
Both NV and PLC are listed on the New York Stock Exchange and 
must therefore comply with such of the requirements of US 
legislation, such as the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, regulations 
enacted under US securities laws and the Listing Standards of the 
New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) as are applicable to foreign 
private issuers, copies of which are available at www.sec.gov and 
www.nyse.com. In some cases the requirements are mandatory 
and in other cases the obligation is to ‘comply or explain’.
We have complied in all material respects with the requirements 
concerning corporate governance that were in force during 2011. 
Attention is drawn in particular to the Report of the Audit 
Committee on pages 46 and 47.
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee may not be chaired by a Board 
member who is a member of the management board of another 
listed company (bpp III.5.11). Paul Walsh is Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee and has been CEO of Diageo Plc since 
2000. Paul has profound knowledge and understanding of 
remuneration matters at companies operating globally and 
understands how remuneration policies support the growth 
objective. His experience and insight of remuneration matters is 
very valuable to Unilever. The Boards believe that Mr Walsh is 
ideally placed for the position of Chairman of the Remuneration 
Committee.
Financing preference shares
NV issued 6% and 7% cumulative preference shares between 
1927 and 1964. Their voting rights are based on their nominal 
value, as prescribed by Dutch law. The Dutch Code recommends 
that the voting rights on such shares should, in any event when 
they are newly issued, be based on their economic value rather 
than on their nominal value (bpp IV.1.2). NV agrees with this 
principle but cannot unilaterally reduce voting rights of its 
outstanding preference shares.
Anti-takeover constructions and control over the company
NV confirms that it has no anti-takeover constructions, in the 
sense of constructions that are intended solely, or primarily, to 
block future hostile public offers for its shares (bpp IV.3.11). Nor 
does NV have any constructions whose specific purpose is to 
prevent a bidder, after acquiring 75% of the capital, from 
appointing or dismissing members of the Board and subsequently 
altering the Articles of Association. The acquisition through a 
public offer of a majority of the shares in a company does not 
under Dutch law preclude in all circumstances the continued right 
of the board of the company to exercise its powers.
Meetings of analysts and presentations to investors
We have extensive procedures for handling relations with and 
communicating with shareholders, investors, analysts and the 
media (also see page 40). The important presentations and 
meetings are conducted as far as practicable in accordance with 
the Dutch Code (bpp IV.3.1). Due to their large number and overlap 
in information, however, some of the less important ones are not 
announced in advance, made accessible to everyone or put on our 
website.
Corporate Governance Statement
NV is required to make a statement concerning corporate 
governance as referred to in article 2a of the decree on additional 
requirements for annual reports (Vaststellingsbesluit nadere 
voorschriften inhoud jaarverslag) with effect from 1 January 2010 
(the ‘Decree’). The information required to be included in this 
corporate governance statement as described in articles 3, 3a and 
3b of the Decree can be found in the following sections of this 
Report and Accounts:
• the information concerning compliance with the Dutch 
Corporate Governance Code, as required by article 3 of the 
Decree, can be found under ‘Corporate Governance’ within the 
section ‘Requirements – the Netherlands’;
• the information concerning Unilever’s risk management and 
control frameworks relating to the financial reporting process, 
as required by article 3a(a) of the Decree, can be found under 
‘Outlook and risks’ on pages 28 to 33 and within the relevant 
sections under ‘Corporate Governance’;
44 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Report of the Directors Governance
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued Actions already taken to ensure compliance in all material 
respects that are not specifically disclosed elsewhere or 
otherwise clear from reading this report include:
• the Code of Business Principles and Code Policies declaration 
undertaken by all senior financial officers;
• the issuance of instructions restricting the employment of 
former employees of the audit firm; and
• the establishment of a policy on reporting requirements under 
SEC rules relating to standards of professional conduct for US 
attorneys.
In each of these cases, existing practices were revised and/or 
documented in such a way as to conform to the new requirements.
All senior executives and senior financial officers have declared 
their understanding of and compliance with Unilever’s Code of 
Business Principles and the related Code Policies. No waiver 
from any provision of the Code of Business Principles or Code 
Policies was granted to any of the persons falling within the scope 
of the SEC requirements in 2011. The Code Policies include 
mandatory requirements covering (but not limited to) the 
following areas: accurate records, reporting & accounting; 
anti-bribery; avoiding conflicts of interest; gifts & entertainment; 
preventing insider trading; political activities & political donations; 
contact with government, regulators & non-governmental 
organisations; respect, dignity & fair treatment; external 
communications – the media, investors & analysts. Our Code of 
Business Principles is available on our website at  
www.unilever.com/investorrelations/corp_governance.
We are required by US securities laws and the Listing Standards 
of the NYSE to have an Audit Committee that satisfies Rule 10A-3 
under the Exchange Act and the Listing Standards of the NYSE. 
We are compliant with these requirements. We are also required 
to disclose any significant ways in which our corporate 
governance practices differ from those typically followed by US 
companies listed on the NYSE. 
In addition to the information we have given to you in this report 
about our corporate governance arrangements, further details 
are provided in the document entitled ‘The Governance of 
Unilever’, which is on our website at 
www.unilever.com/investorrelations/corp_governance.
We are compliant with the Listing Standards of the NYSE 
applicable to foreign private issuers. Our corporate governance 
practices do not significantly differ from those required of US 
companies listed on the NYSE.
We also confirm that our shareholders have the opportunity to 
vote on certain equity compensation plans.
Risk management and control
Based on an evaluation by the Boards, the Chief Executive Officer 
and the Chief Financial Officer concluded that the design and 
operation of the Group’s disclosure controls and procedures, 
including those defined in United States Securities Exchange Act 
of 1934 – Rule 13a – 15(e), as at 31 December 2011 were effective, 
and that subsequently until the date of the approval of the Annual 
Report and Accounts by the Boards, there have been no significant 
changes in the Group’s internal controls, or in other factors that 
could significantly affect those controls.
Unilever is required by Section 404 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act 
of 2002 to report on the effectiveness of internal control over 
financial reporting. This requirement will be reported on 
separately and will form part of Unilever’s Annual Report on  
Form 20-F.
45 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Report of the Directors Governance The role and terms of reference of the Audit Committee is to 
assist the Boards in fulfilling their oversight responsibilities 
regarding the integrity of Unilever’s financial statements, risk 
management and internal control, compliance with legal and 
regulatory requirements, the external auditors’ performance, 
qualifications and independence, and the performance of the 
internal audit function. 
The Audit Committee is comprised only of independent Non-
Executive Directors with a minimum requirement of three such 
members. During 2011 the Committee comprised Kees Storm 
(Chairman), Charles Golden and Byron Grote. The Committee met 
five times in 2011. All Committee members attended all the 
meetings except Byron Grote who attended four out of the five 
meetings. The Boards have satisfied themselves that the current 
members of the Audit Committee are competent in financial 
matters and have recent and relevant experience. For the 
purposes of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, Kees Storm was 
the Audit Committee’s financial expert up to 28 February 2012. 
Byron Grote will take over the Chairmanship of the Committee on 
29 February 2012 and will become the Audit Committee’s financial 
expert on this date. 
During the year, principal activities were as follows:
Financial statements
The Committee considered reports from the Chief Financial 
Officer on the quarterly and annual financial statements, including 
other financial statements and disclosures prior to their 
publication and issues reviewed by the Disclosure Committee. 
They also reviewed the Annual Report and Accounts and Annual 
Report on Form 20-F, the quarterly performance and 
accompanying press releases prior to publication. These reviews 
incorporated the accounting policies and key judgements and 
estimates underpinning the financial statements as disclosed 
within Note 1 on pages 68 and 69, including:
• goodwill and intangible assets;
• provisions;
• business combinations; 
• financial instruments;
• pensions;
• taxation; and
• going concern assessment. 
The Committee was satisfied with the accounting treatments 
adopted.
Risk management and internal control arrangements
The Committee reviewed Unilever’s overall approach to risk 
management and control, and its processes, outcomes and 
disclosure. It reviewed:
• the Controller’s Quarterly Risk and Control Status Report  
(which includes matters arising from the Global Code and 
Policy Committee), including Code cases relating to frauds and 
financial crimes and significant complaints received through 
the global Ethics Hotline;
• Corporate Risks, including regular reviews of the 2011 risks 
and the 2012 Focus Risks identified by the Unilever Leadership 
Executive; 
• Management’s work to implement a simplified policy 
framework that directly underpins the Code of Business 
Principles; 
• progress on management’s Effective Financial Control & 
Reporting project;
• the application of information and communication technology; 
• tax planning, insurance arrangements and related risk 
management;
• treasury policies, including debt issuance and hedging; 
• commodity risk management, governance and derivatives 
hedging; and
• litigation and regulatory investigations.
The Committee reviewed the application of the requirements 
under Section 404 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 with 
respect to internal controls over financial reporting.
In addition, the Committee reviewed the annual financial plan and 
Unilever’s dividend policy and dividend proposals.
In fulfilling its oversight responsibilities in relation to risk 
management, internal control and the financial statements, the 
Committee met regularly with senior members of management 
and are fully satisfied with the key judgements taken.
Internal audit function
The Committee reviewed Corporate Audit’s audit plan for the year 
and agreed its budget and resource requirements. It reviewed 
interim and year-end summary reports and management’s 
response. The Committee carried out a formal evaluation of the 
performance of the internal audit function and was satisfied with 
the effectiveness of the function. The Committee met 
independently with the Chief Auditor during the year and 
discussed the results of the audits performed during the year. 
Audit of the Annual Accounts
PricewaterhouseCoopers, Unilever’s external auditors and 
independent registered public accounting firm, reported in depth 
to the Committee on the scope and outcome of the annual audit, 
including their audit of internal controls over financial reporting as 
required by Section 404 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. 
Their reports included accounting matters, governance and 
control, and accounting developments.
The Committee held independent meetings with the external 
auditors during the year and discussed and challenged their audit 
plan, including their assessment of the financial reporting risk 
profile of the Group. The Committee discussed the views and 
conclusions of PricewaterhouseCoopers regarding 
management’s treatment of significant transactions and areas of 
judgement during the year and PricewaterhouseCoopers 
confirmed they were satisfied that these had been treated 
appropriately in the financial statements.
External auditors 
The Audit Committee conducted a formal evaluation of the 
effectiveness of the external audit process. The Committee has 
considered the tenure, quality and fees of the auditors and 
determined that a tender for the audit work is not necessary. As a 
result, the Committee has approved the extension of the current 
external audit contract by one year, and recommended to the 
Boards the re-appointment of external auditors. On the 
recommendation of the Audit Committee, the Directors will be 
proposing the re-appointment of PricewaterhouseCoopers at the 
AGMs in May 2012 (see pages 116 and 122).
46 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Report of the Directors Governance
REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE Both Unilever and the auditors have for many years had 
safeguards in place to avoid the possibility that the auditors’ 
objectivity and independence could be compromised. The 
Committee reviewed the report from PricewaterhouseCoopers on 
the actions they take to comply with the professional and 
regulatory requirements and best practice designed to ensure 
their independence from Unilever.
The Committee also reviewed the statutory audit, 
audit related and non-audit related services provided by 
PricewaterhouseCoopers, and compliance with Unilever’s 
documented approach, which prescribes in detail the types 
of engagements, listed below, for which the external auditors 
can be used:
• statutory audit services, including audit of subsidiaries;
• audit related engagements – services that involve attestation, 
assurance or certification of factual information that may be 
required by external parties;
• non-audit related services – work that our auditors are best 
placed to undertake, which may include:
 – tax services – all significant tax work is put to tender;
 – acquisition and disposal services, including related due 
diligence, audits and accountants’ reports; and
 – internal control reviews.
Several types of engagements are prohibited, including:
• bookkeeping or similar services;
• systems design and implementation related to financial 
information or risk management;
• valuation services;
• actuarial services;
• internal audit; and
• staff secondments to a management function.
All audit related engagements over €250,000 and non-audit 
related engagements over €100,000 require specific advance 
approval of the Audit Committee Chairman. The Committee 
further approves all engagements below these levels which have 
been authorised by the Group Controller. These authorities are 
reviewed regularly and, where necessary, updated in the light of 
internal developments, external developments and best practice.
Audit Committee terms of reference
The Audit Committee’s terms of reference are reviewed annually 
by the Committee taking into account relevant legislation and 
recommended good practice. The terms of reference are 
contained within ‘The Governance of Unilever’ which is available 
on our website at  
www.unilever.com/investorrelations/corp_governance.
Board Assessment of the Audit Committee
The Board evaluated the performance of the Committee and the 
Committee carried out a self-assessment of its performance, and 
concluded it was performing effectively. 
Kees Storm 
Chairman of the Audit Committee
Charles Golden
Byron Grote
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Report of the Directors Governance
47 Terms of Reference
The Corporate Responsibility and Reputation Committee 
oversees Unilever’s conduct as a responsible multinational 
business. The Committee is also charged with ensuring that 
Unilever’s reputation is protected and enhanced. A key element of 
the role is the need to identify any external developments which 
are likely to have an influence upon Unilever’s standing in society 
and to bring these to the attention of the Boards.
The Committee comprises three independent Non-Executive 
Directors: Sir Malcolm Rifkind, Hixonia Nyasulu and Louise 
Fresco. Sir Malcolm Rifkind chairs the Committee. Keith Weed, 
Chief Marketing and Communication Officer and a member of the 
Unilever Leadership Executive, attends the Committee’s 
meetings.
The Committee’s discussions are informed by the perspectives of 
Unilever’s two sustainability leadership groups. The first is the 
Unilever Sustainable Development Group (USDG) – five experts 
from outside Unilever who advise our senior leadership on 
the development of its sustainability strategy. The second is the 
Unilever Sustainable Living Plan (USLP) Steering Team, the group 
of senior executives who are accountable for the delivery of the 
USLP. The insights from these groups help to keep the Boards 
informed of current and emerging trends and any potential risks 
arising from sustainability issues.
The Committee’s terms of reference and details of the Unilever 
Sustainable Development Group are available on our website at 
www.unilever.com/investorrelations/corp_governance.
Meetings
Meetings are held quarterly and ad hoc as required. The 
Committee Chairman reports the conclusions to the Boards. Four 
meetings were held in 2011.
The Committee’s agenda comprises a number of standing items. 
These include the Code of Business Principles, litigation and the 
USLP. In 2011, Committee members requested that product and 
occupational safety be added to these standing items.
In addition, the Committee reviews a number of strategic topics. 
For example, in 2011 these included a review of the system 
Unilever uses to manage issues and reputational risks and a 
discussion of animal testing. 
Code of Business Principles and litigation review
The Committee is responsible for the oversight of the Unilever 
Code of Business Principles and associated Code Policies, which 
set out the standards of conduct we expect of our employees.
The Committee ensures that the Code of Business Principles and 
Code Policies remain fit for purpose and are appropriately 
applied. In this regard it complements the role of the Audit 
Committee which considers the Code as part of its remit to review 
risk management.
During the year, members of the Committee endorsed the 
refinement of the system for collating statistics relating to cases 
under the Code of Business Principles and Code Policies. The 
improved visibility of this data means that management is able to 
monitor infringements more closely and identify trends. 
Pursuant to the remit of the Committee, the Chief Legal Officer 
reports to the Committee on litigation matters which have a 
reputational impact including environmental issues, labour 
relations and competition law compliance. These matters are 
then also considered by the full Boards. For further information 
on ‘Legal proceedings’ please see note 20 on page 103. 
Unilever Sustainable Living Plan
The Committee monitors progress on the USLP. The USLP is at 
the heart of Unilever’s aim to double the size of its business while 
reducing its environmental impacts and is available on our 
website at www.unilever.com/sustainability. 
The Committee reviews any potential risks that could damage the 
credibility of the USLP, and each of its meetings addresses a 
different element of the USLP. In 2011 the governance 
mechanisms of the USLP were discussed, as well as issues such 
as sustainable agricultural sourcing, water and safety. 
The Committee visited Unilever’s research laboratory at Colworth 
in the UK to learn more about the role of R&D and the science of 
behaviour change. Both are crucial to achieving the USLP’s 
targets. Unilever’s work in developing alternative approaches to 
animal testing was also reviewed.
During the Boards’ visit to Indonesia, the Committee received a 
briefing from the World Resources Institute’s local expert on 
deforestation. Sustainable sourcing of palm oil is a major target in 
the USLP. The briefing gave the Committee a detailed update on 
deforestation issues in Indonesia as well as a broad overview of 
Unilever’s actions in this area and how it is working collaboratively 
with growers, suppliers, customers, governments and NGOs to 
promote sustainable palm oil.
Evaluation of the Committee
The Committee carried out a self-assessment of its performance, 
led by the Committee Chairman. The Board also evaluated the 
performance of the Committee and concluded it was performing 
effectively.
Sir Malcolm Rifkind
Chairman of the Corporate Responsibility 
and Reputation Committee
Louise Fresco
Hixonia Nyasulu
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Report of the Directors Governance
48
REPORT OF THE CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AND REPUTATION COMMITTEE continue to aspire to increase that level. However, Unilever feels 
that gender is only one part of diversity, and Unilever directors will 
continue to be selected on the basis of the wide-ranging 
experience, backgrounds, skills, knowledge and insight of its 
members.
It is recognised that Executive Directors may be invited to become 
a Non-Executive Director of another company and that such an 
appointment, subject to the approval of the Chairman and where 
relevant the Chief Executive Officer, may broaden the knowledge 
and experience to the benefit of the Group (see page 34 for details 
in the biographies).
Activities of the Committee during the year
The Committee met six times in 2011. All Committee members 
attended the meetings they were eligible to attend except Ann 
Fudge who attended three out of four meetings she was eligible to 
attend. Other attendees at Committee meetings (or part thereof) 
were the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief HR Officer and the 
Group Secretary.
The Committee proposed the nomination of all Directors offering 
themselves for re-election at the 2011 AGMs in May 2011. During 
2011, the Committee also proposed the nomination of Sunil B 
Mittal as a Non-Executive Director at the 2011 AGMs in May. Mr 
Mittal was chosen because, with his business building experience 
in developing markets ranging from the entrepreneurial to 
large-scale corporate activities, he would be a valuable addition to 
the Boards. In making this appointment the Nomination 
Committee was supported by an independent executive search 
firm chosen by the Committee which had been engaged to identify 
suitable candidates for the role required. Following his 
appointment at the 2011 AGMs, the Committee approved an 
extensive induction programme for Mr Mittal.
As part of its corporate governance responsibilities, during the 
year the Committee considered the new UK Corporate 
Governance Code, which applied to Unilever from 1 January 2011, 
and will continue to ensure that Unilever complies with the new 
provisions, where appropriate, for our future reporting years.
This year, Unilever decided to perform an external evaluation, 
undertaken by an independent third-party consultant. Further 
information on this evaluation can be found on page 2, the results 
of which were discussed at the December 2011 Board Meetings.
The Committee also carried out an assessment of its own 
performance and concluded it was performing effectively.
Paul Walsh 
Chairman of the Nomination Committee
Ann Fudge
Kees Storm
Michael Treschow
Terms of Reference
The Nomination Committee comprises three Independent 
Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman. It was chaired by 
Jeroen van der Veer until his retirement at the 2011 AGMs. Paul 
Walsh has chaired the Committee since 12 May 2011. The other 
members are Ann Fudge, Kees Storm (both of whom were 
appointed following the 2011 AGMs) and Michael Treschow. The 
Group Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee.
The Committee is responsible for drawing up selection criteria, 
succession planning and appointment procedures. Under 
Unilever’s corporate governance arrangements Executive and 
Non-Executive Directors offer themselves for election each year 
at the Annual General Meetings. The Nomination Committee is 
responsible for recommending candidates for nomination as 
Executive Directors (including the Chief Executive Officer) and 
Non-Executive Directors each year based on the process of 
evaluations referred to below. After Directors have been 
appointed by shareholders the Committee recommends to the 
Boards candidates for election as Chairman and the Vice-
Chairman & Senior Independent Director. The Committee also 
has responsibility for supervising the policy of the Chief Executive 
Officer on the selection criteria and appointment procedures for 
senior management and it keeps oversight of all matters relating 
to corporate governance, bringing any issues to the attention of 
the Boards. The Committee’s Terms of Reference are contained 
within ‘The Governance of Unilever’ and are also available on our 
website at www.unilever.com/investorrelations/corp_governance.
Process for the appointment of Directors
Unilever has formal procedures for the evaluation of the Boards, 
the Board Committees and the individual Directors. The 
Chairman, in conjunction with the Vice-Chairman & Senior 
Independent Director, leads the process whereby the Boards 
assess their own performance and the results of the evaluations 
are provided to the Committee when it discusses the nominations 
for re-election of Directors.
Where a vacancy arises on the Boards, the Committee may seek 
the services of specialist recruitment firms and other external 
experts to assist in finding individuals with the appropriate skills 
and expertise. The Committee reviews candidates presented by 
the recruitment firm, or by Directors and members of the Unilever 
Leadership Executive, and all members of the Committee are 
involved in the interview process before making their 
recommendations to the full Boards for approval.
In nominating Directors, the Committee follows the agreed Board 
profile of potential Non-Executive Directors, which takes into 
account the roles of Non-Executive Directors set out in the Dutch 
Corporate Governance Code and the UK Corporate Governance 
Code. Under the terms of ‘The Governance of Unilever’ the Boards 
should comprise a majority of Non-Executive Directors. To 
represent Unilever’s areas of interest, the profile also indicates 
there should be a strong representation from Developing and 
Emerging markets as well as from Europe and North America. 
Non-Executive Directors should be independent of Unilever and 
free from any conflicts of interest. With respect to diversity in the 
composition of the Boards the objective pursued by the Boards is 
to have a variation of age, gender, expertise, social background 
and nationality and, wherever possible, the Boards should reflect 
Unilever’s consumer base. The Boards are pleased that we 
already have 25% female representation on the Boards. We will 
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Report of the Directors Governance
49
REPORT OF THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE Further details on performance and vesting levels are provided 
below.
Long-term performance conditions
During 2012, the Committee intends to review performance 
conditions to ensure they remain appropriate for the business and 
are aligned with our strategy and the long-term creation of 
shareholder value and in particular our desire to build a long-
term sustainable business. To the extent that the review results in 
proposed changes to performance measures for long term 
incentive plans, the Committee will consult with shareholders in 
advance.
Paul Walsh 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
Ann Fudge 
Kees Storm
Michael Treschow
Remuneration Committee
The role of the Remuneration Committee is to make proposals to 
the Boards for decisions on:
• the remuneration and benefits of Directors;
• the remuneration policy for the ULE and the Chief Auditor, 
Group Controller, Chief Legal Officer and Group Secretary; and
• the design and terms of all share-based incentive plans.
The Committee’s key responsibilities in respect of Executive 
Directors include making proposals to the Boards on:
• the remuneration policy;
• individual salary levels, bonuses, long-term incentive awards 
and other benefits;
• performance frameworks, targets setting and performance 
review; and
• determining contractual terms.
The Committee’s Terms of Reference are contained within  
‘The Governance of Unilever’, which can be found at  
www.unilever.com/investorrelations/corp_governance. Details of 
Committee meeting attendance are contained in the section on 
Corporate Governance on page 40.
During 2011 the Committee comprised Paul Walsh, who became 
Committee Chairman in May 2011 on the retirement of Jeroen van 
der Veer, Michael Treschow, Ann Fudge and from May 2011 Kees 
Storm.
While it is the Committee’s responsibility to exercise independent 
judgement, the Committee does request advice from 
management and professional advisers, as appropriate, to ensure 
that its decisions are fully informed given the internal and external 
environment. The Committee appointed Deloitte LLP to provide 
independent advice on various matters it considered in 2011. 
During the year, Deloitte also provided specific tax, technology 
consultancy and corporate finance services to Unilever. The 
Committee reviewed the potential for conflicts of interest and 
judged that there were appropriate safeguards against such 
conflicts.
Remuneration review
As we communicated in last year’s Report, the Committee has 
now taken a close look at the competitive position of our Executive 
Directors’ salaries. Following consultation with shareholders, the 
Committee intends to increase the CEO’s salary by 6% to £975,200 
during the course of 2012. The CFO’s salary will also be increased 
by 5% to £714,000. It is the Committee’s intention that these 
increases will not be implemented immediately but rather will be 
implemented (with no backdating) at a time when the Committee 
determines appropriate for the business. These salary increases 
are in line with the salary increases that have been awarded to 
other high performing UK/European employees at Unilever. The 
Committee also made some changes to the structure of pension 
and benefits in order to increase transparency for the individual 
and for shareholders.
Further details on the proposed changes are provided in the 
section entitled ’Proposed changes from 2012 onwards’.
2011 reward outcomes
2011 was another year of growth for Unilever despite difficult 
markets and the external challenges facing the business. We 
delivered a good set of financial results, growing sales and 
earnings, particularly in emerging markets. We have also made 
significant progress in the implementation of our strategy. 
We set challenging bonus targets for 2011 reflecting our ambitious 
growth objectives. The Committee considered performance 
against these stretching targets as well as the quality of 
performance delivered and the Executive Directors’ contribution 
to the sustainability of the business. Taking these factors into 
account the Committee determined that the CEO should be 
awarded a bonus of 135% of base salary with the CFO being 
awarded a bonus of 90% of base salary. 
Global Share Incentive Plan awards granted in 2009 are due to 
vest in March 2012 based on performance to 31 December 2011. 
The Committee assessed financial performance against the 
relevant metrics, TSR performance against peers and the 
underlying quality of performance and determined that 87% of  
the initial award (out of a maximum vesting of 200%) would vest. 
The Committee considered that this level of vesting is appropriate 
given the sustained delivery of performance against key strategic  
metrics and our performance against peers in the challenging 
economic climate.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Report of the Directors Governance
50
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT During the year the Committee also sought input from the Chief 
Executive Officer, the Chief Human Resources Officer and the SVP 
Global Head of Reward on various subjects including the 
remuneration of senior management. No individual was present 
when their own remuneration was being discussed. The 
Committee also received legal and governance advice from the 
Chief Legal Officer and Group Secretary.
The Committee also carried out an assessment of its own 
performance and concluded it was performing effectively.
Executive Directors
Our aims and guiding principles
The overriding aim of the Committee is to ensure that the 
remuneration arrangements for Executive Directors support the 
longer-term objectives of Unilever and, in turn, the longer-term 
interests of shareholders.
This means that we must ensure that:
• the fixed elements of the remuneration package offered to 
Executive Directors are sufficiently competitive to attract and 
retain highly experienced and talented individuals while 
remaining appropriate in the context of market practice and 
the remuneration structures operated throughout the Group; 
• the performance-related elements are structured so that 
target levels are competitive, but Executive Directors can only 
earn higher rewards if they exceed the ongoing standards of 
performance that Unilever requires; and
• performance measures selected support Unilever’s business 
strategy and the ongoing creation of sustained shareholder 
value.
The Committee’s guiding principles are therefore that the 
remuneration arrangements for Executive Directors should:
• support Unilever’s business strategy aiming to double the size 
of the business while reducing our environmental impact 
through a focus on markets, customers, innovation and people; 
• sharpen Unilever’s performance culture through more 
exacting standards;
• increase the difference in reward between modest, target and 
outstanding performance achievements;
• support share ownership and strong shareholder alignment; 
and
• be simple and transparent.
Below we have summarised the key remuneration policies for 
Executive Directors that flow from and support the Committee’s 
aims.
The supporting policies
Our emphasis on performance-related pay
It is Unilever’s policy that the total remuneration package for 
Executive Directors should be competitive with other global
companies and that a significant proportion should be 
performance-related. When assessing the competitiveness of the 
package, the Committee considers Unilever’s positioning against 
other UK and European companies that are of a similar size and 
complexity and have similar global reach to Unilever. Over two-
thirds of the target remuneration for the Executive Directors is 
linked to performance, with the majority of this linked to 
shareholder-aligned longer-term performance.
The Committee typically reviews, at least on an annual basis, the 
impact of different performance scenarios on the potential reward 
opportunity and pay-outs to be received by Executive Directors 
and the alignment of this with the returns that might be received 
by shareholders. The Committee believes that the level of 
remuneration that can be delivered in the various scenarios is 
appropriate for the level of performance delivered and the value 
that would be created for shareholders.
The remuneration structure is generally consistent for Executive 
Directors and senior management of Unilever. Executive 
Directors’ benefits are also established in line with those for other 
employees on the basis of local market practices. The Committee 
periodically monitors pay and employment conditions of other 
employees within Unilever to ensure alignment and consistency 
with remuneration of senior management and Unilever’s 
remuneration objectives. 
The Committee believes that Unilever’s risk management 
processes provide the necessary controls to prevent 
inappropriate risk taking. For example, when the Committee 
reviews the structure and levels of performance-related pay for 
Executive Directors and other members of the ULE, it considers 
whether these might encourage behaviours incompatible with the 
long-term interests of Unilever and its shareholders or that may 
raise any environmental, social or governance risks. The 
Committee believes that the significant shareholding 
requirements placed on Executive Directors and other senior 
managers guard against these risks. 
Shareholding guidelines
The Articles of Association of NV and PLC do not require Directors 
of NV or Directors of PLC to hold shares in NV or PLC. However, 
the remuneration arrangements applicable to our Executive 
Directors require them to build and retain a personal 
shareholding in Unilever: 400% of salary for the Chief Executive 
Officer, 300% for other Executive Directors and the members of 
the ULE and 150% for the ‘top 100’ management layer below. The 
current progress toward reaching the shareholding targets 
(based on closing share prices on 30 December 2011) is: Paul 
Polman: 744% and Jean-Marc Huët: 255%. Bonuses invested in 
shares under the Share Matching Plan and the Management 
Co-Investment Plan, including accrued dividends, count towards 
the guideline. Unvested GSIP awards and matching shares under 
the Share Matching Plan and the Management Co-Investment 
Plan that are subject to performance conditions do not count.
51 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Report of the Directors Governance Executive Directors’ contracts 
Executive Directors are required to submit themselves for 
re-election at the AGMs each year and the Nomination Committee 
carefully considers each nomination for reappointment. If 
Executive Directors cease to be Directors, this shall be deemed 
a notice by Unilever of termination of employment. The Committee 
takes the view that the entitlement of Executive Directors to the 
security of twelve months’ notice of termination of employment is 
in line with both the practice of many comparable companies and 
the entitlement of other senior executives in Unilever. It is our 
policy to set the level of severance payments for Executive 
Directors at no more than one year’s salary, unless the Boards, at 
the proposal of the Committee, find this manifestly unreasonable 
given the circumstances or unless dictated by applicable law. Any 
such payment would typically include amounts in respect of the 
Director’s benefits in kind and pension entitlements. Annual 
bonus (as estimated by the Committee) and other share-based 
awards, would be made pro rata to the date of termination. No 
such compensation is payable in the case of summary 
termination. The date of contract for Paul Polman was 7 October 
2008 and for Jean-Marc Huët 19 March 2010. Executive Directors’ 
contracts end by notice of either party or, in the case of summary 
termination, without notice.
Our remuneration practices
Base salary
Base salaries for Executive Directors are reviewed annually 
taking into account our competitive market position, individual 
performance, Unilever’s overall performance and levels of 
increase in the rest of the organisation.
2011 outcomes
Base salaries for Executive Directors were not increased during 
2011. This means that the CEO’s salary has not been increased for 
the three years since his appointment and the CFO’s salary has 
not been increased for the two years since his appointment.
See below under the section headed ‘Proposed changes from 
2012 onwards’ for the policy for 2012. 
 
Pension and other benefits
The policy is that Executive Directors are members of the 
all-employee pension arrangement in their home country (or an 
alternative of similar value) and make personal contributions at 
the same rate as other employees in that arrangement. The 
Chief Executive Officer is a member of a defined contribution 
arrangement whilst the Chief Financial Officer withdrew from 
his defined contribution arrangement during the year and elected 
to receive an equivalent cash allowance instead.
Executive Directors enjoy similar benefits to those enjoyed by 
many other senior management employees of Unilever.
See below under the section headed ‘Proposed changes from 
2012 onwards’ for the policy for 2012. 
Annual bonus
For 2011 the target bonus for the Chief Executive Officer was 120% 
of salary and the maximum would have been 200% of salary. The 
target bonus opportunity for the Chief Financial Officer was 100% 
of salary and the maximum would have been 150% of salary. 
Stretching targets for financial results mean that maximum bonus 
levels are only payable for exceptional performance.
Our linkage between business objectives and  
performance-related pay 
It is Unilever’s policy for the performance-related pay of Executive 
Directors to be linked to key Group measures that are aligned with 
strategy, business objectives and shareholder value.
Unilever’s main business objective is to generate a sustainable 
improvement in business performance through increasing 
volume and underlying sales growth while steadily improving 
operating margins and cash flow. There are a number of strategic 
priorities which support this objective. It is this combination of 
top-line revenue growth and bottom-line profits growth that 
Unilever believes will build shareholder value over the longer 
term. It is Unilever’s objective to be among the best performers in 
its peer group.
In line with these objectives:
the annual bonus measures for the Executive Directors for 2012 
are:
• underlying volume growth;
• core operating margin improvement; and
• underlying sales growth.
The Committee also considers the quality of performance; both in 
terms of business results and leadership, including corporate 
social responsibility, when determining bonus payouts.
The GSIP and the MCIP measures from 2012 onwards are three 
year:
• underlying sales growth;
• core operating margin improvement;
• operating cash flow; and
• relative total shareholder return.
Core operating margin improvement has replaced underlying 
operating margin improvement for 2012, reflecting the way in 
which we measure and assess success against this metric 
throughout the business. Core operating margin is calculated 
after business restructuring costs, so that these costs will be 
treated like any other business costs. Core operating profit will 
continue to exclude profits on business proposals, M&A-related 
costs, impairments and other one-off items.
Sustainability of our business performance and our impact on the 
wider society is very important to Unilever and therefore the 
Committee also considers performance in this area when 
determining vesting.
Further details are in the Annual Bonus, Share Matching Plan, 
GSIP and MCIP sections later in this Directors’ Remuneration 
Report.
Claw back 
The Committee is authorised to reclaim or ‘claw back’ 
performance-related pay components paid to Executive Directors 
in the event of a significant downward revision of the financial 
results of the Group. This includes the annual bonus and awards 
that have been made and/or vested shares that have been issued 
or transferred under the Share Matching Plan, the GSIP and the 
MCIP.
 
52 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Report of the Directors Governance
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT continued For managers the first operation of the MCIP was in 2011 in 
respect of annual bonuses relating to the 2010 financial year.
On 17 February 2012 Paul Polman and Jean-Marc Huët first 
participated in MCIP in respect of their annual bonus over 2011. 
Paul Polman invested 60% of his bonus which resulted in 
17,772 NV and 17,772 PLC investment shares. Jean-Marc Huët 
invested 25% of his bonus which resulted in 3,649 NV and 
3,649 PLC investment shares. They each received a 
corresponding award of performance related NV and PLC  
shares under the terms of the MCIP.
Further information on the methods used to calculate expected 
values for the Directors’ share based pay can be found in Note 4C 
on page 79.
Global Share Incentive Plan (GSIP)
Executive Directors receive annual awards of NV and PLC shares 
under the GSIP. The number of shares that vest after three 
years depends on the satisfaction of performance conditions.
The current maximum grant levels were agreed by shareholders 
in 2008 and are 200% of salary for the Chief Executive Officer and 
178% for other Executive Directors. The vesting range is between 
0% and 200% of grant level.
Since 2010 the performance conditions have been the following:
• underlying sales growth;
• underlying operating margin improvement;
• operating cash flow; and
• relative total shareholder return.
As from 2012 core operating margin improvement will replace 
underlying operating margin improvement, reflecting the way in 
which we measure and assess success against this metric 
throughout the business.
For Executive Directors and the ULE the four measures are 
equally weighted (25% each).
For the three internal business-focused conditions there will be no 
vesting if performance is below the minimum of the range, 25% 
vesting for achieving threshold performance and 200% vesting only 
for performance at or above the top end of the range. In addition, 
the performance conditions for underlying sales growth and core 
operating margin improvement must reach the threshold of the 
performance range for both performance conditions before any 
shares subject to either performance condition can vest. At the end 
of the three-year performance period the Committee will also 
assess Unilever’s performance against the three internal 
conditions relative to the performance of peer group companies to 
ensure that vesting levels are appropriate.
For the relative total shareholder return (TSR) performance 
condition, Unilever’s TSR is measured relative to a group of 20 
other companies. TSR measures the return received by a 
shareholder, capturing both the increase in share price and the 
value of dividend income (assuming dividends are reinvested). The 
TSR results are compared on a single reference currency basis. 
No shares in the portion of the award subject to TSR vest if 
Unilever is ranked below position 11 in the peer group at the end of 
the three-year period, 50% vest if Unilever is ranked 11th, 100% if 
Unilever is ranked 7th and 200% if Unilever is ranked 3rd or above. 
Straight-line vesting occurs between these points.
The Executive Director’s annual bonus opportunity is based on 
Unilever’s results referenced against financial targets set at the 
beginning of the year. For 2011, targets were set by the Committee 
for underlying volume growth, underlying operating margin 
improvement and underlying sales growth over the previous year. 
With these results in view, the Committee then assessed the 
quality of performance; both in terms of business results and 
leadership, including corporate social responsibility, to determine 
the actual bonus award for Executive Directors.
See below under the section headed ‘Proposed changes from 
2012 onwards’ for the policy for 2012. 
2011 outcomes
2011 was another year of growth despite difficult markets and the 
external challenges facing the business. We delivered a strong set 
of financial results and made significant progress in the 
implementation of our strategy. 
We set challenging bonus targets for 2011 reflecting our ambitious 
growth objectives. Overall the level of performance achieved was 
as follows: underlying sales growth above the target level; 
underlying volume growth slightly below the target level and 
underlying operating margin slightly below the threshold level. 
The Committee considered performance against these stretching 
targets as well as the quality of performance delivered and the 
contribution of the Executive Directors to the sustainability of the 
business and determined that the CEO should be awarded a 
bonus of 135% of base salary in respect of 2011 with the CFO 
being awarded a bonus of 90% of base salary.
Share Matching Plan
The 2011 grant relating to the annual bonus earned for 2010 was 
the last grant under the Share Matching Plan. Under the Share 
Matching Plan, Executive Directors are required to invest 25% of 
their bonus into shares and hold them for a minimum period of 
three years. The Executive Directors receive a matching award of 
25% of their annual bonus in the form of NV and PLC shares. The 
matching shares normally vest after three years provided that the 
underlying shares have been retained during this period and the 
Executive Director has not resigned or been dismissed.
From 2012 the Executive Directors, like all other senior managers 
of Unilever, will participate in the Management Co-Investment 
Plan in respect of the 2011 bonuses. 
Management Co-Investment Plan (MCIP)
This plan aims to support Unilever’s drive for profitable growth by 
encouraging Unilever’s managers to take a greater financial 
interest in the performance of the Group and the value of Unilever 
shares over the long term. 
Under the MCIP Executive Directors, the ULE and our top 100 
managers are required to invest at least 25% and may invest up to 
60% of their annual bonus in Unilever’s shares. They receive a 
corresponding award of performance-related shares, which will 
vest after three years depending on: Unilever’s performance, 
continued employment and maintenance of the underlying 
investment shares. The performance conditions are identical to 
the performance conditions of the GSIP (see below) to ensure 
alignment with the drive for profitable growth. As under the GSIP, 
vesting levels will be between 0% and 200%. However, the 
Committee has decided to limit the maximum vesting level for the 
Executive Directors to 150%. 
53 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Report of the Directors Governance As per 2011 the current TSR peer group is:
Avon Heinz Nestlé
Beiersdorf Henkel PepsiCo
Campbell Kao Procter & Gamble
Coca-Cola Kellogg Reckitt Benckiser
Colgate Kimberly-Clark Sara Lee
Danone Kraft Shiseido
General Mills L ’Oréal
See below under the section headed ‘Proposed changes from 
2012 onwards’ for the policy for 2012. 
To allow shareholders more transparency (rear view mirror) 
around the performance conditions related to our long-term 
incentives the Committee committed to disclose, after the vesting, 
where each performance condition ended up on a range from 
threshold to maximum. The GSIP vesting outcomes for 2011 and 
2012 are set out below. 
2011 outcomes
In 2008, Paul Polman was granted a conditional award of 
performance shares under the GSIP. His target award (as a % 
of base salary) was 189%. The performance period ran from 1 
January 2008 to 31 December 2010. The award was based on:
• USG (underlying sales growth): 30% of the award
• UFCF (ungeared free cash flow performance): 30% of the 
award and 
• TSR: 40% of the award. 
The vesting range is between 0% and 200% of grant level.
In assessing Unilever’s performance the Committee noted that:
• USG was just below target at 5% with a vesting of 97%;
• UFCF was just below target at €12.6 billion, with a vesting 
of 97%; and
• Unilever was ranked 8th amongst its peer group in terms of 
TSR with a vesting of 88%.
The total overall vesting was 93%.
2012 outcomes
In 2009, Paul Polman was granted a conditional target award of 
190% under the GSIP. The performance period ran from 1 January 
2009 to 31 December 2011. The award was based on the same 
performance conditions as set out above for the GSIP 2008 award. 
These were changed by the Committee with effect from 2010 as 
follows:
• USG: 25% of the award;
• OCF (operating cash flow): 25% of the award;
• UOMI (underlying operating margin improvement): 25% of the 
award; and
• TSR: 25% of the award (whereas in 2009 the weighting % was 
40%). 
In addition, the conditions USG and UOMI must reach the 
threshold of the performance range for both performance 
conditions before any shares subject to either performance 
condition can vest. The vesting range is between 0% and 200% of 
grant level.
Due to the change of the performance targets effective in 2010, 
the GSIP maturing at the end of 2011 comprised two parts: the 
first for 2009, the results for which had already been reviewed and 
approved by the Committee in 2010 as follows:
• USG was just below target at 3.5% with a vesting of 76%; and
• UFCF significantly exceeded the maximum performance level 
at €5.2 billion, with a vesting of 200%.
The second part for the period 2010 through 2011 the Committee 
determined that:
• USG was just above target at 5.3% with a vesting of 118%;
• OCF was just below target at €7 billion with a vesting of 85%;
• UOMI was just above threshold at 4bps with a vesting of 40%; 
and 
• in terms of TSR which was measured over the full 
performance period (2009-2011) Unilever was ranked 10th 
amongst its peer group with a vesting of 63%.
In combination with the results for the 2009 period these 
outcomes resulted in a overall vesting of 87%. This grant will vest 
on 19 March 2012. 
The Committee reviewed the above vesting outcomes for the GSIP 
2008 and 2009 awards and considered that both were appropriate 
and in line with the underlying performance of the business and 
against key peers.
Ultimate remedy
Grants under the MCIP and GSIP are subject to ultimate remedy. 
Upon vesting of an award, the Committee shall have the 
discretionary power to adjust the value of the award if the award, 
in the Committee’s opinion taking all circumstances into account, 
produces an unfair result. In exercising this discretion the 
Committee may take into account Unilever’s performance against 
non-financial measures. The Committee will only adjust the value 
of a vesting award upwards after obtaining shareholder consent.
Dividend reinvestment
Both MCIP and GSIP provide that dividends will also be 
re-invested in respect of the shares under award but will only be 
paid out to the extent that the underlying shares vest.
Serving as non-executive on the board of another company
Executive Directors serving as a non-executive director on a 
board of another company are permitted to retain all 
remuneration and fees earned from outside directorships subject 
to a maximum of one outside listed directorship (see Other 
appointments on page 34 for further details). Paul Polman is a 
non-executive director of The Dow Chemical Company and 
received an annual fee of €82,408 (based on the average exchange 
rate over the year: €1 = US $1.3955). In addition he received a 
restricted award of 2,850 ordinary shares with a nominal value of 
US $2.50 per share in the capital of The Dow Chemical Company. 
The shares include the rights to vote and to receive dividend 
thereon. The shares cannot be sold or transferred until Paul 
Polman leaves the board of directors of The Dow Chemical 
Company, but not earlier than 7 March 2013.
54 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Report of the Directors Governance
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT continued 2011 Summary Remuneration (unaudited)
The table below summarises total remuneration paid to Executive 
Directors for 2011. 
Remuneration paid in 2011 
Element CEO
(£ ‘000)
CFO
(£ ‘000)
Base Salary 920 680
Allowances and benefits
1
156 269
Annual Bonus
2
1,242 612
GSIP performance shares
3
2,303 –
GSIP restricted shares
4
951 812
Pension
5
316 124
Total Remuneration paid 5,888 2,497
1
 For the CEO, this includes an allowance in lieu of company car, an 
entertaining allowance, medical insurance, private use of chauffeur-driven 
car, tax return preparation and payment to protect him against the 
difference between the employee social security obligations in his country 
of residence versus the UK.  
For the CFO this includes an allowance in lieu of company car, an 
entertaining allowance, an annual housing allowance, medical insurance, 
tax return preparation, private use of chauffeur-driven car and an annual 
education allowance he is entitled to per child of school age.
2
 Bonus paid in 2012 based on performance in the year ended 31 December 
2011. 
3
 GSIP awards vesting in the year based on performance in the three-year 
period to 31 December 2010. 
4
 Restricted awards vesting in the year. These were one-off awards made to 
Executive Directors under the GSIP on appointment.
5
 Including the cost of death in service benefits and the cost of pension 
administration.
Amounts have been translated into euros using the average 
exchange rate over the year: €1 = £0.8692.
Proposed changes from 2012 onwards
Base salary
In last year’s Directors’ Remuneration Report we communicated 
that during the course of 2011 the Committee would be taking a 
closer look at the competitive positioning of our Executive 
Directors’ salaries. The Committee undertook such a review 
during the year and approved the following annual salary 
increases in respect of 2012:
• 6% to £975,200 for the CEO;
• 5% to £714,000 for the CFO. 
However, the Committee is mindful of the difficult and uncertain 
economic circumstances prevailing at this time. Consequently, 
the implementation of these salary increases will be deferred 
until such later time as the Committee consider it appropriate. 
When and if these salary increases are implemented, they will not 
be backdated; salaries will be paid at the higher level only from 
the implementation date onwards. The Committee will use the 
higher approved salary levels (£975,200 for the CEO and £714,200 
for the CFO) as the respective base points for calculating 2012 
incentive payments.
These salary increases are in line with the salary increases that 
have been awarded to other high-performing UK/European 
employees at Unilever.
The Committee will continue to keep the positioning of base 
salaries under review, particularly for the CEO, whose current 
salary is positioned at the lower end of market practice compared 
to similar sized UK and European companies. The Committee will 
therefore look to make further increases, as appropriate, to 
address this over the next few years.
Fixed pension and benefit allowance
In order to simplify the provision of benefits and increase 
transparency, from 2012 the current benefit and pension provision 
will be replaced by a fixed cash allowance of £250,000 for the CEO 
and £340,000 for the CFO. This consolidated allowance reflects 
the approach taken during 2011 for other senior executives at 
Unilever. The level of fixed allowance provided to the CFO will be 
reduced over the next four years to reflect the phasing out of his 
annual housing allowance to nil in 2015. His fixed allowance will 
therefore be reduced to £220,000 in 2015.
In addition Unilever will continue to provide death, disability and 
medical insurance cover for Executive Directors. Unilever will 
also continue to pay social security obligations in the CEO’s 
country of residence and maintain the CEO’s hiring in agreement 
of a conditional supplemental pension accrual, which will be 
capped from 2012 onwards at 12% of the lower of actual salary or 
current salary plus 3% pa. Accordingly, the cap for this accrual 
has been set at £947,600 for 2012.
Annual bonus
There will be no change to the annual bonus opportunity for 2012. 
The target opportunity for the CEO will remain at 120% of salary 
with the maximum opportunity being 200% of salary. This level of 
bonus will only be paid for exceptional performance. The target 
opportunity for the CFO will continue to be 100% of salary with the 
opportunity to earn 150% of salary for exceptional performance.
The performance conditions for 2012 will be the same as for 2011 
as outlined on page 52.
GSIP
For 2012 the target level of GSIP award for the CEO will be 200% of 
salary (190% for 2011). This level of award is within the limits 
previously approved by shareholders. The target GSIP award for 
the CFO will be 175% of salary (178% for 2011).
Executive Directors will continue to be able to earn between 0 and 
2 times the target award depending on performance. The 
performance conditions for 2012 are outlined on page 52.
The Committee intends to keep the annual bonus and GSIP 
opportunities for the CEO at the current levels at least until 2014.
55 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Report of the Directors Governance Executive Directors’ remuneration in 2011
Remuneration for individual Executive Directors (audited)
Annual Emoluments 2011
Name and base country
Base
salary
€ ‘000
Allowances
and other
payments
€ ‘000
Value of
benefits
€ ‘000
Bonus
€ ‘000
Sub Total
€ ‘000
Pension
€ ‘000
Share 
awards
€ ‘000
Total
€ ‘000
Paul Polman (UK)
(a)
1,058 149
(b)
31
(c)
1,429
(d)
2,667 363 3,631
(g)
6,661
Jean-Marc Huët (UK)
(e)
782 285
(f)
24
(c)
704
(d)
1,795 143 2,009
(g)
3,947
Total 2011 1,840 434 55 2,133 4,462 506 5,640 10,608
Total 2010 (including former Directors) 1,600 1,022 7 2,349 4,978 464 4,306 9,748
(a)
 Chief Executive Officer. Base salary set in sterling was £920,000 per annum.
(b)
 Includes allowance in lieu of company car, entertaining allowance of £1,000 and payment to protect against the difference between the employee social 
security obligations in his country of residence versus the UK. He also received a further payment of €91,236 in 2011 in relation to his social security 
obligations for 2009 and 2010 following a reconciliation for those years.
(c)
 Includes benefits for medical insurance, tax return preparation and private use of chauffeur-driven car.
(d)
 Bonus for the full year 2011. Includes the value of both the cash element and the element paid in shares of NV and PLC under the MCIP. It does not include 
matching shares awarded on a conditional basis in addition to the element of bonus paid in shares. 
(e)
 Chief Financial Officer. Base salary set in sterling was £680,000 per annum. 
(f)
 Includes allowance in lieu of company car, entertaining allowance of £1,000, annual housing allowance and annual education allowance of £16,000 net per 
child of school age.
(g)
 Costs are non-cash and relate to the expenses following IFRS2. Based on share prices on grant dates and 98% adjustment factor for GSIP shares awarded in 
2011 and 2010, and 89% adjustment factor for GSIP shares awarded in 2009 and 2008 to take account of the external performance condition TSR for GSIP.
In addition, Unilever provides support to Executive Directors in relation to spouses’ travel expenses when travelling together on 
company business. This amount is capped at 5% of base salary and the maximum limit for 2011 was €92,039.
Amounts have been translated into euros using the average exchange rate over the year: €1 = £0.8692 (2010: €1 = £0.858) and €1 = US 
$1.3955 (2010: €1 = US $1.326).
Pensions (audited)
Paul Polman is a member of a defined contribution pension arrangement. The total pension cost including death in service benefits and 
administration costs and the company’s conditional supplemental pension provision was €363,000. This total pension cost breaks down 
as follows:
 – company contribution towards defined contribution pension plan: €160,000;
 – additional company contribution (made in return for his individual salary sacrifice) towards defined contribution pension plan: 
€32,000*;
 – costs of provision for death in service benefits and administration: €43,000;
 – company’s supplemental pension provision, which is conditional on the CEO remaining in employment with Unilever to age 60 and 
subsequently retiring from active service or his death or total disability prior to retirement: €128,000.
Jean-Marc Huët participated in a defined contribution pension arrangement from January to March 2011, but with effect from April 2011 
he elected to cease pension provision and receive an equivalent payment in cash in lieu of pension. The total pension cost for Jean-Marc 
Huët was €143,000. This total pension cost breaks down as follows:
From January 2011 to March 2011 the total cost was €44,000 of which:
 – company contribution towards defined contribution pension plan: €30,000;
 – additional company contribution (made in return for his individual salary sacrifice) towards defined contribution pension plan: 
€6,000*;
 – death in service benefits and administration: €8,000;
From April 2011 to December 2011, the total cost was €99,000 of which:
 – cash payment of €89,000;
 – death in service benefits: €10,000.
*This amount is paid from within (not in addition to) the salary reported in preceding sections of this Directors’ Remuneration Report.
56 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Report of the Directors Governance
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT continued Share Matching Plan (audited)
Balance of 
conditional shares 
at 1 January 2011
 Conditional shares
awarded in 2011
(a)
Balance of 
conditional shares at 
31 December 2011
Share type No. of shares No. of shares Price at award No. of shares
Paul Polman NV 12,897
(b)
9,932 €21.59 22,829
PLC 12,897
(b)
9,932 £18.35 22,829
Jean-Marc Huët NV – 5,047 €21.59 5,047
PLC – 5,047 £18.35 5,047
(a)
 Each award of matching shares is conditional and vests three years after the date of the award subject to continued employment and maintenance of the 
underlying bonus shares. The Committee considers that there is no need for further performance conditions on the vesting of the matching shares because 
the number of shares is directly linked to the annual bonus (which is itself subject to demanding performance conditions). In addition, during the vesting 
period the share price of NV and PLC is influenced by the performance of Unilever. The 2011 award was made at grant date 14 March 2011.
(b)
 Of which 3,413 shares awarded on 19 March 2009 and 9,484 shares on 18 March 2010.
Global Share Incentive Plan (audited)
The following conditional shares were granted during 2011 and outstanding at 31 December 2011 under the Global Share Incentive Plan:
Balance of 
conditional 
shares at 
1 January 
2011
Conditional 
shares awarded
in 2011
(a) 
Balance of 
conditional shares 
at 31 December 
2011
 Share type
Original 
award
Dividend 
shares 
accrued in 
prior years
(Performance 
period 1 January 
2011 to 
31 December 
2013)
Price at 
award
Dividend 
shares 
accrued 
during the
 year 
(c)
Vested 
in 
2011
(d)
Lapsed 
in 2011
Price at 
vesting
Paul Polman NV 172,099
(b)
1,219 47,173 €21.59 3,176 54,640 (4,112) €24.60 164,915
PLC 172,099
(b)
1,410 47,173 £18.35 3,588 54,640 (4,112) £20.77 165,518
Jean-Marc Huët NV 30,906
(c)
854 32,665 €21.59 2,214 – 66,639
 PLC 30,906
(c)
987 32,665 £18.35 2,500 – 67,058
(a)
 Each award of conditional shares vests three years after the date of the award, subject to performance conditions as set out on page 52. The 2011 award was 
made at grant date 14 March 2011. 
(b)
 This includes a grant of 58,752 of each of Unilever NV and PLC shares made on 6 November 2008, a grant of 69,210 of each of Unilever NV and PLC shares 
made on 19 March 2009 and a grant of 44,137 of each of Unilever NV and PLC shares made on 18 March 2010. The first grant vested on 6 November 2011, the 
second and third grant will vest on 19 March 2012 and 18 March 2013 respectively. 
(c)
 This grant was made on 18 March 2010 and will vest on 18 March 2013.
(d)
 The 6 November 2008 grant vested on 6 November 2011 at 93%.
Both Paul Polman and Jean-Marc Huët received a one-off restricted stock award on joining Unilever under the GSIP. Details of 
balances, grants and vesting during 2011 are shown below.
Balance of
shares at
1 January
2011 Granted in 2011 Vesting in 2011
Balance of
shares at
31 December
2011
 Share type No. of shares Price at award No. of shares Price at vesting No. of shares
Paul Polman
(a)
NV 22,551 – – 22,551 €24.60 –
 PLC 22,551 – – 22,551 £20.77 –
Jean-Marc Huët
(b)
NV 65,650 – – 21,883 €21.22 43,767
 PLC 65,650 – – 21,883 £18.20 43,767
(a)
 Vesting on 6 November 2011 of remaining 1/3 of original award (made 6 November 2008 at €18.93 and £14.39). The first 1/3 of the original award vested on 6 
November 2009. The second 1/3 of the original award vested on 6 November 2010.
(b)
 Vesting on 18 March 2011 of 1/3 of original award (made 18 March 2010 at €22.53 and £19.44). The second and third 1/3 of the original award will vest on 18 
March 2012 and 18 March 2013 respectively.
Share Save Plan (audited)
Options under the PLC Share Save Plan are subject to five-year vesting periods and vesting is contingent on continued employment with Unilever.
 Share type
Balance of
options at 
1 January 2011
(a)
Granted
 in 2011
Balance of 
options at 
31 December 2011
First
exercisable date
Final
 expiry date
Paul Polman PLC 1,042 – 1,042 01/10/2014 01/04/2015
(a)
 Option price at grant was £14.92.
57 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Report of the Directors Governance Non-Executive Directors’ fees
Non-Executive Directors receive annual fees from NV and PLC. 
No other remuneration is given in respect of their non-executive 
duties. The Boards determine non-executive fee levels within a 
total annual limit specified in PLC’s Articles of Association. In 
2008 shareholders approved an increase in the limit for PLC to 
£2,000,000 and €3,000,000 for NV.
Unilever’s fee levels reflect the commitment and contribution 
expected by the Group. Fee levels are also benchmarked at 
regular intervals against those paid in other global non-financial 
companies based in Europe.
Personal shareholding
The Committee has agreed to encourage the Non-Executive  
Directors to build up a personal shareholding of at least one times 
their annual fees over the five years from 1 January 2012  
(or appointment if later). This principle, together with the new fee 
structure for Non-Executive Directors (see below under the 
section ‘Fee levels’) has been endorsed by the Boards.
The highest and lowest share price per ordinary PLC 3
1
⁄ 9p share during the year were £21.73 and £17.93 and the market price per 
ordinary PLC 3
1
⁄ 9p share at year end was £21.63. 
 
Executive Directors’ interests in shares (audited)
Share type
(a)
Shares held at 1 January 2011
(b)
Shares held at 31 December 2011
(b)
Paul Polman NV 111,953 173,401
PLC 70,033 131,481
Jean-Marc Huët NV 23,000 38,769
PLC 23,000 38,769
(a)
 NV shares are ordinary €0.16 shares and PLC shares are ordinary 3
1
⁄9p shares.
(b)
 Numbers are excluding awards and options over shares which are disclosed above.
The table shows the interest in NV and PLC ordinary shares of Executive Directors and their connected persons as at 31 December 2011. 
On 17 February 2012 Paul Polman and Jean-Marc Huët invested 60% and 25% respectively of their annual bonus over 2011 in the MCIP. 
This resulted in 17,772 NV and 17,772 PLC investment shares for Paul Polman and 3,649 NV and 3,649 PLC investment shares for  
Jean-Marc Huët. They each received a corresponding award under the MCIP of performance-related NV and PLC shares, which will vest 
after three years depending on Unilever’s performance, continued employment and maintenance of the underlying investment shares. 
The voting rights of the Directors who hold interests in the share capital of NV and PLC are the same as for other holders of the class of 
shares indicated. None of the Directors’ (Executive and Non-Executive) or other executive officers’ shareholdings amounts to more than 
1% of the issued shares in that class of share. Except as stated above, all shareholdings are beneficial.
 
Non-Executive Directors
Terms and conditions
The terms of engagement of Non-Executive Directors are set out in letters of appointment. Non-Executive Directors are appointed for a 
three-year term, subject to satisfactory performance and re-nomination and re-election at forthcoming annual shareholder meetings. 
Non-Executive Directors may terminate their engagement upon three months’ notice. The letters of appointment do not contain 
provision for notice periods or for compensation if their appointments are terminated by Unilever.
Details of Non-Executive Directors’ letters of appointment can be found in the table below.
Non-Executive Directors’ letters of appointment
Non-Executive Director
Date first appointed 
to the Board 
Effective date of current 
letter of appointment Non-Executive Director
Date first appointed 
to the Board 
Effective date of current 
letter of appointment
Michael Treschow 16 May 2007 15 May 2007 Hixonia Nyasulu 16 May 2007 15 May 2007
Louise Fresco 14 May 2009 25 May 2009 Sir Malcolm Rifkind 12 May 2010 13 May 2010
Ann Fudge 14 May 2009 6 July 2009 Kees Storm 9 May 2006 15 May 2007
Charles Golden 9 May 2006 17 May 2007 Paul Walsh 14 May 2009 21 May 2009
Byron Grote 9 May 2006 16 May 2007 Jeroen van der Veer
(a)
8 May 2002 14 May 2007
Sunil B Mittal 12 May 2011 12 May 2011
(a)
 Retired at AGMs in May 2011.
Fee levels
Fee levels paid in 2011 remained unchanged over those paid in 
2010 and are as follows:
 NV PLC
Chairman €355,000 and £237,500
Vice-Chairman/Senior  
Independent Director €85,800 and £82,500
Chairman of the Audit Committee €55,000 and £38,000
Board Committee Chairman €50,000 and £35,000
Non-Executive Directors €45,000 and £31,000
An additional set fee of €3,625 and £2,500 per Board meeting is 
paid to Non-Executive Directors for intercontinental travel when 
joining Board meetings, where applicable. 
With effect from 1 January 2012 Unilever will move to a modular  
fee structure which better reflects the roles and responsibilities  
58 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Report of the Directors Governance
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT continued of individual Board members with separate fees for Committee 
membership and Chairmanship. We have set a reference point for 
fees in pounds sterling (£) and then split the fees 50/50 between PLC 
and NV at a £/€ exchange rate of 0.877 as per Unilever’s Controllers 
department’s exchange rate as of the 3
rd
 Quarter 2011. Fees for 
Chairman and Vice-Chairman would remain all inclusive, as follows:
NV PLC
Chairman €313,570 and £275,000
Vice-Chairman €94,070 and £82,500
Basic Non-Executive fee €42,760 and £37,500
Committee Chair:
Audit  €17,100 and £15,000
Nomination  €11,400 and £10,000
Remuneration  €11,400 and £10,000
Corporate Responsibility 
and Reputation  €11,400 and £10,000
Committee Members:
Audit €8,550 and £7,500
Nomination  €5,700 and £5,000
Remuneration  €5,700 and £5,000
Corporate Responsibility 
and Reputation  €5,700 and £5,000
In moving to the new modular fee structure, the intercontinental 
travel allowance will be discontinued and three Non-Executive 
Directors will receive a one-off fee of £10,000 in 2012 to 
compensate them for the removal of this allowance.
Non-Executive Directors’ remuneration in 2011 (audited)
Non-Executive Directors
Total fees 
paid in 
2011
(a)
 
€’000
Total fees 
paid in
 2010
(a)
 
€’000
Michael Treschow
(b)
635 638
Louise Fresco 87 88
Ann Fudge 113 120
Charles Golden 113 120
Byron Grote 87 88
Sunil B Mittal
(c) 
59 –
Hixonia Nyasulu 113 120
Sir Malcolm Rifkind 97 64
Kees Storm
(d)
160 106
Paul Walsh 94 88
Former Directors
Jeroen van der Veer
(e)
75 188
Others
(f)
– 125
Total 1,633 1,745
(a)
 Covers fees received from both NV in euros and PLC in sterling. Includes set fees 
for intercontinental travel of €3,625 (via NV) and £2,500 (via PLC) when joining 
Board meetings, if applicable. Total amount for travel fee in 2011 is €145,593.
(b)
 Chairman 
(c)
 Appointed at 2011 AGMs.
(d)
 Kees Storm appointed as Vice-Chairman and Senior Independent Director 
at AGMs in May 2011. 
(e)
 Retired at AGMs in May 2011.
(f) 
Includes Leon Brittan, Wim Dik and Narayana Murthy who retired at AGMs 
in May 2010.
Non-Executive Directors’ interests in share capital (audited)
Share type
(a)
Shares 
held at 1  
January 
2011
(a)
Shares held 
at 31 
December 
2011
(a)
Michael Treschow NV 15,158 15,158
PLC 15,000 15,000
Louise Fresco NV 1,000 1,000
 PLC – –
Ann Fudge NV NY – –
PLC ADRs 1,000 1,000
Charles Golden NV NY 1,000 1,000
PLC ADRs – –
Byron Grote NV NY 5,300 6,000
PLC ADRs 5,000 5,000
Hixonia Nyasulu NV – –
 PLC – 150
Malcolm Rifkind NV – –
PLC – 1,500
Paul Walsh NV – –
 PLC 1,000 1,000
(a)
 NV shares are ordinary €0.16 shares and PLC shares are ordinary 3
1
⁄9p 
shares.
The table shows the interests in NV and PLC ordinary shares of 
Non-Executive Directors and their connected persons as at 31 
December 2011. There has been no change in these interests 
between 31 December 2011 and 28 February 2012. 
Additional statutory disclosures
Unilever is required by UK regulation to show its relative share 
performance, based on Total Shareholder Return, against a 
holding of shares in a broad-based equity index for the last five 
years. The Committee has decided to show Unilever’s 
performance against the FTSE 100 Index, London and also the 
Euronext 100 index (AEX), Amsterdam as these are the most 
relevant indices in the UK and the Netherlands where we have our 
principal listings.
Five-Year Historical TSR Performance
The table below includes:
 – Growth in the value of a hypothetical £100 holding over five 
years FTSE 100 comparison based on 30-trading-day average 
values; and 
 – Growth in the value of a hypothetical €100 investment over five 
years AEX comparison based on 30-trading-day average 
values.
This Directors’ Remuneration Report has been approved by the 
Boards and signed on their behalf by Tonia Lovell – Chief Legal 
Officer and Group Secretary.
59 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Report of the Directors Governance Notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued)
	 15	Financial 	 assets	 and	 liabilities  90
	 	 15A 	 Financial	 assets  90
	 	 15B 	 Financial	 liabilities  91
	 16	 	 Capital	 and	 treasury	 risk	 management  93
16A	 Capital	 management  93
16B	 Treasury	 risk	 management  94
16C	 Financial	 instruments	 fair	 value	 risk  97
16D	 Derivatives	 and	 hedging  98
	 17	 Provisions  99
	 18	Equity  100
	 19	Share 	 capital  101
	 20	Commitments 	 and	 contingent	 liabilities  102
	 21	Acquisitions 	 and	 disposals  104
	 22	Assets 	 and	 liabilities	 held	 for	 sale  107
	 23	Related 	 party	 transactions  107
	 24	Remuneration 	 of	 auditors  108
	 25	Events 	 after	 the	 balance	 sheet	 date  108
Principal group companies and non-current investments  109
Auditor’s report – Unilever N.V.  111
Company accounts – Unilever N.V.  112
Notes to the company accounts – Unilever N.V.  113
Further statutory and other information – Unilever N.V.  116
Auditor’s report – Unilever PLC  117
Company accounts – Unilever PLC  118
Notes to the company accounts – Unilever PLC  119
Further statutory and other information – Unilever PLC  121
Shareholder information  123
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities  61
Auditor’s reports  62
Consolidated income statement  64
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income  65
Consolidated statement of changes in equity  65
Consolidated balance sheet  66
Consolidated cash flow statement  67
Notes to the consolidated financial statements  68
	 1	 Accounting 	 information	 and	 policies  68
	 2	 Segment 	 information  70
	 3	 Gross 	 profit	 and	 operating	 costs  72
	 4	 Employees  73
	 	 4A 	 Staff	 and	 management	 costs  73
	 	 4B 	 Pensions	 and	 similar	 obligations  73
	 	 4C 	 Share-based	 compensation	 plans  79
	 5	 Net 	 finance	 costs  80
	 6	 Taxation  80
	 	 6A 	 Income	 tax  80
	 	 6B 	 Deferred	 taxation  81
	 	 6C 	 Tax	 on	 other	 comprehensive	 income  82
	 7	 Combined 	 earnings	 per	 share  83
	 8	 Dividends 	 on	 ordinary	 capital  83
	 9	 Goodwill 	 and	 intangible	 assets  84
	 10	Property, 	 plant	 and	 equipment  86
	 11	 Other 	 non-current	 assets  87
	 12	Inventories  88
	 13	Trade 	 and	 other	 current	 receivables  88
	 14	Trade 	 payables	 and	 other	 current	 liabilities  89
Unilever	 Annual	 Report	 and	 Accounts	 2011
Financial statements
60
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Contents Directors’ responsibility statement
Each	 of	 the	 Directors	 confirms	 that,	 to	 the	 best	 of	 his	 or	 her	
knowledge:
•	 The	 financial	 statements	 which	 have	 been	 prepared	 in	
accordance	 with	 International	 Financial	 Reporting	 Standards	
as	 adopted	 by	 the	 EU	 and	 as	 issued	 by	 the	 International	
Accounting	 Standards	 Board	 (in	 the	 case	 of	 the	 consolidated	
financial	 statements)	 and	 United	 Kingdom	 accounting	
standards	 (in	 the	 case	 of	 the	 PLC	 parent	 company	 accounts)	
and	 United	 Kingdom	 accounting	 standards	 and	 Part	 9	 of Book	
2	 of	 the	 Dutch	 Civil	 Code	 (in	 the	 case	 of	 the	 NV	 parent	 company	
accounts),	 give	 a	 true	 and	 fair	 view	 of	 the	 assets,	 liabilities,	
financial	 position	 and	 profit	 or	 loss	 of	 the	 Group	 and	 the NV	 and	
PLC	 entities	 taken	 as	 a	 whole;	 and
•	 The	 Report	 of	 the	 Directors	 includes	 a	 fair	 review	 of	 the	
development	 and	 performance	 of	 the	 business	 and	 the	 position	
of the	 Group	 and	 the	 NV	 and	 the	 PLC	 entities	 taken	 as	 a	 whole,	
together	 with	 a	 description	 of	 the	 principal	 risks	 and	
uncertainties	 they	 face.
The	 Directors	 and	 their	 roles	 are	 listed	 on	 pages	 34	 and	 40.
Going concern
The	 activities	 of	 the	 Group,	 together	 with	 the	 factors	 likely	 to	 affect	
its	 future	 development,	 performance,	 the	 financial	 position	 of	 the	
Group,	 its	 cash	 flows,	 liquidity	 position	 and	 borrowing	 facilities	
are	 described	 in About	 Unilever	 and	 the	 Financial	 review	 2011	 on	
pages	 1	 to	 27.	 In	 addition,	 we	 describe	 in	 note	 16	 on	 pages	 93	 to	 99:	
the	 Group’s	 objectives,	 policies	 and	 processes	 for	 managing	 its	
capital;	 its	 financial	 risk	 management	 objectives;	 details	 of	 its	
financial	 instruments	 and	 hedging	 activities;	 and	 its	 exposures	 to	
credit	 and	 liquidity	 risk.	
The	 Group	 has	 considerable	 financial	 resources	 together	 with	
established	 business	 relationships	 with	 many	 customers	 and	
suppliers	 in	 countries	 throughout	 the	 world.	 As	 a	 consequence,	
the	 Directors	 believe	 that	 the	 Group	 is	 well	 placed	 to	 manage	 its	
business	 risks	 successfully	 despite	 the	 current	 uncertain	 outlook.
After	 making	 enquiries,	 the	 Directors	 have	 a	 reasonable	
expectation	 that	 the	 Group	 has	 adequate	 resources	 to	 continue	 in	
operational	 existence	 for	 the	 foreseeable	 future.	 Accordingly,	 they	
continue	 to	 adopt	 the	 going	 concern	 basis	 in	 preparing	 the	 Annual	
Report	 and Accounts.
Internal and disclosure controls and procedures
Please	 refer	 to	 pages	 28	 to	 32	 for	 a	 discussion	 of	 Unilever’s	
principal	 risk	 factors	 and	 to	 page	 33	 for	 commentary	 on	 the	
Group’s	 approach	 to	 risk	 management	 and	 control.
Annual accounts
The	 Directors	 are	 required	 by	 Part	 9	 of	 Book	 2	 of	 the	 Civil Code	 in	
the	 Netherlands	 and	 the	 United	 Kingdom	 Companies	 Act	 2006	 to	
prepare	 accounts	 for	 each	 financial	 year	 which	 give	 a	 true	 and	 fair	
view	 of	 the	 state	 of	 affairs	 of the	 Unilever	 Group,	 and	 the	 NV	 and	
PLC	 entities,	 as	 at	 the	 end	 of	 the	 financial	 year	 and	 of	 the	 profit	 or	
loss	 and	 cash	 flows	 for	 that	 year.
The	 Directors	 consider	 that,	 in	 preparing	 the	 accounts,	 the Group	
and	 the	 NV	 and	 PLC	 entities	 have	 used	 the	 most	 appropriate	
accounting	 policies,	 consistently	 applied	 and	 supported	 by	
reasonable	 and	 prudent	 judgements	 and	 estimates,	 and	 that all	
International	 Financial	 Reporting	 Standards	 as	 adopted	 by	 the	 EU	
and as	 issued	 by	 the	 International	 Accounting	 Standards	 Board	
(in the case	 of	 the	 consolidated	 financial	 statements),	 United	
Kingdom	 accounting	 standards	 (in	 the	 case	 of	 the	 parent	 company	
accounts)	 and	 Dutch	 law	 (in	 the	 case	 of	 the	 NV	 parent	 company	
accounts)	 which	 they	 consider	 to	 be	 applicable	 have	 been	
followed.
The	 Directors	 have	 responsibility	 for	 ensuring	 that	 NV	 and	 PLC	
keep	 accounting	 records	 which	 disclose	 with	 reasonable	 accuracy	
their	 financial	 position	 and	 which	 enable	 the	 Directors	 to	 ensure	
that	 the	 accounts	 comply	 with	 the	 relevant	 legislation.	 They	 also	
have	 a	 general	 responsibility	 for	 taking	 such	 steps	 as	 are	
reasonably	 open	 to them	 to	 safeguard	 the	 assets	 of	 the	 Group,	
and	 to	 prevent	 and	 detect fraud	 and	 other	 irregularities.
This	 statement,	 which	 should	 be	 read	 in	 conjunction	 with	 the	
Auditors’	 reports,	 is made	 with	 a	 view	 to	 distinguishing	 for	
shareholders	 the	 respective	 responsibilities	 of	 the	 Directors	
and of the auditors	 in	 relation	 to	 the	 accounts.
A	 copy	 of	 the	 financial	 statements	 of	 the	 Unilever	 Group	 is	
placed on our	 website	 at	 www.unilever.com/investorrelations.	 The	
maintenance	 and	 integrity	 of	 the	 website	 are	 the	 responsibility	 of	
the	 Directors,	 and	 the	 work	 carried	 out	 by	 the	 auditors	 does	 not	
involve	 consideration	 of	 these	 matters.	 Accordingly,	 the	 auditors	
accept	 no	 responsibility	 for	 any	 changes	 that	 may	 have	 occurred	
to	 the	 financial	 statements	 since	 they	 were	 initially	 placed	 on	 the	
website.	 Legislation	 in	 the	 United	 Kingdom	 and	 the	 Netherlands	
governing	 the	 preparation	 and	 dissemination	 of	 financial	
statements	 may	 differ	 from	 legislation	 in	 other	 jurisdictions.
UK	 law	 sets	 out	 additional	 responsibilities	 for	 the	 Directors	 of	 PLC	
regarding	 disclosure	 of	 information	 to	 auditors.	 Disclosure	 in	
respect	 of	 these	 responsibilities	 is	 made	 on	 page	 122.
Unilever	 Annual	 Report	 and	 Accounts	 2011
Financial statements
61
STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES We	 believe	 that	 the	 audit	 evidence	 we	 have	 obtained	 is	 sufficient	
and	 appropriate	 to	 provide	 a	 basis	 for	 our	 audit	 opinion.
Opinion with respect to the consolidated financial statements
In	 our	 opinion,	 the	 consolidated	 financial	 statements	 give	 a	 true	
and	 fair	 view	 of	 the	 financial	 position	 of	 Unilever	 Group	 as	 at	
31 December	 2011,	 and	 of	 its	 result	 and	 its	 cash	 flows	 for	 the	 year	
then	 ended	 in	 accordance	 with	 International	 Financial	 Reporting	
Standards	 as	 adopted	 by	 the	 European	 Union	 and	 as	 issued	 by	 the	
International	 Accounting	 Standards	 Board	 and	 with	 Part	 9	 of	 Book	
2	 of	 the	 Dutch	 Civil	 Code.
Separate report on company accounts
We	 have	 reported	 separately	 on	 the	 company	 accounts	 of	 Unilever	
N.V.	 for	 the	 year	 ended	 31	 December	 2011.
Report on other legal and regulatory requirements
Pursuant	 to	 the	 legal	 requirement	 under	 Section	 2:	 393	 sub	 5	 at	
e and	 f	 of	 the	 Dutch	 Civil	 Code,	 we	 have	 no	 deficiencies	 to	 report	
as	 a	 result	 of	 our	 examination	 whether	 the	 Report	 of	 the	
Directors,	 to	 the	 extent	 we	 can	 assess,	 has	 been	 prepared	 in	
accordance	 with	 Part	 9	 of	 Book	 2	 of	 this	 Code,	 and	 whether	 the	
information	 as	 required	 under	 Section	 2:	 392	 sub	 1	 at	 b-h	 has	
been	 annexed.	 Further	 we	 report	 that	 the	 Report	 of	 the	 Directors,	
to	 the	 extent	 we	 can	 assess,	 is	 consistent	 with	 the	 consolidated	
financial	 statements	 as	 required	 by	 Section	 2:	 391	 sub	 4	 of	 the	
Dutch	 Civil Code.	
Amsterdam,	 28	 February	 2012
PricewaterhouseCoopers	 Accountants	 N.V.
R A J Swaak RA
Independent auditor’s report
To: the General Meeting of Shareholders of Unilever N.V. 
Report on the consolidated financial statements
We	 have	 audited	 the	 accompanying	 consolidated	 financial	
statements	 2011	 as	 set	 out	 on	 pages	 64	 to	 110	 which	 are	 part	 of	
the	 Annual	 Report	 and	 Accounts	 2011	 of	 the	 Unilever	 Group	 for	 the	
year	 ended	 31	 December	 2011,	 which	 comprise	 the	 consolidated	
income	 statement,	 consolidated	 statement	 of	 comprehensive	
income,	 consolidated	 statement	 of	 changes	 in	 equity,	 consolidated	
balance	 sheet,	 consolidated	 cash	 flow	 statement	 and	 the	 notes	 to	
the	 consolidated	 financial	 statements,	 comprising	 a	 summary	 of	
significant	 accounting	 policies	 and	 other	 explanatory	 information.	
Directors’ responsibility
The	 Directors	 are	 responsible	 for	 the	 preparation	 and	 fair	
presentation	 of	 these	 consolidated	 financial	 statements	 in	
accordance	 with	 International	 Financial	 Reporting	 Standards	 as	
adopted	 by	 the	 European	 Union	 and	 as	 issued	 by	 the	 International	
Accounting	 Standards	 Board	 and	 with	 Part	 9	 of	 Book	 2	 of	 the	
Dutch	 Civil	 Code,	 and	 for	 the	 preparation	 of	 the	 Report	 of	 the	
Directors	 in	 accordance	 with	 Part	 9	 of	 Book	 2	 of	 the	 Dutch	 Civil	
Code.	 Furthermore,	 the	 Directors	 are	 responsible	 for	 such	
internal	 control	 as	 they	 determine	 is	 necessary	 to	 enable	 the	
preparation	 of	 the	 consolidated	 financial	 statements	 that	 are	 free	
from	 material	 misstatement,	 whether	 due	 to	 fraud	 or	 error.
Auditor’s responsibility
Our	 responsibility	 is	 to	 express	 an	 opinion	 on	 these	 consolidated	
financial	 statements	 based	 on	 our	 audit.	 We	 conducted	 our	 audit	
in	 accordance	 with	 Dutch	 law,	 including	 the	 Dutch	 Standards	 on	
Auditing.	 This	 requires	 that	 we	 comply	 with	 ethical	 requirements	
and	 plan	 and	 perform	 the	 audit	 to	 obtain	 reasonable	 assurance	
about	 whether	 the	 consolidated	 financial	 statements	 are	 free	
from	 material	 misstatement.
An	 audit	 involves	 performing	 procedures	 to	 obtain	 audit	 evidence	
about	 the	 amounts	 and	 disclosures	 in	 the	 consolidated	 financial	
statements.	 The	 procedures	 selected	 depend	 on	 the	 auditor’s	
judgement,	 including	 the	 assessment	 of	 the	 risks	 of	 material	
misstatement	 of	 the	 consolidated	 financial	 statements,	 whether	
due	 to	 fraud	 or	 error.	 In	 making	 those	 risk	 assessments,	 the	
auditor	 considers	 internal	 control	 relevant	 to	 the	 company’s	
preparation	 and	 fair	 presentation	 of	 the	 consolidated	 financial	
statements	 in	 order	 to	 design	 audit	 procedures	 that	 are	
appropriate	 in	 the	 circumstances,	 but	 not	 for	 the	 purpose	 of	
expressing	 an	 opinion	 on	 the	 effectiveness	 of	 the	 company’s	
internal	 control.	 An	 audit	 also	 includes	 evaluating	 the	
appropriateness	 of	 accounting	 policies	 used	 and	 the	
reasonableness	 of	 accounting	 estimates	 made	 by	 the	 Directors,	
as	 well	 as	 evaluating	 the	 overall	 presentation	 of	 the	 consolidated	
financial	 statements.
Unilever	 Annual	 Report	 and	 Accounts	 2011
Financial statements
62
AUDITOR’S REPORT NETHERLANDS Opinion on financial statements 
In	 our	 opinion	 the	 group	 financial	 statements:	
•	 give	 a	 true	 and	 fair	 view	 of	 the	 state	 of	 the	 Group’s	 affairs	 as	 at	
31	 December	 2011	 and	 of	 its	 profit	 and	 cash	 flows	 for	 the	 year	
then	 ended;
•	 have	 been	 properly	 prepared	 in	 accordance	 with	 IFRSs	 as	
adopted	 by	 the	 European	 Union;	 and	
•	 have	 been	 prepared	 in	 accordance	 with	 the	 requirements	 of	
the	 Companies	 Act	 2006	 and	 Article	 4	 of	 the	 lAS	 Regulation.	
Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs as issued by the IASB 
As	 explained	 in	 note	 1	 to	 the	 group	 financial	 statements,	 the	
Group	 in	 addition	 to	 complying	 with	 its	 legal	 obligation	 to	 apply	
IFRSs	 as	 adopted	 by	 the	 European	 Union,	 has	 also	 applied	 IFRSs	
as	 issued	 by	 the	 International	 Accounting	 Standards	 Board	 (IASB).	
In	 our	 opinion	 the	 group	 financial	 statements	 comply	 with	 IFRSs	
as	 issued	 by	 the	 IASB.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 
In	 our	 opinion,	 the	 information	 given	 in	 the	 Directors’	 Report	 set	
out	 on	 pages	 121	 and	 122	 for	 the	 financial	 year	 for	 which	 the	 group	
financial	 statements	 are	 prepared	 is	 consistent	 with	 the	 group	
financial	 statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception 
We	 have	 nothing	 to	 report	 in	 respect	 of	 the	 following:	
Under	 the	 Companies	 Act	 2006	 we	 are	 required	 to	 report	 to	 you	 if,	
in	 our	 opinion:	
•	 certain	 disclosures	 of	 Directors’	 remuneration	 specified	 by	 law	
are	 not	 made;	 or	
•	 we	 have	 not	 received	 all	 the	 information	 and	 explanations	 we	
require	 for	 our	 audit.	
Under	 the	 Listing	 Rules	 we	 are	 required	 to	 review:	
•	 the	 Directors’	 statement,	 set	 out	 on	 page	 61,	 in	 relation	 to	 going	
concern;	
•	 the	 part	 of	 the	 Corporate	 governance	 statement	 relating	 to	 the	
parent	 company’s	 compliance	 with	 the	 nine	 provisions	 of	 the	
UK	 Corporate	 Governance	 Code	 specified	 for	 our	 review;	 and
•	 certain	 elements	 of	 the	 report	 to	 shareholders	 by	 the	 Board	 on	
Directors’	 remuneration.
Other matters 
We	 have	 reported	 separately	 on	 the	 parent	 company	 financial	
statements	 of	 Unilever	 PLC	 for	 the	 year	 ended	 31	 December	 2011	
and	 on	 the	 information	 in	 the	 Directors’	 Remuneration	 Report	 that	
is	 described	 as	 having	 been	 audited.
John Baker 
(Senior	 Statutory	 Auditor)
for	 and	 on	 behalf	 of	 PricewaterhouseCoopers	 LLP
Chartered	 Accountants	 and	 Statutory	 Auditors
London
28	 February	 2012
Independent auditor’s report to the members  
of Unilever PLC
We	 have	 audited	 the	 group	 financial	 statements	 of	 Unilever	 Group	
for	 the	 year	 ended	 31	 December	 2011	 which	 comprise	 the	
consolidated	 income	 statement,	 consolidated	 statement	 of	
comprehensive	 income,	 consolidated	 statement	 of	 changes	 in	
equity,	 consolidated	 balance	 sheet,	 consolidated	 cash	 flow	
statement,	 and	 the	 related	 notes	 on	 pages	 64	 to	 110.	 The	 financial	
reporting	 framework	 that	 has	 been	 applied	 in	 their	 preparation	 is	
applicable	 law	 and	 International	 Financial	 Reporting	 Standards	
(IFRSs)	 as	 adopted	 by	 the	 European	 Union.	
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors 
As	 explained	 more	 fully	 in	 the	 Statement	 of	 Directors’	
responsibilities	 set	 out	 on	 page	 61,	 the	 Directors	 are	 responsible	
for	 the	 preparation	 of	 the	 group	 financial	 statements	 and	 for	 being	
satisfied	 that	 they	 give	 a	 true	 and	 fair	 view.	 Our	 responsibility	 is	 to	
audit	 and	 express	 an	 opinion	 on	 the	 group	 financial	 statements	 in	
accordance	 with	 applicable	 law	 and	 International	 Standards	 on	
Auditing	 (UK	 and	 Ireland).	 Those	 standards	 require	 us	 to	 comply	
with	 the	 Auditing	 Practices	 Board’s	 Ethical	 Standards	 for	
Auditors.	
This	 report,	 including	 the	 opinions,	 has	 been	 prepared	 for	 and	
only	 for	 the	 parent	 company’s	 members	 as	 a	 body	 in	 accordance	
with	 Chapter	 3	 of	 Part	 16	 of	 the	 Companies	 Act	 2006	 and	 for	 no	
other	 purpose.	 We	 do	 not,	 in	 giving	 these	 opinions,	 accept	 or	
assume	 responsibility	 for	 any	 other	 purpose	 or	 to	 any	 other	
person	 to	 whom	 this	 report	 is	 shown	 or	 into	 whose	 hands	 it	 may	
come	 save	 where	 expressly	 agreed	 by	 our	 prior	 consent	 in	 writing.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
An	 audit	 involves	 obtaining	 evidence	 about	 the	 amounts	 and	
disclosures	 in	 the	 financial	 statements	 sufficient	 to	 give	
reasonable	 assurance	 that	 the	 group	 financial	 statements	 are	
free	 from	 material	 misstatement,	 whether	 caused	 by	 fraud	 or	
error.	 This	 includes	 an	 assessment	 of:	 whether	 the	 accounting	
policies	 are	 appropriate	 to	 the	 Group’s	 circumstances	 and	 have	
been	 consistently	 applied	 and	 adequately	 disclosed;	 the	
reasonableness	 of	 significant	 accounting	 estimates	 made	 by	 the	
Directors;	 and	 the	 overall	 presentation	 of	 the	 group	 financial	
statements.	 In	 addition,	 we	 read	 all	 the	 financial	 and	 non-financial	
information	 in	 the	 Annual	 Report	 and	 Accounts	 2011	 to	 identify	
material	 inconsistencies	 with	 the	 audited	 financial	 statements.	 If	
we	 become	 aware	 of	 any	 apparent	 material	 misstatements	 or	
inconsistencies	 we	 consider	 the	 implications	 for	 our	 report.
Unilever	 Annual	 Report	 and	 Accounts	 2011
Financial statements
63
AUDITOR’S REPORT UNITED	 KINGDOM Consolidated income statement
for	 the	 year	 ended	 31	 December
€ million
2011
€	 million
2010
€	 million
2009
Turnover 2 46,467 44,262 39,823
Operating profit 2 6,433 6,339 5,020
After	 (charging)/crediting:
Restructuring	3 (612) (589) (897)
Business	 disposals,	 impairments	 and	 other	 one-off	 items	3 144 308 29
Net	 finance	 costs	5 (377) (394) (593)
Finance	 income 92 77 75
Finance	 costs (540) (491) (504)
Pensions	 and	 similar	 obligations 71 20 (164)
Share	 of	 net	 profit/(loss)	 of	 joint	 ventures	 and	 associates	11 113 111 115
Other	 income	 from	 non-current	 investments	15A 76 76 374
Profit before taxation 6,245 6,132 4,916
Taxation	6 (1,622) (1,534) (1,257)
Net profit 4,623 4,598 3,659
Attributable	 to:
Non-controlling	 interests 371 354 289
Shareholders’	 equity 4,252 4,244 3,370
Combined earnings per share 7
Basic	 earnings	 per	 share	 (€) 1.51 1.51 1.21
Diluted	 earnings	 per	 share	 (€) 1.46 1.46 1.17
References	 in	 the	 consolidated	 income	 statement,	 consolidated	 statement	 of	 comprehensive	 income,	 consolidated	 statement	 of	
changes	 in equity,	 consolidated	 balance	 sheet	 and	 consolidated	 cash	 flow	 statement	 relate	 to	 notes	 on	 pages	 68	 to	 108,	 which	 form	
an	 integral	 part	 of the consolidated	 financial	 statements.
Unilever	 Annual	 Report	 and	 Accounts	 2011
Financial statements
64
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS UNILEVER	 GROUP Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
for	 the	 year	 ended	 31	 December
€ million
2011
€	 million
2010
€	 million
2009
Fair	 value	 gains/(losses)	 on	 financial	 instruments	 net	 of	 tax:
On	 cash	 flow	 hedges (148) 41 40
On	 available-for-sale	 financial	 assets (20) 2 65
Actuarial	 gains/(losses)	 on	 pension	 schemes	 net	 of	 tax (1,243) 105 18
Currency	 retranslation	 gains/(losses)	 net	 of	 tax
(a)
(703) 460 396
Other comprehensive income (2,114) 608 519
Net	 profit 4,623 4,598 3,659
Total comprehensive income	18 2,509 5,206 4,178
Attributable	 to:
Non-controlling	 interests 314 412 301
Shareholders’	 equity 2,195 4,794 3,877
(a)
	Includes 	 fair	 value	 gains/(losses)	 on	 net	 investment	 hedges	 of	 €45	 million	 (2010:	 €107	 million;	 2009:	 	 €(58)	 million).
Consolidated statement of changes in equity
for	 the	 year	 ended	 31	 December
	
€ million
2011
€	 million
2010
€	 million
2009
Equity	 at	 1	 January 15,078 12,536 10,372
Total	 comprehensive	 income	 for	 the	 year 2,509 5,206 4,178
Dividends	 on	 ordinary	 capital (2,487) (2,309) (2,115)
Movement	 in	 treasury	 stock 48 (126) 129
Share-based	 payment	 credit 105 144 195
Dividends	 paid	 to	 minority	 shareholders (288) (289) (244)
Currency	 retranslation	 gains/(losses)	 net	 of	 tax (1) 2 3
Other	 movements	 in	 equity (43) (86) 18
Equity	 at	 31	 December	18 14,921 15,078 12,536
For	 further	 information	 on	 movements	 in	 equity	 please	 refer	 to	 note	 18	 on	 pages	 100	 and	 101.
65 Unilever	 Annual	 Report	 and	 Accounts	 2011
Financial statements Consolidated balance sheet
as	 at	 31	 December
€ million
2011
€	 million
2010
Assets
Non-current assets
Goodwill	9 14,896 13,143
Intangible	 assets	9 7,017 5,090
Property,	 plant	 and	 equipment	10 8,774 7,854
Pension	 asset	 for	 funded	 schemes	 in	 surplus	4B 1,003 910
Deferred	 tax	 assets	6B 421 607
Financial	 assets	 15A 478 511
Other	 non-current	 assets	11 632 523
 33,221 28,638
Current assets
Inventories	12 4,601 4,307
Trade	 and	 other	 current	 receivables	13 4,513 4,142
Current	 tax	 assets	 219 298
Cash	 and	 cash	 equivalents	15A 3,484 2,316
Other	 financial	 assets	15A 1,453 550
Non-current	 assets	 held	 for	 sale	22 21 921
 14,291 12,534
Total assets 47,512 41,172
Liabilities 
Current liabilities
Financial	 liabilities	15B 5,840 2,276
Trade	 payables	 and	 other	 current	 liabilities	14 10,971 10,239
Current	 tax	 liabilities 725 642
Provisions	17 393 421
Liabilities	 associated	 with	 assets	 held	 for	 sale	22 – 30
 17,929 13,608
Non-current liabilities
Financial	 liabilities	15B 7,878 7,258
Non-current	 tax	 liabilities 258 184
Pensions	 and	 post-retirement	 healthcare	 liabilities:
Funded	 schemes	 in	 deficit	4B 2,295 1,081
Unfunded	 schemes	4B 1,911 1,899
Provisions	17 908 886
Deferred	 tax	 liabilities	6B 1,125 880
Other	 non-current	 liabilities	14 287 298
 14,662 12,486
Total liabilities 32,591 26,094
Equity
Shareholders’ equity
Called	 up	 share	 capital	18 484 484
Share	 premium	18 137 134
Other	 reserves	18 (6,004) (5,406)
Retained	 profit	18 19,676 19,273
Shareholders’ equity 14,293 14,485
Non-controlling	 interests	18 628 593
Total equity  14,921 15,078
Total liabilities and equity 47,512 41,172
These	 financial	 statements,	 together	 with	 the	 Report	 of	 the	 Directors,	 have	 been	 approved	 by	 the	 Directors.
The Board of Directors
28	 February	 2012
	 	 	
66 Unilever	 Annual	 Report	 and	 Accounts	 2011
Financial statements
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS UNILEVER	 GROUP	 continued Consolidated cash flow statement
for	 the	 year	 ended	 31	 December
€ million
2011
€	 million
2010
€	 million
2009
Net	 profit 4,623 4,598 3,659
Taxation 1,622 1,534 1,257
Share	 of	 net	 profit	 of	 joint	 ventures/associates	 and	 other	 income	 from	 non-current	 investments (189) (187) (489)
Net	 finance	 costs: 377 394 593
Finance	 income (92) (77) (75)
Finance	 cost 540 491 504
Pensions	 and	 similar	 obligations (71) (20) 164
Operating	 profit 6,433 6,339 5,020
Depreciation,	 amortisation	 and	 impairment 1,029 993 1,032
Changes	 in	 working	 capital: (177) 169 1,701
Inventories (219) (573) 473
Trade	 and	 other	 current	 receivables (399) (343) 640
Trade	 payables	 and	 other	 liabilities 441 1,085 588
Pensions	 and	 similar	 obligations	 less	 payments (553) (472) (1,028)
Provisions	 less	 payments 9 72 (258)
Elimination	 of	 (profits)/losses	 on	 disposals (215) (476) 13
Non-cash	 charge	 for	 share-based	 compensation 105 144 195
Other	 adjustments 8 49 58
Cash	 flow	 from	 operating	 activities	 6,639 6,818 6,733
Income	 tax	 paid (1,187) (1,328) (959)
Net cash flow from operating activities 5,452 5,490 5,774
Interest	 received 93 70 73
Purchase	 of	 intangible	 assets (264) (177) (121)
Purchase	 of	 property,	 plant	 and	 equipment (1,835) (1,638) (1,248)
Disposal	 of	 property,	 plant	 and	 equipment 125 114 111
Acquisition	 of	 group	 companies,	 joint	 ventures	 and	 associates (3,098) (1,252) (409)
Disposal	 of	 group	 companies,	 joint	 ventures	 and	 associates 1,378 891 270
Acquisition	 of	 other	 non-current	 investments (88) (85) (95)
Disposal	 of	 other	 non-current	 investments 178 151 224
Dividends	 from	 joint	 ventures,	 associates	 and	 other	 non-current	 investments 116 184 201
(Purchase)/sale	 of	 financial	 assets (1,072) 578 (269)
Net cash flow (used in)/from investing activities (4,467) (1,164) (1,263)
Dividends	 paid	 on	 ordinary	 share	 capital (2,485) (2,323) (2,106)
Interest	 and	 preference	 dividends	 paid (496) (494) (517)
Net	 change	 in	 short-term	 borrowings 1,261 (46) (227)
Additional	 financial	 liabilities	 3,419 86 3,140
Repayment	 of	 financial	 liabilities (907) (1,391) (4,456)
Capital	 element	 of	 finance	 lease	 rental	 payments (16) (22) (24)
Other	 movements	 on	 treasury	 stock 30 (124) 103
Other	 financing	 activities (395) (295) (214)
Net cash flow (used in)/from financing activities 411 (4,609) (4,301)
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 1,396 (283) 210
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 1,966 2,397 2,360
Effect	 of	 foreign	 exchange	 rate	 changes (384) (148) (173)
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 15 2,978 1,966 2,397
The	 cash	 flows	 of	 pension	 funds	 (other	 than	 contributions	 and	 other	 direct	 payments	 made	 by	 the	 Group	 in	 respect	 of	 pensions	 and	
similar	 obligations)	 are	 not	 included	 in	 the	 Group	 cash	 flow	 statement.
67 Unilever	 Annual	 Report	 and	 Accounts	 2011
Financial statements Balance sheet presentation
The presentation of the balance sheet has been changed in 2011 to 
remove the sub-totals titled ‘Total assets less current liabilities’ 
and ‘Total capital employed’, instead including sub-totals titled 
‘Total assets’ and ‘Total liabilities and equity’. This change 
provides information that is clearer and more relevant. 
Comparative information has been reclassified. 
Foreign currencies
The consolidated financial statements are presented in euros. 
The functional currencies of NV and PLC are euros and sterling 
respectively. Items included in the financial statements of 
individual group companies are recorded in their respective 
functional currency which is the currency of the primary 
economic environment in which each entity operates.
Foreign currency transactions in individual group companies are 
translated into functional currency using exchange rates at the 
date of the transaction. Foreign exchange gains and losses from 
settlement of these transactions, and from translation of 
monetary assets and liabilities at year-end exchange rates, are 
recognised in the income statement except when deferred in 
equity as qualifying hedges. 
In preparing the consolidated financial statements, the balances 
in individual group companies are translated from their functional 
currency into euros. The income statement, the cash flow 
statement and all other movements in assets and liabilities are 
translated at average rates of exchange as a proxy for the 
transaction rate, or at the transaction rate itself if more 
appropriate. Assets and liabilities are translated at year-end 
exchange rates.
The ordinary share capital of NV and PLC is translated in 
accordance with the Equalisation Agreement. The difference 
between the value for PLC and the value by applying the year-end 
rate of exchange is taken to other reserves (see note 18 on  
page 101).
The effect of exchange rate changes during the year on net assets 
of foreign operations is recorded in equity. For this purpose net 
assets include loans between group companies and any related 
foreign exchange contracts where settlement is neither planned 
nor likely to occur in the foreseeable future.
 
The Group applies hedge accounting to exchange differences 
arising between the functional currency of a foreign operation and 
the euro, regardless of whether the net investment is held directly 
or through an intermediate parent. Differences arising on 
retranslation of a financial liability designated as a foreign 
currency net investment hedge are recorded in equity to the 
extent that the hedge is effective. These differences are reported 
within profit or loss to the extent that the hedge is ineffective.
Cumulative exchange differences arising since the date of 
transition to IFRS of 1 January 2004 are reported as a separate 
component of other reserves (see note 18 on page 101). In the 
event of disposal or part disposal of an interest in a group 
company either through sale or as a result of a repayment of 
capital, the cumulative exchange difference is recognised in the 
income statement as part of the profit or loss on disposal of group 
companies.
1. Accounting information and policies
The accounting policies adopted are the same as those which 
were applied for the previous financial year, except as set out 
below under the heading ‘Recent accounting developments’.
Unilever
The two parent companies, NV and PLC, together with their group 
companies, operate as a single economic entity (the Unilever 
Group, also referred to as Unilever or the Group). NV and PLC 
have the same Directors and are linked by a series of agreements, 
including an Equalisation Agreement, which are designed so that 
the positions of the shareholders of both companies are as closely 
as possible the same as if they held shares in a single company.
The Equalisation Agreement provides that both companies adopt 
the same accounting principles. It also requires that dividends 
and other rights and benefits attaching to each ordinary share of 
NV, be equal in value to those rights and benefits attaching to each 
ordinary share of PLC, as if each such unit of capital formed part 
of the ordinary capital of one and the same company. 
Basis of consolidation
Due to the operational and contractual arrangements referred to 
above, NV and PLC form a single reporting entity for the purposes 
of presenting consolidated financial statements. Accordingly, the 
financial statements of Unilever are presented by both NV and 
PLC as their respective consolidated financial statements. Group 
companies included in the consolidation are those companies 
controlled by NV or PLC. Control exists when the Group has the 
power to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so 
as to obtain benefits from its activities.
The net assets and results of acquired businesses are included in 
the consolidated financial statements from their respective dates 
of acquisition, being the date on which the Group obtains control. 
The results of disposed businesses are included in the 
consolidated financial statements up to their date of disposal, 
being the date control ceases.
Intra-group transactions and balances are eliminated.
Companies legislation and accounting standards
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in 
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards 
(IFRS) as adopted by the European Union (EU), IFRIC 
Interpretations and in accordance with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Civil 
Code in the Netherlands and the United Kingdom Companies Act 
2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS. They are also 
in compliance with IFRS as issued by the International Accounting 
Standards Board.
These financial statements are prepared under the historical cost 
convention unless otherwise indicated.
Accounting policies
Accounting policies are included in the relevant notes to the 
consolidated financial statements and have been highlighted 
with blue shading and a vertical green bar on the left. The 
accounting policies below are applied throughout the financial 
statements.
68 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Financial statements
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS UNILEVER GROUP • IFRS 9 ‘Financial instruments’, replaces the current 
classification and measurement models for financial assets 
with two classification categories: amortised cost and fair 
value. Classification is driven by the business model for 
managing the assets and the contractual cash flow 
characteristics. Financial liabilities are not affected by the 
changes. Effective from 1 January 2015.
• IFRS 10 ‘Consolidated financial statements’ replaces current 
guidance on control and consolidation. The core principle that 
a consolidated entity presents a parent and its subsidiaries as 
if they were a single entity remains unchanged, as do the 
mechanics of consolidation.
• IFRS 11 ‘Joint arrangements’ requires joint arrangements 
to be accounted for as a joint operation or as a joint venture 
depending on the rights and obligations of each party to the 
arrangement. Equity accounting for joint ventures, already 
used by Unilever, will become mandatory. 
• IFRS 12 ‘Disclosure of interests in other entities’ requires 
enhanced disclosures of the nature, risks and financial effects 
associated with the Group’s interests in subsidiaries, 
associates, joint arrangements and unconsolidated structured 
entities. 
• IFRS 13 ‘Fair value measurement’ explains how to measure 
fair value and enhances fair value disclosures. The standard 
does not significantly change the measurement of fair value 
but codifies it in one place.
• IAS 19 ‘Employee benefits (Revised)’ changes a number of 
disclosure requirements for post-employment arrangements 
and restricts the accounting options available for defined 
benefit pension plans. The return on pension plan assets and 
finance charge will be replaced by a net interest expense or 
income, calculated by applying the liability discount rate to the 
net defined benefit asset or liability. The Group expects this 
change will result in an increase in finance costs but will not 
impact the group’s net assets.
• Amendments to IAS 1 ‘Presentation of items of other 
comprehensive income’ will result in items of other 
comprehensive income that may be reclassified to profit or 
loss being presented separately from items that would never 
be reclassified. Effective from 1 July 2012. 
• IAS 27 ‘Separate financial statements (Revised)’. The standard 
is revised to reflect the issue of IFRS 10. 
• IAS 28 ‘Investments in associates and joint ventures (Revised)’. 
The standard is revised to reflect the issue of IFRS 11. 
• Amendments to IAS 32 ‘Financial instruments: Presentation’ 
(Effective from 1 January 2014) and IFRS 7 ‘Financial 
instruments: Disclosures’ (Effective from 1 January 2013)
provide additional guidance on when financial assets and 
liabilities may be offset.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements
The preparation of financial statements requires management to 
make judgements, estimates and assumptions in the application 
of accounting policies that affect the reported amounts of assets, 
liabilities, income and expenses. Actual results may differ from 
these estimates. Estimates and judgements are continuously 
evaluated and are based on historical experience and other 
factors, including expectations of future events that are believed 
to be reasonable. Revisions to accounting estimates are 
recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised and in 
any future period affected.
Information about critical judgements in applying accounting 
policies, as well as estimates and assumptions that have the most 
significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying 
amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year, are 
included in the following notes:
• Separate presentation of items in the income statement  
– note 3
• Measurement of defined benefit obligations – note 4B
• Key assumptions used in discounted cash flow projections  
– note 9
• Utilisation of tax losses and recognition of other deferred tax 
assets – note 6B
• Likelihood of occurrence of provisions and contingencies, 
including tax investigations and audits – notes 17 and 20
• Measurement of consideration and assets and liabilities 
acquired as part of business combinations – note 21
Recent accounting developments
Adopted by the Group
The following amended standards are relevant to the Group and 
have been adopted for the first time in these financial statements, 
with no material impact:
• Amendments to IAS 1 ‘Presentation of financial statements’ 
• Amendments to IFRS 3 ‘Business combinations’
• Amendments to IFRS 7 ‘Financial instruments disclosures’
• IAS 24 ‘Related party disclosures (Revised)’ 
• Amendments to IFRIC 14 ‘Prepayments of a minimum funding 
requirement’
Not adopted by the Group
The Group is currently assessing the impact of the following new 
standards and amendments that are not yet effective. 
The Group does not currently believe adoption of these standards 
would have a material impact on the consolidated results or 
financial position of the Group. All of the following new standards 
and amendments are effective from 1 January 2013 unless 
otherwise stated. Standards have not yet been endorsed by the EU 
unless otherwise stated.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Financial statements
69 2. Segment information
Segmental reporting
Our operating and reportable segments are the three operating regions of Asia, Africa and Central & Eastern Europe (Asia Africa 
CEE), The Americas and Western Europe. Additional information is provided by product category area; our products are sold 
across all operating regions. 
Revenue recognition 
Turnover comprises sales of goods and services after the deduction of discounts, sales taxes and estimated returns. It does not 
include sales between group companies. Discounts given by Unilever include rebates, price reductions and incentives given to 
customers, promotional couponing and trade communication costs.
Turnover is recognised when the risks and rewards of the underlying products and services have been substantially transferred to 
the customer. Depending on individual customer terms, this can be at the time of dispatch, delivery or upon formal customer 
acceptance. Revenue from services is recognised as the services are performed.
The analysis of turnover by geographical area is stated on the basis of origin. Inter-segment sales are carried out at arm’s length and 
were not material. Other non-cash charges include charges to the income statement during the year in respect of the share-based 
compensation, impairment and provisions. Segment results are presented on the basis of operating profit.
€ million
Asia Africa
CEE
€ million
The
Americas
€ million
Western
Europe
€ million
 
Total 
2011
Turnover 18,947  15,251  12,269  46,467 
Operating profit 2,216  2,250  1,967  6,433 
Restructuring, disposals, impairments and other one-off items (RDIs)
(a)
 (195) (131) (142) (468)
Operating profit before RDIs 2,411  2,381  2,109  6,901 
Share of net profit/(loss) of joint ventures and associates (1) 67  47  113 
Depreciation and amortisation (353) (286) (390) (1,029)
Impairment and other non-cash charges (100) (315) (196) (611)
2010
Turnover 17,685 14,562 12,015 44,262
Operating profit 2,253 2,169 1,917 6,339
Restructuring, disposals, impairments and other one-off items (RDIs)
(a)
(108) (159) (14) (281)
Operating profit before RDIs 2,361 2,328 1,931 6,620
Share of net profit/(loss) of joint ventures and associates (1) 69 43 111
Depreciation and amortisation (323) (292) (378) (993)
Impairment and other non-cash charges (48) (188) (290) (526)
2009
Turnover 14,897 12,850 12,076 39,823
Operating profit 1,927 1,843 1,250 5,020
Restructuring, disposals, impairments and other one-off items (RDIs)
(a)
(147) (231) (490) (868)
Operating profit before RDIs 2,074 2,074 1,740 5,888
Share of net profit/(loss) of joint ventures and associates – 62 53 115
Depreciation and amortisation (301) (311) (407) (1,019)
Impairment and other non-cash charges (111) (196) (194) (501)
(a)
 Restructuring, disposals, impairments and other one-off items. See note 3 for further information.
70 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Financial statements
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS UNILEVER GROUP continued 2. Segment information continued
The home countries of the Unilever Group are the Netherlands and the United Kingdom. Turnover and non-current assets (other than 
financial assets, deferred tax assets and pension assets for funded schemes in surplus) for these two countries combined, the USA and 
Brazil (being the two largest countries outside the home countries) and all other countries are:
2011
€ million
Netherlands/
United
Kingdom
€ million
USA
€ million
Brazil
€ million
All other
countries
€ million
Total
Turnover 3,693 6,889  3,644  32,241  46,467 
Non-current assets 2,915 9,286  2,525  16,593  31,319 
2010
Turnover 3,490 6,725 3,502 30,545 44,262
Non-current assets 2,602 5,960 2,681 15,367 26,610
2009
Turnover 3,384 6,332 2,796 27,311 39,823
Non-current assets 2,434  5,498  2,412  13,879  24,223 
No other country had turnover or non-current assets (as shown above) greater than 10% of the Group total.
Additional information by product area
Although the Group’s operations are managed on a geographical basis, we provide additional information based on brands grouped into 
four principal areas, as set out below.
Personal Care – including sales of skin care and hair care products, deodorants and oral care products.
Home Care – including sales of home care products, such as laundry tablets, powders and liquids, soap bars and a wide range of 
cleaning products.
Foods – including sales of soups, bouillons, sauces, snacks, mayonnaise, salad dressings, margarines and spreads, and cooking 
products such as liquid margarines.
Refreshment – including sales of ice cream, tea-based beverages, weight-management products, and nutritionally enhanced staples 
sold in developing markets.
2011
€ million
Foods
€ million
Refreshment
€ million
Personal 
Care
€ million 
Home Care
€ million
Total
Turnover 13,986  8,804  15,471  8,206  46,467 
Operating profit 2,693  723  2,536  481  6,433 
Share of net profit/(loss) of joint ventures and associates 7  98  5  3  113 
2010
Turnover 14,164 8,605 13,767 7,726 44,262
Operating profit 2,846 724 2,296 473 6,339
Share of net profit/(loss) of joint ventures and associates 18 92 7 (6) 111
2009
Turnover 13,256 7,753 11,846 6,968 39,823
Operating profit 1,840 731 1,834 615 5,020
Share of net profit/(loss) of joint ventures and associates 14 87 4 10 115
71 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Financial statements 3. Gross profit and operating costs
Research and market support costs
Expenditure on research and market support, such as advertising, is charged to the income statement as incurred.
Restructuring, business disposals, impairment and other one-off items
On the face of the income statement, costs and revenues relating to restructuring, business disposals and impairments are 
disclosed. In addition, individual items judged to be significant are disclosed separately. These items are material in terms of 
nature and/or amount. 
Restructuring costs are incurred as Unilever continues to simplify the organisation, reorganise operations and support functions 
and redevelop the portfolio. They primarily relate to redundancy and retirement costs. Business disposals generate both gains and 
losses which are not reflective of underlying performance. Acquisition and integration costs are one-off expenses incurred in 
relation to the acquired businesses.
€ million
2011
€ million
2010
€ million
2009
Turnover 46,467 44,262 39,823
Cost of sales
(a)
 (27,930) (25,890) (23,182)
Gross profit 18,537  18,372  16,641 
Selling and administrative expenses
(a)
 (12,104) (12,033) (11,621)
Operating profit 6,433 6,339 5,020
(a)
 During 2011 the Group reassessed the presentation of distribution costs which in prior years have been presented within selling and administrative 
expenses. These are considered to be more appropriately recorded in cost of sales. The comparative information for 2010 and 2009 has been reclassified 
accordingly. In addition, in 2010 €179 million has been reclassified between cost of sales and selling and administrative expenses. The 2009 impact is not 
significant and has not been reclassified. There was no impact on operating profit in 2010 or 2009. 
The following items are disclosed on the face of the income statement to provide additional information to users to help them better 
understand underlying business performance.
€ million
2011
€ million
2010
€ million
2009
Restructuring (612) (589) (897)
Business disposals, impairments and other one-off items: 144 308 29
Gain/(loss) on disposals of group companies 221 468 4
Impairments – – –
Past service credit for UK pension plan 153 – –
(Provision for)/release of Brazilian sales tax – – 25
(Provision for)/release of EU competition investigations 4 (110) –
Acquisition and integration costs (234) (50) –
Other items within operating costs include:
€ million
2011
€ million
2010
€ million
2009
Staff costs 4 (5,345) (5,599) (5,223)
Distribution costs (3,080) (3,015) (2,602)
Raw and packaging materials and goods purchased for resale (19,253) (17,636) (15,267)
Amortisation of finite-lived intangible assets and software (191) (174) (168)
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment (838) (819) (851)
Advertising and promotions (6,069) (6,064) (5,302)
Research and development (1,009) (928) (891)
Exchange gains/(losses): (9) 7 (33)
On underlying transactions (45) (36) (19)
On covering forward contracts 36 43 (14)
Lease rentals: (452) (465) (472)
Minimum operating lease payments (456) (465) (475)
Contingent operating lease payments (3) (4) (3)
Less: Sub-lease income relating to operating lease agreements 7 4 6
72 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Financial statements
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS UNILEVER GROUP continued 4. Employees 
4A. Staff and management costs
Staff costs
€ million
2011
€ million
2010
€ million
2009
Remuneration of employees (4,596) (4,572) (4,162)
Pensions and other post-employment benefits (17) (276) (256)
Social security costs (627) (607) (610)
Share-based compensation costs (105) (144) (195)
(5,345) (5,599) (5,223)
 Average number of employees during the year
’000
2011
’000
2010
’000
2009
Asia Africa CEE 98 96 98
The Americas 42 40 41
Western Europe 29 29 29
169 165 168
Key management compensation
€ million
2011
€ million
2010
€ million
2009
Salaries and short-term employee benefits (15) (17) (13)
Non-Executive Directors’ fees (2) (2) (2)
Post-employment benefits (2) (2) (2)
Share-based benefits (11) (10) (7)
(30) (31) (24)
Of which:
Executive Directors (10) (7) (7)
Non-Executive Directors (2) (2) (2)
Other (18) (22) (15)
(30) (31) (24)
Key management personnel are defined as the members of the Unilever Leadership Executive (ULE) and the Non-Executive Directors.
Details of the remuneration of Directors are given in the parts noted as audited in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 50 to 59. 
4B. Pensions and similar obligations
For defined benefit plans, operating and financing costs are recognised separately in the income statement. The amount charged 
to operating cost in the income statement is the cost of accruing pension benefits promised to employees over the year, plus the 
costs of individual events such as past service benefit enhancements, settlements and curtailments (such events are recognised 
immediately in the income statement). The amount charged or credited to financing costs includes a credit equivalent to the 
Group’s expected return on the pension plans’ assets over the year, offset by a charge equal to the expected increase in the plans’ 
liabilities over the year due to the passage of time. Any differences between the expected return on assets and the return actually 
achieved, and any changes in the liabilities over the year due to changes in assumptions or experience within the plans, are 
recognised immediately in the statement of comprehensive income.
The defined benefit plan surplus or deficit in the balance sheet comprises the total for each plan of the fair value of plan assets less 
the present value of the defined benefit obligation (using a discount rate based on high quality corporate bonds).
All defined benefit plans are subject to regular actuarial review using the projected unit method, either by external consultants or 
by actuaries employed by Unilever. The Group policy is that the most important plans, representing approximately 80% of the 
defined benefit liabilities, are formally valued every year. Other principal plans, accounting for approximately a further 15% of 
liabilities, have their liabilities updated each year. Group policy for the remaining plans requires a full actuarial valuation at least 
every three years. Asset values for all plans are updated every year.
For defined contribution plans, the charges to the income statement are the company contributions payable, as the company’s 
obligation is limited to contributions paid into the plans. The assets and liabilities of such plans are not included in the balance 
sheet of the Group.
73 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Financial statements 4B. Pensions and similar obligations continued
Description of plans
In many countries the Group operates defined benefit pension plans based on employee pensionable remuneration and length of 
service. The majority of these plans are externally funded. The Group also provides other post-employment benefits, mainly post-
employment healthcare plans in the United States. These plans are predominantly unfunded. The Group also operates a number of 
defined contribution plans, the assets of which are held in external funds.
The majority of the Group’s externally funded plans are established as trusts, foundations or similar entities. The operation of these 
entities is governed by local regulations and practice in each country, as is the nature of the relationship between the Group and the 
trustees (or equivalent) and their composition.
Investment strategy
The Group’s investment strategy in respect of its funded pension plans is implemented within the framework of the various statutory 
requirements of the territories where the plans are based. The Group has developed policy guidelines for the allocation of assets to 
different classes with the objective of controlling risk and maintaining the right balance between risk and long-term returns in order to 
limit the cost to the Group of the benefits provided. To achieve this, investments are well diversified, such that the failure of any single 
investment would not have a material impact on the overall level of assets. The plans invest the largest proportion of the assets in 
equities which the Group believes offer the best returns over the long term commensurate with an acceptable level of risk. The pension 
funds also have a proportion of assets invested in property, bonds, alternative assets and cash. The majority of assets are managed by 
a number of external fund managers with a small proportion managed in-house. Unilever has a pooled investment vehicle (Univest) 
which it believes offers its pension plans around the world a simplified externally managed investment vehicle to implement their 
strategic asset allocation models, currently for bonds, equities and alternative assets. The aim is to provide a high quality, well-
diversified, risk-controlled vehicle.
Assumptions
With the objective of presenting the assets and liabilities of the pensions and other post-employment benefit plans at their fair value on 
the balance sheet, assumptions under IAS 19 are set by reference to market conditions at the valuation date. The actuarial assumptions 
used to calculate the benefit obligations vary according to the country in which the plan is situated. The following table shows the 
assumptions, weighted by liabilities, used to value the principal defined benefit plans (which cover approximately 95% of total pension 
liabilities) and the plans providing other post-employment benefits, and in addition the expected long-term rates of return on assets, 
weighted by asset value.
31 December 2011 31 December 2010
Principal  
defined benefit 
pension plans
Other
post-employment 
benefit plans
Principal  
defined benefit 
pension plans
Other 
post-employment 
benefit plans
Discount rate 4.6% 4.3% 5.2% 5.5%
Inflation 2.5% n/a 2.5% n/a
Rate of increase in salaries 3.4% 3.5% 3.5% 4.0%
Rate of increase for pensions in payment (where provided) 2.4% n/a 2.5% n/a
Rate of increase for pensions in deferment (where provided) 2.6% n/a 2.7% n/a
Long-term medical cost inflation n/a 5.0% n/a 5.0%
Expected long-term rates of return:
Equities 7.2% 7.4%
Bonds 3.8% 4.6%
Property 4.7% 5.9%
Others 6.2% 6.3%
Weighted average asset return 5.6% 6.3%
The valuations of other post-employment benefit plans generally assume a higher initial level of medical cost inflation, which falls from 
7.5% to the long-term rate within the next five years. Assumed healthcare cost trend rates have a significant effect on the amounts 
reported for healthcare plans. A one percentage point change in assumed healthcare cost trend rates would have the following effect:
€ million
1% point increase
€ million
1% point decrease
Effect on total of service and interest cost components 1 (1)
Effect on total benefit obligation 9 (11)
The expected rates of return on plan assets were determined, based on actuarial advice, by a process that takes the long-term rates of 
return on government bonds available at the balance sheet date and applies to these rates suitable risk premiums that take account of 
historic market returns and current market long-term expectations for each asset class.
74 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Financial statements
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS UNILEVER GROUP continued 4B. Pensions and similar obligations continued
For the most important pension plans, representing approximately 80% of all defined benefit plans by liabilities, the assumptions used 
at 31 December 2011 and 2010 were:
United Kingdom Netherlands United States Germany
2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010
Discount rate 4.7% 5.4% 4.5% 4.7% 3.9% 5.2% 4.5% 4.7%
Inflation 3.0% 3.1% 1.8% 1.8% 2.3% 2.3% 1.8% 1.8% 
Rate of increase in salaries 4.0% 4.1% 2.3% 2.3% 3.5% 4.0% 2.8% 2.8%
Rate of increase for pensions in payment 
(where provided) 2.8% 3.0% 1.8% 1.8% – – 1.8% 1.8%
Rate of increase for pensions in deferment 
(where provided) 2.9% 3.1% 1.8% 1.8% – – – –
Expected long-term rates of return:
Equities 7.3% 7.7% 7.0% 7.0% 6.9% 7.4% 7.0% 7.0%
Bonds 3.8% 4.6% 3.5% 4.3% 3.4% 4.4% 3.7% 4.2%
Property 4.8% 6.2% 4.5% 5.5% 4.4% 5.9% 4.5% 5.5%
Others 6.9% 7.1% 5.8% 5.6% 5.4% 1.7% 4.6% 5.5%
Weighted average asset return 6.2% 6.9% 5.0% 5.9% 5.0% 6.2% 4.9% 5.5%
Number of years a current pensioner is 
expected to live beyond age 65: 
Men 21.7 21.5 21.5 21.4 19.0 19.0 19.4 19.0
Women 23.5 23.4 23.3 23.3 20.9 20.9 23.0 23.3
Number of years a future pensioner currently 
aged 45 is expected to live beyond age 65:
Men 23.5 23.3 23.0 23.0 20.6 20.5 19.4 19.0
Women 25.2 25.1 24.2 24.2 22.5 22.4 23.0 23.3
Demographic assumptions, such as mortality rates, are set having regard to the latest trends in life expectancy (including expectations 
of future improvements), plan experience and other relevant data. These assumptions are reviewed and updated as necessary as part 
of the periodic actuarial valuation of the pension plans. The years of life expectancy for 2011 above have been translated from the 
following tables:
(i) UK: the year of use S1 series all pensioners (“S1AP”) tables have been adopted, which are based on the experience of UK pension 
schemes over the period 2000-2006. Scaling factors are applied reflecting the experience of our pension funds appropriate to the 
members’ gender and status. Future improvements in longevity have been allowed for in line with the 2009 CMI Core Projections 
and a 1% pa long-term improvement rate.
(ii) The Netherlands: the Dutch Actuarial Society’s AG Prognosetafel 2010 – 2060 table is used with correction factors to allow for the 
typically longer life expectancy of pension fund members relative to the general population. This table has an in-built allowance for 
future improvements in longevity.
(iii) United States: the table RP-2000 with projected mortality improvement using Projection Scale AA from 2000 to 2018 for annuitants 
and to 2026 for non-annuitants. This table has an in-built allowance for future improvements in longevity.
(iv) Germany: fund specific tables are used which broadly equate to the Heubeck 2005 generational table projected to 2030. 
Assumptions for the remaining defined benefit plans vary considerably, depending on the economic conditions of the countries where 
they are situated.
75 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Financial statements 4B. Pensions and similar obligations continued
Income statement
The charge to the income statement comprises:
 
 
€ million
2011
€ million
2010
€ million
2009
Charged to operating profit:
Defined benefit pension and other benefit plans:
Current service cost (252) (261) (228)
Employee contributions 15 13 12
Special termination benefits (31) (22) (50)
Past service cost 195 60 50
Settlements/curtailments 146 6 20
Defined contribution plans (90) (72) (60)
Total operating cost 4A (17) (276) (256)
Charged to net finance costs:
Interest on retirement benefits (908) (963) (940)
Expected return on assets 979 983 776
Total net finance income/(cost) 5 71 20 (164)
Net impact on the income statement (before tax) 54 (256) (420)
Significant items on the face of the income statement
One-off items in 2011 include a past service credit of €153 million, as Unilever implemented amendments to certain constructive 
obligations in the UK that the company had the discretion to amend, and curtailment credits of €146 million relating to benefit changes 
mainly in the UK, the USA and Canada.
Statement of comprehensive income
Amounts recognised in the statement of comprehensive income comprise:
 
 
 
 
 
€ million
 
 
 
2011
€ million
 
 
 
2010
€ million
 
 
 
2009
€ million
 
 
 
2008
€ million
 
 
 
2007
€ million
Cumulative
1 January
2004 to 
present
Actual return less expected return on pension and other benefit  
plan assets (440) 677 1,277 (4,243) (236) (471)
Experience gains/(losses) arising on pension plan and other  
benefit plan liabilities (74) 197 250 – 103 507
Changes in assumptions underlying the present value of the  
pension and other benefit plan liabilities (1,177) (716) (1,489) 1,116 946 (3,599)
Actuarial gain/(loss) (1,691) 158 38 (3,127) 813 (3,563)
Change in unrecognised surplus – – – – – 103
Refund of unrecognised assets – – – – – 15
Net actuarial gain/(loss) recognised in statement of comprehensive 
income (before tax) (1,691) 158 38 (3,127) 813 (3,445)
76 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Financial statements
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS UNILEVER GROUP continued 4B. Pensions and similar obligations continued
Balance sheet
The assets, liabilities and surplus/(deficit) position of the pension and other post-employment benefit plans and the expected rates of 
return on the plan assets at the balance sheet date were:
31 December 2011 31 December 2010
€ million € million % € million € million %
 
 
Pension
plans
Other post-
employment
benefit
plans
Long-term
rates of
return
expected
 
 
Pension
plans
Other post-
employment
benefit
plans
Long-term
rates of
return
expected
Assets of principal plans:
Equities 6,860 – 7.2% 7,690 – 7.4%
Bonds 6,120 – 3.8% 5,013 – 4.6%
Property 1,007 – 4.7% 915 – 5.9%
Other 1,633 – 6.2% 1,931 – 6.3%
Assets of other plans 417 7 7.9% 419 6 8.3%
16,037 7 – 15,968 6 –
Present value of liabilities:
Principal plans (17,703) – – (16,540) – – 
Other plans (887) (657) – (842) (662) – 
(18,590) (657) – (17,382) (662) – 
Aggregate net deficit of the plans (2,553) (650) – (1,414) (656) – 
Irrecoverable surplus
(a)
– – – – – 
Pension liability net of assets (2,553) (650) – (1,414) (656) – 
Of which in respect of:
Funded plans in surplus:
Liabilities (4,201) – – (5,519) – –
Assets 5,204 – – 6,429 – –
Aggregate surplus 1,003 – – 910 – –
Irrecoverable surplus
(a)
– – – – – –
Pension asset net of liabilities 1,003 – – 910 – –
Funded plans in deficit:
Liabilities (13,101) (34) – (10,592) (34) –
Assets 10,833 7 – 9,539 6 –
Pension liability net of assets (2,268) (27) – (1,053) (28) –
Unfunded plans:
Pension liability (1,288) (623) – (1,271) (628) –
(a)
 A surplus is deemed recoverable to the extent that the Group is able to benefit economically from the surplus.
In 2010, agreement was reached with local insurers to externally insure most of our existing Swedish pension obligation. Consequently,  
€150 million of liabilities were considered settled and removed from the table above. The remaining liability in Sweden of €6 million 
was included in unfunded plans at the end of 2010.
Equity securities include Unilever securities amounting to €41 million (0.3% of total plan assets) and €50 million (0.3% of total plan 
assets) at 31 December 2011 and 2010 respectively. Property includes property occupied by Unilever amounting to €14 million and 
€14 million at 31 December 2011 and 2010 respectively.
The pension assets above exclude the assets in a Special Benefits Trust amounting to €110 million (2010: €128 million) to fund pension 
and similar obligations in the US (see also note 15A on page 91).
The sensitivity of the overall pension liabilities to changes in the weighted key financial assumptions are:
 Change in assumption Impact on overall liabilities
Discount rate Increase/decrease by 0.5% Decrease/increase by 7%
Inflation rate Increase/decrease by 0.5% Increase/decrease by 6%
77 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Financial statements 4B. Pensions and similar obligations continued
Reconciliation of change in assets and liabilities
Movements in assets and liabilities during the year:
 
 
 
€ million
Assets
2011
€ million
Assets
2010
€ million
Assets
2009
€ million
Liabilities
2011
€ million
Liabilities
2010
€ million
Liabilities
2009
1 January 15,974 14,413 11,719 (18,044) (16,995) (15,101)
Acquisitions/disposals 11 3 – (16) (4) –
Current service cost – – – (252) (261) (228)
Employee contributions 15 13 12 – – –
Special termination benefits – – – (31) (22) (50)
Past service costs – – – 195 60 50
Settlements/curtailments – (162) (9) 146 168 29
Expected returns on plan assets 979 983 776 – – –
Interest on pension liabilities – – – (908) (963) (940)
Actuarial gain/(loss) (440) 677 1,277 (1,251) (519) (1,239)
Employer contributions 463 669 1,202 – – –
Benefit payments (1,130) (1,146) (1,204) 1,130 1,146 1,204
Reclassification of benefits
(b)
– 19 – (9) (28) –
Currency retranslation 172 505 640 (207) (626) (720)
31 December 16,044 15,974 14,413 (19,247) (18,044) (16,995)
(b)
 Certain obligations have been reclassified as employee benefit obligations.
The actual return on plan assets during 2011 was €539 million being the sum of €979 million and €(440) million from the table above 
(2010: €1,660 million).
Funded status of plans at the year end
 
 
€ million
2011
€ million
2010
€ million
2009
€ million
2008
€ million
2007
Total assets 16,044 15,974 14,413 11,719 17,253
Total pension liabilities (19,247) (18,044) (16,995) (15,101) (18,342)
Net liabilities (3,203) (2,070) (2,582) (3,382) (1,089)
Less unrecognised surplus – – – – –
Pension liabilities net of assets (3,203) (2,070) (2,582) (3,382) (1,089)
Cash flow
Group cash flow in respect of pensions and similar post-employment benefits comprises company contributions paid to funded plans 
and benefits paid by the company in respect of unfunded plans, as set out in the following table (including the current estimate of 
contributions for 2012): 
 
€ million
2012E
€ million
2011
€ million
2010
€ million
2009
Company contributions to funded plans:
Defined Benefit (DB) 420 297 482 968
Defined Contribution (DC) 110 90 72 60
Benefits paid by the company in respect of unfunded plans:
Defined Benefit (DB) 170 166 187 234
Group cash flow in respect of pensions and similar benefits 700 553 741 1,262
Contributions to funded defined benefit plans are subject to periodic review, taking account of local legislation. 2009 contributions paid 
to funded plans include around €370 million of future years’ contributions accelerated into 2009.
78 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Financial statements
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS UNILEVER GROUP continued 4C. Share-based compensation plans
The fair value of the awards at the grant date is calculated using pricing models and recognised over the vesting period of the 
grant as a remuneration cost with a corresponding increase in equity. The value of the charge is adjusted to reflect expected and 
actual levels of awards vesting, except where the failure to vest is as a result of not meeting a market condition. Cancellations of 
equity instruments are treated as an acceleration of the vesting period and any outstanding charge is recognised in the income 
statement immediately.
As at 31 December 2011, the Group had share-based compensation plans in the form of performance shares, share options and other 
share awards.
The numbers in this note include those for Executive Directors shown in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 50 to 59 and 
those for key management personnel shown in note 4A on page 73. Non-Executive Directors do not participate in any of the share-
based compensation plans.
The charge in each of the last three years is shown below, and relates to equity settled plans:
 
Income statement charge
€ million
2011
€ million
2010
€ million
2009
Performance share plans (93) (120) (166)
Other plans
(a)
(12) (24) (29)
 (105) (144) (195)
(a)
 The Group also provides a Share Matching Plan (no awards after 2011), an All-Employee Share Option Plan and an Executive Option Plan (no awards after 2005).
Performance Share Plans
Performance share awards are made under the Management Co-Investment Plan (MCIP) and the Global Share Incentive Plan (GSIP). 
The MCIP allows Unilever’s managers to invest up to 60% of their annual bonus in shares in Unilever and to receive a corresponding 
award of performance-related shares. Under GSIP Unilever’s managers receive annual awards of NV and PLC shares. The awards 
of both plans will vest after three years between 0% and 200% of grant level, depending on the satisfaction of performance conditions. 
The performance conditions of both MCIP and GSIP are underlying sales growth, operating cash flow and underlying operating margin 
improvement. There is an additional target based on relative total shareholder return (TSR) for senior executives. 
A summary of the status of the Performance Share Plans as at 31 December 2011, 2010 and 2009 and changes during the years ended 
on these dates is presented below:
 
 
 
2011
Number of
shares
2010
Number of
shares
2009
Number of
shares
Outstanding at 1 January 17,240,376 17,536,148 16,353,251
Awarded 9,587,934 9,292,689 8,867,844
Vested (6,688,229) (8,626,746) (6,278,634)
Forfeited (1,497,425) (961,715) (1,406,313)
Outstanding at 31 December 18,642,656 17,240,376 17,536,148
 2011 2010 2009
Share award value information
Fair value per share award during the year €22.91 €21.49 €13.02
Additional information
At 31 December 2011, there were options outstanding to purchase 24,196,358 (2010: 32,928,940) ordinary shares in NV or PLC in respect 
of share-based compensation plans of NV and its subsidiaries and the North American plans, and 10,396,180 (2010: 12,217,128) ordinary 
shares in NV or PLC in respect of share-based compensation plans of PLC and its subsidiaries.
79 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Financial statements 4C. Share-based compensation plans continued
To satisfy the options granted, certain NV group companies hold 33,219,526 (2010: 42,033,393) ordinary shares of NV or PLC, and trusts 
in Jersey and the United Kingdom hold 3,042,111 (2010: 4,838,277) PLC shares. The trustees of these trusts have agreed, until further 
notice, to waive dividends on these shares, save for the nominal sum of 0.01p per 3
1
/9p ordinary share. Shares acquired during 2011 
represent 0.27% of the Group’s called up capital. The balance of shares held in connection with share plans at 31 December 2011 
represented 1.2% (2010: 1.5%) of the Group’s called up capital.
The book value of €799 million (2010: €937 million) of all shares held in respect of share-based compensation plans for both NV and 
PLC is eliminated on consolidation by deduction from other reserves. Their market value at 31 December 2011 was €954 million 
(2010: €1,083 million).
At 31 December 2011 there were no options for which the exercise price was above market price.
Shares held to satisfy options and related trusts are accounted for in accordance with IAS 32 ‘Financial Instruments: Presentation’ and 
SIC 12 ‘Consolidation of Special Purpose Entities’. All differences between the purchase price of the shares held to satisfy options 
granted and the proceeds received for the shares, whether on exercise or lapse, are charged to reserves. The basis of the charge to 
operating profit for the economic value of options granted is discussed on page 79.
Between 31 December 2011 and 28 February 2012, 5,789,685 shares were granted and 75,466 shares were forfeited related to the 
performance share plans.
5. Net finance costs
Net finance costs is the net of finance costs and finance income, including net finance costs in relation to pensions and 
similar obligations.
Finance income includes income on cash and cash equivalents and income on other financial assets. Finance costs include interest 
costs in relation to financial liabilities. 
Borrowing costs which are not capitalised are recognised based on the effective interest method.
Net finance costs
€ million
2011
€ million
2010
€ million
2009
Finance costs (540) (491) (504)
Bank loans and overdrafts (59) (38) (47)
Bonds and other loans (472) (441) (429)
Dividends paid on preference shares (5) (6) (7)
Net gain/(loss) on derivatives for which hedge accounting is not applied
(a)
(4) (6) (21)
On foreign exchange derivatives (379) (601) (168)
Exchange difference on underlying items 375 595 147
Finance income 92 77 75
Pensions and similar obligations
(b)
71 20 (164)
(377) (394) (593)
(a)
 For further details of derivatives for which hedge accounting is not applied please refer to note 16D on page 98.
(b)
 Net finance costs in respect of pensions and similar obligations are analysed in note 4B on page 76.
6. Taxation
6A. Income tax
Income tax on the profit for the year comprises current and deferred tax. Income tax is recognised in the income statement except 
to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the 
balance sheet date, and any adjustments to tax payable in respect of previous years.
80 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Financial statements
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS UNILEVER GROUP continued 6A. Income tax continued
Tax charge in income statement
€ million
2011
€ million
2010
€ million
2009
Current tax
Current year (1,571) (1,479) (1,263)
Over/(under) provided in prior years
(a)
 93 88 151
 (1,478) (1,391) (1,112)
Deferred tax
Origination and reversal of temporary differences (179) (237) (276)
Changes in tax rates 1 (2) 3
Recognition of previously unrecognised losses brought forward 34 96 128
 (144) (143) (145)
 (1,622) (1,534) (1,257)
(a)
 Provisions have been released following the favourable settlement of prior year tax audits in a number of countries, none of which is individually material.
The reconciliation between the computed weighted average rate of income tax expense, which is generally applicable to Unilever 
companies, and the actual rate of taxation charged is as follows:
Reconciliation of effective tax rate
%
2011
%
2010
%
2009
Computed rate of tax
(b)
 27 28 29
Differences due to:
Incentive tax credits (5) (5) (6)
Withholding tax on dividends 2 2 2
Adjustments to previous years (1) (3) (3)
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 1 1 1
Other 2 3 3
Effective tax rate 26 26 26
(b)
 The computed tax rate used is the average of the standard rate of tax applicable in the countries in which Unilever operates, weighted by the amount of profit 
before taxation generated in each of those countries. For this reason the rate may vary from year to year according to the mix of profit and related tax rates.
6B. Deferred tax
Deferred tax is recognised using the liability method on taxable temporary differences between the tax base and the accounting 
base of items included in the balance sheet of the Group. Certain temporary differences are not provided for as follows: 
• goodwill not deductible for tax purposes; 
• the initial recognition of assets or liabilities that affect neither accounting nor taxable profit; and 
• differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that they will probably not reverse in the foreseeable future. 
The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets 
and liabilities, using tax rates enacted, or substantively enacted, at the year end. 
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the 
asset can be utilised. Deferred tax assets are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will be 
realised.
 
 
 
Movements in 2011 and 2010
€ million
As at  
1 January
2011
€ million
 
Income
statement
€ million
 
 
Other
(a)
€ million
As at  
31 December
2011
€ million
As at  
1 January
2010
€ million
 
Income
statement
€ million
 
 
Other
(a)
€ million
As at  
31 December
2010
Pensions and similar obligations 440 (113) 421 748 592 (133) (19) 440
Provisions 701 (45) 5 661 651 10 40 701
Goodwill and intangible assets (1,122) 78 (677) (1,721) (944) (53) (125) (1,122)
Accelerated tax depreciation (540) (60) (68) (668) (525) 12 (27) (540)
Tax losses 117 (21) 4 100 82 27 8 117
Fair value gains (25) (12) 17 (20) (24) – (1) (25)
Fair value losses 13 2 16 31 2 – 11 13
Share-based payments 120 (19) 17 118 146 (25) (1) 120
Other 23 46 (22) 47 (6) 19 10 23
 (273) (144) (287) (704) (26) (143) (104) (273)
(a)
 Of the other movements in deferred tax of €287 million (2010: €104 million), €677 million (2010: €55 million) arose as a result of acquisitions and disposals. 
Of this amount €623 million (2010: €58 million) was as a result of deferred tax arising on goodwill and intangibles assets. The remainder of other movements 
relates to either deferred tax on the components of other comprehensive income of (€453) million (2010: €48 million), or currency retranslation €63 million 
(2010: €1 million).
81 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Financial statements 6B. Deferred tax continued
At the balance sheet date, the Group has unused tax losses of €1,568 million (2010: €1,515 million) and tax credits amounting to 
€39 million (2010: €78 million) available for offset against future taxable profits. Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in 
respect of unused tax losses of €1,191 million (2010: €1,109 million) and tax credits of €38 million (2010: €78 million), as it is not 
probable that there will be future taxable profits within the entities against which the losses can be utilised. The majority of these tax 
losses and credits arise in tax jurisdictions where they do not expire with the exception of €512 million (2010: €524 million) of state  
and federal tax losses in the US which expire between now and 2031.
Other deductible temporary differences of €58 million (2010: €83 million) have not been recognised as a deferred tax asset. There is no 
expiry date for these differences.
At the balance sheet date, the aggregate amount of temporary differences associated with undistributed earnings of subsidiaries for 
which deferred tax liabilities have not been recognised was €1,443 million (2010: €1,633 million). No liability has been recognised in 
respect of these differences because the Group is in a position to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences, and it 
is probable that such differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against 
current tax liabilities and when the deferred income taxes relate to the same fiscal authority. The following amounts, determined after 
appropriate offsetting, are shown in the consolidated balance sheet:
Deferred tax assets and liabilities
€ million
Assets
2011
€ million
Assets
2010
€ million
Liabilities
2011
€ million
Liabilities
2010
€ million
Total
2011
€ million
Total
2010
Pensions and similar obligations 555 556 193 (116) 748 440
Provisions 419 537 242 164 661 701
Goodwill and intangible assets (612) (475) (1,109) (647) (1,721) (1,122)
Accelerated tax depreciation (129) (238) (539) (302) (668) (540)
Tax losses 69 71 31 46 100 117
Fair value gains (1) (18) (19) (7) (20) (25)
Fair value losses 27 1 4 12 31 13
Share-based payments 63 120 55 – 118 120
Other 30 53 17 (30) 47 23
  421 607 (1,125) (880) (704) (273)
Of which deferred tax to be recovered/(settled) after  
more than 12 months 163 296 (1,131) (957) (968) (661)
6C. Tax on other comprehensive income
Income tax is recognised in other comprehensive income for items recognised directly in equity. 
Tax effects of the components of other comprehensive income were as follows:
 
€ million
 
Before
tax
2011
€ million
Tax
charge/
credit
2011
€ million
 
After
tax
2011
€ million
 
Before
tax
2010
€ million
Tax
charge/
credit
2010
€ million
 
After
tax
2010
Fair value gains/(losses) on financial instruments (194) 26  (168) 41 2 43
Actuarial gains/(losses) on pension schemes (1,691) 448  (1,243) 158 (53) 105
Currency redistribution gains/(losses) (713) 10  (703) 460 –  460
82 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Financial statements
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS UNILEVER GROUP continued 7. Combined earnings per share
The calculations of combined earnings per share are based on the net profit attributable to ordinary capital divided by the average 
number of share units representing the combined ordinary share capital of NV and PLC in issue during the year, after deducting 
shares held as treasury stock.
The calculations of diluted earnings per share are based on: (i) conversion into PLC ordinary shares of those shares in a group 
company which are convertible in the year 2038, as described in Corporate governance on page 41; and (ii) the effect of share-
based compensation plans, details of which are set out in note 4C on pages 79 to 80.
Combined earnings per share
€
2011
€
2010
€
2009
Basic earnings per share 1.51 1.51 1.21
Diluted earnings per share 1.46 1.46 1.17
Millions of share units
Calculation of average number of share units 2011 2010 2009
Average number of shares: NV 1,714.7 1,714.7 1,714.7
PLC 1,310.2 1,310.2 1,310.2
Less shares held by employee share trusts and companies (209.0) (212.6) (228.6)
Combined average number of share units 2,815.9 2,812.3 2,796.3
Add shares issuable in 2038 70.9 70.9 70.9
Add dilutive effect of share-based compensation plans 21.3 21.9 22.8
Diluted combined average number of share units 2,908.1 2,905.1 2,890.0
Calculation of earnings
€ million
2011
€ million
2010
€ million
2009
Net profit 4,623 4,598 3,659
Non-controlling interests (371) (354) (289)
Net profit attributable to ordinary capital 4,252 4,244 3,370
8. Dividends on ordinary capital
Dividends are recognised on the date that the shareholder’s right to receive payment is established. This is generally the  
date when the dividend is declared.
Dividends on ordinary capital during the year
€ million
2011
€ million
2010
€ million
2009
NV dividends (1,368) (1,270) (1,203)
PLC dividends (1,119) (1,039) (912)
(2,487) (2,309) (2,115)
Four quarterly interim dividends were declared and paid during 2011. Dividends declared totalled €0.90 (2010: €0.83) per NV ordinary 
share and £0.78 (2010: £0.71) per PLC ordinary share. Dividends paid totalled €0.88 (2010: €0.82) per NV ordinary share and £0.77 
(2010: £0.71) per PLC ordinary share.
Quarterly dividends of €0.225 per NV ordinary share and £0.1879 per PLC ordinary share were declared on 1 February 2012, to be 
payable in March 2012. See note 25 ‘Events after the balance sheet date’ on page 108.
83 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Financial statements 9. Goodwill and intangible assets
Goodwill
Goodwill is initially recognised based on the accounting policy for business combinations, see note 21. Goodwill is subsequently 
measured at cost less amounts provided for impairment.
Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated to the Group’s cash generating units, or groups of cash generating units, 
that are expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination. These might not always be precisely the same as the cash 
generating units that the assets or liabilities of the acquired business are assigned to. Each unit or group of units to which the 
goodwill is allocated represents the lowest level within the Group at which the goodwill is monitored for internal management 
purposes, and is not larger than an operating segment.
Intangible assets
Separately purchased intangible assets are initially measured at cost. On acquisition of new interests in group companies, Unilever 
recognises any specifically identifiable intangible assets separately from goodwill. Intangible assets are initially measured at fair 
value as at the date of acquisition. 
Finite-lived intangible assets mainly comprise patented and non-patented technology, know-how and software. These assets are 
capitalised and amortised on a straight-line basis in the income statement over the period of their expected useful lives, or the 
period of legal rights if shorter. None of the amortisation periods exceeds ten years.
Indefinite-lived intangibles mainly comprise trademarks and brands. These assets are capitalised at cost but are not amortised. 
They are subject to a review for impairment annually, or more frequently if events or circumstances indicate this is necessary. Any 
impairment is charged to the income statement as it arises.
Research and development
Development expenditure is capitalised only if the costs can be reliably measured, future economic benefits are probable, the 
product is technically feasible and the Group has the intent and the resources to complete the project. Research expenditure is 
recognised in profit or loss as incurred.
Movements during 2011
€ million
Goodwill
€ million
Indefinite-
lived
intangible
assets
€ million
Finite-
lived
intangible
assets
€ million
 
 
 
Software
€ million
Total
Cost
1 January 2011 14,150 4,757 644 899 20,450
Acquisitions of group companies 1,677 1,935 15 5 3,632
Disposals of group companies (4) (263) – – (267)
Additions – 8 2 260 270
Disposals – – – (16) (16)
Currency retranslation 106 172 2 4 284
31 December 2011 15,929 6,609 663 1,152 24,353
Amortisation and impairment
1 January 2011 (1,007) (235) (540) (435) (2,217)
Amortisation for the year – – (58) (133) (191)
Disposals – – – 5 5
Currency retranslation (26) (10) (3) 2 (37)
31 December 2011 (1,033) (245) (601) (561) (2,440)
Net book value 31 December 2011 14,896 6,364 62 591 21,913
84 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Financial statements
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS UNILEVER GROUP continued 9. Goodwill and intangible assets continued
Movements during 2010
€ million
Goodwill
€ million
Indefinite-
lived
intangible
assets
€ million
Finite-
lived
intangible
assets
€ million
 
 
 
Software
€ million
Total
Cost
1 January 2010 13,408 4,269 611 687 18,975
Acquisitions of group companies 225 246 1 – 472
Disposals of group companies (222) (1) – – (223)
Reclassed to held for disposal (82) – – – (82)
Additions – 1 1 180 182
Disposals (1) (8) – (16) (25)
Currency retranslation 822 250 31 48 1,151
31 December 2010 14,150 4,757 644 899 20,450
Amortisation and impairment
1 January 2010 (944) (219) (458) (307) (1,928)
Disposal of group companies – – – – –
Amortisation for the year – – (58) (116) (174)
Disposals – – – 6 6
Currency retranslation (63) (16) (24) (18) (121)
31 December 2010 (1,007) (235) (540) (435) (2,217)
Net book value 31 December 2010 13,143 4,522 104 464 18,233
There are no significant carrying amounts of goodwill and intangible assets that are allocated across multiple cash generating units (CGUs).
Impairment charges in the year
There were no material impairments in 2011, 2010 or 2009.
Significant CGUs
The goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets held in the regional Foods CGUs are considered significant in comparison to the total carrying 
amounts of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets at 31 December 2011. No other CGUs are considered significant in this respect.
The goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets held in the regional Foods CGUs are:
€ billion
2011
Goodwill
€ billion
2011
Indefinite- 
lived
intangibles
€ billion
2010
Goodwill
€ billion
2010
Indefinite-
lived
intangibles
Western Europe 5.2 1.4 5.2 1.4
The Americas 4.1 1.5 4.2 1.5
Asia Africa CEE 2.0 0.6 1.8 0.6
During 2011, the Group conducted an impairment review of the carrying value of these assets. Value in use has been calculated as the 
present value of projected future cash flows. A pre-tax discount rate of 7.4% was used.
For the regional Foods CGUs, the following key assumptions were used in the discounted cash flow projections:
Western 
Europe Americas
Asia Africa 
CEE
Longer-term sustainable growth rates 0.2% 1.4% 3.0%
Average near-term nominal growth rates 0.8% 2.9% 7.9%
Average operating margins 19-22% 18-20% 12-14%
The growth rates and margins used to estimate future performance are based on past performance and our experience of growth rates 
and margins achievable in our key markets. 
The projections covered a period of five years, as we believe this to be the most appropriate timescale over which to review and consider 
annual performances before applying a fixed terminal value multiple to the final year cash flows.
The growth rates used are consistent with our annual planning and strategic planning processes.
We have performed sensitivity analyses around the base assumptions and have concluded that no reasonable possible changes in key 
assumptions would cause the recoverable amount of the regional Foods CGUs to be less than the carrying value.
85 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Financial statements 10. Property, plant and equipment 
Property, plant and equipment is measured at cost including eligible borrowing costs less depreciation and accumulated 
impairment losses.
Depreciation is provided on a straight-line basis over the expected average useful lives of the assets. Residual values are reviewed 
at least annually. Estimated useful lives by major class of assets are as follows:
• Freehold buildings (no depreciation on freehold land)  40 years
• Leasehold land and buildings  40 years*
• Plant and equipment  2-20 years
*or life of lease if less
Property, plant and equipment is subject to review for impairment if triggering events or circumstances indicate that this is 
necessary. If an indication of impairment exists, the asset or cash generating unit recoverable amount is estimated and any 
impairment loss is charged to the income statement as it arises.
Movements during 2011
€ million
Land and
buildings
€ million
Plant and
equipment
€ million
Total
Cost
1 January 2011 3,582 11,836 15,418
Acquisitions 76 107 183
Disposals of group companies (36) (86) (122)
Additions 346 1,502 1,848
Disposals (88) (603) (691)
Currency retranslation (51) (177) (228)
Reclassification as held for sale 26 51 77
Other adjustments 20 (38) (18)
31 December 2011 3,875 12,592 16,467
Depreciation
1 January 2011 (1,209) (6,355) (7,564)
Disposals of group companies 12 38 50
Depreciation charge for the year (96) (742) (838)
Disposals 69 515 584
Currency retranslation 1 82 83
Reclassification as held for sale (13) (6) (19)
Other adjustments (1) 12 11
31 December 2011 (1,237) (6,456) (7,693)
Net book value 31 December 2011 2,638 6,136 8,774
(a)
Includes payments on account and assets in course of construction 242 1,169 1,411
Movements during 2010
Cost
1 January 2010 3,237 10,408 13,645
Acquisitions 46 28 74
Disposals of group companies (18) (142) (160)
Additions 215 1,486 1,701
Disposals (65) (496) (561)
Currency retranslation 224 671 895
Reclassification as held for sale (40) (105) (145)
Other adjustments (17) (14) (31)
31 December 2010 3,582 11,836 15,418
Depreciation 
1 January 2010 (1,089) (5,912) (7,001)
Disposals of group companies 7 85 92
Depreciation charge for the year (119) (700) (819)
Disposals 51 436 487
Currency retranslation (65) (358) (423)
Reclassification as held for sale 14 56 70
Other adjustments (8) 38 30
31 December 2010 (1,209) (6,355) (7,564)
Net book value 31 December 2010 2,373 5,481 7,854
(a)
Includes payments on account and assets in course of construction 153 997 1,150
(a)
 Includes €272 million (2010: €211 million) of freehold land.
86 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Financial statements
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS UNILEVER GROUP continued 10. Property, plant and equipment continued
Included in the above is property, plant and equipment under a number of finance lease agreements, for which the book values are as 
follows:
Net book value 
€ million
Buildings
€ million
Plant and
equipment
€ million
 
Total
Cost 201 167 368
Depreciation (47) (133) (180)
31 December 2011 154 34 188
Cost 197 205 402
Depreciation (36) (160) (196)
31 December 2010 161 45 206
The Group also has commitments to capital expenditure of €514 million (2010: €409 million).
11. Other non-current assets
Joint ventures are undertakings in which the Group has an interest and which are jointly controlled by the Group and one or more 
other parties. Associates are undertakings where the Group has an investment in which it does not have control or joint control but 
can exercise significant influence.
Interests in joint ventures and associates are accounted for using the equity method and are stated in the consolidated balance 
sheet at cost, adjusted for the movement in the Group’s share of their net assets and liabilities. The Group’s share of the profit or 
loss after tax of joint ventures and associates is included in the Group’s consolidated profit before taxation. 
Where the Group’s share of losses exceeds its interest in the equity accounted investee, the carrying amount of the investment is 
reduced to zero and the recognition of further losses is discontinued, except to the extent that the Group has an obligation to make 
payments on behalf of the investee.
Biological assets are measured at fair value less costs to sell with any changes recognised in the income statement.
€ million
2011
€ million
2010
Interest in net assets of joint ventures 48 44
Interest in net assets of associates 45 45
Long-term trade and other receivables
(a)
 171 154
Fair value of biological assets 32 34
Other non-financial assets 336 246
 632 523
(a)
 Classified as loans and receivables.
Movements during 2011 and 2010
€ million
2011
€ million
2010
Joint ventures
(b)
1 January 44 60
Additions 10 3
Dividends received/reductions (125) (148)
Share of net profit 113 120
Currency retranslation 6 9
31 December 48 44
Associates
(c)
1 January 45 42
Additions 2 18
Dividends received/reductions (3) (6)
Share of net profit – (9)
Currency retranslation 1 –
31 December 45 45
(b)
 Our principal joint ventures are Unilever Jerónimo Martins in Portugal, Pepsi Lipton International and the Pepsi/Lipton Partnership in the US.
(c)
 Associates as at 31 December 2011 primarily comprise our investments in Langholm Capital Partners. Other Unilever Ventures assets are included under 
‘Other non-current non-financial assets’.
87 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Financial statements 11. Other non-current assets continued
The joint ventures and associates have no significant contingent liabilities to which the Group is exposed, and the Group has no 
significant contingent liabilities in relation to its interest in the joint ventures and associates.
The Group has no outstanding capital commitments to joint ventures. 
Outstanding balances with joint ventures and associates are shown in note 23 on page 107.
12. Inventories
Inventories are valued at the lower of weighted average cost and net realisable value. Cost comprises direct costs and, where 
appropriate, a proportion of attributable production overheads. Net realisable value is the estimated selling price less the 
estimated costs necessary to make the sale.
Inventories
€ million
2011
€ million
2010
Raw materials and consumables 1,584 1,554
Finished goods and goods for resale 3,017 2,753
4,601 4,307
Inventories with a value of €158 million (2010: €132 million) are carried at net realisable value, this being lower than cost. During 2011, 
€99 million (2010: €135 million) was charged to the income statement for damaged, obsolete and lost inventories. In 2011, €43 million 
(2010: €42 million) was utilised or released to the income statement from inventory provisions taken in earlier years.
In 2011, inventories with a carrying amount of €4 million (2010: €3 million) were pledged as security for certain of the Group’s borrowings. 
13. Trade and other current receivables
Trade and other receivables are initially recognised at fair value plus any directly attributable transaction costs. Subsequently 
these assets are held at amortised cost, using the effective interest method and net of any impairment losses.
We do not consider the fair values of trade and other receivables to be significantly different from their carrying values. Credit terms for 
customers are determined in individual territories. Concentrations of credit risk with respect to trade receivables are limited, due to the 
Group’s customer base being large and diverse. Our historical experience of collecting receivables, supported by the level of default, is 
that credit risk is low across territories and so trade receivables are considered to be a single class of financial assets. Balances are 
considered for impairment on an individual basis rather than by reference to the extent that they become overdue. 
Trade and other current receivables
€ million
2011
€ million
2010
Due within one year
Trade receivables 2,897 2,541
Prepayments and accrued income 591 629
Other receivables 1,025 972
4,513 4,142
Other receivables comprise loans and receivables of €327 million (2010: €286 million) and other non-financial assets of €698 million 
(2010: €686 million). 
88 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Financial statements
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS UNILEVER GROUP continued 13. Trade and other current receivables continued
Ageing of trade receivables 
€ million
2011
€ million
2010
Total trade receivables 3,013 2,658
Less impairment provision for trade receivables (116) (117)
2,897 2,541
Of which:
Not overdue 2,505 2,228
Past due less than three months 300 242
Past due more than three months but less than six months 72 56
Past due more than six months but less than one year 52 22
Past due more than one year 84 110
Impairment provision for trade receivables (116) (117)
2,897 2,541
Impairment provision for trade and other receivables – current and non-current impairments
€ million
2011
€ million
2010
1 January 156 157
Charged to income statement 19 24
Reductions/releases (26) (35)
Currency retranslation (4) 10
31 December 145 156
14. Trade payables and other current liabilities
Trade payables and other liabilities are initially recognised at fair value less any directly attributable transaction costs. 
Subsequently these liabilities are held at amortised cost, using the effective interest method.
We do not consider the fair values of trade and other payables to be significantly different from their carrying values.
Trade and other current liabilities
€ million
2011
€ million
2010
Due within one year
Trade payables 6,767 6,030
Accruals 3,332 3,318
Social security and sundry taxes 397 402
Others 475 489
10,971 10,239
Due after more than one year
Accruals 115 109
Others 172 189
287 298
Total trade payables and other liabilities 11,258 10,537
The amounts shown above do not include any payables due after more than five years.
89 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Financial statements 15. Financial assets and liabilities
15A. Financial assets
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents in the balance sheet include deposits, investments in money market funds and highly liquid 
investments. To be classified as cash and cash equivalents, an asset must:
• be readily convertible into cash; and 
• have an insignificant risk of changes in value; and
• have a maturity period of three months or less at acquisition.
Cash and cash equivalents in the cash flow statement also includes bank overdrafts.
Other financial assets
Other financial assets are first recognised on the trade date. At that point they are classified as: 
(i) Loans and receivables;
(ii) Available-for-sale financial assets; or
(iii) Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss.
(i) Loans and receivables
These are assets with an established payment profile and which are not listed on a recognised stock exchange. They are initially 
recognised at fair value, which is usually the original invoice amount plus any directly related transaction costs. Afterwards loans 
and receivables are carried at amortised cost, less any impairment.
(ii) Available-for-sale financial assets
Any financial assets not classified as either loans and receivables or financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are 
designated as available-for-sale. They are initially recognised at fair value, usually the original invoice amount plus any directly 
related transaction costs. Afterwards they are measured at fair value with changes being recognised in equity. When the 
investment is sold or impaired, the accumulated gains and losses are moved from equity to the income statement. Interest and 
dividends from these assets are recognised in the income statement.
(iii) Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss
These are derivatives and assets that are held for trading. Related transaction costs are expensed as incurred. Unless they form 
part of a hedging relationship (see note 16C on pages 97 to 98), these assets are held at fair value, with changes being recognised in 
the income statement.
Impairment of financial assets
Each year the Group assesses whether there is evidence that financial assets are impaired. A significant or prolonged fall in value 
below the cost of an asset generally indicates that an asset may be impaired. If impaired, financial assets are written down to their 
estimated recoverable amount. Impairment losses on assets classified as loans and receivables are recognised in profit and loss. 
When a later event causes the impairment losses to decrease, the reduction in impairment loss is also recognised in profit and 
loss. Impairment losses on assets classified as available-for-sale are recognised by moving the loss accumulated in equity to the 
income statement. Any subsequent recovery in value of an available-for-sale debt security is recognised within profit and loss. 
However, any subsequent recovery in value of an equity security is recognised within equity.
90 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Financial statements
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS UNILEVER GROUP continued 15A. Financial assets continued
Financial assets
(a)
€ million 
 
Current
2011
€ million 
Non- 
current
2011
€ million 
 
Total 
2011
€ million 
 
Current 
2010
€ million 
Non- 
current 
2010
€ million 
 
Total 
2010
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash at bank and in hand 1,139 – 1,139 732  – 732
Short-term deposits with maturity of less than 3 months 2,243 – 2,243 888  – 888
Other cash equivalents
(b)
102 – 102 696  – 696
3,484 – 3,484 2,316 – 2,316
Other financial assets
Loans and receivables 
(c)
930 2 932 3  2 5
Available-for-sale financial assets 
(d)
307 413 720 127  406 533
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss: 
Derivatives 208 – 208 403 – 403
Other 8 63 71 17 103 120
1,453 478 1,931 550  511  1,061
Total 4,937 478 5,415 2,866 511 3,377
(a)
 For the purposes of notes 15 and 16, financial assets and liabilities exclude trade and other current receivables and liabilities which are covered in notes 13 
and 14 respectively.
(b)
 Other cash equivalents include investments in money market funds of €20 million (2010: €603 million) for which the risk of changes in value are insignificant.
(c)
 Current loans and receivables include short-term deposits with banks with maturities of longer than three months.
(d)
 Current available-for-sale financial assets include government securities and A-minus or higher rated money and capital market instruments. Also included 
are investments in money market funds of €116 million (2010: € nil) for which the risk of changes in value is insignificant. Non-current available-for-sale 
financial assets predominantly consist of investments in a number of companies and financial institutions in Europe and the US, including €110 million  
(2010: €128 million) of assets in a trust to fund benefit obligations in the US (see also note 4B on page 77).
Cash and cash equivalents reconciliation to the cash flow statement
€ million
2011
€ million
2010
Cash and cash equivalents per balance sheet 3,484 2,316 
Less: bank overdrafts (506) (350)
Cash and cash equivalents per cash flow statement 2,978 1,966 
Other income from non-current investments
€ million
2011
€ million
2010
€ million
2009
Income from other non-current investments 76 76 47
Profit on disposal of investments 
(e)
– – 327
76 76 374
(e)
 For 2009, profit on disposal of investments relates to the disposal of the majority of the Group’s equity interest in JohnsonDiversey.
15B. Financial liabilities
Financial liabilities
Financial liabilities are initially recognised at fair value, less any directly related transaction costs. Certain bonds are designated as 
being part of a fair value hedge relationship. In these cases, the bond is carried at amortised cost, adjusted for the fair value of the 
risk being hedged, with changes in value shown in profit and loss. Other financial liabilities, excluding derivatives, are subsequently 
carried at amortised cost.
Derivative financial instruments
The Group’s use of, and accounting for, derivative instruments is explained in note 16 on page 93 and on page 98.
91 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Financial statements 15B. Financial liabilities continued
Financial liabilities
(a)(b)
€ million 
Current
2011
€ million 
Non-current
2011
€ million 
Total 
2011
€ million 
Current 
2010
€ million 
Non-current 
2010
€ million 
Total 
2010
Preference shares – 68 68 – 90 90
Bank loans and overdrafts 2,073 664 2,737 1,164 514 1,678
Bonds and other loans
At amortised cost 2,898 5,357 8,255 814 4,110 4,924
Subject to fair value hedge accounting 752 1,578 2,330 – 2,331 2,331
Finance lease creditors 20 16 188 204 19 189 208
Derivatives 101 23 124 279 24 303
5,840 7,878 13,718 2,276 7,258 9,534
(a)
 For the purposes of notes 15 and 16, financial assets and liabilities exclude trade and other current receivables and liabilities which are covered in notes 13 and 14 
respectively.
(b) 
Financial liabilities include €80 million (2010:€93 million) of secured liabilities.
Analysis of bonds and other loans
€ million
Amortised
cost
2011
€ million
Fair value
hedge 
adjustment
2011
€ million
Total
2011
€ million
Amortised
cost
2010
€ million
Fair value
hedge 
adjustment
2010
€ million
Total
2010
Unilever N.V.
3.625% Notes 2011 (Swiss francs) – – – 320 – 320
3.125% Notes 2012 (Swiss francs) 206 – 206 200 – 200
4.625% Bonds 2012 (€) 749 3 752 748 11 759
3.125% Bonds 2013 (US $) 347 – 347 336 – 336
4.875% Bonds 2013 (€) 749 34 783 749 57 806
1.150% Notes 2014 (Renminbi) 37 – 37 – – –
3.500% Notes 2015 (Swiss francs) 287 – 287 279 – 279
3.375% Bonds 2015 (€) 749 46 795 748 18 766
Commercial paper (€) 1,096 – 1,096 203 – 203
Other 34 – 34 72 – 72
Total NV 4,254 83 4,337 3,655 86 3,741
Unilever PLC
4.000% Bonds 2014 (£) 415 – 415 403 – 403
4.750% Bonds 2017 (£) 474 – 474 461 – 461
Total PLC 889 – 889 864 – 864
Other group companies
Switzerland
Other 43 – 43 – – –
United States
3.650% Notes 2014 (US $) 578 – 578 559 – 559
2.750% Notes 2016 (US $) 385 – 385 – – –
7.000% Bonds 2017 (US $) 113 – 113 109 – 109
4.800% Notes 2019 (US $) 577 – 577 559 – 559
5.150% Notes 2020 (US $) 127 – 127 – – –
4.250% Notes 2021 (US $) 768 – 768 – – –
7.250% Bonds 2026 (US $) 222 – 222 215 – 215
6.625% Bonds 2028 (US $) 171 – 171 165 – 165
5.900% Bonds 2032 (US $) 760 – 760 735 – 735
5.600% Bonds 2097 (US $) 71 – 71 68 – 68
Commercial paper (US $) 1,526 – 1,526 224 – 224
Other 12 – 12 11 – 11
Other countries 6 – 6 5 – 5
Total other group companies 5,359 – 5,359 2,650 – 2,650
Total bonds and other loans 10,502 83 10,585 7,169 86 7,255
Information in relation to the derivatives used to hedge bonds and other loans within a fair value hedge relationship is shown in note 16.
92 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Financial statements
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS UNILEVER GROUP continued 16.  Capital and treasury risk management
Derivatives and hedge accounting
Derivatives are measured at fair value with any related transaction costs expensed as incurred. The treatment of changes in the 
value of derivatives depends on their use as explained below. 
(i) Fair value hedges
Certain derivatives are held to hedge the risk of changes in value of a specific bond or other loan. In these situations, the Group 
designates the liability and related derivative to be part of a fair value hedge relationship. The carrying value of the bond is adjusted 
by the fair value of the risk being hedged, with changes going to the income statement. Gains and losses on the corresponding 
derivative are also recognised in the income statement. The amounts recognised offset in the income statement. When the 
relationship no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, the fair value hedge adjustment made to the bond is amortised to 
the income statement using the effective interest method.
(ii) Cash flow hedges
Derivatives are also held to hedge the uncertainty in timing or amount of future forecast cash flows. Such derivatives are classified 
as being part of cash flow hedge relationships. For an effective hedge, gains and losses from changes in the fair value of derivatives 
are recognised in equity. Any ineffective elements of the hedge are recognised in the income statement. If the hedged cash flow 
relates to a non-financial asset, the amount accumulated in equity is subsequently included within the carrying value of that asset. 
For other cash flow hedges, amounts deferred in equity are taken to the income statement at the same time as the related cash 
flow.
When a derivative no longer qualifies for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss remains in equity until the related cash flow 
occurs. When the cash flow takes place, the cumulative gain or loss is taken to the income statement. If the hedged cash flow is no 
longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss is taken to the income statement immediately.
(iii) Net investment hedges
Certain derivatives are designated as hedges of the currency risk on the Group’s investment in foreign subsidiaries. The accounting 
policy for these arrangements is set out in note 1.
(iv) Derivatives for which hedge accounting is not applied
Derivatives not classified as hedges are held in order to hedge certain balance sheet items and commodity exposures. No hedge 
accounting is applied to these derivatives, which are carried at fair value with changes being recognised in the income statement. 
16A. Capital management
Unilever considers the following components of its balance sheet to be capital: short-term debt, long-term debt (bank loans, overdrafts, 
bonds and other loans) and equity (mainly common and preferred stock).
Finance and liquidity
The Group’s financial strategy provides the financial flexibility to meet strategic and day-to-day needs. Our current long-term credit 
rating is A+/A1 and our current short-term credit rating is A1/P1. We aim to maintain a competitive balance sheet which we consider to 
be the equivalent of a credit rating of A+/A1 in the long term. This provides us with:
• appropriate access to equity and debt markets;
• sufficient flexibility for acquisitions;
• sufficient resilience against economic and financial uncertainty ensuring ample liquidity; and
• optimal weighted average cost of capital, given the constraints above.
Unilever monitors the qualitative and quantitative factors utilised by the rating agencies. This information is publicly available and is 
updated by the credit rating agencies on a regular basis.
The capital structure of Unilever is based on management’s judgement of the appropriate balancing of all key elements of its financial 
strategy in order to meet its strategic and day-to-day needs. We consider the amount of capital in proportion to risk and manage the 
capital structure and make adjustments to it in the light of changes in economic conditions and the risk characteristics of the 
underlying assets. Unilever will take appropriate steps in order to maintain, or if necessary adjust, the capital structure.
Unilever is not subject to covenants in any of its significant financing agreements.
93 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Financial statements 16B. Treasury risk management
The Group has an established system of control in place covering all derivative financial instruments. This system includes guidelines, 
exposure limits, authority schedules and independent reporting. The controls are subject to periodic review by internal audit. The use of 
leveraged instruments is not permitted.
The Group is exposed to the following risks that arise from its use of financial instruments, the management of which is described in 
the following sections:
a) market risk;
b) liquidity risk; and
c) credit risk.
a) Market risk
Market risk arises from fluctuations in market factors, including exchange rates, interest rates and commodity prices. Movements in 
these factors may affect the Group’s income and expenses, or the value of its financial instruments. The objective of the Group’s 
management of market risk is to maintain this risk within acceptable parameters, whilst optimising returns. Generally, the Group 
applies hedge accounting to manage the volatility in profit and loss arising from market risk.
(i) Currency risk
Currency risk on sales, purchases and borrowings 
Because of Unilever’s global reach, it is subject to the risk that changes in foreign currency values will impact the Group’s sales, 
purchases and borrowings. The Group manages currency exposures within prescribed limits, mainly through forward foreign currency 
exchange contracts. Operating companies actively manage foreign exchange exposures within prescribed limits, and regional groups 
monitor local compliance.
As shown in note 15B, the Group holds debt in a number of currencies. Exchange risks related to the principal amounts of the US$ and 
Swiss franc denominated debt either form part of hedging relationships themselves, or are hedged through forward contracts.
The aim of the Group’s approach to the management of currency risk is to leave the Group with no material residual risk. This aim has 
been achieved in all years presented.
At 31 December 2011, the unhedged exposure to the Group from companies holding assets and liabilities other than in their functional 
currency amounted to €56 million (2010: €52 million). A 10% strengthening of the euro against key currencies to which the Group is 
exposed would lead to approximately an additional €6 million credit in the income statement (2010: €5 million credit). A 10% weakening 
of the euro against these currencies would lead to an equal but opposite effect.
Currency risk on the Group’s investments
The Group is also subject to the exchange risk in relation to the translation of the net assets of its foreign operations into euros.
Unilever aims to minimise this foreign exchange exposure by borrowing in local currency wherever possible. In some locations 
however, the Group’s ability to do this is inhibited by local regulations, lack of local liquidity or by local market conditions. Where the 
residual risk from these countries exceeds prescribed limits, Unilever may decide on a case-by-case basis to actively hedge the 
exposure. This is done either through additional borrowings in the related currency, or through the use of forward foreign exchange 
contracts. Where local currency borrowings, or forward contracts, are used to hedge the currency risk in relation to the Group’s net 
investment in foreign subsidiaries, these relationships are designated as net investment hedges for accounting purposes.
At 31 December 2011 the nominal value of the Group’s designated net investment hedges amounted to €4.1 billion (2010: €4.4 billion), 
mainly consisting of US $/€ contracts. A 10% strengthening of the euro against all other key currencies would lead to an additional 
€377 million debit being recognised in equity (2010: €395 million debit). A 10% weakening of the euro against these currencies would 
have the equal but opposite effect. There would be no impact on the income statement under either of these scenarios.
(ii) Interest rate risk
Unilever’s interest rate management approach aims for an optimal balance between fixed and floating rate interest rate exposures on 
expected net debt. The objective of this approach is to minimise annual interest costs after tax and to reduce volatility. This is achieved 
either by issuing fixed or floating rate long-term debt, or by modifying interest rate exposure through the use of interest rate swaps.
At 31 December 2011, interest rates were fixed on approximately 73% of the expected net debt for 2012 and 57% for 2013 (66% for 2011 
and 63% for 2012 at 31 December 2010). The average interest rate on short-term borrowings in 2011 was 2.5% (2010: 2.4%).
94 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Financial statements
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS UNILEVER GROUP continued 16B. Treasury risk management continued
The following table shows the split in fixed and floating rate interest exposures, taking into account the impact of interest rate swaps 
and forward foreign currency contracts:
€ million
2011
€ million
2010
Cash and cash equivalents 3,484 2,316
Current other financial assets 1,453 550
Current financial liabilities (5,840) (2,276)
Non-current financial liabilities (7,878) (7,258)
(8,781) (6,668)
Of which:
Fixed rate (amount of fixing for following year) (6,179) (4,946)
Floating rate (2,602) (1,722)
(8,781) (6,668)
Assuming that all other variables remain constant, a 100bps increase in floating interest rates on a full year basis would lead to an 
additional €26 million debit in the income statement (2010: €17 million debit). A 100bps decrease in floating interest rates on a full-year 
basis would have an equal but opposite effect.
Furthermore, Unilever has interest rate swaps for which cash flow hedge accounting is applied. Assuming that all other variables 
remain constant, a 100bps increase in floating interest rates on a full year basis would lead to an additional €16 million credit in equity 
(2010: €10 million credit). A 100bps decrease in floating interest rates on a full year basis would have an equal but opposite effect.
(iii) Commodity price risk
The Group uses commodity forward contracts to hedge against the risk of changes in price of certain commodities. All commodity 
forward contracts hedge future purchases of raw materials and the contracts are settled either in cash or by physical delivery. 
Commodity derivatives are generally designated as hedges within cash flow hedge arrangements.
The amount of outstanding commodity contracts is immaterial.
b) Liquidity risk
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will face difficulty in meeting its obligations associated with its financial liabilities. The Group’s 
approach to managing liquidity is to ensure that it will have sufficient funds to meet its liabilities when due without incurring 
unacceptable losses. In doing this management considers both normal and stressed conditions. A material and sustained shortfall in 
our cash flow could undermine the Group’s credit rating, impair investor confidence and also restrict the Group’s ability to raise funds.
Given recent volatility in the financial markets, the Group has maintained a cautious funding strategy, running a positive cash balance 
throughout 2011. This has been the result of a strong cash delivery from the business, coupled with the proceeds from bond issuances 
in 2011. This cash has been invested conservatively with low risk counterparties at maturities of less than six months.
Cash flow from operating activities provides the funds to service the financing of financial liabilities on a day-to-day basis. The Group 
seeks to manage its liquidity requirements by maintaining access to global debt markets through short-term and long-term debt 
programmes. In addition, Unilever has committed credit facilities for general corporate use.
Unilever had US $6,150 million of undrawn committed facilities on 31 December 2011 as follows:
• revolving 364-day bilateral credit facilities of in aggregate US $5,950 million (2010: US $5,495 million) with a 364-day term-out; and
• 364-day bilateral money market commitments of in aggregate US $200 million (2010: US $555 million), under which the 
underwriting banks agree, subject to certain conditions, to subscribe for notes with maturities of up to three years. 
As part of the regular annual process these facilities will again be renewed in 2012.
 
95 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Financial statements 16B. Treasury risk management continued
The following table shows Unilever’s contractually agreed undiscounted cash flows, including expected interest payments, which are 
payable under financial liabilities at the balance sheet date:
Undiscounted cash flows
€ million
 
 
 
Due
within
1 year
€ million
 
 
Due
between
1 and
2 years
€ million
 
 
Due
between
2 and
3 years
€ million
 
 
Due
between
3 and
4 years
€ million
 
 
Due
between
4 and
5 years
€ million
 
 
Due
after
5 years
€ million
 
 
 
 
 
Total
€ million
Net
carrying
amount as
shown in
balance
sheet
2011
Non-derivative financial liabilities:
Preference shares (4) (4) (4) (4) (4) (72) (92) (68)
Bank loans and overdrafts (2,123) (183) (116) (22) (372) (1) (2,817) (2,737)
Bonds and other loans
At amortised cost (3,163) (602) (1,284) (487) (576) (5,114) (11,226) (8,255)
Subject to fair value hedge accounting (847) (812) (25) (775) – – (2,459) (2,330)
Finance lease creditors 20 (28) (27) (25) (23) (23) (220) (346) (204)
Trade payables 14 (10,574) (287) – – – – (10,861) (10,861)
Issued financial guarantees (35) – – – – – (35) –
(16,774) (1,915) (1,454) (1,311) (975) (5,407) (27,836) (24,455)
Derivative financial liabilities:
Interest rate derivatives:
Derivative contracts – receipts 70 199 31 51 47 184 582
Derivative contracts – payments (81) (212) (40) (67) (58) (178) (636)
Foreign exchange derivatives:
Derivative contracts – receipts 9,444 – – – – – 9,444
Derivative contracts – payments (9,604) – – – – – (9,604)
(171) (13) (9) (16) (11) 6 (214) (197)
31 December (16,945) (1,928) (1,463) (1,327) (986) (5,401) (28,050)
2010
Non-derivative financial liabilities:
Preference shares (5) (5) (5) (5) (5) (95) (120) (90)
Bank loans and overdrafts (1,200) (494) (27) (1) (1) (2) (1,725) (1,678)
Bonds and other loans
At amortised cost (1,025) (403) (528) (1,159) (424) (3,975) (7,514) (4,924)
Subject to fair value hedge accounting (97) (847) (812) (25) (775) – (2,556) (2,331)
Finance lease creditors 20 (31) (25) (24) (23) (22) (232) (357) (208)
Trade payables 14 (9,837) (298) – – – – (10,135) (10,135)
Issued financial guarantees (69) – – – – – (69) –
(12,264) (2,072) (1,396) (1,213) (1,227) (4,304) (22,476) (19,366)
Derivative financial liabilities:
Interest rate derivatives:
Derivative contracts – receipts 52 60 239 73 27 36 487
Derivative contracts – payments (62) (81) (256) (75) (27) (34) (535)
Foreign exchange derivatives:
Derivative contracts – receipts 11,477 – – – – – 11,477
Derivative contracts – payments (11,797) – – – – – (11,797)
(330) (21) (17) (2) – 2 (368) (366)
31 December (12,594) (2,093) (1,413) (1,215) (1,227) (4,302) (22,844)
96 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Financial statements
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS UNILEVER GROUP continued 16B. Treasury risk management continued
The following table shows cash flows of those derivatives for which cash flow hedge accounting is applied. These derivatives are 
expected to impact profit and loss in the same periods as the cash flows occur.
€ million
Due
within
1 year
€ million
Due
between
1 and 2 
years
€ million
Due
between
2 and 3 
years
€ million
Due
between
3 and 4 
years
€ million
Due
between
4 and 5 
years
€ million
Due
after
5 years
€ million
 
 
Total
€ million
Net
carrying
amount as
shown in
balance
sheet
2011
Foreign exchange cash inflows 779 – – – – – 779
Foreign exchange cash outflows (519) – – – – – (519) 3
Interest rate cash flows – – (17) (41) (57) (170) (285) (27)
Commodity contracts cash flows (356) – – – – – (356) (2)
2010
Foreign exchange cash inflows 844 – – – – – 844
Foreign exchange cash outflows (411) – – – – – (411) (14)
Interest rate cash flows – (27) (37) (51) (51) (88) (254) (9)
Commodity contracts cash flows (317) – – – – – (317) 59
c) Credit risk
Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the Group if a customer or counterparty fails to meet its contractual obligations. Additional 
information in relation to credit risk on trade receivables is given in note 13. These risks are generally managed by local controllers with 
additional regional oversight. Credit risk related to the use of treasury instruments is managed on a Group basis. This risk arises from 
transactions with financial institutions involving cash and cash equivalents, deposits and derivative financial instruments. To reduce 
this risk, Unilever has concentrated its main activities with a limited number of counterparties which have secure credit ratings. 
Individual risk limits are set for each counterparty based on financial position, credit rating and past experience. Credit limits and 
concentration of exposures are actively monitored by the Group’s treasury department. Netting agreements are also put in place with 
Unilever’s principal counterparties. In the case of a default, these arrangements would allow Unilever to net assets and liabilities 
across transactions with that counterparty. To further reduce the Group’s credit exposures on derivative financial instruments, Unilever 
has collateral agreements with Unilever’s principal counterparties in relation to derivative financial instruments. Under these 
arrangements, counterparties are required to deposit securities and/or cash as a collateral for their obligations in respect of derivative 
financial instruments. At 31 December 2011 the collateral held by Unilever under such arrangements amounted to €88 million 
(2010: €58 million), of which €43 million (2010: €38 million) was in cash, and €45 million (2010: €20 million) was in the form of bond 
securities. The non-cash collateral has not been recognised as an asset in the Group’s balance sheet.
The carrying amount of financial assets best represents the Group’s exposure to credit risk at the reporting date, excluding the impact 
of any collateral held or other credit enhancements. These amounts are summarised in note 13 and note 15A.
16C. Financial instruments fair value risk
The Group is exposed to the risks of changes in fair value of its financial assets and liabilities. The following table summarises the fair 
values and carrying amounts of financial instruments.
Fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities
€ million
Fair
value
2011
€ million
Fair
value
2010
€ million
Carrying
amount
2011
€ million
Carrying
amount
2010
Financial assets
Cash and cash equivalents 3,484 2,316 3,484 2,316
Loans and receivables 932 5 932 5
Available-for-sale financial assets 720 533 720 533
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss:
Derivatives 208 403 208 403
Other 71 120 71 120
5,415 3,377 5,415 3,377
Financial liabilities
Preference shares (102) (116) (68) (90)
Bank loans and overdrafts (2,737) (1,678) (2,737) (1,678)
Bonds and other loans (11,605) (7,775) (10,585) (7,255)
Finance lease creditors (231) (220) (204) (208)
Derivatives (124) (303) (124) (303)
(14,799) (10,092) (13,718) (9,534)
The fair value of trade receivables and payables is considered to be equal to the carrying amount of these items due to their short-term nature.
97 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Financial statements 16C. Financial instruments fair value risk continued
Fair value hierarchy
These fair values shown above have been classified into three categories depending on the inputs used in the valuation technique. The 
categories used are as follows:
• Level 1: quoted prices for identical instruments;
• Level 2: directly or indirectly observable market inputs, other than Level 1 inputs; and
• Level 3: inputs which are not based on observable market data.
For assets and liabilities which are carried at fair value, the classification of fair value calculations by category is summarised below:
€ million 
 
 Level 1 
2011
€ million 
 
 Level 1 
2010
€ million 
 
 Level 2 
2011
€ million 
 
 Level 2 
2010
€ million
Level 3 
2011
€ million
 
Level 3
2010
€ million
Total fair 
value 
2011
€ million
Total fair
value
2010
Assets at fair value
Other cash equivalents 15A – – 102 696 – – 102 696
Available-for-sale financial assets 15A 236 197 482 314 2 22 720 533
Financial assets at fair value  
through profit or loss:
Derivatives 16D – – 266 497 – – 266 497
Other 15A 71 56 – 17 – 47 71 120
Liabilities at fair value
Bonds and other loans 15B – – (2,330) (2,331) – – (2,330) (2,331)
Derivatives 16D – – (197) (366) – – (197) (366)
During the reporting period ending 31 December 2011, there were no transfers from Level 2 to Level 1 (2010: €nil). There were no 
transfers into, or out of, Level 3 (2010: €nil).
Calculation of fair values
The fair values of the financial assets and liabilities are defined as being the amounts at which the instruments could be exchanged or 
liability settled in an arm’s length transaction between knowledgeable, willing parties. The following methods and assumptions have 
been used to estimate the fair values:
Assets and liabilities carried at fair value
• The fair values of quoted investments falling into Level 1 are based on current bid prices. 
• The fair values of unquoted available-for-sale financial assets, which fall into Level 2, are based on recent trades in liquid markets, 
observable market rates and statistical modelling techniques such as Monte Carlo simulation.
• Derivatives are valued using valuation techniques with market observable inputs. The models incorporate various inputs including 
the credit quality of counterparties, foreign exchange spot and forward rates, interest rate curves and forward rate curves of the 
underlying commodities.
• For listed securities where the market is not liquid, and for unlisted securities, valuation techniques are used. These include the use 
of recent arm’s length transactions, reference to other instruments that are substantially the same and discounted cash flow 
calculations.
Other financial assets and liabilities (fair values for disclosure purposes only)
• Cash and cash equivalents, trade and other current receivables, bank loans and overdrafts, trade payables and other current 
liabilities have fair values that approximate to their carrying amounts due to their short-term nature.
• The fair values of preference shares and listed bonds are based on their market value.
• Non-listed bonds and other loans are based on the net present value of the anticipated future cash flows associated with these 
instruments using rates currently available for debt on similar terms, credit risk and remaining maturities.
• Fair values for finance lease creditors have been assessed by reference to current market rates for comparable leasing 
arrangements.
16D. Derivatives and hedging
The Group uses derivative financial instruments, such as foreign exchange forward contracts, interest rate swap contracts and forward 
rate agreements, to hedge its exposure to interest rate and foreign currency risk. The Group also uses commodity contracts to hedge 
the price of some raw materials. The Group does not use derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes. 
98 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Financial statements
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS UNILEVER GROUP continued 16D. Derivatives and hedging continued
The use of derivatives by the Group is summarised in the following table:
€ million
Trade 
and other 
receivables
€ million
Other 
current 
financial 
assets
€ million
Trade 
payables 
and other 
liabilities
€ million
Current 
financial 
liabilities
€ million
Non-
current 
financial 
liabilities
€ million
 
 
Total
31 December 2011
Foreign exchange derivatives
Fair value hedges 9 – (4) – – 5
Cash flow hedges 22 – (19) – – 3
Hedges of net investments in foreign operations – 18 – (7) – 11
Hedge accounting not applied 22 50 (17) (92) – (37)
Cross currency swaps
Hedge accounting not applied – 31 – (2) (23) 6
Interest rate swaps
Fair value hedges – 109 – – – 109
Cash flow hedges – – (27) – – (27)
Hedge accounting not applied – – – – – –
Commodity contracts
Cash flow hedges 4 – (6) – – (2)
Hedge accounting not applied 1 – – – – 1
58 208 (73) (101) (23)
Total assets 266 Total liabilities (197) 69
31 December 2010
Foreign exchange derivatives
Fair value hedges 2 – (3) – – (1)
Cash flow hedges 11 – (25) – – (14)
Hedges of net investments in foreign operations – 125 – (76) – 49
Hedge accounting not applied 8 164 (13) (197) – (38)
Cross currency swaps
Hedge accounting not applied – – – (6) (23) (29)
Interest rate swaps
Fair value hedges – 114 – – – 114
Cash flow hedges 13 – (22) – – (9)
Hedge accounting not applied – – – – (1) (1)
Commodity contracts
Cash flow hedges 59 – – – – 59
Hedge accounting not applied 1 – – – – 1
 94 403 (63) (279) (24)
Total assets 497 Total liabilities (366) 131
17. Provisions
Provisions are recognised where a legal or constructive obligation exists at the balance sheet date, as a result of a past event, 
where the amount of the obligation can be reliably estimated and where the outflow of economic benefit is probable.
Provisions
€ million
2011
€ million
2010
Due within one year 393 421
Due after one year 908 886
Total provisions 1,301 1,307
 
 
 
Movements during 2011
€ million
 
Restructuring
€ million
 
Legal
€ million
Disputed  
indirect taxes
€ million
 
Other
€ million
 
Total
1 January 2011 292 165 580 270 1,307
Disposal of group companies (6) – – – (6)
Income statement: 
Charges 318 38 191 94 641
Releases (46) (1) (47) (41) (135)
Utilisation (214) (120) (18) (108) (460)
Currency translation 4 (1) (52) 3 (46)
31 December 2011 348 81 654 218 1,301
99 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Financial statements 17. Provisions continued
The provision for disputed indirect taxes is comprised of a number of small disputed items. The largest elements relate to disputes with 
Brazilian authorities. Due to the nature of the disputes, the timing of provision utilisation and any cash outflows is uncertain. The 
majority of disputed items attract an interest charge.
No individual items within the remaining provisions are significant. Unilever expects that the issues relating to these restructuring, 
legal and other provisions will be substantively resolved within five years.
18. Equity
Other reserves
Other reserves include the fair value reserve, the foreign currency translation reserve, the capital redemption reserve and 
treasury stock.
Shares held by employee share trusts
Certain PLC trusts, NV and group companies purchase and hold NV and PLC shares to satisfy options granted. The assets and 
liabilities of these trusts are included in the consolidated financial statements. The book value of shares held is deducted from 
other reserves, and trusts’ borrowings are included in the Group’s liabilities. The costs of the trusts are included in the results of 
the Group. These shares are excluded from the calculation of earnings per share.
Consolidated statement of changes in equity
€ million
Called up
share
capital
€ million
Share
premium
account
€ million
 
Other
reserves
€ million
 
Retained
profit
€ million
 
Total
€ million
Non-
controlling
interests
€ million
 
Total
equity
1 January 2009 484 121 (6,469) 15,812 9,948 424 10,372
Total comprehensive income for the year – – 339 3,538 3,877 301 4,178
Dividends on ordinary capital – – – (2,115) (2,115) – (2,115)
Movements in treasury stock
(a)
– – 224 (95) 129 – 129
Share-based payment credit
(b)
– – – 195 195 – 195
Dividends paid to non-controlling interests – – – – – (244) (244)
Currency retranslation gains/(losses) net of tax – 10 – – 10 (7) 3
Other movements in equity – – 6 15 21 (3) 18
31 December 2009 484 131 (5,900) 17,350 12,065 471 12,536
Total comprehensive income for the year – – 465 4,329 4,794 412 5,206
Dividends on ordinary capital – – – (2,309) (2,309) – (2,309)
Movements in treasury stock
(a)
– – 28 (154) (126) – (126)
Share-based payment credit
(b)
– – – 144 144 – 144
Dividends paid to non-controlling interests – – – – – (289) (289)
Currency retranslation gains/(losses) net of tax – 3 – – 3 (1) 2
Other movements in equity – – 1 (87) (86) – (86)
31 December 2010 484 134 (5,406) 19,273 14,485 593 15,078
Total comprehensive income for the year – – (737) 2,932  2,195  314  2,509 
Dividends on ordinary capital – – – (2,487) (2,487) – (2,487)
Movements in treasury stock
(a)
– – 138  (90) 48 – 48 
Share-based payment credit
(b)
– – – 105  105 – 105 
Dividends paid to non-controlling interests – – – – – (288) (288)
Currency retranslation gains/(losses) net of tax – 3 – – 3  (4) (1)
Other movements in equity – – 1  (57) (56) 13  (43)
31 December 2011 484  137  (6,004) 19,676  14,293  628  14,921 
(a)
 Includes purchases and sales of treasury stock, and transfer from treasury stock to retained profit of share-settled schemes arising from prior years and 
differences between exercise and grant price of share options.
(b)
 The share-based payment credit relates to the reversal of the non-cash charge recorded against operating profit in respect of the fair value of share options 
and awards granted to employees.
100 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Financial statements
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS UNILEVER GROUP continued 18. Equity continued
Other reserves
€ million
Total
2011
€ million
Total
2010
€ million
Total
2009
Fair value reserves (94) 74 42
Cash flow hedges (100) 48 7
Available-for-sale financial assets 6 26 35
Currency retranslation of group companies (1,594) (1,026) (1,459)
Adjustment on translation of PLC’s ordinary capital at 3
1
/ 9p = €0.16 (164) (164) (165)
Capital redemption reserve 32 32 32
Book value of treasury stock (4,184) (4,322) (4,350)
(6,004) (5,406) (5,900)
Unilever acquired 4,556,762 NV ordinary shares through purchases on the stock exchanges during the year. These shares are held as 
treasury stock as a separate component of other reserves. No PLC ordinary shares were purchased during the year. The total number 
held at 31 December 2011 was 165,437,018 (2010: 170,380,550) NV shares and 39,082,242 (2010: 44,748,743) PLC shares. Of these, 
23,876,389 NV shares and 12,385,248 PLC shares were held in connection with share-based compensation plans (see note 4C on pages 
79 and 80).
Treasury stock – movements during the year
€ million
2011
€ million
2010
1 January (4,322) (4,350)
Purchases and other utilisations 138 28
31 December (4,184) (4,322)
Currency retranslation reserve – movements during the year
€ million
2011
€ million
2010
1 January (1,026) (1,459)
Currency retranslation during the year (552) 314
Movement in net investment hedges 45 118
Recycled to income statement (61) 1
31 December (1,594) (1,026)
19. Share capital
Ordinary shares
Ordinary shares are classified as equity. Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of ordinary shares are recognised as a 
deduction from equity, net of any tax effects.
Internal holdings
The ordinary shares numbered 1 to 2,400 (inclusive) in NV (‘Special Shares’) and deferred stock of PLC are held as to one half of 
each class by N.V. Elma – a subsidiary of NV – and one half by United Holdings Limited – a subsidiary of PLC. This capital is 
eliminated on consolidation.
For information on the rights related to the aforementioned ordinary shares, see Corporate governance on page 38. 
The subsidiaries mentioned above have waived their rights to dividends on their ordinary shares in NV.
Share-based compensation
The Group operates a number of share-based compensation plans involving options and awards of ordinary shares of NV and PLC. 
Full details of these plans are given in note 4C on pages 79 and 80.
 
Called up share capital
€ million
2011
€ million
2010
Ordinary share capital of NV 274 274
Ordinary share capital of PLC 210 210
 484 484
101 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Financial statements 19. Share capital continued
 
 
 
Ordinary share capital
 
Number
of shares
authorised
(a)
 
 
Authorised
2011
 
 
Authorised
2010
 
Nominal
value
per share
 
Number
of shares
issued
Issued,
called up 
and
fully paid
2011
Issued, 
called up 
and
 fully paid
2010
  € million € million  € million € million
NV ordinary shares 3,000,000,000 480 480 €0.16 1,714,727,700 274 274
NV ordinary shares (shares numbered  
1 to 2,400 – ‘Special Shares’) 1 1 €428.57 2,400 1 1
Internal holdings eliminated 
on consolidation (€428.57 shares) – –   (1) (1)
  481 481   274 274
    £ million £ million
PLC ordinary shares 3
1
/ 9p 1,310,156,361 40.8 40.8
PLC deferred stock £1 stock 100,000 0.1 0.1
Internal holding eliminated 
on consolidation (£1 stock)   (0.1) (0.1) 
    40.8 40.8 
Euro equivalent in millions (at £1.00 = €5.143)       210 210 
(a)
 The requirement for a UK company to have an authorised share capital was abolished by the UK Companies Act 2006. In May 2010 shareholders approved 
new Articles of Association which reflect this.
For information on the rights of shareholders of NV and PLC and the operation of the Equalisation Agreement, see Corporate 
governance on page 43.
A nominal dividend of 6% is paid on the deferred stock of PLC, which is not redeemable.
20. Commitments and contingent liabilities
Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of 
ownership. All other leases are classified as operating leases.
Assets held under finance leases are initially recognised at the lower of fair value at the date of commencement of the lease, and at 
the present value of the minimum lease payments. Subsequent to initial recognition, these assets are accounted for in accordance 
with the accounting policy relating to that specific asset. The corresponding liability is included in the balance sheet as a finance 
lease obligation. Lease payments are apportioned between finance costs in the income statement and reduction of the lease 
obligation so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Lease payments under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
 
Long-term finance lease commitments 
€ million
Future
minimum
lease
payments
2011
€ million
 
 
Finance
cost
2011
€ million
 
 
Present
value
2011
€ million
Future
minimum
lease
payments
2010
€ million
 
 
Finance
cost
2010
€ million
 
 
Present
value
2010
Buildings
(a)
321 139 182 336 148 188
Plant and machinery 25 3 22 21 1 20
 346 142 204 357 149 208
The commitments fall due as follows:
Within 1 year 28 12 16 31 12 19
Later than 1 year but not later than 5 years 98 51 47 94 47 47
Later than 5 years 220 79 141 232 90 142
 346 142 204 357 149 208 
(a)
 All leased land is classified as operating leases.
The Group has sublet part of the leased properties under finance leases. Future minimum sublease payments of €38 million are 
expected to be received.
102 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Financial statements
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS UNILEVER GROUP continued 20. Commitments and contingent liabilities continued
 
Long-term operating lease commitments
€ million
2011
€ million
2010
Land and buildings 1,199 1,243
Plant and machinery 429 357
 1,628 1,600
 
 
 
 
 
Operating lease and other commitments fall due as follows:
€ million
 
Operating
leases
2011
€ million
 
Operating
leases
2010
€ million
Other
commit-
ments
2011
€ million
Other
commit-
ments
2010
Within 1 year 381 364 1,087 1,181
Later than 1 year but not later than 5 years 836 844 1,078 1,632
Later than 5 years 411 392 99 141
 1,628 1,600 2,264 2,954
The Group has sublet part of the leased properties under operating leases. Future minimum sublease payments of €58 million are 
expected to be received.
Other commitments principally comprise commitments under contracts to purchase materials and services. They do not include 
commitments for capital expenditure, which are reported in note 10 on pages 86 and 87.
Contingent liabilities are either possible obligations that will probably not require a transfer of economic benefits, or present obligations 
that may, but probably will not, require a transfer of economic benefits. It is not appropriate to make provisions for contingent liabilities, 
but there is a chance that they will result in an obligation in the future. The Group does not believe that any of these contingent liabilities 
will result in a material loss.
Contingent liabilities arise in respect of litigation against group companies, investigations by competition, regulatory and fiscal 
authorities and obligations arising under environmental legislation. The estimated total of such contingent liabilities at 31 December 
2011 was €246 million (2010: €228 million).
Legal proceedings
The Group is involved from time to time in legal and arbitration proceedings arising in the ordinary course of business. Details of the 
significant outstanding legal proceedings and ongoing regulatory investigations are as follows:
Competition matters
On 13 April 2011, Unilever announced a settlement with the European Commission after its investigation into the implementation of the 
European Industry’s Code of Good Environmental Practice. As part of the settlement, a payment of €104 million was agreed. This 
amount fell within the provision made by Unilever in its 2010 results.
The settlement related to the implementation of an industry-wide initiative to concentrate laundry detergents with proven benefits for 
the environment. The Commission’s investigation found that certain aspects of the implementation of this complex initiative infringed 
European competition rules.
Ongoing compliance with competition laws is of key importance to Unilever. As the approach to enforcement of competition authorities 
globally continues to evolve, it is possible that our industry may on occasions be the focus of investigations. It is Unilever’s policy to 
co-operate fully with competition authorities whenever questions or issues arise. In addition the Group will continue to reinforce and 
enhance our internal competition law compliance programme on an ongoing basis. Where specific issues arise provisions are made 
and contingent liabilities disclosed to the extent appropriate.
Tax case in Brazil
During 2004 in Brazil, and in common with many other businesses operating in that country, one of our Brazilian subsidiaries received a 
notice of infringement from the Federal Revenue Service. The notice alleges that a 2001 reorganisation of our local corporate structure 
was undertaken without valid business purpose. The dispute is in court and, if upheld, will result in a tax payment relating to years from 
2001 to the present day. The 2001 reorganisation was comparable with restructurings done by many companies in Brazil. The Group 
believes that the likelihood of a successful challenge by the tax authorities is remote, however, there can be no guarantee of success in 
court.
103 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Financial statements 21. Acquisitions and disposals
Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition accounting method as at the acquisition date, which is the date at 
which control is transferred to the Group. 
Goodwill is measured at the acquisition date as the fair value of consideration transferred, plus non-controlling interests and the 
fair value of any previously held equity interests less the net recognised amount (which is generally fair value) of the identifiable 
assets and liabilities assumed. Consideration transferred does not include amounts related to settlement of pre-existing 
relationships. Such amounts are generally recognised in net profit. 
Transaction costs are expensed as incurred, other than those incurred in relation to the issue of debt or equity securities.  
Any contingent consideration payable is measured at fair value at the acquisition date. Subsequent changes in the fair value of 
contingent consideration are recognised in net profit.
Changes in ownership that do not result in a change of control are accounted for as equity transactions and therefore do not impact 
goodwill. The difference between consideration and the non-controlling share of net assets acquired is recognised within equity.
Alberto Culver 
On 10 May 2011 the Group completed the purchase of 100% of Alberto Culver. This acquisition added brands to Unilever’s existing 
portfolio including TRESemmé, Nexxus, St. Ives and Noxzema in the United States and internationally. 
The consideration was €2,689 million in cash. The provisional fair value of assets and liabilities recognised for the acquisition is €1,339 million. 
The intangible assets of Alberto Culver are principally brands. Their fair values have been provisionally determined pending the completion of 
valuations in 2012. The provisional estimate of the goodwill arising on the acquisition of Alberto Culver is €1,350 million. It relates to the value 
of the anticipated synergies to be realised from the acquisition, together with the market position and the assembled workforce.
 
€ million
Provisional
fair
 values
€ million
Further
adjustments
€ million
Revised 
fair
values
Intangible assets 1,332 132 1,464
Property, plant and equipment 115 (6) 109
Other non-current assets 41 – 41 
Deferred tax assets 2 – 2
Total non-current assets 1,490 126 1,616
Inventories 126 – 126
Trade and other current receivables 157 – 157
Current tax assets 28 – 28
Cash and cash equivalents 357 – 357
Other financial assets 32 – 32
Non-current assets held for sale 41 (13) 28
Total current assets 741 (13) 728
Financial liabilities (3) – (3)
Trade payables and other current liabilities (268) (2) (270)
Current tax liabilities (2) – (2)
Liabilities associated with assets held for sale (12) 12 –
Total current liabilities (285) 10 (275)
Deferred tax liabilities (536) (37) (573)
Other non-current liabilities (152) 4 (148)
Pensions and post-retirement healthcare liabilities (4) (5) (9)
Total non-current liabilities (692) (38) (730)
Total identifiable net assets 1,254 85 1,339
Consideration – cash 2,689 – 2,689
Goodwill on acquisition 1,435 (85) 1,350
Total acquisition-related costs incurred to date for Alberto Culver are €30 million of which €10 million have been recorded in the 
income statement for the year ended 31 December 2011. These acquisition costs are included in administrative expenses and presented 
within acquisition and integration costs (note 3).
Since acquisition, Alberto Culver has contributed €663 million to Group turnover and €4 million to Group operating profit, net of 
€88 million of one-off costs which were recorded within acquisition and integration costs (note 3). If the acquisition had taken place 
104 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Financial statements
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS UNILEVER GROUP continued 21. Acquisitions and disposals continued
at the beginning of the year, Group turnover would have been higher by €442 million and Group operating profit would have been higher 
by €63 million.
Sara Lee’s Personal Care business
On 6 December 2010 the Group completed the purchase of 100% of Sara Lee’s Personal Care business.
In the 12 months since the completion of the acquisition, further facts and circumstances have come to light that existed at the acquisition 
date and, if known, would have affected the measurement of the amounts recognised at that date. As a result the provisional amounts 
recognised at the time of the Sara Lee acquisition have been updated, and the prior year balance sheet has been restated accordingly.
The following table summarises the adjustments made as a result of this revision.
 
€ million
Provisional
fair
values
€ million
Further
adjustments
€ million
Revised 
fair
values
Intangible assets 256 (10) 246
Property, plant and equipment 64 – 64
Other non-current assets 5 – 5
Total non-current assets 325 (10) 315
Inventories 53 (2) 51
Trade and other current receivables 96 7 103
Current tax assets 2 – 2
Cash and cash equivalents 306 – 306
Non-current assets held for sale 657 45 702
Total current assets 1,114 50 1,164
Financial liabilities (7) – (7)
Trade payables and other current liabilities (112) (3) (115)
Current tax liabilities (19) (3) (22)
Provisions – (13) (13)
Liabilities associated with assets held for sale (57) 27 (30)
Total current liabilities (195) 8 (187)
Pensions and post-retirement liabilities (11) – (11)
Deferred tax liabilities (24) – (24)
Other non-current liabilities (4) (3) (7)
Total non-current liabilities (39) (3) (42)
Total identifiable net assets 1,205 45 1,250
Consideration 1,456 10 1,466
Goodwill on acquisition 251 (35) 216
Other 2011 acquisitions and disposals 
On 24 September 2010 the Group announced a definitive agreement to sell our consumer tomato products business in Brazil to Cargill 
for approximately R$600 million. The deal was completed on 1 March 2011.
On 28 September 2010 the Group announced an agreement to buy EVGA’s ice cream brands and distribution network in Greece for an 
undisclosed sum. The deal was completed on 27 January 2011.
On 23 March 2011 the Group announced a binding agreement to sell the global Sanex business to Colgate-Palmolive for €672 million. 
The deal was completed on 20 June 2011.
On 23 March 2011 the Group announced a binding agreement to buy the Colombian Laundry business from Colgate-Palmolive for 
US$215 million. The deal was completed on 29 July 2011.
The disposal of Simple Soap in the UK, the Republic of Ireland and the Channel Islands and the Cidal and Wright’s brands worldwide 
was completed on 30 June 2011.
On 24 August 2011 the Group announced a definitive agreement to sell the Alberto VO5 brand in the United States and Puerto Rico from 
the Alberto Culver portfolio and the Rave brand globally from the Unilever portfolio to private equity firm Brynwood Partners VI L.P. for
an undisclosed sum. The deal was completed on 31 August 2011.
105 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Financial statements 21. Acquisitions and disposals continued
On 1 December 2011 the Group completed the sale of Culver Specialty Brands division to B&G Foods, Inc. for €240 million.
On 6 December 2011 the Group completed acquisition of 82% of the outstanding shares of Concern Kalina, one of Russia’s leading local 
personal care companies.
On 20 December 2011 the Group completed acquisition of Ingman Ice Cream for an undisclosed sum.
2010
The disposal of our frozen foods business in Italy for €805 million to Birds Eye Iglo was completed on 1 October 2010.
The table below shows the impact of disposals on the Group during the year. The results of disposed businesses are included in the 
consolidated financial statements up to their date of disposal.
Disposals
€ million
2011
€ million
2010
€ million
2009
Goodwill and intangible assets 1,058 223 1
Other non-current assets 81 105 1
Current assets 145 151 3
Trade creditors and other payables (57) (51) –
Provisions for liabilities and charges (12) (17) 1
Net assets sold 1,215 411 6
(Gain)/loss on recycling of currency retranslation on disposal (61) 1 –
Profit on sale attributable to Unilever 221 467 7
Consideration 1,375 879 13
Cash 1,404 891 11
Cash balances of businesses sold (2) 1 –
Financial assets, cash deposits and financial liabilities of businesses sold (6) (14) 2
Non-cash items and deferred consideration (21) 1 –
The following table sets out the effect of acquisitions in 2011, 2010 and 2009 on the consolidated balance sheet. The fair values currently 
established for all acquisitions made in 2011 are provisional. The goodwill arising on these transactions has been capitalised and is subject to 
an annual review for impairment (or more frequently if necessary) in accordance with our accounting policies as set out in note 9 on page 85. 
Any impairment is charged to the income statement as it arises. Detailed information relating to goodwill is given in note 9 on pages 84 and 
85.
 
Acquisitions
€ million
2011
€ million
2010
€ million
2009
Net assets acquired 1,733 1,262 128
Goodwill arising in subsidiaries 1,677 225 350
Consideration 3,410 1,487 478
106 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Financial statements
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS UNILEVER GROUP continued 22. Assets and liabilities held for sale
Non-current assets and groups of assets and liabilities which comprise disposal groups, are classified as ‘held for sale’ when all of 
the following criteria are met: a decision has been made to sell; the assets are available for sale immediately; the assets are being 
actively marketed; and a sale has been agreed or is expected to be concluded within twelve months of the balance sheet date. 
Immediately prior to classification as held for sale, the assets or groups of assets are remeasured in accordance with the Group’s 
accounting policies. Subsequently, assets and disposal groups classified as held for sale are valued at the lower of book value or 
fair value less disposal costs. Assets held for sale are not depreciated.
 
 
€ million
2011
€ million
2010
Disposal group held for sale on acquisition
Assets – 702
Liabilities – (30)
 – 672
Other disposal groups held for sale
Goodwill and intangibles 9 82
Property, plant and equipment – 63
Inventories – 53
Trade and other receivables – 1
 9 199
Non-current assets held for sale
Property, plant and equipment 12 20
On 6 December 2010, the Group acquired the Sanex brand as part of the acquisition of Sara Lee’s Personal Care business. The 
European Competition Authority’s approval of the acquisition was contingent on the divestiture of the Sanex brand in the European 
Economic Area. The divestiture was completed in the first half of 2011.
23. Related party transactions
A related party is a person or entity that is related to the Group. These include both people and entities that have, or are subject to 
the influence or control of the Group. 
The following related party balances existed with associate or joint venture businesses at 31 December:
 
Related party balances
€ million
2011
€ million
2010
Trading and other balances due from joint ventures 243 233
Trading and other balances due from/(to) associates – –
Joint ventures
Sales by Unilever group companies to Unilever Jerónimo Martins and Pepsi Lipton International were €100 million and €11 million in 
2011 (2010: €83 million and €12 million) respectively. Sales from Jerónimo Martins to Unilever group companies were €45 million in 
2011 (2010: €43 million). Balances owed by/(to) Unilever Jerónimo Martins and Pepsi Lipton International at 31 December 2011 were 
€244 million and €0.7 million (2010: €233 million and €0.3 million) respectively.
Associates
Langholm Capital Partners invests in private European companies with above-average longer-term growth prospects. Since the 
Langholm I Fund was launched in 2002, Unilever has invested €83 million in Langholm I, with an outstanding commitment at the end of 
2011 of €2 million. Unilever has received back a total of €130 million in cash from its investment in Langholm I.
Langholm Capital Partners II was launched in 2009 Unilever has invested €25 million in Langholm II, with an outstanding commitment 
at the end of 2011 of €50 million.
Physic Ventures is an early stage venture capital fund based in San Francisco, focusing on consumer-driven health, wellness and 
sustainable living. Unilever has invested €44 million in Physic Ventures since the launch of the fund in 2007. At 31 December 2011 the 
outstanding commitment with Physic Ventures was €26 million.
 
107 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Financial statements 24. Remuneration of auditors
This note includes all amounts paid to the Group’s auditors, PricewaterhouseCoopers, whether in relation to their audit of the 
Group or otherwise.
 
 
€ million
2011
€ million
2010
€ million
2009
Fees payable to PricewaterhouseCoopers
(a)
 for the audit of the consolidated and parent 
company accounts of Unilever N.V. and Unilever PLC 7 7 5
Fees payable to PricewaterhouseCoopers
(b)
 for the audit of accounts of subsidiaries of 
Unilever N.V. and Unilever PLC pursuant to legislation 11 11 14
Total statutory audit fees
(c)
18 18 19
Other services supplied pursuant to such legislation – 1 –
Other services relevant to taxation 1 1 2
Services relating to corporate finance transactions – 1 –
All other services 3 2 1
(a)
 Of which:  €1 million was paid to PricewaterhouseCoopers Accountants N.V. (2010: €1 million; 2009: €1 million); and
€6 million was paid to PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (2010: €6 million; 2009: €4 million).
(b)
 Comprises fees paid to the network of separate and independent member firms of PricewaterhouseCoopers International Limited for audit work on statutory 
financial statements and Group reporting returns of subsidiary companies.
(c)
 In addition, €1 million of statutory audit fees were payable to PricewaterhouseCoopers in respect of services supplied to associated pension schemes 
(2010: €1 million; 2009: €1 million).
25. Events after the balance sheet date
Where events occurring after the balance sheet date provide evidence of conditions that existed at the end of the reporting period, 
the impact of these events is adjusted within the financial statements. Otherwise, events after the balance sheet date of a material 
size or nature are disclosed below. 
On 2 February 2012 Unilever announced a quarterly dividend with the 2011 fourth quarter results of €0.2250 per NV ordinary share and 
£0.1879 per PLC ordinary share.
108 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Financial statements
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS UNILEVER GROUP continued The companies listed below and on page 110 are those which, in 
the opinion of the Directors, principally affect the amount of profit 
and assets shown in the Unilever Group financial statements. 
The Directors consider that those companies not listed are not 
significant in relation to Unilever as a whole.
Full information as required by Articles 379 and 414 of Book 2 of 
the Civil Code in the Netherlands has been filed by Unilever N.V. 
with the Commercial Registry in Rotterdam.
Particulars of PLC group companies and other significant 
holdings as required by the United Kingdom Companies Act 2006 
will be annexed to the next Annual Return of Unilever PLC.
Unless otherwise indicated, the companies are incorporated and 
principally operate in the countries under which they are shown.
The aggregate percentage of equity capital directly or indirectly 
held by NV or PLC is shown in the margin, except where it is 
100%. All these percentages are rounded to the nearest whole 
number.
The percentage of Unilever’s shareholdings held either directly or 
indirectly by NV and PLC are identified in the tables according to 
the following code:
NV 100% a
PLC 100% b
NV 55%; PLC 45% c
NV 65%; PLC 35% d
NV 3%; PLC 97% e
NV 15%; PLC 85% f
NV 18%; PLC 82% g
NV 64%; PLC 36% h
NV 66%; PLC 34% i
Due to the inclusion of certain partnerships in the consolidated 
group financial statements of Unilever, para 264(b) of the German 
trade law grants an exemption from the duty to prepare individual 
statutory financial statements and management reports in 
accordance with the requirements for limited liability companies 
and to have these audited and published.
Group companies
% Ownership
Argentina
Unilever de Argentina S.A. d
Australia
Unilever Australia Ltd. b
Belgium
Unilever Belgium NV/SA a
Brazil
Unilever Brasil Ltda. d
Canada
Unilever Canada Inc. d
Chile
Unilever Chile SA d
China
Unilever Services (He Fei) Co Limited a
99
France
Unilever France d
Group companies continued
% Ownership
Germany
Maizena Grundstücksverwaltung
GmbH & Co. OHG h
Pfanni GmbH & Co. OHG Stavenhagen d
Pfanni Werke Grundstücksverwaltung 
GmbH & Co. OHG h
Unilever Deutschland GmbH d
Unilever Deutschland Holding GmbH d
Unilever Deutschland Immobilien Leasing 
GmbH & Co. OHG i
Unilever Deutschland Produktions GmbH & Co. OHG d
Greece
Elais Unilever Hellas SA a
52
India
Hindustan Unilever Ltd. b
85
Indonesia
P.T. Unilever Indonesia Tbk d
Italy
Unilever Italy Holdings Srl d
Japan
Unilever Japan KK a
Mexico
Unilever de México S. de R.L. de C.V. d
The Netherlands
Mixhold B.V. d
Unilever Finance International B.V. a
Unilever N.V.
(a)
 
Unilever Nederland B.V. a
UNUS Holding B.V. c
Poland
Unilever Polska S.A. b
Russia
OOO Unilever Rus g
74
South Africa
Unilever South Africa (Pty) Limited f
Spain 
Unilever España S.A. a
Sweden
Unilever Sverige AB a
Switzerland 
Unilever Supply Chain Company AG a
Unilever Schweiz GmbH a
Thailand
Unilever Thai Trading Ltd. d
(a)
 See ‘Basis of consolidation’ in note 1 on page 68.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Financial statements
109
PRINCIPAL GROUP COMPANIES AND NON-CURRENT INVESTMENTS UNILEVER GROUP 
as at 31 December 2011 Group companies continued
% Ownership
Turkey 
Unilever Sanayi ve Ticaret Türk A.S,. d
United Kingdom 
Unilever UK Ltd. e
Unilever PLC
(a)
 
Unilever UK Holdings Ltd. b
Unilever UK & CN Holdings Ltd. e
United States of America 
Alberto – Culver USA, Inc. c
Conopco, Inc. c
Unilever Capital Corporation c
Unilever United States, Inc. c
(a)
 See ‘Basis of consolidation’ in note 1 on page 68.
Joint ventures
% Ownership
55
Portugal
Unilever Jerónimo Martins, Lda b
50
United States of America 
Pepsi/Lipton Partnership c
Associates
% Ownership
40
United Kingdom 
Langholm Capital Partners L.P. b
In addition, we have revenues either from our own operations 
or otherwise in the following locations: Albania, Algeria, Andorra, 
Angola, Antigua, Armenia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Bahamas, 
Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belarus, Belize, Benin, Bhutan, 
Bolivia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Botswana, Brunei, Bulgaria, 
Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cambodia, Cameroon, Cape Verde, 
Central African Republic, Chad, Colombia, Comoros, Congo, 
Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, Croatia, Cuba, Cyprus, Czech Republic, 
Democratic Republic of Congo, Denmark, Djibouti, Dominica, 
Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Equatorial 
Guinea, Eritrea, Estonia, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, Gabon, Gambia, 
Georgia, Ghana, Grenada, Guadeloupe, Guatemala, Guinea, 
Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, Hong Kong, Hungary, 
Iceland, Iran, Iraq, Ireland, Israel, Jamaica, Jordan, Kazakhstan, 
Kenya, Kiribati, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Lao People’s Democratic 
Republic, Latvia, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Libya, Leichtenstein, 
Lithuania, Luxembourg, Macao, Macedonia, Madagascar, Malawi, 
Malaysia, Mali, Malta, Marshall Islands, Martinique, Mauritania, 
Mauritius, Micronesia (federated States Of), Moldova (Republic of), 
Monaco, Mongolia, Montenegro, Morocco, Mozambique, 
Myanmar, Namibia, Nauru, Nepal, New Zealand, Nicaragua, 
Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Palua, Palestine, 
Panama, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, 
Portugal, Qatar, Réunion, Romania, Rwanda, Saint Kitts and 
Nevis, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Samoa, San 
Marino, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Serbia, Seychelles, Sierra Leone, 
Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia, Solomon Islands, Somalia, South 
Korea, South Sudan, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland, 
Syria, Taiwan, Tajikistan, Tanzania, Timor-Leste, Togo, Tonga, 
Trinidad & Tobago, Tunisia, Turkmenistan, Tuvalu, Uganda, 
Ukraine, United Arab Emirates, Uruguay, Uzbekistan, Vanuatu, 
Venezuela, Vietnam, Yemen, Zambia and Zimbabwe.
110 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Financial statements
PRINCIPAL GROUP COMPANIES AND NON-CURRENT INVESTMENTS UNILEVER GROUP 
as at 31 December 2011 continued We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient 
and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion.
Opinion with respect to the company accounts
In our opinion, the company accounts give a true and fair view of 
the financial position of Unilever N.V. as at 31 December 2011, and 
of its result for the year then ended in accordance with United 
Kingdom accounting standards and with Part 9 of Book 2 of the 
Dutch Civil Code.
Separate report on consolidated financial statements
We have reported separately on the consolidated financial 
statements of Unilever Group for the year ended  
31 December 2011.
Report on other legal and regulatory requirements
Pursuant to the legal requirement under Section 2: 393 sub 5 at e 
and f of the Dutch Civil Code, we have no deficiencies to report as 
a result of our examination whether the Report of the Directors, to 
the extent we can assess, has been prepared in accordance with 
Part 9 of Book 2 of this Code, and whether the information as 
required under Section 2: 392 sub 1 at b-h has been annexed. 
Further we report that the Report of the Directors, to the extent 
we can assess, is consistent with the company accounts as 
required by Section 2: 391 sub 4 of the Dutch Civil Code. 
Amsterdam, 28 February 2012
PricewaterhouseCoopers Accountants N.V. 
R A J Swaak RA
Independent auditor’s report
To: the General Meeting of Shareholders of Unilever N.V.
Report on the company accounts
We have audited the accompanying company accounts 2011 as set 
out on pages 112 to 115 of the Annual Report and Accounts 2011 of 
Unilever N.V., Rotterdam, which comprise the balance sheet as at 
31 December 2011, the profit and loss account for the year then 
ended and the notes, comprising a summary of accounting 
policies and other explanatory information.
Directors’ responsibility
The Directors are responsible for the preparation and fair 
presentation of these company accounts in accordance with 
United Kingdom accounting standards and with Part 9 of Book 2 of 
the Dutch Civil Code and for the preparation of the Report of the 
Directors in accordance with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil 
Code. Furthermore, the Directors are responsible for such 
internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the 
preparation of the company accounts that are free from material 
misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
Auditor’s responsibility
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these company 
accounts based on our audit. We conducted our audit in 
accordance with Dutch law, including the Dutch Standards on 
Auditing. This requires that we comply with ethical requirements 
and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance 
about whether the company accounts are free from material 
misstatement.
An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence 
about the amounts and disclosures in the company accounts. The 
procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgement, including 
the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the 
company accounts, whether due to fraud or error. In making those 
risk assessments, the auditor considers internal control relevant 
to the company’s preparation and fair presentation of the 
company accounts in order to design audit procedures that are 
appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of 
expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the company’s 
internal control. An audit also includes evaluating the 
appropriateness of accounting policies used and the 
reasonableness of accounting estimates made by the Directors, 
as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the company 
accounts.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Financial statements
111
COMPANY ACCOUNTS AUDITOR’S REPORT – UNILEVER N.V.  Balance sheet as at 31 December
(after proposed appropriation of profit)
 
 
€ million
2011
€ million
2010
Fixed assets
Fixed investments 28,426 27,294
Debtors due after more than one year – 3,386
Deferred taxation – 14
Total non-current assets – 3,400
Debtors due within one year 8,193 3,782
Deferred taxation 33 30
Cash at bank and in hand 1 –
Total current assets 8,227 3,812
Creditors due within one year (23,391) (20,407)
Net current assets/(liabilities) (15,164) (16,595)
Total assets less current liabilities 13,262 14,099
Creditors due after more than one year 5,419 6,330
Provisions for liabilities and charges (excluding pensions and similar obligations) 39 100
Net pension liability 92 89
Capital and reserves 7,712 7,580
Called up share capital 275 275
Share premium account 20 20
Legal reserves 16 16
Other reserves (3,450) (3,521)
Profit retained 10,851 10,790
Total capital employed 13,262 14,099
Profit and loss account for the year ended 31 December
 
 
€ million
2011
€ million
2010
Income from fixed investments after taxation 1,327 1,084
Other income and expenses 71 278
Profit for the year 1,398 1,362
For the information required by Article 392 of Book 2 of the Civil Code in the Netherlands, refer to pages 111 and 116. Pages 113 to 115 
are part of the notes to the Unilever N.V. company accounts.
The company accounts of Unilever N.V. are included in the consolidated accounts of the Unilever Group. Therefore, and in accordance 
with Article 402 of Book 2 of the Civil Code in the Netherlands, the profit and loss account only reflects the income from fixed 
investments after taxation and other income and expenses after taxes. The company accounts of Unilever N.V. do not contain a cash 
flow statement as this is not required by Book 2 of the Civil Code in the Netherlands.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Financial statements
112
COMPANY ACCOUNTS UNILEVER N.V. Retirement benefits
Unilever N.V. has accounted for pensions and similar benefits 
under the United Kingdom Financial Reporting Standard 17 
‘Retirement benefits’ (FRS 17). The operating and financing costs 
of defined benefit plans are recognised separately in the profit 
and loss account; service costs are systematically spread over 
the service lives of employees, and financing costs are recognised 
in the periods in which they arise. Variations from expected costs, 
arising from the experience of the plans or changes in actuarial 
assumptions, are recognised immediately in the statement of 
total recognised gains and losses. The costs of individual events 
such as past service benefit enhancements, settlements and 
curtailments are recognised immediately in the profit and loss 
account. The liabilities and, where applicable, the assets of 
defined benefit plans are recognised at fair value in the balance 
sheet. The charges to the profit and loss account for defined 
contribution plans are the company contributions payable and 
the assets of such plans are not included in the company 
balance sheet.
Dividends
Under Financial Reporting Standard 21 ‘Events after the Balance 
Sheet Date’ (FRS 21), proposed dividends do not meet the 
definition of a liability until such time as they have been approved 
by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting. Therefore, we do 
not recognise a liability in any period for dividends that have been 
proposed but will not be approved until after the balance sheet 
date. This holds for external dividends as well as intra-group 
dividends paid to the parent company.
Taxation
Unilever N.V., together with certain of its subsidiaries, is part of 
a tax grouping for Dutch corporate income tax purposes. The 
members of the fiscal entity are jointly and severally liable for any 
taxes payable by the Dutch tax grouping.
Fixed investments
 
€ million
2011
€ million
2010
1 January 27,294 26,289
Additions
(a)
1,178 1,136
Decreases
(b)
(46) (131)
31 December 28,426 27,294
(a)
 The additions relate to capital injections in the subsidiary Unilever Finance 
International B.V.
(b)
 The decrease relates to the divestment of shares in a group company.
Debtors
 
€ million
2011
€ million
2010
Loans to group companies
(c)
4,436 3,913
Other amounts owed by group companies
(c)
3,628 3,188
Taxation 62 10
Other 67 57
 8,193 7,168
Of which due after more than one year – 3,386
(c)
 Amounts owed by group companies include balances with several group 
companies which are interest bearing at market interest rates and are 
unsecured and repayable on demand if this is the case.
Accounting information and policies
Basis of preparation
The company accounts of Unilever NV comply in all material 
respects with legislation in the Netherlands. As allowed by Article 
362.1 of Book 2 of the Civil Code in the Netherlands, the company 
accounts are prepared in accordance with United Kingdom 
accounting standards, unless such standards conflict with the 
Civil Code in the Netherlands which would in such case prevail.
The accounts are prepared under the historical cost convention  
in accordance with the accounting policies set out below which 
have been consistently applied.
Accounting policies
The principal accounting policies are as follows:
Fixed investments
Shares in group companies are stated at cost less any amounts 
written-off to reflect a permanent impairment. Any impairment 
is charged to the profit and loss account as it arises. In 
accordance with Article 385.5 of Book 2 of the Civil Code in the 
Netherlands, Unilever N.V. shares held by Unilever N.V. 
subsidiaries are deducted from the carrying value of those 
subsidiaries. This differs from the accounting treatment under 
UK GAAP, which would require these amounts to be included 
within fixed investments.
Financial instruments
The company’s accounting policies under United Kingdom 
generally accepted accounting principles (UK GAAP) namely FRS 
25 ‘Financial Instruments: Presentation’, FRS 26 ‘Financial 
Instruments: Measurement’ and FRS 29 ‘Financial Instruments: 
Disclosures’ are the same as the Unilever Group’s accounting 
policies under International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) 
namely IAS 32 ‘Financial Instruments: Presentation’, IAS 39 
‘Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement’ and IFRS 
7 ‘Financial Instruments: Disclosures’. The policies are set out 
under the heading ‘Capital and treasury risk management’ in note 
16 to the consolidated accounts on pages 93 to 99. NV is taking the 
exemption for not providing all the financial instruments 
disclosures, because IFRS 7 disclosures are given  
in note 15 to the consolidated accounts on pages 90 to 92.
Deferred taxation
Full provision is made for deferred taxation on all significant 
timing differences arising from the recognition of items for 
taxation purposes in different periods from those in which they 
are included in the company’s accounts. Full provision is made at 
the rates of tax prevailing at the year end unless future rates have 
been enacted or substantively enacted. Deferred tax assets and 
liabilities have not been discounted.
Own shares held 
Own shares held by the company are accounted for in accordance 
with Dutch law and UK GAAP, namely FRS 25 ‘Financial 
Instruments: Presentation’. All differences between the purchase 
price of the shares held to satisfy options granted and the 
proceeds received for the shares, whether on exercise or lapse, 
are charged to other reserves.
113 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Financial statements
NOTES TO THE COMPANY ACCOUNTS UNILEVER N.V. Legal reserve
In 2006 the NV ordinary shares were split in the ratio 3 to 1 and 
at the same time the share capital, previously denominated in 
Dutch guilders, was converted into euros. Due to rounding the 
new nominal value per share differs from the value expressed in 
Dutch guilders. As a result, the reported share capital issued at 
31 December 2006 was €16 million lower than in 2005.
Other reserves
 
€ million
2011
€ million
2010
1 January (3,521) (3,428)
Change during the year 71 (93)
31 December (3,450) (3,521)
The own ordinary shares held by NV amount to 165,040,077 
(2010: 169,731,275) €0.16 and are included in the other reserves.
Profit retained
 
€ million
2011
€ million
2010
1 January 10,790 10,657
Profit for the year 1,398 1,362
Dividends (1,368) (1,270)
Taxation charge – 1
Realised profit/(loss) on shares/certificates held  
to meet employee share options 36 39
Changes in present value of net pension liability – (5)
Other charges (5) 6
31 December 10,851 10,790
Provisions for liabilities and charges (excluding pensions 
and similar obligations)
 
 
€ million
2011
€ million
2010
Other provisions
(e)
39 100
Of which due within one year 13 78
(e)
 Decrease mainly relates to the payment to the European Commission 
following the competition settlement. Further information is given in note 
20 to the consolidated financial statements on pages 103.
Net pension liability  
 
 
€ million
2011
€ million
2010
Funded retirement benefit (4) (6)
Unfunded retirement liability 96 95
 92 89
Cash at bank and in hand
There was no cash at bank and in hand for which payment notice 
was required at either 31 December 2011 or 31 December 2010.
Creditors
 
€ million
2011
€ million
2010
Due within one year:
Other amounts owed to group companies
(d)
19,804 18,381
Loans from group companies
(d)
1,346 1,317
Bonds and other loans 2,087 556
Taxation and social security 16 14
Accruals and deferred income 34 55
Other 104 84
 23,391 20,407
Due after more than one year:
Bonds and other loans 2,251 3,148
Loans from group companies
(d)
3,089 3,089
Accruals and deferred income 11 4
Preference shares 68 89
 5,419 6,330
(d)
 Amounts owed to group companies include balances with several 
group companies which are interest bearing at market interest rates  
and are unsecured and repayable on demand if this is the case.
Creditors due after five years amount to €68 million 
(2010: €90 million) (Article 375.2 of Book 2 of the Civil Code 
in the Netherlands).
Capital and reserves
 
€ million
2011
€ million
2010
Company accounts Unilever N.V. 7,712 7,580
Unilever Group: shareholders’ equity 14,293 14,485
The equity of Unilever Group €14,293 million (2010: €14,485 
million) includes the equity of the parent Unilever N.V. €7,712 
million (2010: €7,580 million), the equity of parent Unilever PLC 
£1,934 million (2010: £1,808 million). The remaining difference 
arises from the recognition in the company accounts of 
investments in subsidiaries at cost less any amounts written-off 
to reflect a permanent impairment, intra-group balances and 
transaction are not eliminated and other consolidation 
procedures are not performed.
Ordinary share capital
The called up share capital amounting to €275 million consists of 
1,714,727,700 NV ordinary shares and 2,400 NV ordinary special 
shares. These special shares number 1 to 2,400 are held by a 
subsidiary of NV and a subsidiary of PLC, each holding 50%. 
Further details are given in note 19 to the consolidated accounts 
on page 102. 165,040,077 (2010: 169,731,275) of the ordinary 
shares are held by Unilever N.V. (see disclosure ‘Other reserves’) 
and 396,941 (2010: 649,275) €0.16 ordinary shares are held by 
other group companies. 
Share premium account
The share premium shown in the balance sheet is not available 
for the issue of bonus shares or for repayment without incurring 
withholding tax payable by the company. This is despite the 
change in tax law in the Netherlands, as a result of which 
dividends received from 2001 onwards by individual shareholders 
who are resident in the Netherlands are no longer taxed.
114 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Financial statements
NOTES TO THE COMPANY ACCOUNTS UNILEVER N.V. continued Contingent liabilities
Contingent liabilities are not expected to give rise to any material 
loss and include guarantees given for group companies. The fair 
value of such guarantees was not significant in either 2010 or 
2011. The guarantees issued to other companies were immaterial.
NV has issued joint and several liability undertakings, as defined 
in Article 403 of Book 2 of the Civil Code in the Netherlands, for 
almost all Dutch group companies. These written undertakings 
have been filed with the office of the Company Registry in whose 
area of jurisdiction the group company concerned has its 
registered office.
Remuneration of the auditors
For details of the remuneration of the auditors please refer to note 
24 on page 108.
Profit for the year
 
 
€ million
2011
€ million
2010
Company accounts Unilever N.V. 1,398 1,362
Unilever Group excluding non-controlling interest 4,252 4,244
The net profit of Unilever Group €4,252 million (2010: €4,244 
million) includes the net profit of parent Unilever N.V. €1,398 
million (2010: €1,362 million), the net profit of parent Unilever  
PLC £1,076 million (2010: £879 million). The remaining difference 
arises from the recognition in the company accounts of 
investments in subsidiaries at cost less any amounts written-off 
to reflect a permanent impairment, intragroup balances and 
transaction are not eliminated and other consolidated procedures 
are not performed.
Directors’ remuneration
Information about the remuneration of Directors is given in the 
tables noted as audited in the Directors’ Remuneration Report 
on pages 50 to 59, incorporated and repeated here by reference.
Information on key management compensation is provided in note 
4A to consolidated group financial statements on page 73.
Employee information
During 2011 five employees were employed by the company,  
of whom 4 worked abroad.
The Board of Directors
28 February 2012
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Financial statements
115 Post balance sheet event
On 2 February 2012 the Directors announced a dividend of 
€0.225 per Unilever N.V. ordinary share. The dividend is payable 
from 22 March 2012 to shareholders registered at close of 
business on 17 February 2012.
Special controlling rights under the Articles of Association
See note 19 to the consolidated accounts on pages 101 to 102.
Auditors
A resolution will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting on 
9 May 2012 for the re-appointment of PricewaterhouseCoopers 
Accountants N.V. as auditors of Unilever N.V. The present 
appointment will end at the conclusion of the Annual General 
Meeting. 
The rules for profit appropriation in the Articles of Association 
(summary of Article 38)
The profit for the year is applied firstly to the reserves required 
by law or by the Equalisation Agreement, secondly to cover  
losses of previous years, if any, and thirdly to the reserves 
deemed necessary by the Board of Directors. Dividends due to  
the holders of the Cumulative Preference Shares, including any 
arrears in such dividends, are then paid; if the profit is insufficient 
for this purpose, the amount available is distributed to them in 
proportion to the dividend percentages of their shares. Any  
profit remaining thereafter shall be distributed to the holders  
of ordinary shares in proportion to the nominal value of their 
respective holdings of ordinary shares. The General Meeting can 
only decide to make distributions from reserves on the basis of  
a proposal by the Board and in compliance with the law and the 
Equalisation Agreement.
Proposed profit appropriation
€ million
2011
€ million
2010
Profit for the year (available for distribution) 1,398 1,362
Dividend (1,047) (969)
To profit retained 351 393
Corporate Centre
Unilever N.V.
Weena 455
PO Box 760
3000 DK Rotterdam
The Netherlands
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Financial statements
116
FURTHER STATUTORY AND OTHER INFORMATION UNILEVER N.V. Matters on which we are required to report by exception 
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters 
where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in 
our opinion: 
• adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent 
company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been 
received from branches not visited by us; or 
• the parent company financial statements and the part of the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not in 
agreement with the accounting records and returns; or 
• certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration specified by law 
are not made; or 
• we have not received all the information and explanations we 
require for our audit. 
Other matters 
We have reported separately on the group financial statements of 
Unilever Group for the year ended 31 December 2011.
John Baker
(Senior Statutory Auditor)
For and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors
London, United Kingdom
28 February 2012
Independent auditor’s report to the members of Unilever PLC
We have audited the parent company financial statements of 
Unilever PLC for the year ended 31 December 2011 which 
comprise the balance sheet and the related notes on pages 118 to 
120. The financial reporting framework that has been applied in 
their preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom 
Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally Accepted 
Accounting Practice).
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors 
As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors’ 
responsibilities set out on page 61, the Directors are responsible 
for the preparation of the parent company financial statements 
and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. Our 
responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the parent 
company financial statements in accordance with applicable law 
and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those 
standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices 
Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors. 
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and 
only for the parent company’s members as a body in accordance 
with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no 
other purpose. We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or 
assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other 
person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may 
come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and 
disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give 
reasonable assurance that the parent company financial 
statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused 
by fraud or error. This includes an assessment of: whether the 
accounting policies are appropriate to the parent company’s 
circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately 
disclosed; the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates 
made by the Directors; and the overall presentation of the parent 
company financial statements. In addition, we read all the 
financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report and 
Accounts 2011 to identify material inconsistencies with the audited 
financial statements. If we become aware of any apparent 
material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the 
implications for our report.
Opinion on financial statements 
In our opinion the parent company financial statements: 
• give a true and fair view of the state of the parent company’s 
affairs as at 31 December 2011;
• have been properly prepared in accordance with United 
Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice; and 
• have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of 
the Companies Act 2006. 
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 
In our opinion: 
• the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited 
has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies 
Act 2006; and 
• the information given in the Directors’ Report set out on pages 
121 and 122 for the financial year for which the parent company 
financial statements are prepared is consistent with the parent 
company financial statements. 
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Financial statements
117
COMPANY ACCOUNTS AUDITOR’S REPORT – UNILEVER PLC Balance sheet as at 31 December
 
 
£ million
2011
£ million
2010
Fixed assets
Intangible assets 59 48
Fixed asset investments 5,979 5,942
6,038 5,990
Current assets
Debtors due within one year
428 545
Creditors due within one year (3,778) (3,933)
Net current assets/(liabilities) (3,350) (3,388)
Total assets less current liabilities 2,688 2,602
Creditors due after more than one year 745 744
Provision for liabilities and charges (excluding pensions and similar obligations) 9 50
Capital and reserves 1,934 1,808
Called up share capital 41 41
Share premium account 94 94
Capital redemption reserve 11 11
Other reserves (405) (428)
Profit retained 2,193 2,090
Total capital employed 2,688 2,602
As permitted by Section 408 of the United Kingdom Companies Act 2006, an entity profit and loss account is not included as part of 
the published company accounts for PLC. Under the terms of Financial Reporting Standard 1 (revised 1996) ‘Cash Flow Statements’ 
(FRS 1) a cash flow statement is not included, as the cash flows are included in the consolidated cash flow statement of the 
Unilever Group.
On behalf of the Board of Directors
M Treschow Chairman
P Polman Chief Executive Officer
28 February 2012
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Financial statements
118
COMPANY ACCOUNTS UNILEVER PLC Deferred taxation
Full provision is made for deferred taxation on all significant 
timing differences arising from the recognition of items for 
taxation purposes in different periods from those in which they 
are included in the company’s accounts. Full provision is made at 
the rates of tax prevailing at the year end unless future rates have 
been enacted or substantively enacted. Deferred tax assets and 
liabilities have not been discounted.
Shares held by employee share trusts
Shares held to satisfy options are accounted for in accordance 
with UK GAAP, namely FRS 25 ‘Financial Instruments: 
Presentation’, FRS 20 ‘Share Based Payments’ and Urgent Issues 
Task Force abstract 38 ‘Accounting for ESOP Trusts’ (UITF 38). All 
differences between the purchase price of the shares held to 
satisfy options granted and the proceeds received for the shares, 
whether on exercise or lapse, are charged to other reserves.
Dividends
Under FRS 21 ‘Events after the Balance Sheet Date’, proposed 
dividends do not meet the definition of a liability until such time 
as they have been approved by shareholders at the Annual 
General Meeting. Therefore, we do not recognise a liability in 
any period for dividends that have been proposed but will not be 
approved until after the balance sheet date. This holds for 
external dividends as well as intra-group dividends paid to 
the parent company.
Accounting information and policies
Basis of preparation
The accounts have been prepared in accordance with applicable 
United Kingdom accounting standards and the United Kingdom 
Companies Act 2006.
The accounts are prepared under the historical cost convention 
except for the revaluation of financial assets classified as  
‘available-for-sale investments’ or ‘fair value through profit 
or loss’, and ‘derivative financial instruments’ in accordance 
with the accounting policies set out below which have been 
consistently applied.
Accounting policies
The principal accounting policies are as follows:
Intangible assets
Intangible assets comprise trademarks purchased after 
1 January 1998 and are amortised in the profit and loss account 
over their expected useful lives of up to a maximum of 20 years. 
These assets are held at cost less accumulated amortisation. 
They are subject to review for impairment in accordance with 
United Kingdom Financial Reporting Standard 11 ‘Impairment of 
Fixed Assets and Goodwill’ (FRS 11). Any impairment is charged 
to the profit and loss account as it arises.
Fixed investments
Shares in group companies are stated at cost less any amounts 
written-off to reflect a permanent impairment. Any impairment 
is charged to the profit and loss account as it arises.
Financial instruments 
The company’s accounting policies under United Kingdom 
generally accepted accounting principles (UK GAAP), namely 
FRS 25 ‘Financial Instruments: Presentation’, FRS 26 ‘Financial 
Instruments: Measurement’ and FRS 29 ‘Financial Instruments: 
Disclosures’, are the same as the Unilever Group’s accounting 
policies under International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) 
namely IAS 32 ‘Financial Instruments: Presentation’, IAS 39 
‘Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement’ and 
IFRS 7 ‘Financial Instruments: Disclosures’. The policies are set 
out under the heading ‘Capital and treasury risk management’ 
in note 16 to the consolidated accounts on pages 93 and 99. The 
company is taking the exemption for financial instruments 
disclosures, because IFRS 7 disclosures are given in note 15 to 
the consolidated accounts on pages 90 to 92.
119 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Financial statements
NOTES TO THE COMPANY ACCOUNTS UNILEVER PLC Ordinary share capital
The called up share capital amounting to £41 million consists of 
1,310,156,361 PLC ordinary shares and 100,000 PLC deferred 
stock. The deferred stock of PLC are held as to one half of each 
class by N.V. Elma – a subsidiary of NV – and one half by United 
Holdings Ltd – a subsidiary of PLC. Further details are given in 
note 19 to the consolidated accounts on pages 101 to 102. 
Other reserves
The own ordinary shares held by PLC amount to 29,739,105 
(2010: 31,535,271) 3
1
/ 9p and are included in Other reserves.
 
£ million
2011
£ million
2010
1 January (428) (455)
Movements in shares 23 27
31 December (405) (428)
Profit retained
 
£ million
2011
£ million
2010
1 January 2,090 2,106
Profit for the year 1,076 879
Other movements 6 5
Dividends (979) (900)
31 December 2,193 2,090
Contingent liabilities
Contingent liabilities are not expected to give rise to any material 
loss and include guarantees given for group companies. The fair 
value of such guarantees is not significant in either 2010 or 2011. 
The guarantees issued to other companies were immaterial.
Remuneration of auditors
The parent company accounts of Unilever PLC are required to 
comply with The Companies (Disclosure of Auditor Remuneration) 
Regulations 2005. Auditors’ remuneration in respect of Unilever 
PLC is included within the disclosures in note 24 on page 108.
Profit appropriation
 
£ million
2011
£ million
2010
Profit for the year (available for distribution) 1,076 879
Dividends
(g)
(752) (683)
To profit retained 324 196
(g)
 The dividend to be paid in March 2012 (see post balance sheet event) is not 
included in the 2011 dividend amount.
Post balance sheet event
On 2 February 2012 the Directors announced a dividend of 
£0.1879 per Unilever PLC ordinary share. The dividend is payable 
from 22 March 2012 to shareholders registered at close of 
business on 17 February 2012.
Intangible assets
£ million
2011
£ million
2010
Intangible assets
(a)
59 48
(a)
 The movement in the year includes the acquisition of trademarks within 
Australia, New Zealand and United Kingdom.
Fixed investments
£ million
2011
£ million
2010
Shares in group companies
(b)
5,979 5,942
(b)
 The movement in the year is an additional investment in a group company.
Debtors
£ million
2011
£ million
2010
Due within one year:
Amounts owed by group companies
(c)
418 544
Taxation and social security 7 –
Other 3 1
428 545
(c)
 Amounts owed by group companies include balances with several 
group companies which are interest bearing at market interest rates  
and are unsecured and repayable on demand if this is the case.
Creditors
 
£ million
2011
£ million
2010
Due within one year:
Amounts owed to group companies
(d)
3,764 3,857
Taxation and social security – 56
Accruals and deferred income 11 11
Other 3 9
 3,778 3,933
Due after more than one year:
Bonds and other loans
(e)
745 744
(d) 
Amounts owed to group companies include balances with several 
group companies which are interest bearing at market interest rates  
and are unsecured and repayable on demand if this is the case.
(e)
 In 2009 Unilever PLC issued the following senior notes:
 
•  on 19 March £350 million at 4.0% maturing December 2014 (year-end 
value at amortised cost £348 million); and
 
•  on 17 June £400 million at 4.75% maturing June 2017 (year-end value 
amortised cost £397 million).
Provisions for liabilities and charges (excluding pensions 
and similar obligations)
£ million
2011
£ million
2010
Deferred taxation 8 9
Other provisions
( f)
1 41
9 50
Of which due within one year 1 41
(f)
 Decrease mainly relates to the payment to the European Commission 
following the competition settlement. Further information is given in note 
20 to the consolidated financial statements on page 103.
120 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Financial statements
NOTES TO THE COMPANY ACCOUNTS UNILEVER PLC continued Employee involvement and communication
Unilever’s UK companies maintain formal processes to inform, 
consult and involve employees and their representatives. We 
recognise collective bargaining on a number of sites and engage 
with employees via the Sourcing Unit Forum including officer 
representation from the three recognised trade unions. Our sites 
use tools such as Total Productive Maintenance which rely heavily 
on employee involvement, contribution and commitment.
A National Consultative Council covering employees and 
management representatives exists to provide a forum for 
discussing issues relating to the United Kingdom. A European 
Works Council, embracing employee and management 
representatives from countries within Europe, has been in 
existence for several years and provides a forum for discussing 
issues that extend across national boundaries.
The company carries out regular and wide-ranging monitoring 
surveys providing valuable insight into employee views, attitudes 
and levels of engagement.
The Directors’ Reports of the United Kingdom group companies 
contain more details about how they have communicated with 
their employees during 2011.
Equal opportunities and diversity
Under the umbrella of our Code of Business Principles, Unilever 
aims to ensure that applications for employment from people with 
disabilities, and other under-represented groups, are given full 
and fair consideration and that such people are given the same 
training, development and prospects as other employees. Every 
effort is also made to retrain and support employees who become 
disabled while working within the Group.
Unilever continues to review ways in which greater diversity can 
be achieved in recruitment and selection. We have put in place 
policies which promote the achievement of diversity in our 
business and we review these regularly. For example, Unilever UK 
provides policies on home working, flexible working, maternity 
and paternity leave, child care provision and career breaks, which 
help us to meet the objective of greater employee diversity.
Charitable and other contributions
Unilever collates the cost of its community involvement activities 
using the London Benchmarking Group model. The model 
recommends the separation of charitable donations, community 
investment, commercial initiatives in the community and 
management costs relating to the programme of activity.
During 2011 UK group companies made a total contribution of 
£2.67 million, analysed as follows:
• Charitable donations: £0.36 million
• Community investment: £1.56 million
• Commercial initiatives in the community: £0.75 million
No donation or contribution was made or expenditure incurred for 
political purposes.
Directors’ Report of PLC and limitations of liability
For the purposes of the UK Companies Act 2006, the Directors’ 
Report of Unilever PLC for the year ended 31 December 2011 
comprises this and the following page and the information 
contained in the Report of the Directors on pages 2 to 59 which 
includes the company’s position on environment and corporate 
responsibility matters, the Directors’ Remuneration Report in 
respect of Directors’ interests in shares or debentures of the 
Group on pages 57 and 59, Dividends on page 83, Principal group 
companies and non-current investments on pages 109 and 110, 
Significant shareholders of PLC as disclosed on page 124, and 
Capital and Treasury risk management on page 93 to 99. The 
information required to be given pursuant to Section 992 of the 
Companies Act 2006 is covered elsewhere in this Annual Report.
The Directors’ Report has been drawn up and presented in 
accordance with and in reliance upon English company law and 
liabilities of the Directors in connection with that report shall be 
subject to the limitations and restrictions provided by such law.
Under the Companies Act 2006, a safe harbour limits the liability 
of Directors in respect of statements in and omissions from the 
Directors’ Report. Under English Law the Directors would be 
liable to Unilever (but not to any third party) if the Directors’ 
Report contained errors as a result of recklessness or knowing 
misstatement or dishonest concealment of a material fact, but 
would not otherwise be liable.
Business review
The Companies Act 2006 requires Unilever PLC to set out in 
this report a fair review of the business of the Group during the 
financial year ended 31 December 2011 including a description 
of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group and an 
analysis of the position of the Group’s business at the end of 
the financial year, known as a ‘Business review’.
The information that fulfils the current Business review 
requirements can be found on the following pages of this Annual 
Report which are incorporated into this report by reference:
• a description of the outlook of the Group and the principal risks 
and uncertainties facing the Group – see pages 28 to 32;
• the development and performance of the Group’s business 
during the year – see pages 20 to 27;
• the position of the Group’s business at the end of the 
year – see pages 24 and 66;
• key performance indicators – see pages 6, 21 to 23, 26 and 27;
• other key indicators – see page 6;
• main trends and factors likely to affect the future development, 
performance and position of the Group – see page 28;
• environmental matters and policy, including the impact of the 
Group’s business on the environment – see pages 6 and 8 to 19;
• employee matters and policy – see pages 18 and 19 and also 
below; 
• social and community matters and policy–see pages 6 and 8 to 
19;
• a statement that the Directors do not believe that there are 
any contracts or other arrangements which are essential to 
the business of the Group is given on page 43; and
• an explanation of the business model and the Group’s Strategy 
for delivering its objectives–see pages 8 and 9.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Financial statements
121
FURTHER STATUTORY AND OTHER INFORMATION UNILEVER PLC UK Capital Gains Tax
The market value of PLC 3
1
/9p ordinary shares at 31 March 1982 
would have been 76.84p per share. Since 1982, PLC ordinary 
shares have been sub-divided on two occasions and consolidated 
on two occasions. First, with effect on 26 June 1987, the 25p 
shares were split into five shares of 5p each. Secondly, with effect 
on 13 October 1997, the 5p shares were split into four shares of 
1.25p each. Thirdly, with effect on 10 May 1999, the shares were 
consolidated by replacing every 112 shares of 1.25p each with 100 
shares of 1.4p each. Lastly, with effect on 22 May 2006, the shares 
were consolidated by replacing every 20 shares of 1.4p each with 
nine shares of 3
1
/9p each.
Corporate Centre   Unilever PLC Registered Office
Unilever PLC  Port Sunlight
Unilever House  Wirral
100 Victoria Embankment Merseyside CH62 4ZD
London EC4Y 0DY  Registered number 41424
Unilever PLC Registrars
Computershare Investor Services PLC
The Pavilions
Bridgwater Road
Bristol BS99 6ZY
By Order of the Board
T E Lovell
Secretary of Unilever PLC
28 February 2012
Supplier payment policies
Individual operating companies are responsible for agreeing 
the terms and conditions under which business transactions 
with their suppliers are conducted. The Directors’ reports of the 
United Kingdom operating companies give information about their 
supplier payment policies as required by the Companies Act 2006. 
PLC, as a holding company, does not itself make any relevant 
payments in this respect.
Auditors and disclosure of information to auditors
A resolution will be proposed at the AGM on 9 May 2012 for the 
re-appointment of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as auditors 
of PLC. The present appointment will end at the conclusion of 
the AGM.
To the best of each of the Directors’ knowledge and belief, and 
having made appropriate enquiries of other officers of the 
Unilever Group, all information relevant to enabling the auditors to 
provide their opinions on PLC’s consolidated and parent company 
accounts has been provided. Each of the Directors has taken all 
reasonable steps to ensure their awareness of any relevant audit 
information and to establish that the company’s auditors are 
aware of any such information.
Authority to purchase own shares
At the AGM of PLC held on 11 May 2011, authority was given to 
make market purchases of PLC ordinary shares of 3
1
⁄9p each, to a 
maximum of 131 million shares. This authority will expire at the 
AGM on 9 May 2012, and a resolution will be proposed to renew 
the authority.
Details of shares purchased by an employee share trust and 
Unilever group companies to satisfy options granted under PLC’s 
employee share schemes are given in note 4 to the consolidated 
accounts on pages 79 and 80 and on page 124.
122 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Financial statements
FURTHER STATUTORY AND OTHER INFORMATION UNILEVER PLC continued PLC’s issued share capital on 31 December 2011 was made up of:
• £40,760,420 split into 1,310,156,361 ordinary shares  
of 3
1
/9p each; and 
• £100,000 of deferred stock. 
The total number of voting rights attached to PLC’s outstanding 
shares are as follows:
Total number of votes % of issued capital
1,310,156,361 ordinary shares 1,310,156,361
(a)
99.76
£100,000 deferred stock 3,214,285 0.24
(a)
 Of which 26,696,994 shares were held by PLC in treasury and 12,385,248 
shares were held by NV group companies or by share trusts as at 
31 December 2011. These shares are not voted on. 
The Board of PLC may, under sections 551, 570 and 571 of the  
UK Companies Act 2006 and subject to the passing of the 
appropriate resolutions at a meeting of shareholders, issue 
shares within the limits prescribed within the resolutions. At the 
2011 PLC AGM the Directors were authorised to issue new shares 
pursuant to section 551 of the Companies Act 2006, limited to 
a maximum of £13,290,000 nominal value, which at the time 
represented approximately 33% of PLC’s issued ordinary share 
capital and pursuant to section 570 of that Act, to disapply  
pre-emption rights up to approximately 5% of PLC’s issued 
ordinary share capital. These authorities are renewed annually.
At the 2011 PLC AGM the Board of PLC was authorised in 
accordance with its Articles of Association to make market 
purchases of its ordinary shares representing just under 10% 
of PLC’s issued capital and within the limits prescribed within 
the resolution until the earlier of the six-month anniversary after  
the 2011 year end or the conclusion of the 2012 PLC AGM. 
A similar authority will be sought at the 2012 AGM of PLC 
pursuant to the Companies Act 2006.
Share capital
NV’s issued share capital on 31 December 2011 was made up of:
• €274,356,432 split into 1,714,727,700 ordinary shares  
of €0.16 each; 
• €1,028,568 split into 2,400 ordinary shares numbered  
1 to 2,400 known as special shares; and 
• €81,454,014 split into two classes (6% and 7%) of  
cumulative preference shares (‘financing preference shares’). 
The voting rights attached to NV’s outstanding shares are split  
as follows:
 Total number of votes % of issued capital
1,714,727,700 ordinary shares 1,714,727,700
(a)
76.89
2,400 special shares 6,428,550 0.29
161,060 6% cumulative 
preference shares 431,409,276
(b)
19.34
29,000 7% cumulative 
preference shares 77,678,313
(c)
3.48
(a)
 Of which 141,560,629 shares were held in treasury and 23,876,389 shares 
were held to satisfy obligations under share-based incentive schemes as at 
31 December 2011. These shares are not voted on.
(b) 
Of which 37,669 6% cumulative preference shares were held in treasury as 
at 31 December 2011. These shares are not voted on.
(c) 
Of which 7,546 7% cumulative preference shares were held in treasury as at 
31 December 2011. These shares are not voted on.
NV may issue shares not yet issued and grant rights to subscribe 
for shares only pursuant to a resolution of the General Meeting of 
Shareholders or of another corporate body designated for such 
purpose by a resolution of the General Meeting. At the NV AGM 
held on 12 May 2011 the Board was designated, in accordance with 
Articles 96 and 96a of Book 2 of the Netherlands Civil Code, as the 
corporate body authorised until 11 November 2012 to resolve on 
the issue of – or on the granting of rights to subscribe for – shares 
not yet issued and to restrict or exclude the statutory pre-emption 
rights that accrue to shareholders upon issue of shares, on the 
understanding that this authority is limited to 10% of the issued 
share capital of NV, plus an additional 10% of the issued share 
capital of NV in connection with or on the occasion of mergers 
and acquisitions.
At the 2011 NV AGM the Board of NV was authorised, in 
accordance with Article 98 of Book 2 of the Netherlands Civil 
Code, until 11 November 2012 to cause NV to buy back its own 
shares and depositary receipts thereof, with a maximum of 
10% of issued share capital, either through purchase on a stock 
exchange or otherwise, at a price, excluding expenses, not lower 
than the nominal value of the shares and not higher than 10% 
above the average of the closing price of the shares on Eurolist 
by Euronext Amsterdam for the five business days before the 
day on which the purchase is made.
The above mentioned authorities are renewed annually.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Shareholder information
123
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Analysis of shareholding
Significant shareholders of NV
As far as Unilever is aware, the only holders of more than 5% (as referred to in the Act on Financial Supervision in the Netherlands) in  
the NV share capital (apart from the Foundation Unilever NV Trust Office, see pages 41 and 42, and shares held in treasury by NV, see 
page 123, are ING Groep N.V. (‘ING’) and ASR Nederland N.V. (‘ASR’).
The voting rights of such shareholders are the same as for other holders of the class of share indicated. The two shareholders have 
each notified the Netherlands Authority for the Financial Markets (AFM) of their holdings. Detailed below are the interests in NV shares 
provided to NV by ING and ASR in the second half of 2011. All interests are mainly held in cumulative preference shares.
ING 
• 11,508,671 (0.67%) ordinary shares (€1,841,387)
• 20,665 (71.26%) 7% cumulative preference shares (€8,856,399)
• 74,088 (46.0%) 6% cumulative preference shares (€31,751,894)
ASR
• 1,521,639 (0.8%) ordinary shares (€243,462)
• 46,000 (28.56%) 6% cumulative preference shares (€19,714,220)
Between 1 January 2009 and 31 December 2011, ING and ASR (previously Fortis Utrecht N.V.) have held more than 5% in the share 
capital of NV. 
Significant shareholders of PLC
The following table gives notified details of shareholders who held more than 3% of, or 3% of voting rights attributable to, PLC’s shares 
or deferred stock (excluding treasury shares) on 28 February 2012. The voting rights of such shareholders are the same as for other 
holders of the class of share indicated. 
Title of class Name of holder
Number of
shares held
Approximate
% held
Deferred Stock Naamlooze Vennootschap Elma 50,000 50
United Holdings Limited 50,000 50
Ordinary shares BlackRock, Inc. 74,570,243 5
Trustees of the Leverhulme Trust and the Leverhulme Trade Charities Trust 70,566,764 5
Legal & General Group plc 51,295,103 3
Between 1 January 2009 and 31 December 2011, Barclays PLC, Legal & General Group plc and BlackRock, Inc. have held more  
than 3% of, or 3% of voting rights attributable to, PLC’s ordinary shares. During this period, and as notified, certain of these holdings 
reduced to below the reporting 3% threshold. The table above sets out the notifiable interest of shares or voting rights attributable  
to PLC as at 28 February 2012.
Controlling security holders
To our knowledge, the Unilever group is not owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by another corporation, any foreign government 
or by any other legal or natural person. We are not aware of any arrangements the operation of which may at a subsequent date result 
in a change of control of Unilever. 
Purchases of shares during 2011
During 2011 Unilever group companies purchased 4,556,762 NV ordinary shares, each with a nominal value of €0.16, for €101.4 million. 
This represents 0.27% of the called-up share capital of NV. The repurchase was undertaken to satisfy obligations under share-based 
incentive schemes.
During 2011 Unilever group companies purchased 37,669 NV 6% cumulative preference shares and 7,546 NV 7% cumulative preference 
shares each with a nominal value of €428.57 for €37.5 million. This represents 5.43% of the called-up share capital of NV. The 
repurchase was undertaken under the public cash offer for all outstanding 6% and 7% cumulative preference shares as announced on 
19 October 2011.
No PLC ordinary shares were purchased by Unilever group companies during 2011.
124 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Shareholder information
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION continued Financial calendar
Annual General Meetings
Date
Voting Record
date
Voting &
 Registration date
NV 9.30am 9 May 2012 11 April 2012 2 May 2012
PLC 3.00pm 9 May 2012 4 May 2012 4 May 2012
Announcements of results
First Quarter 26 April 2012 Third Quarter 25 October 2012
Second Quarter 26 July 2012 Fourth Quarter 24 January 2013
Quarterly Dividends
Dates listed below are applicable to all four Unilever listings (NV ordinary shares, PLC ordinary shares, NV New York shares, 
and PLC ADRs).
Announced Ex-dividend date Record date Payment date
Quarterly Dividend announced with the Q4 2011 results 2 February 2012 15 February 2012 17 February 2012 22 March 2012
Quarterly Dividend announced with the Q1 2012 results 26 April 2012 9 May 2012 11 May 2012 13 June 2012
Quarterly Dividend announced with the Q2 2012 results 26 July 2012 8 August 2012 10 August 2012 12 September 2012
Quarterly Dividend announced with the Q3 2012 results 25 October 2012 7 November 2012 9 November 2012 12 December 2012
Preferential Dividends – NV
Announced Ex-dividend date Record date Payment date
6% and 7% 7 September 2012 10 September 2012 12 September 2012 1 October 2012
Contact details
Rotterdam  London
Unilever N.V. Unilever PLC
Investor Relations Department Investor Relations Department
Weena 455, PO Box 760 Unilever House
3000 DK Rotterdam 100 Victoria Embankment
The Netherlands London EC4Y 0DY
  United Kingdom
Telephone +44 (0)20 7822 6830  Telephone +44 (0)20 7822 6830
Telefax +44 (0)20 7822 5754  Telefax +44 (0)20 7822 5754
Any queries can also be sent to us electronically via www.unilever.com/resource/contactus.aspx.
125 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Shareholder information Publications
Copies of the following publications can be accessed directly 
or ordered through www.unilever.com/investorrelations or 
www.unilever.nl/onsbedrijf/beleggers.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Available in English with figures in euros. It forms the basis for 
the Form 20-F that is filed with the United States Securities and 
Exchange Commission, which is also available free of charge at 
www.sec.gov.
Quarterly Results Announcements
Available in English with figures in euros.
Website 
Shareholders are encouraged to visit our website  
www.unilever.com which has a wealth of information 
about Unilever. Any information on or linked from the  
website is not incorporated by reference into this Annual  
Report and Accounts.
There is a section designed specifically for investors at  
www.unilever.com/investorrelations. It includes detailed 
coverage of the Unilever share price, our quarterly and annual 
results, performance charts, financial news and investor relations 
speeches and presentations. It also includes conference and 
investor/analyst presentations.
You can also view this year’s Annual Report and Accounts, and 
prior years’ Annual Review and Annual Report and Accounts 
documents at www.unilever.com/investorrelations.
PLC shareholders can elect to receive their shareholder 
communications such as Annual Report and Accounts and  
other shareholder documents electronically by registering at 
www.unilever.com/shareholderservices. 
Shareholders are also able to view documents on our website.
Share registration
The Netherlands
ANT Trust & Corporate Services N.V.
Claude Debussylaan 24
1082 MD Amsterdam
Telephone +31 (0)20 522 2555 
Telefax +31 (0)20 522 2500
Website www.ant-trust.com
Email registers@ant-trust.nl
UK
Computershare Investor Services PLC
The Pavilions
Bridgwater Road
Bristol BS99 6ZY
Telephone +44 (0)870 600 3977
Telefax  +44 (0)870 703 6119
Website  www.unilever.com/shareholderservices
Email  web.queries@computershare.co.uk
USA
Citibank Shareholder Services
PO Box 43077
Providence RI 02940-3077
Toll free phone (inside US) 888 502 6356
Toll phone (outside US) +1 781 575 4555
Website www.citi.com/dr
Email  citibank@shareholders-online.com
126 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Shareholder information
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION continued Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2011 127
NOTES Accounting policies  6, 68-69, 113, 119
Acquisitions  21, 104-106
Advertising and promotion  16, 72
Americas, The  7, 22, 26, 70, 73, 85
Annual General Meetings  40, 125
Asia Africa CEE  7, 22, 26, 70, 73, 85
Associates  64, 67, 70-71, 87-88, 107, 110
Audit Committee  39-40, 46-47
Auditors  46-47, 62-63, 108, 111, 116, 117, 120, 122
Balance sheet  24, 66, 68, 112, 118
Biographies  34-35
Board committees  39-40
Board remuneration  50-59
Boards  2, 36-37
Brands  9, 10-13
Capital expenditure  86-87
Cash  90-91
Cash flow  25, 67
Categories  23, 71
Cautionary statement  inside back cover
Chairman  2, 34, 38
Chief Executive Officer  4-5, 34, 38
Commitments  24, 102-103
Company accounts, statutory and other information  111-122
Comprehensive income  65, 82
Contingent liabilities  102-103, 115, 120
Core operating margin  27
Corporate governance  36-45
Corporate responsibility  48
Corporate Responsibility and Reputation Committee  39-40, 48
Deferred tax  81-82, 113, 119
Depreciation  72, 86-87
Directors’ responsibilities  61
Disposals  104-106
Diversity  2, 18, 121
Dividends  83, 113, 119, 125
Earnings per share  21, 64, 83
Employees  7, 18-19, 73, 121
Equalisation Agreement  42
Equity  100-101
Europe, Western  7, 22, 70, 73, 85
Exchange rates  68
Executive Directors  34, 37, 38-39, 51-58
Finance and liquidity  24, 93-94
Finance costs and income  80
Financial assets  90-91
Financial calendar  125
Financial instruments  91, 93-98
Financial liabilities  91-92
Financial review  20-27
Foods  7, 23, 71
Free cash flow  6, 20-21, 27
Goodwill  84-85
Gross profit  72
Group structure  3, 68
Home Care  7, 23, 71
Impairment  70, 72, 84-85
Income statement  21, 64
Innovation  9, 10-13
Intangible assets  84-85, 119-120
International Financial Reporting Standards  6, 68
Inventories  88
Joint ventures  70-71, 87, 107, 110
Key management  73
Key performance indicators  6, 20-27
Leases  24, 102-103
Legal proceedings  103
Market capitalisation  25
Net debt  25, 27
Nomination Committee  39-40, 49
Non-Executive Directors  34, 38-39, 58-59
Non-GAAP measures  26-27
Off-balance sheet arrangements  24
Operating costs  72
Operating profit  21, 70-72
Outlook  28
Payables  89
Pensions and similar obligations  73-78
Personal Care  7, 23, 71
Post balance sheet events  108, 116, 120
Preference shares and dividends  72, 125
Principal group companies  109-110
Property, plant and equipment  86-87
Provisions  99-100
Receivables  88-89
Refreshment  7, 23, 71
Regions  22, 26, 70, 73, 85
Related party transactions  107
Remuneration Committee  39-40, 44, 50-59
Research and development  10-11, 72, 84
Reserves  100, 114, 120
Restructuring  70, 72, 99
Revenue recognition  70
Risk management and control  33, 43-45, 46
Risks – principal risks  28-32
Segment information  22-23, 70-71
Share-based payments  79-80
Share capital  41, 101-102, 114, 120, 123
Shareholders  40-42, 123-124
Share registration  126
Staff costs  73
Strategy  9
Taxation  80-82, 113, 119
Total shareholder return  59
Treasury  25, 93-98
Turnover  70-71
Underlying operating margin  6, 20-27
Underlying volume growth  6-7, 20-27
Underlying sales growth  6-7, 20-27
Unilever Leadership Executive  5, 35
Voting  41
Website  126
128 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2011
INDEX Cautionary statement
This document may contain forward-looking statements, including ‘forward-looking statements’ within the meaning of the United States Private Securities 
Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Words such as ‘will’, ‘aim’, ‘expects’, ‘anticipates’, ‘intends’, ‘believes’, ‘vision’, or the negative of these terms and other similar 
expressions of future performance or results, and their negatives, are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. These forward-looking 
statements are based upon current expectations and assumptions regarding anticipated developments and other factors affecting the Group. They are  
not historical facts, nor are they guarantees of future performance.
Because these forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, there are important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially 
from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements, including, among others, competitive pricing and activities, economic slowdown, 
industry consolidation, access to credit markets, recruitment levels, reputational risks, commodity prices, continued availability of raw materials, 
prioritisation of projects, consumption levels, costs, the ability to maintain and manage key customer relationships and supply chain sources, consumer 
demands, currency values, interest rates, the ability to integrate acquisitions and complete planned divestitures, finalising fair values related to prior 
acquisitions, the ability to complete planned restructuring activities, physical risks, environmental risks, the ability to manage sustainability, regulatory,  
tax and legal matters and resolve pending matters within current estimates, legislative, fiscal and regulatory developments, political, economic and social 
conditions in the geographic markets where the Group operates, completion of the Sustainable Development Report 2011 and new or changed priorities of the 
Boards. Further details of potential risks and uncertainties affecting the Group are described in the Group’s filings with the London Stock Exchange, Euronext 
Amsterdam and the US Securities and Exchange Commission, including the Group’s Annual Report on Form 20-F for the year ended 31 December 2011 and  
the Annual Report and Accounts 2011. These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this document. Except as required by any applicable  
law or regulation, the Group expressly disclaims any obligation or undertaking to release publicly any updates or revisions to any forward-looking statements 
contained herein to reflect any change in the Group’s expectations with regard thereto or any change in events, conditions or circumstances on which any such 
statement is based.
This document is not prepared in accordance with US GAAP and should not therefore be relied upon by readers as such. The Group’s Annual Report on  
Form 20-F for 2011 is separately filed with the US Securities and Exchange Commission and is available on our corporate website www.unilever.com. Any 
information on or linked from the website is not incorporated by reference into this document or the Annual Report on Form 20-F. In addition, a printed copy  
of the Annual Report on Form 20-F is available, free of charge, upon request to Unilever PLC, Investor Relations Department, Unilever House, 100 Victoria 
Embankment, London EC4Y 0DY, United Kingdom.
Designed and produced by Unilever Communications in conjunction with Addison at www.addison.co.uk.
Board photography by Oliver Edwards, Philip Gatward, Claudio Sforza and Indra Dab Photography Indonesia. 
Feature photography by Giles Barnard, Igor Emmerich, Michael Heffernan, Peter Jordan and Chris Moyse. 
Product photography by The Pack Shot Company. 
Additional photography from the Unilever image library.
Printed at Pureprint Group, ISO 14001. FSC
®
 certified and CarbonNeutral
®
.
This document forms part of the Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2011 suite of documents and is printed on 
Amadeus 100% Recycled Silk. This has been exclusively supplied by Denmaur Independent Papers which has offset 
the carbon produced by the production and delivery of this paper to the printer.
The paper contains 100% recycled content, of which 100% is de-inked post-consumer waste. All of the pulp is 
bleached using an elemental chlorine free process (ECF). Printed in the UK by Pureprint using its alcofree
®
 and 
pureprint
®
 environmental printing technology, and vegetable inks were used throughout. Pureprint is a 
CarbonNeutral
®
 company. Both manufacturing mill and the printer are registered to the Environmental Management 
System ISO 14001 and are Forest Stewardship Council
®
 (FSC) chain-of-custody certified.
 
If you have finished with this document and no longer wish to retain it, please pass it on to other interested readers  
or dispose of it in your recycled paper waste. Thank you. Unilever N.V.
Weena 455, PO Box 760
3000 DK Rotterdam
The Netherlands
T +31 (0)10 217 4000
F +31 (0)10 217 4798
Commercial Register Rotterdam
Number: 24051830
Unilever PLC
Unilever House
100 Victoria Embankment
London EC4Y 0DY
United Kingdom
T +44 (0)20 7822 5252
F +44 (0)20 7822 5951
Unilever PLC registered office
Unilever PLC
Port Sunlight
Wirral
Merseyside CH62 4ZD
United Kingdom
Registered in England and Wales
Company Number: 41424
www.unilever.com DISCLAIMER
Notes to the Annual Report and Accounts This PDF version of the Unilever Annual Report 
and Accounts 2011 is an exact copy of the document provided to Unilever’s shareholders.
Certain sections of the Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2011 have been audited. These are  
on pages 64 to 122, and those parts noted as audited within the Directors’ Remuneration Report  
on pages 56 to 59.
The maintenance and integrity of the Unilever website is the responsibility of the Directors;  
the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters. Accordingly,  
the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial 
statements since they were initially placed on the website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom and the Netherlands governing the preparation and 
dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Disclaimer Except where you are a shareholder, this material is provided for information purposes 
only and is not, in particular, intended to confer any legal rights on you.
This Annual Report and Accounts does not constitute an invitation to invest in Unilever shares.  
Any decisions you make in reliance on this information are solely your responsibility.
The information is given as of the dates specified, is not updated, and any forward-looking 
statements are made subject to the reservations specified on the final page of the Report.
Unilever accepts no responsibility for any information on other websites that may be accessed  
from this site by hyperlinks.
