 Creating a better 
future every day
Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Contents
Report of the Directors
Overview
1 Our vision
2 Operational highlights
4 Chairman’s statement
5 Chief Executive Officer’s review
7 Strategy
Our strategy
8  Winning with brands  
and innovation
10  Winning in the market place
12  Winning through  
continuous improvement
14 Winning with people
Performance 2009
16 Financial overview
18 Making a difference in society
20 Growing sustainably
Board and Executive
22 Board of Directors
24 Unilever Executive
About Unilever
25 Our business
30 Outlook and risks
37 Financial Review 2009
47 Financial Review 2008
Governance
50 Corporate governance
63 Report of the Audit Committee
64  Report of the Corporate  
Responsibility and  
Reputation Committee
66  Report of the Nomination  
Committee
67  Directors’ Remuneration  
Report
Financial statements
76  Statement of Directors’  
responsibilities
77 Auditors’ reports
79 Consolidated income statement
80  Consolidated statement  
of comprehensive income
80  Consolidated statement of changes 
in equity
81 Consolidated balance sheet
82 Consolidated cash flow statement
83  Notes to the consolidated  
financial statements
129 Financial record
131  Principal group companies and  
non-current investments
133 Company accounts
Shareholder information
144 Analysis of shareholding
146 Financial calendar
146 Contact details
147 Website
147 Share registration
147 Publications
148 Index
Basis of reporting
Our accounting policies are based on International 
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by 
the European Union (EU), and on United Kingdom 
and Dutch law. They are also in accordance with 
IFRS as issued by the International Accounting 
Standards Board (IASB). Certain measures used in 
our reporting are not defined under IFRS or other 
generally accepted accounting principles. For 
further information about these measures, and the 
reasons why we believe they are important for an 
understanding of the performance of the business, 
please refer to our commentary on non-GAAP 
measures on pages 44 to 46 and the Financial 
Review on page 37.
Other information
The brand names shown in this report are 
trademarks owned by or licensed to companies 
within the Unilever Group.
This document contains certain statements that are 
neither reported financial results nor other historical 
information. These statements are forward-looking 
statements, including within the meaning of the 
United States Private Securities Litigation Reform 
Act of 1995. Actual results may differ from those 
disclosed in our forward-looking statements.  
For a description of factors that could affect future 
results, reference should be made to the full 
‘Cautionary statement’ on the inside back cover  
and to the section entitled ‘Outlook and risks’  
on pages 30 to 36.
In our report we make reference to Unilever’s 
website. Information on our website does not form 
part of this document.
This Annual Report comprises regulated information 
within the meaning of sections 1:1 and 5:25c of the 
Dutch Financial Markets Supervision Act.
• Axe/Lynx
•  Blue Band
•  Dove
•  Flora/Becel
•  Heartbrand  
ice creams
•  Hellmann’s
•  Knorr
•  Lipton
•  Lux
•  Omo
•  Rexona
•  Sunsilk
•  Surf
Our strong portfolio of foods, home and personal care brands  
is trusted by consumers the world over. Our top 13 brands  
account for total sales of over €23 billion and our top 25  
brands represent nearly 75% of our sales.
Our top 13 brands*
*  Some of our brands may be  
marketed under alternative  
names in certain countries.
Our brands We work to create a better future every day.
We help people feel good, look good and get more out of life with  
brands and services that are good for them and good for others.
We will inspire people to take small, everyday actions that can add  
up to a big difference for the world.
We will develop new ways of doing business with the aim of doubling  
the size of our company while reducing our environmental impact.
Our vision Financial
 3.5 %
underlying sales growth
•  Underlying volume growth of 2.3% accelerating  
through the year
• Turnover of €39.8 billion
• Underlying operating margin
† 
up from 14.6% to 14.8%
• Cash flow from operating activities up by €1.4 billion
• Total shareholder return ranking up from 9th to 5th
•  Earnings per share of €1.21
•  First quarterly dividend of €0.195 payable March 2010
•  Selective acquisitions including TIGI and Baltimor
Report of the Directors  Overview
p16
In 2009 we made good progress in challenging market conditions. Volumes 
picked up and market shares improved through the year. Our solid financial 
performance along with bigger innovations, better execution and a move to  
a stronger performance culture give us a firm foundation for the future.
Operational highlights
Key facts
Leading global positions in 7 categories
Products sold in more than 170 countries
€891m spent on R&D worldwide
163,000 employees at the end of 2009
20 nationalities among our top tier managers
€89m invested in community  
programmes worldwide
Case study: TIGI
The cutting edge
The purchase of professional hair products business TIGI 
marked a return to strategic acquisitions, further strengthening 
our brand portfolio.
The TIGI range, including  
Catwalk, S-Factor and Bed  
Head, is a premium salon  
range that complements  
our existing daily hair care  
products. Its strength in  
styling and its fashion and  
beauty expertise will also  
help fuel innovation for  
our existing hair brands.
The Unilever Group
Unilever is one of the world’s leading suppliers of fast moving
consumer goods. We aim to meet everyday consumer needs for 
nutrition, hygiene and personal care with brands and services  
that help people to feel good, look good and get more out  
of life. Unilever is a global business which by the end of the year 
was generating more than half of its turnover in developing and 
emerging markets in Asia, Africa, Central & Eastern Europe  
and Latin America.
Unilever N.V. (NV) is a public limited company registered in the 
Netherlands. It has listings of shares and depositary receipts for 
shares on Euronext Amsterdam and of New York Registry Shares 
on the New York Stock Exchange. Unilever PLC (PLC) is a public 
limited company registered in England and Wales. It has  
shares listed on the London Stock Exchange and, as American 
Depositary Receipts, on the New York Stock Exchange.
The two parent companies, NV and PLC, together with their 
group companies, operate as a single economic entity (the 
Unilever Group, also referred to as Unilever or the Group). NV  
and PLC and their group companies constitute a single reporting 
entity for the purposes of presenting consolidated accounts. 
Accordingly, the accounts of the Unilever Group are presented  
by both NV and PLC as their respective consolidated accounts.
†  Underlying operating margin  
is operating margin excluding  
the impact of RDIs (restructuring, 
business disposals and other 
one-off items, see page 46).
2 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Social
 2 billion
consumers worldwide use a Unilever product on  
any day
•  133 million people reached by Lifebuoy handwashing 
programmes since 2002
•  15 million people in 3 million households in India provided 
with safe drinking water through Pureit
•  44% of our products in line with internationally accepted 
guidelines for saturated and trans fat, sugar and salt
•  Nearly 17 million school meals delivered to 80,000  
children in 2009 through our partnership with the World 
Food Programme
•  45,000 women entrepreneurs reach 3 million consumers  
in 100,000 Indian villages with Unilever products
•  9%* reduction in total recordable accident frequency  
rate in 2009 
Environmental
 1 85,000
tonnes of palm oil sourced sustainably via  
GreenPalm certificates
•  Around 15% of our tea sourced from Rainforest Alliance 
Certified™ farms globally
•  Around 430,000 climate-friendly (HFC -free) ice cream 
freezer cabinets purchased since 2004
•  41%* reduction in CO
2
 from energy per tonne of  
production over the period 1995-2009
•  65%* reduction in water per tonne of production  
over the period 1995-2009
•  73%* reduction in total waste per tonne of production  
over the period 1995-2009
•  11 years as sector leader of the Dow Jones  
Sustainability Indexes 
p18 p20
Case study: Foodsolutions
Salt reductions
Unilever in the UK is supporting government efforts to reduce 
levels of salt in food consumed both in and out of the home.
Our brand reformulation programme means that within retail 
and the catering sector through Unilever’s Foodsolutions 
business, approximately 80% of our products meet the Food 
Standards Agency 2010 salt reduction targets. For example,  
in Unilever Foodsolutions  
UK we have reduced  
salt levels in Knorr  
soups by 25% and  
in sauces by 27%.
Case study: Comfort
Water ways
It is a challenge to develop ways  
to maintain business growth  
in the laundry category while  
reducing the impact of water use. 
More water is used in the rinsing than in the  
cleaning process. To tackle this, our Comfort  
One Rinse fabric conditioner has been formulated  
so that much less water is required per wash  
to rinse the detergent from clothes. It has been 
launched in Vietnam, Indonesia and Brazil, and  
is expected to be rolled out to more countries  
during 2010.
*  2009 data is preliminary. It will be independently assured 
and reported in our online Sustainable Development Report 
2009 at www.unilever.com/sustainability This is particularly pleasing given the state of the global economy.  
A year ago when I was drafting my statement for our 2008 
Annual Report there was little cause for business to be optimistic. 
The world was in one of the most serious economic downturns 
that had ever been experienced. Unemployment was high and 
rising, consumer confidence low.
Much of Unilever’s ability to weather this storm so well is due  
to Paul Polman’s leadership. He has sharpened the strategy, 
improved execution in the market place, sharpened the emphasis 
on innovation and injected a new sense of energy and urgency 
into the Group. Our investors have recognised this. Unilever  
was ranked fifth on total shareholder return in its peer group  
of 21 companies.
Paul Polman was not the only addition to the Boards in 2009.  
We also welcomed three new Non-Executive Directors – Louise 
Fresco, Ann Fudge and Paul Walsh. Their arrival has strengthened 
both the breadth of experience and the diversity of the team.
Louise Fresco is Professor of International Development and 
Sustainability at the University of Amsterdam and a visiting 
Professor at Stanford University. Her deep knowledge of 
agriculture and sustainability will be of great value as we prepare 
ourselves to operate in a world where both food and water will 
become increasingly scarce.
Ann Fudge is a non-executive director at Novartis and at General 
Electric. Ann served as the chairman and chief executive officer  
of Young & Rubicam Brands from 2003 to 2006. Prior to joining 
Young & Rubicam, she worked at General Mills and at Kraft 
Foods. Ann has great knowledge and experience of branded 
consumer goods and, particularly, the food industry.
Paul Walsh is chief executive officer of Diageo and a  
non-executive director of FedEx Corporation. He is a member  
of the Business Council for Britain, and chairman of the Scotch 
Whisky Association. Paul is one of Britain’s most respected 
business leaders.
Ann and Paul sit on the Remuneration Committee, bringing its 
composition in line with the UK Combined Code on Corporate 
Governance, which states that this committee should comprise  
at least three independent non-executives.
I am also delighted to announce that The Rt Hon Sir Malcolm 
Rifkind MP has agreed to be nominated for election as a  
Non-Executive Director at the 2010 AGMs. We believe that  
Sir Malcolm with his broad background in international affairs  
will be a valuable addition to the Boards.
Leon Brittan, Wim Dik and Narayana Murthy will be retiring  
as Non-Executive Directors at the end of our 2010 Annual  
General Meetings (AGMs). Narayana and Wim have served on  
our Corporate Responsibility and Reputation (CRRC) and Audit 
Committees respectively, and Leon as Chairman of the CRRC. On 
behalf of our Boards, I take this opportunity to thank them all for 
their individual contributions and service since their appointments. 
At the AGMs in May 2010 we intend to propose Jean-Marc Huët 
for election to the Boards. Jean-Marc took over as Chief Financial 
Officer in February 2010 following the departure of Jim Lawrence.
The first quarterly dividend will be paid on 17 March. This change  
to quarterly dividends will result in more frequent payments to 
shareholders which I hope you will find helpful.
Finally, on behalf of the Boards, I would like to extend my sincere 
thanks to all of Unilever’s 163,000 employees across the world. 
They have had to cope with difficult economic conditions 
externally and significant change internally. Yet they have still 
managed to deliver an excellent set of results.
Michael Treschow
Chairman
Chairman’s 
statement
Michael 
Treschow
Chairman
I am delighted to be able to report that Unilever 
has had a good year. We have seen solid  
progress on our top line and an improvement  
in underlying operating margin.
Report of the Directors  Overview
4 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Delivering growth in a tough year
At the beginning of 2009 we took a long-term view, dropping 
guidance and setting the objective of restoring volume growth 
while protecting cash flow and underlying operating margin. As 
well as managing the short-term challenges, we increased support 
behind our brands and invested in R&D and people – the surest 
route to long-term shareholder value creation.
Volume growth was 2.3%, with acceleration throughout the year. 
This was driven by sharper execution and strong innovations, 
supported by incremental investment behind our brands in 
advertising and, to a lesser extent, promotions. Underlying sales 
growth was 3.5%.
Growth was broad based across markets and categories. By the 
end of the year we were growing volume share in two thirds  
of our business, compared with only one third a year earlier. Our 
competitive position strengthened during the year. Our biggest 
brands are getting stronger – ten of the top 13 brands are gaining 
volume share.
Good cost discipline meant that underlying operating margin was 
up 0.2% to 14.8% and tight working capital control meant cash 
flow from operating activities increased by €1.4 billion.
How we delivered
Recognising the severity of the economic crisis early and responding 
quickly was key to our strong performance, even if it meant some 
tough choices. The focus on volume growth, combined with 
protecting margins and cash flow, proved to be the right drivers  
in the current environment.
We targeted four key areas of activity:
Bigger and better innovations, rolled out faster and to more markets
Our innovations are getting bigger and better. The One Unilever 
structure allows for faster roll-out across multiple geographies. 
Dove Minimising Deodorant, for example, was rolled out across 
37 markets; Signal White Now to 21 markets and Knorr Stockpots 
to 12 markets; Clear shampoo is now in 35 markets; and following 
its launch at the end of 2009, Dove for Men will be rolled out 
across 50 markets. Our innovation pipeline is equally getting 
stronger. The number of innovations in the pipeline with  
an expected incremental turnover in excess of €50 million has 
doubled. The opening of a new research centre in Shanghai, our 
second in the emerging markets, reflects a long-term commitment 
to R&D. Innovation will continue to be the key growth driver for 
your company. The business publication Fast Company recently 
recognised us as the fourth most innovative company in 
advertising and marketing.
More discipline throughout the organisation
Serving the consumer and customer with increasing passion  
every day is critical to our success. To help develop categories and 
accelerate our growth with our customers we have created a new 
global customer supply structure and are rolling out state of the 
art customer innovation centres to all regions. Our progress was 
recognised: we gained supplier of the year awards from a number 
of top customers. In a performance culture, we are increasingly 
focused on disciplined execution.
A more competitive cost structure
Our emphasis on protecting short-term business fundamentals 
meant driving out costs that do not add value for consumers and 
customers. This included accelerating much needed restructuring 
projects, leveraging scale by moving to global procurement, 
establishing regional sourcing organisations across each of  
our geographies and simplifying and further streamlining our 
organisational structure. In total we achieved savings of over  
€1.4 billion, well ahead of target and which helped fuel investment 
behind our brands. By adopting best practices we also made 
significant improvements in working capital (€1.9 billion).
Driving a performance culture
We start from a strong base of values and principles, which have 
served us well over the years: integrity, trust, investing in people, 
doing the right thing for the long term. In very competitive 
markets, we need to further increase consumer and customer 
focus, speed of action, and responsibility and accountability.  
To achieve this we have made the organisation flatter, simplified 
target setting and sharpened individual performance management.
The organisation rose to the challenge, showing its competitive 
strength in managing change. I am proud to work with a strong 
leadership team and a dedicated group of colleagues throughout 
the world. The results in 2009 are a testament to their passion, 
commitment, skill and hard work.
Chief Executive 
Officer’s review
Despite a challenging economic environment it 
has been a good year for Unilever. We exceeded 
objectives while at the same time taking action  
to ensure the future success of your company.
Paul Polman
Chief Executive 
Officer
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009 5 Chief Executive Officer’s review (continued)
We equally made good progress in other areas to position  
us for future growth:
We sharpened the portfolio
The announced acquisition of Sara Lee’s personal care brands, 
including Sanex, Radox and Duschdas, will significantly strengthen 
our European business. We made smaller, bolt-on acquisitions, 
such as the TIGI professional hair care brands, mainly in the  
US and the Baltimor ketchup business in Russia. We assumed  
total control of our business in Vietnam and continued to divest 
non-strategic assets, such as our remaining equity stake in 
JohnsonDiversey and plantations in Congo.
We strengthened our supply chain capability
The appointment from outside of our first Chief Global Supply 
Chain Officer reflects the importance we attach to strengthening 
our operations and to leveraging our scale right across the  
supply chain.
We began the move to global business services
We created Unilever Enterprise Services (UES) to bring together  
HR and Finance transactions, as well as IT and Information 
Management services. UES will enable us to leverage scale in 
order to deliver improved services at better value. At the same 
time it will free up capacity for our businesses to concentrate  
on supporting our brands in the market place.
During the year we also found solutions to concerns raised by 
stakeholders, including the settlement of long running labour 
disputes in Pakistan and India. We continued to take the lead in 
driving sustainability, especially in moving to sustainable palm oil, 
converting to environmentally-friendly (HC) refrigerants in our  
ice cream freezers and in supporting smallholder farming.
Where we could do better
Despite significant progress, we did not fully achieve all our goals.
In two key markets, India and Spain, we took longer to respond to 
changing market dynamics and to the intense level of competition, 
especially from low-cost local competitors. And in two of our 
biggest categories – hair and spreads – we still need to build share 
consistently everywhere.
Our brands have plenty of room for improvement. Product  
quality is getting better, but we need more of our products  
to show superiority, and there is ample scope to sharpen our 
communications and to set the innovation bar even higher.
We are getting better at serving our customers but again we  
still fall short of best in class, for example in customer service  
levels and the on-shelf availability of our products.
Faced with growing competitive pressures, especially from 
lower-cost producers, we must continue to drive out all non 
value-added costs, building on the progress we have made  
in the last year.
The organisation is working hard in all these areas and I am 
confident that we will see continuous improvements. This is 
important because 2010 promises to be every bit as challenging. 
We expect two of the major drivers of our business – consumer 
spending and consumer confidence – to remain low. We  
also expect competitors to accelerate their plans to regain lost  
ground. This requires the best of us and we are ready for it.
A new business model
With confidence in our ability to grow we launched a renewed, 
bold vision for the company – to double our size while improving 
our environmental footprint. With our portfolio of brands, 
presence in emerging markets and long-standing commitment  
to shared value creation – in which the long-term interests of  
the company, its communities and stakeholders are all directly 
linked – we believe your company is well placed to deliver on  
this ambition.
When it comes to environmental impact, for example, we lead  
the industry in the move to sustainable sourcing of commodities 
such as palm oil and tea. In fact we have given a firm commitment 
that by 2015 all of our supplies of palm oil and tea will come from 
certified sustainable sources.
Consumers will also have to change their habits. Through the 
Cleaner Planet Plan our laundry brands are helping to educate 
people about the benefits of washing at lower temperatures and 
using shorter cycles. With our products used in 125 billion washes 
a year, small actions like this can make a big difference. Likewise, 
poor sanitation and lack of hygiene standards are still the root 
causes of millions of preventable deaths, especially amongst 
children. With our health and handwashing campaigns we have 
reached millions of people over the years. The Lifebuoy brand’s 
ambitious new target is to change the hygiene behaviour of  
1 billion people by 2015.
Leadership like this explains why, for the 11th year running, 
Unilever was sector leader in the Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes 
– a feat unmatched by any other company.
Looking ahead
2009 was a good year for Unilever despite the tough conditions. 
2010 won’t be any easier, but by embedding the changes we are 
already making and by fostering a sharper performance culture, 
there is no reason why we can’t go on growing in line with our 
ambitions. And we will do it in a way that continues to make  
our consumers, customers, partners and employees proud to  
be associated with Unilever.
Thank you for your support over 2009.
Paul Polman
Chief Executive Officer
Report of the Directors  Overview
6 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Where we will win
Brands and innovation are at the heart of our business model. We aim to offer a broad portfolio that appeals to consumers with 
different needs and budgets. Unilever brands must also offer product quality that is recognised as superior by our consumers and  
supported by excellent marketing. Meanwhile, our innovation programme is focused on being ‘bigger, better, faster’. This means 
leveraging technology to create bigger, better innovation platforms that are then rolled out faster to multiple markets.
Our ambition is to win share and grow volume profitably across our categories and countries – and we believe we have the tools  
in place to do so. We have a portfolio fit for growth, with strong brands and many leading category positions. Geographically, our 
outstanding presence in the emerging markets leaves us well positioned to win where much of the future growth will be. Yet, we are 
also determined to grow in the developed world, which represents around half of our business and where the bulk of the world’s 
wealth will remain for many years to come.
The biggest opportunity for Unilever and our customers lies in growing the size of our categories, which we will strive to achieve 
through innovation and market development. We will further enhance and broaden our relationship with customers – working 
together on areas of mutual benefit such as consumer research, shopper behaviour and merchandising. To sustain winning customer 
relationships and to enable growth, we will also need to be consistently brilliant at customer service and in-store execution.
We will aim to reinforce our continuous improvement philosophy by further developing a customer and consumer-led, agile value 
chain. Our focus will be in three areas. We will prioritise speed and flexibility in the supply chain to deliver growth. Secondly we will 
leverage our global network capabilities and scale more aggressively. Finally we will work to get a better return on our advertising  
and promotional expenditure – one of our most significant areas of cost.
It is vital that we have the talent and organisation in place to match our growth ambition. Across the business, we are therefore  
looking ahead at what we need to achieve, and aim to equip ourselves with the necessary people, skills and capabilities to get there.  
We also know that engagement and a culture based on living our values are essential for keeping the best people. We believe  
our operating framework allows us to balance scale and global expertise to develop successful products with the local consumer 
intimacy needed to market and sell them.
Strategy “ With confidence in our ability to grow we launched a renewed, bold vision 
for the company – to double our size while improving our environmental 
footprint. With our portfolio of brands, presence in emerging markets  
and long-standing commitment to shared value creation, we believe your 
company is well placed to deliver on this ambition. ”
Winning with brands and innovation
Growth priorities
Winning through continuous improvement
Winning in the market place
Winning with people
How we will win
More on p8
More on p10
More on p12
More on p14
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009 7 Report of the Directors  Our strategy
Winning with brands  
and innovation
How we will win
Superior products
Our aim is to give people a great experience when they use  
our brands – better than the competition. We are investing in 
improving product quality and making stronger functional  
claims. We are also focusing on design, packaging, marketing  
and advertising, in order to get our brand benefits across  
more persuasively.
Take Knorr Stockpot bouillon. Using a unique jelly technology  
that delivers homemade taste and quality, this product is helping 
people create a special meal at home instead of eating out. A 
major success in the UK where it enabled Knorr to become  
market leader in stocks, Stockpot (marketed under different 
names in different countries) is also performing well in Belgium, 
Greece, Ireland and Poland. It helped create the bouillon category  
in China and we are now rolling it out to other markets.
Widespread appeal
Product superiority is essential, but we also need to offer a broad 
range of choice which meets differing consumer needs and price 
points wherever we operate.
Brands and innovation are at the heart of 
everything we do. We develop our products to 
keep pace with changes in consumer lifestyles 
and to appeal to people at all income levels. 
Success means getting bigger and better 
innovations into the market faster, supported 
by the very best marketing.
In the UK, understanding that consumers are looking for value 
without compromising on quality, and recognising the importance 
of fragrance in communicating a product’s benefits, we  
developed a range of liquid concentrates for Surf detergent  
with added essential oils, resulting in 29% growth.
In Russia, despite a severe economic recession, we achieved 
growth of more than 20% in our tea sales by offering choice 
across multiple price points with three distinctive brands –  
Lipton, Brooke Bond and Beseda.
And in India, where water quality remains a major concern,  
the breakthrough technology of Pureit, our in-home purification 
system, is providing safe and affordable drinking water with 
complete protection from the water-borne germs that cause 
diseases. In 2009, Pureit provided safe drinking water for more 
than 15 million people in 3 million households in India.
An invention by our R&D team has achieved what  
has previously been impossible: to produce a low-fat 
margarine that does not spit or burn when you use  
it for frying. Launched in Europe in 2008, our light 
liquid margarines from our Family Goodness and Heart 
Health brands are offering consumers a new way to cook 
lighter meals. Made of a combination of three vegetable 
oils, and including the important vitamins A, D and E, 
they make it easy to cook nutritiously for the whole 
family. And it hasn’t gone unnoticed by consumers. 
Liquid margarine is the fastest growing segment in our 
European spreads and cooking category, and our new 
light liquid exceeded expectations, bringing new users  
to the segment and our brands in both the Netherlands  
and Belgium.
Case study: Liquid margarine
Low-fat frying?
If you’ve ever tried frying with low-fat 
margarine, you’ll know why people use 
full-fat instead, and try to reduce their 
calorie intake by using less of it. Spitting 
and burning, low-fat oils can often let  
you down. Until now, that is.
and more @ www.unilever.com/blueband
8 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Bigger, better, faster innovations
Successful innovation is based on deep consumer insight. The 
balance we seek to achieve is to marry global strength in R&D 
with local knowledge of people’s habits, tastes and behaviours.
To grow at the rate we want to, we focus investment on products 
that can work globally rather than on launches in just a few 
countries. We have also doubled the number of big projects we  
are working on. We are already seeing results. We have rolled out 
Axe Dark Temptation deodorant to 56 markets, Lipton Pyramid  
fruit tea bags to 38 markets and Clear shampoo to 35 markets.
For a product to work at a global level, it needs to address unmet 
needs with superior technology and a clear consumer concept. 
R&D must deliver breakthrough science in areas that really matter 
to consumers, with products that do what they claim. Success  
on this scale requires strict priorities and big ideas.
Within R&D, part of prioritising is getting the balance right 
between the short and the long term. With an eye to our future 
growth plans, during 2009 we developed a more robust process 
for fuelling our longer-term innovation pipeline. Called the Genesis 
Programme, it spans our foods and home and personal care 
categories and focuses on the breakthrough ideas that we expect 
will deliver the biggest wins. From 2011 we should begin to see 
some of these innovations in our products.
We continued to invest substantially in R&D, despite the economic 
environment. In 2009, we opened a new R&D centre in Shanghai. 
Located in a country which is increasingly recognised as a world 
leader in developing high-end innovations, the new centre further 
underscores our commitment to driving growth through R&D. We 
also started to leverage the power of our global network of R&D 
labs by getting them working interdependently on key projects. 
We put in place more rigorous planning processes to make sure 
that the right level and quality of resource is put behind the 
activities to ensure the projects succeed. And we have stepped up 
our focus on a number of areas identified as critical to success 
such as open innovation, clinicals and patents.
In 2009 we launched new Dove Body Wash with proprietary 
NutriumMoisture technology. It intertwines mild cleansers with  
natural moisturisers helping maintain the skin’s natural moisture 
barrier, earning the product its scientifically-proven claim to  
provide ‘effective natural nourishment’. Supporting the science,  
the advertising campaign gave consumers an image to remember: a 
fully-clothed woman in the shower, bringing to life how conventional 
products use moisturisers that tend to sit on the skin compared with 
Dove Body Wash with its penetrating moisturisation. And with its 
streamlined tear-drop packaging, less waste means the environment 
benefits too. Having proved its potential in the tough US market,  
Dove Body Wash will be rolled out elsewhere in 2010.
Case study: Dove
Getting under  
your skin
Body wash is a competitive market. Everyone  
is seeking that perfect combination: genuine 
cleansing without drying out your skin. The 
NutriumMoisture technology in Dove contains 
100% natural moisturisers that are absorbed 
thoroughly to nourish the skin deep down.
Bigger, better, faster
In laying the foundations for 
growth, we are focusing on  
rolling out more innovations  
faster and to more markets.
and more @ www.unilever.com/dove
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009 9 Lead market development
The world’s population, currently 6.8 billion, is set to grow to  
7 .7 billion by 2020. Today, 5.9 billion live in developing and emerging 
markets – countries such as Brazil, India and Indonesia where 
Unilever has deep roots and a wide presence. We already reach 
many more consumers than our competitors in these markets.
Market development is about developing and growing categories. 
There are three ways of doing this:
• more users (increasing market penetration);
• more usage (increasing consumption);
•  more benefits (getting consumers to buy higher value products).
Take Axe. In recognising that fragrance is a major reason why 
people choose one brand over another, new fragrance launches 
are helping to increase market penetration, introduce new users  
to the brand and ensure our product mix remains up to date.  
This, in turn, has helped Axe become the world’s leading male 
deodorant and shower gel.
Putting market development into practice requires a rigorous, 
consistent approach across all our categories. During 2009  
our global category development teams produced market 
development models for every category. These models are now 
with our country teams who are using them as the basis of plans 
for their local markets. This approach has already shown excellent 
results in many of the markets in which we operate.
Winning in the 
market place
Report of the Directors  Our strategy
Our biggest growth opportunity lies in expanding 
the markets in which we compete. In developing 
and emerging countries there is huge potential 
for future growth as more and more people start 
consuming personal and household products 
for the first time. To realise this potential, we will 
need to partner with our customers in both the 
developed and developing markets.
How we will win
Unilever was the exclusive partner of Walmart Soundcheck.  
The campaign featured music talent such as Jennifer Hudson and 
Martina McBride. Our brands, including Dove and Suave, were 
able to reach their target consumers in a new, innovative way. 
A video of a latest hit, along with exclusive interviews with the 
artist, was shown in-store in the electronics department, and  
was available as a download from the Walmart website. In-store 
merchandising and additional online programming further 
amplified the campaign. Not only did the programme result in  
a big increase in sales for our products, but Walmart saw a rise  
in music sales of the featured artists. Soundcheck is a multi-year 
exclusive partnership, so we’re looking for another good year  
in 2010.
Case study: Walmart USA
Winning in Walmart
Using hit album releases to sell our personal care products? The 
Soundcheck campaign with Walmart engaged top artists whose 
images reinforce our brands. With continuous exposure in almost 
every Walmart store, the campaign reached around 130 million 
target consumers per week, making a huge contribution to our 
6.8% uplift in sales in Walmart in 2009.
and more @ www.unileverusa.com/suave
10 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Win with winning customers
There is a growing trend in the retail industry towards consolidation, 
with fewer but larger retailers. Thanks to our global scale and  
local knowledge, Unilever is ideally placed to help those customers 
achieve their own growth ambitions.
In 2008 we opened in New Jersey the first of a network of 
customer insight and innovation centres to work directly with 
retailers. The centre covers everything from merchandising and 
store layout, to displays and packaging. Through the centre,  
we work with customers to design and test concepts without 
going to the expense of real in-store pilots. Since opening,  
the centre has generated significant growth opportunities. Our 
London centre has since opened and we plan to open three  
more in 2010 in Paris, Shanghai and São Paulo.
Be an execution powerhouse
Market development and great relationships with customers  
will only be points of advantage if we execute with excellence. 
This is not a complicated concept. It is about the everyday 
disciplines of ensuring that we are delivering to our customers  
the products they want, in the quantities they ordered at the  
time they are needed. This involves having a customer-focused 
approach across our brand building, customer development  
and supply chain teams.
During 2009 we focused much more closely on ‘sales 
fundamentals’, a set of company-wide measures covering every 
aspect of our in-store presence. We have performed well against 
these measures, which have been one of the many drivers in 
improving customer service in most of our key countries.
The detail of what works in one type of store won’t work  
for all, however. A superstore in the US is very different from  
a local retailer in a small town in China, both in terms of the 
products it carries and the way those products are sold. But for 
each type of store, by channel and geography, there is a perfect 
concept – namely, what the shop would look like if it were the 
perfect sales vehicle for our categories and brands.
We developed the perfect store concept in the AAC region  
(Asia, Africa and Central & Eastern Europe) in early 2009. We 
began implementing it in modern trade outlets across the region, 
focusing on the region’s largest four categories – skin cleansing, 
hair, fabric cleaning and tea. In some smaller outlets, we even 
succeeded in executing the transformation overnight, taking  
the competition by surprise and maximising the impact of  
the change.
Over the next few years our aim is to continue implementing  
the perfect store concept across the AAC region, while in the 
coming year, the concept is being rolled out around the business.
In developing and emerging markets, most people still make tea from loose leaves. There  
is a huge opportunity to convert consumers to tea bags and, as the world’s largest tea brand, 
Lipton is well placed to lead this development. In 2009, helped also by innovations in fruit  
teas, Lipton grew by 7.4% across the world. With many markets only just beginning to wake  
up to tea bags, we believe there is plenty of opportunity for further growth.
and more @ www.unilever.com/lipton
Case study: Lipton
Trading up with the world’s 
most popular tea brand
Increasing the value of Lipton, the world’s most popular  
tea brand, is all about conversion – partly conversion  
from some other drink to tea, but also from loose-leaf  
tea up the value chain through different types  
of tea bags.
Coffee ice cream dream
Unilever is gaining momentum 
in the North American ice 
cream market with a 
partnership to produce an  
own-brand super-premium  
ice cream for Starbucks.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009 11 Fast and flexible – and increasingly competitive
Winning in the market is about being fast and agile to meet the 
changing needs of today’s customers and consumers. Of course, 
being competitive on cost is vital, but rather than having a purely 
cost-based agenda for our supply chain, we have widened our 
focus to ensure that we are more responsive to the constantly 
changing needs of our customers.
Delivering significant value
During 2009 we launched a single strategy for the supply chain 
– One Unilever Supply Chain – putting customers and consumers 
at the heart of everything we do. The principal objectives for our 
supply chain are to deliver top-quality products with world-class 
service at a competitive cost. It’s a big ambition that:
•  supports top-line growth through speeding up the roll-out  
of global launches;
• ensures our products are constantly on the shelf;
•  increases profits by simplifying our structure and  
reducing waste;
•  improves cash flow by reducing stock and providing  
better payment terms.
The rewards are significant. In 2009, as part of this, our  
One Unilever Supply Chain team contributed significantly to 
delivering €1.4 billion in savings.
The advantages of global scale
Unilever has a global reach wider than many of its competitors. 
This gives us a tremendous opportunity for improving efficiencies 
by leveraging our scale. We are doing this in three critical areas:
• procurement;
• manufacturing;
• back office services.
Single procurement strategy
Having a single, global procurement strategy means that where 
bigger is better, we are getting the benefits. For many items, buying 
globally gives us economies of scale. For example, significantly 
reducing the number of tomato ingredients that are used in our 
products from 300 to just 39 enhanced the consistency of product 
quality and, at the same time, substantially reduced costs.
Winning through 
continuous improvement
Report of the Directors  Our strategy
Delivering sustained, profitable growth requires a philosophy  
of continuous improvement. This means being fast and flexible 
in the supply chain while keeping costs competitive. It will also 
require us to make the most of our scale and aim for the best 
return on every euro we spend on advertising and promotion.
How we will win
and more @ www.unilever.com/axe
Introduced at our UK plant in Leeds, the new 
technology allows us to produce a common, 
unperfumed base for our aerosols, adding the 
fragrance only at the very last stage. This gives us  
the flexibility to make many more variants without 
incurring higher costs. It’s good for us because it has 
contributed greatly to lower stock levels; around 70% 
of our stock-keeping units have seen their minimum 
order quantity halved; our product change-over  
time has reduced from 40 minutes to just four; and  
we produce less waste. But more importantly it 
benefits customers, who have improved shelf stock 
levels and reduced lead times, and consumers,  
who can get a wider choice of fragrance at no  
extra cost.
Case study: Deodorant
Wider range –  
at no extra cost
Scent tends to be the main reason we 
choose a particular deodorant – so a wider 
range of fragrances is going to attract more 
consumers. But a wider range typically 
equals higher costs. Or does it? The trade-off 
between range and cost just got a whole lot 
better for us, our customers and consumers 
with our new ‘late variant’ technology.
12 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Regional sourcing operations
In manufacturing, we believe that most of the economies of scale 
are to be found at the regional level. To capture these, we are 
creating three regional sourcing companies. These are located in 
Singapore and Switzerland, where the Americas sourcing company 
will co-locate with the European company.
Internal services under one roof
Even with activities such as IT, travel, office services, accounts 
payable and accounts receivable, there are big opportunities to 
leverage global scale. So in 2009 we set up a new business unit, 
Unilever Enterprise Support (UES). It will be operational in April 
2010 and will bring together many of these activities as a key part 
of our initiatives to drive down costs.
The best return on brand and customer investment
Unilever is the second biggest advertiser in the world. Improving 
the return on our brand and customer support is one of the 
biggest things we can do to achieve growth.
There is a tendency to think that analysing this kind of return  
on investment is some form of mystery. We believe it is simply 
about being rigorous in applying our best evaluation and 
development techniques.
Everyday disciplines done brilliantly
First, we decide on the best ways of investing our spend. We do  
this on three levels:
•  allocating investment across geographies, categories  
and brands;
•  allocating investment across particular projects and  
product launches;
•  allocating spend locally across marketing channels  
and promotions.
Before we invest, we use a number of tools to answer the questions: 
how much should we be investing; and how can we maximise its 
effectiveness? During and after the investment, we use other tools  
to look at whether it is working, how it could work better and  
what to do next. This is not about replacing creativity with analytics 
and measurement; it is about doing both brilliantly.
Through focusing on these basics, we are already seeing great 
improvements in return on investment in a number of areas. For 
example, our US foods business has increased returns by over 45%  
in six years, helped by its use of econometric modelling.
Future trends
Looking ahead, there are two big themes that will dominate our 
media planning: how we make best use of digital media and, given  
the rise in prominence of global retailers, how we can make the  
most of in-store investments.
From months to weeks at no extra cost
Through a partnership with major suppliers,  
US personal care product labelling is now keeping 
pace with brand design and variant changes. 
Process optimisations have created shorter  
print runs, quicker turnarounds and less waste,  
at the same label cost.
and more @ www.unilever.com/supplychain
With such an opportunity for making efficiencies, we set up 
UltraLogistik as a separate transport management division within 
Unilever’s supply chain. It is managed from hubs in Poland and 
Switzerland, by a team of 100 specialist transport managers. For each 
transport route we reviewed the arrangements and determined which 
of them should be moved into UltraLogistik, and then tendered each 
route to get the best deal. We are already making savings of at least 
15%, as well as cutting down carbon emissions by moving transport off 
the road. Ultimately, our aim is to bring over 50% of European transport 
management within UltraLogistik, and to roll out the model to other 
parts of Unilever.
Case study: UltraLogistik
Major savings  
on logistics
In Europe, we spend a significant  
amount every year on transport. That’s 
from suppliers’ factories to our factories, 
from our factories to our distribution 
centres and from there to our customers.  
And, until 2008, it was all outsourced  
and managed locally, using hundreds  
of different distributors.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009 13 Our operating framework seeks to combine global scale, power 
and strength with local consumer intimacy. Taking advantage of 
this in all our chosen markets and categories – as we are already 
doing in many areas – will be critical in ensuring our success.
To do this we need to have a team capable of delivering, and to  
offer the career potential and working environment that make 
Unilever the best place to be.
Developing a team fit for growth
Some of our major markets are doubling in size every five to  
six years, while our own growth ambitions mean that having 
enough people with the right skills is a challenge in itself. Getting 
the right number and quality of people in the pipeline for the 
future does not happen by accident. It requires an understanding  
of what is already in the business that can be built upon, and  
what will be needed in the future as markets develop.
In 2009 we launched our ‘talent and organisation readiness 
programme’, which will do just what it says: make sure our 
organisation and our talent are ready for growth. We are  
assessing those areas of the business most crucial to our strategy  
to define their specific goals, and whether we have the structure 
and the talent to deliver them. Where we identify gaps,  
we focus on developing targeted solutions. This may involve  
one or more of the following:
• changing organisational structures;
• revising our recruitment strategy and approach;
• reviewing our retention schemes;
• improving core processes such as decision making;
• focusing on culture and employee engagement;
•  using development and training programmes to build  
capability levels.
So far we have carried out four pilot programmes in China, 
Indonesia and Germany, and in our skin category. These have 
given us important new insights.
Winning  
with people
Report of the Directors  Our strategy
Doubling in size is a challenging prospect. From a 
talent and organisational perspective, it cannot be 
business as usual. We will have to have in place  
the people and structures necessary to manage  
on a larger scale.
How we will win
and more on people development  
@ www.unilever.com/careers
Filling the skills gap by getting our people up  
to speed as quickly as possible became essential. 
Within three months we developed a training 
programme with our HR providers, Accenture,  
and trained over 450 sales staff in seven cities 
across China. The average pass rate was over  
95%, and we are already seeing results with an 
overall increase of 2.29% in net invoice value 
delivered by those who did the training. We have 
now picked some people to become trainers  
themselves so the programme can become  
self-sustaining. We are also looking at rolling it  
out to other emerging markets where our sales 
people need to develop new skills quickly.
Case study: China
Getting  
results fast
Our business in China is 
growing and relationships  
with customers and large  
third-party distributors are 
becoming increasingly 
important. Our sales team  
is key to driving growth  
through both. We identified 
areas where improved  
individual performance would 
lead to significant returns for 
the whole business.
14 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009 A diverse team for the widest range of consumers
An important part of developing the Unilever 
workforce of the future is diversity. We need  
a diverse team – across gender, nationality, race, 
creed, culture – to be able to connect with the 
widest range of consumers and to take our 
performance to a higher level.
We are already making progress. Our Board of 
Directors comprises six nationalities and the nine 
members of the Unilever Executive team come 
from six different countries. This combination 
delivers a wealth of experience in emerging 
markets which is critical to our future  
business success.
In terms of gender, the number of women in 
senior positions has increased. For example, the proportion  
of women now at vice president level has gone up by around  
one third since 2007. For more on diversity, see page 28.
A place to succeed
As important as development programmes and organisational 
structures is having a performance culture that rewards people 
and teams who deliver. Only by inspiring our people and 
motivating them to succeed will we deliver our growth ambition.
People, integrity and values have always been central to  
Unilever, and will continue to be so. But within that context  
we are determined to become faster, more focused and more 
competitive. In 2009 we updated some of our performance 
management tools, for example introducing a global performance 
and talent management system.
Measuring cultural change is an inexact science, but we put  
great effort into engaging with employees to find out whether 
they understand the company’s vision and their role within it, 
what their views are about Unilever, and what they believe  
needs to change for us to achieve our ambitions. In 2009 we 
began an employee engagement programme that will ensure 
employees are involved in Unilever’s vision and plans for  
the future.
and more @ www.unilever.com/WFP
As part of Unilever’s partnership with the World Food Programme  
(WFP), 12 student interns are recruited each year to help run WFP’s school 
feeding programme in developing countries. It isn’t just the local children 
who benefit, or the students, who learn valuable life skills. While there  
is no requirement for interns to talk about Unilever, it is inevitable that 
they will when telling their friends about their experiences – and most  
of the time it is positive. In today’s world of blogging and texting, there  
is no better way to spread the word.
Case study: World Food Programme
Judged by  
our actions
Competing for the best graduates is  
a tough job in today’s market. Often 
they demand to know more about  
a company’s social and environmental 
impact on the world. On campus, 
companies bombard graduates with 
messages about how ethical they are. 
But how many really do more than  
write a cheque each year?
She’s got the love
Marmite brand manager  
Cheryl Calverley scooped  
the Marketing Society’s  
Young Marketer of the  
Year award in the UK for  
her success in re-engaging  
the ‘love it or hate it’ brand  
with young consumers.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009 15 Financial overview
Report of the Directors  Performance 2009
 
Consolidated income statement
(highlights) for the year ended 31 December
€ million  2009 2008
Turnover  39,823 40,523
Operating profit  5,020 7, 167
Operating profit before RDIs
†
  5,888 5,898
Profit before taxation  4,916 7, 129
Taxation  (1,257) (1,844)
Net profit  3,659 5,285
Combined earnings per share  €1.21 €1.79
Combined earnings per share before RDIs
†
  €1.33 €1.43
 
Consolidated balance sheet
as at 31 December
€ million  2009 2008
Non-current assets  26,205 24,967
Current assets  10,811 11, 1 75
Current liabilities  (11,599) (13,800)
Total assets less current liabilities  25,417 22,342
 
Non-current liabilities  12,881 11,970
Shareholders’ equity  12,065 9,948
Minority interests  471 424
Total capital employed  25,417 22,342
 
Consolidated cash flow statement
for the year ended 31 December
€ million  2009 2008
Net cash flow from operating activities  5,774 3,871
Net cash flow from/(used in) investing activities  (1,263) 1,415
Net cash flow from/(used in) financing activities  (4,301) (3,130)
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents  210 2,156
Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January  2,360 901
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes  (173) (697)
Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December  2,397 2,360
In 2009 our growth momentum was strong despite a challenging environment. Our market share  
is improving and our brands are stronger. Our leading positions in developing and emerging markets  
were strengthened and we made encouraging progress in re-establishing volume growth in Western 
Europe. We are faster and more agile and focused on serving over 2 billion consumers every day.
Underlying sales growth for the year was 3.5%. Underlying 
volume growth at 2.3% accelerated through the year, reaching 
5.0% in the fourth quarter. The increase in volume growth  
was widespread across most of our key categories and countries 
and translated into improving market share performance in all 
regions as the year progressed.
Operating margin before restructuring, disposals and other one-off 
items rose to 14.8%. Advertising and promotional expenditure 
increased by around €250 million. The margin development was 
underpinned by volume efficiencies and savings of €1.4 billion from 
lower supply chain costs and a leaner organisational structure.
Cash flow from operating activities increased by €1.4 billion  
in comparison with 2008, driven by a significant improvement  
in working capital, and after a €0.5 billion increase in cash 
contributions to pension funds.
Despite some of the most difficult trading conditions in recent 
memory, all regions delivered an improving trend in volumes and 
market share, driven by stronger innovation and advertising and 
promotional support. Discipline in execution is also improving.  
We have improved customer service levels and are starting to see 
progress in on-shelf availability. We have taken decisive action  
to ensure that our prices stay competitive and, where appropriate,  
we have adjusted prices to reflect easing commodity costs, just  
as we took necessary increases in 2008. Cost saving programmes 
continued to deliver significant benefits across the business.
 
 
at current rates of exchange
Turnover (€m)
Operating profit (€m)
Operating profit before RDIs
†
 (€m)
Operating margin
Operating margin before RDIs
†
at constant rates of exchange
Turnover
Underlying sales growth
Operating profit
Operating profit before RDIs
†
  Western Europe
 
 2009 2008 change
 12,076 12,853 (6.0)%
 1,250 2,521 (50.4)%
 1,740 2,165 (19.6)%
 10.4% 19.6%  
 14.4% 16.8%  
 
     (3.6)%
     (1.9)%
     (49.9)%
     (18.8)%
  The Americas
 
 2009 2008 change
 12,850 13,199 (2.6)%
 1,843 2,945 (37.4)%
 2,074 2,038 1.8%
 14.3% 22.3%  
 16.1% 15.4%  
 
     (1.0)%
     4.2%
     (36.6)%
     2.8%
  AAC
 
 2009 2008 change
 14,897 14,471 2.9%
 1,927 1,701 13.3%
 2,074 1,695 22.4%
 12.9% 11.8%  
 13.9% 11.7%  
 
     7.3%
     7.7%
     16. 1%
     25.6%
†  RDIs: restructuring, business disposals and other one-off items. Operating profit before RDIs and operating margin before RDIs may also be referred to elsewhere in this 
document as ‘underlying operating profit’ or ‘underlying operating margin’. For further information, see also page 46.
16 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009 before RDIs was down from 16.8% to 14.4% in the year, largely 
due to a substantial increase in marketing investment and the 
negative impact of a weaker sterling on our UK business.
We continued to support the growth of global brands through 
the rapid roll-out of bigger and better innovations to an increasing 
number of countries. In addition we substantially increased brand 
support levels at the same time as media rates were lower. We 
continue to see the impact of the tough economic conditions on 
consumers in many key markets as we are focused on providing 
products which meet their needs, increasingly at value prices.
In a very challenging and volatile environment the Asia, Africa  
and Central & Eastern Europe (AAC) region posted strong growth 
and margin improvement. We continue to invest aggressively 
behind the fast-growing emerging markets including China and 
Russia. The operating margin before RDIs was up from 11.7%  
to 13.9% in the year as a result of lower commodity costs and 
operational leverage.
The Americas region recorded a competitive performance with 
continuing momentum across the business. Volume growth 
continued to accelerate with all major units contributing. The 
operating margin before RDIs was up from 15.4% to 16.1% in  
the year despite the impact of dilution from business disposals.
In the Western Europe region there were encouraging 
performances in the year in a number of major markets, with  
an improving trend in quarterly volume growth. The challenging 
conditions in southern Europe continue. The operating margin 
Perception can be deceptive
Hellmann’s mayonnaise is opening 
consumers’ eyes in Latin America  
to the fact that a spoonful  
contains only 40 calories – inspiring 
confidence to use more and 
increasing brand loyalty.
and more @ www.unilever.com/surf
Doing these basics brilliantly is behind the phenomenal success of Surf 
(also called Sunlight and Rinso), one of the best known laundry brands in 
the world. In the last few years, we have launched the brand successfully 
in new markets, and taken innovations into existing markets. In 2009 we 
created a premium range, Twilight Sensations, which is already delivering 
results. Understanding the local market and positioning the brand 
effectively has been key to Surf’s 12.5% growth in 2009, underscoring  
our decision in 2008 to sell our North American laundry business to focus 
on stronger investment opportunities elsewhere.
Case study: Surf
A growth sensation
For a laundry brand to be successful it must clean 
well and smell nice, while being sold at a good 
price. And it has to be marketed effectively. It 
sounds straightforward, but in such an intensely 
competitive market there is no margin for error.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009 17 Making a difference in society
Report of the Directors  Performance 2009
Our brands touch the lives of many millions every day. Through our products 
and the power of our marketing, we can help make a difference to health  
and well-being around the world.
To increase consumer choice, we provide variants of many brands, 
with full and low fat, sweetened and unsweetened options, and 
different portion sizes.
Nutritional labelling provides consumers with essential information 
such as levels of key nutrients.
The health claims we make are based on rigorous scientific 
evidence and are externally checked. During 2009 the European 
Union formally approved Unilever’s claim that the active ingredient 
in our Flora/Becel pro.activ products is proven to lower cholesterol. 
Lowering blood cholesterol may reduce the risk of coronary  
heart disease.
Extending our impact
The Food and Agriculture Organization estimates that more  
than 1 billion people are undernourished worldwide. Some of  
our brands can play a role in tackling under-nutrition, particularly 
micronutrient deficiencies, through food fortification. For example, 
our Rama/Blue Band spreads contain vitamins A and D. Annapurna 
iodised salt helps to prevent diseases related to iodine deficiency.
We play an active role in public debate and work in partnership 
with international organisations to extend the impact of our 
initiatives. One example is the World Food Programme (WFP), 
where we support efforts to improve the health and nutrition  
of school children in developing countries. In 2009, nearly  
17 million meals for 80,000 children were provided by WFP , thanks  
to Unilever employee and brand initiatives. In addition, 50,000 
school children in Indonesia, Kenya and Colombia were enrolled  
in nutrition and hygiene behavioural change campaigns, jointly 
developed and implemented by WFP and Unilever.
Nutrition – helping make the healthy choice
Increasingly it is recognised that healthy diets along with regular 
physical activity play a major role in maintaining good health.
More and more, consumers are concerned about what they eat  
and how it affects their health and well-being. By developing 
brands that help them to enjoy a healthy diet, we can meet  
their expectations and grow our business.
Our approach is based around four elements:
• improving the nutritional quality of all our products;
• focusing research and development on healthy offerings;
• expanding consumer choice;
• providing clear information for consumers.
Making progress
The starting point is to improve the nutritional quality of our 
existing brand portfolio without compromising on taste. Since 
2005 our Nutrition Enhancement Programme has reviewed our 
entire portfolio of products. By the end of 2009, this showed  
that 44% are in line with internationally accepted guidelines for 
saturated and trans fat, sugar and salt.
It is estimated that reducing salt by as little 1 g per day can  
reduce strokes by 5% and heart attacks by 3%. The World Health 
Organization recommends a daily intake of 5 g. In 2009 we set 
product benchmarks to achieve a dietary intake of 6 g of salt per 
day by the end of 2010, with the ambition to reduce further to  
5 g per day by the end of 2015.
Innovation is bringing products that offer specific health and 
nutritional benefits. For example, our Hellmann’s Light and Extra 
Light mayonnaise use patented citrus fibre technology to give  
a smooth and creamy taste, but with 60-90% less oil than the  
full fat variant.
The ‘day and night’ message focuses on the  
single biggest change in behaviour that will 
improve oral health. The campaign is built around 
the insight that parents can find it difficult to  
get children to brush their teeth twice a day.  
By sharing brushing moments together, this  
key oral hygiene habit can be passed on more 
easily, benefiting the whole family.
Case study: Toothpaste
Signal and Pepsodent 
encourage day and 
night brushing
Our oral care brands, Signal, Pepsodent  
and Close Up, launched a ‘Brush day  
and night’ campaign in 2009 together  
with the FDI World Dental Federation.  
This continues our partnership work  
with the FDI which has supported 40  
projects in 37 countries to date.
and more @ www.unilever.com/signal
18 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009 and more @ www.lifebuoy.com
To demonstrate its genuine health benefits, Lifebuoy conducted the biggest clinical trial  
in Unilever’s home and personal care history, involving 2,000 families in Mumbai. Half  
the families were supplied with soap along with regular education about the importance  
of washing hands with soap on key occasions during the day. The other half continued  
with their normal hygiene practice, acting as a control group. At the end of the trial, the 
five-year-old children in the intervention group had 25% fewer episodes of diarrhoea  
and significantly fewer days off school than children in the control group. The study 
confirms the potential to change consumer behaviour, improve basic health through 
hygiene and grow our brands’ market share.
Case study: Lifebuoy
Lifebuoy demonstrates 
its effectiveness
Lifebuoy is one of Unilever’s fastest growing  
brands in the personal care category. During  
2009 the brand was relaunched, starting in  
India, with a campaign that promotes good 
hygiene practices, especially to mothers and 
children. The products were reformulated  
with new active ingredients, improved  
fragrances and a distinctive new shape.
We work with a wide range of partners to help promote  
the importance of handwashing. Launched in 2008, Global 
Handwashing Day is an annual event backed by the Public-Private 
Partnership for Handwashing with Soap, of which Unilever is  
a founding partner. In 2009 more than 80 countries took part in 
Global Handwashing Day, touching 120 million people worldwide. 
Lifebuoy teams in 23 countries coordinated efforts with over  
50 organisations, including governments and NGOs. Activities 
included encouraging school children to take handwashing 
pledges and the Lifebuoy Germ Fighter Drawing Contest.
Around the world, over 1 billion people do not brush their teeth 
with a fluoride toothpaste. We estimate that more than 3 billion 
people do not brush twice a day. Research results from a two-year 
study show that brushing twice a day with a fluoride toothpaste 
reduces tooth decay in children by up to 50% compared with  
only brushing once. Recognising this opportunity to improve  
oral health and expand our sales, our toothpaste brands have 
launched their ‘Brush day and night’ campaign.
Making good quality products such as soap and toothpaste 
affordable and widely available is a crucial starting point. But this  
is not enough if people do not change their everyday habits too.
That is why Unilever’s health and hygiene programmes harness 
the power of our marketing to change behaviour. The ‘social 
mission’ of brands means such action is integrated into brand 
strategies, not simply a philanthropic add-on.
Within our own workforce too, we can make a difference  
to health and well-being. Our Lamplighter programme enables 
Unilever employees to assess, track and improve important 
aspects of their health such as blood pressure, fitness, mental 
resilience and diet. This in turn improves the health of Unilever  
as a business, with fitter, more engaged employees.
Hygiene – changing habits, helping save lives
Poor sanitation and a lack of personal hygiene remain the root 
causes of many life-threatening diseases around the world. 
Helping people to incorporate simple hygiene habits into  
their everyday routines can achieve dramatic improvements.  
Our competitive strength and long heritage of involvement,  
particularly in developing and emerging markets, offer particular 
opportunities to grow our brands and make a difference to 
diseases caused by poor hygiene.
Our Lifebuoy brand helps to promote health and hygiene, and  
in particular encourages people to wash their hands with soap.  
In India, its Swasthya Chetna programme (‘Health Awakening’) 
has run since 2002, raising awareness of the importance  
of handwashing with soap to prevent disease. Similar hygiene 
promotion activities run in Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, Pakistan, 
Indonesia, Vietnam and South Africa. The brand’s hygiene 
education has reached more than 133 million people in  
these countries since 2002. In 2009 Lifebuoy was voted one  
of India’s most trusted brands in a national consumer poll.
and more @ www.florahearts.co.uk
Do you know your heart age?
In 2009 Unilever and the World Heart Federation 
launched Heart Age, a powerful new online tool 
that uses diet and lifestyle facts such as weight, 
cholesterol, blood pressure and smoking to 
estimate cardiovascular risk factors, with the  
offer of a free diet and lifestyle plan.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009 19 Total waste sent from our factories for disposal has been cut  
by 73%* per tonne of production since 1995.
One example of action is our detergent factory in Hefei, China. 
Straw waste previously burned by local farmers is now collected 
and used to generate power. This improves air quality, reduces 
CO
2
 emissions and provides farmers with extra income.
At our Gloucester factory in the UK, where we make Wall’s and 
Magnum ice cream, we will reduce CO
2
 from energy by more  
than 3,000 tonnes a year through the installation of a combined 
heat and power (CHP) plant. The 2.4 megawatt plant is primarily 
fuelled by natural gas, with heat in the form of hot water and 
steam produced as a by-product. This heat is re-used in the 
manufacturing process.
Sourcing sustainably
Around 50% of the raw materials that we use for our products  
come from agriculture and forestry. We buy approximately 12% of 
the world’s black tea, 6% of its tomatoes and 3% of its palm oil.
Our goal is to source all our key agricultural raw materials 
sustainably. Through our Sustainable Agriculture Programme,  
we have developed detailed guidelines on what sustainable 
agriculture means for our key crops. Our guidelines cover criteria 
such as reducing fertiliser and pesticide use, conserving water, 
promoting biodiversity and using less energy.
Palm oil is used in both food and home and personal care products. 
We have committed to have all our palm oil purchases externally 
certified as sustainable by 2015. Working with Greenpeace,  
we have built a global coalition of some 40 companies and NGOs  
This is a challenging objective, but we start from a strong base.  
For more than a decade we have been reducing the environmental 
impact of our own factories and supporting our agricultural 
suppliers to improve their sustainability practices.
During 2009 we also carried out a major piece of work to  
measure more accurately Unilever’s impacts on the world around 
us. A new set of metrics was piloted to assess our global brands  
against four indicators – greenhouse gas emissions, water, waste 
and agricultural sourcing.
The analysis highlighted again that our direct impact from 
factories, offices, lorries, business travel and so forth was small in 
comparison with other parts of our value chain. How people use 
our washing powders, for example, has a much bigger impact 
than where or how we make them.
Our own operations
Although emissions and waste from factories represent only a 
small part of our footprint, we are committed to reducing them.
Since 1995 we have achieved a 41%* reduction in CO
2
 from 
energy per tonne of production. In 2009 we achieved a reduction 
of 3%* compared to 2008.
Since 1995 we have reduced by 65%* the amount of water  
we use to make a tonne of product. During 2009 we achieved  
a 5.6%* reduction in water use compared to 2008.
Growing sustainably
Report of the Directors  Performance 2009
Our goal is to double the size of the business whilst at the same time reducing our 
environmental footprint. We define this footprint broadly. It extends well beyond  
our own operations to encompass the whole value chain – our activities from the  
sourcing of raw materials through to consumer use and disposal of our products.
and more @ www.liptonforthefuture.com
Case study: Lipton
A thirst for 
sustainability
Lipton and PG tips are  
working with the Rainforest 
Alliance to promote  
sustainable farming practices 
and improved livelihoods  
for tea growers. We have  
made a commitment that  
all the tea for Lipton and PG 
tips tea bags will be sourced 
from Rainforest Alliance 
Certified™ farms by 2015.
In 2009 80% of Lipton Yellow Label and PG tips tea bags sold in 
Western Europe were sourced from certified farms. Rainforest 
Alliance Certified™ tea also became available in the US; Japan; and 
Australia, where sales grew by 12% following the launch. Rainforest 
Alliance’s certification standard is based on ten principles, including 
water conservation, wildlife protection, fair and safe treatment  
of workers and good community relations. By the end of 2009,  
69 tea estates and factories had been certified, along with 38,000 
smallholder farms in Kenya.
20 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009 During 2009 we contributed to a study conducted by Tesco and 
Manchester University’s Sustainable Consumption Institute. This 
showed that in the UK three quarters of emissions are directly  
or indirectly influenced by consumers.
In a joint report produced with Coca-Cola we shared our 
experiences in mapping impacts across the value chain (ie from 
sourcing raw materials through to consumer use and disposal of 
products), and in empowering consumers to change behaviour.
In Mexico, Unilever is collaborating with Walmart on a project 
called Grupo Transforma to raise awareness among consumers 
about environmental protection. Activities include waste  
collection sites at stores to encourage recycling and a travelling 
environmental exhibition ’La Neta del Planeta‘ (‘The Truth of  
the Planet’).
Investor recognition
Unilever’s work has been recognised by investor rating agencies. 
The Dow Jones Sustainability World Indexes cite us as food 
industry leader, for the 11th year running. We have been included  
in the FTSE4Good Index Series since its inception in 2001.
In 2009 Unilever was the only company recognised as  
’best practice‘ by the Natural Value Initiative’s Ecosystem Services 
Benchmark, a tool developed with six institutional investors to help 
asset managers identify companies that are actively managing  
the risks and opportunities related to biodiversity and ecosystems.
to combat deforestation in Asia, much of which is caused by 
unsustainable agricultural practices in growing oil palms. Around 
two thirds of the coalition’s company members have now set 
public targets for purchasing certified sustainable supplies.
In 2009 Unilever purchased GreenPalm certificates covering 
185,000 tonnes of palm oil, accounting for around 15% of our 
total needs. GreenPalm certificates support the production of 
sustainable palm oil certified to the standards of the Roundtable 
on Sustainable Palm Oil. We also took action to suspend a major 
supplier in Indonesia following evidence of involvement in 
destructive practices.
In 2009 WWF published the 2009 Palm Oil Buyers’ Scorecard – an 
assessment of the palm oil purchasing practices of major European 
companies. Unilever was rated among the top five and was 
commended for showing real progress on commitments to buy 
and use sustainable palm oil.
Reducing impacts from consumer use
The biggest part of Unilever’s emissions of both CO
2
 and water 
occur during consumer use. Many of our products require energy 
to heat water for cooking, showering or washing clothes. Through 
the design and formulation of these products, we can mitigate 
their impacts. For example, Persil Small & Mighty laundry detergent 
not only uses fewer chemicals and less packaging but also allows 
the consumer to wash clothes at low temperatures and on  
shorter cycles.
and more @ www.cleanerplanetplan.com
Case study: Laundry
A cleaner planet  
for our consumers
Our laundry brands, Persil, Omo and Surf, have launched a Cleaner 
Planet Plan to reduce the impact of laundry on the environment  
and motivate changes in consumer behaviour. It is based on 
efficient products that enable ‘better laundry habits’.
The Plan builds on our long-standing work to introduce 
products that have lower environmental impacts.  
We have been at the forefront of the development  
of concentrated liquid detergents and compacted 
powders. Concentration saves energy and packaging, 
and reduces greenhouse gas emissions by 5-20%  
per wash, depending on the product. The Cleaner 
Planet Plan also educates consumers to wash at lower 
temperatures, use a full load and use the right dosage  
of detergent.
Hazeline wins with  
customers and consumers
Our Hazeline shampoo refill 
pouch in China won Walmart’s 
Gold Award for Sustainable 
Packaging. With only a third  
of the waste of a normal pump 
bottle, consumers re-use their 
shampoo bottles and make  
cost savings too.
*  Measured by tonne of production. 
2009 data is preliminary. It will  
be independently assured and 
reported in our online Sustainable 
Development Report 2009 at  
www.unilever.com/sustainability
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009 21 Report of the Directors  Board and Executive
Chairman
Michael Treschow
1,2
Nationality: Swedish. Aged 66.  
Chairman since May 2007. Chairman, 
Telefonaktiebolaget L M Ericsson.  
Non-Executive Director, ABB Group.  
Board member, Knut and Alice Wallenberg 
Foundation, Member of the European Advisory 
Board, Eli Lilly and Company. Chairman,  
AB Electrolux 2004-2007 and Confederation  
of Swedish Enterprise 2004-2007.
Vice-Chairman
Jeroen van der Veer
3,4,5
Nationality: Dutch. Aged 62. 
Appointed 2002. Non-Executive Director,  
Royal Dutch Shell plc. Member, Supervisory 
Board of Philips, and Vice-Chairman ING. 
Member, Supervisory Board of De 
Nederlandsche Bank N.V. 2000-2004.
Non-Executive Directors
The Rt Hon The Lord Brittan  
of Spennithorne QC, DL
6
Nationality: British. Aged 70.  
Appointed 2000. Vice-Chairman, UBS 
Investment Bank and Chairman, UBS Limited. 
Director, UBS Securities Company Limited. 
Member, International Advisory Committee  
of Total. Member, Advisory Board of Teijin  
Ltd. Member, European Commission and 
Vice-President 1989-1999. Member, UK 
Government 1979-1986. Home Secretary 
1983-1985 and Secretary of State for Trade  
and Industry 1985-1986.
Professor Wim Dik
7
Nationality: Dutch. Aged 71.  
Appointed 2001. Professor at Delft University  
of Technology. Chairman, Advisory Board  
of Spencer Stuart Netherlands. Vice-chairman  
of Supervisory Board of Stage Entertainment  
B.V. Non-Executive Director, Aviva plc 1999-2009 
and Logica plc 2002-2009. Chairman and CEO, 
Koninklijke PTT Nederland (KPN) 1988-1998 
and Koninklijke KPN N.V. (Royal Dutch Telecom) 
1998-2000. Minister for Foreign Trade, 
Netherlands 1981-1982.
Louise Fresco
8
Nationality: Dutch. Aged 58.  
Appointed May 2009. Professor of International 
Development and Sustainability at the University 
of Amsterdam. Supervisory Director, RABO Bank. 
Member, SER. Trustee, Roosevelt Academy.
Board of Directors
Executive Directors
Paul Polman
Chief Executive Officer
Nationality: Dutch. Aged 53.  
Chief Executive Officer since January 2009. 
Appointed Director October 2008. President, 
Kilimanjaro Blind Trust. Patron, Leaders for 
Nature, an International Union for Conservation 
of Nature (IUCN) initiative. Various positions 
within Procter & Gamble Co. 1979-2001,  
Group President Europe and Officer, Procter & 
Gamble Co. 2001-2006. Chief Financial Officer, 
Nestlé S.A. 2006-2008. Executive Vice President 
and Zone Director for the Americas 2008. 
Jean-Marc Huët*
Chief Financial Officer
Nationality: Dutch. Aged 40.
Appointed Chief Financial Officer February 
2010. Chief Financial Officer, Bristol-Myers 
Squibb 2008-2009. Royal Numico NV 
2003-2007. Executive Director, Goldman  
Sachs International 1993-2003. Clement  
Trading 1991-1993.
*Jean-Marc Huët will be proposed for election as an Executive Director at the 2010 AGMs.
22 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Member Nomination Committee
Member Remuneration Committee
Chairman Nomination Committee
Chairman Remuneration Committee
Senior Independent Director
Chairman Corporate Responsibility  
and Reputation Committee
Member Audit Committee
Member Corporate Responsibility  
and Reputation Committee
Chairman Audit Committee
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
Left to right:
Michael Treschow
Jeroen van der Veer
Paul Polman
Jean-Marc Huët
The Rt Hon The Lord Brittan  
of Spennithorne 
Professor Wim Dik
Louise Fresco
Ann Fudge
Charles Golden
Byron Grote
Narayana Murthy
Hixonia Nyasulu
Kees Storm
Paul Walsh
Hixonia Nyasulu
8
Nationality: South African. Aged 55.  
Appointed 2007. Chairman, Sasol Ltd. 
Non-Executive Director, Barloworld Ltd and 
Tongaat-Hulett Group Ltd. Member, Advisory 
Board of JP Morgan SA. Director, Paton Tupper 
Associates (Pty) Ltd.
Kees Storm
9
Nationality: Dutch. Aged 67.  
Appointed 2006. Chairman, Supervisory Board 
and Member of the Audit Committee, KLM 
Royal Dutch Airlines N.V. Member, Supervisory 
Board, AEGON N.V. Board member and 
Chairman of Audit Committee, Anheuser-Busch 
InBev S.A. Board member and member of  
the Audit Committee, Baxter International, Inc. 
Vice-Chairman, Supervisory Board, Pon 
Holdings B.V. Chairman, Executive Board, 
AEGON N.V. 1993-2002.
Paul Walsh
1,2
Nationality: British. Aged 54. 
Appointed May 2009. Chief Executive Officer  
of Diageo. Non-Executive Director, FedEx 
Corporation Inc. Chairman, The Scotch Whisky 
Association. Member of the Council of the 
University of Reading, The Business Council  
for Britain, The Prince of Wales International 
Business Leaders Forum.
Ann Fudge
2
Nationality: American. Aged 58.  
Appointed May 2009. Non-Executive Director, 
Novartis AG, General Electric Co., and Buzzient 
Inc. Chairman, US Programs Advisory Panel  
of Gates Foundation. Honorary director of 
Catalyst, Trustee of The Rockefeller Foundation 
and vice-chairman of the board of overseers  
of Harvard University.
Charles Golden
7
Nationality: American. Aged 63.  
Appointed 2006. Non-Executive Director, 
Clarian Health Partners, Hill-Rom Holdings, 
Eaton Corporation and the Lilly Endowment. 
Member of Finance Committee, Indianapolis 
Museum of Art. Executive Vice-President,  
Chief Financial Officer and Director, Eli Lilly  
and Company 1996-2006.
Byron Grote
7
Nationality: American/British. Aged 61. 
Appointed 2006. Chief Financial  
Officer, BP p.l.c. Member, UK Business –  
Government Forum on Tax and Globalisation.  
Vice-chairman, UK Government’s Public 
Services Productivity Panel.
Narayana Murthy
8
Nationality: Indian. Aged 63.  
Appointed 2007. Chairman, Asia Business 
Council, International Institute of Information 
Technology and Infosys Technologies Limited. 
Director, Infosys Consulting, Inc., Infosys 
Technologies (China) Company Limited,  
New Delhi Television Ltd. Non-Executive 
Director, HSBC Holdings plc.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009 23 Paul Polman
Chief Executive Officer
(see details on page 22)
Doug Baillie
President Western Europe
Nationality: British. Aged 54.  
Appointed President of Western Europe in May 
2008. Joined Unilever 1978. Previous posts 
include: CEO, Hindustan Unilever Limited and 
Group Vice President, South Asia 2006, Group 
Vice-President – Africa, Middle East & Turkey 
(AMET) 2005, President, Africa Regional Group 
2004, National Manager, Unilever South Africa, 
2000, Managing Director Lever Pond’s South 
Africa 1997, Vice President, Home and Personal 
Care for the Africa Business Group 1994.
Vindi Banga
President Foods, Home & Personal Care
Nationality: Indian. Aged 55.  
Appointed to UEx April 2005 as President 
Foods. Appointed President Foods, Home & 
Personal Care in May 2008. Joined Unilever 
1977. Previous posts include: Business Group 
President Home and Personal Care, Asia  
2004 in addition to Non-Executive Chairman, 
Hindustan Lever 2004-2005. Chairman  
and Managing Director, Hindustan Lever  
2000-2004.
Sandy Ogg
Chief Human Resources Officer
Nationality: American. Aged 56.  
Appointed Chief HR Officer April 2005. Joined 
Unilever 2003. Previous posts include: SVP Human 
Resources, Foods 2003. Prior to joining Unilever  
he worked for Motorola as SVP, Leadership, 
Learning and Performance Management.
Michael Polk
President Americas
Nationality: American. Aged 49.  
Appointed President Americas March 2007. 
Joined Unilever 2003. Previous posts include: 
President Unilever USA. Prior to joining  
Unilever, he held various senior positions at 
Kraft Foods including President, Biscuits and 
Snacks Sector and President, Asia Pacific 
Region. External appointments: Non-Executive 
Director, Newell-Rubbermaid Corporation; 
Director, Students in Free Enterprise and 
Grocery Manufacturers of America.
Pier Luigi Sigismondi
Chief Supply Chain Officer
Nationality: Italian. Aged 44.  
Appointed Chief Supply Chain Officer 
September 2009. Prior to his appointment at 
Unilever, he joined Nestlé S.A. in 2002 as Vice 
President of Corporate Operations Strategies, 
before moving to Nestlé Mexico in 2005  
as Vice President of Supply Chain and R&D.  
Prior to Nestlé S.A. he was Vice President of 
Operations in Italy for A T Kearney. He also holds 
a Masters in Industrial & Systems Engineering 
from the Georgia Institute of Technology, 
Atlanta, Georgia.
Professor Geneviève Berger
Chief Research and Development Officer
Nationality: French. Aged 55.  
Appointed to UEx July 2008. Professor and 
Hospital Practitioner, Medical University 
Teaching Hospital, Paris 2003-2008. Member, 
Technical Committee, Institute of Electrical and 
Electronics Engineers (IEEE). Chairman, Advisory 
Board, Health for the European Commission. 
Director, Biotech and Agri-Food Department 
1998-2000 and Director of Technology 2000, 
the French Ministry for Education. Director 
General, National Centre for Scientific Research 
(CNRS), France 2000-2003. Previously 
Non-Executive Director of Unilever N.V. and 
Unilever PLC 2007-2008.
Jean-Marc Huët
Chief Financial Officer
(see details on page 22)
Harish Manwani
President Asia, Africa and Central  
& Eastern Europe
Nationality: Indian. Aged 56.  
Appointed to UEx April 2005 as President  
Asia Africa. Appointed President Asia, Africa 
and Central & Eastern Europe in May 2008. 
Joined Unilever 1976. He is also Non-Executive 
Chairman, Hindustan Unilever Limited. Previous 
posts include: Business Group President, Home 
and Personal Care, North America 2004. 
Business Group President, Home and Personal 
Care, Latin America 2001 and Senior Vice 
President, Hair Care and Oral Care 2000.
Unilever Executive (UEx) members are treated as executive officers and senior management for US purposes and key management personnel for IFRS purposes.  
All members of the UEx have existing agreements with varying terms, however, all agreements include a notice period of 12 months although local law and practice  
may sometimes impact on these provisions. Details of the remuneration paid and share awards are shown in aggregate in note 4 on page 90.
Report of the Directors  Board and Executive
Unilever Executive
Left to right:
Paul Polman 
Harish Manwani
Sandy Ogg 
Pier Luigi Sigismondi
Doug Baillie 
Vindi Banga
Geneviève Berger 
Michael Polk 
Jean-Marc Huët
24 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Our business
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009 25
Our business
Unilever is one of the world’s leading suppliers of fast-moving
consumer goods. We aim to meet everyday consumer needs for
nutrition, hygiene and personal care with products that help
people to feel good, look good and get more out of life. Unilever
is a global business which by the end of the year was generating
more than half of its turnover in developing and emerging markets
in Asia, Africa, Central & Eastern Europe and Latin America.
Unilever’s portfolio includes such well-known brands as Knorr,
Lipton, Hellmann’s, Magnum, Omo, Dove, Lux and Axe/Lynx.
Our long-term ambition is to be in the top third of a group of 
21 fast moving consumer goods companies in terms of total
shareholder return on a three-year basis. A list of the companies
included in our peer group in 2009 is set out on page 46.
Key indicators 2009 – performance and portfolio
During 2009, progress against our key ﬁnancial performance
indicators was as follows:
2009 2008 2007
Underlying sales growth (%) 3.5 7.4 5.5
Underlying volume growth (%) 2.3 0.1 3.7
Operating margin (%) 12.6 17.7 13.1
Operating margin before RDIs (%) 14.8 14.6 14.5
Ungeared free cash ﬂow (€ billion) 4.9 3.2 3.8
Return on invested capital (%) 11.2 15.7 12.7
Total shareholder return (ranking) 5 98
Underlying sales growth, underlying volume growth, operating
margin before RDIs, ungeared free cash ﬂow, return on invested
capital and total shareholder return are not recognised measures
under IFRS. Further information about our use of these measures,
including deﬁnitions and, where appropriate, reconciliation to 
IFRS measures, can be found in our Financial Review starting on
page 37.
Underlying sales growth (USG) is deﬁned as the percentage
increase in turnover, adjusted for the impact of acquisitions and
disposals and exchange rate ﬂuctuations. In 2009, underlying sales
growth was 3.5% compared with 7.4% in 2008. Underlying
volume growth is underlying sales growth after excluding the
impact of price changes.
Operating margin for 2009 was 12.6% compared with 17.7% in
2008, which beneﬁted signiﬁcantly from the net impact of proﬁts
on disposals, restructuring charges and other one-off items. Before
these items the underlying improvement in operating margin in
2009 was 0.2 percentage points.
Ungeared free cash ﬂow (UFCF) is deﬁned as the cash ﬂow from
operating activities less net capital expenditure, pension charges,
share-based compensation costs and tax. A more comprehensive
deﬁnition is given on page 45. In 2009, UFCF was €4.9 billion,
which was €1.7 billion higher than a year earlier.
Return on invested capital (ROIC) is deﬁned as proﬁt after tax
(excluding ﬁnance and net impairment charges) divided by the
average invested capital. A more comprehensive deﬁnition is given
on page 45. In 2009, ROIC was 11.2% compared with 15.7% in
2008, which beneﬁted from signiﬁcant proﬁts on business
disposals. Excluding the impact of proﬁts on sale of group
companies, ROIC was at the same level as in 2008.
Within our peer group of 21 companies, our ranking for Total
Shareholder Return over a three-year period was 5th in 2009. This
measure forms part of the basis for the long-term remuneration of
top management. Further information is given on page 46.
In addition to these ﬁnancial indicators, we track other measures
in support of our strategic goals. We believe that the share of our
business that is generated in Developing and Emerging (D&E)
markets, and the proportion of our turnover that is generated by
our top 25 brands are particularly relevant. For the latter measure
we group together brands that have common consumer proﬁles
and are supported by common innovation programmes, although
in some cases the brand names may vary between countries. 
The results for these measures for the last three reporting years are
as follows:  
2009 2008 2007
Share of turnover in D&E markets (%) 49 47 44
Share of turnover in top 25 brands (%) 73 73 73
Our deﬁnition of D&E markets includes all countries in Latin
America, Central & Eastern Europe, Africa and Asia, except Japan
and Australia. In 2009, the turnover in D&E markets represented
49% of the turnover of the Group. 
Our D&E strategy aims to increase the penetration and
consumption of our categories with D&E consumers at all income
levels and to trade consumers up to higher added value products
as needs change with rising incomes. We have an outstanding
geographic footprint in D&E markets. Our focus is to maintain and
develop our leading category and brand positions in our D&E
strongholds, such as Brazil, India, South Africa and Indonesia,
whilst simultaneously investing aggressively for growth to build up
new brand and category positions in countries that present
important new growth opportunities, notably China and Russia.
In the last decade we have strengthened our brand portfolio, with
the top 25 brands now collectively contributing 73% of our global
turnover, and our top 13 brands together accounting for sales of
€23.5 billion.
We also monitor the development of our brands through
independent market information that gives us insights into our
leading positions versus our direct competitors. In our section on
Operating environment on page 27 we indicate the product areas
in which we have leading or key strategic positions.
Report of the Directors About Unilever Our business (continued)
26 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Report of the Directors About Unilever
Key indicators 2010 – performance and portfolio
Throughout 2009 Unilever has consistently communicated to
shareholders that its main business objective is to restore volume
and underlying sales growth while steadily improving operating
margins and cash ﬂow. There are a number of strategic priorities
which support this objective. It is this combination of top-line
revenue growth and bottom-line proﬁts growth that Unilever
believes will build shareholder value over the longer term. It is our
objective to be among the best performers in our peer group.
Going forward we will therefore report our ﬁnancial performance
against a revised set of key indicators, certain of which will also be
reﬂected in targets for executive and management remuneration.
Principal among these will be:
• Underlying sales growth (as previously reported);
• Underlying volume growth (sales growth excluding the impact
of pricing changes);
• Improvement in underlying operating margin before RDIs
(replacing reported operating margin); and
• Operating cash ﬂow (replacing ungeared free cash ﬂow).
Key indicators – people and sustainability
Identifying and addressing social and environmental concerns is
essential to the long-term success of Unilever, as recognised in our
new vision to double the size of the business, while reducing our
environmental impact. Handling these aspects of our operations
well not only represents sensible management of risk, but presents
new opportunities for business growth. We have many indicators
to measure our progress in these areas, however the ones we
regard as key are people’s safety and the three environmental
measures below.
We take seriously our responsibility to provide a safe workplace.
We aim to continuously improve the health, safety and well-being
of everyone working for or on behalf of Unilever. A key measure
of our progress in this area is our total recordable accident
frequency rate, which counts all employee workplace accidents
except those requiring only simple ﬁrst aid treatment.
We are committed to meeting the needs of customers and
consumers in an environmentally sound and sustainable manner,
through continuous improvement in environmental performance
in all our activities. As a multinational business, it is essential that
we exercise the same concern for the environment wherever we
operate. The environmental measures that we regard as the most
signiﬁcant in relation to our business are those relating to the
amounts of CO
2
from energy that we produce, the water that we
consume as part of our production processes, and the amount of
waste that we generate for disposal. For further information
please refer also to page 20.
The table below shows the results for the last three years. 
2009 2008 2007
Total recordable accident frequency rate
(TRFR) per 1,000,000 hours 
(a)
1.91 2.10 2.60
CO
2
from energy per tonne of 
production (kg) 141.61 145.92 149.18
Water per tonne of production (m
3
) 2.80 2.97 3.05
Total waste per tonne of production (kg) 6.63 7.91 7.56
(a) As a consequence of improving our safety performance over many
years, in 2009 Unilever decided to increase the denominator used
to calculate TRFR from 100,000 to 1,000,000 hours. Using this
new higher factor has the effect of increasing our current and
historical TRFR data by a factor of ten, as shown in the table
above.
Data for 2009 is preliminary. It will be independently assured and
reported in our online Sustainable Development Report 2009 at
www.unilever.com/sustainability The data shown for 2008 and
2007 has been assured.
The type of assurance undertaken has been limited to enquiries of
company personnel and analytical procedures together with
review on a sample basis of the operation of processes relating to
performance data noted in the table above. Assurance of this
nature is substantially less in scope than a ﬁnancial audit and does
not include detailed sample testing of source data, processes or
internal controls. None of the assurance services in this area is
provided by Unilever’s external ﬁnancial auditors.
On pages 18 to 21 of this report we give examples of the ways in
which our brands are addressing consumers’ social and
environmental concerns. A comprehensive review of Unilever’s
social and environmental performance can be found in our annual
Sustainable Development Report, available online at
www.unilever.com/sustainability Our online Report will contain
updated and independently assured results for 2009 for the
measures above, as well as trend information that demonstrates
our performance over the longer term. 
Ten-year trends in many of the measures described above,
together with a range of other indicators, are included in the
document entitled ‘Unilever Charts’ which can be found on our
website at www.unilever.com/investorrelations/annual_reports
Organisation
Unilever’s organisation comprises regions, categories and
functions.
Our regions have proﬁt responsibility for the local go-to-market
operations in their geographic territory. The focus is primarily to
build and develop relationships with customers, to develop the
regional supply chain to deliver customer service and asset
productivity, and to deploy brands and innovations effectively,
focused on excellent execution in the market place. The
performance of the regions is measured in terms of in-year
ﬁnancial results, customer service levels and market positions. Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009 27
The global category team aims to develop winning category and
brand strategies, to create exciting new brand communication,
product innovation and renovation, and to provide strategic
direction for the supply chain. The category team is responsible for
medium-term value creation, considering items such as market
share, category growth, brand health and innovation.
Our functional teams, notably Finance and Human Resources, are
responsible for providing business partnering, strategic support
and competitive services across the global business. Such functions
are organised around these same principles of business partners,
shared services and centres of expertise.
The top management team, called the Unilever Executive (UEx),
consists of the CEO with eight direct reports, including regional
Presidents for Western Europe, the Americas and Asia Africa CEE,
one global President for the categories, and four functional heads,
namely the CFO, Chief HR Ofﬁcer, Chief R&D Ofﬁcer and Chief
Supply Chain Ofﬁcer.
Operating environment
In our markets, we compete with a diverse set of competitors.
Some of these operate on an international scale like ourselves,
while others have a more regional or local focus.
We aim to focus on providing consumers with added-value
products that will help them to feel good, look good and get more
out of life, in several important ways:
• creating and nurturing attractive brands that are trusted and
preferred by consumers and which seek to address consumer
needs and aspirations better than other brands;
• developing and rolling out new and better products and
concepts across our regions and product categories, supported
by innovative communication campaigns; and
• optimising and improving the productivity and efﬁciency of our
cost and asset base whilst ensuring consistent high quality of
our products.
Around 70% of our turnover is in countries and categories where
we have a leadership position, as measured by the value of
turnover. We hold the global number 1 position in savoury,
spreads, dressings, tea, ice cream, deodorants and mass skin care.
We hold the global number 2 position in laundry detergents and
daily hair care. We have strong local positions in household care
and oral care.
Unilever’s products are generally sold through our own sales force
as well as through independent brokers, agents and distributors to
chain, wholesale, co-operative and independent grocery accounts,
food service distributors and institutions. Products are physically
distributed through a network of distribution centres, satellite
warehouses, company-operated and public storage facilities,
depots and other facilities.
Our products are sold in over 170 countries around the world. In
many countries we manufacture the products that we sell, while
we also export products to countries where we do not have
manufacturing operations. The manufacturing network is
generally determined by an optimised regional sourcing strategy
which takes account of requirements for innovation, quality,
service, cost and ﬂexibility. Certain of our businesses, such as 
ice cream, are subject to signiﬁcant seasonal ﬂuctuations in sales.
However, Unilever operates globally in many different markets and
product categories, and no individual element of seasonality is
likely to be material to the results of the Group as a whole.
Our products use a wide variety of raw and packaging materials
which we source internationally, and which may be subject to
price volatility. For example in 2008 we saw unprecedented price
increases in many of our materials, notably in edible oils, which are
used in many food products as well as some personal care
products, and of crude oil, which is relevant to our transport costs
but also used as an input for certain petrochemicals and
packaging materials.
Transactions with related parties are conducted in accordance with
agreed transfer pricing policies and include sales to joint ventures
and associates. Other than those disclosed in this report, there
were no related party transactions that were material to the Group
or to the related parties concerned that are required to be
reported in 2009 or the two preceding years.
For more information about related party transactions please refer
also to note 30 on page 128. 
Resources
Our brands
We have a strong and well-differentiated portfolio of global and
local brands, which are positioned to meet the needs and
aspirations of our consumers across a variety of price points,
segments and channels, allowing us to compete effectively in our
key categories and countries.
In 2009 eleven of our brands had global turnover of €1 billion or
more. These were Knorr, Hellmann’s, Lipton, Becel/Flora (Healthy
Heart), Rama/Blue Band (Family Goodness), Wall’s/Algida
(Heartbrand), Omo, Dove, Lux, Rexona (including Sure and
Degree) and Axe/Lynx.
We manage our brands under the following four category
headings: savoury, dressings and spreads; ice cream and
beverages; personal care; and home care.
Savoury, dressings and spreads includes soups, bouillons, sauces,
snacks, mayonnaise, salad dressings, margarines, spreads and
cooking products such as liquid margarines, and some frozen
foods. Our key brands here are Knorr, Hellmann’s, Becel/Flora
(Healthy Heart), Rama/Blue Band (Family Goodness), Calvé, 
Wish-Bone, Amora, Ragú and Bertolli. Our business (continued)
28 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Report of the Directors About Unilever
Ice cream and beverages includes ice cream sold under the
international Heartbrand, including Cornetto, Magnum, Carte
d’Or and Solero, Wall’s, Kibon, Algida and Ola. Our portfolio also
includes Ben & Jerry’s, Breyers, Klondike and Popsicle. This
category also includes tea-based beverages, where our principal
brands are Lipton, Brooke Bond and PG Tips, as well as weight
management products through our Slim
•
Fast range and
nutritionally enhanced products sold in developing markets,
including Annapurna and AdeS.
Within these groups, we also include sales by Unilever
Foodsolutions, which is a global food service business providing
solutions for professional chefs and caterers.
In personal care, six global brands are the core of our business in
the mass skin care, daily hair care and deodorants product areas –
Dove, Lux, Rexona (including Sure and Degree), Sunsilk (including
Seda/Sedal), Axe/Lynx and Pond’s. Other important brands include
Suave, Clear, Lifebuoy and Vaseline, together with Signal and
Close Up in oral care.
Our home care ranges include laundry products, such as tablets,
traditional powders and liquids for washing clothing by hand or
machine. Tailored products including soap bars are available for
lower-income consumers. Our brands include Omo (‘Dirt is Good’
platform), Surf, Comfort, Radiant and Skip. Our household care
products include surface cleaners and bleach, sold under the Cif,
Domestos and Sun/Sunlight brands.
Please refer also to pages 8 to 21 where we give many examples
of the ways in which our brand portfolio is being actively managed
in support of our strategic objectives.
Our employees
We believe in providing an environment where individuals can
achieve their goals, both professionally and personally. In order to
attract and retain the best people, we recognise the need to offer
them ways to take advantage of opportunities, room to succeed
and grow, and more directions in which to pursue their careers.
Our success depends on innovation, so we do everything we can
to ensure that the enterprising people we employ have the
freedom to act. We give them all the support and encouragement
they need. At the same time, we empower them to make tough
decisions, implement new ideas and use their initiative. As a result
our people have a passion for achievement, strive for outstanding
results and are determined to get things done.
We believe in everyone’s ability to develop and grow, and that life
at work should be a continuous learning journey and that we all
have an equal right to take advantage of the opportunity to
develop ourselves. In our view, seizing the opportunity to make 
a difference is more important than simply progressing up 
the ladder. 
Personal vitality is also something we feel strongly about and we
have programmes and activities in place which are designed to
help everyone in the business take care of themselves and
encourage a better quality of life. By creating a vitalising work
experience and environment for our people we help them feel
energised and able to perform to the very best of their ability.
We have created an inclusive environment where people can bring
their whole self to work; they do not have to change to ﬁt in. We
want people to be themselves. This drives a higher level of
engagement and, as a direct result, improves all-round
performance.
The fact that everyone is unique and has different interests outside
the ofﬁce has a positive impact on the way we work and on our
culture. Understanding other people's perspectives and learning
from them adds variety and enriches what we do.
Our total employee numbers over the last ﬁve years were as
follows:
Year end in thousands 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005
Asia Africa CEE 95 102 97 98 118
The Americas 40 42 43 45 47
Western Europe 28 30 34 36 41
Total 163 174 174 179 206
Diversity
Diversity in Unilever is about inclusion, embracing differences,
creating possibilities and growing together for better business
performance. We embrace diversity in our workforce: this means
giving full and fair consideration to all applicants and continuing
development to all employees regardless of gender, nationality,
race, creed, disability, style or sexuality. Diversity plays a vital role in
ensuring we understand consumers’ needs.
The commitment to diversity is set right at the top of our business.
It is driven by the Global Diversity Board, chaired throughout 2009
by Chief Executive Ofﬁcer Paul Polman.
Unilever is a very culturally diverse business, with 20 different
nationalities represented among our top-tier management. 
We have worked to embed diversity ﬁrmly into our day-to-day
business decisions, via our talent management and people
processes, from appointments to development. In addition the
Global Diversity Board has agreed a number of actions which must
be implemented by all of our business units to promote and
support increased diversity. Our business units are required to
report progress against each of these actions on a quarterly basis
using the Diversity Scorecard, which is reviewed by the Global
Diversity Board. Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009 29
Information Technology
Unilever IT is a global function headed by a Chief Information
Ofﬁcer, reporting to the Chief Financial Ofﬁcer, with a strategy 
to deliver simple and competitive IT solutions in a cost-effective
way to support the business agenda. 
A common technology framework and common standards for
architecture, key technologies, process, information and service
allow Unilever to simplify its IT operations to better exploit 
global scale in IT. For example, this common approach facilitates
the move towards regional supply chain organisations and 
the development of regional shared service centres, notably 
in Finance and Human Resources, which in some cases 
are outsourced.
The IT function is a key enabler for the transformation towards a
globally aligned business through:
• strategic alliances and partnerships with global suppliers;
• improving IT infrastructure and service levels, whilst 
reducing costs;
• building consistent IT capabilities, processes and databases; and
• strategic outsourcing in selected key areas.
Unilever partners with a selected group of leading suppliers to
develop and maintain a limited number of complementary IT
systems that collectively cover our business needs. This promotes
radical simpliﬁcation, increased ﬂexibility and agility, faster
implementation and reduced costs.
Intellectual property
We have a large portfolio of patents and trademarks, and we
conduct some of our operations under licences that are based on
patents or trademarks owned or controlled by others. We are not
dependent on any one patent or group of patents. We use all
appropriate efforts to protect our brands and technology. 
Laws and regulation
Unilever businesses are governed by laws and regulations designed
to ensure that products may be safely used for their intended
purpose and that labelling and advertising are truthful and not
misleading. Unilever businesses are further regulated by data
protection and anti-trust legislation. Important regulatory bodies in
respect of our businesses include the European Commission and
the US Food and Drug Administration.
We have processes in place to ensure that products, ingredients,
manufacturing processes, marketing materials and activities
comply in all material respects with the above-mentioned laws and
regulations.
Legal proceedings
We are involved from time to time in legal and arbitration
proceedings arising in the ordinary course of business. For
information on current outstanding legal proceedings and
ongoing regulatory investigations please refer to ‘Legal
proceedings’ within note 25 on page 122. Outlook and risks
The following discussion about outlook and risk management
activities includes ‘forward-looking’ statements that involve risk
and uncertainties. The actual results could differ materially from 
those projected. See the ‘Cautionary statement’ on the inside 
back cover.
Outlook
Market conditions for our business were particularly challenging in
2009 and we do not expect this to change signiﬁcantly in 2010.
Economic pressures are likely to weigh heavily on consumer
spending. This is especially the case in some of our developed
markets where we expect unemployment to remain relatively high
and disposable incomes to be adversely impacted by the
combination of higher taxes and rising interest rates as ﬁscal
stimulus packages start to be unwound. Under these conditions
consumer conﬁdence is not expected to rise signiﬁcantly in the
year ahead and the search for value in the shopping basket will
continue.
Against this background we expect continued deﬂationary
pressure, exacerbated in the early part of the year by the
continuing impact of lower commodity costs. However we
anticipate commodity cost inﬂation to return around the middle of
the year, albeit at more modest levels than in recent years, and
that this will put limited upward pressure on prices in the second
half of 2010.
The competitive environment for our business is likely to intensify
further in 2010. Our key competitors, both global and local, will
be aiming to regain market share in many of our key markets and
categories and will enhance their activity plans accordingly. We
expect heightened levels of competitive challenge to our many
leadership positions based on innovation and wide-ranging brand
support. We are well prepared for such challenges.
Faced with these challenges we will continue to focus on our key
strategic priorities for 2010 of driving volume growth whilst
providing a steady improvement in operating margin before RDIs
and strong cash ﬂow. We believe that our outstanding and long-
established presence in D&E markets is a key competitive strength
that offers us opportunities for future growth. In these markets,
per capita levels of consumption are much lower than in
developed markets, and demographic trends suggest that over the
next ten years many millions of consumers may be able to afford
our products. At the same time we are determined to grow also in
the developed world, which still represents around half of our
business. 
Principal risk factors
Risks and uncertainties could cause actual results to vary from
those described in forward-looking statements made within this
document, or could impact on our ability to meet our targets or be
detrimental to our proﬁtability or reputation. The risks that we
regard as the most relevant to our business are identiﬁed below.
We have also commented on certain mitigating actions that we
believe help us manage such risks; however, we may not be
successful in deploying some or all of these mitigating actions. 
30 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Report of the Directors About Unilever
Description of risk What we are doing to manage the risk
Economic
• Decline in business during an economic downturn
• Avoiding customer and supplier default
Unilever’s business is dependent on continuing consumer demand
for our brands. Reduced consumer wealth driven by adverse
economic conditions may result in our consumers becoming
unwilling or unable to purchase our products, which could
adversely affect our cash ﬂow, turnover, proﬁts and proﬁt margins.
For example, in 2008 the economic downturn adversely impacted
our business by reducing the demand for some of our products. In
addition we have a large number of global brands, some of which
have a signiﬁcant carrying value as intangible assets: adverse
economic conditions may reduce the value of those brands which
could require us to impair their balance sheet value.  
During economic downturns access to credit could be constrained:
this happened in 2008 and 2009. This could impact the viability of
our suppliers and customers and could temporarily inhibit the ﬂow
of day-to-day cash transactions with suppliers and customers via
the banks.
Adverse economic conditions may affect one or more countries
within a region, or may extend globally. The impact on our overall
portfolio will depend on the severity of the economic slowdown,
the mix of countries affected and any government response to
reduce the impact such as ﬁscal stimulus, changes to taxation and
measures to minimise unemployment.
The breadth of Unilever’s portfolio and our geographic reach help
to mitigate local economic risks. We carefully monitor economic
indicators and regularly model the impact of different economic
scenarios. We monitor consumer behaviour through regular market
research and adopt a ﬂexible business model which allows us to
adapt our portfolio and respond quickly to develop new offerings
that suit consumers’ and customers’ changing needs during
economic downturns. We regularly update our forecast of business
results and cash ﬂows and, where necessary, rebalance investment
priorities. We undertake impairment testing reviews in accordance
with the relevant accounting standards.
We regularly monitor and review the health of our customers and
suppliers and implement credit limits and supply substitution
arrangements. These reviews are undertaken more frequently
during economic downturns.  Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009 31
Description of risk What we are doing to manage the risk
Markets
• Managing the business across globally competitive markets
• Volatility of emerging markets
• Building strategic alliances and partnerships
Unilever operates globally in competitive markets where the
activities of other multinational companies, local and regional
companies and customers which have a signiﬁcant private label
business may adversely affect our market shares, cash ﬂow,
turnover, proﬁts and/or proﬁt margins. 
49% of Unilever’s turnover in 2009 came from D&E markets
including Brazil, India, Indonesia, Turkey, South Africa, China,
Mexico and Russia. These markets are typically more volatile than
developed markets, so we are continually exposed to changing
economic, political and social developments outside our control,
any of which could adversely affect our business. Failure to
understand and respond effectively to local market developments
could put at risk our cash ﬂow, turnover, proﬁt and/or 
proﬁt margins.
Our strategy focuses on investing in markets and segments which
we identify as attractive, i.e. where we have or can build
competitive advantage and where we can consistently grow sales
and margins. Many years of exposure to D&E markets has given us
the ability to be able to operate and develop our business
successfully during periods of economic, political or social change. 
We seek in-ﬁll acquisitions to support our category and geographic
ambitions and, through Unilever Corporate Ventures, invest in
potential future businesses, new technologies and different
business models. 
We identify strategic partnerships with specialists that enable us to
leverage external expertise to more efﬁciently and cost-effectively
develop and manage our business.
Brand
• Design, development and roll-out of consumer/customer
relevant products and services
Unilever’s vision is to help people feel good, look good and get
more out of life with brands and services that are good for them
and good for others. This is achieved by designing and delivering
superior branded products/services at relevant price points to
consumers across the globe. Failure to provide sufﬁcient funding to
develop new products, lack of technical capability in the R&D
function, lack of prioritisation of projects and/or failure by operating
management to successfully and quickly roll out the products may
adversely impact our cash ﬂow, turnover, proﬁt and/or proﬁt
margins and may impact our reputation.    
We have processes to monitor external market trends and collate
consumer, customer and shopper insight in order to develop long-
term category and brand strategies. Our established innovation
management process uses comprehensive marketing tools and
techniques to convert category strategies into a series of projects,
building on internally developed know-how and expertise. It further
identiﬁes, prioritises and allocates resources and develops relevant
brand communications. We have well-established procedures to
plan and execute roll-out of products to our customers.
Customer
• Building long-term, mutually beneﬁcial relationships 
with customers
• Customer consolidation and growth of discount sector
Maintaining successful relationships with our customers is key to
ensuring our brands are successfully presented to our consumers
and are available for purchase at all times. Any breakdown in the
relationships with customers could reduce the availability to our
consumers of existing products and new product launches and
therefore impact our cashﬂow, turnover, proﬁts and/or proﬁt
margins.
The retail industry continues to consolidate in many of our markets.
Further consolidation and the continuing growth of discounters
could increase the competitive retail environment by increasing
customers’ purchasing power, increasing the demand for
competitive promotions and price discounts, increase cross-border
sourcing to take advantage of pricing arbitrage and thus adversely
impact our cash ﬂow, turnover, proﬁts and/or proﬁt margins.
Increased competition between retailers could place pressure on
retailer margins and increase the counterparty risk to Unilever.
We build and maintain trading relationships across a broad
spectrum of channels ranging from centrally managed,
multinational customers, to ‘discount’ chains and to the ‘traditional’
trade via distributors in many developing countries. We develop
joint business plans with all our key customers, including detailed
investment plans and customer service objectives, and regularly
monitor progress. Outlook and risks (continued)
32 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Report of the Directors About Unilever
Description of risk What we are doing to manage the risk
Financial/Treasury
• Funding the ongoing operation of the business
• Counterparty default in a ﬁnancial institution
• Managing currency and interest rate differences and
movements
• Efﬁciently meeting our pension fund and tax obligations
As a global organisation Unilever’s asset values, earnings and cash
ﬂows are inﬂuenced by a wide variety of currencies, interest rates,
tax jurisdictions and differing taxes. If we are unable to manage our
exposures to any one, or a combination, of these factors, this could
adversely impact our cash ﬂow, proﬁts and/or proﬁt margins. A
material and signiﬁcant shortfall in net cash ﬂow could undermine
Unilever’s credit rating, impair investor conﬁdence and hinder our
ability to raise funds, whether through access to credit markets,
commercial paper programmes, long-term bond issuances or
otherwise. In times of ﬁnancial market volatility, we are also
potentially exposed to counterparty risks with banks.
We are exposed to market interest rate ﬂuctuations on our ﬂoating
rate debt. Increases in benchmark interest rates could increase the
interest cost of our ﬂoating rate debt and increase the cost of
future borrowings. Our inability to manage the interest cost
effectively could have an adverse impact on our cash ﬂow, proﬁts
and/or proﬁt margins.
Because of the breadth of our international operations we are
subject to risks from changes to the relative value of currencies
which can ﬂuctuate widely and could have a signiﬁcant impact on
our assets, cash ﬂow, turnover, proﬁts and/or proﬁt margins.
Further, because Unilever consolidates its ﬁnancial statements in
euros it is subject to exchange risks associated with the translation
of the underlying net assets of its foreign subsidiaries. We are also
subject to the imposition of exchange controls by individual
countries which could limit our ability to import materials paid by
foreign currency or to remit dividends to the parent company.
Certain businesses have deﬁned beneﬁt pension plans, most now
closed to new employees, which are exposed to movements in
interest rates, ﬂuctuating values of underlying investments and
increased life expectancy. Changes in any or all of these inputs
could potentially increase the cost to Unilever of funding the
schemes and therefore have an adverse impact on proﬁtability and
cash ﬂow.
In view of the current economic climate and deteriorating
government deﬁcit positions, tax legislation in the countries in
which we operate may be subject to change, which may have an
adverse impact on our proﬁts.
A key target for the Group is to manage our ﬁnancial affairs so as
to maintain our A1/A+ credit rating, which gives us continued
access to the global debt markets, even when the overall ﬁnancial
markets are under stress. We seek to manage our liquidity
requirements by maintaining access to global debt markets through
short-term and long-term debt programmes. In addition, we have
committed credit facilities to underpin our commercial paper
programme and for general corporate purposes. We regularly
update our cashﬂow forecasts and assess the range of volatility due
to pension asset values, interest rates and currencies. We
concentrate cash in parent and ﬁnance companies to ensure
maximum ﬂexibility for meeting changing business needs. We
ﬁnance our operating subsidiaries through a mixture of retained
earnings, third-party borrowings and loans from parent and group
companies. Group Treasury regularly monitors exposure to our 
third-party banks, tightening counterparty limits where appropriate.
The Group actively manages its banking exposures on a daily basis.
In order to minimise interest costs and reduce volatility, our interest
rate management policy aims to achieve an appropriate balance
between ﬁxed and ﬂoating rate interest exposures on forecast net
debt levels for the next ﬁve years. We achieve this through a
combination of issuing ﬁxed rate long-term debt and by modifying
the interest rate exposure of debt and cash positions through the
use of interest rate swaps.
In order to manage currency exposures we maintain a policy
whereby operating companies manage trading and ﬁnancial foreign
exchange exposures within prescribed limits and by the use of
forward foreign exchange contracts. Regional groups monitor
compliance with this policy. Further, operating companies borrow in
local currency except where inhibited by local regulations, lack of
local liquidity or local market conditions. For those countries that, in
the view of management, have a substantial retranslation risk we
may decide to hedge such net investment through the use of
foreign currency borrowing or forward exchange contracts.
Our pension investment policies require us to invest across a range
of equities, bonds, property, hedge funds and cash such that the
failure of any single investment will not have a material impact on
the overall value of assets. The majority of assets, including those
held in our ‘pooled’ investment vehicle, ‘Univest’, are managed by
external fund managers and are regularly monitored by pension
trustees and central pensions department.
On tax, we maintain high quality tax compliance procedures and
documentation, execute prudent tax planning strategies and make
proper provision for current and deferred taxation. Deferred tax
assets are reviewed regularly for recoverability. Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009 33
Description of risk What we are doing to manage the risk
Consumer safety and environmental sustainability
• Maintaining high social and environmental standards
• Designing and producing products that are safe for
consumers 
• Building an environmentally sustainable business
Unilever has developed a strong corporate reputation over many
years for its focus on social and environmental issues, including
promoting sustainable development and utilisation of renewable
resources. The Unilever brand logo, now displayed on all our
products and advertising, increases our external exposure. Should
we fail to meet high product safety, social, environmental and
ethical standards across all our products and in all our operations
and activities it could impact our reputation, leading to the rejection
of products by consumers, damage to our brands including growth
and proﬁtability, and diversion of management time into rebuilding
our reputation.  
We aim to grow our business while reducing our environmental
impact. The environmental measures that we regard as most
signiﬁcant are those relating to the amounts of CO
2
from energy
that we use, the water we consume as part of our production
processes and the amount of waste that we generate for disposal.
Failure to design products with a lower environmental footprint
could damage our reputation and hence long-term cash ﬂow,
turnover, proﬁts and/or proﬁt margins.  
Our Code of Business Principles and other operational and business
policies are designed to ensure that we consistently maintain high
social and environmental standards, and we have established
processes to track performance in these areas. Our strategy beneﬁts
from the insights of the Unilever Sustainable Development Group,
comprising ﬁve external specialists in corporate responsibility and
sustainability, that guide and critique the development of our
strategy.
Detailed operational policies and procedures ensure that quality and
safety are built in to the design, manufacture and distribution of all
of our products. Procedures are also in place to respond quickly to
consumer safety and quality incidents including provision to initiate
product recalls where necessary. 
Our ‘Brand Imprint’ process ensures that the direct and indirect
environmental impacts of our products and brands are assessed in a
consistent way across the value chain. Speciﬁc targets have been
set against our environmental impact ambitions, and progress is
monitored and published in the annual Sustainable Development
Report.
Operations
• Securing raw materials and key third-party services
• Maintaining safe, secure and operational production and
distribution capability
• Maintaining a competitive cost structure
• Handling major incidents and crises  
Our ability to make products is dependent on securing timely and
cost-effective supplies of production materials, some of which are
globally traded commodities. The price of commodities and other
key materials, labour, warehousing and distribution ﬂuctuates
according to global economic conditions, which can have a
signiﬁcant impact on our product costs. For example, in 2008 we
saw unprecedented increases in many of our commodity costs,
including edible oils and crude oil. If we are unable to increase
prices to compensate for higher input costs, this could reduce our
cash ﬂow, proﬁts and/or proﬁt margins. If we increase prices more
than our competitors, this could undermine our competitiveness
and hence market shares.
Further, two-thirds of the raw materials that we buy come from
agriculture. Changing weather patterns, water scarcity and
unsustainable farming practices threaten the long-term viability of
agricultural production. A reduction in agricultural production may
limit our ability to manufacture products in the long term.
We are dependent on regional and global supply chains for the
supply of raw materials and services and for the manufacture,
distribution and delivery of our products. We may be unable to
respond to adverse events occurring in any part of this supply chain
such as changes in local legal and regulatory schemes, labour
shortages and disruptions, environmental and industrial accidents,
bankruptcy of a key supplier or failure to deliver supplies on time
and in full, which could impact our ability to deliver orders to our
customers. Any of the foregoing could adversely impact our cash
ﬂow, turnover, proﬁts and/or proﬁt margins and harm our
reputation and our brands.
We have strategies and policies in place to monitor short- and 
long-term raw material demand forecasts. These are used to
determine future production requirements and facilitate the
forward-buying of traded commodities to reduce future volatility of
commodity costs. We have contingency plans to enable us to secure
alternative key material supplies at short notice, to transfer/share
production between manufacturing sites and to use substitute
materials in our product formulations and recipes.  
We have programmes of regular preventative maintenance for 
key lines and production sites. We have in place mandatory
occupational health and safety policies to ensure the well-being 
and safety of our employees, including procedures for regular self-
certiﬁcation.
We regularly undertake value improvement programmes to identify
cost/value opportunities in direct and indirect costs. We benchmark
internal product and service costs against external providers and we
regularly model our production, distribution and warehousing
capability to optimise capacity utilisation and cost.
We routinely assess potential threats to our operations that could, if
they materialise, give rise to a major incident or crisis. We review
the appropriateness of our incident response, business continuity
and disaster recovery plans taking into account external
developments. Outlook and risks (continued)
34 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Report of the Directors About Unilever
Description of risk What we are doing to manage the risk
People and talent
• Attracting, developing and retaining a skilled workforce to
build and maintain a ﬁt-for-purpose organisation
Attracting, developing and retaining talented employees is essential
to the delivery of our strategy. If we fail to determine the
appropriate mix of skills required to implement our strategy and
subsequently fail to recruit or develop the right number of
appropriately qualiﬁed people, or if there are high levels of staff
turnover, this could adversely affect our ability to operate
successfully, and hence grow our business and effectively compete
in the marketplace.
Resource Committees have been established and implemented
throughout our business. These committees have responsibility for
identifying future skills and capability needs, deﬁning career paths
and professional training programmes, benchmarking the elements
of reward structures, both short- and long-term, and identifying the
key talent and leaders of the future. Regular internal surveys are
conducted to gauge employee views and obtain feedback.
We have an integrated management development process which
includes regular performance review, underpinned by a common set
of ‘Standards of Leadership’ behaviours, skills and competency
proﬁling, mentoring, coaching and training.  
Legal and regulatory
• Complying with and anticipating new legal and regulatory
requirements
Unilever is subject to local, regional and global rules, laws and
regulations, covering such diverse areas as product safety, product
claims, trademarks, copyright, patents, employee health and safety,
the environment, corporate governance, listing and disclosure,
employment and taxes. Important regulatory bodies in respect of
our business include the European Commission and the US Food
and Drug Administration. Failure to comply with laws and
regulations could leave Unilever open to civil and/or criminal legal
challenge and, if upheld, ﬁnes or imprisonment imposed on us or
our employees. Further, our reputation could be signiﬁcantly
damaged by adverse publicity relating to such a breach of laws or
regulations and such damage could extend beyond a single
geography.  
Specialists or specialist teams at global, regional and local level are
responsible for setting policies and ensuring that all employees are
aware and comply with regulations and laws speciﬁc and relevant
to their roles. Internal competition law compliance procedures and
training are reinforced and enhanced on an ongoing basis. There is
a Legal Policy which sets out the speciﬁc activities and processes for
which employees must seek the agreement of internal legal counsel
in advance of making a commitment. 
Restructuring and change management
• Delivering major restructuring projects effectively
In recent years Unilever has launched global and regional
restructuring programmes to help simplify our organisational
structure, leverage common platforms, realise beneﬁts from our
regional and global scale and outsource business processes.
Implementation of such programmes requires signiﬁcant effort and
attention from management and employees to complete to the
agreed timescale and realise the anticipated beneﬁts. In the event
that we are unable to successfully implement these changes in a
timely manner or at all, or effectively manage third-party
relationships and/or outsourced processes, we may not be able to
realise some or all of the anticipated expense reductions. In
addition, because some of the restructuring changes involve
important functions, any disruption could harm the operations of
our business, our reputation and/or relationship with our
employees.
All signiﬁcant global and regional restructuring projects are
approved by the Unilever Executive and sponsored by a Unilever
Executive member. Regular updates are provided to the Unilever
Executive.
Sound project disciplines are used in executing restructuring
projects including: clearly articulated project objectives, scope and
deliverables; an approved and properly authorised business case
updated over time as necessary; detailed and up-to-date project
planning; resourcing by appropriately qualiﬁed personnel; an
effective communication and change management plan; and
proper closure, where learnings are captured and disseminated.
Other risks
Unilever is exposed to varying degrees of risk and uncertainty
related to other factors including physical risks, legislative,
environmental, ﬁscal, tax and regulatory developments, legal
matters, insurance and resolution of such pending matters within
current estimates, our ability to integrate acquisitions and complete
planned divestitures, terrorism and economic, political and social
conditions in the environments where we operate and new or
changed priorities of the Boards. All these risks could materially
affect the Group’s business, our turnover, operating proﬁts, net
proﬁts, net assets and liquidity. There may be risks which are
unknown to Unilever or which are currently believed to be
immaterial.  Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009 35
Risk Management Approach
The identiﬁcation and management of risk is integral to Unilever’s
strategy and to achieving its long-term goals. The Boards have
overall responsibility for the management of risk and for reviewing
the effectiveness of the system of internal control and risk
management approach. 
We believe that good risk management is fundamental to good
business management and that our success as an organisation
depends on our ability to identify and then exploit the key risks
and opportunities for the business.  Successful businesses
take/manage risks and opportunities in a considered, structured,
controlled and effective way.  Our risk management approach is
embedded in the normal course of business and is summarised in
the diagram below.
Our approach is designed to provide reasonable, but not absolute,
assurance that our assets are safeguarded, the risks facing the
business are being addressed and all information required to be
disclosed is reported to the Group’s senior management including,
where appropriate, the Chief Executive Ofﬁcer and Chief Financial
Ofﬁcer. 
Organisation
The Boards have established a clear organisational structure,
including formally delegated authorities, that responds to the
Principal Risk Factors that Unilever faces in the short, medium
and longer term.
Foundation and Principles
Unilever’s approach to doing business is framed by our Corporate
Mission & Purpose. Our Code of Business Principles sets out the
standards of behaviour that we expect all employees to adhere to.
Day-to-day responsibility for ensuring these principles are applied
throughout Unilever rests with senior management across regions,
categories, functions and operating companies. A network of
Code Ofﬁcers and Committees support the responsible
operational leaders with the activities necessary to communicate
the Code, deliver training, maintain processes and procedures to
report and respond to alleged breaches (including ‘hotlines’) and
to capture and communicate learnings.
The implementation of and compliance with our Code and
other critical areas of risk that Unilever faces, including legal and
regulatory compliance, is facilitated through a business oriented
policy network. Each policy deﬁnes mandatory standards that are
applied consistently across the organisation. These policies are
broad-ranging in their nature including such areas as employee
health and safety, product safety and quality, the environment,
ethical research, use of certain ingredients in our products, risk
management, accounting and reporting, share dealing and
corporate disclosure, pension fund management, treasury
management, taxation and transfer pricing.
Processes 
Unilever operates a wide range of processes and activities across
all its operations covering strategy setting, planning, execution and
performance management. These are formalised and documented
as procedures at a global, regional or local level as appropriate.
Increasingly, these procedures are being centralised globally and
automated into transactional and other information technology
systems.
Assurance and Re-Assurance
Senior management provides an annual Positive Assurance letter
addressed to the Chief Executive Ofﬁcer conﬁrming compliance
of their business unit with the Code of Business Principles and
applicable policies. Exceptions, if any, together with remedial
actions, form part of these written communications. A
consolidated version is presented to the Disclosure Committee
and the Board for their review.
There are also specialist ongoing compliance programs that
supplement the Positive Assurance exercise. Examples of these
include Health, Safety & Environment, Product Safety and Quality,
Information Technology, Finance and Pensions Management.
The Corporate Audit function plays a key role in providing to both
operating management and the Boards an objective view and
reassurance of the effectiveness of the systems of internal control
and risk management throughout Unilever.
Chairman, Board & Committees, CEO & Unilever Executive Committee
Corporate Purpose, Mission, Objectives and Code of Business Principles
Corporate Policies and Functional Standards
Governance of Unilever, Operating Framework, Roles & Responsibilities, Delegated Authorities
Performance
Management
Target Setting
Budgets
Reporting
Analysis
Remuneration
& incentives
Strategy
Setting
Operational
Planning
Business
Execution
Internal Assurance and 
Compliance Monitoring
Internal Independent
Re-assurance
(Corporate Audit)
External Assurance
Organisation Foundation & Principles Processes Assurance & Re-assurance Outlook and risks (continued)
36 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Report of the Directors About Unilever
Boards’ assessment of compliance with the
Risk Management frameworks
The Boards, through Committees where appropriate, regularly
review signiﬁcant risk areas and decisions that could have a
material impact on Unilever. These reviews consider the risks that
Unilever is prepared to accept or tolerate, and how to manage and
control those risks.
The Boards, through the Audit Committee, have reviewed the
assessment of risks, internal controls and disclosure controls and
procedures that operate in the Group and have considered the
effectiveness and remedial actions where applicable for the year
covered by this report and up to the date of its approval by the
Boards of Directors. Details of the activities of the Audit
Committee in relation to this can be found in the Report of the
Audit Committee on page 63.
Further statements on compliance with the speciﬁc risk
management and control requirements in the Dutch Corporate
Governance Code, the UK Combined Code and the US Securities
Exchange (1934) & Sarbanes-Oxley (2002) Acts can be found on
pages 60, 61 and 62 respectively. Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009 37
Basis of reporting
The accounting policies that are most signiﬁcant in connection
with our ﬁnancial reporting are set out on pages 42 and 43.
Foreign currency amounts for results and cash ﬂows are translated
from underlying local currencies into euros using annual average
exchange rates. Balance sheet amounts are translated at year-end
rates, except for the ordinary capital of the two parent companies.
These are translated at the rate referred to in the Equalisation
Agreement of 3
1
⁄9p = €0.16 (see Corporate governance on
page 56).
Certain discussions within this Financial Review 2009 and in the
Financial Review 2008 starting on page 47 include measures that
are not deﬁned by generally accepted accounting principles
(GAAP) such as IFRS. These include underlying sales growth (USG),
underlying volume growth (UVG), operating margin before RDIs,
ungeared free cash ﬂow (UFCF), return on invested capital (ROIC),
and net debt. Further information about these measures is given
below or on pages 44 to 46.
Underlying sales growth reﬂects the change in revenue at constant
rates of exchange (average exchange rates for the preceding year),
excluding the effects of acquisitions and disposals. We believe that
this is a measure that provides valuable additional information on
the underlying performance of the business. In particular, it
presents the organic growth of our business year on year, and is
used internally as a core measure of sales performance.
The reconciliation of USG to changes in turnover for each of our
reporting regions is given on pages 38 to 39, and for the Group in
total on page 46.
Operating margin before RDIs is a measure that allows us to
comment on trends in operating proﬁt after excluding the impact
of restructuring costs, proﬁts and losses on business disposals,
impairments and certain other one-off items (which we collectively
term RDIs).  We give further information about these on the face
of our income statement and in note 3 on page 89.
The reconciliation of operating margin before RDIs to reported
operating margin for each of our reporting regions is given on
pages 38 to 39, and for the Group in total on page 46.
USG, UVG and operating margin before RDIs are not measures
which are deﬁned under IFRS. They should not be considered in
isolation from, or as a substitute for, ﬁnancial information
presented in compliance with IFRS. These measures as reported by
us may not be comparable with similarly titled measures reported
by other companies.
Group results and earnings per share
The following discussion summarises the results of the Group
during the years 2009 and 2008. The ﬁgures quoted are in euros,
at current rates of exchange, being the average rates applying in
each period as applicable, unless otherwise stated. Information
about exchange rates between the euro, pound sterling and US
dollar is given on page 130.
In 2009 and 2008, no disposals qualiﬁed to be disclosed as
discontinued operations for purposes of reporting.
€ million € million
2009 2008
Continuing operations:
Turnover 39,823 40,523
Operating proﬁt 5,020 7,167
Operating proﬁt before RDIs 5,888 5,898
Net proﬁt 3,659 5,285
€ €
2009 2008
EPS – continuing operations 1.21 1.79
EPS – continuing operations before RDIs 1.33 1.43
Turnover in 2009 at €39,823 million was 1.7% lower than in
2008. Underlying sales growth, excluding the impact of
acquisitions, disposals and currency impacts, was 3.5%, including
underlying volume growth of 2.3%. 
Reported operating proﬁt was €5,020 million, compared with
€7,167 million in 2008, which beneﬁted signiﬁcantly from one-off
proﬁts arising on the disposal of group companies. Underlying
operating margin before the net impact of these and other RDI
items was 14.8% compared with 14.6% in 2008. Reported
operating margin for the year was 12.6% (2008: 17.7%).
The cost of ﬁnancing net borrowings was €429 million, €29
million higher than last year. The interest rate on net borrowings
was 4.9%, compared with 4.5% last year. 
There was a net charge of €164 million for pensions ﬁnancing
compared with a credit of €143 million in the previous year.
Expected returns on assets were much reduced in 2009 due to the
fall in asset values caused by the credit crunch.
The tax rate before RDIs was 26.6%, in line with last year. The
reported tax rate for the year was 26.2% compared with 26.4%
for 2008.
Net proﬁt from joint ventures and associates, together with other
income from non-current investments, contributed €489 million,
which included a gain of €327 million from the disposal of the
majority of our equity interest in JohnsonDiversey.  This compares
with €219 million last year, which included a gain of €61 million
on the disposal of our interests in plantations in Côte D’lvoire.  
Reported earnings per share of €1.21 were 33% lower than last
year which was boosted by one-off proﬁts on disposals of
businesses. Earnings per share before RDIs at €1.33 for the year
were 7% lower, principally due to the net charge for pensions
ﬁnancing, compared with a credit last year. 
Financial Review 2009 Financial Review 2009 (continued)
38 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Report of the Directors About Unilever
Asia, Africa and Central & Eastern Europe (AAC) 
€ million € million
2009 2008
Turnover 14,897 14,471
Operating proﬁt 1,927 1,701
Operating margin 12.9 % 11.8 %
Restructuring, business disposals and impairment 
charges included in operating margin (1.0)% 0.1 %
Operating margin before RDIs 13.9 % 11.7 %
Underlying sales growth at constant rates 7.7 %
Effect of acquisitions 0.5 %
Effect of disposals (0.9)%
Effect of exchange rates (4.0)%
Turnover growth at current rates 2.9 %
Operating proﬁt 2009 vs 2008
Change at current rates 13.3 %
Change at constant rates 16.1 %
Turnover at current rates of exchange grew by 2.9%, after the
impact of acquisitions, disposals and exchange rate changes as 
set out in the table above. Operating proﬁt at current rates of
exchange grew by 13.3%, after including an adverse currency
movement of 2.8%. The comments that follow reﬂect the
underlying performance of the business, removing the impact 
of currency translation and all costs related to acquisitions and
disposals, restructuring and impairment.
Despite market conditions being both challenging and volatile in
most parts of the region, 2009 was a year of strong volume-led
growth and signiﬁcant improvement in operating margin.
Underlying sales growth for the year was 7.7%, with a strong
volume component of 4.1%. Volume growth accelerated through
the year, reaching 9.4% in the fourth quarter. It was also broad-
based with strong performances in particular from Indonesia,
China, Turkey, Vietnam, Arabia and Australia.
Market shares also progressed positively through the year 
in most parts of the region, with the exception of India where
competition intensiﬁed signiﬁcantly, especially from lower-cost local
players. Here, robust actions have been taken across the portfolio to
strengthen market positions. We have continued to invest
aggressively behind key fast-growing emerging markets including
China and Russia. Business performance in China has been strong,
and in Russia, despite a particularly difﬁcult economic background
encouraging progress was made over the year.
Underlying price growth was positive for the year as a whole but
turned negative towards the end of the year in most markets. This
downward trend reﬂects the passing back to consumers of the
beneﬁts from commodity cost reductions and selective price
adjustments. Operating margin before RDIs grew by 2.2
percentage points reﬂecting the positive impact of operational
leverage and the combined impact of higher prices and lower
commodity costs. 
Other key developments in the year included a signiﬁcant and
broad-based improvement in customer service, the acquisition of
the Baltimor sauce business in Russia and the establishment of the
regional supply chain centre in Singapore. With this in place and
related IT systems development progressing well the region is
increasingly well-placed to exploit beneﬁts of speed, scale and
simpliﬁcation in many aspects of its operations.
The Americas
€ million € million
2009 2008
Turnover 12,850 13,199
Operating proﬁt 1,843 2,945
Operating margin 14.3 % 22.3 %
Restructuring, business disposals, and impairment 
charges included in operating margin (1.8)% 6.9 %
Operating margin before RDIs 16.1 % 15.4 %
Underlying sales growth at constant rates 4.2 %
Effect of acquisitions 0.7 %
Effect of disposals (6.0)%
Effect of exchange rates (1.2)%
Turnover growth at current rates (2.6)%
Operating proﬁt 2009 vs 2008
Change at current rates (37.4)%
Change at constant rates (36.6)%
Turnover at current rates of exchange fell by 2.6%, after the
impact of acquisitions, disposals and exchange rate changes as set
out in the table above. Operating proﬁt at current rates of
exchange fell by 37.4%, after including a small adverse currency
movement of 0.8%. This fall reﬂects the signiﬁcant income
received from business disposals in 2008. The comments below
reﬂect the underlying performance of the business, removing the
impact of currency translation and all costs related to acquisitions
and disposals, restructuring and impairment.
Consumer conﬁdence in the region was fragile throughout 2009,
particularly in the USA. Against this backdrop, underlying sales
growth for the year of 4.2% and volume growth of 2.5%
represent a highly competitive performance. The volume trend
showed improved momentum through the year with growth
reaching 5.5% in the fourth quarter. 
All major units in the region contributed positive volume growth,
with strong performances in particular from Brazil, Chile and the
USA. Pricing was positive for the year as a whole, but turned
negative in the fourth quarter, particularly in the US and Brazilian
markets. Partly this reﬂected the lapping of increases taken late in
2008, but it was also driven by a more intensive competitive
pricing environment, especially in key home and personal care
categories.
Operating margin before RDIs grew by 0.7 percentage points
despite the impact of overhead dilution from the major business
disposals completed in 2008. This was driven by improvements in
gross margin from mix, lower commodity costs and pricing,
allowing an increase in advertising and promotional investment in
addition to the improvement in underlying margin.
Other key developments in the year included the leveraging of the
‘Customer Insight and Innovation Centre’ in New Jersey, enabling
us to provide a range of solutions to help our customers grow
faster, and the acquisition of TIGI hair care business. There were
also signiﬁcant improvements in customer services and in-store
presence throughout the region. Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009 39
Western Europe
€ million € million
2009 2008
Turnover 12,076 12,853
Operating proﬁt 1,250 2,521
Operating margin 10.4 % 19.6 %
Restructuring, business disposals and impairment 
charges included in operating margin (4.0)% 2.8 %
Operating margin before RDIs 14.4 % 16.8 %
Underlying sales growth at constant rates (1.9)%
Effect of acquisitions 0.5 %
Effect of disposals (2.2)%
Effect of exchange rates (2.5)%
Turnover growth at current rates (6.0)%
Operating proﬁt 2009 vs 2008
Change at current rates (50.4)%
Change at constant rates (49.9)%
Turnover at current rates of exchange fell by 6.0%, after the
impact of acquisitions, disposals and exchange rate changes as 
set out in the table above. Operating proﬁt at current rates of
exchange fell by 50.4%, after including a small adverse currency
movement of 0.5%. This fall reﬂects in part the signiﬁcant income
received from business disposals in 2008. The comments below
reﬂect the underlying performance of the business, removing the
impact of currency translation and all costs related to acquisitions
and disposals, restructuring and impairment.
Consumer conﬁdence in Western Europe remained low
throughout 2009 with unemployment rising and varying degrees
of economic difﬁculty in many countries. Against this background
an underlying volume decline of 0.1% was encouraging, and
performance showed steadily improving momentum through the
year. Volume growth in the UK was particularly strong, and France
and Belgium also achieved positive volume growth for the year
overall. Conditions were most challenging in Southern Europe,
with Spain and Greece in particular experiencing difﬁcult years.
Underlying sales growth was negative 1.9%, reﬂecting a price
decline of 1.8%. This downward trend was experienced in nearly
all major countries. This again reﬂected falling commodity costs.
We also corrected prices in categories or markets where consumer
value propositions were out of line. 
Market share performance was however encouraging, with
differing performances by category but a slight increase overall in
volume share for the year as a whole and more signiﬁcant gains in
the last quarter. Operating margin before RDIs for the year was
down by 2.4 percentage points. Signiﬁcant drivers of this were a
substantial increase in marketing investment and the negative
impact of sterling weakness on the UK business. 
Other key developments in 2009 included the region beginning 
to fully leverage the power of a single IT system to improve
operational execution and drive efﬁciencies. We also announced
the acquisition of the personal care business of Sara Lee. 
Finance and liquidity
Unilever aims to be in the top third of a reference group including
20 other international consumer goods companies for Total
Shareholder Return, as explained on page 46. The Group’s
ﬁnancial strategy supports this objective and provides the ﬁnancial
ﬂexibility to meet strategic and day-to-day needs. The key
elements of the ﬁnancial strategy are:
• appropriate access to equity and debt capital;
• sufﬁcient ﬂexibility for acquisitions that we fund out of current
cash ﬂows;
• A+/A1 long-term credit rating;
• A1/P1 short-term credit rating;
• sufﬁcient resilience against economic and ﬁnancial turmoil; and
• optimal weighted average cost of capital, given the constraints
above.
Unilever aims to concentrate cash in the parent and ﬁnance
companies in order to ensure maximum ﬂexibility in meeting
changing business needs. Operating subsidiaries are ﬁnanced
through the mixture of retained earnings, third-party borrowings
and loans from parent and group ﬁnancing companies that is most
appropriate to the particular country and business concerned.
Unilever maintains access to global debt markets through an
infrastructure of short-term debt programmes (principally US
domestic and euro commercial paper programmes) and long-term
debt programmes (principally a US Shelf registration and
euromarket Debt Issuance Programme). Debt in the international
markets is, in general, issued in the name of NV, PLC, Unilever
Finance International BV or Unilever Capital Corporation. NV and
PLC will normally guarantee such debt where they are not the
issuer.
Thanks to active ﬁnancial management, Unilever’s ﬁnancing
position has not been materially affected by the recent
unprecedented economic turmoil. We have tightened our
counterparty limits and monitored closely all our exposures. During
2009 we did not suffer any material counterparty exposure loss.
We have been proactive in managing our liquidity in a manner
appropriate to the recent environment and have been able to raise
debt at competitive rates.
Unilever has committed credit facilities in place to support 
its commercial paper programmes and for general corporate
purposes. The undrawn committed credit facilities in place on
31 December 2009 were US $6,050 million, out of which bilateral
committed credit facilities totalled US $5,285 million and bilateral
money market commitments totalled US $765 million. Further
details regarding these facilities are given in note 15 on page 105.
On 12 February 2009 we issued a bond comprising two senior
notes: (a) US $750 million at 3.65% maturing in 5 years and 
(b) US $750 million at 4.80% maturing in 10 years.  On 19 March
2009 we issued senior notes of £350 million at 4.0% maturing in
December 2014.  On 29 May 2009 we redeemed ﬂoating rate
notes of €750 million.  On 11 June 2009 we issued ﬁxed rate
notes on the Eurodollar market for US $450 million at 3.125%,
maturing in 2013.  On 17 June 2009 we issued senior ﬁxed rate
notes for £400 million at 4.75%, maturing in 2017. Financial Review 2009 (continued)
40 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Report of the Directors About Unilever
The main source of liquidity continues to be cash generated from
operations. Unilever is satisﬁed that its ﬁnancing arrangements are
adequate to meet its working capital needs for the foreseeable
future.
The currency distribution of total ﬁnancial liabilities (excluding the
currency leg of currency derivatives relating to intra-group loans)
at the end of 2009 was as follows: 36% in US dollars (2008:
46%), and 28% in euros (2008: 27%), with the remainder spread
across a number of countries. 
Unilever manages interest rate and currency exposures of its net
debt position. Taking into account the various cross-currency
swaps and other derivatives, 89% of Unilever’s net debt was in 
US dollars (2008: 91%) and 44% in sterling (2008: 18%), partly
offset by ﬁnancial asset balances in euros amounting to 59% of
net debt (2008: 33%), and with the remainder spread over a large
number of other currencies.
Treasury
Unilever Treasury’s role is to ensure that appropriate ﬁnancing is
available for all value-creating investments. Additionally, Treasury
delivers ﬁnancial services to allow operating companies to manage
their ﬁnancial transactions and exposures in an efﬁcient, timely
and low-cost manner. 
Unilever Treasury operates as a service centre and is governed by
policies and plans approved by the Boards. In addition to policies,
guidelines and exposure limits, a system of authorities and
extensive independent reporting covers all major areas of activity.
Performance is monitored closely. Reviews are undertaken
periodically by the corporate internal audit function. 
The key ﬁnancial instruments used by Unilever are short- and 
long-term borrowings, cash and cash equivalents, and certain
straightforward derivative instruments, principally comprising
interest rate swaps and foreign exchange contracts. The
accounting for derivative instruments is discussed in note 15 on
page 106. The use of leveraged instruments is not permitted. 
Other relevant disclosures are given in notes 14 and 15 on pages
99 to 110, which are incorporated and repeated here by
reference.
Unilever Treasury manages a variety of market risks, including the
effects of changes in foreign exchange rates, interest rates and
liquidity. Further details of the management of these risks are
given in note 15 on page 104 to 106, which are incorporated and
repeated here by reference.
Balance sheet
€ million € million
2009 2008
Goodwill and intangible assets 17,047 16,091
Other non-current assets 9,158 8,876
Current assets 10,811 11,175
Current liabilities (11,599) (13,800)
Total assets less current liabilities 25,417 22,342
Non-current liabilities 12,881 11,970
Shareholders’ equity 12,065 9,948
Minority interest 471 424
Total capital employed 25,417 22,342
Goodwill and intangibles at 31 December 2009 were €1.0 billion
higher than in 2008, as a result of currency movements and
acquisition activity. The increase in other non-current assets is
mainly due to an increase in property, plant and equipment to
€6.6 billion compared with €6.0 billion in 2008.
Inventories were lower by €0.3 billion and trade receivables were
lower by around €0.4 billion. Cash and cash equivalents were
slightly higher at €2.6 billion.
Current liabilities were €2.2 billion lower at €11.6 billion following
short-term borrowing repayments during the year. There was a
signiﬁcant reduction of €2.6 billion in ﬁnancial liabilities due within
one year, and an increase of €0.6 billion in trade payables and
other current liabilities. Provisions were €0.3 billion lower at 
€0.4 billion.
Non-current liabilities rose by €0.9 billion compared with 2008.
Financial liabilities due after one year were €1.3 billion higher at
€7.7 billion due to bonds issued during 2009. Pension liabilities
were €0.5 billion lower than in 2008.
The overall net liability for all pension arrangements was €2.6
billion at the end of 2009, down from €3.4 billion at the end of
2008. Funded schemes showed an aggregate deﬁcit of €0.8 billion
and unfunded arrangements a liability of €1.8 billion. The
reduction in the overall balance sheet liability was largely due to
increased asset values, partly offset by lower discount rates for
liabilities as well as one-off contributions.
Total shareholders’ equity rose by €2.1 billion in the year. Net 
proﬁt added €3.4 billion, with currency, fair value and actuarial
gains and other movements adding a further €0.8 billion.
Dividends paid in the year totalled €2.1 billion.
Unilever’s contractual obligations at the end of 2009 included
capital expenditure commitments, borrowings, lease commitments
and other commitments. A summary of certain contractual
obligations at 31 December 2009 is provided in the table below.
Further details are set out in the following notes to the accounts:
note 10 on page 95, note 14 on page 100 to and note 25 on
page 121. Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009 41
Contractual obligations at 31 December 2009
€ million € million € million € million € million
Due Due in 
within Due in Due in over
Total one year 1-3 years 3-5 years 5 years
Long-term debt 8,823 1,334 2,129 2,066 3,294
Interest on ﬁnancial 
liabilities 3,143 411 614 449 1,669
Operating lease 
obligations 1,488 301 462 320 405
Purchase obligations
(a)
403 270 89 21 23
Finance leases 369 34 50 41 244
Other long-term
commitments 1,973 614 826 392 141
(a) For raw and packaging materials and ﬁnished goods.
Off-balance sheet arrangements
SIC interpretation 12 ‘Consolidation – Special Purpose Entities’ 
(SIC 12) requires that entities with which we have relationships are
considered for consolidation in the consolidated accounts based
on relative sharing of economic risks and rewards rather than
based solely on share ownership and voting rights. We periodically
review our contractual arrangements with potential special
purpose entities (SPEs) as deﬁned by SIC 12. The most recent
review has concluded that there are no signiﬁcant SPE
relationships which are not already appropriately reﬂected in the
accounts. Information concerning guarantees given by the Group
is stated in note 15 on page 105.
Cash ﬂow
€ million € million € million
2009 2008 2007
Net cash ﬂow from 
operating activities 5,774 3,871 3,876
Net cash ﬂow from/(used in) 
investing activities (1,263) 1,415 (623)
Net cash ﬂow from/(used in) 
ﬁnancing activities (4,301) (3,130) (3,009)
Net increase/(decrease) in cash
and cash equivalents 210 2,156 244
Cash and cash equivalents increased by €0.2 billion when
translated at average 2009 exchange rates. After recognising 
the changes in exchange rates, amounts in the balance sheet 
at 31 December 2009 were slightly higher at €2.6 billion. 
Net cash ﬂow from operating activities of €5.8 billion was €1.9
billion higher than in 2008, beneﬁting from active management of
working capital, net of one-off contributions to several pension
funds. Tax paid was €0.5 billion lower, mainly resulting from tax on
disposals in 2008. Under investing activities, net capital
expenditure was €0.2 billion higher than in 2008. Several group
companies were sold in 2008, generating signiﬁcant cash inﬂows.
Acquisitions included Inmarko in 2008 and TIGI and Baltimor in
2009. Unilever bought back shares during 2008 for €1.5 billion,
which largely accounts for the movement in ﬁnancing activities.
At 31 December 2009, the net debt position was €6.4 billion, a
decrease of €1.6 billion compared with 2008. 
Dividends and market capitalisation
Dividends per share
Interim dividends in respect of 2008 of €0.2600 per NV ordinary
share and £0.2055 per PLC ordinary share were declared and paid
in 2008. Final dividends in respect of 2008 of €0.5100 per NV
ordinary share and £0.4019 per PLC ordinary share and interim
dividends in respect of 2009 of €0.2700 per NV ordinary share and
£0.2422 per PLC ordinary share were declared and paid in 2009.
As agreed at the AGMs and at meetings of ordinary shareholders
in May 2009 Unilever has with effect from 1 January 2010 moved
to an arrangement of paying quarterly dividends. The ﬁrst
quarterly interim dividends of €0.1950 per NV ordinary share and
£0.1704 per PLC ordinary share were declared on 4 February
2010, to be payable in March 2010.
Unilever’s combined market capitalisation rose from €46.9 billion
at the end of 2008 to €63.4 billion at 31 December 2009.
Pensions investment strategy
The Group’s investment strategy in respect of its funded 
pension plans is implemented within the framework of the 
various statutory requirements of the territories where the 
plans are based. The Group has developed policy guidelines for
the allocation of assets to different classes with the objective of
controlling risk and maintaining the right balance between risk
and long-term returns in order to limit the cost to the Group of
the beneﬁts provided. To achieve this, investments are well
diversiﬁed, such that the failure of any single investment would
not have a material impact on the overall level of assets. The plans
invest the largest proportion of the assets in equities, which the
Group believes offer the best returns over the long term
commensurate with an acceptable level of risk. The pension funds
also have a proportion of assets invested in property, bonds, hedge
funds and cash. The majority of the assets are managed by a
number of external fund managers with a small proportion
managed in-house. Unilever has a pooled investment vehicle
(Univest) which it believes offers its pension plans around the
world a simpliﬁed externally managed investment vehicle to
implement their strategic asset allocation models currently for
equities and hedge funds. The aim is to provide a high-quality, 
well-diversiﬁed risk controlled vehicle. Financial Review 2009 (continued)
42 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Report of the Directors About Unilever
Acquisitions and disposals
2009
On 2 April 2009 we announced the completion of our purchase 
of the global TIGI professional hair product business and its
supporting advanced education academies. TIGI’s major brands
include Bed Head, Catwalk and S-Factor. Turnover of the business
worldwide in 2008 was around US $250 million. The cash
consideration of US $411.5 million was made on a cash and debt-
free basis. In addition, further limited payments related to future
growth may be made contingent upon meeting certain thresholds.
On 23 June 2009 we announced that we had increased our
holding in our business in Vietnam to 100%, following an
agreement with Vinachem who previously owned 33.3% of 
the business.
On 3 July 2009 we completed the acquisition of Baltimor Holding
ZAO’s sauces business in Russia. The acquisition includes ketchup,
mayonnaise and tomato paste business under the Baltimor, Pomo
d’Oro and Vostochniy Gourmand brands – accounting for turnover
of around €70 million in 2008 – and a production facility at
Kolpino, near St Petersburg.  
On 3 September 2009 we announced the sale of our oil palm
plantation business in the Democratic Republic of Congo to
Feronia Inc, for an undisclosed sum.
On 25 September 2009 we announced a binding offer to acquire
the personal care business of the Sara Lee Corporation for €1.275
billion in cash. The Sara Lee brands involved, including Sanex,
Radox and Duschdas, generated annual sales in excess of €750
million in the year ending June 2009.  The transaction is subject to
regulatory approval and consultation with European Works
Councils, and is expected to be completed by the third quarter 
of 2010.
On 24 November 2009 we completed the sale of our interest 
in JohnsonDiversey. The cash consideration received was 
US $390 million, which included both the originally announced
cash consideration of US $158 million plus the proceeds of the
sale of the 10.5% senior notes in JohnsonDiversey Holdings, Inc.
We retain a 4% interest in JohnsonDiversey in the form of
warrants. See also note 11 on page 97.
2008
With effect from 1 January 2008, we entered into an expanded
international partnership with PepsiCo for the marketing and
distribution of ready-to-drink tea products under the Lipton brand.
On 3 January 2008 we completed the sale of the Boursin brand to
Le Groupe Bel for €400 million. The turnover of this brand in 2007
was approximately €100 million.
On 2 April 2008 we completed the acquisition of Inmarko, 
the leading Russian ice cream company. The company had a
turnover in 2007 of approximately €115 million.
On 31 July 2008 we completed the sale of our Lawry’s and
Adolph’s branded seasoning blends and marinades business in 
the US and Canada to McCormick & Company, Incorporated for
€410 million. The combined annual turnover of the business in
2007 was approximately €100 million.
On 9 September 2008 we completed the sale of our North
American laundry business in the US, Canada and Puerto Rico 
to Vestar Capital Partners, a leading global private equity ﬁrm, for
consideration of approximately US $1.45 billion, consisting mainly
of cash along with preferred shares and warrants. These
businesses had a combined turnover in 2007 of approximately 
US $1.0 billion.
On 5 November 2008 we completed the sale of Komili, our olive
oil brand in Turkey, to Ana Gida, part of the Anadolu Group.
On 4 December 2008 we completed the sale of our edible oil
business in Côte d’Ivoire, together with interests in local oil palm
plantations Palmci and PHCI, to SIFCA, the parent company of an
Ivorian agro-industry group, and to a 50:50 joint venture between
two Singapore-based companies, Wilmar International Limited and
Olam International Limited. At the same time we acquired the
soap business of Cosmivoire, a subsidiary of SIFCA.
On 23 December 2008 we completed the disposal of our Bertolli
olive oil and vinegar business to Grupo SOS for a consideration of
€630 million. The transaction was structured as a worldwide
perpetual licence by Unilever of the Bertolli brand in respect of
olive oil and premium vinegar. The transaction included the sale of
the Italian Maya, Dante and San Giorgio olive oil and seed oil
businesses, as well as the factory at Inveruno, Italy.
Signiﬁcant events after the balance sheet date
As agreed at the AGMs and at meetings of ordinary shareholders
in May 2009 Unilever has with effect from 1 January 2010 moved
to an arrangement of paying quarterly dividends. The ﬁrst
quarterly interim dividends of €0.1950 per NV ordinary share and
£0.1704 per PLC ordinary share were declared on 4 February
2010.
Critical accounting policies
The accounts presented comply in all material respects with IFRS as
adopted by the EU and with UK and Dutch law. They are also in
accordance with IFRS as issued by the International Accounting
Standards Board. To prepare these accounts, we are required to
make estimates and assumptions, using judgement based on
available information, including historical experience. We believe
these estimates and assumptions are reasonable and we 
re-evaluate them on an ongoing basis. However, actual amounts
and results could differ. Critical accounting policies are those
which are most important to the portrayal of Unilever’s ﬁnancial
position and results of operations. Some of these policies require
difﬁcult, subjective or complex judgements from management.
The most important are set out below. Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009 43
Goodwill and intangible assets 
Impairment reviews in respect of goodwill and indeﬁnite-lived
intangible assets are performed at least annually. More regular
reviews, and impairment reviews in respect of other assets, are
performed if events indicate that this is necessary. Impairment
reviews are performed by comparing the carrying value of the
asset concerned to that asset’s recoverable amount (being the
higher of value in use and fair value less costs to sell). Value in 
use is a valuation derived from discounted future cash ﬂows. The
most important assumptions when preparing these forecast cash
ﬂows are long-term growth rates and discount rates. These are
challenged at least annually and, although these are believed to be
appropriate, changes in these assumptions could change the
outcomes of the impairment reviews.
The most signiﬁcant balances of goodwill and intangible assets
relate to the regional savoury and dressings sub-product groups. 
We have reviewed the carrying value of these cash generating
units by considering expected future cash ﬂows based on historical
experience and planned growth rates and margins for the product
groups.
Please refer also to note 9 on page 93.
Financial instruments
Financial instruments are classiﬁed according to the purpose for
which the instruments were acquired. This gives rise to the
following classes: held-to-maturity investments, loans and
receivables, ﬁnancial assets at fair value through proﬁt or loss, 
and available-for-sale ﬁnancial assets. Please refer to note 1 on
page 84 for a description of each of these categories.
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments are reported at fair value, with
changes in fair values booked through proﬁt or loss unless the
derivatives are designated and effective as hedges of future cash
ﬂows, in which case the changes are recognised directly in equity.
At the time the hedged cash ﬂow results in the recognition of an
asset or a liability, the associated gains or losses on the derivative
that had previously been recognised in equity are included in the
initial measurement of the asset or liability. For hedged items that
do not result in the recognition of an asset or liability, amounts
deferred in equity are recognised in the income statement in the
same period in which the hedged item affects net proﬁt or loss. 
Changes in fair value of net investment hedges in relation to
foreign subsidiaries are recognised directly in equity.
Pensions and similar obligations
The deﬁned beneﬁt plan surplus or deﬁcit in the balance sheet
comprises the total for each plan of the fair value of plan assets
less the present value of the deﬁned beneﬁt obligation (using a
discount rate based on high-quality corporate bonds).
Pension accounting requires certain assumptions to be made in
order to value our obligations and to determine the charges to 
be made to the income statement. These ﬁgures are particularly
sensitive to assumptions for discount rates, inﬂation rates,
mortality rates and expected long-term rates of return on assets.
Information about sensitivity to certain of these assumptions is
given in note 19 on page 113 and 114.
The following table sets out these assumptions (except for
mortality rates), as at 31 December 2009, in respect of the four
largest Unilever pension plans. Further details of assumptions
(including mortality rates) made are given in note 19 on 
pages 114 and 115.
%%%%
Nether- United
UK lands States Germany
Discount rate 5.7 5.1 5.6 5.1
Inﬂation 3.1 1.9 2.4 1.9
Expected long-term rate of return:
Equities 8.0 7.7 7.8 7.7
Bonds 4.9 4.6 5.0 4.6
Property 6.5 6.2 6.3 6.2
Others 6.7 5.3 2.0 5.5
These assumptions are set by reference to market conditions at the
valuation date. Actual experience may differ from the assumptions
made. The effects of such differences are recognised through the
statement of comprehensive income.
Demographic assumptions, such as mortality rates, are set having
regard to the latest trends in life expectancy, plan experience and
other relevant data. The assumptions are reviewed and updated as
necessary as part of the periodic actuarial valuation of the pension
plans. Mortality assumptions for the four largest plans are given in
more detail in note 19 on page 115.
Provisions
Provision is made, amongst other reasons, for legal matters,
disputed indirect taxes, employee termination costs and
restructuring where a legal or constructive obligation exists at the
balance sheet date and a reliable estimate can be made of the
likely outcome. See also note 18 on page 112.
Taxation
Full provision is made for deferred and current taxation at the rates
of tax prevailing at the year end unless future rates have been
substantively enacted, as detailed in note 17 on page 111.
Deferred tax assets are regularly reviewed for recoverability, and a
valuation allowance is established to the extent that recoverability
is not considered likely. Financial Review 2009 (continued)
44 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Report of the Directors About Unilever
Non-GAAP measures
Certain discussions and analyses set out in this Annual Report 
and Accounts include measures which are not deﬁned by generally
accepted accounting principles (GAAP) such as IFRS. We believe
this information, along with comparable GAAP measurements, is
useful to investors because it provides a basis for measuring our
operating performance, ability to retire debt and invest in new
business opportunities. Our management uses these ﬁnancial
measures, along with the most directly comparable GAAP ﬁnancial
measures, in evaluating our operating performance and value
creation. Non-GAAP ﬁnancial measures should not be considered
in isolation from, or as a substitute for, ﬁnancial information
presented in compliance with GAAP . Non-GAAP ﬁnancial
measures as reported by us may not be comparable with similarly
titled amounts reported by other companies. 
In the following sections we set out our deﬁnitions of the
following non-GAAP measures and provide reconciliations to
relevant GAAP measures:
• Ungeared free cash ﬂow;
• Return on invested capital;
• Underlying sales growth;
• Underlying volume growth;
• Operating margin before RDIs; and
• Net debt.
At the end of this section we summarise the impact on Total
Shareholder Return (TSR) which is a further key metric.
Measures of long-term value creation
Unilever’s ambition for the creation of value for shareholders is
measured by Total Shareholder Return over a rolling three-year
period compared with a peer group of 20 other international
consumer goods companies. 
We communicate the contribution of the business to this objective
through the following measures:
• The delivery, over time, of Ungeared Free Cash Flow (UFCF),
which expresses the translation of proﬁt into cash, and thus
longer-term economic value; and
• The development, over time, of Return on Invested Capital
(ROIC), which expresses the returns generated on capital
invested in the Group.
We communicate progress against these measures annually, and
management remuneration is aligned with these objectives. The
UFCF over a three-year period is incorporated as a performance
element of Unilever’s management incentive scheme.
UFCF and ROIC are non-GAAP measures. We comment on these
in detail here since they are the way in which we communicate
our ambition and monitor progress towards our longer-term value
creation goals and in order to:
• improve transparency for investors;
• assist investors in their assessment of the long-term value 
of Unilever;
• ensure that the measures are fully understood in the light of
how Unilever reviews long-term value creation for shareholders;
• properly deﬁne the metrics used and conﬁrm their calculation;
• share the metrics with all investors at the same time; and
• disclose UFCF as it is one of the drivers of management
remuneration and therefore management behaviour.
As investor measures, we believe that there are no GAAP
measures directly comparable with UFCF and ROIC. However, 
in the tables on page 45 we reconcile each as follows: UFCF to
cash ﬂow from operating activities and also to net proﬁt; ROIC to
net proﬁt.
Caution
Unilever cautions that, while UFCF and ROIC are widely used as
tools for investment analysis, they are not deﬁned terms under
IFRS or other GAAP and therefore their deﬁnitions should be
carefully reviewed and understood by investors. Investors should
be aware that their application may vary in practice and therefore
these measures may not be fully comparable between companies.
In particular:
• We recognise that the usefulness of UFCF and ROIC as
indicators of investment value is limited, as such measures 
are based on historical information;
• UFCF and ROIC measures are not intended to be a substitute
for, or superior to, GAAP measures in the ﬁnancial statements;
• The fact that ROIC is a ratio inherently limits its use, and
management uses ROIC only for the purposes discussed above.
The relevance and use of net proﬁt for the year (being the 
most relevant comparable GAAP measure) is clearly more
pervasive; and
• UFCF is not the residual cash available to pay dividends but
represents cash generated by the business and broadly available
to the providers of ﬁnance, both debt and equity. Return on invested capital (ROIC)
ROIC expresses the returns generated on capital invested in the
Group. The progression of ROIC is used by Unilever to measure
progress against our longer-term value creation goals outlined 
to investors.
ROIC is proﬁt after tax but excluding net interest on net debt and
impairment of goodwill and indeﬁnite-lived intangible assets both
net of tax, divided by average invested capital for the year.
Invested capital is the sum of property, plant and equipment and
other non-current investments, software and ﬁnite-lived intangible
assets, working capital, goodwill and indeﬁnite-lived intangible
assets at gross book value and cumulative goodwill written off
directly to reserves under an earlier accounting policy.
In 2009, ROIC was 11.2% (2008: 15.7%; 2007: 12.7%). The
reconciliation of ROIC to the GAAP measure net proﬁt is 
shown below.
ROIC is based on total business proﬁt, including proﬁt on business
disposals. The impact of such disposals in 2008 and 2007 was
€1.6 billion and €0.3 billion respectively. ROIC excluding this
impact was 11.2% in 2008 and 11.3% in 2007.  The above
includes gains and losses on the sale of non-current assets. In
2008 it included €61 million on the sale  of our interest in Palmci
and in 2009 €327 million from the sale of our interest in
JohnsonDiversey, with a net impact on the ROIC of 0.75
percentage points. The change in the pension ﬁnance charge of
€307 million accounted for a reduction of 0.85 percentage points
in ROIC.
€ million € million € million
Return on invested capital 2009 2008 2007
Net proﬁt 3,659 5,285 4,136
Add back net interest expense net of tax 317 294 314
Add back impairment charges net of tax
(a)
(3) 38 1
Proﬁt after tax, before interest and 
impairment of goodwill and 
indeﬁnite-lived intangible assets 3,973 5,617 4,451
Year-end positions for invested capital:
Property, plant and equipment and 
other non-current investments 7,263 7,024 7,276
Software and ﬁnite-lived 
intangible assets 533 540 590
Inventories 3,578 3,889 3,894
Trade and other receivables 4,001 5,002 4,965
Trade payables and other creditors 
due within one year (8,900) (8,449) (8,545)
Elements of invested capital included 
in assets and liabilities held for sale 17 45 150
Goodwill and indeﬁnite-lived 
intangible assets at gross 
book value 21,814 20,892 20,029
Total 28,306 28,943 28,359
Add back cumulative goodwill 
written off directly to reserves 6,343 6,343 6,427
Year-end invested capital 34,649 35,286 34,786
Average invested capital for the year 35,587 35,832 35,122
Return on average invested capital 11.2% 15.7% 12.7%
(a) Excluding write-downs of goodwill and indeﬁnite-lived intangible
assets taken in connection with business disposals.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009 45
Ungeared free cash ﬂow (UFCF)
UFCF expresses the generation of proﬁt by the business and how
this is translated into cash, and thus economic value. It is therefore
not used as a liquidity measure within Unilever. The movement in
UFCF is used by Unilever to measure progress against our longer-
term value creation goals as outlined to investors.
UFCF is cash ﬂow from group operating activities, less net capital
expenditure, less charges to operating proﬁt for share-based
compensation and pensions, and less tax (adjusted to reﬂect an
ungeared position and for the impact on proﬁt of material
business disposals) but before the ﬁnancing of pensions. 
In 2009, UFCF was €4.9 billion (2008: €3.2 billion; 2007: 
€3.8 billion). The reconciliation of UFCF to the GAAP measures 
of net proﬁt and cash ﬂow from operating activities is shown
below.
The tax charge used in determining UFCF can be either the income
statement tax charge or the actual cash taxes paid. Our consistently
applied deﬁnition uses the income statement tax charge in order
to eliminate the impact of volatility due to the variable timing of
payments around the year end. UFCF for 2009 based on actual
cash tax paid would have been €5.2 billion (2008: €3.6 billion;
2007: €3.6 billion).
€ million € million € million
Ungeared free cash ﬂow 2009 2008 2007
Net proﬁt 3,659 5,285 4,136
Taxation 1,257 1,844 1,137
Share of net proﬁt of joint ventures/
associates and other income from 
non-current investments (489) (219) (191)
Net ﬁnance costs 593 257 252
Depreciation, amortisation 
and impairment 1,032 1,003 943
Changes in working capital 1,701 (161) 27
Pensions charges in operating proﬁt 
less payments (1,028) (502) (910)
Movements in provisions less payments (258) (62) 145
Elimination of (proﬁts)/losses on disposals 13 (2,259) (459)
Non-cash charge for share-based 
compensation 195 125 118
Other adjustments 58 15 (10)
Cash ﬂow from operating activities 6,733 5,326 5,188
Less charge for share-based compensation (195) (125) (118)
Add back pension charges less payments 
in operating proﬁt 1,028 502 910
Less net capital expenditure (1,258) (1,099) (983)
Less tax charge adjusted to reﬂect 
an ungeared position (1,367) (1,368) (1,228)
Taxation on proﬁt (1,257) (1,844) (1,137)
Taxation on proﬁt on material 
business disposals – 581 –
Tax relief on net ﬁnance costs (110) (105) (91)
Ungeared free cash ﬂow 4,941 3,236 3,769 Financial Review 2009 (continued)
46 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Report of the Directors About Unilever
Underlying sales growth (USG)
USG reﬂects the change in revenue from continuing operations at
constant rates of exchange, excluding the effects of acquisitions
and disposals. It is a measure that provides valuable additional
information on the underlying performance of the business. 
In particular, it presents the organic growth of our business year
on year and is used internally as a core measure of sales
performance.
The reconciliation of USG to changes in the GAAP measure
turnover is as follows:
2009 2008
vs 2008 vs 2007
Underlying sales growth (%) 3.5 7.4
Effect of acquisitions (%) 0.6 0.4
Effect of disposals (%) (3.0) (1.8)
Effect of exchange rates (%) (2.7) (4.8)
Turnover growth (%) (1.7) 0.8
Underlying volume growth (UVG)
Underlying volume growth is underlying sales growth after
eliminating the impact of price changes. The relationship between
the two measures is set out below:
2009 2008
vs 2008 vs 2007
Underlying volume growth (%) 2.3 0.1
Effect of price changes (%) 1.2 7.2
Underlying sales growth (%) 3.5 7.4
Operating margin before RDIs 
In our commentary on results of operations in each of our regions
and at group level, we discuss trends in underlying operating
margins, by which we mean operating margin before the impact
of restructuring costs, business disposals and other one-off items,
which we refer to collectively as RDIs. We believe that giving this
information allows readers of our ﬁnancial statements to have a
better understanding of underlying trends. There is no recognised
GAAP measure that corresponds to this measure.
The reconciliation of underlying operating proﬁt and underlying
operating margin to the reported measures is as follows:
€ million € million
2009 2008
Operating proﬁt 5,020 7,167
Restructuring costs 897 868
Business disposals (4) (2,190)
Other one-off items (25) 53
Operating proﬁt before RDIs 5,888 5,898
Turnover 39,823 40,523
Operating margin 12.6% 17.7%
Operating margin before RDIs 14.8% 14.6%
Net debt
Net debt is deﬁned as the excess of total ﬁnancial liabilities,
excluding trade and other payables, over cash, cash equivalents
and ﬁnancial assets, excluding amounts held for sale. It is a
measure that provides valuable additional information on the
summary presentation of the Group’s net ﬁnancial liabilities and is
a measure in common use elsewhere. 
The reconciliation of net debt to the GAAP measure total ﬁnancial
liabilities is as follows:
€ million € million
2009 2008
Total ﬁnancial liabilities (9,971) (11,205)
Financial liabilities due within one year (2,279) (4,842)
Financial liabilities due after one year (7,692) (6,363)
Cash and cash equivalents as per balance sheet 2,642 2,561
Cash and cash equivalents as per 
cash ﬂow statement 2,397 2,360
Add bank overdrafts deducted therein 245 201
Financial assets 972 632
Net debt (6,357) (8,012)
Total Shareholder Return (TSR)
TSR measures the returns received by a shareholder, capturing
both the increase in share price and the value of dividend income
(assuming dividends are re-invested). Unilever’s TSR performance 
is compared with a peer group of competitors over a three-year
rolling performance period. This period is sensitive enough to
reﬂect changes but long enough to smooth out short-term
volatility. The return is expressed in US dollars, based on the
equivalent US dollar share price for NV and PLC. US dollars were
chosen to facilitate comparison with companies in Unilever’s
chosen reference group. The choice of currency affects the
absolute TSR but not the relative ranking. 
Unilever’s TSR target is to be in the top third of a reference group
including 20 other international consumer goods companies on a
three-year rolling basis. At the end of 2008 we were positioned
9th, and at the end of 2009 the ranking was 5th. In 2009, 
the following companies formed the peer group of comparator
companies:
Avon Heinz Orkla
Beiersdorf Kao Pepsico
Cadbury Kimberly-Clark Procter & Gamble
Clorox Kraft Reckitt Benckiser
Coca Cola Lion Sara Lee
Colgate L’Oreal Shiseido
Danone Nestlé
2009 2008 2005 2006 2007
7
14
21
Unilever’s position relative to the TSR reference group
The reference group, including Unilever, consists of 21 companies. Unilever’s position is
based on TSR over a three-year rolling period.  Group results and earnings per share
The following discussion summarises the results of the Group
during the years 2008 and 2007. The ﬁgures quoted are in euros,
at current rates of exchange, being the average or year-end rates
of each period as applicable, unless otherwise stated. Information
about exchange rates between the euro, pound sterling and
US dollar is given on page 130.
In 2008 and 2007, no disposals qualiﬁed to be disclosed as
discontinued operations for purposes of reporting. During 2006,
we successfully completed the sale of the majority of our
European frozen foods businesses. There was some impact on
2007 as a result of the outcome of agreements made in
connection with the sale.
€ million € million
2008 2007
Continuing operations:
Turnover 40,523 40,187
Operating proﬁt 7,167 5,245
Operating proﬁt before RDIs 5,898 5,814
Net proﬁt 5,285 4,056
Net proﬁt from discontinued operations – 80
Net proﬁt – total 5,285 4,136
€€
2008 2007
EPS – continuing operations 1.79 1.32
EPS – total operations 1.79 1.35
EPS – total operations before RDIs 1.43 1.42
Underlying sales growth of 7.4% was broad-based across
categories and in line with our markets overall. Growth was
primarily driven by increased prices, with volumes essentially ﬂat.
Underlying sales growth was offset by movements of (4.8)% in
exchange rates and a net impact of (1.4)% from disposals and
acquisitions. Including these effects, turnover was €40,523 million
for the full year, increasing by 0.8%.
During the year we continued to progress our One Unilever
transformation agenda, contributing to an underlying
improvement in operating margin. We integrated multiple
countries into single multi-country operations in many of our key
markets. We further shaped our portfolio through a number of
disposals, including our North American laundry business, Boursin,
Lawry’s and the Bertolli olive oil business, as well as through the
acquisition of Inmarko, the market leader in ice cream in Russia.
We also made further progress in the simpliﬁcation of our supply
chain network in Europe with the establishment of a regional
European supply chain company in Switzerland, and we initiated 
a move to a similar regional structure for Asia based in Singapore. 
Operating proﬁt increased by €1,922 million to €7,167 million,
including a higher level of proﬁts on business disposals. These
generated a pre-tax proﬁt of €2,190 million in 2008, compared
with €297 million in 2007. Before the impact of RDIs
(restructuring, disposals, impairments and other one-off items),
operating proﬁt grew by 1% at current exchange rates, or 6% at
constant exchange rates, and there was an underlying
improvement in operating margin of 0.1 percentage points.     
Financial Review 2008
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009 47
Costs of ﬁnancing net borrowings were 1% lower than in the
previous year. The average interest rate was lower at 4.5%,
offsetting the impact of a higher average level of net debt.  
Share of net proﬁt from joint ventures and associates and other
income from non-current investments contributed €219 million.
This included a gain of €61 million in non-current investments
resulting from the disposal of our interests in plantations in
Côte d’Ivoire.  
The effective tax rate was 26.4% and the underlying tax rate
before RDIs was 26.6% for the full year. This compared with an
underlying rate of 24.5% in 2007, which included substantial
beneﬁts from the favourable settlement of prior year tax audits.  
Net proﬁt was 28% higher than in 2007, boosted by the proﬁts
on disposals. Earnings per share were €1.79, including a net gain
of €0.36 from RDIs. This compared with €1.35 in the prior year,
which included a net loss of €0.07 from RDIs.   
Return on invested capital was 15.7%, boosted by proﬁts on
business disposals. Excluding proﬁts on disposals, ROIC was
11.2%, broadly in line with 2007 on a comparable basis.
Asia, Africa and Central & Eastern Europe (AAC) 
€ million € million
2008 2007
Turnover 14,471 13,418
Operating proﬁt 1,701 1,711
Operating margin 11.8 % 12.8 %
Restructuring, business disposals and impairment 
charges included in operating margin 0.1 % 0.9 %
Operating margin before RDIs 11.7 % 11.9 %
Underlying sales growth at constant rates 14.2 %
Effect of acquisitions 1.1 %
Effect of disposals (0.4)%
Effect of exchange rates (6.2)%
Turnover growth at current rates 7.8 %
Operating proﬁt 2008 vs 2007
Change at current rates (0.6)%
Change at constant rates 8.3 %
Turnover at current rates of exchange rose by 7.8%, after the
impact of acquisitions, disposals and exchange rate changes as
set out in the table above. Operating proﬁt at current rates of
exchange fell by 0.6%, after including an adverse currency
movement of 8.9%. The underlying performance of the business
after eliminating these exchange translation effects and the impact
of acquisitions and disposals is discussed below at constant
exchange rates.
Underlying sales growth of 14.2% in 2008 was broad-based
across countries and categories. Our top ﬁve Developing and
Emerging market countries in the region grew by around 20%,
from a combination of increased prices and higher volumes.
Towards the end of the year underlying sales growth remained
strong but volumes were ﬂat with some countries seeing signs of 
a slow-down in consumption and a reduction in inventories by
retailers. Financial Review 2008 (continued)
48 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Report of the Directors About Unilever
Throughout the year we saw continued strong growth in India and
Indonesia, both countries where we have tremendous scale. In
these countries we beneﬁted from portfolios which span higher
and lower price tiers and from extensive micro-marketing tailored
to faster-growing areas and channels. Our business in China also
grew well throughout the year. 
In April we acquired Inmarko, the leading ice cream company 
in Russia, and it performed strongly with both sales and proﬁts
ahead of plan. We reshaped our portfolio in Côte d’Ivoire with the
completion of the disposal of our palm oil business and the
acquisition of soap brands in the same country. 
On an underlying basis the operating margin was 0.2 percentage
points below the prior year reﬂecting increased investment in
building capabilities to drive growth and the sharp increases in
input costs partly offset by the beneﬁts of savings programmes. 
The Americas
€ million € million
2008 2007
Turnover 13,199 13,442
Operating proﬁt 2,945 1,971
Operating margin 22.3 % 14.7 %
Restructuring, business disposals, and impairment 
charges included in operating margin 6.9 % (0.7)%
Operating margin before RDIs 15.4 % 15.4 %
Underlying sales growth at constant rates 6.5 %
Effect of acquisitions 0.1 %
Effect of disposals (2.9)%
Effect of exchange rates (5.1)%
Turnover growth at current rates (1.8)%
%
Operating proﬁt 2008 vs 2007
Change at current rates 49.4 %
Change at constant rates 58.5 %
Turnover at current rates of exchange fell by 1.8%, after the
impact of acquisitions, disposals and exchange rate changes as 
set out in the table above. Operating proﬁt at current rates of
exchange rose by 49%, after including an adverse currency
movement of 9%. The underlying performance of the business
after eliminating these exchange translation effects and the impact
of acquisitions and disposals is discussed below at constant
exchange rates.
Underlying sales grew by 6.5% for the year, driven by pricing
actions taken to recover commodity cost increases. Trading
conditions deteriorated towards the end of the year, with a drop 
in consumer conﬁdence and purchasing power and a reduction
of trade inventories. Despite this more difﬁcult environment
consumers continued to spend on our brands and underlying 
sales growth was sustained, although volumes were lower.
Underlying sales growth in the US was 3.8% for the year. Our
sales were very much in line with the markets. While there was
some down-trading from branded products to private label brands
our own market shares held up well. Growth in Latin America was
around 12% for the year. All key countries contributed well to this
growth as we beneﬁted from our established brands and the
breadth of our portfolio. 
The move to a single head ofﬁce for the US in Englewood Cliffs
was completed and the ice cream business was integrated. We set
up a new multi-country organisation made up of the US, Canada,
and the Caribbean. The reshaping of the portfolio continued with
the disposals of Lawry’s seasonings and spices and the North
American laundry business. We signed agreements with Starbucks
to include Tazo ready-to-drink tea in the Pepsi-Lipton joint venture
and for the manufacture, marketing and distribution of Starbucks
ice cream in the US and Canada. 
The operating margin was boosted by proﬁts on disposals. On an
underlying basis the operating margin was in line with the prior
year as overheads savings fully offset a lower gross margin from
the sharp input cost increases.
Western Europe
€ million € million
2008 2007
Turnover 12,853 13,327
Operating proﬁt 2,521 1,563
Operating margin 19.6 % 11.7 %
Restructuring, business disposals and impairment 
charges included in operating margin 2.8 % (4.4)%
Operating margin before RDIs 16.8 % 16.1 %
Underlying sales growth at constant rates 1.3 %
Effect of acquisitions (0.0)%
Effect of disposals (2.1)%
Effect of exchange rates (2.8)%
Turnover growth at current rates (3.6)%
Operating proﬁt 2008 vs 2007
Change at current rates 61.3 %
Change at constant rates 63.6 %
Turnover at current rates of exchange fell by 3.6%, after the
impact of acquisitions, disposals and exchange rate changes 
as set out in the table above. Operating proﬁt at current rates 
of exchange rose by 61%, after including an adverse currency
movement of 2%. The underlying performance of the business
after eliminating these exchange translation effects and the impact
of acquisitions and disposals is discussed below at constant
exchange rates.
Underlying sales growth was 1.3% for the year with pricing
contributing 3.8% and volume lower by 2.4%. Volume
consumption in our markets was lower.
We made good progress in simplifying the business including the
integration of the separate units in each country and the
formation of ‘multi-country organisations’, enabling faster decision
making and more efﬁcient operations. The European supply chain
transformation included the announcement of restructuring plans
at twenty factories together with additional capital investments to
increase efﬁciency. The implementation of a harmonised IT system
across the region was completed. The portfolio was further
focused with the sale of the Boursin cheese and Bertolli olive oil
businesses. Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009 49
The UK and the Netherlands performed well during 2008. In
France, Spain and Germany markets were difﬁcult, with branded
products losing ground to private label. Across the region there
was strong innovation-led growth in deodorants and oral care
and price-driven growth in spreads and dressings.
The operating margin beneﬁted from proﬁts on disposals. On 
an underlying basis there was an improvement of 0.7 percentage
points. Gross margins were lower as a result of the unprecedented
increases in commodity costs, but this was more than offset by
lower overhead costs and the beneﬁts of spending efﬁciency
programmes.
Acquisitions and disposals
Details of acquisitions and disposals during 2008 are given on
page 42.
During 2007 we reached agreement with our partners in South
Africa and Israel to exchange respective shareholdings with the
result that Unilever now owns 74.25% of a newly combined
South African entity and 100% of Unilever Israel. The share swaps
were effected as at 1 October 2007 and as a result we recognised
a gain on disposal of €214 million.
On 1 January 2007 Unilever completed the restructuring of its
Portuguese businesses. The result of the reorganisation is that
Unilever now has a 55% share of the combined Portuguese entity,
called Unilever Jerónimo Martins. The combined business includes
the foods and home and personal care businesses. The remaining
45% is held by Jerónimo Martins Group. The structure of the
agreement is such that there is joint control of the newly formed
entity and therefore it is accounted for by Unilever as a joint
venture.
Other business disposals in 2007 involved the sale of local Brazilian
margarine brands. To further develop our heart health brand
margarine Becel in Brazil we established a joint venture with
Perdigão.
Also in the year we purchased minority interests in several
countries, including Greece and India. Corporate governance
50 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Report of the Directors Governance
Introduction
Unilever is subject to various corporate governance requirements
and best practice codes, the most relevant being those in the
Netherlands, the United Kingdom and the United States. It is
Unilever’s practice to comply, where practicable, with the highest
level of these codes and respond to developments appropriately.
The text that follows describes the corporate governance
arrangements operating within Unilever.
The Unilever Group
Unilever N.V. and Unilever PLC are the two parent companies of
the Unilever Group, and together with their respective group
companies, NV and PLC operate effectively as a single economic
entity. This is achieved by a series of agreements between NV and
PLC (the Foundation Agreements, see page 56), together with
special provisions in the Articles of Association of NV and PLC.
NV and PLC have the same Directors, adopt the same accounting
principles, and pay dividends to their respective shareholders on an
equalised basis. NV and PLC and their group companies constitute
a single reporting entity for the purposes of presenting
consolidated accounts. Accordingly, the accounts of the Unilever
Group are presented by both NV and PLC as their respective
consolidated accounts.
NV and PLC have agreed to co-operate in all areas and to ensure
that all group companies act accordingly. NV and PLC are holding
and service companies, and the business activity of Unilever is
carried out by their subsidiaries around the world. Shares in group
companies may ultimately be held wholly by either NV or PLC or
by the two companies in varying proportions.
NV was incorporated under the name Naamlooze Vennootschap
Margarine Unie in the Netherlands in 1927, and PLC was
incorporated under the name Lever Brothers Limited in England
and Wales in 1894. The two companies have different shareholder
constituencies and shareholders can hold shares in either or both
companies but cannot convert or exchange the shares of one
company for shares of the other. NV is listed in Amsterdam and
New York, and PLC is listed in London and New York.
Unilever PLC’s and Unilever N.V.’s respective Articles of Association
contain, among other things, the objects clause, which sets out
the scope of activities that PLC and NV are authorised to
undertake.  PLC’s and NV’s Articles of Association are drafted to
give a wide scope and provide that the primary objectives are: to
carry on business as a holding company, to manage any
companies in which it has an interest and to operate and carry
into effect the Equalisation Agreement.  It is proposed that at the
2010 AGM the objects clause be removed from PLC’s Articles of
Association so that there are no restrictions on its objects.
Our risk management approach and associated systems of internal
control are described on page 35.
The Boards 
The Boards of NV and PLC comprise the same Directors and have
the same Chairman. This guarantees unity of governance and
management by ensuring that all matters are considered by the
Boards as a single intellect, reaching the same conclusions on the
same set of facts, save where speciﬁc local factors apply.
The Boards are one-tier boards, comprising Executive Directors and,
in a majority, Non-Executive Directors. The Boards have ultimate
responsibility for the management, general affairs, direction and
performance of our business as a whole. The responsibility of the
Directors is collective, taking into account their respective roles as
Executive Directors and Non-Executive Directors, with the Executive
Directors having additional responsibilities for the operation of the
business as determined by the Boards and the Chief Executive
Ofﬁcer.
Our Directors have set out a number of areas of responsibility which
are reserved to the Boards and other areas for which matters are
delegated to the Chief Executive Ofﬁcer. The Boards have also
established committees whose actions are regularly reported to and
monitored by the Boards, and these are described on pages 53 and
54. Further details of how our Boards effectively operate as one
board, govern themselves and delegate their authorities, are set out
in the document entitled ‘The Governance of Unilever’, which can be
found at www.unilever.com/investorrelations/corp_governance
Appointment of Directors 
Directors are normally appointed by shareholders at the AGMs. 
All existing Directors, unless they are retiring, submit themselves 
for re-election every year, and shareholders can remove any of them
by a simple majority vote. A list of our current Directors and the
periods during which they have served as such is set out on pages
22 and 23.
In order to seek to ensure that NV and PLC have the same Directors,
the Articles of Association of NV and PLC contain provisions which
are designed to ensure that both NV and PLC shareholders are
presented with the same candidates for election as Directors. This is
achieved through a nomination procedure operated by the Boards of
NV and PLC through Unilever’s Nomination Committee.
Based on the evaluation of the Boards, its Committees and its
individual members, the Nomination Committee recommends to the
Boards a list of candidates for nomination at the AGMs of both NV
and PLC. In addition, shareholders are able to nominate Directors,
and to do so they must put a resolution to both meetings in line
with local requirements. However, in order to ensure that the Boards
remain identical, anyone being elected as a Director of NV must also
be elected as a Director of PLC and vice versa. Therefore, if an
individual fails to be elected to both companies then he or she will
be unable to take their place on the Boards.
The provisions in the Articles of Association for appointing Directors
cannot be changed without the permission, in the case of NV, of the
holders of the special ordinary shares numbered 1-2,400 inclusive
and, in the case of PLC, of the holders of PLC's deferred stock. The
NV special ordinary shares may only be transferred to one or more
other holders of such shares. The joint holders of both the NV special
ordinary shares and the PLC deferred stock are N.V. Elma and United
Holdings Limited, which are joint subsidiaries of NV and PLC. The
Boards of N.V. Elma and United Holdings Limited comprise the
members of the Nomination Committee, which comprises
Non-Executive Directors of Unilever only.
Board meetings 
Our Boards meet at least seven times a year to consider important
corporate events and actions, such as: Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009 51
• approval of corporate strategy;
• approval of the corporate Annual Plan;
• oversight of the performance of the business;
• review of risks and controls;
• authorisation of major transactions;
• preparation of the Annual Report and Accounts;
• declaration of dividends;
• agreement of quarterly results announcements;
• convening of shareholders’ meetings;
• nominations for Board appointments;
• approval of Board remuneration policy; and
• review of the functioning of the Boards and their Committees.
The following table shows the attendance of Directors at Board
meetings for the year ended 31 December 2009. If Directors are
unable to attend a meeting, they have the opportunity before the
meeting to discuss with the Chairman any agenda items or Board
papers:
Name Attendance
Michael Treschow 8 of 8
Paul Polman* 8 of 8
James Lawrence* 8 of 8
Leon Brittan 7 of 8
Wim Dik 8 of 8
Louise Fresco (from 14 May 2009) 5 of 5
Ann Fudge (from 14 May 2009) 5 of 5
Charles Golden 7 of 8
Byron Grote 7 of 8
Narayana Murthy 8 of 8
Hixonia Nyasulu 7 of 8
David Simon (to 14 May 2009) 3 of 3
Kees Storm 8 of 8
Jeroen van der Veer 7 of 8
Paul Walsh (from 14 May 2009) 5 of 5
Attendance is expressed as number of meetings attended out of
number eligible to attend.
*Executive Director
Board meetings are normally held either in London or Rotterdam,
with one or two off-site Board meetings a year. The Chairman is
assisted by the Group Secretary, who ensures that the Boards are
supplied with all the information necessary for their deliberations.
The Chairman and the Group Secretary involve the Senior
Independent Director (see page 52) in the arrangements for 
Board meetings.
Board induction and training 
Upon election, Directors receive a comprehensive Directors’
Information Pack and are briefed thoroughly on their
responsibilities and the business. Ongoing training is provided for
Directors by way of site visits, presentations, circulated updates,
teach-ins at Board or Board committee meetings on, among other
things, Unilever’s business, environmental, social and corporate
governance, regulatory developments and investor relations
matters. In 2009, a Board meeting was held at the ofﬁces of
Unilever in China which included customer visits to local retail
outlets.
Board evaluation 
The evaluation process of our Boards consists of an internal
exercise performed annually with an independent third-party
evaluation carried out when the Boards consider appropriate. The
last time an independent third-party evaluation was carried out
was in 2006. Since 2007 the Chairman, in conjunction with the
Senior Independent Director, has conducted the internal
evaluation process which includes an extensive questionnaire for
all Board members to complete. In addition, each year the
Chairman conducts a process of evaluating the performance of
each individual Board member, including an interview with each.
The evaluation of the performance of the Chairman was led by the
Senior Independent Director. Committees of the Boards evaluate
themselves under supervision of their respective chairmen taking
into account the views of respective committee members and the
Boards. The results of the various evaluations were discussed by
the Boards and changes were made in respect of Board practices
and processes where considered necessary. The Boards agreed to
an enhanced Board training programme in 2010 that would
concentrate on further instruction and familiarisation with Unilever
and its businesses. In addition, formal training for Non-Executive
Directors will also be enhanced in 2010, and all Directors will be
encouraged to attend events of importance in Unilever’s calendar
such as Investor Relations seminars.
Board support 
The Group Secretary is available to advise all Directors and ensure
that Board procedures are complied with. The Boards have the
power to appoint and remove the Group Secretary. 
The Group Secretary is Steve Williams, who replaced Sven
Dumoulin in that role in October 2009.
A procedure is in place to enable Directors, if they so wish, to seek
independent professional advice at Unilever’s expense.
Board changes 
The current Directors, with their biographies, are shown on pages
22 and 23.
Following his appointment as a Director in October 2008, Paul
Polman succeeded Patrick Cescau as Chief Executive Ofﬁcer in
January 2009.
Leon Brittan, Wim Dik, Charles Golden, Byron Grote, Narayana
Murthy, Hixonia Nyasulu, Kees Storm, Michael Treschow and
Jeroen van der Veer were re-elected as Non-Executive Directors of
NV and PLC at the 2009 AGMs. In addition, Louise Fresco, Ann
Fudge and Paul Walsh were appointed as Non-Executive Directors.
At the 2009 AGMs, David Simon retired as a Non-Executive
Director. At the conclusion of the 2009 AGMs, Jeroen van 
der Veer was appointed to the roles of Senior Independent
Director, Vice-Chairman of NV and PLC, and Chairman of our
Remuneration and Nomination Committees that David Simon 
held up to the date of his retirement.
Jim Lawrence resigned as an Executive Director on 31 December
2009, and following a smooth transition Jean-Marc Huët was
appointed Chief Financial Ofﬁcer in February 2010 and will be
proposed for election as an Executive Director at the 2010 AGMs.
At the 2010 AGMs all current Executive and Non-Executive
Directors will be nominated for re-election, with the exception of
Leon Brittan, Wim Dik and Narayana Murthy who will be retiring
as Non-Executive Directors at the end of our 2010 AGMs. Leon
Brittan will also step down as Chairman of the Corporate
Responsibility and Reputation Committee. Corporate governance (continued)
52 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Report of the Directors Governance
Chairman and Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
Unilever has a separate independent Non-Executive Chairman and
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer. There is a clear division of responsibilities
between their roles. The Chairman is primarily responsible for
leadership of the Boards, ensuring their effectiveness and setting
their agendas.
The Chief Executive Ofﬁcer has been entrusted, within the
parameters set out in the Articles of Association of NV and PLC
and in the document entitled ‘The Governance of Unilever’, with
all the Boards’ powers, authorities and discretions in relation to the
operational management of Unilever. The Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
has the authority to determine which duties regarding the
operational management of the companies and their business
enterprises will be carried out under his responsibility by one or
more Executive Directors or by one or more other persons. This
provides a basis for the Unilever Executive team (UEx) that is
chaired by and reports to the Chief Executive Ofﬁcer. For UEx
members’ biographies see page 24. For our business structure,
please refer to ‘Our business’ on pages 26 and 27.
Executive Directors 
During 2009, Unilever had two Executive Directors, the Chief
Executive Ofﬁcer and Chief Financial Ofﬁcer, who were also
members of the UEx, and are full-time employees of Unilever.
Jim Lawrence resigned as an Executive Director on 31 December
2009, and following a smooth transition Jean-Marc Huët was
appointed Chief Financial Ofﬁcer in February 2010 and will be
proposed for election as an Executive Director at the 2010 AGMs.
The Executive Directors submit themselves for re-election at the
AGMs each year, and the Nomination Committee carefully
considers each nomination for reappointment. Executive Directors
stop holding executive ofﬁce on ceasing to be Directors. The
Remuneration Committee takes the view that the entitlement of
the Executive Directors to the security of twelve months’ notice of
termination of employment is in line with both the practice of
many comparable companies and the entitlement of other senior
executives within Unilever. It is our policy to set the level of
severance payments for Executive Directors at no more than 
one year’s salary, unless the Boards, at the proposal of the
Remuneration Committee, ﬁnd this manifestly unreasonable 
given the circumstances or unless dictated by applicable law.
We do not grant our Executive Directors any personal loans or
guarantees.
There are no family relationships between any of our Executive
Directors, other key management personnel or Non-Executive
Directors, and none of our Executive Directors or other key
management personnel are elected or appointed under any
arrangement or understanding, either with any major shareholder,
customer, supplier or otherwise.
Outside appointments
Unilever recognises the beneﬁt to the individual and to the Group
of involvement by Unilever executives acting as directors of other
companies outside the Unilever Group, broadening their
experience and knowledge. The number of outside directorships
of listed companies is generally limited to one per individual, and
in the case of publicly listed companies approval is required from
the Chairman. Outside directorships must not involve an excessive
commitment or conﬂict of interest, and Unilever Executives must
at all times ensure that their time commitment to Unilever takes
precedence over any outside directorship. Fees paid in connection
with an outside directorship may be retained by the individual,
reﬂecting that any outside directorship is for the responsibility of
the individual and that Unilever takes no responsibility in this
regard.
Non-Executive Directors 
The Non-Executive Directors share responsibility for the execution
of the Boards’ duties, taking into account their speciﬁc
responsibilities, which are essentially supervisory. In particular, they
comprise the principal external presence in the governance of
Unilever, and provide a strong independent element. See pages 22
and 23 for their biographies.
Role and Responsibility 
The key elements of the role and responsibilities of our Non-
Executive Directors are: 
• supervision of and advice to the Chief Executive Ofﬁcer; 
• developing strategy with the Chief Executive Ofﬁcer; 
• scrutiny of performance of the business and Chief Executive
Ofﬁcer; 
• oversight of risks and controls; 
• reporting of performance; 
• remuneration of and succession planning for Executive
Directors; and 
• governance and compliance.
Our Non-Executive Directors are chosen for their broad and
relevant experience and international outlook, as well as for their
independence. They form the Audit Committee, the Nomination
Committee, the Remuneration Committee and the Corporate
Responsibility and Reputation Committee, and the roles and
membership of these Board committees are described on pages 53
and 54. The proﬁle set by the Boards for the Non-Executive
Directors and the schedule used for orderly succession planning
can be found on our website at
www.unilever.com/investorrelations/corp_governance
Meetings 
The Non-Executive Directors meet as a group, without the
Executive Directors present, under the leadership of the Chairman
to consider speciﬁc agenda items and wide-ranging business
matters of relevance to the Group. In 2009 they met six times. In
addition, the Non-Executive Directors (including the Chairman)
usually meet before each Board meeting with the Chief Executive
Ofﬁcer, the Chief Financial Ofﬁcer, other senior executives and the
Group Secretary.
Senior Independent Director 
Our Non-Executive Directors have appointed Jeroen van der Veer
as Senior Independent Director following David Simon’s retirement
at the 2009 AGMs. He acts as their spokesman, and is consulted
by the Chairman on the agenda and arrangements for Board
meetings. He is also, in appropriate cases, a point of contact for
shareholders and other stakeholders.
Tenure 
Our Non-Executive Directors submit themselves for re-election
each year at the AGMs.  Although the Dutch Corporate
Governance Code sets the suggested length of tenure at a Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009 53
maximum of twelve years for Non-Executive Directors, they
normally serve for a maximum of nine years in accordance with
the UK Combined Code on Corporate Governance. Their
nomination for re-election is subject to continued good
performance which is evaluated by the Boards, based on 
the recommendations of the Nomination Committee. The
Nomination Committee carefully considers each nomination 
for reappointment.
Remuneration 
The remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors is determined 
by the Boards, within the overall limit set by the shareholders at
the AGMs in 2007, and it is reported on page 73. We do not
grant our Non-Executive Directors any personal loans or
guarantees nor are they entitled to any severance payments.
Details of the engagement of our Non-Executive Directors can 
be seen on the Unilever website at
www.unilever.com/investorrelations/corp_governance
Other appointments
Non-Executive Directors may serve on boards of other companies,
provided such service does not involve a conﬂict of interest or
restrict their ability to discharge their duties to Unilever.
Independence 
Taking into account the role of Non-Executive Directors, which is
essentially supervisory, and the fact that they make up the key
Committees of the Boards, it is important that our Non-Executive
Directors can be considered to be independent. 
Our deﬁnition of independence for Directors is set out in the
document entitled ‘The Governance of Unilever’, and is derived
from the applicable deﬁnitions in use in the Netherlands, the UK
and the US. Our Boards consider all of our Non-Executive Directors
to be independent of Unilever following the conclusion of a
thorough review of all relevant relationships of the Non-Executive
Directors, and their related or connected persons.
The UK Combined Code on Corporate Governance suggests that
length of tenure is a factor to consider when determining
independence of a non-executive director. The UK Combined
Code also provides that a non-executive director who serves more
than six years should be subject to particularly rigorous review, 
and if more than nine years should be subject to annual re-
election. It is our standard practice for all Directors to seek re-
election annually. Leon Brittan has served on the Boards since
2000.  He continues to demonstrate the essential characteristics 
of independence expected by the Boards as was conﬁrmed
through our annual performance review. His length of service, 
and his resulting experience and knowledge of Unilever, are
viewed by the Boards as being especially valuable, particularly in
the light of recent changes to the Boards. Leon Brittan will retire 
as a Non-Executive Director at the conclusion of the 2010 AGMs.
A number of relationships, such as non-executive directorships,
exist between various of our Non-Executive Directors and
companies that provide banking, insurance or ﬁnancial advisory
services to Unilever. Our Boards considered in each case the
number of other companies that also provide or could readily
provide such services to Unilever, the signiﬁcance to those
companies of the services they provide to Unilever, the roles of 
the Non-Executive Directors within those companies and the
signiﬁcance of those roles to our Non-Executive Directors.
The Boards concluded that none of these relationships impact the
independence of the Non-Executive Directors concerned, and have
satisﬁed themselves that the services provided by Paton Tupper
Associates (Pty) Limited and Barloworld Limited, of which Hixonia
Nyasulu is a director and shareholder and director respectively, to
Unilever South Africa is not material. The Boards further concluded
that Narayana Murthy’s directorship of HSBC Holdings plc, one of
Unilever’s preferred banks, is not impacted by the banking
relationship and therefore that he should be considered
independent. The Boards have also satisﬁed themselves that 
Leon Brittan’s position at UBS Investment Bank and UBS Securities
Company Limited does not involve him in any way in its broking
relationship with Unilever.
None of our Non-Executive Directors are elected or appointed
under any arrangement or understanding, either with any major
shareholder, customer, supplier or otherwise.
Committees
Board Committees 
The Boards have established the committees described below, all
formally set up by Board resolutions with carefully deﬁned remits.
They are made up solely of Non-Executive Directors and report
regularly to the Boards. For all committees, if Directors are unable
to attend a meeting, they are given the opportunity before the
meeting to discuss with the Chairman of the committee any
agenda items or committee papers. All committees are provided
with sufﬁcient resources to undertake their duties, and the terms
of reference for each committee can be found on our website at
www.unilever.com/investorrelations/corp_governance
Audit Committee 
The Audit Committee is comprised only of independent Non-
Executive Directors with a minimum requirement of three such
members. It is chaired by Kees Storm, and its other members are
Wim Dik, Charles Golden and Byron Grote. Wim Dik will step
down as a member of the Committee following his retirement as a
Director at the 2010 AGMs in May. The Boards have satisﬁed
themselves that all the current members of the Audit Committee
are competent in ﬁnancial matters and have recent and relevant
experience and that, for the purposes of the US Sarbanes-Oxley
Act of 2002, Kees Storm is the Audit Committee’s ﬁnancial expert.
The Audit Committee’s meetings are attended, by invitation, by
the Chief Financial Ofﬁcer, the Chief Legal Ofﬁcer, the Group
Controller, the Chief Auditor and our external auditors.
The Audit Committee assists the Boards in fulﬁlling their oversight
responsibilities in respect of: the integrity of Unilever’s ﬁnancial
statements; risk management and internal control arrangements;
compliance with legal and regulatory requirements; the
performance, qualiﬁcations and independence of the external
auditors; and the performance of the internal audit function. The
Audit Committee is supplied with all information necessary for the
performance of its duties by the Chief Auditor, Chief Financial
Ofﬁcer and Group Controller, and both the Chief Auditor and the
external auditors have direct access to the Audit Committee
separately from management. The Audit Committee is directly
responsible, subject to local laws regarding shareholder approval,
for the nomination, compensation and oversight of the external
auditors. The Audit Committee is compliant with the rules
regarding audit committees applicable in the Netherlands, the UK
and the US. Corporate governance (continued)
54 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Report of the Directors Governance
The following table shows the attendance of Directors at Audit
Committee meetings for the year ended 31 December 2009:
Name Attendance
Kees Storm (Chairman) 5 of 5
Wim Dik 5 of 5
Charles Golden 5 of 5
Byron Grote 5 of 5
Attendance is expressed as number of meetings attended out of
number eligible to attend.
See page 63 for the Report of the Audit Committee to the
shareholders.
Nomination Committee 
The Nomination Committee recommends to the Boards candidates
for the positions of Director. It also has responsibilities for
succession planning and oversight of corporate governance
matters. It is supplied with information by the Group Secretary.
The Nomination Committee comprises two independent Non-
Executive Directors and the Chairman. The Nomination Committee
is chaired by Jeroen van der Veer, following the retirement of
David Simon as Chairman of the Committee at the 2009 AGMs.
Its other members are Michael Treschow and Paul Walsh, who
joined the Committee following the 2009 AGMs. 
The following table shows the attendance of Directors at
Nomination Committee meetings for the year ended
31 December 2009:
Name Attendance
Jeroen van der Veer (Chairman from 14 May 2009) 6 of 6
David Simon (Chairman to 14 May 2009) 3 of 3
Michael Treschow 6 of 6
Paul Walsh (from 14 May 2009) 2 of 3
Attendance is expressed as number of meetings attended out of
number eligible to attend.
See page 66 for the Report of the Nomination Committee 
to the shareholders.
Remuneration Committee 
The Remuneration Committee reviews Directors’ remuneration
and is responsible for the executive share-based incentive plans. It
determines, within the parameters set by our shareholders, speciﬁc
remuneration arrangements for each of the Executive Directors,
the remuneration scales and arrangements for Non-Executive
Directors and the policy for the remuneration of the tier of
management directly below the Boards. The Committee is advised
by the Group Secretary on matters of corporate governance.
The Remuneration Committee comprises a minimum of three
independent Non-Executive Directors. The Remuneration
Committee is chaired by Jeroen van der Veer, following the
retirement of David Simon as Chairman of the Committee at the
2009 AGMs. Its other members are Ann Fudge, Michael Treschow
and Paul Walsh. Ann Fudge and Paul Walsh joined the Committee
following the 2009 AGMs.
The following table shows the attendance of Directors at
Remuneration Committee meetings for the year ended 
31 December 2009:
Name Attendance
Jeroen van der Veer (Chairman from 14 May 2009) 7 of 7
David Simon (Chairman to 14 May 2009) 3 of 3
Ann Fudge (from 14 May 2009) 4 of 4
Michael Treschow 7 of 7
Paul Walsh (from 14 May 2009) 2 of 4
Attendance is expressed as number of meetings attended out of
number eligible to attend.
The Directors’ Remuneration Report is on pages 67 to 73.
Corporate Responsibility and Reputation Committee 
The Corporate Responsibility and Reputation Committee has
responsibility for the oversight of Unilever’s conduct with regard to
its corporate and societal obligations and its reputation as a
responsible corporate citizen. It comprises a minimum of three
Non-Executive Directors. It is chaired by Leon Brittan and its other
members are Louise Fresco, who joined the Committee following
the 2009 AGMs, Narayana Murthy and Hixonia Nyasulu. Both
Leon Brittan and Narayana Murthy will step down as members of
the Committee following their retirement as Directors at the 2010
AGMs in May.
The following table shows the attendance of Directors at
Corporate Responsibility and Reputation Committee meetings for
the year ended 31 December 2009:
Name Attendance
Leon Brittan (Chairman) 4 of 4
Louise Fresco (from 14 May 2009) 2 of 2
Narayana Murthy 3 of 4
Hixonia Nyasulu 4 of 4
Attendance is expressed as number of meetings attended out of
number eligible to attend.
See pages 64 and 65 for the Report of the Corporate
Responsibility and Reputation Committee to shareholders.
Routine business committees 
Committees are also set up to conduct routine business as and
when they are necessary. They comprise any two of the Directors
and certain senior executives and ofﬁcers, and they administer or
implement certain matters previously agreed by our Boards or the
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer. The Group Secretary is responsible for the
operation of these committees.
Disclosure Committee 
The Boards have set up a Disclosure Committee which is
responsible for helping the Boards ensure that ﬁnancial and other
information required to be disclosed publicly is disclosed in a
timely manner and that the information that is disclosed is
complete and accurate in all material aspects. The Committee
comprises the Group Controller (Chairman), the Group Secretary
and Chief Legal Ofﬁcer, the Group Treasurer and the NV Corporate
Legal Counsel. Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009 55
Director matters
Conﬂicts of interest 
We attach special importance to avoiding conﬂicts of interest
between NV and PLC and their Directors. The Boards are
responsible for ensuring that there are rules in place to avoid
conﬂicts of interest by Board members. Conﬂicts of interest are
understood not to include transactions and other activities
between companies in the Unilever Group.
Authorisation of situational conﬂicts are given by the Boards to the
relevant Director in accordance with the Articles of Association of
PLC. The authorisation includes conditions relating to keeping
Unilever information conﬁdential and to the exclusion from
receiving and discussing relevant information at Board meetings.
Situational conﬂicts are reviewed annually by the Boards as part of
the determination of Director independence, and in between
those reviews Directors have a duty to inform the Boards of any
relevant changes to the situation. A Director may not vote on, or
be counted in a quorum in relation to, any resolution of the
Boards in respect of any contract in which he or she has a material
interest. The procedures that Unilever have put in place to deal
with conﬂicts of interest have operated effectively.
Various formal matters 
The borrowing powers of NV Directors on behalf of NV are not
limited by the Articles of Association of NV. PLC Directors have 
the power to borrow on behalf of PLC up to three times the
adjusted capital and reserves of PLC, as deﬁned in its Articles of
Association, without the approval of shareholders (any exceptions
requiring an ordinary resolution).
The Articles of Association of NV and PLC do not require Directors
of NV or Directors of PLC to hold shares in NV or PLC. However,
the remuneration arrangements applicable to our Executive
Directors require them to build and retain a personal shareholding
in Unilever.
Indemniﬁcation 
Directors’ indemniﬁcation, including the terms thereof, is provided
for in Article 19 of NV’s Articles of Association. The power to
indemnify Directors is provided for in PLC’s Articles of Association
and deeds of indemnity have been issued to all PLC Directors.
Appropriate qualifying third-party Directors’ and Ofﬁcers’ liability
insurance was in place for all Unilever Directors throughout the
ﬁnancial year and is currently in force.
In addition, PLC provides indemnities (including, where applicable,
a qualifying pension scheme indemnity provision) to the Directors
from time to time of two subsidiaries that act as trustee
respectively of two of Unilever's UK pension schemes. Appropriate
trustee liability insurance is also in place.
Shareholder matters
Relations with shareholders and other investors 
We believe it is important both to explain our business
developments and ﬁnancial results to investors and to 
understand their objectives.
The Chief Financial Ofﬁcer has lead responsibility for investor
relations, with the active involvement of the Chief Executive
Ofﬁcer. They are supported by our Investor Relations department
which organises presentations for analysts and investors, and such
presentations are generally made available on our website.
Brieﬁngs on quarterly results are given via teleconference and are
accessible by telephone or via our website. For further information
visit our website at www.unilever.com/investorrelations
The Boards are briefed on reactions to quarterly results
announcements. They, or the relevant Board Committee, are
briefed on any issues raised by shareholders that are relevant to
their responsibilities. Our shareholders can, and do, raise issues
directly with the Chairman and, if appropriate, the Senior
Independent Director. 
Both NV and PLC communicate with their respective shareholders
at the AGMs as well as responding to their questions and enquiries
during the course of the year. We take the views of our
shareholders into account and, in accordance with all applicable
legislation and regulations, may consult them in an appropriate
way before putting proposals to our AGMs.
General Meetings of shareholders 
The business to be conducted at the AGMs of NV and PLC is set
out in the separate Notices of AGM for NV and PLC. It typically
includes approval/consideration of the Annual Report and Accounts
and remuneration framework, appointment of Directors,
appointment of external auditors, and authorisation for the Boards
to allot and repurchase shares, and to restrict pre-emptive rights of
shareholders.
At the AGMs, a review is given of the progress of the business 
over the last year and there is a discussion of current issues.
Shareholders are encouraged to attend the meetings and ask
questions, and the question-and-answer sessions form an
important part of the meetings.
General Meetings of shareholders of NV and PLC are held at times
and places decided by our Boards. NV meetings are normally held
in Rotterdam and PLC meetings are normally held in London, on
consecutive days. The notices calling the meetings normally go out
more than 30 days prior to the meetings.
We welcome our external auditors to the AGMs and they are
entitled to address the meetings.
Electronic communication
We are committed to efforts to continue more effective ways of
communication with our shareholders around the AGMs. Electronic
communication is already an important and established medium
for shareholders, providing ready access to shareholder information
and reports, and for voting purposes. 
Shareholders of PLC can choose to receive electronic notiﬁcation
that the Annual Report and Accounts and Notice of AGMs have
been published on our website, instead of receiving printed copies,
and can also electronically appoint a proxy to vote on their behalf
at the AGM.
Registration for electronic communication by shareholders of PLC
can be made at www.unilever.com/shareholderservices The UK
Companies Act 2006 contains provisions facilitating
communications between companies and their shareholders  Corporate governance (continued)
56 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Report of the Directors Governance
electronically and PLC has established such a facility after
consulting with its shareholders to offer them the opportunity to
review their method of receiving shareholder communications in
the future.
Voting rights
Shareholders that hold NV shares on the record date are entitled
to attend and vote at NV General Meetings. The record date is set
by the Board at a date not more than 30 days before the meeting,
and shares are not blocked between the record date and the date
of the meeting. NV shareholders can cast one vote for each €0.16
nominal capital that they hold. This means that they can cast one
vote for each NV ordinary share, or NV New York Registry Share.
Shareholders can vote in person or by proxy. Similar arrangements
apply to holders of depositary receipts issued for NV shares and
the holders of NV preference shares (see page 59).
PLC shareholders can cast one vote for each 3
1
⁄ 9p nominal capital
that they hold. This means shareholders can cast one vote for each
PLC ordinary share, or PLC American Depositary Receipt of shares.
Proxy appointments need to be with our Registrars 48 hours
before the meeting, and the shareholding at this time will
determine both the right to vote and the ability to attend the
meeting.
More information on the exercise of voting rights can be found in
NV’s and PLC’s Articles of Association and in the respective Notices
of Meetings which can be found on our website at
www.unilever.com/investorrelations/corp_governance
Holders of NV New York Registry Shares or PLC American
Depositary Receipts of shares will receive a proxy form enabling
them to authorise and instruct a notary public or Citibank, N.A.
respectively to vote on their behalf at the General Meeting of NV
or PLC.
N.V. Elma and United Holdings Limited (the holders of NV’s special
shares), other group companies of NV which hold ordinary or
preference shares, and United Holdings Limited, which owns half
of PLC’s deferred stock, are not permitted to vote at General
Meetings.
Voting on each of the resolutions contained in the Notice of AGMs
is conducted by poll. The ﬁnal vote is published at the meetings
and the outcome of the votes, including the proxy votes, is put on
Unilever’s website.
Shareholder proposed resolutions 
Shareholders of NV may propose resolutions if they individually or
together hold 1% of NV’s issued capital in the form of shares or
depositary receipts for shares, or if they individually or together
hold shares or depositary receipts worth or representing the
market value in shares as set in respect thereto by or pursuant to
the law (currently €50 million). They must submit these requests at
least 60 days before the date of the General Meeting, and the
request will be honoured unless, in the opinion of the Boards, it is
against a substantive interest of the Company. Shareholders who
together represent at least 10% of the issued capital of NV can
also requisition Extraordinary General Meetings to deal with
speciﬁc resolutions.
Shareholders who together hold shares representing at least 
5% of the total voting rights of PLC, or 100 shareholders who
hold on average £100 each in nominal value of PLC capital, can
require PLC to propose a resolution at a general meeting. PLC
shareholders holding in aggregate 5% of the issued PLC ordinary
shares are able to convene a general meeting of PLC.
Required majorities 
Resolutions are usually adopted at NV and PLC shareholder
meetings by an absolute majority of votes cast, unless there are
other requirements under the applicable laws or NV’s or PLC’s
Articles of Association. For example, there are special requirements
for resolutions relating to the alteration of the Articles of
Association, the liquidation of NV or PLC and the alteration of the
Equalisation Agreement (see below). 
A proposal to alter the Articles of Association of NV can only be
made by the Board of NV. A proposal to alter the Articles of
Association of PLC can be made either by the Board of PLC or by
shareholders in the manner permitted under the UK Companies
Act 2006. Unless expressly speciﬁed to the contrary in the Articles
of Association of PLC, PLC’s Articles of Association may be
amended by a special resolution. Proposals to alter the provisions
in the Articles of Association of NV and PLC respectively relating to
the unity of management require the prior approval of meetings of
the holders of the NV special shares and the PLC deferred stock.
The Articles of Association of both NV and PLC can be found on
our website at
www.unilever.com/investorrelations/corp_governance
Right to hold shares 
Unilever’s constitutional documents place no limitations on the
right to hold NV and PLC shares. There are no limitations on the
right to hold or exercise voting rights on the ordinary shares of 
NV and PLC imposed by foreign law.
Foundation Agreements
Equalisation Agreement 
The Equalisation Agreement makes the economic position of the
shareholders of NV and PLC, as far as possible, the same as if they
held shares in a single company. The Equalisation Agreement
regulates the mutual rights of the shareholders of NV and PLC.
Under the Equalisation Agreement, NV and PLC must adopt the
same ﬁnancial periods and accounting policies.
Each NV ordinary share represents the same underlying economic
interest in the Unilever Group as each PLC ordinary share.
We pay ordinary dividends for NV and PLC on the same day. 
NV and PLC allocate funds for the dividend from their parts of 
the current proﬁts and free reserves. We pay the same amount 
on each NV share as on one PLC share calculated at the relevant
exchange rate. As agreed at the 2009 AGMs and separate
meetings of ordinary shareholders, the Equalisation Agreement
was in part amended to allow Unilever to move to quarterly
dividend payments with effect from 1 January 2010. Interim
dividends are determined in euros and converted into equivalent  Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009 57
Under Article 2 and 3 of the NV and PLC Articles of Association
respectively, each company is required to carry out the Equalisation
Agreement with the other. Both documents state that the
Agreement cannot be changed or terminated without the
approval of shareholders. For NV, the General Meeting can decide
to alter or terminate the Equalisation Agreement at the proposal
of the Board. The necessary approval of the General Meeting is
then that at least one half of the total issued ordinary capital must
be represented at an ordinary shareholders’ meeting, where the
majority must vote in favour; and (if they would be disadvantaged
or the agreement is to be terminated) at least two-thirds of the
total issued preference share capital must be represented at a
preference shareholders’ meeting, where at least three-quarters of
them must vote in favour. For PLC, the necessary approval must be
given by the holders of a majority of all issued shares voting at a
General Meeting and the holders of the ordinary shares, by a
simple majority voting at a General Meeting where the majority of
the ordinary shares in issue are represented.
The Equalisation Agreement can be found on our website at
www.unilever.com/investorrelations/corp_governance
The Deed of Mutual Covenants 
The Deed of Mutual Covenants provides that NV and PLC and
their respective subsidiary companies shall co-operate in every way
for the purpose of maintaining a common operating policy. They
shall exchange all relevant information about their respective
businesses – the intention being to create and maintain a common
operating platform for the Unilever Group throughout the world.
The Deed illustrates some of the information which makes up this
common platform, such as the mutual exchange and free use of
know-how, patents, trade marks and all other commercially
valuable information.
The Deed contains provisions which allow the Directors of NV and
PLC to take any actions to ensure that the dividend-generating
capacity of each of NV and PLC is aligned with the economic
interests of their respective shareholders. These provisions also
allow assets to be transferred between NV and PLC and their
associated companies (as deﬁned in the Deed) to ensure that
assets are allocated in the most efﬁcient manner. These
arrangements are designed to create a balance between the 
two parent companies and the funds generated by them, for 
the beneﬁt of their respective sets of shareholders.
The Agreement for Mutual Guarantees of Borrowing
Under the Agreement for Mutual Guarantees of Borrowing
between NV and PLC, each company will, if asked by the other,
guarantee the borrowings of the other. The two companies also
jointly guarantee the borrowings of their subsidiaries. These
arrangements are used, as a matter of ﬁnancial policy, for certain
signiﬁcant public borrowings. They enable lenders to rely on our
combined ﬁnancial strength.
sterling and US dollar amounts using exchange rates issued by the
European Central Bank two days before the announcement of the
dividend. The new method for determining dividend payments
was used for the 2009 interim dividends of NV and PLC. This
amendment has enabled us to change to a simpler and more
transparent dividend practice for the Unilever Group, resulting in
more frequent payments to shareholders, and better alignment
with the cash ﬂow generation of the business.
The Equalisation Agreement provides that if one company had
losses, or was unable to pay its preference dividends, the loss or
shortfall would be made up out of:
• the current proﬁts of the other company (after it has paid its
own preference shareholders); 
• then its own free reserves; and 
• then the free reserves of the other company.
If either company could not pay its ordinary dividends, we would
follow the same procedure, except that the current proﬁts of the
other company would only be used after it had paid its own
ordinary shareholders and if the Directors thought this more
appropriate than, for example, using its own free reserves. 
So far, NV and PLC have always been able to pay their own
dividends, so we have never had to follow this procedure. If 
we did, the payment from one company to the other would 
be subject to any United Kingdom and Dutch tax and exchange
control laws applicable at that time. 
Under the Equalisation Agreement, the two companies are
permitted to pay different dividends in the event of an
unreasonable increase or decrease in dividend pay-out of one 
of the companies due to currency ﬂuctuations and in the event
that either the UK or Dutch government imposes restrictions on
dividend pay-outs. In either of these rare cases, NV and PLC could
pay different amounts of dividend if the Boards thought it
appropriate.
If both companies were to go into liquidation, NV and PLC would
each use any funds legally available to pay the prior claims of their
own preference shareholders. Then they would use any surplus to
pay each other’s preference shareholders, if necessary. After these
claims had been met, they would pay out any equalisation or
dividend reserve to their own shareholders before pooling the
remaining surplus. This would be distributed to the ordinary
shareholders of both companies on an equal basis. If one company
were to go into liquidation, we would apply the same principles as
if both had gone into liquidation simultaneously. 
In principle, issues of bonus shares and rights offerings can only 
be made in ordinary shares. Again, we would ensure that
shareholders of NV and PLC received shares in equal proportions.
The subscription price for one new NV share would have to be the
same, at the prevailing exchange rate, as the price for one new
PLC share. Neither company can issue or reduce capital without
the consent of the other.
The Articles of Association of NV establish that any payment under
the Equalisation Agreement will be credited or debited to the
income statement for the ﬁnancial year in question. Corporate governance (continued)
58 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Report of the Directors Governance
Share capital matters 
Share capital 
NV’s issued share capital on 31 December 2009 was made up of:
• €274,356,432 split into 1,714,727,700 ordinary shares of 
€0.16 each; 
• €1,028,568 split into 2,400 ordinary shares numbered 
1 to 2,400, known as special shares; and 
• €113,599,014 split into several classes (4%, 6% and 7%) of
cumulative preference shares (‘ﬁnancing preference shares’).
The voting rights attached to NV's outstanding shares are split as
follows:
Total number of votes % of issued capital
1,714,727,700 ordinary shares 1,714,727,700
(a)
70.53
2,400 special shares 6,428,550 0.26
750,000 4% cumulative 
preference shares 200,906,250 8.26
161,060 6% cumulative 
preference shares 431,409,276 17.75
29,000 7% cumulative 
preference shares 77,678,312 3.20
(a) Of which 141,560,629 shares were held in treasury and
28,618,015 shares were held in connection with share-based
payments as at 31 December 2009. These shares are not voted on.
NV may issue shares not yet issued and grant rights to subscribe
for shares only pursuant to a resolution of the General Meeting of
Shareholders or of another corporate body designated for such
purpose by a resolution of the General Meeting. At the AGM held
on 14 May 2009 the Board was designated, in accordance with
Articles 96 and 96a of Book 2 of the Netherlands Civil Code, as
the corporate body authorised until 14 November 2010 to resolve
on the issue of – or on the granting of rights to subscribe for –
shares not yet issued and to restrict or exclude the statutory pre-
emption rights that accrue to shareholders upon issue of shares,
on the understanding that this authority is limited to 10% of the
issued share capital of the Company, plus an additional 10% of
the issued share capital of the Company in connection with or on
the occasion of mergers and acquisitions.
At the 2009 AGM the Board of NV was authorised, in accordance
with Article 98 of Book 2 of the Netherlands Civil Code, until 
14 November 2010 to cause the Company to buy back its own
shares and depositary receipts thereof, with a maximum of 10%
of issued share capital, either through purchase on a stock
exchange or otherwise, at a price, excluding expenses, not lower
than the nominal value of the shares and not higher than 10%
above the average of the closing price of the shares on Eurolist by
Euronext Amsterdam for the ﬁve business days before the day on
which the purchase is made. 
The above mentioned authorities are renewed annually.
PLC’s issued share capital on 31 December 2009 was made up of:
• £40,760,420 split into 1,310,156,361 ordinary shares of
3
1
⁄ 9p each; and 
• £100,000 of deferred stock.
The total number of voting rights attached to PLC’s outstanding
shares are shown hereunder:
Total number of votes % of issued capital
1,310,156,361 ordinary shares 1,310,156,361
(a)
99.76
£100,000 deferred stock 3,214,285 0.24
(a) Of which 26,696,994 shares were held by PLC in treasury and
23,850,000 shares were held by NV group companies or by share
trusts as at 31 December 2009. These shares are not voted on.
The Board of PLC may, under sections 551 and 561 of the UK
Companies Act 2006 and subject to the passing of the appropriate
resolutions at a meeting of shareholders, issue shares within the
limits prescribed within the resolutions. At the 2009 AGM the
Directors were authorised to issue new shares pursuant to section
80 of the UK Companies Act 1985, limited to a maximum of
£13,290,000 nominal value, which at the time represented
approximately 33% of the Company’s issued Ordinary share
capital and pursuant to section 89 of that Act, to disapply pre-
emption rights up to approximately 5% of PLC’s issued ordinary
share capital. These authorities are renewed annually and from
2010 will be sought under the applicable sections of the UK
Companies Act 2006.
At the 2009 AGM the Board of PLC was authorised in accordance
with its Articles of Association to make market purchases of its
ordinary shares representing just under 10% of the Company’s
issued capital and within the limits prescribed within the resolution
until the earlier of the 6-month anniversary after the 2009 year
end or the conclusion of the 2010 AGM. A similar authority will be
sought at the 2010 AGM of PLC pursuant to the UK Companies
Act 2006.
Margarine Union (1930) Limited: Conversion Rights
The ﬁrst Viscount Leverhulme was the founder of the company
which became PLC. When he died in 1925, he left in his will a
large number of PLC shares in various trusts. 
When the will trusts were varied in 1983, the interests of the
beneﬁciaries of his will were also preserved. Four classes of special
shares were created in Margarine Union (1930) Limited, a
subsidiary of PLC. One of these classes can be converted at the
end of the year 2038 into 70,875,000 PLC ordinary shares of 
3
1
⁄ 9p each. This currently represents 5.4% of PLC’s issued ordinary
capital. These convertible shares replicate the rights which the
descendants of the ﬁrst Viscount would have had under his will.
This class of the special shares only has a right to dividends in
speciﬁed circumstances, and no dividends have yet been paid. 
PLC guarantees the dividend and conversion rights of the special
shares.
Foundation Unilever NV Trust Ofﬁce
As at 1 March 2010, around 76% of NV’s ordinary shares and
around 34% of NV’s 7% cumulative preference shares were held
by the Foundation Unilever NV Trust Ofﬁce (Stichting
Administratiekantoor Unilever N.V.), a trust ofﬁce with a board
independent of Unilever. As part of its corporate objects, the
Foundation issues depositary receipts in exchange for these shares. Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009 59
These depositary receipts are listed on Euronext Amsterdam, as 
are the NV ordinary and 7% preference shares themselves.
Holders of depositary receipts can under all circumstances
exchange their depositary receipts for the underlying shares 
(and vice versa).
Holders of depositary receipts are entitled to dividends and all
economic beneﬁts on the underlying shares held by the
Foundation.
The members of the board at the foundation are Mr J H Schraven
(chairman), Mr P P de Koning, Prof Emeritus Dr L Koopmans and
Mr A A Olijslager.
The Foundation reports periodically on its activities.
Voting by holders of depositary receipts 
Although the depositary receipts themselves do not formally have
voting rights, holders of depositary receipts are in practice equated
with shareholders. They can attend all General Meetings of NV,
either personally or by proxy, and also have the right to speak. The
holders of the depositary receipts will then automatically, without
limitation and under all circumstances, receive a voting proxy on
behalf of the Foundation to vote on the underlying shares.
The Foundation is obliged to follow the voting instructions of
holders of depositary receipts. The same applies to the voting
instructions of holders of depositary receipts not attending a
shareholders’ meeting and who issue voting instructions to the
Foundation via the Dutch Shareholders’ Communication Channel.
Voting by the Foundation Unilever NV Trust Ofﬁce 
Shares for which the Foundation has not granted voting proxies 
or for which it has not received voting instructions are voted on by
the Foundation in such a way as it deems to be in the interests of
the holders of the depositary receipts. This voting policy is laid
down in the Conditions of Administration that apply to the
depositary receipts.
Speciﬁc provisions apply in the event that a meeting of the holders
of NV 7% cumulative preference shares is convened.
If a change to shareholders’ rights is proposed, the Foundation will
let shareholders know if it intends to vote, at least 14 days in
advance of the meeting if possible.
Hitherto the majority of votes cast by ordinary shareholders at NV
meetings have been cast by the Foundation. Unilever and the
Foundation have a policy of actively encouraging holders of
depositary receipts to exercise their voting rights in NV meetings.
Unilever considers the arrangements of the Foundation
appropriate and in the interest of NV and its shareholders given
the size of the voting rights attached to the ﬁnancing preference
shares and the relatively low attendance of holders of ordinary
shares at the General Meetings of NV.
Foundation Unilever NV Trust Ofﬁce’s shareholding 
Foundation NV Trust Ofﬁce’s shareholding ﬂuctuates daily – its
holdings on 1 March 2010 were: 
• NV ordinary shares of €0.16: 1,295,616,498 (75.56%); and
• NV 7% cumulative preference shares of €428.57: 9,776 (33.71%).
Further information on the Foundation, including its Articles of
Association and Conditions of Administration, can be found on its
website at www.administratiekantoor-unilever.nl
Requirements and compliance – general 
Unilever is subject to corporate governance requirements in the
Netherlands, the UK and as a foreign private issuer in the US. In
this section we report on our compliance with the corporate
governance regulations and best practice codes applicable in the
Netherlands and the UK and we also describe compliance with
corporate governance standards in the US.
Under the European Takeover Directive, the UK Companies Act
2006 and rules of the US Securities and Exchange Commission, we
are required to provide information on contracts and other
arrangements essential or material to the business of the Group.
We believe we do not have any such contracts or arrangements.
Our governance arrangements are designed and structured to
promote and further the interests of our companies and their
shareholders. The Boards however reserve the right, in cases
where they decide such to be in the interests of the companies
or our shareholders, to depart from that which is set out in the
present and previous sections in relation to our corporate
governance. Any such changes will be reported in future Annual
Reports and Accounts and, when necessary, through changes to
the relevant documents published on our website. As appropriate,
proposals for change will be put to our shareholders for approval.
Further information can be found on our website and in the
document entitled ‘The Governance of Unilever’. This describes
the terms of reference of our Board Committees, including their
full responsibilities. It will be kept up to date with changes in our
internal constitutional arrangements that our Boards may make
from time to time and it is available on our website at 
www.unilever.com/Investorrelations/corp_governance
Requirements – European Union
Following implementation of the European Takeover Directive,
certain information is required to be disclosed in relation to control
and share structures and interests of NV and PLC. Such disclosures,
which are not covered elsewhere in this Annual Report, include
the following:
• there are no requirements to obtain the approval of NV or PLC,
or of other holders of securities in NV or PLC, for a transfer of
such securities;
• there are no arrangements by which, with NV or PLC's
cooperation, ﬁnancial rights carried by securities are held by a
person other than the holder of such securities; Corporate governance (continued)
60 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Report of the Directors Governance
• NV and PLC are not aware of any agreements between holders
of securities which may result in restrictions on the transfer of
such securities or on voting rights;
• neither NV nor PLC are parties to any signiﬁcant agreements
which include provisions that take effect, alter or terminate such
agreement upon a change of control following a takeover bid;
• NV and PLC do not have any agreements with any Director or
employee that would provide compensation for loss of ofﬁce or
employment resulting from a takeover except that most of
Unilever's share schemes contain provisions which operate in
the event of a takeover of Unilever, which provisions may for
instance cause options or awards granted to employees under
such schemes to vest after a takeover or be exchanged into new
awards for shares in another entity; and
• the Trustees of the PLC employee share trusts may vote or
abstain in any way they think ﬁt and in doing so may take 
into account both ﬁnancial and non-ﬁnancial interests of the
beneﬁciaries of the employee share trusts or their dependants.
Historically the Trustees tend not to exercise this right.
Requirements – the Netherlands 
NV is required to state in its Annual Report and Accounts whether
it complies or will comply with the Principles and best practice
provisions (‘bpp’) of the Dutch Corporate Governance Code (the
Dutch Code) and, if it does not comply, to explain the reasons for
this. As will be clear from the description of our governance
arrangements, NV complies with almost all of the principles and
best practice provisions of the Dutch Code, a copy of which is
available at www.commissiecorporategovernance.nl The text that
follows sets out certain statements that the Dutch Code invites 
us to make to our shareholders that are not included elsewhere 
in this Annual Report and Accounts as well as areas of non-
compliance.
On 10 December 2008 the Dutch Corporate Governance Code
Compliance Committee published a revised version of the Code,
which is applicable to our annual reporting over 2009 and we
therefore report compliance under the revised Code in our 
Annual Report and Accounts 2009.
Unilever places a great deal of importance on corporate
responsibility and sustainability as is evidenced by our vision
to double the size of the company while reducing our
environmental impact. With respect to our performance measures
Unilever is keen to ensure focus on key ﬁnancial performance
measures which we believe to be the drivers of shareholder value
creation and relative total shareholder return. Unilever therefore
believes that the interests of the business and shareholders are
best served by linking the long-term share plans to the measures
as described in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on page 67
and has not included a non-ﬁnancial performance indicator
(Principle II.2 and bpp II.2.3).
Board and Committee structures 
NV has a one-tier board, consisting of both Executive and, in a
majority, Non-Executive Directors. We achieve compliance of our
board arrangements with the Dutch Code, which is for the most
part based on the customary two-tier structure in the Netherlands,
by, as far as is possible and practicable, applying the provisions of
the Dutch Code relating to members of a management board to
our Executive Directors and by applying the provisions relating to
members of a supervisory board to our Non-Executive Directors.
Management tasks not capable of delegation are performed by
the Board as a whole.
Risk management and control 
Our principal risks are described on pages 30 to 34. Our approach
to risk management and systems of internal control are described
on page 35.
As a result of the review of the Audit Committee (as described 
in their report on page 63) the Board believes that as regards
ﬁnancial reporting risks the risk management and control systems
provide reasonable assurance that the ﬁnancial statements do 
not contain any errors of material importance and the risk
management and control systems have worked properly in 
2009 (bpp ll.1.5).
The aforesaid statements are not statements in accordance with
the requirements of Section 404 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley 
Act of 2002.
Retention period of shares 
The Dutch Code recommends that shares granted to Executive
Directors must be retained for a period of at least ﬁve years 
(bpp II.2.5). Our shareholder-approved remuneration policy
requires Executive Directors to build and retain a personal
shareholding in Unilever. The Board believes that this is in line with
the spirit of the Dutch Code.
Severance pay 
It is our policy to set the level of severance payments for Directors
at no more than one year’s salary, unless the Board, at the
proposal of the Remuneration Committee, ﬁnds this manifestly
unreasonable given circumstances or unless otherwise dictated by
applicable law (bpp II.2.8).
Conﬂicts of interest 
In the event of a potential conﬂict of interest, the provisions of the
Dutch Code (Principles II.3 and III.6) are applied. Conﬂicts of
interest are not understood to include transactions and other
activities between companies in the Unilever Group.
Financing preference shares 
NV issued 4%, 6% and 7% cumulative preference shares between
1927 and 1970. Their voting rights are based on their nominal
value, as prescribed by Dutch law. The Dutch Code recommends
that the voting rights on such shares should, in any event when
they are newly issued, be based on their economic value rather
than on their nominal value (bpp IV.1.2). NV agrees with this
principle but cannot unilaterally reduce voting rights of its
outstanding preference shares.
Anti-takeover constructions and control over the company 
NV conﬁrms that it has no anti-takeover constructions, in the
sense of constructions that are intended solely, or primarily, to
block future hostile public offers for its shares (bpp IV.3.11). Nor
does NV have any constructions whose speciﬁc purpose is to
prevent a bidder, after acquiring 75% of the capital, from
appointing or dismissing members of the Board and subsequently
altering the Articles of Association. The acquisition through a
public offer of a majority of the shares in a company does not
under Dutch law preclude in all circumstances the continued right
of the Board of the company to exercise its powers. Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009 61
Provision of information 
We consider it important to comply with all applicable statutory
regulations on the equal treatment of shareholders and provision
of information and communication with shareholders and other
parties (Principles IV.2 and IV.3).
Meetings of analysts and presentations to investors 
We have extensive procedures for handling relations with and
communicating with shareholders, investors, analysts and the
media (also see page 55). The important presentations and
meetings are conducted as far as practicable in accordance with
the Dutch Code (bpp IV.3.1). Due to their large number and
overlap in information, however, some of the less important ones
are not announced in advance, made accessible to everyone or put
on our website.
Corporate Governance Statement
NV is required to make a statement concerning corporate
governance as referred to in article 2a of the decree on additional
requirements for annual reports (Vaststellingsbesluit nadere
voorschriften inhoud jaarverslag) with effect from 1 January 2010
(the ‘Decree’). The information required to be included in this
corporate governance statement as described in articles 3, 3a and
3b of the Decree can be found in the following sections of this
document:
• the information concerning compliance with the Dutch
Corporate Governance Code, as required by article 3 of the
Decree, can be found under ‘Corporate Governance’ within the
section ‘Requirements – the Netherlands’ in this document;
• the information concerning Unilever’s risk management and
control frameworks relating to the ﬁnancial reporting process,
as required by article 3a(a) of the Decree, can be found under
‘Outlook and risks’ on pages 30 to 36 and within the relevant
sections under ‘Corporate Governance’ in this document;
• the information regarding the functioning of Unilever’s General
Meeting of shareholders, and the authority and rights of
Unilever’s shareholders, as required by article 3a(b) of the
Decree, can be found within the relevant sections under
‘Corporate Governance’ in this document;
• the information regarding the composition and functioning of
Unilever’s Boards and its Committees, as required by article 3a(c)
of the Decree, can be found within the relevant sections under
‘Corporate Governance’ in this document; and
• the information concerning the inclusion of the information
required by the decree Article 10 European Takeover Directive,
as required by article 3b of the Decree, can be found within the
relevant sections under ‘Corporate Governance’ and within the
section ‘Shareholder information, Analysis of shareholding’ in
this document.
Requirements – the United Kingdom 
PLC is required, as a company that is incorporated in the UK and
listed on the London Stock Exchange, to state how it has applied
the main principles and how far it has complied with the
provisions set out in Section 1 of the 2008 UK Combined Code on
Corporate Governance (‘the Combined Code’), a copy of which is
available at www.frc.org.uk
In the preceding pages we have described how we have applied
the main principles and the provisions in the Combined Code. In
2009, PLC complied with the Combined Code except in the
following areas:
• Between February 2008 and the 2009 AGMs in May the
Remuneration Committee’s membership consisted of two
independent Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman.
Subsequent to the appointments of Ann Fudge and Paul Walsh
to that Committee, following their Board appointments at the
2009 AGMs, the Committee has complied with the membership
principle of the Code applicable to a remuneration committee.
• Due to the requirement for Unilever to hold two AGMs for its
respective companies on consecutive days, it may not always be
possible for all Directors, and possibly the Chairmen of the
Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees, to be
present at both meetings. The Chairman ensures that a majority
of Directors attend both meetings and that at least one member
of each Committee attends each AGM.
Risk management and control 
Our principal risks are described on pages 30 to 34. Our approach
to risk management and systems of internal control are described
on page 35.
This approach to risk management and systems of internal control
is in line with the recommendations in the report on ‘Internal
Control – Revised Guidance for Directors on the UK Combined
Code’ (’The Turnbull Guidance’).
The effectiveness of the system of internal control, including
processes in relation to ﬁnancial reporting and preparation of
consolidated accounts, has been reviewed by the Audit
Committee.
The Committee reviewed Unilever's overall approach to risk
management and control, and its processes, outcomes and
disclosure, including speciﬁcally:
• review of level of disclosure in quarterly ﬁnancial results
announcements;
• review of accounting principles and judgements with respect to
ﬁnancial statements, including the annual impairment review of
goodwill and intangibles;
• review of the analysis supporting the going concern judgement
of the 2009 Annual Report and Accounts;
• review of Unilever’s Risk Management framework undertaken
by management, agreeing to a streamlined process for
assessment of corporate and operational risks;
• annual report on the Chief Executive Ofﬁcer’s Top Corporate
Risks and a quarterly review of business risks and safeguards;
• annual Positive Assurance report from the Chief Executive
Ofﬁcer on compliance with corporate policies and operating
controls;
• review the application of the requirements under Section 404 of
the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 with respect to internal
controls over ﬁnancial reporting; and
• annual review of anti-fraud arrangements.
It is Unilever’s practice to bring acquired companies within the
Group’s governance procedures as soon as is practicable and in
any event by the end of the ﬁrst full year of operation. Corporate governance (continued)
62 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Report of the Directors Governance
Requirements – the United States 
Both NV and PLC are listed on the New York Stock Exchange and
must therefore comply with such of the requirements of US
legislation, such as the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, regulations
enacted under US securities laws and the Listing Standards of the
New York Stock Exchange as are applicable to foreign private
issuers. In some cases the requirements are mandatory and in
other cases the obligation is to ’comply or explain’.
We have complied in all material respects with the requirements
concerning corporate governance that were in force during 2009.
Attention is drawn in particular to the remit of the Audit
Committee on page 53 and the Report of the Audit Committee on
page 63.
Actions already taken to ensure compliance in all material respects
that are not speciﬁcally disclosed elsewhere or otherwise clear
from reading this document include: 
• the issuance of a Code of Ethics for senior ﬁnancial ofﬁcers; 
• the issuance of instructions restricting the employment of
former employees of the audit ﬁrm; and 
• the establishment of a policy on reporting requirements under
SEC rules relating to standards of professional conduct for 
US attorneys.
In each of these cases, existing practices were revised and/or
documented in such a way as to conform to the new
requirements.
The Code of Ethics applies to the senior executive, ﬁnancial and
accounting ofﬁcers and comprises the standards prescribed by the
SEC, and a copy has been posted on our website at
www.unilever.com/investorrelations/corp_governance The Code of
Ethics comprises an extract of the relevant provisions of Unilever’s
Code of Business Principles and the more detailed rules of conduct
that implement it. The only amendment to these pre-existing
provisions and rules that was made in preparing the Code
of Ethics was made at the request of the Audit Committee and
consisted of a strengthening of the explicit requirement to keep
proper accounting records. No waiver from any provision of the
Code of Ethics was granted to any of the persons falling within
the scope of the SEC requirements in 2009.
We are required by US securities laws and the Listing Standards of
the New York Stock Exchange to have an Audit Committee that
satisﬁes Rule 10A-3 under the Exchange Act and the Listing
Standards of the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE). We are
compliant with these requirements. We are also required to
disclose any signiﬁcant ways in which our corporate governance
practices differ from those typically followed by US companies
listed on the NYSE. In addition to the information we have given
to you in this document about our corporate governance
arrangements, further details are provided in the document
entitled ‘The Governance of Unilever’, which is on our website at
www.unilever.com/investorrelations/corp_governance
We are compliant with the Listing Standards of the New York
Stock Exchange applicable to foreign private issuers. Our corporate
governance practices do not signiﬁcantly differ from those
required of US companies listed on the New York Stock Exchange.
We also conﬁrm that our shareholders have the opportunity to
vote on certain equity compensation plans.
Risk management and control 
Our principal risks are described on pages 30 to 34. Our approach
to risk management and systems of internal control are described
on page 35.
Based on an evaluation by the Boards, the Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
and the Chief Financial Ofﬁcer concluded that the design and
operation of the Group’s disclosure controls and procedures,
including those deﬁned in United States Securities Exchange Act of
1934 - Rule 13a – 15(e), as at 31 December 2009 were effective,
and that subsequently until the date of the approval of the Annual
Report by the Board, there have been no signiﬁcant changes in the
Group’s internal controls, or in other factors that could
signiﬁcantly affect those controls.
Unilever is required by Section 404 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act
of 2002 to report on the effectiveness of internal control over
ﬁnancial reporting. This requirement will be reported on separately
and will form part of Unilever’s Annual Report on Form 20-F. Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009 63
Report of the Audit Committee
The role and terms of reference of the Audit Committee is to assist
the Unilever Boards in fulﬁlling their oversight responsibilities
regarding the integrity of Unilever’s ﬁnancial statements, risk
management and internal control, compliance with legal and
regulatory requirements, the external auditors’ performance,
qualiﬁcations and independence, and the performance of the
internal audit function. During the year ended 31 December 2009,
principal activities were as follows:
Financial statements
The Committee considered reports from the Chief Financial Ofﬁcer
on the quarterly and annual ﬁnancial statements, including other
ﬁnancial statements and disclosures prior to their publication and
issues reviewed by the Disclosure Committee. They also reviewed
the Annual Report and Accounts and Annual Report on Form 20-F
prior to publication.
Audit of the Annual Accounts
PricewaterhouseCoopers, Unilever’s external auditors, reported in
depth to the Committee on the scope and outcome of the annual
audit, including their audit of internal control over ﬁnancial
reporting as required by Section 404 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act
of 2002. Their reports included accounting matters, governance
and control, and accounting developments.
The Committee held independent meetings with the external
auditors during the year.
Risk management and internal control arrangements
The Committee reviewed Unilever's overall approach to risk
management and control, and its processes, outcomes and
disclosure, including speciﬁcally:
• review of level of disclosure in quarterly ﬁnancial results
announcements;
• review of accounting principles and judgements with respect 
to ﬁnancial statements, including the annual impairment review
of goodwill and intangibles;
• review of regular updates on outstanding litigation and
regulatory investigations from the Chief Legal Ofﬁcer;
• review of the analysis supporting the going concern judgement
of the 2009 Annual Report and Accounts;
• review of Unilever’s Risk Management framework undertaken by
management, agreeing to a streamlined process for assessment
of corporate and operational risks;
• annual report on the Chief Executive Ofﬁcer’s Top Corporate
Risks and a quarterly review of business risks and safeguards;
• annual Positive Assurance report from the Chief Executive
Ofﬁcer on compliance with corporate policies and operating
controls;
• Corporate Audit’s interim and year-end summary reports, and
management’s response;
• the interim and year-end reports from the Code of Business
Principles Compliance Committee including the resolution of
complaints received through the global Ethics hotline including
procedures for handling complaints and concerns relating to
accounting, internal control and auditing matters;
• review the application of the requirements under Section 404 of
the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 with respect to internal
controls over ﬁnancial reporting;
• review of the application of information and communication
technology;
• review of the annual pension report and the impact of ﬁnancial
volatility on pensions;
• annual review of anti-fraud arrangements;
• review of tax planning policy; 
• review of treasury policies, including debt issuance and hedging;
• review of the annual ﬁnancial plan; and
• review of the revised dividend policy and dividend proposals.
External auditors 
The Audit Committee conducted a formal evaluation of the
effectiveness of the external audit process. The Committee has
considered the tenure, quality and fees of the auditors and
determined that a tender for the audit work is not necessary.
As a result, the Committee has approved the extension of the
current external audit contract by one year, and recommended 
to the Boards the reappointment of external auditors. On the
recommendation of the Audit Committee, the Directors will be
proposing the re-appointment of PricewaterhouseCoopers at the
AGMs in May 2010 (see pages 137 and 143).
Both Unilever and the auditors have for many years had safeguards
in place to avoid the possibility that the auditors’ objectivity 
and independence could be compromised. The Committee
reviewed the report from PricewaterhouseCoopers on the actions
they take to comply with the professional and regulatory
requirements and best practice designed to ensure their
independence from Unilever. 
The Committee also reviewed the statutory audit, other audit, 
tax and other services provided by PricewaterhouseCoopers,
and compliance with Unilever’s documented approach, which
prescribes in detail the types of engagements for which the
external auditors can and cannot be used:
• statutory audit services – including audit of subsidiaries;
• other audit services – work which regulations or agreements
with third parties require the auditors to undertake;
• other services – statutory auditors may carry out work that they
are best placed to undertake, including internal control reviews;
• acquisition and disposal services – where the auditors are best
placed to do this work;
• tax services – all signiﬁcant tax consulting work is put to tender,
except where the auditors are best placed to do this; and
• general consulting – external auditors may not tender for
general consulting work.
All engagements over €100,000 require speciﬁc advance approval
of the Audit Committee Chairman. The overall policy is regularly
reviewed and, where necessary, updated in the light of internal
developments, external developments and best practice.
Internal audit function
The Committee reviewed the Corporate Audit department’s 
audit plan for the year, and agreed its budget and resource
requirements. The Committee carried out a formal evaluation of
the performance of the internal audit function and conﬁrmed that
they were satisﬁed with the effectiveness of the function. The
Committee held independent meetings with the Chief Auditor
during the year.
Audit Committee terms of reference
The Audit Committee’s terms of reference are reviewed annually
by the Committee taking into account relevant legislation and
recommended good practice. The terms of reference can be
viewed on Unilever’s website or supplied on request. 
Board Assessment of the Audit Committee
The Board evaluated the performance of the Committee and the
Committee carried out a self-assessment of its performance.
Kees Storm Chairman of the Audit Committee
Wim Dik
Charles Golden
Byron Grote Report of the Corporate Responsibility and Reputation Committee
64 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Report of the Directors Governance
Terms of reference
The Corporate Responsibility and Reputation Committee oversees
Unilever’s conduct as a responsible multinational business. It is also
charged with ensuring that Unilever’s reputation is protected and
enhanced. Inherent in this is the need to identify any external
developments which are likely to have an inﬂuence upon Unilever’s
standing in society and to bring these to the attention of the
Boards.
Pursuant to this remit the Boards have expressly delegated to the
Committee day-to-day oversight of the conduct of Unilever’s
response to the ongoing investigations by the European
Commission and other national authorities into alleged
infringements of competition law. The Chief Legal Ofﬁcer and
external counsel report to the Committee in this regard and
matters are then considered by the full Board. For further
information please refer to ‘Legal proceedings’ on page 122. 
The Committee comprises four independent Non-Executive
Directors: Leon Brittan (Chairman), Hixonia Nyasulu, Narayana
Murthy and Louise Fresco.
To ensure that it is kept up to date with current and emerging
sustainability issues, the Committee beneﬁts from the insights of
two groups. The ﬁrst is the Unilever Sustainable Development
Group (USDG) – ﬁve experts from outside the Group who advise
on Unilever’s sustainability strategy. The second is CRISP , the
Corporate Responsibility, Issues, Sustainability and Partnerships
group of senior executives from across the business. Both groups
are chaired by Vindi Banga, President Foods, Home and Personal
Care and member of the Unilever Executive. 
The Committee’s terms of reference and details of the Unilever
Sustainable Development Group are available on our website at 
www.unilever.com
Meetings 
Meetings are held quarterly. The Committee Chairman reports the
conclusions to the Board.  
In 2009 the Committee continued to offer its advice on the
development of Unilever’s sustainability strategy. Members were
updated on the Group’s sustainability priorities (climate change,
water, sustainable sourcing and waste) and commented on
proposals for creating business-wide environmental targets.
Topics discussed in 2009 included: competition-related issues; 
food labelling and health claims; genetically modiﬁed organisms in
the food chain; packaging; palm oil, deforestation and climate
change. Particular attention was given to the topics set out below.
Code of Business Principles and Business Partner Code 
The Committee scrutinises two important codes of practice – the
Code of Business Principles and the Business Partner Code – to
ensure that they remain ﬁt for purpose and are appropriately
applied. It complements the role of the Audit Committee, which
considers the Codes as part of its remit to review risk
management. 
The Committee is responsible for the oversight of both codes.
Implementation rests with the Unilever Executive who are
supported by the Corporate Code Committee and the global code
compliance organisation. Implementation is further supported by
the legal function for the Code of Business Principles and the
supply management function for the Business Partner Code.
Supply management is also responsible for gaining assurance from
suppliers that they adhere to the Business Partner Code.
Code of Business Principles
The Code of Business Principles sets out the standards of conduct
to which we expect our employees to adhere. It is complemented
by a ‘Management Commentary’ which provides guidelines for
employees on practical implementation of the Code of Business
Principles. In 2009 Unilever’s Global Code Ofﬁcer conducted a
benchmarking exercise on the Commentary, leading to clearer and
more detailed guidance on topics such as gifts and entertainment.
In 2009 existing training on the Code was strengthened by the
roll-out of a new online training module and separate training
sessions on compliance with competition policy.
The Committee endorsed these developments as they are essential
in ensuring that Unilever’s standards are well-understood and
respected by employees.
Alleged infringements of the Code of Business Principles are
monitored by the Committee. This responsibility includes alleged
infringements of competition law.
Business Partner Code
Unilever’s Business Partner Code sets the standards that we expect
of suppliers in areas such as health and safety at work, business
integrity, respect for labour standards, consumer safety and
safeguarding the environment.  
The Committee has monitored the development and
implementation of the Code over recent years. The Code is
supported by an Assurance Policy that sets out the operational
standards needed from suppliers to deliver the Code’s
commitments. Labour standards 
Between 2006 and 2009, four complaints were brought to
Unilever's attention by the International Union of Food,
Agricultural, Hotel, Restaurant, Catering, Tobacco and Allied
Workers' Associations (IUF) relating to our operations in India and
Pakistan. These complaints concerned site closure (Sewri factory,
India), freedom of association and collective bargaining (Doom
Dooma factory, India) and the use of temporary and contracted
labour at our factories in Pakistan (Rahim Yar Khan and
Khanewal). A further complaint regarding a supplier’s factory in
Turkey was submitted by the Turkish transport union TUMTIS
in 2008. 
Under the terms of the OECD Guidelines for Multinational
Enterprises, the unions referred their complaints to the OECD's
National Contact Points in the UK and Turkey for investigation.
Four of the complaints have been resolved:
• The TUMTIS complaint in Turkey was settled locally in January
2009;
• Unilever Pakistan reached agreement with the IUF to settle the
dispute at Rahim Yar Khan in June 2009. In October Unilever
Pakistan reached an agreement relating to Khanewal; and
• at Sewri, a settlement payment was agreed by Hindustan
Unilever and local trade union representatives (HLEU) in 
October 2009.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009 65
The only case outstanding is at Doom Dooma, India where the
company is seeking resolution of the issue.
Given the potential damage that these complaints pose to
Unilever’s reputation as a responsible business, the Committee
kept a close watch on progress during the year. Members urged
Unilever to address the matter in detail and welcomed the revised
approach that the Group put in place to adjust its labour practices. 
Leon Brittan
Chairman of the Corporate Responsibility and
Reputation Committee
Louise Fresco
Narayana Murthy
Hixonia Nyasulu  66 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Report of the Directors Governance
Report of the Nomination Committee
Terms of Reference
The Nomination Committee comprises two Independent Non-
Executive Directors and the Chairman. Following the retirement of
David Simon at the 2009 AGMs, it is chaired by Jeroen van der
Veer. Its other members are Michael Treschow and, following his
appointment at the 2009 AGMs, Paul Walsh. The Group Secretary
acts as secretary to the Committee. 
The Nomination Committee is responsible for drawing up selection
criteria and appointment procedures for Directors. Under Unilever’s
corporate governance arrangements Executive and Non-Executive
Directors offer themselves for election each year at the Annual
General Meetings. The Nomination Committee is responsible for
recommending candidates for nomination as Executive Directors,
including the Chief Executive Ofﬁcer, and Non-Executive Directors
each year based on the process of evaluations referred to below.
After Directors have been appointed by shareholders the
Committee recommends to the Board candidates for election as
Chairman and Vice-Chairman. The Committee also has
responsibility for supervising the policy of the Chief Executive
Ofﬁcer on the selection criteria and appointment procedures for
senior management and it keeps oversight of all matters relating
to corporate governance, bringing any issues to the attention of
the Boards. The Committee’s Terms of Reference are available on
our website www.unilever.com/investorrelations/corp_governance
Process for the appointment of Directors
Unilever has formal procedures for evaluation of the Boards, the
Board Committees and the individual Directors. The Chairman, 
in conjunction with the Senior Independent Director, leads the
process whereby the Board assesses its own performance and the
results of the evaluations are provided to the Committee when it
discusses the nominations for re-election as Directors. 
Where a vacancy arises on the Boards, the Committee seeks the
services of specialist recruitment ﬁrms and other external experts
to assist in ﬁnding individuals with the appropriate skills and
expertise.
In nominating Directors, the Committee follows the agreed Board
Proﬁle of potential Non-Executive Directors, which takes into
account the roles of Non-Executive Directors set out in the Dutch
Corporate Governance Code and the UK Combined Code on
Corporate Governance. Under the terms of The Governance of
Unilever the Boards should comprise a majority of Non-Executive
Directors. To represent Unilever’s areas of interest, the proﬁle also
indicates there should be a strong representation from Developing
and Emerging markets as well as from Europe and North America.
Non-Executive Directors should be independent of Unilever and
free from any conﬂicts of interest. The proﬁle looks at diversity 
in terms of nationality, race, gender and relevant expertise and
directs that, wherever possible, the Boards should reﬂect Unilever’s
consumer base.
Activities of the Committee during the year
The Committee met six times in 2009. All meetings were attended
by Jeroen van der Veer and Michael Treschow. Paul Walsh
attended two meetings after joining the Committee in May 2009.
The members also regularly met outside of formal Committee
meetings to discuss succession issues. 
At the AGMs in May 2009, David Simon retired as a Non-Executive
Director. Jeroen van der Veer succeeded David Simon as 
Vice-Chairman, Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the
Nomination Committee from the conclusion of the 2009 AGMs.
The Committee proposed the nomination of all Directors offering
themselves for re-election at the 2009 AGMs. During 2009, the
Committee also proposed the nominations of Louise Fresco, Ann
Fudge and Paul Walsh as Non-Executive Directors at the AGMs in
May 2009. These nominees were chosen to further strengthen the
range of expertise available on the Boards, as well as responding
to our diversity criteria. Ann Fudge and Paul Walsh were
subsequently appointed to the Remuneration Committee and Paul
Walsh was also appointed to the Nomination Committee. In
making these appointments the Committee was supported by an
independent executive search ﬁrm chosen by the Committee
which had been engaged to identify suitable candidates for the
roles required. 
In 2009 an independent executive search ﬁrm chosen by the
committee was also engaged to identify candidates for the role 
of Chief Financial Ofﬁcer, in the light of the resignation of Jim
Lawrence as from the year end. The process resulted in the
Committee’s recommendation to the Boards to nominate 
Jean-Marc Huët as Jim Lawrence’s successor. The Committee is
pleased to have identiﬁed a strong candidate whose background
and expertise in the corporate and ﬁnancial world will be
important in helping realise our growth ambitions. Following a
smooth transition Jean-Marc Huët became Chief Financial Ofﬁcer
in February 2010, and he will be nominated for election as an
Executive Director at the 2010 AGMs.
The Committee received a full presentation of Unilever initiatives
being implemented in 2009 in relation to Senior Leadership
changes and endorsed management’s approach. A successful
diversity programme was considered essential for Unilever and as
part of establishing an articulated performance culture. 
The Committee reviewed and approved the external
benchmarking of the capabilities, strengths and opportunities of
the Senior Executives carried out by the Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
and Chief HR Ofﬁcer. Periodically throughout the year the
Committee reviewed with the Chief Executive Ofﬁcer proposed
changes to roles and responsibilities amongst senior executives.
During the year the Committee reviewed the Board proﬁle and
updated the composition, desired expertise and experience and
availability elements of the proﬁle, to reﬂect the current
requirements of the Boards. 
An internal evaluation was undertaken by the Chairman and
Senior Independent Director with the assistance of the Group
Secretary during 2009 in relation to the performance of the
Boards, of the Chairman, of the individual Directors and of the
Board Committees. This evaluation, as in the previous two years,
was based on the completion of questionnaires and a series of
interviews with individual Directors. The Committee has also
carried out an assessment of its own performance, led by the
Committee Chairman.
Supported by an independent executive search ﬁrm, the Committee
carried out a search for a new Non-Executive Director and is
delighted that The Rt Hon Sir Malcolm Rifkind MP has agreed to join
our Boards. Sir Malcolm’s experience will further strengthen the
expertise of the Boards particularly in the areas of governance and
reputation. Sir Malcolm will be nominated by the Committee for
election as Non-Executive Director at the 2010 AGMs.
Jeroen van der Veer Chairman of the Nomination Committee
Michael Treschow
Paul Walsh Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009 67
Directors’ Remuneration Report
The Committee’s aim is to ensure that the remuneration
arrangements for Unilever’s Executive Directors support Unilever’s
drive for proﬁtable growth and a level of performance amongst
the best of our peers.
As a result the Committee has decided to make adjustments to
the remuneration structure for Executive Directors and other
Unilever senior managers. These are:
• a signiﬁcant increase in the required shareholding levels for
Unilever managers from January 2010;
• the introduction of a new operating margin measure and an
amended cash ﬂow measure for Global Share Incentive Plan
awards from 2010 onwards; and
• for Executive Directors, replacing underlying sales growth
and trading contribution with underlying volume growth,
underlying operating margin and trade working capital
improvement as drivers for the business performance of the
Annual Bonus from 2010 onwards. This brings their
performance measures in line with those for the other managers
in Unilever.
I would emphasise that the Committee has made no changes to
the remuneration levels for Executive Directors. As in 2009, and
given prevailing economic circumstances, the Committee has
decided that it is not appropriate to increase base salaries in 2010
for Executive Directors nor for most other senior business leaders.
The Committee has also decided to exclude the Executive Directors
from participation in the Management Co-Investment Plan (which
shareholders will be asked to approve at the forthcoming AGMs)
at least for the ﬁrst year of its operation in 2011. Our managers
below Board level will, however, be invited to participate in the
new plan in 2011. The Committee is of the view that wider share
ownership will encourage greater commitment, engagement and
alignment with our shareholders.  
The rewards received by Executive Directors over 2009 reﬂect
Unilever’s good underlying progress towards its longer-term
objectives especially in the current tough trading environment.
Jeroen van der Veer Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 
Ann Fudge
Michael Treschow
Paul Walsh
Remuneration Committee
It is the role and terms of reference of the Remuneration
Committee (the Committee) to make proposals to the Boards for
decisions on:
• the individual remuneration arrangements for Executive
Directors;
• the remuneration policy for the Unilever Executive as a whole;
and
• the design and terms of all share-based plans.  
During 2009 the Committee comprised Jeroen van der Veer, who
became Committee Chairman in May 2009 on the retirement of
David Simon, Michael Treschow and, from May 2009, Ann Fudge
and Paul Walsh.   
While it is the Committee’s responsibility to exercise independent
judgement, the Committee does request advice from
management and professional advisers, as appropriate, to ensure
its decisions are fully informed given the internal and external
environment.
During 2009, the Chief Executive Ofﬁcer provided the Committee
with his views on business objectives and, together with the Chief
Human Resources Ofﬁcer, remuneration arrangements for senior
executives were framed so as to be aligned with these objectives.
The Committee also received legal and compliance advice from
the Chief Legal Ofﬁcer supported by external counsel. 
A copy of the Committee’s terms of reference is available on
Unilever’s website. Details on meeting attendance are contained in
the section on ‘Corporate Governance’ on page 54. 
Executive Directors
Our aims and guiding principles
The overriding aim of the Committee is to ensure that the
remuneration arrangements for Executive Directors support the
longer-term objectives of Unilever and, in turn, the longer-term
interests of shareholders.
This means that we must ensure that:
• the ﬁxed elements of the remuneration package offered to
Executive Directors are sufﬁciently competitive to attract and
retain highly experienced and talented individuals; and
• the performance-related elements are structured so that target
levels are competitive but Executive Directors can only earn
higher rewards once they have delivered to the standards of
performance that Unilever requires.  68 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Report of the Directors Governance
Directors’ Remuneration Report (continued)
The Committee’s guiding principles have been updated so that the
remuneration arrangements for Executive Directors should:
• support Unilever’s business strategy;
• sharpen Unilever’s performance culture through more exacting
standards;
• increase the difference in reward between modest, target and
outstanding performance achievements; 
• support share ownership and strong shareholder alignment; and
• be simple and transparent.
Below we have summarised the key remuneration policies for
Executive Directors that ﬂow from and support the Committee’s
aims.
The supporting policies
Our emphasis on performance-related pay
It is Unilever’s policy that the total remuneration package for
Executive Directors should be competitive with other global
companies and that a signiﬁcant proportion should be
performance-related. Over two-thirds of the target arrangements
for the Executive Directors are linked to performance, with the
majority of this linked to shareholder-aligned longer-term
performance.
The Committee has reviewed the impact of different performance
scenarios on the reward opportunities potentially to be received by
Executive Directors and the alignment of this with the returns that
might be received by shareholders. The Committee believes that
Unilever’s existing risk management processes provide the
necessary controls to prevent inappropriate risk taking. 
0 102030405060708090 100
Emphasis on performance-related pay
Base Salary Long-term incentives Annual incentive Pension
Total fixed (33%)
Executive
Directors
Total performance-related (67%)
Base Salary Pension benefits
Annual
Incentive
Longer-term:
Share Matching
Plan
Longer-term:
Global Share
Incentive Plan
Fixed elements Performance-related elements Our linkage between business objectives and 
performance-related pay 
It is Unilever’s policy for the performance-related pay of Executive
Directors to be linked to key Group measures that are aligned with
strategy, business objectives and shareholder value. 
Since Paul Polman was appointed as Chief Executive Ofﬁcer at the
beginning of 2009, Unilever has consistently communicated to
shareholders that its main business objective is to restore volume
and underlying sales growth while steadily improving operating
margins and cash ﬂow. There are a number of strategic priorities
which support this objective. It is this combination of top-line
revenue growth and bottom-line proﬁts growth that Unilever
believes will build shareholder value over the longer term. It is
Unilever’s objective to be among the best performers in its peer
group.
The Committee has reviewed the performance measures for the
Executive Directors’ variable pay elements in light of Unilever’s
current business objectives and strategic priorities. To ensure
greater alignment, underlying operating margin improvement is to
be introduced as a new measure for the Global Share Incentive
Plan (GSIP) and the cash ﬂow measure is to be amended from
ungeared free cash ﬂow to operating cash ﬂow. Further details are
in the later GSIP section. In addition, for 2010 onwards the annual
bonus measures for the Executive Directors will change to:
underlying volume growth, underlying operating margin and
working capital improvement consistent with the annual bonus
arrangements already in place for other Unilever managers. 
Our additional alignment with the interests of shareholders
It is Unilever’s policy that Executive Directors should demonstrate a
signiﬁcant personal shareholding commitment to Unilever. This
further aligns their interests with those of shareholders. 
The current requirement is that, within ﬁve years of appointment,
Executive Directors are expected to hold shares worth at least
150% of annual base salary. The Committee has decided that,
with effect from 1 January 2010, the requirement will be increased.
Executive Directors’ contracts 
Executive Directors are required to submit themselves for 
re-election at the AGMs each year and the Nomination Committee
carefully considers each nomination for reappointment. Executive
Directors stop holding executive ofﬁce on ceasing to be Directors.
The Committee takes the view that the entitlement of Executive
Directors to the security of twelve months’ notice of termination
of employment is in line with both the practice of many
comparable companies and the entitlement of other senior
executives in Unilever. It is our policy to set the level of severance
payments for Executive Directors at no more than one year’s salary,
unless the Boards, at the proposal of the Committee, ﬁnd this
manifestly unreasonable given the circumstances or unless
dictated by applicable law. The date of contract for Paul Polman
was 7 October 2008 and for Jim Lawrence was 25 June 2008.
Once signed, Executive Directors’ contracts continue to be
effective until review.  Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009 69
Our remuneration practices
Base salary
Base salaries are reviewed annually with effect from 1 January
taking into account our competitive market position, individual
performance, Unilever’s overall performance and levels of increase
in the rest of the organisation. 
2009 outcomes
Base salaries for Executive Directors were not increased from 
1 January 2009 and will not be increased in 2010. 
Pension and other beneﬁts
The policy is that Executive Directors are members of the all-
employee pension arrangement in their home country (or an
alternative of similar value) and make personal contributions at 
the same rate as other employees in that arrangement.
Executive Directors enjoy similar beneﬁts to those enjoyed by many
other employees of Unilever. 
Annual bonus
Around 70% of the Executive Director’s annual bonus opportunity
is based on Unilever’s business results and around 30% is based
on individual business and leadership, including corporate social
responsibility, targets.
For 2009 the target bonus for the Chief Executive Ofﬁcer was
113% of salary and the maximum would have been 200% of
salary. The target bonus opportunity for the Chief Financial Ofﬁcer
was 93% of salary and the maximum would have been 160% of
salary. Aggressive business targets mean that maximum levels are
only payable for exceptional performance. 
2009 outcomes
The annual bonus awards for 2009 reﬂect Unilever’s strong results
for 2009 given the challenging trading environment and were on
average 118.5% of salary for the Executive team. The 2009
performance measures were: trading contribution, underlying
sales growth and individual business and leadership targets.  
Share Matching Plan
Under the Share Matching Plan, Executive Directors are required 
to invest 25% of their bonus into shares and hold them for a
minimum period of three years. The Executive Directors receive a
matching award of 25% of their annual bonus in the form of NV
and PLC shares. The matching shares normally vest after three
years provided that the underlying shares have been retained
during this period and the Executive Director has not resigned or
been dismissed.
The Committee considers that there is no need for further
performance conditions on the vesting of the matching shares
because the number of shares is directly linked to the annual
incentive (which is itself subject to demanding performance
conditions). In addition, during the three-year vesting period the
share price of NV and PLC is inﬂuenced by the performance of
Unilever. This, in turn, affects the ultimate value of the matching
shares on vesting.
Global Share Incentive Plan
Executive Directors receive annual awards of NV and PLC shares
under the Global Share Incentive Plan. The number of shares that
vest after three years depends on the satisfaction of performance
conditions. 
The current maximum grant levels were agreed by shareholders in
2008 and are 200% of salary for the Chief Executive Ofﬁcer and
just below 180% for other Executive Directors. (Jim Lawrence,
when Chief Financial Ofﬁcer, had a separately agreed limit of
340%). The vesting range is between 0% and 200% of grant level.
The vesting of 40% of the shares under award has been based
on Unilever’s relative Total Shareholder Return (TSR) against a
comparator group of 20 other companies. TSR measures the return
received by a shareholder, capturing both the increase in share price
and the value of dividend income (assuming dividends are
reinvested). The TSR results are compared on a single reference
currency basis. No shares in the portion of the award subject to TSR
vest if Unilever is ranked below position 11 in the peer group at the
end of the three-year period, 50% vest if Unilever is ranked 11th,
100% if Unilever is ranked 7th and 200% if Unilever is ranked 3rd
or above. Straight-line vesting occurs between these points.
The current TSR peer group is: 
Avon Heinz Orkla
Beiersdorf Kao Pepsico
Cadbury Kimberly-Clark Procter & Gamble
Clorox Kraft Reckitt Benckiser
Coca Cola Lion Sara Lee
Colgate L’Oreal Shiseido
Danone Nestlé
We have made minor amendments to our peer group to reﬂect
industry consolidation and better competitive match as part of our
move to an increased performance culture. Campbell, General
Mills, Henkel and Kellogg have been added and Cadbury, Clorox,
Lion and Orkla have been removed.
The vesting of a further 30% of the shares in the award has been
conditional on average underlying sales growth performance over
the same three-year period and the vesting of the ﬁnal 30% is
conditional on cumulative ungeared free cash ﬂow performance.
For these measures there will be no vesting of shares if
performance is below the minimum of the range, 25% vesting 
for achieving minimum and 200% vesting only for performance 
at or above the top end of the range. 
Performance for each condition is assessed independently from the
other conditions over the performance period. Shares will only vest
if and to the extent that the respective performance conditions are
satisﬁed. The Committee does have authority under the rules of
the GSIP to adjust upwards and downwards the number of shares
that vest to avoid outcomes which are, in its view, unfair and
result from exceptional circumstances that have occurred during
the performance period. In exercising this discretion the
Committee may take into account Unilever’s performance against
non-ﬁnancial measures. This discretion was not exercised in 2009.
Serving as non-executive on the board of another company
It is recognised that Executive Directors may be invited to become
Non-Executive Directors of other companies and that these
appointments, subject to the approval of the Chairman and the
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer, may broaden their knowledge and
experience to the beneﬁt of the Group (see page 22 for details in
the biographies). Executive Directors serving on the Boards of
other companies are permitted to retain all remuneration and fees
earned from outside directorships subject to a maximum of one
outside directorship (see Other appointments on page 53 for
further details). Jim Lawrence is a non-executive director of British
Airways Plc and received an annual fee of £40,833. 
UNI04_01 AR_09 Pp063-074.qxd  3/3/10  23:12  Page 69 70 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Report of the Directors Governance
Directors’ Remuneration Report (continued)
Proposed changes from 2010 onwards
Annual Bonus
For Executive Directors, we are replacing underlying sales growth
and trading contribution with underlying volume growth,
underlying operating margin and trade working capital
improvement as drivers for the business performance for the
Annual Bonus from 2010 onwards. This brings their performance
measures in line with those for the other managers in Unilever.
Global Share Incentive Plan
The performance measures attached to GSIP awards will be:
• underlying sales growth (as now)
• underlying operating margin improvement (a new measure); 
• operating cash ﬂow (instead of ungeared free cash ﬂow); and 
• relative total shareholder return (as now) but with a revised
reference group as set out earlier.
The structure of vesting will remain the same as for previous
awards except that for Executive Directors and the Unilever
Executive the four measures will be equally weighted. In addition,
the minimum of the performance range for both underlying sales
growth and underlying operating margin must be reached before
any shares subject to either metric can vest. At the end of the
three-year performance period the Committee will also assess
Unilever’s performance against the internal measures relative to
the performance of peer group companies. Dividends will also be
re-invested in respect of the shares under award but will only be
paid out to the extent that the underlying shares vest. 
It is also proposed that, with respect to GSIP awards made in
2008 and 2009, these performance measures will apply to those
years of the performance period that have yet to be completed.
For example, for GSIP awards made in 2009, this means that
the original performance conditions will apply for 2009 and 
the updated performance measures for 2010 and 2011. The
Remuneration Committee is satisﬁed that the new measures
are no easier to satisfy. This is conﬁrmed by independent advice.
Shareholding commitment
The Committee has decided that, with effect from 1 January
2010, the shareholding commitment should be increased to 
400% of base salary for the Chief Executive Ofﬁcer and to 
300% for other Executive Directors and the Unilever Executive.
New Management Co-Investment Plan
At the 2010 AGMs, shareholders will be asked to approve a new
Management Co-Investment Plan. The Plan is being introduced to
support Unilever’s drive for proﬁtable growth by encouraging
Unilever’s managers to take a greater ﬁnancial interest in the
performance of the Company and the value of Unilever shares
over the long term. Under the new plan, Unilever’s senior
managers will have the opportunity to invest up to 60% of their
annual bonus in Unilever shares and to receive a corresponding 
award of performance shares. The performance shares will vest
after three years, depending on Unilever’s performance, continued
employment and maintenance of the underlying investment. The
performance measures for the new Plan will be the same as we
are proposing to introduce for the Global Share Incentive Plan (as
set out earlier in this report) to ensure alignment with the drive for
proﬁtable growth. As under the GSIP , the maximum vesting level
will be 200% for outstanding performance. Although Executive
Directors will be eligible, technically, to participate in the new Plan,
the Remuneration Committee has determined that participation 
in the new Plan is unnecessary for the time being given the
additional alignment provided through the amended GSIP
performance measures and the increased share ownership
requirements. Further details on the new Plan are available in 
the Notices of Meeting to the AGMs.
Arrangements for Jim Lawrence
Jim Lawrence left Unilever in December 2009. His salary has been
paid until 31 December 2009 and his annual bonus for 2009 has
been paid in full. The matching shares of his 2007 Share Matching
award have vested. The ﬁnal tranche of the 2007 restricted share
award will vest later in 2010 and the 2007 GSIP performance
award will also vest later this year but will be time-proportioned.
The shares awarded in 2008 and 2009 both under the Share
Matching Plan and the GSIP have lapsed in full.
Arrangements for Jean-Marc Huët
Jean-Marc Huët joined Unilever in February 2010 as Chief Financial
Ofﬁcer. He will be proposed for election to the Boards of NV and
PLC at the AGMs in May 2010. Given Unilever’s objective of
balancing remuneration more clearly towards performance-linked
variable pay, the agreed package follows this policy direction. His
salary in 2010 has been set at £680,000 per annum; the maximum
annual bonus opportunity for 2010 will be 150% of salary and the
grant value in 2010 under the GSIP will be 180% of salary. He will
be in a deﬁned contribution plan with a similar value to that of
Unilever’s in the Netherlands, his home country.
To compensate for the forfeiture of incentives from his former
employer he has received a cash bonus of £680,000 and a
restricted share award with a value of £2.6 million. The shares will
vest in instalments of one-third of the total number of restricted
shares on each anniversary of the grant date over the next three
years, provided that he remains an employee of the company
through each vesting date.
Jean-Marc Huët has purchased 23,000 NV ordinary shares and
23,000 PLC ordinary shares.
UNI04_01 AR_09 Pp063-074.qxd  3/3/10  17:38  Page 70 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009 71
Executive Directors’ remuneration in 2009
Remuneration for individual Executive Directors (audited)
Annual Emoluments 2009
Allowances
Base and other Value of
salary payments
(a)
beneﬁts
(b)
Bonus Total
Name and Base Country € ‘000 € ‘000 € ‘000 € ‘000 € ‘000
Jim Lawrence (UK)
(d)
816 17 4 918 1,755
Paul Polman (UK)
(e)
1,033 402 2 1,687
(c)
3,124
Total 2009 1,849 419 6 2,605 4,879
Total 2008 (including former Directors) 2,682 1,154 62 4,156 8,054
(a) Includes allowance in lieu of company car, entertaining allowance, a one-off housing allowance and payment for social security obligations in
country of residence in 2008 and 2009.
(b) Includes beneﬁts for private use of chauffeur-driven cars and medical insurance. Included are beneﬁts that are taxable in the country of
residence. In addition, Unilever provides support to Executive Directors in relation to spouses’ travel expenses when travelling together on
company business. This amount is capped at 5% of base salary and for 2009 totalled €130,506 (including related taxes payable).
(c) Bonus for the year 2009. Includes the value of both the cash element and the element paid in shares of NV and PLC. In addition to the
element of the bonus paid in shares, an equivalent number of matching shares is awarded on a conditional basis.
(d) Chief Financial Ofﬁcer. Base salary set in US dollars was $1,133,000 per annum. 
(e) Chief Executive Ofﬁcer. Base salary set in sterling was £920,000 per annum.
Amounts have been translated into euros using the average exchange rate over the year: €1 = £0.8905 (2008: €1 = £0.7880) and €1 = $1.388
(2008: €1 = $1.468).
Both Jim Lawrence and Paul Polman are members of a deﬁned contribution arrangement. The company contribution during the period was
€73,000 for Jim Lawrence and €292,000 for Paul Polman. The contribution for Paul Polman includes €130,000 accrued to compensate for the
forfeiture of pension from his previous employer, which will vest at age 60 or later at actual retirement date. In addition, Jim Lawrence made a
personal contribution of €41,000 and Paul Polman made a personal contribution of €16,000, both by individual salary sacriﬁce. The total pension
contributions, including all the company contributions paid, the contributions by individual salary sacriﬁce and the cost of death in service
provision were €147,000 for Jim Lawrence and €330,000 for Paul Polman. 
Share Matching Plan (audited)
Balance of Balance of
conditional conditional
shares shares at
at 1 January Conditional shares 31 December
2009 awarded in 2009
(a)
2009
Share No. of No. of Price at No. of
type shares shares award shares
Jim Lawrence NV 1,830 9,069 €13.59 10,899
PLC 1,830 9,069 £12.46 10,899
Paul Polman NV – 3,413 €13.59 3,413
PLC – 3,413 £12.46 3,413
(a) Each award of matching shares is conditional and vests three years after the date of the award subject to certain conditions. The 2009 award
was made at grant date 19 March 2009.
Global Share Incentive Plan (audited)
The following conditional shares were granted during 2009 and outstanding at 31 December 2009 under the Global Share 
Incentive Plan:
Balance of Conditional grant 2009 Balance of
conditional shares at (Performance period conditional shares at
1 January 2009 1 January 2009 to 31 December 2011)
(a)
31 December 2009
Share type No. of shares No. of shares
(a)
Price at award No. of shares
Jim Lawrence NV 106,947 103,811 €13.59 210,758
PLC 106,947 103,811 £12.46 210,758
Paul Polman NV 58,752 69,210 €13.59 127,962
PLC 58,752 69,210 £12.46 127,962
(a) Each award of conditional shares vests subject to certain conditions three years after the date of the award. The 2009 award was made at
grant date 19 March 2009.
UNI04_01 AR_09 Pp063-074.qxd  3/3/10  13:17  Page 71 72 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Report of the Directors Governance
Directors’ Remuneration Report (continued)
The following restricted stock awards under the Global Share Incentive Plan vested during 2009 and were outstanding at 1 January 2009
and 31 December 2009:
Balance of Balance of
shares at shares at
1 January 31 December
2009 Vesting in 2009 2009
Share type No. of shares No. of shares Price at vesting No. of shares
Jim Lawrence
(a)
NV 23,710 11,855 €19.20 11,855
PLC 23,710 11,855 £16.67 11,855
Paul Polman
(b)
NV 67,653 22,551 €20.50 45,102
PLC 67,653 22,551 £17.95 45,102
(a) Vesting on 1 September 2009 of 
1
/3 of original award.
(b) Vesting on 6 November 2009 of 
1
/3 of original award.
Share Save plan (audited)
Awards under the PLC Share Save Plan are subject to ﬁve-year vesting periods and vesting is contingent on continued employment
with Unilever.
Balance of Balance of
options at options at First Final
Share 1 January Granted 31 December exercisable expiry
type 2009 in 2009
(a)
2009 date date
Paul Polman PLC – 1,042 1,042 01/10/2014 01/04/2015
(a) Option price at grant was £14.92.
Executive Directors’ interests in shares (audited)
Shares held at Shares held at
Share type
(a)
1 January 2009
(b)
31 December 2009
(b)
Jim Lawrence
(c)
NV 309,193 330,117
PLC 323,435 344,359
Paul Polman NV – 25,964
PLC – 25,964
(a) NV shares are ordinary €0.16 shares and PLC shares are ordinary 3
1
⁄9p shares.
(b) Numbers are excluding unvested matching shares.
(c) Under PLC, balances include 309,750 PLC ADRs.
The table shows the interest in NV and PLC ordinary shares of Executive Directors and their connected persons as at 31 December 2009.
There has been no change in these interests between 31 December 2009 and 1 March 2010.
The voting rights of the Directors who hold interests in the share capitals of NV and PLC are the same as for other holders of the class of
shares indicated. None of the Directors’ (Executive and Non-Executive) or other executive ofﬁcers’ shareholdings amounts to more than
1% of the issued shares in that class of share. Except as stated above, all shareholdings are beneﬁcial. Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009 73
Non-Executive Directors
Policy
Non-executive directors receive annual fees from NV and PLC. 
No other remuneration is given in respect of their non-executive
duties. 
The Board determines non-executive fee levels within a total
annual limit speciﬁed in the Articles of Association. In 2007
shareholders approved an increase in the limit for PLC to
£2,000,000 (€3,000,000 for NV).
Unilever’s fee levels reﬂect the commitment and contribution
expected by the company. Fee levels are also benchmarked at
regular intervals against those paid in other global non-ﬁnancial
companies based in Europe.
Fee levels
The fee levels remained unchanged over 2009, with the exception
of the fee level for the Vice-Chairman which was increased to
reﬂect the responsibilities and time commitment required of the
role. The Vice-Chairman is also the Senior Independent Director
and is currently also the Chairman of the Remuneration
Committee and Chairman of the Nomination Committee. The fee
levels are therefore:
NV PLC
Chairman €355,000 and £237,500
Vice-Chairman/Senior Independent 
Director €85,800 and £82,500
Chairman of the Audit Committee €55,000 and £38,000
Board Committee Chairman €50,000 and £35,000
Non-Executive Directors €45,000 and £31,000
Non-Executive Directors’ remuneration in 2009 (audited)
Total fees Total fees
paid paid
in 2009
(a)
in 2008
(a)
Non-Executive Directors €’000 €’000
Michael Treschow
(b)
635 663
Leon Brittan 96 101
Wim Dik 93 93
Louise Fresco
(d)
60 –
Ann Fudge
(d)
79 –
Charles Golden 112 118
Byron Grote 93 91
Narayana Murthy 106 98
Hixonia Nyasulu 112 118
David Simon
(c)
81 129
Kees Storm 107 112
Jeroen van der Veer 152 87
Paul Walsh
(d)
60 –
T otal 1,786 1,610
a) Covers fees received from both NV in euros and PLC in Sterling.
Includes fees for intercontinental travel if applicable.
(b) Chairman.
(c) Retired May 2009.
(d) Appointed at 2009 AGMs.
Non-Executive Directors’ interests in share capital (audited)
Shares Shares
held at 1 held at 31
Share January December
type
(a)
2009
(a)
2009
(a)
Michael Treschow NV 15,000 15,158
PLC 15,000 15,000
Byron Grote NV NY 3,000 4,300
PLC ADRs 1,800 3,500
Jeroen van der Veer NV 16,800 16,800
PLC – –
(a) NV shares are ordinary €0.16 shares and PLC shares are ordinary
3
1
⁄9p shares.
The table shows the interests in NV and PLC ordinary shares 
of Non-Executive Directors and their connected persons as at 
31 December 2009. The only change between 31 December 2009
and 1 March 2010 was that Paul Walsh purchased 1,000 PLC
ordinary shares on 4 February 2010 and Charles Golden purchased
1,000 NV New York shares on 22 February 2010.
Additional statutory disclosures
Unilever is required by UK regulation to show its relative share
performance, based on Total Shareholder Return, against a
holding of shares in a broad-based equity index for the last ﬁve
years. The Committee has decided to show Unilever’s performance
against the FTSE 100 Index, London and also the Euronext,
Amsterdam as these are the most relevant indices in the UK and
the Netherlands where we have our principal listings. 
This Directors’ Remuneration Report has been approved by the
Boards and signed on their behalf by Steve Williams – Chief Legal
Ofﬁcer and Group Secretary.
Unilever NV
AEX
Dec 2004 Dec 2005 Dec 2006 Dec 2007 Dec 2008 Dec 2009
200
160
180
120
140
100
80
60
Growth in the value of a hypothetical €100 investment over five years
AEX comparison based on 30-trading-day average values
Unilever PLC
FTSE 100
Dec 2004 Dec 2005 Dec 2006 Dec 2007 Dec 2008 Dec 2009
220
180
160
200
140
120
100
80
60
Five-Year Historical TSR Performance
  
Growth in the value of a hypothetical £100 holding over five years
FTSE 100 comparison based on 30-trading-day average values 74 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009
This page is intentionally blank Financial statements
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009 75
Contents
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities 76
Auditors’ reports 77
Consolidated income statement 79
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 80
Consolidated statement of changes in equity 80
Consolidated balance sheet 81
Consolidated cash ﬂow statement 82
Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements 83
1 Accounting information and policies 83
2 Segment information 87
3 Gross proﬁt and operating costs 89
4 Staff and management costs 90
5 Net f ﬁnance costs 90
6 Taxation 91
7 Combined earnings per share 92
8 Dividends on ordinary capital 93
9 Goodwill and intangible assets 93
10 Property, plant and equipment 95
11 Other non-current assets 97
12 Inventories 98
13 Trade and other receivables 98
14 Financial assets and liabilities 99
15 Financial instruments and treasury risk management 104
16 Trade payables and other liabilities 110
17 Deferred taxation 111
18 Provisions 112
Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements (continued)
19 Pensions and similar obligations 113
20 Comprehensive income 117
21 Equity 118
22 Share capital 119
23 Other reserves 119
24 Retained proﬁt 120
25 Commitments and contingent liabilities 121
26 Acquisitions and disposals 123
27 Assets held for sale and discontinued operations 125
28 Reconciliation of net proﬁt to cash ﬂow from 
operating activities 126
29 Share-based compensation plans 126
30 Related party transactions 128
31 Remuneration of auditors 128
32 Events after the balance sheet date 128
Financial record 129
Principal group companies and non-current investments 131
Auditor’s report – Unilever N.V. 133
Company accounts – Unilever N.V. 134
Notes to the company accounts – Unilever N.V. 135
Further statutory and other information – Unilever N.V. 137
Auditor’s report – Unilever PLC 138
Company accounts – Unilever PLC 139
Notes to the company accounts – Unilever PLC 140
Further statutory and other information – Unilever PLC 142 Statement of Directors’ responsibilities
Annual accounts
The Directors are required by Part 9 of Book 2 of the Civil Code in
the Netherlands and the United Kingdom Companies Act 2006 
to prepare accounts for each ﬁnancial year which give a true and
fair view of the state of affairs of the Unilever Group, and the NV
and PLC entities as at the end of the ﬁnancial year and of the
proﬁt or loss and cash ﬂows for that year.
The Directors consider that, in preparing the accounts, the Group
and the NV and PLC entities have used the most appropriate
accounting policies, consistently applied and supported by
reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates, and that all
International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU
and as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board 
(in the case of the consolidated accounts) and United Kingdom
accounting standards (in the case of the parent company accounts)
which they consider to be applicable have been followed.
The Directors have responsibility for ensuring that NV and PLC
keep accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy
their ﬁnancial position and which enable the Directors to ensure
that the accounts comply with the relevant legislation. They also
have a general responsibility for taking such steps as are
reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group,
and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
This statement, which should be read in conjunction with the
Auditors’ report, is made with a view to distinguishing for
shareholders the respective responsibilities of the Directors 
and of the auditors in relation to the accounts.
A copy of the ﬁnancial statements of the Unilever Group is
placed on our website at www.unilever.com/investorrelations The
maintenance and integrity of the website are the responsibility of
the Directors, and the work carried out by the auditors does not
involve consideration of these matters. Accordingly, the auditors
accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred 
to the ﬁnancial statements since they were initially placed on the
website. Legislation in the United Kingdom and the Netherlands
governing the preparation and dissemination of ﬁnancial
statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
UK law sets out additional responsibilities for the Directors of 
PLC regarding disclosure of information to auditors. Disclosure 
in respect of these responsibilities is made on page 143.
Directors’ responsibility statement
Each of the Directors conﬁrms that, to the best of his or her
knowledge:
• the ﬁnancial statements which have been prepared in
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as
adopted by the EU and as issued by the International
Accounting Standards Board (in the case of the consolidated
accounts) and United Kingdom accounting standards (in the
case of the PLC parent company accounts) and United Kingdom
accounting standards and Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil
Code (in the case of the NV parent company accounts), give a
true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, ﬁnancial position and
proﬁt or loss of the Group and the NV and PLC entities taken as
a whole; and
• the Report of the Directors includes a fair review of the
development and performance of the business and the position
of the Group and the NV and the PLC entities taken as a whole,
together with a description of the principal risks and
uncertainties they face.
The Directors and their functions are listed on pages 22 and 23.
Going concern
The activities of the Group, together with the factors likely to
affect its future development, performance and position are set
out on pages 1 to 21 and 25 to 36. The ﬁnancial position of the
Group, its cash ﬂows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are
described in the Financial Review 2009 on pages 37 to 46 and the
Financial Review 2008 on pages 47 to 49. In addition, we describe
in note 15 on pages 104 to 110: the Group’s objectives, policies
and processes for managing its capital; its ﬁnancial risk
management objectives; details of its ﬁnancial instruments and
hedging activities; and its exposures to credit and liquidity risk. 
The Group has considerable ﬁnancial resources together with
established business relationships with many customers and
suppliers in countries throughout the world. As a consequence,
the Directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its
business risks successfully despite the current uncertain outlook.
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable
expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in
operational existence for the foreseeable future. Accordingly, they
continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Annual
Report and Accounts.
Internal and disclosure controls and procedures
Please refer to pages 30 to 34 for a discussion of Unilever’s
principal risk factors and to page 35 for commentary on the
Group’s approach to risk management and control.
76 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Financial statements Auditor’s report Netherlands
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009 77
Independent auditor’s report to the shareholders 
of Unilever N.V.
Report on the consolidated ﬁnancial statements
We have audited the consolidated ﬁnancial statements which are
part of the Annual Report 2009 of the Unilever Group for the year
ended 31 December 2009 which comprise the consolidated
income statement, consolidated balance sheet, consolidated cash
ﬂow statement, consolidated statement of comprehensive income,
consolidated statement of changes in equity and the related notes
on pages 79 to 128 and 131 to 132.
We have reported separately on the company accounts of Unilever
N.V. for the year ended 31 December 2009.
Directors’ responsibility
The Directors are responsible for the preparation and fair
presentation of the consolidated ﬁnancial statements in
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as
adopted by the European Union and as issued by the International
Accounting Standards Board and with Part 9 of Book 2 of the
Netherlands Civil Code, and for the preparation of the Report of
the Directors in accordance with Part 9 of Book 2 of the
Netherlands Civil Code. This responsibility includes: designing,
implementing and maintaining internal control relevant to the
preparation and fair presentation of the consolidated ﬁnancial
statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due
to fraud or error; selecting and applying appropriate accounting
policies; and making accounting estimates that are reasonable in
the circumstances.
Auditor’s responsibility
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the consolidated
ﬁnancial statements based on our audit. We conducted our audit
in accordance with Dutch law. This law requires that we comply 
with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance whether the consolidated ﬁnancial
statements are free from material misstatement.
An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence
about the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated ﬁnancial
statements. The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s
judgement, including the assessment of the risks of material
misstatement of the consolidated ﬁnancial statements, whether
due to fraud or error. In making those risk assessments, the
auditor considers internal control relevant to the entity’s
preparation and fair presentation of the consolidated ﬁnancial
statements in order to design audit procedures that are
appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of
expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the entity’s internal
control. An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of
accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting
estimates made by the Directors, as well as evaluating the overall
presentation of the consolidated ﬁnancial statements. 
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufﬁcient
and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion.
Opinion
In our opinion, the consolidated ﬁnancial statements give a true
and fair view of the ﬁnancial position of the Unilever Group as at 
31 December 2009, and of its result and its cash ﬂows for the year
then ended in accordance with International Financial Reporting
Standards as adopted by the European Union and as issued by the
International Accounting Standards Board and 
with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Netherlands Civil Code.
Report on other legal and regulatory requirements
Pursuant to the legal requirement under 2:393 sub 5 part f 
of the Netherlands Civil Code, we report, to the extent of our
competence, that the Report of the Directors is consistent with the
consolidated ﬁnancial statements as required by 2:391 sub 4 of
the Netherlands Civil Code.
Rotterdam, The Netherlands, 2 March 2010
PricewaterhouseCoopers Accountants N.V.
R A J Swaak RA Auditor’s report United Kingdom
78 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Financial statements
Independent auditors’ report to the members of Unilever
PLC on the consolidated ﬁnancial stetements
We have audited the consolidated ﬁnancial statements of the
Unilever Group for the year ended 31 December 2009 which
comprise the consolidated income statement, consolidated
balance sheet, consolidated cash ﬂow statement, consolidated
statement of comprehensive income, consolidated statement of
changes in equity, the related notes on pages 79 to 128, and
principal group companies and non-current investments on pages
131 and 132. These consolidated ﬁnancial statements have been
prepared under the accounting policies set out in note 1 on pages
83 to 86. The ﬁnancial reporting framework that has been applied
in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial
Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors
As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors’
responsibilities set out on page 76, the directors are responsible for
the preparation of the group ﬁnancial statements and for being
satisﬁed that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to
audit the consolidated ﬁnancial statements in accordance with
applicable law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and
Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing
Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors. 
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only
for the shareholders of Unilever PLC as a body in accordance with
Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other
purpose. We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume
responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to
whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save
where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Scope of the audit of ﬁnancial statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and
disclosures in the ﬁnancial statements sufﬁcient to give reasonable
assurance that the ﬁnancial statements are free from material
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an
assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to
the Group’s circumstances and have been consistently applied and
adequately disclosed; the reasonableness of signiﬁcant accounting
estimates made by the directors; and the overall presentation of
the ﬁnancial statements.
Opinion on ﬁnancial statements
In our opinion the Group ﬁnancial statements:
• give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s affairs as at
31 December 2009 and of its proﬁt and cash ﬂows for the year
then ended;
• have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as
adopted by the European Union; and
• have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the
Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Separate opinion in relation to IFRS as issued by the IASB
As explained in note 1 to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements,
the Group in addition to complying with its legal obligation to
apply IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, has also applied
IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board,
(IASB).
In our opinion the Group ﬁnancial statements comply with IFRSs as
issued by the IASB.
Opinion on other matter prescribed by the Companies Act
2006
In our opinion the information given in the Report of the Directors
for the ﬁnancial year for which the Group ﬁnancial statements are
prepared is consistent with the Group ﬁnancial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following:
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you
if, in our opinion:
• certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration speciﬁed by law
are not made; or 
• we have not received all the information and explanations we
require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review:
• the Directors’ statement, set out on page 76, in relation to
going concern; and
• the part of the Corporate Governance statement relating to the
company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the 2008
Combined Code speciﬁed for our review.
Other matter
We have reported separately on the parent company accounts of
Unilever PLC for the year ended 31 December 2009 and on the
information in the Directors’ Remuneration Report that is
described as having been audited.
Richard Sexton 
(Senior Statutory Auditor)
For and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors
London, United Kingdom
2 March 2010 Financial statements Unilever Group
Consolidated income statement
for the year ended 31 December
€ million € million € million
2009 2008 2007
Continuing operations
Turnover 2 39,823 40,523 40,187
Operating proﬁt 2 5,020 7,167 5,245
After (charging)/crediting:
Restructuring 3 (897) (868) (875)
Business disposals, impairments and other 3 29 2,137 306
Net ﬁnance costs 5 (593) (257) (252)
Finance income 75 106 147
Finance costs (504) (506) (557)
Pensions and similar obligations (164) 143 158
Share of net proﬁt/(loss) of joint ventures 11 111 125 102
Share of net proﬁt/(loss) of associates 11 4 650
Other income from non-current investments 11 374 88 39
Proﬁt before taxation 4,916 7,129 5,184
Taxation 6 (1,257) (1,844) (1,128)
Net proﬁt from continuing operations 3,659 5,285 4,056
Proﬁt for the year from discontinued operations 27 – –80
Net proﬁt 3,659 5,285 4,136
Attributable to:
Minority interests 289 258 248
Shareholders’ equity 3,370 5,027 3,888
Combined earnings per share 7
From continuing operations
Basic earnings per share €1.21 €1.79 €1.32
Diluted earnings per share €1.17 €1.73 €1.28
From discontinued operations
Basic earnings per share – – €0.03
Diluted earnings per share – – €0.03
From total operations
Basic earnings per share €1.21 €1.79 €1.35
Diluted earnings per share €1.17 €1.73 €1.31
References in the consolidated income statement, consolidated statement of comprehensive income, consolidated statement of changes in
equity, consolidated balance sheet and consolidated cash ﬂow statement relate to notes on pages 83 to 128, which form an integral part of the
consolidated ﬁnancial statements. 
Accounting policies of the Unilever Group are set out in note 1 on pages 83 to 86.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009 79 Financial statements Unilever Group
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
for the year ended 31 December
€ million € million € million
2009 2008 2007
Fair value gains/(losses) net of tax:
On cash ﬂow hedges 40 (118) 84
On available-for-sale ﬁnancial assets 65 (46) 2
Actuarial gains/(losses) on pension schemes net of tax 18 (2,293) 542
Currency retranslation gains/(losses) net of tax
(a)
396 (1,688) (413)
Net income/(expense) recognised directly in equity 519 (4,145) 215
Net proﬁt 3,659 5,285 4,136
Total comprehensive income 20 4,178 1,140 4,351
Attributable to:
Minority interests 301 205 237
Shareholders’ equity 3,877 935 4,114
(a) Includes fair value gains/(losses) on net investment hedges of €(58) million (2008: €(560) million; 2007: €(692) million).
See also note 20 on page 117.
Consolidated statement of changes in equity
for the year ended 31 December
€ million € million € million
2009 2008 2007
Equity at 1 January 10,372 12,819 11,672
Total comprehensive income for the year 4,178 1,140 4,351
Dividends on ordinary capital (2,115) (2,052) (2,070)
Movement in treasury stock 129 (1,417) (1,054)
Share-based payment credit 195 125 140
Dividends paid to minority shareholders (244) (208) (251)
Currency retranslation gains/(losses) net of tax 3 (38) (18)
Other movements in equity 18 349
Equity at 31 December 21 12,536 10,372 12,819
For further information on movements in equity please refer to note 21 on page 118.
80 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Financial statements Consolidated balance sheet
as at 31 December
€ million € million
2009 2008
Goodwill 9 12,464 11,665
Intangible assets 9 4,583 4,426
Property, plant and equipment 10 6,644 5,957
Pension asset for funded schemes in surplus 19 759 425
Deferred tax assets 17 738 1,068
Other non-current assets 11 1,017 1,426
Total non-current assets 26,205 24,967
Inventories 12 3,578 3,889
Trade and other current receivables 13 3,429 3,823
Current tax assets 173 234
Cash and cash equivalents 14 2,642 2,561
Other ﬁnancial assets 14 972 632
Non-current assets held for sale 27 17 36
Total current assets 10,811 11,175
Financial liabilities 14 (2,279) (4,842)
Trade payables and other current liabilities 16 (8,413) (7,824)
Current tax liabilities (487) (377)
Provisions 18 (420) (757)
Total current liabilities (11,599) (13,800)
Net current assets/(liabilities) (788) (2,625)
Total assets less current liabilities 25,417 22,342
Financial liabilities due after one year 14 7,692 6,363
Non-current tax liabilities 107 189
Pensions and post-retirement healthcare liabilities:
Funded schemes in deﬁcit 19 1,519 1,820
Unfunded schemes 19 1,822 1,987
Provisions 18 729 646
Deferred tax liabilities 17 764 790
Other non-current liabilities 16 248 175
Total non-current liabilities 12,881 11,970
Share capital 21 484 484
Share premium 21 131 121
Other reserves 21 (5,900) (6,469)
Retained proﬁt 21 17,350 15,812
Shareholders’ equity 12,065 9,948
Minority interests 21 471 424
Total equity 12,536 10,372
Total capital employed 25,417 22,342
Commitments and contingent liabilities are shown in note 25 on pages 121 and 122.
These ﬁnancial statements, together with the Report of the Directors, have been approved by the Directors.
The Board of Directors
2 March 2010
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009 81 Financial statements Unilever Group
Consolidated cash ﬂow statement
for the year ended 31 December
€ million € million € million
2009 2008 2007
Cash ﬂow from operating activities 28 6,733 5,326 5,188
Income tax paid (959) (1,455) (1,312)
Net cash ﬂow from operating activities 5,774 3,871 3,876
Interest received 73 105 146
Purchase of intangible assets (121) (147) (136)
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (1,248) (1,142) (1,046)
Disposal of property, plant and equipment 111 190 163
Sale and leaseback transactions resulting in operating leases – –36
Acquisition of group companies, joint ventures and associates (409) (211) (214)
Disposal of group companies, joint ventures and associates 270 2,476 164
Acquisition of other non-current investments (95) (126) (50)
Disposal of other non-current investments 224 47 33
Dividends from joint ventures, associates and other non-current investments 201 132 188
(Purchase)/sale of ﬁnancial assets (269) 91 93
Net cash ﬂow (used in)/from investing activities (1,263) 1,415 (623)
Dividends paid on ordinary share capital (2,106) (2,086) (2,182)
Interest and preference dividends paid (517) (487) (552)
Additional ﬁnancial liabilities 2,913 4,544 4,283
Repayment of ﬁnancial liabilities (4,456) (3,427) (2,896)
Sale and leaseback transactions resulting in ﬁnance leases – (1) 25
Capital element of ﬁnance lease rental payments (24) (66) (74)
Share buy-back programme – (1,503) (1,500)
Other movements on treasury stock 103 103 442
Other ﬁnancing activities (214) (207) (555)
Net cash ﬂow (used in)/from ﬁnancing activities (4,301) (3,130) (3,009)
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 210 2,156 244
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 2,360 901 710
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes (173) (697) (53)
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 14 2,397 2,360 901
The cash ﬂows of pension funds (other than contributions and other direct payments made by the Group in respect of pensions and similar
obligations) are not included in the consolidated cash ﬂow statement. Cash ﬂows relating to discontinued operations included above are set out
in note 27 on page 125.
82 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Financial statements Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements Unilever Group
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009 83
1 Accounting information and policies
The accounting policies adopted are the same as those which applied
for the previous ﬁnancial year, except as set out below under the
heading of ‘Recent accounting developments’.
Unilever
The two parent companies, NV and PLC, together with their group
companies, operate as a single economic entity (the Unilever Group,
also referred to as Unilever or the Group). NV and PLC have the same
Directors and are linked by a series of agreements, including an
Equalisation Agreement, which are designed so that the position of
the shareholders of both companies is as nearly as possible the same
as if they held shares in a single company. 
The Equalisation Agreement provides that both companies adopt 
the same accounting principles and requires as a general rule 
the dividends and other rights and beneﬁts (including rights on
liquidation) attaching to each €0.16 nominal of ordinary share capital
of NV to be equal in value at the relevant rate of exchange to the
dividends and other rights and beneﬁts attaching to each 3
1
⁄9p
nominal of ordinary share capital of PLC, as if each such unit of capital
formed part of the ordinary capital of one and the same company. 
For additional information please refer to ‘Corporate governance’
on page 56.
Basis of consolidation
Due to the operational and contractual arrangements referred to
above, NV and PLC form a single reporting entity for the purposes 
of presenting consolidated accounts. Accordingly, the accounts of
Unilever are presented by both NV and PLC as their respective
consolidated accounts. Group companies included in the consolidation
are those companies controlled by NV or PLC. Control exists when the
Group has the power to govern the ﬁnancial and operating policies of
an entity so as to obtain beneﬁts from its activities.
The net assets and results of acquired businesses are included in the
consolidated accounts from their respective dates of acquisition, being
the date on which the Group obtains control. The results of disposed
businesses are included in the consolidated accounts up to their date
of disposal, being the date control ceases.
Inter-company transactions and balances are eliminated.
Companies legislation and accounting standards
The consolidated accounts have been prepared in accordance with
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by 
the European Union (EU), IFRIC Interpretations and in accordance with
Part 9 of Book 2 of the Civil Code in the Netherlands and the United
Kingdom Companies Act 2006. They are also in compliance with IFRS
as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
The accounts are prepared under the historical cost convention unless
otherwise indicated.
The accounting policies adopted are consistent with those of the
previous ﬁnancial year except as set out on page 86.
Foreign currencies
Items included in the ﬁnancial statements of group companies are
measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in
which each entity operates (its functional currency). The consolidated
ﬁnancial statements are presented in euros. The functional currencies
of NV and PLC are euros and sterling respectively.
Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional
currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the
transactions. Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the
settlement of such transactions and from the translation at year-end
exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in
foreign currencies are recognised in the income statement, except
when deferred in equity as qualifying hedges. Those arising on trading
transactions are taken to operating proﬁt; those arising on cash,
ﬁnancial assets and ﬁnancial liabilities are classiﬁed as ﬁnance income
or cost.
In preparing the consolidated ﬁnancial statements, the income
statement, the cash ﬂow statement and all other movements in assets
and liabilities are translated at average rates of exchange. The balance
sheet, other than the ordinary share capital of NV and PLC, is
translated at year-end rates of exchange. In the case of hyper-
inﬂationary economies the accounts are adjusted to reﬂect current
price levels and remove the inﬂuences of inﬂation before being
translated.
The ordinary share capital of NV and PLC is translated in accordance
with the Equalisation Agreement. The difference between the resulting
value for PLC and the value derived by applying the year-end rate of
exchange is taken to other reserves (see note 23 on page 119).
The effects of exchange rate changes during the year on net 
assets at the beginning of the year are recorded as a movement in
shareholders’ equity, as is the difference between proﬁt of the year
retained at average rates of exchange and at year-end rates of
exchange. For these purposes net assets include loans between group
companies and related foreign exchange contracts, if any, for which
settlement is neither planned nor likely to occur in the foreseeable
future. Exchange gains/losses on hedges of net assets are also recorded
as a movement in equity.
Cumulative exchange differences arising since the date of transition to
IFRS of 1 January 2004 are reported as a separate component of other
reserves (see note 23 on page 119). In the event of disposal or part
disposal of an interest in a group company either through sale or as a
result of a repayment of capital, the cumulative exchange difference is
recognised in the income statement as part of the proﬁt or loss on
disposal of group companies.
Business combinations
Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition
accounting method. This involves recognising identiﬁable assets 
and liabilities of the acquired business at fair value as at the date
of acquisition.
Acquisitions of minority interests are accounted for using the parent
entity method, whereby the difference between the consideration 
and the book value of the share of the net assets acquired is
recognised as goodwill.
Goodwill
Goodwill (being the difference between the fair value of consideration
paid for new interests in group companies and the fair value of the
Group’s share of their net identiﬁable assets and contingent liabilities
at the date of acquisition) is capitalised. Goodwill is not amortised, but
is subject to an annual review for impairment (or more frequently if
necessary). Any impairment is charged to the income statement as it
arises. 
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired in a business
combination is, from the acquisition date, allocated to each of the
Group’s cash generating units, or groups of cash generating units, that
are expected to beneﬁt from the synergies of the combination,
irrespective of whether other assets or liabilities of the acquired
business are assigned to those units or group of units. Each unit or
group of units to which the goodwill is allocated represents the lowest
level within the Group at which the goodwill is monitored for internal
management purposes, and is not larger than an operating segment.
Intangible assets
On acquisition of group companies, Unilever recognises any speciﬁcally
identiﬁable intangible assets separately from goodwill, initially
measuring the intangible assets at fair value as at the date of
acquisition. Separately purchased intangible assets are initially
measured at cost. Finite-lived intangible assets mainly comprise
patented and non-patented technology, know-how and software.
These assets are capitalised and amortised on a straight-line basis in
the income statement over the period of their expected useful lives, or
the period of legal rights if shorter, none of which exceeds ten years.
Periods in excess of ﬁve years are used only where the Directors are
satisﬁed that the life of these assets will clearly exceed that period. Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements Unilever Group
84 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Financial statements
1 Accounting information and policies (continued)
Indeﬁnite-lived intangibles are not amortised, but are subject to an
annual review for impairment (or more frequently if necessary).
Any impairment is charged to the income statement as it arises. 
Unilever monitors the level of product development costs against 
all the criteria set out in IAS 38. These include the requirement to
establish that a ﬂow of economic beneﬁts is probable before costs are
capitalised. For Unilever this is evident only shortly before a product is
launched into the market. The level of costs incurred after these
criteria have been met is currently insigniﬁcant.
Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less depreciation 
and impairment. Eligible borrowing costs are capitalised as part of the
cost of an asset. Depreciation is provided on a straight-line basis at
percentages of cost based on the expected average useful lives of the
assets and their residual values which are reviewed at least annually.
Estimated useful lives by major class of assets are as follows:
Freehold buildings 40 years
(no depreciation on freehold land)
Leasehold buildings 40 years*
Plant and equipment 2–20 years
*or life of lease if less than 40 years
Property, plant and equipment is subject to review for impairment
if triggering events or circumstances indicate that this is necessary. 
Any impairment is charged to the income statement as it arises.
Other non-current assets
Joint ventures are undertakings in which the Group has an interest and
which are jointly controlled by the Group and one or more other
parties. Associates are undertakings in which the Group has an
investment and can exercise signiﬁcant inﬂuence.
Interests in joint ventures and associates are accounted for using the
equity method and are stated in the consolidated balance sheet at 
cost, adjusted for the movement in the Group’s share of their net
assets and liabilities. The Group’s share of the proﬁt or loss after tax 
of joint ventures and associates is included in the Group’s consolidated
proﬁt before taxation.
Biological assets are stated at fair value less costs to sell.
Financial instruments
Financial assets
The classiﬁcation of ﬁnancial assets is determined at initial recognition
depending on the purpose for which they were acquired.  Any
impairment is recognised in the income statement as it arises.
Held-to-maturity investments
Held-to-maturity investments are assets with set cash ﬂows and ﬁxed
maturities which Unilever intends to hold to maturity. They are held at
cost plus interest using the effective interest method, less any
impairments.
Loans and receivables
Loans and receivables have set payments and are not quoted in an
active market. They arise when the Group provides money, goods or
services. Loans and receivables are included in the balance sheet at
amortised cost.
Short-term loans and receivables are initially measured at original
invoice amount less any impairments.
Financial assets at fair value through proﬁt or loss
A ﬁnancial asset is in this category if it is intended to be sold in the
short term. They are current assets if they are expected to be realised
within 12 months. Transaction costs related to the purchase of the
assets are expensed as incurred. Derivatives are classiﬁed here unless
they are designated as hedges. Gains and losses arising from changes
in value are included in the income statement.
Available-for-sale ﬁnancial assets
Available-for-sale ﬁnancial assets are assets that are designated in this
category or not classiﬁed in any of the other categories. They are non-
current assets unless the Group intends to dispose of them within 12
months. Changes in value are recognised in equity until the investment
is sold or impaired, when they are included in the income statement.
Interest on available-for-sale securities is calculated using the effective
interest rate method and recognised within other income. Dividends
on equity investments are also recognised within other income.
Financial liabilities
Financial liabilities are recognised initially at fair value, net of
transaction costs. They are subsequently held at amortised cost unless
they are part of a fair value hedge. Any difference between the
amount on initial recognition and the redemption value is recognised
in the income statement using the effective interest method.
Short-term ﬁnancial liabilities are measured at original invoice amount.
Derivatives
Derivatives are measured on the balance sheet at fair value and are
used primarily to manage the risks of changes in exchange and interest
rates. The Group uses foreign exchange forward contracts, interest
rate swap contracts and forward rate agreements to hedge these
exposures. The Group also uses commodity contracts to hedge some
raw materials. Contracts that can be settled in cash are treated as
ﬁnancial instruments. The Group does not use derivative ﬁnancial
instruments for speculative purposes.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives that do not qualify for hedge
accounting are recognised in the income statement as they arise.
Cash ﬂow hedges
Changes in the value of derivatives used as hedges of future cash
ﬂows are recognised in equity with any ineffective portion recognised
in the income statement. If the cash ﬂow hedge results in the
recognition of a non-ﬁnancial asset or a liability the gain or loss on the
derivative is included in the initial measurement of that asset or
liability. For other cash ﬂow hedges amounts deferred in equity are
taken to the income statement when the hedged item affects proﬁt 
or loss.
When a hedging instrument no longer qualiﬁes for hedge accounting,
any cumulative gain or loss is retained in equity until the forecasted
transaction occurs. If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to
occur, the cumulative gain or loss is transferred to the income
statement.
Fair value hedges
In an effective fair value hedge, the hedged item is adjusted for
changes in fair value, with the corresponding entry in the income
statement. Gains and losses on the hedging instrument are recognised
in the income statement. In a fully effective hedge the adjustments to
the income statement are of equal and opposite value. For non-
derivatives only the foreign currency element can be a hedging
instrument.
Net investment hedges
Net investment hedges are hedges of exchange risks from investments
in foreign subsidiaries. Gains and losses are recognised in equity. The
accumulated gains and losses are taken to the income statement when
the foreign operation is sold or partially disposed.
Valuation principles
The fair values of quoted investments are based on current bid prices.
For listed securities where the market is not liquid, and for unlisted
securities, the Group uses valuation techniques. These include the use
of recent arm’s length transactions, reference to other instruments that
are substantially the same and discounted cash ﬂow calculations. Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009 85
1 Accounting information and policies (continued)
Impairment of ﬁnancial instruments
At each balance sheet date the Group assesses whether there is
evidence that ﬁnancial assets are impaired. A signiﬁcant or prolonged
fall in value below cost is considered in determining whether an asset
is impaired. For available-for-sale ﬁnancial assets the cumulative loss is
removed from equity and recognised in the income statement. Any
subsequent reversals of impairment losses on available-for-sale equity
instruments are not recognised in the income statement.
Inventories
Inventories are valued at the lower of weighted average cost and net
realisable value. Cost comprises direct costs and, where appropriate, 
a proportion of attributable production overheads.
Cash and cash equivalents
For the purpose of preparation of the cash ﬂow statement, cash and
cash equivalents includes cash at bank and in hand, highly liquid
interest-bearing securities with original maturities of three months 
or less, investments in money market funds with insigniﬁcant risk of
changes in value, and bank overdrafts.
Pensions and similar obligations
The operating and ﬁnancing costs of deﬁned beneﬁt plans are
recognised separately in the income statement. Service costs are
systematically allocated over the service lives of employees, and
ﬁnancing costs are recognised in the periods in which they arise. The
costs of individual events such as past service beneﬁt enhancements,
settlements and curtailments are recognised immediately in the income
statement. Variations from expected costs, arising from the experience
of the plans or changes in actuarial assumptions, are recognised
immediately in the statement of comprehensive income. The deﬁned
beneﬁt plan surplus or deﬁcit in the balance sheet comprises the total
for each plan of the fair value of plan assets less the present value of
the deﬁned beneﬁt obligation (using a discount rate based on high
quality corporate bonds).
The charges to the income statement for deﬁned contribution plans
are the company contributions payable, and the assets and liabilities
of such plans are not included in the balance sheet of the Group.
All deﬁned beneﬁt plans are subject to regular actuarial review using
the projected unit method, either by external consultants or by
actuaries employed by Unilever. Group policy is that the most
important plans, representing approximately 80% of the deﬁned
beneﬁt liabilities, are formally valued every year; other principal plans,
accounting for approximately a further 15% of liabilities, have their
liabilities updated each year. Group policy for the remaining plans
requires a full actuarial valuation at least every three years. Asset values
for all plans are updated every year.
Taxation
Income tax on the proﬁt or loss for the year comprises current and
deferred tax. Income tax is recognised in the income statement except
to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity. 
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for 
the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the 
balance sheet date, and any adjustments to tax payable in respect 
of previous years.
Deferred taxation is recognised using the liability method on taxable
temporary differences between the tax base and the accounting base 
of items included in the balance sheet of the Group. The following
temporary differences are not provided for: goodwill not deductible for
tax purposes, the initial recognition of assets or liabilities that affect
neither accounting nor taxable proﬁt, and differences relating to
investments in subsidiaries to the extent that they will probably not
reverse in the forseeable future. The amount of deferred tax provided 
is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the
carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using tax rates prevailing at
the year end unless future rates have been enacted or substantively
enacted. 
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable
that future taxable proﬁts will be available against which the asset can
be utilised. Deferred tax assets are reduced to the extent that it is no
longer probable that the related tax beneﬁt will be realised. 
Provisions
Provisions are recognised when either a legal or constructive
obligation, as a result of a past event, exists at the balance sheet date
and where the amount of the obligation can be reliably estimated.
Segment information
Segment information is provided based on the geographic segments
of the management structure of the Group. Additional information is
provided by product area. 
Revenue recognition
Turnover comprises sales of goods and services after deduction of
discounts and sales taxes. It does not include sales between group
companies. Discounts given by Unilever include rebates, price
reductions and incentives given to customers, promotional couponing
and trade communication costs. 
Turnover is recognised when the risks and rewards of the underlying
products and services have been substantially transferred to the
customer. Revenue from services is recognised as the services 
are performed. Interest income is recognised as interest accrues 
using the effective interest method.
Research and market support costs
Expenditure on research and market support, such as advertising, 
is charged to the income statement when incurred.
Leases
Leases are classiﬁed as ﬁnance leases whenever the terms of the lease
transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the
lessee. All other leases are classiﬁed as operating leases.
Assets held under ﬁnance leases are recognised as non-current assets
of the Group at their fair value at the date of commencement of 
the lease or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease
payments. These assets are depreciated on a straight-line basis over
the shorter of the useful life of the asset and the lease term. The
corresponding liability to the lessor is included in the balance sheet as
a ﬁnance lease obligation. Lease payments are apportioned between
ﬁnance charges and reduction of the lease obligation so as to achieve
a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges are charged directly against income. 
Lease payments under operating leases are charged to the income
statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
Share-based payments
The economic cost of awarding shares and share options to employees
is reﬂected by recording a charge in the income statement equivalent
to the fair value of the beneﬁt awarded over the vesting period. The
fair value is determined with reference to option pricing models,
principally adjusted Black-Scholes models or a multinomial pricing
model.
Shares held by employee share trusts
The assets and liabilities of certain PLC trusts, NV and group
companies which purchase and hold NV and PLC shares to satisfy
options granted are included in the consolidated accounts. The book
value of shares held is deducted from other reserves, and trusts’
borrowings are included in the Group’s liabilities. The costs of the
trusts are included in the results of the Group. These shares are
excluded from the calculation of earnings per share.
Assets held for sale
Assets and groups of assets and liabilities which comprise disposal
groups are classiﬁed as ‘held for sale’ when all of the following criteria
are met: a decision has been made to sell, the assets are available for
sale immediately, the assets are being actively marketed, and a sale has
been or is expected to be concluded within twelve months of 
the balance sheet date. Assets and disposal groups held for sale
are valued at the lower of book value or fair value less disposal 
costs. Assets held for sale are not depreciated. Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements Unilever Group
86 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Financial statements
1 Accounting information and policies (continued)
Critical accounting estimates and judgements
Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are based 
on historical experience and other factors, including expectations 
of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the
circumstances.
The preparation of ﬁnancial statements requires management to make
estimates and assumptions concerning the future. The resulting
accounting estimates will, by deﬁnition, seldom equal the related
actual results. The estimates and assumptions that have a signiﬁcant
risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets
and liabilities within the next ﬁnancial year are discussed below.
Income statement presentation
On the face of the income statement, costs and revenues relating 
to restructuring, business disposals and impairments are disclosed. 
In addition, individual items judged to be signiﬁcant are disclosed
separately. These are material in terms of nature and amount. These
disclosures are given in order to provide additional information to help
users better understand ﬁnancial performance.
Impairment of goodwill and indeﬁnite-lived intangible assets
Impairment reviews in respect of goodwill and indeﬁnite-lived
intangible assets are performed at least annually. More regular reviews
are performed if events indicate that this is necessary. Examples of
such triggering events would include a signiﬁcant planned
restructuring, a major change in market conditions or technology,
expectations of future operating losses, or negative cash ﬂows.
The recoverable amounts of cash-generating units are determined
based on the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value-in-use
calculations. These calculations require the use of estimates. Details
of key assumptions made are set out in note 9 on page 94.
Retirement beneﬁts
Pension accounting requires certain assumptions to be made in order
to value our obligations and to determine the charges to be made 
to the income statement. These ﬁgures are particularly sensitive to
assumptions for discount rates, mortality, inﬂation rates and expected
long-term rates of return on assets. Details of assumptions made are
given in note 19 on pages 113 to 115.
Taxation
The Group is subject to taxes in numerous jurisdictions. Signiﬁcant
judgement is required in determining worldwide provision for taxes.
There are many transactions and calculations during the ordinary
course of business for which the ultimate tax determination is
uncertain. The Group recognises liabilities for anticipated tax audit
issues based on estimates of whether additional taxes will be due.
Where the ﬁnal tax outcome of these matters is different from the
amounts that were initially recorded, such differences will impact the
income tax and deferred tax provisions in the period in which such
determination is made.
Provisions
Provision is made, among other reasons, for legal matters, disputed
indirect taxes, employee termination costs and restructuring where 
a legal or constructive obligation exists at the balance sheet date and
a reliable estimate can be made of the likely outcome. The nature of
these costs is such that judgement has to be applied to estimate the
timing and amount of cash outﬂows.
Recent accounting developments
Adopted by the Group
The Group adopted IFRS 7 ‘Financial Instruments: Disclosures’
amendments (effective for periods beginning on or after 1 January
2009) which requires additional disclosures about fair value
measurement and liquidity risk. 
IFRS 8 ‘Operating Segments’ (effective for periods beginning on
or after 1 January 2009) has replaced IAS 14 Segment Reporting and
introduced a management approach to segment reporting.
We have implemented the Revised IAS 1 ‘Presentation of Financial
Statements’ relating to the presentation of the statement of
comprehensive income.
The Group has also adopted the following new and amended IFRSs
and IFRIC interpretations with no material impact:
• Amendment to IFRS 2 ‘Share-based Payment’ relating to vesting
conditions and  cancellations.
• Revised IAS 23 ‘Borrowing Costs’ relating to capitalisation of
borrowing costs. 
• IFRIC 13 ‘Customer Loyalty Programmes’ requiring customer loyalty
credits to be accounted for as a separate component of the sales
transaction in which they are granted. 
• IFRIC 16 ‘Hedges of a Net Investment in a Foreign Operation’
relating to guidance on the accounting for hedges of a net
investment in foreign operations.
• IFRIC 18 ‘Transfers of Assets from Customers’ relating to treatment
of items of property plant and equipment or cash to acquire or
construct such assets received from customers.
Not adopted by the Group
The Group is currently assessing the impact of the following revised
standards and interpretations or amendments that are not yet
effective. These changes will be adopted on the effective dates noted
and are not expected to have a material impact on the Group’s results
of operations, ﬁnancial position or disclosures:
• IFRS 3 ‘Business Combinations (Revised)’ and IAS 27 ‘Consolidated
and Separate Financial Statements (Amended)’ (effective for periods
beginning on or after 1 July 2009). The changes will affect future
acquisitions or loss of control of subsidiaries and transactions with
non-controlling interests. 
• IFRS 2 (Amendments), ‘Group cash-settled and share-based
payment transactions’ (effective 1 January 2010).
• Amendment to IAS 39 ‘Financial Instruments: Recognition and
Measurement – Eligible Hedged Items’ (effective for periods
beginning or on 1 July 2009). 
• IFRIC 17, ‘Distribution of non-cash assets to owners’ (effective for
periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009). 
• Improvements to IFRSs (issued April 2009) (effective for periods
beginning on or after 1 January 2010). Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009 87
2 Segment information
Our operating and reportable segments are the three operating regions of Asia Africa Central and Eastern Europe, The Americas and Western
Europe. Additional information is provided by product area; our products are sold across all operating regions.
The analysis of turnover by geographical area is stated on the basis of origin. Turnover on a destination basis would not be materially different. 
Inter-segment sales are carried out at arm’s length.  Inter-segment sales were not material. Other non-cash charges include charges to the income
statement during the year in respect of the share-based compensation, impairment and provisions. Segment results are presented on the basis of
operating proﬁt.
€ million € million € million € million
Asia Africa The Western
CEE Americas Europe Total
2009
Turnover 14,897 12,850 12,076 39,823
Operating proﬁt 1,927 1,843 1,250 5,020
Restructuring, disposals and other one-off items (RDIs)
(a)
(147) (231) (490) (868)
Operating proﬁt before RDIs 2,074 2,074 1,740 5,888
Share of net proﬁt/(loss) of joint ventures –6249 111
Share of net proﬁt/(loss) of associates –– 4 4
Depreciation and amortisation (301) (311) (407) (1,019)
Impairment and other non-cash charges (111) (196) (194) (501)
2008
Turnover 14,471 13,199 12,853 40,523
Operating proﬁt 1,701 2,945 2,521 7,167
Restructuring, disposals and other one-off items (RDIs)
(a)
6 907 356 1,269
Operating proﬁt before RDIs 1,695 2,038 2,165 5,898
Share of net proﬁt/(loss) of joint ventures 2 63 60 125
Share of net proﬁt/(loss) of associates – – 6 6
Depreciation and amortisation (247) (283) (426) (956)
Impairment and other non-cash charges (27)
(b)
(236) (293) (556)
2007
Turnover 13,418 13,442 13,327 40,187
Operating proﬁt 1,711 1,971 1,563 5,245
Restructuring, disposals and other one-off items (RDIs)
(a)
109 (98) (580) (569)
Operating proﬁt before RDIs 1,602 2,069 2,143 5,814
Share of net proﬁt/(loss) of joint ventures 2 74 26 102
Share of net proﬁt/(loss) of associates – – 50 50
Depreciation and amortisation (231) (297) (416) (944)
Impairment and other non-cash charges (91) (216) (341) (648)
(a) Restructuring, disposals and other one-off items. See note 3 on page 89 for further information.
(b) Including the reversal of provisions following sale of edible oil business in Côte d’Ivoire (see note 26 on page 123). Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements Unilever Group
88 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Financial statements
2 Segment information (continued)
The home countries of the Unilever Group are the Netherlands and the United Kingdom. Turnover and non-current assets (other than other non-
current ﬁnancial assets, deferred tax assets and pension assets for funded schemes in surplus) for these two countries combined, the USA (being
the largest country outside the home countries) and all other countries are:
€ million € million € million € million
Netherlands/
United All other 
2009 Kingdom USA countries Total
Turnover 3,384 6,332 30,107 39,823
Non-current assets 2,434 5,498 16,291 24,223
2008
Turnover 3,543 6,606 30,374 40,523
Non-current assets 2,079 5,533 14,958 22,570
2007
Turnover 3,768 7,120 29,299 40,187
No other country had turnover or non-current assets (as shown above) greater than 10% of the Group total.
Additional information by product area
Although the Group’s operations are managed on a geographical basis, we provide additional information based on brands grouped into four
principal areas, as set out below.
Savoury, dressings and spreads – including sales of soups, bouillons, sauces, snacks, mayonnaise, salad dressings, margarines and spreads,
and cooking products such as liquid margarines.
Ice cream and beverages – including sales of ice cream, tea-based beverages, weight management products, and nutritionally enhanced
staples sold in developing markets. 
Personal care – including sales of skin care and hair care products, deodorants and anti-perspirants, and oral care products.
Home care and other operations – including sales of home care products, such as laundry tablets, powders and liquids, soap bars and a wide
range of cleaning products. To support our consumer brands, we own tea plantations, the results of which are reported within this segment.
€ million € million € million € million € million
Savoury, Ice cream
dressings and PersonalHome care
and spreads beverages care and other Total
2009
Turnover 13,256 7,753 11,846 6,968 39,823
Operating proﬁt 1,840 731 1,834 615 5,020
Share of net proﬁt/(loss) of joint ventures 14 87 4 6 111
Share of net proﬁt/(loss) of associates ––– 4 4
2008
Turnover 14,232 7,694 11,383 7,214 40,523
Operating proﬁt 3,216 915 1,824 1,212 7,167
Share of net proﬁt/(loss) of joint ventures 15 98 5 7 125
Share of net proﬁt/(loss) of associates – – – 6 6
2007
Turnover 13,988 7,600 11,302 7,297 40,187
Operating proﬁt 2,059 809 1,786 591 5,245
Share of net proﬁt/(loss) of joint ventures 15 85 1 1 102
Share of net proﬁt/(loss) of associates – – – 50 50 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009 89
3 Gross proﬁt and operating costs
€ million € million € million
2009 2008 2007
Turnover 39,823 40,523 40,187
Cost of sales (20,580) (21,342) (20,558)
Gross proﬁt 19,243 19,181 19,629
Distribution and selling costs (9,468) (9,309) (9,489)
Administrative expenses (4,755) (2,705) (4,895)
Research and development (891) (927) (868)
Other
(a)
(3,864) (1,778) (4,027)
Operating proﬁt 5,020 7,167 5,245
(a) Includes gain on disposals of group companies, amortisation of ﬁnite-lived intangible assets and impairment of goodwill and intangible
assets. Gains on business disposals were particularly signiﬁcant in 2008 (see below and note 26 on page 124).
The following items are disclosed on the face of the income statement to provide additional information to users to help them better understand
underlying business performance.
€ million € million € million
2009 2008 2007
Restructuring (897) (868) (875)
Business disposals, impairments and other:
Gain/(loss) on disposals of group companies 4 2,190 297
Impairments – (53) –
(Provision for)/release of Brazilian sales tax 25 –9
Restructuring costs are incurred as Unilever continues to simplify the organisation, reorganise operations and support functions and redevelop the
portfolio. They primarily relate to redundancy and retirement costs. Business disposals generate both costs and revenues which are not reﬂective
of underlying performance. Impairment charges are primarily recognised for goodwill other than where included in restructuring or as part of
business disposals. 
Other items within operating costs include:
€ million € million € million
2009 2008 2007
Staff costs  4 (5,223) (5,274) (5,537)
Raw and packaging materials and goods purchased for resale (15,267) (16,489) (15,588)
Amortisation of ﬁnite-lived intangible assets and software (168) (168) (140)
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment (851) (788) (804)
Advertising and promotions (5,302) (5,055) (5,289)
Exchange gains/(losses): (33) 108 (15)
On underlying transactions (19) 77 (10)
On covering forward contracts (14) 31 (5)
Lease rentals: (472) (487) (477)
Minimum operating lease payments (475) (495) (488)
Contingent operating lease payments (3) – –
Less: Sub-lease income relating to operating lease agreements 6 811 Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements Unilever Group
90 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Financial statements
4 Staff and management costs
€ million € million € million
Staff costs 2009 2008 2007
Remuneration of employees (4,162) (4,193) (4,418)
Pensions and other post-employment beneﬁts (256) (329) (321)
Social security costs (610) (627) (646)
Share-based compensation costs (195) (125) (152)
(5,223) (5,274) (5,537)
’000 ’000 ’000
Average number of employees during the year 2009 2008 2007
Asia, Africa and Central & Eastern Europe 98 100 96
The Americas 41 42 44
Western Europe 29 32 35
168 174 175
€ million € million € million
Key management compensation 2009 2008 2007
Salaries and short-term employee beneﬁts (13) (16) (19)
Non-Executive Directors’ fees (2) (2) (2)
Post-employment beneﬁts (2) (5) (2)
Share-based beneﬁts (7) (7) (2)
(24) (30) (25)
Of which:
Executive Directors (7) (16) (12)
Non-Executive Directors (2) (2) (2)
Other (15) (12) (11)
(24) (30) (25)
Key management personnel are deﬁned as the members of UEx and the Non-Executive Directors.
Details of the remuneration of Directors are given in the parts noted as audited in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 67 to 73. See
also note 30 on page 128 for information on related party transactions.
5 Net f ﬁnance costs
€ million € million € million
Finance costs 2009 2008 2007
Finance costs (504) (506) (557)
Bank loans and overdrafts (47) (73) (62)
Bonds and other loans (429) (429) (493)
Dividends paid on preference shares (7) (7) (7)
Preference shares provision –– (7)
Net gain/(loss) on natural hedges
(a)
(21) 312
On interest rate swaps –– (1)
On foreign exchange derivatives (168) (221) 538
Exchange difference on underlying items 147 224 (525)
Finance income 75 106 147
Pensions and similar obligations
(b)
(164) 143 158
(593) (257) (252)
(a) For further details on natural hedges please refer to note 15 on pages 107 and 108.
(b) Net ﬁnance costs in respect of pensions and similar obligations are analysed in note 19 on page 116. Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009 91
6 Taxation
€ million € million € million
Tax charge in income statement 2009 2008 2007
Current tax
Current year (1,263) (1,650) (1,118)
Over/(under) provided in prior years
(a)
151 80 226
(1,112) (1,570) (892)
Deferred tax
Origination and reversal of temporary differences (276) (271) (261)
Changes in tax rates 3 (3) 21
Recognition of previously unrecognised losses brought forward 128 –4
(145) (274) (236)
(1,257) (1,844) (1,128)
(a) Provisions have been released following the favourable settlement of prior year tax audits in a number of countries, none of which is
individually material. 
The reconciliation between the computed weighted average rate of income tax expense, which is generally applicable to Unilever companies, and
the actual rate of taxation charged is as follows:
% %%
Reconciliation of effective tax rate 2009 2008 2007
Computed rate of tax
(b)
29 30 29
Differences due to:
Incentive tax credits (6) (5) (6)
Withholding tax on dividends 2 22
Adjustments to previous years (3) (2) (5)
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 1 12
Other 3 ––
Effective tax rate 26 26 22
(b) The computed tax rate used is the average of the standard rate of tax applicable in the countries in which Unilever operates, weighted by the
amount of proﬁt before taxation generated in each of those countries. For this reason the rate may vary from year to year according to the
mix of proﬁt and related tax rates. Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements Unilever Group
92 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Financial statements
7 Combined earnings per share
€ €€
Combined earnings per share 2009 2008 2007
From continuing operations
Basic earnings per share 1.21 1.79 1.32
Diluted earnings per share 1.17 1.73 1.28
From discontinued operations
Basic earnings per share – – 0.03
Diluted earnings per share – – 0.03
From total operations
Basic earnings per share 1.21 1.79 1.35
Diluted earnings per share 1.17 1.73 1.31
From total operations before RDIs (see below)
Basic earnings per share 1.33 1.43 1.42
Diluted earnings per share 1.29 1.38 1.37
Basis of calculation
The calculations of combined earnings per share are based on the net proﬁt attributable to ordinary capital divided by the average number of
share units representing the combined ordinary share capital of NV and PLC in issue during the year, after deducting shares held as treasury stock.
The calculations of diluted earnings per share are based on: (i) conversion into PLC ordinary shares of those shares in a group company which are
convertible in the year 2038, as described in Corporate governance on page 58; and (ii) the effect of share-based compensation plans, details of
which are set out in note 29 on pages 126 to 127.
Millions of share units
Calculation of average number of share units 2009 2008 2007
Average number of shares: NV 1,714.7 1,714.7 1,714.7
PLC 1,310.2 1,310.2 1,310.2
Less shares held by employee share trusts and companies (228.6) (215.3) (150.3)
Combined average number of share units for all bases except diluted earnings per share 2,796.3 2,809.6 2,874.6
Add shares issuable in 2038 70.9 70.9 70.9
Add dilutive effect of share-based compensation plans 22.8 25.4 30.6
Adjusted combined average number of share units for diluted earnings per share basis 2,890.0 2,905.9 2,976.1
€ million € million € million
Calculation of earnings 2009 2008 2007
For earnings per share from total operations:
Net proﬁt attributable to ordinary capital for total operations 3,370 5,027 3,888
For earnings per share from continuing operations:
Net proﬁt from continuing operations 3,659 5,285 4,056
Minority interest in continuing operations (289) (258) (248)
Net proﬁt attributable to ordinary capital for continuing operations 3,370 5,027 3,808
For earnings per share before restructuring, business disposals and other one-off items (RDIs)
Net proﬁt attributable to ordinary capital for total operations 3,370 5,027 3,888
RDIs included in operating proﬁt  3 868 (1,269) 569
Tax impact of RDIs in operating proﬁt (249) 333 (242)
Other RDIs within income statement
(a)
(264) (82) (141)
Net proﬁt attributable to ordinary capital before RDIs 3,725 4,009 4,074
(a) In 2009 this included a gain of €327 million from the disposal of the majority of our equity interest in JohnsonDiversey.
The numbers of shares included in the calculation of earnings per share is an average for the period. These numbers are inﬂuenced by the share
buy-back programmes that we undertook during 2007 and 2008. During those periods the following movements in shares took place:
Millions of share units
2009 2008 2007
Number of shares at 1 January (net of treasury stock) 2,789.1 2,853.1 2,889.9
Net movements in shares under incentive schemes  15.1 11.4 29.7
Share buy-back – (75.4) (66.5)
Number of shares at 31 December 2,804.2 2,789.1 2,853.1 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009 93
8 Dividends on ordinary capital
€ million € million € million
Dividends paid on ordinary capital during the year 2009 2008 2007
Final NV dividend for the prior year (786) (779) (767)
Final PLC dividend for the prior year (570) (548) (589)
Interim NV dividend for the current year (417) (397) (400)
Interim PLC dividend for the current year (342) (328) (314)
(2,115) (2,052) (2,070)
Of which:
NV dividends (1,203) (1,176) (1,167)
PLC dividends (912) (876) (903)
Full details of dividends per share for the years 2005 to 2009 are given on page 130.
9 Goodwill and intangible assets
Indeﬁnite-lived intangible assets principally comprise those trademarks for which there is no foreseeable limit to the period over which they are
expected to generate net cash inﬂows. These are considered to have an indeﬁnite life, given the strength and durability of our brands and the 
level of marketing support. Brands that are classiﬁed as indeﬁnite have been in the market for many years, and the nature of the industry we
operate in is such that brand obsolescence is not common, if appropriately supported by advertising and marketing spend. Finite-lived intangible
assets, which primarily comprise patented and non-patented technology, know-how, and software, are capitalised and amortised in operating
proﬁt on a straight-line basis over the period of their expected useful lives, none of which exceeds ten years. The level of amortisation for ﬁnite-
lived intangible assets is not expected to change materially over the next ﬁve years.
€ million € million
At cost less amortisation and impairment 2009 2008
Goodwill 12,464 11,665
Intangible assets: 4,583 4,426
Indeﬁnite-lived intangible assets 4,050 3,886
Finite-lived intangible assets 153 206
Software 380 334
17,047 16,091
€ million € million € million € million € million
Indeﬁnite- Finite-
lived lived
intangible intangible
Movements during 2009 Goodwill assets assets Software Total
Cost
1 January 2009 12,617 4,107 598 580 17,902
Acquisitions of group companies 350 105 1 – 456
Disposals of group companies – (1) – – (1)
Additions – 1 – 149 150
Disposals – – – (72) (72)
Currency retranslation 441 57 12 30 540
31 December 2009 13,408 4,269 611 687 18,975
Amortisation and impairment
1 January 2009 (952) (221) (392) (246) (1,811)
Disposal of group companies –––––
Amortisation for the year – – (58) (110) (168)
Disposals – – – 62 62
Currency retranslation 8 2 (8) (13) (11)
31 December 2009 (944) (219) (458) (307) (1,928)
Net book value 31 December 2009 12,464 4,050 153 380 17,047 Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements Unilever Group
94 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Financial statements
9 Goodwill and intangible assets (continued)
€ million € million € million € million € million
Indeﬁnite- Finite-
lived lived
intangible intangible
Movements during 2008 Goodwill assets assets Software Total
Cost
1 January 2008 13,182 4,134 621 501 18,438
Acquisitions of group companies 60 90 1 – 151
Disposals of group companies (129) – – – (129)
Additions – 1 – 146 147
Disposals – – (3) (33) (36)
Currency retranslation (496) (81) (20) (34) (631)
Reclassiﬁcation as held for sale – (37) (1) – (38)
31 December 2008 12,617 4,107 598 580 17,902
Amortisation and impairment
1 January 2008 (938) (213) (348) (184) (1,683)
Disposal of group companies 12––– 12
Amortisation for the year – – (59) (109) (168)
Impairment – (37) (1) – (38)
Disposals –– 2 33 35
Currency retranslation (26) (8) 13 14 (7)
Reclassiﬁcation as held for sale – 37 1 – 38
31 December 2008 (952) (221) (392) (246) (1,811)
Net book value 31 December 2008 11,665 3,886 206 334 16,091
There are no signiﬁcant carrying amounts of goodwill and intangible assets that are allocated across multiple cash generating units (CGUs).
Impairments charge in the year
There were no material impairments in 2009. The impairments charged in 2008 principally related to a non-core savoury business in the Americas
which was subsequently classiﬁed as held for sale.
Signiﬁcant CGUs
The goodwill and indeﬁnite lived intangible assets (predominantly Knorr and Hellmann’s) held in the regional Savoury and Dressings CGUs are
considered signiﬁcant in comparison to the total carrying amounts of goodwill and indeﬁnite-lived intangible assets at 31 December 2009. No
other CGUs are considered signiﬁcant in this respect.
The goodwill and indeﬁnite lived intangible assets held in the regional Savoury and Dressings CGUs are:
€ billion € billion € billion € billion
2009 2009 2008 2008
Indeﬁnite- Indeﬁnite-
lived lived
Goodwill intangibles Goodwill intangibles
Western Europe 5.2 1.3 5.1 1.3
The America’s 3.9 1.3 3.6 1.3
AAC 1.9 0.6 1.9 0.5
During 2009, we conducted an impairment review of the carrying value of these assets.  Value in use in the regional Savoury and Dressings CGUs
has been calculated as the present value of projected future cash ﬂows. A pre-tax discount rate of 10% was used.
The following key assumptions were used in the discounted cash ﬂow projections for the regional Savoury and Dressings CGUs:
• a longer-term sustainable growth rate of 2% to 3% for Western Europe, 5% for the Americas and 9% to 10% for AAC;
• average near-term nominal growth rates for the major product groups within the CGUs of 2% Western Europe, 4.5% The Americas, 9% for
AAC; and
• average operating margins for the major product groups within the CGUs ranging from 16% to 20% Western Europe, 19% to 20% The
Americas and 10% to 12% AAC.
The growth rates and margins used to estimate future performance are based on past performance and our experience of growth rates and
margins achievable in our key markets as a guide. We believe that the assumptions used in estimating the future performance of the regional
Savoury and Dressings CGUs are consistent with past performance.  
The projections covered a period of ten years as we believe this to be a suitable timescale over which to review and consider annual performance
before applying a ﬁxed terminal value multiple to the ﬁnal year cash ﬂows of the detailed projection. Stopping the detailed projections after ﬁve
years and applying a terminal value multiple thereafter would not result in a value in use that would cause impairment.
The growth rates used to estimate future performance beyond the periods covered by our annual planning and strategic planning processes do
not exceed the long-term average rates of growth for similar products.  
We have performed sensitivity analysis around the base case assumptions and have concluded that no reasonable possible changes in key
assumptions would cause the recoverable amount of the regional Savoury and Dressings CGUs to be less than the carrying amount. Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009 95
10 Property, plant and equipment
€ million € million
At cost less depreciation and impairment 2009 2008
Land and buildings 2,148 1,859
Plant and equipment 4,496 4,098
6,644 5,957
Includes freehold land 160 154
Commitments for capital expenditure at 31 December 291 286
€ million € million € million
Land and Plant and
Movements during 2009 buildings equipment Total
Gross
1 January 2009 2,840 9,519 12,359
Acquisition of group companies 21 5 26
Disposals of group companies (11) (3) (14)
Additions 315 1,047 1,362
Disposals (36) (513) (549)
Currency retranslation 114 406 520
Reclassiﬁcation as held for sale (9) (17) (26)
Other adjustments 3 (36) (33)
31 December 2009 3,237 10,408 13,645
Depreciation
1 January 2009 (981) (5,421) (6,402)
Disposals of group companies 82 10
Depreciation charge for the year (103) (748) (851)
Disposals 15 431 446
Currency Retranslation (34) (203) (237)
Reclassiﬁcation as held for sale 369
Other adjustments 32124
31 December 2009 (1,089) (5,912) (7,001)
Net book value 31 December 2009 2,148 4,496 6,644
Includes payments on account and assets in course of construction 203 709 912 Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements Unilever Group
96 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Financial statements
10 Property, plant and equipment (continued)
€ million € million € million
Land and Plant and
Movements during 2008 buildings equipment Total
Gross
1 January 2008 3,019 10,254 13,273
Acquisition of group companies 24 48 72
Disposals of group companies (61) (116) (177)
Additions 154 1,016 1,170
Disposals (84) (773) (857)
Currency retranslation (227) (823) (1,050)
Reclassiﬁcation as held for sale (25) (29) (54)
Other adjustments 40 (58) (18)
31 December 2008 2,840 9,519 12,359
Depreciation 
1 January 2008 (1,030) (5,959) (6,989)
Disposals of group companies 22 63 85
Depreciation charge for the year (107) (681) (788)
Disposals 65 681 746
Currency Retranslation 66 413 479
Reclassiﬁcation as held for sale 14 35 49
Other adjustments (11) 27 16
31 December 2008 (981) (5,421) (6,402)
Net book value 31 December 2008 1,859 4,098 5,957
Includes payments on account and assets in course of construction 92 526 618
Included in the above is property, plant and equipment under a number of ﬁnance lease agreements, for which the book values are as follows:
€ million € million € million
Plant and
Net book value Buildings equipment Total
Gross book value 189 207 396
Depreciation (24) (150) (174)
31 December 2009 165 57 222
Gross book value 177 243 420
Depreciation (25) (146) (171)
31 December 2008 152 97 249 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009 97
11 Other non-current assets
€ million € million
2009 2008
Interest in net assets of joint ventures 60 73
Interest in net assets of associates 42 67
Other non-current ﬁnancial assets
(a)
: 485 904
Held-to-maturity investments
(b)
– 472
Loans and receivables 2 9
Available-for-sale ﬁnancial assets
(c)(d)
436 370
Financial assets at fair value through proﬁt or loss
(d)
47 53
Long-term trade and other receivables
(e)
212 171
Fair value of biological assets 32 31
Other non-ﬁnancial assets 186 180
1,017 1,426
(a) Predominantly consist of investments in a number of companies and ﬁnancial institutions in India, Europe and the US, including €129 million
(2008: €146 million) of assets in a trust to fund beneﬁt obligations in the US (see also note 19 on page 116). 
(b) During 2009 €436 million held-to-maturity investments were reclassiﬁed as available for sale in relation to the closure of an employee savings
programme. See also note 14 on page 101.
(c) Includes unlisted preferred shares arising in connection with US laundry disposal.
(d) Methods of valuation techniques used to determine fair values are given in note 15 on page 108.
(e) Classiﬁed as loans and receivables.
€ million € million
Movements during 2009 and 2008 2009 2008
Joint ventures
(f)
1 January 73 150
Additions – –
Dividends received/reductions
(g)
(145) (202)
Share in net proﬁt 111 125
Currency retranslation 21 –
31 December 60 73
Associates
(h)
1 January 67 44
Acquisitions/(disposals) – 22
Dividends received/reductions (32) (22)
Share in net proﬁt 4 6
Currency retranslation 3 (14)
42 36
Of which: Net liabilities of JohnsonDiversey reclassiﬁed to provisions – 31
31 December 42 67
(f) Our principal joint ventures are Unilever Jerónimo Martins in Portugal, Pepsi/Lipton International and the Pepsi/Lipton Partnership in the US.
(g) A reduction of €110 million in carrying value of Pepsi/Lipton International was recorded in relation to the extension of the Pepsi/Lipton joint
venture for ready-to-drink tea in January 2008. 
(h) Associates as at 31 December 2009 primarily comprise our investment in Langholm Capital Partners. Other Unilever Ventures assets
(excluding Langholm) are included under ‘Other non-current ﬁnancial assets’ above.
€ million € million
Analysis of listed and unlisted investments 2009 2008
Investments listed on a recognised stock exchange 60 344
Unlisted investments 425 560
485 904
€ million € million € million
Other income from non-current investments 2009 2008 2007
Income from other non-current investments 47 19 19
Proﬁt/(loss) on disposal
(i)
327 69 20
374 88 39
(i) For 2008 includes disposal of Palmci plantations.
For 2009 includes €327 million proﬁt from the disposal of the majority of our equity interest in JohnsonDiversey.
The joint ventures and associates have no signiﬁcant contingent liabilities to which the Group is exposed, and the Group has no signiﬁcant
contingent liabilities in relation to its interest in the joint ventures and associates.
The Group has no outstanding capital commitments to joint ventures.
Outstanding balances with joint ventures and associates are shown in note 30 on page 128. Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements Unilever Group
98 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Financial statements
12 Inventories
€ million € million
Inventories 2009 2008
Raw materials and consumables 1,298 1,437
Finished goods and goods for resale 2,280 2,452
3,578 3,889
Inventories with a value of €91million (2008: €134 million) are carried at net realisable value, this being lower than cost. During 2009,
€200 million (2008: €246 million) was charged to the income statement for damaged, obsolete and lost inventories. In 2009, €19 million 
(2008: €23 million) was utilised or released to the income statement from inventory provisions taken in earlier years.
In 2009, inventories with a carrying amount of €10 million were pledged as security for certain of the Group’s borrowings (2008: €34 million).
13 Trade and other receivables
€ million € million
Trade and other receivables 2009 2008
Due within one year
Trade receivables 2,314 2,788
Prepayments and accrued income 472 380
Other receivables 643 655
3,429 3,823
Credit terms for customers are determined in individual territories. Concentrations of credit risk with respect to trade receivables are limited, due
to the Group’s customer base being large and diverse. Our historical experience of collecting receivables, supported by the level of default, is that
credit risk is low across territories and so trade receivables are considered to be a single class of ﬁnancial assets. Other receivables comprise loans
and receivables of €221 million (2008: €258 million) and other non-ﬁnancial assets of €422 million (2008: €397 million). We do not consider the
fair values of trade and other receivables to be signiﬁcantly different from their carrying values. Balances are considered for impairment on an
individual basis rather than by reference to the extent that they become overdue.
€ million € million
Ageing of trade receivables 2009 2008
Total trade receivables 2,443 2,908
Less impairment provision for trade receivables (129) (120)
2,314 2,788
Of which:
Not overdue 1,768 2,182
Past due less than three months 443 499
Past due more than three months but less than six months 81 100
Past due more than six months but less than one year 57 52
Past due more than one year 94 75
Impairment provision for trade receivables (129) (120)
2,314 2,788
€ million € million
Impairment provision for trade and other receivables – movements during the year 2009 2008
1 January 165 176
Charged to current year income statement 27 36
Reductions/releases (40) (37)
Currency retranslation 5 (10)
31 December 157 165
Other classes of assets in trade and other receivables do not include any impaired assets. Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009 99
14 Financial assets and liabilities
€ million € million
Summary of ﬁnancial assets and liabilities 2009 2008
Financial liabilities as per balance sheet (9,971) (11,205)
Financial liabilities due within one year (2,279) (4,842)
Financial liabilities due after one year (7,692) (6,363)
Cash and cash equivalents as per balance sheet 2,642 2,561
Cash and cash equivalents as per cash ﬂow statement 2,397 2,360
Add bank overdrafts deducted therein 245 201
Other financial assets 972 632
Net ﬁnancial assets and liabilities (6,357) (8,012)
€ million € million
Cash and cash equivalents and other ﬁnancial assets 2009 2008
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash at bank and in hand 744 587
Short-term deposits with maturity of less than three months 748 1,974
Other cash equivalents
(a)
1,150 –
2,642 2,561
Other ﬁnancial assets
(b)
Held-to-maturity investments – 13
Available-for-sale ﬁnancial assets
(d)(e)
613 –
Financial assets at fair value through proﬁt or loss
(c)(d)(e)
359 619
972 632
Of which:
Listed 94 31
Unlisted 878 601
972 632
(a) Other cash equivalents are wholly comprised of available-for-sale ﬁnancial assets and include investments in money market funds of €1,096
million (2008: €nil) for which the risk of changes in value is insigniﬁcant.
(b) Other ﬁnancial assets include government securities, A minus or higher rated money and capital market instruments and derivatives.
(c) Financial assets at fair value through proﬁt and loss include derivatives amounting to €271 million (2008: €597 million). The fair value of
derivatives is determined by calculating the discounted value of the related future cash ﬂows. Discounting of the cash ﬂows is done based on
the relevant yield curves and exchange rates as per the end of the year.
(d) Methods of valuation technique used to determine fair value are given in note 15 on page 108.
(e) Includes €463 million (€393 million available-for-sale and €70 million fair value through proﬁt or loss) relating to an employee savings
programme.  For related liabilities see page 101. Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements Unilever Group
100 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Financial statements
14 Financial assets and liabilities (continued)
€ million € million
Financial liabilities 2009 2008
Preference shares 124 124
Bank loans and overdrafts 1,415 1,377
Bonds and other loans
At amortised cost 5,805 8,477
Subject to fair value hedge accounting 2,308 801
Finance lease creditors 25 212 207
Derivatives 107 219
9,971 11,205
All the preference shares and the bank loans and overdrafts are valued at amortised cost.
€ million € million
Financial liabilities – additional details 2009 2008
The repayments fall due as follows
Within one year:
Bank loans and overdrafts 450 746
Bonds and other loans 1,713 3,853
Finance lease creditors 22 24
Derivatives 94 219
Total due within one year 2,279 4,842
After one year but within two years 834 1,364
After two years but within three years 1,328 751
After three years but within four years 1,159 948
After four years but within ﬁve years 929 830
After ﬁve years 3,442 2,470
Total due after more than one year 7,692 6,363
Secured ﬁnancial liabilities 83 34
Of which secured against property, plant and equipment 76 –
€ million € million € million € million
Issued,
Number Nominal Number called up
of shares value of shares and fully Statutory
Preference shares authorised Authorised per share issued paid Reserve Total
Preference shares NV as at 31 December 2009
7% Cumulative Preference 75,000 32 €428.57 29,000 12 1 13
6% Cumulative Preference
(f)
200,000 86 €428.57 161,060 69 4 73
4% Cumulative Preference 750,000 32 €42.86 750,000 32 2 34
Share premium 44
150 117 7 124
Preference shares NV as at 31 December 2008
7% Cumulative Preference 75,000 32 €428.57 29,000 12 1 13
6% Cumulative Preference
(f)
200,000 86 €428.57 161,060 69 4 73
4% Cumulative Preference 750,000 32 €42.86 750,000 32 2 34
Share premium 44
150 117 7 124
(f) The 6% cumulative preference shares are traded in the market in units of one tenth of their nominal value.
The 4%, 6% and 7% cumulative preference shares of NV are entitled to dividends at the rates indicated. The 4% preference capital of NV is
redeemable at par at the company‘s option either wholly or in part. The other classes of preferential share capital of NV are not unilaterally
redeemable by the company. Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009 101
14 Financial assets and liabilities (continued)
Additional details
Details of speciﬁc bonds and other loans are given below:
€ million € million € million € million
Amortised Fair Amortised Fair
cost value cost value
2009 2009
(g)
2008 2008
(g)
Unilever N.V.
Floating rate note 2009 (€) –– 750 –
3.625% notes 2011 (Swiss francs) 271 – 267 –
3.125% notes 2012 (Swiss francs) 169 – 167 –
4.625% Bonds 2012 (€)
(h)
– 749 747 –
4.875% Bonds 2013 (€) – 811 – 801
3.125% Bonds 2013 (US $) 313 – ––
3.500% notes 2015 (Swiss francs) 236 – 232 –
3.375% Bonds 2015 (€)
(h)
– 748 747 –
Other 33 – 22 –
Total Unilever N.V. 1,022 2,308 2,932 801
Unilever PLC
4.000% Bonds 2014 (£) 391 – ––
4.750% Bonds 2017 (£) 447 – ––
Total Unilever PLC 838 – ––
Other group companies
At amortised cost:
Netherlands
Commercial paper (€) –– 811 –
Commercial paper (US $) –– 308 –
Commercial paper (Swiss francs) –– 20 –
Commercial paper (Japanese yen) –– 12 –
Other
(i)
440 – 115 –
United States
Floating rate extendible note 2009 (US $) –– 49 –
7.125% Bonds 2010 (US $) 1,219 – 1,230 –
3.650% Notes 2014 (US $) 521 – ––
7.000% Bonds 2017 (US $) 102 – 103 –
4.800% Notes 2019 (US $) 521 – ––
7.250% Bonds 2026 (US $) 200 – 202 –
6.625% Bonds 2028 (US $) 153 – 155 –
5.900% Bonds 2032 (US $) 686 – 693 –
5.600% Bonds 2097 (US $) 64 – 64 –
Commercial paper (US $) 10 – 1,705 –
Other 10 – 9–
South Africa
Commercial paper (South African rand) 14 – 55 –
Other countries 5– 14 –
Total other group companies 3,945 – 5,545 –
Total bonds and other loans 5,805 2,308 8,477 801
(g) As required by fair value hedge accounting, the fair value of the bonds and other loans is based on their amortised cost adjusted for the
market value of the related derivative. 
(h) Reclassiﬁcations: During 2009 Unilever started fair value hedge accounting for the 4.625% Euro bonds and the 3.375% Euro bonds.
(i) Includes €427 million liabilities to be repaid during 2010 in relation to the closure of an employee savings programme.  For related assets see
page 99. Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements Unilever Group
102 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Financial statements
14 Financial assets and liabilities (continued)
Interest rate proﬁle and currency analysis of ﬁnancial assets
The table set out below takes into account the various interest rate swaps and forward foreign currency contracts entered into by the Group,
details of which are set out in note 15 on pages 104 to 110.
The interest rate proﬁles of the Group’s ﬁnancial assets analysed by principal currency are set out in the table below:
€ million € million € million
Fixed Fixed Fixed Floating Floating
rate rate rate rate rate Total 
Amount Average Weighted Interest
of ﬁxing interest rate average rate for
for following for following ﬁxing following
year year period year
Assets – 2009
Euro 351 2.3% 0.2 years 7,802 0.9% 8,153
(j)
Sterling –36 0.8% 36
US dollar –71 0.4% 71
Indian rupee – 472 6.6% 472
Brazilian real –36 8.7% 36
Other – 735 5.2% 735
351 9,152 9,503
Euro leg of currency derivatives mainly relating to intra-group loans
(j)
(5,889)
Total 3,614
(k)
Assets – 2008
Euro 142 5.9% 0.6 years 6,882 2.3% 7,024
(j)
Sterling 1 4.5% 0.1 years 26 1.7% 27
US dollar – 29 1.3% 29
Indian rupee – 187 11.4% 187
Brazilian real – 40 13.7% 40
Other – 563 7.1% 563
143 7,727 7,870
Euro leg of currency derivatives mainly relating to intra-group loans
(j)
(4,677)
Total 3,193
(k)
(j) Includes the euro leg of the currency derivatives relating to intra-group loans, amounting to €5,889 million (2008: €4,677 million). These
derivatives create a euro interest rate exposure. However, to reconcile the total assets with the balance sheet, the total value is eliminated
again. The other leg of the currency derivatives is shown on page 103 as part of the interest rate proﬁle of ﬁnancial liabilities.
(k) Includes fair value of ﬁnancial liability-related derivatives amounting to €271 million (2008: €597 million).  Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009 103
14 Financial assets and liabilities (continued)
Interest rate proﬁle and currency analysis of ﬁnancial liabilities
The table set out below takes into account the various interest rate swaps and forward foreign currency contracts entered into by the Group,
details of which are set out in note 15 on pages 104 to 110. The interest rate proﬁles of the Group’s ﬁnancial liabilities analysed by principal
currency are set out in the table below:
€ million € million € million
Fixed Fixed Fixed Floating Floating
rate rate rate rate rate Total
Amount Average Weighted Interest
of ﬁxing interest rate average rate for
for following for following ﬁxing following
year year period year
Liabilities – 2009
Euro
(l)
124 5.6% 5.0 years 4,274 1.0% 4,398
Sterling 1,428 3.8% 5.7 years 1,436 0.9% 2,864
US dollar 4,391 5.1% 8.8 years 1,368 0.5% 5,759
Swiss francs 678 3.6% 3.1 years (106) 0.4% 572
Japanese yen – 451 0.3% 451
Swedish krona – 352 1.0% 352
Russian rouble – 190 10.8% 190
Chinese yuan – 186 2.3% 186
Thai baht 52 4.0% 1.9 years 124 1.3% 176
Australian dollar 2 5.3% 10.0 years 164 4.8% 166
Other 108 10.4% 3.4 years 638 5.6% 746
6,783 9,077 15,860
Foreign currency leg of currency derivatives relating to intra-group loans
(m)
(5,889)
Total 9,971
(n)
Liabilities – 2008
Euro
(l)
1,794 4.3% 4.8 years 2,551 2.3% 4,345
Sterling 124 6.4% 18.8 years 1,305 1.7% 1,429
US dollar 2,608 6.8% 12.8 years 4,693 1.3% 7,301
Swiss francs 668 3.6% 4.1 years (56) 1.1% 612
Japanese yen 147 1.0% 0.5 years 264 1.1% 411
Swedish krona – 654 2.6% 654
Russian rouble 50 11.7% 0.5 years 66 15.7% 116
Chinese yuan – 211 2.4% 211
Thai baht – 196 2.3% 196
Australian dollar 4 6.4% 6.6 years 162 4.5% 166
Other 16 17.0% 7.4 years 425 8.3% 441
5,411 10,471 15,882
Foreign currency leg of currency derivatives relating to intra-group loans
(m)
(4,677)
Total 11,205
(n)
(l) Euro ﬁnancial liabilities include €124 million preference shares that provide for a ﬁxed preference dividend.
(m) Includes the foreign currency leg of the currency derivatives relating to our intra-group loans, amounting to €5,889 million
(2008: €4,677 million). These derivatives create an interest rate exposure in mainly sterling and US dollar. However to reconcile the total
liability with the balance sheet, the total value is eliminated again. The other leg of the currency derivatives is shown on page 102 as part of
the interest rate proﬁle of ﬁnancial assets.
(n) Includes ﬁnance lease creditors amounting to €212 million (2008: €207 million) and fair value of ﬁnancial liability-related derivatives
amounting to €107 million (2008: €219 million).
Interest rate
The average interest rate on short-term borrowings in 2009 was 2.3% (2008: 4.2%). Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements Unilever Group
104 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Financial statements
15 Financial instruments and treasury risk management
Uncertainty and volatility in the ﬁnancial markets: impact on Treasury
We believe our strong single-A rating and active ﬁnancial management have served us well in the current ﬁnancial uncertainty. Maintaining our
strong single-A rating has been and will remain a key priority. 
To cope with the volatility and uncertainty in the ﬁnancial markets, we undertook, amongst others, the following actions:
Liquidity management:  
• During 2009 we issued four bonds at competitive rates for a total of €2.2 billion to take advantage of historically low long term interest rates;
• As a result, we have been able to keep commercial paper at a low level, issuing at signiﬁcant discounts to Libor, when needed; and
• As the business successfully managed working capital positions throughout the year, Unilever closed the year with a cash and cash equivalents
balance of around €2.6 billion.
Counterparty exposures: 
We regularly reviewed and tightened counterparty limits. Banking exposures were actively monitored on a daily basis. During the year most of
our deposits remained on an overnight basis providing maximum ﬂexibility. Unilever beneﬁts from collateral agreements with our principal banks
(see also page 106) based on which banks need to deposit securities and/or cash as collateral for their obligations in respect of derivative ﬁnancial
instruments. Unilever did not encounter any material counterparty exposure loss from ﬁnancial institutions during 2009. 
Funding costs: 
Throughout the year, in general, credit spreads have decreased signiﬁcantly but remain volatile. During 2009 we were able to issue commercial
paper and bonds at competitive rates, with a very good reception by the markets.
Bank facility renewal:  
Our bank facilities are renewed annually. On 31 December 2009 we had US $6,050 million of undrawn committed facilities. For further details,
see ’Liquidity risk' section below.
Treasury risk management
Unilever manages a variety of market risks, including the effects of changes in foreign exchange rates, interest rates, liquidity and counterparty
risks.
Currency risks
Because of Unilever’s broad operational reach, it is subject to risks from changes in foreign currency values that could affect earnings. As a practical
matter, it is not feasible to fully hedge these ﬂuctuations. Unilever does have a foreign exchange policy that requires operating companies to manage
trading and ﬁnancial foreign exchange exposures within prescribed limits. This is achieved primarily through the use of forward foreign exchange
contracts. On a case-by-case basis, depending on potential income statement volatility that can be caused by the fair value movement of the
derivative, companies decide whether or not to apply cash ﬂow hedge accounting. Regional groups monitor compliance with this foreign
exchange policy. At the end of 2009, there was no material exposure from companies holding assets and liabilities other than in their functional
currency.
In addition, as Unilever conducts business in many foreign currencies but publishes its ﬁnancial statements and measures its performance in euros,
it is subject to exchange risk due to the effects that exchange rate movements have on the translation of the underlying net assets of its foreign
subsidiaries. Unilever aims to minimise its foreign exchange exposure in operating companies by borrowing in the local currency, except where
inhibited by local regulations, lack of local liquidity or local market conditions. For those countries that in the view of management have a
substantial retranslation risk, Unilever may decide on a case-by-case basis, taking into account amongst other factors the impact on the income
statement, to hedge such net investments. This is achieved through the use of forward foreign exchange contracts on which hedge accounting is
applied. Nevertheless, from time to time, currency revaluations on unhedged investments will trigger exchange translation movements in the
balance sheet.
Interest rate risks
Unilever has an interest rate management policy aimed at achieving an optimal balance between ﬁxed and ﬂoating rate interest rate exposures on
expected net debt (gross borrowings minus cash and cash equivalents). The objective of the policy is to minimise annual interest costs and to
reduce volatility. This is achieved by issuing ﬁxed rate long-term debt and by modifying the interest rate exposure of debt and cash positions
through the use of interest rate swaps. The ﬁxing levels for the next ﬁve years are managed within agreed ﬁxing bands, with minimum and
maximum ﬁxing level percentages, decreasing by 10 percentage points per calendar year. The minimum level is set to avoid unacceptable interest
cost volatility and the maximum level is set to prevent over-ﬁxing, recognising that future debt levels can be volatile.
At the end of 2009, interest rates were ﬁxed on approximately 95% of the projected net of cash and ﬁnancial liability positions for 2010, slightly
higher than 90%, the upper limit of the band due to the good cash delivery from the business and 75% for 2011 (compared with 56% for 2009
and 51% for 2010 at the end of 2008). Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009 105
15 Financial instruments and treasury risk management (continued)
Liquidity risk
A material and sustained shortfall in our cash ﬂow could undermine our credit rating and overall investor conﬁdence and could restrict the Group’s
ability to raise funds.
Operational cash ﬂow provides the funds to service the ﬁnancing of ﬁnancial liabilities and enhance shareholder return. Unilever manages the
liquidity requirements by the use of short-term and long-term cash ﬂow forecasts. Unilever maintains access to global debt markets through an
infrastructure of short-term and long-term debt programmes. In addition to this, Unilever has committed credit facilities in place to support its
commercial paper programmes and for general corporate purposes. During 2009 we did not utilise the committed facilities.
Unilever had US $6,050 million of undrawn committed facilities on 31 December 2009 as follows:
• revolving 364-day bilateral credit facilities of in aggregate US $5,285 million (2008: US $4,230million) out of which US $5,285 million
(2008: US $3,675 million) with a 364-day term out; and
• 364-day bilateral money market commitments of in aggregate US $765 million (2008: US $1,775 million), under which the underwriting banks
agree, subject to certain conditions, to subscribe for notes with maturities of up to three years.
Revolving 364-day notes commitments of US $200 million at 31 December 2008 were converted during 2009 into the revolving 364-day bilateral
credit facilities, and were therefore nil at 31 December 2009.
As part of the regular annual process these facilities will be renewed in 2010.
The following table shows Unilever’s contractually agreed (undiscounted) cash ﬂows payable under ﬁnancial liabilities and derivative assets and
liabilities as at the balance sheet date:
€ million € million € million € million € million € million € million € million
Net
carrying
Due Due Due Due amount as
Due between between between between Due shown in
within 1 and 2 and 3 and 4 and after balance
Undiscounted cash ﬂows 1 year 2 years 3 years 4 years 5 years 5 years Total sheet
2009
Non-derivative ﬁnancial liabilities:
Financial liabilities excluding related derivatives 
and ﬁnance lease creditors (2,167) (817) (1,317) (1,088) (928) (3,347) (9,664) (9,652)
Interest on ﬁnancial liabilities (411) (315) (299) (248) (201) (1,669) (3,143)
Finance lease creditors including related ﬁnance cost (34) (28) (22) (21) (20) (244) (369) (212)
Trade payables and other liabilities
excluding social security and sundry taxes
(a)
(8,071) (248) –––– (8,319) (8,319)
Issued ﬁnancial guarantees (48) ––––– (48)
(10,731) (1,408) (1,638) (1,357) (1,149) (5,260) (21,543)
Derivative ﬁnancial liabilities:
Interest rate derivatives:
Derivative contracts – receipts 66 64 62 23 – – 215
Derivative contracts – payments (70) (68) (68) (24) – – (230)
Foreign exchange derivatives:
Derivative contracts – receipts 6,138 6 –––– 6,144
Derivative contracts – payments (6,265) (7) –––– (6,272)
(131) (5) (6) (1) – – (143) (143)
(b)
31 December (10,862) (1,413) (1,644) (1,358) (1,149) (5,260) (21,686)
(a) See note 16 on page 110.
(b) Includes ﬁnancial liability-related derivatives amounting to €(107) million (2008: €(219) million). Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements Unilever Group
106 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Financial statements
15 Financial instruments and treasury risk management (continued)
€ million € million € million € million € million € million € million € million
Net
carrying
Due Due Due Due amount as
Due between between between between Due shown in
within 1 and 2 and 3 and 4 and after balance
Undiscounted cash ﬂows 1 year 2 years 3 years 4 years 5 years 5 years Total sheet
2008
Non-derivative ﬁnancial liabilities:
Financial liabilities excluding related derivatives 
and ﬁnance lease creditors (4,653) (1,532) (577) (940) (750) (2,387) (10,839) (10,779)
Interest on ﬁnancial liabilities (343) (313) (210) (197) (157) (1,608) (2,828)
Finance lease creditors including related ﬁnance cost (37) (36) (26) (21) (19) (242) (381) (207)
Trade payables and other liabilities
excluding social security and sundry taxes
(a)
(7,483) (175) –––– (7,658) (7,658)
Issued ﬁnancial guarantees (44) ––––– (44)
(12,560) (2,056) (813) (1,158) (926) (4,237) (21,750)
Derivative ﬁnancial liabilities:
Interest rate derivatives:
Derivative contracts – receipts – 4 –––– 4
Derivative contracts – payments – (4) –––– (4)
Foreign exchange derivatives:
Derivative contracts – receipts 3,510––––– 3,510
Derivative contracts – payments (3,772) ––––– (3,772)
(262) ––––– (262) (262)
(b)
31 December (12,822) (2,056) (813) (1,158) (926) (4,237) (22,012)
(a) See note 16 on page 110.
(b) Includes ﬁnancial liability-related derivatives amounting to €(107) million (2008: €(219) million).
Credit risk on banks and received collateral
Credit risk related to the use of treasury instruments is managed on a group basis. This risk arises from transactions with banks like cash and cash
equivalents, deposits and derivative ﬁnancial instruments. To reduce the credit risk, Unilever has concentrated its main activities with a limited
group of banks that have secure credit ratings. Per bank, individual risk limits are set based on its ﬁnancial position, credit ratings, past experience
and other factors. The utilisation of credit limits is regularly monitored. To reduce the credit exposures, netting agreements are in place with
Unilever’s principal banks that allow Unilever, in case of a default, to net assets and liabilities across transactions. To further reduce Unilever’s
credit exposures, Unilever has collateral agreements with Unilever’s principal banks based on which they need to deposit securities and/or cash as 
a collateral for their obligations in respect of derivative ﬁnancial instruments. At 31 December 2009 the collateral received by Unilever amounted
to €208 million (2008: €369 million), of which €14 million was cash and the fair value of the bond securities amounted to €194 million.
Although contractually Unilever has the right to sell or repledge the collateral, it has no intention to do so. As a consequence, the non-cash
collateral has not been recognised as an asset in our balance sheet. 
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments
The Group has comprehensive policies in place, approved by the Boards, covering the use of derivative ﬁnancial instruments. These instruments are
used for hedging purposes. The Group has an established system of control in place covering all ﬁnancial instruments; including policies, guidelines,
exposure limits, a system of authorities and independent reporting, that is subject to periodic review by internal audit. Hedge accounting principles
are described in note 1 on page 84. The use of leveraged instruments is not permitted. In the assessment of hedge effectiveness the credit risk
element on the underlying hedged item has been excluded. Hedge ineffectiveness is immaterial.
The Group uses the following types of hedges:
• cash ﬂow hedges used to hedge the risk on future foreign currency cash ﬂows, ﬂoating interest rate cash ﬂows, and the price risk on future
purchases of raw materials;
• fair value hedges used to convert the ﬁxed interest rate on ﬁnancial liabilities into a ﬂoating interest rate; 
• net investment hedges used to hedge the investment value of our foreign subsidiaries; and 
• natural hedges used to hedge the risk on exposures that are on the balance sheet. No hedge accounting is applied.
Details of the various types of hedges are given below.
The fair values of forward foreign exchange contracts represent the gain or loss on revaluation of the contracts at the year-end forward exchange
rates. The fair values of interest rate derivatives are based on the net present value of the anticipated future cash ﬂows. Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009 107
15 Financial instruments and treasury risk management (continued)
Cash ﬂow hedges
The fair values of derivatives hedging the risk on future foreign currency cash ﬂows, ﬂoating interest rate cash ﬂows and the price risk
on future purchases of raw materials amount to €(10) million (2008: €(14) million) of which €7 million relates to commodity contracts
(2008: €(21) million), €(19) million to foreign exchange contracts (2008: €7 million) and €2 million to interest rate derivatives (2008: €nil).
Of the total fair value of €(10) million, €(12) million is due within one year (2008: €(14) million).
The following table shows the amounts of cash ﬂows that are designated as hedged items in the cash ﬂow hedge relations:
€ million € million € million € million € million € million € million
Due Due Due Due Due Due
within between between between between after
1 year 1-2 years 2-3 years 3-4 years 4-5 years 5 years Total
2009
Foreign exchange cash inﬂows 797––––– 797
Foreign exchange cash outﬂows (304) ––––– (304)
Interest rate cash ﬂows – – (9) (9) (9) (17) (44)
Commodity contracts cash ﬂows (125) ––––– (125)
2008
Foreign exchange cash inﬂows –––––––
Foreign exchange cash outﬂows (200) ––––– (200)
Interest rate cash ﬂows –––––––
Commodity contracts cash ﬂows (121) ––––– (121)
Fair Value hedges
The fair values of derivatives hedging the fair value interest rate risk on ﬁxed rate debt at 31 December 2009 amounted to €92 million 
(2008: €68 million) which is included under other ﬁnancial assets. 
Net investment hedges
The following table shows the fair values of derivatives outstanding at year end designated as hedging instruments in hedges of net investments
in foreign operations:
€ million € million € million € million
Assets Assets Liabilities Liabilities
Fair values of derivatives used as hedges of net investments in foreign entities 2009 2008 2009 2008
Current
Foreign exchange derivatives 38 28 100 257
Of the above-mentioned fair values, an amount of €38 million (2008: €28 million) is included under other ﬁnancial assets and €(100) million 
(2008: €(257) million) is included under ﬁnancial liabilities. 
The impact of exchange rate movements on the fair value of forward exchange contracts used to hedge net investments is recognised in
reserves.
Natural hedges
A natural hedge – sometimes known as an economic hedge – is where exposure to a risk is offset, or partly offset, by an opposite exposure to
that same risk. Hedge accounting is not applied to these relationships.
The following table shows the fair value of derivatives outstanding at year end that are natural hedges. 
€ million € million € million € million
Assets Assets Liabilities Liabilities
Fair values of natural hedges 2009 2008 2009 2008
Current
Interest rate derivatives 1 1 1 –
Cross-currency swaps – 9 4 –
Foreign exchange derivatives 267 648 117 115
268 658 122 115
Non-current
Interest rate derivatives – – 1 –
Cross-currency swaps – – 13 –
– – 14 –
268 658 136 115 Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements Unilever Group
108 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Financial statements
15 Financial instruments and treasury risk management (continued)
Of the fair values of natural hedges disclosed above, the fair value of ﬁnancial liability-related derivatives at 31 December 2009 amounted to
€132 million (2008: €539 million) of which €139 million (2008: €501 million) is included under other ﬁnancial assets and €(7) million 
(2008: €38 million) is included under ﬁnancial liabilities.
Sensitivity to not applying hedge accounting
Derivatives have to be reported at fair value. Those derivatives used for cash ﬂow hedging and net investment hedging for which we do not
apply hedge accounting will cause volatility in the income statement. Such derivatives did not have a material impact on the 2009 income
statement.
Embedded derivatives
In accordance with IAS 39, 'Financial instruments: Recognition and Measurement', Unilever has reviewed all contracts for embedded derivatives
that are required to be separately accounted for if they do not meet speciﬁc requirements set out in the standard; no material embedded
derivatives have been identiﬁed.
Fair values of ﬁnancial assets and ﬁnancial liabilities
The following table summarises the fair values and carrying amounts of the various classes of ﬁnancial assets and ﬁnancial liabilities. All trade
and other receivables and trade payables and other liabilities have been excluded from the analysis below and from the interest rate and currency
proﬁles in note 14 on pages 102 to 103, as their carrying amounts are a reasonable approximation of their fair value, because of their short-term
nature.
€ million € million € million € million
Fair Fair Carrying Carrying
value value amount amount
2009 2008 2009 2008
Financial assets
Other non-current assets 485 891 485 904
Cash and cash equivalents 2,642 2,561 2,642 2,561
Other ﬁnancial assets 701 35 701 35
Derivatives related to ﬁnancial liabilities 271 597 271 597
4,099 4,084 4,099 4,097
Financial liabilities
Bank loans and overdrafts (1,419) (1,377) (1,415) (1,377)
Bonds and other loans (8,569) (9,488) (8,113) (9,278)
Finance lease creditors (218) (222) (212) (207)
Preference shares (118) (102) (124) (124)
Derivatives related to ﬁnancial liabilities (107) (219) (107) (219)
(10,431) (11,408) (9,971) (11,205)
The fair values of the ﬁnancial assets and liabilities are included at the amount at which the instruments could be exchanged in a current
transaction between willing parties other than in a forced or liquidation sale. The following methods and assumptions were used to estimate
the fair values:
• Cash and cash equivalents, other ﬁnancial assets, bank loans and overdrafts have fair values that approximate to their carrying amounts
because of their short-term nature.
• The fair value of unquoted available-for-sale assets is based on recent trades in liquid markets, observable market rates and statistical
modelling techniques such as Monte Carlo simulation.
• The fair values and the carrying amounts of all other listed investments included in ﬁnancial assets and preference shares included in ﬁnancial
liabilities are based on their market values.
• The fair values of listed bonds are based on their market value.
• Non-listed bonds and other loans are based on the net present value of the anticipated future cash ﬂows associated with these instruments
using rates currently available for debt on similar terms, credit risk and remaining maturities.
• Fair values for ﬁnance lease creditors have been assessed by reference to current market rates for comparable leasing arrangements.
• The Group enters into derivative ﬁnancial instruments with various counterparties. Derivatives valued using valuation techniques with
market observable inputs are mainly interest rate swaps, foreign exchange forward contracts and commodity forward contracts. The models
incorporate various inputs including the credit quality of counterparties, foreign exchange spot and forward rates, interest rate curves and
forward rate curves of the underlying commodity. In the balance sheet the value of bonds and other loans is shown at amortised cost unless
the bonds are part of an effective fair value hedge accounting relationship, in which case the value of the bond is adjusted with the market
value of the related derivative. Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009 109
15 Financial instruments and treasury risk management (continued)
Fair value hierarchy 
Effective 1 January 2009, the Group adopted the amendment to IFRS 7 for ﬁnancial instruments at fair value. The amendment requires disclosure
of fair value measurements by level of the following fair value measurement hierarchy:
• Level 1: quoted prices for identical instruments
• Level 2: directly or indirectly observable market inputs other than Level 1 inputs
• Level 3: inputs which are not based on observable market data.
As at 31 December 2009, the Group held the following ﬁnancial instruments measured at fair value in each level described above:
€ million € million € million € million € million
Total fair Total fair
value value
Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 2009 2008
Assets measured at fair value
Other non-current ﬁnancial assets 11
Available-for-sale ﬁnancial assets 178 237 21 436 370
Financial assets at fair value through proﬁt or loss 47–– 47 53
Cash and cash equivalents 14
Available-for-sale ﬁnancial assets – 1,150 – 1,150 –
Other ﬁnancial assets 14
Available-for-sale ﬁnancial assets – 613 – 613 –
Financial assets at fair value through proﬁt or loss –88 –88 22
Derivatives related to ﬁnancial liabilities – 271 – 271 597
Derivatives used for hedging trading activities (part of Trade and other receivables) –22 –22 32
Other derivatives (part of Trade and other receivables) – – 25 25 –
Liabilities measured at fair value
Bonds and Other loans, subject to fair value hedge accounting 14 – (2,308) – (2,308) (801)
Derivatives related to ﬁnancial liabilities 14 – (107) – (107) (219)
Derivatives used for hedging trading activities (part of Trade payables and other liabilities) – (36) – (36) (44)
During reporting period ending 31 December 2009, there were no transfers between Level 1 and 2 fair value measurements, and no transfers
into and out of Level 3 fair value measurements.
Reconciliation of Level 3 fair value measurements of ﬁnancial assets is given below:
€ million € million € million
Other derivative Available for
ﬁnancial assets sale assets Total
2009 2009 2009
Opening balances –1111
Total gains or losses:
In proﬁt or loss –––
In other comprehensive income –1010
Purchases, issuances and settlements 25 – 25
Transfers in and out of Level 3 –––
Closing balances 25 21 46
Commodity contracts
The Group uses commodity forward contracts and futures to hedge against price risk in certain commodities. All commodity forward contracts
and futures hedge future purchases of raw materials. Settlement of these contracts will be in cash or by physical delivery. Those contracts that
will be settled in cash are reported in the balance sheet at fair value and, to the extent that they are considered as an effective hedge under 
IAS 39, fair value movements are recognised in the cash ﬂow reserve.
Capital management
The Group’s ﬁnancial strategy supports Unilever’s aim to be in the top third of a reference group including 20 other international consumer goods
companies for Total Shareholder Return, as explained on page 46. The key elements of the ﬁnancial strategy are:
• appropriate access to equity and debt markets;
• sufﬁcient ﬂexibility for acquisitions that we fund out of current cash ﬂows;
• A+/A1 long-term credit rating;
• A1/P1 short-term credit rating;
• sufﬁcient resilience against economic and ﬁnancial turmoil; and
• optimal weighted average cost of capital, given the constraints above.
For the A1/P1 short-term credit rating Unilever monitors the qualitative and quantitative factors utilised by the rating agencies. This information is
publicly available and is updated by the credit rating agencies on a regular basis.  Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements Unilever Group
110 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Financial statements
15 Financial instruments and treasury risk management (continued)
The capital structure of Unilever is based on management’s judgement of the appropriate balancing of all key elements of its ﬁnancial strategy in
order to meet its strategic and day-to-day needs. We consider the amount of capital in proportion to risk and manage the capital structure and
make adjustments to it in the light of changes in economic conditions and the risk characteristics of the underlying assets. Unilever will take
appropriate steps in order to maintain, or if necessary adjust, the capital structure. Annually the overall funding plan is presented to the Board for
approval.
Return on Invested Capital continues to be one of Unilever's key performance measures. Within this deﬁnition we have deﬁned the components
of our Invested Capital. See page 45 for the details of this deﬁnition and the calculation of Unilever's Return on Invested Capital.
Unilever is not subject to covenants in any of its signiﬁcant ﬁnancing agreements.
Income statement sensitivity to changes in foreign exchange rates
The values of debt, investments and related hedging instruments, denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the entities
holding them, are subject to exchange rate movements. The translation risk on the foreign exchange receivables and payables is excluded from
this sensitivity analysis as the risk is considered to be immaterial because positions will remain within prescribed limits (see currency risks on 
page 104). 
The remaining unhedged foreign exchange positions at 31 December 2009 amount to €2 million (2008: €45 million). A reasonably possible 10%
change in rates would lead to a €0.2 million movement in the income statement (2008: €5 million), based on a linear calculation of our
exposure. 
Income statement sensitivity to changes in interest rate 
Interest rate risks are presented by way of sensitivity analysis. As described on page 104, Unilever has an interest rate management policy aimed
at optimising net interest cost and reducing volatility in the income statement. As part of this policy, part of the ﬁnancial assets and ﬁnancial
liabilities have ﬁxed interest rates and are no longer exposed to changes in the ﬂoating rates. The remaining ﬂoating part of our ﬁnancial assets
and ﬁnancial liabilities (see interest rate proﬁle tables on pages 102 for the assets and 103 for the liabilities) is exposed to changes in the ﬂoating
interest rates.
The analysis below shows the sensitivity of the income statement to a reasonably possible one percentage point change in ﬂoating interest rates
on a full-year basis. 
Sensitivity to a reasonably possible 
one percentage point change in 
ﬂoating rates as at 31 December
€ million € million
2009 2008
Financial assets 92 77
Financial liabilities (91) (105)
Net investment hedges: sensitivity relating to changes in foreign exchange rates
To reduce the retranslation risk of Unilever's investments in foreign subsidiaries, Unilever uses net investment hedges. The fair values of these net
investment hedges are subject to exchange rate movements and changes in these fair values are recognised directly in equity and will offset the
retranslation impact of the related subsidiary. 
At 31 December 2009 the nominal value of these net investment hedges amounts to €4.9 billion (2008: €5.1 billion) mainly consisting of US$/€
contracts. A reasonably possible 10% change in rates would lead to a fair value movement of €486 million (2008: €513 million). This movement
would be fully offset by an opposite movement on the retranslation of the book equity of the foreign subsidiary.
Cash ﬂow hedges: sensitivity relating to changes in interest rates and foreign exchange rates
Unilever uses on a limited scale both interest rate and forex cash ﬂow hedges. The fair values of these instruments are subject to changes in
interest rates and exchange rates. Because of the limited use of these instruments and the amount of Unilever's equity, possible changes in
interest rates and exchange rates will not lead to fair value movements that will have a material impact on Unilever's equity.
16 Trade payables and other liabilities
€ million € million
Trade and other payables 2009 2008
Due within one year
Trade payables 3,982 3,873
Accruals 3,504 2,720
Social security and sundry taxes 342 341
Others 585 890
8,413 7,824
Due after more than one year
Accruals 104 102
Others 144 73
248 175
Total trade payables and other liabilities 8,661 7,999
The amounts shown above do not include any payables due after more than ﬁve years. Trade payables and other liabilities are valued at historic
cost, which where appropriate approximates their amortised cost. Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009 111
17 Deferred taxation
€ million € million € million € million
As at 1 As at 31
January Income
(a)
December
Movements in 2009 2009 statement Equity
(b)
2009
Pensions and similar obligations 809 (206) (11) 592
Provisions 612 (46) 85 651
Goodwill and intangible assets (823) (61) (60) (944)
Accelerated tax depreciation (555) 49 (19) (525)
Tax losses
(c)
105 61 (84) 82
Fair value gains (6) – (18) (24)
Fair value losses 40 2 (40) 2
Share-based payments 100 24 22 146
Other (4) 8 (10) (6)
278 (169) (135) (26)
(a) The difference of €24 million between the income statement movement of €(169) million and the income statement charge of €(145) million
as disclosed in note 6 on page 91, is due to a reclassiﬁcation between deferred and current tax relating to the prior year.
(b) Of the total movement in equity of €(135) million, €59 million arises as a result of currency retranslation and €(29) million as a result of
acquisitions and disposals. 
(c) Of the €(84) million movement on Equity €(103) million arises as a result of the federal tax settlement in Brazil. Legislation in Brazil allowed
companies to settle these outstanding tax liabilities by offset against accumulated tax losses.  See note 25 on page 122.  
€ million € million € million € million
As at 1 As at 31
January Income December
Movements in 2008 2008 statement Equity
(a)
2008
Pensions and similar obligations 200 (177) 786 809
Provisions 786 (103) (71) 612
Goodwill and intangible assets (780) (34) (9) (823)
Accelerated tax depreciation (598) (2) 45 (555)
Tax losses 84 (7) 28 105
Fair value gains (8) (5) 7 (6)
Fair value losses 8 (3) 35 40
Share-based payments 101 57 (58) 100
Other (3) – (1) (4)
(210) (274) 762 278
(a) Of the total movement in equity of €762 million, €87 million arises as a result of currency retranslation and €8 million as a result of
acquisitions and disposals. 
At the balance sheet date, the Group has unused tax losses of €1,283 million and tax credits amounting to €32 million available for offset 
against future taxable proﬁts. Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of unused tax losses of €1,006 million and tax credits 
of €32 million, as it is not probable that there will be future taxable proﬁts within the entities against which the losses can be utilised. The
majority of these tax losses and credits arise in tax jurisdictions where they do not expire with the exception of €412 million of state and 
federal tax losses in the US which expire between now and 2029.
Other deductible temporary differences of €110 million have not been recognised as a deferred tax asset. There is no expiry date for these
differences.
At the balance sheet date, the aggregate amount of temporary differences associated with undistributed earnings of subsidiaries for which
deferred tax liabilities have not been recognised was €1,319 million (2008: €967 million). No liability has been recognised in respect of these
differences because the Group is in a position to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences, and it is probable that such
differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future. 17 Deferred taxation (continued)
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax
liabilities and when the deferred income taxes relate to the same ﬁscal authority. The following amounts, determined after appropriate offsetting,
are shown in the consolidated balance sheet:
€ million € million € million € million € million € million
Assets Assets Liabilities Liabilities Total Total
Deferred tax assets and liabilities 2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008
Pensions and similar obligations 674 887 (82) (78) 592 809
Provisions 556 619 95 (7) 651 612
Goodwill and intangible assets (370) (345) (574) (478) (944) (823)
Accelerated tax depreciation (302) (368) (223) (187) (525) (555)
Tax losses 68 103 14 2 82 105
Fair value gains (17) – (7) (6) (24) (6)
Fair value losses 3 43 (1) (3) 2 40
Share-based payments 104 100 42 – 146 100
Other 22 29 (28) (33) (6) (4)
738 1,068 (764) (790) (26) 278
Of which deferred tax to be recovered/(settled) after 
more than 12 months 408 736 (741) (717) (333) 19
18 Provisions
€ million € million
Provisions 2009 2008
Due within one year 420 757
Due after one year 729 646
Total provisions 1,149 1,403
€ million € million € million € million € million € million
Restructuring Legal Disputed Net liability Other
Movements during 2009 provisions provisions indirect taxes of associate provisions Total
1 January 2009 504 60 544 31 264 1,403
Disposal of group companies – – – (25) – (25)
Income statement:
New charges 339 10 90 – 74 513
Releases (93) (3) (85) – (26) (207)
Utilisation (361) (31) (278) – (45) (715)
Currency retranslation 11 – 176 (6) (1) 180
31 December 2009 400 36 447 – 266 1,149
Restructuring provisions primarily relate to early retirement and redundancy costs, the most signiﬁcant of which relate to the formation of new
multi-country organisations and several factory closures; no projects are individually material. Legal provisions are comprised of many claims, of
which none is individually material. Further information is given in note 25 on page 122.
The provision for disputed indirect taxes is comprised of a number of small disputed items. The largest elements of the provision relate to
disputes with the Brazilian authorities. Because of the nature of the disputes, the timing of the utilisation of the provisions, and any associated
cash outﬂows, is uncertain. The majority of the disputed items attract an interest charge. For further information please refer to note 25 on
page 122.
No individual item within the other provisions balance is signiﬁcant. Unilever expects that the issues relating to these restructuring, legal and
other provisions will be substantively resolved over the next ﬁve years. 
Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements Unilever Group
112 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Financial statements Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009 113
19 Pensions and similar obligations
Description of plans
In many countries the Group operates deﬁned beneﬁt pension plans based on employee pensionable remuneration and length of service. 
The majority of these plans are externally funded. The Group also provides other post-employment beneﬁts, mainly post-employment healthcare
plans in the United States. These plans are predominantly unfunded. The Group also operates a number of deﬁned contribution plans, the assets
of which are held in external funds.
The majority of the Group’s externally funded plans are established as trusts, foundations or similar entities. The operation of these entities 
is governed by local regulations and practice in each country, as is the nature of the relationship between the Group and the trustees
(or equivalent) and their composition. 
Exposure to risks
Pension assets and liabilities (pre-tax) of €14,413 million and €16,995 million respectively are held on the Group’s balance sheet as at
31 December 2009. Movements in equity markets, interest rates, inﬂation and life expectancy could materially affect the level of surpluses and
deﬁcits in these schemes, and could prompt the need for the Group to make additional pension contributions, or to reduce pension
contributions, in the future. The key assumptions used to value our pension liabilities are set out below and on pages 114 and 115.
Investment strategy
The Group’s investment strategy in respect of its funded pension plans is implemented within the framework of the various statutory
requirements of the territories where the plans are based. The Group has developed policy guidelines for the allocation of assets to different
classes with the objective of controlling risk and maintaining the right balance between risk and long-term returns in order to limit the cost to the
Group of the beneﬁts provided. To achieve this, investments are well diversiﬁed, such that the failure of any single investment would not have a
material impact on the overall level of assets. The plans invest the largest proportion of the assets in equities which the Group believes offer the
best returns over the long term commensurate with an acceptable level of risk. The pension funds also have a proportion of assets invested in
property, bonds, hedge funds and cash. The majority of assets are managed by a number of external fund managers with a small proportion
managed in-house. Unilever has a pooled investment vehicle (Univest) which it believes offers its pension plans around the world a simpliﬁed
externally managed investment vehicle to implement their strategic asset allocation models, currently for bonds, equities and hedge funds. The
aim is to provide a high quality, well-diversiﬁed, risk-controlled vehicle.
Assumptions
With the objective of presenting the assets and liabilities of the pensions and other post-employment beneﬁt plans at their fair value on the
balance sheet, assumptions under IAS 19 are set by reference to market conditions at the valuation date. The actuarial assumptions used to
calculate the beneﬁt obligations vary according to the country in which the plan is situated. The following table shows the assumptions,
weighted by liabilities, used to value the principal deﬁned beneﬁt plans (which cover approximately 95% of total pension liabilities) and the plans
providing other post-employment beneﬁts, and in addition the expected long-term rates of return on assets, weighted by asset value.
31 December 2009 31 December 2008 31 December 2007 31 December 2006
Other Other Other Other
Principal post- Principal post- Principal post- Principal post-
deﬁned employ- deﬁned employ- deﬁned employ- deﬁned employ-
beneﬁt ment beneﬁt ment beneﬁt ment beneﬁt ment
pension beneﬁt pension beneﬁt pension beneﬁt pension beneﬁt
plans plans plans plans plans plans plans plans
Discount rate 5.5% 5.8% 6.1% 5.8% 5.8% 6.1% 5.1% 5.9%
Inﬂation 2.6% n/a 2.4% n/a 2.6% n/a 2.5% n/a
Rate of increase in salaries 3.7% 4.0% 3.5% 4.0% 3.8% 4.0% 3.7% 4.0%
Rate of increase for pensions 
in payment (where provided) 2.6% n/a 2.4% n/a 2.5% n/a 2.3% n/a
Rate of increase for pensions in 
deferment (where provided) 2.8% n/a 2.6% n/a 2.7% n/a 2.7% n/a
Long-term medical cost inﬂation n/a 5.0% n/a 5.0% n/a 5.0% n/a 5.0%
Expected long-term rates of return:
Equities 7.9% 7.4% 8.0% 7.8%
Bonds 4.8% 4.7% 4.9% 4.9%
Property 6.4% 5.8% 6.6% 6.3%
Others 6.0% 5.4% 6.3% 6.3%
Weighted average asset return 6.7% 6.3% 7.0% 6.9% 19 Pensions and similar obligations (continued)
The valuations of other post-employment beneﬁt plans generally assume a higher initial level of medical cost inﬂation, which falls from 8.5% 
to the long-term rate within the next ﬁve years. Assumed healthcare cost trend rates have a signiﬁcant effect on the amounts reported for
healthcare plans. A one percentage point change in assumed healthcare cost trend rates would have the following effect:
€ million € million
1% point 1% point
increase decrease
Effect on total of service and interest cost components 1 (1)
Effect on total beneﬁt obligation 17 (16)
The expected rates of return on plan assets were determined, based on actuarial advice, by a process that takes the long-term rates of return on
government bonds available at the balance sheet date and applies to these rates suitable risk premiums that take account of historic market
returns and current market long-term expectations for each asset class.
For the most important pension plans, representing approximately 80% of all deﬁned beneﬁt plans by liabilities, the assumptions used at 
31 December 2009, 2008, 2007 and 2006 were:
United Kingdom Netherlands
2009 2008 2007 2006 2009 2008 2007 2006
Discount rate 5.7% 6.5% 5.8% 5.1% 5.1% 5.9% 5.5% 4.6%
Inﬂation 3.1% 2.8% 3.0% 2.9% 1.9% 2.0% 1.9% 1.9%
Rate of increase in salaries 4.6% 4.3% 4.5% 4.4% 2.4% 2.4% 2.4% 2.4%
Rate of increase for pensions 
in payment (where provided) 3.1% 2.8% 3.0% 2.9% 1.9% 2.0% 1.9% 1.9%
Rate of increase for pensions in 
deferment (where provided) 3.1% 2.8% 3.0% 2.9% 1.9% 2.0% 1.9% 1.9%
Expected long-term rates of return:
Equities 8.0% 7.8% 8.0% 8.0% 7.7% 7.2% 8.1% 7.6%
Bonds 4.9% 5.0% 5.0% 5.2% 4.6% 5.0% 4.7% 4.4%
Property 6.5% 6.0% 6.5% 6.5% 6.2% 5.7% 6.6% 6.1%
Others 6.7% 5.6% 6.3% 7.2% 5.3% 5.6% 4.1% 4.0%
Weighted average asset return 7.2% 7.0% 7.2% 7.3% 6.4% 6.2% 6.8% 6.6%
United States Germany
2009 2008 2007 2006 2009 2008 2007 2006
Discount rate 5.6% 5.6% 5.9% 5.8% 5.1% 5.9% 5.5% 4.6%
Inﬂation 2.4% 2.1% 2.3% 2.5% 1.9% 2.0% 1.9% 1.9%
Rate of increase in salaries 4.0% 4.0% 4.0% 4.0% 2.8% 2.8% 2.8% 2.6%
Rate of increase for pensions 
in payment (where provided) 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 1.9% 2.0% 1.9% 1.9%
Rate of increase for pensions in 
deferment (where provided) 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0%
Expected long-term rates of return:
Equities 7.8% 6.0% 7.8% 8.3% 7.7% 7.2% 8.1% 7.6%
Bonds 5.0% 5.1% 4.5% 5.2% 4.6% 4.2% 4.7% 4.4%
Property 6.3% 4.5% 6.3% 6.8% 6.2% 5.7% 6.6% 6.1%
Others 2.0% 1.2% 3.7% 4.8% 5.5% 4.4% 5.8% 3.0%
Weighted average asset return 6.6% 5.7% 6.8% 7.4% 5.9% 5.3% 6.5% 5.8%
Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements Unilever Group
114 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Financial statements Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009 115
19 Pensions and similar obligations (continued)
Demographic assumptions, such as mortality rates, are set having regard to the latest trends in life expectancy (including expectations for future
improvements), plan experience and other relevant data. The assumptions are reviewed and updated as necessary as part of the periodic actuarial
valuation of the pension plans. The assumptions made in 2009 are consistent with those applied in 2008.
Mortality assumptions for the most important countries are based on the following post-retirement mortality tables: (i) United Kingdom: PNMA 00
and PNFA 00 with medium cohort adjustment subject to a minimum annual improvement of 1% and scaling factors of 110% for current male
pensioners, 125% for current female pensioners and 105% for future male and female pensioners; (ii) the Netherlands: GBMV (2000-2005) with
age set back of four years for males and two years for females; (iii) United States: RP2000 with a projection period of 10-15 years; and (iv)
Germany: Heubeck 1998 (Periodentafel) with a scaling factor of 85%. These tables translate into the following years of life expectancy for
current pensioners aged 65:
United United
Kingdom Netherlands States Germany
Males 21 21 19 18
Females 23 22 22 21
With regard to future improvements in life expectancy, in the UK for example, males and females currently aged 45 are assumed to have a life
expectancy of 24 years and 26 years respectively on retirement at age 65.
Assumptions for the remaining deﬁned beneﬁt plans vary considerably, depending on the economic conditions of the countries where they 
are situated.
Balance sheet
The assets, liabilities and surplus/(deﬁcit) position of the pension and other post-employment beneﬁt plans and the expected rates of return on
the plan assets at the balance sheet date were:
31 December 2009 31 December 2008 31 December 2007
€ million € million % € million € million % € million € million %
Other post- Long-term Other post- Long-term Other post- Long-term
employment rates of employment rates of employment rates of
Pension beneﬁt return Pension beneﬁt return Pension beneﬁt return
plans plans expected plans plans expected plans plans expected
Assets of principal plans:
Equities 7,359 – 7.9% 6,044 – 7.4% 9,957 – 8.0%
Bonds 4,040 – 4.8% 3,244 – 4.7% 4,278 – 4.9%
Property 792 – 6.4% 1,053 – 5.8% 1,381 – 6.6%
Other 1,867 – 6.0% 1,069 – 5.4% 1,220 – 6.3%
Assets of other plans 348 7 7.9% 303 6 8.3% 404 13 7.5%
14,406 7 11,713 6 17,240 13
Present value of liabilities:
Principal plans (15,602) – (13,682) – (16,798) –
Other plans (744) (649) (682) (737) (748) (796)
(16,346) (649) (14,364) (737) (17,546) (796)
Aggregate net deﬁcit of the plans (1,940) – (2,651) (731) (306) (783)
Irrecoverable surplus
(a)
––––––
Pension liability net of assets (1,940) (642) (2,651) (731) (306) (783)
Of which in respect of:
Funded plans in surplus:
Liabilities (4,733) – – (3,600) – (12,396) –
Assets 5,492 – – 4,025 – 14,404 –
Aggregate surplus 759 – – 425 – 2,008 –
Irrecoverable surplus
(a)
––––– ––
Pension asset net of liabilities 759 – – 425 – 2,008 –
Funded plans in deﬁcit:
Liabilities (10,407) (33) – (9,484) (30) (3,627) (49)
Assets 8,914 7 – 7,688 6 2,836 13
Pension liability net of assets (1,493) (26) – (1,796) (24) (791) (36)
Unfunded plans:
Pension liability (1,206) (616) – (1,280) (707) (1,523) (747)
(a) A surplus is deemed recoverable to the extent that the Group is able to beneﬁt economically from the surplus. 19 Pensions and similar obligations (continued)
Liabilities of €150 million were transferred from the UK unfunded plan to the funded plan in 2009. This followed the payment to the UK funded
plan in 2008 in expectation of a transfer in 2009 and 2010. During 2008 some previously unfunded liabilities were funded utilising existing
surpluses. As a consequence of this the liabilities of €24 million were moved from unfunded to funded in the table above for 2008.
Equity securities include Unilever securities amounting to €37 million (0.3% of total plan assets) and €25 million (0.2% of total plan assets) 
at 31 December 2009 and 2008 respectively. Property includes property occupied by Unilever amounting to €12 million and €57 million at 
31 December 2009 and 2008 respectively.
The pension assets above exclude the assets in a Special Beneﬁts Trust amounting to €127 million (2008: €146 million) to fund pension and
similar obligations in the US (see also note 11 on page 97).
The sensitivity of the overall pension liabilities to changes in the weighted key ﬁnancial assumptions are: 
Impact on
Change in overall
assumption liabilities
Discount rate Increase/decrease by 0.5% Decrease/increase by 6.0%
Inﬂation rate Increase/decrease by 0.5% Increase/decrease by 6.0%
Income statement
The charge to the income statement comprises:
€ million € million € million
2009 2008 2007
Charged to operating proﬁt:
Deﬁned beneﬁt pension and other beneﬁt plans
Current service cost (228) (272) (329)
Employee contributions 12 12 12
Special termination beneﬁts (50) (54) (59)
Past service cost 50 24 35
Settlements/curtailments 20 16 72
Deﬁned contribution plans (60) (55) (52)
Total operating cost 4 (256) (329) (321)
Charged to other ﬁnance income/(cost):
Interest on retirement beneﬁts (940) (988) (1,013)
Expected return on assets 776 1,131 1,171
Total other ﬁnance income/(cost) 5 (164) 143 158
Net impact on the income statement (before tax) (420) (186) (163)
Cash ﬂow
Group cash ﬂow in respect of pensions and similar post-employment beneﬁts comprises company contributions paid to funded plans and
beneﬁts paid by the company in respect of unfunded plans.  In 2009, the beneﬁts paid in respect of unfunded plans amounted to €234 million
(2008: €223 million; 2007: €280 million).  Company contributions to funded deﬁned beneﬁt plans are subject to periodic review, taking account
of local legislation.  In 2009, contributions to funded deﬁned beneﬁt plans amounted to €968 million (2008: €531 million; 2007: €878 million).
2009 contributions paid to funded plans included around €370 million of future years’ contributions accelerated into 2009. 2008 contributions
to funded plans included €254 million to the UK pension plan to cover the transfer of unfunded liabilities into the plan in 2009 and 2010.  In
2009 and 2007, refunds of €25 million €50 million respectively were received out of recognised surplus from Finland.  In 2008 a €42 million
refund was received from the Danish pension plan following action to externally insure the liabilities. Contributions to deﬁned contribution plans
including 401k plans amounted to €60 million (2008: €55 million; 2007 €52 million). Total contributions by the Group to funded plans, net of
refunds, are currently expected to be about €425 million in 2010 (2009 actual: €968 million).  Beneﬁt payments by the Group in respect of
unfunded plans are currently expected to be about €215 million in 2010 (2009 actual: €234 million).  Total cash costs of pensions are expected 
to be around €700 million in 2010 (2009 actual: €1.3 billion). 
Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements Unilever Group
116 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Financial statements Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009 117
19 Pensions and similar obligations (continued)
Statement of comprehensive income
Amounts recognised in the statement of comprehensive income:
€ million € million € million € million € million € million
Cumulative
since
1 January
2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004
Actual return less expected return on pension and other beneﬁt 
plan assets 1,277 (4,243) (236) 533 1,592 (708)
Experience gains/(losses) arising on pension plan and other 
beneﬁt plan liabilities 250 – 103 51 27 384
Changes in assumptions underlying the present value of the 
pension and other beneﬁt plan liabilities (1,489) 1,116 946 474 (1,706) (1,706)
Actuarial gain/(loss) 38 (3,127) 813 1,058 (87) (2,030)
Change in unrecognised surplus – – – 142 (41) 103
Refund of unrecognised assets –––– 15 15
Net actuarial gain/(loss) recognised in statement of comprehensive
income (before tax) 38 (3,127) 813 1,200 (113) (1,912)
Reconciliation of change in assets and liabilities
Movements in assets and liabilities during the year:
€ million € million € million € million € million € million
Assets Assets Assets Liabilities Liabilities Liabilities
2009 2008 2007 2009 2008 2007
1 January 11,719 17,253 17,278 (15,101) (18,342) (20,358)
Acquisitions/disposals – – (3) – 2 5
Current service cost – – – (228) (272) (329)
Employee contributions 12 12 12–––
Special termination beneﬁts – – – (50) (54) (59)
Past service costs – – – 50 24 35
Settlements/curtailments (9) (12) (4) 29 28 76
Expected returns on plan assets 776 1,131 1,171–––
Interest on pension liabilities – – – (940) (988) (1,013)
Actuarial gain/(loss) 1,277 (4,243) (236) (1,239) 1,117 1,049
Employer contributions 1,202 754 1,158–––
Beneﬁt payments (1,204) (1,367) (1,247) 1,204 1,367 1,247
Reclassiﬁcation of beneﬁts
(b)
– (7) (7) – 7 7
Currency retranslation 640 (1,802) (869) (720) 2,010 998
31 December 14,413 11,719 17,253 (16,995) (15,101) (18,342)
(b) Certain obligations have been reclassiﬁed as employee beneﬁt obligations.
The actual return on plan assets during 2009 was € 2,053 million i.e. the sum of € 776 million and €1,277 million from the table above 
(2008: €(3,112) million).
Funded status of plans at the year end
€ million € million € million € million € million
2009 2008 2007 2006 2005
Total assets 14,413 11,719 17,253 17,278 16,006
Total pension liabilities (16,995) (15,101) (18,342) (20,358) (21,446)
Net liabilities (2,582) (3,382) (1,089) (3,080) (5,440)
Less unrecognised surplus – – – – (141)
Pension liabilities net of assets (2,582) (3,382) (1,089) (3,080) (5,581)
20 Comprehensive income
Tax effects of the components of other comprehensive income were as follows:
€ million € million € million € million € million € million
Tax Tax
Before (charged)/ After Before (charged)/ After
tax credit tax tax credit tax
2009 2009 2009 2008 2008 2008
Fair value gains/(losses) on ﬁnancial instruments 163 (58) 105 (204) 40 (164)
Actuarial gains/(losses) on pension schemes 38 (20) 18 (3,127) 834 (2,293)
Currency redistribution gains/(losses) 396 – 396 (1,688) – (1,688) 21 Equity
€ million € million € million € million € million € million € million
Called up Share Total
share premium Other Retained shareholders’ Minority Total
Consolidated statement of changes in equity capital account reserves proﬁt equity interests equity
1 January 2007 484 165 (2,143) 12,724 11,230 442 11,672
Total comprehensive income for the year – – (314) 4,428 4,114 237 4,351
Dividends on ordinary capital – – – (2,070) (2,070) – (2,070)
Movements in treasury stock
(a)
– – (955) (99) (1,054) – (1,054)
Share-based payment credit
(b)
– – – 140 140 – 140
Dividends paid to minority shareholders ––––– (251) (251)
Currency retranslation gains/(losses) net of tax – (12) – – (12) (6) (18)
Other movements in equity – – – 39 39 10 49
31 December 2007 484 153 (3,412) 15,162 12,387 432 12,819
Total comprehensive income for the year – – (1,757) 2,692 935 205 1,140
Dividends on ordinary capital – – – (2,052) (2,052) – (2,052)
Movements in treasury stock
(a)
– – (1,304) (113) (1,417) – (1,417)
Share-based payment credit
(b)
– – – 125 125 – 125
Dividends paid to minority shareholders ––––– (208) (208)
Currency retranslation gains/(losses) net of tax – (32) – – (32) (6) (38)
Other movements in equity – – 4 (2) 2 1 3
31 December 2008 484 121 (6,469) 15,812 9,948 424 10,372
Total comprehensive income for the year – – 339 3,538 3,877 301 4,178
Dividends on ordinary capital – – – (2,115) (2,115) – (2,115)
Movements in treasury stock
(a)
– – 224 (95) 129 – 129
Share-based payment credit
(b)
– – – 195 195 – 195
Dividends paid to minority shareholders ––––– (244) (244)
Currency retranslation gains/(losses) net of tax – 10–– 10 (7) 3
Other movements in equity – – 6 15 21 (3) 18
31 December 2009 484 131 (5,900) 17,350 12,065 471 12,536
(a) Includes purchases and sales of treasury stock, and transfer from treasury stock to retained proﬁt of share settled schemes arising from prior
years and differences between exercise and grant price of share options.
(b) The share-based payment credit relates to the reversal of the non-cash charge recorded against operating proﬁt in respect of the fair value of
share options and awards granted to employees.
Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements Unilever Group
118 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Financial statements Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009 119
22 Share capital
€ million € million
Called up share capital 2009 2008
Ordinary share capital of NV 274 274
Ordinary share capital of PLC 210 210
484 484
Issued, Issued,
Number Nominal Number called up and called up and
of shares Authorised Authorised value of shares fully paid fully paid
Ordinary share capital authorised 2009 2008 per share issued 2009 2008
€ million € million € million € million
NV ordinary shares 3,000,000,000 480 480 €0.16 1,714,727,700 274 274
NV ordinary shares (shares numbered 
1 to 2,400 – ’Special Shares’) 1 1 €428.57 2,400 1 1
Internal holdings eliminated
on consolidation (€428.57 shares) – – (1) (1)
481 481 274 274
£ million £ million £ million £ million
PLC ordinary shares 4,377,075,492 136.2 136.2 3
1
⁄9p 1,310,156,361 40.8 40.8
PLC deferred stock 100,000 0.1 0.1 £1 stock 100,000 0.1 0.1
Internal holding eliminated
on consolidation (£1 stock) – – (0.1) (0.1)
136.3 136.3 40.8 40.8
Euro equivalent in millions (at £1.00 = €5.143) 210 210
For information on the rights of shareholders of NV and PLC and the operation of the Equalisation Agreement, see Corporate governance on
pages 56 and 57.
A nominal dividend of 6% is paid on the deferred stock of PLC, which is not redeemable.
Internal holdings
The ordinary shares numbered 1 to 2,400 (inclusive) in NV (‘Special Shares’) and deferred stock of PLC are held as to one half of each class by
N.V. Elma – a subsidiary of NV – and one half by United Holdings Limited – a subsidiary of PLC. This capital is eliminated on consolidation. For
information on the rights related to the aforementioned ordinary shares, see Corporate governance on pages 55 and 56. The subsidiaries
mentioned above have waived their rights to dividends on their ordinary shares in NV.
Share-based compensation
The Group operates a number of share-based compensation plans involving options and awards of ordinary shares of NV and PLC. Full details of
these plans are given in note 29 on pages 126 and 127.
23 Other reserves
(a)
€ million € million € million € million € million € million € million € million € million
NV NV NV PLC PLC PLC Total Total Total
2009 2008 2007 2009 2008 2007 2009 2008 2007
Fair value reserves 16 (41) 92 26 (22) 9 42 (63) 101
Cash ﬂow hedges 1 (22) 86 6 (11) (1) 7 (33) 85
Available-for-sale ﬁnancial assets 15 (19) 6 20 (11) 10 35 (30) 16
Currency retranslation of group companies 42 (640) 104 (1,501) (1,053) (204) (1,459) (1,693) (100)
Adjustment on translation of PLC’s ordinary
capital at 3
1
/9p = €0.16 – –– (165) (169) (155) (165) (169) (155)
Capital redemption reserve 16 16 16 16 16 16 32 32 32
Book value treasury stock (3,703) (3,886) (2,741) (647) (690) (549) (4,350) (4,576) (3,290)
(3,629) (4,551) (2,529) (2,271) (1,918) (883) (5,900) (6,469) (3,412)
(a) The movements in other reserves are analysed between the NV and PLC parts of the Group, aggregated according to the relative legal
ownership of individual entities by NV or PLC.
Unilever acquired 29,666 ordinary shares of NV and 27,769 ordinary shares of PLC through purchases on the stock exchanges during the year.
These shares are held as treasury stock as a separate component of other reserves. The total number held at 31 December 2009 is 170,178,644
(2008: 177,223,649) NV shares and 50,546,994 (2008: 58,584,845) PLC shares. Of these, 28,618,015 NV shares and 23,850,000 PLC shares
were held in connection with share-based compensation plans (see note 29 on pages 126 and 127). 23 Other reserves (continued)
€ million € million
Treasury stock – movements during the year 2009 2008
1 January (4,576) (3,290)
Purchases and other utilisations 226 (1,286)
31 December (4,350) (4,576)
€ million € million
Currency retranslation reserve – movements during the year 2009 2008
1 January (1,693) (100)
Currency retranslation during the year 292 (1,027)
Movement in net investment hedges (58) (560)
Recycled to income statement – (6)
31 December (1,459) (1,693)
24 Retained proﬁt
(a)
€ million € million € million € million € million € million € million € million € million
NV NV NV PLC PLC PLC Total Total Total
Movements during the year 2009 2008 2007 2009 2008 2007 2009 2008 2007
1 January 15,343 10,403 8,404 469 4,759 4,320 15,812 15,162 12,724
Recognised income and expense through
retained proﬁt 2,583 1,742 2,599 955 950 1,829 3,538 2,692 4,428
Dividends on ordinary capital (1,203) (1,176) (1,167) (912) (876) (903) (2,115) (2,052) (2,070)
Utilisation of treasury stock (33) (66) (53) (62) (47) (46) (95) (113) (99)
Share-based compensation credit
(b)
115 79 90 80 46 50 195 125 140
Adjustment arising from change in structure 
of group companies
(c)
(363) 4,346 499 363 (4,346) (499) – ––
Other movements in retained proﬁt 16 15 31 (1) (17) 8 15 (2) 39
31 December 16,458 15,343 10,403 892 469 4,759 17,350 15,812 15,162
Of which retained by:
Parent companies 10,657 10,602 10,009 2,373 1,996 2,344 13,030 12,598 12,353
Other group companies 5,730 4,732 345 (1,267) (1,348) 2,555 4,463 3,384 2,900
Joint ventures and associates 71 949 (214) (179) (140) (143) (170) (91)
16,458 15,343 10,403 892 469 4,759 17,350 15,812 15,162
(a) The movements in retained proﬁt are analysed between the NV and PLC parts of the Group, aggregated according to the relative legal
ownership of individual entities by NV or PLC.
(b) The share-based compensation credit relates to the reversal of the non-cash charge recorded against operating proﬁt in respect of the fair
value of share options and awards granted to employees.
(c) As part of the review of Unilever's corporate structure, and in the light of the constitutional and operational arrangements which enable
Unilever N.V. and Unilever PLC to operate as nearly as practicable as a single company, the Directors have been authorised to take any action
necessary or desirable in order to ensure that the ratio of the dividend generating capacity of PLC to that of NV does not differ substantially
from the ratio of the dividend entitlement of ordinary shareholders in PLC to that of ordinary shareholders in NV. In 2008 shareholdings in
the Unilever companies in Belgium, Austria, Netherlands, Poland and Switzerland were transferred to 100% NV ownership. In addition,
shareholdings in Canada and Indonesia were re-aligned between NV and PLC. In 2007 and 2009 there were no signiﬁcant changes in group
structure.
Cumulative goodwill written off directly to reserves prior to the transition to IFRS on 1 January 2004 was €5,199 million for NV and 
€2,063 million for PLC. 
Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements Unilever Group
120 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Financial statements Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009 121
25 Commitments and contingent liabilities
€ million € million € million € million € million € million
Future Future
minimum minimum
lease Finance Present lease Finance Present
payments cost value payments cost value
Long-term ﬁnance lease commitments 2009 2009 2009 2008 2008 2008
Buildings
(a)
340 156 184 330 166 164
Plant and machinery 29 1 28 51 8 43
369 157 212 381 174 207
The commitments fall due as follows:
Within 1 year 34 12 22 37 13 24
Later than 1 year but not later than 5 years 91 46 45 102 52 50
Later than 5 years 244 99 145 242 109 133
369 157 212 381 174 207
(a) All leased land is classiﬁed as operating leases.
The Group has not sublet any part of the leased properties under ﬁnance leases.
€ million € million
Long-term operating lease commitments 2009 2008
Land and buildings 1,240 1,230
Plant and machinery 248 261
1,488 1,491
€ million € million € million € million
Other Other
Operating Operating commit- commit-
leases leases ments ments
Operating lease and other commitments fall due as follows 2009 2008 2009 2008
Within 1 year 301 344 884 722
Later than 1 year but not later than 5 years 782 730 1,328 1,339
Later than 5 years 405 417 164 79
1,488 1,491 2,376 2,140
The Group has sublet part of the leased properties under operating leases. Future minimum sublease payments of €66 million are expected to be
received. 
Other commitments principally comprise commitments under contracts to purchase materials and services. They do not include commitments for
capital expenditure, which are reported in note 10 on page 95. 
Contingent liabilities are either possible obligations that will probably not require a transfer of economic beneﬁts, or present obligations that may,
but probably will not, require a transfer of economic beneﬁts. It is not appropriate to make provisions for contingent liabilities, but there is a
chance that they will result in an obligation in the future. The Group does not believe that any of these contingent liabilities will result in a
material loss. 
Contingent liabilities arise in respect of litigation against group companies, investigations by competition, regulatory and ﬁscal authorities and
obligations arising under environmental legislation. The estimated total of such contingent liabilities at 31 December 2009 was some €205
million (2008: €355 million).  25 Commitments and contingent liabilities (continued)
Legal proceedings
Details of signiﬁcant outstanding legal proceedings and ongoing regulatory investigations are as follows:
Competition investigations
As previously reported, in June 2008 the European Commission initiated an investigation into potential competition law infringements in the
European Union in relation to consumer detergents. Unilever has received a number of requests for information from the European Commission
regarding the investigation and has been subject to unannounced investigations at some of its premises. The investigation is ongoing although
no statement of objections against Unilever has been issued to date. It is too early to reliably assess the ultimate resolution or to estimate the
ﬁnes which the Commission will seek to impose on Unilever as a result of this investigation. Therefore no provision has been made.  However,
substantial ﬁnes can be levied as a result of European Commission investigations. Fines imposed in other sectors for violations of competition
rules have amounted to hundreds of millions of euros. 
In December 2009, Unilever received separate statements of objection from the French competition authority and from the Italian competition
authority in connection with investigations into certain product markets in France and Italy respectively. An earlier decision by the Greek authority
ﬁning Unilever in relation to alleged restrictions on parallel trade within certain of its contracts with retailers in Greece is under appeal.
Appropriate provisions have been made in relation to these investigations and the ﬁning decision.
In addition and as previously reported, Unilever is involved in a number of other ongoing investigations by national competition authorities.
These include investigations in Belgium, France, Germany and The Netherlands. These investigations are at various stages and concern a variety
of product markets. In several cases it is not clear that the authorities will seek to impose a ﬁne on Unilever, and in others it is too early to be able
reasonably to assess the level of ﬁnes which the authorities may seek to impose. 
It is Unilever’s policy to co-operate fully with the competition authorities in the context of all ongoing investigations. In addition, Unilever
reinforces and enhances its internal competition law compliance procedures on an ongoing basis.
Tax cases Brazil
During 2004 the Federal Supreme Court in Brazil (local acronym STF) announced a review of certain cases that it had previously decided in favour
of taxpayers. Because of this action, we established a provision in 2004 for the potential repayment of sales tax credits in the event that the cases
establishing precedents in our favour are reversed. Since that time we continue to monitor the situation and have made changes as appropriate
to the amount provided.
In June 2007, the Supreme Court ruled against the taxpayers in one of these cases. Industry associations (of which Unilever is a member)
attempted to negotiate a settlement with the Federal Revenue Service to reduce or avoid the payment of interest and/or penalties on such
amounts. On 3 December 2008 the negotiations resulted in the publication of a settlement by the Brazilian government, open to all taxpayers
including Unilever. This settlement was ratiﬁed by the President of Brazil in 2009 and was subsequently supported by further legislation which
increased the discount on the interest payable. Unilever made a payment on October 29th, 2009 to settle the claim and this matter is now
resolved.
Also during 2004 in Brazil, and in common with many other businesses operating in that country, one of our Brazilian subsidiaries received a
notice of infringement from the Federal Revenue Service. The notice alleges that a 2001 reorganisation of our local corporate structure was
undertaken without valid business purpose. The dispute is in court and if upheld, will result in a tax payment relating to years from 2001 to the
present day. The 2001 reorganisation was comparable with restructurings done by many companies in Brazil. We believe that the likelihood of a
successful challenge by the tax authorities is remote. While this view is supported by the opinion of outside counsel there can be no guarantee of
success in court.
Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements Unilever Group
122 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Financial statements Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009 123
26 Acquisitions and disposals
On 2 April 2009 we announced the completion of our purchase of the global TIGI professional hair product business and its supporting advanced
education academies. TIGI’s major brands include Bed Head, Catwalk and S-Factor. Turnover of the business worldwide in 2008 was around 
US $250 million. The cash consideration of $411.5 million was made on a cash and debt free basis. In addition, further limited payments related
to future growth may be made contingent upon meeting certain thresholds.
On 23 June 2009 we announced that we had increased our holding in our business in Vietnam to 100%, following an agreement with Vinachem
who previously owned 33.3% of the business.
On 3 July 2009 we completed the acquisition of Baltimor Holding ZAO’s sauces business in Russia. The acquisition includes ketchup, mayonnaise
and tomato paste business under the Baltimor, Pomo d’Oro and Vostochniy Gourmand brands – accounting for turnover of around €70 million in
2008 – and a production facility at Kolpino, near St Petersburg. 
On 3 September 2009 we announced the sale of our oil palm plantation business in the Democratic Republic of Congo to Feronia Inc, for an
undisclosed sum.
On 25 September 2009 we announced a binding offer to acquire the personal care business of the Sara Lee Corporation for €1.275 billion in
cash. The Sara Lee brands involved include Sanex, Radox and Duschdas, and generated annual sales in excess of €750 million in the year ending
June 2009. The transaction is subject to regulatory approval and consultation with European Works Councils, and is expected to be completed by
the third quarter of 2010.
On 24 November 2009 we completed the sale of our interest in JohnsonDiversey. The cash consideration received was US $390 million, which
included both the originally announced cash consideration of US $158 million plus the proceeds of the sale of the 10.5% senior notes in
JohnsonDiversey Holdings, Inc. We retain a 4% interest in JohnsonDiversey in the form of warrants. See also note 11 on page 97.
2008
With effect from 1 January 2008, we entered into an expanded international partnership with PepsiCo for the marketing and distribution of
ready-to-drink tea products under the Lipton brand.
On 3 January 2008 we completed the sale of the Boursin brand to Le Groupe Bel for €400 million. The turnover of this brand in 2007 was
approximately €100 million.
On 2 April 2008 we completed the acquisition of Inmarko, the leading Russian ice cream company. The company had a turnover in 2007 of
approximately €115 million.
On 31 July 2008 we completed the sale of our Lawry’s and Adolph’s branded seasoning blends and marinades business in the US and
Canada to McCormick & Company, Incorporated for €410 million. The combined annual turnover of the business in 2007 was approximately 
€100 million.
On 9 September 2008 we completed the sale of our North American laundry business in the US, Canada and Puerto Rico to Vestar Capital
Partners, a leading global private equity ﬁrm, for consideration of approximately US $1.45 billion, consisting mainly of cash, along with preferred
shares and warrants. These businesses had a combined turnover in 2007 of approximately US $1.0 billion.
On 5 November 2008 we completed the sale of Komili, our olive oil brand in Turkey, to Ana Gida, part of the Anadolu Group.
On 4 December 2008 we completed the sale of our edible oil business in Côte d’Ivoire, together with interests in local oil palm plantations Palmci
and PHCI, to SIFCA, the parent company of an Ivorian agro-industry group, and to a 50:50 joint venture between two Singapore-based
companies, Wilmar International Limited and Olam International Limited. At the same time we acquired the soap business of Cosmivoire, a
subsidiary of SIFCA.
On 23 December 2008 we completed the disposal of our Bertolli olive oil and vinegar business to Grupo SOS for a consideration of €630 million.
The transaction was structured as a worldwide perpetual licence by Unilever of the Bertolli brand in respect of olive oil and premium vinegar. The
transaction included the sale of the Italian Maya, Dante and San Giorgio olive oil and seed oil businesses, as well as the factory at Inveruno, Italy. 
2007
During 2007 we purchased minority interests in subsidiary companies in Greece and India. We invested in a new venture fund, Physic Ventures,
which is accounted for as an associate, and made additional investments in two other venture companies, Spa and Salon International Limited
and Langholm Capital, both of which are accounted for as associates.
With effect from 1 October 2007, Unilever and Remgro Ltd. reached agreement to reorganise their respective shareholdings in the Unilever
businesses in South Africa and Israel. In the reorganised shareholding Unilever has a majority share in a single South African business and fully
owns the Unilever Israel foods and home and personal care business. As a result of this transaction, Unilever reported a proﬁt on disposal of 
€214 million and goodwill of €168 million. 
On 1 January 2007, Unilever completed the restructuring of its Portuguese businesses. The result of the reorganisation is that Unilever now has 
a 55% share of the combined Portuguese entity, called Unilever Jerónimo Martins. The combined business includes the foods and home and
personal care businesses. The remaining 45% interest is held by Jerónimo Martins Group. The structure of the agreement is such that there is
joint control of the newly formed entity and so it is accounted for by Unilever as a joint venture.
Other disposals in 2007 included the sale of local Brazilian margarine brands. In addition, to further develop our healthy heart brand margarine,
Becel, in Brazil we established a joint venture with Perdigão.
UNI04_01 AR_09 Pp111-128.qxd  4/3/10  11:51  Page 123 Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements Unilever Group
26 Acquisitions and disposals (continued)
€ million € million € million
Disposals 2009 2008 2007
Goodwill and intangible assets 1 117 5
Other non-current assets 1 145 44
Current assets 3 227 117
Trade creditors and other payables – (61) (48)
Provisions for liabilities and charges 1 (5) (34)
Minority interest – –71
Net assets sold 6 423 155
(Gain)/loss on recycling of currency retranslation on disposal – (6) (1)
Proﬁt on sale attributable to Unilever 7 2,237 399
Consideration
(a)
13 2,654 553
Cash 11 2,453 168
Cash balances of businesses sold – (15) (4)
Financial assets, cash deposits and ﬁnancial liabilities of businesses sold 2 15 113
Non-cash items and deferred consideration
(a)
– 201 276
(a) For 2007, includes €214 million fair value economic swap in South Africa.
The results of disposed businesses are included in the consolidated accounts up to their date of disposal.
The following table sets out the effect of acquisitions in 2009, 2008 and 2007 on the consolidated balance sheet. The fair values currently
established for all acquisitions made in 2009 are provisional. The goodwill arising on these transactions has been capitalised and is subject 
to an annual review for impairment (or more frequently if necessary) in accordance with our accounting policies as set out in note 1 on pages
83 and 84. Any impairment is charged to the income statement as it arises. Detailed information relating to goodwill is given in note 9 on pages
93 and 94.
€ million € million € million
Acquisitions 2009 2008 2007
Net assets acquired 128 151 94
Goodwill arising in subsidiaries 350 60 334
Consideration 478 211 428
In 2007, consideration consisted of €214 million cash, principally relating to acquisitions of minority interest, and €214 million fair value
economic swap in South Africa.
124 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Financial statements 27 Assets held for sale and discontinued operations
An analysis of the result of discontinued operations, and the result recognised on disposal of discontinued operations is as follows:
€ million € million € million
Income statement of discontinued operations 2009 2008 2007
Turnover – ––
Expenses – ––
Operating proﬁt – ––
Net ﬁnance costs – ––
Proﬁt before tax – ––
Taxation – ––
Proﬁt after taxation – ––
Gain/(loss) on disposal of discontinued operations
(a)
– –89
Recycling of currency retranslation upon disposal – ––
Taxation arising on disposal – – (9)
Gain/(loss) after taxation on disposal – –80
Net proﬁt from discontinued operations – –80
(a) In 2007, a one-off gain of €50 million was recognised for future performance-based consideration from the sale of UCI.
€ million € million € million
Summary cash ﬂow statement of discontinued operations 2009 2008 2007
Net cash ﬂow from/(used in) operating activities – – (4)
Net cash ﬂow from/(used in) investing activities – –80
Net cash ﬂow from/(used in) ﬁnancing activities – ––
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents – –76
€ million € million
Assets classiﬁed as held for sale 2009 2008
Disposal groups held for sale
Property, plant and equipment 7 7
Inventories 1 15
Trade and other receivables – –
8 22
Non-current assets held for sale
Property, plant and equipment 9 14
9 14
Total assets at 31 December 2009 are included in the geographical segments as follows: Asia, Africa and Central & Eastern Europe €3 million;
The Americas €14 million; Western Europe € nil.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009 125 Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements Unilever Group
28 Reconciliation of net proﬁt to cash ﬂow from operating activities
€ million € million € million
Cash ﬂow from operating activities 2009 2008 2007
Net proﬁt 3,659 5,285 4,136
Taxation 1,257 1,844 1,137
Share of net proﬁt of joint ventures/associates and other income from non-current investments (489) (219) (191)
Net ﬁnance costs: 593 257 252
Finance income (75) (106) (147)
Finance cost 504 506 550
Preference shares provision – –7
Pensions and similar obligations 164 (143) (158)
Operating proﬁt (continuing and discontinued operations) 5,020 7,167 5,334
Depreciation, amortisation and impairment 1,032 1,003 943
Changes in working capital: 1,701 (161) 27
Inventories 473 (345) (333)
Trade and other current receivables 640 (248) (43)
Trade payables and other current liabilities 588 432 403
Pensions and similar provisions less payments (1,028) (502) (910)
Provisions less payments (258) (62) 145
Elimination of (proﬁts)/losses on disposals 13 (2,259) (459)
Non-cash charge for share-based compensation 195 125 118
Other adjustments 58 15 (10)
Cash ﬂow from operating activities 6,733 5,326 5,188
The cash ﬂows of pension funds (other than contributions and other direct payments made by the Group in respect of pensions and similar
obligations) are not included in the Group cash ﬂow statement.
Major non-cash transactions
During 2007 the Group entered into new ﬁnance lease arrangements in respect of equipment with a capital value at inception of the lease of
€51 million. In addition, a lease for €181 million related to the sale and leaseback transaction carried out for the head ofﬁce building in the UK
was signed during 2007.
29 Share-based compensation plans
As at 31 December 2009, the Group had share-based compensation plans in the form of performance shares, share options and other share
awards. Starting in 2007, performance share awards and restricted stock awards were made under the Global Share Incentive Plan (GSIP),
except in North America where awards were made under the Unilever North America 2002 Omnibus Equity Compensation Plan. 
The numbers in this note include those for Executive Directors shown in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 67 to 73 and those 
for key management personnel shown in note 4 on page 90. No awards were made to Executive Directors in 2007, 2008 or 2009 under the
Unilever North America 2002 Omnibus Equity Compensation Plan. Non-Executive Directors do not participate in any of the share-based
compensation plans.
The economic fair value of the awards is calculated using option pricing models and the resulting cost is recognised as remuneration cost
amortised over the vesting period of the grant. 
Unilever will not grant share options in total in respect of share-based compensation plans for more than 5% of its issued ordinary capital, and
for all plans together, for more than 10% of its issued ordinary capital. The Board does not apportion these limits to each plan separately.
The actual remuneration cost charged in each period is shown below, and relates almost wholly to equity settled plans: 
€ million € million € million
Income statement charge 2009 2008 2007
Performance share plans (166) (97) (103)
Other plans
(a)
(29) (28) (49)
(195) (125) (152)
(a) The Group also provides a Share Matching Plan, an All-Employee Share Option Plan, a TSR Long-Term Incentive Plan (no awards after 2006)
and an Executive Option Plan (no awards after 2005).
126 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Financial statements 29 Share-based compensation plans (continued)
Performance Share Plans
In 2007 we introduced the Global Share Incentive Plan (GSIP). The provisions of this plan are comparable with the GPSP , with the same
performance conditions of underlying sales growth and ungeared free cash ﬂow for middle management, and the additional target based on 
TSR ranking for senior executives. Starting in 2008, awards made to GSIP participants normally vest at a level between 0% and 200%. Monte
Carlo simulation is used to value the TSR component of the awards.
North America managers participate in the North America Performance Share Programme, introduced in 2001, that awards Unilever shares 
if North America company performance targets are met over a three-year period. The amount to be paid to the company by participants to
obtain the shares at vesting is zero.
The Global Performance Share Plan (GPSP) was introduced in 2005. Under this plan, managers were awarded conditional shares which vest 
three years later at a level between 0% and 150% (for middle management) or 200% (for senior executives). The GPSP performance conditions
for middle management were achievement of underlying sales growth and ungeared free cash ﬂow targets over a three-year period. For senior
executives, in addition to these two conditions, there was an additional target based on TSR ranking in comparison with a peer group over the
three-year period (see description on page 46).
A summary of the status of the Performance Share Plans as at 31 December 2009, 2008 and 2007 and changes during the years ended on these
dates is presented below:
2009 2008 2007
Number of Number of Number of
shares shares shares
Outstanding at 1 January 16,353,251 16,843,769 15,270,180
Awarded 8,867,844 6,887,890 6,209,781
Vested (6,278,634) (6,415,295) (3,465,990)
Forfeited (1,406,313) (963,113) (1,170,202)
Outstanding at 31 December 17,536,148 16,353,251 16,843,769
Exercisable at 31 December – ––
2009 2008 2007
Share award value information
Fair value per share award during the year €13.02 €19.11 €19.06
Additional information
At 31 December 2009, there were options outstanding to purchase 41,786,145 (2008: 53,373,170) ordinary shares in NV or PLC in respect 
of share-based compensation plans of NV and its subsidiaries and the North American plans, and 14,260,636 (2008: 16,807,546) ordinary shares
in NV or PLC in respect of share-based compensation plans of PLC and its subsidiaries.
To satisfy the options granted, certain NV group companies hold 45,317,466 (2008: 58,100,378) ordinary shares of NV or PLC, and trusts in
Jersey and the United Kingdom hold 7,150,549 (2008: 9,450,493) PLC shares. The trustees of these trusts have agreed, until further notice, to
waive dividends on these shares, save for the nominal sum of 0.01p per 3
1
⁄9p ordinary share. Shares acquired for this purpose during 2009
represented less than 0.1% of the Group’s called up capital. The balance of shares held in connection with share plans at 31 December 2009
represented 1.7% (2008: 2.2%) of the Group’s called up capital.
The book value of €965 million (2008: €1,191 million) of all shares held in respect of share-based compensation plans for both NV and PLC 
is eliminated on consolidation by deduction from other reserves (see note 23 on page 119). Their market value at 31 December 2009 was 
€1,187 million (2008: €1,134 million).
At 31 December 2009 there were no options for which the exercise price was above market price. At 31 December 2008 the exercise price of
27,102,133 NV and PLC options were above the market price of the shares. 
Shares held to satisfy options are accounted for in accordance with IAS 32 and SIC 12. All differences between the purchase price of the shares
held to satisfy options granted and the proceeds received for the shares, whether on exercise or lapse, are charged to reserves. In 2008 this
included €6 million for shares held to meet options expiring in the short term which were priced above market value. The basis of the charge 
to operating proﬁt for the economic value of options granted is discussed on page 126.
Between 31 December 2009 and 1 March 2010, no grants were made and 144,276 shares were forfeited related to the performance share
plans.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009 127 Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements Unilever Group
30 Related party transactions
The following related party balances existed with associate or joint venture businesses at 31 December:
€ million € million
Related party balances 2009 2008
Trading and other balances due from joint ventures 231 240
Trading and other balances due from/(to) associates 5 (33)
Joint ventures
Unilever completed the restructuring of its Portuguese business as at 1 January 2007. Sales by Unilever group companies to Unilever Jeronimo
Martins and Pepsi Lipton International were €91 million and €14 million in 2009 (2008: €84 million and €12 million) respectively. Sales from
Jeronimo Martins to Unilever group companies were €46 million in 2009 (2008: €48 million). Balances owed by/(to) Unilever Jerónimo Martins
and Pepsi Lipton International at 31 December 2009 were €230 million and €1 million (2008: €238 million and €2 million) respectively.
Associates
At 31December 2009 the outstanding balance receivable from JohnsonDiversey Holdings Inc. was €5 million (2008: balance payable was 
€33 million). Agency fees payable to JohnsonDiversey in connection with the sale of Unilever branded products through their channels amounted 
to approximately €20 million in 2009 (2008: €24 million).
Langholm Capital Partners invests in private European companies with above-average longer-term growth prospects. Since the Langholm fund
was launched in 2002, Unilever has invested €76 million in Langholm, with an outstanding commitment at the end of 2009 of €21 million.
Unilever has received back a total of €123 million in cash from its investment in Langholm.
Physic Ventures is an early stage venture capital fund based in San Francisco, focusing on consumer-driven health, wellness and sustainable living.
Unilever has invested €20 million in Physic Ventures since the launch of the fund in 2007. At 31 December 2009 the outstanding commitment
with Physic Ventures was €43 million.
31 Remuneration of auditors
€ million € million € million
2009 2008 2007
Fees payable to PricewaterhouseCoopers
(a)
for the audit of the consolidated and parent 
company accounts of Unilever N.V. and Unilever PLC (5) (7) (5)
Fees payable to PricewaterhouseCoopers
(b)
for the audit of accounts of 
subsidiaries of Unilever N.V. and Unilever PLC pursuant to the legislation (14) (15) (17)
Total statutory audit fees
(c)
(19) (22) (22)
Other services supplied pursuant to such legislation – (1) (1)
Other services relevant to taxation (2) (2) (2)
Services relating to corporate ﬁnance transactions – (2) (1)
All other services (1) (1) (1)
(a) Of which:
€1 million was paid to PricewaterhouseCoopers Accountants N.V. (2008: €2 million; 2007: €1 million); and
€4 million was paid to PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (2008: €5 million; 2007: €4 million).
(b) Comprises fees paid to the network of separate and independent member ﬁrms of PricewaterhouseCoopers International Limited for audit
work on statutory ﬁnancial statements and group reporting returns of subsidiary companies.
(c) In addition, €1 million of statutory audit fees were payable to PricewaterhouseCoopers in respect of services supplied to associated pension
schemes (2008: €1 million; 2007: €1 million).
32 Events after the balance sheet date
As agreed at the AGMs and at meetings of ordinary shareholders in May 2009 Unilever has with effect from 1 January 2010 moved to an
arrangement of paying quarterly dividends. The ﬁrst quarterly interim dividends of €0.1950 per NV ordinary share and £0.1704 per PLC
ordinary share were declared on 4 February 2010.
128 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Financial statements Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009 129
In the schedules below, ﬁgures within the income statement and for earnings per share reﬂect the classiﬁcation between continuing and
discontinued operations which has applied for our reporting during 2006–2009. Figures for 2005 also reﬂect this classiﬁcation, and therefore
differ from those originally published for that year.
€ million € million € million € million € million
Consolidated income statement 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005
Continuing operations:
Turnover 39,823 40,523 40,187 39,642 38,401 
Operating proﬁt 5,020 7,167 5,245 5,408 5,074
Net ﬁnance costs (593) (257) (252) (721) (613)
Income from non-current investments 489 219 191 144 55 
Proﬁt before taxation 4,916 7,129 5,184 4,831 4,516 
Taxation (1,257) (1,844) (1,128) (1,146) (1,181)
Net proﬁt from continuing operations 3,659 5,285 4,056 3,685 3,335 
Net proﬁt from discontinued operations – – 80 1,330 640 
Net proﬁt 3,659 5,285 4,136 5,015 3,975 
Attributable to:
Minority interests 289 258 248 270 209 
Shareholders’ equity 3,370 5,027 3,888 4,745 3,766 
€ € € € € 
Combined earnings per share
(a)
2009 2008 2007 2006 2005
Continuing operations:
Basic earnings per share 1.21 1.79 1.32 1.19 1.07
Diluted earnings per share 1.17 1.73 1.28 1.15 1.04
Total operations:
Basic earnings per share 1.21 1.79 1.35 1.65 1.29
Diluted earnings per share 1.17 1.73 1.31 1.60 1.25
€ million € million € million € million € million
Consolidated balance sheet 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005
Non-current assets 26,205 24,967 27,374 27,571 28,358 
Current assets 10,811 11,175 9,928 9,501 11,142 
Total assets 37,016 36,142 37,302 37,072 39,500
Current liabilities (11,599) (13,800) (13,559) (13,884) (15,394)
Total assets less current liabilities 25,417 22,342 23,743 23,188 24,106 
Non-current liabilities 12,881 11,970 10,924 11,516 15,341
Shareholders’ equity 12,065 9,948 12,387 11,230 8,361 
Minority interests 471 424 432 442 404 
Total equity 12,536 10,372 12,819 11,672 8,765 
Total capital employed 25,417 22,342 23,743 23,188 24,106 
€ million € million € million € million € million
Consolidated cash ﬂow statement 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005
Net cash ﬂow from operating activities 5,774 3,871 3,876 4,511 4,353 
Net cash ﬂow from/(used in) investing activities (1,263) 1,415 (623) 1,155 515 
Net cash ﬂow from/(used in) ﬁnancing activities (4,301) (3,130) (3,009) (6,572) (4,821)
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 210 2,156 244 (906) 47 
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 2,360 901 710 1,265 1,406 
Effect of foreign exchange rates (173) (697) (53) 351 (188)
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 2,397 2,360 901 710 1,265 
(a) For the basis of the calculations of combined earnings per share see note 7 on page 92.
Financial record Unilever Group Financial record Unilever Group
130 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Financial statements
Ratios and other metrics 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005
Operating margin (%) 12.6 17.7 13.1 13.6 13.2
Net proﬁt margin (%)
(b)
8.5 12.4 9.7 12.0 9.8
Ungeared free cash ﬂow (€ million)
(c)
4,941 3,236 3,769 4,222 4,011
Return on invested capital (%)
(d)
11.2 15.7 12.7 14.6 12.5
Ratio of earnings to ﬁxed charges (times)
(e)
8.8 11.7 8.3 7.5 6.5
(b) Net proﬁt margin is expressed as net proﬁt attributable to shareholders’ equity as a percentage of turnover from continuing operations.
(c) Ungeared free cash ﬂow is a non-GAAP measure and is deﬁned and described on page 45.
(d) Return on invested capital is a non-GAAP measure and is deﬁned and described on page 45.
(e) In the ratio of earnings to ﬁxed charges, earnings consist of net proﬁt from continuing operations excluding net proﬁt or loss of joint
ventures and associates increased by ﬁxed charges, income taxes and dividends received from joint ventures and associates. Fixed charges
consist of interest payable on debt and a portion of lease costs determined to be representative of interest. This ratio takes no account of
interest receivable although Unilever’s treasury operations involve both borrowing and depositing funds.
Exchange rates 
Unilever reports its ﬁnancial results and balance sheet position in euros. Other currencies which may signiﬁcantly impacts our ﬁnancial statements
are sterling and US dollars.  Average and year-end exchange rates for these two currencies for the last ﬁve years are given below.
2009 2008 2007 2006 2005
Year end
€1 = US $ 1.433 1.417 1.471 1.317 1.184
€1 = £ 0.888 0.977 0.734 0.671 0.686
Average
€1 = US $ 1.388 1.468 1.364 1.254 1.244
€1 = £ 0.891 0.788 0.682 0.682 0.684
Dividend record
The following tables show the dividends paid by NV and PLC for the last ﬁve years, expressed in terms of the revised share denominations which
became effective from 22 May 2006. Differences between the amounts ultimately received by US holders of NV and PLC shares are the result of
changes in exchange rate between the equalisation of the dividends and the date of payment.
Following agreement at the 2009 AGMs and separate meetings of ordinary shareholders, the Equalisation Agreement was modiﬁed to facilitate
the payment of quarterly dividends from 2010 onwards. On 4 February 2010 the Board announced the ﬁrst quarterly dividends payable under
these arrangements, amounting to €0.1950 per NV ordinary share and £0.1704 per PLC ordinary share.
The dividend timetable for the remainder of 2010 is shown on page 146.
NV dividends
2009 2008 2007 2006 2005
Interim dividend per €0.16 €0.2695 €0.2600 €0.2500 €0.2300 €0.2200
Final dividend per €0.16 – €0.5100 €0.5000 €0.4700 €0.4400
One-off dividend per €0.16 – – – €0.2600 –
Interim dividend per €0.16 (US Registry) $0.3950 $0.3320 $0.3612 $0.2934 $0.2638
Final dividend per €0.16 (US Registry) – $0.6917 $0.7737 $0.6363 $0.5613
One-off dividend per €0.16 (US Registry) – – – $0.3316 –
PLC dividends
2009 2008 2007 2006 2005
Interim dividend per 3
1
⁄9p £0.2422 £0.2055 £0.1700 £0.1562 £0.1504
Final dividend per 3
1
⁄9p – £0.4019 £0.3411 £0.3204 £0.3009
One-off dividend per 3
1
⁄9p – – – £0.1766 –
Interim dividend per 3
1
⁄9p (US Registry) $0.3950 $0.3301 $0.3525 $0.2983 $0.2655
Final dividend per 3
1
⁄9p (US Registry) – $0.6097 $0.6615 $0.6357 $0.5583
One-off dividend per 3
1
⁄9p (US Registry) – – – $0.3372 – Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009 131
The companies listed below and on page 132 are those which, in the
opinion of the Directors, principally affect the amount of proﬁt and
assets shown in the Unilever Group accounts. The Directors consider
that those companies not listed are not signiﬁcant in relation to
Unilever as a whole.
Full information as required by Articles 379 and 414 of Book 2 of the
Civil Code in the Netherlands has been ﬁled by Unilever N.V. with the
Commercial Registry in Rotterdam.
Particulars of PLC group companies and other signiﬁcant holdings
as required by the United Kingdom Companies Act 2006 will be
annexed to the next Annual Return of Unilever PLC.
Unless otherwise indicated, the companies are incorporated and
principally operate in the countries under which they are shown.
The aggregate percentage of equity capital directly or indirectly held 
by NV or PLC is shown in the margin, except where it is 100%. All
these percentages are rounded down to the nearest whole number.
The percentage of Unilever’s shareholdings held either directly or
indirectly by NV and PLC are identiﬁed in the tables according to the
following code:
NV 100% a
PLC 100% b
NV 55%; PLC 45% c
NV 68%; PLC 32% d
NV 17%; PLC 83% e
NV 15%; PLC 85% f
NV 19%; PLC 81% g
NV 66%; PLC 34% h
NV 69%; PLC 31% i
Due to the inclusion of certain partnerships in the consolidated
group accounts of Unilever, para 264(b) of the German trade law
grants an exemption from the duty to prepare individual statutory
ﬁnancial statements and management reports in accordance with the
requirements for limited liability companies and to have these audited
and published.
Group companies
% Ownership
Argentina
Unilever de Argentina S.A. d
Australia
Unilever Australia Ltd. b
Belgium
Unilever Belgium BVBA/SPRL (Unibel) a
Brazil
Unilever Brasil Ltda. d
Canada
Unilever Canada Inc. d
Chile
Unilever Chile Home and Personal Care Ltda. d
China
Unilever Services (He Fei) Co Limited a
France 
99 Unilever France d
Group companies (continued)
% Ownership
Germany
Maizena Grundstücksverwaltung 
GmbH & Co. OHG h
Pfanni GmbH & Co. OHG Stavenhagen d
Pfanni Werke Grundstücksverwaltung 
GmbH & Co. OHG h
UBG Vermietungs GmbH & Co. OHG i
Unilever Deutschland GmbH d
Unilever Deutschland Holding GmbH d
Unilever Deutschland Immobilien Leasing 
GmbH & Co. OHG i
Unilever Deutschland Produktions GmbH & Co. OHG d
Wizona IPR GmbH & Co. OHG d
Greece
Elais Unilever Hellas SA a
India
52 Hindustan Unilever Ltd. b
Indonesia
85 P .T. Unilever Indonesia Tbk d
Italy
Unilever Italia SrL d
Japan 
Unilever Japan KK a
Mexico
Unilever de México S. de R.L. de C.V. d
The Netherlands
Mixhold B.V. d
Unilever Finance International B.V. a
Unilever N.V.
(a)
Unilever Nederland B.V. a
UNUS Holding B.V. c
Poland
Unilever Polska S.A. a
Russia
Unilever Rus g
South Africa
74 Unilever South Africa (Pty) Limited f
Spain 
Unilever España S.A. a
Sweden
Unilever Sverige AB a
Switzerland 
Unilever Supply Chain Company AG a
Unilever Schweiz GmbH a
Thailand
Unilever Thai Trading Ltd. d
(a) See ‘Basis of consolidation’ in note 1 on page 83.
Principal group companies and non-current investments Unilever Group
as at 31 December 2009 Group companies (continued)
% Ownership
Turkey
Unilever Sanayi ve Ticaret Türk A.S ,.b
United Kingdom 
Unilever UK Ltd. e
Unilever PLC
(a)
Unilever UK Holdings Ltd. b
Unilever UK & CN Holdings Ltd. e
United States of America
Conopco, Inc. c
Unilever Capital Corporation c
Unilever United States, Inc. c
(a) See ‘Basis of consolidation’ in note 1 on page 83.
Joint ventures
% Ownership
Portugal
55 Unilever Jerónimo Martins, Lda b
United States of America 
50 Pepsi/Lipton Partnership c
Associates
% Ownership
United Kingdom
40 Langholm Capital Partners L.P . b
In addition, we have revenues either from our own operations or
through agency agreements in the following locations: Albania,
Algeria, Andorra, Angola, Antigua, Armenia, Austria, Azerbaijan,
Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belarus, Belize, Benin,
Bhutan, Bolivia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Botswana, Brunei, Bulgaria,
Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cambodia, Cameroon, Cape Verde, Colombia,
Comoros, Congo, Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, Croatia, Cuba, Cyprus,
Czech Republic, Democratic Republic of Congo, Denmark, Djibouti,
Dominica, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Eritrea,
Estonia, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, French Guiana, Gabon, Georgia, Ghana,
Grenada, Guadeloupe, Guatemala, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, Hong
Kong, Hungary, Iceland, Iran, Iraq, Ireland, Israel, Jamaica, Jordan,
Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kiribati, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Latvia, Lebanon,
Lesotho, Liberia, Libya, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Macedonia,
Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Mali, Malta, Marshall Islands,
Martinique, Mauritania, Mauritius, Moldova (Republic of), Monaco,
Montenegro, Morocco, Mozambique, Namibia, Nepal, New Zealand,
Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Palestine, Panama, 
Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Portugal, Qatar,
Réunion, Romania, Rwanda, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saint Lucia, 
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Samoa, San Marino, Saudi Arabia,
Senegal, Serbia, Seychelles, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia,
Solomon Islands, Somalia, South Korea, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname,
Swaziland, Syria, Taiwan, Tajikistan, Tanzania, Timor-Leste, Tonga,
Trinidad & Tobago, Tunisia, Turkmenistan, Uganda, Ukraine, United
Arab Emirates, Uruguay, Uzbekistan, Vanuatu, Venezuela, Vietnam,
Yemen, Zambia and Zimbabwe.
Principal group companies and non-current investments Unilever Group
as at 31 December 2009
132 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Financial statements Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009 133
Independent auditor’s report to the shareholders of Unilever
N.V.
Report on the company accounts
We have audited the company accounts which are part of the
Annual Report 2009 of Unilever N.V., Rotterdam, for the year
ended 31 December 2009 which comprise the balance sheet, proﬁt
and loss account and the related notes on pages 134 to 136.
We have reported separately on the consolidated accounts of the
Unilever Group for the year ended 31 December 2009.
Directors’ responsibility
The Directors are responsible for the preparation and fair
presentation of the company accounts in accordance with United
Kingdom accounting standards and with Part 9 of Book 2 of the
Netherlands Civil Code, and for the preparation of the Report 
of the Directors in accordance with Part 9 of Book 2 of the
Netherlands Civil Code. This responsibility includes: designing,
implementing and maintaining internal control relevant to the
preparation and fair presentation of the company accounts that
are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or
error; selecting and applying appropriate accounting policies; 
and making accounting estimates that are reasonable in 
the circumstances.
Auditor’s responsibility
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the company
accounts based on our audit. We conducted our audit in
accordance with Dutch law. This law requires that we comply 
with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance whether the company accounts 
are free from material misstatement.
An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence
about the amounts and disclosures in the company accounts. 
The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgement,
including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of
the company accounts, whether due to fraud or error. In making
those risk assessments, the auditor considers internal control
relevant to the entity’s preparation and fair presentation of the
company accounts in order to design audit procedures that are
appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of
expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the entity’s internal
control. An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of
accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting
estimates made by the Directors, as well as evaluating the overall
presentation of the company accounts. 
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufﬁcient
and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion.
Opinion
In our opinion, the company accounts give a true and fair view 
of the ﬁnancial position of Unilever N.V. as at 31 December 2009,
and of its result for the year then ended in accordance with United
Kingdom accounting standards and with Part 9 of Book 2 of the
Netherlands Civil Code.
Report on other legal and regulatory requirements 
Pursuant to the legal requirement under 2:393 sub 5 part f 
of the Netherlands Civil Code, we report, to the extent of 
our competence, that the Report of the Directors is consistent with
the company accounts as required by 2:391 sub 4 of 
the Netherlands Civil Code.
Rotterdam, The Netherlands, 2 March 2010
PricewaterhouseCoopers Accountants N.V.
R A J Swaak RA
Company accounts Auditor’s report – Unilever N.V . Company accounts Unilever N.V .
134 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Financial statements
Balance sheet as at 31 December
(after proposed appropriation of proﬁt)
€ million € million
2009 2008
Fixed assets
Fixed investments 26,289 26,245
Debtors due after more than one year 3,242 2,918
Deferred taxation 18 –
Total non-current assets 3,260 2,918
Debtors due within one year 1,740 2,656
Deferred taxation 20 –
Cash at bank and in hand 14 7
Total current assets 1,774 2,663
Creditors due within one year (17,163) (18,122)
Net current assets/(liabilities) (15,389) (15,459)
Total assets less current liabilities 14,160 13,704
Creditors due after more than one year 6,515 6,207
Provisions for liabilities and charges (excluding pensions and similar obligations) 15 59
Net pension liability 90 84
Capital and reserves 7,540 7,354
Called up share capital 275 275
Share premium account 20 20
Legal reserves 16 16
Other reserves (3,428) (3,559)
Proﬁt retained 10,657 10,602
Total capital employed 14,160 13,704
Proﬁt and loss account for the year ended 31 December
€ million € million
2009 2008
Income from ﬁxed investments after taxation 1,306 1,422
Other income and expenses (19) 291
Proﬁt for the year 1,287 1,713
For the information required by Article 392 of Book 2 of the Civil Code in the Netherlands, refer to pages 133 and 137. Pages 135 and 136 are
part of the notes to the Unilever N.V. company accounts.
The company accounts of Unilever N.V. are included in the consolidated accounts of the Unilever Group. Therefore, and in accordance with
Article 402 of Book 2 of the Civil Code in the Netherlands, the proﬁt and loss account only reﬂects the income from ﬁxed investments after
taxation and other income and expenses after taxes. The company accounts of Unilever N.V. do not contain a cash ﬂow statement as this is
not required by Book 2 of the Civil Code in the Netherlands. 
The Board of Directors
2 March 2010 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009 135
Notes to the company accounts Unilever N.V .
Accounting information and policies
Basis of preparation
The company accounts of Unilever N.V. comply in all material respects
with legislation in the Netherlands. As allowed by Article 362.1 of
Book 2 of the Civil Code in the Netherlands, the company accounts
are prepared in accordance with United Kingdom accounting
standards, unless such standards conﬂict with the Civil Code in 
the Netherlands which would in such case prevail.
The accounts are prepared under the historical cost convention as
modiﬁed by the revaluation of ﬁnancial assets classiﬁed as ‘available-
for-sale investments’, ‘ﬁnancial assets at fair value through proﬁt 
or loss’, and ‘derivative ﬁnancial instruments’ in accordance with
the accounting policies set out below which have been 
consistently applied.
Accounting policies
The principal accounting policies are as follows:
Fixed investments
Shares in group companies are stated at cost less any amounts written
off to reﬂect a permanent impairment. Any impairment is charged 
to the proﬁt and loss account as it arises. In accordance with Article
385.5 of Book 2 of the Civil Code in the Netherlands, Unilever N.V.
shares held by Unilever N.V. subsidiaries are deducted from the
carrying value of those subsidiaries. This differs from the accounting
treatment under UK GAAP , which would require these amounts to
be included within ﬁxed investments.
Financial instruments and derivative ﬁnancial instruments
The company’s accounting policies under United Kingdom generally
accepted accounting principles (UK GAAP) namely FRS 25 ‘Financial
Instruments: Presentation’, FRS 26 ‘Financial Instruments:
Measurement’ and FRS 29 ‘Financial Instruments: Disclosures’ are the
same as the Unilever Group’s accounting policies under International
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) namely IAS 32 ‘Financial
Instruments: Presentation’, IAS 39 ‘Financial Instruments: Recognition
and Measurement’ and IFRS 7 ‘Financial Instruments: Disclosures’. The
policies are set out under the heading ‘Financial instruments’ in note 1
to the consolidated accounts on pages 84 and 85. NV is taking the
exemption for not providing all the ﬁnancial instruments disclosures,
because IFRS 7 disclosures are given in note 15 to the consolidated
accounts on pages 104 to 110.
Deferred taxation
Full provision is made for deferred taxation on all signiﬁcant timing
differences arising from the recognition of items for taxation purposes
in different periods from those in which they are included in the
company's accounts. Full provision is made at the rates of tax
prevailing at the year end unless future rates have been enacted 
or substantively enacted. Deferred tax assets and liabilities have 
not been discounted. 
Own shares held 
Own shares held by the company are accounted for in accordance
with Dutch law and UK GAAP , namely FRS 25 ‘Financial Instruments:
Presentation’. All differences between the purchase price of the shares
held to satisfy options granted and the proceeds received for the
shares, whether on exercise or lapse, are charged to reserves.
Retirement beneﬁts
Unilever N.V. has accounted for pensions and similar beneﬁts under
the United Kingdom Financial Reporting Standard 17 'Retirement
beneﬁts' (FRS 17). The operating and ﬁnancing costs of deﬁned
beneﬁt plans are recognised separately in the proﬁt and loss account;
service costs are systematically spread over the service lives of
employees, and ﬁnancing costs are recognised in the periods in which
they arise. Variations from expected costs, arising from the experience
of the plans or changes in actuarial assumptions, are recognised
immediately in the statement of comprehensive income. The costs of
individual events such as past service beneﬁt enhancements,
settlements and curtailments are recognised immediately in the proﬁt
and loss account. The liabilities and, where applicable, the assets of
deﬁned beneﬁt plans are recognised at fair value in the balance sheet.
The charges to the proﬁt and loss account for deﬁned contribution
plans are the company contributions payable and the assets of such
plans are not included in the company balance sheet.
Dividends
Under Financial Reporting Standard 21 ‘Events after the Balance Sheet
Date’ (FRS 21), proposed dividends do not meet the deﬁnition of a
liability until such time as they have been approved by shareholders at
the Annual General Meeting. Therefore, we do not recognise a liability
in any period for dividends that have been proposed but will not be
approved until after the balance sheet date. This holds for external
dividends as well as intra-group dividends paid to the parent company.
Taxation
Unilever N.V, together with certain of its subsidiaries, is part of a tax
grouping for Dutch corporate income tax purposes. The members of
the ﬁscal entity are jointly and severally liable for any taxes payable by
the Dutch tax grouping. 
Fixed investments € million € million
2009 2008
Shares in group companies 26,095 25,989
PLC shares held in connection with 
share options 194 256
26,289 26,245
Movements during the year:
1 January 26,245 24,423
PLC shares held in connection 
with share options (62) 72
NV shares held by group companies – 189
Additions
(a)
3,840 5,620
Decreases
(a)
(3,734) (4,059)
31 December 26,289 26,245
(a) The additions relate to two investments in group companies. The
decreases relate to repayments made by the subsidiary Unilever
Finance International B.V. and to the divestment of three group
companies.
Debtors € million € million
2009 2008
Loans to group companies 3,242 3,688
Other amounts owed by group companies 1,668 1,801
Taxation 28 24
Other 44 61
4,982 5,574
Of which due after more than one year 3,242 2,918 136 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Financial statements
Cash at bank and in hand
There was no cash at bank and in hand for which payment notice was
required at either 31 December 2009 or 31 December 2008.
Creditors € million € million
2009 2008
Due within one year:
Other amounts owed to group companies 15,967 16,030
Loans from group companies 972 1,150
Bonds and other loans 33 772
Taxation and social security 15 15
Accruals and deferred income 67 88
Other 109 67
17,163 18,122
Due after more than one year:
Bonds and other loans 3,297 2,961
Loans from group companies 3,089 3,089
Accruals and deferred income 5 33
Preference shares 124 124
6,515 6,207
Creditors due after ﬁve years amount to €1,107 million (2008: €1,103
million) (Article 375.2 of Book 2 of the Civil Code in the Netherlands).
Ordinary share capital
Shares numbered 1 to 2,400 are held by a subsidiary of NV and
a subsidiary of PLC, each holding 50%. Additionally, 170,178,644
(2008: 177,223,649) €0.16 ordinary shares are held by NV and
other group companies. Further details are given in note 22 to the
consolidated accounts on page 119.
Share premium account
The share premium shown in the balance sheet is not available for the
issue of bonus shares or for repayment without incurring withholding
tax payable by the company. This is despite the change in tax law in
the Netherlands, as a result of which dividends received from 2001
onwards by individual shareholders who are resident in the
Netherlands are no longer taxed.
Other reserves € million € million
2009 2008
1 January (3,559) (2,437)
Change during the year 131 (1,122)
31 December (3,428) (3,559)
Other reserves relate to own shares held.
Proﬁt retained € million € million
2009 2008
1 January 10,602 10,009
Proﬁt for the year 1,287 1,713
Ordinary dividends – ﬁnal 2007 – (779)
Ordinary dividends – interim 2008 – (401)
Ordinary dividends – ﬁnal 2008 (786) –
Ordinary dividends – interim 2009 (417) –
Taxation charge 2 (11)
Realised proﬁt/(loss) on shares/certiﬁcates held 
to meet employee share options (8) 14
Changes in present value of net pension liability (9) 53
Other charges (14) 4
31 December 10,657 10,602
As shown in note 24 on page 120, the total proﬁt retained of NV
amounts to €16,458 million (2008: €15,343 million). This is made up
of the Parent Unilever N.V. €10,657 million (2008: €10,602 million),
other NV group companies €5,730 million (2008: €4,732 million) and
joint ventures and associates €71 million (2008: €9 million).
Provisions for liabilities and charges (excluding pensions and
similar obligations)
€ million € million
2009 2008
Deferred taxation – 18
Other provisions 15 41
15 59
Of which due within one year 14 59
Net pension liability 
€ million € million
2009 2008
Funded retirement beneﬁt (9) (12)
Unfunded retirement liability 99 96
90 84
Contingent liabilities
Contingent liabilities are not expected to give rise to any material 
loss and include guarantees given for group companies. The estimated
total of such liabilities as at 31 December 2009 was some
€5,193 million (2008: €6,050 million) of which €3,655 million
(2008: €4,420 million) was also guaranteed by PLC. The fair value 
of such guarantees was not signiﬁcant in either 2008 or 2009. 
The guarantees issued to other companies were immaterial.
NV has issued joint and several liability undertakings, as deﬁned in
Article 403 of Book 2 of the Civil Code in the Netherlands, for almost
all Dutch group companies. These written undertakings have been
ﬁled with the ofﬁce of the Company Registry in whose area of
jurisdiction the group company concerned has its registered ofﬁce.
Directors’ remuneration
Information about the remuneration of Directors is given in the tables
noted as audited in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 67
to 73, incorporated and repeated here by reference. Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009 137
Further statutory and other information Unilever N.V .
The rules for proﬁt appropriation in the Articles of Association
(summary of Article 38)
The proﬁt for the year is applied ﬁrstly to the reserves required by law
or by the Equalisation Agreement, secondly to cover losses of previous
years, if any, and thirdly to the reserves deemed necessary by the Board
of Directors. Dividends due to the holders of the Cumulative
Preference Shares, including any arrears in such dividends, are then
paid; if the proﬁt is insufﬁcient for this purpose, the amount available
is distributed to them in proportion to the dividend percentages of
their shares. Any proﬁt remaining thereafter shall be distributed to the
holders of ordinary shares in proportion to the nominal value of their
respective holdings of ordinary shares. The General Meeting can only
decide to make distributions from reserves on the basis of a proposal
by the Board and in compliance with the law and the Equalisation
Agreement.
Proposed proﬁt appropriation € million € million
2009 2008
Proﬁt for the year (available for distribution) 1,287 1,713
Interim dividend already paid (417) (401)
To proﬁt retained 870 1,312
Post balance sheet event
On 4 February 2010 the Directors announced a dividend of
€0.1950 per Unilever N.V. ordinary share. The dividend is payable
from 17 March 2010 to shareholders registered at close of business
on 12 February 2010.
Special controlling rights under the Articles of Association
See note 22 to the consolidated accounts on page 119.
Auditors
A resolution will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting on
11 May 2010 for the re-appointment of PricewaterhouseCoopers
Accountants N.V. as auditors of Unilever N.V. The present
appointment will end at the conclusion of the Annual General
Meeting. For details of the remuneration of the auditors please
refer to note 31 on page 128.
Corporate Centre
Unilever N.V.
Weena 455
PO Box 760
3000 DK Rotterdam
The Netherlands 138 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Financial statements
Company accounts Auditors’ report – Unilever PLC
Independent auditors’ report to the members of Unilever
PLC on the parent company accounts
We have audited the parent company accounts of Unilever PLC for
the year ended 31 December 2009 which comprise the balance
sheet and the related notes. The ﬁnancial reporting framework
that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and
United Kingdom Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally
Accepted Accounting Practice).
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors
As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors’
Responsibilities on page 76, the Directors are responsible for the
preparation of the parent company accounts and for being
satisﬁed that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to
audit the parent company accounts in accordance with applicable
law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland).
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices
Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors. 
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only
for the shareholders of Unilever PLC as a body in accordance with
Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other
purpose. We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume
responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to
whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save
where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Scope of the audit of the accounts
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and
disclosures in the accounts sufﬁcient to give reasonable assurance
that the accounts are free from material misstatement, whether
caused by fraud or error. This includes an assessment of: whether
the accounting policies are appropriate to the parent company’s
circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately
disclosed; the reasonableness of signiﬁcant accounting estimates
made by the directors; and the overall presentation of the
accounts.
Opinion on accounts
In our opinion the parent company accounts:
• give a true and fair view of the state of the company’s affairs as
at 31 December 2009;
• have been properly prepared in accordance with United
Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice; and
• have been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act
2006.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act
2006
In our opinion:
• the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited
has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies
Act 2006; and
• the information given in the Report of the Directors for the
ﬁnancial year for which the parent company accounts are
prepared is consistent with the parent company accounts.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters
where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in
our opinion:
• adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent
company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been
received from branches not visited by us; or
• the parent company accounts and the part of the Directors’
Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with
the accounting records and returns; or
• certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration speciﬁed by law
are not made; or
• we have not received all the information and explanations we
require for our audit.
Other matter
We have reported separately on the consolidated ﬁnancial
statements of Unilever Group for the year ended 31 December
2009.
Richard Sexton 
(Senior Statutory Auditor)
For and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors
London, United Kingdom
2 March 2010 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009 139
Company accounts Unilever PLC
Balance sheet as at 31 December
£ million £ million
2009 2008
Fixed assets
Intangible assets 7 9
Fixed asset investments 5,929 4,393
Current assets
Debtors due within one year 375 595
Total current assets 375 595
Creditors due within one year (3,761) (3,379)
Net current assets/(liabilities) (3,386) (2,784)
Total assets less current liabilities 2,550 1,618
Creditors due after more than one year 743 –
Provision for liabilities and charges (excluding pensions and similar obligations) 10 10
Capital and reserves 1,797 1,608
Called up share capital 41 41
Share premium account 94 94
Capital redemption reserve 11 11
Other reserves (455) (489)
Proﬁt retained 2,106 1,951
Total capital employed 2,550 1,618
As permitted by Section 408 of the United Kingdom Companies Act 2006, an entity proﬁt and loss account is not included as part of the
published company accounts for PLC. Under the terms of Financial Reporting Standard 1 (revised 1996) ‘Cash Flow Statements’ (FRS 1) a cash
ﬂow statement is not included, as the cash ﬂows are included in the consolidated cash ﬂow statement of the Unilever Group.
On behalf of the Board of Directors
M Treschow Chairman
P Polman Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
2 March 2010 140 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Financial statements
Notes to the company accounts Unilever PLC
Accounting information and policies
Basis of preparation
The accounts have been prepared in accordance with applicable
United Kingdom accounting standards and the United Kingdom
Companies Act 2006.
The accounts are prepared under the historical cost convention as
modiﬁed by the revaluation of ﬁnancial assets classiﬁed as ‘available-for-
sale investments’, ‘ﬁnancial assets at fair value through proﬁt or loss’,
and ‘derivative ﬁnancial instruments’ in accordance with the accounting
policies set out below which have been consistently applied.
Accounting policies
The principal accounting policies are as follows:
Intangible assets
Intangible assets comprise trademarks purchased after 1 January 1998
and are amortised in the proﬁt and loss account over their expected
useful lives of up to a maximum of 20 years. They are subject to review
for impairment in accordance with United Kingdom Financial
Reporting Standard 11 ‘Impairment of Fixed Assets and Goodwill’ 
(FRS 11). Any impairment is charged to the proﬁt and loss account 
as it arises.  
Fixed asset investments
Shares in group companies are stated at cost less any amounts written
off to reﬂect a permanent impairment. Any impairment is charged to
the proﬁt and loss account as it arises. 
Financial instruments 
The company’s accounting policies under United Kingdom generally
accepted accounting principles (UK GAAP) namely FRS 25 ‘Financial
Instruments: Presentation’, FRS 26 ‘Financial Instruments:
Measurement’ and FRS 29 ‘Financial Instruments: Disclosures’ are the
same as the Unilever Group’s accounting policies under International
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) namely IAS 32 ‘Financial
Instruments: Presentation’, IAS 39 ‘Financial Instruments: Recognition
and Measurement’ and IFRS 7 ‘Financial Instruments: Disclosures’. The
policies are set out under the heading ‘Financial instruments’ in note 1
to the consolidated accounts on pages 84 and 85. PLC is taking the
exemption for not providing all the ﬁnancial instruments disclosures,
because IFRS 7 disclosures are given in note 15 to the consolidated
accounts on pages 104 to 110. 
Deferred taxation
Full provision is made for deferred taxation on all signiﬁcant timing
differences arising from the recognition of items for taxation purposes
in different periods from those in which they are included in the
company’s accounts. Full provision is made at the rates of tax
prevailing at the year end unless future rates have been enacted 
or substantively enacted. Deferred tax assets and liabilities have not
been discounted. 
Shares held by employee share trusts
Shares held to satisfy options are accounted for in accordance with UK
GAAP , namely FRS 25 ‘Financial Instruments: Presentation’, FRS 20
‘Share Based Payments’ and Urgent Issues Task Force abstract 38
‘Accounting for ESOP Trusts’ (UITF 38). All differences between the
purchase price of the shares held to satisfy options granted and the
proceeds received for the shares, whether on exercise or lapse, are
charged to other reserves. 
Dividends
Under Financial Reporting Standard 21 ‘Events after the Balance Sheet
Date’ (FRS 21), proposed dividends do not meet the deﬁnition of a
liability until such time as they have been approved by shareholders 
at the Annual General Meeting. Therefore, we do not recognise a
liability in any period for dividends that have been proposed but will
not be approved until after the balance sheet date. This holds for
external dividends as well as intra-group dividends paid to the parent
company. Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009 141
Notes to the company accounts Unilever PLC
Fixed asset investments £ million £ million
2009 2008
Shares in group companies
(a)
5,929 4,393
(a) The movement in the year is an additional investment in a 
group company.
Debtors £ million £ million
2009 2008
Due within one year:
Amounts owed by group companies 374 593
Other 1 2
375 595
Creditors £ million £ million
2009 2008
Due within one year:
Amounts owed to group companies 3,687 3,273
Taxation and social security 63 100
Accruals and deferred income 11 6
3,761 3,379
Due after more than one year:
Bonds and other loans
(b)
743 –
(b) During 2009 Unilever PLC issued the following senior notes:
• on 19 March £350 million at 4.0% maturing December 2014
(year-end value at amortised cost £346 million)
• on 17 June £400 million at 4.75% maturing June 2017 (year-end
value amortised cost £397 million).
Provisions for liabilities and charges (excluding pensions and
similar obligations)
£ million £ million
2009 2008
Deferred taxation 10 10
Ordinary share capital
Information on the consolidation of ordinary shares is given in note 22
to the consolidated accounts on page 119.
Other reserves £ million £ million
2009 2008
1 January (489) (281)
Change in book value of shares 34 (208)
31 December (455) (489)
Proﬁt retained £ million £ million
2009 2008
1 January 1,951 1,721
Proﬁt for the year 977 931
Final dividend 2007 on ordinary and 
deferred shares – (439)
Interim dividend 2008 on ordinary and
deferred shares – (262)
Final dividend 2008 on ordinary and 
deferred shares (513) –
Interim dividend 2009 on ordinary and
deferred shares (309) –
31 December 2,106 1,951
Contingent liabilities
Contingent liabilities are not expected to give rise to any material loss
and include guarantees given for group companies. The estimated total
of such liabilities at 31 December 2009 was some £6,122 million 
(2008: £7,905 million) of which £3,245 million (2008: £4,319 million) 
was also guaranteed by NV. The fair value of such guarantees is not
signiﬁcant in either 2008 or 2009. The guarantees issued to other
companies were immaterial.
Remuneration of auditors
The parent company accounts of Unilever PLC are required to comply
with The Companies (Disclosure of Auditor Remuneration) Regulations
2005. Auditors’ remuneration in respect of Unilever PLC is included
within the disclosures in note 31 on page 128.
Proﬁt appropriation £ million £ million
2009 2008
Proﬁt for the year (available for distribution) 977 931
Interim dividend already paid (309) (262)
To proﬁt retained 668 669
Post balance sheet event
On 4 February 2010 the Directors announced a dividend of 
£0.1704 per Unilever PLC ordinary share. The dividend is payable 
from 17 March 2010 to shareholders registered at close of business on
12 February 2010.  142 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Financial statements
Further statutory and other information Unilever PLC
Directors’ Report of PLC and limitations of liability
For the purposes of the Companies Act 2006, the Directors’
Report of Unilever PLC for the year ended 31 December 2009
comprises this and the following page and the information
contained in the Report of the Directors on pages 2 to 62 which
includes the Company’s position on environment and corporate
responsibility matters, the Directors’ Remuneration Report in
respect of Directors’ interests in shares or debentures of the Group
on pages 72 and 73, Dividends on page 93, Principal group
companies and non-current investments on pages 131 and 132,
Signiﬁcant shareholders of PLC as disclosed on page 144, and
Financial instruments and Treasury risk management on page 104.
The information required to be given pursuant to Section 992 of
the UK Companies Act 2006 is covered elsewhere in this Annual
Report.
The Directors’ Report has been drawn up and presented in
accordance with and in reliance upon English company law and
liabilities of the Directors in connection with that report shall be
subject to the limitations and restrictions provided by such law.
Under the Companies Act 2006, a safe harbour limits the liability
of Directors in respect of statements in and omissions from the
Directors’ Report. Under English Law the Directors would be liable
to Unilever (but not to any third party) if the Directors’ Report
contains errors as a result of recklessness or knowing misstatement
or dishonest concealment of a material fact, but would not
otherwise be liable. 
Business review
The UK Companies Act 2006 requires Unilever PLC to set out in
this report a fair review of the business of the Group during the
ﬁnancial year ended 31 December 2009 including a description
of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group and an
analysis of the position of the Group’s business at the end of the
ﬁnancial year, known as a ‘Business review’.
The information that fulﬁls the current Business review
requirements can be found on the following pages of this Annual
Report which are incorporated into this report by reference:
• a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the
Group see pages 30 to 34;
• the development and performance of the Group’s business
during the year see pages 37 to 46;
• the position of the Group’s business at the end of the year see
pages 40 and 81;
• key performance indicators see page 25 and 26;
• other key indicators see pages 25 and 26;
• main trends and factors likely to affect the future development,
performance and position of the Group see page 30;
• environmental matters and policy, including the impact of the
Group’s business on the environment see pages 20 to 21;
• employee matters and policy see pages 14 to 15, 28 and also
below; and
• a statement that the Directors do not believe that there are any
contracts or other arrangements which are essential to the
business of the Group is given on page 59.
Employee involvement and communication
Unilever’s UK companies maintain formal processes to inform,
consult and involve employees and their representatives. We
recognise collective bargaining on a number of sites and engage
with employees via the Sourcing Unit Forum including ofﬁcer
representation from the three recognised trade unions. Our sites
use tools such as Total Productive Maintenance which rely heavily
on employee involvement, contribution and commitment.
A National Consultative Council covering employees and
management representatives exists to provide a forum for
discussing issues relating to the United Kingdom. A European
Works Council, embracing employee and management
representatives from countries within Europe, has been in
existence for several years and provides a forum for discussing
issues that extend across national boundaries.
The company carries out regular and wide-ranging monitoring
surveys providing valuable insight into employee views, attitudes
and levels of engagement.
The Directors’ Reports of the United Kingdom group companies
contain more details about how they have communicated with
their employees during 2009.
Equal opportunities and diversity
Under the umbrella of our Code of Business Principles, Unilever
aims to ensure that people with disabilities, and other under-
represented groups, are given the same training, development and
prospects as other employees. Every effort is also made to retrain
and support employees who become disabled while working
within the Group.
The company continues to review ways in which greater diversity
can be achieved in recruitment and selection. We have put in
place policies which promote the achievement of diversity in our
business and we review these regularly. For example, Unilever UK
provides policies on home working, ﬂexible working, maternity
and paternity leave, child care provision and career breaks, which
help us to meet the objective of greater employee diversity.
Charitable and other contributions
Unilever collates the cost of its community involvement activities
using the London Benchmarking Group model. The model
recommends the separation of charitable donations, community
investment, commercial initiatives in the community and
management costs relating to the programme of activity.
During 2009 UK group companies made a total contribution of
£7.8 million, analysed as follows:
• Charitable donations: £0.4million
• Community investment: £1.1 million
• Commercial initiatives in the community: £6.1 million
• Management costs: £0.2 million
No donation or contribution was made or expenditure incurred for
political purposes.
Supplier payment policies
Individual operating companies are responsible for agreeing the
terms and conditions under which business transactions with their
suppliers are conducted. The Directors’ Reports of the United
Kingdom operating companies give information about their
supplier payment policies as required by the UK Companies Act
2006. PLC, as a holding company, does not itself make any
relevant payments in this respect. Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009 143
Further statutory and other information Unilever PLC
Auditors and disclosure of information to auditors
A resolution will be proposed at the AGM on 12 May 2010 for
the re-appointment of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as auditors
of PLC. The present appointment will end at the conclusion of
the AGM.
To the best of each of the Directors’ knowledge and belief, and
having made appropriate enquiries of other ofﬁcers of the Unilever
Group, all information relevant to enabling the auditors to provide
their opinions on PLC’s consolidated and parent company accounts
has been provided. Each of the Directors has taken all reasonable
steps to ensure their awareness of any relevant audit information
and to establish that the company’s auditors are aware of any such
information.
Authority to purchase own shares
At the AGM of PLC held on 13 May 2009, authority was given
pursuant to Article 64 of the PLC Articles of Association to make
market purchases of PLC ordinary shares of 3
1
⁄9p each, to a
maximum of 290 million shares. This authority will expire at the
AGM on 12 May 2010, and a resolution will be proposed to renew
the authority.
Details of shares purchased by an employee share trust and
Unilever group companies to satisfy options granted under PLC’s
employee share schemes are given in note 29 to the consolidated
accounts on pages 126 to 127.
Corporate Centre Unilever PLC Registered Ofﬁce
Unilever PLC Port Sunlight
Unilever House Wirral
100 Victoria Embankment Merseyside CH62 4ZD
London EC4Y 0DY Registered number 41424
Unilever PLC Registrars
Computershare Investor Services PLC
The Pavilions
Bridgwater Road
Bristol BS99 6ZY
By Order of the Board
S G Williams
Secretary of Unilever PLC
2 March 2010 Shareholder information
144 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Shareholder information
Analysis of shareholding
Signiﬁcant shareholders of NV
As far as we are aware the only holders of more than 5% (as referred to in the Act on Financial Supervision in the Netherlands) in 
the NV share capital (apart from the Foundation Unilever NV Trust Ofﬁce, see page 58, and shares held in treasury by NV, see page 58)
are ING Groep N.V. (‘ING’), ASR Nederland N.V. (‘ASR’) and AEGON N.V. (‘AEGON’).
The voting rights of such shareholders are the same as for other holders of the class of share indicated. The three shareholders have each
notiﬁed the Netherlands Authority for the Financial Markets (AFM) of their holdings. Detailed below are the interests in NV shares
provided to the Company by ING, ASR and AEGON in the second half of 2009. All interests are mainly held in cumulative preference
shares.
ING
• 8,613,107 (0.50%) ordinary shares (€1,378,097)
• 20,665 (71.26%) 7% cumulative preference shares (€8,856,399)
• 74,088 (46.0%) 6% cumulative preference shares (€31,751,894)
• 504,440 (67.26%) 4% cumulative preference shares (€21,620,298)
ASR
• 2,680,897 (0.16%) ordinary shares (€428,944)
• 46,000 (28.56%) 6% cumulative preference shares (€19,714,220)
AEGON
• 1,261,726 (0.07%) ordinary shares (€201,876)
• 4,995 (17.22%) 7% cumulative preference shares (€2,140,707)
• 29,540 (18.34%) 6% cumulative preference shares (€12,659,957)
• 157,106 (20.95%) 4% cumulative preference shares (€6,733,563)
Between 1 January 2007 and 31 December 2009, ING and AEGON have held more than 5% in the share capital of NV. As from July
2007 ASR (previously Fortis Utrecht N.V.) have held more than 5% in the share capital of NV.
Signiﬁcant shareholders of PLC
The following table gives notiﬁed details of shareholders who held more than 3% of, or 3% of voting rights attributable to, PLC’s shares
or deferred stock (excluding treasury shares) on 1 March 2010. The voting rights of such shareholders are the same as for other holders
of the class of share indicated.
Number of Approximate
Title of class Name of holder shares held % held
Deferred Stock Naamlooze Vennootschap Elma 50,000 50
United Holdings Limited 50,000 50
Ordinary shares BlackRock, Inc. 74,570,243 6
Trustees of the Leverhulme Trust and the 
Leverhulme Trade Charities Trust 70,566,764 5
Legal & General Group plc 54,184,916 4
Between 1 January 2007 and 31 December 2009, Barclays PLC, Legal & General Group plc and BlackRock, Inc. have held more than 3%
of, or 3% of voting rights attributable to, PLC’s ordinary shares. During this period, and as notiﬁed, certain of these holdings reduced to
below the reporting 3% threshold. The table above sets out the notiﬁable interest of shares or voting rights attributable to PLC as at
1 March 2010. Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009 145
Analysis of shareholding (continued)
Controlling security holders
To our knowledge, we are not owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by another corporation, any foreign government or by any
other legal or natural person. We are not aware of any arrangements the operation of which may at a subsequent date result in a
change of control of us. 
Analysis of PLC registered holdings
At 31 December 2009 PLC had 60,614 ordinary shareholdings.
The following table analyses the registered holdings of PLC’s 3
1
⁄9p ordinary shares at 31 December 2009:
Number Total
Number of shares of holdings % shares held %
1 – 1,000 40,281 66.45 16,113,862 1.23
1,001 – 2,500 11,992 19.78 19,045,950 1.45
2,501 – 5,000 4,560 7.52 15,917,191 1.22
5,001 – 10,000 1,883 3.11 12,870,889 0.98
10,001 – 25,000 737 1.22 11,087,673 0.85
25,001 – 50,000 291 0.48 10,203,090 0.78
50,001 – 100,000 205 0.34 14,432,731 1.10
100,001 – 1,000,000 497 0.82 162,170,247 12.38
Over 1,000,000 168 0.28 1,048,314,728 80.01
60,614 100.00 1,310,156,361 100.00
Purchases of shares during 2009
In March 2009 Unilever group companies purchased 29,666 NV ordinary shares for €0.4 million and 27,769 PLC ordinary shares also for
€0.4 million. Shareholder information (continued)
146 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Shareholder information
Financial calendar
Annual General Meetings
Voting Record Voting &
Date date Registration date
NV 10.30am 11 May 2010 20 April 2010 04 May 2010
PLC 11.00am 12 May 2010 10 May 2010 10 May 2010
Announcements of results
First Quarter 29 April 2010 Third Quarter 4 November 2010
Second Quarter 5 August 2010 Fourth Quarter 3 February 2011
Quarterly Dividends for 2010
Dates listed below are applicable to all four Unilever listings (NV Ordinary shares, PLC Ordinary shares, NV New York shares, and 
PLC ADRs).
Announced Ex-dividend Record Payment
date date date
Q4 2009 4 February 2010 10 February 2010 12 February 2010 17 March 2010
Q1 2010 29 April 2010 12 May 2010 14 May 2010 16 June 2010
Q2 2010 5 August 2010 11 August 2010 13 August 2010 15 September 2010
Q3 2010 4 November 2010 10 November 2010 12 November 2010 15 December 2010
Preferential Dividends – NV
Announced Ex-dividend Record Payment
date date date
4% 3 December 2010 6 December 2010 8 December 2010 3 January 2011
6% and 7% 3 September 2010 6 September 2010 8 September 2010 1 October 2010
Contact details
Rotterdam London
Unilever N.V. Unilever PLC
Investor Relations Department Investor Relations Department
Weena 455, PO Box 760 Unilever House
3000 DK Rotterdam 100 Victoria Embankment
The Netherlands London EC4Y 0DY 
United Kingdom
Telephone +44 (0)20 7822 6830 Telephone +44 (0)20 7822 6830
Telefax +44 (0)20 7822 5754 Telefax +44 (0)20 7822 5754
Any queries can also be sent to us electronically via www.unilever.com/resource/contactus.aspx Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009 147
Website
Shareholders are encouraged to visit our website
www.unilever.com which has a wealth of information
about Unilever. Any information on or linked from the website 
is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report and
Accounts.
There is a section designed speciﬁcally for investors at
www.unilever.com/investorrelations It includes detailed coverage
of the Unilever share price, our quarterly and annual results,
performance charts, ﬁnancial news and investor relations speeches
and presentations. It also includes conference and investor/analyst
presentations.
You can also view this year’s Annual Report and Accounts, and
prior years’ Annual Review and Annual Report and Accounts
documents at www.unilever.com/investorrelations
PLC shareholders can elect to receive their shareholder
communications such as Annual Report and Accounts and other
shareholder documents electronically by registering at
www.unilever.com/shareholderservices
Shareholders are also able to view documents on our website.
Share registration
The Netherlands
ANT Trust & Corporate Services N.V.
Claude Debussylaan 24
1082 MD Amsterdam
Telephone +31 (0)20 522 2555 
Telefax +31 (0)20 522 2500
Website www.ant-trust.nl
Email registers@ant-trust.nl
UK
Computershare Investor Services PLC
The Pavilions
Bridgwater Road
Bristol BS99 6ZY
Telephone +44 (0)870 600 3977
Telefax +44 (0)870 703 6119
Website www.unilever.com/shareholderservices
Email web.queries@computershare.co.uk
USA
Citibank Shareholder Services
PO Box 43077
Providence   RI 02940-3077
Toll free phone (inside US) 888 502 6356
Toll phone (outside US) +1 781 575 4555
Website www.citi.com/dr
Email citibank@shareholders-online.com
Publications
Copies of the following publications can be accessed directly
or ordered through www.unilever.com/investorrelations or
www.unilever.nl/onsbedrijf/beleggers
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Available in English with ﬁgures in euros. It forms the basis for
the Form 20-F that is ﬁled with the United States Securities and
Exchange Commission, which is also available free of charge at
www.sec.gov
Quarterly Results Announcements
Available in English with ﬁgures in euros. Index
148 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Shareholder information
Accounting policies Inside front cover, 42-43, 83-86
Acquisitions 42, 49, 83, 123-124
Advertising and promotion 89
Americas, The 38, 48, 87
Annual General Meetings 55, 146
Asia Africa CEE 38, 47, 87
Associates 97, 128
Audit Committee 53, 63
Auditors 63, 77-78, 133, 138, 143
Balance sheet 40-41, 81
Biographical details 22-24
Board committees 53-54
Board remuneration 67-73
Boards 50-51
Brands 1, 8-9, 27-28, 31
Capital expenditure 95-96
Cash 85, 99
Cash ﬂow 41, 82, 126
Categories 27-28, 88
Cautionary statement Inside back cover
Chairman 4, 22, 52
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer 5-7, 22, 52
Commitments 41, 121-122
Company accounts, statutory and other information 133-143
Competition 27
Comprehensive income 80, 117
Contingent liabilities 121, 122
Corporate governance 50-62
Corporate responsibility 18-21, 64-65
Corporate Responsibility and Reputation Committee 54, 64-65
Deferred tax 43, 111-112
Depreciation 84, 87, 89, 95-96
Directors’ responsibilities 76
Discontinued operations 125
Disposals 42, 49, 123-124
Distribution 27
Diversity 28
Dividends 41, 93, 130, 146
Earnings per share 79, 92
Employees 14-15, 28, 90
Equalisation Agreement 56-57
Equity 80, 118
Europe, Western 39, 48, 87
Exchange rates 37, 83, 130
Executive Directors 22, 52-53, 67-72
Exports 27
Finance and liquidity 39-40, 104-105
Finance costs and income 90
Financial assets 84-85, 99-103
Financial calendar 146
Financial instruments 43, 84-85, 104-110
Financial liabilities 84-85, 99-103
Financial record 129-130
Financial Review 37-49
Functions 27
Goodwill 43, 83, 93-94
Gross proﬁt 89
Group structure 2, 83
Home care 28,88
Ice cream and beverages 28, 88
Impairment 86, 93-94, 98
Income statement 79
Information technology 29
Innovation 8-9
Intangible assets 43, 83-84, 93-94
Intellectual property 29
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) Inside front cover, 83
Inventories 85, 98
Joint ventures 84, 97, 128, 132
Key management 90
Key indicators 25-26
Laws and regulation 29
Leases 41, 85, 121
Legal proceedings 29, 122
Market capitalisation 41
Net debt 46
Nomination Committee 54, 66
Non-Executive Directors 22-23, 52-53, 73
Non-GAAP measures 44-46
Off-balance sheet arrangements 41
Operating costs 89
Operating proﬁt 87-89
Outlook 30
Payables 110
Pensions and similar obligations 41, 43, 85, 113-117
Personal care 28, 88
Post balance sheet events 42, 128
Preference shares and dividends 100, 146
Principal group companies 131-132
Property, plant and equipment 84, 95-96
Provisions 43, 85, 112
Receivables 98
Regions 26, 38-39, 47-49, 87
Related party transactions 27, 128
Remuneration Committee 54, 67-73
Research and development 9, 89
Reserves 119-120
Restructuring 89, 112
Retained proﬁt 120
Return on invested capital (ROIC) 44-45
Revenue recognition 85
Risk management and control 35-36, 60, 61, 62
Risks – principal risks 30-34
Savoury, dressings and spreads 27, 88
Seasonality 27
Segment information 85, 87-88
Share-based payments 85, 126-127
Share capital 58-59, 119
Shareholders 55-56, 144-145
Share registration 147
Staff costs 90
Strategy 7
Taxation 43, 85, 91
Total shareholder return (TSR) 46
Treasury 40, 104-110
Turnover 87-88
Unilever Executive (UEx) 24, 27
Unilever Foodsolutions 28
Underlying sales growth (USG) 37, 46
Ungeared free cash ﬂow (UFCF) 44-45
Voting 56
Website 147 Cautionary statement
This document may contain forward-looking statements, including ‘forward-looking statements’ within the meaning of the United States Private Securities Litigation 
Reform Act of 1995. Words such as ‘expects’, ‘anticipates’, ‘intends’, ‘believes’ or the negative of these terms and other similar expressions of future performance or 
results, and their negatives, are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and 
assumptions regarding anticipated developments and other factors affecting the Group. They are not historical facts, nor are they guarantees of future performance.
Because these forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, there are important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those 
expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements, including, among others, competitive pricing and activities, economic slowdown, industry consolidation, 
access to credit markets, recruitment levels, reputational risks, commodity prices, continued availability of raw materials, prioritisation of projects, consumption 
levels, costs, the ability to maintain and manage key customer relationships and supply chain sources, consumer demands, currency values, interest rates, the ability 
to integrate acquisitions and complete planned divestitures, the ability to complete planned restructuring activities, physical risks, environmental risks, the ability to 
manage regulatory, tax and legal matters and resolve pending matters within current estimates, legislative, fiscal and regulatory developments, political, economic 
and social conditions in the geographic markets where the Group operates and new or changed priorities of the Boards. Further details of potential risks and 
uncertainties affecting the Group are described in the Group’s filings with the London Stock Exchange, Euronext Amsterdam and the US Securities and Exchange 
Commission, including the 20-F Report and the Annual Report and Accounts 2009. These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this document. 
Except as required by any applicable law or regulation, the Group expressly disclaims any obligation or undertaking to release publicly any updates or revisions  
to any forward-looking statements contained herein to reflect any change in the Group’s expectations with regard thereto or any change in events, conditions  
or circumstances on which any such statement is based.
This document does not comply with US GAAP and should not therefore be relied upon by readers as such. The Group’s Annual Report on Form 20-F for 2009 is 
separately filed with the US Securities and Exchange Commission and is available on our corporate website www.unilever.com. Any information on or linked from 
the website is not incorporated by reference into the Annual Report on Form 20-F. In addition, a printed copy of the Annual Report on Form 20-F is available, free  
of charge, upon request to Unilever PLC, Investor Relations Department, Unilever House, 100 Victoria Embankment, London EC4Y 0DY, United Kingdom.
Designed and produced by Unilever Communications in conjunction with Addison  
at www.addison.co.uk.
Board photography by Jaap van den Beukel and Igor Emmerich.
Product photography by The Pack Shot Company.
Feature photography by Chris Moyse, Philip Gatward (page 13), WFP/Anne-Mischa van 
Schouwenburg (page 15), Aaron Huey (page 20) and from the Unilever image library.
Printed by St Ives Westerham Press Ltd. ISO 14001: 2004, FSC certified and CarbonNeutral.
This document is printed on Greencoat Plus Velvet which has been independently certified 
according to the rules of the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC). Greencoat Plus Velvet 
contains 80% recycled fibre. The manufacturing mill is accredited with the ISO 14001 
Environmental Standard. In recognition of its recycled content Greencoat Plus Velvet has  
also been awarded the NAPM recycled mark. In addition, the carbon impact of this paper 
has been measured and balanced through the World Land Trust, an ecological charity.
This document is completely recyclable. If you have finished with it and no longer wish  
to retain it, please pass it on to other interested readers or dispose of it in your recycled 
paper waste. Thank you. Unilever N.V.
Weena 455, PO Box 760
3000 DK Rotterdam
The Netherlands
T +31 (0)10 217 4000
F +31 (0)10 217 4798
Commercial Register Rotterdam
Number: 24051830
Unilever PLC
Unilever House
100 Victoria Embankment
London EC4Y 0DY
United Kingdom
T +44 (0)20 7822 5252
F +44 (0)20 7822 5951
Unilever PLC registered office
Unilever PLC
Port Sunlight
Wirral
Merseyside CH62 4ZD
United Kingdom
Registered in England and Wales
Company Number: 41424
www.unilever.com
