 Who we are 
A FTSE 250 company headquartered in Cambridge, UK, AVEVA 
is an acknowledged industry leader in engineering software 
applications. AVEVA’s worldwide network of sales and support 
offices is staffed by experienced professionals with unrivalled 
depth of knowledge of its customers’ industries.
What we do 
AVEVA creates and supplies the most powerful software tools 
available for the engineering, design, construction and lifecycle 
support of all types of plant and marine assets in the oil & gas, 
power generation, process plant, minerals processing and 
shipbuilding industries.
How we do it 
Through a combination of pioneering in‑house software 
development, technology acquisition and strategic 
partnerships, AVEVA continually extends the capabilities 
of its software solutions to increase its customers’ 
competitive advantage, while simultaneously 
protecting their investment in engineering data. 
Directors’ report
01  Highlights 
02  Chairman’s statement 
Group overview:  
04 AVEVA NET 
06 AVEVA Plant 
08 AVEVA Marine
10  Chief Executive’s review 
14 Finance Director’s review
18  Corporate social responsibility report 
22  Board of Directors 
24  Company information and advisers
25  Other statutory information
30 Corporate Governance statement 
33  Directors’ remuneration report 
 
Financial statements
Group
38  Statement of Directors’ responsibilities  
39  Auditors’ report 
40  Consolidated income statement 
41  Consolidated statement of recognised income and expense 
42  Consolidated balance sheet 
43  Consolidated cash flow statement 
44  Notes to the Consolidated financial statements  
 
Company
72  Statement of Directors’ responsibilities  
73  Auditors’ report 
74  Company balance sheet  
75  Notes to the Company financial statements 
 
Other information
79  Five year record 
80  Group directory 
AVEVA Group plc Annual report 2009
AVEVA Group plc Annual report 2009
AVEVA Group plc
High Cross 
Madingley Road 
Cambridge CB3 0HB 
UK
Tel  +44 (0)1223 556611 
Fax  +44 (0)1223 556622
www.aveva.com Who we are 
A FTSE 250 company headquartered in Cambridge, UK, AVEVA 
is an acknowledged industry leader in engineering software 
applications. AVEVA’s worldwide network of sales and support 
offices is staffed by experienced professionals with unrivalled 
depth of knowledge of its customers’ industries.
What we do 
AVEVA creates and supplies the most powerful software tools 
available for the engineering, design, construction and lifecycle 
support of all types of plant and marine assets in the oil & gas, 
power generation, process plant, minerals processing and 
shipbuilding industries.
How we do it 
Through a combination of pioneering in‑house software 
development, technology acquisition and strategic 
partnerships, AVEVA continually extends the capabilities 
of its software solutions to increase its customers’ 
competitive advantage, while simultaneously 
protecting their investment in engineering data. 
Directors’ report
01  Highlights 
02  Chairman’s statement 
Group overview:  
04 AVEVA NET 
06 AVEVA Plant 
08 AVEVA Marine
10  Chief Executive’s review 
14 Finance Director’s review
18  Corporate social responsibility report 
22  Board of Directors 
24  Company information and advisers
25  Other statutory information
30 Corporate Governance statement 
33  Directors’ remuneration report 
 
Financial statements
Group
38  Statement of Directors’ responsibilities  
39  Auditors’ report 
40  Consolidated income statement 
41  Consolidated statement of recognised income and expense 
42  Consolidated balance sheet 
43  Consolidated cash flow statement 
44  Notes to the Consolidated financial statements  
 
Company
72  Statement of Directors’ responsibilities  
73  Auditors’ report 
74  Company balance sheet  
75  Notes to the Company financial statements 
 
Other information
79  Five year record 
80  Group directory 
AVEVA Group plc Annual report 2009
AVEVA Group plc Annual report 2009
AVEVA Group plc
High Cross 
Madingley Road 
Cambridge CB3 0HB 
UK
Tel  +44 (0)1223 556611 
Fax  +44 (0)1223 556622
www.aveva.com Our divisiOns and markets at a glance
perfOrmance
AVEVA NET is a powerful information management solution, capable 
of handling all types of digital information – not just engineering 
data – to create a complete digital model of a plant or ship. It enables 
the full exploitation of reliable, up-to-date and fully cross-referenced 
project and operational information. 
AVEVA Plant is the most powerful and comprehensive suite of integrated 
software solutions available for creating and supporting all types 
of engineering plant. Whether on complex new-build assets, or 
the smallest in-service upgrade, AVEVA Plant enables maximum 
productivity, error-free design, minimum project cost and the 
most rapid return on investment.
AVEVA Marine is the culmination of AVEVA’s largest single development 
programme, fusing best-in-class shipbuilding and plant engineering 
software into an unrivalled solution for the design and construction 
of every type of ship and floating structure. 
£26.8m
+2%
£45.8m
+40%
£67.1m
+32%
£24.4m
+37%
Wemea grOup revenue ces grOup revenue a sia grOup revenue americas grOup revenue
WEMEA represents one of the most 
established customer bases for AVEVA, 
with market leading presence in the oil 
& gas, pulp and paper and naval marine 
sectors. Over the last twelve months WEMEA 
has seen significant take up of the AVEVA 
NET proposition within the oil & gas 
operations market, a sector that AVEVA 
expects to see significant growth.
In the CES region, AVEVA has continued 
to gain ground with 85 new customers 
this year; in over a third of these AVEVA 
has replaced direct competitors’ products. 
AVEVA’s broad industry base has proved 
resilient to economic difficulties, with 
continued strong growth in the power 
generation sector. Major German shipyards 
have committed to upgrading to AVEVA 
Marine, while AVEVA NET continues to 
attract a growing number of plant Owner 
Operators. Nuclear power has delivered 
strong sales in Southern Europe and, 
with its particularly strong outlook, 
we expect to achieve continuing growth 
in this sector.
Over 700 major engineering businesses 
in Asia Pacific now place their trust in 
AVEVA solutions. Although the region 
has begun to feel the impact of the 
global financial upheaval, AVEVA’s 
strength in this important market, 
and the competitive strengths of its 
customers, have enabled us to maintain 
solid business growth in both the Plant 
and Marine sectors.
AVEVA’s sustained growth in the traditionally 
strong Korean and Japanese shipbuilding 
markets has been further increased by the 
adoption of AVEVA Marine solutions by 
new Chinese shipyards.
AVEVA has a strong customer base in oil 
& gas throughout North and South America, 
its potential for business growth being 
enhanced by deepwater oil reserves off 
the coasts of the Gulf of Mexico and Brazil. 
Increasing focus on alternative energy 
sources is creating a renaissance in nuclear 
power generation in America; AVEVA is 
positioned strongly to support this new 
demand. AVEVA continues to invest in 
initiatives in the Americas that deliver 
real competitive advantage, including 
the marketing of AVEVA NET across a 
broad range of industries. 
Wemea ces a sia p acific americas 
building on our
Americas Region Headquarters
AVEVA Inc
10350 Richmond Avenue 
Suite 400 
Houston, Texas 77042 
USA
Tel +1 713 977 1225 
Fax +1 713 977 1231
Asia Pacific Region Headquarters
AVEVA Asia Pacific Division
Level 59, Tower 2 
PETRONAS Twin Towers KLCC 
50088 Kuala Lumpur 
MALAYSIA
Tel +60 (0)3 2176 1234 
Fax +60 (0)3 2176 1334
Europe, Middle East and Africa 
Region Headquarters
AVEVA GmbH
Otto-Volger-Str.7c 
D-65843 Sulzbach 
GERMANY
Tel +49 (0)6196 5052 01 
Fax +49 (0)6196 5052 22
www.aveva.com Our divisiOns and markets at a glance
perfOrmance
AVEVA NET is a powerful information management solution, capable 
of handling all types of digital information – not just engineering 
data – to create a complete digital model of a plant or ship. It enables 
the full exploitation of reliable, up-to-date and fully cross-referenced 
project and operational information. 
AVEVA Plant is the most powerful and comprehensive suite of integrated 
software solutions available for creating and supporting all types 
of engineering plant. Whether on complex new-build assets, or 
the smallest in-service upgrade, AVEVA Plant enables maximum 
productivity, error-free design, minimum project cost and the 
most rapid return on investment.
AVEVA Marine is the culmination of AVEVA’s largest single development 
programme, fusing best-in-class shipbuilding and plant engineering 
software into an unrivalled solution for the design and construction 
of every type of ship and floating structure. 
£26.8m
+2%
£45.8m
+40%
£67.1m
+32%
£24.4m
+37%
Wemea grOup revenue ces grOup revenue a sia grOup revenue americas grOup revenue
WEMEA represents one of the most 
established customer bases for AVEVA, 
with market leading presence in the oil 
& gas, pulp and paper and naval marine 
sectors. Over the last twelve months WEMEA 
has seen significant take up of the AVEVA 
NET proposition within the oil & gas 
operations market, a sector that AVEVA 
expects to see significant growth.
In the CES region, AVEVA has continued 
to gain ground with 85 new customers 
this year; in over a third of these AVEVA 
has replaced direct competitors’ products. 
AVEVA’s broad industry base has proved 
resilient to economic difficulties, with 
continued strong growth in the power 
generation sector. Major German shipyards 
have committed to upgrading to AVEVA 
Marine, while AVEVA NET continues to 
attract a growing number of plant Owner 
Operators. Nuclear power has delivered 
strong sales in Southern Europe and, 
with its particularly strong outlook, 
we expect to achieve continuing growth 
in this sector.
Over 700 major engineering businesses 
in Asia Pacific now place their trust in 
AVEVA solutions. Although the region 
has begun to feel the impact of the 
global financial upheaval, AVEVA’s 
strength in this important market, 
and the competitive strengths of its 
customers, have enabled us to maintain 
solid business growth in both the Plant 
and Marine sectors.
AVEVA’s sustained growth in the traditionally 
strong Korean and Japanese shipbuilding 
markets has been further increased by the 
adoption of AVEVA Marine solutions by 
new Chinese shipyards.
AVEVA has a strong customer base in oil 
& gas throughout North and South America, 
its potential for business growth being 
enhanced by deepwater oil reserves off 
the coasts of the Gulf of Mexico and Brazil. 
Increasing focus on alternative energy 
sources is creating a renaissance in nuclear 
power generation in America; AVEVA is 
positioned strongly to support this new 
demand. AVEVA continues to invest in 
initiatives in the Americas that deliver 
real competitive advantage, including 
the marketing of AVEVA NET across a 
broad range of industries. 
Wemea ces a sia p acific americas 
building on our
Americas Region Headquarters
AVEVA Inc
10350 Richmond Avenue 
Suite 400 
Houston, Texas 77042 
USA
Tel +1 713 977 1225 
Fax +1 713 977 1231
Asia Pacific Region Headquarters
AVEVA Asia Pacific Division
Level 59, Tower 2 
PETRONAS Twin Towers KLCC 
50088 Kuala Lumpur 
MALAYSIA
Tel +60 (0)3 2176 1234 
Fax +60 (0)3 2176 1334
Europe, Middle East and Africa 
Region Headquarters
AVEVA GmbH
Otto-Volger-Str.7c 
D-65843 Sulzbach 
GERMANY
Tel +49 (0)6196 5052 01 
Fax +49 (0)6196 5052 22
www.aveva.com financial statements corporate governance business review 
01 AVEVA Group plc 
overview
Directors’ report Annual report 2009
highlights
Adjusted profit before t Ax (£m)
£62.6m
+31%
05
10.0
06
13.8
07
28.1
08
47.9
09
62.6
Net c Ash (£m)
£126.2m
+52%
05
11.2
06
23.5
07
41.3
08
82.8
09
126.2
reveNue (£m)
£164.0m
+29%
05
57.2
06
65.9
07
94.9
08
127.6
09
164.0
Adjusted bAsic eArNiNgs per shAre (p)
67.33p
+22%
05
9.29
06
16.15
07
31.71
08
55.22
09
67.33
Strong growth in revenue, profit and cash
Revenue increased by 29% to £164.0 million 
(2008 – £127.6 million) 
Recurring revenue up 42% to £94.2 million 
(2008 – £66.1 million) representing 57% (2008 – 52%) 
of total revenue
Investment in Research and Development up 28% 
to £27.3 million (2008 – £21.3 million)
Adjusted profit before tax increased by 31% 
to £62.6 million (2008 – £47.9 million)* 
Profit before tax up 32% to £59.2 million 
(2008 – £45.0 million) 
Adjusted basic earnings per share up 22% to 67.33 pence 
(2008 – 55.22 pence)* 
Basic earnings per share up 23% to 62.27 pence 
(2008 – 50.80 pence) 
Final dividend increased by 30% to 6.5 pence 
(2008 – 5.0 pence) bringing the full year dividend to 
9.36 pence (2008 – 6.65 pence) – an increase of 41% 
Net cash at the year end of £126.2 million 
(2008 – £82.8 million), an increase of 52%, 
reflecting continued strong cash generation
*  Both adjusted profit before tax and adjusted basic earnings per share are before 
amortisation of intangibles excluding software, share-based payments and 
adjustment to the carrying value of goodwill
This Annual report contains forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance. 
Rather, they are based on current views and assumptions and involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that 
may cause actual results to differ from any future results or developments expressed or implied from the forward-looking statements. 
Each forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date of the particular statement and save to the extent required by the applicable 
law or regulation, we do not undertake any obligation to update or renew any forward-looking statement. 02 AVEVA Group plc Annual report 2009 Directors’ report
Chairman’s statement
I am pleased to report that in the year ended 
March 2009 AVEVA again achieved strong 
growth in revenue, profit and cash, despite 
increasing turbulence in many of the Group’s 
end markets. 
Key financials
Revenue increased in the year by 29% 
to £164.0 million (2008 – £127.6 million). 
Key contributors to this were the levels 
of growth achieved in our Asia Pacific and 
Central, Eastern and Southern European 
regions (CES) where revenue increased 32% 
and 40% respectively. The mix of revenue 
remained broadly in line with those seen in 
previous years with recurring fees amounting 
to 57% of total revenue at £94.2 million 
(2008 – £66.1 million) and initial 
fees amounting to £57.7 million 
(2008 – £52.9 million). 
Increased revenue combined with strong 
margins delivered an adjusted profit before 
tax, amortisation, share-based payments and 
goodwill adjustment of £62.6 million, which 
is an increase of 31% (2008 – £47.9 million). 
Adjusted earnings per share amounted to 
67.33 pence (2008 – 55.22 pence) an increase 
of 22%. Profit before tax increased by 32% 
to £59.2 million (2008 – £45.0 million). 
Basic earnings per share was 62.27 pence 
(2008 – 50.80 pence).
In the first six months of the financial year 
the Company continued to increase investment 
in both its products and sales organisation, 
although in the second half the levels of 
investment slowed. The year as a whole 
saw increased investment in Research 
and Development of 28% to £27.3 million 
(2008 – £21.3 million). The Group’s expansion 
of its existing regional offices in Mexico and 
Russia and the opening of a new office in 
Brazil increased the Group’s global footprint 
in regions that offer significant opportunities 
and contributed to an increase in selling and 
distribution costs of 36% to £53.2 million 
(2008 – £39 million). 
The Group’s balance sheet strengthened 
considerably in the period as the Group’s 
cash increased by 52%, and amounted 
to £126.2 million (2008 – £82.8 million) 
at the year end.
Dividend
Continued growth in profit and a strong 
cash position lead the Board to recommend 
a final dividend of 6.5 pence (2008 – 5.0 pence). 
Combined with the interim dividend of 
2.86 pence (2008 – 1.65 pence) this 
gives a full year dividend of 9.36 pence 
(2008 – 6.65 pence), an increase of 41%.
Subject to approval at the Annual General 
Meeting the final dividend will be paid on 
31 July 2009 to shareholders on the register 
on 26 June 2009.
People
On behalf of the Board I would like to take 
this opportunity to thank all of our staff for 
their important contribution over the last 
twelve months. As all are aware, the market 
turbulence has made it necessary for the 
Board to review the structure of the Company. 
Inevitably, this has led to some very difficult 
decisions being made and a restructuring 
programme has been put in place in 
April 2009. The restructured skills base 
and annualised cost savings of approximately 
£5.0 million mean that AVEVA is now better 
equipped to trade through these challenging 
times. Despite the potentially unsettling 
nature of this programme, the hard work, 
support and efforts of all our staff has 
remained first class. 
buildiNg oN our
Revenue increased by 29% 
to £164 million.
Adjusted profit before tax increased 
by 31% to £62.6 million.
R&D investment increased by 28%.
Full year dividend increased by 41%.
Footprint expanded in growth economies.
SummARy oF chAIRmAN’S S tAtemeNt financial statements corporate governance business review 
03 AVEVA Group plc Annual report 2009
overview
Directors’ report
buildiNg oN our
strategy Sustained and considerable investment made over the past few years 
in developing our product range and expanding our geographical 
presence will ensure AVEVA maintains its position as a world leader.
During the year Lennart Olsson, Head of 
Global Sales, retired. Lennart joined AVEVA 
as part of the acquisition of Tribon in 2004. 
Under his guidance, AVEVA’s sales organisation 
has achieved outstanding results. On behalf 
of the Board and Company I wish Lennart a long 
and happy retirement.
Following the retirement of Lennart we were 
pleased to appoint Derek Middlemas as Group 
Operations Director, overseeing all sales and 
business development activities. Derek joined 
AVEVA in 2000 and brought with him a wealth 
of engineering experience. Over recent years 
Derek led our Business Strategy group, helping 
to align the ambitions of the Company with 
the requirements of the market. I have no 
doubt that Derek’s industry knowledge and 
forward thinking approach will contribute 
greatly to our future success.
outlook
The sustained and considerable investment 
made by the Group over the past few years in 
developing our product range and expanding 
our geographical presence will ensure AVEVA 
maintains its position as a world leader in the 
markets in which it operates. 
As the current global economic slowdown 
continues and the oil price and shipping 
rates sit at lower levels than in recent years, 
some projects are now being postponed 
or cancelled, awaiting project funding or 
visibility of more certain times. Against this 
backdrop, AVEVA’s customer relations and 
‘best in class’ products will remain ever 
more important and will help to maintain 
levels of recurring revenue and exploit 
new opportunities. 
The restructuring programme already 
initiated means that AVEVA is better 
equipped to successfully trade through 
the difficult trading environment whilst 
allowing the Company to invest selectively 
in already identified important growth 
opportunities, for example with regard to 
AVEVA NET and in South America and the CIS. 
Nick Prest
Chairman
26 May 2009 04 AVEVA Group plc Annual report 2009 Directors’ report
buildiNg oN our
AVEVA NET is a powerful information management 
solution, capable of handling all types of digital 
information – not just engineering data – to create 
a complete digital model of a plant or ship. It enables 
the full exploitation of reliable, up-to-date and fully 
cross-referenced project and operational information. 
For further information visit:
http://www.aveva.com/avevanet
the challenge
China’s Shanxi Electric Power Exploration & Design Institute needed to 
find a way to import, manage and access data on the Linfen Thermal Power 
Project project. This project had generated vast amounts of disparate data 
(3D designs, drawings, manufacturers’ data, correspondence, and so on) 
created using many different software applications, with no method of 
associating and validating the project information. The Institute was also 
seeking a platform for project collaboration and mark-up to share documents 
and drawings around the globally dispersed project organisations.
the solution
The Institute turned to AVEVA NET, to provide an information management hub 
for visualisation; the import of data and documents from multiple information 
sources and access to it through a unified, web-based interface. This involved 
a real mix of applications – specialist document management systems, 
file convertors, an XML layer for Chinese character support, and so on. 
However, using AVEVA NET, even such complex data could be imported 
automatically, enabling staff to focus on customising other aspects 
of AVEVA NET to meet their precise needs.
the outcome
AVEVA NET provided the entire project team with a single, up-to-date source 
for every type of information relating to the project. It also enabled them 
to create intelligent associations between data, so that the system can, 
for example, highlight when information is missing or incomplete. 
A similar project at the Jin Xin substation is now well advanced and has 
clearly demonstrated AVEVA NET’s ability to greatly improve efficiency. financial statements corporate governance business review 
05 AVEVA Group plc Annual report 2009
overview
Directors’ report
buildiNg oN our
teChnology AVEVA NET is the core of AVEVA’s Product Lifecycle Management (PLM) 
solutions. It is a vital component in successfully managing the information 
needs of both Plant and Marine industry projects, from conception right 
through to the demands of ongoing asset information management. 
Key facts
•	 	 A VEV A	NET	deliv er s	com pe titiv e	
advantage in both the creation and 
operation of ships and plants, with 
potential application in any industry 
requiring the management of huge 
volumes of disparate information.
•	 	 An	intuitiv e,	w eb‑br o w ser	int er f ace	
enables easy accessibility, sharing 
and collaborative use of information 
across globally dispersed enterprises.
•	 	 Ther e	is	no	limit	t o	t he	scale	of	an	
AVEVA NET deployment. On some of 
the world’s largest operating plants, 
over 6,000 information accesses per 
day is not unusual.
•	 	 A VEV A	NET’ s	ability	t o	im por t,	contr ol	
and manage existing data, such as 
laser scanned surveys, operations 
and maintenance systems, brings 
its key benefits to operators of 
established assets.
INFo Box 
iN vestme Nt i N rese Arch 
ANd developmeNt (£m)
£27.3m
+28%
05
10.4
06
13.9
07
17.6
08
21.3
09
27.3 06 AVEVA Group plc Annual report 2009 Directors’ report
buildiNg oN our
AVEVA Plant is the most powerful and comprehensive 
suite of integrated software solutions available for 
creating and supporting all types of engineering 
plants. Whether on complex new-build assets, or the 
smallest in-service upgrade, AVEVA Plant enables 
maximum productivity, error-free design, minimum 
project cost and the most rapid return on investment.
For further information visit:
http://www.aveva.com/plant
the challenge
AMEC plc, one of the world’s most successful providers of consultancy, 
engineering and project management services to the world’s energy, power 
and process industries, set out to establish best-in-class project management 
performance to address several key issues, common across the industry:
 insufficiently standardised project management processes; 
 undue reliance on individuals’ knowledge, resulting in inconsistent projects; 
 unnecessary duplication of effort through the project lifecycle; and 
 insufficiently visible project status.
the solution
An established user of AVEVA Plant, AMEC
*
 engaged AVEVA in a joint analysis 
to identify key recommendations to implement an 18-month ‘Standard Project 
Management Methodology’ programme (SPMM). This initiative was built on the 
AVEVA VPRM project management solution, using AVEVA PDMS for engineering 
design, Primavera for construction management, and other third-party 
applications such as financial systems.
AVEVA specialists provided training courses, while AMEC held cross-functional 
workshops to map project workflows and identify key tasks and responsibilities. 
To validate the SPMM, a pilot project was carried out using data from a 
completed project.
the outcome
Validated by testing and supported by AVEVA’s technology, the SPMM programme 
has established a fully-defined project management process. AMEC’s Project 
Manager Ted Barker said:
“AVEVA has supported us throughout with good quality training and consultancy. 
Use of AVEVA products to support integrated project execution has been well-proven 
and AVEVA VPRM will play a key role in AMEC’s ability to successfully execute EPC 
projects of all types”.
*
 ‘AMEC’ refers here to AMEC’s Power & Process Europe business financial statements corporate governance business review 
07 AVEVA Group plc Annual report 2009
overview
Directors’ report
buildiNg oN our
solutions
The power generation, oil & gas, chemical processing and minerals industries 
are the foundation of today’s global economy. Trusted by the world’s leading 
engineering businesses, the AVEVA Plant portfolio is a critical enabler 
for the design, construction and lifecycle support of capital assets 
of all sizes. No comparable software suite has such advanced and 
comprehensive capabilities.
Key facts
•	 	 A VEV A	Plant	includes	A VEV A	PDMS,	
recognised as the world’s leading 
3D plant design application.
•	 	 A VEV A	Plant ’ s	uniq uel y	r obus t	
and extensible Dabacon database 
safeguards its users’ priceless 
investments in engineering data.
•	 	 A VEV A	Plant	pr o vides	t he	onl y	pr o v en	
technology for globally distributed, 
concurrent execution of projects 
of any size.
•	 	 A VEV A	Plant	is	used	on	or	b y :
	 •  the world’s most demanding 
oil & gas production and 
processing projects;
	 •  the world’s leading constructors 
of both thermal and nuclear 
power plants;
	 •  the world’s largest minerals 
and pulp & paper processors; and
	 •  the world’s leading 
chemicals companies.
INFo Box 
recurriNg reveNue (£m)
£94.2m
+42%
05
32.4
06
40.9
07
52.7
08
66.1
09
94.2 08 AVEVA Group plc Annual report 2009 Directors’ report
buildiNg oN our
AVEVA Marine is the culmination of AVEVA’s largest 
single development programme, fusing best-in-class 
shipbuilding and plant engineering software into an 
unrivalled solution for the design and construction 
of every type of ship and floating structure. 
For further information visit:
http://www.aveva.com/marine
the challenge
In 2003 ASC (formerly known as Australian Submarine Corporation) began a 
15-year (with two 5-year extension options), multi-billion dollar Through-Life 
Support (TLS) contract with Australia’s Defence Materiel Organisation, the 
Department of Defence’s management organisation responsible for acquiring 
and sustaining equipment for the Australian Defence Force. Under the 
contract, ASC is responsible for the ongoing maintenance, support and design 
enhancements of the Royal Australian Navy’s Collins Class submarines, a key 
element of Australia’s Defence Force. The six Collins Class submarines are 
recognised as among the best conventional (non-nuclear) submarines operating 
anywhere in the world.
the solutions
A proven range of solutions is needed to ensure efficient through-life support for 
the submarines. Maintenance and upgrade works carried out need to meet strict 
certification requirements with no margin for error for these sophisticated naval 
vessels. AVEVA Marine was chosen for its efficiency and ability to meet ASC’s needs.
the outcome
AVEVA Marine has been installed at ASC and initial training carried out. 
Translators have been written to convert their existing 3D models to AVEVA 
Marine – these are currently being tested and a go live date of July 2009 
is being targeted. financial statements corporate governance business review 
09 AVEVA Group plc Annual report 2009
overview
Directors’ report
buildiNg oN our
expertise
Selected by the world’s largest and most productive shipbuilders, 
AVEVA Marine is also being adopted by smaller shipyards and contractors 
keen to take advantage of its unique support for efficient collaborative 
working and the outfitting design of the most complex modern vessels. 
Key facts
•	 	 A VEV A	Mar ine	is	used	b y	t he	w or ld’ s	
most productive shipyards.
•	 	 A VEV A	Mar ine	embodies	indus tr y	
best practice and decades of 
practical experience to enable 
efficient, right-first-time ship 
design and construction.
•	 	 A VEV A	Mar ine	is	t he	onl y	shipbuilding	
solution to support multi-site, 
concurrent projects of any size.
•	 	 A V E V A 	 M a r i n e 	 a n d 	 A V E V A 	 P l a n t 	 s o l u t i o n s	
are interoperable, enabling the most 
complex vessels to be created in a 
common IT environment.
INFo Box 
divideNd per shAre (p)
9.36p
+41%
05
2.03
06
2.46
07
4.18
08
6.65
09
9.36 10 AVEVA Group plc Annual report 2009
Chief exeCutive’s review
 
overview
AVEVA is a global leader in the provision 
of engineering IT software and services. 
2008/09 proved to be another record year 
with strong growth in sales, profit and cash 
generation. Headquartered in Cambridge and 
with 35 offices around the world, we continue 
to offer localised sales and customer service 
enabling us to ensure that our products and 
services match the evolving demands of 
our customers. 
AVEVA delivers world class technologies 
which support the design and through life 
operation of complex engineering projects 
mainly in the Oil & Gas, Power, Marine, Paper 
and Pulp, Chemical and Mining industries. 
These demanding global industries depend 
on mission critical products such as AVEVA’s 
to provide an integrated engineering software 
platform embracing conceptual design 
and specification, detailed engineering, 
procurement, materials management 
and project control. AVEVA’s software 
and unrivalled industrial expertise 
provide complete data integrity. 
AVEVA’s strategy is to remain a world class 
provider of technologies and services in its 
core markets, attract new customers and 
maintain and grow its existing customer 
base through new enhanced technologies. 
Its policy of providing continual progression 
to its customers through ongoing development 
of established products has resulted in some 
major upgrades to products during the year, 
further enhancing customers’ ability to integrate 
a variety of complex applications and data 
sources through platform technology. 
Close, long standing, strategic customer 
partnerships are at the heart of AVEVA’s 
success. This gives us an unrivalled insight 
into the evolving demands of our customers 
across all of our market verticals. As a result, 
we are able to ensure that we are aligned to 
capitalise on all development opportunities 
in more turbulent times. 
Global performance
Each year the AVEVA customer base 
becomes more geographically diverse 
and our continued investment in direct sales 
means we are progressively better positioned 
to understand and serve the complex global 
networked customer base. 
Increasingly, customers demand the ability 
to work on projects with multiple international 
partners and the unique ‘global’ capability 
within the AVEVA database has enabled 
customers to work very efficiently in a 
virtual global network. 
Asia Pacific – Revenue £67 .1 million 
(2008 – £50.8 million)
Following a very successful 2007/08, the Asia 
Pacific business had a very strong business 
in Marine to complement the growing Power 
and Oil & Gas business in the region.
Marine business was strong in the first half 
and although orders for new standard ships 
have declined significantly in the second half 
year, most customers have long order books 
and AVEVA continued to receive business for 
Very Large Crude Carriers (VLCC’s) and deep 
water offshore platforms. These projects tend 
to be very complex, thus driving wider use of 
AVEVA products. Our successes in Marine and 
Plant industries and AVEVA NET in this region 
have positioned the Company very well 
against our competition in this more 
difficult trading environment.
The partnership with Hyundai Heavy Industries 
has been very successful and has led to the 
new generation of Marine design tools being 
delivered during the year. These are already 
in use in many of the world’s largest shipyards. 
buildiNg oN our
In the Asia Pacific region our successes 
have positioned the Company very well 
against our competition.
Latin America revenue grew 
significantly following the opening 
of our offices in Mexico and Brazil.
continued growth in the CES 
region, in particularly with 
power related projects.
merger of WemeA and ceS to form a 
more efficient organisation to serve 
Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA).
SummAR y oF c hIeF executIve’S RevIeW
Directors’ report financial statements corporate governance business review 
11 AVEVA Group plc Annual report 2009
overview
 
buildiNg oN our
relationships
Close, long standing, strategic customer partnerships…give us unrivalled 
insight into the evolving demands of our customers. As a result, we are 
aligned to capitalise on all opportunities in more turbulent times.
We expect to see further take up of the new 
system in yards during 2009/10 financial 
year, as AVEVA Marine continues to deliver 
clear productivity benefits to customers.
Korea has become a significant region not just 
as a revenue generator , but also as a development 
centre for new products. The AVEVA Marine 
Technology Centre based in Busan has 
increased its capacity to develop both 
products and customer specific 
enhancements, as well as helping 
with localisation. We are very grateful 
to the Busan Metropolitan Government 
for their ongoing support in the region.
The contacts and reputation the Asia Pacific 
team have built across the region over recent 
years also enabled the Company to complete 
the acquisition of a small, but very highly 
regarded, organisation with a product for 
creating and maintaining instrumentation 
data. This product has already been 
integrated into the AVEVA suite and is 
being sold across all industries globally.
Americas – Revenue £24.4 million 
(2008 – £17 .8 million)
Performance across the Americas region 
was mixed with difficult trading conditions 
in North America and Canada but strong 
growth in Latin America.
The region has a growing Power 
related business, and our relationships 
with customers in other geographies are 
helping us to exploit opportunities locally. 
Oil related customers are the mainstay of the 
US business, in particular deep water oil field 
production where we have successfully increased 
the penetration of AVEVA NET with the oil majors. 
The expertise developed by many of AVEVA’s 
large multinational engineering companies 
has meant that the business is less susceptible 
to a sharp drop in commodity prices, as 
the deep water fields remain a long-term 
proposition with very long build cycles and 
significant capital expenditure commitments. 
AVEVA has very little Marine business in 
North America. Towards the end of the year 
some confidence returned to our smaller 
markets of Mining, Metals and Paper and Pulp. 
Projects in Canada have been hit by the oil 
price as exploitation of the tar sands oil fields 
is becoming marginal with prices between 
$40 and $50 per barrel. Due to the strength 
of our competitors in the Calgary market 
in the traditional CAD products, we have 
successfully focused on selling the AVEVA NET 
solution in Canada and will continue with this 
strategy this year.
Latin America revenue grew significantly 
following the successful opening of our office 
in Mexico. At the start of the year we replaced 
our agent in Brazil with a direct sales and service 
office based in Rio de Janeiro. The business in 
Latin America has been building steadily and 
is expected to deliver significant growth in 
future years. Brazil is the dominant economy 
in the Latin American region and is seen as 
strategically important, even more so with 
the deep water oil field activity driven by 
Petrobras, which is an AVEVA foundation 
customer. We will continue to invest in 
growing the Brazilian organisation during 
the coming year and have already been 
successfully hiring new engineers and 
sales people. 
CES – Revenue £45.8 million 
(2008 – £32.7 million)
The Central, Eastern and Southern European 
region is a complex geographic mix of markets 
with differing sales and service offerings.
We have seen continued growth in the CES 
region, in particular with oil related projects. 
The largest constituent of the CES region 
is Deutschland (Germany), Austria and 
Switzerland (DACH), which has continued to 
win business from our competitors as well as 
developing existing customer relationships. 
The Southern region, headquartered in 
Paris, operates across a wide area but has 
a predominance of customers in the Power 
business. The growing enthusiasm for nuclear 
power is a key expansion driver in the region. 
Many countries are now planning or considering 
nuclear power as a key part of their energy 
mix. AVEVA customers such as AREVA and 
EDF, along with the very long relationships 
we have enjoyed with fossil fuelled Power 
providers such as Alstom, will help drive 
growth in this region. 
For some years now AVEVA has enjoyed a solid 
relationship with a number of outsourced 
development organisations in the region. 
These relationships have been enhanced 
during the year to provide assistance for 
localised application development, as well 
as core product development managed by 
the central Products Group. These outsource 
centres provide a very flexible cost effective 
extension to our skills pool.
WEMEA – Revenue £26.8 million 
(2008 – £26.3million)
Western Europe, Middle East and Africa is 
the most mature of AVEVA’s markets and has 
traditionally been heavily biased towards the 
oil & gas industry, with a dominant position in 
the North Sea offshore market.
With falling commodity prices and the difficulty 
in raising investment funding for new projects, 
some projects have been slowing down or 
postponed, primarily in the second half of the 
financial year. We have concentrated more 
effort during the year on the opportunities 
which exist in providing technology solutions 
managing data in brownfield, or existing plants. 
In the mature North Sea offshore sector we have 
made strategically important sales into the oil 
majors with our AVEVA NET solution and have 
Directors’ report 12 AVEVA Group plc Annual report 2009
Chief exeCutive’s review coNtiNued
Global performance continued
WEMEA – Revenue £26.8 million 
(2008 – £26.3million) continued
structured the organisation to better exploit 
the opportunities during the coming year. 
AVEVA enjoys particularly strong relationships 
with its customers in the WEMEA region. 
This supports our technical strategy 
and development programmes for both 
enhancement of existing applications 
and Research and Development activity 
in bringing new ideas to market. 
In order to capitalise on global project 
execution, AVEVA has invested to broaden 
further its own network of offices able to sell 
to and support customers locally. At the same 
time, towards the end of the financial year 
we merged two major regional organisations, 
being WEMEA and CES, to make cost efficiencies 
and a more effective organisation to serve 
the Europe, Middle East and African region 
(EMEA). For the year to the end of March 2009 
we had four reporting regions and this has been 
rationalised to three for the coming year.
end user industries performance
AVEVA sells approximately 30% of its products to 
each of the Oil & Gas, Power and Marine markets. 
All products are licensed to customers on 
the basis of an initial licence fee (ILF) and 
annual fees or a rental model. The split 
between ILF and rental varies between 
end user markets and geographies.
In the Marine sector AVEVA has a majority 
of new business booked as ILF revenue. 
Over the year this sector started very strongly, 
with a particular emphasis on ILF business 
in China. During the second half the market 
conditions toughened considerably. However, 
we did have some very good sales of both the 
new AVEVA Marine product and AVEVA NET into 
Marine customers in China during the course 
of the year. We expect the ILF business to be 
impacted by a lack of significant new orders 
in the Marine business, although customers’ 
order books and backlog are considerable. 
The oil & gas market was running at an all 
time high at the start of the year, but has 
reverted to the more usual levels of business 
in most areas as the oil price declined and 
some projects were delayed or postponed. 
Unlike previous downturns, this time the oil 
majors and national oil companies are cash 
rich and the return of some stability in the 
oil price shows signs of a better market as 
we enter 2009/10.
The structural global shortage of power still 
exists, even with a lower level of economic 
activity. AVEVA has the most experience of 
any engineering software supplier in both 
the fossil fuel and nuclear sectors. We have 
seen a constant level of business in fossil 
fuelled power facilities and a slow but steady 
build up of order flow in the nuclear market. 
The relationship with AREVA and the order 
build up during the last year augurs well 
for AVEVA this year and beyond. 
technology and products
The year ended 31 March 2009 saw the 
completion of the merging of AVEVA database 
technology with the Marine products acquired 
in 2004. This has been an incremental 
progression of the technology to provide 
Marine customers with a secure path to 
migrate to the latest technology. Other 
benefits have included using some of the 
methods used in Marine in the AVEVA Plant 
suite of products. Once again, during the year 
our technology teams have worked extremely 
hard to deliver class leading solutions in both 
the Plant and Marine product suites, as well 
as a new version of AVEVA NET and many 
customer specific requests during the year. 
buildiNg oN our
Directors’ report financial statements corporate governance business review 
13 AVEVA Group plc Annual report 2009
overview
buildiNg oN our
growth
We have been investing ahead of the industry average delivering best in 
class products. The AVEVA product roadmap has evolved into new products 
and a platform technology base upon which we can progressively build 
new technology.
Since we have been investing ahead of the 
industry average we now have the ‘best in 
class’ products which, as well as introducing 
many innovative features, allow customers 
to transition smoothly to new technology at a 
time which fits with their long project cycles. 
The AVEVA product roadmap, as set out three 
years ago, has evolved into new products and 
a platform technology base, upon which we 
can progressively build new technology as 
well as integrate acquired applications and 
technology. AVEVA has always recognised the 
advantages of openness in its products and 
is a leading member of the industry bodies 
driving the use and adoption of standards 
as an integration enabler for customers. 
AVEVA NET is gaining traction in the market 
and proving to be a truly beneficial tool 
for customers wanting to integrate data 
from multiple sources on both new and 
brownfield projects. The AVEVA NET solution 
is targeted at the growing PLM (Product 
Lifecycle Management) market in Process, 
Power and Marine. As these industries seek 
to address the issues of data inconsistency, 
availability of data in the design process, 
supply chain integration and data handover 
from EPC (Engineering, Procurement and 
Construction) contractors to owner operators, 
AVEVA NET offers an incremental solution 
to these issues. AVEVA NET uses ‘mash up’ 
technology and industry standards such 
as ISO 15926 to integrate data from many 
differing sources. Such is the broad appeal 
of AVEVA NET many of the successful 
implementations are on projects where 
no other AVEVA products are being used.
During the second half of the year 
under review, the Products Group senior 
management has been investigating routes 
to introduce greater flexibility into the product 
development cycle, through restructuring the 
resources within the Group and through 
greater use of outsourced development. 
organisation and people
The Company closed the year with 843 
employees, an increase of 113 over last year. 
Against a backdrop of shortage of supply for 
skilled staff in the engineering industries, 
AVEVA continued hiring to plan until early 
in the second half of the year, at which point 
most recruitment was suspended due to the 
potential slowdown in our end user markets. 
Following a review of the business and the 
likely effects of the global economic slowdown 
we took steps in April 2009 to reduce the cost 
base to ensure that AVEVA is better equipped 
and has an appropriate structure for the more 
difficult market conditions. The restructuring 
programme, due to be completed in the 
first quarter of the current financial year, 
will result in annualised cost savings of 
approximately £5.0 million. These initiatives 
include increasing the flexibility of the 
organisation through restructuring across 
the business and reducing the use of high 
cost subcontractors. Further reductions in the 
cost base will come through pay freezes, some 
part-time working, career breaks, voluntary 
redundancy and some compulsory redundancy. 
We have continued to strengthen the human 
resources teams in the regions, as well as 
adding capability in the area of personnel 
development in order to ensure maximum 
value from the highly successful induction, 
management development and other training 
schemes initiated last year.
Summary
In the trading statement at the end of 
the finanicial year AVEVA indicated that 
during the coming year it expects business 
opportunities for some end user industries 
to be significantly lower than during recent 
years, in particular initial licence fees from 
new sales to the shipbuilding industries. 
We expect the product sales mix to alter 
over the coming year and we have reorganised 
the Company to put a greater emphasis on 
providing products and services for the 
enhancement of brownfield plant and 
providing more AVEVA NET based tools 
in the area of operations and maintenance. 
AVEVA has a good presence within the owner 
operator community, which has committed 
levels of spend similar to recent years. 
The reshaping of the business will position 
the Company to capitalise on the global 
infrastructure which it has built over recent 
years. The Company’s strength in all these 
areas, coupled with sound finances, 
experienced management and a healthy 
cash balance, will continue to present 
many opportunities.
Richard Longdon
Chief Executive
26 May 2009
Directors’ report 14 AVEVA Group plc Annual report 2009
finanCe DireCtor’s review
 
Business model
At the core of AVEVA’s business is the intellectual 
property generated in its software products. 
The Group sells its proprietary software products 
by licensing rights to use the software directly 
to customers through our network of global 
sales offices rather than through resellers or 
distributors. This strategy provides customers 
with local sales and support and helps AVEVA 
to work closely with the leading companies 
principally in the Oil & Gas, Power and Marine 
markets. AVEVA’s software products also provide 
the customer with ‘data for life’ whereby current 
versions of the software are compatible with 
previous versions allowing customers to 
access design data over a long time span, 
which is essential for assets which can have 
a life in excess of 20 years. This strategy has 
helped establish long-term relationships with 
many of our customers and several have been 
users of our products for over 30 years.
At the cornerstone of our business philosophy 
is our ‘right to use’ licensing model. Customers 
license our software for a specified number of 
users by paying an initial licence fee followed by 
an obligatory annual fee or by paying a rental 
fee over a fixed period of time. In both cases, 
the customer has to continue to pay a fee in 
order to use the software. The ‘right to use’ 
model provides a strong recurring revenue base 
for AVEVA which allows us to invest in the future 
roadmap of our products. This provides visibility 
to the customers and allows them to provide 
input to the direction of the products. In addition, 
customers receive upgrades to software as and 
when they become available as well as support 
and maintenance.
Key performance indicators
The Group’s key financial and non-financial 
performance indicators are total revenue, 
adjusted profit before tax, headcount and 
adjusted earnings per share. These are 
discussed as part of the review below.
Revenue
2008/09 was another record year for AVEVA 
which resulted in total revenue of £164.0 
million against £127.6 million for 2007/08, 
an increase of 29%. Initial licence fees were 
£57.7 million (2008 – £52.9 million) with Asia 
Pacific continuing to be the main driver behind 
this, with initial fees of £36.8 million 
(2008 – £33.8 million) mainly due to the 
success in the marine business in China and 
Korea. Central, Eastern and Southern Europe 
also generated significant initial fees with 
£16.5 million compared to £13.1 million 
in 2007/08. Americas and Western Europe, 
Middle East and Africa are more mature 
markets for AVEVA and this is reflected in 
the relatively higher level of recurring fees. 
Recurring revenue increased from £66.1 million 
to £94.2 million and represents 57% of total 
revenue (2008 – 52%). This reflects the 
continued high level of renewals of annual 
and rental fees across the customer base as 
well as growth in new rental fees as customers 
opt for more flexibility. 
Services revenue increased by 41% to 
£12.1 million (2008 – £8.6 million) mainly 
due to services associated with new customers 
and continued growth in licence sales of 
AVEVA NET products. 
cost of sales, operating expenses 
and profit from operations
Cost of sales includes the direct cost of selling 
(third party royalties, consultancy and agent’s 
commission) as well as Research and Development 
costs and associated Information Technology 
costs. Total cost of sales for the year was 
£37.6 million (2008 – £29.8 million). 
Research and Development costs were 
£27.3 million (2008 – £21.3 million), an 
increase of 28% and represented 17% of total 
revenue (2008 – 17%). The focus in Research 
and Development has been on developing the 
AVEVA Plant and AVEVA Marine products as well 
as new releases of AVEVA NET. 
Operating expenses were £69.8m 
(2008 – £54.6 million) for the year, an 
increase of 28% on 2007/08. Of the total 
operating expenses selling and distribution 
costs were £53.2 million (2008 – £39.0 million) 
and administrative expenses were £16.5 million 
(2008 – £15.6 million). Selling and distribution 
costs increased by 36% during the year which 
reflected the additional headcount recruitment 
in sales and local support as well as increased 
performance based remuneration. Administrative 
expenses increased 6% on 2007/08.
buildiNg oN our
Directors’ report
Recurring revenue up 42% 
to £94.2 million.
operating margin increased to 35%.
Adjusted basic earnings per share 
increased by 22% to 67.33 pence.
Strong balance sheet with net assets 
of £143.1 million.
SummAR y oF FINANce DIRectoR’S RevIeW financial statements corporate governance business review 
15 AVEVA Group plc Annual report 2009
overview
 
buildiNg oN our
partnerships
This strategy has helped establish long term relationships with many of our 
customers, some of which have been users of our products for over 30 years. 
Profit from operations increased from 
£43.2 million in 2007/08 to £56.6 million 
in 2008/09, an increase of 31%. The operating 
margin in 2008/09 increased to 35% 
(2008 – 34%). 
headcount
Total headcount at 31 March 2008 amounted 
to 843 (2008 – 730), an increase of 113 people. 
The average headcount during the year was 809 
(2008 – 663) of which 253 were in Research, 
Development and product support (2008 – 222), 
380 in sales, marketing and customer support 
(2008 – 300) and 176 in administration 
(2008 – 141). The increase in Research, 
Development and product support headcount 
was primarily due to hiring of specialists in 
the AVEVA NET area and the increase in sales, 
marketing and customer support was due to 
expansion of our existing regional operations 
in response to the increased levels of business 
as well as opening a new office in Brazil. 
The increase in the administration staff was 
due to the increase of licensing and contract 
management staff to reflect the increased 
volume of business as well as additional 
finance and administration staff in the sales 
regions to support the growth of the business. 
Total staff costs for the year were £55.5 million 
compared with £48.2 million in 2008, an increase 
of 15%. 
Restructuring
On 16 April 2009 the Group announced that it 
was implementing a restructuring programme 
which involved the merger of two sales regions 
(Central, Eastern and Southern Europe and 
Western Europe, Middle East and Africa) into 
one combined region of Europe, Middle East 
and Africa with immediate effect, as well as 
a reduction in headcount across the Group of 
approximately 10%. The headcount reduction 
is expected to be completed in the first quarter 
of 2009/10. These initiatives will result in 
annualised cost savings of approximately 
£5.0 million. The exceptional costs of 
implementing these initiatives will be around 
£3.5 million, which will all be incurred in 
the first half of 2009/10. No provision for the 
restructuring has been included in the results 
for the year ended 31 March 2009.
Finance revenue and finance costs
Finance revenue represents bank interest 
receivable on cash and cash equivalents of 
£2.8 million (2008 – £1.8 million) and expected 
return on the UK defined benefit pension plan 
of £2.0 million (2008 – £2.0 million). Bank 
interest receivable has increased due to the 
strong increase in cash and cash equivalents 
in the year despite lower returns in the second 
half of the year, due to significant falls in UK 
and US interest rates. Finance costs principally 
relate to the interest on the pension scheme 
liabilities of £2.3 million (2008 – £2.0 million).
earnings and taxation
Profit before tax for the year was £59.2 million 
compared to £45.0 million in 2007/08. 
Adjusted profit before tax increased by 31% 
to £62.6 million (2008 – £47.9 million), which 
is before amortisation of intangibles, share-based 
payments and adjustment to goodwill totalling 
£3.4 million (2008 – £3.0 million).
The Group’s effective tax rate is 28.7% 
(2008 – 23.8%) which is broadly in line with 
the UK headline rate. The headline tax rate in 
2007/08 was lower due to a number of one-off 
credits such as the UK Research and Development 
tax credits; the benefit of tax losses generated 
from acquisitions, which have now been 
exhausted, and previously unrecognised 
deferred tax assets. 
Basic earnings per share was 62.27 pence 
(2008 – 50.80 pence) an increase of 23%. 
Adjusted basic earnings per share (which 
is before amortisation of intangibles, adjustment 
to goodwill and share-based payments) increased 
by 22% to 67 .33 pence (2008 – 55.22 pence). 
The Directors believe that adjusted basic 
earnings per share provide a more meaningful 
measurement of performance of the 
underlying business.
Dividends
The Board of Directors recommend payment of 
a final dividend of 6.5 pence (2008 – 5.0 pence), 
which, taken together with the interim dividend 
of 2.86 pence (2008 – 1.65 pence) gives a 
total dividend for 2008/09 of 9.36 pence 
(2008 – 6.65 pence) a 41% increase over 
2007/08. Subject to approval at the Annual 
General Meeting the final dividend will be 
paid on 31 July 2009 to shareholders on 
the register on 26 June 2009.
Balance sheet
Overall AVEVA’s balance sheet 
continued to strengthen during the 
year and at 31 March 2009 net assets 
were £143.1 million (2008 – £105.7 million). 
Non-current assets increased from £36.4 million 
to £42.2 million due to the recognition of deferred 
tax assets relating to tax losses in certain 
jurisdictions, investment in a global private 
computer network and corporate telephone 
system as well as other computer equipment and 
revaluation of foreign currency denominated 
goodwill and intangible assets.
Current assets increased to £183.7 million 
from £126.8 million due to increased trade 
and other receivable balances, and cash and 
cash equivalents. Trade and other receivables 
were £56.8 million (2008 – £43.2 million) 
which reflected the increase in trading. 
Cash and cash equivalents were £126.2 million 
(2008 – £82.8 million), an increase of 52% 
reflecting the strong growth experienced in 
the year and continued focus on collection 
of accounts receivable.
Current liabilities totalled £72.4 million 
at 31 March 2009 (2008 – £53.8 million) 
including deferred revenue of £31.1 million 
(2008 – £20.0 million) driven by the recurring 
revenue and accruals of £18.2 million 
(2008 – £18.9 million).
Directors’ report 16 AVEVA Group plc Annual report 2009
finanCe DireCtor’s review coNtiNued
Balance sheet continued
Non-current liabilities include retirement benefit 
obligations of £8.8 million (2008 – £1.6 million). 
This mainly relates to the UK defined benefit 
pension plan which had a deficit under IAS 19 
of £7.6 million at 31 March 2009 (2008 – 
£0.7 million deficit). The increase in the 
deficit was caused by the reduction in the 
value of the scheme’s assets due to the 
current financial conditions and increased 
liabilities due to the updated assumptions.
capital structure
The authorised share capital of the Company is 
90,000,000 ordinary shares of 3.33 pence each 
(2008 – 90,000,000). The issued share capital at 
31 March 2009 was 67 ,818,868 ordinary shares 
of 3.33 pence each (2008 – 67 ,517 ,319). 
Following the establishment of the AVEVA 
Group Employee Benefit Trust 2008 in July 2008, 
the Trust purchased 36,448 ordinary shares in 
AVEVA Group plc in the open market at a price 
of £13.48 for total consideration of £495,000 
in order to satisfy awards made under the 
AVEVA Group Management Bonus Deferred 
Share Scheme 2008. At 31 March 2009, 
the Trust continued to own these shares. 
Further details of the Deferred Share Scheme 
are contained on page 68. 
cash flows
Cash generated from operating activities before 
tax in the period amounted to £58.7 million 
(2008 – £54.6 million). Cash conversion, 
measured by cash generated from operating 
activities before tax as a percentage of profit 
from operations, was 104% compared to 126% 
in 2007/08 which continues to reflect the 
quality of earnings and continued focus 
on cash management. 
The Board continues to believe that in 
the current climate of bank credit it is 
appropriate for the business to maintain 
a strong cash position.
treasury policy
The Group treasury policy aims to ensure 
that the capital held is not put at risk and 
the treasury function is managed under 
policies and procedures approved by the 
Board. These policies are designed to reduce 
the financial risk arising from the Group’s 
normal trading activities, which primarily 
relate to credit, interest, liquidity and currency 
risk. Further details of these risks are contained 
at note 23. The Group is, and is expected to 
continue to be, cash positive and currently 
holds net deposits. The treasury policy 
includes counterparty limits which are 
adhered to. Deposits are held for periods 
up to three months. During the year the 
Group had a bank overdraft facility of 
£nil (2008 – £3.0 million) in the UK and 
approximately £0.8 million (SEK 10 million) 
(2008 – £2.2 million, SEK 30 million) in 
Sweden, aimed at managing short-term 
fluctuations in cash. The Group has a net 
funding requirement in Sterling, due to the 
majority of Research and Development costs 
being incurred in the UK. The revenue of the 
Group is predominantly in foreign currency, 
with approximately 40% in US dollar and 25% 
in Euro. The overseas entities incur costs in 
their local functional currency, which acts 
as a partial net hedge. Any cash flows which 
cannot be offset against each other will result 
in a net currency exposure and where possible 
these exposures will be hedged. These hedges 
aim to minimise the adverse effect of exchange 
rate movements, without eliminating all upside 
potential. There was no material net impact 
on the income statement from movement 
in exchange rates during the year.
Acquisitions
On 24 March 2009, AVEVA acquired iDesign Office 
Pty Limited, a small Australian software company 
specialising in instrumentation software for 
total consideration of £1.7 million. The fair 
value of the net assets acquired included 
developed technology of £1.6 million which is 
being amortised over five years. The acquisition 
made no material contribution to the Group’s 
results or cash flows for 2008/09.
Review of principal risks and uncertainties
AVEVA has continued to be successful during 
the year, but as with any organisation there are 
a number of potential risks and uncertainties 
which could have a material impact on the 
Group’s long term performance. Where 
possible the Group seeks to mitigate these 
risks through its system of internal controls 
but this can only provide reasonable and not 
absolute assurance against material losses. 
buildiNg oN our
Directors’ report financial statements corporate governance business review 
17 AVEVA Group plc Annual report 2009
overview
buildiNg oN our
proDuCts
The Group makes substantial investments in Research and Development 
delivering innovative, new and enhanced products. 
The principal risks and uncertainties faced 
by the Group are as follows:
Protection of the Group’s intellectual property rights 
The Group’s success has been built upon the 
development of its substantial intellectual 
property rights and protection of this remains 
critical. The Group generally protects its 
proprietary software products by licensing 
rights to use the application, rather than 
selling or licensing the computer source code. 
Infringement of the Group’s intellectual property 
rights by third parties or its failure to defend 
infringement claims from third parties could 
cause damage to the business. The Group uses 
third party technology to encrypt, protect and 
restrict access to its products. Access limitations 
and rights are also defined within the terms of 
the software licence agreement and the Group 
seeks to ensure that its intellectual property 
rights are appropriately protected by law 
wherever possible.
Dependency on key markets
AVEVA generates a substantial amount of its 
income from customers whose main business is 
derived from capital projects driven predominantly 
by growth in the Oil & Gas, Power and Marine 
markets. The current world economic conditions 
may adversely affect our financial performance. 
Funding constraints may cause the delay of 
major new projects and customers who operate 
in the Oil and Gas, Marine and Power industries 
may reduce capital expenditure budgets further. 
Future success is dependent on growth and 
continued demand from within these markets. 
These industries are cyclical and subject to 
fluctuations in the price of oil and general 
economic conditions. Such downturns, pricing 
pressures and restructurings may cause delays 
and reductions in expenditures by many of these 
companies and reduced demand for our products 
and services. A recurrence of these industry 
patterns, as well as general domestic and foreign 
economic conditions and other factors that reduce 
spending by companies in these industries, could 
harm our operating results in the future.
Competition
AVEVA operates in highly competitive markets 
that serve the Oil & Gas, Power and Marine 
markets. If we do not respond effectively we 
may lose market share and the business could 
suffer. We believe that there are a relatively 
small number of significant competitors 
serving our markets. However, some of these 
competitors could, in the future, pose a 
greater competitive threat, particularly 
if they consolidate or form strategic or 
commercial relationships among themselves 
or with larger, well capitalised companies. 
Foreign exchange risk
Exposure to foreign currency gains and losses 
can be material to the Group, with approximately 
80% of the Group’s revenue denominated in a 
foreign currency, of which our two largest are 
US dollar and Euro. The Group enters into forward 
foreign currency contracts to manage the currency 
risk where material. The overseas subsidiaries 
trade in their own currencies, which also acts 
as a natural hedge against currency movements. 
The Group is also exposed to foreign currency 
translation risk on the translation of its net 
investment into Sterling.
Recruitment and retention of employees
AVEVA’s success has been built on the quality 
and reputation of its products and services, 
which rely almost entirely on the quality of 
the people developing and delivering them. 
Managing this pool of highly skilled and 
motivated individuals across all disciplines 
and geographies remains key to our ongoing 
success. The Group endeavours to ensure that 
employees are motivated by their work and 
there are regular appraisals, with staff 
encouraged to develop their skills. 
Identification and successful integration 
of acquisitions 
The Group expects to continue to review 
acquisition targets as part of its strategy. 
The integration of any acquisitions also 
involves a number of unique risks, including 
diversion of management’s attention, failure 
to retain key personnel of the acquired business, 
failure to realise the benefits anticipated to 
result from the acquisition, system integration 
and risks associated with unanticipated events 
or liabilities.
Research and Development
The Group makes substantial investments 
in Research and Development in enhancing 
existing products and introducing new products. 
There are many risks in software development. 
This process is managed by developing a product 
roadmap that identifies the schedule for new 
products and the enhancements that will be 
made to successive versions of existing products. 
Our software products are complex and may 
contain undetected errors, failures, performance 
problems or defects. Furthermore if new products 
or enhancements are introduced which do not 
meet customer requirements or competitors 
introduce a rival product which better meets 
the requirements of the market, this may have 
a material impact on the long term revenue 
and profit.
International operations 
The Group operates internationally and 
is required to comply with local laws and 
regulations and tax legislation of several 
countries. Significant changes in these laws 
and regulations or failure to comply with them 
could lead to additional liabilities and penalties. 
The Group endeavours to comply with local laws 
and regulations by employing qualified personnel 
and through the use of local professional advisers.
Paul taylor
Finance Director
26 May 2009
Directors’ report 18 AVEVA Group plc Annual report 2009
Corporate soCial responsibility report
As a Group we seek to operate responsibly and 
ethically in all areas of our business. We have a 
strong ethical belief in the way business should 
be conducted, how employees should be treated 
and have integrated social, environmental and 
ethical policies into the way we do business and 
the interaction we have with our stakeholders 
including our shareholders, employees, 
customers, suppliers and local communities.
The Chief Executive has Board responsibilities for 
matters relating to the Group’s culture and ethical 
policies, environmental matters and customer 
and employee issues. These matters are reviewed 
by the Board as part of its management of risk, 
on the basis that as the Group grows, maintenance 
of its core values is vital.
customers and suppliers
We seek to be honest and fair in our relationships 
with both customers and suppliers. We offer the 
highest level of support and continue to enhance 
our product offering to ensure our customers 
effective use of software thus minimising waste 
and improving efficiency. We have a policy not 
to offer, pay or accept bribes or to accept 
substantial favours. We encourage our 
suppliers and customers to adopt the same 
principles to which we ourselves aspire.
In addition to sponsoring a variety of industry 
trade shows, AVEVA hosted a number of customer 
focused events during the year, including the 
Marine User Meeting in Kobe, Japan, and the 
International Symposium for Engineering 
Information Technology (ISEIT), held this year 
in Paris and Austin, Texas. As in previous years, 
the purpose of these events was to build 
relationships with the customer base, obtain 
feedback on the product offering, and to promote 
best practice in the use of our software.
The Group is committed to its customers, and 
has dedicated support staff within its Group 
Solutions Centre to handle all support calls 
and capture customer feedback.
AVEVA has relatively few preferred suppliers, and 
evaluates potential suppliers based on several 
factors including vendor policies, reputation 
and contractual terms and conditions.
employees
The Group now has 843 employees of whom 
over 500 are based overseas. As a result of our 
high rate of growth, we have seen an increase 
in the numbers we employ.
We are dependent on the drive and goodwill of 
our employees, they are our most important 
asset and key to our continuing success and as 
a result, the extent to which we have sufficient 
staff of the right calibre available to fill our critical 
roles is reviewed periodically by the Board as part 
of the risk management process. We recognise 
that we must excel in the management of people, 
helping them develop their careers within the 
Group whilst maintaining a high level of morale. 
During the year we have strengthened our 
Human Resources team with the addition of a 
career development and training professional 
to oversee the Group’s training and development 
activities. Although staff turnover has remained 
low in the last twelve months, this is a continual 
changing process and as such:
•  we aim to recruit, train and develop the 
best people and help them take on board 
our values while continuing to grow the 
business in the key areas;
•  we provide clean, healthy and safe 
working conditions;
buildiNg oN our
Directors’ report financial statements corporate governance business review 
19 AVEVA Group plc Annual report 2009
overview
buildiNg oN our
reputation
As a Group we seek to operate responsibly and ethically in all areas of the 
business. We have a strong ethical belief in the way business should be 
conducted and how employees should be treated.
•  we are an equal opportunity employer and 
do not tolerate any illegal discriminatory 
actions or harassment of our employees;
•  the Group recognises the requirement to 
provide facilities for disabled employees 
and continues to be aware of any special 
needs an employee might have;
•  we encourage fuel efficient commuting 
through the provision of cycle sheds, showers 
and changing facilities in the UK offices; and
•  the recent implementation of flexible 
benefits, allows the purchase of bicycles 
through the cycle to work scheme and the 
purchase of child care vouchers.
We also have a Joint Consultative Committee, 
a forum made up of employee representatives 
in the UK who meet frequently to discuss any 
staff issues and concerns. It comprises employee 
members from all departments, coordinated 
by the Human Resources department.
The Group’s employment policies are 
continuously under review and are aimed 
at meeting or exceeding the legislative 
requirements in the countries in which 
the Group operates and wherever possible 
promote a considerate and flexible approach 
to work life balance. As part of this the Group 
continues to review and improve communication 
with employees and has conducted surveys 
and held forums with employees to gain 
their views on key issues.
As part of the development and retention of 
staff, the Group offers flexible benefits for all 
UK employees, which provide a competitive 
and varied approach to benefits to suit 
individual lifestyle needs. In addition an 
Employee Assistance Programme is in place 
as the Group recognises that employees need 
support from time to time to handle work and 
non-work related issues.
AVEVA will continue to review its benefits 
programme throughout the Group to ensure 
valued and cost effective benefits are offered 
to all employees remain competitive and 
reward existing employees. 
central induction programme
With so many new employees joining the 
Group during the year the Directors felt it 
important to ensure the induction process 
was comprehensive and professional to 
ensure new employees feel welcome and 
can become effective as soon as possible. 
During the year the Group has successfully 
run six central induction courses bringing 
new employees together from throughout the 
business to welcome them to the Group and 
provide informative and useful training.
management development training programme 
Managing employees in a growing organisation 
with such diverse cultures brings with it a number 
of challenges. AVEVA has developed a training 
programme to provide support and a learning 
framework for the management team. The 
management development course has been 
extended to include different levels of 
management and is led by our internal 
training and development manager.
Graduate training programme
As part of the overall strategy to attract and 
grow talent, AVEVA now offers a comprehensive 
and attractive graduate programme in the UK. 
This offers accelerated learning in both technical 
and personal development and is now being 
considered to be extended in other areas of 
the Group to ensure an ongoing pipeline of 
talent and skill.
Group wide appraisal scheme
Developing skills is important to individuals 
and to AVEVA – developing people helps move 
the Group forward and helps maintain the respect 
and reputation of our staff with our customers.
The appraisal process therefore:
•  ensures staff receive regular, constructive 
feedback on their performance;
•  links job descriptions and individual 
objectives with AVEVA business plans; and
•  sets and reviews personal development goals.
Directors’ report 20 AVEVA Group plc Annual report 2009
Corporate soCial responsibility report coNtiNued
buildiNg oN our
health and safety
We have a legal responsibility to ensure the safety 
and well-being of all our employees whilst carrying 
out their duties on behalf of the Group and 
maintain a safe environment for customers and 
other visitors whilst on our premises. Health 
and Safety, Fire Safety and Electrical Safety 
audits are carried out on a regular basis.
In the last twelve months there were no RIDDOR 
reportable accidents.
As a global business, our employees undertake 
travel to many areas of the world to visit customers’ 
sites or to assist customers in the deployment 
and testing of our products. The Group regularly 
takes advice from the UK Foreign Office, the 
World Health Organisation and similar 
organisations concerning health and safety 
in the various regions where we operate.
environment
As a developer of software the Company has 
no manufacturing facilities and therefore the 
Group is classed as “low impact” in environmental 
terms. The majority of sales is for software 
which is delivered electronically to customers. 
Our software products are created by 
very knowledgeable, talented individuals 
using computers and a variety of software 
development tools. There are no harmful 
chemicals or anything that could give rise 
to noxious waste employed in the process. 
We purchase energy saving screens which are 
MPR-II and TCO 03 compliant. We use third 
party recycling vendors to assist us with 
the disposal of computer hardware in an 
environmentally friendly manner. The Group 
actively undertakes recycling of waste products 
with printer toner, paper, cardboard and plastic 
recycled in many locations. We encourage 
employees to undertake recycling as 
much as possible.
travel
AVEVA recognises the environmental impact 
of travel and employees are encouraged to 
cycle to work, share car journeys or use public 
transport. During the year the cycle facilities 
at the Cambridge site were extended to 
accommodate more cycles and improved 
shower and changing facilities were installed.
International travel is important to support 
and promote our business worldwide. The level 
of international travel is monitored on a regular 
basis with ways to reduce travel investigated. 
Video and web conferencing is utilised 
whenever practicable. Improvements to our 
core IT infrastructure including deployment 
of a global private network and corporate 
telephone system to our 15 largest offices 
across the Group has enabled more effective 
communication/collaboration and is expected 
to improve operational efficiencies in the future.
educational partnerships
AVEVA shares the concerns of industry regarding 
the short fall in skilled designers and engineers 
in the Plant and Marine markets, due primarily 
to the aging demographic of the existing 
workforce; and consequently, AVEVA is 
committed to preparing a new generation 
of engineers and designers to address this 
challenge. Recognising the importance of 
partnering with leading universities and 
technical institutes in order to achieve this 
goal, the Group has donated AVEVA Plant and 
AVEVA Marine software and training to numerous 
institutes, including: SAIT Polytechnic in 
Calgary, Alberta; Texas Southern University; 
and South Korean education institutions. 
In addition, AVEVA has provided support to 
the Marine Design Centre (MDC) in Newcastle 
upon Tyne. These initiatives will help to meet 
the skills challenges that owner operators, 
shipyards and engineering firms face, 
particularly with regards to ensuring 
Directors’ report financial statements corporate governance business review 
21 AVEVA Group plc Annual report 2009
overview
buildiNg oN our
Commitment
that designers have the necessary skills and 
qualifications for the local market. The MDC is 
the first of its kind in the UK and has been set 
up as a subsidiary business of Northern Defence 
Industries (NDI), to which around 200 regional 
companies are affiliated. The MDC is an 
international centre of excellence, helping 
members to find new markets, grow market 
share and gain competitive advantage. 
community involvement
The Group is involved in a number of 
charitable and good causes. The Group’s 
policy has been to continue to support local 
charities in the areas that we operate as well 
as a number of national and international 
charities. During the past year we have 
donated £49,000 to a wide range of 
organisations as summarised below:
East Anglian Air Ambulance
East Anglian Air Ambulance was founded 
in 2000. The charity provides 365 day a year 
air ambulance service for Cambridgeshire, 
Norfolk and Suffolk which is 11% of the 
total area of England;
East Anglian Children’s Hospice (EACH)
EACH supports families throughout their 
experience of caring for children with 
life-threatening or life-limiting illnesses;
Mid‑Anglia General Practitioner 
Accident Service (MAGPAS)
MAGPAS has provided emergency care in 
Cambridgeshire and Peterborough since 1971 
and works in partnership with the East Anglian 
Air Ambulance and the East of England 
Ambulance Service Trust;
Headway
To promote understanding of all aspects 
of brain injury and to provide information, 
support and services to people with a brain 
injury, their families and carers;
Macmillan Cancer Support
Macmillan Cancer Support is a source of 
support, helping with all the things people 
affected by cancer want and need;
International Committee of the Red Cross
The International Committee of the Red Cross, 
or ICRC, is a humanitarian organisation which 
aims to help those caught up in armed conflicts 
around the globe;
The Prince’s Trust
The Prince’s Trust, founded in 1976 by 
The Prince of Wales, has become the UK’s 
leading youth charity, offering a range of 
opportunities including training, personal 
development, business start-up support, 
mentoring and advice; and
The Outward Bound Trust
The Outward Bound Trust’s mission is to unlock 
the potential in young people through discovery 
and adventure in the wild.
Help for Heroes
Help for Heroes is a registered charity providing 
support to service men and women wounded 
in current conflicts.
Marie Curie Cancer Care
Marie Curie Cancer Care provides free nursing 
care to cancer patients and those with other 
terminal illnesses in their own homes.
The Group also gift matched the efforts 
of employees who took part in the Chariots 
of Fire Charity Marathon, the Oxford to 
Cambridge Bike Ride and Red Nose Day.
Directors’ report
AVEVA is committed to preparing a new generation of engineers and 
designers for the Plant and Marine markets by donating AVEVA Plant 
and AVEVA Marine software to numerous educational institutes. 22 AVEVA Group plc Annual report 2009
boarD of DireCtors
Nick Prest cBe, aged 56
Chairman
Nick Prest joined the Board of AVEVA in January 2006. Following a spell 
at the Ministry of Defence at the outset of his career Nick joined Alvis, 
the defence contractor, in 1982, becoming Chief Executive in 1989 
and Chairman and Chief Executive in 1996. Nick left Alvis following 
its acquisition by BAE Systems in 2004, by which time the company 
had become a leading international business in military land systems. 
In addition to his position at Alvis, Nick had a prominent role in defence 
industry representation, serving as Chairman of the Defence Manufacturers’ 
Association and Vice Chairman of the National Defence Industries Council. 
In addition to being Chairman of AVEVA, Nick is also Chairman of Cohort plc, 
a defence technical services business floated on AIM in March 2006.
Richard Longdon, aged 53
Chief Executive
Richard Longdon received an engineering training in the defence 
industry then gained experience in the project management of high 
value engineering projects. He moved into sales and held a series of 
international sales and marketing positions. He joined AVEVA in 1984 and 
shortly afterwards was made marketing manager for the process products. 
In January 1992, he relocated to Frankfurt where he was responsible for 
setting up and running the Group’s German office. He returned to the UK 
as part of the management buyout team in 1994, taking responsibility 
for the Group’s worldwide sales and marketing activities, before being 
appointed Managing Director in May 1999. He took over as Group 
Chief Executive in December 1999.
David mann, aged 64
Non‑Executive Director and Senior Independent Director
David Mann entered the Information Technology industry after reading 
Mathematics and Theoretical Physics at Cambridge University. From 1969 
to 1994 he worked for Logica plc where he became Head of Worldwide 
Operations, then Group Chief Executive and finally Deputy Chairman. 
He is currently Non-Executive Chairman of Velti Group plc and 
Non-Executive Deputy Chairman of Charteris plc (both quoted on 
AIM). He is a Past President of the British Computer Society and a 
Past Master of the Worshipful Company of Information Technologists 
in the City of London.
Directors’ report financial statements corporate governance business review 
23 AVEVA Group plc Annual report 2009
overview corporate governance 
Paul taylor Fcc A, aged 44
Finance Director and Company Secretary
Paul Taylor is a Fellow of the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants 
and joined AVEVA in 1989. He was heavily involved in the flotation process 
and has been responsible for UK accounting and for the development 
of its overseas subsidiaries, including adherence to Group standards. 
Between 1998 and 2001 Paul was also UK Director of Human Resources 
and was appointed to the position of Finance Director and Company 
Secretary of AVEVA Group plc on 1 March 2001. Before joining AVEVA, 
Paul trained within the accountancy profession before moving to Philips 
Telecommunications (UK), where he was responsible for the management 
accounts of its public sectors division.
Philip Dayer, aged 58
Non‑Executive Director
Philip Dayer qualified as a chartered accountant and pursued a corporate 
finance career in investment banking, specialising in advising small and 
mid-market UK companies. He was first appointed an Advisory Director 
in 1983 of Barclays Merchant Bank Limited and since then has held the 
position of Corporate Finance Director with a number of banks. He retired 
from Hoare Govett Limited in 2004. Philip was a financial consultant to 
OJSC Rosneft Oil Company, the Russian state-owned oil and gas company, 
on their flotation in 2006. Philip is a Non-Executive Director of 
Dana Petroleum plc, Senior Independent Director of Cadogan plc, 
Senior Independent Director of Arden Partners plc and Chairman 
of IP PLUS plc.
Jonathan Brooks, aged 53
Non‑Executive Director
Jonathan Brooks joined AVEVA in July 2007 and has a broad range 
of financial, commercial and international experience. He currently 
holds a number of Directorships with technology based companies. 
He is a Non-Executive Director of Xyratex Limited, a Nasdaq-listed 
provider of enterprise class data storage sub systems and network 
technology, and e2v technologies plc, an LSE listed manufacturer of 
specialised components and sub systems. He is also Chairman of Picochip 
Inc., a private equity company developing wireless processors and a 
Non-Executive Director of Sophos plc, a software security company. 
Between 1995 and 2002, he was Chief Financial Officer and a Director 
of ARM Holdings plc, where he was a key member of the team that 
developed ARM Holdings to be a leader in its sector. 
Directors’ report 24 AVEVA Group plc Annual report 2009
Company information anD aDvisers
Directors
Nick Prest CBE
Chairman
David Mann 
Non-Executive Director and 
Senior Independent Director
Jonathan Brooks
Non-Executive Director
Philip Dayer
Non-Executive Director
Richard Longdon
Chief Executive
Paul Taylor
Finance Director
Secretary
Paul Taylor
Registered office
High Cross 
Madingley Road 
Cambridge CB3 0HB
Registered number
2937296
Auditors
Ernst & Young LLP
Compass House 
80 Newmarket Road 
Cambridge CB5 8DZ
Bankers
Barclays Bank plc
15 Bene’t Street 
Cambridge CB2 3PZ
Solicitors
Mills & Reeve LLP
Francis House 
112 Hills Road 
Cambridge CB2 1PH
Ashurst LLP
Broadwalk House 
5 Appold Street 
London EC2A 2HA
Stockbroker and financial advisers
RBS Hoare Govett Limited
250 Bishopsgate  
London EC2M 4AA
Registrars
Capita Registrars Limited
Northern House 
Woodsome Park 
Fenay Bridge 
Huddersfield 
West Yorkshire HD8 0LA
Financial PR
Hudson Sandler
29 Cloth Fair 
London EC1A 7NN
Directors’ report financial statements
25 AVEVA Group plc Directors’ report Annual report 2009
overview corporate governance business review 
Directors’ report
Principal activities
The Company is a holding company. The principal activities of the Group are the marketing and development of computer software and services 
for engineering and related solutions.
Results and dividends
The Group made a profit for the year after taxation of £42.2 million (2008 – £34.2 million). Revenue was £164.0 million (2008 – £127.6 million) 
and comprised software licences, software maintenance and services.
The Directors recommend the payment of a final dividend of 6.5 pence per ordinary share (2008 – 5.0 pence). If approved at the forthcoming 
Annual General Meeting, the final dividend will be paid on 31 July 2009 to shareholders on the register at close of business on 26 June 2009.
Business review and future developments
A review of the Group’s operations during the year and its plans for the future is given in the Chairman’s statement, the Chief Executive’s review 
and the Finance Director’s review. 
The Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) used by AVEVA to measure its own performance at the Group level are total revenue, adjusted profit before tax, 
adjusted earnings per share and headcount. The figures for the year ended 31 March 2009 are set out in the Finance Director’s review on pages 14 to 17 , 
together with figures for the previous year and a discussion of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group.
Suppliers’ payment practice
It is the Group’s policy that payments to suppliers are made in accordance with those terms and conditions agreed between the Company and 
its suppliers, provided that all trading terms and conditions have been complied with by the other party.
The Company has £nil trade creditors (2008 – £nil). At 31 March 2009, the Group had an average of 18 days’ purchases owed to trade creditors 
(2008 – 18 days’).
Research and Development
The Group continues an active programme of Research and Development which covers updating of and extension to the Group’s range of products.
Intellectual property
The Group owns intellectual property both in its software tools and the products derived from them. The Directors consider such properties to be 
of significant value to the business. 
Financial instruments
The Group’s financial risk management objectives and policies are discussed in note 23 to the financial statements.
Going concern
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue its operational existence 
for the foreseeable future. For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Directors and their interests
The Directors who served during the year under review are shown below:
Nick Prest (Chairman) 
David Mann (Non‑Executive Director and Senior Independent Director) 
Jonathan Brooks (Non‑Executive Director) 
Philip Dayer (Non‑Executive Director) 
Richard Longdon (Chief Executive) 
Paul Taylor (Finance Director and Company Secretary) 
The interests (all of which are beneficial) in the shares of the Company of Directors who held office at 31 March 2009 in respect of transactions 
notifiable under Disclosure and Transparency Rule 3.1.2 that have been disclosed to the Company are as follows:
         2009 2008 
         3.33 pence 3.33 pence 
         ordinary shares ordinary shares
Nick Prest         16,690 7 ,150
David Mann        26,700 26,700
Jonathan Brooks        — —
Philip Dayer        7,000 7 ,000
Richard Longdon        350,000 316,000
Paul Taylor        50,000 50,000
No changes took place in the interests of Directors in the shares of the Company between 31 March 2009 and 26 May 2009.
Directors’ share options are disclosed in the Directors’ remuneration report on pages 33 to 37.
No Director had a material interest in any significant contract, other than a service contract or contract for services, with the Company or any of its 
subsidiaries at any time during the year.
Resolutions will be submitted to the Annual General Meeting for the re‑election of Nick Prest, David Mann and Paul Taylor. Brief biographical details 
of all Directors, including those who are proposed for re‑election, appear on pages 22 and 23. 
Other statutOry infOrmatiOn 26 AVEVA Group plc Directors’ report Annual report 2009
Conflict of interest
Throughout the year the Company has complied with the procedures in place for ensuring that the Board’s powers for authorising conflict situations 
have been operated effectively. During the year no conflicts arose which would require the Board to exercise authority or discretion in relation 
to such conflicts.
Takeover Directive Disclosures
The additional information required to be disclosed under the Takeover Directive Disclosures is set out below. The disclosures below are in some cases 
a summary of the relevant provisions of the Company’s Articles of Association and the relevant full provisions can be found in the Articles, which are 
available for inspection at the Company’s registered office. 
Share capital
The rights attaching to the Company’s shares are set out in its Articles of Association. At 31 March 2009, the Company’s issued share capital consisted 
of a single class of ordinary shares with a nominal value of 3.33 pence.
Subject to any restrictions referred to in the next section, members may attend any general meeting of the Company. Voting rights attaching to the 
ordinary shares are described in the next section.
Members can declare final dividends by passing an ordinary resolution but the amount of the dividends cannot exceed the amount recommended by 
the Board. The Board can pay interim dividends provided the distributable profits of the Company justify such payment. The Board may, if authorised 
by an ordinary resolution of the members, offer any member the right to elect to receive new shares, which will be credited as fully paid, instead of 
their cash dividend. Any dividend which has not been claimed for twelve years after it became due for payment will be forfeited and will then revert 
to the Company.
If the Company is wound up, the liquidator can, with the sanction of the members by special resolution and any other sanction required by law, divide 
among the members all or any part of the assets of the Company and he/she can value any assets and determine how the divisions shall be carried 
out as between the members or different classes of members. The liquidator can also transfer the whole or any part of the assets to trustees upon any 
trusts for the benefit of the members. No members can be compelled to accept any asset which would give them any liability.
There are no special control rights in relation to the Company’s shares.
Subject to any restrictions below, on a show of hands every member who is present at a general meeting has one vote on each resolution and, on a poll, 
every member who is present has one vote on each resolution for every share of which he/she is the registered member. 
A resolution put to the vote of a general meeting is decided on a show of hands, unless before or on the declaration of the result of the show of hands, 
a poll is demanded by the Chairman of the meeting, or by at least two members present in person (or by proxy) and having the right to vote, or by any 
member or members present in person (or by proxy) having at least one tenth of the total voting rights of all members, or by any members present in 
person (or by proxy) holding shares on which an aggregate sum has been paid up of at least one tenth of the total sum paid up on all shares conferring 
that right. Under the terms of the AVEVA Group Employee Benefit Trust 2008, the trustees will abstain from voting shares in the Company held by the Trust.
A member may vote personally or by proxy at a general meeting. Any form of proxy sent by the Company to members in relation to any general meeting 
must be delivered to the Company not less than 48 hours before the time appointed for holding the meeting or adjourned meeting at which the person 
named in the appointment proposes to vote. A corporation which is a member of the Company may authorise such persons as it thinks fit to act as its 
representatives at any general meeting of the Company.
In the case of joint holders, the vote of the senior who tenders the vote, whether in person or by proxy, shall be accepted to the exclusion of the votes 
of the other joint holders. For this purpose seniority shall be determined by the order in which the names stand in the register of members. No member 
shall be entitled to attend or vote, either personally or by proxy, at a general meeting in respect of any share if any call or other sum presently payable 
by him to the Company in respect of such share remains unpaid.
The Board may direct that a member shall not be entitled to attend or vote, either personally or by proxy, at a general meeting in respect of some 
or all of the shares held by him/her (the Default Shares) if he/she or any person with an interest in shares has been sent a notice under Section 793 
of the Companies Act 2006 (which confers upon public companies the power to require information with respect to interests in their voting shares) 
(a Section 793 Notice) and he/she or any interested person fails to supply the Company with the information requested within 14 days after delivery 
of that notice. These restrictions end seven days after receipt by the Company of all the information required by the relevant Section 793 Notice. 
The Board may refuse to register a transfer unless:
•  it is in respect of a share which is fully paid up;
•  it is in respect of only one class of share;
•  it is in favour of a single transferee or not more than four joint transferees;
•  it is duly stamped (if so required); and
•  it is delivered for registration to the office or such other place as the Board may from time to time determine, accompanied (except in the case of a 
transfer by a recognised person where a certificate has not been issued or in the case of a renunciation) by the certificate for the shares to which it 
relates and such other evidence as the Board may reasonably require to prove the title of the transferor or person renouncing and the due execution 
of the transfer or renunciation by him/her or, if the transfer or renunciation is executed by some other person on his/her behalf, the authority of 
that person to do so; provided that the Board shall not refuse to register any transfer or renunciation of partly paid shares which are listed on the 
London Stock Exchange on the grounds that they are partly paid shares in circumstances where such refusal would prevent dealings in such shares 
from taking place on an open and proper basis.
Other statutOry infOrmatiOn continued financial statements
27 AVEVA Group plc Directors’ report Annual report 2009
overview corporate governance business review 
Takeover Directive Disclosures continued
Share capital continued
The Board may decide to suspend the registration of transfers, for up to 30 days a year, by closing the register of members. The Board cannot suspend 
the registration of transfers of any uncertificated shares without gaining consent from CREST. 
There are no restrictions on transfer of the ordinary shares in the Company other than: certain restrictions which may from time to time be imposed 
by laws and regulations (for example, insider trading laws); and pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority whereby certain 
employees of the Company require the approval of the Company to deal in the ordinary shares. 
There are no agreements between holders of securities that are known to the Company which may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities 
or on voting rights.
Other substantial shareholdings
On 26 May 2009, the Company had been notified, in accordance with Disclosure and Transparency Rule 5, of the following interests in the ordinary 
share capital of the Company:
          Percentage 
          held 
Name of holder        Number %
BlackRock MLIM         7 ,796,045  11.50
Capital Group         5,209,384  7.68
Barclays Global Investors         2,905,692  4.28
Legal & General Investment Management         2,760,479  4.07
Articles of Association
The Articles of Association of the Company may be amended by special resolution. There are no conditions contained in the Memorandum in relation 
to the alteration of the Articles of Association of the Company.
Appointment of Directors
The Company’s Articles of Association provide that at each Annual General Meeting of the Company one third of the Directors (or if their number is not 
three or a multiple of three, the number nearest to but not exceeding one third) shall retire from office. Those Directors who are required to retire at 
each Annual General Meeting shall be, first, any Director who wishes to retire (and not offer himself for reappointment) and second, those Directors 
who have been longest in office since their last appointment or reappointment. Any Director who retires at an Annual General Meeting may, if willing 
to act, be reappointed. 
Additionally, new Directors may be appointed by the Board but are subject to election by members at the first opportunity after their appointment. 
The Articles of Association limit the number of Directors to not less than two and not more than ten save where members decide otherwise. 
Members may remove any Director (subject to the giving of special notice) and, if desired, replace such removed Director by ordinary resolution. 
Change of control
All of the Company’s share‑based plans contain provisions relating to change of control. Outstanding awards and options normally vest and become 
exercisable on a change of control, subject to the satisfaction of any performance conditions at that time.
There are no significant agreements to which the Company is a party that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company 
following a takeover bid.
There are no agreements between the Company and its Directors or employees providing for compensation for loss of office or employment that occurs 
because of a takeover bid.
Charitable and political donations
During the year the Group made charitable donations totalling £49,145 (2008 – £45,997) of which £15,000 was paid to the Outward Bound Trust, 
£10,000 to MacMillan Cancer Support and £10,000 to The Prince’s Trust. The remainder was donated to local and national charities. 
During the year the Group did not make any political donations (2008 – £nil).
Authority to repurchase ordinary shares
Resolution 9 set out in the notice convening the Annual General Meeting gives authority to the Company to purchase its own ordinary shares up to a 
maximum of 6,781,886 ordinary shares until the earlier of 8 October 2010 and the date of the next Annual General Meeting. This represents 10% of the 
ordinary shares in issue at 26 May 2009 and the Company’s exercise of this authority is subject to the stated upper and lower limits on the price payable 
which reflects the requirements of the UK Listing Authority. Shares will only be repurchased if earnings per share are expected to be enhanced as a 
result and the Directors believe it is in the best interests of shareholders generally. To the extent that any shares so purchased are held in treasury, 
earnings per share will be enhanced until such time, if any, as such shares are resold or transferred out of treasury.
The Company has the choice of cancelling shares which have been repurchased or holding them as treasury shares (or a combination of both). 
Treasury shares are essentially shares which have been repurchased by the Company and which it is allowed to hold pending either reselling them 
for cash, cancelling them or, if authorised, using them for the purposes of its employee share plans.
The Directors believe that it is desirable for the Company to have this choice. Holding the repurchased shares as treasury shares would give the Company 
the ability to reissue them quickly and cost effectively and would provide the Company with additional flexibility in the management of its capital base. 
No dividends will be paid on, and no voting rights will be exercised, in respect of treasury shares.
As at 26 May 2009 (being the latest practicable date prior to the publication of the notice of the Annual General Meeting), there were 263,399 outstanding 
options granted under all share option plans operated by the Company which, if exercised, would represent 0.39% of the issued ordinary share capital 
of the Company. If this authority were exercised in full and the shares repurchased were to be cancelled, such options, if exercised, would represent 
0.43% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company. 28 AVEVA Group plc Directors’ report Annual report 2009
Other statutOry infOrmatiOn continued
Authorities to allot shares and disapply pre‑emption rights
Resolution 10
This resolution is to increase the authorised share capital of the Company by approximately 33.3%, so that should the Directors decide to take 
advantage of the increased authorities to allot under resolutions 11 and/or 12, they will be in a position to do so.
Resolution 11
The Directors may allot relevant securities only if authorised to do so by shareholders. The authority granted at the last Annual General Meeting is 
due to expire at this year’s Annual General Meeting. Accordingly, resolution 11 will be proposed as an ordinary resolution to grant new authorities to allot 
(a) relevant securities up to an aggregate nominal amount of £753,542.97 and (b) equity securities up to an aggregate nominal amount (when added 
to allotments under part (a) of the resolution) of £1,507 ,085.94 where the allotment is in connection with a rights issue.
These amounts represent approximately 33.3% and approximately 66.7% respectively of the total issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at 
26 May 2009. If given, these authorities will expire at the Annual General Meeting in 2010 or on 8 October 2010, whichever is the earlier. Where usage 
of these authorities exceeds the thresholds suggested by the Association of British Insurers (the ABI) in their December 2008 guidance, the Directors will 
stand for re‑election at the following Annual General Meeting to the extent required by the ABI.
The Directors have no present intention of issuing shares pursuant to this authority. 
As at 26 May 2009 the Company holds no treasury shares.
Resolution 12
The Directors also require additional authority from shareholders to allot equity securities or sell treasury shares for cash otherwise than to existing 
shareholders pro rata to their holdings. The authority granted at the last Annual General Meeting is due to expire at this year’s Annual General Meeting. 
Accordingly, resolution 12 will be proposed as a special resolution to grant such authority. Apart from offers or invitations in proportion to the respective 
number of shares held, the power will be limited to the allotment of equity securities and sales of treasury shares for cash up to an aggregate nominal 
value of £113,031.44 (being 5% of the Company’s issued ordinary share capital at 26 May 2009). If given, this authority will expire on 8 October 2010 
or at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting in 2010, whichever is the earlier. The Directors will have due regard to institutional guidelines in 
relation to any exercise of this authority, in particular the requirement for advance consultation and explanation before making any non pre‑emptive 
cash issue pursuant to this resolution which exceeds 7.5% of the Company’s issued share capital in any rolling three year period. 
Notice required for shareholder meetings
The Shareholders Rights Directive is intended to be implemented in the UK in August 2009. The regulation implementing this Directive will increase 
the notice period for general meetings of the Company to 21 days. The Company is currently able to call general meetings (other than an AGM) on 
14 clear days’ notice and would like to preserve this ability. In order to be able to do so after August 2009, shareholders must have approved the 
calling of meetings on 14 days’ notice. Resolution 13 seeks such approval. The approval will be effective until the Company’s next Annual General 
Meeting, when it is intended that a similar resolution will be proposed. The Company will also need to meet the requirements for electronic voting 
under this Directive before it can call a general meeting on 14 days’ notice.
Other resolutions at the Annual General Meeting
Details of the other resolutions to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting are set out in the enclosed notice.
Employee benefit trust
The AVEVA Group Employee Benefit Trust 2008 was established in 2008 to facilitate satisfying the transfer of shares to employees within the Group 
on exercise of vested options under the various share option and deferred bonus share plans of the Company. On 15 July 2008, the Trust acquired 
in the open market an aggregate of 36,448 ordinary shares in AVEVA Group plc at a price of £13.48 for total consideration of £495,000. The Trust 
holds a total of 36,448 ordinary shares in AVEVA Group plc representing 0.05% of the issued share capital at the date of this report. Under the terms 
of the Trust deed governing the Trust, the trustees of the Trust are required (unless the Company directs otherwise) to waive all dividends in respect 
of ordinary shares in AVEVA Group plc held by the Trust except where beneficial ownership of any such ordinary shares was passed to a beneficiary 
of the Trust. In the same way as other employees, the Executive Directors of the Company are potential beneficiaries under the Trust.
Disabled employees
The Group gives full consideration to applications for employment from disabled persons where the candidate’s particular aptitudes and abilities are 
consistent with adequately meeting the requirements of the job. Opportunities are available to disabled employees for training, career development 
and promotion.
Where existing employees become disabled, it is the Group’s policy to provide continuing employment wherever practicable in the same or an 
alternative position and to provide appropriate training to achieve this aim as well as reasonable adjustments to the workplace and other 
support mechanisms.
Employee involvement
The Group places considerable value on the involvement of its employees and has continued to keep them informed of matters affecting them as 
employees and on the various factors affecting the performance of the Group. This is achieved through formal and informal meetings, the Group 
intranet and presentations from senior management. There is an employee representative committee which meets on a regular basis to discuss a wide 
range of matters affecting their current and future interests. All employees are entitled to receive an annual discretionary award related to the overall 
profitability of the Group subject to the performance of the individual and the Group. The Group conducts employee wide surveys from time to time to 
gauge the success or otherwise of its policies and uses this information to improve matters as appropriate. financial statements
29 AVEVA Group plc Directors’ report Annual report 2009
overview corporate governance business review 
Directors’ qualifying third party indemnity provisions
The Company has granted an indemnity to its Directors against liability in respect of proceedings brought by third parties, subject to the conditions 
set out in the Companies Act. Such qualifying third party indemnity provision remains in force as at the date of approving the Directors’ report.
Auditors
A resolution to reappoint Ernst & Young LLP as auditors for the ensuing year will be put to the members at the Annual General Meeting.
Responsibility statement pursuant to FSA’s Disclosure and Transparency Rule 4 (DTR 4)
Each Director of the Company (whose names and functions appear on page 25) confirms that (solely for the purpose of DTR 4) to the best of his knowledge:
•  the financial statements in this document, prepared in accordance with the applicable UK law and accounting standards, give a true and fair view 
of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Company and of the Group taken as a whole; and
•  the Chairman’s statement, Chief Executive’s review and Finance Director’s review include a fair review of the development and performance 
of the business and the position of the Company and Group taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties 
that they face.
Directors’ statement as to disclosure of information to auditors
The Directors who were members of the Board at the time of approving the Directors’ report are listed on page 25. Having made enquiries of fellow 
Directors and of the Company’s auditors, each of these Directors confirms that:
•  so far as he is aware, there is no relevant audit information (as defined by section 234 ZA of the Companies Act 1985) of which the Company’s 
auditors are unaware; and
•  he has taken all the steps he ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself aware of any such relevant audit information and 
to establish that the Company’s auditors are aware of that information.
By order of the Board
Paul Taylor High Cross
Company Secretary Madingley Road
26 May 2009 Cambridge CB3 0HB
  30 AVEVA Group plc Directors’ report Annual report 2009
COrpOrate GOvernanCe statement
Statement of compliance with the code of best practice
The Company is committed to the principles of Corporate Governance contained in the Combined Code on Corporate Governance which is appended 
to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority (the Combined Code) and for which the Board is accountable to shareholders. The Company 
has complied with the provisions of Section 1 of the Combined Code throughout the year except for the following matters:
•  A.4.1, A.4.2 and A.4.6 – A Nominations Committee was established in April 2009 and therefore was not in place during the course of the year. 
The full Board carried out all activities of a Nominations Committee until the Committee was formed; and
•  A.7.2 – One Non‑Executive Director who served during the year does not have a contract of employment for a specific term due to his appointment 
being prior to the issue of the 2003 Combined Code.
The Company has applied these Principles of Good Governance set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code, including both the main principles and 
supporting principles, by complying with the Combined Code as noted above.
Further explanation of how the principles have been applied is set out below and, in connection with Directors’ remuneration, in the Directors’ 
remuneration report on page 33.
Composition and operation of the Board
The Board currently comprises the Chairman, three Non‑Executive Directors (including the Senior Independent Director) and two Executive Directors 
(being the Chief Executive and Finance Director). The AVEVA Group Board meets regularly in combination with the Board of AVEVA Solutions Ltd, which 
owns all the Group’s operating subsidiaries and includes as members the Head of Product Development and the Head of Group Operations as well as all 
the members of the Group Board. This ensures that the Group Board is well informed on technical and market factors driving the Group’s performance 
as well as on financial outcomes. The roles of the Chairman and the Chief Executive are distinct and the division of responsibility between these roles 
has been clearly established, set out in writing and agreed by the Board. The Chairman is responsible for the effectiveness of the Board and ensuring 
that it meets its obligations and responsibilities. The Chief Executive is responsible for providing overall leadership, providing management to the 
Group and for the execution of the Group’s strategic and operating plans. Brief biographical details of all Board members are set out on pages 22 and 23. 
The membership of all Board Committees is set out below: 
        Board Audit Remuneration Nomination
Nick Prest Chairman      Chairman — Member Chairman
David Mann Senior Independent Non‑Executive Director    Member Member Chairman —
Jonathan Brooks Independent Non‑Executive Director     Member Chairman Member Member
Philip Dayer Independent Non‑Executive Director     Member Member Member Member
Richard Longdon Chief Executive      Member — — —
Paul Taylor Finance Director      Member — — —
The Board has considered the independence of the Chairman and the Non‑Executive Directors and believes that all are currently independent 
of management and free from any material business or other relationships that could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent 
judgement. Their biographies on pages 22 and 23 demonstrate a range of experience and sufficient calibre to bring independent judgement on issues 
of strategy, performance, resources and standards of conducts which is vital to the Group. David Mann is the Senior Independent Director and he will 
have served ten years as a Non‑Executive Director in June 2009. Notwithstanding this, the Board believes that he remains independent and continues 
to be effective in his role and demonstrates commitment to the role. David Mann has never had any business relationship with the Group, has never 
been an employee and has never participated in any share option plan or been a member of the Group’s pension schemes.
The Board is responsible to shareholders for the proper management of the Group. There is a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for the 
Board’s decision that covers key areas of the Group’s affairs, which includes overall responsibility for the strategy of the Group, Corporate Governance, 
review of trading performance and forecasts, risk management, Board membership, communications with shareholders, the approval of major transactions, 
including mergers and acquisitions and the approval of the financial statements and annual operating and capital expenditure budgets. The Board 
met ten times during the year and the Board also conducted a strategy meeting, receiving presentations from senior management. The Board 
delegates the day to day responsibility for managing the Group to the Executive Directors. To enable the Board to discharge its duties, all Directors 
receive appropriate and timely information. Briefing papers are distributed by the Company Secretary to all Directors in advance of Board meetings 
and all members of the Audit Committee and Remuneration Committee respectively prior to meetings of such Committees.
The attendance of individual Directors at Board meetings and Committee meetings during the year is set out in the table below:
         Audit  Remuneration  
        Board  Committee  Committee  
        meetings  meetings meetings 
        attended attended attended
Number of meetings held       10 2 2
Nick Prest       10 — 2
David Mann       10 2 2
Jonathan Brooks       10 2 2
Philip Dayer       10 2 2
Richard Longdon       10 — —
Paul Taylor       10 — —
Non‑Executive Directors are encouraged annually to undertake training in furtherance of their specific roles and general duties as a Non‑Executive Director. financial statements corporate governance business review 
31 AVEVA Group plc Directors’ report Annual report 2009
overview
Composition and operation of the Board continued
Meetings were held between the Chairman and the Non‑Executive Directors during the year, without the Executives being present, to discuss 
appropriate matters as necessary. 
The Combined Code requires that the Board undertakes a formal annual evaluation of its own performance and that of its Committees and individual 
Directors. The Chairman conducted a review of both the structure and skills of the Board generally and the individuals involved. This included discussions 
with fellow Board members and covered Board structure, effectiveness of the Board and its Committees, information and communication. The Chairman’s 
conclusions, which were accepted by the Board, were that the Board and its Committees are operating effectively. The Chairman’s performance was 
assessed by the Senior Independent Director, having consulted with the other Non‑Executive Directors. A formal evaluation of the performance of 
the Executive Directors, Richard Longdon and Paul Taylor, was also carried out by the Remuneration Committee as part of the process for determining 
their remuneration for the year. 
In accordance with the Company’s Articles of Association, Directors are granted an indemnity from the Company to the extent permitted by law in 
respect of liabilities incurred as a result of the performance of their duties in their capacity as Directors to the Company. The indemnity would not 
provide any coverage to the extent the Director is proven to have acted fraudulently or dishonestly. The Company has maintained Directors’ and 
officers’ liability insurance cover throughout the year.
The Chairman ensures that the Directors take independent professional advice where they judge it necessary to discharge their responsibilities as 
Directors at the Group’s expense in the appropriate circumstances. All members of the Board have access to the advice of the Company Secretary. 
In accordance with the Articles of Association, all Directors are required to retire and submit themselves for re‑election at least every three years 
by rotation, and also following their appointment. Given his length of service, David Mann is subject to annual re‑election under the Combined Code. 
Under the Articles of Association, Nick Prest and Paul Taylor are also subject to re‑election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Non‑Executive Directors are appointed for a term of three years with the exception of David Mann who does not have a specific term of appointment 
because he was appointed prior to the issue of the 2003 Combined Code. The terms and conditions of appointment of Non‑Executive Directors are 
available for inspection at the Company’s registered office during normal business hours and will be available for inspection on the day of the 
forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The Board has three Committees: Nominations, Audit and Remuneration. In accordance with the Combined Code, the duties of the Committees are set 
out in formal terms of reference. They are available on request from the Company’s registered office during normal business hours and are available 
on the Company’s website at www.aveva.com.
Nominations Committee
In April 2009, a Nominations Committee was formed which is chaired by Nick Prest and the other members are Jonathan Brooks and Philip Dayer. 
The Chief Executive is invited to attend meetings as appropriate to the business being considered. Until the Committee was formed the full Board 
carried out the activities of the Nominations Committee which included nomination, selection and appointment of Non‑Executive and Executive Directors, 
succession planning and the composition of the Board, particularly in relation to the diversity of skills and experience. There were no changes to the 
Board during the year.
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee makes recommendations to the Board on the Group’s policy for Executive remuneration and determines the individual 
remuneration packages on behalf of the Board for the Executive Directors of the Group. The Chief Executive attends meetings by invitation, except 
when the Chief Executive’s own remuneration package is being discussed. 
The Committee has access to professional advice, both inside and outside the Company, in the furtherance of its duties. The Directors’ remuneration 
report sets out in more detail the Remuneration Committee’s policies and practices on Executive remuneration.
Audit Committee
The members of the Audit Committee are Jonathan Brooks, David Mann and Philip Dayer. The Chairman of the Committee during the year was 
Jonathan Brooks who is deemed by the Board to have recent and relevant financial experience. He is a Chartered Management Accountant and 
has held a number of senior financial positions in his career. The Committee invites the Finance Director and senior representatives from the auditors 
to attend meetings as appropriate to the business being considered. Subsequent to the year end, an Audit Committee meeting was held to approve the 
annual results which was attended by all members.
The Audit Committee met twice during the year to review the scope of the audit and the audit procedures, the format and content of the audited 
financial statements and interim reports, including the notes and the accounting principles applied. The Audit Committee also reviews all proposed 
announcements to be made by the Group to the extent that they contain financial information. The Audit Committee considers compliance with legal 
requirements, accounting standards and the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority and also reviews any proposed change in accounting 
policies and any recommendations from the Group’s auditors regarding improvements to internal controls and the adequacy of resources within the 
Group’s finance function. The Audit Committee advises the Board on the appointment of external auditors and on their remuneration both for audit 
and non‑audit work, and discusses the nature, scope and results of the audit with external auditors. The Audit Committee keeps under review the 
cost effectiveness and the independence and objectivity of the external auditors. Controls in place to ensure that the independence and objectivity 
of the auditors are not compromised include monitoring of the independence and effectiveness of the audit, implementing a policy on the engagement 
of the external auditors to supply non‑audit services, and a review of the scope of the audit and fee and performance of the external auditors. 
In addition, audit partners are rotated every five years and a formal statement of independence is received from the auditors each year. 
The Board and the Audit Committee are satisfied that the independence of the auditors has been maintained.
The Audit Committee monitors fees paid to the auditors for non‑audit work. During the year there was limited non‑audit work performed by the auditors 
and an analysis of non‑audit fees is provided in note 7 to the financial statements. The Group engages other independent firms of accountants to 
perform tax consulting work and other consulting engagements to ensure that the independence of the auditors is not compromised.  32 AVEVA Group plc Directors’ report Annual report 2009
COrpOrate GOvernanCe statement continued
Audit Committee continued
There is a formal whistle‑blowing policy which has been communicated to employees. This policy provides information on the process to follow 
in the event that any employee feels it is appropriate to make a disclosure. The Audit Committee is satisfied that the policy provides an adequate 
basis for employees to make representations in confidence to the Group and for appropriate and proportionate investigations.
The Board and the Audit Committee have considered the requirement to have an internal audit function and given the Group’s relative size, does not 
consider one necessary at this point but will continue to monitor this annually.
Dialogue with institutional shareholders
Communication with shareholders is given high priority by the Board. The Chief Executive and the Finance Director have meetings with representatives 
of institutional shareholders and hold analyst briefings at least twice a year, following the announcement of the interim and full year results, but also 
at other times during the year as necessary. The Chairman also met with certain shareholders during the year to discuss strategy and performance of 
the business. The Senior Independent Non‑Executive Director, David Mann, is available to shareholders if they have concerns which contact through 
the normal channels of Chairman, Chief Executive or Finance Director has failed to resolve or if such contact would be inappropriate. These meetings 
seek to build a mutual understanding of objectives with major shareholders by discussing long term strategy and obtaining feedback. The Board 
also receives formal feedback from analysts and institutional shareholders through the Company’s public relations adviser and financial adviser. 
The Board is also appraised of discussions with major shareholders to ensure that Executive and Non‑Executive Directors consider any matter 
raised by shareholders and to enable all Directors to understand shareholder views. The Chairman, Senior Independent and Non‑Executive Directors 
are available for dialogue with shareholders at any time and attend (together with the other members of the Board) the Annual General Meeting, 
but are not routinely involved in investor relations or shareholder communications. Corporate information is also available on the Company’s 
website, www.aveva.com.
Constructive use of the Annual General Meeting
The Board seeks to use the Annual General Meeting to communicate with investors and all shareholders are encouraged to participate. The Chairmen 
of the Audit, Nomination and the Remuneration Committees will be available at the Annual General Meeting to answer any questions.
Internal control and risk management
The Board has overall responsibility for the Group’s system of internal control and for monitoring its effectiveness. However, such a system is designed 
to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure and by its very nature can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material 
misstatement or loss.
The Board has established a continuous process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks the Group faces. The Board regularly 
reviews the effectiveness of the Group’s internal controls, which have been in place from the start of the year to the date of approval of this report 
and believes that it is in accordance with the Turnbull Guidance. The key elements of the systems of internal controls currently include: 
•  an Executive Board comprising the Executive Directors, Head of Group Operations, Head of Product Development and Head of Human Resources. 
Each member has responsibility for specific aspects of the Group’s operations. They meet on a regular basis and are responsible for the operational 
strategy, reviewing operating results, identification and mitigation of risks and communication and application of the Group’s policies and procedures. 
Where appropriate, matters are reported to the Board;
•  regular reports to the Board from the Executive Directors, Head of Group Operations, Head of Product Development, Head of Human Resources 
and Regional Sales Managers on key developments, financial performance and operational issues in the business;
•  operational and financial controls and procedures which include authorisation limits for expenditure, sales contracts and capital expenditure, 
signing authorities, organisation structure, Group policies, segregation of duties and reviews by management; 
•  an annual budget process which is reviewed and approved by the Board; 
•  regular meetings between the Executive Board, Regional Sales managers and Product Development managers to discuss actual performance 
against forecast, budget and prior years. The operating results are reported on a monthly basis to the Board and compared to the budget 
and the latest forecast as appropriate; and
• maintenance of insurance cover to insure all major risk areas of the Group based on the scale of the risk and availability of the cover in the external market.
The Board’s monitoring covers all material controls, including financial, non‑financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management. 
It is based principally on reviewing reports from management to consider whether significant risks are identified, evaluated, managed and controlled 
and whether any significant weaknesses are promptly remedied and indicate a need for more extensive monitoring. The Board has also performed 
a specific assessment for the purpose of this Annual report. This assessment considered all significant aspects of internal control arising during 
the period covered by the report. The Audit Committee assists the Board in discharging its review responsibilities.  financial statements corporate governance business review 
33 AVEVA Group plc Directors’ report Annual report 2009
overview
DireCtOrs’ remuneratiOn repOrt
This report has been prepared in accordance with Schedule 7A of the Companies Act 1985 and the relevant requirements of the Listing Rules of the 
Financial Services Authority (together the Regulations). The report also describes how the Board has applied the Principles of Good Governance 
relating to Directors’ remuneration. As required by the Regulations, a resolution to approve the report will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting 
of the Company at which the financial statements of the Company will be approved.
The Regulations require the auditors to report to the Company members on the ‘auditable part’ of the Directors’ remuneration report and to state whether, 
in their opinion, that part of the report has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 (as amended). The report has therefore 
been divided into separate sections for audited and unaudited information.
UNAUDITED INFORMATION
Remuneration Committee 
The Remuneration Committee’s principal responsibility is to determine the remuneration of both the Company’s Executive Directors and its senior 
management within broad policies agreed with the Board. In addition, it reviews the remuneration policy for the Company as a whole. The remuneration 
of the Non‑Executive Directors is determined by the Executive Directors and the Chairman, not the Committee.
The conclusions and recommendations of the Remuneration Committee were finalised in two formal meetings during the year, but these were preceded 
by several informal discussions, including some with advisers (none of whom had any other connection with the Company). The members of the Committee 
were David Mann (Chairman), Nick Prest, Jonathan Brooks and Philip Dayer. 
The Chief Executive (Richard Longdon) is invited to submit recommendations to the Remuneration Committee and both he and the members of the 
Committee take into consideration relevant external market data as well as the reviews of remuneration for employees of the Group generally.
Remuneration policy 
The Remuneration Committee aims to ensure that members of the Executive management are provided with appropriate incentives to encourage enhanced 
performance and are, in a fair and responsible manner, rewarded for their individual contributions to the success of the Group. It also aims for a combination 
of fixed and variable payments, benefits and share‑based awards that will achieve a balance in incentives to achieve short and long term goals. 
The Remuneration Committee has access to detailed external research from independent consultants and during the year engaged Hewitt New Bridge Street 
to review the remuneration of the Executive Directors and senior management and to benchmark their remuneration against comparable companies’ 
remuneration. Hewitt New Bridge Street do not provide other services to the Group. 
In 2008 the Board introduced the AVEVA Group Management Bonus Deferred Share Scheme 2008 (the Deferred Share Scheme) for Executive Directors 
and selected employees incorporating a deferred bonus component. Subject to the achievement of performance conditions relating to a single financial 
year, these incentive arrangements are intended to reward the recipient partly in cash, payable on announcement of interim and/or final results, 
and partly in ordinary shares in the Company to be delivered on a deferred basis under the Deferred Share Scheme. 
Under these incentive arrangements, depending on the extent to which performance conditions are achieved, an overall bonus amount is determined. 
Part of this overall bonus amount is payable in cash; an amount equal to the balance (which may be up to 50%) is used to calculate the number of 
ordinary shares which the bonus recipient is eligible to receive on a deferred basis. This is calculated by identifying the number of ordinary shares 
which could be purchased with the balance at the mid‑market closing price of an ordinary share on the dealing day immediately preceding the 
preliminary announcement of the Company’s results for the relevant financial year.
An Employee Benefit Trust (EBT) was established on 10 July 2008 following shareholder approval at the Annual General Meeting. Awards of deferred 
shares are made by the trustee of EBT using shares purchased in the market. The awards, which take the form of nil‑cost options, will normally deliver 
the deferred shares to participants in three equal tranches, one in each of the three years following the year in which an award is made by the EBT. 
These awards are made solely in respect of performance in the financial year immediately prior to their grant. Delivery of the deferred shares is not 
subject to further performance conditions provided that the participant remains an employee or Director of the Group. If the participant ceases to be 
an employee or Director, entitlement to all outstanding tranches would fall away unless the cessation occurs by reason of his or her death. Following 
the death of a bonus participant, or on a takeover, reconstruction or amalgamation, or voluntary winding up of the Company, the period for which the 
participant must remain an employee or Director would be reduced below the normal three years and entitlement to delivery of the shares would be 
accelerated. There are no arrangements for the delivery of additional matching shares to a participant in any circumstances.
The Board believes that these incentive arrangements more closely align the interests of Executive Directors and employees with shareholders’ interests.
The individual components of the remuneration packages offered are:
Basic salaries/fees
It is the policy of the Committee to pay base salaries to the Executive Directors taking account of the nature and scale of the business of the Group, 
the performance of the individual in achieving financial and non‑financial goals within his areas of responsibility and comparable market data.
In 2008/09 both Executive Directors received basic salary increases of 5% based on advice received on their overall remuneration package from 
Hewitt New Bridge Street and in consideration of other pay awards made across the Group.
Fees for the Chairman and the Non‑Executive Directors are determined taking account of the individual’s responsibilities, time devoted to the role 
and comparable market rates.
Benefits
Executive Directors are provided with a Company car or a mobility allowance and a fuel allowance. Non‑Executive Directors do not receive any benefits. 34 AVEVA Group plc Directors’ report Annual report 2009
DireCtOrs’ remuneratiOn repOrt continued
UNAUDITED INFORMATION continued
Bonus payments
The Executive Directors participate in annual performance‑related bonus arrangements determined by the Committee. The arrangements are based 
substantially or entirely on the performance of the Group as a whole geared towards exceeding internal and external expectations of normalised profit 
before tax with 10% based on achievement for the six months to 30 September and 90% on the full year results. 
For the annual performance bonus arrangements for 2008/09, the targets were set after considering the Group’s budgeted normalised profit before 
tax and market expectations. The budget was agreed based upon objectives which were considered to be appropriate and stretching against the background 
of a profit before tax of £45 million achieved in the prior year and market conditions prevailing at that time. For 2008/09, the maximum bonus amount 
which an Executive Director could earn was 100% of basic salary. Performance targets were achieved in full resulting in a cash bonus equal to 
60% (2008 – 58%) of basic salary with the remaining 40% (2008 – 42%) of the bonus amount being used to calculate the number of deferred 
shares for which each Executive Director was eligible.
Pensions
During the year, the two Executive Directors (Richard Longdon and Paul Taylor) were members of AVEVA Solutions Limited’s defined benefit pension 
scheme. It is a contributory, funded, occupational pension scheme registered with HM Revenue and Customs (HMRC) and, since 1 October 2004, 
Career Average Revalued Earnings benefits apply. Under this scheme they are entitled to a pension on normal retirement, or on retirement due to 
ill health, equivalent to two‑thirds of their pensionable salary provided they have completed (or would have completed in the case of ill health) 
25 years’ service. A pension earnings cap (in line with historic HMRC’s earning cap) applies to Paul Taylor when calculating pensionable salary. 
Similarly, a scheme‑specific earnings limit applies to the benefits earned by Richard Longdon. A lower pension is payable on earlier retirement after the 
age of 50 by agreement with the Company and subject to HMRC guidelines. Pensions are payable to dependants on the Director’s death in retirement 
and a lump sum is payable if death occurs in service. No other Directors were members of a pension scheme during the year (2008 – nil).
Share awards
The Remuneration Committee considers that periodic grants of share‑related incentives should constitute an important element of the remuneration 
of the Company’s senior Executives, in line with common practice in comparator companies. The Company’s share schemes have therefore been used 
to provide long term incentives to assist in creating and sustaining growth in share value. There are three schemes in existence, the AVEVA Group plc 
Executive Share Option Scheme (the ability to grant shares under this scheme has now expired), the AVEVA Group plc Long Term Incentive Plan and the 
AVEVA Group plc Executive Share Option Scheme 2007. No awards have been made under the AVEVA Group plc Executive Share Option Scheme 2007 and 
the performance conditions that would apply to them remain to be determined. The number of shares which may be allocated on exercise of any options 
granted under any of the Company’s share option schemes (including employee schemes) shall not, when aggregated with the number of shares which 
have been allocated in the previous ten years under these schemes, exceed 10% of the ordinary share capital of the Company in issue immediately 
prior to that date. The share schemes are used to provide incentives to Senior Managers as well as Executive Directors. As recipients of these awards, 
Executive Directors and Executive Board members are required to hold or use the schemes to build share ownership with a value of at least 100% of 
their then current salary. Details of the awards made under these schemes are as follows: 
2004/05 awards
In 2004 the Remuneration Committee commissioned a study by Deloitte LLP to review the Company’s share option schemes and to make recommendations 
on their development. The Board accepted those recommendations and, following consultation with shareholders, the Company established the 
AVEVA Group plc Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) which was approved at the Extraordinary General Meeting held in 2004. Under the LTIP, options 
are granted to selected individuals to acquire ordinary shares at an exercise price equal to the nominal value of the shares; these options will 
be exercisable only if stringent performance criteria are met.
In 2004/05, a total of 63,000 options were awarded to Executive Directors under the LTIP . The condition of exercise for these awards was based on the ranking 
of the Company in terms of its total shareholder return measured against the techMARK 100 Index. The options ‘vested’ in accordance with the following scale:
Total shareholder return ranking     Percentage vesting of shares subject to option
75% and above     100%
Median to 75%     Pro rata on a straight‑line basis
Median     33%
Below median     Nil
The performance conditions were measured in accordance with the terms of the grant and all awards vested in full.
2005/06 awards
In 2005/06, a total of 162,816 options were awarded to Executive Directors under the AVEVA Group plc Executive Share Option Scheme. This Scheme was 
established in 1996 at the time of the Company’s listing on the Official List of the London Stock Exchange and at the Extraordinary General Meeting in 2004 
the shareholders approved the extension of its dilution limits so that further awards could be made under the scheme. The Remuneration Committee felt 
that such awards made as market value options were better suited than those under the LTIP to the Company’s circumstances in 2005/06. The performance 
conditions required to be achieved for the exercise of the option was that Earnings per Share (EPS) in the financial year ending 31 March 2008 would have 
grown to no less than 5% above the Retail Price Index per annum from that achieved in the financial year ended 31 March 2005. The performance condition 
was judged to be appropriately stretching because of the investment planned in the VNET programme during the period.
The performance conditions were measured in accordance with the terms of the grant and all awards vested in full.
2006/07 awards
In 2006/07 a total of 42,588 share options were awarded to the Executive Directors under the LTIP. The Committee decided to revert to this scheme, 
with performance conditions based on growth in EPS, but in this case the average growth in EPS achieved over the three years from 2006/07 to 2008/09. 
If average EPS growth is greater than 15% per annum then all of the shares shall vest. If average EPS growth is less than 7.5% per annum none of the 
shares shall vest. If average EPS growth is between 7.5% and 15% then the number of shares that shall vest will be determined by linear interpolation. 
The Remuneration Committee considered that these were challenging performance conditions in the context of the Company’s budget and market 
expectations at the time of the awards. 
The performance conditions were measured in accordance with the terms of the grant and all awards vested in full. financial statements corporate governance business review 
35 AVEVA Group plc Directors’ report Annual report 2009
overview
UNAUDITED INFORMATION continued
Share awards continued
2007/08 awards
In 2007/08, a total of 18,234 share options were awarded to the Executive Directors under the LTIP. The performance conditions are based on average 
growth in earnings per share over the years from 2007/08 to 2009/10. If average EPS growth is greater than 11.5% per annum then all of the shares 
shall vest. If average earnings per share is less than 9% per annum then none of the shares shall vest. If average earnings per share growth is between 
9% and 11.5% per annum then the number of shares that shall vest shall be determined by linear interpolation. The Remuneration Committee considered 
that these were challenging performance conditions in the context of Company’s budget and external expectations at the time of the awards.
2008/09 awards
In 2008/09, a total of 17 ,929 share options were awarded to the Executive Directors under the LTIP. The performance conditions are based on average 
growth in earnings per share over the years from 2008/09 to 2010/11. If average EPS growth is greater than 14% per annum then all of the shares shall 
vest. If average earnings per share is less than 10% per annum then none of the shares shall vest. If average earnings per share growth is between 
10% and 14% per annum then the number of shares that shall vest shall be determined by linear interpolation. The Remuneration Committee 
considered that these were challenging performance conditions in the context of internal and external expectations at the time of the awards.
Deferred annual bonus share plan
As described above, part of the annual bonus earned by Executive Directors in the year is used to determine eligibility for an award of deferred shares 
under the Deferred Share Scheme.
On 15 July 2008 the EBT awarded 12,262 and 7 ,923 deferred shares to Richard Longdon and Paul Taylor respectively in respect of the bonus arrangements 
for the year ended 31 March 2008. 
Following the achievement of the objectives for 2008/09, it is anticipated that 22,487 and 14,508 deferred shares will be awarded to Richard Longdon 
and Paul Taylor respectively in respect of the bonus arrangements for the year ended 31 March 2009. 
Total shareholder return performance graph
The Directors’ Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 require the presentation of a performance graph of total shareholder return compared with 
a broad equity market index for a period of five years. The following graph shows the Company’s performance, measured by total shareholder return, 
compared with the performance of the techMARK All‑Share Index. Total shareholder return is the share price plus dividends reinvested compared 
against the techMARK All‑Share Index, rebased to the start of the period. 
Total shareholder return v techMARK All‑Share Index 2004–2009
The Directors consider the techMARK All‑Share Index to be an appropriate choice as the Index includes AVEVA Group plc.
Service contracts
The service contracts and letters of appointment of the Directors include the following terms:
  Date of Date of Expiry/review Notice period 
  contract appointment date (months)
Nick Prest 10 January 2006 11 January 2006 11 January 2012 3
David Mann 17 May 2000 8 June 1999 Rolling 3
Jonathan Brooks 12 July 2007 12 July 2007 12 July 2010  3
Philip Dayer 27 December 2007 7 January 2008 7 January 2011 3
Richard Longdon 28 November 1996 28 November 1996 Rolling 12
Paul Taylor 17 October 1989 1 March 2001 Rolling 9
The Committee considers that the notice periods of the Executive Directors are in line with those in other companies of a similar size and nature 
and are in the best interests of the Group to ensure stability in senior management. 
There are no predetermined special provisions for Executive or Non‑Executive Directors with regard to compensation in the event of loss of office. 
The Remuneration Committee would be responsible for considering the circumstances of the early termination of an Executive Director’s contract 
and determining whether in exceptional circumstances there should be compensation payments in excess of the Company’s contractual obligations. 36 AVEVA Group plc Directors’ report Annual report 2009
DireCtOrs’ remuneratiOn repOrt continued
AUDITED INFORMATION
Directors’ remuneration
The total amounts for Directors’ emoluments and other benefits were as follows:
     Basic   *Cash  Benefits 2009  **2008  
     salary Fees bonus in kind Total Total 
     £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Nick Prest    —  85 —  —  85 75
David Mann    —  33 —  —  33 30
Jonathan Brooks    —  35 —  —  35 ***22
Philip Dayer    —  30 —  —  30 ****8
Richard Longdon    326 —  195 20 541 547
Paul Taylor    210 —  126 17 353 357
Aggregate emoluments    536 183 321 37 1,077 1,039
*  In addition to the cash bonus award noted above, it is anticipated that Richard Longdon and Paul Taylor will be awarded 22,487 and 14,508 deferred shares respectively (2008 ‑ 12,262 
and 7 ,923 deferred shares were awarded respectively) under the Deferred Share Scheme. The estimated monetary value of these awards was £130,000 (2008 ‑ £155,000) for Richard Longdon 
and £84,000 (2008 ‑ £100,000) for Paul Taylor.
**  Directors’ remuneration for 2008 has been restated to reflect only cash bonuses paid in respect of the period. Previously, the bonuses disclosed in 2008 included £155,000 for Richard Longdon 
and £100,000 for Paul Taylor that were subsequently agreed to be paid in awards of deferred shares.
***  From date of appointment (12 July 2007).
****  From date of appointment (7 January 2008).
Aggregate emoluments disclosed above do not include any amounts for the value of options to acquire ordinary shares in the Company granted 
to or held by the Directors.
Share options
The interests of Directors in options to acquire ordinary shares were as follows:
   As at     As at     
   1 April    31 March  Gain on Exercise Earliest  
   2008 Granted Exercised Lapsed 2009 exercise price date of Date of 
  Scheme Number Number Number Number Number £ Pence exercise expiry
Richard Longdon Executive 98,745 — (98,745) — —  1,286,318 265.33 20.07.08 20.07.12
  LTIP 25,548 — — — 25,548 — 3.33 28.06.09 28.06.13
  LTIP 11,083 — — — 11,083 — 3.33 02.07.10 02.07.14
  LTIP — 10,891  — — 10,891 — 3.33 07.07.11 07.07.15
  Deferred Share Scheme — 12,282 — — 12,282 — 0.00 26.05.09 Note
Paul Taylor Executive 64,071 — (64,071) — — 834,632 265.33 20.07.08 20.07.12
  LTIP 17 ,040 — — — 1 7,040  — 3.33 28.06.09 28.06.13
  LTIP 7 ,151 — — — 7, 1 5 1  — 3.33 02.07.10 02.07.14
  LTIP — 7 ,038 — — 7 ,038  — 3.33 07.07.11 07.07.15
  Deferred Share Scheme — 7 ,923 — — 7,923 — 0.00 26.05.09 Note
Note: The last date of the exercise is the end of the 42‑day period following the announcement of the financial results of the Group in the third calendar 
year following that in which the option was granted or (if applicable) such later date as the Remuneration Committee may specify.
The market price as at 31 March 2009 was £5.64 (31 March 2008 – £11.39) with a high–low spread for the year of £4.65 to £16.18. 
During the year Paul Taylor and Richard Longdon exercised options over 98,745 and 64,071 ordinary shares respectively at an exercise price of £2.65. 
The market price on the date of exercise was £15.68 which resulted in an aggregate gain on exercise of £1,286,318 for Richard Longdon and 
£834,632 for Paul Taylor. Mr Longdon retained 34,000 of the resultant shares and Mr Taylor sold all of the shares arising.
At 31 March 2009, Mr Longdon owned 350,000 ordinary shares (2008 – 316,000 ordinary shares) and options over 59,804 ordinary shares (2008 – 135,376 options). 
Mr Taylor owned 50,000 ordinary shares (2008 – 50,000 ordinary shares) and options over 39,152 ordinary shares (2008 – 88,262 options). 
Options under the LTIP are normally exercisable in full or in part between the third and tenth anniversaries of the date of grant; options under the 
previous Executive Share Option Scheme are normally exercisable in full or in part between the third and seventh anniversaries of the date of grant. 
Details of the performance conditions of share option awards are set out on pages 34 and 35.  financial statements corporate governance business review 
37 AVEVA Group plc Directors’ report Annual report 2009
overview
Pensions
The Directors had accrued entitlements under the pension scheme as follows:
         Increase in  
         accrued Transfer value 
         pension of increase, 
      Accumulated Accumulated  during the after removing 
      accrued accrued Increase in year, after  the effects 
      pension at pension at accrued removing the of inflation, 
      31 March 31 March pension effects of less Directors’  
      2009 2008 during year inflation contributions 
      £ £ £ £ £
Richard Longdon     135,536 125,351 10,185 5,296 63,959
Paul Taylor     49,269 44,514 4,755 3,019 22,781
The pension entitlement shown is that which would be paid annually, based on service to the end of the year.
The transfer value as at date of retirement of each Director’s accrued benefits at the end of the financial year is as follows:
          Movement, less 
        31 March 31 March Directors’ 
        2009 2008 contributions 
        £ £ £
Richard Longdon       1,720,009 1,407 ,892 296,640
Paul Taylor       470,242 393,234 68,188
The transfer values have been calculated on the basis of actuarial advice in accordance with Actuarial Guidance Note GN11. Members of the scheme 
have the option to pay Additional Voluntary Contributions. Neither the contributions nor the resulting benefits are included in the above table.
By order of the Board
Paul Taylor High Cross
Company Secretary Madingley Road
26 May 2009 Cambridge CB3 0HB 38 AVEVA Group plc Annual report 2009 Financial statements – Group
statement Of DireCtOrs’ respOnsibilities 
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities in relation to the Consolidated financial statements 
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual report and the Consolidated financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom 
law and those International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union. 
The Directors are required to prepare Consolidated financial statements for each financial year which present fairly the financial position of the Group 
and the financial performance and cash flows of the Group for that period. In preparing those Consolidated financial statements, the Directors are 
required to:
•  select suitable accounting policies in accordance with IAS 8 and then apply them consistently; 
•  present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information; 
•  provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRSs is insufficient to enable users to understand the impact 
of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entity’s financial position and financial performance; and
•  state that the Group has complied with IFRSs, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the 
Group and enable them to ensure that the Consolidated financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. 
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud 
and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Company’s website. 
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.  financial statements corporate governance business review 
39 AVEVA Group plc Annual report 2009
overview
Financial statements – Group
a uDitOr’s repOrt 
Independent auditor’s report to the members of AVEVA Group plc
We have audited the Group financial statements of AVEVA Group plc for the year ended 31 March 2009 which comprise the Consolidated income statement, 
the Consolidated statement of recognised income and expense, the Consolidated balance sheet, the Consolidated cash flow statement and the related 
notes 1 to 30. These Group financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have reported separately on the parent Company financial statements of AVEVA Group plc for the year ended 31 March 2009 and on the information 
in the Directors’ remuneration report that is described as having been audited. 
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985. Our audit work has been 
undertaken so that we might state to the Company’s members those matters we are required to state to them in an Auditor’s report and for no other 
purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Company’s 
members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors
The Directors’ responsibilities for preparing the Annual report and the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law 
and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union are set out in the Statement of Directors’ responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial statements in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International 
Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland).
We report to you our opinion as to whether the Group financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the Group financial statements have 
been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. We also report to you whether, in our opinion, 
the information given in the Directors’ report is consistent with the financial statements. The information given in the Director’s report includes that 
specific information presented in the Chairman’s statement, Chief Executive’s review and Finance Director’s review that is cross‑referenced from the 
Other statutory information report.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information 
specified by law regarding Directors’ remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance statement reflects the Company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 Combined Code 
specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not. We are not required to consider whether 
the Board’s statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Group’s Corporate Governance 
procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read other information contained in the Annual report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited Group financial statements. The other 
information comprises only the sections included in the Directors’ report headed Chairman’s statement, Chief Executive’s review, Finance Director’s review, 
Other statutory information, Corporate governance statement and Directors’ remuneration report. We consider the implications for our report if we 
become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Group financial statements. Our responsibilities do not extend 
to any other information.
Basis of audit opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) issued by the Auditing Practices Board. An audit 
includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the Group financial statements. It also includes an 
assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of the Group financial statements, and of whether 
the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed. 
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient 
evidence to give reasonable assurance that the Group financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity 
or error. In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the Group financial statements.
Opinion
In our opinion:
•  the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of the state of the Group’s 
affairs as at 31 March 2009 and of its profit for the year then ended; 
•  the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation; and
•  the information given in the Directors’ report is consistent with the Group financial statements.
Ernst & Young LLP
Registered auditor
Cambridge
26 May 2009  40 AVEVA Group plc Annual report 2009 Financial statements – Group
      2009 2008 
    Notes £000 £000
Revenue   5, 6 164,041 127 ,561
Cost of sales    (37 ,612) (29,793)
Gross profit    126,429 97 ,768
Operating expenses     
Selling and distribution costs     (53,248) (39,025)
Administrative expenses    (16,532) (15,582)
Total operating expenses    (69,780) (54,607)
Profit from operations   7 56,649 43,161
Finance revenue   8 4,846 3,785
Finance costs   9 (2,294) (1,979)
Analysis of profit before tax     
Profit before tax, share‑based payments, amortisation and goodwill adjustment    62,623 47 ,949
Share‑based payments    (940) (315)
Amortisation of intangibles (excluding other software)    (2,482) (2,276)
Adjustment to carrying value of goodwill in respect of utilisation of tax losses    —  (391)
Profit before tax    59,201 44,967
Income tax expense   11 (17 ,047) (10,721)
Profit for the year attributable to equity holders of the parent    42,154 34,246
Earnings per share (pence)      
– basic    13 62.27p 50.80p
– diluted   13 61.98p 50.38p
All activities relate to continuing activities.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of this Consolidated income statement. 
COnsOliDateD inCOme statement
For the year ended 31 March 2009 financial statements corporate governance business review 
41 AVEVA Group plc Annual report 2009
overview
Financial statements – Group
     2009 2008 
    Notes £000 £000
Exchange differences arising on translation of foreign operations    5,503 5,782
Actuarial (loss)/gain on defined benefit pension schemes   25 (7 ,523) 3,427
Tax on items recognised directly in equity   11(a) 1,460 (389)
Net (loss)/income recognised directly in equity    (560) 8,820
Profit for the year    42,154 34,246
Total recognised income and expense relating to the year attributable to equity holders of the parent   41,594 43,066
The accompanying notes are an integral part of this Consolidated statement of recognised income and expense. 
COnsOliDa teD st a tement Of reCOGniseD inCOme anD expense
For the year ended 31 March 2009 42 AVEVA Group plc Annual report 2009 Financial statements – Group
      2009 2008 
    Notes £000 £000
Non‑current assets     
Goodwill   14 17 ,055 16,689
Other intangible assets    15 10,750 10,806
Property, plant and equipment   16 8,096 5,403
Deferred tax assets   24 5,514 2,743
Other receivables   18 804 737
     42,219 36,378
Current assets     
Trade and other receivables   18 56,768 43,184
Current tax assets    746 751
Cash and cash equivalents   19 126,164 82,849
     183,678 126,784
Total assets    225,897 163,162
Equity     
Issued share capital   27 , 28 2,260 2,250
Share premium   28 2 7, 1 7 6 26,522
Other reserves   28 13,535 8,527
Retained earnings   28 100,160 68,447
Total equity    28 143,131 105,746
Current liabilities     
Trade and other payables   20 56,598 45,223
Financial liabilities   21 4,643 1,048
Current tax liabilities    1 1,172 7 ,488
     72,413 53,759
Non‑current liabilities     
Deferred tax liabilities   24 1,589 2,065
Retirement benefit obligations   25 8,764 1,592
     10,353 3,657
Total equity and liabilities    225,897 163,162
The accompanying notes are an integral part of this Consolidated balance sheet. 
The financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors and authorised for issue on 26 May 2009. They were signed on its behalf by:
Nick Prest  Richard Longdon
Chairman  Chief Executive
COnsOliDateD balanCe sheet
31 March 2009 financial statements corporate governance business review 
43 AVEVA Group plc Annual report 2009
overview
Financial statements – Group
     2009 2008 
    Notes £000 £000
Cash flows from operating activities     
Profit for the year    42,154 34,246
Income tax   11(a) 1 7,04 7 10,721
Net finance revenue   8, 9 (2,552) (1,806)
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment   16 1,550 1,243
Amortisation of intangible assets   15 2,538 2,336
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment    11 14
Share‑based payments   26 940 315
Difference between pension contributions paid and amounts recognised in the Income statement    (603) 135
Adjustment to carrying value of goodwill    —  391
Changes in working capital:     
Trade and other receivables    (15,550) (6,475)
Trade and other payables    9,409 12,632
Fair value of forward contracts    3,737 874
Cash generated from operating activities before tax     58,681 54,626
Income taxes paid    (15,109) (11,325)
Net cash generated from operating activities    43,572 43,301
Cash flows from investing activities     
Purchase of property, plant and equipment   16 (3,668) (1,781)
Interest received   8 2,815 1,772
Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment    30 34
Purchase of intangible assets   15 (58) (136)
Acquisition of subsidiary, net of cash acquired   30 (1,664) —
Net cash used in investing activities    (2,545) (111)
Cash flows from financing activities     
Interest paid   9 (7) (13)
Purchase of own shares   28 (495) —
Proceeds from the issue of shares   27 664 146
Payment of finance lease liabilities    (145) (133)
Dividends paid to equity holders of the parent   12 (5,318) (3,093)
Net cash flows from financing activities    (5,301) (3,093)
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents    35,726 40,097
Net foreign exchange difference    7 ,589 1,465
Opening cash and cash equivalents   19 82,849 41,287
Closing cash and cash equivalents    19 126,164 82,849
The accompanying notes are an integral part of this Consolidated cash flow statement. 
COnsOliDateD C ash fl Ow statement
For the year ended 31 March 2009 44 AVEVA Group plc Annual report 2009 Financial statements – Group
1 Corporate information
AVEVA Group plc is a public limited company incorporated and domiciled in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act 1985. The address of the 
registered office is given on page 24. AVEVA Group plc’s shares are publicly traded on the Official List of the London Stock Exchange. 
2 Basis of preparation
The accounting policies which follow set out those policies which apply in preparing the financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2009. 
The Consolidated financial statements are presented in pounds Sterling and all values are rounded to the nearest thousand (£000) except when 
otherwise indicated.
The Group presents adjusted profit before tax on the face of the Consolidated income statement disclosing those material items of operating income 
and expense which materially impact the underlying performance of the business. The Directors believe that adjusted profit before tax allows 
shareholders to understand better the elements of financial performance in the year, so as to facilitate comparison with prior periods in assessing 
trends in financial performance. 
a) Statement of compliance
The Consolidated financial statements of AVEVA Group plc and all its subsidiaries (the Group) have been prepared in accordance with International 
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs), as adopted by the European Union, as they apply to the financial statements of the Group for the year ended 
31 March 2009. The Group’s financial statements are also consistent with IFRSs as issued by the IASB. 
The parent Company financial statements of AVEVA Group plc have been prepared in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice (UK GAAP) 
and are included on pages 74 to 78.
b) Basis of consolidation
The Consolidated financial statements comprise the financial statements of AVEVA Group plc and its subsidiaries as at 31 March each year. The financial 
statements of subsidiaries are prepared using existing GAAP for each country of operation. Adjustments are made to translate any differences that may 
exist between the respective local GAAPs and IFRSs.
Inter‑company balances and transactions, including unrealised profits arising from intra‑Group transactions, have been eliminated in full.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which control is obtained by the Group and cease to be consolidated from the date on which control 
is transferred out of the Group.
On acquisition, assets and liabilities of subsidiaries are measured at their fair values at the date of acquisition, with any excess of the cost of acquisition 
over this value being capitalised as goodwill.
3 Significant accounting estimates
The key assumptions concerning the future and other key sources of estimation uncertainty at the Balance sheet date that have a significant risk 
of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are discussed below:
a) Impairment of goodwill
The Group determines whether goodwill is impaired at least on an annual basis. This requires an estimation of the value in use of the cash‑generating 
units to which the goodwill is allocated. Estimating the value in use requires the Group to make an estimate of the expected future cash flows from the 
cash‑generating unit and also to choose a suitable discount rate in order to calculate the present value of those cash flows. The carrying amount 
of goodwill at 31 March 2009 was £17 ,055,000 (2008 – £16,689,000). Further consideration of the impairment of goodwill is included in note 14.
b) Defined benefit pension schemes
The determination of the Group’s obligations and expense for defined benefit pensions is dependent on the selection, by the Board of Directors, 
of assumptions used by the pension scheme actuary in calculating these amounts. The assumptions applied are described in note 25 and include, 
amongst others, the discount rate, the expected return on plan assets, rates of increase in salaries and mortality rates. While the Directors consider 
that the assumptions are appropriate, significant differences in the actual experience or significant changes in assumptions may materially affect the 
amount of the Group’s future pension obligations, actuarial gains and losses included in the Statement of recognised income and expense in future 
years and the future staff costs. The carrying amount of retirement benefit obligations at 31 March 2009 was £8,764,000 (2008 – £1,592,000).
4 Summary of significant accounting policies
a) Revenue
Revenue comprises fees in respect of initial and extension licences, annual licences and rentals, together with income from consultancy and other 
related services (excluding VAT and similar taxes).
For each revenue stream, no revenue is recognised unless and until:
• a clear contractual arrangement can be evidenced;
• delivery has been made in accordance with that contract;
• if required, contractual acceptance criteria have been met; and
• the fee has been agreed and collectability is probable.
Users can pay an initial licence fee upon installation for a set number of users together with an obligatory annual fee. Additional users can be licensed 
at any time on payment of an extension fee similar to the initial and annual fees. The fees cover right to use and post contract support, which includes 
core product enhancements and remote support services. The fees related to the right to use are recognised once the above conditions have been met. 
Post contract support fees are recognised on a straight‑line basis over the period of the contract.
As an alternative to the initial/extension licence plus annual fee model, the Group also supplies its software under two different types of rental contract.
Rentals which are invoiced monthly and which are cancellable by the customer are recognised on a monthly basis.
nOtes tO the COnsOliDateD finanCial statements  financial statements corporate governance business review 
45 AVEVA Group plc Annual report 2009
overview
Financial statements – Group
4 Summary of significant accounting policies continued
a) Revenue continued
Other rental contracts are invoiced at the start of the contracted period, are non‑cancellable and consist of two separate components, the right to use 
and the right for post contract support. Revenue in respect of the right to use is recognised once the above conditions have been met and revenue for 
post contract support is recognised on a straight‑line basis over the period of the contract.
The Group also licenses its software using a token licensing model. Under this model, a ‘basket of tokens’ representing licences to use the software 
over a defined period is granted, which enables the customer to draw these down as and when required. Where the customer commits in advance to a 
specified number of tokens over a defined period, a proportion of revenue is recognised with an appropriate element deferred for post contract support 
obligations, subject to the above recognition conditions being met. Where the customer is charged in arrears, revenue is recognised based on actual 
number of tokens used.
The revenue and profit of development contracts is recognised on a percentage completion basis when the outcome of the contract can be estimated 
reliably. The stage of contract completion is usually determined by reference to the costs incurred to date as a proportion of the total estimated costs. 
Only costs that reflect the services performed to date and to be performed are included in costs incurred to date and the estimate of total costs. 
When the contract cannot be estimated reliably, revenue is recognised to the extent that costs can be recovered, otherwise costs are expensed 
as incurred.
Income from consultancy and other related services is recognised as the services are provided. 
b) Foreign currencies
The functional and presentational currency of AVEVA Group plc is pounds Sterling (£). Transactions in foreign currencies are initially recorded in 
the functional currency rate ruling at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated 
at the functional currency rate of exchange ruling at the Balance sheet date. All differences are taken to the Consolidated income statement.
Non‑monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate as at the date of the 
initial transaction.
The subsidiaries have a number of different functional currencies. As at the reporting date, the assets and liabilities of these overseas subsidiaries 
are translated into pounds Sterling (£) at the rate of exchange ruling at the Balance sheet date, and their Income statements are translated at the 
weighted average exchange rates for the year. Exchange differences arising on the retranslation are taken directly to a separate component of equity. 
Prior to 31 March 2004, cumulative exchange differences were reported as part of retained earnings. The Group has taken advantage of the transitional 
provisions of IFRS 1 and is not required to record cumulative translation differences arising prior to the transition date. In utilising this exemption, 
all cumulative translation differences are deemed to be zero as at 1 April 2004 and all subsequent disposals shall exclude any translation differences 
arising prior to the date of transition and the deferred cumulative amount recognised in equity relating to that particular foreign operation shall 
be recognised in the Consolidated income statement.
c) Goodwill
The Group elected not to apply IFRS 3, ‘Business Combinations’ retrospectively to business combinations that took place before 1 April 2004. 
As a result, the carrying amount of goodwill in the opening IFRS Balance sheet is that recorded under UK GAAP at 1 April 2004 (date of transition).
Goodwill on acquisitions after 1 April 2004 is initially measured at cost, being the excess of the cost of the business combination over the acquirer’s 
interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities. Following initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost 
less any accumulated impairment losses. Goodwill already carried in the Balance sheet is not amortised after 1 April 2004.
Where goodwill forms part of a cash‑generating unit and part of the operation within that unit is disposed of, the goodwill associated with the operation 
disposed of is included in the carrying amount of the operation when determining the gain or loss on disposal of the operation. Goodwill disposed of 
in this circumstance is measured on the basis of the relative values of the operation disposed of and the portion of the cash‑generating unit retained.
If the potential benefit of tax losses or other deferred tax assets does not satisfy the criteria in IFRS 3 for separate recognition when a business 
combination is initially accounted for but is subsequently realised, the Group recognises the deferred tax income in the Income statement. In addition, 
the Group also reduces the carrying value of the related goodwill by the amount that would have been recognised if the deferred tax asset had been 
recognised as an identifiable asset from the acquisition date with a corresponding entry to administrative expenses.
d) Intangible assets
Intangible assets acquired separately are capitalised at cost and from a business acquisition are capitalised at fair value as at the date of acquisition. 
Following initial recognition, the cost model is applied to each class of intangible assets as set out below. 
Expenditure on internally developed intangible assets, excluding development costs, is taken to the Income statement in the year in which it is incurred. 
Internal software development expenditure is recognised as an intangible asset only after its technical feasibility and commercial viability can 
be demonstrated.
Useful lives are also examined on an annual basis and adjustments, where applicable, are made on a prospective basis. Amortisation is calculated 
on a straight‑line basis over the estimated useful economic lives of the asset, which are as follows:
          Years
Developed technology         5–12
Customer relationships         20
Other software         3
Purchased software rights         5–10 46 AVEVA Group plc Annual report 2009 Financial statements – Group
4 Summary of significant accounting policies continued
e) Research expenditure
Research expenditure is written off in the year of expenditure.
f) Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less depreciation and any accumulated impairment losses. 
Depreciation is calculated on a straight‑line basis to write down the assets to their estimated residual value over the useful economic life of the asset 
as follows:
          Years
Computer equipment         3
Fixtures, fittings and office equipment         6–8
Motor vehicles         4
Assets held under finance leases are amortised on a straight‑line basis over the period of the lease for three years or useful economic life, if shorter. 
Leasehold improvements are amortised on a straight‑line basis over the period of the lease (3 to 49 years) or useful economic life, if shorter. 
Borrowing costs related to the purchase of property, plant and equipment are not capitalised. 
g) Impairment of assets
Goodwill arising on acquisition is allocated to cash‑generating units expected to benefit from the combination’s synergies and represent the lowest 
level at which goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes and generates cash flows which are independent of other cash‑generating units. 
The recoverable amount of the cash‑generating unit to which goodwill has been allocated is tested for impairment annually or when events or changes 
in circumstance indicate that it might be impaired. The carrying values of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets other than goodwill are 
reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstance indicate the carrying value may be impaired. If any such indication exists and where 
the carrying values exceed the estimated recoverable amount, the assets or cash‑generating units are written down to their recoverable amount. 
The recoverable amount is the greater of net selling price and value in use. In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted 
to their present value using a pre‑tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the 
asset. For an asset that does not generate largely independent cash inflows, the recoverable amount is determined for the cash‑generating unit 
to which the asset belongs. Impairment losses are recognised in the Income statement in the administrative expenses line item.
h) Trade and other receivables
Trade receivables, which generally have 30 to 90 day terms, are recognised and carried at original invoice amount less an allowance for any uncollectible 
amounts. An estimate for doubtful debts is made when collection of the full amount is no longer probable. Bad debts are written off when identified.
i) Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and short‑term deposits in the Balance sheet comprise cash at bank and in hand and short‑term deposits with an original maturity of three months 
or less. The carrying amount of these approximates their fair value. For the purpose of the Consolidated cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents 
consist of cash and cash equivalents as defined above, net of outstanding bank overdrafts.
j) Derivative financial instruments
The only derivative financial instruments the Group holds are forward foreign exchange contracts to reduce exposure to foreign exchange risk. 
The Group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes. The Group has not applied hedge accounting during 
the year and therefore all forward foreign exchange contracts have been marked‑to‑market and are held at fair value on the Balance sheet with 
any movements being recorded in the Income statement. 
k) Leases
Finance leases, which transfer to the Group substantially all the risks and benefits incidental to ownership of the leased item, are capitalised at the 
inception of the lease at the fair value of the leased property or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments. Lease payments are 
apportioned between the finance charges and reduction of the lease liability so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance 
of the liability. Finance charges are charged directly against income.
Capitalised leased assets are depreciated over the shorter of the estimated useful life of the asset or the lease term.
Leases where the lessor retains substantially all the risks and benefits of ownership of the asset are classified as operating leases. Operating lease 
payments are recognised as an expense in the Income statement on a straight‑line basis over the lease term.
l) Taxation
Deferred income tax is provided, using the liability method, on all temporary differences at the Balance sheet date between the tax bases of assets 
and liabilities and their carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes.
Deferred income tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary differences:
•  except where the deferred income tax liability arises from goodwill amortisation or the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction 
that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss; and
•  in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary 
differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future. 
nOtes tO the COnsOliDateD finanCial statements  
continued financial statements corporate governance business review 
47 AVEVA Group plc Annual report 2009
overview
Financial statements – Group
4 Summary of significant accounting policies continued
l) Taxation continued
Deferred income tax assets are recognised for all deductible temporary differences, carry‑forward of unused tax assets and unused tax losses to 
the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the deductible temporary differences, carry‑forward of unused 
tax assets and unused tax losses can be utilised:
•  except where the deferred income tax asset relating to the deductible temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of an asset or 
liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable 
profit or loss; and
•  in respect of deductible temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, deferred tax assets are only recognised to the extent 
that it is probable that the temporary differences will reverse in the foreseeable future and taxable profit will be available against which the 
temporary differences can be utilised.
The carrying amount of deferred income tax assets is reviewed at each Balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable 
that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred income tax asset to be utilised.
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply to the year when the asset is realised or the liability 
is settled, based on tax rates (and tax laws) that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the Balance sheet date.
Income tax relating to items recognised directly in equity are recognised in equity and not in the Income statement. 
Revenue, expenses and assets are recognised net of the amount of sales taxes except:
•  where the sales tax incurred on a purchase of goods and services is not recoverable from the taxation authority, in which case the sales tax 
is recognised as part of the cost of acquisition of the asset or as part of the expense item as applicable; and
•  receivables and payables are stated with the amount of sales taxes included.
The net amount of sales taxes recoverable from, or payable to, the taxation authority is included as part of receivables or payables in the Balance sheet. 
m) Post retirement benefits
The Group operates defined benefit pension schemes in the UK, Sweden and Germany. The Group also provides certain post employment benefits 
to its South Korean employees. 
The UK defined benefit pension scheme, previously available to all UK employees, was closed to new applicants in 2002. UK employees are now offered 
membership of a defined contribution scheme.
The German unfunded defined benefit scheme is closed to new applicants and provides benefits to three deferred members following an acquisition 
in 1992 by Tribon. No current employees participate in the scheme. Full provision has been made for the liability on the Balance sheet. The Group 
also operates a defined benefit pension scheme for one German employee.
The Group provides pension arrangements to its Swedish employees through an industry‑wide defined benefit scheme. It is not possible to identify 
the share of the underlying assets and liabilities in the scheme which is attributable to the Group on a fair and reasonable basis. Therefore the Group 
has applied the provisions in IAS 19 to account for the scheme as if it was a defined contribution scheme.
For the defined benefit schemes, the defined benefit obligation is calculated annually for each plan by independent actuaries using the projected unit 
credit method which attributes entitlement to benefits to the current period (to determine current service cost) and to the current and prior periods 
(to determine the present value of defined benefit obligation). The retirement benefit liability in the Balance sheet represents the present value of 
the defined benefit obligation (using a discount rate derived from a published index of AA rated corporate bonds) as reduced by the fair value of plan 
assets out of which the obligations are to be settled directly. Fair value is based on market price information and in the case of quoted securities is the 
published bid price. The value of a net pension benefit asset is restricted to the present value of any amount the Group expects to recover by way of refunds 
from the plan or reductions in the future contributions. The current service cost is recognised in the Income statement as an employee benefit expense. 
The interest element of the defined benefit cost represents the change in present value of scheme obligations resulting from the passage of time, 
and is determined by applying the discount rate to the opening present value of the benefit obligation, taking into account material changes in 
the obligation during the year. The expected return on plan assets is based on an assessment made at the beginning of the year of long term market 
returns on scheme assets, adjusted for the effect on the fair value of plan assets of contributions received and benefits paid during the year. 
The expected return on plan assets and the interest cost is recognised in the Income statement as finance revenue and finance costs respectively.
Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments or changes in actuarial assumptions are charged or credited in the Statement of recognised 
income and expense in the period in which they arise.
The Group also operates defined contribution pension schemes for a number of UK and non‑UK employees. Contributions to defined contribution plans 
are charged to profit before tax as they become payable. 48 AVEVA Group plc Annual report 2009 Financial statements – Group
4 Summary of significant accounting policies continued
n) Share‑based payments
The cost of equity‑settled transactions with employees is measured by reference to the fair value at the date at which they are granted, further details 
of which are given in note 26. In valuing equity‑settled transactions, no account is taken of any performance conditions, other than conditions linked 
to the price of the shares of AVEVA Group plc (market conditions).
The cost of equity‑settled transactions is recognised, together with a corresponding increase in equity, over the period in which the performance 
conditions are fulfilled, ending on the date on which the relevant employees become fully entitled to the award (vesting date). The cumulative 
expense recognised for equity‑settled transactions at each reporting date until the vesting date reflects the extent to which the vesting period has 
expired and the Group’s best estimate of the number of equity instruments that will ultimately vest.
No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, except for awards where vesting is conditional upon a market condition, which are 
treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the market condition is satisfied, provided that all other performance conditions are satisfied.
Where the terms of an equity‑settled award are modified, as a minimum an expense is recognised as if the terms had not been modified. In addition, 
an expense is recognised for any increase in the value of the transaction as a result of the modification, as measured at the date of modification.
Where an equity‑settled award is cancelled, it is treated as if it had vested on the date of cancellation, and any expense not yet recognised for the 
award is recognised immediately. However, if a new award is substituted for the cancelled award, and designated as a replacement award on the date 
that it is granted, the cancelled and new awards are treated as if they were a modification of the original award, as described in the previous paragraph. 
The dilutive effect of outstanding options is reflected as additional share dilution in the computation of earnings per share, subject to an estimate 
of whether performance conditions will be met.
o) Employee benefit trust
The Group has established an employee benefit trust (AVEVA Group Employee Benefit Trust 2008) which is a separately administered trust and is funded 
by loans from Group companies. The assets of the trust comprise shares in AVEVA Group plc and cash balances. The Group recognises assets and liabilities 
of the trust in the Consolidated financial statements and shares held by the trust are recorded at cost as a deduction from shareholders’ equity.
p) New standards and interpretations not applied
The IASB and IFRIC have issued the following standards and interpretations that could have a potential impact on the Group with an effective date 
after the date of these financial statements:
International Accounting Standards (IASs/IFRSs)        Effective date*
IFRS 2 Share‑based Payment – Vesting Conditions and Cancellation     1 January 2009
IFRS 3R Business Combinations         1 July 2009
IAS 27R Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements      1 July 2009
IFRS 8 Operating Segments        1 January 2009
IAS 1 Revised Presentation of Financial Statements       1 January 2009
IAS 32 and IAS 1R Financial Instruments Puttable at Fair Value and Obligations Arising on Liquidation   1 January 2009
IAS 23  Borrowing Costs        1 January 2009
International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee (IFRIC)  
IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Payments      1 July 2008
IFRIC 16 Hedges of a Net Investment in a Foreign Operation     1 October 2008
IFRIC 17 Distribution of Non‑cash Assets      1 July 2009
* Standards applicable to accounting periods commencing on or after the effective date.
The Directors do not anticipate that the adoption of these standards and interpretations will have a material impact on the Group’s financial statements 
in the period of initial application.
5 Revenue
An analysis of the Group’s revenue is as follows:
         2009 2008 
         £000 £000
Annual fees        33,912 23,120
Rental fees        57 ,657 40,558
Recurring services        2,627 2,426
Total recurring revenue        94,196 66,104
Initial licence fees        5 7,7 4 1 52,903
Services        12,104 8,554
Total revenue        164,041 127 ,561
Finance revenue        4,846 3,785
         168,887 131,346
Services consist of consultancy and training fees.
nOtes tO the COnsOliDateD finanCial statements  
continued financial statements corporate governance business review 
49 AVEVA Group plc Annual report 2009
overview
Financial statements – Group
6 Segment information
For management purposes, during the year the Group was organised on a geographical basis into four main sales regions: Asia Pacific, Americas, 
Central Eastern and Southern Europe (CES) and Western Europe, Middle East and Africa (WEMEA). Corporate functions and Research and Development 
operations are principally based in the UK and Sweden and are therefore not included in the sales regions analysis. Each of these operating regions 
is organised and managed separately due to the differing local requirements in each market and therefore these are the primary segments. The Group 
operates in one business segment; that of the supply of Engineering IT Solutions that supports the creation and operation of major capital assets such 
as power plants, process plants and ships of both naval and commercial type. 
Geographical segments
     Asia Pacific  WEMEA  CES  Americas Unallocated  Total 
Year ended 31 March 2009    £000 £000  £000  £000 £000  £000
Income statement         
Revenue         
Annual fees    12,541 3,569 14,205 3,597 — 33,912
Rental fees    14,983 18,507 9,782 14,385 — 57 ,657
Recurring services    — 99 — 2,528 — 2,627
Initial licence fees    36,774 2,552 16,517 1,898 — 57 ,741
Services    2,769 2,122 5,255 1,958 — 12,104
Segment revenue    67 ,067 26,849 45,759 24,366 — 164,041
Result         
Segment result    44,110 17 ,843 28,278 14,498 —  104,729
Unallocated expenses         
Corporate overheads        (20,748) (20,748)
Research and Development costs        (27 ,332) (27 ,332)
Profit from operations         56,649
Finance revenue         4,846
Finance costs         (2,294)
Profit before tax         59,201
Income tax expense         (17 ,047)
Net profit for the year         42,154
Assets and liabilities         
Segment assets    62,302 10,027 27 ,705 14,613 —  114,647 
Unallocated corporate assets        111,250 111,250
Consolidated total assets         225,897
Segment liabilities    (25,682) (5,243) (12,048) (6,283) —  (49,256)
Unallocated corporate liabilities        (33,510) (33,510)
Consolidated total liabilities         (82,766)
Other segment information         
Capital expenditure         
– property, plant and equipment    1,195 17 526 421 1,509 3,668
– intangible assets    — — — — 58 58
Depreciation    (507) (5) (202) (93) (743) (1,550)
Amortisation    —  —  —  —  (2,538)  (2,538) 
The unallocated assets and liabilities are tangible assets, intangible assets, taxation balances, cash balances, trade and other payable balances and 
retirement benefit obligations.  50 AVEVA Group plc Annual report 2009 Financial statements – Group
6 Segment information continued
Geographical segments continued
     Asia Pacific WEMEA CES Americas Unallocated Total 
Year ended 31 March 2008    £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Income statement         
Revenue         
Annual fees    7 ,807 2,929 10,095 2,289 — 23,120
Rental fees    7 ,652 17 ,955 6,146 8,805 — 40,558
Recurring services    — 154 — 2,272 — 2,426
Initial licence fees    33,789 2,662 13,114 3,338 — 52,903
Services    1,564 2,557 3,329 1,104 — 8,554
Segment revenue    50,812 26,257 32,684 17 ,808 —  127 ,561
Result         
Segment result    34,486 18,554 20,003 11,109 — 84,152
Unallocated expenses         
Corporate overheads        (19,690) (19,690)
Research and Development costs        (21,301) (21,301)
Profit from operations         43,161
Finance revenue         3,785
Finance costs         (1,979)
Profit before tax         44,967
Income tax expense         (10,721)
Net profit for the year         34,246
Assets and liabilities         
Segment assets    48,669 11,485 20,968 7 ,065 — 88,187
Unallocated corporate assets        74,975 74,975
Consolidated total assets         163,162
Segment liabilities    (17 ,959) (3,350) (8,232) (3,380) — (32,921)
Unallocated corporate liabilities        (24,495) (24,495)
Consolidated total liabilities         (57 ,416)
Other segment information         
Capital expenditure         
– property, plant and equipment    729 33 183 98 738 1,781
– intangible assets    — — — — 136 136
Depreciation    (372) (4) (120) (63) (684) (1,243)
Amortisation    —  —  —  —  (2,336) (2,336)
The unallocated assets and liabilities are tangible assets, intangible assets, taxation balances, cash balances, trade and other payable balances and 
retirement benefit obligations. 
7 Profit from operations
Profit from operations is stated after charging:
         2009 2008 
         £000 £000
Depreciation of owned property, plant and equipment       1,527 1,148
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment held under finance leases      23 95
Amortisation of intangible assets         
– included in cost of sales        2,094 1,927
– included in administrative expenses        88 92
– included in selling and distribution costs        356 317
Research and Development costs (included in cost of sales)       2 7,332 21,301
Staff costs        55,503 48,159
Operating lease rentals – minimum lease payments       3,418 2,261
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment       11 14
Adjustment to goodwill in respect of the benefit received from utilisation of tax losses (included in administrative expenses)  — 391
Net foreign exchange losses        2,359 2,551
nOtes tO the COnsOliDateD finanCial statements  
continued financial statements corporate governance business review 
51 AVEVA Group plc Annual report 2009
overview
Financial statements – Group
7 Profit from operations continued
During the year the Group (including its overseas subsidiaries) obtained the following services from the Group’s auditors at costs as detailed below:
         2009 2008 
         £000 £000
Fees payable to the Company auditor for the audit of parent Company and Consolidated financial statements   259 246
Fees payable to the Company auditor and its associates for other services:       
– the audit of Company’s subsidiaries pursuant to legislation       11 6 86
– tax services        25 46
– other services pursuant to legislation        35 16
         435 394
8 Finance revenue
         2009 2008 
         £000 £000
Expected return on pension scheme assets        2,031 2,013
Bank interest receivable        2,815 1,772
         4,846 3,785
9 Finance costs
         2009 2008 
         £000 £000
Bank interest payable and similar charges        7 13
Finance lease interest        3 11
Interest on pension scheme liabilities        2,284 1,955
         2,294 1,979
10 Staff costs
Staff costs relating to employees (including Executive Directors) are shown below:
         2009 2008 
         £000 £000
Wages and salaries        45,100 39,493
Social security costs        5,604 4,623
Other pension costs         3,859 3,728
Expense of share‑based payments        940 315
         55,503 48,159
The average monthly number of persons (including Executive Directors) employed by the Group was as follows:
         2009 2008 
         Number Number
Research, development and product support        253 222
Sales, marketing and customer support        380 300
Administration        17 6 141
         809 663
Directors’ remuneration
The disclosure of an individual Director’s remuneration and interests required by the Companies Act 1985 and those specified for audit by the Listing 
Rules of the Financial Services Authority are shown in the audited section of the Directors’ remuneration report on pages 36 and 37 and form part 
of these financial statements. 52 AVEVA Group plc Annual report 2009 Financial statements – Group
11 Income tax expense
a) Tax on profit 
The major components of income tax expense for the years ended 31 March 2009 and 2008 are as follows: 
         2009 2008 
         £000 £000
Tax charged in Consolidated income statement         
Current tax         
UK corporation tax        13,243 9,119
Adjustments in respect of prior periods        (40) (769)
         13,203 8,350
Foreign tax        6,585 4,215
Adjustments in respect of prior periods        (162) (960)
         6,423 3,255
Total current tax        19,626 11,605
Deferred tax         
Origination and reversal of temporary differences       (2,534) 391
Adjustment in respect of prior periods        (45) (1,267)
Effect of change in UK tax rate        —  (8)
Total deferred tax (note 24)        (2,579) (884)
Total income tax expense reported in Consolidated income statement      1 7,04 7 10,721
         2009 2008 
         £000 £000
Tax relating to items charged or credited directly to equity        
Current tax         
Tax benefit of share option exercises        950 353
Deferred tax         
Deferred tax on share options        (1,375) 629
Deferred tax on retranslation of intangible assets       (220) (350)
Deferred tax on actuarial (loss)/gain on defined benefit pension scheme      2,105 (1,021)
Tax credit/(charge) directly to equity        1,460 (389)
b) Reconciliation of the total tax charge
The differences between the total tax charge shown above and the amount calculated by applying the standard rate of UK corporation tax to the profit 
before tax are as follows:
         2009 2008 
         £000 £000
Tax on Group profit before tax at standard UK corporation tax rate of 28% (2008 – 30%)    16,576 13,490
Effects of:         
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes        434 117
Movement on unprovided deferred tax balances        204 (6)
Change in UK tax rate for deferred tax provision        —  (8)
Higher/(lower) tax rates on overseas earnings        80 (90)
Unrelieved tax losses        —  214
Adjustments in respect of prior years:         
– other        (247) (2,605)
– relief for losses previously not recognised        —  (391)
Income tax expense reported in the Consolidated income statement      1 7,04 7 10,721
In 2008 the adjustments in respect of prior years include the benefit of UK Research and Development tax credits, tax losses and the reversal of other 
previously unrecognised deferred tax assets. These adjustments resulted in the effective tax rate being lower than the UK standard rate.
nOtes tO the COnsOliDateD finanCial statements  
continued financial statements corporate governance business review 
53 AVEVA Group plc Annual report 2009
overview
Financial statements – Group
12 Dividends paid and proposed on equity shares
         2009 2008 
         £000 £000
Declared and paid during the year         
Interim 2008/09 dividend paid of 2.86 pence (2007/08 – 1.65 pence) per ordinary share    1,938 1,113
Final 2007/08 dividend paid of 5.0 pence (2006/07 – 2.94 pence) per ordinary share     3,380 1,980
         5,318 3,093
Proposed for approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting       
Final proposed dividend 2008/09 of 6.5 pence (2007/08 – 5.0 pence) per ordinary share    4,408 3,376
The proposed final dividend is subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting on 9 July 2009 and has not been included as a liability 
in these financial statements. If approved at the Annual General Meeting the final dividend will be paid on 31 July 2009 to shareholders on the register 
at the close of business on 26 June 2009.
13 Earnings per share
         2009 2008 
         Pence Pence
Earnings per share for the year:         
– basic        62.27 50.80
– diluted        61.98 50.38
Adjusted earnings per share for the year:         
– basic        6 7. 3 3 55.22
– diluted        67 .02 54.76
         2009 2008 
         Number Number
Weighted average number of ordinary shares for basic earnings per share      67 ,695,127 67 ,412,779
Effect of dilution: employee share options        312,387 567 ,686
Weighted average number of ordinary shares adjusted for the effect of dilution     68,007 ,514 67 ,980,465
The calculations of basic and diluted earnings per share are based on the net profit attributable to equity holders of the parent for the year of £42,154,000 
(2008 – £34,246,000). Basic earnings per share amounts are calculated by dividing the net profit attributable to equity holders of the parent by the 
weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year. Diluted earnings per share amounts are calculated by dividing the net profit 
attributable to equity holders of the parent by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year plus the weighted average 
number of ordinary shares that would be issued on the conversion of all the potentially dilutive share options into ordinary shares. Details of the terms 
and conditions of share options are provided in note 26.
Adjusted basic and adjusted diluted earnings per share is calculated based on an adjusted profit after tax of £45,576,000 (2008 – £37,228,000) 
obtained by adding intangible amortisation (excluding other software) of £2,482,000 (2008 – £2,276,000), share‑based payments of £940,000 
(2008 – £315,000) and adjustment to carrying value of goodwill of £nil (2008 – £391,000) to the profit after tax for the year of £42,154,000 
(2008 – £34,246,000). The denominators used are the same as those detailed above for both basic and diluted earnings per share.
The adjustment made to profit after tax in calculating adjusted basic and diluted earnings per share has not been adjusted for tax in either the current 
or preceding year.
The Directors believe that adjusted earnings per share is a fairer presentation of the underlying performance of the business.
14 Goodwill
           £000
At 1 April 2007         15,062
Adjustment to carrying value of Tribon Solutions AB        (391)
Exchange adjustment         2,018
At 31 March 2008         16,689
Exchange adjustment         366
At 31 March 2009         17 ,055
On 19 May 2004, the Group completed the acquisition of Tribon Solutions AB. The total consideration was £20,277 ,000 and goodwill of £14,079,000 
arose on the acquisition.
On 31 March 2005, the Group completed the acquisition of Realitywave Inc. The consideration was £3,192,000 and goodwill of £1,855,000 arose on 
the acquisition.
Goodwill arose on the acquisition of rights to integrate, develop and market 3D design software from AEA Technology on 30 March 1999. The initial 
cost of goodwill was £2,169,000.
On 12 November 1998, AVEVA agreed to acquire from the distributor Kyokuto Boeki Kaisha all AVEVA’s business in Japan. The goodwill arising on 
acquisition was £500,000.
The adjustment to the carrying value of the Tribon Solutions AB goodwill in the previous period was due to the post‑acquisition utilisation of tax 
losses, which was not recognised as a deferred tax asset on acquisition. 54 AVEVA Group plc Annual report 2009 Financial statements – Group
14 Goodwill continued
The Group tests goodwill annually for impairment or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill might be impaired.
Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated, at acquisition, to the cash‑generating units (CGUs) that are expected to benefit from that 
business combination. Before recognition of impairment losses, the carrying amount of goodwill has been allocated to CGUs as follows:
       Asia    
      WEMEA Pacific CES Americas Total 
Year ended 31 March 2009     £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Tribon Solutions AB     302 7 ,934 6,075 327 14,638
Realitywave Inc.     276 276 276 276 1,104
AEA Technology     —  108 —  976 1,084
Kyokuto Boeki Kaisha     —  229 —  —  229
      578 8,547 6,351 1,579 17 ,055
       Asia    
      WEMEA Pacific CES Americas Total 
Year ended 31 March 2008     £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Tribon Solutions AB     301 7 ,907 6,054 328 14,590
Realitywave Inc.     197 196 197 196 786
AEA Technology     — 108 — 976 1,084
Kyokuto Boeki Kaisha     — 229 — — 229
      498 8,440 6,251 1,500 16,689
The recoverable amounts of CGUs are determined from value in use calculations. The key assumptions for the value in use calculations are those 
regarding discount rates and growth rates. Management estimates discount rates using pre‑tax rates that reflect current market assessments 
of the time value of money and the risks specific to the CGUs. 
The growth rates are based on management’s estimates of growth in those specific markets based on past experience and external market information.
The Group prepares cash flow forecasts derived from the most recent financial budgets approved by management for the year ending 31 March 2010 
and extrapolates cash flows for future years based on an average estimated growth rate of 2% for each CGU (2008 – 10% to 15%), representing 
the long term average growth rate for the Group’s CGUs. Future cash flows are discounted in line with the weighted average cost of capital of approximately 
10% pre‑tax (2008 – 10%).
Whilst it is conceivable that a key assumption in the calculation could change, the Directors believe that no reasonably foreseeable changes to key 
assumptions would result in an impairment of goodwill, such is the margin by which the estimated recoverable amount exceeds the carrying value.
15 Intangible assets 
         Purchased  
      Developed Customer  Other  software  
      technology  relationships  software rights Total 
      £000 £000  £000  £000 £000
Cost         
At 1 April 2007     8,547 6,185  973 4,563 20,268
Additions     —  — 136 — 136
Disposals     — — (5) — (5)
Exchange adjustment     846 970 — — 1,816
At 31 March 2008     9,393 7 ,155 1,104 4,563 22,215
Acquisition of iDesign Office Pty Ltd (note 30)     1,622 — — — 1,622
Additions     —  —  58 —  58
Exchange adjustment     1,155  24 48 —  1,227
At 31 March 2009     12,170  7 ,179 1,210 4,563 25,122
Amortisation         
At 1 April 2007     3,741 887  958 2,654 8,240
Charge for the year     1,399 317 60 560 2,336
Disposals     — — (5) — (5)
Exchange adjustment     657 181 — — 838
At 31 March 2008     5,797 1,385 1,013 3,214 11,409
Charge for the year     1,566 356 56 560 2,538
Exchange adjustment     386 7 32 —  425
At 31 March 2009     7 ,749 1,748 1,101 3,774 14,372
Net book value         
At 31 March 2007     4,806 5,298  15 1,909 12,028
At 31 March 2008     3,596 5,770 91 1,349 10,806
At 31 March 2009     4,421 5,431 109 789 10,750
For the purposes of the adjusted earnings per share calculation (note 13), intangible asset amortisation excludes the charge relating to other 
software of £56,000 (2008 – £60,000).
nO tes tO the COnsOliDateD finanCial statements  
continued financial statements corporate governance business review 
55 AVEVA Group plc Annual report 2009
overview
Financial statements – Group
15 Intangible assets continued
Purchased software rights arose on the acquisition of the products ‘FOCUS’ for £1,700,000 on 13 September 1999, ‘VANTAGE’ for £1,500,000 on 
2 December 1999 and OPE software for £323,000 on 7 September 2000. These purchased software rights are being amortised on a straight‑line 
basis over ten years. In 2006/07 the Group acquired a source code licence for certain software from Spescom Software Inc. for the sum of £1,040,000 
($2,000,000). This software is being amortised on a straight‑line basis over five years. 
The customer relationships intangible was acquired as part of the acquisition of Tribon Solutions AB on 19 May 2004 and is being amortised over twenty 
years using the straight‑line method.
Developed technology includes the Realitywave developed technology which was acquired as part of the acquisition of Realitywave Inc. on 31 March 2005 
and the Tribon Solutions AB developed technology. The Realitywave and Tribon Solutions developed technology is being amortised over five years and 
twelve years respectively using the straight‑line method. In addition, developed technology includes the developed technology intangible asset acquired 
as part of the acquisition of iDesign Office Pty Limited which is being amortised over five years on a straight‑line basis.
Other software represents third party software and is being amortised over three years using the straight‑line method. 
16 Property, plant and equipment
        Fixtures,   
      Long leasehold   fittings   
      buildings and Computer and office Motor  
      improvements equipment equipment vehicles  Total 
      £000 £000 £000  £000  £000
Cost          
At 1 April 2007     3,209 7 ,363 3,245 561 14,378
Additions     — 949 520 312 1,781
Disposals     — (27) — (89) (116)
Exchange adjustment     — 199 195 26 420
At 31 March 2008     3,209 8,484 3,960 810 16,463
Acquisition of subsidiary     — — 12 — 12
Additions     132 903 2,338 295 3,668
Disposals     —  (355) (164) (105) (624)
Exchange adjustment     20 406 539 157 1,122
At 31 March 2009     3,361 9,438 6,685 1,157 20,641
Depreciation         
At 1 April 2007     484 6,461 2,515 166 9,626
Charge for the year     75 696 309 163 1,243
Disposals     — (25) — (43) (68)
Exchange adjustment     — 159 90 10 259
At 31 March 2008     559 7 ,291 2,914 296 11,060
Charge for the year     102 834 404 210 1,550
Disposals     —  (351) (158) (74) (583)
Exchange adjustment     4 282 176 56 518
At 31 March 2009     665 8,056 3,336 488 12,545
Net book value         
At 31 March 2007     2,725 902 730 395 4,752
At 31 March 2008     2,650 1,193 1,046 514 5,403
At 31 March 2009     2,696 1,382 3,349 669 8,096
The net book value of computer equipment includes an amount of £nil (2008 – £27 ,000) in respect of assets held under finance leases. 56 AVEVA Group plc Annual report 2009 Financial statements – Group
17 Investments
At 31 March 2009 the Group had the following investments, which are held by AVEVA Solutions Limited unless stated and all of which have been included 
in the consolidation:
  Country of  Description and proportion of 
  incorporation or registration Principal activity shares and voting rights held
AVEVA Solutions Limited* Great Britain Software development and marketing 100% ordinary shares of £1 each
AVEVA Inc USA Software marketing 100% common stock of US$1 each
AVEVA GmbH Germany Software marketing 100% ordinary shares of €25,565 each
AVEVA SA France Software marketing 100% ordinary shares of €30 each 
AVEVA East Asia Limited Hong Kong Software marketing 100% ordinary shares of HK$1 each
Cadcentre Property Limited Great Britain Holding property 100% ordinary shares of £1 each
Cadcentre Pension Trustee Limited Great Britain Trustee company 100% ordinary shares of £1 each
AVEVA Engineering IT Limited Great Britain Dormant 100% ordinary shares of £1 each
AVEVA AS Norway Training and consultancy 100% ordinary shares of NOK 500 each
AVEVA KK Japan Software marketing 100% ordinary shares 
    of 50,000 Yen each
AVEVA Sendirian Berhad** Malaysia Software marketing 49% ordinary shares of MYR1 each
AVEVA Asia Pacific Sendirian Berhad Malaysia Software marketing 100% ordinary shares of MYR1 each
AVEVA Korea Limited Korea Software marketing 100% ordinary shares 
    of KRW 500,000 each 
AVEVA Managed Services Limited Great Britain Dormant 100% ordinary shares of £1 each
Cadcentre Limited* Great Britain Dormant 100% ordinary shares of £1 each
AVEVA Consulting Limited* Great Britain Dormant 100% ordinary shares of £1 each
AVEVA Information Technology India Private Limited India Software marketing 100% ordinary shares of 10 Rupees each
AVEVA Limited Great Britain Dormant 100% ordinary shares of £1 each
Cadcentre Engineering IT Limited Great Britain Dormant 100% ordinary shares of £1 each
AVEVA Pty Limited Australia Software marketing 100% ordinary shares of AUD$1 each
AVEVA AB Sweden Software development and marketing 100% of ordinary shares of SEK 10 each
Tribon Solutions (UK) Limited*** Great Britain Dormant 100% of ordinary shares of £1 each
AVEVA Pte Limited*** Singapore Software marketing 100% of ordinary shares of SGD 10 each
Tribon dot.com Sweden AB*** Sweden Dormant 100% of ordinary shares of SEK 100 each
AVEVA (Shanghai) Consultancy Co Limited*** China Services and training 100% of issued share capital
AVEVA Software and Services S.A. de C.V. Mexico Software marketing 100% of ordinary shares of US$50 each
AVEVA Limited Liability Company Russia Software marketing 100% of ordinary shares
AVEVA de Mexico S. D.E. R.L. de C.V. Mexico Provision of staff 100% of ordinary shares of MXP 1 each
iDesign Office Pty Limited**** Australia Software marketing and development 100% of ordinary shares of AUD$ 1 each
AVEVA do Brasil Informática Ltda Brazil Software marketing 100% of ordinary shares of BRL 1 each
* Held by AVEVA Group plc.
**  AVEVA Sendirian Berhad has been consolidated on the basis that the Group exercises control over its financial and operating policies under the terms of the shareholders’ agreement.
*** Held by AVEVA AB.
**** Held by AVEVA Pty Ltd.
18 Trade and other receivables 
         2009 2008 
         £000 £000
Current         
Amounts falling due within one year:         
Trade receivables        54,201 40,804
Prepayments and other receivables        2,386 2,277
Accrued income        181 103
         56,768 43,184
Trade receivables are non‑interest bearing and generally on terms of between 30 and 90 days. The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade 
and other receivables approximates their fair value.
         2009 2008 
         £000 £000
Non‑current         
Prepayments and other receivables        804 737
Non‑current prepayments and other receivables consist of rental deposits for operating leases.
nOtes tO the COnsOliDateD finanCial statements  
continued financial statements corporate governance business review 
57 AVEVA Group plc Annual report 2009
overview
Financial statements – Group
18 Trade and other receivables continued
As at 31 March 2009 the provision for impairment of receivables was £4,823,000 (2008 – £1,964,000) and an analysis of the movements during 
the year was as follows:
          £000
At 1 April 2007         3,680
Charge for the year, net of amounts reversed         (1,914)
Utilised         (3)
Exchange adjustment         201
As at 31 March 2008         1,964
Charge for the year, net of amounts reversed         3,523
Utilised         (853)
Exchange adjustment         189
As at 31 March 2009         4,823
As at 31 March, the ageing analysis of trade receivables (net of provision for impairment) was as follows:
 Past due not impaired
      Neither past     
      due nor Less than Four to Eight to  More than 
     Total impaired four months eight months twelve months twelve months 
     £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
2009    54,201 29,457 20,070 4,361 313 — 
2008    40,804 19,829 16,764 3,434 306 471
19 Cash and cash equivalents
         2009 2008 
         £000 £000
Cash at bank and in hand        38,491 32,467
Short‑term deposits        87 ,673 50,382
Net cash and cash equivalents per cash flow        126,164 82,849
Short‑term deposits are made for varying periods of between one day and three months, depending on the immediate cash requirements of the Group, 
and earn interest at the respective short‑term deposit rates. The fair value of cash and short‑term deposits is £126,164,000 (2008 – £82,849,000).
20 Trade and other payables 
         2009 2008 
         £000 £000
Current         
Trade payables        2,583 1,795
Social security, employee taxes and sales taxes        4,490 4,411
Other payables        197 26
Accruals        18,241 18,944
Deferred income        31,087 20,047
         56,598 45,223
Trade payables are non‑interest bearing and are normally settled on terms of between 30 and 60 days. Social security, employee taxes and sales taxes 
are non‑interest bearing and are normally settled on terms of between 19 and 30 days. The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and 
other payables approximates their fair value. 58 AVEVA Group plc Annual report 2009 Financial statements – Group
21 Financial liabilities
         2009 2008 
         £000 £000
Current          
Fair value of forward contracts        4,643 906
Current obligations under finance leases         —  142
         4,643 1,048
Borrowing facilities
At 31 March 2009 the Group had no committed UK bank overdraft or loan facility. At 31 March 2008 the Group had a committed UK borrowing overdraft 
facility of £3,000,000 of which £nil had been drawn down. The Group had right of offset against cash balances held. All conditions precedent in respect 
of the overdraft had been met. 
In addition, in both years, the Group had a committed overdraft facility of SEK 10,000,000 (£845,000) (2008 – SEK 30,000,000 (£2,200,000)) 
of which £nil (2008 – £nil) had been drawn down.
The bank overdraft is secured by a floating charge over certain of the Group’s assets.
22 Obligations under leases 
The Group uses finance leases to acquire computer equipment and certain other assets.
Future minimum lease payments under finance leases are as follows:
         2009 2008 
         £000 £000
Future minimum payments due:         
Not later than one year        —  146
After one year but not more than five years        —  —
Less: finance charges allocated to future periods        —  (4)
         —  142
The present value of minimum lease payments is analysed as follows:
Not later than one year        —  142
After one year but not more than five years        —  —
         —  142
At 31 March 2009 the Group had the following future minimum rentals payable under non‑cancellable operating leases as follows:
 2009  2008
        
       Land and Plant and Land and Plant and  
       buildings machinery buildings machinery 
       £000 £000 £000 £000
Not later than one year      2,911 441 1,078 199
After one but not more than five years      5,177 776 1,879 791
Expiry in more than five years      21 —  328 —
       8,109 1,217 3,285 990
The Group has entered into commercial leases on certain properties, motor vehicles and items of equipment. These leases have a duration of between 
one and five years. Certain property leases contain an option for renewal.
23 Financial risk management
The Group’s principal financial instruments comprise cash and short‑term deposits, bank overdrafts, finance leases and forward foreign exchange contracts. 
The Group has various other financial assets and liabilities such as trade receivables and trade payables, which arise directly from its operations.
The Group also enters into forward currency contracts to manage currency risks arising from the Group’s operations.
It is, and has been, throughout the period under review, the Group’s policy that no trading in financial instruments shall be undertaken.
The main risks arising from the Group’s financial instruments are market risk, credit risk and liquidity risk. The Board reviews and agrees policies 
for managing such risks on a regular basis as summarised below:
a) Market risk
Market risk is the risk that changes in market prices, such as foreign exchange rates and interest rates, will affect the Group’s income or the value 
of its holding of financial instruments. The objective of market risk management is to manage and control market risk exposures within acceptable 
parameters, whilst optimising the return on risk.
nOtes tO the COnsOliDateD finanCial statements 
continued financial statements corporate governance business review 
59 AVEVA Group plc Annual report 2009
overview
Financial statements – Group
23 Financial risk management continued
a) Market risk continued
Interest rate risk
The Group holds net funds, and hence its interest rate risk is associated with short‑term cash deposits. The Group’s overall objective with respect 
to holding these deposits is to maintain a balance between accessibility of funds and competitive rates of return. In practice this has meant that 
no deposits have been made with a maturity date greater than three months in the course of the year.
For the presentation of market risks, IFRS 7 requires sensitivity analyses that show the effects of hypothetical changes of relevant risk variables 
on profit or loss and shareholders’ equity. The Group is exposed to fluctuations in interest rates on its cash and cash equivalents. The Group does 
not have any significant borrowings. The impact is determined by applying sensitised interest rates to the cash and cash equivalents balances.
A 1% decrease in the Sterling and US dollar interest rate would have reduced interest income by approximately £1,033,000 (2008 – £551,000) 
and profit after tax by £738,000 (2008 – £386,000).
Foreign currency risk
Foreign currency risk arises from the Group undertaking a significant number of foreign currency transactions in the course of operations. 
These exposures arise from sales by business units in currencies other than the Group’s functional currency of Sterling. The majority of costs are 
denominated in the functional currency of the business unit. The main exposures relate to the US dollar and Euro reflecting the fact that a significant 
proportion of the Group’s revenue and cash receipts are denominated in these currencies whilst a large proportion of its costs, such as Research and 
Development, are settled in Sterling and Swedish Krona.
The Group reduces these exchange risks, where possible, by using currency exchange contracts and currency options for the sale of US dollar and Euro 
as appropriate. The Group enters into specific forward foreign exchange contracts for individually significant revenue contracts when the timing of 
forecast cash flows is reasonably certain. In addition, the Group enters into forward foreign exchange contracts to sell US dollars and Euro to match 
forecast cash flows arising from its recurring revenue base. These are renewed on a revolving basis as required. At 31 March 2009, the Group had 
outstanding currency exchange contracts to sell $23.5 million (2008 – $13.5 million) and €15.2 million (2008 – €11 million). In addition, the Group 
utilises option instruments which have various provisions that, depending on the spot rate at maturity, give either the Group or the counterparty 
the option to exercise. At 31 March 2009, the Group had outstanding currency options under which the Group may, under certain circumstances, 
be required to sell up to $10.5 million (2008 – $19.5 million) and €nil (2008 – €13 million) in exchange for Sterling. 
The Group has not applied hedge accounting during the current year and therefore all gains and losses on forward exchange contracts have been 
included in the Consolidated income statement.
The Group has investments in foreign operations whose net assets are exposed to currency translation risk. There is currently no requirement for 
borrowings and therefore this risk is not managed through borrowings denominated in the relevant foreign currencies. Gains and losses arising 
from these structural currency exposures are recognised in the Consolidated statement of recognised income and expense.
Foreign currency sensitivity analysis
For the presentation of market risks, IFRS 7 requires sensitivity analyses that show the effects of hypothetical changes in the foreign exchange 
rates in profit or loss or shareholder’s equity. The impact is determined by applying the sensitised foreign exchange rate to the monetary assets 
and liabilities at the balance sheet date.
Currency risks as defined by IFRS 7 arise on account of financial instruments being denominated in a currency that is not the functional currency and 
being of a monetary nature; differences resulting from the translation of financial statements into the Group’s presentation currency are not taken 
into consideration.
A 10% change in the US dollar against Sterling, Euro against Sterling and Swedish Krona against Sterling would have impacted equity and profit after 
tax by the amounts shown below as at the reporting date shown. In management’s opinion, this is a reasonably possible change given current market 
conditions. This analysis assumes that all other variables, in particular interest rates and other foreign currencies, remain constant. The analysis is 
performed on the same basis for 2007/08.
        Increase/ Profit/  
        (decrease) in (loss) Equity 
31 March 2009       average rate £000 £000
US dollar       10% 86 86
        (10%) (94) (94)
Euro       10% 865 865
        (10%) (951) (951)
Swedish Krona       10% 861 861
        (10%) (948) (948)
        Increase/ Profit/  
        (decrease) in (loss) Equity 
31 March 2008       average rate £000 £000
US dollar       5% (498) (498)
        (5%) 237 237
Euro       5% (367) (367)
        (5%) (1,279) (1,279)
Swedish Krona       5% 881 881
        (5%) (925) (925)
The movement in profit for the period is mainly attributable to the Group’s exposure to exchange movements in US dollar, Swedish Krona and Euro 
denominated monetary assets and liabilities. 60 AVEVA Group plc Annual report 2009 Financial statements – Group
23 Financial risk management continued
b) Credit risk
The Group’s principal financial assets are cash equivalents, trade and other receivables. Counterparties for deposits are governed by the Treasury policy 
which has been approved by the Board and are limited to financial institutions which have a high credit rating assigned by international credit rating 
agencies. The amount of exposure to any individual counterparty is subject to a limit as set out in the Group’s treasury policy. The Group trades only 
with recognised, creditworthy third parties and provides credit to customers in the normal course of business. The amounts presented in the Balance 
sheet are net of allowances for doubtful receivables. An allowance for impairment is made where there is an identified loss event, which, based on 
previous experience, is evidence of a reduction in the recoverability of the cash flows. The Group has credit control functions to monitor receivable 
balances on an ongoing basis. Credit checks are performed before credit is granted to new customers. The Group has no significant concentration 
of credit risk, with exposure spread over a large number of customers. The maximum exposure to credit risk is represented by the carrying amount 
of each financial asset. The exposure to credit risk is mitigated where necessary by either letters of credit or payments in advance.
The Group does not require collateral in respect of its financial assets.
Disclosures relating to the credit associated with trade receivables are in note 18.
c) Liquidity risk
The Group manages liquidity risk by maintaining adequate cash reserves and by continuously monitoring forecast and actual cash flows and matching 
the maturity of financial assets and liabilities. The Group has no significant borrowings from third parties and therefore liquidity risk is not considered 
a significant risk at this time.
The table below analyses the Group’s financial liabilities, which will be settled on a net basis, into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining 
period at the Balance sheet to the contractual maturity date. The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows:
          Between  
       On Less than six months Greater than 
        demand six months and one year one year 
       £000 £000 £000 £000
As at 31 March 2009         
Trade and other payables      2,583 22,927 —  — 
As at 31 March 2008         
Trade and other payables      1,795 23,381 — —
Finance leases      — 73 73 —
       1,795 23,454 73 —
The table below analyses the Group’s forward foreign exchange contracts, which will be settled on a gross basis, into relevant maturity groupings 
based on the remaining period at the Balance sheet to the contractual maturity date. The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual 
undiscounted cash flows:
        Less than Between Between 
        three  three months six months 
        months  and six months and one year 
        000 000 000
As at 31 March 2009         
Forward foreign exchange contracts (Euro)         
Outflow       €4,500 €4,500 €6,250
Inflow       £3,920 £3,814 £5,505
Forward foreign exchange contracts (US dollar)         
Outflow       $4,000 $6,000 $13,500
Inflow       £2,138 £3,314 £9,039
Forward foreign exchange options (US dollar)         
Outflow       $9,000 $1,500 —
Inflow       £4,780 £904 —
As at 31 March 2008         
Forward foreign exchange contracts (Euro)         
Outflow       €3,000 €3,000 €5,000
Inflow       £2,329 £2,240 £3,746
Forward foreign exchange options (Euro)         
Outflow       €3,000 €3,000 €7 ,000
Inflow       £2,284 £2,303 £5,361
Forward foreign exchange contracts (US dollar)         
Outflow       — $5,000 $8,500
Inflow       — £2,557 £4,349
Forward foreign exchange options (US dollar)         
Outflow       $6,000 $4,500 $9,000
Inflow       £3,023 £2,295 £4,591
nOtes tO the COnsOliDateD finanCial statements 
continued financial statements corporate governance business review 
61 AVEVA Group plc Annual report 2009
overview
Financial statements – Group
23 Financial risk management continued
d) Interest rate profile of financial assets and liabilities
The interest rate profile of the financial assets and liabilities of the Group as at 31 March is as follows:
Year ended 31 March 2009
       Within One to two Two to three  
       one year  years  years  Total 
Fixed rate       £000  £000  £000  £000
Cash and short‑term deposits      82,822 —  —  82,822 
       Within One to two Two to three  
       one year  years  years  Total 
Floating rate      £000  £000  £000  £000
Cash and short‑term deposits      43,342 —  —  43,342 
Year ended 31 March 2008
        Within One to two Two to three  
        one year  years  years  Total 
Fixed rate      £000 £000 £000 £000
Obligations under finance leases      (142) — — (142)
Cash and short‑term deposits      50,736 — — 50,736
        Within One to two Two to three  
       one year  years  years  Total 
Floating rate       £000  £000  £000  £000
Cash and short‑term deposits      32,113 — — 32,113
e) Fair values
The book values of the Group’s financial assets and liabilities consist of bank and cash balances of £126,164,000 (2008 – £82,849,000), finance leases 
of £nil (2008 – £142,000) and forward foreign exchange contracts of £4,643,000 (2008 – £906,000). 
The carrying amounts of financial assets and liabilities in the Group’s financial statements approximates their fair values.
f) Capital management
The Group’s policy is to maintain a strong capital base so as to maintain investor market, creditor, customer and employee confidence and to sustain 
future development of the business. The capital structure of the Group consists of equity attributable to the equity holders of AVEVA Group plc comprising 
of issued share capital, other reserves and retained earnings.
To maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the dividend payment to shareholders, return capital to shareholders or issue new 
shares. No changes were made in the objectives, policies or processes during the years ended 31 March 2008 or 2009.
The Board monitors the capital structure on a regular basis and determines the level of annual dividend. The Group is not exposed to any externally 
imposed capital requirements.
24 Deferred tax
The following are the major deferred tax liabilities and assets recognised by the Group and the movements thereon during the current and preceding year:
    Accelerated   Retirement     
    capital  Land and benefit Intangible Share   
    allowances buildings* obligations assets options Other Total 
     £000  £000  £000  £000 £000 £000  £000
At 1 April 2008   (106) (220) 189 (2,502) 1,395 1,922 678
(Charge)/credit to Income statement   44 7 (159) 507 194 1,986 2,579
(Charge)/credit to equity   —  — 2,105 (220) (1,375) — 510
Exchange adjustment   4  —  — — — 154 158
At 31 March 2009   (58) (213) 2,135 (2,215) 214 4,062 3,925
* A deferred tax liability arises on the difference between the tax base and the accounting base of a long leasehold property that was acquired in 1994.
Other deferred tax assets consist principally of deferred tax on bad debt provision, forward foreign exchange contracts, staff bonus accrual and timing 
differences in respect of revenue recognition. 62 AVEVA Group plc Annual report 2009 Financial statements – Group
24 Deferred tax continued
Certain deferred tax assets and liabilities have been offset. The following is the analysis of the deferred tax balances (after offset) for financial 
reporting purposes:
         2009 2008 
         £000 £000
Deferred tax liabilities        (1,589) (2,065)
Deferred tax assets        5,514 2,743
         3,925 678
At the Balance sheet date, the Group has unused tax losses of £3,810,000 (2008 – £1,006,000) available for offset against future profits. Of the total 
deferred tax asset of £1,287 ,000 (2008 – £334,000), £580,000 (2008 – £56,000) has been recognised and is included in ‘other’ above. No deferred tax 
asset has been recognised in respect of the balance due to the unpredictability of future profit streams, these losses may be carried forward indefinitely.
At the Balance sheet date, the aggregate amount of temporary differences associated with undistributed earnings of overseas subsidiaries for which 
deferred tax liabilities have not been recognised was approximately £38,800,000 (2008 – £27 ,500,000). No liability has been recognised in respect 
of these differences because the Group is in a position to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences and it is probable that such 
differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
There are no income tax consequences attaching to the payment of dividends by AVEVA Group plc to its shareholders.
25 Retirement benefit obligations
The movement on the provision for retirement benefit obligations was as follows:
       UK  German South  
       defined defined Korean  
       benefit benefit severance  
       scheme schemes pay Total 
       £000 £000 £000 £000
At 31 March 2007      4,073 530 340 4,943
Current service cost      1,467 30 154 1,651
Interest on pension scheme liabilities      1,930 25 — 1,955
Expected return on pension scheme assets      (2,013) — — (2,013)
Actuarial gain      (3,363) (64) — (3,427)
Employer contributions       (1,425) (60) (77) (1,562)
Exchange adjustment      — 78 (33) 45
At 31 March 2008      669 539 384 1,592
Current service cost      1,093 31 188 1,312
Interest on pension scheme liabilities      2,251 33 —  2,284
Expected return on pension scheme assets      (2,031) —  —  (2,031)
Actuarial loss      7 ,517 6 —  7 ,523
Employer contributions       (1,877) (76) (60) (2,013)
Exchange adjustment      —  91 6 97
At 31 March 2009      7 ,622 624 518 8,764
a) UK defined benefit scheme
The Group operates a UK defined benefit pension plan providing benefits based on final pensionable pay which is funded. This scheme was closed 
to new employees on 30 September 2002 (with the option of re‑opening if required) and was converted to a Career Average Revalued Earnings basis 
on 30 September 2004. Pensions are payable to dependants on death in retirement and a lump sum is payable if death occurs in service. There is an 
insurance policy in place which covers this liability. Administration on behalf of the members is governed by a Trust Deed, and the funds are held 
and managed by professional investment managers who are independent of the Group.
Contributions to the scheme are made in accordance with advice from an independent professionally qualified actuary, BDO Stoy Hayward Investment 
Management Limited, at rates which are calculated to be sufficient to meet the future liabilities of the scheme using the projected unit credit method. 
The employees’ contributions are fixed as a percentage of salary, the balance being made up by the employer. Scheme assets are stated at their market 
values at the respective Balance sheet dates.
nOtes tO the COnsO liDateD finanCial statements  
continued financial statements corporate governance business review 
63 AVEVA Group plc Annual report 2009
overview
Financial statements – Group
25 Retirement benefit obligations continued
a) UK defined benefit scheme continued
To develop the expected long term rate of return on assets assumption, the Company considered the current level of expected returns on risk‑free 
investments (primarily government bonds), the historical level of the risk premium associated with the other asset classes in which the portfolio 
is invested and the expectations for future returns of each asset class. 
The principal assumptions used in determining the pension valuation were as follows:
         2009 2008 
         % %
Main assumptions:         
Rate of salary increases        5.10 5.50
Rate of increase of pensions in payment        3.00 3.20
Rate of increase of pensions in deferment        3.10 3.50
Discount rate        6.60 6.60
Inflation assumption        3.10 3.20
Expected rate of return on scheme assets:         
Equities        7. 1 5 6.65
Bonds        3.70 3.70
Other        0.50 4.25
For the years ended 31 March 2009 and 2008, the following weighted average life expectancy at age 65 for mortality has been used:
         2009 2008 
         Years Years
Male pensioners        23.8 23.7
Female pensioners        26.4 26.3
Non‑retired males        26.7 26.6
Non‑retired females        28.5 28.4
Member contributions were 7.5% (2008 – 7.5%) of pensionable salary and Company contributions were £1,877,000 (2008 – £1,425,000). 
The total contributions in 2010 are expected to be approximately £2,387,000.
The assumed discount rate, salary increases and mortality all have a significant effect on the IAS 19 accounting valuation. The following table 
shows the sensitivity of the valuation to changes in these assumptions:
          Impact on 
          deficit 
          increase/ 
          (decrease) 
          £m
0.25 percentage point increase to:         
– discount rate         (1,475)
– inflation (including pension increases linked to inflation)        845
Additional one year increase to life expectancy         586
The assets and liabilities of the scheme at 31 March 2009 and 2008 were as follows:
          2009 2008 
         £000 £000
Equities        18,379 25,478
Bonds        6,976 6,057
Other        3,336 1,396
Total fair value of assets        28,691 32,931
Present value of scheme liabilities        (36,313) (33,600)
Net pension liability         (7 ,622) (669) 64 AVEVA Group plc Annual report 2009 Financial statements – Group
25 Retirement benefit obligations continued
a) UK defined benefit scheme continued
The amounts recognised in the Consolidated income statement and Statement of recognised income and expense for the year are analysed as follows:
          2009 2008 
         £000 £000
Recognised in the Consolidated income statement        
Current service cost         
Cost of sales        715 960
Selling and distribution costs        196 390
Administrative expenses        182 117
Total operating charge        1,093 1,467
Finance revenue         
Expected return on pension scheme assets        (2,031) (2,013)
Finance costs         
Interest on pension scheme liabilities        2,251 1,930
Taken to Consolidated statement of recognised income and expense       
Actual return on pension scheme assets        (6,012) (780)
Less: expected return on pension scheme assets        (2,031) (2,013)
         (8,043) (2,793)
Changes in assumptions and experience adjustments on liabilities      526 6,156
Actuarial (loss)/gain recognised in Consolidated statement of recognised income and expense    (7 ,517) 3,363
Analysis of movements in the present value of the defined benefit pension obligations during the year are analysed as follows:
          2009 2008 
         £000 £000
At 1 April         33,600 36,368
Current service costs         1,093 1,467
Contributions by employees        469 463
Interest on pension scheme liabilities        2,251 1,930
Benefits paid        (551) (435)
Premiums paid        (23) (37)
Actuarial gain        (526) (6,156)
At 31 March        36,313 33,600
The above defined benefit obligation arises from a plan that is wholly funded.
Changes in the fair value of plan assets are as follows:
          2009 2008 
         £000 £000
At 1 April        32,931 32,295
Expected return        2,031 2,013
Contributions by employer        1,877 1,425
Contributions by employees        469 463
Benefits paid        (551) (435)
Premiums paid        (23) (37)
Actuarial loss        (8,043) (2,793)
At 31 March        28,691 32,931
nOtes tO the COnsOliDateD finanCial statements 
continued financial statements corporate governance business review 
65 AVEVA Group plc Annual report 2009
overview
Financial statements – Group
25 Retirement benefit obligations continued
a) UK defined benefit scheme continued
The history of experience adjustments are as follows:
      2009  2008 2007 2006 2005 
      £000  £000 £000 £000 £000
Fair value of scheme assets      28,691 32,931 32,295 27 ,767 20,612
Present value of defined benefit obligations     (36,313) (33,600) (36,368) (31,227) (25,484)
Deficit in the scheme     (7 ,622) (669) (4,073) (3,460) (4,872)
Experience adjustments on scheme liabilities     492  56 — — 800
Experience adjustments on scheme assets      (8,043) (2,793) (534) 4,513 700
The cumulative amount of actuarial gains and losses since 1 April 2004 recognised directly within equity was a loss of £4,630,000 (2008 – gain of £2,887 ,000). 
The Directors are unable to determine how much of the pension scheme deficit recognised on transition to IFRSs and taken directly to equity of £8,500,000 
in the Group is attributable to actuarial gains and losses since inception of the pension schemes. Consequently, the Directors are unable to determine 
the amount of actuarial gains and losses that would have been recognised in the Consolidated statement of recognised income and expense before 
1 April 2004.
b) German defined benefit schemes
There are two defined benefit pension schemes in AVEVA GmbH. Tribon Solutions GmbH operated an unfunded defined benefit scheme that provides 
benefits to three deferred members following an acquisition in 1992. No current employees participate in the scheme and it is closed to new applicants. 
Benefit payments are made as they fall due. The scheme was transferred to AVEVA GmbH when Tribon Solutions GmbH and AVEVA GmbH merged in 2005.
In addition, AVEVA GmbH operates a defined benefit pension scheme for one employee. This scheme is closed to new members. 
Details of the actuarial assumptions used to value these schemes in accordance with IAS 19 are set out below: 
       2009  2008
Rate of increase of pension in payment      1.75%–2.50% 0%
Discount rate      5.50%–6.20% 4.75%–5.50%
Mortality      14 years 14 years
Rate of salary increases      0%–2.50% 2.50%
The retirement age for the Tribon Solutions GmbH and AVEVA GmbH schemes was 60 and 63 years of age respectively (2008 – 60 and 63 years of age).
Analysis of movements in the present value of the defined benefit pension obligations during the year are set out below:
         2009  2008 
         £000  £000
At 1 April        539 530
Current service cost (included in selling and distribution costs)      31 30
Interest on pension scheme liabilities (included in finance costs)      33 25
Benefits paid        (76) (60)
Actuarial loss (included in Consolidated statement of recognised income and expense)     6 (64)
Exchange adjustment        91 78
At 31 March        624 539
The contributions in 2010 are expected to be approximately £70,000.
c) South Korean severance pay
South Korean employees are entitled to a lump sum on severance of their employment equal to one month’s salary for each year of service. 
An IAS 19 valuation of the liability has been carried out using the following assumptions:
         2009  2008 
         % %
Rate of salary increases        7.0 0 5.00
Discount rate        4.90 5.00
Inflation assumption        4.40 4.70
The retirement age for AVEVA Korea Limited employees is 60 years of age (2008 – 60 years of age).  66 AVEVA Group plc Annual report 2009 Financial statements – Group
25 Retirement benefit obligations continued
c) South Korean severance pay continued
Analysis of movements in the present value of the obligation during the year are set out below:
          2009 2008 
         £000 £000
At 1 April        384 340
Current service cost (included in selling and distribution costs)      188 154
Payment of benefits        (60) (77)
Exchange adjustment        6 (33)
At 31 March        518 384
d) Other retirement schemes
All Swedish employees employed by AVEVA AB aged 28 or over are members of the ‘ITP’, an industry scheme for salaried employees which provides 
benefits in addition to the state pension arrangements. The ITP scheme is managed by Alecta, a Swedish insurance company. It is a multi‑employer 
defined benefit scheme with a supplementary defined contribution component. AVEVA AB pays monthly premiums to the insurers which vary by age, 
service and salary of the employee. AVEVA AB is unable to identify its share of the underlying assets and liabilities in the scheme on a fair and reasonable 
basis because this information is not provided by the scheme and therefore has accounted for the scheme as if it was a defined contribution pension 
scheme. At 31 March 2009, Alecta’s surplus in the form of collective funding level was 122% (2008 – 141%) which was calculated in accordance with 
the Swedish Annual Accounts Act for Insurance Companies. The total cost charged to income was £545,000 (2008 – £570,000).
e) Defined contribution schemes
The Group operates defined contribution retirement schemes for certain UK, US, German, French, Norwegian and Asian employees. The assets of the 
schemes are held separately from those of the Group. The total cost charged to income of £2,002,000 (2008 – £1,507 ,000) represents contributions 
payable to these schemes by the Group at the rates specified in the rules of the plans.
26 Share‑based payment plans
The Group operates four equity‑settled share option schemes, the AVEVA Group plc Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP); the AVEVA Group plc Employee 
and Executive Share Option Scheme (Executive Scheme and Employee Scheme respectively); and the AVEVA Group plc Executive Share Option Scheme 2007 
(2007 scheme). The Executive and Employee schemes lapsed in 2006 and no grants have been made under the 2007 scheme which was approved at 
the Annual General Meeting on 12 July 2007. The Group also operates a deferred annual bonus share plan. Details of these plans are set out below.
The following table illustrates the number and weighted average exercise prices (WAEP) of, and movements in, share options for both plans during 
the year:
        2009  2008 
       2009 WAEP 2008 WAEP 
       Number Pence Number Pence
Outstanding at start of year*      488,624 162.06 582,861 160.52
Granted during year      86,481 1.93 59,663 3.33
Forfeited during year      (4,157) 3.33 — —
Exercised during year**      (301,549) 220.26 (153,900) 94.70
Expired during year      (6,000) 159.83 — —
Outstanding at end of year      263,399 45.41 488,624 162.06
Exercisable at end of year      42,764 265.33 94,782 115.25
*  Included within this balance are options over nil (2008 – 67 ,782) shares that have not been recognised in accordance with IFRS 2 as the options were granted prior to 7 November 2002. 
These options have not been subsequently modified and therefore do not need to be accounted for in accordance with IFRS 2.
** The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for the options exercised is £14.78 (2008 – £10.20).
Share options have been granted under both plans to certain employees of the Group and remain outstanding as follows:
       Number Number  
      Share of options of options Exercise 
      option 2009 2008 price 
Date of grant     plan Number Number Pence
12 July 2001     Employee Scheme —  12,050  159.83
12 July 2001     Executive Scheme —  55,732  159.83
1 July 2004     LTIP —  27 ,000  3.33
20 July 2005     Employee Scheme —  11,304 265.33
20 July 2005     Executive Scheme 42,764 244,227 265.33
28 June 2006     LTIP 78,648 78,648 3.33
2 July 2007     LTIP 55,506 59,663 3.33
7 July 2008     LTIP 50,033 — 3.33
15 July 2008     Deferred Share Scheme 36,448 — 0.00
       263,399 488,624 
The weighted average remaining contractual life for the options outstanding at 31 March 2009 is 5.0 years (2008 – 3.3 years).
The average fair value of options granted during the year was £14.13 (2008 – £9.38). In calculating the fair value, the expected life of the options is 
based on historical data and is not necessarily indicative of exercise patterns that may occur. The expected volatility reflects the assumption that the 
historical volatility is indicative of future trends, which may also not necessarily be the actual outcome. 
nOtes tO the COnsOliDateD finanCial statements 
continued financial statements corporate governance business review 
67 AVEVA Group plc Annual report 2009
overview
Financial statements – Group
26 Share‑based payment plans continued
The range of exercise prices for options outstanding at the end of the year was £nil to £2.65 (2008 – £0.03 to £2.65).
The Group recognised total expenses of £940,000 and £315,000 related to equity‑settled share‑based payment transactions in the years ended 
31 March 2009 and 2008 respectively.
Details of the share option plans are as follows:
a) Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP)
The following awards have been made under the LTIP. The exercise price is equal to the nominal value of the underlying shares, which is 3.33 pence. 
Options under the LTIP are normally exercisable in full or in part between the third and tenth anniversaries of the date of grant.
2008/09 awards
On 7 July 2008, a total of 50,033 share options were awarded to the Executive Directors and senior management under the LTIP. The performance 
conditions are based on average growth in earnings per share over the years from 2008/09 to 2010/11. If average EPS growth is greater than 14% 
per annum then all of the shares shall vest. If average earnings per share is less than 10% per annum then none of the shares shall vest. If average 
earnings per share growth is between 10% and 14% per annum then the number of shares that shall vest shall be determined by linear interpolation. 
The fair value of these option awards is measured at grant date using the Black Scholes option pricing model taking into account the terms and 
conditions upon which the instruments were granted. The following table lists the inputs to the model used for the year ended 31 March 2009.
          Year ended 
           31 March 2009
Dividend yield         0.45%
Expected volatility         41.00%
Risk‑free interest rate         4.97%
Expected life of the option         3 years
Weighted average share price         £14.92
Weighted average exercise price         £0.03
2007/08 awards
On 2 July 2007 , a total of 59,663 share options were awarded to the Executive Directors and senior management under the LTIP. This scheme was used 
because the AVEVA Group plc Executive Share Option and Employee Share Option schemes originally introduced in 1996 had expired and the new scheme, 
which was approved by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting held on 12 July 2007 , had not yet been established. The performance conditions 
are based on average growth in earnings per share over the years from 2007/08 to 2009/10. If average earnings per share growth is greater than 11.5% 
per annum then all of the shares shall vest. If average earnings per share growth is less than 9% per annum then none of the shares shall vest. If average 
earnings per share growth is between 9% and 11.5% per annum then the number of shares that shall vest shall be determined by linear interpolation.
The fair value of these option awards is measured at grant date using the Black Scholes option pricing model taking into account the terms and 
conditions upon which the instruments were granted. The following table lists the inputs to the model used for the year ended 31 March 2008.
          Year ended 
          31 March 2008
Dividend yield         0.50%
Expected volatility         31.90%
Risk‑free interest rate         5.75%
Expected life of the option         3 years
Weighted average share price         £9.55
Weighted average exercise price         £0.03
2006/07 awards
On 28 June 2006, a total of 78,648 share options were awarded to the Executive Directors and senior management under the LTIP. These options are 
subject to performance conditions which are based on average growth in earnings per share achieved over the three years from 2006/07 to 2008/09. 
If average earnings per share growth is greater than 15% per annum then all of the shares shall vest. If average earnings per share growth is less than 
7.5% per annum none of the shares shall vest. If average earnings per share growth is between 7.5% and 15% then the number of shares that shall vest 
will be determined by linear interpolation.
The fair value of these option awards is measured at grant date using the Black Scholes option pricing model taking into account the terms and 
conditions upon which the instruments were granted. The following table lists the inputs to the model used for the year ended 31 March 2007:
          Year ended 
          31 March 2007
Dividend yield         0.60%
Expected volatility         31.90%
Risk‑free interest rate         4.89%
Expected life of the option         3 years
Weighted average share price         £3.62
Weighted average exercise price         £0.03 68 AVEVA Group plc Annual report 2009 Financial statements – Group
26 Share‑based payment plans continued
a) Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) continued
2004/05 awards
A total of 90,000 share options were granted under the LTIP to certain senior executives on 1 July 2004. The extent to which the options are exercisable 
will depend on the ranking of the Company in terms of total shareholder return measured against other companies in the London Stock Exchange 
techMARK 100 index. The performance conditions were measured three years from the date of grant and all options vested in full. The contractual 
life of each option granted is seven years and the options become exercisable three years after the date of grant. The options lapse if the option 
holder leaves the employment of the Group with certain specific exceptions.
The fair value of an award of shares under the LTIP has been adjusted to take into account Total Shareholder Return (TSR) as a market‑based performance 
condition, using a pricing model that takes into account expectations about volatility and the correlation of share price returns in the comparator group. 
The model follows similar principles as the Monte Carlo approach and takes into account that TSR vesting and share price performance are not independent. 
The following table lists the inputs to the model used for the year ended 31 March 2005: 
          Year ended 
           31 March 2005
Dividend yield         1.23%
Expected volatility         30.00%
Risk‑free interest rate         5.09%
Expected life of the option         3 years
Weighted average share price         £1.83
Weighted average exercise price         £0.03
b) Employee and executive share option plan
Options have also been granted under the AVEVA Group plc Employee Share Option Scheme and the AVEVA Group plc Executive Share Option Scheme 
(The Employee and Executive Scheme). The exercise price is equal to the market price at the time of the award. Options under this plan are normally 
exercisable in full or in part between the third and seventh anniversaries of the date of grant.
Pre‑2004 awards
All options awarded under the Employee and Executive Scheme were subject to performance conditions, which required earnings per share to 
outperform RPI (utilisation) by a total of 10% over a three year rolling period. The share option rules were established at the time of the Company’s 
initial public offering in 1996 and the performance conditions set were commonly used at that time.
2005/06 awards
On 20 July 2005, a total of 255,531 options were awarded under the Employee and Executive Scheme. The performance conditions required to be 
achieved for the exercise of the option would be that earnings per share in the financial year ending 31 March 2008 would have grown no less than 
5% above the Retail Price Index per annum from that achieved in the financial year ended 31 March 2005.
The fair value of these option awards is measured at grant date using the Black Scholes option pricing model taking into account the terms and 
conditions upon which the instruments were granted. The following table lists the inputs to the model used for the year ended 31 March 2006. 
          Year ended 
          31 March 2006
Dividend yield         0.90%
Expected volatility         33.44%
Risk‑free interest rate         4.21%
Expected life of the option         5 years
Weighted average share price         £2.65
Weighted average exercise price         £2.65
c) Deferred annual bonus share plan
In 2008 the Company established the AVEVA Group Management Bonus Deferred Share Scheme 2008 (the Deferred Share Scheme). Directors and 
senior management participate in this scheme. Subject to the achievement of performance conditions relating to a single financial year, these incentive 
arrangements are intended to reward the recipient partly in cash, and partly in ordinary shares in the Company to be delivered on a deferred basis. 
On 15 July 2008 the AVEVA Group Employee Benefit Trust 2008 awarded 36,448 deferred shares to the Executive Directors and senior management 
in respect of the bonus earned in the year ended 31 March 2008. 
The awards of deferred shares take the form of nil‑cost options exercisable by participants in three equal tranches, one in each of the three years 
following the year in which the award is made. The option may be exercised in the 42‑day period beginning on the announcement of the financial 
results of the Group in each of the three calendar years after that in which the option was granted. The last date of the exercise is the end of the 
42‑day period following the announcement of the financial results of the Group in the third calendar year following that in which the option was 
granted or (if applicable) such later date as the Remuneration Committee may specify. These awards are made solely in respect of performance in the 
financial year immediately prior to their grant. Delivery of the deferred shares is not subject to further performance conditions but each participant 
is required to remain an employee or Director of the Group during the three‑year vesting period in order to receive his deferred shares in full (except 
in the case of death or the occurrence of a takeover, reconstruction or amalgamation, or voluntary winding up of the Company).
nOtes tO the COnsOliDateD finanCial statements 
continued financial statements corporate governance business review 
69 AVEVA Group plc Annual report 2009
overview
Financial statements – Group
26 Share‑based payment plans continued
c) Deferred annual bonus share plan continued
The fair value of these option awards is measured at grant date using the Black Scholes option pricing model taking into account the terms and 
conditions upon which the instruments were granted. The following table lists the inputs to the model used for the year ended 31 March 2009.
          Year ended 
           31 March 2009
Dividend yield         0.45%
Expected volatility         41.00%
Risk‑free interest rate         4.97%
Expected life of the option         3 years
Weighted average share price         £13.53
Weighted average exercise price         £0.00
d) AVEVA Group plc Executive Share Option Scheme 2007
The above scheme was approved by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting in 2007. No awards have yet been made under this scheme and 
performance conditions will be set when awards are made under this scheme. 
27 Share capital
          2009 2008 
         £000 £000
Authorised         
90,000,000 (2008 – 90,000,000) ordinary shares of 3.33 pence (2008 – 3.33 pence) each    3,000 3,000
Allotted, called‑up and fully paid         
67 ,818,868 (2008 – 67 ,517 ,319) ordinary shares of 3.33 pence (2008 – 3.33 pence) each    2,260 2,250
Details of the shares issued during the year and the prior year were as follows:
       2009 2009 2008 2008 
       Number £000 Number £000
At 1 April      67 ,517 ,319 2,250 67 ,363,419 2,245
Exercise of share options      301,549 10 153,900 5
At 31 March      67 ,818,868 2,260 67 ,517 ,319  2,250
Year ended 31 March 2009
       Number Nominal Share  
       of shares value premium Market 
       2009 2009 2009 price 
Date of issue       Number  £  £  £
4 June 2008      5,250 175 8,215 12.85
5 June 2008      55,732 1,858 87 ,202 14.00
11 July 2008      800 27 1,252 13.21
4 August 2008      11,304 377 29,613 15.68
4 August 2008      28,647 955 75,046 15.68
4 August 2008      64,071 2,136 167 ,845 15.68
4 August 2008      98,745 3,292 258,679 15.68
18 August 2008      27 ,000 900 — 13.48
12 December 2008      10,000 333 26,200 5.52
       301,549 10,053 654,052 
Year ended 31 March 2008
       Number Nominal Share   
       of shares  value premium Market  
       2008  2008 2008 price 
Date of issue      Number £ £ £
19 April 2007      3,600 120 3,990 8.44
16 July 2007      37 ,700 1,257 58,999 9.89
26 November 2007      40,000 1,333 62,599 9.57
14 December 2007      3,600 120 5,634 9.49
2 February 2008      3,000 100 4,695 10.18
19 February 2008      27 ,000 900 —  10.74
3 March 2008      3,000 100 4,695 9.60
28 March 2008      36,000 1,200 —  11.10
       153,900 5,130 140,612  70 AVEVA Group plc Annual report 2009 Financial statements – Group
28 Reconciliation of movements in equity
 Other reserves
      Cumulative     
   Share Share Merger translation Treasury  Retained Total 
   capital premium reserve adjustments shares Total earnings equity 
   £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
At 1 April 2007  2,245 26,381 3,921 (1,176) — 2,745 33,941 65,312
Total recognised income and expense for the year — — — 5,782 — 5,782 37 ,284 43,066
Issue of share capital  5 141 — — — — — 146
Share‑based payments  — — — — — — 315 315
Equity dividends  — — — — — — (3,093) (3,093)
At 31 March 2008  2,250 26,522 3,921 4,606 — 8,527 68,447 105,746
Total recognised income and expense for the year — — — 5,503 — 5,503 36,091 41,594
Issue of share capital  10 654 — — — — —  664
Share‑based payments  — — — — — — 940 940
Investment in own shares  — — — — (495) (495) —  (495)
Equity dividends  — — — — — — (5,318) (5,318)
At 31 March 2009  2,260 27 ,176 3,921 10,109 (495) 13,535 100,160 143,131
a) Cumulative translation adjustment reserve
The cumulative translation adjustment reserve is used to record exchange differences which arose from 1 April 2004 from the translation of the 
financial statements of foreign subsidiaries.
b) Merger reserve
This represents the difference between the fair value and the nominal value of shares issued in connection with the acquisition of AVEVA AB in 2004.
c) Treasury shares
Treasury shares reserve represents the cost of the shares in AVEVA Group plc purchased in the open market and held by the AVEVA Group Employee 
Benefit Trust 2008 to satisfy deferred shares under the Group’s deferred annual bonus share plan. On 15 July 2008, the Trust acquired 36,448 ordinary 
shares in the Company at a price of £13.48 for total consideration of £495,000 and held these shares at 31 March 2009.
29 Related party transactions
Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in this note.
Remuneration of key management personnel
The remuneration of the Directors, who are the key management personnel of the Group, is set out below in aggregate for each of the categories specified 
in IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures. In addition to their salaries, the Group also provides non‑cash benefits to Directors and contribute to a defined benefit 
pension plan on their behalf. The Directors also participate in the Group’s share option schemes and deferred annual bonus share plan. Further information 
about the remuneration of individual Directors is provided in the audited part of the Directors’ remuneration report on pages 36 and 37 .
         2009 2008 
         £000 £000*
Short‑term employee benefits        1,077 1,069
Share‑based payments        359 146
         1,436 1,215
*  Short‑term employee benefits have been restated to reflect only cash bonuses paid in respect of the period. Previously the amounts disclosed in 2008 included £255,000 that was subsequently 
agreed to be paid in awards of deferred shares. 
nOtes tO the COnsOliDateD finanCial statements  
continued financial statements corporate governance business review 
71 AVEVA Group plc Annual report 2009
overview
Financial statements – Group
30 Acquisition of subsidiary
On 24 March 2009, the Group acquired 100% of the issued share capital of iDesign Office Pty Limited for cash consideration of £1.7 million. 
The Company is involved in software development and marketing of plant instrumentation software products. This transaction has been accounted 
for by the purchase method of accounting.
         Book Fair 
         value value 
         £000 £000
Net assets acquired         
Property, plant and equipment        12 12
Intangible assets – developed technology        — 1,622
Trade and other receivables        54 54
Cash and cash equivalents        14 14
Trade and other payables        (19) (19)
Current tax liabilities        (5) (5)
         56 1,678
Total consideration         
Satisfied by:         
Cash         1,634
Directly attributable costs         44
          1,678
Net cash outflow arising on acquisition         
Cash consideration         1,678
Cash and cash equivalents acquired         (14)
          1,664
iDesign Office Pty Limited did not make any material contribution to revenue or to profit before tax for the period between the date of acquisition 
and the balance sheet date.
If the acquisition of iDesign Office Pty Limited had been completed on the first day of the financial year, it would not have made a material difference 
to the Group’s results. The acquisition also did not make a material contribution to the Group’s post‑acquisition net operating cash flows, tax 
or capital expenditure. 72 AVEVA Group plc Annual report 2009 Financial statements – Company
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities in relation to the financial statements
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year. Under that law the Directors have elected to prepare the 
financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice (United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law). 
The financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for 
that period. In preparing those financial statements, the Directors are required to:
•  select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
•  make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
•  state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial 
statements; and
•  prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the 
Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985. They are also responsible for safeguarding 
the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Company’s website. 
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions. 
statement Of DireCtOrs’ respOnsibilities  financial statements corporate governance business review 
73 AVEVA Group plc Annual report 2009
overview
Financial statements – Company
Independent auditor’s report to the members of AVEVA Group plc
We have audited the parent Company financial statements of AVEVA Group plc for the year ended 31 March 2009 which comprise the Balance sheet and the 
related notes 1 to 11. These parent Company financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein. We have also audited 
the information in the Directors’ remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of AVEVA Group plc for the year ended 31 March 2009.
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985. Our audit work has been 
undertaken so that we might state to the Company’s members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditor’s report and for no other 
purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Company’s 
members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors
The Directors’ responsibilities for preparing the Annual report, the Directors’ remuneration report and the parent Company financial statements 
in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice) are set out 
in the Statement of Directors’ responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ remuneration report to be audited in accordance 
with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland).
We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent Company financial statements give a true and fair view, the parent Company financial statements 
and the part of the Directors’ remuneration report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. We also 
report to you whether, in our opinion, the information given in the Directors’ report is consistent with the financial statements. The information given 
in the Directors’ report includes that specific information presented in the Chairman’s statement, Chief Executive’s review and Finance Director’s review 
that is cross‑referenced from the Other statutory information report. 
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations 
we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors’ remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We read other information contained in the Annual report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited parent Company financial statements. 
The other information comprises only the sections included in the Directors’ report headed Chairman’s statement, Chief Executive’s review, Finance 
Director’s review, Other statutory information, Corporate governance statement and Directors’ remuneration report. We consider the implications 
for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the parent Company financial statements. 
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information. 
Basis of audit opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) issued by the Auditing Practices Board. An audit 
includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the parent Company financial statements and the part of 
the Directors’ remuneration report to be audited. It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the Directors in 
the preparation of the parent Company financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Company’s circumstances, 
consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with 
sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ remuneration report to 
be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error. In forming our opinion we also evaluated the 
overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ remuneration report 
to be audited.
Opinion
In our opinion:
•  the parent Company financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, 
of the state of the Company’s affairs as at 31 March 2009; 
•  the parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ remuneration report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance 
with the Companies Act 1985; and
• the information given in the Directors’ report is consistent with the parent Company financial statements.
Ernst & Young LLP
Registered auditor
Cambridge
26 May 2009 
a uDitOr’s repOrt 74 AVEVA Group plc Annual report 2009 Financial statements – Company
     2009 2008 
    Notes  £000 £000
Fixed assets     
Investments   5 2 7,482 27 ,482
Current assets     
Debtors   6 69,210 49,808
Cash at bank and in hand    136 19
     69,346 49,827
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year   7 (13,682) (7 ,649)
Net current assets    55,664 42,178
Net assets    83,146 69,660
Capital and reserves     
Called‑up share capital   8 2,260 2,250
Share premium account   9 2 7, 1 7 6 26,522
Merger reserve   9 3,921 3,921
Profit and loss account   9 49,789 36,967
Shareholders’ funds   10 83,146 69,660
The financial statements on pages 74 to 78 were approved by the Board of Directors on 26 May 2009 and signed on its behalf by:
Nick Prest  Richard Longdon
Chairman  Chief Executive
The accompanying notes are an integral part of this Company balance sheet. 
COmpany balanCe sheet 
31 March 2009 financial statements corporate governance business review 
75 AVEVA Group plc Annual report 2009
overview
Financial statements – Company
1 Corporate information
AVEVA Group plc (the Company) is a limited company incorporated in England and Wales whose shares are publicly traded. The principal activity of the 
Company is that of a holding company.
2 Accounting policies
A summary of the principal accounting policies, which have all been applied consistently throughout the current and the preceding year, is set out below.
a) Basis of accounting
The separate financial statements of the Company are presented as required by the Companies Act 1985. They have been prepared under the historical 
cost convention and in accordance with applicable United Kingdom accounting standards and law. 
As permitted by Financial Reporting Standard No. 1 (Revised), ‘Cash flow statements’, the Company has not included a Cash flow statement as part 
of its financial statements because the Consolidated financial statements of the Group (of which the Company is a member) include a Cash flow 
statement and are publicly available.
b) Taxation
Current tax including UK Corporation tax and foreign tax is provided at amounts expected to be paid (or recovered) using the tax rates and laws that 
have been enacted or substantively enacted by the Balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the Balance sheet date where transactions 
or events that result in an obligation to pay more tax in the future or a right to pay less tax in the future have occurred at the Balance sheet date. 
Timing differences are differences between the Company’s taxable profits and its results as stated in the financial statements that arise from the 
inclusion of gains and losses in tax assessments in periods different from those in which they are recognised in the financial statements.
A deferred tax asset is regarded as recoverable and therefore recognised only when, on the basis of all available evidence, it can be regarded as more 
likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits from which the future reversal of the underlying timing differences can be deducted.
Deferred tax is not recognised when fixed assets are sold and it is more likely than not that the taxable gain will be rolled over, being charged to tax 
only if and when the replacement assets are sold. 
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of the retained earnings of overseas subsidiaries and associates only to the extent that, at the Balance sheet 
date, dividends have been accrued as receivable or a binding agreement to distribute past earnings in the future has been entered into by the 
subsidiary or associate. 
Deferred tax is measured at the average tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the timing differences are expected to reverse based 
on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the Balance sheet date. Deferred tax is measured on a non‑discounted basis.
c) Foreign currency
Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are recorded at actual exchange rates as of the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities 
denominated in foreign currencies at the year end are reported at the rates of exchange prevailing at the year end. Any gain or loss arising from a change 
in exchange rates subsequent to the date of the transaction is included as an exchange gain or loss in the profit and loss account.
d) Investments
Fixed asset investments in subsidiaries are shown at cost less provision for impairment. 
3 Profit for the year
As permitted by Section 230 of the Companies Act 1985, the Company has elected not to present its own profit and loss account for the year. 
AVEVA Group plc reported a profit for the financial year ended 31 March 2009 of £18,140,000 (2008 – £18,022,000).
Audit fees of £5,000 (2008 – £5,000) are borne by another Group company.
The Company does not have any employees (2008 – nil). Directors’ emoluments are disclosed in the Directors’ remuneration report on pages 33 to 37.
nO tes t O the COmpany finan Cial statements  76 AVEVA Group plc Annual report 2009 Financial statements – Company
4 Dividends
         2009 2008 
         £000 £000
Declared and paid during the year         
Interim 2008/09 dividend paid of 2.86 pence (2007/08 – 1.65 pence) per ordinary share    1,938 1,113
Final 2007/08 dividend paid of 5.0 pence (2006/07 – 2.94 pence) per ordinary share     3,380 1,980
         5,318 3,093
Proposed for approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting       
Final 2008/09 proposed dividend of 6.5 pence (2007/08 – 5.0 pence) per ordinary share    4,408 3,376
The proposed final dividend is subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting on 9 July 2009 and has not been included as a liability 
in these financial statements.
5 Fixed asset investments
         2009 2008 
         £000 £000
Cost and net book value         
At 31 March         2 7,482 27 ,482
Details of the Company’s subsidiary undertakings are set out in note 17 in the Consolidated financial statements of the Group.
6 Debtors: amounts falling due within one year
         2009 2008 
         £000 £000
Amounts owed by Group undertakings        69,210 49,808
7 Creditors: amounts falling due within one year
         2009 2008 
         £000 £000
Amounts owed to Group undertaking        13,682 7 ,645
Other creditors        —  4
         13,682 7 ,649
8 Called‑up share capital
         2009 2008 
         £000 £000
Authorised         
90,000,000 (2008 – 90,000,000) ordinary shares of 3.33 pence each      3,000 3,000
Allotted, called‑up and fully paid         
67 ,818,868 (2008 – 67 ,517 ,319) ordinary shares of 3.33 pence each      2,260 2,250
       2009 2009 2008 2008 
       Number £000 Number £000
At 1 April      67 ,517 ,319 2,250 67 ,363,419 2,245
Exercise of share options      301,549 10 153,900 5
At 31 March      67 ,818,868 2,260 67 ,517 ,319 2,250
nOtes tO the COmpany finanCial statements continued financial statements corporate governance business review 
77 AVEVA Group plc Annual report 2009
overview
Financial statements – Company
8 Called‑up share capital continued
Details of the shares issued during the year are as follows:
Year ended 31 March 2009
       Number Nominal Share  
       of shares  value premium Market  
       2009  2009 2009 price 
Date of issue      Number £ £ £
4 June 2008      5,250 175 8,215 12.85
5 June 2008      55,732 1,858 87 ,202 14.00
11 July 2008      800 27 1,252 13.21
4 August 2008      11,304 377 29,613 15.68
4 August 2008      28,647 955 75,046 15.68
4 August 2008      64,071 2,136 167 ,845 15.68
4 August 2008      98,745 3,292 258,679 15.68
18 August 2008      27 ,000 900 —  13.48
12 December 2008      10,000 333 26,200 5.52
       301,549 10,053 654,052 
Year ended 31 March 2008
       Number Nominal Share    
       of shares  value premium Market 
       2008 2008 2008 price 
Date of issue      Number  £ £ £
19 April 2007      3,600 120 3,990 8.44
16 July 2007      37 ,700 1,257 58,999 9.89
26 November 2007      40,000 1,333 62,599 9.57
14 December 2007      3,600 120 5,634 9.49
2 February 2008      3,000 100 4,695 10.18
19 February 2008      27 ,000 900 — 10.74
3 March 2008      3,000 100 4,695 9.60
28 March 2008      36,000 1,200 — 11.10
       153,900 5,130 140,612 
During the year the Company issued 301,549 (2008 – 153,900) ordinary shares of 3.33 pence each with a nominal value of £10,053 (2008 – £5,130) pursuant 
to the exercise of share options. The total proceeds were £664,105 (2008 – £145,7 42), which included a premium of £654,052 (2008 – £140,612).
Share options have been granted to certain employees of the Group and remain outstanding as follows:
      Share Number of Exercise 
      option options price 
Date of grant     plan Number Pence
20 July 2005     Executive Scheme 42,764 265.33
28 June 2006     LTIP 78,648 3.33
2 July 2007     LTIP 55,506 3.33
7 July 2008     LTIP 50,033 3.33
15 July 2008     Deferred Share Scheme 36,448 0.00
       263,399 
Options under the LTIP are normally exercisable in full or in part between the third and tenth anniversaries of the date of grant; options under the previous 
Executive Share Option Scheme are normally exercisable in full or in part between the third and seventh anniversaries of the grant. Options under the 
Deferred Share Scheme may be exercised in the 42‑day period beginning on the announcement of the financial results of the Group in each of the three 
calendar years after that in which the option was granted. 78 AVEVA Group plc Annual report 2009 Financial statements – Company
9 Reserves
          Profit 
        Merger Share and loss 
        reserve premium account 
        £000 £000 £000
At 1 April 2008       3,921 26,522 36,967
Share issues       —  654 —
Dividends paid       —  —  (5,318)
Profit for the year       —  —  18,140
At 31 March 2009       3,921 27 ,176 49,789
10 Reconciliation of movements in shareholders’ funds
          Year ended  Year ended 
          31 March   31 March  
         2009 2008 
         £000 £000
Profit for the financial year        18,140 18,022
Dividends        (5,318) (3,093)
Share issues        664 146
Net addition to shareholders’ funds        13,486 15,075
Opening shareholders’ funds         69,660 54,585
Closing shareholders’ funds         83,146 69,660
11 Related party transactions
There were no transactions with related parties in either the current or the preceding financial year that require disclosure within these financial statements. 
nOtes tO the COmpany finanCial statements continued financial statements corporate governance business review 
79 AVEVA Group plc Annual report 2009
overview
Other information
 IFRS
  2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 
  £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Summarised consolidated results:     
Revenue 164,041 127 ,561 94,906 65,930 57 ,163
Gross profit 126,429 97 ,768 67 ,637 44,416 38,942
Adjusted profit before tax* 62,623 47 ,949 28,083 13,822 9,969
Profit before tax 59,201 44,967 24,650 11,155 9,124
Income tax expense (17 ,047) (10,721)  (6,844)  (3,079)  (4,011)
Profit for the financial year 42,154 34,246 17 ,806 8,076 5,113
Basic earnings per share 62.27p 50.80p 26.59p 12.14p 7.97p
Adjusted basic earnings per share* 67 .33p 55.22p 31.71p 16.15p 9.29p
Total dividend per share 9.36p 6.65p 4.18p 2.46p 2.03p
Summarised consolidated balance sheet:     
Non‑current assets 42,219 36,378 35,731 38,245 39,753
Cash and cash equivalents (net) 126,164 82,849 41,287 23,503 11,211
Net current assets 111,265 73,025 37 ,757 20,830 11,478
Shareholders’ funds 143,131 105,746 65,312 50,860 41,369
*  Both adjusted profit before tax and adjusted basic earnings per share are stated before amortisation of intangibles, share‑based payments, adjustment to goodwill, restructuring costs and past 
service credit on the defined benefit pension scheme in the relevant years.
The earnings and dividend per share amounts in prior periods have been restated to reflect the three for one share reorganisation which was approved 
at the Annual General Meeting on 14 July 2006. 
five year reCOrD 80 AVEVA Group plc Annual report 2009 Other information
Al Khobar, Saudi Arabia
Busan, South Korea
Beijing, China
Calgary, Canada
Cambridge, UK
Chesterfield, UK
Dubai, UAE
Frankfurt, Germany
Genova, Italy
Guangzhou, China
Hamburg, Germany
Hong Kong
Houston, USA
Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia
Madrid, Spain
Malmö, Sweden
Mexico City, Mexico
Melbourne, Australia
Moscow, Russia
Mumbai, India
Oslo, Norway
Paris, France
Perth, Australia
Rio de Janeiro, Brazil
Seoul, South Korea
Shanghai, China
Singapore 
Solent, UK
St Petersburg, Russia
Stavanger, Norway
Wilmington, USA
Yokohama, Japan
GrOup DireCtOry Our divisiOns and markets at a glance
perfOrmance
AVEVA NET is a powerful information management solution, capable 
of handling all types of digital information – not just engineering 
data – to create a complete digital model of a plant or ship. It enables 
the full exploitation of reliable, up-to-date and fully cross-referenced 
project and operational information. 
AVEVA Plant is the most powerful and comprehensive suite of integrated 
software solutions available for creating and supporting all types 
of engineering plant. Whether on complex new-build assets, or 
the smallest in-service upgrade, AVEVA Plant enables maximum 
productivity, error-free design, minimum project cost and the 
most rapid return on investment.
AVEVA Marine is the culmination of AVEVA’s largest single development 
programme, fusing best-in-class shipbuilding and plant engineering 
software into an unrivalled solution for the design and construction 
of every type of ship and floating structure. 
£26.8m
+2%
£45.8m
+40%
£67.1m
+32%
£24.4m
+37%
Wemea grOup revenue ces grOup revenue a sia grOup revenue americas grOup revenue
WEMEA represents one of the most 
established customer bases for AVEVA, 
with market leading presence in the oil 
& gas, pulp and paper and naval marine 
sectors. Over the last twelve months WEMEA 
has seen significant take up of the AVEVA 
NET proposition within the oil & gas 
operations market, a sector that AVEVA 
expects to see significant growth.
In the CES region, AVEVA has continued 
to gain ground with 85 new customers 
this year; in over a third of these AVEVA 
has replaced direct competitors’ products. 
AVEVA’s broad industry base has proved 
resilient to economic difficulties, with 
continued strong growth in the power 
generation sector. Major German shipyards 
have committed to upgrading to AVEVA 
Marine, while AVEVA NET continues to 
attract a growing number of plant Owner 
Operators. Nuclear power has delivered 
strong sales in Southern Europe and, 
with its particularly strong outlook, 
we expect to achieve continuing growth 
in this sector.
Over 700 major engineering businesses 
in Asia Pacific now place their trust in 
AVEVA solutions. Although the region 
has begun to feel the impact of the 
global financial upheaval, AVEVA’s 
strength in this important market, 
and the competitive strengths of its 
customers, have enabled us to maintain 
solid business growth in both the Plant 
and Marine sectors.
AVEVA’s sustained growth in the traditionally 
strong Korean and Japanese shipbuilding 
markets has been further increased by the 
adoption of AVEVA Marine solutions by 
new Chinese shipyards.
AVEVA has a strong customer base in oil 
& gas throughout North and South America, 
its potential for business growth being 
enhanced by deepwater oil reserves off 
the coasts of the Gulf of Mexico and Brazil. 
Increasing focus on alternative energy 
sources is creating a renaissance in nuclear 
power generation in America; AVEVA is 
positioned strongly to support this new 
demand. AVEVA continues to invest in 
initiatives in the Americas that deliver 
real competitive advantage, including 
the marketing of AVEVA NET across a 
broad range of industries. 
Wemea ces a sia p acific americas 
building on our
Americas Region Headquarters
AVEVA Inc
10350 Richmond Avenue 
Suite 400 
Houston, Texas 77042 
USA
Tel +1 713 977 1225 
Fax +1 713 977 1231
Asia Pacific Region Headquarters
AVEVA Asia Pacific Division
Level 59, Tower 2 
PETRONAS Twin Towers KLCC 
50088 Kuala Lumpur 
MALAYSIA
Tel +60 (0)3 2176 1234 
Fax +60 (0)3 2176 1334
Europe, Middle East and Africa 
Region Headquarters
AVEVA GmbH
Otto-Volger-Str.7c 
D-65843 Sulzbach 
GERMANY
Tel +49 (0)6196 5052 01 
Fax +49 (0)6196 5052 22
www.aveva.com Who we are 
A FTSE 250 company headquartered in Cambridge, UK, AVEVA 
is an acknowledged industry leader in engineering software 
applications. AVEVA’s worldwide network of sales and support 
offices is staffed by experienced professionals with unrivalled 
depth of knowledge of its customers’ industries.
What we do 
AVEVA creates and supplies the most powerful software tools 
available for the engineering, design, construction and lifecycle 
support of all types of plant and marine assets in the oil & gas, 
power generation, process plant, minerals processing and 
shipbuilding industries.
How we do it 
Through a combination of pioneering in‑house software 
development, technology acquisition and strategic 
partnerships, AVEVA continually extends the capabilities 
of its software solutions to increase its customers’ 
competitive advantage, while simultaneously 
protecting their investment in engineering data. 
Directors’ report
01  Highlights 
02  Chairman’s statement 
Group overview:  
04 AVEVA NET 
06 AVEVA Plant 
08 AVEVA Marine
10  Chief Executive’s review 
14 Finance Director’s review
18  Corporate social responsibility report 
22  Board of Directors 
24  Company information and advisers
25  Other statutory information
30 Corporate Governance statement 
33  Directors’ remuneration report 
 
Financial statements
Group
38  Statement of Directors’ responsibilities  
39  Auditors’ report 
40  Consolidated income statement 
41  Consolidated statement of recognised income and expense 
42  Consolidated balance sheet 
43  Consolidated cash flow statement 
44  Notes to the Consolidated financial statements  
 
Company
72  Statement of Directors’ responsibilities  
73  Auditors’ report 
74  Company balance sheet  
75  Notes to the Company financial statements 
 
Other information
79  Five year record 
80  Group directory 
AVEVA Group plc Annual report 2009
AVEVA Group plc Annual report 2009
AVEVA Group plc
High Cross 
Madingley Road 
Cambridge CB3 0HB 
UK
Tel  +44 (0)1223 556611 
Fax  +44 (0)1223 556622
www.aveva.com
