 Annual Report and Accounts 2009
It’s people that make great food
Uniq plc
No.1 Chalfont Park
Gerrards Cross
Buckinghamshire
SL9 0UN
United Kingdom
Telephone +44 (0) 1753 276000
Facsimile: +44 (0) 1753 276019
www.uniq.com
Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Group at a glance
Uniq is a UK chilled prepared food 
group enjoying market leading 
positions in Desserts and Food To 
Go. We produce high quality and 
innovative private label products 
for the major retailers and food 
service in the UK. 
Food to Go
£136.9m
We operate from two sites – Northampton 
and Spalding – and employ 1,070 people 
producing sandwiches, wraps, café hot 
food, sandwich fillers and dressed salads.
Desserts
£150.3m
We operate from two sites – Minsterley 
and Evercreech – and employ 1,100 
people producing trifles, twinpot 
desserts, yoghurts and cottage cheese.
Financial statements
Independent auditors’ report 41
Group income statement 43
Statement of comprehensive income 44
Balance sheets  45
Statement of changes in equity 46
Cash flow statements 47
Notes to the financial statements 48
 
Other information
Five year record  88
Shareholder information 89 
Contents
Financial highlights 01
 
Directors’ report
Chairman’s statement 02
Chief Executive’s review 04
Market overview  06
Business review  08
Financial review  16
Principal risks  20
Directors’ responsibilities 21
Board of directors 22
Report of the directors 24
Corporate governance 27
Remuneration report 34
Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Designed and produced by Addison 
www.addison.co.uk
Printed in the UK by Westerham Press, Environmental 
Management System ISO 14001 accredited and Forest 
Stewardship Council (FSC) chain of custody certified.
This report is printed utilising vegetable-based inks  
on Revive 50:50 Silk which is produced with 50% 
recycled fibre from both pre- and post-consumer 
sources, together with 50% ECF (Elemental Chlorine 
Free) fibre from well-managed forests independently 
certified according to the rules of the Forest 
Stewardship Council.  Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2009 01
 Financial highlights
 
Successfully delivered strategic group transformation •	
UK business in profitable growth •	
Revenue from continuing operations £287.2m •	
 UK trading operating profit £4.4m compared  •	
with a prior year loss of £1.3m*
Significant new business wins secured •	
£60.9m raised from the sale of French operations •	
 Overall group loss before tax from continuing •	
operations of £18.5m significantly impacted  
by £11.3m of pension related finance expense
 January 2010 completed the £18.0m sale of the •	
Netherlands businesses
 Completion of the £25.7m sale of the German  •	
and Polish businesses anticipated in April 2010
Pro-forma** net cash as at 31 December 2009 £28.7m •	
 Net proceeds from business disposals available  •	
to fund the planned capital investment programme  
in the UK
 Innovative long term pension framework agreed  •	
in principle with the pension trustee, although  
this is subject to regulatory clearance
 Pension outcome is likely to have a fundamental •	
impact, either positive or negative, on the future  
of the pension scheme and on shareholder value
 Q1 sales up 4.2% to prior year •	
*  restated for discontinued operations
**  adjusted to reflect the sale of Northern Europe as of 31/12/09
Further information can be found  
at www.uniq.com
2009
£m
2008*
£m
Continuing operations
Revenue 287.2 286.7
UK trading operating profit/(loss)  
before significant items
4.4 (1.3)
Group costs before  
significant items 
(6.3) (5.8)
Operating loss before significant items (1.9) (7.1)
Significant items before tax (0.7) 2.4
Pension related net finance (expense)/income (11.3) 4.4
Other finance (expense)/income (4.6) 0.2
Income tax expense (0.4) (0.7)
Loss after tax (18.9) (0.8)
Loss from discontinued items (2.0) (55.4)
Loss for the year (20.9) (56.2)
Key performance indicators
% %
Revenue growth 0.2% (2.8%)
Gross margin 14.2% 13.0%
Operating margin (0.7%) (2.5%)
Financial highlights for the year 
ended 31 December 2009 
Highlights
Post-period update
Financial results Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2009 02 
 Directors’ report
Nandos Coleslaw: 
Cabbage, carrot and onion 
in a mayonnaise dressing 
with parsley.
I am pleased to report a marked improvement in the 
performance of our continuing UK business, with 
trading operating profits of £4.4m in 2009, compared 
to a loss of £1.3m in 2008. Sales for 2009 were broadly 
flat at £287m (up 0.2%), reflecting difficult market 
conditions in the first half but recovering strongly 
in the final quarter to rise 4.5%.
Discontinued businesses
In order to achieve our strategic transformation (outlined 
more fully in the Chief Executive’s review) we sold our 
French business at the start of the final quarter for £60.9m, 
our Netherlands business for £18.0m, the sale completing 
on 9 January 2010 and the £25.7m sale of our German/
Polish operations is expected to complete in April 2010 
following the clearance by the German competition 
authority that was received on 12 April 2010. 
The net cash proceeds from the sales will be used to  
pay down bank borrowings when they fall due and to 
fund our UK capital investment programme. 
UK operations
The Board’s decision to reshape our portfolio of 
businesses and to focus solely on our UK operations 
enables us to strengthen our market positions and 
improve our growth prospects. In Desserts, for example, 
we closed our Paignton factory and transferred production 
to Minsterley. This reduced costs in 2009 and the further 
reduction coming through in 2010 will support our 
Desserts strategy. In Food to Go we have invested in 
expanding capacity to meet the requirements of major 
new business wins from M&S and The Co-operative. 
Together, these should generate an extra £27m of 
annualised sales and demonstrate that our refocused 
business is providing the high levels of service and quality 
that our customers demand.
We have made good progress against our corporate social 
responsibility agenda: making sure that we develop the 
talents of our employees, reducing waste, and working with 
our suppliers and customers to create great food produced 
in a way that minimises the impact on the environment. 
Corporate social responsibility works absolutely in accord 
with creating a successful, sustainable long-term business. 
Pensions 
After extensive consultation, we have reached agreement 
in principle with the Pension Trustee on a long term pension 
framework. This framework is designed to facilitate our 
strategy of building a business with the scale and quality 
to deliver the sustainable growth which is necessary to fund 
the pension deficit over the long term. Importantly, this 
agreement is subject to clearance by the Pensions Regulator 
and resolution of the scale and funding of the Pension 
Protection Fund (PPF) Levy.
As previously reported, the outcome of the discussions  
with the Pension Trustee, as influenced by the approval 
or otherwise of the Pensions Regulator, is likely to have a 
fundamental impact on the future of the pension scheme 
and on shareholder value, either positive or negative.
Strategic development 
Last year we announced a modified strategy to transform  
the business and focus on the UK. The delivery of this 
transformation, the improvements in UK trading results 
and the progress made in reaching an agreement in principle  
with the Pension Trustee over the last year are remarkable 
achievements in extremely challenging circumstances. 
Chairman’s statement
Improved performance Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2009 03
 Directors’ report
 Chairman’s statement
The next steps in our strategy are to consolidate improvements 
in the UK during 2010 and then build the scale of the business 
both through further organic development and through 
selective acquisition. Increasing the scale of the business is 
essential to rebalance the company’s free cashflow with the 
currently disproportionate scale of the pension fund liabilities. 
This strategy is dependent on putting in place the pension 
agreement, which requires regulatory clearance.
Dividend
The Board has decided to retain funds in the business 
to invest in capital projects and has therefore decided 
not to recommend paying a final dividend. 
Board
This is my first Chairman’s statement since I agreed to step 
up from Senior Independent Director to Interim Chairman, 
following the resignation of Ross Warburton in June 2009. 
I would like to thank Ross for his contribution to Uniq and 
wish him well for the future. Given the importance of 
stability at a time when the group is emerging from a long 
period of restructuring and is now poised for a potentially 
exciting stage of development, I have agreed to serve the 
business as Chairman on an ongoing basis. 
I would like to take this opportunity to thank our Chief 
Executive, Geoff Eaton, our Finance Director, Martin Beer, 
all the senior management team, and indeed every 
employee at Uniq for their hard work this year. It is great 
credit to them that they have achieved so much during  
what have been difficult market conditions. 
John Warren
Chairman
15 April 2010
“The delivery of this 
transformation has been 
achieved in 2009 and the 
agreement in principle 
with the Pension Fund is 
a remarkable achievement 
in extremely challenging 
circumstances.” Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2009 04 
 Directors’ report
Chief Executive’s review
Building a strong UK-focused business
This has been a highly significant year for Uniq in  
which we have successfully implemented the strategy 
we laid out in last year’s annual report.
To achieve this we realised the value of our continental 
operations and progressed our plans to build a business 
of real substance and quality in the UK. It is testament to 
the ability, creativity and commitment of everyone at Uniq 
that at the same time as making these major structural 
changes, we kept a resolute focus on improving the 
day-to-day performance of our Desserts and Food to Go 
businesses. As a result, the UK operations have been able 
to return to profitability in 2009. 
At the beginning of 2009 the credit crisis and rapidly rising 
commodity costs had put food producers under pressure, 
creating a market that was open to consolidation. We reacted 
by participating in, or driving, these consolidation opportunities 
in ways that matched our strategic objectives. In Europe, the 
strong consolidation synergies that our continental businesses 
offered potential buyers ensured that we were able to achieve 
sale prices at the higher end of our expectations. 
In the UK we consolidated our Desserts business, reducing 
the number of sites where we produce desserts from three  
to two. In Food to Go we were able to benefit from supplier 
consolidation as M&S reduced their sandwich suppliers 
from three to two, enabling us to win significant additional 
business. In salads, our relentless attention to service and 
quality secured a major new contract to further enhance 
the recovery of this business.
The cash generated by realising value from our European 
businesses has created the necessary resources to invest in 
and grow our UK operations at an opportune time in the cycle. 
The combination of the leadership from our UK Managing 
Director, Stephen Draisey, and the development of an 
effective strategy backed by the right financial resources 
has enabled us to reinvigorate management across the 
company and attract strong people into key positions in the 
business. While the quality, commitment and experience 
of our management teams has already made a measurable 
impact on our performance, I am confident that their 
contribution will be even more strongly felt in the future. 
Pension agreement
The Pension Trustee and its advisers have concluded that 
the pension deficit for scheme specific funding purposes, 
reflecting the relative weakness of the employer covenant,  
is £436m as at the valuation date of 31 March 2009, 
effectively equivalent to the buy-out deficit. The Pension 
Trustee is highly supportive of the company’s strategy to 
build a strong and focused UK business with the necessary 
scale to support the legacy UK pension obligation in the 
long term. The key elements of the agreement in principle 
with the Pension Trustee that will facilitate this long term 
build are as follows:
 Linking future pension fund contributions to the company’s •	
ability to pay through an agreement to pay the higher of 
33% of EBITDA or £10m per annum from 2013. In the 
period up to 2013 there will be no contributions to the 
scheme but £5m per annum will be set aside from EBITDA 
to fund liability management schemes and the PPF levy.
 Enabling the raising of new capital to fund acquisitions •	
by reducing the percentage share of EBITDA payable to 
the pension scheme if new capital is raised and triggering 
a mechanism under which the new equity would not  
be exposed to the risk of unilateral action by the  
Pension Trustee. 
“At the same time as  
making these major strategic 
changes, we kept a resolute 
focus on improving the  
day-to-day performance  
of our UK operations.” Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2009 05
 Directors’ report
 Chief Executive’s review
  Providing for the possibility of future dividend •	
payments so long as they are sufficiently covered 
by free cash flow net of pension payments. 
 Reducing the risk for the pension scheme by reducing •	
equity exposure from 50% to 30% of scheme assets.  
The Pension Trustee has implemented this de-risking  
in early April 2010.
 
This agreement in principle remains subject to clearance  
by the Pensions Regulator who is considering all aspects  
of this innovative long term proposal. The agreement does  
not cover the payment of the PPF levy from 2013, the 
potential scale of which could threaten the deliverability  
of the proposed pension agreement. 
 
Business strategy
Our strategy is to invest in our UK business serving the 
private label chilled prepared food market. This investment 
will be in people, processes and equipment as all three are 
vital to create an organisation that is capable of growing 
ahead of its competitors and earning returns in line with the 
industry average. As we build the strength of the organisation, 
we will look to grow through acquisition. This build strategy 
will create an organisation with the scale and quality 
necessary to satisfy the needs of our customers, the 
aspirations of our people, the long term needs of the 
members of the pension fund and ultimately deliver a 
satisfactory return to our shareholders. This strategy is 
dependent on putting in place the pension agreement, 
which requires regulatory clearance.
Outlook
The momentum evident in our strong quarter four results 
looks set to carry forward into 2010. In quarter one 2010 
group sales were up 4.2% on the equivalent period in 2009, 
reflecting the business wins secured in quarter four 2009. 
The quarter one operating results are significantly better 
than last year and slightly ahead of the Board’s 
expectations. Subject to the resolution of our pensions 
funding, this positions the group well to continue to build  
a UK business that has the quality and flexibility to grow 
profitably in the dynamic markets in which we operate.
Geoff Eaton
Chief Executive
15 April 2010
Delivering  
the transformation
February 2009 Bank facilities renewed
March 2009 Modified strategy announced  
Pinneys business sold
August 2009 £15m of new sandwich business commenced 
October 2009 French business sold for £60.9m  
£12m of new salads business commenced
November 2009 Paignton desserts site closed 
December 2009 Bremerhaven property sold
January 2010 Netherlands business sold for £18.0m  
Paignton property sold
April 2010 Germany/Poland transaction to be completed 
Long term Pension framework agreed 
subject to regulatory clearance
Vision and values 
To be the best chilled prepared food company  
in the UK as judged by our customers, suppliers, 
employees and shareholders. Each business is 
developing its own set of values in a process of 
increasing engagement with all our employees  
so that within three years we will have developed 
a culture that fully supports our vision.  Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2009 06 
 Directors’ report
Market overview
In 2009, suppliers of chilled convenience foods  
had to respond to rapid changes in consumer 
behaviour as the economy first deteriorated  
and then showed signs of recovery. In addition, 
despite low overall inflation rates, the price of  
some key ingredients rose sharply.
Our market
The broad market in which Uniq operates is the fresh  
and chilled foods sector. This had a total value of £35.7bn 
in 2009, representing an increase of 4.2% on 2008 
broadly in line with the total grocery market which rose 
5% in 2009. For more specific information about the 
sub-sectors in which we operate, see pages 9 and 13.
Consumer behaviour
In early 2009 the key trend was consumers trading  
down as economic conditions affected their ability  
and willingness to spend. Retailers found margins  
under pressure as they were forced to compete on  
price to maintain market share against discount retailers. 
In response even premium grocery chains introduced 
their own value ranges and nearly all retailers stepped  
up their promotional deals, often asking suppliers to 
contribute towards the costs. Mintel estimated that in 
2009 over half of British shoppers were buying more food 
on special offers and multibuys, over a third were buying 
more budget own-brands from supermarkets, and one  
in five were buying more from discount grocers. 
Although private label goods performed well against  
the market in early 2009, Uniq’s product mix is biased 
towards the premium end of this market and this affected 
our ability to grow sales accordingly. We were however, able 
to meet the needs of our customers by rapidly developing 
new product lines, such as our “Simply” range for M&S, that 
were better positioned for value conscious shoppers.
Consumer confidence
Fresh and chilled foods 
sector increased 4.2%  
to £35.7bn in 2009.
+4.2% Consumer price indices
Annual Inflation rates – 12 month percentage change
Jan
1
0
-1
-2
2
3
4
5
6
RPI
CPI
RPIX 
Percentage Inflation
Apr Jul OctJan Apr JulOct Jan
2008 2009 2010
  
Source: Office for National Statistics
Raw materials
(Price movement for 2009)
Aluminium   
Carton Board   
Confectionary   
Corrugate   
Dairy   
Die Cut Lids   
Fish   
Fruit and Conserves   
Ingredients  
Labels/Decor   
Meat   
Oils and Fats   
 
Other Packaging   
Other Plastics   
Poultry   
Reel Fed Films   
Savory Bakery   
Shellfish   
Sweet Bakery   
Trays Pots and Lids   
Vegetables   
%
01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12
20
15
10
5
0
-5
-10
-15
-20
Top 10 Raw materials
(Price movement for 2009) Dairy
Ingredients
Trays Pots and Lids
Fruit and Conserves
Confectionary
Vegetables
Meat
Savory Bakery
Carton Board
Sweet Bakery
  
%
01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12
20
15
10
5
0
-5
-10
-15
-20
1
Dairy.
32,486,848
   
2
Ingredients
17,712,135
       
3
Trays Pots and Lids
12,419,783
       
4
Fruit and Conserves
12,277,267
       
5
Confectionary.
10,037,886
     
6
Vegetables.
9,814,158
       
7
Meat
9,292,098
       
8
Savory Bakery
7,478,981
9
Carton Board
7,077,978
    
10
Sweet Bakery
6,873,570
Top 5 raw materials 
Price movement for 2009
Dairy
Ingredients
Trays Pots and Lids
Fruit and Conserves
Confectionery
  %
01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12
15
10
5
0
-5
-10
-15
Source: Uniq
Grocery sales contribution to growth
Feb 
2009
%
2
1
0
-1
3
4
5
6
7
Standard PL         
Economy PL         
Healthy PL   
Brands               
Premium PL
Total
% Contribution to YOY sales growth
Mar
2009
Apr
2009
May
2009
Jun
2009
Jul
2009
Aug
2009
Sep
2009
Oct
2009
Nov
2009
Dec
2009
Source: TNS Worldpanel
  
Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2009 07
 Directors’ report
 Market overview
As the year progressed an improving economic picture 
saw consumers begin to trade back up. However they 
retained much of their increased sensitivity to price, 
retaining an appetite for value that required suppliers  
to firmly control costs, while delivering the innovation  
and flexibility needed to entice customers to spend.
Input prices 
Although there was no repeat of the across-the-board, 
rapidly escalating commodity prices experienced in 
2008, inflationary pressures remained a factor in 2009. 
Uniq’s input prices rose 3.9% in the year to December 
2009, while in the broader UK economy the consumer 
prices index (CPI) also rose by 2.7% and the retail prices 
index (RPI) was up 2.4% in the same period. In general, 
input prices were subdued in the first half of the year as 
falling demand and the impact of lower oil prices held 
inflation back, but as the recession eased the upward 
pressure returned. Another factor driving prices higher 
was the need to pass on 2008’s raw material increases 
some of which had been absorbed by the supply chain. 
Individual input prices behaved according to their  
own specific drivers. Rapeseed oil prices, for example, 
correlate closely with the oil price, and as a result began 
the year with significant price falls. Dairy and fish 
products, however, both registered double digit annual 
price rises as restricted supply reduced availability. 
Individual input prices 
behaved according to 
their own specific drivers. 
Rapeseed oil prices, for 
example, correlate closely 
with the oil price, and as a 
result began the year with 
significant price falls. Dairy 
and fish products, however, 
both registered double 
digit annual price rises as 
restricted supply reduced 
availability.  08 
 Directors’ report 
 Business review 
Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2009
The total sales  
of chilled desserts 
in the UK reached 
£2.3bn in 2009,  
up 8.1%.
8. 1%
Marks & Spencer 
Snow Storm:
A dome of vanilla jelly 
with coconut snow 
on a bed of Belgian 
chocolate panna 
cotta studded with 
dried sweetened 
cranberries. Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2009 09
 Directors’ report
Desserts overview
Uniq’s desserts business is run by a single 
management team overseeing production at two 
sites: Minsterley produces private label chilled 
desserts to major food retailers and also produces 
branded goods on behalf of major food labels; and 
Evercreech produces cottage cheese and chilled 
desserts, primarily private label. 
Market review 
The total sales of chilled desserts in the UK reached 
£2.3bn in 2009, up 8.1%. However, volume was only 
marginally above 2008 levels. This disparity between 
price growth and volume growth has largely been driven 
by inflation, as suppliers recovered 2008’s raw material 
price rises. With figures showing more shoppers (+1.1%), 
more baskets (+6.6%) and higher prices at the retailers’ 
tills for chilled desserts, the sector appears to have 
negotiated the recession well. However, with consumers 
under pressure, promotional activity was very much a 
trend, helping to drive sales and keep customers buying. 
Desserts
From trifles and mousses to tiramisu and twinpots,  
this sector represents 79% of Uniq’s desserts output  
at £118.2m. The overall market is worth £879m and saw 
volumes rise 5.2% and value rise 9.4%. Uniq’s overall 
market share in 2009 was 13%.
Yoghurts
With total sales of £1.43bn, yoghurts represent over  
60% of the chilled desserts market. However, Uniq  
holds a very small share of this market, with yoghurts  
only representing 8% of our chilled desserts output  
at £12.3m. Overall market sales rose by 7.3%, while  
volume fell by 1.3%.
Cottage cheese
The cottage cheese market is worth £43.8m and Uniq 
holds a 46% market share. Sales in the overall market 
grew by 6%, but volume declined by 1.9% in 2009. 
Cottage cheese represents 13% of Uniq’s desserts 
output at £19.8m.
Raw materials
With cream and milk representing a significant  
proportion of cost, the chilled dessert market is 
vulnerable to fluctuations in dairy pricing. Although  
there was no repeat of 2008’s very high input cost  
rises, inflation continued to bite in 2009. The most 
notable example was cream, with prices rising by  
60% during the last quarter. This was a side effect  
of the EU’s Private Storage Aid (PSA) scheme, which 
effectively removes butter from the market as a way 
to support price levels. This caused shortages in the 
market and, as a result, producers bid up the price 
of the cream they required to churn butter.
Business review
Marks & Spencer Lemon 
Soufflé: A light refreshing 
dessert with cream  
and lemon juice, hand 
finished with caramelised 
orange shreds. 
Marks & Spencer Tiramisu: 
Marsala wine and Arabica 
coffee moistened sponge 
fingers with rich mascarpone 
cheese and luxurious West 
Country cream. Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2009 10 
 Directors’ report
 Business review | Desserts
 Successful transfer  •	
of production from  
three sites to two 
Reduced losses by 60% •	
 Strengthened  •	
management team 
 
By improving efficiency, consolidating  
operations and investing in the business  
we are strongly positioned to deliver  
growth and profitability.
Performance
Sales across the Desserts business were broadly  
flat (down 1.4% to £150.3m) in 2009 as consumers 
became more cautious. However, losses reduced 
significantly in 2009 from £8.2m to £2.9m and sales 
began to rise in quarter four. 
Building a stronger business
As a result of focusing some our best managers on our 
desserts business in a new unified management structure  
we have developed a strategy based around consumer-led 
innovation that has started to gain real traction. The closure 
of Paignton and transfer of production to Minsterley was 
successfully completed on time and on budget. Investment 
of more than £10m in capital equipment over the next year 
will create the flexibility, value for money and formats most 
relevant to consumers – driven by the new and improved 
product ranges for 2010 created by our new commercial  
and development teams. We believe this will enable us 
 to reinvigorate the sector of the desserts market we serve,  
drive higher sales and build on our market leadership in 2010.
Lean manufacturing techniques are helping us to cut 
costs, reduce energy use and avoid the expense and 
environmental impact of sending waste to landfill sites.  
We have introduced employee forums and recognition 
awards, helping to motivate staff and build their 
commitment to meeting the challenges we face. 
Desserts performance
Cadbury Twin Pot Chilled 
Dessert range: milk chocolate 
dessert accompanied with a 
serving of Cadbury Chocolate 
Flake, Cadbury Mini Eggs and 
Cadbury Dairy Milk chunks.
Marks & Spencer Millionaires 
Shortbread Dessert: topped 
shortbread crumb with 
caramel toffee sauce,  
West Country cream, 
caramel flavoured mousse 
finished with a Belgian 
chocolate ganache. Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2009 11
 Directors’ report
 Business review | Desserts
Better buying
With cream, milk and fruit a significant part of our cost base, 
it is vital that we optimise the way we buy our ingredients. By 
changing from a fixed milk contract and locking in price falls 
early in 2009 we were able to control costs more effectively. 
However, rapidly rising cream prices increased costs 
significantly in quarter four, but, by being flexible and smart  
in the way we source and use milk components, we were 
able to mitigate some of the increased cost. 
Minsterley site
The successful transfer of £30m of production from 
Paignton to Minsterley was achieved while maintaining 
consistently high service levels to our customers. A 
significant investment in our chocolate facility for the 
production of Cadbury products will facilitate increased 
promotional activity giving the potential for significantly 
higher sales levels. This increased volume will be key to 
achieving improved profitability, as will be the reduction 
of waste and the continuous monitoring of performance 
and quality, which is already helping to reduce costs. 
Evercreech site
Evercreech’s performance improved significantly 
throughout the year with good control of waste and 
production costs and ended with a strong Christmas  
on the back of excellent quality premium desserts 
delivered with exceptional service levels. Our cottage 
cheese business demonstrated a much improved 
performance this year, driven by better ingredient pricing 
and improvements in the manufacturing process. 
CSR in action:
Safety matters at Evercreech 
•		 4 8 %	f e w e r	a c c i d e n t s	i n	2 0 0 9
	 •		 5 3 %	f e w e r	d a y s	l o s t	d u e	t o	a c c i d e n t s	 
or work-related ill health
The secret behind these impressive figures at our Evercreech 
desserts site? Identifying more hazards. By encouraging 
employees to be more aware of their working environment  
and to report hazards before they could lead to accidents,  
we have made 2009 a much safer year. And not only were  
there fewer accidents, those we did have were less serious  
than in previous years; giving us an Accident Incidence Ratio 
(AIR) of 6.6, compared to an industry average of 14. Which 
means that an employee at Evercreech is much less likely  
to suffer an injury at work than on other comparable sites.
CSR in action:
Cutting energy use at Minsterley 
Gas use down 21% •	
Water use down 14% •	
Electricity use down 4% •	
It’s a little known fact, but our Minsterley desserts site has 2km  
of steam pipes running through it. The steam is used to heat and 
pasteurise our dairy products and to carry out fast and hygienic 
cleaning of the equipment that produces them. But with pipes 
located out of reach for safety reasons, minor leaks are easy to 
miss, difficult to fix and energy inefficient. As part of our business 
improvement plan we addressed this issue and as a result have 
been able to reduce our gas use by 21%. Further initiatives have  
cut water and electricity use at the site, bringing our carbon 
footprint down 25% since 2006. Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2009 12 
 Directors’ report
 Business review 
Marks & Spencer  
BLT Sandwich:  
Vine ripened 
tomatoes, British 
bacon and free range 
egg mayonnaise with 
lettuce on malted 
brown bread.
The UK sandwich 
market grew by 
2.4% in volume in 
2009, with value 
rising by 2.1%.
2.4% Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2009 13
 Directors’ report
 Business review
Food to Go overview
Uniq’s Food to Go operations are located at two 
sites, Northampton (sandwiches) and Spalding 
(dressed salads). Each is run by its own management 
team but they share many common ingredients  
and processes. 
Market review
The Food to Go market is worth £8bn and grew by 3% in 
2009. The dominant product is sandwiches with £3.2bn 
of the market but this sector includes chocolate and 
confectionery, soft drinks, salad boxes and crisps and 
nuts. Sandwiches are driving the growth in this sector, 
with 53% of snacks consumed at work. Healthy snacking 
is becoming more popular with consumer pressure to 
provide more healthy snacks for kids and lunch boxes.
Sandwiches
Uniq produced approximately 90 million of the estimated 
1.6 billion ‘bought on the go’ sandwiches sold in the UK 
this year and is the major supplier to M&S.
The UK sandwich market grew by 2.4% in volume in 
2009, with value rising by 2.1%. These small increases 
reflected a difficult year in the UK economy, in which 
cost-conscious consumers traded down to cheaper 
alternatives or even chose to make their own sandwiches, 
causing the sale of lunchboxes to double in 2009. This 
prompted retailers to fight back by offering promotions 
and ordering new economy ranges that matched the 
consumer mood. But just as the economy showed signs 
of improvement, so did sandwich sales. While the first 
half of the year was characterised by a decline in retail 
sales and price points, the second half saw some trading 
back up as consumer confidence returned. 
Within the wider market, the sale of wraps declined 5% 
and the sales of deli fillers (pre-prepared sandwich fillers) 
were also down.
Dressed salads 
Uniq produced over a quarter of the UK’s prepared 
dressed salads this year, cementing its position as  
the clear number two supplier to the market. 
The prepared dressed salad market grew strongly  
in 2009, rising 16% in value to £218m and nearly 15%  
in volume. Factors supporting this growth were the 
popularity of eating at home rather than dining out and 
the consumer’s desire to make healthier food choices. 
But the fact that premium products under-performed  
the market substantially (down 2%) while value ranges 
were up 18% suggests that the UK recession led to 
increased price sensitivity. The relatively good summer  
in 2009 also had a positive impact – and with sales growth 
maintained during the last 12 weeks of the year there  
were encouraging signs that consumers are maintaining 
salad-buying habits even during winter months.
Within the prepared salads market: coleslaw sales 
(representing over half the market) grew by 15%;  
potato salads continued to grow more slowly at 3%;  
and pasta and variety salads outstripped the market  
with growth of over 20%.
Marks & Spencer Café Egg 
& Bacon Muffin: British 
bacon and free range egg 
in Hollandaise sauce on 
toasted white muffin.
The Co-operative Moroccan 
Cous Cous: Cous Cous, 
chargrilled vegetables  
and chickpeas in a spicy 
dressing with sultanas  
and coriander. Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2009 14 
 Directors’ report
 Business review | Food to Go
Performance
Sales fell 3.7% in the first half of the year, but rallied  
by 7.9% in the second half as we adapted quickly to 
changing demand and volumes began to benefit from 
new business wins. Overall, sales rose 2% in 2009 
to £136.9m, with profits growing by 5.8% to £7.3m. 
Winning new business
As the major winner from M&S’s decision to consolidate 
their sandwich suppliers from three to two, we raised our 
share to 65%, gaining an annualised £15m in new orders. 
Our salad factory in Spalding successfully launched 
£12m of annualised new business with The Co-operative 
and secured a clear number two position in the dressed 
salad market. 
With a number of suppliers competing to service the same 
major retailers it is vital to provide high-quality products 
and excellent service at competitive prices. 
Adapting to the changing consumer environment
We demonstrated our excellent relationship with M&S as 
we worked together to navigate the recession. Our new 
“Simply” range, the £1 sandwich, went from concept to 
market in a record time of six weeks and helped hard-hit 
customers to keep the sandwich habit. We developed  
a hugely successful range of sandwiches to support the 
M&S ‘fuller for longer’ concept. Other highlights include 
Food to Go performance
£27m new business won •	
£7.3m profit achieved •	
 Increased capacity •	 
 
Despite difficult trading conditions we  
successfully developed new products,  
won new business and increased  
capacity in 2009.
The Co-operative Tomato, 
Mozzarella and Spinach Salad: 
Mozzarella pearls with 
tomatoes and oven roasted 
tomatoes in a basil oil dressing 
with shredded spinach. Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2009 15
 Directors’ report
 Business review | Food to Go
our “Hot Eating” range for M&S Café and our wraps 
relaunch. With a record number of Christmas products  
in 2009, including the first sandwich ever to contain 
Champagne, we continued to launch exciting new 
products throughout the year. 
During the year we relaunched 45% of our dressed salad 
product range and introduced ‘cleaner dec’ recipes that 
responded to consumer health concerns by reducing salt 
and additives. New products included our layered salads 
that allow greater visibility of ingredients and our vibrant 
and colourful salads for The Co-operative’s “Truly 
Irresistible” range.
Less positive news came from British Airways whose 
decision to reduce food services on short-haul flights 
meant that Supplair, our customer, lost sales, which 
resulted in an annualised loss of sales for us of £8.2m. 
We still supply the long-haul flights and continue to 
seek out other opportunities in this market. 
Northampton
To meet the new demand we successfully opened  
a new production unit on our existing site. This year we 
have invested in real-time factory data capture systems 
that are already delivering significant quality benefits. 
By changing our distributor and using smart procurement 
methods we have also helped to mitigate the rising cost  
of raw materials such as butter, bacon and eggs. And 
finally, our decision to replace the floor in one of our 
production units has improved drainage and increased 
safety. This important upgrade was carried out without 
any disruption to production – despite the need to move 
32 production lines back and forth over the four and a half 
months refurbishment. 
Spalding
During the year the site operated on very tight cost 
control and limited capital expenditure. Refurbishment of 
equipment brought significant cost savings and improved 
manufacturing processes. This has put the site in a good 
position to start 2010 with the newly won volumes and 
benefit from increased investment in capital in a 
warehouse extension. 
CSR in action:
Train to gain at Northampton 
•	8 9 0	d a y s	o f	t r a i n i n g	d e l i v e r e d	f o r	5 0 0	s t a f f	i n	2 0 0 9
•	7 5	e m p l o y e e s	a c h i e v e	N V Q	2	q u a l i fi c a t i o n s	i n	2 0 0 9	
•	1 9 %	o f	o u r	s t a f f	h a v e	b e e n	w i t h	u s	f o r	o v e r	2 0	y e a r s
Although our Northampton site uses machines for everything 
from slicing bread to spreading butter, our sandwich business 
will always depend on the flexibility, skill and attention to detail 
of our staff. With 19% of employees having over 20 years’ 
service, we are committed to developing the long-term potential 
of our staff. We also believe that by helping employees become 
more aware of how their work impacts on the overall business, 
training helps to drive performance. That is why we continued  
to improve the quality and quantity of our training in 2009.
CSR in action:
Sustainable production at Spalding  
 50% of raw materials from a 70-mile radius  •	
68,000 packaging miles saved 
Zero waste sent to landfill sites •	
Our location in Spalding, Lincolnshire – a county described  
as ‘the food basket of England’ – means we are well placed  
to buy locally and encourage our suppliers to use environmentally 
friendly growing methods. We have also been changing the way  
we package products for our customers, switching to recyclable 
cartons and trays. And by building a partnership with a local 
packaging supplier we have been able to source locally and save 
68,000 delivery miles each year. In 2009 we also achieved our 
target of reducing to zero the amount of waste we sent to landfill – 
saving on costs as well as reducing environmental impact. Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2009 16 
 Directors’ report
 
Financial review
The financial review covers the activities of the group  
for the 12 months ended 31 December 2009 during 
which the group made the decision to dispose of 
its European operations. As a consequence of this, 
the operations in Europe have been reclassified as 
discontinued operations and the income statement has 
been restated to reflect this. We completed the disposal 
of France during 2009, the Netherlands in early 2010 and 
Germany and Poland is due to complete in April 2010. 
Revenue for continuing operations for the year at £287.2m 
was flat, being only 0.2% up on last year. 
Group costs
The group costs represent the costs of running the parent 
Company and the Head Office at Gerrards Cross. While the 
level of costs have risen slightly year on year this is a result 
of one-off releases in 2008. The underlying level of cost has 
reduced in 2009 and will do further in 2010 to reflect the 
smaller size of the group. 
Net pension finance charges
The pension finance charges cover all finance charges 
relating to the pension fund being the IAS19 interest charge 
and the interest earned on the secure account. The IAS 19 
pension interest charge is a reflection of the balance of 
pension assets and liabilities and is set at the beginning 
of the financial year. As indicated at last year end the 
charge has risen considerably this year to £12.7m. This is a 
reflection of the increased scale of the pension deficit. The 
interest on the secure account cash at £1.4m is significantly 
reduced compared to last year due to the fall in interest rates 
and brings the net pension finance charge to £11.3m.
Other finance charges
Other finance charges include bank interest, finance leases 
and amortisation of bank fees as these cover the ongoing 
operations of the business. Net bank interest includes 
interest on deposits less interest paid on the drawdown of 
our bank facility which was drawndown in full for the period 
up to the disposal of France when £25m was repaid from  
the proceeds. The amortisation of fees includes the £0.3m 
charged for the warrants which were issued to Lloyds TSB 
Bank as part of the refinancing process in February 2009. 
The balance of the amortisation of fees relates to the other 
costs incurred in relation to the refinancing which are being 
written off over the period to December 2010.  
Significant items
Restructuring costs in the continuing businesses include 
£6.3m in the Desserts segment, being the completion 
of the transfer of operations from Paignton to Minsterley, 
and  further restructuring within the Desserts operations. 
In connection with the closure of Paignton, we reversed part  
of the asset impairment, which resulted in a £1.7m non-cash 
gain. An additional £0.8m of costs were incurred by the 
group to cover restructuring of group operations in the light 
of the significant downsizing and costs relating to pension 
fund legacy issues. In October 2009, the group closed its 
defined benefit pension scheme to further accrual. This 
resulted in a non-cash curtailment gain of £4.7m.
Taxation 
The tax charge of £0.4m for continuing operations relates 
to taxable income in overseas holding companies. The 
group has substantial UK tax losses (£49m) and unclaimed 
capital allowances (£202m) brought forward and the growth 
strategy of the group is designed to accelerate the use of 
these losses. In addition tax clearance has been received 
for all significant aspects of the structure that underpins 
the agreement reached with the Pension Trustee, to 
ensure future contributions are tax deductible. 
Discontinued operations
Discontinued operations covers businesses which were 
disposed of during the year and businesses which were  
still held for sale at the year end. Operating profit in France 
and Northern Europe were helped by the fact that no 
depreciation was charged from March 2009 when the 
businesses were designated as held for sale. This improved 
profit by £4.3m in France and £2.5m in Northern Europe. 
Significant items include a £1.0m pension curtailment gain 
in Pinneys as its employees became deferred members of 
the main UK pension scheme, £1.0m loss on disposal of the 
Bremerhaven site in Germany, £7.2m of asset impairment  
as the carrying value of the remaining assets in Germany  Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2009 17
 Directors’ report
 Financial review
and Poland were written down to their recoverable value, 
£0.5m of restructuring and other costs, £2.0m net loss on 
disposal of the businesses and £2.3m of related tax. In total 
the results before significant items of £10.0m were offset by 
£12.0m of significant items and tax charges.
Funds flow
During the year the continuing Group had a £10.9m 
operating cash outflow. This includes £11.0m spend 
on capital expenditure of which £8.6m related to the 
transfer of the Desserts operations into the Minsterley 
site. Working capital outflow for continuing operations in 
the year was £7.0m which reflects the increased pressure 
from suppliers during the economic downturn. During the 
year the continuing group spent £22.1m on provisions 
and significant items: £3.1m related to the payout of 
provisions for the Paignton transfer that were charged in 
2008; £8.0m related to UK restructuring costs (including 
the Desserts reorganisation) incurred in the year and 
£11.0m of payments to Wincanton. The provision balance 
at the year end of £13.3m includes £4.7m relating to the 
Wincanton onerous contract and £8.6m of other 
provision of which £7.1m relates to disposal costs. The 
timing of any final payment to Wincanton is unclear at 
this time as the group is following the dispute resolution 
process to resolve the issue. The other provisions are 
expected to be paid out during 2010.
Closing net debt for the group was £4.0m split between 
£10.1m of net debt in continuing businesses and net cash  
of £6.1m in businesses held for sale.
Proceeds on disposal of discontinued operations 
represents; the net proceeds received after payment of 
disposal costs and excludes any deferred consideration 
or disposal costs outstanding at the year-end in relation 
to the sale of Marie. Included in the £57.1m proceeds is 
£10.4m of overdrafts sold with the disposed business.
The cashflow from discontinued operations reflects the 
trading of the businesses during group ownership. This 
includes cash inflows of £13.2m for EBITDA less capital 
expenditure of £7.9m, working capital outflow of £15.6m  
Summary results 
2009
£m
2008*
£m
UK trading operating profit/(loss) 4.4 (1.3)
Group costs (6.3) (5.8)
Operating loss before significant items (1.9) (7.1) 
Net pension finance charge (11.3) 4.4 
Other finance charges (4.6) 0.2 
Loss before significant items (17.8) (2.5)
Significant items (0.7) 2.4
Loss before tax (18.5) (0.1) 
Tax charge (0.4) (0.7) 
Loss from continuing operations (18.9) (0.8) 
Discontinued items net of tax (2.0) (55.4) 
Loss for the year (20.9) (56.2) 
Basic loss per share (18.4)p (49.4)p
*restated
Funds flow 
2009
£m
Operating loss from continuing operations 
and before significant items
(1.9) 
Depreciation and amortisation 9.0 
EBITDA 7.1 
Net capital expenditure (11.0) 
(Increase) in working capital (7.0) 
Operating cashflow (10.9) 
Provisions and significant items (22.1) 
Proceeds from disposal of discontinued operations 57.1 
Cashflow from discontinued operations (12.3) 
Pension contributions (4.5) 
Other (2.9) 
Total funds flow 4.4 
Opening net debt (8.4) 
Closing net debt (4.0) 
Discontinued operations 
 
Pinneys 
£m
France  
£m
NE  
£m
Total  
£m
Revenue 10.1 158.7 262.0 430.8 
Operating (loss)/profit before 
depreciation adjustment (0.7) (3.0) 7.9 4.2 
Add back depreciation adjustment – 4.3 2.5 6.8
Operating (loss)/profit (0.7) 1.3 10.4 11.0
Finance charges – (0.4) (1.6) (2.0) 
Income tax – 1.8 (0.8) 1.0 
(Loss)/profit before significant items (0.7) 2.7 8.0 10.0 
Significant items 1.0 – (8.7) (7.7) 
(Loss)/profit on disposal (0.7) 0.6 (1.9) (2.0)
Tax adjustment on disposal – (2.3) – (2.3)
(Loss)/profit for the year (0.4) 1.0 (2.6) (2.0) Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2009 18 
 Directors’ report
 Financial review
and £2.0m paid out on provisions. Pension contributions 
include £1.6m of normal contributions to the UK scheme 
plus one-off payments in settlement of unfunded schemes.
Business performance measurement
The group measures its performance using a series of KPIs 
both financial and non financial. The financial KPIs are: sales 
growth; gross margin percentage; operating profit percentage 
and return on capital. The non financial KPI’s vary according to 
business unit but include such measures as health and safety, 
service levels and customer complaints.
Financial risk
In addition to the pensions issues noted above, the group 
is subject to certain financial risks, but has procedures and 
controls in place to mitigate these risks. The other major 
financial risks identified can be split as follows:
 Market risk – Market risk can be broken down into •	
currency risk and interest rate risk. The group has formal 
procedures and policies to mitigate these risks.
 Credit risk – The majority of the group’s customers are •	
large, established retail organisations with a good credit 
record. As a result the group does not have significant 
concentrations of credit risk.
 Liquidity risk – During 2009 the group operated within its •	
banking facility. Although the group will continue to utilise 
the £5m overdraft, liquidity risk remains acceptable due to 
cash management control and the £35m revolving credit 
which is due to expire on 31 December 2010. The group will 
have access to £42m of the funds held in the Disposal 
Reinvestment account from 1 July 2010 to fund operations. 
Funding
Opening net debt at the beginning of the year was £8.4m with 
bank facilities providing revolving credit. In early 2009 the 
group renegotiated its banking facilities to provide £60m of 
working capital facility which was used during the year. The 
facility was split into two tranches, A for £25m which was 
secured and B for £35m which was unsecured. Tranche A was 
repaid in October 2009 on the receipt of proceeds for the sale 
of France. In accordance with the Pension Trustee Agreement, 
most of the additional proceeds from disposals have been 
held in a separate account (Disposal Reinvestment account). 
The use of these funds is subject to agreement with the 
Pension Trustee until 30 June 2010. At the year end the 
amount of proceeds in the Disposal Reinvestment account 
was £11m which related to proceeds from the disposals of 
France and Pinneys. In order to fund its operations, the group 
has continued to use the remaining £35m working capital 
facility during the year and the amount drawn on this facility 
at the year end was £27m. The £35m working capital facility 
expires on 31 December 2010.
Funding position in 2010
From 1 July 2010 the group will have access to the proceeds 
in the Disposal Reinvestment account. The total amount of 
proceeds in this account was £11m at the year end but will 
increase to £41.7m in 2010 as the disposals of the Northern 
European operations are received. The table of proforma net 
debt shows the funding position of the Group at year end 
having received the remaining proceeds on disposal and 
following access to the Disposal Reinvestment account. 
These funds will be used in part to repay the bank borrowings 
when they fall due.
Pensions – movement in the pension liability in 2009
The pension liability shown on the balance sheet of £235.1m 
includes only the pension liability of the continuing business 
as the overseas pension liabilities have been reclassified in 
the 2009 balance sheet into liabilities held for sale. The table 
on page 19 shows the movement in the assets and liabilities 
of the main pension scheme during 2009. The narrative 
below explains how these movements have come about.
Return on assets: Is both the expected (or standard) return 
on assets of £26.0m plus £48.0m of actuarial gain, or return 
above the market expectation. The total gain was £74.0m 
which reflects the recovery of the equity markets during 2009.
Change in assumptions: A charge of £127.7m, reflects the 
changes made in the assumptions used to calculate the 
pension liability. The most important assumptions for this 
are the discount rate and the inflation rate. This discount rate 
moved from 6.4% in 2008 to 5.7% in 2009 and the inflation 
rate moved from 2.9% to 3.6%. The combination of these 
variances has resulted in the significant increase in the liability.
Benefits paid: Relate to the amount of pensions payments 
and transfers out of deferred members that were paid 
during the year. The benefits payable steadily increases 
over the next 15 years. 
Unwinding of discount: Describes the effect of moving  
on one year in the liability and represents a year’s interest 
charge on the gross liability. Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2009 19
 Directors’ report
 Financial review
IAS19 Pension movement – main scheme
Assets  
£m
Liabilities 
£m
Net 
£m
Opening Liability –  
January 2009 460.8 (604.5) (143.7) 
Return on assets 74.0 – 74.0 
Change in assumptions – (127.7) (127.7) 
Benefits paid (37.2) 37.2 – 
Unwinding of discount – (37.4) (37.4) 
Contributions 2.8 (0.4) 2.4 
Service cost – 4.6 4.6 
Closing Liability –  
December 2009 500.4 (728.2) (227.8) 
Secure account 97.0 
Net Liability (130.8) 
Pension liability split
£m
Main Scheme (227.8) 
Other funds (7.3) 
(235.1) 
Proforma net debt
Actual  
£m
Disposal 
proceeds 
£m
Access to 
reinvestment 
account  
£m
Proforma 
£m
Operating net  
(debt)/cash (21.1) 8.1 41.7 28.7 
Net cash disposed of 6.1 (6.1) – –
Disposal proceeds 11.0 30.7 (41.7) – 
Net (debt)/ cash (4.0) 32.7 – 28.7 
Contributions: Are payments made into the scheme from 
both the employer and employee and top up payments from 
the employer for any transfers out. The scheme was closed 
to further accrual in October 2009 and so contributions 
going forward will be limited to top up payments only.
The service cost: Is the calculation of the charge to the 
profit and loss account for providing a pension benefit to 
employees for the year. This year’s charge is split between 
£1.1m operating cost offset by £5.7m of curtailment gain  
of which £1.0m related to the disposal of Pinneys. The 
curtailment gain has arisen because the scheme was 
closed to further accrual as noted above reducing the 
liability for future pensions as pension entitlements have 
now become frozen. There will be no service charge in  
2010 as the scheme has been closed to further accrual.
 Main UK scheme: The IAS19 deficit at £227.8m has 
increased by £84.1m versus last year, based on the same 
assumptions for longevity. The main reasons for this 
increase are detailed above. The net liability of £130.8m 
is significantly lower than the £436m liability assessed 
by the Pension Trustee as part of the scheme specific 
funding process mostly as a result of the difference 
on the discount rate used in assessing the liabilities. 
The trustee has followed guidelines from the Pensions 
Regulator and used a risk-free rate, consistent with 
a buy-out methodology. 
Other schemes: In addition to the main scheme, the UK 
operates an unfunded overcap scheme, one small legacy 
scheme as well as paying medical benefits to certain past 
employees. The outstanding liability on these schemes 
amounts to £7.3m. The group operates an unfunded 
scheme in Germany which is disclosed in liabilities held 
for sale. The deficit on the scheme at the end of 2009 
was £14.7m. 
Martin Beer
Finance Director
15 April 2010  20 
 Directors’ report
Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Principal risks
This section updates what your board believes are  
the most significant risks and uncertainties which  
are specific to Uniq’s UK businesses which is where 
the group’s principal risks now lie. 
Pension scheme
A long term funding agreement has been reached with  
the Trustee which requires clearance from the Pensions 
Regulator. If clearance cannot be obtained and the parties 
are unable to find an agreed solution to funding the deficit 
of the pension scheme, there is a risk that the Trustee may 
decide to exercise its power to wind up the scheme which 
in turn would lead to the winding up of the company.
Litigation
The company remains involved in the OFT’s investigation into 
alleged co-ordination of UK retail prices within the UK grocery 
sector which could result in adverse regulatory action by the 
OFT, including financial penalties of up to ten per cent of 
worldwide turnover. However, the OFT has not yet made any 
formal objections against Uniq and it is not possible at this 
stage to quantify the level of any potential fine.
The legal dispute with Wincanton regarding quantification 
of a rebate claim in respect of the distribution contract 
which expired in 2009 is ongoing. The group has 
provided for the liability but the full payment has yet  
to be determined.
There also remain risks and uncertainties relating to  
the disposal of the group’s Continental European 
businesses as the company has provided a number  
of representations, warranties and indemnities to the 
purchasers of these businesses which, if breached,  
may result in financial claim(s) against Uniq.
Purchases of raw materials
The purchase of raw materials is subject to potentially 
significant fluctuations in price. Uniq will generally not  
be a sufficiently large buyer to have any control over these 
prices and may be unable to pass on such prices 
increases to its customers in whole or part or without a 
period of delay. 
Customers
The group is heavily dependent on a limited number of 
significant UK grocery retailers. In line with industry practice, 
the majority of Uniq’s sales are made by means of short term 
standard purchase orders rather than long term contracts.  
In recent years, the major multiple retailers have increased  
their share of the UK grocery market and price competition 
between those retailers has intensified. This price 
competition has led the major multiple retailers to seek lower 
prices from their suppliers. Uniq has created a decentralised, 
entrepreneurial business structure to enable it to get closer  
to its customers and to mitigate this risk. However, there  
can be no assurance that Uniq’s customers will continue to 
purchase its products at current volumes or on current terms.
Credit insurance availability
As is common in the food industry, many suppliers use 
credit insurance to reduce the risk of exposure to the group. 
The credit extended by suppliers is an important part of the 
group’s funding. Management believe that the level of 
insurance available to the group’s suppliers remains low, 
owing to a general tightening of credit insurance and the 
perceived overhang of the UK pension liability. The group 
has responded to this by continuing to pay to agreed terms 
or changing suppliers where this is not possible. Should  
the level of credit insurance available to the group’s 
suppliers reduce further, then Uniq may also face demands 
for changes in payment terms by its key suppliers or they 
may refuse to continue to supply the group.
Reliance on business recovery
The group made an operating loss in the financial year ended 
31 December 2009. In order to achieve the group’s recovery 
plan and address unsatisfactory trading performance, Uniq 
has made significant organisational changes, such as the 
consolidation of its desserts factories in the UK. In 2009 the 
trading performance of the operating units improved in all 
sectors. Together with this improvement and further initiatives 
to increase sales and reduce overhead costs, there is some 
evidence of business recovery being achieved. However all 
or any of these initiatives may fail to improve performance or 
fail to occur and consequently have adverse consequences 
on the group’s financial position.  21
 Directors’ report
Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Directors’ responsibilities
The directors are responsible for preparing the 
Annual Report and the group and parent company 
financial statements in accordance with applicable 
law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare group and 
parent company financial statements for each financial 
year. Under that law they are required to prepare the 
group financial statements in accordance with IFRSs as 
adopted by the EU and applicable law and have elected 
to prepare the parent company financial statements on 
the same basis.
Under company law the directors must not approve the 
financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give 
a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the group and 
parent company and of their profit or loss for that period. 
In preparing each of the group and parent company 
financial statements, the directors are required to:
 select suitable accounting policies and then apply •	
them consistently;
 make judgements and estimates that are reasonable •	
and prudent;
 state whether they have been prepared in accordance •	
with IFRSs as adopted by the EU; and
 prepare the financial statements on the going  •	
concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume 
that the group and the parent company will continue  
in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate 
accounting records that are sufficient to show and  
explain the parent company’s transactions and disclose 
with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial  
position of the parent company and enable them to ensure 
that its financial statements comply with the Companies 
Act 2006. They have general responsibility for taking such 
steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the 
assets of the group and to prevent and detect fraud and 
other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the directors  
are also responsible for preparing a Directors’ Report, 
Directors’ Remuneration Report and Corporate 
Governance Statement that complies with that law  
and those regulations.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance  
and integrity of the corporate and financial information 
included on the company’s website. Legislation in the  
UK governing the preparation and dissemination of 
financial statements may differ from legislation in  
other jurisdictions.
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: 
 the financial statements, prepared in accordance with •	
the applicable set of accounting standards, give a true 
and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position 
and profit or loss of the company and the undertakings 
included in the consolidation taken as a whole; and
 the directors’ report includes a fair review of the •	
development and performance of the business and  
the position of the issuer and the undertakings 
included in the consolidation taken as a whole, 
together with a description of the principal risks  
and uncertainties that they face. 
Geoff Eaton
Chief Executive
Martin Beer
Finance Director
15 April 2010 Martin Beer
Finance Director
John Warren
Chairman
Geoff Eaton 
Chief Executive
 22 
 Directors’ report
Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2009
John Warren
Chairman * † ‡ //
Joined the board in 2007, 
served as Interim Chairman 
from 25 June 2009 and 
appointed Chairman on
14 April 2010. He is 
chairman of the audit 
committee and the 
pensions committee and 
was the senior non-
executive director up to 25 
June 2009. He was 
formerly finance director  
of United Biscuits Plc  
and WH Smith Plc. He is  
a fellow of the Institute of 
Chartered Accountants in 
England and Wales and is 
a non-executive director of 
The Rank Group Plc, Bovis 
Homes Group PLC and 
Spectris plc.
Geoff Eaton 
Chief executive ‡ //
Joined the board as chief 
executive in 2005. He was 
formerly chief executive  
of ISIS Research from  
2001 to 2004. Prior to  
that he spent 13 years  
with Tomkins plc where  
he held a number of senior 
executive roles including 
executive director at RHM 
in the UK, executive 
vice-president at Gates 
Corporation in the US  
and head of corporate 
development for the 
Tomkins Group. He is  
a chartered accountant, 
having qualified with  
Arthur Andersen.
Martin Beer 
Finance director //
Appointed to the board  
in 2002 as finance director. 
He is a chartered 
accountant, having 
qualified with Price 
Waterhouse. He has been 
with the group since  
1990 in various financial  
roles, including finance  
director of Unigate Dairies  
for five years.
Belinda Gooding 
Non-executive director * † ‡
Joined the board in 2006. 
She is chief executive of  
2 Save Energy Ltd and a 
non-executive director of 
Biloxi Southern Foods.  
She was formerly a 
non-executive director  
of Sir Hans Sloane 
chocolates and Pet’s 
Kitchen and chief executive 
of Duchy Originals Ltd from 
2000 to 2007. Prior to that 
she spent ten years in 
marketing roles with Mars 
(Masterfoods) and was 
group marketing director  
of Dairy Crest Group plc. 
Board of directors Dr Matthew Litobarski 
Non-executive Director 
Belinda Gooding
Non-executive Director 
Stephen Draisey
Managing Director 
Andrew McDonald
General Counsel and 
Company Secretary
 23
 Directors’ report
 Board of directors
Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Dr Matthew Litobarski 
Non-executive director * † ‡
Appointed to the board  
in 2005. He is chairman  
of the remuneration 
committee and, since  
25 June 2009, the interim 
senior non-executive 
director. He is chairman  
of Devin AD (Bulgarian 
mineral water company), 
chair of the council of Nacro 
(a leading UK crime 
reduction charity) and an 
operating partner with 
Advent International. He was 
previously president, global 
supply chain, with Cadbury 
Schweppes plc, having 
spent 19 years with them in 
various senior management 
roles. He has a doctorate in 
physical chemistry from 
Nottingham University.
Stephen Draisey
Managing director 
Appointed in 2008. He has 
a wealth of experience in 
the UK food industry having 
held a number of senior 
positions during a 17 
year career with Geest/
Bakkavor, ultimately as 
managing director of its 
desserts, ready meals, 
soups, sauces, pasta and 
chilled bread division.  
Prior to that he was with 
Northern Foods plc and  
J Marr Seafoods Ltd.
Andrew McDonald
General counsel and 
company secretary
Joined Uniq in 2005 
as general counsel and 
appointed company
secretary in February 2009. 
He is secretary to the board 
and each of the four board 
committees and has 
responsibility for corporate 
governance, insurance and 
all legal matters affecting 
the group. He qualified as a 
solicitor in 1998 and worked 
as a corporate lawyer for 
Freshfields Bruckhaus 
Deringer before moving  
into industry.
* Member of the remuneration committee
† Member of the audit committee
‡ Member of the nomination committee
// Member of the pension committee Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2009 24 
 Directors’ report
 
Report of the directors
Principal activity
Uniq is a convenience food group that is now focused on 
the UK and operates and manages two divisions: Food to 
Go and Desserts. During the year the group disposed of 
all its remaining European operations in Northern Europe 
(Germany, the Netherlands and Poland) and in France. 
Business review, KPIs and risk review
A review of activities of the group and divisions, key 
performance indicators (KPIs), an outline of the principal 
risks and uncertainties which management believes are 
specific to the group and an indication of future 
developments are set out throughout the directors’ 
report, but in particular in the chairman’s statement on 
pages 2 and 3, the chief executive’s review on pages 4 
and 5, the market overview on pages 6 and 7, the 
business review on pages 8 to 15, the financial review  
on pages 16 to 19 and in the principal risks on page 20.
Dividends
No dividends were paid during 2009 (nor in 2008) and the 
directors have decided not to recommend the payment of 
a final dividend for the year.
Acquisitions and disposals
During the year the following transactions occurred. 
On 13 March 2009 we completed the sale of the group’s 
UK chilled fish business, Pinneys of Scotland, to the 
Foodvest group for £1.0m. 
On 7 October 2009 we completed the sale of Marie SAS, 
our French chilled and frozen convenience food business, 
to Groupe LDC for a cash consideration of £60.9m.
In October 2009 the desserts factory at Paignton was 
closed and most of the business transferred to Minsterley.
On 11 November 2009 we signed an agreement with IFR 
Capital plc to sell our businesses in Germany (Uniq 
Deutschland GmbH) and Poland (Uniq Lisner sp zoo) for a 
total cash consideration of £25.7m. The sale has just received 
competition authority clearances in Germany, Poland and 
Austria and is expected to complete during April 2010. 
On 17 November 2009 we announced the sale of our 
Netherlands business (Uniq Convenience Foods 
Nederland BV) to Gilde Equity Management Benelux  
for a total enterprise value of £18.0m. This disposal  
was completed on 9 January 2010. 
Share capital and reserves
Details of the authorised and issued share capital and 
changes in reserves of the company are shown in notes 28 
and 29 to the financial statements. The directors of Uniq plc 
have received limited authority to disapply shareholders’ 
pre-emption rights in certain circumstances, to authorise 
the company to buy back a proportion of the company’s 
share capital and to allow the directors to allot shares. 
Further resolutions will be placed before the AGM to renew 
these powers. Details are set out in the notice of meeting. 
Annual general meeting
The company’s annual general meeting will be held at  
10 am on Tuesday 15 June 2010 at the offices of Investec 
Bank plc, 2 Gresham Street, London EC2V 7QP . Details of 
the business to be considered at the meeting are contained 
in the notice of annual general meeting sent to shareholders. 
Substantial interests
As at 12 April 2010, the company has been notified by the 
following that they hold a disclosable beneficial interest in 3% 
or more of the issued ordinary share capital of the company:
%
Schroder Investment Management Ltd 11.88
Pension Insurance Corporation Ltd 9.96
Prudential plc/M&G Investment Management Ltd 9.30
Barclays Stockbrokers Ltd 5.61
Self Trade Stockbrokers Ltd 5.18
Henderson Global Investors Ltd 5.07
Investec Asset Management Ltd 4.80
JP Morgan Asset Management Ltd 4.76
TD Waterhouse Nominees (Europe) Ltd 4.66
FCP KBL Richelieu 3.67
HSDL Nominees Ltd 3.10 Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2009 25
 Directors’ report
 Report of the directors
Powers of the directors
Subject to the provisions of the Companies Acts, the 
articles of association and directions given by the 
company in general meeting, the business of the 
company is managed by the board of directors which 
may exercise all the powers of the company.
Appointment and replacement of directors
Directors may be appointed by the company by ordinary 
resolution or by the board. Non-executive directors are 
appointed for a term of three years, subject to shareholder 
approval. At every AGM any director who has been 
appointed by the board since the last AGM, or who held 
office at the time of the two preceding AGMs and did not 
retire at either meeting shall retire from office and offer 
themselves for re-appointment by shareholders. The 
company may by special resolution remove a director from 
office before expiry of his term of appointment. The articles 
contain provisions on the vacation of office if a director: 
resigns, or offers to resign and the resignation is accepted by 
the directors, or is required to resign by the other directors; 
suffers from mental or physical ill health problems; is absent 
from meetings for six months without permission; has a 
bankruptcy order made against him or makes an 
arrangement or composition with his creditors; is prohibited 
by law from bring a director; or ceases to be a director under 
legislation or is removed from office under the articles. 
Rights and obligations attaching to shares
The company can issue shares with any rights or 
restrictions attached to them as long as this is not 
restricted by any rights attached to existing shares. 
These rights or restrictions can be decided either by  
an ordinary resolution passed by the company or by  
the directors as long as there is no conflict with any 
resolution passed by the company. Subject to legislation, 
the articles and other shareholders’ rights the shares  
are at the disposal of the directors. 
Variation of rights
Subject to the Companies Acts, the rights attached to any 
class of shares can be changed if this is approved either in 
writing or by special resolution by shareholders holding at least 
three quarters of the issued shares of that class by amount 
(excluding any shares of that class held as treasury shares).
Voting and restrictions on voting
Every member and every duly appointed proxy present at 
a general meeting or a class meeting has, upon a show 
of hands, one vote and upon a poll one vote for every 
share held by him. In the case of joint holders where 
more than one joint holder votes, the only vote which  
will count is the one of the person listed before the other 
voters on the register for the share. 
The Uniq ESOT (see note 29) holds 982,677ordinary 
shares as at 31 December 2009 on trust for the benefit of 
participants in the company’s executive share plans. The 
voting rights for these shares are held by the trustee and 
the trustee may vote or abstain in any way it thinks fit. 
Historically the trustee has not exercised this right.
Unless the directors decide otherwise, a shareholder 
cannot attend or vote shares at any general meeting of 
the company or upon a poll or exercise any other right 
conferred by membership in relation to general meetings 
or polls if he has not paid all amounts relating to those 
shares which are due at the time of the meeting.
The company is not aware of any agreements between 
holders of securities that may result in restrictions on 
voting rights.
Restrictions on transfer of shares
As at 15 April 2010, there are no extant restrictions on  
the transfer of shares in the company except as follows: 
certain restrictions may be imposed from time to time by 
legislation and regulations (for example insider trading 
laws); and pursuant to the Listing Rules of the UK 
Financial Services Authority whereby certain employees 
of the company require clearance from the company to 
deal in the company’s shares.
The company is not aware of any agreements between 
shareholders that may result in restrictions in the transfer 
of securities. 
Dividends and other distributions
Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act, the company 
may by ordinary resolution from time to time declare 
dividends not exceeding the amount recommended by the  Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2009 26 
 Directors’ report
  Report of the directors
board. Subject to the Companies Act, the board may pay 
interim dividends whenever the financial position of the 
company, in the opinion of the board, justifies its payment. 
The board may withhold payment of all or any part of any 
dividends or other monies payable in respect of shares from 
a person with a 0.25% interest in the company’s shares (as 
defined in the articles) after failure to provide the company 
with information concerning interests in those shares 
required to be provided in accordance with the articles.
Employees
The group is committed to a policy of equal opportunities 
in employment by which the group continues to ensure 
that all aspects of selection and retention are based on 
merit and suitability for the job without considerations  
of sex, marital status, nationality, colour, race, ethnicity, 
sexual orientation or any disability. The group aims to 
maintain a diverse workforce free from discrimination. 
Persons who have or develop a disability are, where 
possible, given practical assistance and training to seek to 
overcome their disability in the performance of their work. 
Directors
Details of the directors in office at the year end and of 
their contracts are set out in their biographies on  
pages 22 and 23 and in the corporate governance  
and remuneration reports. The directors’ beneficial 
interests in the company’s ordinary share capital as at  
31 December 2009 are set out in table 5 on page 40 of 
the remuneration report. Ross Warburton resigned as 
Chairman for personal reasons on 25 June 2009.
Charitable and political donations
The group made donations for charitable purposes during 
the year which amounted to £12,000 (2008: £3,600). No 
donations were made to political parties in 2009 (nor in 2008).
New product development
During the year the group was active in the improvement 
of production processes, existing products and the 
development of new products, to satisfy customer 
requirements and support the long-term profitable 
growth of its businesses.
Payment policy
The group does not have a formal code that it follows with 
regard to payments to suppliers. Members of the group 
generally agree payment terms with their suppliers when 
they enter into binding contracts for the supply of goods 
and services. Suppliers are, in that way, made aware of 
these terms. Group companies seek to abide by these 
payment terms when they are satisfied that the supplier  
has provided the goods or services in accordance with the 
agreed terms and conditions. At 31 December 2009 the 
amount of trade creditors shown in the group balance sheet 
represented 52 days (2008: 72 days) of average purchases.
Significant contracts and change of control
The company is not party to any significant agreements 
which take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of 
control of the company. Details of how the various 
employee equity incentive plans would be affected by a 
change of control are set out in the remuneration report.
Disclosure of information to auditors
The directors who held office at the date of approval of 
this directors’ report confirm that, so far as they are each 
aware, having instigated reasonable steps to check the 
same and sought appropriate reassurances from fellow 
directors, management and the company’s auditors that 
it is the case, that there is no relevant audit information of 
which the company’s auditors are unaware.
Auditors
In accordance with Section 489 of the Companies Act 2006, a 
resolution for the re-appointment of KPMG Audit Plc as auditors 
of Uniq plc will be proposed at the annual general meeting.
For the board
Andrew McDonald
Company Secretary
15 April 2010
Registered No. 3912506 Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2009 27
 Directors’ report
Compliance statement
The company has generally complied with the Combined 
Code as applicable to the company for the year to  
31 December 2009. The company normally expects to 
comply with current best practice in relation to corporate 
governance and that its employees will do likewise. This 
report seeks to explain the position in detail including  
any exceptions.
Board of directors
At the date of this report there are five directors, comprising 
the chairman, chief executive, finance director and two 
non-executive directors. All directors served throughout  
the year. All of the non-executive directors are considered 
‘independent’ within the meaning of the Combined Code  
and the chairman was ‘independent’ on appointment. John 
Warren, Matthew Litobarski and Belinda Gooding have 
current terms of appointment which expire at the end of the 
annual general meetings in 2010, 2011 and 2012 respectively. 
The non-executive directors occupy, and/or have occupied, 
senior positions in business. 
On 25 June 2009, Ross Warburton resigned as chairman  
for personal reasons. John Warren, previously the senior 
non-executive director, served as interim chairman from that 
date and was appointed chairman on 14 April 2010. Matthew 
Litobarski served as interim senior non-executive director in 
place of John Warren from 25 June 2009 and was appointed 
senior non-executive director on 14 April 2010.
The articles provide that all directors must stand for election 
at the first AGM after they are appointed and all continuing 
directors must stand for re-election at least every three years. 
John Warren and Martin Beer are standing for re-election at 
the AGM having last been re-elected in 2007 .
The board is responsible for ensuring the proper 
management and control of the company. The board  
aims to enhance shareholder value by maintaining an 
entrepreneurial leadership of the group whilst ensuring that 
appropriate checks and balances are in place. The board has 
specific powers reserved to it including the approval of: 
group strategy and annual budgets, half yearly and final 
Corporate governance
results and interim management statements, acquisitions 
and disposals, major agreements, capital expenditure and 
unusual transactions. It also has responsibility for setting 
policy and monitoring from time to time such matters as: 
financial and risk control, health and safety policy, 
environmental issues, food safety and management 
succession and planning. The board has delegated to the 
chief executive and his executive team responsibility for 
execution of the agreed strategy and budget and the 
day-to-day management of the group’s operations. The 
operational management is required to manage operations  
of the company within the management, financial and risk 
guidelines set down.
Board and committee members are given appropriate 
documentation in advance of each board or committee 
meeting. For regular board meetings these normally include  
a detailed monthly report on current and forecast trading  
with comparisons against budgets and prior years. For all 
meetings explanatory papers are sent out on matters where 
the board or committee will be required to give its approval, 
make a decision or give its response. In addition to frequent 
business presentations, reports are given to the board or its 
committees at appropriate intervals on such matters as 
pensions, insurance, environment, food safety and treasury.
The board has approved a procedure for directors to take 
independent professional advice, if necessary, at the 
company’s expense. In addition, the directors have direct 
access to the advice and services of the company secretary 
who is charged by the board with ensuring that board 
procedures are followed. Appointment or removal of the 
company secretary is a matter for the board as a whole.
On joining the board, directors are included in an induction 
programme involving meetings with management together 
with current information and background documents 
describing the company and its activities. Manuals, books and 
training are available to all directors on their duties as directors 
and individual members attend external courses on subjects 
they wish to improve. Site visits take place periodically. Papers 
are presented to board members on such subjects as 
accounting or regulatory changes where appropriate; specific  Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2009 28 
 Directors’ report
 Corporate governance
presentations have been given covering various aspects 
affecting directors under the Companies Act 2006.
Normally, the board expects to meet about 12 times a year. 
Where there are urgent matters to consider, additional 
meetings, generally by telephone conference call, are held. 
Where directors are not able to attend meetings, opportunity 
is made for their views to be conveyed on matters under 
consideration. The table on page 29 sets out the board and 
committee meeting attendance by members (the figures in 
brackets are the maximum which could have been attended 
in the year).
Throughout the year the company had a separate  
chairman and chief executive and their differing roles  
were acknowledged. The chairman’s role was part-time  
and he was primarily responsible for the workings of the 
board and for ensuring that its strategic and supervisory 
role was achieved. The chief executive was responsible  
for the day-to-day running of the business, preparing the 
strategy and budgets for board review and then carrying 
out the agreed strategy and implementing specific board 
decisions relating to the operation of the company. 
The senior non-executive director up to 25 June 2009 was 
John Warren and from that date Matthew Litobarski was 
appointed interim senior non-executive director while John 
Warren served as interim chairman. On 14 April 2010 John 
Warren was appointed chairman and Matthew Litobarski as 
the senior non-executive director. The board carries out a 
review of its own effectiveness annually. This was done by 
the secretary preparing a list of headings under which each 
director was asked to consider performance and make 
comments. These were received by the chairman, collated 
and detailed in a paper setting out the points raised. 
Following a review of that paper by the board the points 
agreed were adopted.
Board committees
There are audit, remuneration, pension and nomination 
committees of the board to which relevant matters are 
delegated. The current membership of the committees is  
set out on pages 22 and 23. Membership of each committee 
is reviewed as necessary as a consequence of any changes 
in the board, and there were a number of changes following 
the resignation of Ross Warburton from the board. The 
committees all have detailed terms of reference. The reports 
of the audit and remuneration committees, including 
summaries of their terms of reference, are set out below  
and in the separate remuneration report which follows. 
The pension committee was set up in 2007 to review and 
advise the board on pension issues. It normally meets about 
six times a year. It is chaired by John Warren and its other 
members are Geoff Eaton and Martin Beer. Ross Warburton 
was a member up to his resignation from the board. 
However, during 2009 the board as a whole regularly 
considered the group’s pension deficit and other pension 
matters, so there was no need for the pension committee  
to hold separate meetings.
The nomination committee is responsible for considering and 
recommending to the board persons who are appropriate  
for appointment as executive and non-executive directors. 
Appointment is the responsibility of the whole board following 
recommendation from the committee. The committee also 
reviews succession planning and senior management 
appointments below board level. Up to 25 June 2009 the 
chairman was also chairman of the nomination committee, 
after which Matthew Litobarski has been committee 
chairman. The chairman, the chief executive and the 
remaining independent non-executive director are also 
members. It meets as necessary and uses the services of 
outside personnel consultants to assist it when appropriate. 
From time to time a subset of the nomination committee  
will be selected for a specific purpose such as selection  
or re-appointment of the chairman. In carrying out its  
duties the committee considers what appointments  
would be appropriate, decides what attributes or areas  
of specialisation the candidates should have and selects 
headhunters to find and select possible candidates. 
Members of the committee then interview candidates  
before the committee puts forward its recommendation  
to the board. 
The remuneration committee report is set out on pages  
34 to 40. The remuneration committee was chaired by 
Matthew Litobarski throughout the year. John Warren and 
Belinda Gooding are the other members. Ross Warburton 
was a member up to the date of his resignation from the 
board. It meets when necessary and uses the services of 
external remuneration consultants to assist it when 
appropriate. All members of the committee are independent 
non-executive directors.  Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2009 29
 Directors’ report
 Corporate governance
The principal responsibilities of the remuneration 
committee are:
 Setting, reviewing and recommending to the board  •	
for approval the group’s overall remuneration policy  
and strategy for senior managers’ remuneration;
 Setting, reviewing and approving individual remuneration •	
packages for executive directors and the chairman, 
including terms and conditions of employment and  
any changes to the packages;
 Reviewing the salary structure and terms, conditions  •	
and benefits of employment of other very senior 
executives in the group;
 Approving the launch and rules of any group share, share •	
option or cash based long-term incentive scheme and the 
grant, award, allocation or issue of shares, share options 
or payments under such schemes; and
 The setting of bonus terms and the approval of bonus •	
payments for directors and certain senior executives.
The audit committee is chaired by John Warren who is a 
chartered accountant and has extensive previous experience 
as a finance director of two large listed companies. All 
members of the committee are independent non-executive 
directors and between them they have wide experience of 
industry and commerce. The board believes that for the 
purposes of the Combined Code, John Warren has 
appropriate, recent and relevant financial experience. The 
board considers that it is appropriate that John Warren 
continues as chairman of the audit committee while he 
serves as chairman of the board, because he is the only 
non-executive director with the relevant financial expertise; 
the board will keep the leadership of the audit committee 
under review.
During the year, the committee reviewed the scope and 
results of the work undertaken by the internal auditors.  
The group has appointed an internal compliance controller  
to monitor compliance with internal controls. The compliance 
controller reports to the committee at least twice a year.  
The committee is generally attended by the chief executive, 
finance director, the group compliance controller and the 
external auditors, all at the invitation of the committee. The 
company secretary is secretary. The committee normally 
meets three times a year and in addition the committee and/
or the chairman hold separate discussion with the external 
auditors without any members of the executive present.  
The committee operates within written terms of reference  
set down by the board.
The committee plays an important role in reviewing  
the group’s financial controls and reporting. It manages  
the group’s relationship with internal and external auditors.  
It also assists in the group risk management  
procedures and in ensuring that the group meets  
its regulatory requirements. 
The principal activities of the audit committee are:
 To review the half yearly and annual financial statements •	
prior to publication with executive management and the 
external auditors. It pays particular attention to the 
appropriateness of accounting policies used and areas of 
management judgement. Compliance with material 
changes to accounting standards is kept under review. It 
draws to the attention of the board the main points arising 
from its review and any matters of concern which may arise.
 To make recommendations concerning the appointment •	
or re-appointment of the company’s external auditors and 
to consider the auditors’ continuing suitability, including 
when necessary recommending to the board appropriate 
action to appoint new auditors. It ensures that key audit 
partners are rotated at appropriate intervals. It discusses 
with the auditors the scope of the audit before it 
Directors’ attendance at board and committee meetings
Director Board
Audit 
committee 
Remuneration 
committee
Nomination 
committee 
John Warren 17 (18) 3 (3) 4 (4) 1 (1)
Geoff Eaton 20 (20) N/A N/A 1 (1)
Martin Beer 20 (20) N/A N/A N/A
Belinda Gooding 16 (17) 3 (3) 4 (4) 1 (1)
Matthew Litobarski 17 (17) 3 (3) 4 (4) 1 (1)
Ross Warburton (up to 25 June 2009) 10 (10) N/A 3 (3) N/A Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2009 30 
 Directors’ report
 Corporate governance 
commences, reviews the results and considers the 
 formal reports of the auditors and reports the results  
of those reviews to the board. It reviews the auditors’ 
independence, performance, the scope of the audit  
and recommends to the board appropriate remuneration  
for the auditors.
 To receive reports from the group compliance controller •	
twice a year reviewing internal audits conducted and 
consider follow up reviews on progress in addressing 
issues arising from prior internal audits.
 To agree the programme of internal audit reviews to be •	
carried out and must approve the appointment or removal 
of the compliance controller. The group compliance 
controller has the right to talk directly to the chairman of 
the audit committee at any time.
 To set down and monitor the company’s use of the •	
external auditors for non-audit work. The committee 
considers that it is sometimes appropriate to use the 
external auditors for non-audit work especially where the 
work is of a regulatory or compliance nature or where the 
auditors’ experience is likely to give them an advantage 
over other providers. All appointments of the external 
auditors are subject to audit committee guidelines and 
specific consent is required for commissions above 
£50,000. The committee monitors non-audit work carried 
out by the external auditors.
 To review the risk review procedure carried out by the •	
executive with the aim of ensuring that, where possible 
and appropriate to do so in the context of the business, 
reasonable steps are taken by the group  
to mitigate risks.
 To ensure that the group maintains appropriate internal •	
control procedures and monitors their effectiveness.  
The committee has approved a ‘whistle blowing’ policy 
under which it is the ultimate point of reference for those 
raising concerns.
During the period under review the committee carried  
out the above functions.
Auditors’ independence
The board believes that its auditors are independent and 
asks the audit committee to monitor this position on a regular 
basis. Details of all fees for non-audit work are set out in note 
5 on page 60 of the financial statements. A material amount 
of the non-audit work was spent on work connected with the 
disposals of the group’s businesses in France and Northern 
Europe and in reviewing the interim results. The board 
considers it appropriate that this work should be carried  
out by the group’s auditors and that it does not inhibit  
their independence.
Other committees are appointed by the board from time to 
time to consider specific matters delegated to them such as 
approval of the detailed terms of acquisitions or disposals 
and capital expenditure projects.
Relations with shareholders
The board ensures that there is an active programme of 
investor relations which was led by the chief executive and 
finance director during the year. The chairman and senior 
non-executives are also available for consultation with major 
shareholders when appropriate. Major brokers’ reports and 
forecasts are circulated to the board as they are received. 
Following the preliminary and half yearly announcement 
presentations the company’s broker conducts an analysis  
of investor and analysts’ reaction which is reported to the 
board. The chairman, chief executive and finance director 
would also report to the board on investor contacts and 
reaction when appropriate.
During the year the chief executive and finance director gave 
collective general presentations covering the results and 
other key announcements. The chairman and other directors 
are available as appropriate for subsequent meetings with 
institutional investors. The chairman and company secretary 
generally deal with questions from individual shareholders. 
All shareholders have the opportunity to put questions at the 
company’s annual general meeting when the chairman gives 
a statement on the company’s performance during the year, 
together with a statement on current trading conditions. The 
chairmen of the audit, nomination and remuneration 
committees normally attend the annual general meeting and 
the chairman advises shareholders on the proxy voting 
details. All shareholders are invited to attend the annual 
general meeting when the directors will be available to 
answer questions concerning the group and its activities.   Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2009 31
 Directors’ report
 Corporate governance
The company maintains a website (www.uniq.com) which 
contains further and up-to-date information on the company 
and its recent changes and announcements.
Independence of directors
The board considers all its non-executive directors and its 
chairman on appointment to be independent. In addition to 
meeting the criteria for independence below they are 
independent in character and judgement. The board’s  
criteria for independence are:
 Has not been an employee of the group within the  •	
last five years;
 Has not or has not had, within the last three years,  •	
a material business relationship with the group;
 Save in exceptional circumstances, has received  •	
no remuneration other than a director’s fee;
 Has no close family ties with any of the group’s advisers, •	
directors or senior employees;
 Does not have significant links with other executive •	
directors through mutual involvement in other companies 
or bodies;
Does not represent a significant shareholder; •	
Has not served on the board for more than nine years. •	
 
Directors’ remuneration
The remuneration report on pages 34 to 40 details 
compliance with the Combined Code’s requirements  
with regard to remuneration matters. 
Internal controls, risk management and audit 
The board has overall responsibility for the group’s risk 
management and internal control systems and for reviewing 
their effectiveness. The systems are designed to provide 
reasonable control over the activities of the company and the 
group and to enable the board to comply with the directors’ 
responsibilities statement on page 21. This process has 
remained in place throughout the financial period covered  
by this annual report and to the date of these financial 
statements. The process is reviewed from time to time and 
updated to ensure that it continues to meet the needs of the 
group’s activities. 
However, it is recognised that it is the nature of any business 
that risk is inherent in any enterprise and that business and 
commercial risks must be taken and that for a business to 
succeed, enterprise, initiative and motivation are key 
elements which must not be unduly stifled. It is not the 
intention of the company to seek to avoid all risks. 
Commercial judgements and other decisions will have to  
be made in the course of management of the business  
and will give rise to risk.
The board confirms that, in accordance with the 
requirements of the Combined Code, it has reviewed the 
effectiveness of the system of internal control. The key 
elements of the group’s internal control systems and the 
review process are as follows:
 The group has an organisational structure with established •	
lines of accountability as well as clearly defined levels of 
authority as to matters which are reserved to the board and 
the delegation of other matters to board committees or the 
group’s executive management. Each part of the business 
is required to operate in accordance with established 
policies and procedures. An overall ‘Operational Control 
Framework’ document, which is regularly reviewed to 
ensure it covers changing business operations and 
processes, sets down guidelines or mandatory 
requirements on general and specific issues such as 
treasury and authorisation limits, accounting policies, 
directors’ dealings, capital expenditure procedures, 
expenses, ethical conduct and ‘whistle blowing’.
 Comprehensive business planning and financial reporting •	
procedures are in place, including the annual preparation 
of detailed operational budgets for the year ahead and 
projections for subsequent years. Each business area 
reports monthly on its performance against its agreed 
budget. The board receives monthly an update on such 
performance and generally reviews significant variances 
on a monthly or bi-monthly basis.
 Procedures have been established for planning, approving •	
and monitoring major capital expenditure and major 
projects. The group has a centralised treasury function, 
which operates within defined limits and subject to regular 
reporting requirements and audit reviews.
 An embedded risk management process is in place, •	
which seeks to identify the most significant risks facing 
each business and the group and reports on how those 
risks are being managed. This process requires the 
business divisions to produce risk registers identifying and 
evaluating significant risks which may affect their business 
and to consider what action can and should reasonably 
and cost effectively be taken to reduce them to an 
acceptable level. The process culminates in the 
production of a group risk register including a review   Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2009 32 
 Directors’ report
 Corporate governance 
of significant central risks. This register and the divisional 
action plans for addressing risk are reviewed and 
maintained on an ongoing basis. Progress is monitored 
generally half yearly by the board and audit committee.
 There is an internal audit process led by the compliance •	
controller which is used to help monitor controls. This 
programme of internal control reviews is set by the audit 
committee following review with the finance director. From 
time to time ad hoc assignments requested by senior 
executives or the audit committee are also undertaken  
by the compliance controller. 
The external auditors, KPMG Audit Plc, audit the year  
end results. Their audit report is on pages 41 and 42 of  
this annual report. They also conduct a review of the half 
year results.
Going concern
The financial statements are prepared on a going concern 
basis, notwithstanding net liabilities of £15.2m as at 31 
December 2009 and the group’s operating loss on 
continuing operations, before significant items, of £1.9m 
and a loss of £20.9m, after £12.7m of significant items, for 
the year then ended. The directors believe this to be 
appropriate for the following reasons.
The Company and the group currently meet their day to day 
working capital requirements and medium term funding 
requirements through a £35m multi-currency revolving 
facility agreement (‘the Facility’). The Facility expires on  
31 December 2010. The Company has agreed that it is its 
intention to consult with the trustee of the main UK pension 
fund (the “Trustee”) in reasonable detail and from time to 
time regarding any proposed arrangements to repay, to 
extend or to refinance the Facility when it matures on 31 
December 2010. The Trustee cannot however prevent the 
Company repaying the Facility at maturity. As at the date of 
authorisation of these financial statements, the terms of the 
Facility, including covenants, were met. 
Following receipt of the proceeds of sale of the German and 
Polish businesses due in April 2010 the group will also have 
available net disposal proceeds of £42m. Under an 
agreement with the Trustee, these have to be held in a 
restricted account until 30 June 2010. Together with the 
Facility these funds constitute “the Available Funds”. 
The directors have prepared trading and cash flow 
forecasts based on existing creditor and debtor terms for a 
period in excess of a year from the date of approval of these 
financial statements. In the directors’ judgement, the key 
factors in these forecasts are that: trading relationships with 
key customers are maintained; sales growth is secured and 
delivered; pension contributions are as agreed with the 
Trustee in the plan proposed to the Pensions Regulator; and 
planned cost savings are achieved. The forecasts include 
that, after consultation with the Trustee, the net disposal 
proceeds from the sale of the Continental European 
businesses will be used to repay the Facility and show that 
after reasonably possible downside sensitivities are applied 
and mitigating factors (principally the group’s ability to 
reduce discretionary spend such as capital expenditure)  
are taken into account the Available Funds are sufficient  
for the foreseeable future, the covenants of the Facility are 
not breached, there are no events of default for the duration 
of the Facility, the Facility will be repaid and, unless 
acquisitions are made as described below, the group can 
operate without a replacement facility. As at the date of 
authorisation of these financial statements the group does 
not have external finance in place after the expiry of the 
Facility on 31 December 2010.
After extensive consultation, the Company and the Trustee 
have agreed in principle a valuation of the Pension Scheme 
and a recovery plan setting out the basis for contributions 
to be made to the Scheme. The recovery plan is linked to a 
long-term framework agreement which requires clearance 
from the Pensions Regulator (the ‘Business as Usual’ 
solution) and relies on the satisfactory resolution of the 
scale and funding of the Pension Protection Fund (PPF) 
Levy. Information has recently been provided to the 
Pensions Regulator to seek this clearance. The Trustee  
has confirmed its intention to continue, to work with the 
Company in a constructive manner to support the  Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2009 33
 Directors’ report
 Corporate governance
Company’s and Trustee’s desire to achieve a Business as 
Usual solution to funding the deficit of the Scheme through 
a recovery plan agreed between the Trustee, the Company 
and, to the extent necessary, the Pensions Regulator. The 
directors anticipate that further funding, either from existing 
shareholders or external finance, may be required to enable 
the group to make the acquisitions envisaged, but not 
required, under a Business as Usual solution. 
If a Business as Usual solution which satisfies regulatory 
requirements cannot be found, then the Trustee has 
confirmed its intention to consider in good faith with the 
Company business and asset realisation options for the 
group, proposed as and when appropriate by the Company 
which are anticipated to preserve the value of the trading 
businesses to achieve a better outcome for the Scheme as 
the group’s major creditor than would be achieved by 
triggering a winding up of the Scheme. 
If this in turn does not provide an agreed solution then  
the Trustee may use its power under the trust deed 
governing the Pension Scheme to wind up the Pension 
Scheme if it receives actuarial advice that the current and 
reasonably expected future employer contributions are “so 
low as to prejudice seriously the long term financial position 
of the Pension Scheme”. The consequence of this would be 
to trigger an immediate debt under section 75 of the UK 
Pensions Act 1995 equal to the full buy-out deficit in the 
Pension Scheme – estimated as at 31 December 2009 to  
be around £560m, for which the company has immediately 
available £97.0m in a secured account for payment into the 
scheme/to the trustees – which in turn would lead to the 
winding-up of the Company, the group no longer being a 
going concern and the dissolution of the group. 
The directors of the group have reviewed the forecasts, 
together with the sensitivities and mitigating factors in the 
context of the Available Funds, and reviewed the pension 
situation. They expect that the group will be able to meet its 
liabilities as they fall due, provided that the Trustee does not 
take steps to wind up the Pension Scheme and relies on the 
satisfactory resolution of the scale and funding of the PPF 
Levy. Whilst the going concern basis of preparation 
therefore remains appropriate, the requirement to put in 
place an agreed recovery plan concerning pension funding, 
including to obtain the agreement of the Pensions Regulator 
to the plan, and the ability of the Trustee to wind up the 
Pension Scheme in the event of an agreed solution not 
being found represents a material uncertainty that may  
cast significant doubt upon the group’s and the Company’s 
ability to continue as a going concern. The group and 
Company therefore may be unable to continue realising 
their assets and discharging their liabilities in the normal 
course of business. Nevertheless, after considering the 
uncertainties described above, the directors have a 
reasonable expectation that the group and Company have 
adequate resources to continue in operational existence for 
the foreseeable future. For these reasons, they continue to 
adopt the going concern basis in preparing the annual 
financial statements.  Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2009 34 
 Directors’ report
Remuneration report
Constitution
The current members of the remuneration committee are 
Matthew Litobarski (chairman), Belinda Gooding and John 
Warren. All of them served throughout the year. Ross 
Warburton was a member up to 25 June 2009. The board 
considers that all members are independent directors, the 
chairman having been independent on first appointment. 
The chief executive and finance director may be invited to 
attend meetings, but no party would attend when specific 
matters concerning the detail of their own personal 
remuneration are being dealt with. The company secretary 
acts as secretary to the remuneration committee and it 
met 4 times during the year to 31 December 2009. 
The committee has written terms of reference which  
set down its role and responsibilities. Briefly, it has 
responsibility for setting the remuneration policy for the 
group and for deciding certain more detailed matters 
such as setting very senior managers’ remuneration  
and grants under long-term incentive schemes.
The remuneration committee takes advice as and when 
required directly from external consultants and has 
appointed Towers Watson as its consultants on 
remuneration matters. Towers Watson performs no  
other services for the Uniq group.
Remuneration policy
The company’s ongoing policy for executive directors 
and senior executive management is to provide 
remuneration in an amount and manner appropriate to 
the recruitment, motivation and retention of high quality 
management, and encourage a culture linking reward to 
overall corporate and individual employees’ performance. 
The committee has decided that emphasis should be 
placed on the performance-related, variable elements of 
the senior management and executive directors’ pay so 
that a substantial proportion of their potential total 
remuneration is linked to corporate and personal 
achievement and the short and long-term success of  
the group. This policy gives greater alignment between 
senior management and shareholders’ interests.
Remuneration policy for non-executive directors is 
determined by the board (excluding the non-executive 
directors) within the limits set out in the articles of 
association. A basic fee is paid together with a responsibility 
fee for those chairing a committee or accepting other 
exceptional responsibilities. Fees are reviewed by the  
board from time to time. Non-executive directors do  
not participate in any incentive or pension plans.
Directors’ remuneration
The remuneration of executive directors comprises five 
elements: base salary, benefits-in-kind, pension, annual 
cash bonus and equity incentives.
Base salaries
Base salaries are reviewed annually, having regard to 
relevant market practice supported by periodic external 
independent surveys. Details of the directors’ 
remuneration for the year to 31 December 2009 are set 
out in table 1 on page 38. 
Benefits-in-kind
The benefits-in-kind provided to the executive directors 
are: private medical and travel cover for themselves and 
their family and life insurance up to a maximum of four 
times’ salary. Geoff Eaton had a car allowance of £15,000 
p.a. and Martin Beer had one of £14,000 p.a. Both Geoff 
Eaton and Martin Beer can claim a per mile charge to 
cover fuel and expenses of business use of their private 
cars. The non-executive directors receive no benefits-in-
kind, although all directors are reimbursed for reasonable 
expenses incurred in the performance of their duties.
Annual cash bonus
The company operates an annual cash bonus system for 
senior managers and executive directors. The payment 
and extent of annual cash bonuses to the executive 
directors is dependent upon the achievement of pre-
agreed targets set by the remuneration committee.  Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2009 35
 Directors’ report
 Remuneration report
Each year the remuneration committee will review the 
system and may set different targets or performance 
conditions to seek to keep the conditions appropriate to 
the current goals and aims of the company and in 
alignment with shareholder interests and company 
targets.
In respect of performance in the year to 31 December 
2009, Geoff Eaton and Martin Beer received bonuses 
linked to the successful delivery of the modified recovery 
plan, including the disposal of all of the group’s overseas 
businesses. Geoff Eaton received a bonus of £376,658 
and Martin Beer received £207,811.
 
For 2010 the remuneration committee has aligned the 
bonus plan to support delivery of the profitability of the 
UK businesses. The maximum bonus for exceptional 
performance for this year, unchanged from 2009, is: 
Geoff Eaton 150% and Martin Beer 120% of base salary. 
Equity incentives
In 2000 shareholders approved an executive share option 
scheme under which grants were made between 2000 and 
2002. Grants are still outstanding under the scheme, but no 
new grants have been made since 2002. Grants under the 
Uniq executive share option scheme were made subject to 
a performance condition that normally required the 
company’s adjusted earnings per share to exceed the 
growth in the retail prices index by at least 6% over a 
three-year period for options granted in 2000 and by 9% 
over a three-year period for options granted since 2000.  
All executive options granted have now become 
exercisable. All options are exercisable not less than three 
nor more than ten years from date of grant and all grants 
were made at market value without a discount. 
There is a scheme limit which must not take grants of new 
shares in Uniq plc under the scheme and any other scheme 
to more than 10% of issued capital over ten years.
Table 2 on page 38 shows details of the executive option 
holdings of Martin Beer. No other directors hold any 
executive share options. There have been no changes to 
these holdings between the financial year end and the date 
of these accounts. In 2000, shareholders also approved a 
long-term incentive plan and a sharesave option scheme. 
No grants have been made under either of these schemes. 
At the annual general meeting in 2003 shareholders 
approved the introduction of the Uniq Performance 
Incentive Plan (PIP). Under the PIP the remuneration 
committee may grant to selected executives ‘base’ awards 
consisting of rights to acquire shares (called performance 
shares) and/or further rights (called matching shares) the 
latter conditional on the executive investing part of his or 
her annual bonus in the purchase of Uniq plc shares which 
must normally be held for three years.
The maximum amount of PIP award in any year of matching 
and performance awards granted to any individual is 100% 
of salary. Normally the employee must remain in employment 
for three years from the date of award for the shares to vest, 
although there are provisions for earlier pro rata vesting in the 
case of ‘good’ leavers. The scheme limit is that awards under 
the PIP and all other equity incentive schemes issuing newly 
issued shares in Uniq plc must not exceed 10% of the 
company’s issued share capital in ten years. 
The Remuneration Committee sets performance conditions 
for all grants under the PIP scheme. These vary from time to 
time to seek to ensure they remain relevant to the aims of 
the committee and achieve their incentivising purpose.
For grants made in 2007 if the company’s total shareholder 
return (TSR) over the three-year performance period is at 
the median of the comparator group, which consists of the 
European companies in the FTSE Food Producer’s index 
(excluding those in the FTSE 100 index), then 40% of the 
total award vests for median performance and 100% vests 
with upper quartile performance.
For grants made in 2008 and 2009 the performance 
conditions and vesting levels are the same, except that  
the percentage of award vesting for median performance 
reduced from 40% to 35%.
In all cases the TSR performance is measured over a 
three-year period from the date of award, with TSRs for 
all companies in the comparator group averaged over a 
one-month period before the beginning and the end of 
the performance period. Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2009 36 
 Directors’ report
 Remuneration report 
There are provisions for early vesting on a change of 
control without pro-rating, but the performance condition 
or conditions would still apply. The remuneration 
committee have very restricted powers of amendment  
of the rules of the scheme or to vary awards where 
circumstances require it. Full details of PIP awards to 
directors are set out in table 3 on page 39.
The remuneration committee is undertaking a review of 
the effectiveness of the current PIP plan to determine what 
changes to the long term incentive arrangements may be 
necessary to secure and motivate the senior team of the 
group to deliver the strategic transformation in scale and 
profitability of the business in the UK. Pending the 
outcome of this review, the remuneration committee has 
decided not to grant any PIP awards to the executive 
directors for the time being.
Note: The independent auditors’ report set out on pages 
41 and 42 applies to the information contained in tables 1 
to 5 on pages 38 to 40 and in the following sections of 
the remuneration report, so far as it relates to its proper 
preparation in accordance with Schedule 8 of the Large 
and Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts 
and Reports) Regulations 2008: directors’ emoluments; 
pensions; and defined benefit disclosure.
Pensions
Executive directors are entitled to be members of the 
group’s main pension scheme. Those joining since March 
2003 may join the DC section. Those joining before that 
date were in the DB section up to 30 September 2009 and 
details are set out in table 4 on page 39. The company 
ceased accrual for future service for DB members 
effective from 1 October 2009 and the employees 
concerned transferred to the DC section of the pension 
scheme. Where it is not practical or advantageous to make 
pension provision, a non-pensionable cash supplement is 
paid in lieu of pension scheme membership.
Up to 30 September 2009, Martin Beer was accruing a 
pension which would provide two-thirds of his final 
pensionable pay up to the HMRC earnings cap, payable 
from his normal retirement age of 62. HMRC ceased to 
define an earnings cap from 1 April 2006 however the 
company continued to apply a cap equivalent to the 
pre-April 1 2006 cap. At 1 April 2009 the cap was 
£123,600 and from 1 April 2010 it remains at the same 
level. Martin Beer contributed 6% of his salary up to the 
earnings cap to the HMRC-approved pension scheme 
during the period up to 30 September 2009. On 1 October 
2009, Martin Beer took a transfer of his existing accrued 
rights out of the DB section into a personal pension 
arrangement. Following this transfer the company has no 
further obligation to him in respect of DB pension on his 
salary up to the HMRC earnings cap. 
From 1 October 2009 Martin Beer transferred into the 
DC section of the scheme and has made contributions 
of 3% of salary up to the HMRC earnings cap and the 
company made contributions of 25% of salary up to  
the earnings cap.
Up to 31 March 2006 Martin Beer also accrued pension  
in relation to his salary above the earnings cap through  
an unfunded HMRC-unapproved (‘overcap’) pension 
scheme. This overcap scheme was terminated and 
Martin Beer took a transfer of his existing rights into a 
personal pension arrangement. Following this transfer 
the company has no further obligation to him in respect 
of DB pension on his salary above the HMRC earnings 
cap. From 1 April 2006 he has received a salary 
supplement of 28% of his salary above the earnings cap 
payable to his personal pension arrangement.
The principal terms of Martin Beer’s pension accrual during 
the period up to 30 September 2009 were: pensions in 
payment increased in line with retail price inflation subject 
to a maximum of 5% per year. In the event of death, the 
scheme also provided a pension of two-thirds of the 
member’s pension for a spouse, and additional pensions for 
young children, to give a total maximum of up to 100% of 
the individual’s pension. In relation to his pension accruing 
after 1 April 2006 the increase in pension in line with retail 
price inflation was subject to a maximum of 2.5% per year 
rather than 5% per year.
In calculating pension scheme transfer values, no 
allowance is made for discretionary benefits. A director  
in the approved pension scheme may take early 
retirement from age 50 with the company’s consent  
but in such circumstances discount factors set by the 
scheme actuary would be applied, unless alternative 
agreement were reached. 31.03.05 31.12.06 31.03.06 31.12.08 31.12.09 31.12.07
FTSE All Share
Uniq
200
150
£
100
50
0
Total shareholder return
Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2009 37
 Directors’ report
 Remuneration report
Geoff Eaton has elected not to become a member  
of the group’s pension scheme and is paid instead a 
non-pensionable salary supplement of 20% of his  
base salary per annum in lieu of pension benefits.
No other director is accruing any pension entitlement  
nor are they receiving a salary supplement in lieu.
Directors’ contracts
The remuneration committee’s policy on directors’ 
contracts is that executive directors should not have 
contracts with a rolling notice period exceeding 12 months. 
However, there may be circumstances where to attract the 
right candidate or in other special circumstances a longer 
initial term or a fixed term contract in excess of one year  
will be appropriate. It is the committee’s policy that normally 
contracts should not specify any contractual termination 
payments unless commercially this needs to be given in 
order to secure the director’s appointment.
The chief executive, Geoff Eaton, has an employment 
contract dated 7 July 2005 as amended on 22 March 2007 
which can be terminated by the company giving one year’s 
notice or the employee by nine months’ notice. The finance 
director, Martin Beer, has an employment contract dated 8 
May 2002, which can be terminated by the company giving 
one year’s notice or the employee giving six months’ notice. 
There are no express provisions in either contract relating to 
payments on early termination and they would only be 
entitled to compensation as provided by law, which would 
normally be subject to a duty to mitigate. 
The chairman, John Warren, currently has a three-year  
fixed contract of employment with the company which 
commenced on 16 March 2007 , as amended on 6 July 2009; 
it is subject to one year’s notice by either party. From  
25 June 2009 his fee was increased from £30,000 p.a. to 
£75,000 p.a. There are no express provisions regarding 
compensation on termination. He receives no pension or 
other benefits. Up to 25 June 2009, Ross Warburton as 
chairman had a contract on the same terms as outlined 
above and received £150,000 p.a. 
Non-executive directors receive a fee of £30,000 p.a. and 
the chairmen of the remuneration committee and the audit 
committee each receive an additional fee of £7,500 p.a. 
The non-executive directors have individual letters of 
appointment. John Warren’s current appointment runs  
up to the AGM in 2010 and he is standing for re-election 
at the AGM for a further three-year term. Matthew 
Litobarski’s current appointment runs to the AGM in 2011 
and Belinda Gooding’s to the AGM in 2012. All of them 
can be terminated at any time by one year’s notice and 
may be renewed for a further term when they expire. 
These letters of appointment do not contain any 
provisions on termination payments. 
With the approval of the board, executive directors may 
accept one external appointment as non-executive director 
of any other company and retain any related fees paid to 
them. None of the executive directors hold an external 
quoted company appointment at the current time. Directors 
are entitled to be reimbursed for reasonable expenses 
necessarily incurred in the performance of their duties.
Performance graph
The performance graph below shows the TSR performance 
of Uniq plc against the FTSE All Share Index over the period 
from 31 March 2005 to 31 December 2009. The 
remuneration committee has decided that the FTSE All 
Share Index is an appropriate index for this purpose. The 
market price of Uniq shares during the year to 31 December 
2009 ranged from 4.15p to 46.5p. On 31 December 2008 it 
was 4.15p and on 31 December 2009 it was 25.0p. At 12 
April 2010, the latest practicable date prior to publishing 
these results, the share price was 25.25p. Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2009 38 
 Directors’ report
 Remuneration report 
Director
Salary 
and fees 
£000
Bonus 
£000
Taxable 
benefits
£000
Pension
£000
Year to 
31.12.09
Total
£000
Year to 
31.12.08
Total
£000
John Warren (Interim Chairman from 
25.6.09)
*
60 – – – 60 37
Martin Beer 248 208 16 83
#
555 346
Geoff Eaton 360 377 88
†
– 825 441
Belinda Gooding
*
30 – – – 30 30
Matthew Litobarski
*
38 – – – 38 38
Ross Warburton (resigned 25.6.09)
*
75 – – – 75 150
Totals 811 585 104 83 1,583 1,042
Notes:
* Non-executive directors.
† Includes £72,036 payment in lieu of pension.
# Includes £35,364 paid to a self invested personal pension.
Share options
Table 2
Executive director
Date of 
grant
Exercise 
price
(p)
No. of 
options at 
01.01.09
Options 
lapsed
No. of 
options at
31.12.09
Normal  
excercise 
dates
Martin Beer 03.07.00 312.6 12,923 12,923 – 23.06.02 – 22.06.09
06.07.00 251.0 49,800 – 49,800 06.07.03 – 05.07.10
12.06.01 210.0 50,000 – 50,000 12.06.04 – 11.06.11
17.06.02 161.5 110,000 – 110,000 17.06.05 – 16.06.12
Totals 222,723 12,923 209,800
No executive options were awarded to, or exercised by, directors during the year or in the prior year.
Directors’ emoluments
Table 1 Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2009 39
 Directors’ report
 Remuneration report
Performance incentive plan
Table 3
Executive director
Class of 
award
Date of 
grant
Market 
value 
at date 
of grant (p)
Shares 
held at 
01.01.09
Shares
awarded
Shares
lapsed
Shares 
held at
31.12.09
Expiry or
Normal excercise 
dates
Martin Beer Performance 14.06.06 146.0 45,308 – 45,308 – 14.06.09 – 13.06.16
Matching 02.04.07 191.75 74,252 – – 74,252 02.04.10 – 01.04.17
Performance 02.04.07 191.75 35,358 – – 35,358 02.04.10 – 01.04.17
Performance 30.04.08 102.75 186,861 – – 186,861 30.04.11 – 29.04.18
Performance 19.05.09 21.0 – 175,000 – 175,000 19.05.12 – 18.05.19
Geoff Eaton Matching 14.06.06 146.0 158,219 – 158,219 – 14.06.09 – 13.06.16
Performance 14.06.06 146.0 67,808 – 67,808 – 14.06.09 – 13.06.16
Matching 02.04.07 191.75 120,469 – – 120,469 02.04.10 – 01.04.17
Performance 02.04.07 191.75 51,630 – – 51,630 02.04.10 – 01.04.17
Performance 30.04.08 102.75 338,686 – – 338,686 30.04.11 – 29.04.18
Performance 19.05.09 21.0 – 285,000 – 285,000 19.05.12 – 18.05.19
Totals 1,078,591 460,000 271,335 1,267,256
No PIPs were exercised by directors during the year or in the prior year.
Defined benefit disclosure
Table 4
Director
Age at 
31.12.09
Accrued 
benefit at
01.01.09
£
Change 
(in excess  
of inflation)
£
Change 
due to 
inflation 
(note 4)
£
Accrued 
benefit at 
30.9.09 
£
Martin Beer 47 42,646 3,960 0 46,606
Director
Transfer 
value at
01.01.09
£
Increase
in transfer
value net of 
director’s
contributions
£
Director’s 
contributions 
£
Transfer
value at 
30.9.09  
(note 5)
£
Transfer value
of increase 
in accrued 
benefit
(in excess of 
inflation)
£
Martin Beer 513,620 47,438 5,472 566,530 42,100
Notes:
1.   The transfer values quoted above relate to benefits accrued under the Uniq plc pension scheme. The calculations do not take into account any underfunding  
in the Uniq plc pension scheme.
2.  Martin Beer commenced contributions of 6% of salary up to the earnings cap to the approved pension scheme from 1 October 2005. Previously the pension  
scheme was non-contributory. 
3.  The transfer values stated above have been calculated in a manner consistent with Retirement Benefit Schemes – Transfer Values regulations.
4. Inflation at September 2009 was negative, therefore no inflationary increase applied to Martin Beer’s accrued pension. 
5.  On closure of the pension scheme to future accrual at 30 September 2009, Martin Beer transferred out his deferred pension with a transfer value £566,530  
to a personal pension arrangement, which has extinguished the pension scheme’s liability to provide him with a pension of £46,606 per annum.  Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2009 40 
 Directors’ report
 Remuneration report 
Directors’ shareholdings
Table 5
Director
Holding at  
01.01.09
ordinary  
shares 
fully paid
Holding at 
31.12.09
ordinary  
shares
fully paid
John Warren 15,000 58,230
Martin Beer 67,910 67,910
Geoff Eaton 251,303 251,303
Belinda Gooding 1,502 1,502
Matthew Litobarski 3,000 3,000
Totals 338,715 381,945
There have been no changes in the directors’ shareholdings between the year end and up to the date of this report.
Approved on behalf of the board
Matthew Litobarski
Chairman of the remuneration committee
15 April 2010 Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2009 41
 Financial statements
Independent Auditors’ report  
to the members of Uniq plc
We have audited the financial statements of Uniq Plc  
for the year ended 31 December 2009 which comprise 
the Group Income Statement, the Group Statement of 
Comprehensive Income, the Group and Parent Company 
Balance Sheets, the Group and Parent Company Cash 
Flow Statements, the Group and Parent Company 
Statements of Changes in Equity and the related notes.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied 
in their preparation is applicable law and International 
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by  
the EU and, as regards the parent company financial 
statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions 
of the Companies Act 2006.
This report is made solely to the company’s members,  
as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of  
the Companies Act 2006. Our audit work has been 
undertaken so that we might state to the company’s 
members those matters we are required to state to them 
in an auditors’ report and for no other purpose. To the 
fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or 
assume responsibility to anyone other than the company 
and the company’s members, as a body, for our audit 
work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities 
Statement set out on page 21, the directors are 
responsible for the preparation of the financial 
statements and for being satisfied that they give a true 
and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit the financial 
statements in accordance with applicable law and 
International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). 
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing 
Practices Board’s (APB’s) Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
A description of the scope of an audit of financial 
statements is provided on the APB’s web-site at  
www.frc.org.uk/apb/scope/UKP.
Opinion on financial statements
In our opinion:
 the financial statements give a true and fair view  •	
of the state of the group’s and of the parent  
company’s affairs as at 31 December 2009 and of  
the group’s loss for the year then ended;
 the group financial statements have been properly •	
prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted  
by the EU;
 the parent company financial statements have been •	
properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as 
adopted by the EU and as applied in accordance  
with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006; and 
 the financial statements have been prepared in •	
accordance with the requirements of the Companies 
Act 2006 and, as regards the group financial 
statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Emphasis of matter – Going concern
In forming our opinion on the financial statements, which 
is not qualified, we have considered the adequacy of  
the disclosure made in note 1 to the financial statements 
concerning the group’s and parent company’s ability  
to continue as a going concern, which is dependent upon 
a satisfactory outcome to the discussions concerning  
the Pension Scheme funding. This condition which is 
described, along with other matters explained in note 1 
to the financial statements, indicates the existence of  
a material uncertainty which may cast significant doubt 
on the group’s and the parent company’s ability to 
continue as a going concern. The financial statements  
do not include the adjustments that would result if the 
group and parent company were unable to continue as  
a going concern. Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2009 42 
 Financial statements
 Independent Auditors report  
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the  
Companies Act 2006
In our opinion:
 the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to  •	
be audited has been properly prepared in accordance 
with the Companies Act 2006; and
 the information given in the Directors’ Report for the •	
financial year for which the financial statements are 
prepared is consistent with the financial statements. 
Matters on which we are required to report  
by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following:
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report 
to you if, in our opinion:
 adequate accounting records have not been kept  •	
by the parent company, or returns adequate for  
our audit have not been received from branches  
not visited by us; or
 the parent company financial statements and the part of •	
the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not 
in agreement with the accounting records and returns; or
 certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration •	
specified by law are not made; or
 we have not received all the information and •	
explanations we require for our audit; or
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review:
 the directors’ statement, set out on pages 32 to 33,  •	
in relation to going concern; and
 the part of the Corporate Governance Statement  •	
on pages 27 to 33 relating to the company’s 
compliance with the nine provisions of the June 2008 
Combined Code specified for our review.
 
R M Yasue (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc,  
Statutory Auditor
Chartered Accountants
Arlington Business Park 
Theale 
Reading 
RG7 4SD 
15 April 2010  Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2009 43
 Financial statements
Group income statement
2009 2008
Note
 Before 
significant 
items 
 £m 
 Significant 
items 
(note 7) 
 £m 
 Total 
 £m 
 Before 
significant 
items 
 £m 
Significant 
items 
(note 7) 
 £m
Total 
(restated)
 £m 
Continuing operations
Revenue 4 287.2  –  287.2  286.7  –  286.7 
Cost of sales (246.5) –  (246.5) (249.4) –  (249.4)
Gross profit 40.7  –  40.7  37.3  –  37.3 
Distribution expenses (16.4) –  (16.4) (16.2) –  (16.2)
Marketing and media expenses –  –  –  (0.4) –  (0.4)
Administrative expenses (26.2) (0.7) (26.9) (27.8) 2.4  (25.4)
Operating (loss)/profit 4,5 (1.9) (0.7) (2.6) (7. 1) 2.4  (4.7)
Expected return on pension fund assets 27 25.6 –  25.6  38.9 –  38.9
Interest on pension fund liabilities 27 (38.3)  – (38.3) (39.5)  – (39.5) 
Net pension interest (12.7) –  (12.7) (0.6) –  (0.6)
Finance income 8 1.5  –  1.5  7.7  –  7.7 
Finance expenses 8 (4.7) –  (4.7) (2.5) –  (2.5)
(Loss)/profit before tax (17.8) (0.7) (18.5) (2.5) 2.4  (0.1)
Income tax expense 9 (0.4) –  (0.4) (0.7) –  (0.7)
(Loss)/profit from continuing operations (18.2) (0.7) (18.9) (3.2) 2.4  (0.8)
Discontinued operations
Profit/(loss) from discontinued operations  
(net of tax) 22 10.0  (12.0) (2.0)  (3.6) (51.8) (55.4)
Loss for the year 4 (8.2) (12.7) (20.9) (6.8) (49.4) (56.2)
Loss attributable to equity holders  
of the company (8.2) (12.7) (20.9) (6.8) (49.4) (56.2)
Loss per ordinary share 10
Basic and diluted (18.4p) (49.4p)
Continuing operations (16.6p) (0.7p)
Discontinued operations (1.8p)  (48.7p)
Average Euro exchange rate 1.12 1.26
The notes on pages 48 to 87 form part of these financial statements. Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2009 44 
 Financial statements
Statement of comprehensive income
2009
£m
2008
(restated)
£m
Loss for the year (20.9) (56.2)
Other comprehensive income/(expense)
Actuarial loss recognised on the pension schemes (81.9) (92.1)
Deferred tax relating to the pension schemes –  (15.1)
Effective portion of changes in fair value of cashflow hedges (0.1) –
Foreign currency translation differences for foreign operations (3.1) 24.0
Cumulative foreign exchange related to disposal of business  
recycled to income statement (note 21) (1.7)  – 
Net gain/(loss) on hedge of net investment in foreign operation 0.8 (4.8)
Other comprehensive expense for the year, net of tax (86.0) (88.0)
Total comprehensive expense for the year (106.9) (144.2)
Total comprehensive expense attributable to equity holders of the company (106.9) (144.2) Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2009 45
 Financial statements
Balance sheets
Group Company
Note
 2009 
 £m 
 2008 
 £m 
 2009 
 £m 
2008
£m
Assets 
Non-current assets 
Property, plant and equipment 12 76.3  170.9  –  – 
Intangible assets 13 30.5  30.5  –  – 
Other debtors 18 5.4 – – –
Restricted cash 14 97.0  95.6  97.0  95.6 
Deferred tax assets 15 13.9  18.2  –  – 
Investments 16 –  –  89.5  130.8 
 223.1  315.2  186.5  226.4 
Current assets 
Inventories 17 11.2  57.2  –  – 
Trade and other receivables 18 34.6  143.1  0.1  1.0 
Cash and cash equivalents 19 17.2  18.1  12.9  6.2 
Income tax assets  –  1.0  –  – 
Assets classified as held for sale 20 101.6  2.4  –  – 
 164.6  221.8  13.0  7.2 
Total assets 387.7  537.0 199.5 233.6
Liabilities 
Non-current liabilities 
Borrowings 23 – 25.7  –  23.9 
Retirement benefit obligations 27 235.1  170.9  –  – 
Provisions 25 0.3  0.8  –  – 
Deferred tax liabilities 15 –  8.0  –  – 
 235.4  205.4  –  23.9 
Current liabilities 
Borrowings 23 27.3  0.8 27.0  – 
Trade and other payables 24 44.6 208.0  136.8  130.2 
Derivative financial liabilities 26 0.1 – 0.1 –
Provisions 25 13.0  22.9  –  – 
Income tax liabilities  8.7  9.0  –  – 
Liabilities associated with assets classified as held for sale 20 73.8 – – –
 167.5  240.7  163.9  130.2 
Total liabilities 402.9 446.1 163.9 154.1
Total assets less liabilities (15.2) 90.9 35.6 79.5
Equity 
Total called up share capital 28 11.5  11.5  11.5  11.5 
Share premium  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1 
Other reserves  (300.2) (296.1) (0.1) – 
Retained earnings  273.4  375.4 24.1 67.9 
Total equity attributable to equity holders of the company 29 (15.2) 90.9 35.6  79.5 
Closing Euro exchange rate 1.11 1.04
 The financial statements were approved by the board of directors on 15 April 2010 and signed on its behalf by: 
 Geoff Eaton, Chief Executive 
 Martin Beer, Finance Director 
 The notes on pages 48 to 87 form part of these financial statements.  Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2009 46 
 Financial statements
Statement of changes in equity
Group
Share 
capital
£m
Share 
premium
£m
Merger 
reserve
£m
Hedging 
reserve
£m
Translation 
reserve
£m
Retained 
earnings 
£m
Total
£m
Changes in equity for 2008 
At 1 January 2008  11.5  0.1  (330.2) –  14.9  538.4  234.7 
Total comprehensive income/(expense) 
for the year  –  –  –  –  19.2  (163.4) (144.2)
Share–based compensation charge  –  –  –  –  –  0.4  0.4 
At 31 December 2008  11.5  0.1  (330.2) –  34.1  375.4  90.9 
Changes in equity for 2009 
Total comprehensive expense for the year  –  –  –  (0.1) (4.0) (102.8) (106.9)
Share-based compensation charge  –  –  –  –  –  0.8  0.8 
At 31 December 2009  11.5  0.1  (330.2) (0.1) 30.1 273.4  (15.2) 
Company
Share 
capital
£m
Share 
premium
£m
Hedging 
reserve
£m
Retained 
earnings 
£m
Total
£m
Changes in equity for 2008 
At 1 January 2008  11.5  0.1  –  161.3  172.9 
Total comprehensive expense for the year 
Loss for the year –  –  –  (93.4) (93.4)
At 31 December 2008  11.5  0.1  –  67.9  79.5 
Changes in equity for 2009
Total comprehensive expense for the year 
Loss for the year  –  –  –  (44.1) (44.1)
Effective portion of changes in fair value of cashflow hedges  –  –  (0.1) –  (0.1)
Share-based compensation charge – – – 0.3  0.3 
At 31 December 2009  11.5  0.1  (0.1) 24.1 35.6
Further details on the statement of changes in equity are disclosed in note 29. Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2009 47
 Financial statements
Cash flow statements
Group Company
Note
 2009 
 £m 
 2008 
 £m 
 2009 
 £m 
2008
£m
Cash flows from operating activities
Loss for the year  (20.9) (56.2) (44.1) (93.4)
Income tax expense 1.7 1.4 0.6 0.5
Net finance expense/(income) 17.9  (3.0) 2.2  (5.5)
Depreciation and amortisation 11.2  21.5  –  – 
Goodwill impairment –  18.2  –  – 
Asset impairment 7.6  49.9  41.3  94.4 
Reversal of asset impairment (1.7) (27.9) – –
Charge for share-based payments 0.5  0.3  –  – 
Loss/(profit) on disposal of property, plant and equipment 0.9  (0.1) – – 
Loss on disposal of intangible assets – software 0.2  –  –  – 
Loss on disposal of businesses 2.0 – – –
Gains on curtailment and settlements on pensions (5.7) (3.1) –  – 
Difference between pension charge and cash contribution (5.1) (1.8) –  – 
Decrease in inventory 3.8  3.5  –  – 
Decrease/(increase) in accounts receivable 8.9  18.1  0.8  (1.0)
(Decrease)/increase in accounts payable (35.3)  (25.9) 6.5  63.1 
(Increase)/Decrease in working capital (22.6)  (4.3) 7.3  62.1 
Decrease in provisions (16.4) (3.7) –  – 
Cash (utilised by)/generated from operations (30.4)  (8.8) 7.3  58.1 
Interest paid (3.5) (1.2) (2.8) (0.8)
Interest received 1.6  6.1 1.5  6.4 
Income tax received/(paid) 1.3  (4.1) –  – 
Net cash (utilised by)/generated from operating activities (31.0)  (8.0) 6.0 63.7 
Cash flows from investing activities
Disposal of businesses, net of cash disposed of 21  57.1  –  –  – 
Purchases of property, plant and equipment (18.6) (27.5) –  – 
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment –  0.4  –  – 
Purchases of intangible assets (0.3)  (1.1) –  – 
Net cash inflow/(outflow) from investing activities 38.2 (28.2) – –
Cash flows from financing activities
Proceeds from borrowings 4.4 24.5 3.2 23.9
Payment of transaction costs for related borrowings (1.2) – – –
Payment of finance lease (1.5) – – –
Cash included in restricted cash 14  (1.4) (5.2) (1.4) (95.6)
Net cash inflow/(outflow) from financing activities 0.3 19.3  1.8  (71.7)
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 7.5  (16.9) 7.8  (8.0)
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 17.9  33.6  6.2  14.2 
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes (1.5) 1.2  (1.1)  – 
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 23.9 17.9  12.9  6.2 
Cash and cash equivalents consist of:
Cash at bank and in hand – continuing 19  17.2  18.1 12.9  6.2 
Bank overdrafts – continuing 23 (0.3) (0.2) – –
Cash at bank and in hand – held for sale 20 7.0 – – –
  23.9  17.9  12.9 6.2 
The notes on pages 48 to 87 form part of these financial statements.  Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2009 48 
 Financial statements
1. Accounting policies
Accounting convention and basis of preparation
Basis of preparation – Going concern
The group’s business activities, together with further 
information on the factors likely to affect its future 
development, performance and position are set out  
in the Business Review on pages 8 to 15. The financial 
position of the group, its cash flow, liquidity position and 
borrowing facilities are described in the Financial Review  
on pages 16 to 19. In addition notes 3 and 26 to the financial 
statements include the group’s policies and procedures  
for managing its capital, its financial risk, its financial 
instruments and its exposure to credit and liquidity risk.
 
The financial statements are prepared on a going 
concern basis, notwithstanding net liabilities of £15.2m 
as at 31 December 2009 and the group’s operating loss 
on continuing operations, before significant items, of 
£1.9m and a loss of £20.9m, after £12.7m of significant 
items, for the year then ended. The directors believe this 
to be appropriate for the following reasons.
The Company and the group currently meet their day  
to day working capital requirements and medium term 
funding requirements through a £35m multi-currency 
revolving facility agreement (‘the Facility’). The Facility expires 
on 31 December 2010. The Company has agreed that it is its 
intention to consult with the trustee of the main UK pension 
fund (the “Trustee”) in reasonable detail and from time to time 
regarding any proposed arrangements to repay, to extend or 
refinance the Facility when it matures on 31 December 2010. 
The Trustee cannot however prevent the Company repaying 
the Facility at maturity. As at the date of authorisation of these 
financial statements, the terms of the Facility, including 
covenants, were met. 
Following receipt of the proceeds of sale of the German 
and Polish businesses due in April 2010 the group will also 
have available net disposal proceeds of £42m. Under an 
agreement with the Trustee, these have to be held in a 
restricted account until 30 June 2010. Together with  
the Facility these funds constitute “the Available Funds”. 
Notes to the financial statements
The directors have prepared trading and cash flow 
forecasts based on existing creditor and debtor terms for 
a period in excess of a year from the date of approval of 
these financial statements. In the directors’ judgement, 
the key factors in these forecasts are that: trading 
relationships with key customers are maintained; sales 
growth is secured and delivered; pension contributions 
are as agreed with the Trustee in the plan proposed to 
the Pensions Regulator; and planned cost savings are 
achieved. The forecasts include that, after consultation 
with the Trustee, the net disposal proceeds from the sale 
of the Continental European businesses will be used to 
repay the Facility and show that after reasonably possible 
downside sensitivities are applied and mitigating factors 
(principally the group’s ability to reduce discretionary 
spend such as capital expenditure) are taken into 
account the Available Funds are sufficient for the 
foreseeable future, the covenants of the Facility are not 
breached, there are no events of default for the duration 
of the Facility, the Facility will be repaid and, unless 
acquisitions are made as described below, the group  
can operate without a replacement facility. As at the date 
of authorisation of these financial statements the group 
does not have external finance in place after the expiry  
of the Facility on 31 December 2010.
After extensive consultation, the Company and the 
Trustee have agreed in principle a valuation of the 
Pension Scheme and a recovery plan setting out the 
basis for contributions to be made to the Scheme. The 
recovery plan is linked to a long-term framework 
agreement which requires clearance from the Pensions 
Regulator (the ‘Business as Usual’ solution) and relies on 
the satisfactory resolution of the scale and funding of the 
Pension Protection Fund (PPF) Levy. Information has 
recently been provided to the Pensions Regulator to seek 
this clearance. The Trustee has confirmed its intention  
to continue to work with the Company in a constructive 
manner to support the Company’s and Trustees’ desire 
to achieve a Business as Usual solution to funding the 
deficit of the Scheme through a recovery plan agreed 
between the Trustee, the Company and, to the extent 
necessary, the Pensions Regulator. The directors  Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2009 49
 Financial statements
 Notes to the financial statements
anticipate that further funding, either from existing 
shareholders or external finance, may be required to 
enable the group to make the acquisitions envisaged,  
but not required, under a Business as Usual solution. 
If a Business as Usual solution which satisfies regulatory 
requirements cannot be found, then the Trustee has 
confirmed its intention to consider in good faith with the 
Company business and asset realisation options for the 
group, proposed as and when appropriate by the 
Company which are anticipated to preserve the value of 
the trading businesses to achieve a better outcome for the 
Pension Scheme as the group’s major creditor than would 
be achieved by triggering a winding up of the Scheme. 
If this in turn does not provide an agreed solution then 
the Trustee may use its power under the trust deed 
governing the Pension Scheme to wind up the Pension 
Scheme if it receives actuarial advice that the current and 
reasonably expected future employer contributions are 
“so low as to prejudice seriously the long term financial 
position of the Pension Scheme”. The consequence of 
this would be to trigger an immediate debt under section 
75 of the UK Pensions Act 1995 equal to the full buy-out 
deficit in the Pension Scheme – estimated as at 31 
December 2009 to be around £560m, for which the 
company has immediately available £97.0m in a secured 
account for payment into the scheme/to the trustees – 
which in turn would lead to the winding-up of the 
Company and the group no longer being a going concern 
and the dissolution of the group. 
The directors of the group have reviewed the forecasts, 
together with the sensitivities and mitigating factors in 
the context of the Available Funds, and reviewed the 
pension situation. They expect that the group will be  
able to meet its liabilities as they fall due, provided that 
the Trustee does not take steps to wind up the Pension 
Scheme and relies on the satisfactory resolution of  
the scale and funding of the PPF Levy. Whilst the  
going concern basis of preparation therefore remains 
appropriate, the requirement to put in place an agreed 
recovery plan concerning pension funding, including to 
obtain the agreement of the Pensions Regulator to the 
plan, and the ability of the Trustee to wind up the Pension 
Scheme in the event of an agreed solution not being 
found represents a material uncertainty that may cast 
significant doubt upon the group’s and the Company’s 
ability to continue as a going concern. The group and 
Company therefore may be unable to continue realising their 
assets and discharging their liabilities in the normal course of 
business. Nevertheless, after considering the uncertainties 
described above, the directors have a reasonable expectation 
that the group and Company have adequate resources to 
continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. 
For these reasons, they continue to adopt the going concern 
basis in preparing the annual financial statements. 
Uniq plc is a company incorporated in the UK. The group 
financial statements consolidate those of the company and 
its subsidiaries (together referred to as the group). The parent 
company financial statements present information about the 
company as a separate entity and not about its group.
Both the parent company financial statements and  
the group financial statements have been prepared  
and approved by the directors in accordance with 
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS).  
In publishing the parent company financial statements  
here together with the group financial statements, the 
company has taken advantage of the exemption in s408 
of the Companies Act 2006 not to present its individual 
income statement and related notes that form a part  
of these approved financial statements. 
The financial statements are prepared on the historical 
cost basis except for certain financial instruments that 
are stated at their fair values.
These consolidated financial statements have been 
prepared in accordance with IFRS, International 
Accounting Standards (IAS) and related IFRIC 
interpretations in issue, that have been endorsed  
by the European Commission and are effective at 
31 December 2009, or where the group has chosen  
to early adopt at 31 December 2009 (‘adopted IFRS’).
New accounting policies and future requirements 
The following standards or interpretations, issued by the 
IASB or the IFRIC came into effect during the year and 
have been adopted by the group:
IFRS 8 – Operating Segments •	
 Amendments to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial •	
Statements: A Revised Presentation
 Amendment to IFRS 2 Share Based Payment:  •	
Vesting Conditions and Cancellations   50 
 Financial statements
 Notes to the financial statements
Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2009
 IFRIC 16 Hedges of a Net Investment in a  •	
Foreign Operation 
 Amendment to IFRS 7 improving disclosures  •	
about financial instruments; and
Improvements to IFRSs in May 2008. •	
The standards listed above did not have a significant effect 
on the consolidated results or financial position of the group 
or the company. IFRS 8, Amendment to IAS 1 and 
Amendments to IFRS7 have resulted in new disclosures.
New standards and interpretations not yet adopted
A number of new standards, amendments to standards  
and interpretations are not effective for the year ended  
31 December 2009, and have not been applied in preparing 
these consolidated financial statements. None of these will 
have an effect on the consolidated financial statements of the 
group apart from possible additional disclosures.
Financial year
The financial statements are prepared to reflect trading up 
to the Saturday nearest to the accounting reference date. 
This year’s income statement covers the 52-week period 
ended 26 December 2009. Last year’s income statement 
covered the 52-weeks ended 27 December 2008.
Consolidation
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on 
which control is transferred to the group. Control exists 
when the group has the power, directly or indirectly, to 
govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so 
as to obtain benefits from its activities. They are 
deconsolidated from the date that control ceases. The 
purchase method of accounting is used to account for 
the acquisition of subsidiaries by the group.
The cost of an acquisition is measured as the fair value of the 
assets given, equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred 
or assumed at the date of exchange, plus costs directly 
attributable to the acquisition. Identifiable assets acquired and 
liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured 
initially at their fair values at the acquisition date. The excess of 
the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the group’s share of 
the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and 
contingent liabilities acquired is recorded as goodwill. If the 
cost of acquisition is less than the fair value of the group’s 
share of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired, the 
difference is recognised directly in the income statement.
Accounting policies of subsidiaries have been changed 
where necessary to ensure consistency with the policies 
adopted by the group.
Foreign currency translation
The consolidated financial statements are presented in 
pounds sterling, which is the group’s and the company’s 
presentation currency.
Foreign currency transactions are translated into the 
respective functional currency of group entities (the 
currency of the primary economic environment in which 
an entity operates) using the exchange rates prevailing at 
the dates of the transaction. Foreign exchange gains and 
losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions 
and from the translation at year end exchange rates of 
monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign 
currencies are recognised in the income statement.
The results and financial position of all the group entities 
that have a functional currency different from the 
presentation currency are translated into the presentation 
currency as follows: 
 assets and liabilities are translated at the closing rate •	
at the date of that balance sheet;
 income and expenses are translated at average •	
exchange rates; and
 all resulting exchange differences are recognised as a •	
separate component of equity. Since the group’s date 
of transition to adopted IFRS, exchange differences 
arising on the translation of foreign operations have 
been recognised directly in equity.
On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the 
translation of the net investment in foreign entities, and of 
borrowings and other currency instruments designated as 
hedges of such investments, are taken to shareholders’ 
equity. When a foreign operation is sold, such exchange 
differences are recognised in the income statement as part 
of the gain or loss on sale.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the 
acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets  
and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at  
the closing rate.  51
 Financial statements
 Notes to the financial statements
Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Significant items
Significant items are those items of financial  
performance which, because of size or incidence, 
require separate disclosure to enable underlying  
trading performance to be assessed.
Revenue recognition
Revenue represents the value of sales to customers outside 
the group net of discounts, allowances, volume and 
promotional rebates and other payments to customers and 
excludes value-added tax. Sales of goods are recognised 
when a group entity has delivered products to the customer, 
the customer has accepted the products and collectibility  
of the related receivable is reasonably assured.
Finance charges
Finance charges include the following:
 exchange differences arising on monetary items and all •	
fair value gains and losses on derivative financial 
instruments and corresponding adjustments to hedged 
items under designated fair value hedging relationships;
amortisation of finance arrangement fees; •	
discounting on long term balance sheet items; •	
 interest payable/receivable on cash and cash •	
equivalents and borrowings; and
 IAS 19 pension finance costs comprising the expected •	
return on pension fund assets less the interest on 
pension fund liabilities.
Property, plant and equipment
All property, plant and equipment is shown at cost, less 
subsequent depreciation and applicable impairment, 
except for land, which is shown at cost less impairment.
Except for Tooling, depreciation is calculated using the 
straight-line method to allocate the cost of each asset to 
its residual value over its estimated useful life as follows:
Buildings up to 50 years •	
Plant and machinery up to 10 years •	
Equipment and motor vehicles up to 6 years •	
Land is not depreciated. •	
Property, plant and equipment acquired under finance leases 
are depreciated over the shorter of the asset’s useful life and 
the lease term. Tooling is depreciated over the expected life of 
supply either by including a proportion of the cost against each 
item supplied or allocating the cost evenly over the anticipated 
life of supply. Where the Tooling ceases to be used, the 
remaining cost is charged in full to the income statement.
Intangible assets
Goodwill
Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition 
over the fair value of the group’s share of the net identifiable 
assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the acquired 
subsidiary at the date of acquisition. Goodwill is tested 
annually for impairment and carried at cost less accumulated 
impairment losses. On disposal of a subsidiary the 
attributable amount of goodwill is included in the 
determination of the profit or loss on disposal. Goodwill 
arising on acquisitions prior to 31 March 2004 has been 
retained at the previous UK GAAP amounts subject to being 
tested for impairment. Goodwill written off to reserves under 
UK GAAP prior to 1998 has not been reinstated.
Research and development
Research expenditure is recognised as an expense as 
incurred. Cost incurred on development projects are 
recognised as intangible assets when it meets the 
recognition criteria of IAS 38 Intangible Assets. Development 
costs that have a finite useful life that have been capitalised 
are amortised from the commencement of the commercial 
production of the product on a straight-line basis over the 
period of its expected benefit (not exceeding five years). 
Costs incurred on creating new recipes and products are  
not recognised as intangible asset as they do not meet the 
identification and recognition criteria in IAS38 for an 
intangible asset. Such costs are expensed as incurred. 
Computer software
Acquired computer software is capitalised on the basis 
of the costs incurred to acquire and bring to use the 
specific software and amortised using the straight-line 
method over their estimated useful lives (three to five 
years). Computer software development costs that are 
directly associated with the implementation of major 
business systems are recognised as intangible assets 
and are amortised using the straight-line method over 
their estimated useful lives.
Impairment of assets
Non-financial assets
The carrying amounts of the group’s non-financial assets, 
other than inventories and deferred tax assets are 
reviewed at each reporting date to determine whether 
there is an indication of impairment. If any such indication 
exits, then the asset’s recoverable amount is estimated. 
For goodwill and intangible assets that have an indefinite   52 
 Financial statements
 Notes to the financial statements
Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2009
useful life or are not yet available for use, the recoverable 
amount is estimated at each reporting date. 
The recoverable amount of an asset or cash-generating unit 
(CGU) is the greater of its value in use and its fair value less 
costs to sell. In assessing value in use, the estimated future 
cash flows are discounted to their present value using a 
pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market 
assessments of the time value of money and the risks 
specific to the asset. For the purposes of assessing 
impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for 
which there are separately identifiable CGUs. 
An impairment loss is recognised for the amount  
by which the asset’s carrying amount exceeds its 
recoverable amount being the higher of an asset’s  
fair value less costs to sell and value in use. Impairment 
losses are recognised in profit and loss. Impairment losses 
recognised in respect of CGU are allocated first to reduce 
the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the units 
and then to reduce the carrying amount of the other 
assets in the group (group of units) on a pro rata basis.
An impairment loss in respect of goodwill is not reversed. In 
respect of other assets, impairment losses recognised in 
prior periods are assessed at each reporting date for any 
indications that the loss has decreased or no longer exists. 
An impairment loss is reversed if there has been a change in 
the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount. An 
impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the asset’s 
carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that 
would have been determined, net of depreciation or 
amortisation, if no impairment loss had been recognised. 
Financial assets
A financial asset is assessed at each reporting date to 
determine whether there is any objective evidence that  
it is impaired. A financial asset is considered to be 
impaired if objective evidence indicates that one or more 
events have had a negative effect on the estimated future 
cash flows of that asset.
An impairment loss in respect of a financial asset measured at 
amortised cost is calculated as the difference between the 
carrying amount, and the present value of the estimated future 
cash flows discounted at the original effective interest rate.
All impairment losses are recognised in the profit or loss. 
An impairment loss is reversed if the reversal can be 
related objectively to an event occurring after the 
impairment loss was recognised. For financial assets 
measured at amortised costs, the reversal is recognised 
in the profit or loss statement.
Leases
Leases are classified as finance leases where substantially 
all the risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to the 
group. Finance leases are capitalised at the lease’s 
inception at the lower of the fair value of the leased asset 
and the present value of the minimum lease payments. 
Each lease payment is allocated between the liability and 
finance charges so as to achieve a constant rate on the 
finance balance outstanding. Assets acquired under finance 
leases are depreciated over the shorter of the asset’s useful 
life and the lease term.
Leases other than finance leases are classified as 
operating leases. Payments made under operating  
leases (net of any incentives received from the lessor)  
are charged to the income statement on a straight-line 
basis over the period of the lease.
Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost, including 
attributable overhead expenditure, and net realisable value. 
Cost is determined using the first-in-first-out (FIFO) method.
Taxation
Current tax is based on taxable profit for the year and any 
adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years. The 
group’s liability for current tax is calculated using rates that 
have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance 
sheet date. Tax is recognised in the income statement 
except to the extent that it relates to items recognised 
directly in equity in which case it is recognised in equity.
Deferred tax is provided, using the liability method, on all 
temporary differences between the carrying amounts of 
assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the 
amounts used for taxation purposes. Deferred tax is not 
recognised for the following temporary differences: the initial 
recognition of assets or liabilities in a transaction that is not a 
business combination and that affects neither accounting nor 
taxable profit, and differences relating to investments in 
subsidiaries to the extent that it is probable that they will not 
reverse in the foreseeable future. In addition, deferred tax is   53
 Financial statements
 Notes to the financial statements
Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2009
not recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on 
the initial recognition of goodwill. Deferred tax is measured at 
the tax rates that are expected to apply in the year when the 
asset is realised or the liability is settled.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at 
each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it 
is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be 
available to allow the deferred tax asset to be utilised.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognised for all 
deductible temporary differences except in respect of 
deductible temporary differences associated with 
investments in subsidiaries in which case deferred tax 
assets are only recognised to the extent that it is 
probable that the temporary differences will reverse in 
the foreseeable future and taxable profit will be available 
against which the temporary difference can be utilised.
Share-based compensation
In terms of IFRS 2 Share-based Payments, an expense is not 
recognised in respect of equity-settled share options granted 
before 7 November 2002 and vested before 1 January 2005. 
The shares are recognised when the options are exercised 
and the proceeds received are allocated to reserves.
The group operates an equity-settled share-based 
compensation plan whereby the company grants share 
based payments to the employees of its subsidiary 
companies. The fair value of the options granted under this 
plan are calculated using a Monte Carlo simulation model, 
which takes into account the probability of meeting the 
market based vesting conditions. The total amount to be 
expensed over the vesting period is determined by reference 
to the options granted and the estimated number of options 
expected to vest after adjusting for lapses due to leavers 
during the vesting period and achievement of any non-
market based vesting conditions. At each balance sheet date 
prior to vesting of the relevant awards the group revises the 
estimates of the number of options that are expected  
to vest after adjusting for expected leavers and estimated 
achievement of non-market based vesting conditions. The 
grant date fair value of options granted to employees is 
recognised as an employee expense, with a corresponding 
increase in equity, over the period that the employees 
become unconditionally entitled to the options. It recognises 
the impact of the revision of original estimates, if any, in the 
income statement, and a corresponding adjustment to equity. 
When a share-based payment arrangement contains  
a non-vesting condition, the fair value is discounted  
to reflect such a condition and there is no true-up for 
differences between expected and actual outcomes.
In addition, one of the group companies also operated  
a cash-settled share-based compensation plan. For 
cash-settled share-based compensation plans, a liability 
equal to the portion of the goods or services received is 
recognised at the current fair value determined at each 
balance sheet date. The liability is re-measured at each 
reporting date and at settlement date. Any change in the 
fair value of the liability is recognised as payroll costs in 
the income statement.
A deferred tax asset is calculated for outstanding share 
options based on the current share price at the end of 
each year, and the relative exercise price. The deferred 
tax asset is only recognised in the income statement for 
each share option scheme to the extent that a share 
based payment expense has been charged in the income 
statement for that scheme. The remaining deferred tax 
asset calculated is recognised directly in equity.
Dividend distribution
Dividends to shareholders of Uniq plc are recognised  
as a liability in the period that they are approved by  
the shareholders. 
Grants
Grants relating to assets are initially set up as deferred income. 
It is then recognised as income on a systematic basis over the 
useful life of the related depreciable assets. A government 
grant is not recognised until there is a reasonable assurance 
that it will be received and that the group will comply with the 
conditions associated with the grant.
Provisions
A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the 
group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a 
result of a past event, and it is probable that an outflow 
of economic benefits would be required to settle the 
obligation. A provision for restructuring is recognised 
when the group has approved a detailed and formal 
restructuring plan and announced its main provisions.  
If the effect of the time value of money is material, 
provisions are determined by discounting the expected 
future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current   54 
 Financial statements
 Notes to the financial statements
Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2009
market assessments of the time value of money and the 
risks specific to the liability. 
Where discounting is used, the increase in the provision due 
to the passage of time is recognised as a borrowing cost. 
Retirement benefit obligations
The group’s companies operate or contribute to various 
different types of pension schemes. These include both 
defined benefit and defined contribution plans. 
A defined benefit plan is a pension plan that defines the 
amount of pension benefit that an employee will receive 
on retirement, usually dependent on one or more factors 
such as age, years of service and pay at or close to the 
time of retirement.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the 
period in which they occur. As permitted by the standard, 
actuarial gains and losses are recognised outside profit or 
loss and presented in the statement of recognised income 
and expense. The liability recognised in the balance sheet 
represents the present value of the defined benefit 
obligation, as reduced by the fair value of plan assets. The 
discount rate is set by reference to yields on high quality 
sterling corporate bonds, which is taken to be AA-rated for 
IAS19 purposes, taking into account the duration of the 
Scheme’s liabilities. The cost of providing benefits is 
determined using the Projected Unit Credit Method.
Past-service cost is recognised immediately in income, 
unless the changes to the pension plan are conditional on 
the employees remaining in service for a specified period of 
time (the vesting period). In this case, the past-service cost 
is amortised on a straight-line basis over the vesting period.
When the actuarial calculation results in a benefit to the 
group the recognised asset is limited to the total of any 
unrecognised past service costs and the present value of 
economic benefits available in the form of any future refunds 
from the plan or reductions in future contributions to the plan. 
In order to calculate the present value of economic benefits, 
consideration is given to any minimum funding requirements 
that apply to any plan within the group. An economic benefit 
is available to the group if it is realisable during the life of the 
plan or on settlement of the plan liabilities.
For defined contribution plans, the group pays contributions 
to company administered or third party pension plans  
on a contractual basis. The group has no further payment 
obligations once the contributions have been paid. The 
contributions are recognised as an employee benefit 
expense when they are due. Prepaid contributions are 
recognised as an asset to the extent that a cash refund  
or a reduction in the future payments is available.
Discontinued operations
A discontinued operation is a component of the group’s 
business that represents a separate major line of business 
or geographical area that has been disposed of or is held 
for sale, or is a subsidiary acquired exclusively with a view 
to resale. Classification as a discontinued operation occurs 
upon disposal or when the operation meets the criteria to 
be classified as held for sale, if earlier. When an operation  
is classified as a discontinued operation, the comparative 
income statement is re-presented as if the operation had 
been discontinued from the start of the comparative period.
Segment reporting
The group determines and presents operating segments 
based on the information internally provided to the CEO, the 
chief operating decision maker for the purposes of making 
strategic decisions and monitoring of segment performance, 
which conforms to the requirements of IFRS8, Operating 
Segments. The group’s primary format for segment reporting 
is its business products, namely Desserts and Food to Go. 
Amounts reported for the prior year have been restated 
to conform to the requirements of IFRS 8. Inter-segment 
pricing is determined on an arm’s length basis.
Segment results, assets and liabilities include items directly 
attributable to a segment as well as those that can be 
allocated on a reasonable basis. Unallocated items comprise 
mainly corporate assets (primarily the group’s headquarters), 
the UK retirement benefit obligation, head office expenses, 
cash, borrowings and income tax assets and liabilities.
Segment capital expenditure is the total costs incurred 
during the period to acquire property, plant and 
equipment, and intangible assets other than goodwill.
Financial instruments
Non-derivative financial instruments
Non-derivative financial instruments comprise trade and 
other receivables, cash and cash equivalents, restricted   55
 Financial statements
 Notes to the financial statements
Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2009
cash, loans and borrowings and trade and other payables.
Non-derivative financial instruments are recognised initially 
at fair value plus any directly attributable transaction costs. 
Subsequent to initial recognition non-derivative financial 
instruments are carried at amortised cost using the effective 
interest rate method, less any impairment losses. 
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and 
call deposits excluding bank overdrafts. Bank overdrafts 
that are repayable on demand and form an integral part  
of the group’s cash management are included as a 
component of cash and cash equivalents for the  
purposes of the cash flow statements.
Restricted cash comprises an amount which was placed 
into a secure account in favour of the UK pension fund. 
Derivative financial instruments
The group uses various derivative financial instruments to 
manage exposure to foreign exchange risks. These include 
forward currency contracts and currency swaps. The 
group also uses interest rate swaps to manage interest 
rate exposures. The group does not use derivative 
financial instruments for speculative trading purposes.
Derivatives are initially accounted for and measured at 
fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into 
and subsequently measured at fair value. The accounting 
treatment of derivatives classified as hedging instruments 
depends on their designation, which occurs on the date 
that the derivative contract is committed to. The group 
designates derivatives as:
 a hedge of the exposure to variability in cashflows that •	
are attributable to a particular risk associated with a 
recognised asset or liability or of a highly probable 
forecasted transaction or the foreign exchange risk of 
a firm commitment which could affect the profit or loss 
(‘cash flow hedge’); and
 a hedge of a net investment in a foreign entity or •	
operation (“Net investment hedge”). 
Cash flow hedge
Where a derivative financial instrument is designated as  
a cash flow hedge of a recognised asset or liability, or  
a highly probable forecasted transaction, any gain or  
loss on the derivative financial instrument is recognised 
directly in equity to the extent it is effective. The 
cumulative gain or loss is removed from equity and 
recognised in the income statement in the same period 
or periods during which the hedged forecast transaction 
affects the income statement. When the forecasted 
transaction subsequently results in the recognition  
of a non-financial asset or non-financial liability, the 
associated cumulative gain or loss is removed from 
equity and included in the initial cost or other carrying 
amount of the non-financial asset or liability.
Net investment hedge
Where the group hedges net investments in foreign entities 
through currency borrowing, the gains or losses on the 
retranslation of the borrowings (up to the opening net 
investment) are recognised in equity. If the group uses 
derivatives as the hedging instrument, the effective portion 
of the hedge is recognised in equity with any ineffective 
portion being recognised in the income statement. Gains 
and losses accumulated in equity are recycled through the 
income statement on disposal of the foreign entity.
Discontinued hedge accounting
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging 
instrument expires or is sold, terminated, exercised,  
or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting or the group 
revokes designation of the hedging relationship. At  
that time, any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging 
instrument recognised in equity is retained in equity until 
the highly probable forecasted transaction occurs. If  
a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur,  
the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity is 
transferred to the income statement for the period.
Forward exchange contracts
Forward exchange contracts (“FX contracts”) which  
hedge currency assets and liabilities are recognised in  
the financial statements together with the assets and 
liabilities that they hedge. Both realised and unrealised 
gains and losses on FX contracts which hedge future  
sales and purchases are recognised in the income 
statement. Gains and losses on financial instruments  
that are not related to the group’s hedging activities  
are recognised as finance income or expense. 
Share capital
Ordinary shares are classified as equity. Incremental costs 
directly attributable to the issue of ordinary shares and 
share options are recognised as a deduction from equity, 
net of any tax effect.  56 
 Financial statements
 Notes to the financial statements
Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2009
2. Critical accounting estimates and assumptions
Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and 
are based on historical experience and other factors, 
including expectations of future events that are believed to 
be reasonable under the circumstances. The estimates and 
assumptions that could have a significant risk of causing a 
material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and 
liabilities within the next financial year are discussed below.
Retirement benefit obligations
A number of accounting estimates and judgements are 
incorporated within the provision for post retirement 
obligations. These are described in more detail in note 27.
Share-based payments
Note (29) – measurement of share based payments.
Goodwill
Note (13) – measurement of the recoverable amounts of 
the cash generating units (CGUs) containing goodwill.
Provisions 
Note (25) – provisions. 
Contingent Liabilities
Note (32) – Contingent liabilities.
Taxation
There are many transactions and calculations for which  
the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Significant 
judgement is required in determining the group’s tax assets 
and liabilities. Deferred tax assets have been recognised to 
the extent they are recoverable based on profit projections 
for future years approved by senior management. Income 
tax liabilities for anticipated issues have been recognised 
based on estimates on whether additional tax will be due. 
Notwithstanding the above, the group believes that it will 
fully recover all tax assets and has adequate tax provisions 
to cover all risks across all business operations.
3. Financial risk management
Overview
The group has exposure to the following risks from its 
use of financial instruments:
credit risk; •	
liquidity risk; and •	
market risk •	
This note presents information about the group’s 
exposure to each of the above risks and the group’s 
policies and processes for measuring and managing 
these risks. The risks are managed centrally following 
board approved policies. The group operates a 
centralised treasury function in accordance with board 
approved policies and guidelines covering funding and 
management of foreign exchange exposure and interest 
rate risk. Transactions entered into by the treasury 
function are required to be in support of, or as a 
consequence of, underlying commercial transactions.
Exposure to interest rate fluctuations are partly managed 
through the use of interest rate swaps and forward rate 
agreements. Objectives for the mix between fixed and 
floating rate borrowings are established by the board so 
as to seek to reduce the impact of adverse variations in 
interest rates on the group’s profit and cash flow.
The group does not engage in holding speculative 
financial instruments or their derivatives. Further 
quantitative disclosures are included throughout these 
consolidated financial statements. 
The Board of directors has overall responsibility for the 
establishment and oversight of the group’s risk management 
framework. An embedded risk management process is in 
place, which seeks to identify the most significant risks facing 
each business and the group, and reports on how those risks 
are being managed. This process requires the business units 
to produce risk registers identifying and evaluating significant 
risks which may affect their business and to consider what 
action can and should reasonably and cost effectively be 
taken to reduce them to an acceptable level. The process 
culminates in the production of a group risk register including 
a review of significant central risks. This register is reviewed 
and maintained on an ongoing basis. The group audit 
committee reviews the risk review procedure carried out 
by the group with the aim of ensuring that, where 
possible and appropriate to do so in the context of the 
business, reasonable steps are taken by the group to 
mitigate such risks.
Credit Risk
Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the group if a customer 
or counterparty to a financial instrument fails to meet its 
contractual obligations, and arises principally from the group’s 
receivables from customers and investment securities.
Trade and other receivables
The group’s exposure to credit risk is influenced mainly by 
the individual characteristics of each customer. The majority 
of the group’s customers are large, established retail 
organisations with good credit records and thus have a 
lower risk of default. Most of them have been transacting   57
 Financial statements
 Notes to the financial statements
Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2009
with the group for a number of years. The group assigns 
credit limits to its customers based on a review of external 
credit ratings. The group’s policy is to provide for bad debts 
based on the specific circumstances of each debtor. 
Approximately 54% (2008: 54%) of the group’s revenue is 
attributable to sales transactions with a single customer. 
This customer pays between 14 and 21 days thus the group 
has a reduced concentration of credit risk.
Cash and cash equivalents
The group limits its exposure to credit risk by only using 
banks with a credit rating of at least Aa3 from Moody’s 
and A+ from Standard and Poor’s. Given these high credit 
ratings, management does not expect any counterparty to 
fail to meet its obligations.
Guarantees
The group’s policy is to provide financial guarantees only 
to wholly owned subsidiaries. 
Liquidity risk
Liquidity risk is the risk that the group will not be able to 
meet its financial obligations as they fall due. The group’s 
approach is to monitor cash flow forecasts on a weekly 
basis to ensure that it has sufficient liquidity to meet its 
liabilities when they become due. The group also maintains 
the following line of credit:
 £35m revolving credit facility that matures on 31 December •	
2010. Interest is charged at LIBOR plus 4%; and
£5m overdraft facility •	
Market risk
Market risk is the risk that changes in market prices,  
such as foreign exchange rates, interest rates and equity 
prices will affect the group’s income or the value of its 
holdings of financial instruments. The objective of market risk 
management is to manage and control market risk exposures 
within acceptable parameters, while optimising return.
Currency risk
The group is exposed to foreign currency on sales, 
purchases, borrowings and the translation of earnings in a 
currency other than the functional currency of the business 
unit. Exposures are primarily to the Euro and Polish Zloty.
Contracted transactional exposures are fully hedged at the 
point in time when they become contracted. Forecast 
transactional exposures are reviewed and hedged on a 
case by case basis. Hedging is achieved using forward 
foreign exchange contracts.
Due to the group’s investment in both UK and European 
operations, it operates a policy of maintaining liabilities 
split between these two currencies.
In the event of the group drawing down on the banking 
facility, the ratio of Sterling: Euro liabilities mirror the 
Sterling: Euro split of trading capital employed.
Interest rate risk
The group’s objective is to minimise the impact of interest rate 
volatility on interest cost to protect earnings. This is achieved 
by reviewing both the amount of floating rate indebtedness 
over a certain period of time and its sensitivity to interest rate 
fluctuations. From time to time, the group may take out interest 
rate swaps in order to mitigate the group’s exposure to interest 
rates on floating debt. However, during the year, as part of the 
group’s strategy, some of the net proceeds from various 
disposals of businesses transactions were used to repay part 
of its facility loans. Therefore, the group believes that the 
exposure to interest rate risk was minimal.
Other market price risk
Equity price risk arises from available-for-sale equity 
securities held for meeting partially the unfunded portion  
of the group’s defined benefit pension obligations. The 
group’s pension Trustee’s are responsible for setting 
investment principles in place. The funds are predominantly 
held in equity investments, bonds and/or gilts in such 
proportions as the Trustees, guided by the investment 
advisors, consider appropriate from time to time. 
Capital management
The board’s policy is to maintain a strong capital base so  
as to maintain investor, creditor and market confidence and  
to sustain future development of the business. The board  
of directors monitors the return on trading capital employed 
(“ROTCE”) for each operating division as well as for the 
group. ROTCE represents operating profit before significant 
items as a percentage of trading capital employed (as 
adjusted for the effect of the timing of major acquisitions 
and disposals). As part of the agreement on scheme 
specific funding, the group agreed to obtain trustee 
approval if it wishes to borrow secured funds greater 
than £25m or sell any businesses greater than £25m. 
There were no changes to the group’s approach 
to capital management during the year.  58 
 Financial statements
 Notes to the financial statements
Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2009
4. Segment analysis
In 2008, the primary segment reporting format was determined to be the geographical segments under IAS 14 ‘Segment 
Reporting’. However, following the sale of the continental businesses, information regularly reported to the group’s 
management for the purposes of making strategic decisions and monitoring of segment performance is based on product 
groupings. The group’s reportable segments under the new IFRS 8 ‘Reporting Segments’ are Desserts and Food To Go. 
Desserts segment operates from two sites – Minsterley and Evercreech producing trifles, twinpot desserts, yoghurts 
and cottage cheese. Although these are two operating segments they have been aggregated under Desserts 
segment as they met the aggregation criteria under IFRS8. Food To Go segment operates from two sites – 
Northampton and Spalding producing sandwiches, wraps, cafe hot food, sandwich fillers and dressed salads. 
Although these are two operating segments they have been aggregated under Food To Go segment as they met the 
aggregation criteria under IFRS 8.
The main discontinued businesses in the year were reported as separate primary segments under IAS 14 last year. These 
were Northern Europe and France and are treated as segments in the discontinued operations under IFRS8. The 
discontinued Pinneys business was reported within United Kingdom under IAS14. Under IFRS 8 this would have been a 
separate segment due to the product line. The segment information reported below does not include any amounts for 
these discontinued operations, which are described in more detail in note 22. Amounts reported for the prior year have 
been restated to conform to the requirements of IFRS 8.
4.1 Segment revenue and results
Segment revenue
Segment result before 
significant items
2009
£m
2008
(restated)
£m
2009
£m
2008
(restated)
£m
Desserts 150.3  152.5  (2.9) (8.2)
Food to Go 136.9  134.2  7.3  6.9 
Reportable segments 287.2  286.7  4.4  (1.3)
Corporate expenses (unallocated) (6.3) (5.8)
Operating loss before significant items (1.9) (7. 1)
Significant items (0.7) 2.4
Operating loss after significant items (2.6) (4.7)
Net finance (expense)/income (15.9) 4.6
Loss before tax (18.5) (0.1)
Income tax expense (0.4) (0.7)
Loss from continuing operations (18.9) (0.8)
Loss from discontinued operations (net of tax) (note 22) (2.0) (55.4)
Loss for the year (20.9) (56.2)  59
 Financial statements
 Notes to the financial statements
Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Revenue reported above represents revenue generated from external customers. There was no inter-segment 
revenue in the year (2008: £nil). The total of the reportable segments’ revenue equates to the group’s revenue of  
its continuing operations.
The accounting policies of the reportable segments are the same as the Group’s accounting policies described in note 
1. Segment results represent the results earned by each segment without allocation of significant items, corporate 
costs, finance costs and income tax expense. This is the measure reported to the management as they believes that 
it is the most relevant in evaluating the performance of the above segments and for the purpose of resource allocation.
4.2 Other segment information
Assets Liabilities
Depreciation and 
amortisation
Capital expenditure 
(including software)
2009
£m
2008
(restated)
£m
2009
£m
2008
(restated)
£m
2009
£m
2008
(restated)
£m
2009
£m
2008
(restated)
£m
Desserts 76.6 70.9  20.7  27.5  5.1  4.5  9.2  7.0 
Food to Go 67.7  65.7  17.2  13.8  3.6  2.8  2.6  5.6 
Reportable segments 144.3 136.6 37.9 41.3 8.7 7.3 11.8 12.6
Corporate (unallocated) 141.8 135.5 291.2 221.5 0.3 0.9 0.1 0.1
Amounts related to discontinued 
operations (note 22) 101.6 264.9 73.8 183.3  2.2  13.3  6.4  14.8 
Consolidated 387.7  537.0 402.9 446.1 11.2 21.5  18.3  27.5 
For the purposes of monitoring segment performance and allocating resources between segments:
 All assets and liabilities are allocated to reportable segments other than those included in corporate •	 (unallocated) 
and classified as discontinued operations. Goodwill is allocated to Food To Go segment as described in note 13.
 Assets in corporate •	 (unallocated) include cash, restricted cash and tax assets. Liabilities in corporate (unallocated) 
include borrowings, tax liabilities and the UK pension liability. The majority of the UK pension scheme’s members 
are past employees and not related to the reportable segments.
In addition to the depreciation and amortisation reported above, impairment charges and reversal attributable to the 
reportable segments and discontinued operations are shown below:
Asset 
impairment/
(reversal) 
2009
£m
Goodwill
2009
£m
Total
2009
£m
Asset 
impairment/
(reversal) 
2008
£m
Goodwill 
2008
£m
Total
2008
£m
Desserts (1.7) –  (1.7)  (11.5)  –  (11.5) 
Amounts related to discontinued operations 7.6 –  7.6  33.5  18.2  51.7 
5.9  –  5.9  22.0  18.2  40.2 
4.3 Revenue from major product groupings
Revenues from customers for major product groupings are the same as those reported under the reportable segments.  60 
 Financial statements
 Notes to the financial statements
Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2009
4.4 Geographical information
During the year, the group operated in three principal geographical areas – United Kingdom (country of domicile), 
Northern Europe and France. Northern Europe comprised of Germany, Poland and the Netherlands.
The group’s continuing operations revenue from external customers and its assets and liabilities are all based in United 
Kingdom. The group’s discontinued operations revenue from external customers are in United Kingdom (Pinneys), 
Northern Europe and France; and its assets and liabilities held for sale are reported in note 20 under IFRS 5.
Revenues from one customer of both the Food To Go and Desserts segments represents approximately £153.8m 
(2008: £155.1m) of the group’s total continuing revenues. Revenues from another customer within the Desserts 
business represents approximately £29.0m (2008: £27.9m) of the group’s total continuing revenues.
5. Expenses and auditors’ remuneration
2009 2008
Continuing
£m
Discontinued
£m
Total 
£m
Continuing
£m
Discontinued
£m
Total 
(restated)
£m
The group's results include charges for:
Depreciation and amortisation  9.0  2.2  11.2  8.2  13.3  21.5 
Asset impairment –  –  –  16.3  33.6  49.9 
Asset impairment related to assets  
held for sale – 7.6 7.6 – – –
Reversal of asset impairment (1.7) –  (1.7) (27.9) (27.9)
Goodwill impairment –  –  – – 18.2  18.2 
Operating lease rental payments:
– plant and machinery 0.7  2.8 3.5 0.8  3.3  4.1 
– other 0.9  1.1  2.0  1.0  1.4  2.4 
Research and development 1.4 – 1.4 1.6 0.2 1.8
Inventory written down to net realisable value 1.2  1.4  2.6  1.8  2.1  3.9 
Reversal of inventory written down  
to net realisable value (0.2) (0.2) (0.4) –  (0.3) (0.3)
2009 2008
Continuing
£m
Discontinued
£m
Total
£m
Continuing
£m
Discontinued
£m
Total
(restated)
£m
Auditors' remuneration
Audit of these financial statements 0.3  –  0.3  0.2 – 0.2 
Audit of the financial statements of 
subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 0.1 0.3 0.4 0.1  0.2  0.3 
Services relating to corporate debt refinancing – – – 0.2 – 0.2
Other 0.5  –  0.5 – –  – 
 0.9  0.3 1.2 0.5  0.2  0.7   61
 Financial statements
 Notes to the financial statements
Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2009
6. Directors and employees
Directors’ emoluments and share interests are given in the remuneration report on pages 38 to 40.
2009 2008
Continuing
£m
Discontinued
£m
Total
£m
Continuing
£m
Discontinued
£m
Total
(restated)
£m
Aggregate payroll costs
Wages and Salaries 54.8  76.5 131.3  56.2  94.2  150.4 
Social security costs 4.9  17.2  22.1  5.2  17.8  23.0 
Pension costs – defined benefit schemes 1.1  0.3  1.4  2.4 0.4 2.8 
Pension costs – defined contribution schemes 0.6  1.2  1.8  0.6 4.1 4.7 
Share based payments charge 0.5  –  0.5  0.4  (0.1) 0.3 
 61.9  95.2  157. 1 64.8  116.4  181.2 
2009 2008
Continuing Discontinued Total Continuing Discontinued
Total
(restated)
Employee numbers
Average:
Full time 2,257  3,729  5,986  2,337  3,879  6,216 
Part time 68  141  209  70  167  237 
 2,325  3,870  6,195  2,407  4,046  6,453 
At period end 2,202  3,741  5,943  2,260  4,090  6,350 
7. Significant items
Note
2009
£m
2008
(restated)
£m
Restructuring costs – UK operations (6.3) (8.7)
– Group (0.8) – 
Curtailment gain  – pensions 4.7  – 
Asset impairment  –  (16.4)
Reversal of asset impairment 1.7  27.9 
Other costs –  (0.4)
Continuing operations (0.7) 2.4 
Discontinued operations (net of tax) 22 (12.0) (51.8)
 (12.7) (49.4)
Restructuring costs – UK Operations
This relates to restructuring of the Desserts operations including the transfer of operations from Paignton  
to Minsterley and the closure of Paignton production facility. In 2008 this related to the same transfer operations  
and other restructuring costs across operations in the UK.
Restructuring costs – Group
This includes costs relating to the reduction of group operations as part of the disposals of European operations  
and also costs of a significant nature in relation to the management of the group’s pension fund.  62 
 Financial statements
 Notes to the financial statements
Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Curtailment gain – pensions
From October 2009, the defined benefit pension fund was closed to further accrual resulting in a curtailment gain for 
the group.
Asset impairment
In 2008 the asset impairment charge related to Paignton was based on value in use recoverable amount.
Reversal of asset impairment
In 2009 this relates to assets from Paignton which had been impaired in 2008, but which have subsequently been 
transferred and used in operations at the Minsterley site and also a reversal of impairment of the land and buildings  
at Paignton which are held for sale at year end. The transferred assets recoverable amount is determined through  
value in use and the land and buildings through fair value less costs to sell. In 2008 the impairment reversal related  
to the Minsterley site.
Other costs
In 2008 the charge of £0.4m includes costs associated with the OFT investigation.
8. Finance income and expenses
2009
£m
2008
(restated)
£m
Finance income
Interest on bank balances 0.1  0.8 
Interest on restricted cash 1.4  5.0 
Net foreign exchange gains –  1.9 
 1.5 7.7
Finance expense
Interest on bank loans (2.5) (1.3)
Interest on finance leases –  (0.1)
Discount on long term provisions –  (1.0)
Net foreign exchange losses (1.2) – 
Amortisation of finance arrangement costs (1.0) (0.1)
(4.7) (2.5)
Net finance (expense)/income – continuing operations (3.2) 5.2
9. Income tax
The tax charge on the loss before significant items for continuing operations is £0.4m (2008: £0.7m).
2009
£m
2008
(restated)
£m
Overseas tax (0.4) (0.7)
Deferred tax
– charge for temporary differences on pension costs –  (0.1)
– other temporary differences –  0.1 
Tax on continuing operations (0.4) (0.7)
Tax on discontinued operations (note 22) (1.3) (0.7)
 (1.7) (1.4)
The group has used tax losses to reduce tax payments in respect of the current and prior years.  63
 Financial statements
 Notes to the financial statements
Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2009
A reconciliation of the current tax charge to the 28% (2008 : 28%) standard rate in the UK is shown below:
2009
£m
2008
(restated)
£m
Loss before tax (18.5) (0.1)
Tax credit at UK corporation tax rate of 28% (2008: 28%) 5.2  – 
Actual tax charge (0.4) (0.7)
Difference 5.6  0.7 
Explained by:
Reversal of asset impairment  (0.5) –
Tax losses including capital allowances not recognised 6.0 0.7 
Permanent items 0.1  – 
Total 5.6 0.7
10. Earnings per share (“EPS”)
Basic and diluted EPS
Basic EPS is calculated on the basis of the weighted average of 113.9m (2008: 113.9m) ordinary shares in issue  
and a loss for the year of £20.9m (2008: loss of £56.2m). Basic loss per share for discontinued operations is 
calculated on a loss for the year of £2.0m (2008: £55.4m). At year end there are no potential ordinary shares that  
have a dilutive effect on continuing and discontinued operations. 
Potential ordinary shares which may dilute EPS in the future include share options, warrants and performance 
incentive plan shares granted by the company. They have not been included in the calculation of dilutive EPS as 
they were anti-dilutive for the current period.
Adjusted EPS
Adjusted loss per share is shown by reference to (loss)/profit before significant items and related tax. It also  
excludes exchange gains and losses on non-permanent intercompany loans. Adjusted loss per share is presented  
as the directors consider that this gives valuable additional information about the continuing earnings performance  
of the group and is calculated as follows:
2009
£m
2008
(restated)
£m
Adjusted basic and diluted EPS of the group
Loss for the year (20.9) (56.2)
Significant items on continuing operations 0.7  (2.4)
Significant items on discontinued operations 9.7  51.8 
Exchange gains on non-permanent intercompany loans –  (0.7)
Adjusted total (10.5) (7.5)
Related tax 2.3  – 
Adjusted loss (8.2) (7.5)
 Pence per 
share 
 Pence per 
share 
Adjusted basic and diluted EPS of the group (7.2) (6.6)
11. Dividends 
No dividends were paid nor declared during 2009 (2008: £nil).  64 
 Financial statements
 Notes to the financial statements
Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2009
12. Property, plant and equipment
2009 2008
Land and 
buildings
£m
Plant and 
equipment
£m
Assets under 
construction
£m
Total
£m
Land and 
buildings
(restated)
£m
Plant and 
equipment
(restated)
£m
Assets under 
construction
(restated)
£m
Total
£m
Cost 
Opening balance 121.5 348.6 9.6 479.7 108.1 302.7 5.5 416.3
Additions 0.5 5.9 11.6 18.0 0.7 13.5 12.2 26.4
Transfers from assets 
under construction 4.4 13.4 (17.8) – 0.7 7.4 (8.1) –
Disposals (0.6) (17.8) – (18.4) (0.6) (3.3) – (3.9)
Disposal of businesses 
(note 21) (76.0) (142.6) – (218.6) –  – – – 
Transfer to assets held 
for sale (note 20) (54.1) (45.4) – (99.5) –  – – – 
Reclassification 46.0 (51.3) – (5.3) –  – – – 
Exchange (3.8) (4.8) – (8.6) 12.6  28.3 – 40.9 
Closing balance 37.9 106.0 3.4 147.3 121.5 348.6 9.6 479.7 
Depreciation and 
impairment losses
Opening balance 50.3  258.5 – 308.8  28.1  226.2 – 254.3 
Provided in the period 1.8  9.4 – 11.2  3.7  16.6 – 20.3 
Disposals (0.6) (17.8) – (18.4) (0.6) (3.0) – (3.6)
Disposal of businesses 
(note 21) (51.6) (103.5) – (155.1) –  – – – 
Impairment 4.2 2.9 – 7. 1 29.7  18.8 – 48.5 
Reversal of impairment 
(note 7) (1.2) (0.5) – (1.7) (10.8) (17. 1) – (27.9)
Transfer to assets held 
for sale (note 20) (38.6) (35.7) – (74.3) –  – – – 
Reclassification 46.8 (48.8) – (2.0) – – – –
Exchange (0.9) (3.7) – (4.6) 0.2  17.0 – 17.2 
Closing Balance 10.2 60.8 – 71.0 50.3 258.5 – 308.8 
Opening net book value 71.2  90.1 9.6 170.9  80.0 76.5 5.5 162.0 
Closing net book value 27.7 45.2 3.4 76.3 71.2 90.1 9.6 170.9 
Grants
Certain fixed assets in the Northern European operation, classified as held for sale, were partly funded by 
government grants. For more details regarding these grants, see note 24.
Leased plant and equipment
The group leases equipment under a number of finance lease agreements or quasi finance leases (see note 23). In 2009 
the net carrying amount of leased plant and equipment was £0.9m (2008: £2.2m) in Northern Europe which has been 
reclassified as held for sale. Depreciation recognised on leased assets for the current year is £1.0m (2008: £1.0m).
Impairment of assets
Refer to notes 7 and 22 for details relating to the impairment of assets and the reversal of the impairment of assets.  65
 Financial statements
 Notes to the financial statements
Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Reclassification
The property, plant and equipment (“PPE”) has been reclassified between categories and also with the  
intangible assets-software. The net book value as a result of this reclassification in the PPE has resulted in  
£3.3m being reclassified to intangible assets-software. Overall, there is no change in net book value for both  
PPE and intangible assets-software.
Assets under construction
Assets under construction has been presented as a separate category in 2009 and as a result prior year  
amounts have been restated for consistent presentation. 
13. Intangible assets
2009 2008
Goodwill
£m
Software
£m
Total
£m
Goodwill
£m
Software
£m
Total
£m
Cost 
Opening balance 51.0  23.1  74.1  46.8  17.2  64.0 
Additions –  0.3  0.3  –  1.1  1.1 
Disposals –  (0.7) (0.7) –  (0.2) (0.2)
Disposal of businesses (note 21) –  (10.3) (10.3) –  –  – 
Transfer to assets held for sale (note 20) –  (3.0) (3.0) –  –  – 
Reclassification – (8.2) (8.2) – – –
Exchange –  (1.2) (1.2) 4.2  5.0  9.2 
Closing balance 51.0 – 51.0 51.0  23.1  74.1 
Amortisation and impairment losses
Opening balance 20.5  23.1  43.6  2.3  16.4  18.7 
Provided in the period –  –  –  –  1.2  1.2 
Disposals –  (0.5) (0.5) –  (0.2) (0.2)
Disposal of businesses (note 21) – (7.4) (7.4) – – –
Impairment –  0.5 0.5 18.2  0.7  18.9 
Transfer to assets held for sale (note 20) –  (3.0) (3.0) –  –  – 
Reclassification – (11.5) (11.5) – – –
Exchange – (1.2) (1.2) –  5.0  5.0 
Closing Balance 20.5 – 20.5 20.5  23.1  43.6 
Opening net book value 30.5  –  30.5  44.5  0.8  45.3 
Closing net book value 30.5  –  30.5  30.5  –  30.5 
Goodwill Impairment
As required by IAS 36 an annual impairment review was carried out to assess whether the carrying amount  
of the goodwill exceeds the recoverable amounts. Goodwill is allocated to the group’s cash generating units  
(CGUs) or groups of CGUs as set out below:
2009
£m
2008
£m
Northampton 30.5  30.5 
In 2008 goodwill was allocated to the United Kingdom but under IFRS 8 has been allocated to the relevant segment.   66 
 Financial statements
 Notes to the financial statements
Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2009
The recoverable amounts of CGUs were measured based on the higher of value in use and fair value less costs to 
sell. Value in use was determined to be higher, thus this was used as the recoverable amount. The key assumptions  
in the value in use calculation for sales and margin were based on historical trends adjusted for management estimate 
of future performance of each business unit which involves a degree of judgement. These future trends and cash flow 
projections in the form of the financial budget for 2010 and the strategic plans for 2011 and 2012 have been approved 
by the board.
Cash flows beyond the three year period for the United Kingdom were extrapolated using a growth rate of 0% and 
include a terminal value. A pre tax discount rate of 11.7% (2008: 11.1%) was used for all CGUs based on the group’s 
weighted average cost of capital.
In 2009, the recoverable amount of goodwill exceeded the carrying value and no impairment was required. In 2008 the 
goodwill relating to Northern Europe was written down to zero as the recoverable amount exceeded the carrying value.
14. Restricted cash 
This relates to cash of £97.0m (2008: £95.6m) held in a secure account in favour of the pension fund. The group is 
obliged to pay over the restricted cash to the pension fund by 31 March 2016 or earlier, if it is tax efficient to do so.  
This is not included in the cash and cash equivalents as it does not meet the definition of cash and cash equivalents.
15. Deferred tax assets and liabilities
Assets Liabilities Net
2009
£m
2008
£m
2009
£m
2008
£m
2009
£m
2008
£m
Property, plant and equipment  –  10.3 – (8.0) – 2.3 
Retirement benefit obligations  13.9  5.2  –  – 13.9  5.2 
Provisions  –  0.3  –  –  –  0.3 
Short term timing differences  –  2.4  –  –  –  2.4 
Tax assets/(liabilities)  13.9  18.2  –  (8.0) 13.9  10.2 
Net deferred tax assets
2009
£m
2008
£m
Opening balance  10.2  26.5 
Income statement charge – continuing – (0.8)
– discontinued (2.3) –
Statement of comprehensive income – (15.1)
Utilised – (0.4)
Disposal of businesses (note 21) 5.3 –
Held for sale (note 20) 0.7 –
Closing balance 13.9 10.2   67
 Financial statements
 Notes to the financial statements
Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Unrecognised deferred tax assets
2009
£m
2008
£m
Retirement benefit obligations 52.0  39.8 
Capital allowances in excess of depreciation 35.1 25.7 
Provisions 2.1 6.4 
Tax losses 13.8 32.2 
Other – 0.3 
 103.0 104.4 
Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of these items because the availability of suitable taxable 
profits is uncertain. There are no unrecognised deferred tax liabilities in respect of temporary differences associated 
with investments in subsidiaries.
16. Investments
Company
2009
£m
2008
£m
Cost 
Opening balance 225.2 225.2
Closing balance 225.2 225.2
Provisions for impairment
Opening balance 94.4 –
Impairment 41.3 94.4
Closing balance 135.7 94.4
Net book value 89.5 130.8
Investments in the company are stated at cost less provision for any impairment.
Investments in the company balance sheet of £89.5m (2008: £130.8m) represent shares in subsidiary undertakings. 
Further details of these subsidiaries are given in note 35.
Due to the continuing losses at various business units in the UK and Northern Europe, an impairment test was carried out on 
the investments held by the company. The value of the investments were impaired to their recoverable amount which was 
determined to be value in use. The pre-tax discount rate used in the calculation of value in use was 11.7% (2008: 11.1%).
17. Inventory
2009
£m
2008
£m
Raw materials and consumables  10.5  33.0 
Work in progress  0.1  1.8 
Finished goods and goods for resale  0.6  22.4 
  11.2  57.2 
In 2009, raw materials recognised as cost of sales for the continuing operations amounted to £151.3m  
(2008: £152.5m (restated)).  68 
 Financial statements
 Notes to the financial statements
Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2009
18. Trade and other receivables
Group Company
2009
£m
2008
£m
2009
£m
2008
£m
Current assets 
Trade debtors  22.5  112.8  –  – 
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings  –  –  –  0.2 
Derivatives not used for hedging  –  0.6  –  0.6 
Other debtors  8.8  25.1  0.1  0.2 
Prepayments and accrued income  3.3  4.6  –  – 
 34.6  143.1  0.1  1.0 
Non-current assets  
Other debtors  5.4 –  –  – 
Included in trade debtors is £0.1m (2008: £0.8m) of allowances for doubtful debts (refer note 26) and included in other 
debtors is an amount of £5.6m for deferred disposal costs of Northern Europe which will be recognised in 2010, when 
the disposals take place.
The other debtors in non-current assets of £5.4m represents deferred consideration for the sale of Marie SAS on 7 
October 2009, being held in escrow for eighteen months from date of disposal. This amount will be released, subject 
to meeting certain conditions under the sale and purchase agreement.
19. Cash and cash equivalents
Group Company
2009
£m
2008
£m
2009
£m
2008
£m
Cash at bank  11.4  12.0  10.6  6.2 
Short term deposits  5.8  6.1  2.3  – 
Cash and cash equivalents 17.2  18.1  12.9  6.2 
Bank overdrafts used for cash management  
purposes (note 23) (0.3) (0.2) – –
Cash and cash equivalents in the statement of cash flows 16.9 17.9 12.9 6.2
The cash at bank includes an amount of £11.0m (2008: £nil) which is held in a separate account in accordance with an 
agreement with the Pension Fund which lapses on 30 June 2010. The funds in this account may be used by the group 
for investment purposes up to 30 June 2010 and thereafter for any purpose.
The group has the legal right of set-off for its overdraft and cash balances for its UK operating companies under an 
offsetting cash-pooling arrangement within its banking facilities. The short-term deposit includes an amount of £5.5m 
(2008: £3.5m) which is secured against several letters of credit.
20. Assets held for sale
On 11 March 2009, the Board announced its intention to appoint advisors in Northern Europe (Netherlands, Germany 
and Poland) and France to actively pursue opportunities to create value through consolidation, joint venture or sale. 
The status of this plan is as follows:
French and Pinneys businesses
During the year the sale of the French business (Marie SAS) and Pinneys in Scotland were completed. Details of these 
disposals are disclosed in note 21 below.   69
 Financial statements
 Notes to the financial statements
Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Netherlands business
On 17 December 2009, the group entered into a sale agreement to dispose the Netherlands business. As the control 
of the business was not passed to the acquirer at 31 December 2009, the assets and liabilities of these businesses 
were classified and accounted for as held for sale. This disposal was completed on 9 January 2010.
Germany and Poland businesses
On 11 November 2009, the group entered into a sale agreement to dispose of the German (except for the 
Bremerhaven factory which was disposed of separately (see note 22 below)) and Polish businesses, subject to 
clearance from various competition authorities. As the control of the businesses was not passed to the acquirer  
at 31 December 2009, the assets and liabilities of these businesses were classified and accounted for as held for 
sale. This disposal is due to complete in April 2010.
Paignton factory, UK
Following the restructuring of the Desserts operation in UK, the Paignton factory was classified as held for sale  
at the year end and the disposal was completed on 29 January 2010.
Bremerhaven factory, Germany
In 2008, £2.4m was held for sale with respect to the Bremerhaven factory following restructuring in Northern Europe. 
This factory was sold in 2009.
 Northern 
Europe
£m 
Paignton 
factory
£m
2009
Total
£m
2008
Total
£m
Assets classified as held for sale
Property, plant and equipment 24.0  1.2  25.2  2.4 
Deferred tax 0.4 – 0.4 – 
Inventory 12.1 – 12.1 – 
Trade and other receivables 56.9 – 56.9 – 
Cash 7.0 – 7.0 –
100.4 1.2 101.6 2.4 
Liabilities classified as held for sale
Retirement benefit obligations 14.7 – 14.7  – 
Provisions 0.3 – 0.3  – 
Deferred tax 1.1 – 1.1 – 
Corporation tax 0.4 – 0.4 –
Borrowings 0.9 – 0.9 – 
Trade and other payables 56.4 – 56.4  – 
73.8 – 73.8 – 
Cumulative income or expense recognised directly in equity relating to Northern Europe segment classified as held 
for sale:
2009
£m
Actuarial loss recognised on the pension schemes (8.1)
Deferred tax relating to the pension schemes 3.4
Foreign currency translation differences for foreign operations 30.2
25.5  70 
 Financial statements
 Notes to the financial statements
Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2009
21. Business Disposals
During 2009, the group sold 100% of its interest in the share capital of several businesses for a gross consideration, 
which are set out below:
Business
Segment
Nature of business Date of disposal Gross consideration
1. Brandly, Germany (“Brandly”) Northern Europe Field sales force 15-Jun-09 £nil
2. Marie SAS, France (“Marie”) France
Chilled and frozen 
convenience 
foods 07-Oct-09 £55.4m
In addition, the group disposed of the trade and assets of Pinneys (“Pinneys”), a chilled fish business in Scotland,  
UK for a gross consideration of £1 million on the 13 March 2009. Under IFRS 8, this business would be reported 
separately in the fish segment.
These disposals are in line with the Board’s strategy to focus on those convenience food businesses with the most 
potential for significant profit improvement and shareholder value creation. The loss on disposal of these businesses 
is included in the significant items of the discontinued operations (see note 22). 
Pinneys
£m
Brandly
£m
France
£m
2009
Total
£m
2008
Total
£m
Property, plant and equipment – –  63.5 63.5 –
Intangible assets –  – 2.9 2.9 – 
Inventories 2.3 – 25.7 28.0 – 
Cash and cash equivalents and overdrafts – 0.1  (10.5) (10.4) – 
Trade and other receivables 2.7  0.6  37.0  40.3  – 
Trade and other payables (4.1) (0.4) (57.0) (61.5) – 
Retirement benefit obligation – (0.2) (4.8) (5.0) – 
Provisions – –  (0.9) (0.9) – 
Tax – – (5.3) (5.3) – 
Net assets disposed 0.9  0.1  50.6  51.6  – 
Cumulative foreign exchange recycled from translation reserve –  – (1.7) (1.7) – 
Gain/(loss) on disposal 
1
 (0.7) (1.9) 0.6 (2.0) –
Net consideration 0.2  (1.8) 49.5  47.9  – 
Relating to: 
Cash consideration 1.0 – 49.9 50.9 –
Cash consideration – working capital adjustment (0.2) – – (0.2) –
Deferred consideration – – 5.5 5.5 –
Disposal costs (0.6) (1.8) (5.9) (8.3) – 
0.2 (1.8) 49.5  47.9  – 
Net cash inflow/(outflow) on disposal of businesses:
Consideration received/(paid) (net of disposal costs paid) 0.2  (0.3) 46.8  46.7 –
Plus/(Less): cash and cash equivalents and overdrafts sold –  (0.1) 10.5  10.4  – 
 0.2  (0.4) 57.3  57.1  – 
1 Gain on disposal of France includes foreign exchange gain of £1.7m recycled from translation reserve.  71
 Financial statements
 Notes to the financial statements
Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2009
22. Discontinued operations
Fish (Pinneys), France and Northern Europe are discontinued reportable segments. Profits attributable to the 
discontinued operations were as follows:
2009
Pinneys
£m
France
£m
Northern 
Europe
£m
Total
£m
Results of discontinued operations
Revenue 10.1  158.7  262.0  430.8 
Expenses (10.8) (157.4) (251.6) (419.8)
Operating (loss)/profit (0.7) 1.3  10.4  11.0 
Finance charge –  (0.4) (1.6) (2.0)
(Loss)/profit before tax and significant items (0.7) 0.9  8.8  9.0 
Income tax credit/(expense) – 1.8 (0.8) 1.0
(Loss)/profit after tax before significant items (0.7) 2.7 8.0 10.0
Significant items including tax (note a) 0.3  (1.7) (10.6) (12.0)
Significant items 0.3 0.6 (10.6) (9.7)
Tax adjustment on disposal – (2.3) – (2.3)
(Loss)/profit for the year (0.4) 1.0 (2.6) (2.0)
2008
Pinneys
£m
France
£m
Northern 
Europe
£m
2008
Total
£m
Results of discontinued operations
Revenue 51.9  209.1  249.5  510.5 
Expenses (53.9) (206.4) (251.5) (511.8)
Operating (loss)/profit (2.0) 2.7  (2.0) (1.3)
Finance charge –  (0.4) (1.2) (1.6)
(Loss)/profit before tax and significant items (2.0) 2.3  (3.2) (2.9)
Income tax expense –  –  (0.7) (0.7)
(Loss)/profit after tax before significant items (2.0) 2.3  (3.9) (3.6)
Significant items (note a) (9.9) 0.7  (42.6) (51.8)
(Loss)/profit for the year (11.9) 3.0  (46.5) (55.4)
Note a: Significant items after tax
Pinneys
£m
France
£m
Northern 
Europe
£m
2009
Total
£m
2008
Total
£m
Restructuring costs –  –  (0.2) (0.2) (0.7)
Pension – curtailment gain 1.0  –  – 1.0 – 
Asset impairment  –  –  (7.2) (7.2) (51.7)
Loss on disposal of assets – – (1.0) (1.0)  – 
(Loss)/profit on disposal of businesses (0.7) 0.6 (1.9) (2.0) – 
Other significant costs –  – (0.3) (0.3)  0.6
Significant items before tax 0.3 0.6 (10.6) (9.7) (51.8)
Tax adjustment on disposal – (2.3) – (2.3) –
Significant items after tax 0.3  (1.7) (10.6) (12.0) (51.8)  72 
 Financial statements
 Notes to the financial statements
Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Restructuring costs
Restructuring costs in 2009 and 2008 relate to costs incurred to reduce the costs of the business units and improve 
profitability. The 2009 costs included a release of prior year’s provision of £0.6m in Northern Europe.
Pension curtailment gain
This refers to the closure of the defined benefit scheme for employees who were members of the pension fund and 
who worked in the disposed business.
Asset impairment
The carrying value of assets in use in the Northern European operations was reviewed to assess if the assets were 
impaired based on offers received, representing fair value in an active market. The carrying value was found to be in 
excess of the recoverable value and so the assets were impaired by £7.2m to recoverable value, being fair value less 
costs to sell. In 2008, the asset impairment included the goodwill in Northern European operations of £18.2m, 
tangible assets in the Germany operations of £24.4m and Pinneys of £9.1m. Prior year impairments were based on 
value in use using a pre-tax discount rate of 11.1%.
Loss on disposal
This refers to the disposal of the Bremerhaven factory in Germany at the end of 2009 for gross proceeds of £1.0m.
Profit/(loss) on disposal of businesses
This is disclosed in the note 21 and includes foreign exchange gain recycled from the translation reserve.
Other significant costs
This refers to the additional pension costs in Germany in 2009 and a release of provision for restructuring in France in 2008.
 
2009
£m
2008
£m
Cash flow from/(used in) discontinued operations
Net cash used in operating activities (6.0)  (9.4)
Net cash from/(used in) investing activities 2.4  (14.9)
Net cash (used in)/from financing activities (1.3)  0.4 
Net cashflow used in discontinued operations (4.9)  (23.9)
23. Borrowings
Group Company
2009
£m
2008
£m
2009
£m
2008
£m
Current liabilities 
Loan drawings under revolving facility 27.0 – 27.0 –
Finance lease liabilities  –  0.6  –  – 
Bank overdraft  0.3  0.2  –  – 
27.3  0.8 27.0  – 
Non-current liabilities     
Loan drawings under revolving facility – 23.9  – 23.9 
Finance lease liabilities  –  1.8  –  – 
 – 25.7  – 23.9   73
 Financial statements
 Notes to the financial statements
Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2009
The loan drawings under the revolving working capital facility comprise several fixed term loans of £27.6m (2008: £24.0m) 
less £0.6m (2008: £0.1m) of unamortised arrangement fees being amortised over the period of these loans.
These loans were drawn down from the £35m Tranche B facility and interest was paid at LIBOR plus 4%. During  
the year, part of the proceeds from various disposals of businesses was used to settle the £25m Tranche A facility. 
Tranche A and B were part of the £60m of working capital facility negotiated in February 2009 and this is being 
treated as a renegotiation.
Finance lease liabilities 
Finance lease liabilities are payable as follows:
2009 2008
Less than 
one year
£m
Between one 
and five years
£m
Total
£m
Less than 
one year
£m
Between one 
and five years
£m
Total
£m
Future minimum lease payments  –  –  –  0.6  1.9  2.5 
Interest  –  –  –  –  (0.1) (0.1)
Present value of minimum lease payments  –  –  –  0.6  1.8  2.4 
The finance lease liabilities for 2009 of £0.8m relate to Northern Europe and have been classified as held for sale.
2009
Cash and 
overdrafts
£m
Borrowings 
due within 
one year 
(excluding 
overdrafts)
£m
Borrowings 
due after 
one year
£m
Borrowings
£m
Net 
cash/(debt)
£m
Analysis of net cash/(debt) 
Opening balance  17.9  (0.6) (25.7) (26.3) (8.4)
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes  (1.5) –  0.8  0.8  (0.7) 
Cash flow  7.5 (26.9) 25.2 (1.7) 5.8
Non cash movements  –  –  (0.7) (0.7) (0.7)
Closing balance  23.9  (27.5) (0.4) (27.9) (4.0)
Excluding balances classified as held for sale  (7.0)  0.5 0.4 0.9 (6.1)
Closing balance – continuing operations 16.9 (27.0) – (27.0) (10.1)
24. Trade and other payables
Group Company
2009
£m
2008
£m
2009
£m
2008
£m
Trade payables  25.5  103.3  –  – 
Other payables, including social security  7.2 43.0  0.2  1.2 
Employee benefits  –  1.8  –  – 
Accruals and deferred income  11.9  59.9  –  – 
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings  –  –  136.6  129.0 
 44.6  208.0  136.8  130.2 
In 2008, other payables, including social security included an amount of £0.2m of deferred grants received from the 
government for the part funding of certain property, plant and equipment in the Northern European operations. In 2009, 
an amount of £1.4m of deferred grants has been classified as held for sale. The group has complied with the conditions 
of these grants. This amount is recognised as income on a systematic basis over the useful life of these related assets.  74 
 Financial statements
 Notes to the financial statements
Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2009
25. Provisions
2009
Onerous 
Contract
£m
Other
£m
Total
£m
Opening balance  15.7  8.0  23.7 
Income statement charge  –  1.1  1.1 
Utilised during the year – continuing  (11.0) (5.1) (16.1)
Utilised during the year – discontinued  –  (1.4) (1.4)
Disposal of subsidiaries (note 21) –  (0.9) (0.9)
Disposal of subsidiaries – costs of disposal – 7. 1 7. 1
Held for sale (note 20) – (0.3) (0.3)
Foreign exchange  0.1 0.1
Closing balance  4.7 8.6 13.3
 
Current liabilities  4.7 8.3 13.0
Non-current liabilities  – 0.3 0.3
4.7 8.6 13.3
Onerous contract provision
This relates to a commitment in respect of an onerous contract relating to the Wincanton demerger. The interpretation 
of the contract and hence the nature of the commitment is currently in dispute in the courts. The timing of the disputed 
portion of the contract is tied into the court process and is likely to be resolved in the next financial year. During the year 
interim payments of £10.1m were made, plus the final payment of the undisputed annual fee and legal costs.
Other provisions
Included in other provisions are costs totalling £7.1m relating to the disposals of Marie (£2.8m), Brandly (£1.0m) and 
Northern Europe (£3.3m). The disposal cost relating to Northern Europe has been deferred and will be expensed 
when the disposal is recognised in 2010. The deferred amount is included in other debtors (see note 18). The disposal 
costs of Marie and Brandly are expected to be utilised in the next financial period. Part of these provisions are based 
on the expected outcome of the claims, taking into account of the group’s interpretation of the facts and judgement, 
supported by legal advice. The remainder of the other provisions relates to £0.6m for two vacant properties and 
£0.9m for the restructuring programmes, as discussed in note 7. The vacant properties provision is expected to be 
utilised in one to nineteen years and the restructuring provision is expected to be utilised in the next financial period.
26. Derivatives and other financial instruments 
A discussion of the group’s objectives, policies and strategies with regard to derivatives and other financial 
instruments are set out in note 3. 
Credit risk 
Exposure to credit risk 
The carrying amount of financial assets represents the maximum credit exposure. The maximum exposure  
to credit risk at the reporting date was:   75
 Financial statements
 Notes to the financial statements
Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Group Company
 Category
2009
£m
2008
£m
2009
£m
2008
£m
Trade and other receivables  Loans and receivables 34.6  142.5  0.1  0.4 
Other debtors – non-current Loans and receivables 5.4 – – –
Forward exchange contracts: assets  Fair value through profit and loss –  0.6  –  0.6 
Cash and cash equivalents  Cash and bank balances 17.2  18.1 12.9 6.2 
Restricted cash  Cash and bank balances 97.0  95.6  97.0  95.6 
154.2 256.8 110.0 102.8 
Impairment losses 
The ageing of trade receivables at the reporting date was:
Group
2009
£m
2008
£m
Not past due  20.1  97.3 
Past due 0-30 days – not yet impaired  2.0  14.0 
Past due 30-60 days – not yet impaired 0.2 0.8 
Past due 60-90 days 0.1 1.0 
Past due 90-120 days 0.2 0.7 
22.6 113.8 
Allowance for doubtful debts (0.1) (0.9)
22.5 112.9 
Allowance for doubtful debts 
The movement in allowance for doubtful debts in respect of trade receivables during the year was as follows:
 Group
2009
£m
2008
£m
Opening balance  (0.9) (1.3)
Impairment loss for the year (0.1) –
Impairment loss reversed  0.9  0.4 
Closing balance (0.1) (0.9)
The group’s policy is to provide for bad debts based on the specific circumstances of each receivable. Refer to  
note 3 for details of the group’s policies in respect of trade and other receivables. Based on historical default rates, 
the group believes no impairment allowance is necessary on the remaining debtors that are past due in 0-30 and 
30-60 days respectively. 
There were no trade receivables for the company in respect of the current year (2008: £nil)
Liquidity risk 
The following tables are the contractual maturity profile of the group’s and company’s cash flows of the financial 
liabilities, excluding estimated interest payments and netting arrangements. These tables have been drawn up based 
on the earliest date that the group and company can be required to pay on these financial liabilities. These amounts 
also approximate to their carrying values in the balance sheets.   76 
 Financial statements
 Notes to the financial statements
Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Group
2009
Group
2008
Category
6-12 months
£m
1-5 years
£m
Total
£m
6-12 months
£m
1-5 years
£m
Total
£m
Unsecured bank loans Amortised cost 27.0  –  27.0  –  23.9  23.9 
Bank overdraft Amortised cost 0.3  –  0.3  0.2  –  0.2 
Finance lease liabilities Amortised cost –  –  –  0.6  1.8  2.4 
Trade and other  
payables Amortised cost 44.6  –  44.6  208.0  –  208.0 
Forward exchange 
contracts: liabilities 
Fair value through 
profit and loss 0.1  –  0.1  –  –  – 
 72.0 –  72.0 208.8  25.7  234.5 
Company
2009
Company
2008
Category
6-12 months
£m
1-5 years
£m
Total
£m
6-12 months
£m
1-5 years
£m
Total
£m
Unsecured bank loans Amortised cost 27.0  –  27.0  –  23.9  23.9 
Trade and other payables Amortised cost 0.2  – 0.2 1.2  –  1.2 
Amounts owed to group 
undertakings Amortised cost 136.0 – 136.0 129.0  –  129.0 
Forward exchange 
contracts: liabilities 
Fair value through 
profit and loss 0.1  –  0.1  –  –  – 
163.3 – 163.3 130.2  23.9  154.1 
Market risk 
Interest rate risk and currency risk 
The effective currency and interest rate exposures of the group’s (excluding held for sale) and company’s net cash/
(debt) position were as follows:
Group 
2009
Group
2008
Sterling
£m
Euro
£m
Polish 
Zioty
£m
US 
Dollars
£m
Total
£m
Sterling
£m
Euro
£m
Polish 
Zioty
£m
US 
Dollars
£m
Total
£m
Floating rate borrowings  (7.0) (20.3) –  –  (27.3) –  (24.1) – – (24.1)
Fixed rate borrowings  –  –  –  –  –  (0.1) (2.3) – – (2.4)
 (7.0) (20.3) –  –  (27.3) (0.1) (26.4) –  –  (26.5)
Cash and liquid resources  
(including restricted cash) 115.5 (1.3) –  –  114.2  103.8  8.4  1.2  0.3  113.7 
Net cash/(debt) 108.5 (21.6) –  –  86.9  103.7  (18.0) 1.2  0.3  87.2 
Company
2009
Company
 2008
Sterling
£m
Euro
£m
US Dollars 
£m
Total
£m
Sterling
£m
Euro
£m
US 
Dollars 
£m
Total
£m
 Floating rate borrowings  (6.7) (20.3) – (27.0) –  (23.9) – (23.9)
 Cash and liquid resources (including  
 restricted cash) 111.2 (1.3) – 109.9 113.2 (11.7) 0.3 101.8 
 Net cash/(debt) 104.5 (21.6) – 82.9 113.2 (35.6) 0.3 77.9 
   77
 Financial statements
 Notes to the financial statements
Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2009
The restricted cash included in the cash and liquid resources for the group and company was £97.0m (2008: £95.6m).
The following significant exchange rates applied during the year.
2009 2008
Sterling Euro
Polish 
Zloty Euro
Polish 
Zloty
Average rate 1.12 4.85 1.26 4.42
Reporting date spot rate 1.11 4.49 1.04 4.33
Sensitivity analysis
(a) Foreign currency sensitivity analysis
A 10 percent strengthening of sterling against the following currencies at year end 2009 would have increased/
(decreased) equity and profit/(loss) by the amounts shown below. This analysis assumes that all other variables,  
in particular interest rates, remain constant. The analysis is performed on the same basis for 2008. The impact of 
sterling against those businesses that were held for sale has been excluded below for 2009.
Group 
2009
Group 
2008
Euro
Polish 
Zloty Euro
Polish 
Zloty
£m £m £m £m
Operating (loss)/profit before significant items – –  (0.3) 0.4 
(Loss)/profit – –  (4.4) 0.1 
Equity 0.7  –  7.0  2.4 
Company 
2009
Company 
2008
Euro Euro
£m £m
Loss before significant items (2.4) (3.5)
Equity (2.4) (3.5)
A 10 percent weakening of sterling against the above currencies at 31 December would have had the equal and 
opposite effect to the amounts shown above, on the basis that all other variables remain constant.
(b) Interest rate sensitivity analysis
The financial assets and liabilities that are interest bearing and expose the group to interest rate risks are its cash and 
cash equivalents, overdrafts and bank borrowings.
If interest rates applied to the major currencies of net variable rate assets/liabilities at this year end had been 1% 
higher or lower and all other variables were held constant, the group’s profit for the year ended 2009 would increase/
(decrease) by £0.8m (2008: increase/decrease by £0.9m). This is mainly attributable to the group’s exposure to 
interest rates on its variable rate restricted cash balance and cash deposits (included in cash and cash equivalents).  78 
 Financial statements
 Notes to the financial statements
Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Currency analysis of net assets/(liabilities) 
The group’s and company’s net assets/(liabilities) by currency were as follows:
Group Group
Sterling
£m
Euro
£m
Polish 
Zioty
£m
US 
Dollars
£m
2009
£m
Sterling
£m
Euro
£m
Polish 
Zioty
£m
US 
Dollars
£m
2008
£m
Net cash/(debt)  108.5  (21.6) –  –  86.9  103.7  (18.0) 1.2  0.3  87.2 
Other net (liabilities)/assets 
(excluding goodwill)  (163.3) 2.9  –  –  (160.4) (111.1) 61.1  23.2  –  (26.8)
Goodwill  30.5  –  –  –  30.5  30.5  –  –  –  30.5 
(24.3) (18.7) –  –  (43.0)  23.1  43.1  24.4  0.3  90.9 
Where the group has liabilities, it operates a policy of maintaining the liability split between the two currencies in 
which the group operates i.e. the UK and European operations. The ratio of sterling: euro liabilities reflects the 
sterling: euro split of trading capital employed.
Company Company
Sterling
£m
Euro
£m
US Dollars
£m
2009
£m
Sterling
£m
Euro
£m
US Dollars
£m
2008
£m
Net cash/(debt)  104.5  (21.6) – 82.9 113.2 (35.6) 0.3 77.9 
Other net (liabilities)/assets (5.4) – – (5.4) 1.6 – – 1.6
 99.1  (21.6) – 77.5 114.8 (35.6) 0.3 79.5 
Fair values of financial instruments
The table below sets out the fair values of financial assets and liabilities which approximates to their carrying  
values in the balance sheet.
Group Company
2009
£m
2008
£m
2009
£m
2008
£m
Financial assets 
Non-current
Restricted cash 97.0  95.6  97.0  95.6 
Other debtors 5.4  – 
Current
Cash and cash equivalents 17.2  18.1  12.9  6.2 
Forward exchange contracts – assets –  0.6  –  0.6 
Trade and other receivables (including amounts due from 
group undertakings) 34.6 142.5 0.1  0.4 
154.2 256.8 110.0 102.8 
Financial liabilities
Non-current
Finance lease liabilities –  1.8  –  – 
Borrowings – 23.9  –  23.9 
Current
Bank overdraft 0.3  0.2  –  – 
Borrowings 27.0 – 27.0 –
Finance lease liabilities –  0.6  –  – 
Forward exchange contracts – liabilities 0.1  –  0.1  – 
Trade and other payables (including amounts due to 
group undertakings) 44.6 208.0 136.2 130.2 
72.0 234.5 163.3 154.1   79
 Financial statements
 Notes to the financial statements
Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2009
The following table provides an analysis of financial instruments that are measured subsequent to initial  
recognition at fair value, grouped into level 1 to 3 based on the degree to which the fair value is observable.
Level 1 fair value measurements are those derived from quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for  
identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2 fair value measurements are those derived from inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1  
that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (i.e. as prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices).
Level 3 fair value measurements are those derived from valuation techniques that include inputs for the asset  
or liability that are not based on observable market data (unobservable inputs).
Level 2 Level 2
Group Company
2009
£m
2008
£m
2009
£m
2008
£m
Financial assets 
Forward exchange contracts – current assets –  0.6  –  0.6 
Financial liabilities
Forward exchange contracts – current liabilities (0.1) – (0.1) – 
(0.1) 0.6 (0.1) 0.6
Cash flow hedge
During the year, the group has used forward foreign contracts to hedge future sales and purchases but these 
contracts have not been designated as cashflow hedges except for the following forward contract to cover the cash 
consideration for the disposal of Netherlands business. For this contract, the Group has utilised a rollover hedging 
strategy using a term of up to the anticipated date of disposal. Upon the maturity of this forward contract, the Group 
enters into a new contract designated as a separate hedging relationship, if required. At year end 2009, the loss for 
this forward foreign exchange contract deferred in the hedging reserve was £0.1m (2008: £nil). On the date of 
maturity, this amount deferred in equity will be re-classified to profit or loss. 
2009
Fixed rate
Contract 
value
£m
Fair value 
€m
Fair value 
£m
Forward contract to sell € and receive sterling
4 January 2010 0.885 15.9 18.0 0.1
Net investment hedge
During the year, the group has designated certain euro-denominated currency borrowings to hedge its net  
investment in France (up to the point of disposal of this business) and Northern Europe. The remaining  
euro-denominated borrowings designated to hedge the net investment of Northern Europe at year end 2009  
was £22.3m (€22.5m). 
 
The expected gain or loss on this currency borrowings will be 100% offset by the amount of foreign exchange 
difference arising on both the translation of these euro-denominated net investments of these hedged entities.  
As a result, the gains on the retranslation of these borrowings of £0.8m (2008: loss £4.8m) were recognised in  
the group statement of comprehensive income.  80 
 Financial statements
 Notes to the financial statements
Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2009
27. Retirement benefit obligations 
The group operates pension schemes in the UK and mainland Europe. The main UK scheme is contributory for 
members and has two sections: the defined benefit section and the defined contribution section. The defined benefit 
section was closed to new members in 2002 and was closed to existing members at 30 September 2009 but provides 
benefits for existing and past employees based on final pensionable emoluments. The assets of the plan are held in a 
separate trustee administered fund. As well as the main fund, the UK operates a small unfunded defined benefit pension 
scheme for overcap benefits and provides post-retirement medical benefits to certain former employees.
The results of the formal actuarial valuation as at 31 March 2009 were updated to the accounting date by independent 
qualified actuaries in accordance with IAS 19. As required by IAS 19, the value of the defined benefit obligation and 
current service costs has been measured using the projected unit credit method. The expected rate of return on 
assets for the financial year ending 31 December 2009 was 6.7% p.a. (2008: 5.9% p.a.). This rate is derived by taking 
the weighted average of the long term expected rate of return on each of the asset classes in which the scheme was 
invested at year end 2009. The group provides pensions under certain overseas schemes, some of which provide 
defined benefits. The business in France was disposed during the year and Germany, part of the Northern Europe 
operations has been classified as held for sale. All remaining European schemes are mainly unfunded.
Total contributions made to defined contribution schemes in the year were £0.6m (2008: £0.6m) for the continuing 
businesses in UK. The company and Trustee agreed to close the UK main pension scheme to future accrual at 30 
September 2009, resulting in a curtailment gain of £4.7m. The group is not expected to contribute to its defined 
benefit schemes in the next financial year.
The following table sets out the key IAS 19 assumptions used for the actuarial valuation of the main defined benefit 
schemes. Overseas plans are quoted as a weighted average based on liabilities. The expected rate of return on 
assets is derived by taking the weighted average of the long term expected rate of return on each of the asset classes 
that the plan was invested in at 31 December 2009. The assumptions used by the actuaries have been chosen from a 
range of possible actuarial assumptions about the future, which may not necessarily be borne out in practice.
Assumptions
UK Overseas
2009
%
2008
%
2007
%
2009
%
2008
%
2007
%
Inflation 3.6 2.9  3.3 1.5 1.5  1.6 
Pension increases in payment – – – 1.5 1.5  1.5 
Pension increases in payment (LPI 5%) 3.5 2.7 3.2 – – –
Pension increases in payment (LPI 2.5%) 2.3 2.2 2.3 – – –
Salary growth
– Standard – 4.4  4.8 2.5 2.6  2.5 
– Senior Management – 5.9  6.3 2.5 2.6  2.6 
Discount rate 5.7 6.4  6.0 5.1 5.9  5.3 
Expected return for:
– equities 8.0 7.5  7.6 – –  8.0 
– bonds 5.3 5.0  4.7 – –  5.0 
– other 4.3 3.8  4.4 4.5 5.0  5.0   81
 Financial statements
 Notes to the financial statements
Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2009
For 2009 and 2008, the mortality assumptions have not been changed. The assumptions allow for future improvements 
according to the medium cohort projections, based on each individual’s year of birth, with an adjustment to the 
underlying rates of mortality of +10% for those who left before 2000. The longevity assumptions are therefore:
2009
Years
2008
Years
Life expectancy of a male aged 65 in 2009 (pre 2000 leaver) 21.2 21.2
Life expectancy of a male aged 65 in 2009 (post 2000 leaver) 22.0 22.0
Life expectancy of a male aged 65 in 2028 (pre 2000 leaver) 22.4 22.4
Life expectancy of a male aged 65 in 2028 (post 2000 leaver) 23.1 23.1
Sensitivity analysis of the main UK pension fund
Approximate Change in 
Defined Benefit Obligation 
2009
£m
2008
£m
Life expectancy – 1 year longer/(shorter) 21.0 15.0 
Discount rate – increase/(decrease) of 0.1% 12.0 10.0 
Inflation – increase/(decrease) of 0.1% 10.0 8.0 
Mortality – change from PA92MC to PA92LC 37.0 23.0 
Medical cost trends
There is strong evidence that healthcare costs increase faster than general price inflation. The group has adopted 
2.5% (2008: 2.5%) p.a. for the rate at which medical costs increase over and above retail price inflation.
The following tables set out the fair value of assets, the present value of the IAS 19 liabilities and the deficit of assets 
below the IAS 19 liabilities (which equals the net pension deficit). The fair value of the schemes’ assets is not intended 
to be realised in the short term and may be subject to significant changes before realisation. The present value of the 
schemes’ liabilities is derived from cash flow projections over long periods and is thus inherently uncertain.
2009 2008
UK 
£m
Overseas
£m
Total
£m
UK 
£m
Overseas
£m
Total
£m
Fair value of assets: 
– Equities  308.7  – 308.7 247.1  –  247.1 
– Bonds and gilts 188.2 – 188.2 207.2  –  207.2 
– Other 4.4 – 4.4 7.7  –  7.7 
Fair value of plan assets 501.3 – 501.3 462.0  –  462.0 
Defined benefit obligation:
Funded (729.7) – (729.7) (605.6) (0.3) (605.9)
Wholly unfunded (6.7) – (6.7) (8.7) (18.3) (27.0)
Present value of defined benefit obligation  (736.4) – (736.4) (614.3) (18.6) (632.9)
Net liability in balance sheet  (235.1) – (235.1) (152.3) (18.6) (170.9)  82 
 Financial statements
 Notes to the financial statements
Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2009
2009 2008
UK 
£m
Overseas
£m
Total
£m
UK 
£m
Overseas
£m
Total
£m
Movement in deficit during the year: 
Opening balance  (152.3) (18.6) (170.9) (60.8) (15.2) (76.0)
Current service cost (1.1) (0.3) (1.4) (2.4) (0.4) (2.8)
Past service cost – (0.4) (0.4) –  –  – 
Curtailments and settlements 5.7 – 5.7 1.3  –  1.3 
Contributions by the employer 5.1 0.5 5.6 3.2  –  3.2 
Net finance charge (12.3) (0.9) (13.2) (0.6) (0.8) (1.4)
Benefits paid – 0.8 0.8 0.4  0.8  1.2 
Actuarial (loss)/gain (80.2) (1.7) (81.9) (93.4) 1.3  (92.1)
Disposal of businesses – 4.8 4.8 – – –
Transferred to held for sale  – 14.7 14.7 –  –  – 
Exchange  – 1.1 1.1 –  (4.3) (4.3)
Closing balance (235.1) – (235.1) (152.3) (18.6) (170.9)
2009 2008
UK 
£m
Overseas
£m
Total
£m
UK 
£m
Overseas
£m
Total
£m
Amounts recognised in the income 
statement: 
Current service cost  (1.1) (0.3) (1.4) (2.4) (0.4) (2.8)
Past service cost – (0.4) (0.4) –  –  – 
Gains on curtailments and settlements 5.7 – 5.7 1.3  –  1.3 
Recognised in operating profit/(loss) 4.6 (0.7) 3.9  (1.1) (0.4) (1.5)
Interest costs  (38.3) (0.9) (39.2) (39.5) (0.8) (40.3)
Expected return on plan assets 26.0 – 26.0 38.9  –  38.9 
Expected return on plan assets – others (0.4) – (0.4) – – –
Recognised in net pension interest (12.7) (0.9) (13.6) (0.6) (0.8) (1.4)
Total expense recognised in the income 
statement  (8.1) (1.6) (9.7)  (1.7) (1.2) (2.9)
Cumulative actuarial gains and losses 
recognised directly in equity: 
Opening balance  (72.4) (0.7) (73.1) 21.0  (2.0) 19.0 
Actuarial (losses)/gains (80.2) (1.7) (81.9) (93.4) 1.3  (92.1)
Closing balance  (152.6) (2.4) (155.0) (72.4) (0.7) (73.1)
 Actual return on plan assets 74.0 – 74.0 (125.8) (0.1) (125.9)  83
 Financial statements
 Notes to the financial statements
Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2009
The cumulative amount represents all actuarial gains and losses recognised directly in equity since transition  
date of 1 April 2004.
2009 2008
UK 
£m
Overseas
£m
Total
£m
UK 
£m
Overseas
£m
Total
£m
Reconciliation of present value of defined 
benefit obligation: 
Opening balance  (614.3) (18.6) (632.9) (676.5) (15.3) (691.8)
Current service cost (1.1) (0.3) (1.4) (2.4) (0.4) (2.8)
Past service cost – (0.4) (0.4) –  –  – 
Interest cost (38.3) (0.9) (39.2) (39.5) (0.8) (40.3)
Contributions by plan participants (0.4) – (0.4) (0.7) –  (0.7)
Actuarial (losses)/gains (128.2) (1.7) (129.9) 71.3  1.4  72.7 
Benefits paid 40.2 0.8 41.0 32.2  0.8  33.0 
Curtailments and settlements 5.7 – 5.7 1.3  –  1.3 
Disposal of businesses – 4.8 4.8 – – –
Transferred to held for sale – 15.2 15.2 – – –
Exchange – 1.1 1.1 –  (4.3) (4.3)
Closing balance (736.4) – (736.4) (614.3) (18.6) (632.9)
Reconciliation of fair value of plan assets: 
Opening balance  462.0  –  462.0  615.7  0.1  615.8 
Expected return on plan assets 26.0 – 26.0 38.9  –  38.9 
Actuarial gains/(losses) 48.0 – 48.0 (164.7) (0.1) (164.8)
Contributions by the employer 5.1 0.5 5.6 3.2  –  3.2 
Contributions by plan participants 0.4 – 0.4 0.7  –  0.7 
Benefits paid (40.2) – (40.2) (31.8) –  (31.8)
Transferred to held for sale – (0.5) (0.5) –  –  – 
Closing balance  501.3  – 501.3 462.0  –  462.0 
Historical information
2009
£m
2008
£m
2007
£m
2006 
£m
31 March 2006
£m
Fair value of plan assets  501.3  462.0  615.8  624.5  604.8 
Present value of defined benefit obligation  (736.4) (632.9) (691.8) (732.3) (729.9)
Net pension deficit in the balance sheet  (235.1) (170.9) (76.0) (107.8) (125.1)
Experience adjustments arising on plan assets 
– gain/(loss) 48.0 (164.8) (5.0) 2.6  75.9 
Experience adjustments arising on plan liabilities 
– gain/(loss) 3.4 4.6  (16.8)  4.3  1.7   84 
 Financial statements
 Notes to the financial statements
Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2009
28. Share Capital 
Group Company
2009
£m
2008
£m
2009
£m
2008
£m
Authorised
995,906,427 ordinary shares of 10p each 99.6  99.6  99.6  99.6 
Called up and allotted
114,833,817 ordinary shares of 10p each 11.5  11.5  11.5  11.5 
The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends as declared from time to time and are entitled to one 
vote per share at meetings of the company.
29. Shareholders’ equity 
Merger reserve
The merger reserve arose as a result of a group reconstruction carried out in 2000. Under a Scheme of Arrangement 
approved by the High Court and shareholders at the time, all shares in the then quoted group company were 
cancelled and new shares were issued to shareholders in Uniq plc, the new quoted company. The merger reserve  
is the difference arising on consolidation between the nominal value of the new shares and the nominal value of the 
shares previously held, together with the associated share premium. The merger reserve arises only on consolidation 
and therefore does not impact the individual Uniq plc company accounts or distributable reserves.
Hedging reserve
The hedging reserve comprises the effective portion of the cumulative net change in the fair value of cash flow 
hedging instruments related to hedged transactions that have not yet occurred. 
Translation reserve
The translation reserve comprises all foreign exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial 
statements of foreign operations. Gains and losses on hedging instruments that are designated as hedges of net 
investments in foreign operations are included in the translation reserve.
Employee Share Ownership Trust
Retained earnings includes the Employee Share Ownership Trust (“ESOT”) which was established in June 1997. It is 
empowered to purchase and hold shares in Uniq plc (the company) in order to meet certain future obligations of the 
group in respect of options or shares awarded under share option schemes and long term incentive plans operated 
by the group from time to time. Dividends receivable on the shares owned by the ESOT have been waived. In 2009 
the ESOT held 982,677 (2008: 982,677) shares in the company which had a market value of £245,669 (2008: £40,781)
Refer to pages 35-36 in the remuneration report for the general terms and conditions that relate to share  
option schemes.  85
 Financial statements
 Notes to the financial statements
Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Share option schemes
The number of outstanding share options are as follows:
2009 2008
Number of 
options
Weighted 
average 
exercise price
Number of 
options
Weighted 
average 
exercise price
Opening balance 687,142 223.8p 843,727 248.6p
Lapsed during the year (402,342) 238.4p (156,585) 357.5p
Closing balance 284,800 203.2p 687, 142 223.8p
Weighted 
average 
contractual life
Exercise price 
range Dates of grant
Average exercise 
price
Executive option scheme 1.5 years 161p – 251p 2000 – 2002 203.2p
All options are settled by physical delivery of shares. The total consideration receivable if all options outstanding  
were exercised would be £0.6m. The weighted average share price at the date of exercise of share options exercised 
during the year were nil (2008: nil) as no options was exercised. In line with IFRS 2, no expense had been recognised 
for these options as they were granted before 7 November 2002.
Uniq Performance Incentive Plan
Equity settled share based payment scheme 
Equity settled awards granted in:
Remaining 
Contractual life
years
Outstanding 
shares
2007 7.3 643,297
2008 8.3 1,565,981
2009 9.4 1,281,000
3,490,278
The exercise price for the above shares is £nil.
The fair value of services received in return for Performance Incentive Plan shares (PIP’s) granted are measured by 
reference to the fair value of PIPs granted. The estimate of the fair value of services received is measured based on  
a Monte Carlo model which is considered to be the most appropriate valuation model for these PIPs. Assumptions 
used in the Monte Carlo model for PIPs granted during the period are as follows:
2009 2008
Expected volatility 96.0% 33.6%
Risk free interest rate 2.1% 4.5%
Dividend yield 0.0% 1.9%
Correlation coefficient 9.1% 10.6%
The expected volatility is wholly based on the historic volatility, calculated based on the weighted average remaining 
life of the PIPs. We assess the number of leavers on a grant by grant basis, taking into account historical trends as 
well as the level of employees included in each grant.
Cash settled share based payment scheme 
The only cash settled share based payment scheme was based in the French business which was sold during the year.  86 
 Financial statements
 Notes to the financial statements
Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2009
The total expenses recognised during the period from share based payments are as follows:
Group Company
2009
£m
2008
£m
2009
£m
2008
£m
Equity settled share based payment charge 0.8  0.4  0.3  – 
Cash settled share based payment – credit –  (0.1) –  – 
 0.8  0.3  0.3  – 
There is no carrying amount of liability associated with the cash settled share based payments in both years.
In February 2009, the company signed an agreement with Lloyds TSB Bank relating to a new £60m revolving credit 
facility. As part of this agreement, Uniq granted Lloyds warrants to subscribe for ordinary shares in the company to an 
amount of 2% of the total share capital. The equity settled share based payment charge above for both the group and 
company included the fair value charge of £0.3m (2008: £nil) for these warrants. This amount is included in the 
finance expense (note 8).
30. Commitments 
2009
£m
2008
£m
Capital commitments contracted, but not provided 2.4  0.8 
31. Operating leases
Future minimum lease payments
2009 2008
Land & 
buildings 
£m
Other leases
£m
Total
£m
Land & 
buildings 
£m
Other leases
£m
Total
£m
Operating lease commitments falling due:
Within one year 1.3  0.7  2.0  2.6  3.0  5.6 
Between one and five years 4.7  0.7 5.4 6.7  3.5  10.2 
After five years 7.8 – 7.8 8.7  –  8.7 
13.8 1.4 15.2 18.0  6.5  24.5 
The group leases a number of warehouses, factory facilities and office buildings under operating leases. The leases 
typically run for a period of 20 to 25 years.
A number of the property leases were entered into some time ago and as such are not used for current operations. 
Companies within the group entered into sub-leases for these properties in order to recover the lease payments. 
During the year, £0.5m (2008: £0.6m) of rental expenses were recovered through these subleases. The subleases 
expire in 2014.
Future minimum sublease receivable expected:
2009
Land & buildings
£m
2008
Land & buildings
£m
Operating lease commitments falling due:
Within one year 0.4  0.4 
Between one and five years 1.3  1.3 
After five years 0.3  0.3 
 2.0  2.0   87
 Financial statements
 Notes to the financial statements
Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2009
32. Contingent liabilities 
There are contingent liabilities that arise in the normal course of business in respect of indemnitites, warranties, 
guarantees and legal claims. Certain guarantees are performance related. The Directors have considered that none  
of these claims is expected to result in a material loss to the Group. The group and company currently hold two 
letters of credit in relation to purchase commitments from one of its suppliers for £2.3m. It is however not likely that 
the company will default on payment and there is no previous history of this occurring.
The group enters into certain fixed price purchasing contracts in the ordinary course of business. At year-end these 
amounted to £5.0m (2008: £3.4m).
33. Events after balance sheet 
On 9 January 2010, the group completed its disposal of the Netherlands businesses for £18.0m. On 12 April 2010, the 
group received clearance from the Competition Authorities in Germany, which will enable the group to complete its 
disposal of the German and Polish businesses in April 2010 for £25.7m. After extensive consultation, the group 
reached an agreement in principle with the Pension Trustee on a long term pension framework. This agreement is 
subject to regulatory clearance. 
34. Related party transactions 
Group 
The Board is not aware of any related party transactions that should be disclosed. Details of key management 
remuneration are disclosed in the remuneration report. No guarantees have been provided to any related parties. 
Transactions between Uniq plc and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation.
Company 
(a) Subsidiaries 
The company has a related party relationship with its subsidiaries (these are listed in note 35). Material balances that 
the company has with its subsidiaries are as follows:
Uniq •	 (Holdings) Limited: £117.2m (2008: £(172.4)m); and Uniq Prepared Foods Limited: £25.2m (2008: £42.4m). 
(b) Key management personnel 
There are no employees in the company.
35. Principal subsidiaries at 31 December 2009 
Subsidiary undertakings Principal activity
Country of incorporation 
and principal operation 
Uniq (Holdings) Limited Investment holding company United Kingdom
Uniq Prepared Foods Limited Principal trading company for the UK chilled 
convenience food manufacture business United Kingdom
Uniq Deutschland GmbH* Chilled convenience food manufacture & sale Germany
Uniq Convenience Foods Nederland BV* Chilled convenience food manufacture & sale Netherlands
Uniq Lisner Sp.zo.o* Chilled convenience food manufacture & sale Poland
Notes:
All subsidiary undertakings are 100% owned by the Group. Uniq (Holdings) Limited is owned by Uniq plc and the remainder are held through subsidiary undertakings. Companies 
incorporated in the United Kingdom are registered in England and Wales.
* Held for sale Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2009 88 
 Other information
Five year record
Notes
Year ended 
31 Dec 
2009  
£m
Year ended 
31 Dec 2008
(restated)
£m
Year ended 
31 Dec 
2007
£m
Nine months 
ended 31 
Dec 2006
£m
Year ended 
31 March 
2006
£m
Income statement
Revenue 718.0  797.2  738.6  619.6  825.1 
Operating (loss)/profit before significant items 9
Continuing operations (1.9) (7. 1) (3.6) (12.4) 13.5 
Discontinued operations 11.0  (1.3) 0.6  21.1  – 
9.1 (8.4) (3.0) 8.7  13.5 
Net finance income/(costs) (5.2) 4.4  0.8  (9.9) (6.8)
Other finance (costs)/income (12.7) (1.4) 0.7  0.4  (2.1)
(Loss)/Profit before tax and significant items (8.8) (5.4) (1.5) (0.8) 4.6 
Significant items (excluding tax) (10.4) (49.4) 193.3  (32.5) (30.6)
Taxation (1.7) (1.4) (6.8) 1.0  0.4 
(Loss)/Profit after taxation (20.9) (56.2) 185.0  (32.3) (25.6)
  
Capital structure
Trading capital employed 1 133.0  174.6  188.7  221.0  274.7 
Net (debt)/cash 2 (10.1) (8.4) 31.6  (83.1) (74.5)
Restricted cash 97.0  95.6  90.4  –  – 
Retirement benefit obligations (235.1) (170.9) (76.0) (108.5) (125.1)
Shareholders' funds 3 (15.2) 90.9  234.7  29.4  75.1 
Cash flow from operating activities (30.4) (8.8) (3.2) (10.7) (2.9)
Capital expenditure 18.3  27.5  25.4  16.1  40.6 
Depreciation 11.2 21.5  21.7  17.9  24.4 
Per ordinary share pence  pence  pence  pence  pence 
Basic (loss)/earnings (18.4) (49.4) 162.5  (28.4) (22.6)
Adjusted (loss)/earnings 4 (7.2) (6.6) 3.5  (1.2) (0.2)
Dividends –  –  2.5  5.25  7.0 
Net assets/(liabilities) 5 (13) 80  206  26 66
Interest and dividend cover (times) 6
Interest cover 1.8  –  –  0.9  2.0 
Dividend cover –  –  1.4  –  – 
Ratios % % % % %
Return on trading capital employed 7 6.7  (4.8) (1.6) 2.4  2.6 
Operating profit/turnover 1.3 (1.1) (0.4) 1.4  1.6 
Net debt gearing 2 – 9.2  –  282.7  99.2 
Notes:
1 Trading capital employed is defined as net assets plus net debt and IAS 19 retirement benefit obligations.
2 Net ( debt) /cash includes total loans and obligations under finance leases less cash at bank and short term deposits Net debt gearing represents net debt as a percentage of shareholders’ funds.
3 Shareholders’ funds represent share capital and reserves.
4 Adjusted (loss)/earnings per share is calculated in accordance with note 10 to the financial statements.
5 Net assets per share have been calculated by dividing shareholders’ funds by the number of ordinary shares in issue at the year end.
6 Interest cover is based on finance costs excluding net retirement benefit funding finance costs or income relating to IAS 19; dividend cover is calculated on adjusted (loss)/earnings.
7 Return on trading capital employed represents operating profit as a percentage of trading capital employed (as adjusted for the effect of the timing of major acquisitions and disposals).
8 IAS 39 was adopted with effect from 1 April 2005 for which prior year comparatives have not been restated.
9   The operating profit/(loss) before significant items for continuing and discontinued operations for the first three years to year ended 31 December 2007 have not been restated and 
therefore are not on a consistency basis as 2009 and 2008. Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2009 89
 Other information
Financial calendar
Annual general meeting
To be held at 10.00 am on Tuesday 15 June 2010 at:
Investec Bank plc
2 Gresham Street
London
EC2V 7QP
Half year results
Announced July 2010
Interim management statements
Announced April 2010 and October 2010
Capital gains tax base cost for shareholders pre-2001
Both the demerger of Wincanton and of the Dairy  
and Cheese business and connected return of capital  
to shareholders give rise to a need to split the base cost  
for capital gains tax purposes of your Uniq plc (formerly 
Unigate PLC) shares, if you held them on the relevant 
dates as follows:
1. If you were a Uniq (Unigate) shareholder on 3 July 2000 
you were given shares representing an interest in Unigate 
Dairies which Dairy Crest then offered to buy from you 
for cash, a loan note or Dairy Crest shares. HM Revenue 
& Customs have indicated that they will accept a split of 
your base cost of 78.66% to Uniq plc and 21.34% to the 
cash, shares or loan note given by Dairy Crest.
2. If you were a Uniq plc shareholder on 17 May 2001  
you will have received 1 Uniq share and 1 Wincanton 
share for each 2 Uniq shares then held. You should again 
split your base cost (that is the 78.66% of your original 
base cost if you held the shares prior to 3 July 2000) 
between your Wincanton and Uniq shares and this base 
cost should be allocated 50.24% to Wincanton plc and 
49.76% to Uniq plc shares. HM Revenue & Customs have 
indicated that for convenience a 50/50 split may be used. 
Shareholder information
Share registrar – Equiniti
If you have any questions about your holding or wish  
to notify any change in your details please contact the 
share registrar Equiniti. Whenever you contact the 
registrar, please quote the full names in which your 
shares are held. Please advise the registrar promptly  
of any change of address. 
Equiniti
Aspect House 
Spencer Road 
Lancing
West Sussex 
BN99 6DA 
Telephone: 0871 384 2125 
There is also a disability helpline for shareholders with 
hearing difficulties: 0871 384 2255
Please note calls to these numbers are charged at 8p  
per minute from a BT landline. Other telephony provider 
costs may vary. 
Electronic communications and voting
Shareholders can elect to obtain shareholder documents 
such as annual and interim reports and notice of general 
meetings electronically from Uniq’s website rather than 
by post. To take advantage of this free service, connect 
to Equiniti’s secure website ‘www.shareview.co.uk’ and 
follow the on-screen instructions to register. You will 
need your shareholder reference number (printed on your 
share certificate, dividend vouchers or proxy cards) and 
you will be allocated a password and access number. 
Once registered, shareholders will receive an email 
notification as soon as Uniq publishes new shareholder 
documents and also be able to view a wide range of 
information regarding their shareholding. Shareholders 
can also send in votes for general meetings electronically 
via the shareview website. Again, connect to  
‘www.shareview.co.uk’ and click the link ‘Vote online’  
on the shareview homepage and then follow the  
on-screen instructions to submit your vote.  Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2009 90 
 Other information
 Shareholder information
You will need the reference numbers printed on your 
proxy card to register. You do not have to be registered 
to receive shareholder communications electronically  
in order to be able to vote electronically.
Share-dealing service
Shareholders can take advantage of a dealing 
service operated by Equiniti by logging on to  
‘www.shareview.co.uk/dealing’ for internet dealing  
or by calling 08456 037 037 for telephone dealing. 
Alternatively, Uniq shares may also be dealt through 
JPMorgan Cazenove at a special commission rate.  
If you would like further information please contact: 
JPMorgan Cazenove 
20 Moorgate 
London 
EC2R 6DA 
Telephone: 020 7155 5155
Analysis of ordinary shareholders
% of 
issued shares
Fund management 58.51
Pension funds 2.80
Insurance companies 3.88
Individuals 8.98
Other 25.83
100.00
Size of shareholdings
Holders Shares
% of 
shares
Up to 1,000 10,176 3,087, 143 2.69
1,001 – 10,000 1,567 4,158,136 3.62
10,001 – 100,000 175 6,045,045 5.26
100,001 – 250,000 25 3,837,640 3.34
Above 250,000 50 97,705,853 85.09
11,993 114,833,817 100.00
Shareholders’ enquiries
If you have an enquiry about the company’s business  
or about something affecting you as a shareholder that 
cannot be dealt with by Equiniti you are invited to contact 
the company secretary at the company’s address.
Secretary and registered office
AJ McDonald
Uniq plc
No. 1 Chalfont Park 
Gerrards Cross
Buckinghamshire 
SL9 0UN
Telephone: 01753 276000
Fax: 01753 276019
Registered in England and Wales No. 3912506 Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Notes Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2009
  Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Group at a glance
Uniq is a UK chilled prepared food 
group enjoying market leading 
positions in Desserts and Food To 
Go. We produce high quality and 
innovative private label products 
for the major retailers and food 
service in the UK. 
Food to Go
£136.9m
We operate from two sites – Northampton 
and Spalding – and employ 1,070 people 
producing sandwiches, wraps, café hot 
food, sandwich fillers and dressed salads.
Desserts
£150.3m
We operate from two sites – Minsterley 
and Evercreech – and employ 1,100 
people producing trifles, twinpot 
desserts, yoghurts and cottage cheese.
Financial statements
Independent auditors’ report 41
Group income statement 43
Statement of comprehensive income 44
Balance sheets  45
Statement of changes in equity 46
Cash flow statements 47
Notes to the financial statements 48
 
Other information
Five year record  88
Shareholder information 89 
Contents
Financial highlights 01
 
Directors’ report
Chairman’s statement 02
Chief Executive’s review 04
Market overview  06
Business review  08
Financial review  16
Principal risks  20
Directors’ responsibilities 21
Board of directors 22
Report of the directors 24
Corporate governance 27
Remuneration report 34
Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Designed and produced by Addison 
www.addison.co.uk
Printed in the UK by Westerham Press, Environmental 
Management System ISO 14001 accredited and Forest 
Stewardship Council (FSC) chain of custody certified.
This report is printed utilising vegetable-based inks  
on Revive 50:50 Silk which is produced with 50% 
recycled fibre from both pre- and post-consumer 
sources, together with 50% ECF (Elemental Chlorine 
Free) fibre from well-managed forests independently 
certified according to the rules of the Forest 
Stewardship Council.  Annual Report and Accounts 2009
It’s people that make great food
Uniq plc
No.1 Chalfont Park
Gerrards Cross
Buckinghamshire
SL9 0UN
United Kingdom
Telephone +44 (0) 1753 276000
Facsimile: +44 (0) 1753 276019
www.uniq.com
Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2009
