 Uniq plc
No.1 Chalfont Park
Gerrards Cross
Buckinghamshire
SL9 0UN
United Kingdom
Telephone +44 (0) 1753 276000
Facsimile: +44 (0) 1753 276019
www.uniq.com
Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Designed and produced by Addison 
www.addison.co.uk
Printed in the UK by Pureprint, Environmental 
Management System ISO 14001 accredited and Forest 
Stewardship Council (FSC) chain of custody certified.
This report is printed utilising vegetable-based inks  
on Revive 50 White Silk which is produced with 50% 
recycled fibre from both pre- and post-consumer 
sources, together with 50% ECF (Elemental Chlorine 
Free) fibre from well-managed forests independently 
certified according to the rules of the Forest 
Stewardship Council. 
Freshness
Innovation
Quality
Uniq produces freshly prepared chilled food for 
major retailers and has market-leading positions 
in Desserts and Food to Go. Our high-quality and 
innovative products aim to delight our customers.
Desserts
£312m
Total revenue 2010
Food to Go
Financial statements
Independent Auditors’ report 38
Group income statement 40
Group statement of comprehensive income 41
Balance sheets  42
Group statement of changes in equity 43
Cash flow statements 44
Notes to the financial statements 45
 
Other information
Five year record  82
Shareholder information 83 
Contents
Financial highlights 01
 
Directors’ report
Chairman’s statement 02
Chief Executive’s statement 04
Market overview  06
Business review  08
Financial review  16
Principal risks  20
Directors’ responsibilities 21
Board of directors 22
Report of the directors 24
Corporate governance 27
Remuneration report 32
£155m
2010 revenue
We are an innovative, market-leading 
manufacturer of premium and everyday 
freshly prepared pot desserts, a flexible 
and niche supplier of quality, differentiated 
yogurt and a state-of-the-art producer 
of fresh chocolate desserts made 
exclusively for Cadbury.
£157m
2010 revenue
We are the Number One sandwich and 
wrap supplier to M&S, the winner of 
multiple sandwich retailer of the year, 
and the UK’s second largest producer 
of dressed salads.
Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2010 01
Financial highlights
•	Revenue	 up	 6.8%*
•	Trading	 profit	 before	 central	 costs	 up	 88%
•		 Business	 performance	 recognised	 thorugh	
customer	 awards
•	Strong	 momentum	 continues	 in	 Food	 to	 Go
•		 Balance	 sheet	 transformed	 on	 delivery	
of	 innovative	 pension	 solution	 in	 2011
•	Successful	 admission	 to	 AIM
•		 Desserts	review	identifies	profitable 	
growth	 opportunity	 for	 defined	 markets
•		 M&S	 best	 dessert	 supplier	 over	 Christmas
•	M&S	 NPD	 range	 of	 the	 year	 (minis)
•		 Highest	 ever	 single	 sandwich	 production	
at	 Northampton	 –	 6.5m	 units
•	24%	 increase	 in	 sales	 at	 Spalding
•	58	 NPD	 products	 launched	 during	 the	 year
•		 99.97%	 service	 level	 in	 Spalding	 during	 the	
World	 Cup
*adjusted for 53rd week in 2010
2010
£m
2009
£m
Continuing operations
Revenue 311.9 287.2
Trading	operating	profit	before	significant	items 8.3 4.4
Group	costs	before	significant	items (4.2) (6.3)
Operating profit/(loss) before 
significant items 4.1 (1.9)
Significant	items	before	tax (2.4) (0.7)
Finance	expense	(excluding	pension-related) (1.4) (4.6)
Income	tax –	 (0.4)
Net profit/(loss) before pension-related 
finance expense 0.3 (7.6)
Pension	related	finance	expense (11.5) (11.3)
Loss after tax (11.2) (18.9)
Profit/(loss)	from	discontinued	operations 35.4 (2.0)
Profit/(loss) for the year 24.2 (20.9)
Key performance indicators % %
Revenue	growth 6.8% 0.2%
Gross	margin 15.3% 14.2%
Operating	margin 1.3% (0.7%)
Financial highlights for the year 
ended 31 December 2010 
Highlights
Key achievements
Financial results
Further information can be found at www.uniq.com
Post period update
Uniq	Annual	Report	and	Accounts	2010 Uniq	Annual	Report	and	Accounts	2010 02
Directors’ report
I am pleased to report a continued improvement in 
the performance of the business, with an operating 
profit before significant items of £4.1m in 2010 compared 
to a loss of £1.9m in 2009. Turnover showed good 
growth, with sales of £312m representing an increase 
of nearly 7% on 2009’s sales figure of £292m (adjusted 
for 53rd week).
Although	 these	 figures	 provide	 strong	 evidence	 that	 the	
board’s	strategy	of	transforming	the	company	into	a	
high-quality	 UK-focused	 private	 label	 business	 has	 been	
successful,	it	became	increasingly	clear	during	2010	that	
the	speed	and	scale	of	our	efforts	could	not	meet	the	
growing	demands	of	our	pension	liabilities.	The	board	
therefore	continued	to	seek	a	solution	to	our	pension	
funding	situation	and	on	9	February	2011,	the	company	
reached	agreement	with	the	Trustee	of	the	Uniq	Pension	
Scheme	on	the	terms	of	a	restructuring	of	the	company.	
This	 released	 the	 company	 from	 its	 obligations	 to	 the	 defined	
benefit	section	of	the	Pension	Scheme	in	exchange	for	a	
90.2%	 equity	 stake	 in	 the	 company,	 with	 current	 shareholders	
retaining	a	9.8%	stake	in	the	company.
While	 the	 context	 for	 this	 decision	 is	 set	 out	 in	 more	 detail	
below,	the	outcome	is	that	Uniq	can	now	look	forward	to	
a	 future	 in	 which	 its	 management	 can	 develop	 the	 potential	
of	its	businesses	without	the	constraints	imposed	by	our	
pension	situation.	Although 	 the	 board	 understands	 that	
this	 will	 have	 caused	 shareholders	 considerable	 concern,	
we	 are	 confident	 that	 our	 action	 is	 in	 their	 best	 interests	
and	 the	 best	 long-term	 interests	 of	 all	 stakeholders.
Uniq	 has	 a	 strong,	 well-run	 business	 delivering	 the	 quality,	
innovation	and	consistency	that	our	customers	demand,	
in	markets	that	offer	multiple	opportunities.	As	Chief	
Executive	Geoff	Eaton	outlines	in	his	statement	on	pages	
4	 and	 5,	 we	 believe	 that	 Uniq	 is	 now,	 finally,	 in	 a	 position	
to	capitalise	on	these	strengths.
The context for restructuring
Uniq	 evolved	 out	 of	 the	 Unigate	 Group	 which,	 at	 its	 peak	
during	 the	 1980s,	 was	 a	 multinational	 conglomerate	 with	 over	
30,000	 employees	 in	 the	 UK,	 Europe	 and	 North	 America.	
Unigate	 had	 a	 very	 large	 defined	 benefit	 pension	 plan	 with	
over	 40,000	 members	 (including	 active	 members,	 deferred	
members	 and	 pensioners)	 in	 the	 UK.	 When	 Unigate	 sold	 its	
‘flagship’	 dairy	 business	 in	 2000,	 the	 remaining	 business	
changed	its	name	to	Uniq	plc.	Under	the	terms	of	this	
transaction	 Uniq	 plc	 retained	 the	 responsibility	 for	 members	
of	the	dairy	business	in	the	Uniq	Pension	Fund.
In	May	2001,	Uniq	demerged	its	logistics	business,	
Wincanton	plc.	The	Uniq	Pension	Fund	was	split	roughly	
in	half	and	Uniq	was	left	with	a	pension	scheme	(known	
as	the	Uniq	Pension	Scheme)	of	approximately	21,000	
members	but	with	a	much	smaller	business,	in	terms 	
of	assets,	with	which	to	support	the	pension	scheme.
Board strategy
In	 2006,	 the	 board	 recognised	 that	 Uniq	 was	 not	 a	 ‘pan-
European	 group’	 but	 a	 number	 of	 separate	 businesses	
with	 distinct	 markets	 and	 challenges.	 The	 board	 adopted	
a	 strategy	 intended	 to	 transform	 the	 business	 and	 address	
the	 pension	 deficit.	 Through	the	sale	of	the	Belgian	salads	
business	in	2006	and	the	French	St	Hubert	spreads	
business	in	2007	(total	proceeds	£288m),	the	group 	
was	able	to	set	aside	£87m	in	a	secure	account 	
to	offset	substantially 	 the	 deficit	 at	 that	 time	 in	 its	 main	
UK	 Pension	Fund. 	 The	 remaining	 cash	 repaid	 debt	 and	
provided	 funds	to	support	the	recovery	of	the	retained	
businesses,	which	were	at	that	time	incurring 	
substantial	losses.
Alignment	 of	 the	 group’s	 businesses	 with	 their	 customers	
and	markets	was	tackled	through	decentralising	the	
organisation	to	allow	management	to	act	faster	and 	
more	effectively.	Major	milestones	were	achieved	in 	
each	of	the	group’s	divisions,	with	recovery	evident	
throughout	the	business.
Pension funding 
However,	turbulence	in	world	financial	markets	during	
2008	resulted	in	a	sharp	increase	in	the	UK	pension	
deficit.	The	need	to	strengthen	the	group’s	businesses	
became	more	urgent.	Accordingly,	the	board	decided 	
to	modify	its	recovery	plan	and,	in	particular,	pursue	
consolidation	opportunities	in	France	and	Northern	
Europe	–	to	create	value	through	joint	venture	or	sale 	
of	those	businesses	–	and	focus	its	resources	on	
strengthening	its	businesses	in	the	UK.
Chairman’s statement
Foundations for the future 03
Directors’ report
Chairman’s statement
Uniq	Annual	Report	and	Accounts	2010
The	 businesses	were	sold	in	early	2010	and	the	proceeds	
from	their	sale	were	used	to	support	the	growth	of	the	
UK	business	and	to	assist	the	group	in	its	triennial	
funding	discussions	with	the	Pension	Scheme	Trustee.
Pension liabilities
On	 an	 IAS	 19	 accounting	 valuation	 basis,	 the	 pension	 deficit	
as	 at	 31	 December	 2010	 was	 £142.1m.	 On	 a	 buy-out	 basis	
(which	 assumes	 the	 liabilities	 have	 been	 bought	 out	 by	 an	
insurance	 company),	 the	 net	 deficit	 was	 £430m.
The	 scale	 of	 this	 deficit	 negatively	 impacted	 the	 market	
value	 of	 the	 company.	 The	 board	 therefore	 considered	 all	
possible	 funding	 options	 for	 the	 Pension	 Scheme,	 all	 of	
which	 would	 have	 involved	 a	 fundamental	 impact	 on	 the	
long-term	 future	 of	 the	 group	 and	 on	 shareholder	 value.
As	 part	 of	 triennial	 scheme-specific	 funding	 discussions,	
which	 began	 in	 March	 2009	 between	 the	 company	 and	 the	
Trustee,	 a	 long-term	 funding	 proposal	 was	 developed	 and	
was	 described	 in	 last	 year’s	 annual	 report	 and	 accounts.	
It	 was	 rejected	 by	 the	 Pensions	 Regulator	 on	 16	 July	 2010.
Restructuring solution
On	9	February	2011,	the	company	reached	agreement	
with	the	Trustee,	the	Pensions	Regulator	and	the	Pension	
Protection	Fund	on	the	terms	of	a	restructuring	of	the	
company.	This	Scheme	of	Arrangement	was	approved 	
by	the	shareholders	on	25	February	2011	and	sanctioned	
by	the	Court	on	18	March	2011.	In	exchange	for	a	90.2%	
equity	stake	in	the	company,	with	current	shareholders	
retaining	a	9.8%	stake	in	the	company,	and	a	final	
payment	of	£14m	to	the	Pension	Fund,	the	restructuring	
released	the	company	from	its	obligations	to	the	defined	
benefit	section	of	the	Uniq	Pension	Fund.	Following	this	
restructuring	the	company	successfully	applied	for	the	
shares	to	be	relisted	on	AIM	as	from	1	April	2011.
Dividend
The	board	has	decided	that	it	is	not	appropriate	to	pay 	
a	dividend	to	shareholders	for	2010	(2009:	£nil).	However,	
following	the	pension	restructuring	the	Directors	intend 	
to	pay	dividends	when	it	is	appropriate	to	do	so.	
Outlook
It	is	a	great	credit	to	Chief	Executive	Geoff	Eaton	and 	
his	management	team	that,	despite	a	period	of	such	
uncertainty	 and	 the	 challenge	 of	 creating	 and	 implementing	
the	pension	solution,	they	have	continued	to	focus	on,	
and	achieve,	the	transformation	of	the	business.	
Profitability	 has	 been	 restored,	 strong	 customer	 relationships	
established	and	the	flexible,	innovative	processes	that	
our	markets	demand	are	in	place	and	already	beginning	
to	show	results.	In	spite	of	this,	the	new	year	has	thrown 	
up	further	challenges	with	further	raw	material	price	
inflation,	increasingly	intense	competition	and	loss	of	
business	 in	 Desserts	 being	 notified	 before	 the	 implementation	
of	the	pension	solution.	I	would	like	to	congratulate	all	
management	and	staff	at	Uniq	for	their	unstinting	efforts,	
which	 we	 fully	 expect	 to	 maintain	 the	 improved	 performance	
of	your	company	despite	the	challenging	environment.	
Furthermore,	the	comprehensive	review	of	our	Desserts	
business,	announced	in	January,	has	been	completed	
and	 a	 plan	 has	 been	 approved	 that	 is	 expected	 to	 deliver	
sustainable	improvement	in	profitability.
John Warren
Chairman 
26	April	2011
“ We are confident that our 
action is in the long-term 
interests of all stakeholders 
and will give Uniq the 
opportunity to repay 
their commitment.” Uniq	Annual	Report	and	Accounts	2010 04
Directors’ report
Chief Executive’s statement 
Delivering the full potential of your business
Having addressed our legacy issues and completed 
our transformation into a UK-focused, high-quality 
Desserts and Food to Go producer, I believe we are 
now able to deliver the full potential of the business.
Our	investment	in	people,	processes	and	products	over	
the	last	two	years	means	we	are	in	a	strong	position	to	
meet	 the	 challenges	 and	 opportunities	 our	 chosen	 markets	
present.	This	has	been	demonstrated	by	our	improving	
performance	this	year,	which	was	driven	by	our	strong	
management	 teams	 and	 their	 ability	 to	 efficiently	 translate	
their	 market	 insights	 into	 attractive	 and	 innovative	 products	
that	 meet	 the	 demands	 of	 both	 customers	 and	 consumers.	
With	the	right	foundations	now	in	place,	I	believe	we	can	
consolidate	 our	 growth,	 optimise	 our	 return	 on	 investments	
and	raise	profitability	towards	industry	standard	margins.
As	 befits	 a	 business	 that	 is,	 in	 many	 ways,	 starting	 afresh,	
I	would	like	to	take	this	opportunity	to	lay	out	to	investors	
and	all	stakeholders	our	vision	for	the	future:	the	market	
opportunities	we	face;	the	strategy	that	will	enable	us	to	
address	 these	 opportunities;	 and	 the	 targets	 by	 which	 we	
will	measure	how	successful	we	are	in	doing	so.
Vision
Our	aim	is	to	be	the	most	respected	fresh	prepared 	
food	company	in	the	UK	for	innovation,	service	and	
quality	as	judged	by	our	customers,	suppliers,	
employees	and	shareholders.
Our opportunities and strengths
We	serve	large	and	growing	markets,	within	which	there	
are	 multiple	 opportunities	 and	 drivers	 of	 demand:	 for	 example,	
convenience,	 eating	 out	 of	 home	 and	 on	 the	 move,	 healthy	
eating,	and	café	culture.	By	investing	in	understanding	
consumers	and	innovating	to	create	a	regular	pipeline 	
of	new	products	we	are	able	to	benefit	from	this	growth.
Strong	 market	 positions	 give	 us	 the	 scale	 to	 ensure	 we	 can	
attract	 and	 retain	 highly	 capable	 teams	 and	 make	 efficient	
use	of	assets.	We	supply	over	65%	of	the	sandwiches	for	
our	largest	customer,	we	are	a	market-leading	supplier	of	
premium	desserts,	we	are	the	exclusive	producer	of	fresh	
Cadbury	chocolate	desserts	and	we	are	the	number	two	
supplier	in	prepared	salads.
We	service	customers	who	are	investing	in	growth 	
and	we	have	the	potential	to	increase	our	share	of 	
their	business	–	we	are	highly	focused	and	we	derive	
competitive	advantage	from	understanding	and	
consistently	meeting	our	customers’	needs.
We	have	an	efficient	capital	structure	that	will	support	
investment.	Our	return	on	investment	will	be	enhanced 	
by	significant	tax	assets	–	we	will	not	pay	tax	on	our	
profit	for	the	foreseeable	future.
We	have	an	experienced	and	capable	management 	
team	that	has	come	together	during	five	years	of	
restructuring,	turnaround	and	uncertainty	and,	having	
already	delivered	some	success,	is	appropriately	
incentivised	and	committed	to	drive	growth	further,	
unfettered	by	the	legacies	of	the	past.
Our	product	ranges	include	both	premium	and	value	
products	and	are	appropriately	tiered.	Our	flexibility 	
and	ability	to	innovate	mean	that	we	can	quickly 	
adapt	our	product	ranges	to	reflect	the	economic	
circumstances	of	consumers.
Performance review
Desserts
Our	Desserts	strategy	began	to	show	real	results 	
this	year.	New	and	refreshed	product	ranges	at	both 	
our	Minsterley	and	Evercreech	sites,	allied	with	the	
investments	we	have	made	in	the	business	over	the 	
last	two	years,	drove	a	stronger	performance	and	
established	Uniq	as	the	place	to	go	for	innovative	
high-quality	private	label	products.
Immediately	 following	 this	 success	 we	 were	 forced	 to	
push	through	a	price	increase	following	the	increase 	
in	cream	costs	which	have	risen	by	80%	over	the	last 	
two	years.	This	not	only	had	an	adverse	impact	on 	
some	customer	relationships	but	also	led	to	a	change 	
in	consumer	behaviour	as	higher	price	points	resulted 	
in	switching	to	other	products.	Following	the	year	end 	
we	were	notified	of	the	loss	of	£10m	of	Desserts	sales	
partly	as	a	result	of	these	factors	and	partly	reflecting 	
the	uncertainties	caused	by	the	pension	position. Uniq	Annual	Report	and	Accounts	2010 05
Directors’ report
Chief Executive’s statement
Desserts review
On	the	back	of	the	disturbance	caused	by	the	price	
increase	and	as	a	result	of	the	decision	to	discontinue	
cottage	 cheese	 production	 at	 Evercreech	 we	 conducted	
a	comprehensive	review	of	our	Desserts	business. 	
Our	 Desserts	 business	 supplies	 four	 distinct	 sub-sectors	
of	the	desserts	market;	premium	desserts,	Cadbury	
chocolate	desserts,	yoghurt	and	everyday	desserts.	
Three	of	these	sub-sectors	are	either	profitable	or 	
on	track	to	achieve	profitability,	while	the	losses	are	
concentrated	in	everyday	desserts.	As	a	result	of 	
the	Desserts	review	we	have	approved	the	following	
profit	improvement	plans:
•		 To	use	the	space	freed	up	at	Evercreech	by	the	
discontinuance	of	cottage	cheese	production	to 	
invest	in	further	growing	our	premium	desserts	
business	–	which	grew	by	21%	in	2010.
•		 To	implement	ambitious	growth	plans	for	Cadbury	
desserts	for	which	we	have	identified	considerable	
potential.	We	need	to	secure	support	for	these 	
plans	from	our	partners.
•		 To	continue	to	build	our	capability	and	customer 	
base	 for	 our	 premium,	 differentiated	 yoghurt	 business	
at	Minsterley,	with	support	from	M&S.
•	 	 To	 implement	 a	 plan	 to	 significantly	 reduce	 the	 overheads	
and	costs	in	everyday	desserts	and	work	with	our	
customers	 to	 address	 the	 market	 needs	 while	 ensuring	
that	we	stop	the	losses	in	this	sub-sector.
Food to Go
At	 Northampton,	 we	 extended	 our	 ten-year	 growth	 record	
in	 2010,	 successfully	 implementing	 the	 increased	 sandwich	
volumes	won	from	M&S	supplier	consolidation.	New	and	
relaunched	product	ranges	helped	us	to	not	only	take	
advantage	 of	 growing	 niche	 markets	 such	 as	 healthy	 eating	
and	 café	 culture,	 but	 to	 win	 prestigious	 awards	 and	 further	
strengthen	our	relationship	with	our	principal	customer,	
M&S.	 Northampton	 continues	 to	 set	 the	 standard	 for	 lean,	
flexible	 and	 creative	 processes,	 supported	 by	 both	 strong	
management	and	a	fully	engaged	workforce.	In	Salads,	
our	Spalding	site	increased	volumes	as	we	took	on	last	
year’s	 new	 business	 wins,	 helping	 to	 drive	 efficiencies	 while	
successfully	maintaining	exceptionally	high	quality	and	
service	 levels.	 Although	 oversupply	 in	 the	 market	 continued	
to	 squeeze	 margin,	 the	 Salads	 business	 remains	 well	 positioned	
to	benefit	strongly	from	any	supplier	consolidation.
Geoff Eaton
Chief Executive
26	 April	 2011
Our strategy 
We will achieve growth by:
•	  Empowering 	 our	 businesses	 so	 that	 they	 have	 the	 speed
and	flexibility	to	meet	the	needs	of	our	customers	in	a	
fast-moving	and	competitive	market-place.	At	the	same	
time,	 we	 will	 leverage	 our	 combined	 scale	 to	 support	 our	
businesses	and	enhance	our	growth	opportunities
•	 	 Creating	new	opportunities	by	delivering	outstanding	
service	with	the	highest	standards	of	 quality	and	
efficiency	day	in	day	out
•	 	 Meeting	the	needs	of	our	customers	and	consumers 	
through	 innovation	that	satisfies	the	demands	of
growing	and	ever-changing	markets
•	  Investing 	in	our	people,	processes,	equipment	and
facilities	and	continuously	improving	everything	we	do
•	 	 Working	in	 partnership	with	our	key	suppliers	and	
customers	to	achieve	the	most	effective	supply	chain	
capable	 of	 delivering	 added	 value	 to	 our	 shared	 consumers
Our targets and key performance indicators:
•	 	 We	aim	to	deliver	organic	growth	of	over	5%	a	year	
•	 	 Our	trading	profit	margin	should	deliver	an	overall 	
return	on	sales	of	over	5%
•	 	 Our	return	on	investment	should	deliver	double-digit 	
returns	 and	 exceed	 our	 weighted	 average	 cost	 of	 capital
•	 	 We	will	adopt	a	progressive	dividend	policy	with	a 	
long-term	target	dividend	cover	of	three	times
•	 	 We	will	maintain	an	appropriate	capital	structure 	
with	total	net	debt	no	more	than	three	times	EBITDA
Our key actions to deliver our strategy:
•	 We	 will	 continue	 to	 drive	 growth	 in	 our	 Sandwich	 business	
•	 	 We	will	consolidate	our	recovery	in	Salads	and	then 	
build	our	capabilities	for	long-term	growth
•	 	 We	will	build	on	our	successful	innovation	in	premium	
desserts	and	yoghurt,	seek	to	implement	an	ambitious	
growth	strategy	for	Cadbury	chocolate	desserts	and	
significantly	reduce	costs	and	improve	efficiency	to 	
stop	the	losses	in	everyday	desserts Uniq	Annual	Report	and	Accounts	2010 06
Directors’ report
Market overview
As the economy recovered in 2010, consumers 
traded up but continued to demand value.
One	 reason	 for	 chilled	 convenience	 food	 sales	 outperforming	
the	wider	marketplace	is	‘treating’.	While	households	
faced	 with	 constrained	 income	 growth	 and	 higher	 taxation	
have	cut	back	on	spending,	they	are	still	attracted	by	
non-essential	treats	while	carrying	out	their	routine 	
food	shopping.
Health	was	also	a	key	trend.	The	2010	Datamonitor	
Consumer	 Survey	 showed	 the	 extent	 to	 which	 consumers	
believe	that	taste	should	not	come	at	the	expense	of	
nutrition.	Indeed,	62%	of	consumers	attached	more	
importance	to	finding	products	that	combined	these	
attributes	than	they	did	two	years	ago.
Premium v Value
Consumer	 appetite	 appears	 not	 to	 have	 been	 fundamentally	
changed	by	the	recession,	and	the	demand	for	premium	
ranges	re-asserted	itself,	particularly	in	the	second	half	
of	the	year.	Cost-conscious	consumers	have,	however,	
been	helped	toward	these	ranges	by	promotional	activity.
As	the	graph	illustrates,	demand	for	premium	tiers	
returned	to	growth	in	the	final	quarter	of	2010,	while	
demand	 for	 value	 products	 continued	 to	 slow	 across	
the	marketplace.
Input prices
A	wide	variety	of	factors,	ranging	from	adverse	weather	
conditions	and	rising	global	demand	to	higher	energy	
prices	and	market	speculation,	led	to	increased	input	
prices	in	2010.	This	was	particularly	noticeable	in	the	
second	 half	 of	 the	 year	 as	 the	 world	 economic	 recovery	
accelerated,	pushing	up	demand.
Uniq’s	input	prices	rose	3.8%	in	the	year	to	December	
2010,	while	in	the	broader	UK	economy	the	Consumer	
Prices	Index	(CPI)	rose	by	3.7%*	and	the	Retail	Prices	
Index	(RPI)	was	up	4.8%*	in	the	same	period.	
Our market
The	 broad	 market	 in	 which	 Uniq	 operates	 is	 the	 UK	 fresh	
and	 chilled	 foods	 sector.	 This	 had	 a	 total	 value	 of	 £37bn	
in	2010,	representing	an	increase	of	3.1%	on	2009. 	
The	 majority	 of	 Uniq’s	 output	 falls,	 however,	 within	 one	
segment	of	this	market:	chilled	convenience	foods. 	
This	grew	more	strongly,	with	sales	up	5%	in	2010	at	
£7.5bn.	As	this	segment	is	dominated	by	the	major	
retailers’	own	brands	and	Uniq	is	primarily	a	producer 	
of	private	label/own	brand	products	for	the	major	
retailers,	the	outperformance	of	chilled	convenience	
foods	is	highly	encouraging.
For	 more	 specific	 information	 about	 the	 market	 sub-sectors	
in	which	we	operate,	see	below.
Trends
One	of	the	key	trends	in	2010	was	consumers	shopping	
around	to	find	good-quality	products	that	also	met	their	
value	requirements.	This	proved	a	positive	influence	for	
private	label,	which	can	often	offer	consumers	significant	
savings	 when	 compared	 to	 branded	 products.	 A	 comparison	
of	the	2009	and	2010	Datamonitor	Consumer	Surveys	
shows	 that	 there	 was	 a	 significant	 increase	 in	 the	 proportion	
of	consumers	saying	that	private	label	was	of	equal,	if	not	
better,	 quality	 than	 branded	 products.	 This	 ability	 of	 private	
label	 products	 to	 meet	 both	 the	 value	 and	 quality	 demands	
of	consumers	drove	growth	in	2010.	Indeed,	research	
published	by	Nielsen	in	2010	shows	that	private	labels	
now	account	for	47%	of	all	volume	sold	in	the	UK 	
retail	channel.
Another	 trend	 was	 the	 growth	 of	 ‘meal	 deal’	 bundles,	 where	
shoppers	buy	a	menu	of	products	for	a	discounted	price.	
This	lends	itself	well	to	the	‘mix	and	match’	versatility	of	
chilled	convenience	food,	including	desserts	and	salads.	
It	 has	 particular	 resonance	 in	 the	 current	 economic	 climate,	
where	 shoppers	 can	 save	 money	 by	 eating	 at	 home	 rather	
than	going	out	to	a	restaurant. Total Grocers Year-on-Year 
% changes
Economy
Premium
Feb
2010
Jun Oct Feb
2011
Nov
2009
50
40
30
20
10
0
-10
-20
Total Grocers Year-on-Year 
% changes
Economy
Premium
Feb
2010
Jun Oct Feb
2011
Nov
2009
50
40
30
20
10
0
-10
-20
Top 5 raw materials 
Price movement for 2010
Dairy
Ingredients
Fruit and Conserves
Vegetables
Confectionery
%
01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12
15
10
5
0
-5
-10
-15
Source: Uniq
Top 5 raw materials 
Price movement for 2010
Dairy
Ingredients
Fruit and Conserves
Vegetables
Confectionery
%
01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12
15
10
5
0
-5
-10
-15
Source: Uniq
Uniq	Annual	Report	and	Accounts	2010 07
Directors’ report
Market overview
Although	the	inflationary	trend,	driven	largely	by	major	
global	factors,	was	evident	across	almost	all	Uniq’s	
purchasing	categories,	individual	input	prices	also	
behaved	according	to	their	own	specific	drivers.
Cream	prices,	for	example,	rose	far	more	sharply	than	
average	 input	 prices	 as	 a	 number	 of	 factors	 fundamentally	
altered	the	balance	of	demand	and	supply	in	the	market.	
High	butter	prices	led	to	more	cream	being	bought	by	
butter	producers,	reducing	the	availability	to	those, 	
like	Uniq,	who	use	it	for	other	dairy-based	products.	
*Source: Office for National Statistics
Desserts market
The	 total	 chilled	 desserts	 market	 (which	 includes	 yogurts)	
grew	by	3.0%	to	£2.4bn	during	2010,	with	volumes	
remaining	flat.	However,	yoghurts	represent	less	than 	
10%	of	Uniq’s	total	desserts	production.	In	chilled	pot	
desserts,	which	represent	the	vast	majority	of	Uniq’s	
sales,	the	market	grew	more	strongly,	rising	4.8%	by	
value	in	2010.	Within	the	desserts	market,	trifle	sales	
remained	unchanged	in	2010,	yoghurt	sales	edged 	
up	by	2.4%	and	cheesecake	grew	strongly	by	13.2%.	
About	75%	of	Uniq’s	desserts	output	is	private	label 	
and	 the	 majority	 of	 this	 is	 for	 M&S,	 which	 strengthened	
its	position	as	a	destination	store	for	desserts, 	
registering	 increased	 sales	 by	 both	 value	 and	 volume.
Source: Kantar World panel w/e 26/12/10
Food to Go market
The	Food	to	Go	market	is	worth	£16.8bn	and	grew	by	
12.4%	in	2010.	Of	this,	approximately	20%	is	sold	by 	
the	major	retailers,	for	whom	Uniq	provide	private	label	
products.	 The	 year	 saw	 overall	 Food	 to	 Go	 sales	 revenue	
growing	ahead	of	volume,	as	retailers	changed	their	
ranges	to	include	more	premium	lines	and	consumers	
traded	up,	buying	fewer	lower	value	products.	
Convenience	is	key	in	the	‘on	the	go’	market,	and	
increasing	numbers	of	outlet	openings	have	contributed	
to	 the	 acceleration	 in	 sales	 growth.	 Sandwiches	 represent	
approximately	 22.3%	 of	 the	 entire	 Food	 to	 Go	 market	 and	
total	 sandwich	 sales	 grew	 by	 6.6%,	 with	 volume	 up	 3.2%.	
In	Salads,	which	represents	approximately	1.5%	of	the	
Food	to	Go	market,	sales	increased	by	9.3%	of	value, 	
on	volumes	up	5.0%. Uniq	Annual	Report	and	Accounts	2010 08
Directors’ report
•  Investment programme impacted by 
market volatility
• Highly successful new product launches
•  Desserts review establishes clear path 
to profitability 
As	the	market	leader	in	chilled	pot	desserts,	Uniq	
operates	 from	 two	 sites.	 Minsterley	 produces	 Cadbury	
chocolate	desserts,	premium	differentiated	yoghurt 	
and	private	label	premium	and	everyday	desserts;	and	
Evercreech	produces	premium	desserts	and	is	exiting	
cottage	cheese.	Both	sites	have	a	long	heritage	of	
supplying	dairy-based	products	into	a	market	that 	
has	been	challenging	for	a	number	of	years.
Our	customers,	the	major	retailers,	and	the	end	
consumer,	demand	freshly	prepared	high-quality, 	
great-tasting	products	that	are	attractive	and	innovative.	
Investment	during	the	year	in	areas	such	as	new	concept	
development,	new	production	lines,	packing	equipment	
and	more	convenient	pack	formats	has	enabled	us	to	
launch	 more	 than	 58	 new	 products	 in	 2010.	 These	 were	
extremely	well	received	by	our	customers	and	by	
consumers,	in	some	cases	the	initial	demand	being 	
more	 than	 double	 our	 expectation.	 Our	 consumer	 insight	
and	technical	expertise	enabled	us	to	develop	exciting	
new	products	for	fast-growing	niche	markets,	including	
breakfast	yoghurts	for	Costa	Coffee	and	mini	desserts	
for	 M&S	 Café	 and	 Food	 on	 the	 Move.	 This	 was	 recognised	
during	 the	 year	 when	 we	 received	 the	 M&S	 ‘Innovator	 of	
the	Year’	award.
Sales up 1.5%* to £155m
Losses reduced by 6.9%  
to £2.7m
Our	success	has	been	achieved	despite	a	strong	
headwind	from	raw	material	inflation,	driven	in	particular	
by	wholesale	cream	costs	which	have	risen	by	around	
80%	over	the	last	two	years	as	a	result	of	shortage	of	
supply	and	high	demand	from	the	Continent.	While	we	
were	able	to	successfully	negotiate	price	increases	with	
our	customers	to	reflect	our	growing	costs,	this	inevitably	
had	an	impact	on	volumes	as	customers	and	consumers	
remain	highly	sensitive	to	price.	
During	 the	 year	 Arla	 invested	 in	 new	 cottage	 cheese	 capacity	
at	 its	 new	 dairy	 and	 a	 number	 of	 our	 customers	 were	 able	 to	
secure	 lower	 prices	 and	 switched	 their	 supply.	 Consequently,	
we	 decided	 to	 downscale	 cottage	 cheese	 production	 and	
plan	 to	 exit	 this	 market	 in	 2011.	 The	 growth	 delivered	 in	 our	
premium	desserts	business	in	2010	allowed	us	to	transfer	
many	 of	 the	 employees	 from	 cottage	 cheese	 to	 desserts	 and	
we	intend	to	use	the	vacated	space	to	facilitate	further	
growth	in	premium	desserts.
Performance
The	restructuring	of	our	Desserts	business	in	2009	–	
through	 consolidation	 from	 three	 sites	 to	 two,	 the	 creation	
of	a	new	consumer	and	innovation-led	strategy	and	the	
reinforcement	of	our	management	capability	through	a	
number	 of	 experienced	 hires	 to	 key	 positions	 –	 started	 to	
show	 results	 in	 2010.	 Despite	 the	 impact	 of	 cold	 weather	 in	
the	 busy	 Christmas	 trading	 period,	 sales	 held	 up	 well	 in	 the	
fourth	 quarter	 and	 we	 posted	 an	 overall	 sales	 increase	 of	
1.5%*	 in	 2010,	 achieving	 revenue	 of	 £155m.	 Although	 rising	
raw	 material	 costs	 and	 a	 loss	 of	 share	 in	 the	 cottage	 cheese	
market	had	an	adverse	effect	on	overall	performance, 	
we	were	able	to	reduce	losses	over	the	year	by	6.9%.	
Site review – Minsterley
At	our	Minsterley	site	our	focus	was	on	restimulating	
growth	in	our	everyday	desserts	categories	such	as	trifle,	
where	we	hold	a	market-leading	position.	To	achieve	this	
we	redeveloped	all	our	recipes	and	packaging	formats	in	
accordance	with	our	consumer	research.	As	a	result,	we	
invested	in	new	technology	to	give	us	greater	flexibility 	
in	the	number	of	pots	per	pack	and	the	speed	at	which 	
they	could	be	packed.	This	process	was	successful,	but	
growth	was	held	back	by	price	increases	as	a	result	of	
higher	raw	material	costs.	
Business review:
Desserts Uniq	Annual	Report	and	Accounts	2010 09
Directors’ report
Business review | Desserts
Our	co-pack	agreement	with	Müller	to	produce 	
Cadbury	 branded	 desserts	 saw	 considerable	 investment	
to	build	capacity,	resulting	in	a	state-of-the-art,	highly	
efficient	facility.	Although	the	anticipated	volumes	did 	
not	materialise	during	2010	we	are	well	positioned	to	
work	with	our	partners	on	future	opportunities.
In	yoghurts	we	successfully	developed	a	new	range 	
of	products	for	M&S	and	won	new	business	to	provide	
Costa	with	an	exciting	range	of	yoghurt	products.
Site review – Evercreech
Our	 Evercreech	 site	 produces	 around	 70%	 of	 its	 output	
for	M&S	(increasing	to	100%	following	the	planned	
withdrawal	from	cottage	cheese	supply),	and	has	
benefited	both	from	M&S’s	strong	performance	in	
desserts	 and	 from	 investing	 to	 further	 match	 the	 retailer’s	
commitment	to	quality	and	innovation.	As	a	result, 	
a	range 	 of	 new	 products	 was	 developed	 during	 2010	
that	 included	 ‘minis’	 (small-sized	 desserts	 designed	
to	 be	 eaten	on	the	move	or	as	excusable	indulgence),	
confectionery	 (desserts	 based	 on	 popular	 sweets)	 and	 the	
extra	 special	 chocolate	 ‘jingle	 bell’	 Christmas	 dessert,	
delivering	growth	of	19%	in	premium	desserts.
Successful	innovation	was	achieved	through	a	
combination	of	market	insight,	high-quality	in-house	
chefs,	smart	and	flexible	production	techniques	and 	
a	highly	engaged	and	committed	workforce.	This	was	
demonstrated	by	our	winning	both	an	innovation	and 	
a	collaboration	award	from	M&S	during	the	year.	
As	detailed	above,	our	strong	performance	was	offset 	
by	rising	input	prices	and	falling	demand	for	cottage	
cheese	as	a	new	entrant	came	into	the	market. 	
By	working	closely	with	our	customers	we	were	able 	
to	negotiate	price	increases	to	reflect	rising	costs.
* All comparisons to sales growth from prior year are adjusted to reflect the additional 
53rd week in 2010.
New product development
How minis made their mark
In	 2010	 Uniq	 helped	 to	 develop	 a	 totally	 new	 concept	 in	 desserts	
–	 the	 mini:	 a	 bite-sized	 dessert	 that	 looked	 and	 tasted	 great,	 but	
was	 small	 enough	 to	 eat	 on	 the	 move	 and	 ‘guilt	 free’.	
•	 Market	insight	team	identifies	a	gap	in	the	market
•	 Uniq	work	with	customer	to	develop	the	concept
•	 	 A	cross-functional	team	is	brought	together	to 	
deliver	the	concept
•	 	 Equipment	designed	to	deliver	small	‘shots’ 	
of	dessert	
•	 Production	starts
•	 	 Operators	apply	lean	techniques	to	achieve 	
required	efficiencies	
•	 Products	reach	stores,	demand	rises	rapidly
•	 Increase	capacity	to	meet	demand
•	 Sales	reach	£5m
Technical excellence 
Meeting demand at Christmas
When	our	Minsterley	site	was	asked	to	take	over	the	production	
of	M&S’s	highly	successful	inside-out	trifle,	it	meant	quickly	
rising	to	the	challenge	of	a	complex	and	technically	demanding	
process.	A	product	development	team	was	rapidly	assembled,	
a	new	production	line	was	designed	and	laid	out,	and	trials	
were	 carried	 out	 to	 determine	 the	 labour	 team	 required.	 As	 a	
result,	 all	 14,000	 units	 of	 inside-out	 trifle	 were	 delivered	 in	 time	
for	Christmas. Uniq	Annual	Report	and	Accounts	2010 10
Directors’ report
Business review:
Food to Go
• Over 100m sandwiches produced during 2010
• Share of M&S sandwich market rose to over 65%
• Strong cost management 
As	the	leading	supplier	of	sandwiches	to	M&S	and 	
the	UK’s	number	two	supplier	of	prepared	dressed	
salads,	Uniq’s	Food	to	Go	operations	are	located	at	
Northampton	(sandwiches)	and	Spalding	(dressed	
salads).	Each	is	run	by	its	own	management	team 	
but	they	share	many	ingredients	and	processes.
Food	 to	 Go	 is	 a	 fast-moving	 business	 in	 which	 customers	
and	 consumers	 expect	 fresh,	 enticing	 products	 that	 are	
available	whenever	they	want	them.	Volumes	go	up	or	
down	on	a	daily	basis	according	to	the	weather,	time 	
of	year	or	occasion.	In	order	to	service	this	market	
successfully	Uniq	works	with	its	customers,	the	major	
retailers,	to	fully	understand	what	consumers	want 	
and	to	develop	products	that	meet	and	exceed	their	
expectations.	To	deliver	these,	the	finest	and	freshest	
ingredients	 must	 be	 sourced,	 prepared,	 packaged	 and	
despatched	both	quickly	and	to	the	highest	possible	
standard.	This	challenge	requires	highly	disciplined	
management,	a	creative	flair	for	food,	technical	
excellence	and	a	fully	engaged	workforce	with	the	
flexibility	to	deal	with	differing	levels	of	demand.
Performance
Driven	 by	 both	 organic	 growth	 and	 the	 assimilation	 of	
new	business	wins,	sales	grew	by	13%*	to	£157m	in 	
2010.	Profits	rose	by	51%	to	£11m,	supported	by	the	
economies	of	scale	achieved	through	higher	volumes,	
process	efficiencies	and	the	success	of	new	product	
launches	into	growing	markets.
Sales up 13%* at £157m 
Profits up 51% at £11m
Site review – Northampton
Following	 M&S’s	 decision	 last	 year	 to	 reduce	 the	 number	
of	its	sandwich	suppliers	from	three	to	two,	Uniq’s	
Northampton	site	was	able	to	secure	significant	new	
business.	 During	 the	 year,	 transfer	 of	 the	 remaining	 new	
lines	and	volumes	was	successfully	completed	without	
interruption	to	production	or	any	negative	impact	on	
quality.	 This	 helped	 us	 to	 achieve	 our	 highest	 ever	 M&S	
sandwich	share	during	the	year.	
Our	dedication	to	service,	quality	and	taste	was	further	
recognised	by	a	number	of	awards.	We	assisted	M&S 	
to	win	Sandwich	Multiple	Retailer	of	the	year	2010, 	
The	Lunch!	Multiple	Retailer	of	the	Year	Award	2010 	
and	won	the	2010	Best	Low	Fat	Range.	These	awards	
also	demonstrated	the	strength	of	our	relationship 	
with	M&S,	which	stretches	back	over	30	years.	
Highlights	of	our	work	with	M&S	this	year	include:
•		 The	relaunch	of	the	Food	on	the	Move	sandwich	offer	
to	make	both	the	individual	products	and	the	range	
more	attractive	and	easier	for	customers	to	navigate
•		 The	development	of	a	new	softer	fresher	bread	for 	
all	our	sandwiches	
•		 The	continuing	success	of	the	new	Simply	Fuller	
Longer	range
•		 Successfully	launching	new	products	for	the 	
fast-growing	M&S	Café	range
•		 Relaunch	of	the	premium	Gastropub	sandwich 	
in	a	bag	range.
We	have	continued	to	align	our	activities	with	the 	
M&S	Plan	A	agenda	by	developing,	for	example,	an	
innovative	scheme	to	use	cold	air	from	outside	to 	
cool	our	production	facilities.	
Of	 the	 £15m	 new	 business	 won	 from	 M&S,	 £10m	
was	 taken	on	last	year	and	the	remaining	£15m	was	
transferred	this	year. 	 In	 addition,	 we	 achieved	 £6m	 of	
organic	 growth,	 driven	by	new	products	and	relaunches	
into	growing	markets.	The	loss	of	the	Supplair	short-haul	
flights	business,	as	reported	in	last	year’s	annual	report,	
had	a	negative	sales	impact 	 during	 2010	 of	 £5m.	 Headline	
growth	 from	 the	 new	business	wins	was	supported	by	a	
strong	underlying	performance,	particularly	in	the	second	
half	of	the	year	as	consumer	confidence	and	new	
product	launches	boosted	sales.	Like	many	food	 Uniq	Annual	Report	and	Accounts	2010 11
Directors’ report
Business review | Food to Go
producers	we	experienced	raw	materials	price 	 inflation	
during	 the	 year.	 We	 were	 able	 to	 meet	 these	increased	
costs	 by	 finding	 efficiencies	 in	 our	 business	 and,	where	
possible,	 agreeing	 price	 increases	 with	 our	 customers.
Site review – Spalding
Uniq’s	Spalding	site	produces	private	label	prepared	
dressed	salads	for	major	retailers	and	food	service	
companies.	The	main	product	areas	are	potato	salad,	
coleslaw	and	pasta	and	variety	salads.	Its	location	in	
Lincolnshire	means	it	can	source	over	half	its	fresh	salad	
ingredients	from	within	a	70-mile	radius.	Its	commitment	
to	its	customers,	long	heritage	in	the	region	and	highly	
efficient	management	processes	have	made	it	the	UK’s	
second	largest	supplier	in	the	market.
The	Co-operative	business	win	reported	in	last	year’s	
annual	report	was	successfully	serviced	during	the	year.	
We	invested	in	increased	mayonnaise	production	and	
storage	capacity	at	Spalding	to	cope	with	the	increased	
volume	and	peak	demand.	Our	reputation	for	service,	
quality	and	innovation	helped	us	to	grow	our	sales	with	
all	the	major	retailers	we	serve,	and	post	an	overall	sales	
increase	of	24%*	by	value	for	2010.	Successful	product	
innovation,	particularly	in	growing	niche	markets	such 	
as	entertaining	at	home,	were	achieved	through	careful	
market	research,	consumer	insight	and	close	working	
with	our	customers.
However,	 the	 market	 continued	 to	 suffer	 from	 oversupply	
in	2010,	making	it	difficult	to	grow	margin	alongside	
sales.	This	also	made	it	more	challenging	to	pass	on	
inflationary	 costs	 to	 our	 customers.	 Although	 these	 were	
relatively	 low	 during	 the	 first	 part	 of	 the	 year,	 final	 quarter	
inflation	grew	more	sharply	and	we	expect	this	trend 	
to	continue	into	2011.
The	 significant	 progress	 we	 have	 made	 during	 the	 year	 in	
further	 improving	 efficiency	 has	 helped	 us	 to	 maintain	 our	
competitive	 position	 and	 achieve	 profitability	 in	 challenging	
markets.	 Actions	 taken	 such	 as	 smarter	 buying,	 increased	
labour	 efficiencies,	 reduced	 waste	 and	 energy	 use,	 and	
more	 agile	 supply	 chains	 have	 all	 contributed	 to	 strongly	
positioning	 our	 business	 in	 a	 highly	 competitive	 market.
* All comparisons to sales growth from prior year are adjusted to reflect the additional 
53rd week in 2010.
Growing markets 
– Café culture
UK	Café	sales	are	worth	£5bn,	with	M&S	Café	the	sixth	largest	
operator	in	the	market.	The	three	largest	coffee	shops	(Costa,	
Starbucks	 and	 Caffe	 Nero)	 come	 from	 the	 branded	 coffee	 shop	
sector.	 The	 branded	 coffee	 shop	 market	 grew	 by	 12.9%	 last	 year	 to	
£1.9bn.	 M&S	 operates	 in	 the	 non-specialist	 sector	 which	 is	 showing	
the	 fastest	 outlet	 growth.	 As	 the	 supplier	 of	 more	 than	 90%	 of	 M&S	
Café	 chilled	 savoury	 products,	 we	 are	 well	 positioned	 to	 benefit.	
It	is	a	very	discerning	and	fast-moving	market	that	requires	
attractive,	 great	 tasting	 products	 with	 high-quality,	 fresh	 ingredients.	
Working	closely	with	M&S,	we	carried	out	carefully	tailored	
consumer	research,	and	developed	new	lines	in	2010.	As	a 	
result,	Uniq’s	sales	in	this	category	grew	by	12%	during	2010.	
Flexible production 
– winning the World Cup
Success	 in	 Food	 to	 Go	 means	 being	 able	 to	 adapt	 quickly	 and	
efficiently	 to	 rapidly	 changing	 demand.	 Summer	 is	 always	 the	
busiest	time	for	dressed	salads,	but	the	World	Cup	added	
further	 demand	 for	 our	 large	 sharing	 packs	 of	 pasta	 salads	 and	
coleslaw,	with	customer	orders	spiking	by	50%.	Not	only	was	
our	Spalding	site	able	to	fully	meet	this	demand,	they	did	so	
without	any	negative	impact	on	their	average	99.97%	service	
quality	rate. CSR Vision
We are committed to the sustained
well-being of our Business, our People, 
our Partners and our Environment. Our honest
intent is to be socially, ethically and environmentally 
responsible in everything we do. We will always seek
to understand and comply with the appropriate legal
and regulatory requirements and go beyond this to
drive sustainability through 5 key pillars delivered
through engaged site teams 
  
 
Our people
and culture
Vision
Engagement
FareShare
Values
Training/
Development
Employee/
Wellbeing
Charity
Local Health and Safety Water Customers
Waste Suppliers
Energy NGOs
Packaging Regulatory
Refrigeration Experts
Transport
Food Safety
Healthy
Our
community
Our health,
safety and
wellbeing
Our
environment
Our
business
partners
Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2010 12
Directors’ report
Corporate Social Responsibility
Our aim
We seek to actively engage all 
employees in our vision and wish  
to create a culture where everyone 
brings all their talent and commitment  
to drive our success every day. 
Summary of what we are doing: 
•  A clear vision and set of values 
which we live every day
•  Investment in capability and 
growth through training and 
development
•  Cultural surveys to measure 
engagement and drive action  
to improve
• A fair deal and a stake in success
Progress
3 of the 4 sites have 
undertaken baseline 
cultural surveys with 
a high engagement 
of 83%.
Continued roll out 
of the Uniq Learning 
System.
Employee absence 
reduction across 
the group.
Long-term promises 
Continued 
improvement and 
engagement in 
the process, with 
increasing scores, 
making Uniq a great 
place to work.
Talent identification 
and succession 
planning.
Sustained low 
employee absence.
Our governance
Uniq is a devolved organisation and 
the principal accountability for CSR 
rests with the Managing Directors 
of each of our operating sites. As an 
ethical food producer we recognise 
that the management of social, 
ethical and environmental issues 
requires everyone’s engagement. 
Our People  
and Culture
Guidance is provided by recognised 
advisers, endorsed by the CSR forum, 
who report annually to the Uniq Board. 
We aim to follow the standards of the 
Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) in 
our key activities and in future reporting.
The group, and all the associated sites, 
work within four guiding principles:
• Shared responsibility
• Honesty and accountability
• Sustainable progress
• Demonstrable compliance Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2010 13
Directors’ report
Business review | CSR
Progress
In 2010 the group was 
involved in 44 charity/
community giving 
projects (Financial and 
in-kind). This included 
sending products to 
FareShare to feed 
the homeless.
Numbers of local 
resident complaints 
were down on 
previous years.
Long-term promises 
The promise is 
to increase our 
involvement for the 
good of charities 
we support.
The group aims to 
be good neighbours, 
reducing our negative 
impact on the 
local community.
Our aim
Our commitment is to make positive 
contributions to our local community 
through employment, education, 
good neighbourliness and support 
of local causes.
Summary of what we are doing:
Principle areas of activity are; community 
engagement and charitable giving 
to both local and national charities.
We attempt to mitigate our noise and 
transport environmental impacts at 
all times.
Case Study: Employee
cultural surveys
During 2009 and 2010, the group 
rolled out a detailed employee cultural 
survey, covering topics such as 
engagement, great place to work, 
fairness, etc. The aim was to provide 
objective data, from which we can 
improve and make Uniq a great place 
to work and a workplace of choice.
Case Study: Uniq Learning
System (ULS) 
In order to enhance the skills 
and knowledge of our employees, 
Uniq embarked on a learning 
journey. This involved undertaking 
a skills need analysis, writing 
and rolling out competence based 
learning units. These are verified, 
by the departmental and 
site-based assessors. 
A member of Northampton’s staff said: ‘It has helped 
me develop myself, reduce waste and do a better job… 
it makes us feel we do worthwhile work.’
The group has also supported FareShare in helping feed 
the vulnerable in our community. Two sites support their 
local air ambulances.
Case Study: Minimising noise 
impact at Minsterley
The site has in the past received a 
significant number of noise complaints 
relating to steam valve pressure relief 
systems. On investigation, it was found 
that they were venting and creating a 
noise issue. Most of the offending valves 
have been replaced, thereby reducing 
complaints by 50% since 2008.
Case Study: Local community 
support at Evercreech
Evercreech have engaged with their 
local community; running fun-days, 
sponsoring school crossing patrols 
and being present at farm shop 
open days. The site has also been 
involved at the local Bath & West 
Agricultural Show.
Our Community Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2010 14
Directors’ report
Business review | CSR
Our aim
We believe good environmental 
practice is good business practice. 
We are committed to environmental 
sustainability in setting ambitious 
goals in six key impact areas: waste, 
water, energy, packaging, refrigeration 
and transport. We will engage our 
employees in lean manufacturing 
systems to deliver our and our 
customers environmental goals. 
Our Environment
Summary of what we are doing: 
Examples include:
•  Water: We use less and investigate 
ways of using recycled water 
and using less water in our 
cooling systems.
•  Waste: Implementing lean 
manufacturing across the group 
and diversion of waste away 
from landfill.
•  Energy: Reduction in consumption 
using schemes such as; low energy 
lighting, free winter cooling, bio-diesel 
extraction from effluent, leak 
reduction and lagging campaigns.
•  Packaging: We are working towards 
the use of recycled packaging in our 
packaging, target lower weights 
and reduce excessive packaging. 
•  Transport: Implementing green 
car travel policies.
Case Study: Reduction of waste to 
landfill at Spalding and Minsterley
Spalding have already reached 
<1% waste to landfill, with Minsterley 
going from 80% (January 2009), 
to 7% waste to landfill in November 
2010. At Minsterley, this has been 
achieved by segregation and diversion 
of product to animal feed and 
utilisation of waste to energy facilities. 
Progress
Landfill waste across the group has reduced to 
29.2% from 38.2% (2009).
Zero Waste to Landfill by 2015, across  
the group.
Total energy consumption has reduced to 
1136KWhr/Tonne of finished product from 
1213 KwHrs/Te (2009), giving a 6% reduction.
20% Reduction in Energy (KWHrs per tonne) 
in 2015 from 2007 baseline.
Continual packaging weight reduction 
and recyclability.
Minimise CO
2
 transport and business miles,
by maximising use of video conferencing.
No HCFCs in use in the group by 2015.
The group has reduced water consumption in 
2010 to 8.4m
3
/tonne of finished product, from 
a 2009 figure of 9.2m
3
, giving a 9% reduction.
20% reduction in water use by 2015 from 
2007 baseline. A number of sites have already 
achieved this target.
Long-term promises
Case Study: Free Cooling
at Northampton
Northampton have managed to 
change their refrigeration equipment 
to allow them to take advantage of 
cool winter external temperatures. 
To this end, the refrigeration is 
provided by cool air taken from 
outside the factory.
Case Study: Investigation of 
alternative technology
The Spalding site is investigating the 
use of wind turbines. This is a long 
journey which analyses bat and 
bird migration patterns over several 
seasons, to decrease the impact on 
their numbers. The use of renewable 
energy is seen as a way forward 
within Uniq. Meanwhile, Minsterley 
is investigating the use of anaerobic 
digestion (AD), to make methane and 
subsequently electricity from 
it’s waste. Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2010 15
Directors’ report
Business review | CSR
Our aim
Is to engage and collaborate with all 
our internal and external stakeholders 
to ensure we continually optimise 
our ethical performance.
Summary of what we are doing: 
•  We are working with suppliers 
and using auditable databases 
(SEDEX) to ensure our critical 
suppliers are working to 
recognised ethical standards.
• Our sites are SEDEX compliant
•  We are working with key customers, 
to understand their needs, in order 
to build improving internal standards.
•  We are working with key external 
advisers, and regulators to ensure 
improvement and understanding.
Our Business  
Partners
Our aim
We are committed to ensuring that 
we provide and maintain a safe place 
of work and help our people make 
informed health choices. We will 
continue to innovate healthy options 
and market leading safe products 
for our customers.
Summary of what we are doing: 
Uniq are improving workplace safety 
by decreasing the number and severity 
of incidents. We have improved the 
provision of healthier meals and 
nutritional advice and have promoted 
active lifestyles at home and work.
Food safety is embedded in the way 
we work and we continue to achieve 
a year on year improvement.
Uniq is actively supporting our 
customers’ health agendas by 
increasing the range of healthy and 
wholesome options available to 
the retailers and end consumer. 
The aim is to increase the healthier 
food options.
Our Health, Safety  
and Wellbeing
Progress
Critical suppliers 
SEDEX registered 
75%.
Progress
Reportable Accident 
rate down to 
713/100,000 
employees from 849 
(2009), both are much 
below the food industry 
average (1,350).
All sites scored 
grade A in the 
British Retailer 
Consortium Audit.
Long-term promises 
100% of critical 
suppliers by end 
2011.
Long-term promises 
Strive to zero Health  
& Safety Executive 
reportable accidents. 
Enhanced external 
CSR communications 
(e.g. website, CSR 
annual report).
Year on year 
improvement 
in food safety.
Case Study: The benefits of
health surveillance at Spalding
To raise awareness on National 
Diabetes day occupational health at 
Spalding ran a screening programme 
for staff and employees. As a result, 
a number of individuals were 
identified to be possibly suffering 
from the condition and were advised 
to seek further medical advice.
Case Study: ROSPA Gold Awards 
All sites in the group have undergone 
a fantastic transformation in safety 
performance in recent years. 
Northampton have been awarded 
a ROSPA Gold Award for the past 
6 years. This places them amongst 
the best safety performers within 
the food industry. Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2010 16
Directors’ report
Financial review 2010 
This financial review covers the activities of the group 
for the 12 months ended 31 December 2010. The group 
completed the disposals of its overseas businesses 
realising funds to settle its outstanding borrowings which 
were paid off in full at the end of the year. In March 2011 
the group completed a debt for equity swap with its 
pension fund, releasing the group from its onerous 
liabilities to the pension fund. As this was not completed 
until 2011, the results for 2010 are not affected by this 
restructuring. However, we have included a proforma 
balance sheet and restated profit before tax statement
at the end of this section to illustrate the significant 
impact of the deal.
Revenue for continuing operations was up 6.8% on the 
prior year (adjusted for 53rd week). The operating result 
before significant items for the group moved from £1.9m 
loss to £4.1m profit.
Group costs
Group costs represent the cost of running the parent 
company and the head office at Gerrards Cross. As a 
result of the downsizing of the group, we have reduced 
the size of the head office reducing costs to £4.2m in 
the year, a saving of £2.1m over last year.
Finance costs
This is split into three types of costs: operational, pension 
related and accounting.
Operational finance charges include bank interest and 
amortisation of bank fees and are related to the ongoing 
operations of the business. Operations finance charges 
for 2010 were £1.7m which was £1.7m lower than the 
previous year due to the reduction of borrowings on the 
realisation of overseas operations. During the year, as 
part of our agreement with the pension fund, we were 
required to hold surplus funds in a separate Disposal 
Reinvestment account rather than pay down our outstanding 
debt with the bank. This caused finance charges to be 
higher than they would otherwise have been.
Pension finance charges cover two items: net pension 
interest that is charged as part of IAS19 and interest 
earned on the secure account. IAS19 pension interest 
is a reflection of the balance of pension assets and liabilities 
and is set at the beginning of the year. The net charge for 
2010 was increased over the prior year due to the pension 
fund de-risking its asset base to gilts. The pension interest 
charge for 2011 will be significantly smaller due to the removal 
of the main pension fund from the group in March 2011. 
Interest earned relates to the income on the secure account 
balance of £97m which was lower year-on-year due to 
lower interest rates. This balance, with accrued interest, 
was paid over to the pension fund in October 2010.
Accounting finance charges are other finance items and 
are generally non-cash. In 2010, this was a net income of 
£0.3m compared to a charge of £1.2m in 2009 and relates 
to foreign exchange differences on cash balances across 
the group.
Significant items 
Significant items are those items of financial performance 
which because of size or incidence, require separate 
disclosure. The net significant item for continuing operations 
in 2010 was a charge of £2.4m. This included £1.9m of 
costs in relation to the closure of our cottage cheese site 
at Evercreech (£1.5m of asset impairment and £0.4m of 
redundancy costs); £0.3m of redundancy costs and £0.1m 
of asset impairment incurred due to the downsizing of 
the group head office; £2.7m of costs in relation to the 
pension solution and a credit of £2.6m in relation to 
the Wincanton settlement. 
We have incurred a significant level of costs in exploring 
and implementing an acceptable solution for our pension 
fund liability. Some of these costs have been incurred in 
2010 but we expected to incur further costs of approximately 
£3.1m in 2011 as the solution is completed. We reached a 
full and final settlement of our litigation with Wincanton in 
February 2011 which resulted in us making a final payment 
of £2.3m. The provision we were holding for this litigation  Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2010 17
Directors’ report
Financial review
at £4.9m was in excess of the final payment and therefore 
the balance of the provision has been released.
Carrying Value of Minsterley
At the year end we assessed the balance sheet carrying 
value of Minsterley (£48.4m) by carrying out an impairment 
review. This review indicated, on the basis of the expected 
cashflows in the group’s budgets and strategy plans, that 
assets were adequately supported by the future cash flows 
and no impairment was required. Since the year end, the 
group has carried out a detailed review of the Desserts 
operations in the light of recent profit performance and 
announced sales losses. The revised plans for Minsterley 
are dependent upon securing support from our customers. 
Should this support not be forthcoming, the carrying 
value may not be supportable.
Taxation
There is no tax charge in the year for continuing operations 
although the group made a profit after discontinued items, 
as brought forward losses have been used where possible 
to mitigate any tax exposures. The group has substantial 
tax losses (£83m), unclaimed capital allowances (£214m) 
and future tax relief for pension contributions (£73m) 
brought forward. These tax attributes exclude the losses 
that have been created through additional contributions 
as part of the debt for equity swap with the pension fund 
in 2011. The growth and strategy of the business will 
accelerate the use of these losses.
Discontinued operations
Discontinued operations include businesses which were 
disposed of during the year. The disposal of the Northern 
European operations was completed in the first half of 
2010: the Netherlands businesses on 9 January and the 
German/Poland businesses on 21 April. The results of 
these businesses have been included in the group up to 
the date of disposal.
Profit after tax and before significant items for the discontinued 
businesses was £3.2m. Total significant items were a credit of 
£32.2m which includes a charge of £0.7m for onerous leases 
on group properties offset by £32.9m of profit on disposal of 
the businesses. The profit on disposal includes a credit of 
£30.3m relating to foreign exchange gains previously credited 
to reserves which have been recycled to the profit and loss 
account on disposal.
Summary results
2010
£m
2009
£m
UK trading operating profit 8.3 4.4
Group costs (4.2) (6.3)
Operating profit/(loss) before 
significant items 4.1 (1.9)
Finance costs (excluding pension related) (1.4) (4.6)
Profit/(loss) before significant items 2.7 (6.5)
Significant items (2.4) (0.7)
Pension finance costs (11.5) (11.3)
Loss before tax (11.2) (18.5)
Tax charge – (0.4)
Loss from continuing operations (11.2) (18.9)
Discontinued items net of tax 35.4 (2.0)
Profit/(loss) attributable to shareholders 24.2 (20.9)
Basic profit/(loss) per share 21.3p (18.4)p
Funds flow
2010
£m
Operating profit 4.1
Depreciation and amortisation 9.9 
EBITDA 14.0
Net capital expenditure (15.0)
Increase in working capital (4.0)
Continuing operating cash flow (5.0)
Provisions and significant items (3.1)
Tax (1.1)
Discontinued operations 26.8
Pension contributions (0.9)
Other (1.9)
Total funds flow 14.8
Opening net debt (4.0)
Closing net cash 10.8 Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2010 18
Directors’ report
Funds flow
During the year the continuing group had a £5.0m operating 
cash outflow. This includes £15.0m spend on capital 
expenditure of which £10.6m related to the completion of 
the Desserts project at the Minsterley site. Working capital 
outflow for continuing operations in the year was £4.0m 
which reflects the increased pressure from suppliers. During 
the year the continuing group spent £3.1m on provisions and 
significant items: £1.3m related to restructuring costs in 
Desserts and £1.8m related to group head office restructuring 
and pension legacy costs. The provision balance at the 
year end of £5.8m includes £2.3m which was paid in final 
settlement to Wincanton in February 2011, £1.3m in relation 
to overseas disposals, £1.2m for onerous leases on 
properties, £0.3m relating to Desserts restructuring costs 
and £0.7m of pension legacy fees. Tax payments of £1.1m in 
the year relate to tax assessed on the disposal of St Hubert 
which was completed in 2008. Net cash received from 
discontinued operations of £26.8m represents the total cash 
flow of the discontinued businesses to the date of disposal 
plus the proceeds from disposals after payment of disposal 
costs. Pension contributions relate to payments made to the 
Pension Trustee to fund transfers out and pension costs 
and interest costs of £1.5m reflect the level of borrowings 
maintained through the year. Total funds flow for the year 
was £14.8m.
Working capital and credit insurance
As noted in previous years, the group has experienced 
significant pressure from suppliers on payment terms 
and rates due to the withdrawal of credit insurance on 
the company and the impact of the pension deficit on 
the group’s balance sheet. This has resulted in a further 
worsening of the group’s working capital position and 
a cash outflow. Having completed the pension deal, 
the group expects to be able to improve the availability 
of credit insurance through discussions with relevant 
insurers and therefore return to more normal trading 
terms with its suppliers.
Funding
Opening net debt at the beginning of the year was £4.0m 
including £6.1m of net cash in the discontinued businesses. 
The disposal of these businesses gave rise to cash proceeds 
which, in accordance with a previous agreement with 
the pension fund, were placed in a separate Disposal 
Reinvestment account during the period of negotiation 
with the pension fund to find a final solution. We maintained 
our borrowings and the net cash in Disposal Reinvestment 
account until 31 December 2010 when our bank facility 
expired and all borrowings were repaid in full. Net cash 
at the year end after payment of borrowings was £10.8m.
We have negotiated a new bank facility with Lloyds 
TSB which was conditional on completing the debt for 
equity swap with the pension fund. This process was 
completed on 22 March 2011 and the new bank facility 
became available. This new facility provides for a £15m 
term loan, amortising at £3m each year for three years 
with a lump sum repayment at the end of the facility, 
and a £10m revolving credit facility to fund working 
capital requirements.
Pensions
The group operates a main UK scheme and a number 
of other small pension funds including an unfunded 
overcap scheme, medical benefits provision and small 
legacy scheme.
The IAS19 deficit on the main UK scheme at the beginning 
of the year was £227.8m which was reduced significantly 
during the year by the payment of the monies in the secure 
account of £97.6m. Other movements on the deficit include 
£29.4m return on assets and £40.5m relating to the unwinding 
of the liabilities. There was no service charge as the 
scheme was closed to further accrual in 2009. The closing 
deficit was £142.1m (excluding a provision of £3.4m for 
scheme expenses).
Post balance events
Pensions – update for 2011
In March 2011, the group completed a deal to swap the 
debt owed to its pension fund for equity in the company. 
This deal has removed the main UK pension deficit from 
the balance sheet of the group but as this deal was 
completed in 2011, this is not reflected in these financial 
statements. To illustrate the significant impact that this 
deal will have on the group, a proforma Balance Sheet is 
shown in the table opposite. The profit before tax (shown 
opposite) has been restated as if the pension fund had 
not existed throughout the financial year.
Significant VAT recovery
In March 2011, the group recovered £2.6m from HMRC 
in relation to various claims under the Fleming ruling. 
This repayment consisted of £1.0m of VAT recovery and 
£1.6m of interest on the claim. The group is continuing 
to claim further amounts under the Fleming ruling. Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2010 19
Directors’ report
Financial review
Proforma Balance Sheet – Effect of the Pension Deal
£m 2010
Adj
(note 1)
Pro
forma
Assets
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment 80.4 80.4 
Intangible assets 30.5 30.5 
Deferred tax assets 13.9 13.9 
124.8 124.8 
Current assets
Inventories 13.8 13.8 
Trade and other receivables 33.2 33.2 
Cash and cash equivalents 10.8 (3.3) 7.5 
57.8 54.5 
Total assets 182.6 179.3 
Liabilities
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings – 11.0 11.0
Retirement benefit obligations 149.4 (145.6) 3.8 
Provisions 0.8 0.8 
150.2 15.6 
Current liabilities
Borrowings – 3.0 3.0 
Trade and other payables 41.6 41.6 
Provisions 5.0 5.0 
Income tax liabilities 7.7 7.7 
54.3 57.3 
Total liabilities 204.5 72.9 
Total assets less liabilities (21.9) 106.4
Equity
Shareholders’ equity
Total called up share capital 11.5 (10.3) 1.2 
Share premium 0.1 64.5 64.6 
Other reserves (330.2) (330.2) 
Retained earnings 296.7 74.1 370.8 
Total equity (21.9) 106.4
Note 1 – The adjustments reflect the issue of shares by the parent company at the closing 
price on 16 March 2011 to the pension fund in exchange for the cancellation of the IAS19 
pension deficit and the payment of £14m as a final contribution to the pension fund, funded 
by the new bank facility.
Restated Profit before tax – Effect of the Pension Deal
£m 2010
Adj
(note 2) Restated
Continuing operations
Revenue 311.9 311.9
Cost of sales (264.3) (264.3)
Gross profit 47.6 47.6
Distribution expenses (18.3) (18.3)
Administrative expenses (25.2) (25.2)
Operating profit before 
significant items 4.1 4.1
Significant items (2.4) 2.7 0.3
Operating profit after 
significant items 1.7 2.7 4.4
Net pension interest (12.1) 12.1 –
Finance income 1.2 (0.6) 0.6
Finance expenses (2.0) (2.0)
Net finance changes (12.9) 11.5 (1.4)
(Loss)/profit before tax (11.2) 14.2 3.0
Note 2 – The adjustments reflect the removal of the significant cost in relation to the 
management of the group’s pension fund, the pension interest charge and the finance 
income related to the monies previously held in the secure account for the benefit of 
the pension fund from 1 January 2010.
Business performance measurement
The group measures its performance using a series of 
KPIs, both financial and non-financial. The financial KPIs 
are: sales growth; gross margin percentage; operating 
profit percentage and return on capital. The non-financial 
KPIs vary according to business unit.
Senior management are remunerated by bonuses 
based on group and divisional financial performance 
and in 2010, by delivery of the pension solution 
and by share incentives, more details of which 
are included in the remuneration report.
Financial risk
The group is subject to financial risks, but has 
procedures and controls in place to mitigate 
these risks. The group’s major financial risks 
can be split as follows:
Market risk – Market risk can be broken down into 
currency risk and interest rate risk. The group 
has formal procedures and policies to mitigate 
these risks.
Credit risk – The majority of the group’s customers 
are large, established retail organisations with a good 
credit record. As a result the group does not have 
significant concentrations of credit risk.
Liquidity risk – During 2010 the group operated 
within its banking facility which expired at the end 
of December 2010. A new bank facility of £25m has 
been negotiated and was available for use by the 
group from March 2011. Liquidity risk remains low 
due for the group due to formal procedures and 
policies to manage cash resources.
Martin Beer
Finance Director
26 April 2011 Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2010 20
Directors’ report
Principal risks
This section updates what the board believes are 
the most significant risks and uncertainties which 
are specific to Uniq’s businesses.
Minsterley profitability
Minsterley has a history of losses and has not generated a 
profit in any reporting period since the site was acquired in 
2005. In 2009, the Paignton site was closed and volume was 
successfully consolidated into the Minsterley site. In the last 
five years, there have been investments in the infrastructure, 
service and quality at the Minsterley site and financial results 
have improved significantly.
Management recognises the recovery of profitability 
of the Minsterley site has taken longer than expected. 
The site serves four sub-sectors of the market: Cadbury 
chocolate desserts, premium differentiated yoghurt, 
premium and everyday desserts. The Cadbury, yoghurt 
and premium dessert sub-sectors are either profitable or 
on track to achieve profitability, while the site losses are 
all concentrated in the everyday desserts sub-sector. 
The Desserts review has approved a series of steps 
to address and stop the losses in everyday desserts. 
Minsterley produces Cadbury desserts under a co-packing 
agreement. Additional capacity has been successfully installed 
and the Cadbury manufacturing facility at Minsterley is highly 
efficient. However, the anticipated growth has not yet 
materialised and there are ongoing discussions with the 
customer regarding the terms of the co-packing agreement. 
There is a risk that Cadbury volumes could continue to decline, 
or that the co-packing agreement could be amended or 
terminated. Any of these outcomes could have an adverse 
impact on the group’s operations and its financial condition.
Customers
The group is heavily dependent on a limited number of 
significant grocery retailers in the UK and one major retailer, 
M&S, represents over half of the group’s sales. In line with 
industry practice, the majority of Uniq’s UK sales are made by 
means of short-term standard purchase orders rather than 
long-term contracts. In recent years, the major multiple 
retailers have increased their share of the UK grocery market 
and price competition between those retailers has intensified. 
This price competition has led the major multiple retailers 
to seek lower prices from their suppliers. Uniq has created 
a decentralised, entrepreneurial business structure to 
enable it to get closer to its customers and to mitigate 
this risk. However, there can be no assurance that Uniq’s 
customers will continue to purchase its products at 
current volumes, at current pricing or on current terms.
The credit insurance market and the creditworthiness 
of the group and its customers
As is common in the food industry, many suppliers use 
credit insurance to reduce the risk of exposure to the group. 
The credit extended by suppliers is an important part of 
the group’s funding. Over the last few years, the level of 
insurance available to the group’s suppliers has significantly 
reduced, owing to a general tightening of credit insurance 
and the perceived extent of the group’s UK pension deficit. 
The removal of the pension deficit will create the necessary 
conditions for credit insurance cover to be reinstated and 
therefore, in time, this risk will reduce.
Weather and seasonality
Sales of some products, such as salad products, are 
materially affected by unseasonable weather and seasonality. 
Sales can be materially increased or reduced as a result 
of weather fluctuations and seasonality.
Innovation
The group operates in competitive markets and in fast moving 
sectors of the food industry. Its success is dependent on 
anticipating changes in consumer preferences, including 
dietary and nutritional concerns and on successful new 
product development and product relaunches in response 
to such changes in consumer behaviour. The group’s future 
results will depend on its ability successfully to identify, 
develop, manufacture, market and sell new or improved 
products in these changing markets.
Changes in the cost and availability of raw materials
The group purchases its raw materials, many of which 
are commodities, from numerous suppliers. There are 
a number of factors affecting the price of these raw 
materials, such as quality, availability, demand, weather 
conditions, currency fluctuations, agricultural policies 
and political instability. Many of these raw materials are 
subject to potentially significant price fluctuations. 
The group will generally not be a sufficiently large buyer 
to have any control over these prices and may be unable 
to pass on such price increases to its customers in 
whole or part or without a period of delay. 21 Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Directors’ report
Directors’ 
responsibilities
The directors are responsible for preparing the 
Annual Report and the group and parent company 
financial statements in accordance with applicable 
law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare group and 
parent company financial statements for each financial 
year. Under that law they are required to prepare the 
group financial statements in accordance with IFRSs as 
adopted by the EU and applicable law and have elected 
to prepare the parent company financial statements on 
the same basis.
Under company law the directors must not approve the 
financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give 
a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the group and 
parent company and of their profit or loss for that period. 
In preparing each of the group and parent company 
financial statements, the directors are required to:
•  select suitable accounting policies and then apply 
them consistently;
•  make judgements and estimates that are reasonable 
and prudent;
•  state whether they have been prepared in accordance 
with IFRSs as adopted by the EU; and
•  prepare the financial statements on the going 
concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume 
that the group and the parent company will 
continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate 
accounting records that are sufficient to show and 
explain the parent company’s transactions and disclose 
with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial 
position of the parent company and enable them to 
ensure that its financial statements comply with the 
Companies Act 2006. They have general responsibility 
for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them 
to safeguard the assets of the group and to prevent 
and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the directors 
are also responsible for preparing a Directors’ Report 
and a Directors’ Remuneration Report that complies 
with that law and those regulations.
The directors have also decided to prepare voluntarily 
a Corporate Governance Statement as if the company 
were required to comply with the Listing Rules and the 
Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules of the Financial 
Services Authority in relation to those matters.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance 
and integrity of the corporate and financial information 
included on the company’s website. Legislation in the 
UK governing the preparation and dissemination of 
financial statements may differ from legislation in 
other jurisdictions.
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge:
•  the financial statements, prepared in accordance 
with the applicable set of accounting standards, 
give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, 
financial position and profit or loss of the company 
and the undertakings included in the consolidation 
taken as a whole; and
•  the directors’ report includes a fair review of the 
development and performance of the business 
and the position of the issuer and the undertakings 
included in the consolidation taken as a whole, 
together with a description of the principal risks 
and uncertainties that they face. 
Geoff Eaton
Chief Executive
Martin Beer
Finance Director
26 April 2011 Martin Beer
Finance director
John Warren
Chairman
Geoff Eaton 
Chief executive
Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2010 22
Directors’ report
John Warren
Chairman * † ‡ //
Joined the board in 2007, 
served as Interim Chairman 
from 25 June 2009 and 
appointed Chairman on 
14 April 2010. He is also 
chairman of the audit 
committee and the pension 
committee. He was formerly 
finance director of United 
Biscuits plc and WH Smith plc. 
He is a fellow of the Institute 
of Chartered Accountants in 
England and Wales and is a 
non-executive director of The 
Rank Group plc, Bovis Homes 
Group plc and Spectris plc.
Geoff Eaton 
Chief executive ‡ //
Joined the board as chief 
executive in 2005. He was 
formerly chief executive of 
ISIS Research from 2001 
to 2004. Prior to that he 
spent 13 years with Tomkins 
plc where he held a number 
of senior executive roles 
including executive director 
at RHM in the UK, executive 
vice-president at Gates 
Corporation in the US and 
head of corporate development 
for the Tomkins Group. He is 
a chartered accountant, having 
qualified with Arthur Andersen.
Martin Beer 
Finance director //
Appointed to the board in 
2002 as finance director. 
He is a chartered accountant, 
having qualified with Price 
Waterhouse. He has been 
with the group since 1990 
in various financial roles, 
including finance director of 
Unigate Dairies for five years.
Belinda Gooding 
Non-executive director * † ‡
Joined the board in 2006. 
She is chief executive of 
Roots & Wings, a trustee of 
Chelsea Physic Garden and 
a non-executive director 
of Strutt & Parker. She was 
formerly chief executive of 
2 Save Energy Ltd, a non-
executive director of Biloxi 
Southern Foods, Sir Hans 
Sloane chocolates and Pet’s 
Kitchen and chief executive 
of Duchy Originals Ltd from 
2000 to 2007. Prior to that she 
spent ten years in marketing 
roles with Mars (Masterfoods) 
and was group marketing 
director of Dairy Crest 
Group plc. 
Board of directors 
and senior 
management Dr Matthew Litobarski 
Non-executive director 
Belinda Gooding
Non-executive director 
Stephen Draisey
Managing director
Andrew McDonald
General counsel and 
company secretary
23 Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Directors’ report
Board of directors
Dr Matthew Litobarski 
Non-executive director * † ‡
Appointed to the board in 2005, 
served as interim senior 
non-executive director from 
25 June 2009 and appointed 
senior non-executive director 
on 14 April 2010. He is chairman 
of the remuneration committee 
and, since 25 June 2009, the 
interim senior non-executive 
director. He is chairman of 
Devin AD (Bulgarian mineral 
water company), and chair of 
the council of Nacro (a leading 
UK crime reduction charity). 
He was previously president, 
global supply chain, with 
Cadbury Schweppes plc, having 
spent 19 years with them in 
various senior management 
roles. He has a doctorate 
in physical chemistry from 
Nottingham University.
Stephen Draisey
Managing director 
•
Appointed in 2008. He has 
a wealth of experience in the 
UK food industry having held 
a number of senior positions 
during a 17 year career with 
Geest/Bakkavor, ultimately 
as managing director of its 
desserts, ready meals, soups, 
sauces, pasta and chilled 
bread division. Prior to that he 
was with Northern Foods plc 
and J Marr Seafoods Ltd.
Andrew McDonald
General counsel and 
company secretary
Joined Uniq in 2005 as general 
counsel and appointed company 
secretary in February 2009. 
He is secretary to the board 
and each of the four board 
committees and has 
responsibility for corporate 
affairs, insurance and all 
legal matters affecting the 
group. He qualified as a 
solicitor in 1998 and worked 
as a corporate lawyer for 
Freshfields Bruckhaus 
Deringer before moving 
into industry.
*	 Member	of	the	remuneration	committee
†	Member	of	the	audit	committee
‡	Member	of	the	nomination	committee
//	Member	of	the	pension	committee*
•	 Not	a	member	of	the	Uniq	Plc	board Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2010 24
Directors’ report
Report of the directors
Principal activity
Uniq is a convenience food group that is now focused on 
the UK and operates and manages two divisions: Food to 
Go and Desserts. During the year the group disposed of 
all its remaining European operations in Northern Europe 
(Germany, the Netherlands and Poland). In the view of 
the Directors, the group’s likely future development will 
continue to centre on the main product categories in 
which it now operates.
Business review, KPIs and risk review
A review of activities of the group and divisions, key 
performance indicators (KPIs), an outline of the principal 
risks and uncertainties which management believes 
are specific to the group and an indication of future 
developments are set out throughout the directors’ 
report, but in particular in the Chairman’s statement on 
pages 2 and 3, the Chief Executive’s review on pages 
4 and 5, the market overview on pages 6 and 7, the 
business review on pages 8 to 15, the financial review 
on pages 16 to 19 and in the principal risks on page 20.
Dividends
No dividends were paid during 2010 (nor in 2009) 
and the directors have decided not to recommend 
the payment of a final dividend for the year.
Acquisitions and disposals
During the year the following transactions occurred:
On 9 January 2010 the sale of the Netherlands business 
(Uniq Convenience Foods Nederland BV) to Gilde Equity 
Management Benelux for £16.6m was completed.
On 21 April 2010 the sale of the businesses in Germany 
(Uniq Deutschland GmbH) and Poland (Uniq Lisner sp 
zoo) for £24.7m to IFR Capital plc was completed.
Share capital and reserves
Details of the authorised and issued share capital 
and changes in reserves of the company are shown 
in notes 28 and 29 to the financial statements.
In March 2011, the company completed a capital 
restructuring of its share capital to facilitate a debt for 
equity swap with its pension scheme. This resulted in the 
reduction of shareholders’ interests to 9.8% of the equity 
and the issue of 105,704,563 shares to the pension 
scheme, giving the pension scheme a 90.2% equity holding 
in the company. This restructuring was sanctioned by 
the High Court and on 24 March 2011 and the company 
and its subsidiaries were discharged from their obligations 
in relation to the defined benefit section of the company’s 
pension scheme.
Following this restructuring the company successfully 
applied for the shares to be relisted on the Alternative 
Investment Market (AIM) as from 1 April 2011.
Annual general meeting
The company’s annual general meeting will be held at 
10 am on 17 June 2011 at the offices of Investec Bank 
plc, 2 Gresham Street, London EC2V 7QP. Details of 
the business to be considered at the meeting are 
contained in the notice of annual general meeting 
sent to shareholders.
In accordance with the Shareholder Rights Directive 
(‘the Directive’) which came into force in August 2009, 
the company obtained shareholder approval at the 2010 
AGM to the calling of meetings, other than the AGM, on 
14 days clear notice. Prior to the implementation of the 
Directive, the company was able to call meetings other 
than the AGM on 14 clear days notice without obtaining 
shareholder approval and, to preserve this ability, 
shareholders will be asked to renew their approval by 
passing Resolution 6 at the AGM.
Substantial interests
As at 26 April 2011, the company has received the 
following notice of substantial interests (3% or more) 
of the total voting rights of the company:
%
Angel Street Limited 90.2 25 Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Directors’ report
Report of the directors
Implementation and Relationship Agreement
As a consequence of the restructuring, the company 
entered into an Implementation and Relationship 
Agreement on 9 February 2011 which regulates the 
relationship between the Pension Scheme Trustee, 
Angel Street Limited and the Company. This agreement 
will continue in force until Angel Street Limited ceases 
to hold twenty per cent or more of the voting rights 
of the Company for a period of longer than one month. 
Pursuant to the agreement, Angel Street Limited has 
appointed an observor to attend meetings of the board.
Powers of the directors
Subject to the provisions of the Companies Acts, 
the articles of association and directions given by 
the company in general meeting, the business of 
the company is managed by the board of directors 
which may exercise all the powers of the company.
Appointment and replacement of directors
Directors may be appointed by the company by ordinary 
resolution or by the board. Non-executive directors are 
appointed for a term of three years, subject to shareholder 
approval. At every AGM any director who has been 
appointed by the board since the last AGM, or who held 
office at the time of the two preceding AGMs and did not 
retire at either meeting shall retire from office and offer 
themselves for re-appointment by shareholders. The company 
may by special resolution remove a director from office 
before expiry of his term of appointment. The articles 
contain provisions on the vacation of office if a director: 
resigns, or offers to resign and the resignation is accepted 
by the directors, or is required to resign by the other 
directors; suffers from mental or physical ill health problems; 
is absent from meetings for six months without permission; 
has a bankruptcy order made against him or makes an 
arrangement or composition with his creditors; is prohibited 
by law from being a director; or ceases to be a director 
under legislation or is removed from office under the articles.
Voting and restrictions on voting
Every member and every duly appointed proxy present 
at a general meeting or a class meeting has, upon a 
show of hands, one vote and upon a poll one vote for 
every share held by him. In the case of joint holders 
where more than one joint holder votes, the only vote 
which will count is the one of the person listed before 
the other voters on the register for the share. 
The Uniq ESOT (see note 29) held 982,677 ordinary 
shares as at 31 December 2010 on trust for the benefit 
of participants in the company’s executive share plans. 
The voting rights for these shares are held by the trustee 
and the trustee may vote or abstain in any way it thinks 
fit. Historically the trustee has not exercised this right.
Unless the directors decide otherwise, a shareholder 
cannot attend or vote shares at any general meeting of 
the company or upon a poll or exercise any other right 
conferred by membership in relation to general meetings 
or polls if he has not paid all amounts relating to those 
shares which are due at the time of the meeting.
The company is not aware of any agreements between 
holders of securities that may result in restrictions on 
voting rights.
Restrictions on transfer of shares
As at 26 April 2011, there are no extant restrictions on 
the transfer of shares in the company except as follows: 
certain restrictions may be imposed from time to time 
by legislation and regulations (for example insider trading 
laws); pursuant to the AIM Rules of the London Stock 
Exchange whereby certain employees of the company 
require clearance from the company to deal in the company’s 
shares and pursuant to the orderly market provisions of 
the Implementation and Relationship Agreement whereby 
Angel Street Limited agrees that a sale of its shareholding 
in the company must be effected through the 
company’s broker.
The company is not aware of any agreements between 
shareholders that may result in restrictions in the transfer 
of securities. 
Coporate Social Responsibility
The board regularly considers and takes account of the 
significance of CSR matters and their potential risks to 
the business of the group and the opportunities to enhance 
value that may arise from an appropriate response including 
risks relating to environmental impacts, employees, society 
and communities, as well as reputational risks.
The board undertakes a formal review of CSR matters at 
least annually. This includes providing oversight to ensure 
the group has in place effective policies, systems and 
procedures for managing CSR matters and mitigating  Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2010 26
Directors’ report
CSR risks. Further information on the group’s CSR 
activities can be found on pages 12 to 15 of this 
report and on the group’s website (www.uniq.com).
Employees
The group is committed to a policy of equal opportunities 
in employment by which the group continues to ensure 
that all aspects of selection and retention are based on 
merit and suitability for the job without considerations 
of sex, marital status, nationality, colour, race, ethnicity, 
sexual orientation or any disability. The group aims to 
maintain a diverse workforce free from discrimination. 
Persons who have or develop a disability are, where 
possible, given practical assistance and training to 
seek to overcome their disability in the performance 
of their work.
Directors
Details of the directors in office at the year end and 
of their contracts are set out in their biographies on 
pages 22 and 23 and in the corporate governance 
and remuneration reports. The directors’ beneficial 
interests in the company’s ordinary share capital 
as at 31 December 2010 are set out in table 4 on 
page 37 of the remuneration report. 
Directors’ interests
No director had a material interest at any time during 
the year in any derivative or financial instrument 
relating to the company’s shares. Details of directors’ 
remuneration, service agreements and interests in shares 
of the company are set out in the remuneration report.
Charitable and political donations
The group made donations for charitable purposes during 
the year which amounted to £18,000 (2009: £12,000). 
No donations were made to political parties in 2010 
and 2009.
New product development
During the year the group was active in the improvement 
of production processes, existing products and the 
development of new products, to satisfy customer 
requirements and support the long-term profitable 
growth of its businesses.
Payment policy
The group does not have a formal code that it follows 
with regard to payments to suppliers. Members of the 
group generally agree payment terms with their suppliers 
when they enter into binding contracts for the supply 
of goods and services. Suppliers are, in that way, made 
aware of these terms. Group companies seek to abide 
by these payment terms when they are satisfied that 
the supplier has provided the goods or services in 
accordance with the agreed terms and conditions. 
At 31 December 2010 the amount of trade creditors 
shown in the group balance sheet represented 
44 days (2009: 52 days) of average purchases.
Significant contracts and change of control 
Save for the banking agreements and the Implementation 
and Relationship Agreement the company is not party 
to any significant agreements which take effect, alter 
or terminate upon a change of control of the company. 
Details of how the equity incentive plans would be 
affected by a change of control are set out in the 
remuneration report.
Disclosure of information to auditors
The directors who held office at the date of approval of 
this directors’ report confirm that, so far as they are each 
aware, having instigated reasonable steps to check the 
same and sought appropriate reassurances from fellow 
directors, management and the company’s auditors that 
it is the case, that there is no relevant audit information 
of which the company’s auditors are unaware.
Auditors
In accordance with Section 489 of the Companies Act 
2006, a resolution for the re-appointment of KPMG Audit 
Plc as auditors of Uniq plc will be proposed at the annual 
general meeting.
For the board
Andrew McDonald
Company Secretary
26 April 2011
Registered	No.	3912506 27 Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Directors’ report
Compliance statement
The company places a great deal of importance on high 
standards of corporate governance and has generally 
complied with the Combined Code on Corporate 
Governance issued by the Financial Reporting Council 
as revised in June 2008 (the ‘Code’) as applicable to 
the company for the year to 31 December 2010 and has 
made these voluntary disclosures. The company normally 
expects to comply with current best practice in relation 
to corporate governance and that its employees will do 
likewise. This report seeks to explain the position in 
detail including any exceptions.
Board of directors
At the date of this report there are five directors, comprising 
the chairman, chief executive, finance director and two 
non-executive directors. All directors served throughout 
the year. All of the non-executive directors are considered 
‘independent’ within the meaning of the Code and the 
chairman was ‘independent’ on appointment. Matthew 
Litobarski, Belinda Gooding and John Warren have current 
terms of appointment which expire at the end of the annual 
general meetings in 2011, 2012 and 2013 respectively. 
The non-executive directors occupy, and/or have 
occupied, senior positions in business. 
John Warren, previously the senior non-executive director, 
served as interim chairman from 25 June 2009 and was 
appointed chairman on 14 April 2010, following the 
resignation of Ross Warburton. Matthew Litobarski 
was appointed senior non-executive director on 
14 April 2010 in place of John Warren.
The articles provide that all directors must stand for 
election at the first AGM after they are appointed and 
all continuing directors must stand for re-election at least 
every three years. Matthew Litobarski does not intend 
to stand for re-election at the AGM and will leave the 
company on 17 June 2011.
The board is responsible for ensuring the proper 
management and control of the company. The board 
aims to enhance shareholder value by maintaining an 
entrepreneurial leadership of the group whilst ensuring 
that appropriate checks and balances are in place. 
Corporate governance
The board has specific powers reserved to it including 
the approval of: group strategy and annual budgets, 
half yearly and final results and interim management 
statements, acquisitions and disposals, major agreements, 
capital expenditure and unusual transactions. It also has 
responsibility for setting policy and monitoring from time 
to time such matters as: financial and risk control, health 
and safety policy, environmental issues, food safety and 
management succession and planning. The board has 
delegated to the chief executive and his executive team 
responsibility for execution of the agreed strategy and 
budget and the day-to-day management of the group’s 
operations. The operational management is required to 
manage operations of the company within the management, 
financial and risk guidelines set down.
Board and committee members are given appropriate 
documentation in advance of each board or committee 
meeting. For regular board meetings these normally 
include a detailed monthly report on current and forecast 
trading with comparisons against budgets and prior 
years. For all meetings explanatory papers are sent out 
on matters where the board or committee will be required 
to give its approval, make a decision or give its response. 
In addition to frequent business presentations, reports 
are given to the board or its committees at appropriate 
intervals on such matters as pensions, insurance, 
environment, food safety and treasury.
The board has approved a procedure for directors to take 
independent professional advice, if necessary, at the 
company’s expense. In addition, the directors have direct 
access to the advice and services of the company secretary 
who is charged by the board with ensuring that board 
procedures are followed. Appointment or removal of the 
company secretary is a matter for the board as a whole.
On joining the board, directors are included in an induction 
programme involving meetings with management together 
with current information and background documents 
describing the company and its activities. Manuals, books 
and training are available to all directors on their duties as 
directors and individual members attend external courses 
on subjects they wish to improve. Site visits take place 
periodically. Papers are presented to board members on  Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2010 28
Directors’ report
Corporate governance
such subjects as accounting or regulatory changes 
where appropriate; specific presentations have been 
given covering various aspects affecting directors 
under the Companies Act 2006.
Normally, the board expects to meet about 12 times 
a year. Where there are urgent matters to consider, 
additional meetings, generally by telephone conference 
call, are held. Where directors are not able to attend 
meetings, opportunity is made for their views to be 
conveyed on matters under consideration. The table 
on page 29 sets out the board and committee meeting 
attendance by members (the figures in brackets are the 
maximum which could have been attended in the year).
Throughout the year the company had a separate 
chairman and chief executive and their differing roles 
were acknowledged. The Chairman’s role was part-time 
and he was primarily responsible for the workings of the 
board and for ensuring that its strategic and supervisory 
role was achieved. The Chief Executive was responsible 
for the day-to-day running of the business, preparing the 
strategy and budgets for board review and then carrying 
out the agreed strategy and implementing specific board 
decisions relating to the operation of the company. 
On 14 April 2010 John Warren was appointed Chairman 
and Matthew Litobarski as the senior non-executive 
director. The board carries out a formal evaluation of its 
own performance and effectiveness annually. This review 
is done by the secretary preparing a list of headings under 
which each director is asked to consider performance 
and make comments. These are received by the chairman, 
collated and detailed in a paper setting out the points raised. 
Following a review of that paper by the board the points 
agreed are adopted. The board considers that this evaluation 
process is an effective and cost efficient process.
Board committees
There are audit, remuneration, pension and nomination 
committees of the board to which relevant matters are 
delegated. The current membership of the committees 
is set out on pages 22 and 23. Membership of each 
committee is reviewed as necessary as a consequence 
of any changes in the board. The committees all have 
detailed terms of reference. The reports of the audit and 
remuneration committees, including summaries of their 
terms of reference, are set out below and in the separate 
remuneration report which follows.
The pension committee was set up in 2007 to review and 
advise the board on pension issues. It normally meets 
about six times a year. It is chaired by John Warren and 
its other members are Geoff Eaton and Martin Beer. 
However, during 2010 the board as a whole regularly 
considered the group’s pension deficit and other pension 
matters, so there was no need for the pension committee 
to hold separate meetings.
The nomination committee is responsible for considering 
and recommending to the board persons who are 
appropriate for appointment as executive and non-
executive directors. Appointment is the responsibility 
of the whole board following recommendation from the 
committee. The committee also reviews succession 
planning and senior management appointments below 
board level. The Chairman, the Chief Executive and the 
remaining independent non-executive directors are also 
members. It meets as necessary and uses the services 
of outside personnel consultants to assist it when 
appropriate. From time to time a subset of the nomination 
committee will be selected for a specific purpose 
such as selection or re-appointment of the chairman. 
In carrying out its duties the committee considers what 
appointments would be appropriate, decides what 
attributes or areas of specialisation the candidates 
should have and selects headhunters to find and select 
possible candidates. Members of the committee then 
interview candidates before the committee puts forward 
its recommendation to the board. 
The remuneration committee report is set out on pages 
32 to 37. The remuneration committee was chaired by 
Matthew Litobarski throughout the year. John Warren 
and Belinda Gooding are the other members. It meets 
when necessary and uses the services of external 
remuneration consultants to assist it when appropriate. 
All members of the committee are independent non-
executive directors. 
The principal responsibilities of the remuneration 
committee are:
•  Setting, reviewing and recommending to the board 
for approval the group’s overall remuneration policy 
and strategy for senior managers’ remuneration;
•  Setting, reviewing and approving individual 
remuneration packages for executive directors and 
the chairman, including terms and conditions of 
employment and any changes to the packages; 29 Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Directors’ report
Corporate governance
•  Reviewing the salary structure and terms, conditions 
and benefits of employment of other very senior 
executives in the group;
•  Approving the launch and rules of any group share, 
share option or cash based long-term incentive 
scheme and the grant, award, allocation or issue 
of shares, share options or payments under such 
schemes; and
•  The setting of bonus terms and the approval of bonus 
payments for directors and certain senior executives.
The audit committee is chaired by John Warren who 
is a chartered accountant and has extensive previous 
experience as a finance director of two large listed 
companies. All members of the committee are 
independent non-executive directors and between them 
they have wide experience of industry and commerce. 
The board believes that for the purposes of the Code, 
John Warren has appropriate, recent and relevant financial 
experience. The board considers that it is appropriate 
that John Warren continues as chairman of the audit 
committee while he serves as chairman of the board, 
because he is the only non-executive director with the 
relevant financial expertise; the board will keep the 
leadership of the audit committee under review.
During the year, the committee reviewed the scope and 
results of the work undertaken by the internal auditor. 
The group has appointed an internal compliance controller 
to monitor compliance with internal controls. The compliance 
controller reports to the committee at least twice a year. 
The committee is generally attended by the chief executive, 
finance director, the internal compliance controller and the 
external auditors, all at the invitation of the committee. The 
company secretary is secretary. The committee normally 
meets three times a year and in addition the committee 
and/or the chairman hold separate discussion with the 
external auditors without any members of the executive 
present. The committee operates within written terms 
of reference set down by the board.
The committee plays an important role in reviewing the 
group’s financial controls and reporting. It manages the 
group’s relationship with internal and external auditors. 
It also assists in the group risk management procedures 
and in ensuring that the group meets its regulatory 
requirements. The principal activities of the audit 
committee are:
•  To review the half yearly and annual financial statements 
prior to publication with executive management and 
the external auditors. It pays particular attention to the 
appropriateness of accounting policies used and areas 
of management judgement. Compliance with material 
changes to accounting standards is kept under review. 
It draws to the attention of the board the main points 
arising from its review and any matters of concern 
which may arise.
•  To make recommendations concerning the appointment 
or re-appointment of the company’s external auditors 
and to consider the auditors’ continuing suitability, 
including when necessary recommending to the board 
appropriate action to appoint new auditors. It ensures 
that key audit partners are rotated at appropriate intervals. 
It discusses with the auditors the scope of the audit 
before it commences, reviews the results and considers 
the formal reports of the auditors and reports the results 
of those reviews to the board. It reviews the auditors’ 
independence, performance, the scope of the audit and 
recommends to the board appropriate remuneration 
for the auditors.
•  To receive reports from the internal compliance 
controller twice a year reviewing internal audits 
conducted and consider follow up reviews on progress 
in addressing issues arising from prior internal audits.
•  To agree the programme of internal audit reviews to 
be carried out and must approve the appointment 
or removal of the internal compliance controller. 
The internal compliance controller has the right to 
talk directly to the chairman of the audit committee 
at any time.
Directors’ attendance at board and committee meetings
Director Board
Audit 
committee 
Remuneration 
committee
Nomination 
committee 
John Warren 16 (16) 4 (4) 9 (9) 5 (5)
Geoff Eaton 16 (16) N/A N/A 5 (5)
Martin Beer 16 (16) N/A N/A N/A
Belinda Gooding 16 (16) 4 (4) 9 (9) 5 (5)
Matthew Litobarski 16 (16) 4 (4) 9 (9) 5 (5) Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2010 30
Directors’ report
Corporate governance
•  To set down and monitor the company’s use of the 
external auditors for non-audit work. The committee 
considers that it is sometimes appropriate to use the 
external auditors for non-audit work especially where 
the work is of a regulatory or compliance nature or 
where the auditors’ experience is likely to give them 
an advantage over other providers. All appointments 
of the external auditors are subject to audit committee 
guidelines and specific consent is required for 
commissions above £50,000. The committee monitors 
non-audit work carried out by the external auditors.
•  To review the risk review procedure carried out by the 
executive with the aim of ensuring that, where possible 
and appropriate to do so in the context of the business, 
reasonable steps are taken by the group to mitigate risks.
•  To ensure that the group maintains appropriate internal 
control procedures and monitors their effectiveness. 
The committee has approved a ‘whistle blowing’ policy 
under which it is the ultimate point of reference for those 
raising concerns.
During the period under review the committee carried out 
the above functions.
Auditors’ independence
The board believes that its auditors are independent and 
asks the audit committee to monitor this position on a 
regular basis. Details of all fees for non-audit work are 
set out in note 5 on page 56 of the financial statements. 
The fees paid for non-audit work were spent on work 
connected with the group’s disposals of its overseas 
operations, the restructuring involving the debt for equity 
swap with the group’s pension fund and in reviewing the 
interim results. The board considers it appropriate that 
this work should be carried out by the group’s auditors 
and that it does not inhibit their independence.
Other committees are appointed by the board from time 
to time to consider specific matters delegated to them 
such as approval of the detailed terms of acquisitions or 
disposals and capital expenditure projects.
Relations with shareholders
The board ensures that there is an active programme of 
investor relations which was led by the chief executive 
and finance director during the year. The chairman and 
senior non-executives are also available for consultation with 
major shareholders when appropriate. Major brokers’ reports 
and forecasts are circulated to the board as they are 
received. Following the preliminary and half yearly 
announcements the company’s broker conducts an analysis 
of investor and analysts’ reaction which is reported to the 
board. The chairman, chief executive and finance director 
would also report to the board on investor contacts and 
reaction when appropriate.
During the year the chief executive and finance director gave 
collective general presentations covering the results and 
other key announcements. The chairman and other directors 
are available as appropriate for subsequent meetings with 
institutional investors. The chairman and company secretary 
generally deal with questions from individual shareholders. 
All shareholders have the opportunity to put questions at 
the company’s annual general meeting when the chairman 
gives a statement on the company’s performance during 
the year, together with a statement on current trading 
conditions. The chairman of the audit, nomination and 
remuneration committees normally attend the annual 
general meeting and the chairman advises shareholders 
on the proxy voting details. All shareholders are invited to 
attend the annual general meeting when the directors will 
be available to answer questions concerning the group and its 
activities. The company maintains a website (www.uniq.com) 
which contains further and up-to-date information on the 
company and its recent changes and announcements.
As a result of the restructuring, 90.2% of the equity of the 
company is held by Angel Street Limited. The company has 
entered into an Implementation and Relationship Agreement 
to govern the relationship with Angel Street Limited.
Independence of directors
The board considers all its non-executive directors and 
its chairman on appointment to be independent. In addition 
to meeting the criteria for independence below they are 
independent in character and judgement. The board’s 
criteria for independence are:
•  Has not been an employee of the group within the 
last five years;
•  Has not or has not had, within the last three years, 
a material business relationship with the group;
•  Save in exceptional circumstances, has received 
no remuneration other than a director’s fee;
•  Has no close family ties with any of the group’s 
advisers, directors or senior employees;
•  Does not have significant links with other executive 
directors through mutual involvement in other 
companies or bodies;
•  Does not represent a significant shareholder;
•  Has not served on the board for more than 
nine years. 31 Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Directors’ report
Corporate governance
Directors’ remuneration
The remuneration report on pages 32 to 37 details 
compliance with the Code’s requirements with regard 
to remuneration matters.
Internal controls, risk management and audit 
The board has overall responsibility for the group’s risk 
management and internal control systems and for reviewing 
their effectiveness. The systems are designed to provide 
reasonable control over the activities of the company and 
the group and to enable the board to comply with the 
directors’ responsibilities statement on page 21. This 
process has remained in place throughout the financial 
period covered by this annual report and to the date of 
these financial statements. The process is reviewed from 
time to time and updated to ensure that it continues to 
meet the needs of the group’s activities. However, it is 
recognised that it is the nature of any business that risk 
is inherent in any enterprise and that business and 
commercial risks must be taken and that for a business 
to succeed, enterprise, initiative and motivation are key 
elements which must not be unduly stifled. It is not the 
intention of the company to seek to avoid all risks. 
Commercial judgements and other decisions will have to 
be made in the course of management of the business 
and will give rise to risk.
The board confirms that, in accordance with the 
requirements of the Code, it has reviewed the effectiveness 
of the system of internal control. The key elements of the 
group’s internal control systems and the review process 
are as follows:
•  The group has an organisational structure with 
established lines of accountability as well as clearly 
defined levels of authority as to matters which are 
reserved to the board and the delegation of other 
matters to board committees or the group’s executive 
management. Each part of the business is required 
to operate in accordance with established policies 
and procedures. An overall ‘Operational Control 
Framework’ document, which is regularly reviewed 
to ensure it covers changing business operations 
and processes, sets down guidelines or mandatory 
requirements on general and specific issues such as 
treasury and authorisation limits, accounting policies, 
directors’ dealings, capital expenditure procedures, 
expenses, ethical conduct and ‘whistle blowing’.
•  Comprehensive business planning and financial reporting 
procedures are in place, including the annual preparation 
of detailed operational budgets for the year ahead and 
projections for subsequent years. Each business area 
reports monthly on its performance against its agreed 
budget. The board receives monthly an update on 
such performance and generally reviews significant 
variances on a monthly or bi-monthly basis.
•  Procedures have been established for planning, 
approving and monitoring major capital expenditure 
and major projects. The group has a centralised 
treasury function, which operates within defined 
limits and subject to regular reporting requirements 
and audit reviews.
•  An embedded risk management process is in place, 
which seeks to identify the most significant risks facing 
each business and the group and reports on how those 
risks are being managed. This process requires the 
business divisions to produce risk registers identifying 
and evaluating significant risks which may affect their 
business and to consider what action can and should 
reasonably and cost effectively be taken to reduce 
them to an acceptable level. The process culminates 
in the production of a group risk register including a 
review of significant central risks. This register and the 
divisional action plans for addressing risk are reviewed 
and maintained on an ongoing basis. 
•  There is an internal audit process led by the compliance 
controller which is used to help monitor controls. 
This programme of internal control reviews is set by 
the audit committee following review with the finance 
director. From time to time ad hoc assignments 
requested by senior executives or the audit committee 
are also undertaken. 
The external auditors, KPMG Audit Plc, audit the year 
end results. Their audit report is on pages 38 and 39 
of this annual report. They also conduct a review of 
the half year results.
Going concern
The directors have prepared trading and cash flow 
forecasts for a period in excess of a year from the date 
of approval of these financial statements. The directors 
have assumed: trading relationships are maintained 
unless otherwise notified; sales growth in certain 
sectors and planned cost savings. These show that 
after sensitivities and mitigating factors are taken into 
account, the total bank facility is not exceeded, the 
covenants are not breached and there are no events 
of default. The directors expect that the group will be 
able to meet its liabilities as they fall due and therefore 
consider it appropriate to prepare the financial 
statements on a going concern basis. Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2010 32
Directors’ report
Remuneration report
Constitution
The current members of the remuneration committee are 
Matthew Litobarski (chairman), Belinda Gooding and John 
Warren. All of them served throughout the year. The board 
considers that all members are independent directors, the 
chairman having been independent on first appointment. 
The chief executive and finance director may be invited to 
attend meetings, but no party would attend when specific 
matters concerning the detail of their own personal 
remuneration are being dealt with. The company secretary 
acts as secretary to the remuneration committee and it 
met 9 times during the year to 31 December 2010. 
The committee has written terms of reference which set 
down its role and responsibilities. Briefly, it has responsibility 
for setting the remuneration policy for the group and for 
deciding certain more detailed matters such as setting very 
senior managers’ remuneration and grants under long-term 
incentive schemes.
The remuneration committee takes advice as and when 
required directly from external consultants and has appointed 
Towers Watson as its consultants on remuneration matters. 
Towers Watson performs no other services for the company.
Remuneration policy
The company’s ongoing policy for executive directors and 
senior executive management is to provide remuneration in an 
amount and manner appropriate to the recruitment, motivation 
and retention of high quality management, and encourage 
a culture linking reward to overall corporate and individual 
employees’ performance. The committee has decided that 
emphasis should be placed on the performance-related, 
variable elements of the senior management and executive 
directors’ pay so that a substantial proportion of their potential 
total remuneration is linked to corporate and personal 
achievement and the short and long-term success of 
the group. This policy gives greater alignment between 
senior management and shareholders’ interests.
Remuneration policy for non-executive directors is 
determined by the board (excluding the non-executive 
directors) within the limits set out in the articles of 
association. A basic fee is paid together with a responsibility 
fee for those chairing a committee or accepting other 
exceptional responsibilities. Fees are reviewed by the 
board from time to time. Non-executive directors do 
not participate in any incentive or pension plans.
Directors’ remuneration
The remuneration of executive directors comprises 
five elements: base salary, benefits-in-kind, pension, 
annual cash bonus and equity incentives.
Base salaries
Base salaries are reviewed annually, having regard to relevant 
market practice supported by periodic external independent 
surveys. Details of the directors’ remuneration for the year 
to 31 December 2010 are set out in table 1 on page 36. 
Benefits-in-kind
The benefits-in-kind provided to the executive directors 
are: private medical and travel cover for themselves and 
their family and life insurance up to a maximum of four 
times’ salary. Geoff Eaton had a car allowance of £15,000 
p.a. and Martin Beer had one of £14,000 p.a. Both Geoff 
Eaton and Martin Beer can claim a per mile charge to cover 
fuel and expenses of business use of their private cars. 
The non-executive directors receive no benefits-in-kind, 
although all directors are reimbursed for reasonable 
expenses incurred in the performance of their duties.
Annual cash bonus
The company operates an annual cash bonus system for 
senior managers and executive directors. The payment and 
extent of annual cash bonuses to the executive directors is 
dependent upon the achievement of pre-agreed targets set 
by the remuneration committee. Each year the remuneration 
committee will review the system and may set different 
targets or performance conditions to seek to keep the 
conditions appropriate to the current goals and aims of 
the company and in alignment with shareholder interests 
and company targets.
In respect of performance in the year to 31 December 
2010, Geoff Eaton and Martin Beer will receive bonuses 
linked to the delivery of the restructuring by which 
the company was released from its pension deficit. 
The bonuses paid for Geoff Eaton and Martin Beer 
are £180,090 and £99,360, respectively. 33 Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Directors’ report
Remuneration report
For 2011 the remuneration committee has aligned the 
bonus plan to support delivery of the profitability of the 
group businesses. The maximum bonus for exceptional 
performance for this year, unchanged from 2010, is: 
Geoff Eaton 150% and Martin Beer 120% of base salary. 
Equity incentives
The Executive Share Option Plan
In 2002 shareholders approved an executive share option 
scheme under which grants were made between 2000 
and 2002.
All outstanding executive options granted under this plan 
have been adjusted to take account of the variation in the 
capital of the company as a result of the restructuring 
and have become exercisable but at prices significantly 
greater than the current market value of the company’s 
shares. Options that are not exercised within six months 
following the restructuring will lapse.
The Performance Incentive Plan (‘PIP’)
At the annual general meeting in 2003 shareholders 
approved the introduction of the PIP. Under the PIP the 
remuneration committee may grant selected executives 
‘base’ awards consisting of rights to acquire shares 
(called performance shares) and/or further rights (called 
matching shares) the latter conditional on the executive 
investing his other annual bonus in the purchase of Uniq 
plc shares which normally must be held for three years.
For grants made in 2007 the performance conditions 
were not met and therefore lapsed on the date of maturity.  
For grants made in 2008 and 2009, the performance 
conditions were not met at the time of the restructuring 
and have therefore lapsed upon the restructuring 
becoming effective.
During 2010, the remuneration committee, advised by 
Towers Watson, undertook a review of the effectiveness of 
the current long-term incentive arrangements and 
decided not to grant any awards under the PIP until a 
solution to address the pension scheme deficit was 
found. Consequently, no awards under the PIP were 
issued during 2010.
At the general meeting on 25 February 2011 shareholders 
approved an increase to the individual award limit of the 
PIP to an amount equal to double the participant’s annual 
basic salary. The remuneration committee also amended 
the rules of the PIP so that, in the event of a change of 
control, awards may only vest subject to performance 
and on a time-apportioned basis having regard to the 
period between the grant of the award and the change 
of control.
As set out in the circular to shareholders on the 9 February 
2011, following the successful restructuring, the 
remuneration committee intends to grant awards under 
the PIP to approximately 85 of the most senior managers 
over shares representing up to 5% of the company’s 
issued share capital. In making a grant of awards under 
the PIP for 2011, the remuneration committee took into 
account the fact that no awards were issued under the 
PIP during 2010. The awards will vest after three years, 
if stretching performance targets are achieved in terms 
of absolute TSR and growth in EPS, with the base EPS 
figure being based on the 2010 pro forma accounts and 
adjusted for the restructuring. The maximum vesting 
of 100% is dependent upon the achievement of three 
years’ annual compound growth for each of these 
targets of 20%. 
Value Maximisation Plan
To ensure the group’s senior executives are appropriately 
incentivised and aligned with the interests of shareholders, 
the remuneration committee has introduced a short-term 
Value Maximisation Plan, the details of which were set out 
to shareholders in the circular dated 9 February.
The key features of this scheme are:
•  participation is limited to nine people, being the 
executive directors, senior executives at head office 
and managing directors of the business units;
•  the participants in the scheme will receive a cash 
sum, the amount of which is dependent upon the 
achievement of pre-determined equity value realisation 
targets. The remuneration committee believes that 
these targets are extremely stretching and are in 
alignment with shareholders’ interests;
•  each award will have a threshold level of performance, 
below which there will be no payment. The maximum 
award for exceptional performance under the scheme 
will range from 90% to 150% of base salary depending 
upon the seniority of the participants;
•  the participants who receive payments pursuant to 
this scheme will not be entitled to a bonus under the 
company’s normal annual bonus scheme for 2011 if 
they cease to be employed within the group for any 
reason prior to the normal payment date for that 
bonus (March 2012);
•  the scheme will have a maximum duration of 
12 months; and Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2010 34
Directors’ report
Remuneration report
•  if there is a change of control of the company within 
12 months, any payment to a participant under this 
scheme will be reduced by the value of any shares 
which the participant receives under the PIP as a 
result of such an event.
If the maximum award were to be achieved on delivery 
of the maximum value realisation target, or higher, the 
total payment, based on current base salaries, would 
be approximately £1.75m.
Note: The independent auditors’ report set out on pages  
38 and 39 applies to the information contained in tables 
1 to 4 on pages 36 to 37 and in the following sections of 
the remuneration report, so far as it relates to its proper 
preparation in accordance with Schedule 8 of the Large 
and Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts 
and Reports) Regulations 2008: directors’ emoluments; 
pensions; and defined benefit disclosure.
Pensions
Executive directors are entitled to be members of the 
group’s main pension scheme. Those joining since March 
2003 may join the DC scheme. Those joining before that 
date were in the DB scheme up to 30 September 2009. 
The company ceased accrual for future service for DB 
members effective from 1 October 2009 and the employees 
concerned transferred to the DC section of the pension 
scheme. Where it is not practical or advantageous to make 
pension provision, a non-pensionable cash supplement 
is paid in lieu of pension scheme membership.
Up to 30 September 2009, Martin Beer was accruing 
a pension which would provide two-thirds of his final 
pensionable pay up to the HMRC earnings cap, payable 
from his normal retirement age of 62. HMRC ceased to 
define an earnings cap from 1 April 2006, however the 
company continued to apply a cap equivalent to the 
pre-April 1 2006 cap. At 1 April 2010 the cap was £123,600. 
Martin Beer contributed 6% of his salary up to the earnings 
cap to the HMRC-approved pension scheme during the 
period up to 30 September 2009. From 1 October 2010, 
Martin Beer took a transfer of his existing accrued rights 
out of the DB scheme into a personal pension arrangement. 
Following this transfer, the company has no further 
obligation to him in respect of DB pension on his salary 
up to the HMRC earnings cap. Martin Beer has made 
contributions of 3% of salary up to the HMRC earnings 
cap and the company made contributions of 25% of 
salary up to the earnings cap into the DC scheme.
Up to 31 March 2006 Martin Beer also accrued pension 
in relation to his salary above the earnings cap through 
an unfunded HMRC-unapproved (‘overcap’) pension 
scheme. This overcap scheme was terminated and Martin 
Beer took a transfer of his existing rights into a personal 
pension arrangement. Following this transfer the company 
has no further obligation to him in respect of DB pension 
on his salary above the HMRC earnings cap. From 1 April 
2006 he has received a salary supplement of 28% of his 
salary above the earnings cap payable to his personal 
pension arrangement.
The principal terms of Martin Beer’s pension accrual 
during the period up to 30 September 2009 were: 
pensions in payment increased in line with retail price 
inflation subject to a maximum of 5% per year. In the 
event of death, the scheme also provided a pension of 
two-thirds of the member’s pension for a spouse, and 
additional pensions for young children, to give a total 
maximum of up to 100% of the individual’s pension. 
In relation to his pension accruing after 1 April 2006 the 
increase in pension in line with retail price inflation was 
subject to a maximum of 2.5% per year rather than 
5% per year.
In calculating pension scheme transfer values, no 
allowance is made for discretionary benefits. A director in 
the approved pension scheme may take early retirement 
from age 50 with the company’s consent but in such 
circumstances discount factors set by the scheme actuary 
would be applied, unless alternative agreement were 
reached. Geoff Eaton has elected not to become a 
member of the group’s pension scheme and is paid 
instead a non-pensionable salary supplement of 20% 
of his base salary per annum in lieu of pension benefits.
No other director is accruing any pension entitlement 
nor are they receiving a salary supplement in lieu.
Directors’ contracts
The remuneration committee’s policy on directors’ 
contracts is that executive directors should not have 
contracts with a rolling notice period exceeding 12 months. 
However, there may be circumstances where to attract the 
right candidate or in other special circumstances a longer 
initial term or a fixed term contract in excess of one year 
will be appropriate. It is the committee’s policy that normally 
contracts should not specify any contractual termination 
payments unless commercially this needs to be given in 
order to secure the director’s appointment. 35 Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Directors’ report
Remuneration report
The Chief Executive, Geoff Eaton, has an employment 
contract dated 7 July 2005 as amended on 22 March 2007 
which can be terminated by the company giving one year’s 
notice or the employee by nine months’ notice. The Finance 
Director, Martin Beer, has an employment contract dated 
8 May 2002, which can be terminated by the company 
giving one year’s notice or the employee giving six months’ 
notice. There are no express provisions in either contract 
relating to payments on early termination and they would 
only be entitled to compensation as provided by law, 
which would normally be subject to a duty to mitigate. 
On 19 October 2010, the Board approved a stay bonus 
for Martin Beer. He will receive a cash payment of 
£148,800 on 30 June 2011 provided he remains in 
employment on that date, save for earlier termination by 
the company for a permitted reason (being redundancy, 
ill-health, injury, disability or death or any other reason 
(other than misconduct) at the overriding discretion of the 
remuneration committee) or in the event of a change of 
control of the company due to a takeover, in which case 
he will be entitled to the full cash payment.
This stay bonus replaces any entitlement to an annual 
bonus for 2011. Accordingly, Martin Beer will not be entitled 
to any annual cash bonus in respect of the year ending 
31 December 2011. In addition, he will only be entitled 
to a bonus under the short-term value maximisation plan 
described in the equity incentives section above, if, and 
to the extent that, it exceeds £148,800.
The Chairman, John Warren, currently has a three-year 
fixed contract of employment with the company which 
commenced on 16 March 2007, as amended on 6 July 
2009; it is subject to one year’s notice by either party. 
From 25 June 2009 his fee was £75,000 p.a. There are 
no express provisions regarding compensation on 
termination. He receives no pension or other benefits. 
Non-executive directors receive a fee of £30,000 p.a. 
and the chairmen of the remuneration committee and 
the audit committee each receive an additional fee of 
£7,500 p.a. 
The non-executive directors have individual letters of 
appointment. John Warren was re-elected at the AGM 
in 2010 for a further three-year term which expires at the 
AGM in 2013. Matthew Litobarski’s current appointment 
runs to the AGM in 2011 at which time he will leave the 
company and Belinda Gooding’s to the AGM in 2012.
All of them can be terminated at any time by one year’s 
notice and may be renewed for a further term when they 
expire. These letters of appointment do not contain any 
provisions on termination payments. 
With the approval of the board, executive directors 
may accept one external appointment as non-executive 
director of any other company and retain any related 
fees paid to them. None of the executive directors 
hold an external quoted company appointment at the 
current time. Directors are entitled to be reimbursed 
for reasonable expenses necessarily incurred in the 
performance of their duties. Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2010 36
Directors’ report
Remuneration report
Director
Salary
and fees 
£000
Bonus 
£000
Taxable
benefits
£000
Pension
£000
Year to 
31.12.10
Total
£000
Year to 
31.12.09
Total
£000
John Warren* 83 – – – 83 60
Martin Beer 248 99 16 66
#
429 555
Geoff Eaton 360 180 88
†
– 628 825
Belinda Gooding* 30 – – – 30 30
Matthew Litobarski* 38 – – – 38 38
Ross Warburton (resigned 25.6.09)* – – – – – 75
Totals 759 279 104 66 1,208 1,583
Notes:
* Non-executive directors.
† Includes £72,036 (2009: £72,036) payment in lieu of pension.
# Includes £34,933 (2009: £35,364) paid to a self invested personal pension.
As disclosed in 2009, on closure of the defined benefit pension scheme to future accrual at 30 September 2009, 
Martin Beer transferred out his deferred pension with a transfer value of £566,530 to a personal pension arrangement, 
which has extinguished the pension scheme’s liability to provide him with a pension of £46,606 per annum. 
Share options
Table 2
Executive director
Date of 
grant
Exercise 
price
(p)
No. of 
options at 
01.01.10
Options 
lapsed
No. of 
options at
31.12.10
Normal  
excercise 
dates
Martin Beer 06.07.00 251.0 49,800 49,800 – 06.07.03 – 05.07.10
12.06.01 210.0 50,000 – 50,000 12.06.04 – 11.06.11
17.06.02 161.5 110,000 – 110,000 17.06.05 – 16.06.12
Totals 209,800 49,800 160,000
No executive options were awarded to, or exercised by, directors during the year or in the prior year. All outstanding 
executive options have subsequently been adjusted to take account of the variation in the capital of the company as 
a result of the restructuring.
Directors’ emoluments
Table 1 37 Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Directors’ report
Remuneration report
Performance incentive plan
Table 3
Executive director
Class of 
award
Date of 
grant
Market 
value 
at date 
of grant (p)
Shares 
held at 
01.01.10
Shares
lapsed
Shares 
held at
31.12.10
Expiry or
Normal excercise 
dates
Martin Beer
Matching 02.04.07 191.75 74,252 74,252 – 02.04.10 – 01.04.17
Performance 02.04.07 191.75 35,358 35,358 – 02.04.10 – 01.04.17
Performance 30.04.08 102.75 186,861 – 186,861 30.04.11 – 29.04.18
Performance 19.05.09 21.0 175,000 – 175,000 19.05.12 – 18.05.19
Geoff Eaton
Matching 02.04.07 191.75 120,469 120,469 – 02.04.10 – 01.04.17
Performance 02.04.07 191.75 51,630 51,630 – 02.04.10 – 01.04.17
Performance 30.04.08 102.75 338,686 – 338,686 30.04.11 – 29.04.18
Performance 19.05.09 21.0 285,000 – 285,000 19.05.12 – 18.05.19
Totals 1,267,256 281,709 985,547
No PIPs were exercised by directors during the year or in the prior year. No new PIPs were awarded during the year 
2010. In March 2011 as a consequence of the restructuring, all outstanding PIP awards of the directors in the above 
table failed to meet the relevant performance conditions and have lapsed.
Directors’ shareholdings
Table 4
Director
Holding at  
01.01.10
ordinary  
shares 
fully paid
Holding at 
31.12.10
ordinary  
shares
fully paid
John Warren 58,230 58,230
Martin Beer 67,910 67,910
Geoff Eaton 251,303 251,303
Belinda Gooding 1,502 1,502
Matthew Litobarski 3,000 3,000
Totals 381,945 381,945
There have been no changes in the directors’ shareholdings between the year end and up to the date of this report 
save for the adjustment to take account of the variation in the capital of the company as a result of the restructuring.
Approved on behalf of the board
Matthew Litobarski
Chairman of the remuneration committee
26 April 2011 Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2010 38
Financial statements
We have audited the financial statements of Uniq plc 
for the year ended 31 December 2010 set out on pages 
40 to 81. The financial reporting framework that has 
been applied in their preparation is applicable law and 
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as 
adopted by the EU and, as regards the parent company 
financial statements, as applied in accordance with the 
provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
This report is made solely to the company’s members, 
as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of 
the Companies Act 2006. Our audit work has been 
undertaken so that we might state to the company’s 
members those matters we are required to state to them 
in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the 
fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or 
assume responsibility to anyone other than the company 
and the company’s members, as a body, for our audit 
work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities 
Statement set out on page 21, the directors are responsible 
for the preparation of the financial statements and for 
being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. Our 
responsibility is to audit, and express an opinion on, 
the financial statements in accordance with applicable 
law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and 
Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the 
Auditing Practices Board’s (APB’s) Ethical Standards 
for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
A description of the scope of an audit of financial 
statements is provided on the APB’s website at 
www.frc.org.uk/apb/scope/UKP.
Opinion on financial statements
In our opinion:
•  the financial statements give a true and fair view of 
the state of the group’s and of the parent company’s 
affairs as at 31 December 2010 and of the group’s 
profit for the year then ended;
•  the group financial statements have been properly 
prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by 
the EU;
•  the parent company financial statements have been 
properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as 
adopted by the EU and as applied in accordance 
with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006; and
•  the financial statements have been prepared in 
accordance with the requirements of the Companies 
Act 2006 and, as regards the group financial 
statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the 
Companies Act 2006 and under the terms of 
our engagement
In our opinion:
•  the part of the Directors’ remuneration report to be 
audited has been properly prepared in accordance 
with the Companies Act 2006; 
•  the information given in the Directors’ report for 
the financial year for which the financial statements 
are prepared is consistent with the financial 
statements; and
•  information given in the Corporate Governance 
Statement set out on pages 27 to 31 with respect 
to internal control and risk management systems 
in relation to financial reporting processes and 
about share capital structures is consistent with 
the financial statements.
Independent Auditors’ report  
to the members of Uniq plc 39 Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Financial statements
Independent Auditors’ report
Matters on which we are required to report 
by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following:
 Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report 
to you if, in our opinion:
•  adequate accounting records have not been kept by 
the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit 
have not been received from branches not visited by 
us; or
•  the parent company financial statements and the part 
of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited 
are not in agreement with the accounting records and 
returns; or
•  certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified 
by law are not made; or
•  we have not received all the information and explanations 
we require for our audit; or
•  a Corporate Governance Statement has not been 
prepared by the company
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review:
•  the directors’ statement, set out on page 31, in relation 
to going concern;
•  the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on 
pages 27 to 31 relating to the company’s compliance 
with the nine provisions of the June 2008 Combined 
Code specified for our review; and
•  certain elements of the report to shareholders by 
the board on directors’ remuneration.
R M Yasue (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc,  
Statutory Auditor
Chartered Accountants
Arlington Business Park 
Theale 
Reading 
RG7 4SD 
26 April 2011  Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2010 40
Financial statements
Group income statement
2010 2009
Note
Before
significant
items 
£m 
 Significant
items 
(note 7) 
£m 
Total
£m 
Before
significant
items 
£m 
Significant
items 
(note 7) 
£m
Total
£m 
Continuing operations
Revenue 4 311.9 – 311.9 287.2 – 287.2 
Cost of sales (264.3) – (264.3) (246.5) – (246.5)
Gross profit 47.6 – 47.6 40.7 – 40.7 
Distribution expenses (18.3) – (18.3) (16.4) – (16.4)
Administrative expenses (25.2) (2.4) (27.6) (26.2) (0.7) (26.9)
Operating profit/(loss) 4,5 4.1 (2.4) 1.7 (1.9) (0.7) (2.6)
Net pension interest 8 (12.1) – (12.1) (12.7) – (12.7)
Finance income 8 1.2 – 1.2 1.5 – 1.5 
Finance expenses 8 (2.0) – (2.0) (4.7) – (4.7)
Net finance charges (12.9) – (12.9) (15.9) – (15.9)
Loss before tax (8.8) (2.4) (11.2) (17.8) (0.7) (18.5)
Income tax expense 9 – – – (0.4) – (0.4)
Loss from continuing operations (8.8) (2.4) (11.2) (18.2) (0.7) (18.9)
Discontinued operations
Profit/(loss) from discontinued operations  
(net of tax) 22 3.2 32.2 35.4 10.0 (12.0) (2.0) 
Profit/(loss) for the year 4 (5.6) 29.8 24.2 (8.2) (12.7) (20.9)
Profit/(loss) attributable to equity holders  
of the company (5.6) 29.8 24.2 (8.2) (12.7) (20.9)
Profit/(loss) per ordinary share 10
Basic and diluted 21.3p (18.4p)
Continuing operations (9.8p) (16.6p)
Discontinued operations 31.1p (1.8p) 
Average Euro exchange rate 1.17 1.12
The notes on pages 45 to 81 form part of these financial statements. 41 Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Financial statements
Group statement of comprehensive income
2010
£m
2009
£m
Profit/(loss) for the year 24.2 (20.9)
Other comprehensive income/(expense)
Actuarial loss recognised on the pension schemes (1.2) (81.9)
Effective portion of changes in fair value of cash flow hedges 0.1 (0.1)
Foreign currency translation differences for foreign operations 0.1 (3.1)
Cumulative foreign exchange related to disposal of businesses  
recycled to income statement (note 21) (30.3) (1.7)
Net gain on hedge of net investment in foreign operation 0.1 0.8 
Other comprehensive expense for the year, net of tax (31.2) (86.0)
Total comprehensive expense for the year (7.0) (106.9)
Total comprehensive expense attributable to equity holders of the company (7.0) (106.9) Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2010 42
Financial statements
Balance sheets
Group Company
Note
 2010 
 £m 
 2009 
 £m 
 2010 
 £m 
 2009 
 £m 
Assets 
Non-current assets 
Property, plant and equipment 12 80.4  76.3  –  – 
Intangible assets 13 30.5  30.5  –  – 
Other debtors 18 – 5.4  –  – 
Restricted cash 14 – 97.0  –  97.0 
Deferred tax assets 15 13.9  13.9  –  – 
Investments 16 –  –  89.5  89.5 
124.8  223.1  89.5  186.5 
Current assets 
Inventories 17 13.8  11.2  –  – 
Trade and other receivables 18 33.2  34.6  0.1  0.1 
Cash and cash equivalents 19 10.8  17.2  8.8  12.9 
Assets classified as held for sale 20 –  101.6  – –
 57.8  164.6  8.9  13.0 
Total assets 182.6  387.7  98.4 199.5
Liabilities   
Non-current liabilities 
Retirement benefit obligations 27 149.4  235.1  –  – 
Provisions 25 0.8 0.3  –  – 
 150.2  235.4  –  – 
Current liabilities 
Borrowings 23 –  27.3  – 27.0 
Trade and other payables 24 41.6  44.6  63.4  136.8 
Derivative financial liabilities 26 –  0.1  –  0.1 
Provisions 25 5.0  13.0  –  – 
Income tax liabilities  7.7  8.7  –  – 
Liabilities associated with assets classified as held for sale 20 –  73.8  – –
 54.3  167.5  63.4  163.9 
Total liabilities 204.5  402.9  63.4 163.9
Total assets less liabilities (21.9) (15.2) 35.0 35.6
Equity 
Shareholders’ equity
Total called up share capital 28 11.5  11.5  11.5  11.5 
Share premium  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1 
Other reserves  (330.2) (300.2) –  (0.1)
Retained earnings  296.7  273.4  23.4 24.1
Total equity attributable to equity holders of the company 29 (21.9) (15.2) 35.0 35.6 
Closing Euro exchange rate  1.16 1.11
The notes on pages 45 to 81 form part of these financial statements.
The financial statements were approved by the board of directors on 26 April 2011 and signed on its behalf by:
Geoff Eaton  Martin Beer
Chief Executive Finance Director 43 Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Financial statements
Group statement of changes in equity
Group
Share 
capital
£m
Share 
premium
£m
Merger 
reserve
£m
Hedging 
reserve
£m
Translation 
reserve
£m
Retained 
earnings 
£m
Total
£m
Changes in equity for 2009 
At 1 January 2009  11.5  0.1  (330.2) –  34.1  375.4  90.9 
Total comprehensive income/(expense) 
for the year  –  –  –  (0.1) (4.0) (102.8) (106.9)
Share-based compensation charge  –  –  –  –  –  0.8  0.8 
At 31 December 2009  11.5  0.1 (330.2) (0.1) 30.1  273.4  (15.2)
Changes in equity for 2010 
Total comprehensive income/(expense) 
for the year  –  –  –  0.1  (30.1) 23.0  (7.0)
Share-based compensation charge  –  –  –  – –  0.3  0.3 
At 31 December 2010  11.5  0.1  (330.2) – –  296.7  (21.9)
Further details on the statement of changes in equity are disclosed in note 29.
Company
Share 
capital
£m
Share 
premium
£m
Hedging 
reserve
£m
Retained 
earnings 
£m
Total
£m
Change in equity for 2009
At 1 January 2009  11.5  0.1  –  67.9  79.5 
Total comprehensive expense for the year 
Loss for the year  –  –  –  (44.1) (44.1)
Effective portion of changes in fair value of cash flow hedges  –  –  (0.1) –  (0.1)
Share-based compensation charge  –  –  –  0.3  0.3 
At 31 December 2009  11.5  0.1  (0.1) 24.1  35.6 
Change in equity for 2010
Total comprehensive expense for the year 
Loss for the year  –  –  –  (0.7) (0.7)
Effective portion of changes in fair value of cash flow hedges  –  –  0.1  –  0.1 
Share-based compensation charge  –  –  –  –  – 
At 31 December 2010  11.5  0.1  –  23.4  35.0  Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2010 44
Financial statements
Cash flow statements
Group Company
Note
 2010 
 £m 
 2009 
 £m 
 2010 
 £m 
 2009 
 £m 
Cash flows from operating activities
Profit/(loss) for the year 24.2  (20.9) (0.7) (44.1)
Income tax expense 0.5  1.7  (0.3) 0.6
Net finance expense 13.1  17.9  1.0  2.2 
Depreciation and amortisation 9.9  11.2  –  – 
Asset impairment 1.6  7.6  – 41.3 
Reversal of asset impairment –  (1.7) – – 
Charge for share-based payments 0.3  0.5  – –
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment –  0.9 – – 
Loss on disposal of intangible assets-software –  0.2 – –
(Profit)/loss on disposal of businesses (32.9) 2.0  –  – 
Gains on curtailment and settlements on pensions –  (5.7) – –
Difference between pension charge and cash contribution (98.6)  (5.1) –  – 
(Increase)/decrease in inventory (2.0) 3.8  –  – 
(Increase)/decrease in accounts receivable (1.3) 8.9  – 0.8 
(Increase)/decrease in accounts payable (6.7) (35.3) (73.0) 6.5 
Decrease in working capital (10.0) (22.6) (73.0) 7.3
Decrease in provisions (1.6) (16.4) – – 
Cash (utilised by)/generated from operations (93.5)  (30.4)  (73.0)  7.3 
Interest paid (1.7) (3.5) (1.7) (2.8)
Interest received 0.7  1.6  0.9 1.5 
Income tax (paid)/received (1.3) 1.3  – – 
Net cash (utilised by)/generated from operating activities (95.8)  (31.0)  (73.8) 6.0
Cash flows from investing activities
Disposal of businesses, net of cash disposed of 21  26.8  57.1  –  – 
Purchases of property, plant and equipment (15.7) (18.6) –  – 
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 2.2 –  –  – 
Purchases of intangible assets –  (0.3) –  – 
Net cash inflow from investing activities 13.3  38.2 – –
Cash flows from financing activities
Cash (repayments)/inflow from borrowings (27.5) 4.4  (27.5) 3.2
Payment of transaction costs for related borrowings –  (1.2) – –
Payment of finance lease (0.2) (1.5) – –
Cash inflow/(outflow) included in restricted cash 14  97.0  (1.4) 97.0  (1.4)
Net cash inflow from financing activities 69.3  0.3  69.5  1.8 
Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents (13.2)  7.5  (4.3) 7.8 
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period 23.9  17.9  12.9  6.2 
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 0.1  (1.5) 0.2  (1.1) 
Cash and cash equivalents at end of period 10.8  23.9  8.8  12.9 
Cash and cash equivalents consist of:
Cash at bank and in hand – continuing 19  10.8  17.2  8.8 12.9 
Bank overdrafts – continuing 23 –  (0.3) – –
Cash at bank and in hand – held for sale 20 –  7.0  – –
  10.8  23.9  8.8 12.9 
The notes on pages 46 to 81 form part of these financial statements.  45 Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Financial statements
1. Accounting policies
Accounting convention and basis of preparation
Basis of preparation – Going concern
The group’s business activities, together with further 
information on the factors likely to affect its future 
development, performance and position are set out in 
the Performance review on pages 8 to 15. The financial 
position of the group, its cashflow, liquidity position and 
borrowing facilities are described in the Financial Review 
on pages 16 to 19. In addition notes 3 to 26 to the 
financial statements include the group’s policies and 
processes for managing its capital; its financial risk 
management objectives; details of its financial instruments 
and its exposure to credit risk and liquidity risk.
The group has net liabilities of £21.9m as at 31 December 
2010 and made a loss from continuing operations of £11.2m, 
including £2.4m of significant items, for the year then ended.
During 2010 the company and the group met their day 
to day working capital requirements and medium term 
funding requirements through a multi-currency revolving 
facility. The loan under the facility was repaid when the 
facility of £35m expired on 31 December 2010. A new 
facility was signed off on 9 February 2011 which became 
available on the completion of the pension restructuring 
deal. This new facility provides a three year £15m term 
loan with a six monthly repayment of £1.5m and a 
revolving credit facility of £10m.
At the date of authorisation of the financial statements, 
the terms of the facility, including covenants, were met.
The directors have prepared trading cash flow forecasts 
based on normal creditor and debtor terms for a period 
in excess of a year from the date of approval of these 
financial statements. In preparing theses forecasts the 
directors have assumed: that trading relationships with 
key customers are at levels and terms similar to prior 
years, unless otherwise notified; that sales growth is 
secured and delivered and that planned cost savings are 
achieved. These forecast show that before sensitivities, 
Notes to the financial statements
and after sensitivities (combined with mitigating factors), 
the total facility is not exceeded over the duration of 
the facility, the covenants are not breached and there 
are no events of default. The sensitivities mainly relate 
to changes in sales volume and margin. The mitigating 
factors include reduction in discretionary spend such 
as capital expenditure and cost reduction programmes. 
Should the actual results for 2011 not meet the forecast 
levels the group’s ability to remain within the facility 
and covenants will depend on the mitigating factors.
The directors of the group have reviewed the forecasts, 
together with the sensitivities and mitigating factors and 
expect that the group will be able to meet its liabilities 
as they fall due and therefore consider it appropriate 
to prepare the financial statements on a going concern 
basis. These financial statements do not include any 
adjustments that would result from the basis of preparation 
being inappropriate.
Statement of compliance
Uniq plc is a company incorporated in the UK. The group 
financial statements consolidate those of the company 
and its subsidiaries (together referred to as the group). 
The parent company financial statements present 
information about the company as a separate entity 
and not about its group.
Both the parent company financial statements and the 
group financial statements have been prepared and 
approved by the directors in accordance with International 
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), International 
Accounting Standards (IAS) and related IFRIC interpretations 
in issue, that have been endorsed by the European 
Commission and are effective at 31 December 2010, 
or where the group has chosen to early adopt at 
31 December 2010 (‘adopted IFRS’).
In publishing the parent company financial statements 
here together with the group financial statements, the 
company has taken advantage of the exemption in s408 
of the Companies Act 2006 not to present its individual 
income statement and related notes that form a part of 
these approved financial statements. Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2010 46
Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements
The financial statements are prepared on the historical 
cost basis except that the following assets and liabilities 
are stated at their fair value: derivative financial instruments 
and financial instruments classified as fair value through 
the profit or loss. Non-current assets and disposal groups 
held for sale are stated at the lower of previous carrying 
amount and fair value less costs to sell.
New accounting policies and future requirements 
The following standards or interpretations, issued by the 
IASB or the IFRIC that are relevant to the group came into 
effect during the year and have been adopted by the group:
•  Amendments to IFRIC 14 Prepayments of a minimum 
funding requirement – this amendment relates to defined 
benefit schemes which fall under IAS 19 ‘Employee 
Benefits’, however the group and its subsidiaries are not 
in a contribution prepayment position in this financial year.
•  Amendments to IFRS 2 Group cash-settled share based 
payment transactions – although the group has share 
based payments, the parent company did not settle any 
share-based arrangements on behalf of the subsidiaries 
during the period.
The standards listed above did not have a significant effect 
on the consolidated results or financial position of the 
group or the company.
New standards and interpretations not yet adopted
A number of new standards, amendments to standards 
and interpretations are not adopted as they are not yet 
endorsed by the European Commission for this period. 
None of these will have an effect on the consolidated 
financial statements of the group apart from possible 
additional disclosures.
Financial year
The financial statements are prepared to reflect trading 
up to the Saturday nearest to the accounting reference 
date. This year’s income statement covers the 53-week 
period ended 1 January 2011. Last year’s income statement 
covered the 52 weeks ended 26 December 2009.
Consolidation
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which 
control is transferred to the group. Control exists when the 
group has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the 
financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain 
benefits from its activities. They are deconsolidated from 
the date that control ceases. The purchase method of 
accounting is used to account for the acquisition of 
subsidiaries by the group.
Prior to 1 January 2010, the cost of an acquisition is 
measured as the fair value of the assets given, equity 
instruments issued and liabilities incurred or assumed 
at the date of exchange, plus costs directly attributable 
to the acquisition. Post 1 January 2010, costs directly 
attributable to the acquisition are expensed as incurred. 
Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a 
business combination are measured initially at their fair 
values at the acquisition date. The excess of the cost of 
acquisition over the fair value of the group’s share of the 
net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent 
liabilities acquired is recorded as goodwill. If the cost of 
acquisition is less than the fair value of the group’s share 
of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired, the difference 
is recognised directly in the income statement.
Accounting policies of subsidiaries have been changed 
where necessary to ensure consistency with the policies 
adopted by the group.
Foreign currency translation
The consolidated financial statements are presented in 
pounds sterling, which is the group’s and the company’s 
presentation currency.
Foreign currency transactions are translated into the 
respective functional currency of group entities (the 
currency of the primary economic environment in which 
an entity operates) using the exchange rates prevailing at 
the dates of the transaction. Foreign exchange gains and 
losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions 
and from the translation at year end exchange rates of 
monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign 
currencies are recognised in the income statement.
The results and financial position of all the group entities 
that have a functional currency different from the presentation 
currency are translated into the presentation currency 
as follows: 
•  assets and liabilities are translated at the closing rate 
at the date of that balance sheet;
•  income and expenses are translated at average exchange 
rates; and
•  all resulting exchange differences are recognised as a 
separate component of equity. Since the group’s date 
of transition to adopted IFRS, exchange differences 
arising on the translation of foreign operations have 
been recognised directly in equity. 47
Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements
Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2010
On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the 
translation of the net investment in foreign entities, and 
of borrowings and other currency instruments designated 
as hedges of such investments, that are effective are taken 
to shareholders’ equity with the ineffective portion taken 
to the income statement. When a foreign operation is sold, 
such exchange differences are recognised in the income 
statement as part of the gain or loss on sale.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition 
of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of 
the foreign entity and translated at the closing rate.
Significant items
Significant items are those items of financial performance 
which, because of size or incidence, require separate 
disclosure to enable underlying trading performance 
to be assessed.
Revenue recognition
Revenue represents the value of sales to customers outside 
the group net of discounts, allowances, volume and 
promotional rebates and other payments to customers 
and excludes value-added tax. Sales of goods are recognised 
when a group entity has delivered products to the customer; 
the customer has accepted the products and collectability 
of the related receivable is reasonably assured.
Finance income/expense
Finance income/expense includes the following:
•  exchange differences arising on monetary items and 
all fair value gains and losses on derivative financial 
instruments and corresponding adjustments to hedged 
items (excluding the effective portion of the hedge 
relationship which is taken to equity) under designated 
fair value hedging relationships;
• amortisation of finance arrangement fees;
• discounting on long term balance sheet items;
•  interest payable/receivable on cash and cash equivalents 
and borrowings; and
•  IAS 19 pension finance costs comprising the expected 
return on pension fund assets less the interest on 
pension fund liabilities.
Finance income and expense is recognised in the income 
statement as it accrues, using the effective interest method.
Investments
Investments in subsidiary undertakings are shown at 
cost, less impairment.
Property, plant and equipment
All property, plant and equipment is shown at cost, less 
subsequent depreciation and applicable impairment, except 
for land, which is shown at cost less impairment.
Assets under construction are included in tangible fixed 
assets on the basis of expenditure incurred at the balance 
sheet date.
Except for Tooling, depreciation is calculated using the 
straight-line method to allocate the cost of each asset to 
its residual value over its estimated useful life as follows:
• Buildings up to 50 years
• Plant and machinery up to 10 years
• Equipment and motor vehicles up to 6 years
• Land is not depreciated
Property, plant and equipment acquired under finance 
leases are depreciated over the shorter of the asset’s 
useful life and the lease term. Tooling is depreciated over 
the expected life of supply either by including a proportion 
of the cost against each item supplied or allocating the 
cost evenly over the anticipated life of supply. Where the 
Tooling ceases to be used, the remaining cost is charged 
in full to the income statement.
Depreciation methods, useful lives and residual values 
are reviewed at each balance sheet date.
Intangible assets
Goodwill
Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition 
over the fair value of the group’s share of the net identifiable 
assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the acquired 
subsidiary at the date of acquisition. Goodwill is tested 
annually for impairment and carried at cost less accumulated 
impairment losses. On disposal of a subsidiary the attributable 
amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the 
profit or loss on disposal. Goodwill arising on acquisitions 
prior to 31 March 2004 has been retained at the previous 
UK GAAP amounts subject to being tested for impairment.
Research and development
Research expenditure is recognised as an expense as 
incurred. Cost incurred on development projects are 
recognised as intangible assets when it meets the 
recognition criteria of IAS 38 Intangible Assets. Development 
costs that have a finite useful life that have been capitalised 
are amortised from the commencement of the commercial 
production of the product on a straight-line basis over the 
period of its expected benefit (not exceeding five years).  Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2010 48
Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements
Costs incurred on creating new recipes and products are 
not recognised as intangible assets as they do not meet 
the identification and recognition criteria in IAS38 for an 
intangible asset. Such costs are expensed as incurred. 
Computer software
Acquired computer software is capitalised on the basis 
of the costs incurred to acquire and bring to use the 
specific software and amortised using the straight-line 
method over their estimated useful lives (three to five 
years). Computer software development costs that are 
directly associated with the implementation of major 
business systems are recognised as intangible assets 
and are amortised using the straight-line method over 
their estimated useful lives.
Impairment of assets
Non-financial assets
The carrying amounts of the group’s non-financial assets, 
other than inventories and deferred tax assets are reviewed 
at each reporting date to determine whether there is an 
indication of impairment. If any such indication exists, 
then the asset’s recoverable amount is estimated.
For goodwill and intangible assets that have an indefinite 
useful life or are not yet available for use, the recoverable 
amount is estimated at each reporting date. 
The recoverable amount of an asset or cash-generating 
unit (CGU) is the greater of its value in use and its fair value 
less costs to sell. In assessing value in use, the estimated 
future cash flows are discounted to their present value 
using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market 
assessments of the time value of money and the risks 
specific to the asset. For the purposes of assessing 
impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels 
for which there are separately identifiable CGUs.
An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which 
the asset’s carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount 
being the higher of an asset’s fair value less costs to sell 
and value in use. Impairment losses are recognised in profit 
and loss. Impairment losses recognised in respect of CGU 
are allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any 
goodwill allocated to the units and then to reduce the 
carrying amount of the other assets in the group (group 
of units) on a pro rata basis.
An impairment loss in respect of goodwill is not reversed. 
In respect of other assets, impairment losses recognised 
in prior periods are assessed at each reporting date for 
any indications that the loss has decreased or no longer 
exists. An impairment loss is reversed if there has been a 
change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable 
amount. An impairment loss is reversed only to the extent 
that the asset’s carrying amount does not exceed the 
carrying amount that would have been determined, net 
of depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment loss 
had been recognised.
Financial assets
A financial asset is assessed at each reporting date to 
determine whether there is any objective evidence that 
it is impaired. A financial asset is considered to be impaired 
if objective evidence indicates that one or more events 
have had a negative effect on the estimated future cash 
flows of that asset.
An impairment loss in respect of a financial asset measured 
at amortised cost is calculated as the difference between 
the carrying amount, and the present value of the estimated 
future cash flows discounted at the original effective interest 
rate. All impairment losses are recognised in the profit or loss.
An impairment loss is reversed if the reversal can be related 
objectively to an event occurring after the impairment 
loss was recognised. For financial assets measured at 
amortised costs, the reversal is recognised in the profit 
or loss statement.
Leases
Leases are classified as finance leases where substantially 
all the risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to 
the group. Finance leases are capitalised at the lease’s 
inception at the lower of the fair value of the leased asset 
and the present value of the minimum lease payments. 
Each lease payment is allocated between the liability and 
finance charges so as to achieve a constant rate on the 
finance balance outstanding. Assets acquired under finance 
leases are depreciated over the shorter of the asset’s useful 
life and the lease term.
Leases other than finance leases are classified as operating 
leases. Payments made under operating leases (net of 
any incentives received from the lessor) are charged to 
the income statement on a straight-line basis over the 
period of the lease.
Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost, including 
attributable overhead expenditure, and net realisable 
value. Cost is determined using the first-in-first-out (FIFO)  49
Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements
Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2010
method and includes expenditure incurred in acquiring 
the inventories, production or conversion costs and other 
costs in bringing them to their existing location and condition. 
In the case of manufactured inventories and work in progress, 
cost includes an appropriate share of overheads based 
on normal operating capacity.
Taxation
Current tax is based on taxable profit for the year and any 
adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years. The 
group’s liability for current tax is calculated using rates that 
have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance 
sheet date. Tax is recognised in the income statement except 
to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in 
equity in which case it is recognised in equity.
Deferred tax is provided, using the liability method, on all 
temporary differences between the carrying amounts of 
assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and 
the amounts used for taxation purposes. Deferred tax is not 
recognised for the following temporary differences: the initial 
recognition of assets or liabilities in a transaction that is not a 
business combination and that affects neither accounting 
nor taxable profit, and differences relating to investments in 
subsidiaries to the extent that it is probable that they will not 
reverse in the foreseeable future. In addition, deferred tax is 
not recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on 
the initial recognition of goodwill. Deferred tax is measured 
at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the year when 
the asset is realised or the liability is settled.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at 
each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it 
is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be 
available to allow the deferred tax asset to be utilised.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognised for all 
deductible temporary differences except in respect of 
deductible temporary differences associated with investments 
in subsidiaries in which case deferred tax assets are only 
recognised to the extent that it is probable that the temporary 
differences will reverse in the foreseeable future and 
taxable profit will be available against which the temporary 
difference can be utilised.
Share-based compensation
In terms of IFRS 2 Share-based Payments, an expense is not 
recognised in respect of equity-settled share options granted 
before 7 November 2002 and vested before 1 January 2005. 
The shares are recognised when the options are exercised 
and the proceeds received are allocated to reserves.
The group operates an equity-settled share-based 
compensation plan whereby the company grants share 
based payments to the employees of its subsidiary companies. 
The fair value of the options granted under this plan are 
calculated using a Monte Carlo simulation model, which 
takes into account the probability of meeting the market-
based vesting conditions. The total amount to be expensed 
over the vesting period is determined by reference to the 
options granted and the estimated number of options 
expected to vest after adjusting for lapses due to leavers 
during the vesting period and achievement of any non-market 
based vesting conditions. At each balance sheet date prior 
to vesting of the relevant awards the group revises the 
estimates of the number of options that are expected to 
vest after adjusting for expected leavers and estimated 
achievement of non-market based vesting conditions. The 
grant date fair value of options granted to employees is 
recognised as an employee expense, with a corresponding 
increase in equity, over the period that the employees become 
unconditionally entitled to the options. It recognises the 
impact of the revision of original estimates, if any, in the 
income statement, and a corresponding adjustment to 
equity. When a share-based payment arrangement contains 
a non-vesting condition, the fair value is discounted to 
reflect such a condition and there is no true-up for 
differences between expected and actual outcomes.
In addition, one of the group companies also operated 
a cash-settled share-based compensation plan. For 
cash-settled share-based compensation plans, a liability 
equal to the portion of the goods or services received is 
recognised at the current fair value determined at each 
balance sheet date. The liability is re-measured at each 
reporting date and at settlement date. Any change in the 
fair value of the liability is recognised as payroll costs in 
the income statement.
A deferred tax asset is calculated for outstanding share 
options based on the current share price at the end of 
each year, and the relative exercise price. The deferred 
tax asset is only recognised in the income statement for 
each share option scheme to the extent that a share-based 
payment expense has been charged in the income 
statement for that scheme. The remaining deferred tax 
asset calculated is recognised directly in equity.
Dividend distribution
Dividends to shareholders of Uniq plc are recognised 
as a liability in the period that they are approved by 
the shareholders. Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2010 50
Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements
Grants
Grants relating to assets are initially set up as deferred 
income. It is then recognised as income on a systematic 
basis over the useful life of the related depreciable assets. 
A government grant is not recognised until there is a 
reasonable assurance that it will be received and that 
the group will comply with the conditions associated 
with the grant.
Provisions
A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the 
group has a present legal or constructive obligation as 
a result of a past event, and it is probable that an outflow 
of economic benefits would be required to settle the 
obligation. A provision for restructuring is recognised 
when the group has approved a detailed and formal 
restructuring plan and announced its main provisions. 
If the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions 
are determined by discounting the expected future 
cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market 
assessments of the time value of money and the risks 
specific to the liability. Where discounting is used, the 
increase in the provision due to the passage of time is 
recognised as a borrowing cost. 
Retirement benefit obligations
The group’s companies operate or contribute to various 
different types of pension schemes. These include both 
defined benefit and defined contribution plans. 
A defined benefit plan is a pension plan that defines the 
amount of pension benefit that an employee will receive 
on retirement, usually dependent on one or more factors 
such as age, years of service and pay at or close to the 
time of retirement.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the 
period in which they occur. As permitted by the standard, 
actuarial gains and losses are recognised outside profit 
or loss and presented in the statement of comprehensive 
income. The liability recognised in the balance sheet 
represents the present value of the defined benefit obligation, 
as reduced by the fair value of plan assets. The discount 
rate is set by reference to yields on high quality sterling 
corporate bonds, which is taken to be AA-rated for IAS19 
purposes, taking into account the duration of the Scheme’s 
liabilities. The cost of providing benefits is determined 
using the Projected Unit Credit Method.
Past-service cost is recognised immediately in income, 
unless the changes to the pension plan are conditional 
on the employees remaining in service for a specified 
period of time (the vesting period). In this case, the 
past-service cost is amortised on a straight-line basis 
over the vesting period.
When the actuarial calculation results in a benefit to the 
group the recognised asset is limited to the total of any 
unrecognised past service costs and the present value 
of economic benefits available in the form of any future 
refunds from the plan or reductions in future contributions 
to the plan. In order to calculate the present value of 
economic benefits, consideration is given to any minimum 
funding requirements that apply to any plan within the 
group. An economic benefit is available to the group if it 
is realisable during the life of the plan or on settlement 
of the plan liabilities.
Any curtailment gain/(loss) is measured using actuarial 
assumptions appropriate at the time when the terms 
of the scheme were amended.
For defined contribution plans, the group pays contributions 
to company administered or third party pension plans on 
a contractual basis. The group has no further payment 
obligations once the contributions have been paid. The 
contributions are recognised as an employee benefit 
expense when they are due. Prepaid contributions are 
recognised as an asset to the extent that a cash refund 
or a reduction in the future payments is available.
Discontinued operations
A discontinued operation is a component of the group’s 
business that represents a separate major line of business 
or geographical area that has been disposed of or is held 
for sale, or is a subsidiary acquired exclusively with a view 
to resale. Classification as a discontinued operation occurs 
upon disposal or when the operation meets the criteria to 
be classified as held for sale, if earlier. When an operation 
is classified as a discontinued operation, the comparative 
income statement is re-presented as if the operation had 
been discontinued from the start of the comparative period.
Segment reporting
The group determines and presents operating segments 
based on the information internally provided to the CEO, 
the chief operating decision maker for the purposes of 
making strategic decisions and monitoring of segment  51
Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements
Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2010
performance, which conforms to the requirements of 
IFRS8, Operating Segments. The group’s primary format 
for segment reporting is its business products, namely 
Desserts and Food to Go. 
Inter-segment pricing is determined on an arm’s length 
basis. Segment results, assets and liabilities include 
items directly attributable to a segment as well as those 
that can be allocated on a reasonable basis. Unallocated 
items comprise mainly corporate assets (primarily the 
group’s headquarters), the UK retirement benefit obligation, 
head office expenses, cash, borrowings and income tax 
assets and liabilities.
Segment capital expenditure is the total costs incurred 
during the period to acquire property, plant and equipment, 
and intangible assets other than goodwill.
Financial instruments
Non-derivative financial instruments
Non-derivative financial instruments comprise trade and 
other receivables, cash and cash equivalents, restricted 
cash, loans and borrowings and trade and other payables.
Non-derivative financial instruments are recognised initially 
at fair value plus any directly attributable transaction costs. 
Subsequent to initial recognition non-derivative financial 
instruments are carried at amortised cost using the effective 
interest rate method, less any impairment losses.
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and 
call deposits excluding bank overdrafts. Bank overdrafts 
that are repayable on demand and form an integral part 
of the group’s cash management are included as a 
component of cash and cash equivalents for the purposes 
of the cash flow statements.
Restricted cash comprises an amount which was placed 
into a secure account in favour of the UK pension fund. 
Derivative financial instruments
 The group uses various derivative financial instruments to 
manage exposure to foreign exchange risks. These include 
forward currency contracts and currency swaps. The group 
also uses interest rate swaps to manage interest rate 
exposures. The group does not use derivative financial 
instruments for speculative trading purposes.
 Derivatives are initially accounted for and measured at fair 
value on the date a derivative contract is entered into 
and subsequently measured at fair value. The accounting 
treatment of derivatives classified as hedging instruments 
depends on their designation, which occurs on the date 
that the derivative contract is committed to. The group 
designates derivatives as:
•  a hedge of the exposure to variability in cash flows 
that are attributable to a particular risk associated with 
a recognised asset or liability or of a highly probable 
forecasted transaction or the foreign exchange risk 
of a firm commitment which could affect the profit 
or loss (‘cash flow hedge’); and
•  a hedge of a net investment in a foreign entity or 
operation (‘Net investment hedge’).
Cash flow hedge
Where a derivative financial instrument is designated as 
a cash flow hedge of a recognised asset or liability, or a 
highly probable forecasted transaction, any gain or loss 
on the derivative financial instrument is recognised directly 
in equity to the extent it is effective. The cumulative gain 
or loss is removed from equity and recognised in the income 
statement in the same period or periods during which the 
hedged forecast transaction affects the income statement. 
When the forecasted transaction subsequently results in 
the recognition of a non-financial asset or non-financial 
liability, the associated cumulative gain or loss is removed 
from equity and included in the initial cost or other carrying 
amount of the non-financial asset or liability.
Net investment hedge
Where the group hedges net investments in foreign entities 
through currency borrowing, the gains or losses on the 
retranslation of the borrowings (up to the opening net 
investment) are recognised in equity. If the group uses 
derivatives as the hedging instrument, the effective portion 
of the hedge is recognised in equity with any ineffective 
portion being recognised in the income statement. Gains 
and losses accumulated in equity are recycled through 
the income statement on disposal of the foreign entity.
Discontinued hedge accounting
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging 
instrument expires or is sold, terminated, exercised, or no 
longer qualifies for hedge accounting or the group revokes 
designation of the hedging relationship. At that time, 
any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument  Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2010 52
Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements
recognised in equity is retained in equity until the highly 
probable forecasted transaction occurs. If a hedged 
transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net 
cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity is 
transferred to the income statement for the period.
Forward exchange contracts
Forward exchange contracts (‘FX contracts’) which hedge 
currency assets and liabilities are recognised in the financial 
statements together with the assets and liabilities that they 
hedge. Both realised and unrealised gains and losses on 
FX contracts which hedge future sales and purchases are 
recognised in the income statement. Gains and losses on 
financial instruments that are not related to the group’s 
hedging activities are recognised as finance income or expense.
Share capital
Ordinary shares are classified as equity. Incremental costs 
directly attributable to the issue of ordinary shares and 
share options are recognised as a deduction from equity, 
net of any tax effect.
2. Critical accounting estimates and assumptions
Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and 
are based on historical experience and other factors, 
including expectations of future events that are believed 
to be reasonable under the circumstances. The estimates 
and assumptions that could have a significant risk of 
causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts 
of assets and liabilities within the next financial year 
are discussed below.
Retirement benefit obligations
A number of accounting estimates and judgements are 
incorporated within the provision for post retirement 
obligations. These are described in more detail in note 27.
Share-based payments
Note 29 – measurement of share-based payments.
Goodwill
Note 13 – measurement of the recoverable amounts of 
the cash generating units (CGUs) containing goodwill. 
The recoverable amounts of CGUs were measured based 
on the higher of value in use and fair value less costs to 
sell. The assessment of the value in use involves a degree 
of judgement based on management estimate of future 
potential revenue and profit.
Provisions 
Note 25 – provisions. 
Contingent Liabilities
Note 32 – Contingent liabilities.
Taxation
There are many transactions and calculations for which 
the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Significant 
judgement is required in determining the group’s tax assets 
and liabilities. Deferred tax assets have been recognised 
to the extent they are recoverable based on profit projections 
for future years approved by senior management. Income 
tax liabilities for anticipated issues have been recognised 
based on estimates on whether additional tax will be due. 
Notwithstanding the above, the group believes that it will 
fully recover all tax assets and has adequate tax provisions 
to cover all risks across all business operations.
3. Financial risk management
Overview
The group has exposure to the following risks from its 
use of financial instruments:
• credit risk;
• liquidity risk; and
• market risk
This note presents information about the group’s exposure 
to each of the above risks and the group’s policies and 
processes for measuring and managing these risks. The 
risks are managed centrally following board approved 
policies. The group operates a centralised treasury function 
in accordance with board approved policies and guidelines 
covering funding and management of foreign exchange 
exposure and interest rate risk. Transactions entered into 
by the treasury function are required to be in support of, 
or as a consequence of, underlying commercial transactions.
Exposure to interest rate fluctuations are partly managed 
through the use of interest rate swaps and forward rate 
agreements. Objectives for the mix between fixed and 
floating rate borrowings are established by the board so 
as to seek to reduce the impact of adverse variations in 
interest rates on the group’s profit and cash flow.
The group does not engage in holding speculative financial 
instruments or their derivatives. Further quantitative 
disclosures are included throughout these consolidated 
financial statements. 
The board of directors has overall responsibility for the 
establishment and oversight of the group’s risk management 
framework. An embedded risk management process is in 
place, which seeks to identify the most significant risks  53
Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements
Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2010
facing each business and the group, and reports on how 
those risks are being managed. This process requires the 
business units to produce risk registers identifying and 
evaluating significant risks which may affect their business 
and to consider what action can and should reasonably 
and cost effectively be taken to reduce them to an acceptable 
level. The process culminates in the production of a group 
risk register including a review of significant central risks. 
This register is reviewed and maintained on an ongoing 
basis. The group audit committee reviews the risk review 
procedure carried out by the group with the aim of ensuring 
that, where possible and appropriate to do so in the context 
of the business, reasonable steps are taken by the group 
to mitigate such risks.
Credit Risk
Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the group if a customer 
or counterparty to a financial instrument fails to meet its 
contractual obligations and arises principally from the group’s 
receivables from customers and investment securities.
Trade and other receivables
The group’s exposure to credit risk is influenced mainly 
by the individual characteristics of each customer. The 
majority of the group’s customers are large, established 
retail organisations with good credit records and thus have 
a lower risk of default. Most of them have been transacting 
with the group for a number of years. The group assigns 
credit limits to its customers based on a review of external 
credit ratings. The group’s policy is to provide for bad 
debts based on the specific circumstances of each debtor.
Approximately 57% (2009: 54%) of the group’s revenue is 
attributable to sales transactions with a single customer. 
This customer pays between 14 and 21 days thus the group 
has a reduced concentration of credit risk.
Cash and cash equivalents
The group limits its exposure to credit risk by only using 
banks with a credit rating of at least Aa3 from Moody’s 
and A+ from Standard and Poor’s. Given these high credit 
ratings, management does not expect any counterparty 
to fail to meet its obligations.
Guarantees
The group’s policy is to provide financial guarantees only 
to wholly owned subsidiaries. 
Liquidity risk
Liquidity risk is the risk that the group will not be able to 
meet its financial obligations as they fall due. The group’s 
approach is to monitor cash flow forecasts on a weekly 
basis to ensure that it has sufficient liquidity to meet its 
liabilities when they become due.
Market risk
Market risk is the risk that changes in market prices, such 
as foreign exchange rates, interest rates and equity prices 
will affect the group’s income or the value of its holdings 
of financial instruments. The objective of market risk 
management is to manage and control market risk exposures 
within acceptable parameters, while optimising return.
Currency risk
The group’s exposure to foreign currency is primarily on 
purchases in Euro, following the disposal of the European 
operations. Contracted transactional exposures are fully 
hedged at the point in time when they become contracted. 
Forecast transactional exposures are reviewed and 
hedged on a case by case basis. Hedging is achieved 
using forward foreign exchange contracts.
Interest rate risk
The group’s objective is to minimise the impact of interest 
rate volatility on interest cost to protect earnings. This is 
achieved by reviewing both the amount of floating rate 
indebtedness over a certain period of time and its sensitivity 
to interest rate fluctuations. From time to time, the group 
may take out interest rate swaps in order to mitigate 
the group’s exposure to interest rates on floating debt. 
However, during the year, as part of the group’s strategy, 
some of the net proceeds from various disposals of 
businesses transactions were used to repay part of its 
facility loans. Therefore, the group believes that the exposure 
to interest rate risk was minimal.
Other market price risk
The group’s Pension Trustees are responsible for setting 
investment principles in place. The funds are predominantly 
held in equity investments, bonds and/or gilts in such 
proportions as the Trustees, guided by the investment 
advisors, consider appropriate from time to time. 
Capital management
The board’s policy is to maintain a strong capital base so as 
to maintain investor, creditor and market confidence and 
to sustain future development of the business. The board 
of directors monitors the return on trading capital employed 
(‘ROTCE’) for each operating division as well as for 
the group. ROTCE represents operating profit before 
significant items as a percentage of trading capital 
employed (as adjusted for the effect of the timing of 
major acquisitions and disposals). Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2010 54
Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements
4. Segment analysis
The group’s reportable segments under IFRS 8 ‘Reporting Segments’ are Desserts and Food To Go. These product 
segments are regularly reported to the group’s management for the purposes of making strategic decisions and 
monitoring of its segment performance. 
Desserts segment operates from two sites – Minsterley and Evercreech producing trifles, desserts, yoghurts and 
cottage cheese. Although these are two operating segments, they have been aggregated under the Desserts 
segment as they met the same aggregation criteria under IFRS 8.
Food to Go segment operates from two sites – Northampton and Spalding producing sandwiches, wraps, café hot food, 
sandwich fillers and dressed salads. Although these are two operating segments, they have been aggregated under 
Food to Go segment as they met the same aggregation criteria under IFRS 8.
The discontinued businesses in the year were the German and Polish businesses, part of the discontinued Northern 
Europe reportable segment. The segment information reported below does not include any amounts for these 
discontinued operations, which are described in more detail in note 22.
4.1. Segment revenue and results
Segment revenue
Segment result before
significant items
2010
£m
2009
£m
2010
£m
2009
£m
Desserts 154.9  150.3  (2.7) (2.9)
Food to Go 157.0  136.9  11.0  7.3 
Reportable segments 311.9  287.2  8.3  4.4 
Corporate expenses (unallocated) (4.2) (6.3)
Operating Profit/(loss) before significant items 4.1  (1.9)
Significant items (2.4) (0.7)
Operating Profit/(loss) after significant items 1.7  (2.6)
Net finance expense (12.9) (15.9)
Loss before tax (11.2) (18.5)
Income tax expense – (0.4)
Loss from continuing operations (11.2) (18.9)
Profit/(loss) from discontinued operations (net of tax) (note 22) 35.4 (2.0)
Profit/(loss) for the year 24.2  (20.9)
Revenue reported above represents revenue generated from external customers. There was no inter-segment 
revenue in the year (2009: £nil). The total of the reportable segments’ revenue equates to the group’s revenue 
of its continuing operations.
The accounting policies of the reportable segments are the same as the group’s accounting policies described 
in note 1. Segment results represent the results earned by each segment without allocation of significant items, 
corporate costs, finance costs and income tax expense. This is the measure reported to management as they 
believe that it is the most relevant in evaluating the performance of the above segments and for the purpose of 
resource allocation. 55
Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements
Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2010
4.2. Other segment information
Assets Liabilities
Depreciation and 
amortisation
Capital expenditure 
(including software)
2010
£m
2009
£m
2010
£m
2009
£m
2010
£m
2009
£m
2010
£m
2009
£m
Desserts 82.8  76.6 17.8  20.7  5.7  5.1  11.9  9.2 
Food to Go 68.5  67.7  19.8  17.2  4.2  3.6  3.7  2.6 
Reportable segments 151.3 144.3 37.6 37.9 9.9 8.7 15.6 11.8
Corporate (unallocated) 31.3 141.8 166.9 291.2 – 0.3 – 0.1
Amounts related to discontinued 
operations (note 22) – 101.6 – 73.8 –  2.2 0.7  6.4 
Consolidated 182.6  387.7  204.5 402.9 9.9 11.2 16.3  18.3 
For the purposes of monitoring segment performance and allocating resources between segments:
•  All assets and liabilities are allocated to reportable segments other than those included in corporate (unallocated) 
and classified as discontinued operations. Goodwill is allocated to the Food to Go reportable segment as 
described in note 13.
•  Assets in corporate (unallocated) include cash, restricted cash and tax assets. Liabilities in corporate (unallocated) 
include borrowings, tax liabilities and the UK pension liability. The majority of the UK pension scheme’s members 
are past employees and not related to the reportable segments.
In addition to the depreciation and amortisation reported above, asset impairment charges and reversals attributable 
to the following reportable segments and discontinued operations are shown below:
 2010
£m
2009
£m
Desserts 1.6  (1.7)
Amounts related to discontinued operations – 7.6
 1.6 5.9 
4.3. Revenue from major business products
Revenues from external customers for each business product are the same as those reported under the above 
reportable segments.
4.4. Geographical information
During the year, the group operated in two principal geographical areas – United Kingdom (country of domicile) 
and Northern Europe. Northern Europe comprised of Germany and Poland.
The group’s continuing operations revenue from external customers and its assets and liabilities are all based in United 
Kingdom as in 2009. The group’s discontinued operations revenue from external customers are in Northern Europe and 
its assets and liabilities are reported in note 21 as businesses disposed. In 2009, the group’s discontinued operations 
revenue from external customers were in United Kingdom (Pinneys), Northern Europe and France; whilst the assets 
and liabilities of United Kingdom (Pinneys) and France were reported as businesses disposed in note 21 and Northern 
Europe was reported as held for sale in note 20.
Revenue from one customer of both the Food to Go and Desserts segments represents approximately £178.0m 
(2009: £153.8m) of the group’s total continuing revenues. In 2009 revenues from another customer within the 
Desserts business represented approximately £29.0m of the group’s total continuing revenues, however in the 
current year no other customer represents greater than 10% of the group’s total continuing revenues. Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2010 56
Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements
5. Expenses and auditors’ remuneration
2010 2009
Continuing
£m
Discontinued
£m
Total 
£m
Continuing
£m
Discontinued
£m
Total 
£m
The group’s results include charges for:
Depreciation and amortisation  9.9  –  9.9  9.0  2.2  11.2 
Asset impairment 1.6  –  1.6  –  –  – 
Asset impairment related to assets held for sale –  –  – – 7.6 7.6
Reversal of asset impairment –  –  –  (1.7) –  (1.7)
Operating lease rental payments:
– plant and machinery 1.1  0.8  1.9  0.7  2.8 3.5
– other 0.9  0.1  1.0  0.9  1.1  2.0 
Research and development 2.3  –  2.3 1.4 – 1.4
Inventory written down to net realisable value 0.7  –  0.7  1.2  1.4  2.6 
Reversal of inventory written down to net 
realisable value –  (0.1)  (0.1)  (0.2) (0.2) (0.4)
2010 2009
Continuing
£m
Discontinued
£m
Total
£m
Continuing
£m
Discontinued
£m
Total
£m
Auditors’ remuneration
Audit of these financial statements 0.3  –  0.3  0.3  –  0.3 
Audit of the financial statements of 
subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 0.1  –  0.1 0.1 0.3 0.4
Other 0.2  –  0.2  0.5  –  0.5 
 0.6 – 0.6  0.9  0.3 1.2
6. Directors and employees
Directors’ emoluments and share interests are given in the remuneration report on pages 32 to 37.
2010 2009
Continuing
£m
Discontinued
£m
Total
£m
Continuing
£m
Discontinued
£m
Total
£m
Aggregate payroll costs
Wages and Salaries 53.3  6.7  60.0  54.8  76.5 131.3 
Social security costs 5.2  1.2  6.4  4.9  17.2  22.1 
Pension costs – defined benefit schemes –  –  –  1.1  0.3  1.4 
Pension costs – defined contribution schemes 1.1  –  1.1  0.6  1.2  1.8 
Share-based payments charge 0.3  –  0.3  0.5  –  0.5 
 59.9  7.9  67.8  61.9  95.2  157.1
2010 2009
Continuing Discontinued Total Continuing Discontinued Total
Employee numbers
Average:
Full time 1,895 370 2,265  2,257  3,729  5,986 
Part time 65  –  65  68  141  209 
 1,960 370 2,330  2,325  3,870  6,195 
At period end 1,953 – 1,953  2,202  3,741  5,943  57
Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements
Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2010
7. Significant items
Note
2010
£m
2009
£m
Restructuring costs – UK operations (0.4) (6.3)
– Group (3.0) (0.8)
Asset impairment (1.6) –
Reversal of asset impairment  – 1.7 
Onerous contract 2.6 –
Curtailment gain – pensions – 4.7 
Continuing operations (2.4) (0.7)
Discontinued operations (net of tax) 22 32.2  (12.0)
 29.8  (12.7)
Restructuring costs – UK Operations
In 2010 this relates to the closure of our cottage cheese operation in the Desserts segment and covers expected 
redundancy costs. In 2009 this relates to the closure of Paignton site and the transfer of operations from Paignton 
to Minsterley.
Restructuring costs – Group
This relates to the restructuring of group operations and costs of a significant nature in relation to the management 
of the group’s pension fund.
Asset impairment
This relates to the impairment of tangible fixed assets of our cottage cheese operation in the Desserts segment.
Reversal of asset impairment
In 2009 this relates to assets from Paignton which had been impaired in 2008, but which were subsequently transferred 
and used in operations at the Minsterley site and also a reversal of the impairment of the land and buildings at Paignton 
which were previously held for sale at year end.
Onerous contracts
On 11 February 2011, the group agreed a settlement with Wincanton in relation to its onerous contract, resulting in 
a release of the excess provision no longer required.
Curtailment gain – Pensions
From October 2009 the defined benefit pension fund was closed to further accrual resulting in a curtailment gain for the group.
8. Finance income and expenses
2010
£m
2009
£m
Finance income
Interest on bank balances 0.3  0.1 
Interest on restricted cash 0.6  1.4 
Net foreign exchange gains 0.3  – 
1.2  1.5 
Finance expense
Interest on bank loans (1.4) (2.5)
Net foreign exchange losses – (1.2) 
Amortisation of finance arrangement costs (0.6) (1.0) 
(2.0) (4.7)
Net finance expense – continuing operations (0.8) (3.2)
Net pension interest  (12.1) (12.7)
Net finance charges (12.9) (15.9) Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2010 58
Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements
9. Income tax
The tax charge on the loss before significant items for continuing operations is £nil (2009: £0.4m charge).
2010
£m
2009
£m
Overseas tax – (0.4)
Deferred tax – –
Tax on continuing operations – (0.4)
Tax on significant items – –
Continuing operations – (0.4)
Tax expense on discontinued operations (note 22) (0.5) (1.3)
 (0.5) (1.7)
The group has used tax losses to reduce tax payments in respect of the current and prior years.
A reconciliation of the current tax charge to the 28% (2009: 28%) standard rate in the UK
2010
£m
2009
£m
Loss before tax on continuing operations (11.2) (18.5)
Tax credit at UK corporation tax rate of 28% (2009: 28%) 3.1  5.2 
Actual tax charge –  (0.4)
Difference 3.1  5.6 
Explained by:
Reversal of asset impairment  –  (0.5) 
Recognised tax losses 3.7 6.0
Permanent items (0.6) 0.1 
Total 3.1  5.6 
10. Earnings per share (‘EPS’)
Basic and diluted EPS
Basic EPS on continuing operations is calculated on the basis of the weighted average of 113.9m (2009: 113.9m) 
ordinary shares in issue and profit for the year on continuing operations of £24.2m (2009: loss of £20.9m). 
Basic earnings/(loss) per share for discontinued operations is calculated on profit for the year of £35.7m 
(2009: loss £2.0m). At year end there are no potential ordinary shares that have a dilutive effect on 
continuing operations. 
Potential ordinary shares which may dilute EPS in the future include share options, warrants and performance 
incentive plan shares granted by the company. They have not been included in the calculation of dilutive EPS 
as they were anti-dilutive for the current period.
Adjusted EPS
Adjusted loss per share is shown by reference to the group loss before significant items and related tax. 
Adjusted loss per share is presented as the directors consider that this gives valuable additional information 
about the earnings performance of the group’s operations and is calculated as follows: 59
Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements
Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2010
2010
£m
2009
£m
Adjusted basic and diluted EPS of the group
Profit/(loss) for the year 24.2  (20.9)
Significant items on continuing operations 2.4  0.7 
Significant items on discontinued operations (32.2) 9.7 
Adjusted loss before tax (5.6) (10.5)
Related tax –  2.3 
Adjusted loss (5.6) (8.2)
 Pence per 
share 
 Pence per 
share 
Adjusted basic and diluted EPS on total group (4.9) (7.2)
11. Dividends 
No dividends were paid nor declared during 2010 (2009: £nil).
12. Property, plant and equipment
 2010 2009
Land and 
buildings
£m
Plant and 
equipment
£m
Assets under 
construction
£m
Total
£m
Land and 
buildings
£m
Plant and 
equipment
£m
Assets under 
construction
£m
Total
£m
Cost 
Opening balance 37.9  106.0  3.4  147.3  121.5 348.6 9.6 479.7 
Additions –  –  15.6  15.6 0.5 5.9 11.6 18.0 
Transfers from assets 
under construction 0.6  11.1  (11.7) – 4.4 13.4 (17.8) –
Disposals –  (3.5) –  (3.5) (0.6) (17.8) – (18.4)
Disposal of businesses 
(note 21) –  –  –  – (76.0) (142.6) – (218.6)
Transfer to assets held 
for sale (note 20) –  –  –  –  (54.1) (45.4) – (99.5)
Reclassification –  –  –  – 46.0 (51.3) – (5.3)
Exchange –  –  –  –  (3.8) (4.8) – (8.6)
Closing balance 38.5  113.6  7.3  159.4 37.9 106.0 3.4 147.3
Depreciation and 
impairment losses
Opening balance 10.2  60.8  –  71.0  50.3  258.5 – 308.8 
Provided in the period 1.4  8.5  –  9.9  1.8  9.4 – 11.2 
Disposals –  (3.5) –  (3.5) (0.6) (17.8) – (18.4)
Disposal of businesses 
(note 21) –  –  –  – (51.6) (103.5) – (155.1)
Reclassification – – – – 46.8 (48.8) – (2.0)
Impairment – 1.6  – 1.6  4.2 2.9 – 7.1
Reversal of impairment 
(note 7) –  –  –  –  (1.2) (0.5) – (1.7)
Transfer to assets held 
for sale (note 20) –  –  –  –  (38.6) (35.7) – (74.3)
Exchange –  –  –  –  (0.9) (3.7) – (4.6)
Closing Balance 11.6 67.4  –  79.0 10.2 60.8 – 71.0
Opening net book value 27.7  45.2  3.4  76.3  71.2  90.1 9.6 170.9 
Closing net book value 26.9 46.2 7.3 80.4 27.7 45.2 3.4 76.3 Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2010 60
Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements
Leased plant and equipment
The group leases equipment under a number of finance lease agreements or quasi finance leases (see note 23). 
In 2009 the net carrying amount of leased plant and equipment was £0.9m in Northern Europe which had been 
reclassified as held for sale. There was no depreciation recognised on leased assets for current and prior year
in the continuing operations.
Impairment of assets
Refer to notes 7 and 22 for details relating to the impairment of assets and the reversal of the impairment of assets.
Reclassification
In 2009 the property, plant and equipment (‘PPE’) has been reclassified between categories and also with the 
intangible assets – software to reflect the true cost and depreciation of the assets. The net book value as a result of 
this reclassification in the PPE in 2009 has also resulted in £3.3m being re-classed to intangible assets – software. 
Overall, there is no change in net book value for both PPE and Intangible assets – software.
13. Intangible assets
2010 2009
Goodwill
£m
Software
£m
Total
£m
Goodwill
£m
Software
£m
Total
£m
Additions –  –  –  –  0.3  0.3 
Disposals –  –  –  –  (0.7) (0.7)
Disposal of businesses (note 21) –  –  –  –  (10.3) (10.3)
Transfer to assets held for sale (note 20) – –  –  –  (3.0) (3.0)
Reclassification –  –  – – (8.2) (8.2)
Exchange –  –  –  –  (1.2) (1.2)
Closing balance 51.0  –  51.0  51.0 – 51.0
Amortisation and impairment losses
Opening balance 20.5  –  20.5  20.5  23.1  43.6 
Disposals –  –  –  –  (0.5) (0.5)
Disposal of businesses (note 21) – –  – – (7.4) (7.4)
Reclassification – – – – (11.5) (11.5)
Impairment – –  –  –  0.5 0.5
Transfer to assets held for sale (note 20) –  –  –  –  (3.0) (3.0)
Exchange –  –  – – (1.2) (1.2)
Closing Balance 20.5  –  20.5 20.5 – 20.5
Opening net book value 30.5  –  30.5  30.5  –  30.5 
Closing net book value 30.5  –  30.5  30.5  –  30.5 
Goodwill Impairment
As required by IAS 36 an annual impairment review was carried out to assess whether the carrying amount of the 
goodwill exceeds the recoverable amount. Goodwill is allocated to the group’s cash generating units (CGUs) or 
groups of CGUs as set out below:
2010
£m
2009
£m
Food to Go 30.5  30.5  61
Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements
Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2010
The recoverable amounts of CGUs were measured based on the higher of value in use and fair value less costs to 
sell. Value in use was determined to be higher, thus this was used as the recoverable amount. The key assumptions in 
the value in use calculation for sales and margin were based on historical trends adjusted for management estimate 
of future performance of each business unit which involves a degree of judgement. These future trends and cash flow 
projections in the form of the financial budget for 2011 and the strategic plans for 2012 and 2013 have been approved 
by the board. Cash flows beyond the three year period for the United Kingdom were extrapolated using a growth rate 
of 0% and included a terminal value. A pre tax discount rate of 11.2% (2009: 11.7%) was used for this CGU based on 
the group’s weighted average cost of capital.
Cash flows beyond the three year period for the United Kingdom were extrapolated using a growth rate of 0% and 
include a terminal value. A pre tax discount rate of 11.2% (2009: 11.7%) was used for all CGUs based on the group’s 
weighted average cost of capital.
In 2010, the recoverable amount of goodwill exceeded the carrying value and no impairment was required.
14. Restricted cash 
This related to cash held in a secure account in favour of the Pension Fund. In October 2010, the balance of £97.6m 
was paid to the pension fund.
15. Deferred tax assets
 
 Assets Liabilities Net
2010
£m
2009
£m
2010
£m
2009
£m
2010
£m
2009
£m
Retirement benefit obligations  13.9  13.9  –  –  13.9 13.9 
Tax assets/(liabilities) 13.9  13.9  –  –  13.9  13.9 
Net deferred tax assets
2010
£m
2009
£m
Opening balance  13.9  10.2 
Income statement charge – continuing 0.5 –
          – change in rate of tax (0.5) –
Income statement – discontinued – (2.3)
Disposal of businesses (note 21) – 5.3
Held for sale (note 20) – 0.7
Closing balance  13.9 13.9
Unrecognised deferred tax assets
2010
£m
2009
£m
Retirement benefit obligations  26.4 52.0 
Capital allowances in excess of depreciation  43.1 35.1
Provisions  2.4 2.1
Tax losses  22.8 13.8
 94.7 103.0
Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of these items because the availability of suitable taxable 
profits is uncertain. There are no unrecognised deferred tax liabilities in respect of temporary differences associated 
with investments in subsidiaries. Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2010 62
Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements
On 22 June 2010 the Chancellor announced that the main rate of UK corporation tax will reduce from 28% to 27% 
with effect from 1 April 2011. This tax change became substantively enacted in July 2010 and therefore the effect 
of the rate reduction on the deferred tax balances as at 31 December 2010 has been included in the figures above.
On 23 March 2011 the Chancellor announced a further reduction in the main rate of UK corporation tax to 26% with 
effect from 1 April 2011. This change became substantively enacted on 29 March 2011 and therefore the effect of 
the rate would create an additional reduction in the deferred tax asset of approximately £0.5m. This has not been 
reflected in the figures above as it was not substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
The Chancellor also proposed changes to further reduce the main rate of corporation tax by 1% per annum to 23% 
by 1 April 2014, but these changes have not yet been substantively enacted and therefore are not included in the 
figures above. The overall effect of the further reductions from 27% to 23%, if these applied to the deferred tax 
balance at 26 April 2010, would be to further reduce the deferred tax asset by approximately £2.1m.
16. Investments
Company
2010
£m
2009
£m
Cost 
Opening balance 225.2 225.2
Closing balance 225.2 225.2
Provisions for impairment
Opening balance 135.7 94.4
Impairment – 41.3
Closing balance 135.7 135.7
Net book value 89.5 89.5
Investments in the company are stated at cost less provision for any impairment.
Investments in the company balance sheet of £89.5m (2009: £89.5m) represent shares in subsidiary undertakings. 
Further details of these subsidiaries are given in note 35.
An impairment test was carried out on the investments held by the company to review the carrying value. 
No impairment was required in 2010 as the value in use was in excess of the carrying value. In 2009, the value 
of the investments was impaired to value in use, resulting in a £41.3m impairment charge. The pre-tax discount 
rate used in the calculation of value in use was 11.2% ( 2009: 11.7%).
17. Inventory
2010
£m
2009
£m
Raw materials and consumables  12.0  10.5 
Work in progress  1.1  0.1 
Finished goods and goods for resale  0.7  0.6 
  13.8  11.2 
In 2010, inventory recognised as cost of sales for the continuing operations amounted to £165.5m (2009: £151.3m). 63
Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements
Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2010
18. Trade and other receivables
 Group Company
2010
£m
2009
£m
2010
£m
2009
£m
Current assets 
Trade debtors  20.8  22.5  –  – 
Derivatives not used for hedging  0.1  –  0.1 – 
Other debtors  10.0  8.8 –  0.1 
Prepayments and accrued income  2.3  3.3 –  – 
 33.2  34.6 0.1 0.1 
Non-current assets   
Other debtors – 5.4  –  – 
Included in trade debtors is £nil (2009: £0.1m) of allowances for doubtful debts (refer to note 26).
The other debtors in non-current assets of £nil (2009: £5.4m) represent deferred consideration of €6m for the sale of 
Marie SAS in 2009, being held in escrow for 18 months from date of disposal. This amount was received in April 2011. 
This amount revalued at year end to £5.3m has been reclassified to other debtors in current assets above.
Included in other debtors in 2009 was an amount of £5.6m deferred disposal costs of Northern Europe which was 
subsequently recognised in 2010, when the disposal took place.
19. Cash and cash equivalents
 Group Company
2010
£m
2009
£m
2010
£m
2009
£m
Cash at bank  7.1  11.4  7.0 10.6
Short-term deposits  3.7  5.8  1.8 2.3
Cash and cash equivalents 10.8  17.2  8.8 12.9
Bank overdrafts used for cash management purposes (note 23) – (0.3) – –
Cash and cash equivalents in the statement of cash flows 10.8  16.9  8.8 12.9
In 2009, the cash at bank included an amount of £11.0m which was held in a separate account in accordance with 
an agreement with the Pension Fund until 30 June 2010.
Since then, the balance was transferred to the group’s normal bank account and has been used for its business, 
with no restriction imposed on it.
The short-term deposit includes an amount of £3.5m (2009: £5.5m) which is secured against several letters of credit. Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2010 64
Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements
20. Assets held for sale
As at 31 December 2009, Northern Europe (Netherlands, Germany and Poland) and the Paignton factory in the UK, 
were classified as held for sale. Both were sold in the current year (see note 21).
2010
Total
£m
2009
Total
£m
Assets classified as held for sale
Property, plant and equipment – 25.2 
Deferred tax – 0.4
Inventory – 12.1
Trade and other receivables – 56.9
Cash – 7.0
– 101.6
Liabilities classified as held for sale
Retirement benefit obligations – 14.7 
Provisions – 0.3 
Deferred tax – 1.1
Corporation tax – 0.4
Borrowings – 0.9
Trade and other payables – 56.4 
 – 73.8
Cumulative income or expense recognised directly in equity relating to Northern Europe segment classified as held for sale:
 2010
£m
2009
£m
Actuarial loss recognised on the pension schemes – (8.1)
Deferred tax relating to the pension schemes – 3.4 
Foreign currency translation differences for foreign operations – 30.2 
– 25.5  65
Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements
Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2010
21. Business disposals
During the year, the group sold 100% of its interest in the share capital of the following businesses for gross 
consideration as set out below:
Business Segments
Nature of
business
Date of
disposal
Gross
consideration
 Uniq Convenience Foods 
Nederland BV Northern Europe
Chilled and frozen 
convenience foods 9 January 2010 £16.6m
Uniq Deutschland GmbH 
and Uniq Lisner Sp.zo.o Northern Europe
Chilled and frozen 
convenience foods 21 April 2010 £24.7m
The profit/(loss) on disposal of these businesses as set out below is included in the significant items of the discontinued 
operations (see note 22). For 2009, the group disposed of Pinneys, a chilled fish business in UK, Brandly, a field sales 
force business in Germany and Marie SAS, a chilled and frozen convenience foods business in France.
2010 2009
Germany/
Poland
£m
Netherlands
£m
Other
£m
Total
£m
Pinneys,
Brandly and 
France
Property, plant and equipment 12.8  12.5  –  25.3 63.5
Intangible assets –  –  –  – 2.9
Inventories 7.9  2.9  –  10.8 28.0
Cash and cash equivalents and overdrafts 3.8  1.9  –  5.7  (10.4)
Finance leases (0.5) (0.2) –  (0.7)
Trade and other receivables 47.8  9.3  –  57.1  40.3 
Trade and other payables (33.7) (16.6) –  (50.3) (61.5)
Retirement benefit obligation (14.3) –  –  (14.3) (5.0)
Provisions (0.2) (0.1) –  (0.3) (0.9)
Tax (0.5) (1.1) –  (1.6) (5.3)
Net assets disposed 23.1  8.6  –  31.7  51.6 
Cumulative foreign exchange recycled from translation reserve (30.7) 0.4  –  (30.3) (1.7)
Gain/(loss) on disposal 
1
 28.8  5.0  (0.9) 32.9  (2.0)
Net consideration 21.2  14.0  (0.9) 34.3  47.9 
Relating to:
Cash consideration 24.8  13.6  –  38.4 50.9
Cash consideration – working capital adjustment (0.1) 3.0  –  2.9 (0.2)
Deferred consideration – –  –  – 5.5
Disposal costs (3.5) (2.6) (0.9) (7.0) (8.3)
 21.2  14.0  (0.9) 34.3  47.9 
Net cash inflow/(outflow) on disposal of businesses:
Consideration received/(paid) (net of disposal costs paid) 21.3  13.6  (2.4) 32.5  46.7 
Plus/(Less): cash and cash equivalents and overdrafts sold (3.8) (1.9) –  (5.7) 10.4 
 17.5  11.7  (2.4) 26.8  57.1 
1 In 2010, gain on disposal of Germany/Poland and Netherland includes foreign exchange gain of £30.3m recycled from translation reserve.
22. Discontinued operations
The results for 2010 relate to the Germany and Poland businesses, part of the Northern Europe segment. Further 
information with regard to business disposals can be found in note 21. In 2009 the results included Fish (Pinneys), 
France and Northern Europe (Germany, Poland and Netherlands) segments. Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2010 66
Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements
Profits/(losses) attributable to the discontinued operations were as follows:
2010 2009
Northern 
Europe
£m
Pinneys, 
France and 
Northern 
Europe
£m
Results of discontinued operations
Revenue 54.0  430.8 
Expenses (50.1) (419.8)
Operating profit 3.9  11.0 
Finance charge (0.2) (2.0)
Profit before tax and significant items 3.7  9.0 
Income tax (expense)/credit (0.5) 1.0 
Profit after tax before significant items 3.2  10.0 
Significant items after tax (note A) 32.2  (12.0)
Significant items before tax 32.2  (9.7)
Tax on significant items – (2.3)
Profit/(loss) for the year 35.4  (2.0)
Note A: Significant items after tax
2010 2009
Northern 
Europe
£m
Pinneys, 
France and 
Northern 
Europe
£m
Restructuring costs – (0.2) 
Pension – curtailment gain – 1.0
Assets impairment  –  (7.2) 
Loss on disposal of assets – (1.0)
Profit/(loss) on disposal of businesses 32.9  (2.0) 
Other significant costs (0.7) (0.3)
Significant items before tax 32.2  (9.7)
Tax on significant items –  (2.3) 
Significant items after tax 32.2  (12.0) 
Restructuring costs
Restructuring costs in 2009 related to costs incurred to reduce the costs of the business units and improve 
profitability. The 2009 costs included a release of prior year’s provision of £0.6m in Northern Europe.
Pension curtailment gain
In 2009, this related to the closure of the defined benefit scheme for employees who were members of the pension 
fund and who worked in the disposed business.
Assets impairment
In 2009, the assets impairment relates to the Northern European operations which were impaired to the recoverable 
value, being fair value less costs to sell.
Loss on disposal of assets
In 2009, this relates to the disposal of the Bremerhaven factory in Germany. 67
Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements
Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Profit/(loss) on disposal of businesses
This is disclosed in note 21 and includes foreign exchange recycled from the translation reserve.
Other significant costs
In 2010 this refers to one-off costs for discontinued businesses and in 2009 this related to additional pension costs 
in Germany.
2010
£m
2009
£m
Cash flow from/(used in) discontinued operations
Net cash used in operating activities (2.9) (6.0)
Net cash (used in)/from investing activities (6.4) 2.4 
Net cash used in financing activities (0.2) (1.3)
Net cashflow used in discontinued operation (9.5) (4.9)
23. Borrowings
Group Company
2010
£m
2009
£m
2010
£m
2009
£m
Current liabilities 
Loan drawings under revolving facility – 27.0 – 27.0
Bank overdraft – 0.3 – – 
– 27.3 – 27.0 
The loan under the group bank facility was repaid during the year when the facility of £35m expired on 31 December 2010. 
In 2009 the loan drawn under this facility was £27.6m less £0.6m of unamortised arrangement fees. The remaining fees 
were fully amortised in 2010.
On 9 February 2011 the group agreed a new banking facility of £25m which became available on the completion of 
the pension restructuring deal. The new facility provides a three year £15m term loan, with a six-month repayment 
term of £1.5m and a £10m revolving credit facility.
 2010
Cash and 
overdrafts
£m
Borrowings 
due within 
one year 
(excluding 
overdrafts)
£m
Borrowings 
due after 
one year
£m
Borrowings
£m
Net 
cash/(debt)
£m
Analysis of net cash/(debt) 
Opening balance (including discontinued businesses) 23.9  (27.5) (0.4) (27.9) (4.0)
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes  0.1  0.1  –  0.1  0.2 
Cash flow – continuing businesses (3.7) 27.7  –  27.7  24.0 
Cashflow – discontinued businesses  (9.5) –  –  –  (9.5)
Disposed finance leases –  0.3  0.4  0.7  0.7 
Non cash movements  –  (0.6) –  (0.6) (0.6)
Closing balance – continuing operations  10.8  –  –  –  10.8  Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2010 68
Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements
2009
Cash and 
overdrafts
£m
Borrowings 
due within 
one year 
(excluding 
overdrafts)
£m
Borrowings 
due after 
one year
£m
Borrowings
£m
Net 
cash/(debt)
£m
Analysis of net cash/(debt) 
Opening balance (including discontinued businesses) 17.9 (0.6) (25.7) (26.3) (8.4)
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes (1.5) – 0.8 0.8 (0.7)
Cash flow – continuing businesses 12.4 (26.9) 25.2 (1.7) 10.7
Cash flow – discontinuing business (4.9) – – – (4.9)
Non cash movements – – (0.7) (0.7) (0.7)
Closing balance – continuing businesses 23.9 (27.5) (0.4) (27.9) (4.0)
24. Trade and other payables
Group Company
2010
£m
2009
£m
2010
£m
2009
£m
Trade payables  23.4  25.5  –  – 
Other payables, including social security  4.9  7.2  –  0.2 
Accruals and deferred income  13.3  11.9  –  – 
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings  –  –  63.4  136.6 
 41.6  44.6  63.4 136.8 
25. Provisions
 2010
Onerous 
Contract
£m
Other
£m
Total
£m
Opening balance  4.7  8.6  13.3 
Income statement charge  (2.6) 3.2  0.6 
(Recovered)/utilised during the year – continuing operations 0.2  (0.9) (0.7)
Utilised during the year – disposal costs  –  (7.3) (7.3)
Foreign exchange  –  (0.1) (0.1)
Closing balance  2.3  3.5  5.8 
 
Current liabilities  2.3  2.7  5.0 
Non-current liabilities  –  0.8  0.8 
 2.3  3.5  5.8 
Onerous contract provision
In 2009 this related to the discounted value of a commitment in respect of an onerous contract relating to the Wincanton demerger. 
This was settled on 11 February 2011 for £2.3m resulting in the release of £2.6m of the provision that is no longer required.
Other provisions
Included in other provisions are costs totalling £1.3m (2009: £7.1m) relating to the disposals of Marie £1.2m (2009: £2.8m), 
Northern Europe £nil (2009: £3.3m) and Brandly £0.1m (2009: £1.0m). The disposal costs of Marie, Northern Europe and 
Brandly are expected to be utilised in the next financial year. Part of these provisions are based on the expected outcome 
of the claims, taking into account of the group’s interpretation of the facts and judgement, supported by legal advice. 
The remainder of the other provision relates to £1.2m (2009: £0.6m) for two vacant properties and £1.0m (2009: £0.9m) 
for the restructuring programmes, as discussed in note 7. The vacant properties provision is expected to be utilised in 
1 to 18 years and the restructuring provision is expected to be utilised in the next financial period. 69
Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements
Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2010
26. Derivatives and other financial instruments 
A discussion of the group’s objectives, policies and strategies with regard to derivatives and other financial 
instruments are set out in note 3. 
Credit risk 
Exposure to credit risk 
The carrying amount of financial assets represents the maximum credit exposure. The maximum exposure to credit 
risk at the reporting date was:
Group Company
Category
2010
£m
2009
£m
2010
£m
2009
£m
Trade and other receivables Loans and receivables 33.1 34.6 0.1 0.1 
Other debtors – non current Loans and receivables – 5.4 – – 
Forward exchange contracts: assets Fair value through profit and loss 0.1 – –  – 
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and bank balances 10.8 17.2 8.8 12.9 
Restricted cash Cash and bank balances – 97.0 – 97.0 
44.0 154.2 8.9 110.0 
Impairment losses 
The ageing of trade receivables at the reporting date was:
 Group
2010
£m
2009
£m
Not past due  18.9  20.1 
Past due 0-30 days – not yet impaired  1.3  2.0 
Past due 30-60 days – not yet impaired  0.4  0.2 
Past due 60-90 days  –  0.1 
Past due 90-120 days  0.2  0.2 
 20.8  22.6 
Allowance for doubtful debts – (0.1)
 20.8  22.5 
Allowance for doubtful debts 
The movement in allowance for doubtful debts in respect of trade receivables during the year was as follows: 
 
 Group
2010
£m
2009
£m
Opening balance  (0.1) (0.9)
Impairment loss for the year –  (0.1)
Impairment loss reversed  0.1  0.9 
Closing balance  –  (0.1)
The group’s policy is to provide for bad debts based on the specific circumstances of each receivable. Refer to note 3 for 
details of the group’s policies in respect of trade and other receivables. Based on historical default rates, the group believes 
no impairment allowance is necessary on the receivables that are past due in 0-30 and 30-60 days respectively.
There were no trade receivables for the company in respect of the current year (2009: £nil). Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2010 70
Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements
Liquidity risk 
The following tables are the contractual maturity profile of the group’s and company’s cashflows of the financial 
liabilities, excluding estimated interest payments and netting arrangements. These tables have been drawn up based 
on the earliest date that the group and company can be required to pay on these financial liabilities. These amounts 
also approximate to their carrying values in the balance sheet.
 Group
2010
 Group
2009
Category
6-12 months
£m
1-5 years
£m
Total
£m
6-12 months
£m
1-5 years
£m
Total
£m
Unsecured bank loans Amortised cost –  –  –  27.0  –  27.0 
Bank overdraft Amortised cost –  –  –  0.3  –  0.3 
Trade and other  
payables Amortised cost 41.6  –  41.6  44.6  –  44.6 
Forward exchange 
contracts: liabilities 
Fair value through 
profit and loss –  –  –  0.1  –  0.1 
 41.6  –  41.6  72.0  –  72.0
 Company
2010
 Company
2009
Category
6-12 months
£m
1-5 years
£m
Total
£m
6-12 months
£m
1-5 years
£m
Total
£m
Unsecured bank loans Amortised cost –  –  – 27.0  –  27.0 
Trade and other payables Amortised cost –  –  –  0.2  – 0.2
Amounts owed to group 
undertakings Amortised cost 63.4  –  63.4 136.6 – 136.6
Forward exchange 
contracts: liabilities 
Fair value through 
profit and loss –  –  –  0.1  –  0.1 
 63.4  –  63.4 163.9 – 163.9
Market risk 
Interest rate risk and currency risk 
The effective currency and interest rate exposures of the group’s and company’s net cash/(debt) position were as follows:
 Group
2010
 Group
2009
Sterling
£m
Euro
£m
Total
£m
Sterling
£m
Euro
£m
Total
£m
Floating rate borrowings  –  –  –  (7.0) (20.3) (27.3)
Fixed rate borrowings  –  –  –  –  –  – 
 –  –  –  (7.0) (20.3) (27.3)
Cash and liquid resources (including restricted cash)  10.7  0.1  10.8 115.5 (1.3) 114.2 
Net cash/(debt)  10.7  0.1  10.8 108.5 (21.6) 86.9 
 Company
2010
 Company
2009
Sterling
£m
Euro
£m
Total
£m
Sterling
£m
Euro
£m
Total
£m
Floating rate borrowings  –  –  –  (6.7) (20.3) (27.0)
Cash and liquid resources (including restricted cash)  8.8  –  8.8 111.2 (1.3) 109.9
Net cash/(debt)  8.8  –  8.8 104.5 (21.6) 82.9
The restricted cash included in the cash and liquid resources for the group and company was £nil (2009: £97.0m). 71
Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements
Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2010
The following significant exchange rates applied during the year:
2010 2009
GBP Euro
Polish 
Zloty Euro
Polish 
Zloty
Average rate 1.17 – 1.12 4.85
Reporting date spot rate 1.16 – 1.11 4.49
Sensitivity analysis
(a) Foreign currency sensitivity analysis
A 10% strengthening of sterling against the following currencies at year end 2010, would have increased/(decreased) 
equity and profit/(loss) by the amounts shown below. This analysis assumes that all other variables, in particular 
interest rates, remain constant. The analysis is performed on the same basis for 2009. The impact of sterling against 
those businesses that were held for sale has been excluded below for 2009.
Group 
2010
Group 
2009
Euro
£m
Euro
£m
Equity – 0.7 
Company 
2010
Company 
2009
Euro
£m
Euro
£m
Operating profit before significant items
Profit/(loss) –  (2.4)
Equity –  (2.4)
A 10% weakening of sterling against the above currencies at year end would have had the equal and opposite effect 
to the amounts shown above, on the basis that all other variables remain constant.
(b) Interest rate sensitivity analysis
The financial assets and liabilities that are interest bearing and expose the group to interest rate risks are its cash 
and cash equivalents, overdrafts and bank borrowings.
If interest rates applied to the major currencies of net variable rate assets/liabilities at this year end had been 1% 
higher/lower and all other variables were held constant, the group’s profit for the year ended 2010 would increase/
(decrease) by £0.1m (2009: increase/(decrease) by £0.8m). This is mainly attributable to the group’s exposure to 
interest rates on its variable rate restricted cash balance and cash deposits (included in cash and cash equivalents).
Currency analysis of net assets/(liabilities) 
The group’s and company’s net assets/(liabilities) by currency were as follows:
 Group
2010
 Group
2009
Sterling
£m
Euro
£m
Total
£m
Sterling
£m
Euro
£m
2010
£m
Net cash/(debt)  10.7  0.1  10.8  108.5  (21.6) 86.9 
Other net (liabilities)/assets (excluding goodwill)  (66.9) 3.7  (63.2) (163.3) 2.9  (160.4)
Goodwill  30.5  –  30.5  30.5  –  30.5 
 (25.7) 3.8  (21.9) (24.3) (18.7) (43.0)  Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2010 72
Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements
Where the group has liabilities, it operates a policy of maintaining the liability split between the two currencies 
in which the group operates i.e. the UK and European operations. The ratio of sterling:euro liabilities reflects 
the sterling:euro split of trading capital employed.
 Company
2010
 Company
2009
Sterling
£m
Euro
£m
Total
£m
Sterling
£m
Euro
£m
Total
£m
Net cash/(debt)  8.8  –  8.8  104.5  (21.6) 82.9
Other net assets/(liabilities) 26.2  –  26.2  (47.3) – (47.3)
 35.0  –  35.0  57.2  (21.6) 35.6
The sterling other net (liabilities)/assets figure for 2009 had been adjusted to reflect the investment write off amounting 
to £41.3m and other liabilities adjustment of £0.6m.
Fair values of financial instruments
The table below sets out the fair values of financial assets and liabilities, which approximate to their carrying values 
in the balance sheet.
 Group Company
2010
£m
2009
£m
2010
£m
2009
£m
Financial assets 
Non-current
Restricted cash –  97.0  –  97.0 
Other debtors –  5.4  – –
Current
Cash and cash equivalents 10.8  17.2  8.8  12.9 
Forward exchange contracts – assets 0.1  –  –  – 
Trade and other receivables (including amounts due from group undertakings) 33.1  34.6  0.1  0.1 
 44.0  154.2  8.9 110.0
Financial liabilities
Current
Bank overdraft –  0.3  –  – 
Borrowings – 27.0 – 27.0
Forward exchange contracts – liabilities –  0.1  –  0.1 
Trade and other payables (including amounts due to group undertakings) 41.6  44.6  63.4 136.8
 41.6 72.0 63.4 163.9
The following table provides an analysis of financial instruments that are measured subsequent to initial recognition 
at fair value, grouped into Levels 1 to 3 based on the degree to which the fair value is observable.
•  Level 1 fair value measurements are those derived from quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical 
assets or liabilities.
•  Level 2 fair value measurements are those derived from inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 
that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (i.e. as prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices).
•  Level 3 fair value measurements are those derived from valuation techniques that include inputs for the asset 
or liability that are not based on observable market data (unobservable inputs). 73
Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements
Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2010
 Level 2 Level 2
 Group Company
2010
£m
2009
£m
2010
£m
2009
£m
Financial assets 
Forward exchange contracts – current assets 0.1  – – – 
Financial liabilities
Forward exchange contracts – current liabilities – (0.1) – (0.1)
0.1 (0.1) – (0.1)
Cash flow hedge
During the year, the group has used forward foreign contracts to hedge future sales and purchases but these specific 
contracts have not been designated as cash flow hedges.
2010
Fixed
rate
Contract 
value
£m
Fair
value
€m
Fair
value
£m
Forward contract to sell € and receive sterling
6 April 2010 0.876  3.9  4.5 4.0
At 31 December 2010, the profit for the above forward foreign exchange contract deferred in the hedging reserve was 
£0.1m (2009: loss £0.1m). On the date of maturity, this amount deferred in equity will be reclassified to profit or loss. 
Net investment hedge
During the year, the group has designated certain euro-denominated currency borrowings to hedge its net investment 
in Northern Europe, up to the point of disposal of business.
The remaining euro-denominated borrowings designated to hedge the net investment of Northern Europe at year end 
2010 was £nil (€22.3m).
The expected gain or loss on this currency borrowings was 100% offset by the amount of foreign exchange difference 
arising on both the translation of these euro-denominated net investments of these hedged entities at the date of disposal.
As a result, the gains on the retranslation of the borrowings of £0.1m (2009: £0.8m) were recognised in the group 
statement of comprehensive income.
27. Retirement benefit obligations 
The group operates pension schemes in the UK and operated schemes in Europe during the period.
The main UK scheme is contributory for members and has two sections: the defined benefit section and the defined 
contribution section. The defined benefit section closed to new members in 2002 and was closed to existing 
members at 30 September 2009 but provides benefits for existing and past employees based on final pensionable 
emoluments. The assets of the plan are held in a separate trustee administered fund. As well as the main fund, the 
UK operates a small unfunded defined benefit pension scheme for overcap benefits and provides post-retirement 
medical benefits to certain former employees.
The results of an actuarial valuation as at 31 March 2009 were updated to the accounting date by independent 
qualified actuaries in accordance with IAS19. As required by IAS19, the value of the defined benefit obligation 
and current service costs has been measured using the projected unit credit method. Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2010 74
Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements
In April 2010, the Trustee began a programme to de-risk the scheme’s assets. Over 2010, the Trustee has reduced 
the scheme’s holdings in return-seeking assets, with a view to being invested 100% in gilts by early 2011.
The expected rate of return on assets for 2010 was 4.1% p.a. (2009: 6.7% p.a.). This rate is derived by taking the 
weighted average of the long term expected rate of return on gilts in which the scheme was invested at year end 2010.
Total contributions made to defined contribution schemes in the year were £1.1m (2009: £0.6m) for the continuing 
businesses in UK. In 2009, the company and Trustee agreed to close the UK main pension scheme to future accrual, 
resulting in a curtailment gain of £4.7m. The group made a final contribution of £14.0m to its defined benefit scheme 
in March 2011.
The following table sets out the key IAS 19 assumptions used for the schemes. Overseas plans are quoted as a weighted 
average based on liabilities. The expected rate of return on assets is derived by taking the weighted average of the 
long term expected rate of return on each of the asset classes that the plan was invested in at 31 December 2010. 
The assumptions used by the actuaries have been chosen from a range of possible actuarial assumptions about 
the future, which may not necessarily be borne out in practice. Management has considered the legislative changes 
with regard to inflation assumptions (RPI change to CPI) and has concluded that there is no material effect on the 
year end position.
Assumptions
 UK Overseas
2010
%
2009
%
2008
%
2010
%
2009
%
2008
%
Inflation 3.5  3.6  2.9 1.5 1.5  1.5 
Pension increases in payment – – – 1.5 1.5  1.5 
Pension increases in payment (LPI 5%) 3.4  3.5  2.7 – – –
Pension increases in payment (LPI 2.5%) 2.3  2.3  2.2 – – –
Salary growth
– Standard – – 4.4 2.5 2.5  2.6 
– Senior Management – – 5.9 2.5 2.5  2.6 
Discount rate 5.4  5.7  6.4 5.1 5.1  5.9 
Expected return for:
– equities – 8.0  7.5 – – –
– bonds – 5.3  5.0 – – –
– other 4.1  4.3  3.8 4.5 4.5  5.0 
For 2010 and 2009, the mortality assumptions have not been changed. The assumptions allow for future improvements 
according to the medium cohort projections, based on each individual’s year of birth, with an adjustment to the 
underlying rates of mortality of +10% for those who left before 2000. The longevity assumptions are therefore:
2010
Years
2009
Years
Life expectancy of a male aged 65 in 2010 (pre 2000 leaver) 21.4 21.2
Life expectancy of a male aged 65 in 2010 (post 2000 leaver) 22.1 22.0
Life expectancy of a male aged 65 in 2028 (pre 2000 leaver) 22.4 22.4
Life expectancy of a male aged 65 in 2028 (post 2000 leaver) 23.1 23.1 75
Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements
Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Sensitivity analysis of the main UK pension fund
 Approximate change in 
 defined benefit obligation 
2010
£m
2009
£m
Life expectancy – 1 year longer/(shorter) 22.0 21.0
Discount rate – increase/(decrease) of 0.1% 13.0 12.0
Inflation – increase/(decrease) of 0.1% 10.0 10.0
Mortality – change from PA92MC to PA92LC 40.0 37.0
Medical cost trends
There is strong evidence that healthcare costs increase faster than general price inflation. The group has adopted 
2.5% pa (2009: 2.5% pa) for the rate at which medical costs increase over and above retail price inflation.
The following tables set out the fair value of assets, the present value of the IAS 19 liabilities and the deficit of assets 
below the IAS 19 liabilities (which equals the net pension deficit). The fair value of the schemes’ assets is not intended 
to be realised in the short term and may be subject to significant changes before realisation. The present value of the 
schemes’ liabilities is derived from cash flow projections over long periods and is thus inherently uncertain.
 2010 2009
UK 
£m
Overseas
£m
Total
£m
UK 
£m
Overseas
£m
Total
£m
Fair value of assets: 
– Equities  14.1  –  14.1  308.7  – 308.7
– Bonds and gilts  600.1  –  600.1 188.2 – 188.2
– Other  6.6  –  6.6 4.4 – 4.4
Fair value of plan assets  620.8  –  620.8 501.3 – 501.3
Defined benefit obligation:
Funded (763.7) – (763.7) (729.7) – (729.7)
Wholly unfunded (6.5) –  (6.5) (6.7) – (6.7)
Present value of defined benefit obligation  (770.2) – (770.2) (736.4) – (736.4)
Net liability in balance sheet  (149.4) – (149.4) (235.1) – (235.1) Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2010 76
Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements
 2010 2009
UK 
£m
Overseas
£m
Total
£m
UK 
£m
Overseas
£m
Total
£m
Movement in deficit during the year: 
Opening balance  (235.1) – (235.1) (152.3) (18.6) (170.9)
Current service cost – – – (1.1) (0.3) (1.4)
Past service cost – – – – (0.4) (0.4)
Curtailments and settlements – – – 5.7 – 5.7
Contributions by the employer 98.4 – 98.4 5.1 0.5 5.6
Net finance charge  (11.6) – (11.6) (12.3) (0.9) (13.2)
Benefits paid  0.1 – 0.1 – 0.8 0.8
Actuarial losses (1.2) – (1.2) (80.2) (1.7) (81.9)
Disposal of businesses – – – – 4.8 4.8
Transferred to held for sale – – – – 14.7 14.7
Exchange – – – – 1.1 1.1
Closing balance  (149.4) – (149.4) (235.1) – (235.1)
 2010 2009
UK 
£m
Overseas
£m
Total
£m
UK 
£m
Overseas
£m
Total
£m
Amounts recognised in the income statement: 
Current service cost – – – (1.1) (0.3) (1.4)
Past service cost – – – – (0.4) (0.4)
Gains on curtailments and settlements – – – 5.7 – 5.7
Recognised in operating profit/(loss) – – – 4.6 (0.7) 3.9 
Interest costs  (41.0) – (41.0) (38.3) (0.9) (39.2)
Expected return on plan assets  29.4 – 29.4 26.0 – 26.0
Expected return on plan assets – others (0.5) – (0.5) (0.4) – (0.4)
Recognised in net pension interest (12.1) – (12.1) (12.7) (0.9) (13.6)
Total expense recognised in the income statement  (12.1) – (12.1) (8.1) (1.6) (9.7) 
Cumulative actuarial gains and losses recognised 
directly in equity: 
Opening balance  (152.6) (2.4) (155.0) (72.4) (0.7) (73.1)
Actuarial (losses)/gains  (1.2) – (1.2) (80.2) (1.7) (81.9)
Closing balance  (153.8) (2.4) (156.2) (152.6) (2.4) (155.0)
Actual return on plan assets  57.7 – 57.7 74.0 – 74.0 77
Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements
Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2010
The cumulative amount represents all actuarial gains and losses recognised directly in equity since transition date 
of 1 April 2004.
 2010 2009
UK 
£m
Overseas
£m
Total
£m
UK 
£m
Overseas
£m
Total
£m
Reconciliation of present value of defined 
benefit obligation: 
Opening balance  (736.4) – (736.4) (614.3) (18.6) (632.9)
Current service cost – – – (1.1) (0.3) (1.4)
Past service cost – – – – (0.4) (0.4)
Interest cost  (41.0) – (41.0) (38.3) (0.9) (39.2)
Contributions by plan participants – – – (0.4) – (0.4)
Actuarial losses (29.5) – (29.5) (128.2) (1.7) (129.9)
Benefits paid  36.7 – 36.7 40.2 0.8 41.0
Curtailments and settlements – – – 5.7 – 5.7
Disposal of businesses – – – – 4.8 4.8
Transferred to held for sale – – – – 15.2 15.2
Exchange – – – – 1.1 1.1
Closing balance  (770.2) – (770.2) (736.4) – (736.4)
Reconciliation of fair value of plan assets: 
Opening balance  501.3 – 501.3  462.0  –  462.0 
Expected return on plan assets  29.4 – 29.4 26.0 – 26.0
Actuarial gains/(losses)  28.3 – 28.3 48.0 – 48.0
Contributions by the employer  98.4 – 98.4 5.1 0.5 5.6
Contributions by plan participants – – – 0.4 – 0.4
Benefits paid  (36.6) – (36.6) (40.2) – (40.2)
Transferred to held for sale – – – – (0.5) (0.5)
Closing balance  620.8 – 620.8  501.3  – 501.3
Historical information
2010
£m
2009
£m
2008
£m
2007 
£m
2006
£m
Fair value of plan assets  620.8  501.3  462.0  615.8  624.5 
Present value of defined benefit obligation  (770.2) (736.4) (632.9) (691.8) (732.3)
Net pension deficit in the balance sheet  (149.4) (235.1) (170.9) (76.0) (107.8)
Experience adjustments arising on plan assets 
– gain/(loss)  28.3 48.0 (164.8) (5.0) 2.6 
Experience adjustments arising on plan liabilities 
– gain/(loss) (3.6) 3.4 4.6  (16.8)  4.3 
Refer to note 33 ‘Events after balance sheet’ regarding the compromise of the pension debt in 2011. Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2010 78
Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements
28. Share Capital 
Group Company
2010
£m
2009
£m
2010
£m
2009
£m
Authorised
995,906,427 ordinary shares of 10p each 99.6  99.6  99.6  99.6 
Called up and allotted
114,833,817 ordinary shares of 10p each 11.5  11.5  11.5  11.5 
The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends as declared from time to time and are entitled to one 
vote per share at meetings of the company.
Refer to note 33 ‘Events after balance sheet’ regarding the capital restructuring of the company in 2011.
29. Shareholders’ equity 
Merger reserve
The merger reserve arose as a result of a group reconstruction carried out in 2000. Under a Scheme of Arrangement 
approved by the High Court and shareholders at the time, all shares in the then quoted group company were cancelled 
and new shares were issued to shareholders in Uniq plc, the new quoted company. The merger reserve is the difference 
arising on consolidation between the nominal value of the new shares and the nominal value of the shares previously 
held, together with the associated share premium. The merger reserve arises only on consolidation and therefore 
does not impact the individual Uniq plc company accounts or distributable reserves.
Hedging reserve
The hedging reserve comprises the effective portion of the cumulative net change in the fair value of cash flow 
hedging instruments related to hedged transactions that have not yet occurred.
Translation reserve
The translation reserve comprises all foreign exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial 
statements of foreign operations. Gains and losses on hedging instruments that are designated as hedges of net 
investments in foreign operations are included in the translation reserve.
Employee Share Ownership Trust
Retained earnings includes the Employee Share Ownership Trust (‘ESOT’) which was established in June 1997. It is 
empowered to purchase and hold shares in Uniq plc (the company) in order to meet certain future obligations of the 
group in respect of options or shares awarded under share option schemes and long-term incentive plans operated 
by the group from time to time. Dividends receivable on the shares owned by the ESOT have been waived. In 2010 
the ESOT held 982,677 (2009: 982,677) shares in the company which had a market value of £80,088 (2009: £245,669)
Refer to pages 32 to 37 in the remuneration report for the general terms and conditions that relate to share
option schemes. 79
Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements
Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Share option schemes
The number of outstanding share options are as follows:
 2010 2009
Number of 
options
Weighted 
average 
exercise price
Number of 
options
Weighted 
average 
exercise price
Opening balance 284,800 203.2p 687,142 223.8p
Lapsed during the year (124,800) 251.0p (402,342) 238.4p
Closing balance 160,000 176.7p 284,800 203.2p
Weighted 
average 
contractual life
Exercise
price range
Dates of
grant
Average
exercise price
Executive option scheme 1 year 161p – 210p 2001 – 2002 176.7p
All options are settled by physical delivery of shares. The total consideration receivable if all options outstanding were 
exercised would be £0.3m (2009: £0.6m). The weighted average share price at the date of exercise of share options 
exercised during the year were nil (2009: nil) as no options were exercised. In line with IFRS 2, no expense had been 
recognised for these options as they were granted before 7 November 2002.
Uniq Performance Incentive Plan
Equity settled share-based payment scheme 
Equity settled share-based payment scheme 
Equity settled awards granted in:
Remaining 
Contractual
life years
Outstanding 
shares
Year ended 31 December 2008 7.3 1,238,989
Year ended 31 December 2009 8.4 1,223,000
2,461,989
The exercise price for the above shares is £nil.
The fair value of services received in return for Performance Incentive Plan shares (PIPs) granted are measured by 
reference to the fair value of PIPs granted. The estimate of the fair value of services received is measured based on 
a Monte Carlo model. Assumptions used in the Monte Carlo model for PIPs granted during the period are as follows:
2010 2009
Expected volatility – 96.0%
Risk free interest rate – 2.1%
Dividend yield – 0.0%
Correlation coefficient – 9.1%
The expected volatility is wholly based on the historic volatility, calculated based on the weighted average remaining 
life of the PIPs. We assess the number of leavers on a grant by grant basis, taking into account historical trends as 
well as the level of employees included in each grant. The total expenses recognised during the period from share-
based payments are as follows:
 Group Company
2010
£m
2009
£m
2010
£m
2009
£m
Equity settled share-based payment charge 0.3 0.8 – 0.3 
There is no carrying amount of liability associated with the cash settled share based payments in both years. Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2010 80
Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements
30. Commitments 
2010
£m
2009
£m
Capital commitments contracted, but not provided 0.8 2.2
31. Operating leases
Future minimum lease payments
 2010 2009
Land & 
buildings 
£m
Other 
leases
£m
Total
£m
Land & 
buildings 
£m
Other 
leases
£m
Total
£m
Operating lease commitments falling due:
Within one year 1.3  0.2  1.5  1.3  0.7  2.0 
Between one and five years 4.7  0.4  5.1  4.7  0.7 5.4
After five years 6.8  –  6.8 7.8 – 7.8
 12.8  0.6  13.4 13.8 1.4 15.2
The group leases a number of warehouses, factory facilities and office buildings under operating leases. The leases 
typically run for a period of 1 to 18 years.
A number of the property leases were entered into some time ago and as such are not used for current operations. 
Companies within the group entered into sub-leases for these properties in order to recover the lease payments. 
During the year, £0.3m (2009: £0.5m) of rental expenses were recovered through these subleases. The subleases 
expire in 2014.
Future minimum sublease receivable expected:
2010
Land & 
buildings
£m
2009
Land & 
buildings
£m
Operating lease commitments falling due:
Within one year 0.2  0.4 
Between one and five years 0.6  1.3 
After five years –  0.3 
 0.8  2.0 
32. Contingent liabilities 
There are contingent liabilities that arise in the normal course of business in respect of indemnities, warranties, 
guarantees and legal claims. Certain guarantees are performance related. The directors have considered that 
none of these claims is expected to result in a material loss to the group.
The group and company currently hold two letters of credit in relation to purchase commitments from one of its 
suppliers for £1.8m. It is however not likely that the company will default on payment and there is no previous 
history of this occurring.
The group enters into certain fixed price purchasing contracts in the ordinary course of business. At year-end 
these amounted to £2.4m (2009: £5.0m). 81
Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements
Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2010
33. Events after balance sheet 
On 9 February 2011, the company reached agreement with the Trustee, the Pensions Regulator and the Pension 
Protection Fund on the terms of a restructuring of the company. This Scheme of Arrangement was approved by the 
shareholders on 25 February 2011 and sanctioned by the Court on 18 March 2011. In exchange for a 90.2% equity 
stake in the company, with current shareholders retaining a 9.8% stake, and a final payment of £14.0m to the Pension 
Fund, the restructuring released the company from its obligations to the defined benefit section of the Uniq Pension 
Scheme which at the year end was £145.5m. Following this restructuring the company successfully applied for the 
shares to be relisted on AIM as from 1 April 2011.
In March 2011, the group recovered £2.6m from HMRC in relation to various claims under the Fleming ruling.
On 1st April, the board of Uniq was informed that the 90.2% shareholder had appointed Spayne Lindsay & Co LLP 
as its corporate finance advisor and that it intends to undertake a process to realise all or part of its shareholdings 
in the company.
34. Related party transactions 
Group 
The board is not aware of any related party transactions that should be disclosed. Details of key management 
remuneration are disclosed in the remuneration report and also no guarantees have been provided to any related parties. 
Transactions between Uniq plc and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation. 
Company 
(a) Subsidiaries 
The company has a related party relationship with its subsidiaries (these are listed in note 35). Material balances that 
the company has with its subsidiaries are as follows:
• Uniq (Holdings) Limited: (£63.0m) (2009: £117.2m); and
• Uniq Prepared Foods Limited: (£0.4m) (2009: £25.2m).
(b) Key management personnel 
There are no employees in the company.
35. Principal subsidiaries at 31 December 2010
Subsidiary undertakings Principal activity
Country of incorporation 
and principal operation 
Uniq (Holdings) Limited Investment holding company United Kingdom
Uniq Prepared Foods Limited Principal trading company for the UK chilled 
convenience food manufacture business United Kingdom
Notes:
All subsidiary undertakings are 100% owned by the group. Uniq (Holdings) Limited is owned by Uniq plc and the remainder are held through subsidiary undertakings. 
Companies incorporated in the United Kingdom are registered in England and Wales. Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2010 82
Other information
Note
Year ended
31 Dec 
2010  
£m
Year ended
31 Dec
2009
£m
Year ended
31 Dec 2008
(restated)
£m
Year ended
31 Dec 
2007 
£m
NIne months 
ended 31 Dec 
2006
£m
Income statement
Revenue 365.9  718.0  797.2  738.6  619.6 
Operating (loss)/profit before significant items 9
Continuing operations 4.1  (1.9) (7.1) (3.6) (12.4)
Discontinued operations 3.9  11.0  (1.3) 0.6  21.1 
 8.0 9.1 (8.4) (3.0) 8.7 
Net finance income/(costs) (1.0) (5.2) 4.4  0.8  (9.9)
Other finance (costs)/income (12.1) (12.7) (1.4) 0.7 0.4
(Loss)/Profit before tax and significant items (5.1) (8.8) (5.4) (1.5) (0.8)
Significant items (excluding tax) 29.8  (10.4) (49.4) 193.3  (32.5)
Taxation (0.5) (1.7) (1.4) (6.8) 1.0 
(Loss)/Profit after taxation 24.2  (20.9) (56.2) 185.0  (32.3)
   
Capital structure
Trading capital employed 1 116.7  133.0  174.6  188.7  221.0 
Net (debt)/cash 2 10.8  (10.1) (8.4) 31.6  (83.1)
Restricted cash – 97.0  95.6  90.4 –
Retirement benefit obligations (149.4) (235.1) (170.9) (76.0) (108.5)
Shareholders’ funds 3 (21.9) (15.2) 90.9  234.7 29.4
Cash flow from operating activities (93.5) (30.4) (8.8) (3.2) (10.7)
Capital expenditure 16.3  18.3  27.5  25.4 16.1
Depreciation 9.9 11.2 21.5  21.7 17.9
Per ordinary share pence pence  pence  pence  pence 
Basic (loss)/earnings 21.3  (18.4) (49.4) 162.5  (28.4)
Adjusted (loss)/earnings 4 (4.9) (7.2) (6.6) 3.5  (1.2)
Dividends –  –  –  2.5 5.25
Net assets/(liabilities) 5 (19) (13) 80  206  26 
Interest and dividend cover (times) 6
Interest cover 8.0  1.8  –  – 0.9
Dividend cover –  –  –  1.4  – 
Ratios % % % % %
Return on trading capital employed 7 6.9 6.7  (4.8) (1.6) 2.4
Operating profit/turnover 2.2 1.3 (1.1) (0.4) 1.4
Net debt gearing 2 – – 9.2  – 282.7
Notes:
1 Trading capital employed is defined as net assets plus net debt and IAS 19 retirement benefit obligations.
2 Net (debt)/cash includes total loans and obligations under finance leases less cash at bank and short-term deposits. Net debt gearing represents net debt as a percentage of shareholders’ funds.
3 Shareholders’ funds represent share capital and reserves.
4 Adjusted (loss)/earnings per share is calculated in accordance with note 10 to the financial statements.
5 Net assets per share have been calculated by dividing shareholders’ funds by the number of ordinary shares in issue at the year end.
6 Interest cover is based on finance costs excluding net retirement benefit funding finance costs or income relating to IAS 19; dividend cover is calculated on adjusted (loss)/earnings.
7 Return on trading capital employed represents operating profit as a percentage of trading capital employed (as adjusted for the effect of the timing of major acquisitions and disposals).
8 IAS 39 was adopted with effect from 1 April 2005 for which prior year comparatives have not been restated.
9   The operating profit/(loss) before significant items for continuing and discontinued operations for the first two years to year ended 2007 have not been restated and therefore are not on a 
consistenct basis with subsequent years.
Five year record 83 Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Other information
Annual general meeting
To be held at 10.00 am on Friday 17 June 2011 at:
Investec Bank plc
2 Gresham Street
London
EC2V 7QP
New Share Certificates
Following completion of the restructuring on 24 March 
2011, Uniq plc shareholders were provided with new share 
certificates in the company representing their revised 
holding adjusted to take account of the restructing. All 
other certificates representing shares in the company are 
no longer valid and should be destroyed.
Share registrar – Equiniti
If you have any questions about your holding or wish  
to notify any change in your details please contact the 
share registrar Equiniti. Whenever you contact the 
registrar, please quote the full names in which your 
shares are held. Please advise the registrar promptly  
of any change of address. 
Equiniti
Aspect House 
Spencer Road 
Lancing
West Sussex 
BN99 6DA 
Telephone: 0871 384 2125 
There is also a disability helpline for shareholders with 
hearing difficulties: 0871 384 2255
Please note calls to these numbers are charged at 8p  
per minute from a BT landline. Other telephone provider 
costs may vary. 
Shareholder information
Electronic communications and voting
Shareholders can elect to obtain shareholder documents 
such as annual and interim reports and notice of general 
meetings electronically from Uniq’s website rather than 
by post. To take advantage of this free service, connect 
to Equiniti’s secure website ‘www.shareview.co.uk’ and 
follow the on-screen instructions to register. You will 
need your shareholder reference number (printed on your 
share certificate, dividend vouchers or proxy cards) and 
you will be allocated a password and access number. 
Once registered, shareholders will receive an email 
notification as soon as Uniq publishes new shareholder 
documents and also be able to view a wide range of 
information regarding their shareholding. Shareholders 
can also send in votes for general meetings electronically 
via the shareview website. Again, connect to  
‘www.shareview.co.uk’ and click the link ‘Vote online’  
on the shareview homepage and then follow the  
on-screen instructions to submit your vote.  Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2010 84
Other information
Shareholder information
You will need the reference numbers printed on your 
proxy card to register. You do not have to be registered 
to receive shareholder communications electronically  
in order to be able to vote electronically.
Share-dealing service
Shareholders can take advantage of a dealing 
service operated by Equiniti by logging on to  
‘www.shareview.co.uk/dealing’ for internet dealing  
or by calling 08456 037 037 for telephone dealing. 
Shareholders’ enquiries
If you have an enquiry about the company’s business  
or about something affecting you as a shareholder that 
cannot be dealt with by Equiniti you are invited to contact 
the company secretary at the company’s address.
Analysis of ordinary shareholders
% of 
issued shares
Uniq Pension Trustee/Pension Protection Fund* 90.2
Corporate holders 8.87
Individuals 0.93
Size of shareholdings
Holders Shares
% of 
shares
Up to 1,000 10,929 674,009 0.57%
1,001 – 10,000 195 650,838 0.56%
10,001 – 100,000 52 1,805,877 1.54%
100,001 – 250,000 10 1,625,818 1.39%
Above 250,000 13 112,431,407 95.94%
11,199 117,187,949 100.00%
*The 90.2% of issued shares are held by Angel Street Limited
Secretary and registered office
AJ McDonald
Uniq plc
No. 1 Chalfont Park 
Gerrards Cross
Buckinghamshire 
SL9 0UN
Telephone: 01753 276000
Fax: 01753 276019
Registered in England and Wales No. 3912506 Designed and produced by Addison 
www.addison.co.uk
Printed in the UK by Pureprint, Environmental 
Management System ISO 14001 accredited and Forest 
Stewardship Council (FSC) chain of custody certified.
This report is printed utilising vegetable-based inks  
on Revive 50 White Silk which is produced with 50% 
recycled fibre from both pre- and post-consumer 
sources, together with 50% ECF (Elemental Chlorine 
Free) fibre from well-managed forests independently 
certified according to the rules of the Forest 
Stewardship Council. 
Freshness
Innovation
Quality
Uniq produces freshly prepared chilled food for 
major retailers and has market-leading positions 
in Desserts and Food to Go. Our high-quality and 
innovative products aim to delight our customers.
Desserts
£312m
Total revenue 2010
Food to Go
Financial statements
Independent Auditors’ report 38
Group income statement 40
Group statement of comprehensive income 41
Balance sheets  42
Group statement of changes in equity 43
Cash flow statements 44
Notes to the financial statements 45
 
Other information
Five year record  82
Shareholder information 83 
Contents
Financial highlights 01
 
Directors’ report
Chairman’s statement 02
Chief Executive’s statement 04
Market overview  06
Business review  08
Financial review  16
Principal risks  20
Directors’ responsibilities 21
Board of directors 22
Report of the directors 24
Corporate governance 27
Remuneration report 32
£155m
2010 revenue
We are an innovative, market-leading 
manufacturer of premium and everyday 
freshly prepared pot desserts, a flexible 
and niche supplier of quality, differentiated 
yogurt and a state-of-the-art producer 
of fresh chocolate desserts made 
exclusively for Cadbury.
£157m
2010 revenue
We are the Number One sandwich and 
wrap supplier to M&S, the winner of 
multiple sandwich retailer of the year, 
and the UK’s second largest producer 
of dressed salads.
Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Uniq plc
No.1 Chalfont Park
Gerrards Cross
Buckinghamshire
SL9 0UN
United Kingdom
Telephone +44 (0) 1753 276000
Facsimile: +44 (0) 1753 276019
www.uniq.com
Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
