 Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14
A therapeutic 
specialist 
for airways 
diseases
Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 Building a sustainable specialty 
pharmaceutical company. 
Providing benefit to patients 
with airways diseases. Financial statements Governance Strategic report Overview
1
Contents
Overview
1 Highlights
2 Our business at a glance
4 Chairman’s statement
5 Chief Executive’s statement
Strategic report
7 Our markets and opportunities
10 Our business model
16 Our strategy
18 Key Performance Indicators (KPIs)
19 Our products
24 Our platform technologies and devices
26 Financial review
29  Corporate social responsibility statement
33 Risks and risk management
Governance
39 Corporate governance 
 Introduction from Chairman
40 Board of Directors
42 Executive management
43 Corporate governance report
48 Audit Committee report
51 Nomination Committee report
53 Remuneration Committee report
54 Remuneration report
72 Additional statutory information
74 Statement of Directors’ responsibilities
Financial statements
75  Independent auditor’s report 
to the members of Vectura Group plc
80 Consolidated income statement
81  C onsolida t ed sta t emen t 
of comprehensive income
82 Balance sheet
83 Cash flow statement
84 Statement of changes in equity
85 Notes to the financial statements
112 Five-year summary
IBC Shareholder information
Significant progress on respiratory programmes
•  Seebri
®
 Breezhaler
®
 (glycopyrronium bromide, NVA237) approved in over 60 countries, including EU, 
Japan, Canada and Australia
 – Q1 2014 net sales of $30m; twelve months to 31 March 2014 of $82m (source: Novartis)
•  Ultibr o
®
 Breezhaler
®
 (indacaterol/glycopyrronium bromide QVA149) launched in seven countries 
to date and approved in over 30, including EU, Japan, Canada and Australia
 – Q1 2014 net sales of $14m; total of $20m since launch (source: Novartis)
•  Approvals of GSK’s BREO
®
 ELLIPTA
®
 and ANORO
®
 ELLIPTA
®
 signalled new royalty streams
Breakthrough for generic respiratory products 
•  AirFluSal
®
 Forspiro
®
 (VR315) approved in Denmark, Germany, Belgium, Sweden, Hungary, Romania, 
Norway, Bulgaria and South Korea; product now launched in most of these markets
•  VR315 development in the US continues to make progress; additional milestone received
•  FDA guidelines were a positive step for development of inhaled generics in the US
Strategic growth and pipeline augmentation 
•  Acquisition of Activaero GmbH strengthens development pipeline and enhances technology offering
•  Initiated co-development deal with UCB for a novel molecule (VR942) currently at the pre-clinical stage
•  The establishment of Kinnovata joint venture (JV) in China, extracting additional value from our 
mature assets. Kinnovata JV is still awaiting formal completion. Final local government approval 
expected later in 2014, upon which an exceptional non-cash gain will be recognised
Other highlights 
• Placing completed 13 March 2014 and raised gross proceeds of £52m
• Two changes to the Board during the year:
 – Jack Cashman retired as Non-Executive Chairman of the Board and Bruno Angelici was appointed 
as Non-Executive Chairman in February 2014
 – July 2013, Anne Hyland stepped down as Chief Financial Officer and Company Secretary 
and Paul Oliver was appointed Chief Financial Officer and Company Secretary
Post-period event
•  US launch of ANORO
®
 ELLIPTA
®
 triggered a £2m milestone associated with a licence 
agreement with GSK
Revenues
+20% 
at £36.5m (2012/13: £30.5m)
Positive EBITDA
1
£5.2m 
compared to a loss in previous year 
(2012/13: loss of £3.4m)
Loss before tax decreased by
54% 
to £4.8m (2012/13: £10.4m)
Balance sheet strength maintained 
with cash and cash equivalents of
£81.7m 
(£70.1m at 31 March 2013)
1  Earnings before investment income,  
finance gains, tax, depreciation, amortisation, 
share-based compensation and adjusted for 
non-recurring expenditure.
Highlights Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14
Our business at a glance
Our focus
Our therapeutic focus is to develop products 
for airways-related diseases. These include major 
diseases, such as asthma and chronic obstructive 
pulmonary disease (COPD), and is a market 
estimated to be worth in excess of US$46bn 
worldwide
1
. This segment of the market covers 
a wide range of other indications including cough, 
severe inflammation, cystic fibrosis, allergic rhinitis,  
and fibrotic diseases of the lung.
How we work
We develop products in-house and in collaboration 
with pharmaceutical partners, leveraging investment 
in our intellectual property and, where possible, 
mitigating the risk of our business. Vectura has eight 
products marketed by partners and a portfolio of 
drugs in clinical development, a number of which 
have been licensed to major pharmaceutical 
companies. The Company’s array of enabling 
devices and formulation technologies significantly 
amplifies the commercial potential of our products. 
These formulation and inhalation technologies are 
available to other pharmaceutical companies on 
an out-licensing basis where this complements 
Vectura’s product development strategy.
1 2 3
We develop We collaborate We innovate
Global respiratory market estimated worth:
US$46bn
Read more about our markets on pages 7 to 9
1 Pharmaview Commercial Landscape Series Respiratory Decision Resources 2013.
Vectura’s vision is to address 
the unmet needs of people 
whose lives are impacted 
by airways diseases.”
‘‘
Read more about our business model on pages 10 to 15
2 3
Financial statements Governance Strategic report Overview
Our foundation
At Vectura we bring our values to reality through 
the way we operate.
We have a strong foundation of core company 
values. Everything we do stems from our five key 
values and these are reflected in the way we operate 
our business, both internally and externally, which 
ensures we express clearly our vision and values 
and the behaviours necessary to realise our 
strategic ambitions.
We have identified five core values that build on our 
strengths and highlight areas for transformation.
These values have a corresponding set of behaviours 
that describe what is required at the individual level 
to demonstrate them.
Achievement
We aim to deliver on the challenging goals 
we set ourselves
Enthusiasm
We give our best and enjoy what we’re doing
Participation
Success comes from our culture, which fosters 
creativity and teamwork
Innovation
We think freely and creatively about our goals
Trust and respect
We value people and ideas on their merits
Current partnerships
Ablynx
Baxter
GSK 
Grifols
Kinnovata
Novartis
Sandoz
sterna biologicals
Tianjin KingYork
Ventaleon
UCB
Vectura has disclosed development collaborations, joint ventures and licence agreements 
with several pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, including:
Work on biologics in the laboratory
3 4
Dear shareholder,
I am delighted to introduce Vectura’s Annual Report for the financial 
year 2013/2014. This is my first Annual Report as Chairman and I hope 
to convey my sense of excitement as the Company executes its strategy 
and my deep commitment to building on the firm foundation left by 
my predecessor, Jack Cashman. In addition to improved performance, 
there is no doubt that under Jack’s Chairmanship, the Board established 
a culture of good governance and high standard of business ethics. 
These have been adopted across the business. The management team 
I inherited is experienced, able and focused on operational excellence 
and the delivery of shareholder value.
The business model is balanced and through the recent acquisition 
of Activaero GmbH the Group is aiming to become the leading 
speciality pharmaceutical company in the treatment of airways 
disease. In considering how the Group can implement this stated 
strategy, I would like to highlight some of my thoughts as Chairman:
•  Vectura Group is positioned within a unique segment of the 
healthcare market, aiming to develop therapies that benefit 
patients, physicians and payers through a specialised focus on 
airways disease. The Group has the mix of products, development 
pipeline assets and technologies to grow and develop as an 
independent organisation;
•  the Group is fortunate to be led by seasoned, talented professionals 
and further supported by a skilled employee base;
•  the Group’s products are being recognised by our partners and end 
users for their quality, cutting edge technology and performance; and
•  the Board comprises a diverse mix of experienced individuals who 
collectively support management when appropriate and challenge 
when necessary.
During my first year as Chairman, it is my intention to capitalise on 
these fundamentals through liaising with senior management and 
engaging with our shareholders. I am clear that in a rapidly changing 
world, we will face some challenges but I take up the new role with 
a sense of privilege in my appointment, respect for the organisation, 
enthusiasm for the task and confidence in the future.
We are grateful to our shareholders for their continued support as we 
continue to do everything we can to build the success and grow the 
value of the Group. I look forward to another exciting year for Vectura.
Reporting
This Annual Report has been produced in compliance with new narrative 
reporting regulations, the principal change being the requirement to 
produce a Strategic report that provides readers with a clear and focused 
explanation of a company’s strategy, business model, key risks and 
performance. To date, Vectura Group has set high standards for the 
quality of its narrative reporting and I hope that you will find that this 
report fulfils the requirements and intentions of the new regulations, 
and continues to bring clarity and transparency to the Group’s activities.
Bruno Angelici
Chairman
20 May 2014
Vectura is transitioning 
into a leading specialty 
pharmaceutical company 
that focuses on developing 
innovative treatments for 
airways diseases.”
‘‘
Chairman’s statement
Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 5
Financial statements Governance Strategic report Overview
Chief Executive’s statement
Vectura has evolved into the 
product-focused company it 
is today. The recent acquisition 
provides important pipeline 
growth and diversification.”
‘‘
Delivering strong results
I am pleased to report on another year of significant progress for the 
Group, which saw a number of key drivers of future growth. We have 
reached the transformational point in Vectura’s evolution, towards a 
specialty pharmaceutical company focused on airways-related diseases, 
and we are now embarking on the execution of that strategy.
Executing the strategy
The history of Vectura, since its formation in 1997, has been one 
of change, adapting to the needs of the industry in which we work. 
Vectura continues to evolve to maximise the value potential for our 
shareholders. This capability, to embrace and incorporate change, 
is key to our success.
Assets that are important for growth and value must:
• focus on airways disease;
• add balance to our development pipeline;
• increase the breadth of our product-enabling technology base; and
•  have the potential to generate revenue in the short term 
and increase economics through partnering, co-development 
or focused, cost-effective self-commercialisation.
Assets must also leverage existing capabilities, such as our expertise in 
drug-device combinations and our nascent expertise in commercialisation. 
Towards the end of this financial year, we announced a significant 
strategic acquisition of a private German company, Activaero GmbH, 
for €130m. This transaction aligned closely with our stated strategic 
intent and enhances our medium to long-term growth prospects. 
The acquisition brought us a proprietary smart nebuliser-based 
technology, FAVORITE, that facilitates targeting inhaled drugs into 
pre-selected areas of the lung. FAVORITE is incorporated into a range 
of products, with application to branded and generic drugs, for small 
molecules and for biologics. Our enhanced technology offering now 
spans both dry powder and liquid/aerosol forms of delivery to the lung. 
The acquisition also brought us a balanced pipeline of partnered and 
unpartnered drug assets through seven clinical and several pre-clinical 
stage programmes.
A significant attribute of the deal was that it augmented our pipeline 
through a single transaction, not only providing a balance of drug 
assets across development phases, but doing so with limited use 
of human and financial capital when compared to the cash outlay 
that would be required to acquire a similar asset base through a 
series of individual transactions. 
Organisational change
As a result of the enlarged organisation and the evolution from 
development to a product-focused organisation, we also made some 
changes to the way we manage the business – reconstituting the 
Executive Management Team (EMT: formerly known as the Leadership 
Team), responsible for the overall management of the Group’s strategy 
and its execution. The changes include Gerhard Scheuch joining the 
EMT as Chief Scientific Officer. The role of CSO will be key to ensuring 
the appropriate scientific input and liaison for our technologies. 
Gerhard Scheuch will be an ambassador for our science, technology 
and products, both within and outside the business. 
In preparation for laying out our strategy to derive future revenues 
from self-commercialisation of products, Roger Heerman has joined the 
EMT as Chief Commercial Officer. Roger Heerman brings significant 
experience of the commercialisation of respiratory products.
I look forward to working closely with Gerhard Scheuch and 
Roger Heerman on the EMT and am grateful that the Company 
has a strong, experienced and cohesive executive team to manage 
the next phase of growth for our Company.
Financial statements Governance Strategic report Overview Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14
6
Business development activities during 2013/14
Vectura will seek to focus its business development activities on the 
acquisition and in-licensing of products and compounds which offer 
a good strategic fit and have the potential to deliver demonstrable 
value to all of the Company’s stakeholders. 
Evolution of the business and future growth
 Vectura has increased its focus on developing and commercialising 
innovative specialty medicines to meet significant unmet patient 
needs in airways diseases. The past year has continued that evolution. 
The Board believes that Vectura is well placed to exploit future growth 
and value opportunities and in the year ahead, we will utilise our 
recently expanded proprietary technology base to target disease 
segments where we can lead the way in developing treatments 
of benefit to patients.
Our people
I would like to take this opportunity to thank everyone in Vectura 
for their tremendous contribution this year, which has been another 
demanding yet exciting year. Their hard work and drive to succeed 
has formed the bedrock of our continued growth. I would also like to 
welcome our new colleagues and thank them for their support during 
the integration process which, I am pleased to report, is progressing 
well and forms the foundation for future progression.
Dr Chris Blackwell
Chief Executive
20 May 2014
Chief Executive’s statement continued
In the year ahead, we 
will increase our focus 
on the specialty area 
of airways diseases.”
‘‘
Making the most of our pipeline
Operational highlights include a 
number of commercial successes 
by the owners of our licensed products 
and intellectual property:
Novartis, with the approvals and launches 
of Ultibro
®
 Breezhaler
®
 in Japan and Europe; 
 Sandoz, with the launch of AirFluSal
®
 Forspiro
®
 
(an achievement that bodes well for our high value 
respiratory generic portfolio in Europe and the rest 
of the world); and 
 GSK, with the launch of products that generate 
milestones and royalties for Vectura.
All signify the start of new, growing revenue streams that 
build on the success of another of our assets, the Novartis 
product, Seebri
®
 Breezhaler
®
.
Other notable highlights included the establishment 
of Kinnovata, our joint venture in China, to maximise the 
potential value of assets that were no longer a focus for 
us in established, western markets, and the co-development 
partnership with UCB. The latter involves the development 
of a biologic molecule that will be delivered by inhalation 
to treat severe inflammatory diseases of the lung, an 
attribute that highlights Vectura’s innovative capabilities.
Read more on the news section of our website 
www.vectura.com
1
2
3 Financial statements Governance Strategic report Overview
7
Our markets and opportunities
Population growth, increasing longevity and rising wealth, particularly 
in developing economies, continue to expand the global market for 
pharmaceuticals. In addition there are a number of specific factors 
affecting the market, in particular downward pressure on healthcare 
costs, regulatory challenges, legally controlled pricing, the cost of 
developing and protecting intellectual property and intensifying 
competition from generic products.
Growth drivers
Expanding patient populations
The world population is expected to rise from its current level of some  
7bn, to reach 9.6bn by 2050. In addition, the number of people who 
can access healthcare continues to increase, particularly among the 
elderly. Globally, it is estimated that between 2000 and 2050, the 
number of people aged 60 years and over will increase from 605m 
to over 2bn.
Unmet medical need
In most established markets, ageing populations and certain lifestyle 
choices such as smoking, poor diet and lack of exercise are increasing 
the incidence of non-communicable diseases, such as airway-related 
diseases, which require long-term management. 
Advances in science and technology innovation are critical if we are to 
address unmet medical need. Existing drugs will continue to be important 
in meeting the growing demand for healthcare, particularly with the 
increasing use of generic medication. The use of large molecules, or 
biologics, has also become an important source of innovation, with 
biologics among the most commercially successful new products. 
The respiratory market is dominated by a small number of companies. 
Inhalation products are complex dosage forms, which are challenging 
to develop within a strict global regulatory environment. Volume growth 
is expected to continue as demand in the developing world expands. 
Vectura is one of only a few independent product development 
companies able to meet the challenges of the market for inhaled 
therapies to treat airways diseases. The Group has proven technologies 
and expertise in the development of inhalation products incorporating 
dry powder inhalers (both branded and generic) and smart inhalation 
systems utilising nebulisation.
The asthma/COPD market is 
an attractive place to operate 
as the market need is growing.
Rising  
healthcare  
costs
Intensifying 
competition 
from generics
Regulatory 
challenges
Rising wealth  
in developing  
world
Increasing life 
expectancy
Population  
growth
Current market pressures and drivers
World population by 2050
9.6bn
Source: United Nations report: World Population Prospects, 2012 revision.
Global respiratory 
pharmaceuticals market Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14
8
The body’s respiratory system comprises the upper and lower airways, 
the lung tissue and associated blood vessels. The respiratory system 
is responsible for delivering oxygen to all parts of the body via the 
bloodstream and removing carbon dioxide. We breathe several thousand 
litres of air every day, a dynamic environment that is often polluted. 
Every day, hundreds of millions of people suffer from chronic airways 
diseases, including two of the most debilitating and life-threatening; 
asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD).
Asthma and COPD make up the third-fastest growing market 
for therapeutic treatments, with the total market estimated to 
be worth more than $30bn in 2012, according to analyst reports. 
This figure will continue to grow as fixed-dose combination products 
are increasingly used and more effective therapies become available. 
Vectura’s products for asthma and COPD target this ever-expanding 
global market.
For a pharmaceutical company, the asthma and COPD markets are 
important targets, as the market need is growing and patients, doctors 
and payors seek better, more cost-effective treatments. The incidence 
of COPD is increasing through the use of tobacco products and air 
pollution. Both asthma and COPD are global diseases, with a high 
prevalence in developed nations and those with high levels of pollution.
Our markets and opportunities continued
Our current addressable market falls into two main areas:
Asthma
Asthma is a chronic inflammatory disease 
of the airways leading to and from the lungs. 
Asthma itself is the result of genetic disposition 
and environmental factors.
People globally living with asthma
235m
Source: WHO, World Health Organisation.
COPD 
Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD)  
is a chronic, slowly progressive disease, primarily 
associated with tobacco smoking, air pollution 
and occupational exposure.
People globally living with COPD
330m
Source: The Lancet, Vol 380, 15 December 2012.
1 2
Respiratory: Leading drug groups
Asthma and COPD Allergic rhinitis
2008
2012
Other
25%
73%
Total:
$41.2bn
Source: Decision Resources 2013.
Total:
$45.7bn
2%
3%
20%
77% Financial statements Governance Strategic report Overview
Asthma
Asthma is a chronic inflammatory disease of the airways leading 
to and from the lungs. Asthma is the result of genetic disposition 
and environmental factors. It is a reversible condition, resulting from 
temporary narrowing of the airways, often as a result of external 
stimuli such as stress, pollen, exercise or respiratory tract infection. 
Asthma symptoms, which are episodic and sometimes seasonal, 
include cough, wheezing and chest tightness, particularly at night 
and in the early morning. It would appear that the strongest risk 
factors for developing asthma are inhaled substances that cause 
an allergic reaction or irritate the airways (such as pollution). 
According to the World Health Organization (WHO), around 235m 
people currently suffer from asthma worldwide. There is strong evidence 
that the prevalence of asthma increases as populations adopt an urban 
lifestyle and, with WHO forecasting that the world’s urban population 
will increase from around 45% currently to around 59%, it also forecasts 
that there could be an additional 100m asthma sufferers by 2025. It is 
the most common chronic disease in children. In short, this is already 
a disease state of considerable, and growing, significance. Asthma is a 
public health problem across high and low income countries and, with 
mortality rates higher in developing countries, is likely to see increased 
spending in emerging economies.
COPD
Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is a chronic, slowly 
progressive, and only partly reversible airflow obstruction, primarily 
associated with tobacco smoking, air pollution and occupational exposure 
to lung irritants. COPD is characterised by chronic bronchitis (irreversible 
inflammation of the mucous membranes) and emphysema (destruction 
of the lung tissue). Symptoms include shortness of breath, cough, phlegm 
and activity limitation. Pharmacological treatments relieve symptoms 
and decrease exacerbations and hospitalisation, but are currently unable 
to reverse the underlying scarring of the lungs and loss of lung function.
There are approximately 330m people globally living with COPD 
and it is predicted to be the third leading cause of death by 2030. 
Currently the disease is largely hidden, with 50–75% of patients 
undiagnosed. 30m patients in the US suffer from COPD; only 6m 
receive treatment.
Our position
To optimise benefit to patients and maximise value from global 
opportunities, we are focusing on both the branded and generic 
respiratory product markets. These are very large markets, with dry 
powder inhalation (DPI) products currently generating sales in excess 
of $17bn a year in 2013 and growing. The Group’s specialism and 
expertise in inhaled product development puts us in a good position to 
meet the regulatory requirements for successfully bringing to market 
branded and generic inhalation drugs. There are relatively few 
competitors working on complex, inhaled generic products, and new 
market opportunities are emerging that provide potential for growth.
DPI products currently generating annual sales of
$17bn
Source: BCC Research: Report – Pulmonary Drug Delivery Systems: 
Technologies and Global Markets, May 2014.
9
Inhalation dose testing 10
The sustainable development 
of our business model is based 
on balancing unmet need with 
commercial attractiveness 
and financial discipline.
Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14
Our business model
10
Vectura’s strategy is to develop and commercialise 
products for the treatment of airways-related diseases 
(airways diseases), leading and enabling the development 
of innovative and efficacious medicines to address unmet 
medical and payer needs.
The development and commercialisation of therapies 
for airways diseases also represents a large market 
opportunity. Vectura is well placed to take advantage 
of this opportunity, through our technologies, our 
knowledge of the market, our products, our financial 
prudence and our people. 11
Financial statements Governance Strategic report Overview
HOW WE ADD VALUE
HOW WE GENERATE REVENUE
Milestones and royalties
Vectura licenses its assets and technologies to commercial partners. In return, Vectura receives 
milestone payments associated with development success and royalties from net sales.
Revenues, to date, comprised royalties from Baxter and milestone payments from our partners. 
In 2013, these revenue streams were augmented by the roll-out of Seebri
®
 Breezhaler
®
 
and Ultibro
®
 Breezhaler
®
 by Novartis, and AirFluSal
®
 Forspiro
®
 by Sandoz.
 
GOAL
To create value through 
the development of 
innovative products for 
airways diseases with 
high unmet need
WHAT WE DO
A balanced range 
of assets across 
development phases 
in our pipeline
Innovative technologies 
that underpin our 
product value 
proposition
A comprehensive 
portfolio of intellectual 
property
Highly developed  
in-house development 
and commercial 
capabilities
1
2 3
4
How we add value in detail
Utilise partnerships to address unmet  
need treated by primary care physicians
Seek to adopt appropriate commercialisation  
of treatments in areas treated by  
specialist physicians
Financial statements Governance Strategic report Overview
11
How we add value 12
Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14
Our business model continued
How we add value continued
12
1
Innovative technologies 
We will continue to innovate 
with our proprietary formulation 
technologies, device design 
and development, and smart 
inhalation systems. 
Inhalation devices are applicable to both small 
molecules and biologics and include a range of 
multi-dose dry powder inhalers based on GyroHaler. 
Following the acquisition of Activaero GmbH, 
we have a novel range of desktop and portable 
nebulisers. This differentiated technology has  
broad, multi-layered IP with coverage potentially  
up to 2033.
Spray dry technology 13
Financial statements Governance Strategic report Overview
13
Financial statements Governance Strategic report Overview
2
Developing our assets 
with focused investment
For programmes managed  
in-house, Vectura has 
an established project  
management framework. 
The potential commercial opportunities for each 
project are assessed at the end of each stage 
of the project. Projects are assessed using widely 
accepted valuation metrics based upon discounted 
cash flows. An in-house review is supplemented 
by well-regarded disease area reports and, where 
appropriate, bespoke market research combined 
with the views of key opinion leaders in the 
disease area. 
Under this framework, research and development 
programmes will only be approved when it can 
be shown that expected benefits outweigh the 
expected costs. All programmes are subject to 
a stage-gate approval process and in the event 
that this relationship changes, the Board would 
consider terminating or redefining the programme.
DPI assembly line Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14
14
Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14
Our business model continued
14
3
Strong in-house capabilities
Our talented team is 
committed to developing 
therapies that improve the 
quality of patients’ lives.
We have many years of experience in areas such 
as corporate development, clinical development, 
pharmaceutical development, device development 
and global regulatory affairs.
The Group’s specialism and expertise put us in 
a good position to manage the highly technical 
and regulated development and commercialisation 
of both branded and generic inhalation products. 
There are relatively few companies working in 
this area, particularly on the inhaled delivery of 
complex molecules. Our continued investment in 
our staff and facilities should enable us to continue 
at the forefront of innovation and development 
of products for airways diseases.
How we add value continued 15
Financial statements Governance Strategic report Overview Financial statements Governance Strategic report Overview
4
Maintaining our investment 
in intellectual property 
Vectura maintains a substantial 
portfolio of more than 100 
patent families* many of which 
comprise granted European 
and US patents.  
 
 
These provide comprehensive coverage for 
aspects of inhalation technologies. Vectura works 
closely with its legal advisors and obtains, where 
necessary, opinions on the intellectual property 
landscape relevant to the Group’s product 
development programmes and manufacturing 
activities and processes. The Group ensures that 
patent applications are filed in a timely manner.
15
DPI mouthpiece component
* As at May 2014. Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14
16
Our strategy
16
Creating the value cycle
Analytical scientist
As the Company’s pipeline has matured, with key 
products receiving regulatory approvals, the next 
stage of the Company’s strategy is to transform its 
business from a development stage company into 
a significant, profitable and self-sustaining specialty 
pharmaceutical company.
Vectura has sought to expand its development 
portfolio within airways diseases whilst attempting 
to mitigate specific product development and market 
risk, with appropriate deal making through in-licensing, 
co-development and acquisition whilst aiming to 
deliver superior returns for its shareholders.
We aim to build on our current position by delivering 
innovative inhaled and targeted therapies that address 
the evolving unmet medical needs of patients with 
airways diseases.
Products Pipeline
T echnology 
HOW IT WORKS
Our technologies underpin our products 
and pipeline focus. The cash flow from the 
commercialisation of our products will be invested 
in a balanced way to develop our pipeline and 
maintaining our technology leadership, thereby 
creating the Vectura value cycle.
16 17
Financial statements Governance Strategic report Overview
Recognising that such a strategy requires careful 
investment, and that we cannot take on every 
opportunity open to us, we must continue to grow 
our revenue streams and manage our portfolio risk, 
prioritise investment into our pipeline assets and 
make appropriate commercialisation choices.
17
Leveraging  
our technology base
The creation and protection of our underlying 
intellectual property assets are essential 
elements of our business model. We will 
continue to leverage investment in our 
technology and device platforms, intellectual 
property and general know-how to allow 
us to develop more innovative products that 
address the needs of patients, physicians 
and payors. Our returns will arise from 
collaborations with other parties, where we 
earn milestone payments and royalties from 
development and commercialisation, or 
from self-commercialisation of carefully 
selected opportunities.
1
Progressing  
our pipeline
Our aim is to build a profitable  
cash-generative business through a 
specialist therapeutic focus and progressing 
our development portfolio within airways 
diseases. In the past year, our portfolio has 
been greatly enhanced by the acquisition 
of Activaero GmbH, which brought us a 
proprietary smart nebuliser-based technology 
that allows for targeting of drug into 
pre-selected areas of the lung via inhalation. 
This smart technology is incorporated into 
a range of devices, with applications for 
branded and generic drugs, including small 
molecules and biologics.
3
 Making appr opria t e 
commercialisation choices
It is the Group’s strategy to continue its 
existing partnering model to access those 
markets that require large general sales 
forces, such as COPD and asthma. For other 
markets, which can be addressed by a small 
specialist sales force, Vectura will consider 
a number of commercialisation alternatives: 
Partnering, to earn milestones and royalties; 
co-development, where Vectura undertakes 
development to achieve a greater share of 
the economics; and self-commercialisation, 
for specialty therapeutic targets that require 
a small, cost-effective and focused sales 
and marketing infrastructure. The means 
of commercialisation will be determined by 
an assessment of the product and market 
specific balance of risk and reward.
What we’re doing
Currently partnered
Areas of current  
and future interest
COPD
IPF
Severe 
asthma
PAH
Severe  
influenza
Unmet need*
Prevalence of condition
Partner, co-develop, self-commercialise Partner
Cystic  
fibrosis
AAT  
deficiency
Chronic  
cough
Paediatric  
asthma
Lung  
cancer
Neonatal 
respiratory 
disorders
RSV
Inflammatory 
airways 
disease
Asthma
*  Note: The vertical axis quantifying unmet need is based 
on scientific and clinical reviews of the disease area 
combined with the views of the Directors. 
   Abbreviations used: IPF; Idiopathic Pulmonary Fibrosis, 
AAT; Alpha Anti-Trypsin, PAH; Pulmonary Arterial 
Hypertension; RSV; Respiratory Syncytial Virus
2
Identifying areas of potential interest Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14
18
Key Performance Indicators (KPIs)
18
Revenue growth
Vectura has five revenue streams: royalty revenue, product licensing 
revenue, technology licensing revenue, development services 
revenue and device sales revenue. 
As shown on the right the percentage of overall revenue generated 
by royalties has increased each year since 2011/12. Growing and 
sustainable royalty revenues will provide stability and cash resources 
to fund Vectura’s growth. For more information about Vectura’s 
revenue streams, refer to pages 26 and 27.
Vectura’s Board and management rigorously 
monitor the progress of our business, maintaining 
strict financial discipline, to facilitate achieving our 
key strategic objective, to become a profitable, 
self-sustaining and cash-generative business. 
Progressing and commercialising our product pipeline
Successful product development and commercialisation is key to 
creating long-term value. A number of value creating events have 
occurred during 2013/14, namely: 
£33.0m
£30.5m
£36.5m 2013/14 5% 2% 48%
Royalties Milestones Development services Device sales
Cash management
Careful management of cash resources is vital to ensure that Vectura 
is able to develop and augment its pipeline assets. Free cash flow (FCF) 
is a measure of the cash investment required to support Vectura’s 
operations and it is defined as the net cash outflow from operations, 
adjusted for net capital expenditure. 
2011/12 
2012/13 
2013/14 
6
7
8
Financial KPIs
Vectura has three key financial KPIs: revenue growth, 
positive EBITDA progression and cash management. 
Positive EBITDA progression
EBITDA is a measure of Vectura’s underlying operational performance. 
A positive EBITDA progression shows Vectura’s ability to generate 
returns on investment over time. As shown on the face of the 
consolidated income statement, EBITDA is calculated by adjusting 
Vectura’s operating result for non-cash and non-recurring items. 
EBITDA has moved from a negative in 2011/12 and 2012/13 to a 
positive in 2013/14. This increase has been driven by an increase in 
revenues and a reduction in research and development expenditure.
2011/12 
2012/13 
2013/14 
£(4.2)
£5.2
£(3.4)
2011/12 
2012/13 
2013/14 
£2.1m outflow
£6.6m outflow
£3.0m outflow
Non-financial KPIs
•  QVA149 was launched following 
approval by the European and 
Japanese regulatory authorities;
•  VR315 was launched 
following approval in certain 
European territories;
•  achieved a $3m US development 
milestone for progress of VR315 US;
•  entered into a collaboration 
agreement with UCB to develop an 
innovative biologic immunomodulatory 
product in the area of severe 
inflammatory respiratory disease; and
•  the acquisition of Activaero GmbH 
in March 2014 introduced seven 
clinical stage products and several 
pre-clinical stage products to the 
Vectura pipeline.
2011/12 41% 44% 8% 7%
2012/13 54% 2% 1% 43%
45% 19
Financial statements Governance Strategic report Overview
Our products
Our product portfolio comprises marketed products, 
which provide an important source of revenue; 
branded investigational drugs, at different stages 
of development with partners or by Vectura alone; 
and generic investigational drugs.
Recent progress in marketed products
Royalty income in 2013/14 was £16.3m; an increase of 25% 
from £13m in 2012/13. Royalty income was primarily from sales 
of Advate, with royalty growth driven primarily from sales of Seebri
®
 
Breezhaler
®
, Ultibro
®
 Breezhaler
®
 and AirfluSal
®
 Forspiro
®
.
Ultibro
®
 Breezhaler
®
Clinical trials have shown that Ultibro
®
 Breezhaler
®
 offers statistically 
significant improvements in bronchodilation compared to treatments 
widely used as current standards of care, including salmeterol/fluticasone 
500/50 mcg in patients with no history of moderate or severe 
exacerbations over the last year, and open-label tiotropium (18 mcg).
In Japan the product is approved as Ultibro
®
 Inhalation Capsules.
Novartis plans to submit QVA149 for US filing in the fourth quarter 
of 2014 for an indication in COPD.
Seebri
®
 Breezhaler
®
Novartis plans to conduct a Phase III clinical trial programme to 
evaluate the efficacy, safety and tolerability of once-daily NVA237 
(glycopyrronium bromide 50mcg) in patients with uncontrolled 
asthma. This programme aims to support registration of NVA237 
as an add-on treatment for patients with asthma already on an 
inhaled corticosteroid and long-acting beta
2
-agonist (ICS/LABA). 
In Japan the product is approved as Seebri
®
 Inhalation Capsules. 
Novartis plans to submit NVA237 for US filing in the fourth quarter 
of 2014 for an indication in COPD.
AirFluSal
®
 Forspiro
®
Vectura initially developed the VR315 product and created the design 
of the innovative inhaler, before licensing the asset to Sandoz in 2006. 
It was subsequently developed in collaboration with Vectura as AirFluSal
®
 
Forspiro
®
 by Aeropharm GmbH in Rudolstadt, Germany, Sandoz’s global 
respiratory Center of Excellence. The innovative and intuitive to use 
design of the inhaler was awarded the Red Dot Product Design award 
in 2011, an internationally recognised quality seal awarded by the 
Design Zentrum Nordrhein Westfalen in Essen, Germany.
On 18 December 2013, Sandoz announced the first approval 
of AirFluSal
®
 Forspiro
®
 in Denmark, following a decentralised review 
process. The first wave of countries included in this process were 
Denmark, Germany, Hungary, Sweden, Norway, Belgium, Romania, 
Bulgaria and Luxembourg. The product has already been approved 
and launched in most of these countries and the first approval 
and launch (post-period) of the product in Asia (South Korea) 
was also announced.
Ultibro
®
, Seebri
®
, Breezhaler
®
, AirFluSal
® 
and Forspiro
®
 are registered 
trademarks of Novartis AG.
Manufacturing blister strips
19 Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14
Asmasal
®
Asmasal
®
 uses Vectura’s 
proprietary reservoir DPI device, 
the Clickhaler
®
. Asmasal
®
 contains 
salbutamol, a short-acting 
beta
2
-agonist for the rapid 
relief of asthma symptoms.
Extraneal
®
Extraneal
®
 is a peritoneal dialysis 
solution containing icodextrin, 
licensed to Baxter in 1996. 
Peritoneal dialysis is a form 
of treatment for kidney failure 
used to remove waste and 
excess water from the blood. 
Icodextrin 7.5% (Extraneal
®
) is a 
starch-derived glucose polymer 
which acts as an osmotic agent 
when administered intraperitoneally for continuous ambulatory 
peritoneal dialysis. Extraneal
®
 works by removing water and waste 
products from the blood when kidney failure demands peritoneal 
dialysis or when glucose solution does not remove enough water. 
Vectura receives royalties on sales in the US and certain 
other territories.
Our marketed products at a glance
We have eight products marketed by partners. We receive royalty income from sales of these products.
Adept
®
Adept
®
 is a 4% icodextrin 
solution used during surgery 
to reduce post-surgical adhesions, 
a frequent and major complication 
after gynaecological and other 
abdominal surgery, where 
abnormal scarring causes the 
surfaces of internal structures 
to stick together. Whilst not 
necessarily dangerous in 
themselves, they can lead to future complications, often years later 
or if further abdominal surgery is required. It has been used in 
Europe since 2000, and since 2006 in the US. In December 2005, 
Vectura signed a licence deal with Baxter for the manufacture 
and distribution of Adept
®
.
Advate
®
In 2000, Vectura granted 
worldwide rights to Baxter to 
use its stabilisation patents in its 
serum-free recombinant Factor 
VIII, ADVATE
®
. This is indicated 
for the treatment of haemophilia A 
and is marketed worldwide by 
Baxter, from which Vectura 
earns royalties from sales.
Our products continued
Indication
Prevention of 
surgical adhesions
Partner
Baxter
Markets
Worldwide
Indication
Haemophilia A
Partner
Baxter
Markets
Worldwide
Indication
Peritoneal dialysis
Partner
Baxter
Markets
Worldwide
Indication
Asthma
Partner
Recipharm
Markets
UK, France and Ireland
20 Photos of Seebri
®,
 Breezhaler
®
 and Ultibro
®
 Breezhaler
®
 courtesy of Novartis AG. Ultibro
®
, Seebri
®
 Breezhaler
®
, AirFluSal
®
 and Forspiro
®
 are registered trademarks of Novartis AG.
AirFluSal® Forspiro® 
(VR315 – ex US)
AirFluSal
®
 Forspiro
®
 (VR315) is 
an inhaled combination therapy 
(salmeterol/fluticasone) for 
asthma and COPD, licensed 
to Sandoz for development 
and commercialisation in Europe 
and the rest of the world. Vectura 
initially developed the VR315 
product and created the design 
of the innovative inhaler, before licensing the asset to Sandoz in 2006.
Asmabec
®
Asmabec
®
 uses Vectura’s 
proprietary reservoir DPI device, 
the Clickhaler
®
. Asmabec
®
 
contains beclomethasone, an 
inhaled corticosteroid used as 
standard preventative therapy 
for asthma.
Seebri
®
 Breezhaler
® 
(NVA237; 
glycopyrronium bromide)
Seebri
®
 Breezhaler
®
 is a novel, 
once-daily, inhaled long-acting 
muscarinic antagonist (LAMA) 
indicated as a maintenance 
bronchodilator treatment for the 
relief of symptoms in patients 
with COPD. In Japan, the product 
is approved as Seebri
®
 Inhalation 
Capsules. Glycopyrronium bromide was exclusively licensed to 
Novartis in April 2005 by Vectura and our co-development partner 
Sosei Group Corporation.
Ultibro
®
 Breezhaler
®
 
(QVA149; indacaterol 
/glycopyrronium 
bromide)
Ultibro
®
 Breezhaler
®
 
(indacaterol/glycopyrronium 
bromide) is a novel, once-daily, 
dual bronchodilator approved 
in the EU as a maintenance 
bronchodilator treatment for 
the relief of symptoms in adult 
patients with COPD. In Japan, the product is approved as Ultibro
®
 
Inhalation Capsules. Glycopyrronium bromide was exclusively 
licensed to Novartis in April 2005 by Vectura and our  
co-development partner Sosei Group Corporation. 
Financial statements Governance Strategic report Overview Financial statements Governance Strategic report Overview
Indication
Asthma and COPD
Partner
Sandoz
Markets
AirFluSal
®
 Forspiro
®
 
is currently launched 
in Denmark, Germany, 
Norway and South Korea
Indication
Asthma
Partner
Recipharm
Markets
UK, France and Ireland
Indication
COPD
Partner
Novartis
Markets
Seebri
®
 Breezhaler
®
 is currently 
approved in over 60 countries, 
including the EU, Japan, 
Canada and Australia
Indication
COPD
Partner
Novartis
Markets
Ultibro
®
 Breezhaler
®
 is 
currently approved in over  
30 countries, including the EU, 
Japan, Canada and Australia
21 Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14
22
Branded investigational drugs
NVA237 COPD
Novartis plans to submit NVA237 for US filing in the fourth quarter 
of 2014 for an indication in COPD. Plans for regulatory filing of NVA237 
(glycopyrronium bromide) for an indication in asthma will start in 2016.
QVA149 COPD
Novartis plans to submit QVA149 for US filing in the fourth quarter 
of 2014 for an indication in COPD.
VR475 using FAVORITE severe adult asthma (EU and US)
During the inhalation of a therapeutic drug, control of the flow and 
volume of the drug aerosol can improve the efficiency of delivery of 
drug. Vectura uses this principle in its FAVORITE technology, to enable 
a drug to be delivered to targeted areas of the lung, with high efficiency, 
where drug deposition may provide greater benefit to a patient. 
VR475 is an investigational product that comprises the inhaled 
corticosteroid budesonide, delivered with Vectura’s smart nebuliser 
system, the AKITA
® 
Jet. With this system, FAVORITE technology is used 
to deliver budesonide more efficiently to uncontrolled, severe, 
oral corticosteroid (OCS) – dependent asthmatics such that their 
dose of OCS may be reduced or they may be weaned off OCS totally. 
OCS therapy is often associated with severe adverse reactions, and 
dose-reduction or weaning is a desirable end point for these patients, 
provided asthma control is maintained. 
There are approximately 13.7m diagnosed asthmatic patients in the 
US and 17.9m in the EU5 (largest five EU markets)
1
.
 
19% (2.6m in the US 
and 3.4m in the EU5) are classified as severe, persistent asthmatics, 
which is the target population for VR475
2
.
Vectura has completed a dependent on OCS, one multi-centre, double-blind, 
randomised, placebo controlled Phase IIb trial (AICS 01), which met its 
primary endpoint with supporting secondary endpoints demonstrating 
that patients could be weaned off their oral steroids. Vectura is 
planning a Phase III study to support filing an Marketing Authorisation 
Application (MAA) in Europe. A pharmacokinetic study to support initial 
development of VR475 in the US is being planned later this year.
Our product pipeline has developed 
significantly in the past year.
1
VR942 (UCB)  
Inflammatory  
Airway Disease
(Co-development global) 
 
VR465 (Ablynx) 
RSV Infection
(Global) 
 
Pre-clinical Phase 1 
VR475 
Severe Adult  
Asthma
(US) 
2
SB010 (sterna  
biologicals) 
Asthma and other  
respiratory diseases
(Global) 
 
Phase 2 
VR736 (Ventaleon) 
Severe Influenza
(Global) 
 
VR179 (Grifols) 
Cystic Fibrosis
(Global) 
 
VR647 
Paediatric Asthma
(Global) 
 
3
VR876 (partnered,  
undisclosed) 
Pulmonary  
Hypertension
(Global) 
Phase 3 
VR475 
Severe Adult Asthma
(EU) 
QVA149 (Novartis) 
COPD
(US) 
Filed 
VR632 (Sandoz) 
Asthma
(EU) 
 
VR506
Asthma
(US) 
 
NVA237 (Novartis) 
COPD
(US) 
Full  
development 
VR588  
Severe Inflammatory 
Airway Disease
(Global) 
 
VR611  
Airways Inflammation  
and Chronic Cough
(Global) 
 
VR315 (partnered,
undisclosed) 
Asthma 
(US) 
 
Generic assets
*
1 Source: Decision Resources Patient Base Year 2012 (Accessed 18 February 2014).
2  Source: Real-world Evaluation of Asthma Control And Treatment (REACT), Peters et al JACI, 
June 2007.
Our developing pipeline containing both branded and generic assets
* The phase of development of generic drugs (in red) is different from branded drugs and is not disclosed.
Our products continued Financial statements Governance Strategic report Overview
VR876 Pulmonary hypertension
This is in clinical development stage and is being developed by an 
undisclosed partner as a nebulised version of a currently marketed 
drug for the treatment of pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) 
using FAVORITE technology. 
VR647 Paediatric asthma
The Safe Corticosteroid Inhalation in Paediatrics (SCIPE) programme 
aims to provide additional benefit to persistent asthmatics under the 
age of twelve. The product investigated in the programme, VR647, 
aims to provide equivalent efficacy to the currently nebulised budesonide 
at lower doses. The time required for these children to use the nebuliser 
might be significantly reduced, and may provide further differentiation 
through improved compliance.
VR647 is the investigational product which delivers the corticosteroid 
budesonide using the FAVORITE technology through a smart card 
controlled jet nebuliser-based system.
In April 2013, results from a twelve-week Phase II trial conducted 
in Germany demonstrated that VR647 improved lung function when 
compared to standard nebuliser delivery of budesonide. Treatment 
times were in the region of two minutes, significantly faster than 
conventional nebulisation times. 
In the US, there are 1.7m persistent asthmatics under the age 
of twelve (source: Decision Resources Patient Base Year 2012 – 
accessed 18 February 2014).
VR942 Inflammatory airway disease
VR942 has the potential to be the first inhaled, highly-differentiated 
biological therapy for severe airway disease. Vectura market research 
indicates an overwhelming US physician preference for inhaled rather 
than parenteral administration of such a product.
The VR942 programme is a co-development deal with UCB for a novel 
molecule currently at the pre-clinical stage.
VR179 Cystic fibrosis
VR179 is a nebulised 1-antitrypsin, under investigation for the 
treatment of cystic fibrosis. The programme is partnered with 
the Spanish company Grifols.
VR736 Severe influenza
VR736 is an inhaled treatment for hospitalised patients with severe 
influenza, being developed by Ventaleon, a joint venture between 
Vectura and an investment syndicate.
SB010 Asthma
SB010 is a first-in-class GATA-3 antagonist being developed by the 
German private biotech company, sterna biologics, for the treatment 
of allergic asthma. 
In February 2014, sterna announced results from a Phase IIa trial in 
39 patients with mild allergic asthma. SB010 provided a significant 
improvement in lung function in both the early and late-phase 
asthmatic response.
 
VR465 respiratory syncytial virus infection
The Belgian biotech company, Ablynx, is developing the anti-RSV 
Nanobody
®
 ALX-0171 for the treatment of RSV infections in infants. 
The market for RSV is large. AstraZeneca’s Synagis, which is approved 
for the prophylaxis of RSV in pre-term infants, achieved sales of $1.1bn 
in 2013. There are an estimated 310,000 children under the age of five 
hospitalised each year in the seven major markets due to RSV infections. 
Ablynx has demonstrated favourable tolerability and PK of ALX-0171 
in three Phase I trials including either healthy subjects or subjects with 
hyper-reactive airways. Vectura is providing technology and expertise 
in delivery of the active product.
VR588 a small molecule JAK inhibitor
VR588 is a broad-based, potent and balanced kinase inhibitor 
of JAK 1/2/3 and tyrosine kinase. The pharmacology demonstrates 
a selective inhibition profile, minimising off-target effects, potentially 
suited to the management of various severe inflammatory and fibrotic 
airway diseases. Development activities have been initiated with the 
aim to enter the investigational product into the clinic next year.
VR611 airways inflammation and TRPV1 modulation
VR611 is designed to modulate the activity of channels located in 
airway neurons which are affected by various inflammatory stimuli. 
The TRPV1 receptor is involved in the control of the cough response. 
The treatment of chronic, persistent cough represents a significant 
unmet need. VR611 also has potential use in various other inflammatory 
airways indications. Non-clinical data indicate promising cough suppressing 
and anti-inflammatory properties. Pharmacological evaluation is 
planned to establish its use in cough through inhaled delivery.
Generic investigational drugs
VR315 US
In August 2011, Vectura signed a licence agreement for the development, 
manufacturing and commercialisation of VR315 in the US with the US 
division of a leading international pharmaceutical company. Vectura 
is eligible to receive development and regulatory milestones for VR315 
and recorded a further development milestone under this agreement 
of $3m (£1.8m) in revenues during this year. Vectura is eligible to receive 
an additional $29m upon achievement of future, predetermined 
milestones. In addition, Vectura will receive a royalty from sales 
of VR315 in the US.
VR632 for asthma/COPD
VR632 is Vectura’s second inhaled combination therapy for asthma 
and COPD. The European rights for VR632 were licensed to Sandoz 
in December 2007 in a deal worth up to €15.5m in milestones and 
development funding plus royalties on all products sold. Vectura retains 
the rights for the US and other territories.
VR506 for asthma
VR506 is an inhaled corticosteroid for the treatment of asthma, 
which entered clinical development in 2011. According to Decision 
Resources, inhaled corticosteroids for respiratory disease generated 
over US$4bn in global sales in 2012. Vectura has received licensing 
interest in VR506 for the US.
23 Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14
24
Vectura has a wide range of patent-protected technology platforms, 
used to support the development and delivery of our own, value-adding 
products. We also offer licences to our technologies, generating 
significant revenues for Vectura in the process. 
At our site in Chippenham, we have a state-of-the-art manufacturing 
facility, designed and run to standards of Good Manufacturing Practice 
(GMP) and used by us to manufacture inhaled products to supply clinical 
trials through to regulatory filing.
The development of drugs for inhalation is complex and requires 
specialist processes and know-how. Companies across the world are 
keen to harness our expertise and technology for their own inhalation 
programmes and we expect that this will lead to future collaborations 
and licensing deals.
Formulation technologies
With our formulation technologies, we seek to achieve state-of-the-art 
inhaled delivery of dry powders for our small molecule and biologic drugs. 
Our investment in dry powder formulation technology has delivered 
significant returns, having been used in many of our licensed products 
and as the subject of an intellectual property licence to GSK.
PowderHale
®
Vectura’s formulation technologies include PowderHale
®
, a patented 
formulation technology designed to significantly improve the performance 
of dry powder inhaler (DPI) products. DPI formulations incorporating 
PowderHale
®
 technology give improved aerosolisation efficiency, 
delivered dose uniformity and enhanced product stability. 
These improvements in performance are achieved via the combination 
of enhanced powder processing techniques and the incorporation 
of an additional excipient known as a Force Control Agent (FCA).
PowderMax
The Vectura PowderMax technology emanates from the expertise 
derived from applying the PowderHale
®
 approach to a broad spectrum 
of drug substances. Advanced processing technologies are brought to 
bear to yield DPI formulations with yet further enhanced performance 
and stability.
ParticleMAX
Vectura has been active in the development of spray dried inhalation 
powders for many years and has consequently developed significant 
know-how and a portfolio of patents in this field. The ParticleMAX 
technology brings together existing excipients and processing knowledge 
with new excipients and novel processing to create a new generation 
of formulations. These are directed towards delivery of biomolecules 
with high aerosolisation efficiency and further enhanced room 
temperature stability. ParticleMAX has been developed with scale-up 
and transferability in mind, enabling laboratory gram-scale 
formulations to be manufactured in kilogram quantities.
Inhalation technologies
FAVORITE (Flow And VOlume Regulated Inhalation TEchnology)
A patient’s breathing pattern can alter the efficiency of drug delivery 
to different parts of the lung. Control of the inspiratory flow rate, the 
inspiratory volume of aerosol and the timing during the inspiration when 
the drug aerosol is delivered can materially affect how much drug 
gets to central or peripheral parts of the lung. This is the basis of our 
proprietary, smart nebulisation-based technology known as FAVORITE.
This control is achieved through a modified nebuliser unit that delivers 
the nebulised airstream, tailored to the individual patient’s breathing 
capacity. The increased efficiency of delivery means the drug is 
distributed more efficiently allowing targeted deposition in the lung. 
Other benefits for the patient may also be derived from this approach. 
Our platform technologies and devices
Enabling the development and 
delivery of value-adding products.
Testing devices
24 Financial statements Governance Strategic report Overview
Device technologies
Dry powder inhalers
Vectura’s range of pre-metered foil blister Dry Powder Inhalers (DPIs) 
has been developed to meet patients’ needs in inhalation therapy. 
The devices are low cost and easy to use, yet they meet challenging 
technical and regulatory requirements, as demonstrated by recent 
approvals of Sandoz’s AirFluSal
®
 Forspiro
®
, which uses the GyroHaler
®
 
DPI device. This device has also gained a Red Dot design award. The 
core technology and IP used in GyroHaler
®
 has also been incorporated 
in a family of devices aimed at meeting future product development 
and partnering opportunities. These include lever-operated and 
open-inhale-close devices.
Smart nebuliser delivery systems
Vectura’s smart nebuliser delivery systems provide targeted inhalation 
therapy for specialist and niche disease areas. The nebuliser device 
guides the patient’s inhalation manoeuvre, utilising the FAVORITE 
principle for precise delivery of drugs to the lung.
25
AKITA
®
 Jet
The AKITA
®
 Jet nebuliser uses 
proportional valve-based technology 
to drive the positive ventilation and 
control volume tailored to the patient’s 
breathing characteristics, following 
the principles of FAVORITE. 
This system is used in conjunction with 
smart card technology that ensures full 
device exclusivity for a specific drug. The 
device is CE marked and 510(k) approved.
APIXNEB
The APIXNEB nebuliser is similar to 
the AKITA
®
 device, but uses a mesh-based 
nebuliser handset instead of a jet nebuliser. 
The mesh provides the advantages of a 
much higher nebulisation efficiency than 
jet nebuliser, and can be used to nebulise 
molecules that cannot tolerate the higher 
shear forces of a jet nebuliser. The device 
is CE marked and 510(k) approved.
FOX
The FOX is a hand-held, self-contained, 
battery-powered, mesh nebuliser inhalation 
system that delivers nebulised drugs with 
high performance using a vibrating mesh 
technology. The mesh-based aerosolisation 
engine is proprietary to Vectura. The FOX 
inhalation system also makes use of a flow 
sensing/controlling valve system and is 
both re-chargeable and Bluetooth
®
-enabled. 
The latter feature allows remote firmware 
updates without cable connection or for 
the system to upload patient-use data 
for review by a healthcare professional.
DPI devices
Smart nebuliser systems
GyroHaler
®
Lever-operated Open-inhale-close 26
Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14
Financial review
It has been an important 
financial year for Vectura 
and we are pleased to report 
a positive EBITDA of £5.2m 
as well as a £6m increase 
in total revenues.”
‘‘
Summary
It has been an important financial year for Vectura. Total revenues 
of £36.5m have increased by £6m (20%) when compared to the prior 
year, principally due to the 25% (£3.3m) increase in royalty revenues. 
Total royalty revenue of £16.3m (2012/13: £13m) includes royalties 
earned from three newly marketed products, Ultibro
®
 Breezhaler
®
, 
BREO
®
 ELLIPTA
®
 and AirFluSal
®
 Forspiro
®
. In addition, royalty income 
earned from Seebri
®
 Breezhaler
®
 has increased as Vectura has earned 
royalty income for a full twelve months in the year ended 31 March 2014 
and there has been a sustained increase in underlying sales of the product. 
Significant milestone revenues were earned during the year, including 
£7.8m ($12.5m) following approval of Ultibro
®
 Breezhaler
®
 in Europe 
and Japan, a £1.8m ($3m) development milestone earned in relation 
to VR315 US, and £3.7m (€4.5m) following the approval of AirFluSal
®
 
Forspiro
®
 in Germany, Romania and Belgium. 
The Group continues to allocate its resources in an efficient manner 
and research and development (R&D) expenditure of £28m is down 9% 
(£2.9m) compared with last year (2012/13: £30.9m). Other administrative 
expenses of £3.4m are in line with the prior year (2012/13: £3.3m); 
however total administrative expenses include £2.5m of one-off costs 
associated with the acquisition of Activaero GmbH. Underlying non-cash 
items, such as share-based compensation and the amortisation charge 
associated with the pre-existing intangible assets, are consistent with 
the prior year, but overall amortisation is up by £0.6m, due mainly to 
the £0.5m amortisation charge recognised for the intangible assets 
acquired with Activaero GmbH. 
The increase in revenues and reduction of R&D expenditure have 
improved the Group’s loss before tax by £5.6m, to a loss of £4.8m 
(2012/13: £10.4m) and the Group has generated a positive EBITDA 
of £5.2m (2012/13: £3.4m loss). 
In accordance with IFRS, the Group has consolidated the revenues 
and expenditure of Activaero GmbH in its financial results from the date 
of acquisition to the end of the financial year. The underlying revenues from 
the Activaero GmbH business constitute a mix of product and technology 
licensing revenues, as well as development services and device sales. 
These underlying revenues are supplemented by milestone receipts 
from partnered projects, as and when certain milestone events occur. 
Following the acquisition of Activaero GmbH and the placing of additional 
shares to raise gross proceeds of £52m on 18 March 2014, the Group 
has maintained a strong balance sheet position with a cash balance 
at 31 March 2014 of £81.7m (2013: £70.1m).
Revenue
The Group has five revenue streams; royalty revenue, product licensing 
revenue, technology licensing revenue, development services revenue 
and device sales revenue.
Royalties
Total royalty revenue of £16.3m (2012/13: £13m) has increased by 25% 
compared to the prior year. This increase is driven primarily by royalty 
revenue from Novartis relating to sales of Seebri
®
 Breezhaler
®
. 
In addition, Vectura received its first royalties from Novartis for sales 
of Ultibro
®
Breezhaler
®
, from GlaxoSmithKline (GSK) for sales of BREO
®
 
ELIPTA™, and from Sandoz for sales of AirFluSal
®
 Forspiro
®
.
Other royalty income is mainly derived from the three products licensed 
to Baxter. ADVATE
®
, for haemophilia A, contributed royalties of £11.2m 
(2012/13: £11.1m). Extraneal
®
, for peritoneal dialysis, earned royalties 
of £1m (2012/13: £0.8m) and Adept
®
, for the prevention of surgical 
adhesions, earned royalties of £0.6m (2012/13: £0.6m). The Group 
does not expect to receive any future royalties from sales of Extraneal
®
.
Product licensing
Product licensing revenue earned in the year was £13.3m 
(2012/13: £12.8m), which includes milestone payments from 
Novartis of $10m (£6.2m) and $2.5m (£1.6m) relating to the 
respective European and Japanese approvals for QVA149. 
In December 2013, Vectura’s partner Sandoz announced it received 
marketing authorisation for AirFluSal
®
 Forspiro
®
 (formerly known as 
VR315 EU) in Denmark. Following the initial announcement, the product 
was approved in Germany, Hungary, Sweden, Norway, Belgium, 
Bulgaria, Romania and South Korea. The approvals in Germany,  27
Financial statements Governance Strategic report Overview
Setting powder feed rate, prior to jet 
milling of drug substance
Romania and Belgium each triggered a milestone to Vectura of €1.5m, 
and therefore a total of €4.5m (£3.7m) has been recognised as revenue 
during the year ended 31 March 2014.
During the year, Vectura earned a milestone of £1.8m ($3m) in relation 
to progress with VR315 development in the US. Vectura is eligible to 
receive a further $29m upon achievement of future, predetermined 
development milestones. In addition, Vectura will receive a royalty 
from all VR315 US sales. 
Technology licensing
Technology licensing revenue of £4.3m (2012/13: £3.7m) is higher than 
the previous year. £2m relates to milestones defined in a non-exclusive 
licence agreement with GSK. Under the terms of the agreement, Vectura 
has received a £10m upfront payment in 2010/11 and at 31 March 2014, 
a further £8m of a potential total of £10m, from development milestones. 
In August 2013, a £2m change of control milestone was earned under a 
technology licensing agreement following the acquisition of ProFibrix BV 
by The Medicines Company. 
Development services
Development services revenue has increased to £1.7m (2012/13: £0.6m). 
This was the result of higher demand for these services from our current 
licensing partners. Future revenues will depend on the number and 
nature of feasibility studies and new licensing deals. The development 
of inhalation products is a very specialised area, with partners frequently 
requiring Vectura’s involvement for a period after licensing. 
Device sales
Device sales of £0.9m were higher than the prior period (2012/13: £0.4m) 
due to the approval of AirFluSal
®
 Forspiro
®
 in a number of European 
countries. AirFluSal
®
 Forspiro
®
 uses Vectura’s GyroHaler device.
Research and development expenses
Total investment in research and development was £28m, representing 
a 9% decrease on the previous year (2012/13: £30.9m). This decrease 
is partly due to the timing of certain development expenditure and 
partly due to an ongoing focus on cost control throughout the Group. 
Research and development expenses will increase during the 2014/15 
financial year as we develop our newly acquired assets.
Taxation
During the year ended 31 March 2014, research and development tax 
credits totalling £4.7m were received in relation to the 2012/13 tax returns.
A receivable of £3.8m was included in the balance sheet as at 
31 March 2013, resulting in a current year tax credit of £0.9m. Research 
and development tax credits of £3.3m have been recognised in respect 
of the 2013/14 financial year. As the Group’s taxable losses reduce, 
research and development tax credit cash receipts will continue to decline.
A net deferred tax liability of £33.9m was recognised during the year, 
this includes a £34.7m (€42.0m) liability recognised in respect of the assets 
acquired with Activaero GmbH at an effective tax rate of 27%. The deferred 
tax liability resulting from the acquisition will be released to the income 
statement as the acquired intangible assets are amortised, and as the 
tax losses brought forward are utilised. £0.1m of this balance has been 
released to the income statement in the current year, relating to the 
£0.5m amortisation recognised in the year. 
Total royalty revenue
£16.3m 
(2012/13: £13m)
Positive EBITDA 
£5.2m 
(2012/13: loss of £3.4m)
27 28
Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14
Taxation continued
An additional liability of £1.8m has been charged to the income statement 
in respect of the intangible assets acquired from Innovata. The liability will 
reduce as the intangible assets are fully amortised over the next two years.
Intangible assets
Intangible assets of £138.9m include £10.7m relating to the Innovata 
acquisition and assets of £128.2m relating to the recent acquisition 
of Activaero GmbH.
The intangible assets of £10.7m (2013: £17.1m) relating to the Innovata 
acquisition have been amortised by £6.4m (2012/13: £6.3m) during 
the year. These assets will be fully written down over the next two years.
Intangible assets of €155.7m (£130.7m) were recognised on the acquisition 
of Activaero GmbH. These assets have been amortised by €0.6m 
(£0.5m) since acquisition and the remaining net book value of €155.1m 
has been translated at the prevailing exchange rate on the balance 
sheet date, giving a carrying value of £128.2m.
These acquired intangible assets relate to in-progress R&D programmes, 
which include FAVOLIR
®
, and they will continue to be amortised over 
their remaining expected useful life. In accordance with accounting 
standards and as set out in note 28, due to the proximity of the acquisition 
to Vectura’s year end the initial accounting outlined above is deemed 
to be provisional pending finalisation of the fair value exercise. On that 
basis the assets, liabilities or items of consideration may be restated at 
any time up to the anniversary of the acquisition date in March 2015.
Translation reserve
The assets and liabilities acquired from Activaero GmbH are denominated 
in euros and therefore in accordance with accounting standards, 
the Group has recognised a net foreign exchange difference of £1.6m 
within reserves as a result of the movement in the exchange rate 
between 18 March 2014 and 31 March 2014. In future periods, the 
movement in this reserve will be dependent upon the £/€ exchange 
rate at the relevant balance sheet dates.
Property, plant and equipment
Vectura has invested £2.5m in its inhaled product manufacturing 
capabilities during the year (2012/13: £4m). In addition, the Group 
acquired property plant and equipment of £1.2m as part of the 
acquisition of Activaero GmbH. 
Deferred income
Deferred income relates to milestones received in cash but not 
yet recognised as revenue. Of the £1.8m on the balance sheet at 
31 March 2014 (2013: £1.4m), £0.1m will be recognised as revenue 
in 2014/15 and £1.7m, of which £1.3m relates to the VR315 RoW 
deal with Sandoz, will be recognised as revenue in later periods.
Deferred consideration
The deferred liability of £28.7m relates to the €35m payment 
in cash which is due to be paid to the former Activaero GmbH 
shareholders in August 2015 as part of the acquisition consideration. 
Cash flow
Vectura continues to maintain a strong cash position with cash 
and cash equivalents at 31 March 2014 of £81.7m (2013: £70.1m). 
The increase in cash was driven largely by the placing of 33.6m new 
shares at a price of 155p per share, generating gross proceeds of £52m. 
This increase in cash was offset by a £37.8m (€45m) payment to the 
former shareholders of Activaero GmbH in consideration for the business 
and costs associated with the acquisition and placing of £4.5m.
Cash outflow from operating activities was £0.7m (2012/13: 
£2.8m outflow).
Foreign exchange rates
The following foreign exchange rates were used during the year:
2013/14 2012/13
Average rates:
£/$ 1.59 1.58
£/€ 1.19 1.23
Period-end rates:
£/$ 1.67 1.52
£/€ 1.21 1.18
Paul Oliver
Chief Financial Officer
20 May 2014
Financial review continued Financial statements Governance Strategic report Overview
29
Corporate social responsibility statement
The Directors recognise the importance of corporate social responsibility 
and endeavour to take into account the interests of the Group’s 
stakeholders, including its investors, employees, customers, suppliers 
and business partners when operating the business. The Group believes 
that having empowered and responsible employees who display sound 
judgement and awareness of the consequences of their decisions and 
actions, and who act in an ethical and responsible way, is key to the 
success of the business. The Group also endeavours to be honest and 
fair in its relationships with customers and suppliers and to be a good 
corporate citizen, respecting the laws of countries in which it operates.
The Group is a member of the FTSE4Good index, a leading investment 
index for businesses that meet globally recognised corporate social 
responsibility standards.
Our people
Diversity
Our success continues to be driven by our diverse employee 
talent within the Group. The importance of diversity, equality 
and non-discrimination is highlighted in our employment practices, 
policies and procedures.
Vectura is an equal opportunity employer and we are committed 
to continuing to offer career opportunities without discrimination. 
Our equal opportunities policy covers all permanent and temporary 
employees including; Non-Executive Directors, all job applicants, 
agency staff, associates, consultants and contractors. Employees are 
valued highly and their rights and dignity are respected. The Group 
does not tolerate any harassment or discrimination.
Whilst we do not have formal diversity targets or quotas, we recognise 
the importance of diversity, equality and non-discrimination and this 
is highlighted in our employment practices, policies and procedures. 
We focus on developing our core values within our staff, as we believe 
that this leads to an environment where they believe that what they 
are doing is making a difference. Refer to page 3 for more information 
about our core values. 
Chris Blackwell is the Board member responsible for overseeing 
responsibility for human resources and non-discrimination issues.
Overall gender breakdown  
as at 31 March 2014
Male – 157 Female – 124
Male – 6 Female – 1
Vectura Group plc’s Directors gender 
split as at 31 March 2014
Male – 15 Female – 3
Vectura senior managers  
as at 31 March 2014
We are committed to the interests 
of every area of our company.
29
Release testing drug product 30
Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14
Disabled employees
Applications for employment by disabled persons are always fully 
considered, bearing in mind the aptitudes of the applicant concerned. 
With regard to existing employees and those who may become 
disabled, Vectura’s policy is to examine ways and means to provide 
continuing employment under its existing terms and conditions and 
to provide training and career development, including promotion, 
wherever appropriate.
Family-friendly employment policies and employee welfare
The maternity and paternity leave and pay policies conform to 
statutory requirements. Flexible approaches to return to work after 
maternity leave and part-time or non-standard hours and work 
patterns are considered where viable.
Employee involvement
The Group recognises that in an industry based on innovation 
and research and development, its employees are some of its biggest 
assets and it seeks to communicate and, where appropriate, consult 
with them on matters affecting them as employees.
During the year, Vectura continued its policy of providing employees 
with information about the Group through regular presentations by 
Directors and senior management and through information provided 
on the Group’s intranet. In addition, regular meetings are held between 
management and employees to allow for a free flow of information 
and ideas. Staff forums are established to comply with the requirements 
of Information and Consultation of Employees Regulations 2004; the 
forums ensure implementation of the EC Directive.
Training and development
The Group provides training and development appropriate to individual 
needs and offers remuneration packages (including pensions, private 
medical, permanent health and life insurance) and a working environment 
that are designed to be both fair and competitive with larger companies 
within the industry. 
Vectura is positive about developing all employees for current and 
future roles. The Meakin Scholarship award is open to all employees 
and is awarded to employees who wish to study a “developmental 
course” in their own time. Any course that would significantly enhance 
an employee’s skills whilst benefiting Vectura is considered. Vectura 
has supported a variety of programmes including the Pharmaceutical 
Industrial Advanced Training (PIAT) programme to MSc level, GCSE English 
and A level Chemistry. 
Employee share ownership
Participation in the Group’s share option schemes is extended 
to all of the Group’s employees. More details are provided in 
the Report on remuneration.
Community investment
Vectura considers that its most important contribution to the 
communities within which it operates is to provide high-quality 
employment opportunities and to develop therapies to help 
patients with diseases. As the Group is currently loss-making it is 
not considered appropriate to make financial donations to charitable 
or community activities. However, it is the ethos of the Group to 
promote an environment of employee support and participation in 
initiatives that provide in-kind benefits where we believe we have a 
meaningful contribution to make. Where possible we aim to facilitate 
and support employee fund raising events, such as:
•  we support the STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering and 
Mathematics) Initiative which is a major UK government initiative. 
Within this initiative our staff actively help local schoolchildren, 
being tomorrow’s workforce, to gain the capabilities and skills 
to flourish in a scientific environment such as ours;
•  an annual award of additional holiday is allocated to a small number 
of employees as a part of a staff initiative to volunteer for unpaid 
community or charitable services; and
•  staff are encouraged to participate in nationwide charity campaigns, 
examples of which include Macmillan Coffee Mornings, Comic Relief 
and Movember. Where appropriate, Group facilities are made available 
to staff members organising such events.
Health and safety
The Group considers health and safety to be a priority in its workplaces. 
Vectura has a Health and Safety Committee to review health and safety 
standards within the Group. Trevor Phillips is the Board member to 
whom responsibility for health and safety issues has been delegated.
The Group provides specialist ongoing training to individuals who are 
responsible for health and safety, and general health and safety training 
is delivered to all staff via e-learning courses. The Group continuously 
monitors its health and safety practices to ensure that safety management 
procedures are robust and in line with industry best practice. 
Green Committee
Vectura is committed to reducing 
its carbon footprint. During the year, 
our Green Action Team has continued 
to help us pursue this objective by 
supporting the implementation of 
a number of initiatives including:
•  introduction of a policy whereby when existing light 
units require replacement they are replaced with LED 
lights. LED lights are up to four times more energy 
efficient than traditional units;
•  introduction of a managed print solution to help control 
paper usage; and
•  continued development of the Group’s green policy 
in line with ISO14001.
Corporate social responsibility statement continued 31
Financial statements Governance Strategic report Overview
The Group has an excellent safety record and there have been no 
major incidents or accidents reported to the Health and Safety 
Committee during the year (2012/13: none).
Environment
We are committed to minimising the impact of our activities on the 
environment and we believe that energy efficiency is the most important 
means of climate protection currently available to the Group. Vectura 
continues to report its environmental performance under the global 
Carbon Disclosure Project.
Greenhouse gas emission
There have been a number of important changes to legislation 
regarding disclosure of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. This section 
of our Annual Report includes our mandatory reporting of greenhouse 
gas emissions in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 (Strategic 
Report and Directors’ Report) Regulations 2013 (“the Regulations”). 
The information presented below is included to provide a complete 
picture of Vectura’s approach to corporate social responsibility.
Due to the nature of its activities, Vectura considers that it has a low 
environmental impact. However, we still actively seek to make energy 
savings in a way that is beneficial for the environment and cost 
effective for the business.
STEM Initiative
 We support the STEM (Science, Technology, 
Engineering and Mathematics) Initiative 
which is a major UK government initiative. 
Within this initiative our staff actively help 
local schoolchildren, being tomorrow’s 
workforce, to gain the capabilities and skills 
to flourish in a scientific environment 
such as ours.
Number of volunteers
27,000 
Read more about STEM on its website: 
www.stemnet.org.uk
Greenhouse gas assessment parameters 
Baseline year FY2013/14
Intensity ratio GHG by gross building area
Emissions data is reported using a financial control approach 
to define our reporting boundary, which meets the requirements 
of the Regulations in respect of those emissions for which we are 
responsible. The information is presented for a twelve-month period. 
Emissions have been measured for all sites and the total emissions 
shown below include emissions for the newly acquired German sites 
for the period post-acquisition.
The amounts shown below for total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions 
are those required to be reported under the Regulations. 
Greenhouse gas emission by source 2013/14
Tonnes
of CO
2
1
Scope 1 142
Scope 2 1,272
Total emissions (Scope 1 and 2) 1,414
Emissions reported (tonnes of CO
2
 per sq ft)
2
 0.02
1  GHG emissions reported in metric tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalents. Emissions 
factors were sourced from the UK Defra database.
2  Gas and electricity usage information has been obtained from purchase invoices and 
verified by reference to meter readings. Vehicle fuel usage is based upon recorded mileage.
Intensity ratio
In order to express total annual emissions in relation to a quantifiable 
factor associated with Vectura’s activities, gross building area has 
been used as an intensity ratio. Due to the nature of Vectura’s business, 
a large amount of energy is consumed in maintaining air quality in the 
laboratories and therefore choosing gross building area as an intensity 
ratio gives the fairest reflection of performance.
Emissions reported  
(tonnes of CO
2
 per sq ft)
2
0.02
We are committed to 
minimising the impact 
of our activities on 
the environment.”
‘‘ Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14
Powder dosing modules on  
high speed blister filling line
Environment continued
Carbon Disclosure Project
Vectura reports its environmental performance under the Carbon 
Disclosure Project (CDP). CDP plays a vital role in communicating 
information about greenhouse gas emissions and related activities 
reported by the UK’s largest companies, enabling investors and the 
public to take informed action against climate change. There have 
been no contentious issues or other matters having economic, legal, 
reputational or environmental consequences that have arisen in the 
year under review.
Our environmental footprint
Vectura’s operational goals include objectives to reduce the Group’s 
overall carbon footprint by controlling the use of key sources of energy 
and materials on a per capita basis. In order to support the Group in 
achieving these objectives, a Green Action Team meets regularly and has 
responsibility to pursue objectives for environmental sustainability and 
carbon reduction. Use is made of the Company intranet to communicate 
widely to all staff about environmental affairs and to receive their views 
and suggestions on green policy for consideration and discussion by 
the Green Action Team.
During the year, the Group has implemented a number of initiatives 
designed to control energy usage:
•  when existing light units require replacement, they are replaced 
with LED lights. A large number of LED lights were installed at 
our Chippenham site during the year. The LED lights installed are 
up to four times more energy efficient than the traditional light 
units that they replaced;
•  a managed print solution was implemented to help control 
paper usage; 
•  continued development of the Group’s green policy in line 
with ISO14001 standards; and
•   when existing desktop PCs require replacement, they are now 
replaced with virtual machines that use c.20% of the electricity 
of a standard desktop PC.
In addition, we report that since installing solar panels at the 
Chippenham site in FY2012/13, the panels have generated over 
14,000 kWh of energy.
Paul Oliver is the Board member to whom responsibility for 
environmental issues has been delegated.
Waste management
Initiatives to effectively manage and reduce waste have been 
implemented throughout the Group, including recycling of all paper 
waste, aluminium cans, printer toners/cartridges and redundant 
mobile telephone handsets. Induction procedures for all newly 
recruited staff include sufficient information to ensure a high level 
of compliance with our standards. We aim to comply with all legislation 
in this area, including using registered waste disposal contractors. 
Ethical and social policies
The Group’s principal activities are undertaken within the pharmaceutical 
industry, which is subject to a highly regulated ethical framework with 
which the Group complies. In addition, the Group seeks to conduct its 
activities generally in accordance with good business ethics.
Vectura has adopted a clear anti-bribery policy and communicated 
it to all employees so they can recognise and avoid the use of bribery 
and report any suspicion for rigorous investigation. Political donations 
are prohibited and advance approval from management is required 
before management and staff may accept or solicit a gift of any kind.
Corporate social responsibility statement continued
32 Financial statements Governance Strategic report Overview
33
Risks and risk management
Objectives of the Vectura risk 
management process:
•  to understand the business 
risks that Vectura faces in 
the execution of its strategy 
and the operation of its 
business model;
•  to create and manage a 
register of these risks, 
documenting the decisions 
taken and judgements made;
•  to ensure that the risk appetite 
of the Board is fully understood 
by those who are responsible 
for managing risk across 
the business;
•  to ensure that mitigating 
actions and controls are 
aligned to the risk appetite 
of the Board; 
•  to ensure that risks are 
appropriately managed 
or mitigated and to ensure 
that where appropriate, 
risk is mitigated through 
insurance; and 
•  to control systematic risks 
within the organisation by 
maintaining and improving a 
system of internal controls to 
manage risks in decision making, 
legal contract management, 
quality and regulatory 
processes and the processing 
of financial transactions.
Our performance and prospects may be affected by a number of risks and uncertainties relating to our strategy, 
business model and operating environment. Our approach to risk management is to develop a risk management 
process that is aligned to our strategy, which will ensure that significant risks are identified, assessed and 
managed. Creating awareness of these risks throughout the organisation allows them to be limited, controlled 
and managed to ensure that business activities can be undertaken and opportunities can be maximised. 
 
Strategy
1
Risk 
identification
Reporting
2 6
Risk 
assessment
3
Risk 
mitigation
4
Executing and 
monitoring
5
Such a system is designed to manage, rather than 
eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives 
and can only provide reasonable and not absolute 
assurance against material misstatement or loss. 
Setting the tone Designing the system Completing the review
The Board
Responsible for maintaining and 
monitoring sound risk management 
and internal control systems
Responsible for conducting an annual 
review of the effectiveness of the Group’s 
risk management and internal control 
systems. This review covers all material 
controls, including financial, operational 
and compliance controls. The scope of 
this review extends to a review of the 
Group’s risk register
Responsible for reporting to shareholders 
about the Group’s risk management
Executive Management T eam
Responsible for ensuring that the  
risk management systems and  
internal control systems are 
appropriately designed 
Responsible for ensuring that  
the risk appetite of the Board is 
appropriately understood by  
risk owners
Responsible for an annual review  
of the Group’s risk register
Risk owners
Responsible for bi-annual update  
of the Group’s risk registers and 
reporting any significant issues up 
to the Executive Management Team
Responsible for implementing and 
monitoring any mitigating actions  
and controls
Responsible for training and  
educating department and project 
team members about Vectura’s  
risk management process
Review of process and outputs Review of high risks Risk registers Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14
34
Risks and risk management continued
Regulatory approvals Unforeseen side effects
There can be no assurance that Vectura’s, or a collaborator’s, products 
will receive and maintain regulatory approvals. Even if Vectura’s or a 
collaborator’s products are approved, they may still face subsequent 
regulatory difficulties.
The international pharmaceutical industry is highly regulated by 
governmental authorities in the UK, the US and Europe and by regulatory 
agencies in other countries where the Group or a collaborator intends 
to test or market products they may develop. Regulatory authorities 
administer a wide range of laws and regulations governing the testing, 
approval, manufacturing, labelling and marketing of drugs and also 
review the quality, safety and effectiveness of pharmaceutical products. 
These regulatory requirements are a major factor in determining 
whether a substance can be developed into a marketable product 
and the amount of time and expense associated with such development.
As each regulatory authority may impose its own requirements, 
approval in one territory provides no guarantee that the product will 
receive subsequent regulatory approval in other territories. Even if 
regulatory approval to sell products is received, the FDA, the UK MHRA 
or comparable foreign regulatory agencies could require Vectura or a 
collaborator to conduct post-marketing trials or could prevent Vectura 
or a collaborator from using the labelling claims which Vectura or a 
collaborator would like to use to promote its products.
In addition, changes in applicable legislation or regulatory policies, 
or discovery of problems with the class of product, or its production 
process, site or manufacturer, may result in the imposition of restrictions 
on the product, its sale, manufacture or use, including withdrawal of 
the product from the market, or may otherwise have an adverse effect 
on Vectura’s business.
Mitigating activities
The Group manages its regulatory risk by working closely with its 
expert regulatory advisors and, where appropriate, by seeking advice 
from regulatory authorities on the design of key development plans 
for its pre-clinical and clinical programmes.
The Group works closely with a number of blue-chip pharmaceutical 
partners such as Novartis, Sandoz, Baxter and GSK, who have significant 
regulatory expertise.
Unforeseen side effects may result from use of Vectura’s or a 
collaborator’s products or product candidates.
All drugs have a risk of adverse reactions and side effects. If any 
of Vectura’s or its collaborators’ products are found to cause adverse 
reactions and side effects other than those acceptable to regulators, 
Vectura or such collaborators may have to conduct additional clinical 
trials. This would cause delays and result in additional costs in the 
development of a product and in extreme circumstances a development 
programme may have to be terminated or suspended on the basis 
that participants are being exposed to unacceptable health risks.
Even after a pre-clinical or clinical trial is deemed successful or 
regulatory approval is received, a product may later be shown 
to be unsafe. In this circumstance, Vectura or its collaborator may 
be required to conduct additional trials or studies and regulatory 
approval may be suspended or withdrawn.
Mitigating activities
Vectura and its collaborators conduct extensive pre-clinical and clinical 
trials, designed to test for and identify any adverse side effects. 
In addition, there is a significant amount of safety data available regarding 
existing marketing products to which our generic products relate.
However, clearly this is a risk inherent in the nature of Vectura’s 
business and adverse side effects may be identified at any time, 
even after a product has been approved and sold commercially. 
Strategic risks
Identified risks 
The principal risks specific to our business have been outlined below as well as an explanation of how we manage and mitigate them. 
Other risks are unknown or are deemed less material.
Some of these risk factors are specific to the Group and others are more generally applicable to the pharmaceutical industry or specific markets 
within which the Group operates. Our strategy is to become a speciality pharmaceutical company with a focus on airways-related diseases. 
In order to be successful, our business model involves the in-licensing of drug assets at various stages of their clinical development and 
developing those assets in an appropriate way and, partnering/co-developing or self-commercialising where appropriate. 
The key risks highlighted below and on the following pages relate predominately to our stated strategy and current business model. 35
Financial statements Governance Strategic report Overview
Competition Partnerships
Vectura’s business faces intense competition from a range of 
pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. Technological changes 
could overtake the products being developed by Vectura or by 
its collaborators.
Vectura’s competitors in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical 
industries may have superior research and development capabilities, 
products, manufacturing capability or sales and marketing expertise. 
Many of Vectura’s competitors have significantly greater financial 
and human resources and may have more experience in research 
and development. As a result, Vectura’s competitors may develop 
safer or more effective products, implement more effective sales 
and marketing programmes or be able to establish superior proprietary 
positions. In addition, Vectura anticipates that it will face increased 
competition in the future as new companies enter Vectura’s markets 
and alternative products and technologies become available.
Mitigating activities
Vectura’s current royalty generating products are expected to continue 
to provide royalties until patent expiry or until Vectura is no longer 
entitled to receive royalties in accordance with a license agreement.
For programmes managed in-house, Vectura has an established project 
management framework. The potential commercial opportunities for 
each project are assessed at the end of each stage of the project. 
Projects are assessed using widely accepted valuation metrics based 
upon discounted cash flows. These cash flows are discounted using 
a hurdle rate that is in line with industry standards and the expected 
return of each project is further risk adjusted by its phase of development. 
Vectura has experienced development and commercial teams who all 
contribute to this assessment. This in-house review is supplemented 
by well-regarded disease area reports and, where appropriate, 
bespoke market research.
Under this framework, research and development programmes will 
only be approved by the Board if it can be shown that the expected 
benefits outweigh the expected costs. All programmes are subject to 
a stage-gate approval process and in the event that it was no longer 
considered that the future revenues would be higher than the future 
costs, the Board would consider terminating or redefining the programme.
Vectura works closely with its advisors and obtains, where necessary, 
opinions on the intellectual property landscape relevant to the Group’s 
product development programmes and manufacturing activities and 
processes. In addition, Vectura works with a number of key licensing 
partners who have significant expertise in the research, development 
and commercialisation of pharmaceuticals. These licensing partners 
have access to significant financial and human resources. 
Vectura is dependent upon a number of key partners, the loss of any 
of which could have a material impact on the Group.
At present Vectura has several partnership and licensing agreements 
and may depend upon single or multiple key partners to assist in 
future commercialisation of its products. These partners may be 
unwilling or unable to meet Vectura’s future needs. Vectura cannot 
guarantee that:
•  existing collaborative arrangements or licence agreements 
or agreements with third-party contractors will be able to be 
maintained; or
•  any collaborative arrangements or licence agreements or 
agreements with third-party contractors will prove successful.
Mitigating activities
All collaborations are performed under a suitable legal agreement 
which is assessed by Vectura and its external legal advisors.
Typically, for collaborations a Joint Steering Committee (JSC) will 
be established, which provides a mechanism by which Vectura can 
ensure that any joint project team activity is managed appropriately 
within standard project management processes.
An alliance manager is identified for all licensing partnerships 
or contract research organisation engagements.
Vectura has an established Business Development team which is 
responsible for negotiating terms with key partners. There is an 
agreed process for managing the process of entering agreements 
and this includes appropriate oversight and approval at Board level. Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14
36
Commercial success Future acquisitions
The products that Vectura and its collaborators bring to market may 
not be commercially successful.
Vectura may not be able to sell its products profitably if reimbursement 
from third-party payors, including government and private health 
insurers, is unavailable or limited.
A significant portion of Vectura’s future revenue is likely to depend 
on payments by third-party payors, including government health 
administration authorities and private health insurers. As such, 
Vectura may be adversely affected by third-party reimbursement 
and healthcare cost containment initiatives.
Vectura may not be able to sell its products profitably if reimbursement 
from these sources is unavailable or limited. Third-party payors are 
increasingly attempting to contain healthcare costs through measures 
that are likely to impact the products Vectura is developing, including:
•  challenging the prices charged for healthcare products, limiting both 
coverage and the amount of reimbursement for new therapeutic 
products, and denying or limiting coverage for products that are 
approved by the regulatory agencies but are considered 
experimental by third-party payors; and
•  refusing to provide coverage when an approved drug is used in 
a way that has not received regulatory marketing approval.
In addition, in many European countries, there has been an increasing 
trend towards reference pricing, where the amount of reimbursement 
is determined in light of reimbursement levels for comparable drugs in 
other European countries, which is likely to severely restrict the potential 
per unit price for many new drugs unless such drugs can be significantly 
differentiated from existing products. If products developed by Vectura 
or its partners are not covered by government or other third-party 
reimbursement schemes, are reimbursed at prices lower than those 
expected by Vectura, or become subject to legislation controlling 
treatments or pricing, Vectura and/or its partners may not be able 
to generate significant revenue or attain profitability for any product 
candidates which are approved for marketing.
Mitigating activities
Products may be out licensed to partners who have the expertise 
to commercialise products and negotiate pricing structures with 
third-party payors, especially in disease indications that require large 
sales forces. Should Vectura self-commercialise, this would be targeted 
commercialisation for niche products with significant unmet need, 
which require a small sales force to target specialist physicians. 
Vectura’s business model includes bringing highly innovative products 
to address unmet needs and the Company is also involved in a number 
of generics programmes which support government initiatives to reduce 
costs. This adds balance to our business model in an era of increasing 
cost containment. 
Should the Group make further acquisitions, there is a risk that it will 
fail to identify appropriate investment opportunities or perform sound 
due diligence. 
There is also a risk that any acquired business will not be successfully 
integrated into the Group.
Mitigating activities
The Board will continue to review all investment opportunities and 
oversee a rigorous due diligence process. Plans are in place to ensure 
structured post-acquisition integration is executed successfully.
Risks and risk management continued
Strategic risks continued 37
Financial statements Governance Strategic report Overview
Commercialisation
Product liability
The successful development and commercialisation of medicines 
carries a high level of risk and the returns may be insufficient to 
cover the costs incurred.
Vectura’s competitors in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical 
industries may have superior research and development capabilities, 
products, manufacturing capability or sales and marketing expertise. 
Many of Vectura’s competitors have significantly greater financial 
and human resources and may have more experience in research and 
development. As a result, Vectura’s competitors may develop safer or 
more effective products, implement more effective sales and marketing 
programmes or be able to establish superior proprietary positions. 
In addition, Vectura anticipates that it will face increased competition 
in the future as new companies enter Vectura’s markets and alternative 
products and technologies become available.
Mitigating activities
The Group performs detailed reviews of the development process 
and progress of projects through trials.
Where appropriate, the Group looks to mitigate the development and 
commercial risk of its product pipeline by partnering drug candidates 
at an appropriate stage. The partnering event crystallises part of the 
programme’s value, with the goal of retaining an attractive proportion 
of the commercial upside through future milestones and an ongoing 
royalty interest from commercial sales.
As explained above, programmes which are managed in-house are 
assessed using widely accepted valuation metrics based upon discounted 
cash flows. These cash flows are discounted using a hurdle rate that 
is in line with industry standards and the expected return of each project 
is further risk adjusted by its phase of development. Vectura has 
experienced development and commercial teams who all contribute 
to this assessment. This in-house review is supplemented by  
well-regarded disease area reports and, where appropriate, 
bespoke market research. 
In carrying out its activities Vectura will potentially face contractual 
and statutory claims, or other types of claim from customers, 
suppliers and/or investors. 
Vectura is exposed to potential product liability risks that are inherent 
in the research, the pre-clinical and clinical evaluation, pre-clinical study, 
clinical trials, manufacturing, marketing and use of pharmaceutical 
products. Consumers, healthcare producers or persons selling products 
based on Vectura’s and its collaborators’ technology may be able to 
bring claims against Vectura based on the use of such products in 
clinical trials and the sale of products based on Vectura’s technology.
Mitigating activities
Vectura maintains an appropriate level of product liability insurance 
and operates quality systems relating to the manufacture of products. 
Vectura has a pharmacovigilance system to monitor safety events 
arising with respects to products sold. 
Vectura’s insurance portfolio also includes other third-party liability 
insurances which would provide cover in the event of certain other 
contractual or statutory claims. 
Operational risks
Intellectual property
The Group and its collaborators may be unable to successfully establish 
and protect intellectual property which is significant to the Group’s 
competitive position.
Certain companies are developing medicines that may restrict 
the potential commercial success of Vectura’s products or render 
them obsolete. Third-party companies may have intellectual property 
that restricts Vectura’s or Vectura’s partners’ freedom to operate. 
Obtaining licences to intellectual property may not be possible or may 
be costly and may reduce net royalty income to Vectura. Vectura’s 
intellectual property may become invalid or expire before its products 
are successfully commercialised.
Vectura’s success depends in part on its ability to obtain and maintain 
protection for its inventions and proprietary information, so that it can 
prevent others from making, using or selling its inventions or 
proprietary rights. 
There is a significant delay between the time of filing of a patent 
application and the time its contents are made public, and competitors 
may have filed patent applications for subject matter covered by the 
Group’s pending patent applications without the Group being aware 
of those applications.
To develop and maintain its competitive position, the Group also relies 
upon unpatented trade secrets and improvements, unpatented know-how 
and continuing technological innovation.
Generic drug manufacturers, particularly in the US, may seek marketing 
approval for pharmaceutical products currently under patent protection 
by attacking the validity or enforceability of a patent. The more successful 
the product is commercially, the more likely the patent covering the 
product will be challenged by generic manufacturers. If such a challenge 
is successful the product could be exposed to generic competition 
before the expected expiration date of the patent. This could have 
a material effect on Vectura’s revenues and results.
Mitigating activities
Vectura owns a portfolio of patents and patent applications and is the 
authorised licensee of other patents.
The Group works closely with its legal advisors and obtains, where 
necessary, opinions on the intellectual property landscape relevant to 
the Group’s product development programmes and manufacturing 
activities and processes.
The Group ensures that patent applications are filed in a timely 
manner and are monitored closely to ensure that the result of any 
application is acted upon as soon as possible.
Reasonable security measures are adopted to protect this unpatented 
property, including confidentiality agreements with collaborators, 
consultants and employees. Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14
38
Financial risks
Financial operations
Foreign exchange rate fluctuations may adversely affect Vectura’s 
results of operations and financial condition.
Vectura records its transactions and prepares its financial statements 
in pounds sterling, but a substantial proportion of Vectura’s income 
from collaborative agreements is received in euros and US dollars. 
Furthermore, Vectura incurs a proportion of its expenditure in euros, 
US dollars and other currencies. 
Vectura’s cash balances are predominantly held in pounds sterling. 
To the extent that Vectura’s foreign currency assets and liabilities are 
not matched, fluctuations in exchange rates between pounds sterling, 
the US dollar and the euro may result in realised or unrealised exchange 
gains and losses on translation of the underlying currency into pounds 
sterling that may increase or decrease Vectura’s results from operations 
and may adversely affect Vectura’s financial condition, each as stated 
in pounds sterling. In addition, if the currencies in which the Group 
earns its revenues and/or holds its cash balances weaken against the 
currencies in which it incurs its expenses, this could adversely affect 
Vectura’s profitability and liquidity.
Mitigating activities
Where known liabilities arise in these currencies the revenues are 
retained on deposit in the appropriate currency in order to offset 
the exchange risk on these liabilities. As at 31 March 2014, the Group 
had sufficient euro and US dollar reserves to cover its immediate 
and short-term liabilities in respect of these currencies.
Where a substantial net foreign currency liability exists, Vectura 
will consider hedging against it to minimise foreign currency expense. 
However, such hedging is based on estimates of liabilities and future 
revenues and will not fully eliminate future foreign currency 
exchange fluctuations.
Liquidity
The Group may be exposed to credit or liquidity risk.
The Group’s credit and liquidity risk is primarily attributed to its cash 
and cash equivalents. With the current economic uncertainty, failure 
of an institution which the Group uses to hold cash deposits would 
have a material impact on the Group’s ability to continue as a 
going concern.
Mitigating activities
This risk is limited because the counterparties are banks with 
high credit ratings assigned by international credit-rating agencies. 
Deposits are made in accordance with the Group’s Treasury Policy 
approved by the Board, which contains strict criteria on minimum 
credit ratings and maximum deposit size. However, the recent global 
credit problems could result in the failure of even high credit-rated 
banks where funds are deposited.
In order to maintain liquidity to ensure that sufficient funds are available 
for ongoing operations and future developments, the Group closely 
monitors the cash available to the Group, which is invested in a mixture 
of current and short-term deposit accounts.
Risks and risk management continued
The Strategic report, which comprises pages 7 to 38, has been approved and signed on behalf of the Board.
Dr Chris Blackwell
Chief Executive 
20 May 2014 39
Financial statements Governance Strategic report Overview
Corporate governance
Introduction from Chairman
Dear shareholder
On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the Governance report 
for the year ended 31 March 2014. I hope this report provides a clear 
and meaningful overview of how the Board and its sub-committees 
discharge their governance duties and apply the principles of good 
corporate governance as set out in the UK Corporate Governance 
Code (“the Code”).
As a Board, we have a collective responsibility to set the governance 
framework for Vectura and to ensure that our strategy is aligned with 
the long-term interests of our shareholders. We believe that an effective 
governance framework is the foundation of a successful organisation 
and should be based upon an appropriate level of oversight, clear 
communication and transparency. In all this, our main focus is always 
the overall health and prosperity of the business. Throughout the 
financial year, Vectura has maintained its commitment to good corporate 
governance practices and I am pleased to report that throughout the 
year, and to the date of this report, the Group has fully complied with 
the principles and provisions set out in the Code.
There have been two changes to the membership of the Board during the 
year. In July 2013, Anne Hyland stepped down as Chief Financial Officer 
after eleven years of service. Paul Oliver was appointed as Anne Hyland’s 
successor. In November 2013, Jack Cashman announced his intention 
to retire as Chairman of Board. Jack had served with distinction as 
Chairman since 2001 and he was integral to the successful development 
of Vectura since that time. The Board engaged the services of the executive 
search agency to assist in identifying potential suitable candidates to 
replace Jack. Following this external recruitment process, I was privileged 
to be appointed as Non-Executive Chairman effective 1 February 2014. 
I endeavour to make an enthusiastic contribution to your Board and to 
help support Vectura through the next stage in its development. 
The annual Board performance evaluation was conducted internally 
during the year and, following this process, it was concluded that the 
individual members of the Board are effective in their roles and that 
they have the necessary skills and expertise to fulfil their duties. 
Details of the evaluation process and the outcome can be found 
on page 46 of this report. 
Finally, I would like to take this opportunity to encourage all shareholders 
to attend our Annual General Meeting (AGM) on 19 September 2014. 
As usual, all of Vectura’s Directors will be in attendance and will be 
available to meet investors.
Bruno Angelici
Chairman
20 May 2014
Financial statements Governance Strategic report Overview 40
Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14
Board of Directors
Role
Non-Executive Chairman
Experience
Bruno Angelici, 66, was appointed 
to the Board of Vectura Group on 
1 December 2013 and became 
Non-Executive Chairman on 
1 February 2014. Bruno Angelici 
is a French national with an MBA 
(Kellogg School of Management) 
and business and law degrees 
from Reims.
Bruno Angelici’s career includes senior 
management roles in pharmaceutical 
and medical device companies. 
Bruno Angelici retired from AstraZeneca 
in 2010 as Executive Vice President 
International after a 20-year career. 
He was responsible for Europe, Japan, 
Asia Pacific, Latin America, Middle East 
and Africa having originally joined as 
President of ICI Pharma France. Prior 
to this, he was at Baxter, a US-based 
global supplier of medical devices. 
He has extensive international 
experience, including in the US, 
and brings a deep understanding to 
the Company of the medical device 
and pharmaceutical industries.
Bruno Angelici is a Non-Executive 
Director of Smiths Group plc, a 
FTSE 100 technology group, and 
Novo Nordisk A/S, a global healthcare 
company and world leader in diabetes 
care. He is also a member of the 
Global Advisory Board of Takeda 
Pharmaceutical Company Ltd Japan, 
the largest pharmaceutical company 
in Asia, and a member of the 
Supervisory Board of Wolters Kluwer 
NV, a global information services and 
publishing company.
Role
Chief Executive and Executive Director
Experience
Dr Chris Blackwell, 52, was 
appointed Chief Executive of Vectura 
in February 2004. He joined the Group 
in 2002 as Chief Operations Officer 
and Executive Director. 
Having graduated with a first 
class honours degree in applied 
biology, Chris Blackwell received 
a PhD for his work at the University 
of Bath. Throughout both degrees, 
Chris Blackwell was sponsored by 
ICI Pharmaceuticals (now AstraZeneca), 
and worked in the fields of respiratory 
and cardiovascular diseases.
Prior to Vectura, Chris Blackwell was 
Executive Director of Drug Development 
at Scotia Pharmaceuticals Ltd. He was 
previously at Hoffmann-La Roche, 
where he was UK Director, Global 
Project Management, and before that, 
at Glaxo Group Research Ltd., in the 
Department of Clinical Pharmacology.
Role
Chief Financial Officer 
and Company Secretary
Experience
Paul Oliver, 36, was appointed 
Chief Financial Officer and Company 
Secretary of Vectura in July 2013. 
Paul Oliver joined Vectura in 
September 2006 and was appointed 
Group Financial Controller in 2007. 
In this role Paul Oliver was responsible 
for managing Vectura’s finances 
and working closely with Vectura’s 
Leadership Team and the Board on 
all aspects of operations and strategy 
development. Having worked on the 
successful acquisition of Innovata plc, 
he played a key part in its integration 
and subsequent restructuring.
Before joining Vectura, Paul Oliver 
worked in professional practice 
as an audit manager and he gained 
exposure to business advisory and 
corporate tax work. Paul Oliver has 
a degree in accounting and is a 
Fellow of the Association of Chartered 
Certified Accountants.
Role
Chief Operations Officer 
and President of US Operations
Experience
Dr Trevor Phillips, 53, joined the 
Board of Vectura in June 2012. 
He was appointed Chief Operations 
Officer in July 2011, having joined 
the Company in January 2010 as 
President of US Operations. 
Trevor Phillips has a BSc in microbiology 
from the University of Reading and a 
PhD in microbial biochemistry from the 
University of Wales. He was awarded 
an MBA from Henley Management 
College in 1997.
Prior to joining Vectura he gained 
extensive international experience 
in organisational leadership, 
management and pharmaceutical 
drug development in a number of 
senior roles, including positions as 
CEO and President of the US publicly 
held company, Critical Therapeutics Inc, 
following six years as the company’s 
Chief Operating Officer. During his time 
at Critical Therapeutics, Trevor Phillips 
was involved in setting up commercial 
partnerships, product in-licensing 
and out-licensing, managing drug 
development and NDA filings, 
commercial product manufacturing 
and mergers and acquisitions. 
Between 1986 and 2002 Trevor Phillips 
held a number of management positions 
at Sepracor, Scotia Pharmaceuticals, 
Accenture, GlaxoWellcome Research 
and Development and Simbec 
Research Limited.
Bruno Angelici
MBA
Chris Blackwell
BSc, PhD
Paul Oliver
BA, FCCA
Trevor Phillips
BSc, PhD, MBA
N R Financial statements Governance Strategic report Overview
41
John Brown
CBE, PhD, MBA, FRSE 
Susan Foden
MA, DPhil
Neil Warner
BA, FCA, MCT
Role
Non-Executive Director 
and Senior Independent Director
Experience
Dr John Brown, 59, joined the Board of 
Vectura as Non-Executive Director and 
Senior Independent Director in 2004 
and chairs the Nomination Committee 
as well as being a member of the 
Remuneration Committee. John Brown 
is Chairman of CXR Biosciences Ltd, 
Mode Diagnostics Ltd, The Cell 
Therapy Catapult and the Roslin 
Foundation. He also chairs the Life 
Science Advisory Board for the 
Scottish government. He was 
previously Chairman of BTG plc 
and Axis-Shield plc. Until late 2003, 
John Brown was Chief Executive 
of Acambis plc, a leading producer 
of vaccines to treat and prevent 
infectious disease. John Brown is 
an Honorary Professor of Edinburgh 
University and is a Fellow of the 
Royal Society of Edinburgh.
Role
Non-Executive Director
Experience
Dr Susan Foden, 61, joined the 
Board of Vectura as a Non-Executive 
Director in January 2007. She chairs 
the Remuneration Committee and is 
a member of the Audit and Nomination 
Committees. She holds a number 
of Non-Executive Directorships with 
both public and private companies 
in the biotech and healthcare field, 
including Source Bioscience plc, 
Cizzle Biotechnology Ltd, BerGenBio AS 
and Evgen Ltd. Prior to this Susan Foden 
held positions in venture capital and 
UK biotech companies. From 2000 to 
2003 she was an Investor Director with 
the London-based venture capital 
firm Merlin Biosciences Limited, and 
was Chief Executive Officer of the 
technology transfer company Cancer 
Research Campaign Technology Ltd 
from 1987 to 2000. She studied 
biochemistry at the University of 
Oxford from where she obtained 
an MA and a DPhil.
Role
Non-Executive Director
Experience
Neil Warner, 61, joined the Board 
of Vectura as Non-Executive Director 
in February 2011 and is Chair of the 
Audit Committee. Neil Warner has 
significant financial and managerial 
experience in multi national 
businesses. Neil Warner is the 
Non-Executive Chairman of Enteq 
Upstream plc, a specialist reach and 
recovery products and technologies 
provider to the upstream oil and gas 
services market. He was Finance 
Director at Chloride Group plc, 
a position he held for 14 years until the 
company’s acquisition by Emerson 
Electric. Prior to this, he spent six 
years at Exel plc (formerly Ocean 
Group plc and acquired by Deutsche 
Post in December 2005) where he held 
a number of senior posts in financial 
planning, treasury and control. He has 
also held senior positions in Balfour 
Beatty plc (formerly BICC Group plc), 
Alcoa and PricewaterhouseCoopers 
and was a Non-Executive Director of 
Dechra Pharmaceuticals plc where he 
was the Senior Independent Director 
and Chair of the Audit Committee. 
Neil Warner has an economics 
degree from the University of 
Leeds and is a Fellow of the Institute 
of Chartered Accountants.
Remuneration Committee
Nomination Committee
Audit Committee
Committee membership
R
N
A
N R A
Financial statements Governance Strategic report Overview
N R A N R A 42
Executive management
Role
Chief Corporate Development Officer
Experience
Dr Karl Keegan, 47, joined Vectura 
in September 2012 and is an Irish 
national who has worked in the 
healthcare industry for over 20 years.
Karl Keegan has a BSc in pharmacology 
from University College Dublin, an 
MPhil and PhD in pharmacology from 
the University of Cambridge and a 
masters degree in finance from the 
London Business School. Following 
postdoctoral research work at Baylor 
College of Medicine, Houston, Texas, 
Karl Keegan joined SmithKline Beecham 
as a bench scientist and later moved 
to a strategic commercial role within 
the Neuroscience Strategic Product 
Development team.
Upon leaving the pharmaceutical 
industry, Karl Keegan became one of 
the leading financial analysts covering 
the biotechnology industry on a 
global basis. His most recent analyst 
role was at Canaccord Adams, as 
Managing Director, UK Head of Equity 
Research and Global Head of Life 
Sciences Research. Prior to joining 
Vectura in 2012, he was CFO of 
Minster Pharmaceuticals, a publicly 
listed UK company, and most recently 
CFO of Pharming Group, a Dutch 
biotech company listed on Euronext.
Role
Chief Commercial Officer
Experience
Roger Heerman, 41, joined Vectura 
in 2010 and was appointed Senior 
Vice President, Commercial Strategy 
in 2013. Prior to joining Vectura, he 
gained extensive US and international 
commercialisation experience in a 
number of senior roles including VP 
Sales and Marketing of the US publicly 
held company Critical Therapeutics, Inc. 
and as VP, Director of Client Service at 
McK Healthcare.
At Critical Therapeutics, he was 
responsible for the build-out of the 
commercial infrastructure and the 
launch of ZYFLO CR in the United States. 
At McK Healthcare, Roger Heerman 
supported the launch and repositioning 
efforts of numerous US and global 
brands including UCB’s Neupro
®
 
for Parkinson’s disease and 
IROKO’s Aggrastat
®
 for acute 
coronary syndrome.
Roger Heerman began his career 
in the pharmaceutical industry as a 
sales representative in the respiratory 
division at GlaxoSmithKline. He received 
his BS from Babson College and his 
MBA from the F.W. Olin School of 
Business at Babson College.
Role
Chief Scientific Officer
Experience
Dr. Gerhard Scheuch, 58, joined 
Vectura in March 2014 as part of 
the Activaero GmbH acquisition and 
was appointed to his new role of 
Chief Scientific Officer on 1 May 2014. 
Gerhard Scheuch completed his PhD 
in physics at the GSF National Research 
Center for Environment and Health 
with a thesis on ”Dispersion, Deposition 
and Clearance of Aerosol Particles in 
the Human Airways”. He then spent 
time at the Helmholtz Center for 
Health and Environment in Frankfurt 
and Munich where his main research 
interests were related to aerosol particle 
deposition and mucociliary clearance. 
In 1998, Gerhard Scheuch founded 
Activaero GmbH as INAMED GmbH in 
Gauting. Gerhard Scheuch has held a 
number of society appointments (eg. 
President of ISAM from 2009 to 2011) 
and won several awards. He has 
published over 150 scientific articles 
on aerosol and lung research. He was 
appointed as a member of a committee 
at the EMA (European Medical Agency) 
to develop guidelines on orally inhaled 
products (OIP-Guideline) and he is a 
member of the expert panel of the EMA.
Karl Keegan
BSc, MPhil, PhD, MSc
Roger Heerman
BS, MBA
Gerhard Scheuch
PhD
Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 Financial statements Governance Strategic report Overview
Corporate governance report
Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code
The UK Corporate Governance Code (“the Code”) sets out the 
standards of good practice in relation to corporate governance to 
be applied by companies with a listing on the London Stock Exchange. 
A copy of the Code can be found on the Financial Reporting Council’s 
website (www.frc.org.uk). 
The principles and provisions of the Code cover five areas: leadership 
of the Company, effectiveness of the Board, accountability of the Board, 
remuneration and relations with shareholders. This report sets out how 
Vectura has applied the main principles of the Code. 
The Board confirms that Vectura has fully complied with the principles 
and provisions set out in the Code throughout the year under review.
Leadership
The role of the Board
The Board is collectively responsible for the leadership, direction and 
long-term success of the Group. As part of the corporate governance 
framework, the Board has adopted a schedule of matters which are 
reserved for its review. Matters reserved for review by the Board 
include the approval of Group business and strategic plans, financial 
statements and budgets, significant acquisitions and disposals, 
significant capital expenditure, dividends and Board appointments.
At each meeting, the Board reviews strategy and progress of the 
Group towards its objectives, particularly in respect of research and 
development projects, and monitors financial progress against budget.
The Board delegates day-to-day responsibility for managing the Group 
to the Executive Management Team (“the EMT”), which normally has 
eight to ten formal meetings during the year. In addition, the EMT holds 
weekly update calls. The EMT is responsible for developing the strategy 
approved by the Board and, in particular, is responsible for ensuring 
that the Group’s budget and forecasts are properly prepared, that 
targets are met and for managing and developing the business within 
the overall budget. Variations from the budget and changes in strategy 
require the approval of the Board.
The EMT is made up of the Chief Executive, the Chief Financial Officer, 
the Chief Operations Officer, the Chief Corporate Development Officer, the 
Chief Commercial Officer and the Chief Scientific Officer. Brief biographies 
of the EMT members are set out on pages 40 and 42. Other senior 
operational personnel also attend meetings of the EMT as appropriate.
Board composition
The Board is currently composed of seven Directors, three Executive 
Directors and four Non-Executive Directors. The biographies of the 
Directors are set out on pages 40 and 41. Particular attention is directed 
during the appointment process to ensuring that individual Directors 
have a wide range of experience within the industry and that the 
Board displays the necessary balance of skills necessary to deliver 
the Group’s strategy. 
Throughout the year ended 31 March 2014 and to the date 
of the publication of this report, at least half of the Board, excluding 
the Chairman, was comprised of Non-Executive Directors determined 
by the Board to be independent. 
The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive are separate, with a clear 
division of responsibilities between them. This division of responsibilities 
has been set out in writing and agreed by the Board. 
43
Chairman
The Chairman, Bruno Angelici, is responsible for leadership of the 
Board and for ensuring its effectiveness in all aspects of its role, in 
particular creating the conditions for overall Board and individual 
effectiveness by: 
• providing a sounding board to the Chief Executive; 
• setting the agenda, style and tone of Board meetings; 
•  ensuring that the Board plays a full and constructive part in the 
development of corporate strategy;
•  ensuring the highest standards of leadership and governance 
at Board level; 
•  ensuring that the performance of the Board, its committees 
and individual Directors are formally evaluated each year; and
• ensuring effective communications with shareholders.
The Chairman works closely with the Chief Executive to ensure that 
the strategies and actions agreed by the Board are implemented. 
Non-Executive Directors (NEDs) are encouraged to meet the Chairman 
without the presence of Executive Directors, as appropriate. Such meetings 
between the Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors took place 
during the year and included discussions relating to each Executive 
Director’s performance. 
Chief Executive
The Chief Executive, Chris Blackwell, is responsible for developing the 
Group’s long-term strategic direction and commercial strategy for 
consideration and approval by the Board, and for implementing the 
agreed strategy. He is also responsible for fostering good relations with 
key stakeholders and ensuring effective communications with shareholders 
and analysts. His responsibilities extend to ensuring the effective 
day-to-day management of the Group. He is supported in his role 
by other members of the EMT.
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director
John Brown has been appointed as the Senior Independent Director. 
The Senior Independent Director is responsible for performing an annual 
review of the performance of the Chairman and he is available to act 
as an intermediary for Directors, if necessary. The Senior Independent 
Director is available to shareholders if they have concerns that cannot 
be resolved through the normal channels of Chairman, Chief Executive 
or Chief Financial Officer. 
John Brown is the Chairman of the Nomination Committee and he 
is also a member of the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
Non-Executive Directors
The role of the Non-Executive Directors is to bring independent 
judgement to Board deliberations and decisions. In addition, the 
Non-Executive Directors supervise the corporate governance arrangements 
of the Group. Vectura’s Non-Executive Directors are all experienced 
and influential individuals and their skills and expertise facilitate the 
effective functioning of the Board, ensuring that all relevant matters 
are fully debated and that no one individual can dominate the Board’s 
decision-making process.
Biographies of the Non-Executive Directors can be found on 
pages 40 to 41. Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14
44
Corporate governance report continued
Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code continued
Each Committee has full terms of reference, which have been 
approved  by the Board and which can be found on Vectura’s website, 
www.vectura.com.
For details of the current constitution of each Committee, details of 
attendance and each member’s tenure please refer to the individual 
Committee reports shown on the pages referenced above.
Board meetings
The Board plans formal meetings on a bi-monthly basis, with further 
meetings being called when circumstances or urgent business dictate. 
Additional meetings may be held via conference call. 
The Board met twelve times during the year. Details of Directors’ 
attendance at these meetings are set out below. In the event that 
a Director is unavailable to attend a Board meeting, or to attend by 
telephone link, he or she can communicate their views on any item 
to be raised at the meeting through the Chairman.
Bruno Angelici was unable to attend two of the Board meetings held 
whilst he was a Non-Executive Director. This was due to prior commitments, 
which were fully disclosed to the Board prior to his appointment. 
Leadership continued
Board committees
The Board has delegated some of its responsibilities to a number of Board committees, as shown in the governance framework diagram below:
Meetings
attended whilst
the Director was
a Board member
Meetings held
whilst the
Director was a
Board member
Jack Cashman 9 9
Bruno Angelici (Chair) 4 6
Chris Blackwell 12 12
Trevor Phillips 12 12
Paul Oliver 10 10
Anne Hyland 0 2
John Brown 12 12
Neil Warner 12 12
Susan Foden 12 12
Shareholders
3,302*
The Board
See pages  
43 to 47
Audit  
Committee
See pages  
48 to 50
Nomination 
Committee
See pages  
51 to 52
Remuneration
Committee
See pages  
53 to 71
* At 14 May 2014. 45
Financial statements Governance Strategic report Overview
Bruno Angelici separately attended Vectura’s Head Office on several 
occasions to hold meetings with management to ensure that he was 
fully informed about the matters discussed during the relevant meetings. 
Anne Hyland was unable to attend the two Board meetings held whilst 
she was an Executive Director. This was due to commitments relating 
to the Chinese joint venture Kinnovata.
Board agenda
The Board is focused on driving our strategy, monitoring risk and 
the progress against previously agreed strategy by regular business, 
financial and departmental updates. The culture of the Board meetings 
is one of rigorous debate, where the Non-Executive Directors challenge 
management’s performance in achieving previously agreed goals and 
objectives. In addition, the Board meets on an informal basis to provide 
the opportunity for more extended discussions on strategic issues.
The Board’s main activities during the year are described below:
•  appointment of Bruno Angelici as Non-Executive Director 
and Chairman Designate;
•  appointment of Paul Oliver as Chief Financial Officer 
and Company Secretary;
• approval of the acquisition of Activaero GmbH;
•  approval of further placing of Vectura Group plc shares to fund 
the enlarged pipeline of the Group;
• regular updates on business performance and market conditions;
• review of project and pipeline progress;
• approval of the budget for FY 14/15;
• review of progress against the approved budget for FY 13/14;
• internally facilitated review of Board effectiveness; and
• approval of the corporate goals.
Effectiveness
Independence
The Board has determined that at least half of the Board, excluding 
the Chairman, is comprised of independent Non-Executive Directors. 
The holding of share options by Non-Executive Directors could 
be, amongst other things, relevant in determining whether a 
Non-Executive Director is independent. As explained in previous 
Annual Reports, prior to its listing on the Alternative Investment 
Market (AIM) on 2 July 2004, in addition to the payment of fees, the 
Group remunerated Non-Executive Directors with options to acquire 
shares in Vectura. At the time that the awards were granted, it was 
essential for an emerging pharmaceutical company such as Vectura 
to secure the recruitment and retention of Non-Executive Directors 
with the appropriate experience and international perspective in the 
context of the Group’s then stage of development. No performance 
criteria were attached to these options and no share options have 
been granted to Non-Executive Directors since the Company’s 
admission to AIM. As such, the Board considers that the historic 
granting of share options to Non-Executive Directors while the 
Company was a private company was appropriate.
Whilst the Code discourages the granting of share options to  
Non-Executive Directors, it nevertheless acknowledges that such 
grants may be appropriate in a particular company’s circumstances. 
Of the Non-Executive Directors awarded share options only John Brown 
now holds outstanding options, as detailed in the Remuneration report 
on page 69. These options are now exercisable and thus similar to 
holding an equivalent number of shares. After detailed consideration, 
the Board has determined that it does not believe the holding of share 
options by John Brown impacts on his independence in character or 
judgement. There is no intention to award any further options to any 
Non-Executive Director.
Other factors that may reflect on the independence of a  
Non-Executive Director include any material business relationships 
with the Group. There were no such relationships during the year 
up until the date of this report, or in the prior year.
The Code indicates that serving more than nine years as a  
Non-Executive Director could be relevant to the determination of a 
Non-Executive Director’s independence. Notwithstanding the fact that 
John Brown has been a Non-Executive Director for in excess of nine 
years, the Board, having rigorously evaluated his performance, 
considers that he continues to be fully independent in character 
and judgement when discharging his duties and responsibilities.
In accordance with the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance 
Code, the Committee confirms that Bruno Angelici was independent upon 
his appointment to the Board, and he continues to be independent.
Board appointments and succession
There are formal, rigorous and transparent procedures for the 
appointment of new Directors to the Board. Shortlisted candidates 
are interviewed by the Chairman of the Board and by the individual 
members of the Nomination Committee. Evaluations of appropriate 
candidates are then circulated to all members of the Nomination 
Committee for consideration, before a recommendation is made 
to the Board.
Diversity
The Board recognises the importance of diversity within all levels 
of the Group and it recognises that the Group, its shareholders and 
other stakeholders are best served by a Board which is diverse in skills, 
experience, and background, including gender. Diversity is considered 
when making appointments to the Board; however any appointments 
are ultimately made on merit against agreed selection criteria.
Induction and development
It is vital that Directors have a full understanding of the Group and 
its operations. Therefore, upon appointment each Director undergoes 
a formal induction programme, which includes briefing materials tailored 
to his or her particular Board responsibilities. New Directors meet with 
Board members and executive management as part of their induction 
process and tours of the Group’s main facilities are scheduled to provide 
them with the opportunity to meet with operational management. 
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company 
Secretary, who ensures that Directors take independent professional 
advice, at Vectura’s expense, when it is judged necessary in order 
for them to discharge their responsibilities. Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14
46
Board appointments and succession continued
Induction and development continued
Directors also receive regular updates on changes and developments 
within the business as well as information regarding legislative and 
regulatory changes. During the annual Board effectiveness review, all 
Directors are encouraged to identify any further training requirements 
which they feel would assist them in discharging their duties. 
Information and support
To enable the Board to function effectively and to assist Directors 
in discharging their responsibilities, full and timely access is given to 
all relevant information. In the case of Board meetings, this consists 
of a formal agenda and a comprehensive set of papers including 
regular business progress reports. An established procedure is in 
place to ensure that such information is provided to Directors in a 
timely manner in advance of meetings.
In addition, the Executive Directors ensure regular informal contact 
is maintained with the Non-Executive Directors. 
Performance evaluation and re-election
The Board has a process for evaluating its own performance and that 
of its committees and individual Directors, including the Chairman. 
These evaluations are carried out formally once a year, and informally 
on a regular basis throughout the year. The formal evaluation is 
through an appraisal process. In line with the practice of previous 
years, a consultant prepared and circulated a questionnaire for all 
Board members to answer and comment upon specific questions 
covering specific topics. These included the responsibilities and the 
roles of individual Directors and the Board as a whole, the conduct 
of Board meetings and Committees of the Board, the Board’s role in 
monitoring the performance of the Group and corporate governance 
practices. A detailed, anonymised analysis of the replies to the 
questionnaire, together with conclusions drawn from such analysis, 
was prepared by the consultant and considered by the Board. 
This evaluation took place during the year, and it was concluded that 
the Board remained effective and that individual members of the Board 
have the necessary skills and expertise to discharge their responsibilities. 
The evaluation also found that the Board’s size supports close dialogue 
between Executive and Non-Executive Directors. It was noted that the 
Board has both formal and informal meetings, and this balance provides 
the dynamics for an effective Board. 
All Directors have service agreements with indefinite terms, with 
twelve months’ notice for Executive Directors, three months’ notice 
for Non-Executive Directors and six months’ notice in the case of 
the Chairman.
Directors are subject to election by shareholders at the first 
opportunity following their appointment, and to re-election at intervals 
of no more than three years thereafter. In accordance with the Code, 
Non-Executive Directors who have served more than nine years on the 
Board are subject to annual re-election by shareholders. 
The performance of Bruno Angelici who is proposed for election and 
the performances of John Brown, Susan Foden and Trevor Phillips, who 
are being proposed for re-election, at the Annual General Meeting (AGM), 
have been evaluated and it has been determined that they continue to 
perform effectively and show full commitment to their roles on the Board. 
Accountability
The Board is committed to providing a fair, balanced and understandable 
assessment of the Company’s position and prospects. For information 
regarding the Directors’ responsibility to prepare financial statements, 
please refer to the Statement of Directors’ responsibilities on page 74. 
The Independent auditor’s report includes a statement by the auditor 
on his reporting responsibilities.
The measures in place to ensure the auditor’s independence are set 
out in the Audit Committee report on page 50.
The Board has overall responsibility for the Group’s system 
of internal control and risk management and for reviewing its 
effectiveness. In discharging that responsibility, the Board confirms 
that it has established the procedures necessary to comply with the Code. 
Employees are required to follow clearly defined internal procedures 
and policies appropriate to the business and their position within the 
business. These procedures are regularly reviewed by the Board. 
Risk management 
Vectura adopts a robust risk management process, which is reviewed 
on a regular basis. This process is outlined on page 33 of this report. 
Such a process is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk 
of failure to achieve business objectives and can provide only reasonable 
and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss. 
The concept of reasonable assurance recognises that the cost of a control 
procedure should not exceed the expected benefits. The significant 
risks identified are documented on pages 34 to 38 of this Annual Report.
Internal control 
The Group’s internal controls are regularly reviewed as part of the risk 
management process. The Audit Committee reviews the Group’s internal 
financial control system on an annual basis and makes recommendations 
to the Board regarding any improvements that are required. The Board 
also carries out reviews of the non-financial control systems.
The Group’s key systems of internal control include:
•  Organisational structure: The Group’s organisational structure 
has clearly established responsibilities and lines of accountability. 
The Group endeavours to appoint employees with appropriate skills, 
knowledge and experience for the roles they undertake.
• Documented policies and procedures: 
• The Group has documented quality procedures to ensure the 
maintenance of regulatory compliance. These are subject to periodic 
review to ensure current standards of quality compliance are 
maintained. A quality group monitors compliance with good laboratory 
practice, good clinical practice and good manufacturing practice 
through the implementation of a compliance programme for 
in-house and contracted-out activities. 
• The Group has a formal Health and Safety Committee comprising 
appropriate members of management and other employees to be 
responsible for these issues.
• The Group has formal procedures to ensure appropriate security 
of documents and proprietary information.
• The Group has a formal policy in place regarding share dealing in 
Vectura Group plc shares by employees and their connected persons.
Corporate governance report continued
Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code continued 47
Financial statements Governance Strategic report Overview
•  Budgeting process: The Group has a comprehensive financial 
planning and accounting framework which includes a robust 
budgeting and forecasting system. Detailed monthly management 
accounts are prepared and reports are provided to the Board 
showing actual results against budget and forecast results, 
highlighting and explaining significant variances. Variance reports 
are also provided to, and discussed with, the budget manager.
•  Financial reporting processes: The Group has specific controls 
in place regarding the production of consolidated financial 
information. This includes operational procedures and validation 
and review of information. 
•  Authorisation of expenditure levels: The Group has clear 
requirements for the approval and control of expenditure. 
Material or strategic investment decisions are subject to formal 
approval by the Board. Day-to-day expenditure is controlled using 
predetermined authorisation limits which are approved by the 
EMT in accordance with tolerance limits agreed with the Board.
•  Whistleblowing policy: the Group has a formalised whistleblowing 
policy which is available to all staff via the intranet. This policy provides 
a mechanism through which staff of the Group may, in confidence, 
raise concerns about possible improprieties in matters of financial 
reporting or other matters.
There have been no significant internal control failings or weaknesses 
throughout the year ended 31 March 2014 and up to the date 
of publication of this report.
Remuneration
The Board has adopted remuneration policies that are considered 
sufficient to attract, retain and motivate Executive Directors of the 
quality required to manage the Company successfully. Remuneration 
packages are structured in such a way as to link rewards to corporate 
and individual performance. For further details, please refer to the 
Remuneration report set out on pages 53 to 71.
Relations with shareholders
Shareholder relations
The Board recognises the importance of regular dialogue 
with shareholders and regular meetings between institutional 
shareholders and Executive Directors are held throughout the year. 
The Chief Executive and the Chief Financial Officer give annual and 
half-yearly presentations to institutional investors, analysts and the 
media. The Group also arranges periodic site visits where appropriate. 
Vectura’s brokers collate anonymous feedback after investor 
presentations. This feedback is then circulated to the Board for 
its consideration. Through this programme of regular dialogue, 
the Executive Directors and the Board are able to develop an 
understanding of shareholder views and objectives and create 
a mutual understanding of the Company’s strategy. 
All meetings with shareholders are held in such a way as to protect 
price sensitive information that has not already been made generally 
available to the Company’s shareholders and similar guidelines apply 
to communications between the Company and other parties, such 
as financial analysts, brokers and the media.
In addition, all NEDs have developed an understanding of the views 
of shareholders through corporate broker briefings and review of issued 
analyst notes. The Chairman seeks to meet with major shareholders on a 
regular basis and Non-Executive Directors meet with major shareholders 
as required. Bruno Angelici attended a number of institutional shareholder 
meetings during the year, and this provided an opportunity for a number 
of Vectura’s major shareholders to meet with him prior to his 
appointment as Chairman on 1 February 2014. 
Where material changes in respect of remuneration schemes or 
governance structures are proposed, the Board seeks to consult 
with its major shareholders before implementing such changes. 
The Company views its website (www.vectura.com) as an important 
investor relations tool, particularly for private investors. In line with 
best practice, the website is regularly updated, ensuring that information 
relating to the Group and its activities is easily accessible. The website 
provides an overview of the business including its strategy, products 
and objectives. 
All periodic reports and accounts are made available to shareholders 
on the website and paper copies are mailed to those shareholders 
who have elected to receive them. Separate announcements of all 
material events are made as necessary by press release. All such 
announcements are published on the website without delay along 
with webcasts of both the Interim and Annual Report presentations. 
The terms of reference of each of the Board’s three committees and 
certain corporate governance documents are also published on the 
Group’s website. 
Private shareholders are encouraged to express their views and 
concerns either in person at the AGM or by e-mail using the links 
provided on the Group’s website.
Constructive use of the AGM
The Board seeks to use the AGM (together with other forums) to 
communicate with investors and encourage their participation by 
making business presentations and inviting shareholder questions. 
The Chairs of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees 
are present at the AGM to answer questions through the Chairman 
of the Board. 
Notice of the meeting is posted to shareholders not less than 
20 working days prior to the date of the AGM. The information sent 
to shareholders includes a summary of the business to be covered at 
the AGM, where a separate resolution is prepared for each substantive 
matter. Results of voting at the AGM are posted on the Group’s website 
as soon as they are available. Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14
48
Audit Committee report
Dear shareholder
On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present Vectura’s Audit Committee 
report for the year ended 31 March 2014.
A number of updates have been made to the UK Corporate Governance 
Code (“the Code”) and these changes came into effect for Vectura during 
the 2013/14 financial year. The Committee is very supportive of the 
latest revised Code, and we believe that it allows the Audit Committee 
to further strengthen its role as the key independent oversight Committee 
at Vectura and to add value to the Group and its operations. This report 
highlights how the Committee has discharged its responsibilities as set 
out in the Code.
I hope you will find this report helpful in understanding the work 
of the Committee.
Neil Warner
Chair of the Audit Committee
20 May 2014
Role and responsibilities
The Audit Committee (“the Committee”) operates under written terms 
of reference, which are modelled on the Code and are available on the 
Company website, www.vectura.com. Following updates to the Code, 
the Board requested that the Committee advise it as to whether the 
Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and 
understandable and provide the information necessary for shareholders 
to assess the Group’s performance, business model and strategy. The 
Committee’s terms of reference were amended to reflect this requirement.
The Committee reviews the annual and half-year financial statements 
and interim management statements. In reviewing these reports, the 
Committee considers whether the accounting policies applied during the 
preparation of the information are consistent year on year and whether 
the disclosures made are appropriate, complete and in compliance 
with the relevant financial reporting standards, corporate governance 
standards and regulatory requirements. The Committee also considers 
the significant areas in which judgement has been applied in the 
preparation of the financial statements. In fulfilling this role, it supports 
the Board in discharging its responsibilities in relation to the Group’s 
external financial reporting and similar announcements. 
The Committee manages the relationship with the external auditor 
on behalf of the Board. During the year, the Committee reviews and 
monitors the independence of the external auditor and considers the 
effectiveness of the external audit process. In addition, the Committee 
is responsible for developing and implementing the Group’s policy 
on non-audit services. The Committee makes recommendations to the 
Board regarding the appointment and, where appropriate, reappointment 
of the external auditor and it approves the external auditor’s terms 
of engagement. On an annual basis, the Committee will consider the 
need for an internal audit function and will make recommendations 
to the Board accordingly.
The Committee is responsible for reviewing the effectiveness of the 
Group’s financial risk management and internal control systems. 
The Chairman of the Committee reports to the Board on all significant 
matters reviewed by the Committee. 
The Committee has access to the external auditor, and if considered 
necessary, it is authorised to obtain external professional advice 
including, without limitation, legal and accounting advice to assist 
in the performance of its duties. No such advice has been sought 
during the year.
Membership and meetings
In accordance with the Code, the Audit Committee comprises three 
independent Non-Executive Directors, Neil Warner, John Brown and 
Susan Foden. All members have the necessary overview of the Group’s 
business and financial dynamics and the risks facing the Group.
The Committee is chaired by Neil Warner, who is a Fellow of the 
Institute of Chartered Accountants with significant recent and relevant 
financial experience. Details of Neil Warner’s financial experience are 
set out in his biography on page 41.
The Group Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee. 
The Executive Directors also attend Committee meetings at the 
invitation of the Chairman. The Committee meets with the external 
auditor at least twice a year without management being present. 
The Committee Chairman keeps in touch, as required, with the key 
people involved in the Group’s governance, including the Chairman 
of the Board, the Chief Executive, the Chief Financial Officer and the 
external audit lead partner. 
The composition of the Committee is reviewed annually to ensure that 
it contains the appropriate balance of knowledge, skill and experience 
to support the business.
The Committee met three times during the year ended 31 March 2014, 
and all members were present at each meeting.
The key issues considered by the Committee during the year are 
outlined below.
Financial reporting
As explained above, the Committee is responsible for monitoring 
the integrity of the Group’s financial statements and reviewing 
the significant judgements applied in the preparation of financial 
information. During the year and to the date of this report, the 
Committee reviewed the Group’s interim management statements 
which were issued in August 2013 and February 2014, the interim 
report for the period ended 30 September 2013, and the preliminary 
announcement and Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 
31 March 2014.
Member
Date of 
appointment
Meetings
attended (held)
N W Warner (Chair) 1 February 2011 3(3)
J R Brown 13 May 2004 3(3)
S E Foden 18 January 2011 3(3) 49
Financial statements Governance Strategic report Overview
The significant issues considered and the conclusions reached by the 
Committee are outlined below. 
Significant issues considered in relation to the financial statements
Acquisition accounting 
On 13 March 2014, the Group announced that it had acquired 100% of 
the share capital of Activaero GmbH for a total consideration of €130m 
(£108m), comprising €45m (£38m) upfront cash consideration, €50m 
(£41m) in equity and a commitment to a deferred, non-contingent 
payment of €35m (£29m) payable on the first business day after 
1 August 2015. The full details of the acquisition and the accounting 
treatment applied are set out in note 28 to the financial statements. 
The Committee reviewed the accounting treatment applied in the 
FY2013/14 financial statements. The key areas of judgement relating 
to the acquisition are the identification of intangible assets and the 
subsequent determination of their fair value. Management provided 
a report to the Committee detailing how intangible assets had been 
identified, how their useful economic life had been derived and the 
key judgements, and assumptions made in determining likely returns 
and an appropriate discount rate. Each of these issues was discussed 
with management and the external auditor, who also provided 
detailed reporting to the Committee in respect of this matter.
Based upon the evidence reviewed and the discussions held, 
the Committee is satisfied that the identification and calculation of 
intangible assets is reasonable based upon the information currently 
available, and that the transaction has been appropriately presented 
in the financial statements. The Committee notes that in accordance 
with international financial reporting standards, the Group has twelve 
months to finalise the accounting for the acquisition and therefore 
the balances currently included in the financial statements may be 
restated within this period if pertinent information becomes available.
Revenue recognition
As disclosed on page 92 of this report, the Group has three principal 
revenue streams, being royalty income, product licensing milestone 
income and technology licensing milestone income. In FY2013/14, 
these three revenue streams comprised virtually all of the Group’s 
overall revenue.
During the year, the Committee reviewed the judgements exercised by 
management in determining when to recognise key milestone events, 
particularly those milestones which were achieved around a period end. 
The Committee also discussed each significant milestone achieved 
during the year with the external auditor. Following discussions held 
and the review performed, the Committee is satisfied that the treatment 
adopted by management is reasonable and in compliance with IAS 18 
and Vectura’s accounting policies.
The recognition of royalty revenue involves accruing for an estimate 
of underlying product sales in the final quarter, and management 
has limited visibility over this information, save for where a licensing 
partner makes the information publicly available. This area was an 
increased focus during FY2013/14, as the Group has now begun to 
receive significant royalty streams from a number of new products 
and therefore management do not have significant historic evidence 
upon which to base the revenue accrual. The basis for each accrual was 
discussed with both management and the auditor, and the Committee 
is satisfied that appropriate assumptions have been made.
Goodwill impairment
During the year, particular attention was paid to the carrying value 
of goodwill. Goodwill associated with the acquisition of Innovata Plc, 
Vectura Delivery Devices Limited and Co-ordinated Drug Development Ltd 
(since renamed Vectura Limited) totals £49.6m and, as such, it represents 
one of the largest assets on the Group’s balance sheet. For the purposes 
of impairment testing, management has determined that there is only 
one cash-generating unit (CGU) relating to these assets. This is considered 
appropriate in light of the fact that these entities have now fully integrated 
into the Group and future projects will use a mixture of Innovata Ltd, 
Vectura Delivery Devices Ltd and Vectura Ltd technologies and expertise.
The Committee reviewed the judgements and assumptions underlying the 
models used to support the carrying value of goodwill in the consolidated 
balance sheet. The primary judgement areas relate to the achievability 
of long-term business plans and the discount rate applied to the relevant 
cash flows. Management provided the Committee with a report, outlining 
the basis for the assumptions made. The Committee reviewed this 
document and challenged management assumptions where appropriate.
The carrying value of goodwill was also a key area of focus for the 
external audit team, and accordingly, Deloitte LLP (“Deloitte”) provided 
a detailed report to the Committee regarding management’s assumptions 
and conclusions. This report also included the results of sensitivity 
testing performed, which assessed whether a “reasonably possible” 
change in a key assumption could result in an impairment of the 
balance. The Committee noted that there were no disagreements 
between the conclusions of management and the conclusions drawn 
by the external auditor. Following a review of the evidence provided 
and discussions with both management and the audit team, the 
Committee is satisfied that no impairment charge should be recorded 
in FY2013/14 and that the disclosures made in the financial statements 
are appropriate.
Risk management and internal control
The Board as a whole, including the Audit Committee members, 
considers the nature and extent of Vectura’s risk management 
framework and the risk profile that is acceptable to achieve the 
Group’s strategic objectives. The Committee is responsible for 
reviewing the adequacy and effectiveness of the Group’s risk 
management and internal control systems. In order to discharge 
this responsibility, the Committee receives reports from Vectura’s 
management team and the external auditor as appropriate.
Each year, the Audit Committee considers the need for an internal 
audit function and has concluded that, given the size of the Group’s 
operations at this time, it is not necessary. The Board accepted 
this recommendation.
Whistleblowing
The Audit Committee reviews arrangements by which staff 
of the Group may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible 
improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other matters. 
The Audit Committee’s objective is to ensure that arrangements 
are in place for the proportionate and independent investigation 
of such matters and for appropriate follow-up action. 
The Group has a formal whistleblowing policy, which is available 
to all staff via the Group’s intranet. Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14
50
Risk management and internal control continued
UK Bribery Act
The Group has continued to operate its anti-bribery policy, introduced 
in 2010, in response to the UK Bribery Act 2010. This has included the 
conduct of due diligence on new key business partners who may act on 
behalf of the Group in higher risk areas of business.
External audit
The external auditor, Deloitte, is engaged to express an opinion on the 
Group’s and the Company’s financial statements.
The Audit Committee is responsible for making recommendations 
to the Board on the appointment, reappointment and removal of the 
external auditor. When considering reappointment, the Committee 
considers the independence of the audit firm and the effectiveness 
of the overall external audit process. 
Audit engagement partner rotation
Deloitte adheres to a rotation policy which is in accordance with the 
ethical standards of the Audit Practices Board (“the APB”) and the Group 
engagement partner is rotated every five years. David Hedditch, the 
current engagement partner, was appointed during the 2012/13 year 
and therefore the next rotation is scheduled to take place in 2017/18.
Independence and non-audit work performed by the external 
auditor
The Committee is responsible for monitoring and reviewing the 
independence and objectivity of the external auditor. On an annual basis, 
the auditor confirms their policies for ensuring auditor independence 
and provides the Committee with a confirmation that they continue 
to be independent in respect of the forthcoming audit engagement. 
Vectura’s policy on the provision of non-audit services is a key 
mechanism which safeguards the independence of the external 
auditor. The provision of non-audit services by the auditor is governed 
by a ”non-audit services policy”, which is reviewed by the Committee 
on an annual basis. The policy sets out the circumstances in which 
the external auditor may be permitted to undertake non-audit services 
and the overriding purpose of the policy is to ensure that the auditor 
does not provide a service that: 
• creates a mutuality of interest;
• places the auditor in a position of auditing its own work;
• results in the auditor acting as a Vectura manager or employee; or
• places the auditor in a position to advocate for Vectura.
Vectura does not impose an automatic restriction on the provision 
of non-audit services by the external auditor. The external auditor 
is eligible for selection to provide non-audit services that are not, 
and are not perceived to be, in conflict with auditor independence, 
provided that the auditor has the skill, competence and integrity to 
carry out the work in the best interest of the Group. Where appropriate, 
services are tendered prior to awarding work to the external auditor. 
During the year, Deloitte undertook non-audit services, and the relevant 
fees are disclosed in note 5 to the financial statements. These services 
were provided in compliance with the policy outlined above and no 
actual conflicts of interest were found to exist between the audit work 
and the non-audit work performed, which mainly related to tax advisory 
and financial due diligence work to support the acquisition of 
Activaero GmbH. The Committee considered that it was appropriate 
for the auditor to undertake these services given the nature of the work 
to be performed. During meetings held in February and May 2014, the 
external auditor confirmed to the Audit Committee that it had met its 
statutory requirements with regard to independence.
Accordingly, the Audit Committee confirms that the Group continues 
to receive an independent audit service. On this basis, the Committee 
has recommended to the Board that Deloitte be reappointed as the 
Group’s auditor for a further year. This recommendation has been 
accepted by the Board.
Effectiveness
The Committee places great importance on ensuring that there are 
high standards of audit quality and effectiveness in the external audit 
process. The effectiveness of the external audit process is reviewed 
on an annual basis, and this includes consideration of the qualification, 
expertise, resources, remuneration and independence of the auditor. 
Where appropriate, actions are agreed in respect of any issues 
identified and these are monitored for progress.
At the conclusion of the FY2013/14 audit, the Committee performed a 
formal evaluation of the performance of the external auditor. In performing 
this evaluation, the Committee worked with the external auditor, 
Executive Directors and relevant senior management. In addition to this, 
the Committee performs its own ongoing evaluation of audit quality 
and effectiveness, taking into account such matters as the quality of 
reporting to the Committee by the external auditor and the level and 
quality of the interactions between the Committee and the audit partner.
Tendering
Deloitte has been Vectura’s auditor since 2007 following Vectura’s 
full listing on the London Stock Exchange. During that time, the audit 
has not been formally tendered and, whilst this is not currently a 
formal requirement for Vectura under the Code, the Committee 
will keep the need to tender the audit under review. There are 
no contractual restrictions in place which would restrict the choice 
of the external auditor.
Committee effectiveness review
During the year, the Committee reviewed its own effectiveness as part 
of the overall Board evaluation process. The Committee considered that 
it acted transparently and, given the number of Committee and Board 
meetings scheduled throughout the financial year, maintained a thorough 
understanding of the Group and its business. The results of the review 
were advised to the Board.
Neil Warner
Chairman of the Audit Committee
20 May 2014
Audit Committee report continued 51
Financial statements Governance Strategic report Overview
Dear shareholder
On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present Vectura’s 
Nomination Committee report for the year ended 31 March 2014.
During the year, the Committee considered and made recommendations 
to the Board regarding the appointment of Paul Oliver as our new 
Chief Financial Officer and Bruno Angelici as Non-Executive Director 
and Chairman of the Board.
I hope you find this report useful in understanding the work 
of the Committee.
Dr John Brown
Chair of the Nomination Committee
20 May 2014
Role and responsibilities
The Nomination Committee (“the Committee”) operates under 
written terms of reference, which are modelled on the UK Corporate 
Governance Code (“the Code”) and are available on the Company 
website www.vectura.com. The Committee reviews these terms on 
an annual basis. No material changes were made to the terms 
of reference during the year. 
The Committee is responsible for reviewing the structure of the Board 
and the Committees and evaluating the balance of skills, experience, 
independence and knowledge of the Board as a whole. On the basis 
of this evaluation, the Committee makes recommendations to the Board 
regarding Board appointments. Where the need for a new Executive 
or Non-Executive Director is identified, the Committee is responsible 
for preparing a description of the role and the capabilities required for 
a particular appointment and for identifying and nominating potential 
candidates to fill the vacancy. 
Membership and meetings
The Committee comprises four independent Non-Executive Directors, 
John Brown, Neil Warner, Susan Foden and the Chairman of the Board, 
Bruno Angelici. In accordance with the requirements of the Code, the 
Board has confirmed that Bruno Angelici was independent upon 
his appointment to the Board, and that he continues to be independent. 
The Committee is chaired by John Brown, the Senior Independent 
Director. Details of John Brown’s experience are set out in his 
biography on page 41. 
The Group Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee. 
The Executive Directors, other members of Executive Management 
and external advisors may also attend Committee meetings as 
required, at the invitation of the Chairman. 
The Committee is authorised to obtain external professional advice 
including, without limitation, legal and other professional advice to 
assist in the performance of its duties. During the year, the Committee 
has utilised the services of Odgers Berndtson as outlined below. 
The Committee met twice during the year ended 31 March 2014, 
and all members were present at each meeting. Additionally, the 
Committee held a number of informal meetings and discussions 
during the year.
The key issues considered by the Committee during the year are 
outlined below.
Appointment of Directors
The Committee’s primary focus for the year ended 31 March 2014 
was the continued development of the Board.
In May 2013, Anne Hyland announced her intention to stand down 
as Chief Financial Officer and Company Secretary. The Committee 
recommended to the Board that Paul Oliver be appointed as her 
successor. Paul Oliver joined Vectura in 2006, and he was appointed 
as the Group’s Financial Controller in 2007. During this time, Paul Oliver 
worked closely with Anne Hyland and other members of Vectura’s 
Executive Management Team and Board on all aspects of Vectura’s 
operations, strategic development and financial discipline. As such, 
Paul Oliver was well placed to succeed Anne Hyland as the Group’s 
Chief Financial Officer and the Board was unanimous in accepting the 
recommendation of the Committee to appoint him as an Executive Director 
and Company Secretary. 
In September 2013, Vectura announced that Jack Cashman had 
given notice that he intended to retire as Non-Executive Director and 
Chairman of the Board. Following this announcement, the Committee 
undertook an external search to find a suitable candidate to succeed 
Jack as Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Board. Bruno Angelici 
was appointed to the Board on 1 December 2013 and he became 
Chairman of the Board on 1 February 2014. 
Bruno Angelici brings exceptional knowledge, independence and 
extensive international experience to the Board and the Board believes 
that Bruno Angelici will be a significant addition to the Company as it 
enters the next stage in its evolution. Full biographical details can be 
found on page 40.
Nomination Committee report
Member
Date of
appointment
Meetings
attended (held)
John Brown (Chair) 13 May 2004 2(2)
Jack Cashman 27 March 2001 2(2)
Bruno Angelici 1 December 2013 0(0)
Neil Warner 1 February 2011 2(2)
Susan Foden 18 January 2011 2(2) Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14
52
Appointments process
There is a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the 
appointment of new Directors to the Board under which the Committee 
interviews suitable candidates who are proposed either by existing 
Board members or by an external search firm. The Committee gives 
careful consideration to the appointment of any proposed appointee, 
to ensure that the candidate has sufficient time available to devote to 
the role as well as the required level of skill and knowledge to ensure 
that the balance of skills, experience and knowledge on the Board 
is maintained. 
During the process of recruiting for a Non-Executive Director and 
Chairman, the Committee appointed Odgers Berndtson, an external 
search agency, to assist with the identification of suitable candidates 
for the role. Odgers Berndtson has no other connection to the Company. 
The Committee worked with Odgers Berndtson who drew up a list 
of candidates from a range of industries and backgrounds for initial 
appraisal by the Committee. From this list, a shortlist of suitable 
candidates who met the search and selection criteria was prepared 
and these candidates were interviewed by members of the 
Nomination Committee.
Following this process, the Nomination Committee recommended 
the appointment of Bruno Angelici to the Board. Bruno Angelici 
disclosed his significant commitments to the Board prior to his 
appointment and the Board as a whole were satisfied that he had 
sufficient time to devote to this role.
Bruno Angelici has been appointed for an initial term of three years, 
subject to election by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting on 
19 September 2014. The appointment may be terminated earlier than 
three years at the discretion of either party upon six months’ notice.
Advisors
As explained above, during the year the Committee engaged Odgers 
Berndtson to act as advisors to the Committee.
The Executive Directors provide advice to the Committee, where required, 
to help it make informed decisions. 
Diversity
The Board’s policy on diversity is set out on page 45.
The search for Board candidates is conducted, and appointments 
made, on merit against objective selection criteria and having due 
regard, amongst other things, to the benefits of diversity on the 
Board, including the inclusion of women. Diversity is considered 
by the Nomination Committee in considering Board composition 
and in the process of making Board appointments.
Committee effectiveness review
During the year, the Committee reviewed its own effectiveness as part 
of the overall Board evaluation process. The Committee considered 
that it acted transparently and, given the number of Committee and 
Board meetings scheduled throughout the financial year, maintained 
a thorough understanding of the Group and its business. The results 
of the review were advised to the Board.
Dr John Brown
Chairman of the Nomination Committee
20 May 2014
Nomination Committee report continued 53
Financial statements Governance Strategic report Overview
Dear shareholder
On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present Vectura’s Remuneration 
Committee report for the year ended 31 March 2014. I hope that you find 
this report of the Committee’s work understandable and comprehensive.
This has been another year of excellent progress for Vectura, 
marked by a number of development achievements which are linked 
to significant revenue streams to Vectura over the coming years. 
In particular, Novartis announced the approval of Ultibro
®
 Breezhaler
®
 
(formerly QVA149) in Europe and Ultibro
®
 Inhalation Capsules in Japan 
and GSK announced that BREO
®
 ELLIPTA
®
 was available for sale in the 
US during October 2013. This was followed in December 2013 by the 
announcement that ANORO
®
 ELLIPTA
®
 had been approved by the US 
Food and Drug Administration.
In December 2013, our partner Sandoz announced that it had 
received Danish marketing authorisation for AirFluSal
®
 Forspiro
®
 
(formerly known as VR315). To date, marketing authorisations have 
been received in Denmark, Germany, Belgium, Sweden, Hungary, 
Romania, Norway, Bulgaria and South Korea and the product has 
now been launched in most of these countries.
These milestone events for Vectura represent a de-risking of the 
Group’s pipeline, and the Group has begun to execute the next stage 
of its strategy: to transform its business from a development stage 
company into a significant, profitable and self-sustaining specialty 
pharmaceutical company.
On 13 March 2014, Vectura announced that it had acquired Activaero 
GmbH, a privately owned German pharmaceutical company focused 
on the development of products for respiratory diseases. As discussed 
on page 5 of this Annual Report, this acquisition fulfilled a number of 
Vectura’s strategic priorities, and the enlarged Group will be a specialist 
in the therapeutic area of airways diseases. 
Against this background, the Remuneration Committee (“the Committee”) 
has sought to ensure that the remuneration policy of the Group is sufficient 
to attract, retain and motivate Executives of the highest calibre who 
are capable of delivering the Group’s strategy. When considering the 
remuneration packages for each of the Executive Directors, the Committee 
has recognised the need to ensure continuity of the Executive Team at 
this vital stage in the development and evolution of the enlarged Group.
During 2013, the Committee approved an LTIP award to 
Trevor Phillips equal to 200% of his salary. This was appropriate in 
light of the expansion of Trevor Phillips’ role following his appointment 
to the Board. Trevor Phillips was appointed to the Board in 2012 and 
the Committee recognised the need to ensure that, as a new Director, 
his remuneration package was appropriately designed to align his 
interests with the interests of shareholders. It is not envisaged that 
any further exceptional awards will be made to Trevor Phillips.
In light of the changes to the Group’s structure and profile, the Committee 
has approved adjustments in the base salary of the Executive Directors 
for the forthcoming financial year. Details of each Executive Director’s 
base salary are set out on page 71 to this report. 
When considering the base salary levels for each Director, the 
Committee has considered pay and conditions across the Group 
and has also undertaken a review of the remuneration packages 
of each Executive Director. This review has, inter alia, taken into 
account a number of parameters including personal performance 
during the year, Company growth and complexity and alignment of 
salaries with our policy statements with regard to mid-market levels. 
The Committee has proposed bonus payments to each of the 
Executive Directors, as detailed on page 64 of this report. These bonus 
payments reflect the significant progress made towards delivering the 
Group’s strategy during the year. As part of the formulation of the 
remuneration policy, the Committee has introduced a provision to claw 
back cash bonuses in the event of material misstatement of financial 
results or environmental, social or corporate governance issues.
There have been a number of changes to the composition of the 
Board during the financial year. On 21 May 2013, it was announced 
that Anne Hyland had stepped down as Chief Financial Officer and 
Company Secretary. Paul Oliver was appointed as her successor. 
In determining Paul Oliver’s remuneration package, the Committee 
gave full and due regard to the policy for remuneration of new 
appointments, as set out on page 60. Additionally, Bruno Angelici was 
appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive Director on 1 December 2013. 
Jack Cashman stepped down from his position as Chairman of the 
Board and member of Board sub-committees, on 1 February 2014 
and he was succeeded by Bruno Angelici. In determining the fee level 
for Bruno Angelici, the Committee considered market conditions, as 
well as Board committee responsibilities and ongoing time commitments 
required to fulfil his role. The annual fees payable to Bruno Angelici are 
disclosed on page 71. 
The Value Realisation Plan (VRP), which was approved by shareholders 
in 2008, expired during the year. This scheme was designed to provide 
participants with a share of a predetermined percentage of the total 
consideration paid for the Group in the event of a change in control. 
There are no plans to reinstate such a scheme. In addition, the 
Committee reports that the LTIP awards that were due to vest in 
June 2013 did not vest as performance conditions were not met. 
This year, shareholders will be asked to vote separately on our 
Directors’ remuneration policy and our Annual report on remuneration. 
I hope that you will join with me in supporting the two resolutions in 
respect of this year’s Remuneration Committee report at the Company’s 
Annual General Meeting on 19 September 2014.
Yours sincerely
Dr Susan Foden
Chair of the Remuneration Committee
20 May 2014
Remuneration Committee report
Letter from the Chair of the Remuneration Committee Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14
54
Remuneration report
Introduction
The report that follows has been prepared in accordance with 
the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 (“the Act”), the Large 
and Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) 
(Amendment) Regulations 2013 (“the Regulations”) and the relevant 
provisions of the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority. 
In this report, we also describe how the principles of good governance 
relating to directors’ remuneration, as set out in the Corporate Governance 
Code (“the Code”), are applied in practice. The Committee confirms 
that the Group has complied with these governance rules throughout 
the year ended 31 March 2014.
The report is presented in two separate sections:
• Directors’ remuneration policy – set out on pages 54 to 61; and
• Annual report on remuneration – set out on pages 61 to 71.
The Directors’ remuneration policy section sets out Vectura’s remuneration 
policy (“the Policy”) for Executive and Non-Executive Directors. This policy 
will be subject to a binding vote of the shareholders at the forthcoming 
AGM on 19 September 2014. If approved, the policy will become effective 
from this date for a period of three years.
The Annual report on remuneration provides details of how the current 
remuneration policy has been implemented during the year and it 
provides details of the Directors’ emoluments, shareholdings, long-term 
incentive awards and pensions for the year ended 31 March 2014. 
The elements of the Annual report on remuneration which are subject 
to audit have been clearly identified. The Annual report on remuneration 
continues to be subject to an advisory vote by shareholders at the 
Annual General Meeting (“the AGM”).
Unaudited information
Directors’ remuneration policy
In formulating the remuneration policy, the Committee has given 
full consideration to the principles set out in the Code. Vectura aims 
to provide a remuneration package that is sufficient to attract, retain 
and motivate high-calibre Executive Directors who can deliver the 
business strategy. The Committee recognises that remuneration 
packages should be appropriately structured, including both fixed and 
variable pay elements and a mixture of short, medium and long-term 
incentives. Appropriately structured remuneration packages serve to 
align the actions and interests of our Executive Directors with those 
of our shareholders. 
How shareholders’ views are taken into account
Shareholders’ views are key inputs when shaping remuneration policy. 
The Committee considers shareholder feedback received in relation to 
the AGM each year and guidance from shareholder representative bodies 
more generally. The Committee will seek to engage directly with major 
shareholders and their representative bodies should any material changes 
to the Policy be proposed.
Consideration of employment conditions elsewhere in the Group
Although the Committee does not consult directly with employees 
regarding the Policy, the Committee considers the general basic salary 
increase for the broader employee population when determining the 
annual salary increases and remuneration packages for the Executive 
Directors. Accordingly, the Committee confirms that the remuneration 
policy outlined below has been designed with due regard to the policy 
for remuneration of employees across the Group.
The remuneration of senior executives below Board level is reviewed 
by the Committee on an annual basis. The remuneration packages of 
these executives are consistent with the policy outlined below, save 
that lower bonus percentages and lower L TIP opportunities are applicable. 
Variable pay elements for senior executives are driven principally by 
market comparatives and the overall impact of the role the individual 
holds at Vectura. Long-term incentives are provided to those individuals 
identified as having significant potential to influence Group performance.
All employees are rewarded with a market-competitive remuneration 
package that includes certain key benefits such as life assurance, 
permanent health insurance, private medical insurance, access to the 
pension scheme, participation in Vectura’s all-employee share schemes 
and eligibility to receive a bonus. The bonus scheme for Directors and 
employees is designed to reward performance, and all individuals are 
required to set challenging personal goals.
Summary remuneration policy
The following table and accompanying notes set out the main 
principles of reward for the Executive Directors of Vectura Group plc. 
The policy outlined below will be effective for a period of three years 
from 19 September 2014, following our AGM. For the avoidance of 
doubt, any commitments entered into by the Company prior to the 
approval and implementation of the policy outlined opposite may be 
honoured, even if they are not consistent with the policy prevailing 
at the time the commitment is fulfilled.  55
Financial statements Governance Strategic report Overview
Executive Directors
Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance metrics
Base salary
To recruit and retain executives of 
the highest calibre who are capable 
of delivering the Group’s strategic 
objectives, reflecting the individual’s 
experience and role within the Group.
Base salary is designed to provide 
an appropriate level of fixed income  
to avoid an over-reliance on variable 
pay elements that could encourage 
excessive risk taking.
The Committee aims to provide 
base salary at levels that are broadly 
aligned with the mid-points for 
equivalent roles in comparable 
companies in the UK, adjusted to 
reflect company size and complexity.
Salaries are normally reviewed 
annually and changes are generally 
effective from 1 April.
The annual salary review of Executive 
Directors takes a number of factors 
into consideration, including:
• business performance;
•  salary increases awarded to the 
overall employee population;
•  skills and experience of the 
individual over time;
•  scope of the individual’s 
responsibilities;
•  changes in the size and complexity 
of the Group;
• market competitiveness; and
• the underlying rate of inflation.
Base salary increases are awarded 
at the discretion of the Committee; 
however, salary increases will normally 
be no greater than the inflationary pay 
rises awarded to the wider workforce.
Where peer review data indicates 
that a role is under-remunerated, 
or where there has been a change 
in responsibilities, the Committee 
retains the discretion to award more 
significant base salary increases.
No formal metrics although 
increases will take account 
of Group performance.
Benefits
Benefits in kind offered to 
Executive Directors are provided on 
a market-competitive basis, to assist 
with the retention and recruitment 
of staff.
The Company aims to offer benefits 
that are in line with market practice.
The main benefits currently 
provided are life assurance, 
permanent health insurance 
and private medical and 
dental insurance.
Under certain circumstances 
the Group will offer relocation 
allowances to employees.
The value of each benefit is not 
predetermined and is based upon  
the cost to the Group.
Not performance related.
Pensions
The Group aims to provide  
market-competitive retirement 
benefits, to reward 
sustained contribution.
The Group operates a money 
purchase scheme and all employees, 
including Executive Directors, are 
invited to participate.
For executives who are affected  
by the HMRC lifetime or annual 
allowances, the Company may  
provide cash supplements in respect 
of benefits above the allowance.
Up to 20% of basic salary contribution 
to the Group Personal Pension Plan or 
equivalent cash allowance.
Not performance related. Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14
56
Remuneration report continued
Executive Directors continued
Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance metrics
Annual performance bonus
An annual cash bonus rewards the 
achievement of stretching objectives 
that support the Group’s corporate 
goals and delivery of the business 
strategy together with goals in 
relation to personal performance.
Objectives are agreed with the 
Committee, and the Board as a whole, 
at the start of each financial year.
Different performance measures 
and weightings may be used each 
year, as agreed with the Committee, 
to take into account changes in the 
business strategy.
Bonuses are paid at the discretion 
of the Remuneration Committee. 
The Committee takes into account 
overall corporate performance 
and individual performance when 
determining the final bonus  
amount to be awarded.
Bonuses are paid in cash, typically 
in June.
During the 2013/14 financial year, 
the Committee introduced a provision 
to claw back up to 100% of the bonus 
awarded in the event of material 
misstatement of the Company’s 
financial results, an error in assessing 
the performance conditions to which 
an award is subject or for any other 
matter which it deems relevant.
Bonuses are limited to a maximum 
of 100% of base salary for each 
Executive Director.
Corporate goals typically include 
revenue generation, development 
of pipeline progress, partnering 
successes and control of cash 
expenditure, although the 
Committee has discretion to 
set other targets.
Goals set are specific, measurable 
and are linked to the Group’s 
longer-term strategy.
0% of the maximum is payable 
at threshold performance. 57
Financial statements Governance Strategic report Overview
Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance metrics
Long-Term Incentive Plan (L TIP)
The Remuneration Committee believes 
that a key component of the overall 
remuneration package is the provision 
of equity awards to senior executives 
through the LTIP which is designed to 
develop a culture which encourages 
strong corporate performance on an 
absolute and relative basis.
Awards are made on an annual 
basis, at the discretion of the 
Remuneration Committee.
Awards consist of shares that vest 
according to performance conditions.
Typically, awards are granted 
following the release of full-year 
or interim financial results.
Awards are discretionary and do 
not vest until the date on which 
the performance conditions are 
determined. If employment ceases 
during a three-year performance 
period, awards will typically lapse, 
save in certain good leaver situations.
The Committee may decide that an 
award will be subject to claw back 
where there has been a misstatement 
of the Company’s financial results, 
an error in assessing the performance 
conditions to which an award is subject 
or for any other matter which it 
deems relevant.
Awards of up to 200% may be granted; 
however, Executive Directors would 
normally receive grants worth up to 
100% of salary.
Awards are subject to challenging 
performance measures.
Current awards are based on 
relative total shareholder return 
(TSR) measured over a three-year 
period against two peer groups 
each determining the vesting of 
50% of the awards.
The Committee retains the 
discretion to vary the peer groups, 
weighting between them and 
introduce new metrics for awards 
in future years providing they are 
not materially less challenging in 
the circumstances. The Committee 
would normally consult with its 
major shareholders before making 
significant changes to the 
performance conditions.
Awards are subject to an 
underpin based on the Committee’s 
assessment of the Group’s underlying 
performance against a range of 
factors, including the Company’s 
underlying financial performance, 
absolute shareholder returns and 
progress against milestones over 
the three-year performance period. 
Any exercise of discretion will be 
fully disclosed to shareholders. 
Furthermore, the Company will 
consult with its major shareholders 
before exercising its discretion to 
increase the percentage that vests.
The performance conditions 
for previous long-term incentive 
awards are described in the Annual 
report on remuneration section.
For the current TSR performance 
conditions 25% of the award vests 
at median against the peer group, 
increasing on a straight-line basis 
so that 100% vests for performance 
at or above the upper quartile. Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14
58
Remuneration report continued
Executive Directors continued
Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance metrics
All-employee share schemes
All employees, including Executive 
Directors, are encouraged to become 
shareholders of Vectura Group plc 
through participation in our 
all-employee share schemes.
The Group currently offers employees 
the opportunity to participate in the 
Vectura Sharesave scheme and the 
Vectura Share Incentive Plan (SIP).
Both of the schemes offered are HMRC 
approved schemes and operate on 
standard terms.
Participation limits are set by 
the relevant tax authorities from 
time to time.
Not performance related and no 
performance conditions apply.
Share ownership guidelines
Share ownership guidelines for 
Executive Directors and senior 
employees are designed to align the 
interests of senior management to 
those of Vectura’s shareholders.
In accordance with best practice, 
Executive Directors are required to 
retain at least half of any share awards 
vesting as shares (after paying any tax 
due) until they have reached the 
required level of holding.
Executive Directors are required to 
build and retain a holding of Vectura 
Group plc shares equivalent to at least 
100% of their base salary.
Not performance related.
Chairman and Non-Executive Directors
Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance metrics
Fees
Set at a level that is sufficient to  
attract and retain high-calibre 
Non-Executives. 
The Chairman and the Non-Executive 
Directors receive fees paid in cash, 
with additional fees received for 
chairing committees of the Board 
or fulfilling the role of Senior 
Independent Director.
Fees are paid monthly and  
reviewed annually.
The Chairman and the Non-Executive 
Directors do not participate in any 
performance-related incentive 
schemes, nor do they receive 
any benefits.
When reviewing fee levels, account 
is taken of market movements in 
the fees of Non-Executive Directors, 
Board committee responsibilities 
and ongoing time commitments.
Not performance related.
Notes to the policy table
Performance conditions
The Committee selected the performance conditions outlined above 
because they are central to the Group’s overall strategy and they are 
the key metrics used by the Executive Directors to oversee the operations 
of the business. The Committee considers that the performance targets 
for the LTIP and the bonus represent an appropriate balance between 
the long-term and short-term performance of the Group, as well as 
an appropriate balance between external and internal assessments 
of performance.
The targets for the bonus scheme for the forthcoming year will be set 
out in general terms, subject to limitations with regards to commercial 
sensitivity. The full details of the targets will be disclosed when they 
are in the public domain, usually following the end of the relevant 
financial year in the Annual report on remuneration.
Committee discretion
The Committee operates under the powers it has been delegated 
by the Board. In addition, it complies with rules that have either been 
approved by shareholders (Long-Term Incentive Plan) or by the Board 
(annual performance bonus scheme). These rules provide the Committee 
with certain discretions which serve to ensure that the implementation 
of the remuneration policy is fair, both to the individual Director and to 
the shareholders. The Committee also has discretions to set components 
of remuneration within a range, from time to time. The extent of such 
discretions is set out in the relevant rules, the maximum opportunity 
or the performance metrics section of the policy table above. 59
Financial statements Governance Strategic report Overview
To ensure the efficient administration of the variable incentive plans 
outlined above, the Committee will apply certain operational discretions. 
These include the following:
• selecting the participants in the plans on an annual basis;
• determining the timing of grants of awards and/or payments;
•  determining the quantum of awards and/or payments 
(within the limits set out in the policy table above);
•  determining the extent of vesting based on the assessment 
of performance; 
•  making the appropriate adjustments required in certain 
circumstances, for instance for changes in capital structure;
•  determining “good leaver” status for incentive plan purposes 
and applying the appropriate treatment; and
•  undertaking the annual review of weighting of performance 
measures and setting targets for the annual bonus plan and 
other incentive schemes, where applicable, from year to year.
If an event occurs which results in the annual bonus plan or LTIP 
performance conditions and/or targets being deemed no longer 
appropriate (e.g. material acquisition or divestment), the Committee 
will have the ability to adjust appropriately the measures and/or 
targets and alter weightings, provided that the revised conditions 
are not materially less challenging that the original conditions. 
Remuneration scenarios for Executive Directors
The charts below show hypothetical values of the remuneration package 
for each Executive Director under three assumed performance scenarios 
and these scenarios are based upon the remuneration policy set out 
below. The information presented below uses the level of salary, 
benefits and pension entitlements for each of the Directors as at 
1 April 2014. Refer to page 71 of this report for details of base 
salary levels set for the coming year.
Below target remuneration receivable – this scenario assumes that there 
is no annual bonus payment and no awards under the LTIP award vest.
On-target performance – this scenario assumes that the Directors receive 
a 50% bonus pay-out. It is assumed that a face value limit of 100% base 
salary applies to the LTIP award and that 25% of the LTIP granted would 
ultimately vest.
Above target remuneration receivable – this scenario assumes that the 
Directors receive a maximum bonus pay-out of 100% of their salary. It is 
assumed that a face value limit of 100% base salary applies to the LTIP 
award and that 100% of the LTIP award granted would ultimately vest. 
The actual amounts earned by Executive Directors under these three 
scenarios will depend on share price performance over the vesting period. 
For the purpose of these illustrations, any share price appreciation has 
been ignored. For simplicity, the value of participating in the Company’s 
all employee share schemes has also been ignored.
Chris Blackwell
83
%
17
%
51
%
10
%
26
%
13
%
Below 
target
On 
target
Maximum
£480,000
£1,280,000
Paul Oliver
Below 
target
On 
target
Maximum
83
%
17
%
51
%
10
%
26
%
13
%
£264,000
£704,000
£429,000
Fixed elements Variable elements
Base salary
Pension
Bonus
LTIP
Trevor Phillips
Below 
target
On 
target
Maximum
83
%
17
%
51
%
10
%
26
%
13
%
32
%
31
%
31
%
£330,000
£880,000
£536,250
Remuneration scenarios for Executive Directors
32
%
31
%
31
%
6
%
6
%
£780,000
32
%
31
%
31
%
6
% Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14
60
Remuneration report continued
Other remuneration policies
Termination and loss of office payments
The Group’s policy on remuneration for Executive Directors who leave the 
Group is consistent with general market practice and it is set out below. 
The Committee will exercise its discretion when determining amounts that 
should be paid to leavers, taking into account the facts and circumstances 
of each case. When calculating termination payments, the Committee will 
take into account a variety of factors, including individual and Company 
performance, the length of service of the Executive Director in question and, 
where appropriate, the obligation for the Executive Director to mitigate loss. 
In the case of a “good leaver”, the following policy will normally apply:
•  notice period of twelve months and pension and contractual 
benefits, or payment in lieu of notice;
• statutory redundancy payments will be made, as appropriate;
•  executives have no entitlement to a bonus payment in the event 
that they cease to be employed by the Group; however, they 
may be considered for a pro-rated award by the Committee 
in good leaver circumstances;
•  the rules of the 2012 LTIP plan contain provisions setting out the 
treatment of awards where a participant ceases to be employed 
by the Vectura Group. Other than in good leaver circumstances, 
awards will normally lapse. In the event of a participant’s death, 
retirement, ill health, injury, disability, redundancy, the sale of his 
employing company or business out of the Vectura Group or for 
any other reason at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee, 
awards will not be forfeited but will instead vest on the normal 
vesting date. Vesting in these circumstances will be subject to 
the satisfaction of the relevant performance conditions measured 
at that time and time pro-rating. In exceptional circumstances, 
the Remuneration Committee may allow the awards to vest 
on cessation of the participant’s employment, subject to the 
satisfaction of the performance conditions measured at that time 
and time pro-rating. In either case, the Remuneration Committee 
can decide to dis-apply time pro-rating if it thinks it is appropriate 
to do so in the particular circumstances;
•  any other share-based entitlements granted to an Executive Director 
under the Company’s share and share option plans will be determined 
based upon the relevant plan rules; and
•  the Committee may also provide for the leaver to be 
reimbursed for a reasonable level of legal fees in connection 
with a settlement agreement.
In circumstances in which a leaving Director may be entitled to pursue 
a legal claim, the Company may negotiate settlement terms if it considers 
this to be in the best interests of the Company and, with the approval 
of the Committee on the remuneration elements therein, to enter into 
a settlement agreement.
Executive Directors’ service contracts
It is the Group’s policy that Executive Directors should have contracts 
with an indefinite term and which provide for a maximum period of 
twelve months’ notice. This will continue as part of the Policy.
This applies to the contract of Chris Blackwell which was effective 
from 24 June 2004, Trevor Phillips’ contract, which was amended with 
effect from 16 July 2012 and to Paul Oliver’s contract, which took effect 
from 1 July 2013. Executive Directors are subject to re-election at an 
AGM at intervals of no more than three years.
The Executive Directors may accept outside appointments, with prior 
Board approval, provided that these opportunities do not negatively 
impact on their ability to fulfil their duties to the Group. Whether any 
related fees are retained by the individual or are remitted to the Group 
will be considered on a case by case basis. 
Non-Executive Directors’ terms of engagement
All Non-Executive Directors have specific terms of engagement which 
are terminable on not less than three months’ notice by either party 
and six months’ notice in the case of the Chairman. The remuneration 
of Non-Executive Directors is determined by the Board within the 
limits set by the Articles of Association and based on a review of fees 
paid to Non-Executive Directors of similar companies. All Non-Executive 
Directors are subject to re-election at an AGM at intervals of no more 
than three years.
The dates of appointment of each of the Non-Executive Directors 
serving at 31 March 2014 are summarised in the table below.
A Board evaluation has been performed and the results of this exercise 
confirmed that all Non-Executive Directors were independent, including 
John Brown who has service greater than nine years. John Brown’s 
independence is considered valid due to the major change in the 
operating activities of the Group during the term of his appointment.
Remuneration for new appointments
Where it is necessary to recruit or replace an Executive Director, the 
Committee has determined that the new Executive Director will receive 
a compensation package in accordance with the provisions of the Policy.
Date of appointment
J R Brown 13 May 2004
S E Foden 18 January 2007
N W Warner 1 February 2011
B F J Angelici 1 December 2013 61
Financial statements Governance Strategic report Overview
In setting base salary for new Executive Directors, the Committee 
will consider the existing salary package of the new Director, and the 
individual’s level of experience. In setting the annual performance 
bonus, the Committee may wish to set different performance metrics 
(to those of other Executive Directors) in the first year of appointment. 
Where it is appropriate to offer a below median salary on initial 
appointment, the Committee will have the discretion to allow phased 
salary increases over a period of time for a newly appointed Director, 
even though this may involve increases in excess of inflation and the 
increases awarded to the wider workforce. 
The Committee wishes to retain the ability to make buy-out awards to a 
new Executive Director, to facilitate the recruitment process. The amount 
of any such award would not exceed the expected value being forfeited 
and, to the extent possible, would mirror the form of payment, timing 
and degree of conditionality etc. Where awards are granted subject to 
performance conditions these would be relevant to Vectura Group plc. 
Any such award would only be made in exceptional circumstances and 
shareholders would be informed of any such payments at the time of 
appointment. Share-based awards would be made using the existing 
share plans where possible although the Committee may also use the 
flexibility provided under the Listing Rules to make awards without 
prior shareholder approval.
In respect of internal appointments, any commitments entered into 
in respect of a prior role, including variable pay elements, may be 
allowed to pay out according to its prior terms.
For external and internal appointments, the Committee may consider 
it appropriate to pay reasonable relocation or incidental expenses, 
including payment of reasonable legal expenses. Tax equalisation may 
be considered if an Executive Director is adversely affected by taxation 
due to their employment with the Company.
The terms of appointment for a Non-Executive Director would be in 
accordance with the policy for remuneration of Non-Executive Directors 
as set out in the policy table.
Unaudited information
Annual report on remuneration 
Remuneration Committee (“the Committee”)
The Committee consists entirely of independent Non-Executive Directors. 
The Committee is chaired by Susan Foden, and during the year ended 
31 March 2014, its members were Bruno Angelici, Jack Cashman, 
John Brown and Neil Warner. Jack Cashman stepped down from his 
position as Chairman of the Board and member of Board sub-committees 
on 1 February 2014 and he was succeeded by Bruno Angelici. 
In accordance with the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance 
Code, the Board has confirmed that Bruno Angelici was independent 
upon his appointment to the Board, and he continues to be 
independent. Jack Cashman was considered to be independent upon 
his appointment to the Board and he remained independent for the 
whole of his appointment.
No conflicts of interest have arisen during the year and none 
of the members of the Committee has any personal financial interest 
in the matters discussed, other than as shareholders. The fees of the 
Non-Executive Directors are determined by the Board on the joint 
recommendation of the Chairman and the Chief Executive. 
In determining the Group’s current policy, and in constructing the 
remuneration arrangements of each Executive Director and senior 
employees, the Board, advised by the Committee, aims to provide 
remuneration packages that are competitive and designed to attract, 
retain and motivate Executive Directors and senior employees of the 
highest calibre. 
To achieve this objective, the Committee takes account of information from 
both internal and independent sources, including New Bridge Street (a brand 
of Aon Hewitt Ltd, part of Aon plc) and PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP. 
During 2013/14, Vectura incurred fees of £22,000 from New Bridge 
Street and £17,000 from PricewaterhouseCoopers in relation to advice 
on executive remuneration. Both New Bridge Street’s and 
PricewaterhouseCoopers’ fees are based upon hourly charged rates 
and both companies are signatories to the Remuneration Consultants’ 
Group Code of Conduct, which sets out the role of executive 
remuneration consultants and the professional standards by which 
they advise their clients. The Committee reviews the performance 
and independence of its advisors on an annual basis.
The Group’s Director of Human Resources provides updates to 
the Committee, as required, to ensure that the Committee is fully 
informed about pay and performance issues throughout the Group. 
The Committee takes these factors into account when determining 
the remuneration of the Executive Directors and senior executives. 
No Executive Director or employee is allowed to participate in any 
discussion directly relating to their conditions of service or remuneration.
The Committee is formally constituted with written terms of reference 
and its main responsibilities are detailed below. 
The Committee is responsible for:
•  setting a remuneration policy that ensures that talented executives 
are recruited, retained and motivated to deliver results;
•  ensuring that the remuneration of the Executive Directors and other 
senior executives reflects both their individual performance and their 
contribution to the overall Group results;
•  determining the terms of employment and remuneration of the 
Executive Directors and senior executives, including recruitment 
and retention terms;
•  approving the design and performance targets for any annual 
incentive schemes that include the Executive Directors and 
senior executives;
•  agreeing the design and performance targets, where applicable, 
of all share incentive plans requiring shareholder approval;
•  assessing the appropriateness and subsequent achievement 
of the performance targets related to any share incentive plans;
•  recommending to the Board the fees paid to the Chairman. 
The Chairman is excluded from this process; and
•  the selection and appointment of the external advisors to 
the Committee to provide independent remuneration advice 
where necessary. Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14
62
Remuneration report continued
Audited information
Directors’ remuneration – year ended 31 March 2014
The total remuneration of the individual Directors who served during the year is shown below. Total remuneration is the sum of emoluments 
plus Company pension contributions and the value of long-term incentive awards vesting by reference to performance in the year 2014: 
£117,000 (2013: £nil).
Basic
salary
(a)
£000
Benefits
(b)
£000
Bonus
(c)
£000
LTIP
(d)
£000
Pension 
entitlements
(e)
£000
Other
(f)
£000
SIP
awards
(g)
£000
Total
remuneration
£000
Executive Directors
C P Blackwell 337 2 337 — 67 — 5 748
A P Hyland
(1)
55 1 — 117 11 178 3 365 
T M Phillips
(2)(3)(4)
241 15 241 — 48 91 5 641
P S Oliver
(5)
150 2 150 — 30 — 2 334
Non-Executive Directors
B F J Angelici
(6)
40 — — — — — — 40
J P Cashman
(7)
83 — — — — — — 83
J R Brown* 45 — — — — — — 45
S E Foden* 45 — — — — — — 45
N W Warner* 45 — — — — — — 45
1,041 20 728 117 156 269 15 2,346
(1)  A P Hyland stepped down as Chief Financial Officer and Company Secretary, effective from 1 July 2013. Details of payments, including “other” made to A P Hyland, are outlined 
on page 67 of this report. 
(2) T M Phillips was paid in US $; the amount shown above is converted at the annual average exchange rate of $1.59/£1.
(3)  T M Phillips receives benefits of £13,000 (US $21,357 at an average annual exchange rate) relating to US medical and dental insurance. T M Phillips also makes employee contributions 
towards this plan. 
(4) T M Phillips received a one-off relocation allowance of £90,909 during the year; this is shown within “other” remuneration in the single figure above. 
(5) P S Oliver was appointed to the Board on 1 July 2013.
(6) B F J Angelici was appointed to the Board on 1 December 2013. 
(7) J P Cashman stepped down as the Chairman of the Board on 1 February 2014.
*  Included within the Non-Executive Directors’ fees are the fees for chairing committees. J R Brown received £5,000 for chairing the Nomination Committee and £10,000 for his role 
as Senior Independent Director. S E Foden received £15,000 for chairing the Remuneration Committee and N W Warner received £15,000 for chairing the Audit Committee.
Unaudited information continued
Annual report on remuneration continued
Meetings
The Committee met formally three times during the year ended 
31 March 2014.
A summary of the key decisions made by the Committee during the 
year is summarised below:
• approval of overall pay levels for 2013/14 for the Group as a whole;
•  approval of base salary increases for Executive Directors and other 
members of the Executive Management Team, ensuring these are 
aligned appropriately both internally and externally;
•  recommending to the Board an increase in the Chairman’s fee, 
to bring arrangements in line with market rates;
• recommending the fee level for the new Chairman of the Board;
•  approval of remuneration package for the new Chief Financial 
Officer, following his appointment to the Board;
•  approval of the percentage of the bonus pool to be paid out 
across the Group;
•  review of the performance conditions for the 2010 Long-Term 
Incentive Plan (LTIP), including lapse, without any payment, 
of the options due to vest in 2013 due to failure to meet 
performance conditions; and
• approval of awards under the 2012 LTIP scheme. 63
Financial statements Governance Strategic report Overview
Notes to the remuneration table
(a) This is the amount earned in respect of the financial year.
(b)  This is the taxable value of benefits paid in respect of the financial 
year. These benefits typically relate to death, disability and medical 
insurance. As disclosed in note footnote (3) above, T M Phillips also 
receives benefits in relation to US medical and dental insurance. 
(c)  This is the total bonus earned under the annual bonus scheme 
in respect of the financial year.
(d)  The amount shown relates to the market value of LTIP awards that 
vested during the year. The awards that vested during the year relate 
to an agreement entered into with A P Hyland; refer to page 67 for 
further details. No other LTIP awards vested during the year.
(e)  UK tax legislation imposes penalty taxes on annual pension 
contributions where prescribed maximum amounts are exceeded. 
The Committee has previously determined that impacted Executive 
Directors would receive pension benefits limited by the prescribed 
maximum amounts and an additional taxable supplementary cash 
payment equal to the cost to the Company of the pension benefit 
foregone. The amount of the allowance awarded to any Executive 
Director so impacted has been set by the Committee so that there 
is no additional cost to the Company resulting from this arrangement.
(f)  Other payments in 2013/14 relate to one-off remuneration agreements 
with individual directors. Amounts payable to T M Phillips are explained 
in footnote (4) to the single figure remuneration table for FY2013/14. 
Amounts payable to A P Hyland are explained on page 67 of this report. 
(g)  This relates to SIP awards granted during the year, calculated as 
the number of shares awarded multiplied by the share price on 
the date of the award.
Directors’ remuneration – year ended 31 March 2013
The total remuneration of the individual Directors who served during the year is shown below. Total remuneration is the sum of emoluments 
plus Company pension contributions and the value of long-term incentive awards vesting by reference to performance in the year 2013: £nil.
Basic 
salary
(a)
£000
Benefits
(b)
£000
Bonus
(c)
£000
LTIP
(d)
£000
Pension
 entitlements
(e)
£000
Other
(f)
£000
SIP 
awards
(g)
£000
Total 
remuneration
£000
Executive Directors
C P Blackwell 328 2 193 — 66 — 5 594
A P Hyland 218 1 129 — 44 — 5 397
T M Phillips
(1)(2)(3)
189 11 115 — 37 — 1 353
Non-Executive Directors
J P Cashman 80 — — — — — — 80
J R Brown* 45 — — — — — — 45
S E Foden* 40 — — — — — — 40
N W Warner* 40 — — — — — — 40
940 14 437 — 147 — 11 1,549
(1) T M Phillips was appointed to the Board on 1 June 2012.
(2) T M Phillips was paid in US $; the amount shown above is converted at the annual average exchange rate.
(3)  T M Phillips receives benefits relating to US medical and dental insurance. T M Phillips also makes employee contributions towards this plan. 
*  Included within the Non-Executive Directors’ fees are the fees for chairing committees. Dr Brown received £5,000 for chairing the Nomination Committee and £10,000 for his role 
as Senior Independent Director. Dr Foden received £10,000 for chairing the Remuneration Committee and Mr Warner received £10,000 for chairing the Audit Committee. Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14
64
Additional requirements in respect 
of the single total figure table 
(audited information)
Performance-related pay earned in the year
Annual performance bonus
All employees are eligible for an annual discretionary cash bonus, 
whereby performance objectives are established at the beginning of 
the financial year by reference to suitably challenging corporate goals. 
The scheme is offered to all staff below Board level and maximum 
bonus opportunities range from 10% and 75% of salary, depending 
on grade. Bonus payments are not pensionable. 
The Committee has consistently set stretching corporate goals, 
including goals around revenue generation, development pipeline 
progress, partnering successes and control of cash expenditure, which 
are weighted towards goals with the highest corporate significance. 
Remuneration report continued
Performance metric
Weighting as % of 
maximum bonus potential
Level of bonus awarded 
as % of metric (% of full bonus) Commentary (full disclosure has been restricted due to commercial sensitivity)
Create strategic 
growth opportunities
48% 48% (48%) •  Announced co-development deal with UCB for the 
development of an innovative biologic product
•  Successful in-licensing of VR588, an asset with 
pharmacological properties suited to the management of 
various severe inflammatory and fibrotic airways diseases 
•  Successful in-licensing of VR611, an asset which may 
be used in various inflammatory airways indications
• Acquisition of Activaero GmbH
•  Significant progress made towards licensing unlicensed 
pipeline asset
Secure existing pipeline value 16% 16% (16%) • Development milestone earned from VR315 US
• Patents filed in relation to new technologies
Achieve financial growth 16% 16% (16%) • Revenue growth of £6.0m was achieved
•  Positive EBITDA growth, FY2013/14 positive EBITDA of 
£5.2m compared to FY2012/13 negative EBITDA of £3.4m
•  Significant growth in share price during the year following 
positive news flow
•  R&D expenditure in line with budget, demonstrating 
continued discipline on expenditure
Personal objectives 20% 20% (20%) •  Challenging personal objectives were set for 
all Executive Directors 
Total bonus payment 
as a % of salary
100% 100%
In addition, a significant percentage of the bonus potential is set against 
challenging personal objectives which are linked to the overall business 
strategy. Bonuses are limited to a maximum of 100% of basic salary 
for each Executive Director. 
For the year ended 31 March 2014 the performance objectives against 
which bonus payments were calculated are set out in the table below.
The Committee assessed that a bonus of 100% (2012/13: 59% and 61%) 
of salary was appropriate when judged by the achievement of the below 
metrics and that this was confirmed when looking at a broader picture 
of the Group’s corporate performance over the period.
As Vectura has formal share ownership guidelines, the Remuneration 
Committee has not required any of the bonus payment for this year 
to be deferred into shares. 65
Financial statements Governance Strategic report Overview
LTIP awards
In 2010, an award of LTIP options was made to the Executive Directors 
who were in office at this time. The award was made in two tranches 
and for the first tranche performance was assessed over a performance 
period of three years. For the second tranche performance was assessed 
over a performance period of four years.
During the year, the Committee assessed whether the first half of the 
award made under the 2010 LTIP scheme had vested. Vesting of this 
LTIP award was dependent upon the Group’s relative total shareholder 
return (TSR) measured over a performance period of three years. 
Awards were due to vest in accordance with the following table:
Level of comparative performance during the performance period Percentage of LTIP award released %
Below median —
At or above median 30*
Upper quartile 100*
* Linear vesting between points.
Director
Number
of options
 awarded
Value of
award 
Share price
used to
 determine
level of award
p
Face 
value
£
Exercise
price
p
% that vests 
at threshold
Vesting
date
C P Blackwell 458,110 110% 81.0 371,069 0.025 25% 07/06/2016
T M Phillips 611,246 200% 81.0 495,109 0.025 25% 07/06/2016
P S Oliver 185,185 100% 81.0 150,000 0.025 25% 07/06/2016
Total 1,254,541 1,016,178 
In determining whether awards would vest, the Company’s performance 
was measured against the FTSE Small Cap Index rather than a comparator 
group of companies. The scheme rules included an additional performance 
criterion whereby the awards would not vest if the average share price 
over the three-month period before the date of vesting is less than 100p. 
The average share price over this period was 87.83p and consequently 
the first half of the award made in 2010 did not vest.
Scheme interests awarded during the year
LTIP
On 7 June 2013, the following awards were granted to the 
Executive Directors under the 2012 LTIP scheme:
Award levels were calculated based on the closing share price 
of 81p on the trading day immediately preceding the date of grant. 
The face value of each award shown above is based upon this share 
price. For the purposes of calculating the award, Trevor Phillips’ salary 
was translated at an exchange rate of $1.55/£1.
When determining the award for Trevor Phillips, the Committee exercised 
its discretion and made an exceptional award of 200% of base salary. 
This was appropriate in light of the expansion of Trevor Phillips’ role 
following his appointment to the Board which took place during 2013. 
It is not envisaged that any further exceptional awards will be made 
to Trevor Phillips.
An award of 110% was made to Chris Blackwell. In determining the level 
of Chris Blackwell’s award, the Committee took account of his performance 
during 2012/13, in particular continuing to develop the Executive 
Management Team and developing and executing Vectura’s strategy.
The awards granted under the 2012 LTIP scheme on 7 June 2013, are 
subject to relative TSR measured over a three-year period against two 
comparator groups (each representing 50% of the total award), as set 
out in the table on page 66. Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14
66
Performance against the conditions will be measured by the Committee’s 
independent advisors.
Vesting of awards is also subject to an “underpin” enabling the Committee 
to decrease or increase the percentage of the award which vests based 
on its assessment of the Group’s underlying performance over the period 
against a range of factors including the Group’s underlying financial 
performance, absolute shareholder returns and progress against 
milestones. Any exercise of this discretion by the Committee will be 
fully disclosed to shareholders with an explanation of the Committee’s 
reasoning in the Report on remuneration for the relevant year. 
Furthermore, the Committee will consult with its major shareholders 
before exercising its discretion to increase the percentage of any 
award that vests. 
To the extent that the performance conditions are not met in full 
at the end of the three-year performance period, awards lapse.
Consistent with current best practice, the Committee has the power 
to claw back all or part of the awards/payments for one year following 
vesting in the event of a material misstatement, error in the calculation 
of performance against the performance conditions of the plan or any 
other matter which it deems relevant to this provision.
Free share awards
An award of free shares was made to all employees on 24 June 2013, 
under Vectura’s Share Incentive Plan (SIP). The awards are subject to a 
three-year holding period and no performance conditions are attached. 
The awards made to Directors who held office on 24 June 2013 are 
shown on the table below.
Remuneration report continued
Director
Number of
shares
awarded
Closing share
 price on
date of grant
p
Face
value
£
% that vests
at threshold
Vesting
date
C P Blackwell 3,703 81.0 3,000 — 24/06/2016
T M Phillips 3,703 81.0 3,000 — 24/06/2016
A P Hyland 3,703 81.0 3,000 — 24/06/2016
Total 11,109 9,000 
Matching share awards
On 3 July 2013, the Directors listed below purchased shares through the SIP. For every one share purchased, Vectura awarded a free matching 
share pursuant to the scheme rules. The value of the matching shares is shown below. The awards are subject to a three-year holding period 
and no performance conditions are attached.
Director
Number of
shares
awarded
Closing share
price on
date of grant
p
Face 
value
£
% that vests
at threshold
Vesting
date
C P Blackwell 1,875 80.0 1,500 — 03/07/2016
T M Phillips 1,875 80.0 1,500 — 03/07/2016
P S Oliver 1,875 80.0 1,500 — 03/07/2016
Total 5,625 4,500 
Scheme interests awarded during the year continued
LTIP continued
TSR performance vs. FTSE Small Cap
over three years (% of award vesting)
TSR performance vs. Euro Stoxx Pharmaceuticals
and Biotechnology Index over three years (% of award vesting)
Below median 0% 0%
Median 12.5% 12.5%
Between median and upper quartile Between 12.5% and 50% on a straight-line basis Between 12.5% and 50% on a straight-line basis
Upper quartile or above 50% 50% 67
Financial statements Governance Strategic report Overview
Total pension entitlements
As stated in the notes to the single figure table, UK tax legislation imposes penalty taxes on annual pension contributions where prescribed 
maximum amounts are exceeded. Impacted Executive Directors receive an additional taxable supplementary cash payment in lieu of pension 
contributions in excess of any limits.
Paid into
pension
fund
£000
Received 
in cash
£000
Total
pension
£000
Executive Directors
C P Blackwell 50 17 67
A P Hyland 11 — 11
T M Phillips
(1)
48 — 48
P S Oliver 30 — 30
139 17 156
(1) At an average exchange rate of 1.59 $/1.
Early vesting of LTIP awards
Share option awards £
2010 award (option over 574,632 shares) 25% vesting; 44/48 time pro-rated Option over 131,226 shares 116,791
* Share price at vesting: £0.89.
**  The Committee considered the performance against the performance conditions up to the termination date and determined that 25% of this award should vest.
Payments made for loss of office and payments to past Directors 
After eleven years of service at Vectura, Anne Hyland stepped down as 
Chief Financial Officer and Company Secretary, effective from 1 July 2013. 
During her time at Vectura, Anne Hyland was responsible for Vectura’s 
listing on the Alternative Investment Market and the subsequent listing 
on the Main Market. Anne Hyland was closely involved in the acquisition 
of Innovata plc and, more recently, she was instrumental in establishing 
Vectura’s Chinese joint venture, Kinnovata.
The Company entered into an agreement with Anne Hyland. 
Pursuant to this agreement, Anne Hyland received a payment 
of £178,000 as settlement of her legal entitlement. This included 
£136,000 as payment in lieu of salary and benefits during the balance 
of her twelve-month contractual notice period and in respect of her 
accrued holiday entitlement. In addition, the Company continued to 
provide Anne Hyland with private medical insurance and life assurance 
during this period.
The amounts paid to Anne Hyland under this agreement relate to her 
service as a Director and therefore they have been included in the “other” 
amount disclosed in the total remuneration table.
In accordance with the remuneration policy outlined in the remuneration 
policy section of this report, Anne Hyland was treated as a good leaver 
under the various share schemes that the Group operates. Awards that 
may vest under the 2012 LTIP scheme will vest at the normal vesting 
date and be pro-rated, according to length of service. Awards made 
under the Group’s Share Incentive Plan and Sharesave Scheme will 
vest in accordance with the rules of those schemes.
With regard to the award made under the 2010 scheme, it was agreed 
that the following options were deemed to have vested: Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14
68
Statement of Directors’ shareholding 
and share interests (audited information)
As a direct link between executive remuneration and the interests 
of shareholders, the Committee has implemented shareholding guidelines 
for Executive Directors and key senior employees. The guidelines require 
that Executive Directors build up and maintain an interest in the ordinary 
shares of the Company that is equal in value to their annual base salary. 
In assessing compliance with this requirement, the value of the 
shareholding shown below is assessed using the higher of the share 
price on 31 March 2014, being 153.25p, and the acquisition price of 
the shares. The value as a percentage of salary has been calculated 
using base salary as at 31 March 2014, as shown in the single figure 
remuneration table.
Until this level of shareholding has been attained, Executive Directors 
are required to retain at least half of any share awards vesting as shares 
(after paying any tax due) until they have a holding equivalent to at 
least 100% of their base salary. 
The Directors who have held office during the year ended 31 March 2014 
and their interests (in respect of which transactions are notifiable to the 
Company under the Financial Conduct Authority’s Transparency Rules) 
in the share capital of Vectura Group plc at 31 March 2014 are shown 
in the table opposite.
There was no change in the Directors’ interests between 31 March 2014 
and 20 May 2014, the date of this report.
Remuneration report continued
Shares owned
LTIP awards subject to performance conditions Share option awards not subject to performance conditions
Unvested Vested
(5)
Unvested Vested
31 March 2014
Ordinary shares
 of 0.025p each
Value of
 owned
shares as
 a % of
salary
2010 
award
2012
award
2013
award
Unapproved
scheme
Approved
scheme Sharesave
Unapproved
scheme
Approved
scheme Sharesave
Executive Directors
C P Blackwell
(1)
692,949 315% 878,684 401,889 458,110 1,271,149 — — 18,987 2,646,926 37,383 —
T M Phillips
(2)
27,479 18% 242,664 410,659 611,246 — — — 11,718 212,010 — —
P S Oliver
(3)
65,116 50% — 34,785 185,185 — — — 18,987 119,063 35,460 —
A P Hyland 642,496 — 131,226 121,941 — 860,853 — — — 618,830 — —
Non-Executive Directors
B F J Angelici 12,903 — — — — — — — — — — —
J P Cashman 946,647 — — — — — — — — 918,989 — —
J R Brown
(4)
242,681 — — — — — — — — 238,989 — —
S E Foden 11,000 — — — — — — — — — — —
N W Warner 30,477 — — — — — — — — — — —
(1)  The holding of C P Blackwell includes 59,130 ordinary shares of 0.025p each, which 
are held in the Vectura Group plc Employee Benefit Trust (Share Incentive Plan).
(2)  The holding of T M Phillips includes 16,027 ordinary shares of 0.025p each, which 
are held in the Vectura Group plc Employee Benefit Trust (Share Incentive Plan).
(3)  P S Oliver was appointed to the Board on 1 July 2013. The holding of P S Oliver 
includes 58,664 ordinary shares of 0.025p each which are held in the Vectura Group plc 
Employee Benefit Trust (Share Incentive Plan).
(4)  The holding of J R Brown includes 20,457 ordinary shares of 0.025p each, which are 
held through nominees.
(5) Vested LTIP awards relate to outstanding awards granted between 2005 and 2008.
The gain shown above is the notional gain on exercise of unapproved 
options exercised during the year. In total, Chris Blackwell exercised 
145,600 options and of this total he sold 112,500 shares solely 
to cover the cost of the exercise including related tax liabilities. 
Chris Blackwell retained the balance of 33,100 shares.
Approved and Unapproved Share Option Plans and the EMI Plan 
Executive Directors hold options under the Approved and Unapproved 
Share Option Plans as detailed above. Historically, no performance 
conditions have been attached to the options granted under the 
above schemes. The exercise price is equal to the market value 
of Vectura Group plc’s shares at the time the options are granted.
In the Corporate governance section of this Annual Report, it is noted 
that the Group granted certain of its Non-Executive Directors share options 
as part of their remuneration. The policy of granting share options to 
Non-Executive Directors has not applied since the Group was publicly 
listed in 2004, and no further share option have been made or will be 
made. The options held by the John Brown have vested and are exercisable 
at any time. The facts and circumstances of this arrangement are set 
out on page 45, and following a rigorous Board evaluation, the Board 
has determined that John Brown continues to be independent.
Gain on exercise of share options
Number of
options
exercised
Exercise
price
p
Market value
at date
of exercise
p
Gain on exercise
of share options
£
Executive Directors
C P Blackwell 23,376 48.125 97.250 11,483
C P Blackwell 122,224 48.125 97.250 60,043
Aggregate gain on exercise of share options 71,526 69
Financial statements Governance Strategic report Overview
Shares owned
LTIP awards subject to performance conditions Share option awards not subject to performance conditions
Unvested Vested
(5)
Unvested Vested
31 March 2014
Ordinary shares
 of 0.025p each
Value of
 owned
shares as
 a % of
salary
2010 
award
2012
award
2013
award
Unapproved
scheme
Approved
scheme Sharesave
Unapproved
scheme
Approved
scheme Sharesave
Executive Directors
C P Blackwell
(1)
692,949 315% 878,684 401,889 458,110 1,271,149 — — 18,987 2,646,926 37,383 —
T M Phillips
(2)
27,479 18% 242,664 410,659 611,246 — — — 11,718 212,010 — —
P S Oliver
(3)
65,116 50% — 34,785 185,185 — — — 18,987 119,063 35,460 —
A P Hyland 642,496 — 131,226 121,941 — 860,853 — — — 618,830 — —
Non-Executive Directors
B F J Angelici 12,903 — — — — — — — — — — —
J P Cashman 946,647 — — — — — — — — 918,989 — —
J R Brown
(4)
242,681 — — — — — — — — 238,989 — —
S E Foden 11,000 — — — — — — — — — — —
N W Warner 30,477 — — — — — — — — — — —
(1)  The holding of C P Blackwell includes 59,130 ordinary shares of 0.025p each, which 
are held in the Vectura Group plc Employee Benefit Trust (Share Incentive Plan).
(2)  The holding of T M Phillips includes 16,027 ordinary shares of 0.025p each, which 
are held in the Vectura Group plc Employee Benefit Trust (Share Incentive Plan).
(3)  P S Oliver was appointed to the Board on 1 July 2013. The holding of P S Oliver 
includes 58,664 ordinary shares of 0.025p each which are held in the Vectura Group plc 
Employee Benefit Trust (Share Incentive Plan).
(4)  The holding of J R Brown includes 20,457 ordinary shares of 0.025p each, which are 
held through nominees.
(5) Vested LTIP awards relate to outstanding awards granted between 2005 and 2008.
31 March 2009 31 March 2010 31 March 2011 31 March 2012 31 March 2013 31 March 2014
300
250
200
150
100
50
0
Value (£)
This graph shows the value, by 31 March 2014, of £100 invested in Vectura Group plc on 31 March 2009, compared with the value of £100 invested in the 
FTSE Small Cap Index. The other points plotted are the values at intervening ﬁnancial year ends. 
FTSE Small Cap Index Vectura Group plc 
Total shareholder return
Source: Thomson Reuters
Unaudited information
Performance graph and table
The following graph shows the Vectura Group plc’s cumulative total 
shareholder return (TSR) over the last five financial years relative 
to the FTSE Small Cap Index. This index was chosen as Vectura is one 
of the constituent companies and the Committee feels that it is one 
of the most appropriate against which to measure performance.
TSR is defined as the return on investment obtained from holding 
a company’s shares over a period. It includes dividends paid, the 
change in the capital value of the shares and any other payments 
made to or by shareholders within the period. Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14
70
Remuneration report continued
Aligning pay with performance
Chief Executive remuneration compared with annual growth in TSR:
2009/10
£000
2010/11
£000
2011/12
£000
2012/13
£000
2013/14
£000
Annual growth in TSR (%) (13.8) 29.8 (11.1) 67.3 68.9 
Salary, pensions and benefits 384 383 396 401 411
Annual performance bonus 150 196 174 193 337
Long-term incentive plans vesting 177 90 401 — —
Chief Executive total remuneration 711 669 971 594 748
Actual bonus as a % of the maximum 47% 62% 53% 59% 100%
Actual share award vesting as a % of the maximum
(1)
83.3% 62.9% 100% 0% 0%
(1) No LTIP awards vested during FY 2012/13.
Percentage change in remuneration of the Chief Executive
Set out below is the change over the prior period in base salary, benefits, pension, annual performance bonus of the Chief Executive and the 
Group’s employees:
2013/14
£000
Chief Executive All employees
Percentage change (FY2012/13 v FY2013/14) Percentage change (FY2012/13 v FY2013/14)
Salary 337 +2.7% +2.8%
Benefits 2 0% 0%
Bonus 337 +75% +77%
Relative importance of Executive Director remuneration
FY2013/14
£m
FY2012/13
£m
Change
£m
Total employee remuneration 13.4 12.2 1.2
Revenue 36.5 30.5 6.0
Research and development expenditure 28.0 30.9 (2.9)
(Loss)/profit before tax (4.8) (10.4) 5.6
Distributions to shareholders — — —
Statement of shareholder voting at 2013 AGM
At last year’s AGM held on 23 September 2013, approval of the Remuneration report received the following votes from shareholders:
For (including
discretionary
votes) Against
Total votes cast
(excluding votes
withheld)
Votes 
withheld
(1)
Total votes 
cast (including 
withheld votes)
To approve the Remuneration report 271,054,029 3,097,220 274,151,249 2,446,473 276,597,722
% of votes cast 98.87 1.13 100 
(1) A vote that is withheld does not constitute a vote in law and has not therefore been included in the totals above. 71
Financial statements Governance Strategic report Overview
Statement of implementation of remuneration policy 
in the following financial year
Base salaries
The Committee has, in conjunction with its executive pay consultants, 
conducted a detailed review of the remuneration of the Executive Directors. 
This is the first significant review of base salary levels that has taken 
place for seven years. The review indicated that the salaries for each 
of the Executive Directors were significantly below the Committee’s 
assessment of mid-market levels for the roles. This was in line with 
the Committee’s expectations given the significant growth and change 
in the profile of the Company since this time.
The Committee concluded that it would be appropriate to increase 
the salary of the Chief Executive with effect from 1 April 2014 by 
18.7% from £337,000 to £400,000. Whilst the Committee recognises 
that this is a significant increase, it was of the view that, as well as 
excellent personal performance, the increase fairly reflected the 
following factors:
(i) Company growth. Over the last few years the size and complexity 
of the business has increased significantly. Further success requires a 
Chief Executive who is properly motivated and incentivised to deliver. 
(ii) Policy. Our remuneration policy is clear in stating that ‘we aim 
to provide salaries that are broadly aligned with the mid points of 
equivalent roles in comparable companies in the UK, adjusted to 
reflect company size and complexity’. The increase awarded is, in 
effect, enacting this policy and seeks to align the Chief Executive’s 
salary with mid-market levels. 
(iii) Past awards. The Committee has historically acted with restraint, 
preferring to await significant performance and delivery rather than 
award year on year increments. Thus in three of the years since 2008, 
the Chief Executive received no salary increase and in the other years, 
increases were close to inflation. Averaged out over this period, the 
present increase equates to 3.66% pa.
For similar reasons, the Chief Operations Officer’s salary has been 
increased with effect from 1 April 2014 by 14% from £241,000 
(at an average exchange rate of US$1.59/£1) to £275,000.
It is anticipated that following this re-alignment, future increases for 
Trevor Phillips will be in line with those of the general workforce.
The Committee will review the level of Chris Blackwell’s salary again 
in 2015 having due regard to the criteria presented above.
The Chief Financial Officer’s base salary was set at £200,000 upon 
his appointment to the Board in July 2013. This was set below the 
Committee’s assessment of a mid-market rate for the role, with a view 
to increasing his salary toward a mid-market level over time subject to 
his performance and development in the role, in line with Vectura’s policy 
for new appointments. Having reviewed Paul Oliver’s development 
within his role, the Committee has determined that a 10% base salary 
increase is appropriate, increasing his salary to £220,000 with effect 
from 1 April 2014. This base salary remains below the Committee’s 
assessment of the mid-market rate for this role, and subject to continuing 
performance and development in the role, a further above inflation 
increase may be considered in 2015.
Overall, the Committee believes that these changes were commercially 
necessary to ensure retention of Executive Directors of the calibre 
required to deliver the Group’s strategic objectives.
Non-Executive Directors’ fees
Non-Executive Directors’ fees have been increased from £45,000 to 
£52,000 per annum, which is inclusive of fees for chairing committees 
and undertaking the role of Senior Independent Director. The increase 
reflects the increased demands and time required to fulfil these roles. 
The Chairman’s fee was re-positioned following his appointment to the 
Board in December 2013; as such, his fee remains at £120,000.
Bonus
The performance targets set for the performance bonus for future 
years will be disclosed in accordance with the policy set out on 
pages 55 to 61 of this report.
Performance measures will include targets relating to creating 
strategic growth opportunities, securing existing pipeline value 
and achieving financial growth.
On behalf of the Board
Dr Susan Foden
Chair of the Remuneration Committee
20 May 2014 Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14
72
The following matters are reported by the Directors in accordance 
with the Companies Act 2006 requirements in force and the date 
of this Annual Report and Accounts.
Principal activity
The principal activity of the Group undertaken during the year was 
research, development and commercialisation of novel therapeutic 
products and drug delivery systems for human use. 
Review of business
The consolidated income statement for the year ended 31 March 2014 
is set out on page 80. Key events during the past year are described in 
the Strategic report; highlights of 2013/14 are shown on page 1 and are 
referred to in more detail in the Chairman’s statement, the Chief 
Executive’s statement and the Financial review. These reports, together 
with the Chairman’s introduction, the Corporate governance statement, 
the Audit Committee report, the Nomination Committee report and the 
Remuneration Committee report, are incorporated into this report by 
reference and should be read as part of this report. 
The Group’s risk management process and the Board’s assessment 
of the key risks and uncertainties facing the business are set out 
on pages 33 to 38. During the year, the Board has reviewed the risk 
management policies in place, as summarised in the Corporate governance 
statement on pages 46 to 47. Key performance indicators are set out 
on page 18.
Group’s result and dividend
The consolidated loss after tax for the year was £2.3m (2012/13: loss 
of £5.9m). The Directors do not recommend the payment of a dividend 
(2012/13: £nil).
Financial instruments
The policy and practice of the Group with regard to financial instruments 
is disclosed in note 20 of the financial statements.
Directors
The Directors listed on pages 40 to 41 served throughout the year 
with the exception of Paul Oliver and Bruno Angelici. Paul Oliver 
was appointed as Chief Financial Officer and Company Secretary 
on 1 July 2013 and Bruno Angelici was appointed as a Non-Executive 
Director on 1 December 2013 and became Chairman of the Board 
on 1 February 2014.
Additional statutory information
In addition, Jack Cashman served as a Non-Executive Director and 
Chairman of the Board for the period 1 April 2013 to 1 February 2014.
Brief biographical details of each Director are set on pages 40 to 41.
Details of Directors’ remuneration and their interests in the share 
capital of the Company are given in the Remuneration report. None of 
the Directors has any interest in any contract of significance to the 
financial statements.
With regard to the appointment and replacement of Directors, the 
Company is governed by its Articles of Association, the UK Corporate 
Governance Code, the Companies Act 2006 and related legislation. 
The Articles of Association themselves may be amended by special 
resolution of the shareholders. The powers of Directors are described 
in the Board’s terms of reference, copies of which are available on request, 
and the Corporate governance report on pages 43 to 47.
Directors’ indemnities
The Company has granted an indemnity to its Directors against liability 
in respect of proceedings brought by third parties, which remains in 
force as at the date of approving the Directors’ report.
Other than the indemnity provisions described above, none of the 
Directors had a material interest in any contract of significance to 
which the Company or any of its subsidiary undertakings was a party 
during the year ended 31 March 2014 and up to the date of the 
publication of this report.
Shares
Share capital
At 14 May 2014, the nearest practical date to the date of this report, the 
Company had a total of 3,302 ordinary shareholders and 399,889,916 
ordinary shares in issue.
Rights and obligations
The rights and obligations attaching to the ordinary shares are set out 
in the Company’s Articles of Association (“the Articles”). The Articles may 
only be amended by special resolution of the members of the Company. 
A copy of the Articles is available upon request.
Significant shareholdings
The Directors had been notified of the following substantial holdings in the Company’s share capital as at the close of business on 14 May 2014:
Number of shares
’000 %
Invesco Asset Management Limited 50,063 12.52
Legal & General Investment Management Limited 38,454 9.62
Franklin Resources, Inc. 27,629 6.91
Aberforth Partners LLP 20,730 5.19
Aviva plc 16,663 4.17
Baillie Gifford & Co 15,886 3.97
AXA SA 14,347 3.59 73
Financial statements Governance Strategic report Overview
Share price
The mid-market share price as shown by the London Stock Exchange 
Daily Official List on 31 March 2014 was 153.25p. The mid-market 
share price ranged from 77p to 170p during the year to 31 March 2014. 
The average share price for the period was 113.4p.
Capital structure
Details of the authorised and issued share capital, together with details 
of the movements in the Company’s issued share capital during the year, 
are shown in note 21. The Company has one class of ordinary shares 
which carry no right to fixed income. Each share carries the right to one 
vote at general meetings of the Company. The redeemable preference 
shares carry no interest, nor do they carry voting rights. The percentage 
of the issued nominal value of the ordinary shares is 74.6% of the total 
issued nominal value of all share capital.
There are no specific restrictions on the size of a holding nor on the 
transfer of shares, which are both governed by the general provisions 
of the Articles of Association and prevailing legislation. The Directors 
are not aware of any agreements between holders of the Company’s 
shares that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or 
on voting rights. 
Details of employee share schemes are set out in note 22. Shares held 
by the Vectura Group plc Employee Benefit Trust abstain from voting.
No person has any special rights of control over the Company’s share 
capital and all issued shares are fully paid.
Under its Articles of Association, the Company has authority to issue 
441.2m ordinary shares.
Employee engagement
The Group’s policies on the environment, health and safety, ethical 
and social issues and its employees are disclosed in the Strategic review; 
refer to pages 29 to 32.
Political and charitable donations
Vectura encourages employee involvement in charitable causes, 
but does not contribute itself because it is loss-making. There were 
no political donations during the year (2012/13: £nil).
Going concern
The accounts have been prepared on the going concern basis. 
Although the current economic conditions may place pressures on 
customers and suppliers who may face liquidity issues, the Group’s 
product diversity and customer and supplier base substantially 
mitigate these risks. In addition, the Group operates in the relatively 
defensive pharmaceutical industry, which we expect to be less 
affected compared to other industries.
The Group made a loss of £2.3m for the financial year ended 
31 March 2014 (2012/13: £5.9m) but had £81.7m of cash and 
cash equivalents as at 31 March 2014 (2013: £70.1m). The Board 
operates an investment policy under which the primary objective is 
to invest in low-risk cash or cash equivalent investments to safeguard 
the principal. The Group’s forecasts, taking into account likely revenue 
streams, show that the Group has sufficient funds to operate for the 
foreseeable future.
After reviewing the Group’s forecasts and assessing the uncertain nature 
of some of the Group’s forecast revenues, the Directors believe that 
the Group is adequately placed to manage its business and financing 
risks successfully despite the current uncertain economic outlook. 
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in 
preparing the Annual Report and Accounts. 
Annual General Meeting
The Annual General Meeting will be held at the offices of Olswang, 
90 High Holborn, London WC1V 6XX on 19 September 2014 at 12.00 noon. 
Details of the business to be transacted at the forthcoming AGM will be 
given in a separate circular to shareholders.
Auditor
Deloitte LLP has expressed a willingness to continue in office as auditor 
and a resolution to re-appoint Deloitte will be put to the members at 
the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The Directors who were members of the Board at the time of approving 
the Directors’ report are listed on pages 40 and 41. Having made enquiries 
of fellow Directors and of the Company’s auditor, each of these 
Directors confirms that:
•  to the best of each Director’s knowledge and belief, there is no 
information relevant to the preparation of their report of which 
the Company’s auditor is unaware; and
•  each Director has taken all the steps a Director might reasonably be 
expected to have taken to be aware of relevant audit information and 
to establish that the Company’s auditor is aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance 
with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
Directors’ report
The Directors’ report comprises pages 72 to 73 of this Annual Report 
and Accounts.
By order of the Board
Paul Oliver
Company Secretary
20 May 2014 Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14
74
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the 
financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare such financial statements 
for each financial year. Under that law the Directors are required to 
prepare the group financial statements in accordance with International 
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union 
and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and have also chosen to prepare the 
parent company financial statements under IFRSs as adopted by the 
European Union. Under company law the Directors must not approve 
the accounts unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view 
of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of the 
Company for that period. In preparing these financial statements, 
International Accounting Standard 1 requires that Directors:
• properly select and apply accounting policies;
•  present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that 
provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information; 
•  provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific 
requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users to understand 
the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions 
on the entity’s financial position and financial performance; and
•  make an assessment of the Company’s ability to continue as a 
going concern.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records 
that are sufficient to show and explain the Company’s transactions 
and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position 
of the Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements 
comply with the Companies Act 2006. They are also responsible for 
safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable 
steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of 
the corporate and financial information included on the Company’s 
website. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation 
and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation 
in other jurisdictions.
Directors’ responsibility statement
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge:
•  the financial statements, prepared in accordance with International 
Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU, give a true and 
fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss 
of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation 
taken as a whole;
•  the Strategic report includes a fair review of the development and 
performance of the business and the position of the Company and 
the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, 
together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties 
which they face; and,
•  the Annual Report and financial statements, taken as whole, are 
fair, balanced and understandable and provide the information 
necessary for shareholders to assess the Company’s performance, 
business model and strategy.
Paul Oliver
Director
20 May 2014 75
Financial statements Governance Strategic report Overview
Independent auditor’s report
to the members of Vectura Group plc
Opinion on financial statements of Vectura Group plc
In our opinion:
•  the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s and of the parent company’s affairs as at 31 March 2014 
and of the Group’s loss for the year then ended;
•  the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) 
as adopted by the European Union;
•  the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union 
and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006; and
•  the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the 
Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The financial statements comprise the consolidated income statement, consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the balance sheet, 
the cash flow statement, the statement of changes in equity and the related notes 1 to 28. The financial reporting framework that has been 
applied in their preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the parent company financial 
statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs as issued by the IASB
As explained in Note 1 to the Group financial statements, in addition to complying with its legal obligation to apply IFRSs as adopted by the 
European Union, the Group has also applied IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB).
In our opinion the Group financial statements comply with IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
Going concern
As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the Directors’ statement contained on page 73 that the Group is a going concern. 
We confirm that:
•  we have concluded that the Directors’ use of the going concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the financial statements 
is appropriate; and
• we have not identified any material uncertainties that may cast significant doubt on the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Group’s ability to continue 
as a going concern. Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement
The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation 
of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team:
Risk How the scope of our audit 
responded to the risk
Acquisition accounting
The Group acquired Activaero GmbH on 18 March 2014 for a total consideration of €130m. 
Management exercised judgement in determining its provisional valuation of the intangible 
assets and associated deferred tax liability, underlying net assets and resultant goodwill 
associated with the acquisition.
See Note 28 to the financial statements where the key assumptions around the acquisition 
accounting have been disclosed.
We focused our audit work on the key 
judgements taken by management around 
the recognition and valuation of intangible 
assets and associated deferred tax liability. 
This included critically assessing the underlying 
cash flow forecasts and using our firm’s 
valuation experts in auditing key assumptions 
such as independently recalculating and 
benchmarking the discount rate applied 
and evaluating whether the valuation technique 
was appropriate in the circumstances. We also 
worked with our tax experts in challenging 
and testing the key assumptions applied 
around the recognition of deferred tax.
We have performed audit work on the 
underlying net assets acquired, including 
adjustments made to those amounts by 
management. This included, but was not 
limited to, testing a sample of current assets 
and liabilities to supporting audit evidence, 
verifying the valuation and existence 
of tangible assets and performing tests 
for unrecorded liabilities.
Goodwill impairment
The carrying value of goodwill relies on assumptions and judgements made by management 
concerning the estimated future cash flows from a combination of early and late-stage research 
and development programmes, associated discount rates, regulatory milestones, clinical and 
commercial risk and market growth rates.
We assessed management’s assumptions used 
in its impairment model for goodwill, described 
in Note 9 to the financial statements, including:
•  the cash flow projections (by discussing 
with senior operational management 
and considering the consistency of the 
forecasts with clinical and licensing partner 
data and contractual agreements);
•  discount rates (by engaging our valuation 
specialists to independently recalculate 
the Group’s WACC and then performing an 
assessment of the risk adjustments applied 
by management); and
•  sensitivity analysis of management’s 
forecasts including assessing the impact 
of applying further sensitivities.
Independent auditor’s report 
to the members of Vectura Group plc continued
76 Financial statements Governance Strategic report Overview
Risk How the scope of our audit 
responded to the risk
Revenue recognition
The Group’s two principal revenue streams are licence milestones and royalty income:
•  recognition of revenue on licence milestones can be subjective and management exercises 
judgement in determining whether the Group has fulfilled all of its performance obligations 
under that contract and therefore the relevant period over which to recognise revenue. 
This is a material judgement that impacts the financial statements; and
•  royalty income needs to be accrued for at year end based on management’s estimate of 
the licence partners’ global sales in the final quarter, over which there is no direct visibility. 
This requires management to exercise judgement in estimating the amount to recognise 
as revenue in the year, which has a material impact on the financial statements.
We reviewed the key contracts for the 
Group and management’s calculations 
for each milestone to assess consistency 
with the Group’s accounting policies 
and compliance with IAS 18 ‘Revenue’. 
We challenged management’s assumptions 
through discussions with the development 
team and review of supporting documentation 
and regulatory announcements to assess 
whether the period of recognition for each 
milestone was appropriate.
Our audit work focused on the royalty income 
accrued in the final quarter of the year and we 
used evidence from a range of sources, such as 
previous royalty statements and post year end 
correspondence with the licensing partners to 
challenge management’s estimates around the 
amount accrued.
The Audit Committee’s consideration of these risks is set out on page 49.
Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and not to express 
an opinion on individual accounts or disclosures. Our opinion on the financial statements is not modified with respect to any of the risks described 
above, and we do not express an opinion on these individual matters.
Our application of materiality
We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions 
of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced. We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work 
and in evaluating the results of our work.
We determined materiality for the Group to be £2m, which is approximately 1% of equity. Equity has been used as the basis for determining 
materiality as it represents the most stable aspect of the business, with year on year fluctuations seen in revenues and loss before tax as 
the Group progresses its R&D programmes; equity also reflects the Group’s focus on cash generation and cash management.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all misstatements identified in excess of £40,000, as well as 
misstatements below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds. We also report to the Audit Committee 
on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
An overview of the scope of our audit
Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, including Group-wide controls, and assessing 
the risks of material misstatement at the Group level. 
Based on that assessment, we focused our Group audit scope on the UK businesses which are managed from Chippenham, UK. These were 
subject to a full scope audit by the Group audit team using component materialities which were lower than Group materiality. The UK businesses 
account for 99% of the Group’s net assets, 99% of the Group’s revenue and 85% of the Group’s loss before tax. 
Specified audit procedures were performed by the Group audit team in respect of the recently acquired German business using a component 
materiality which is lower than Group materiality. Including goodwill and intangible assets this business accounts for 1% of the Group’s net assets, 
1% of the Group’s revenues and 15% of the Group’s loss before tax for the period between acquisition and the year end.
At the parent entity level we also tested the consolidation process and performed analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that there 
were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial information of the remaining components not subject to audit 
or audit of specified account balances.
77 Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14
78
Independent auditor’s report
to the members of Vectura Group plc continued
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 
In our opinion:
• the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006; and
•  the information given in the Strategic report and the Directors’ report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared 
is consistent with the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
• we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit; or
•  adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from 
branches not visited by us; or
• the parent company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Directors’ remuneration
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration have not been 
made or the part of the Directors’ Remuneration report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns. We have 
nothing to report arising from these matters.
Corporate Governance Statement
Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Company’s compliance 
with nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code. We have nothing to report arising from our review.
Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report
Under International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland), we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is:
• materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements; or
•  apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing 
our audit; or
• otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and 
the directors’ statement that they consider the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the Annual Report appropriately 
discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee which we consider should have been disclosed. We confirm that we have 
not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and 
for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance 
with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices 
Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors. We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 (UK and Ireland). Our audit methodology 
and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied. Our quality controls and systems include our 
dedicated professional standards review team, strategically focused second partner reviews and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. Our audit 
work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company’s members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditor’s report 
and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company 
and the Company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed. 79
Financial statements Governance Strategic report Overview
Matters on which we are required to report by exception continued
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the 
financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting 
policies are appropriate to the Group’s and the parent company’s circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed; 
the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors; and the overall presentation of the financial statements. In addition, 
we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements 
and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in 
the course of performing the audit. If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications 
for our report.
David Hedditch (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor
Bristol, United Kingdom
20 May 2014 Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14
80
 Note
2014
£m
2013
£m
Revenue 2 36.5 30.5
Cost of sales (1.0) (0.7)
Gross profit 35.5 29.8
Research and development expenses (28.0) (30.9)
Other administrative expenses (3.4) (3.3)
Non-recurring acquisition costs (2.5) —
Amortisation (6.9) (6.3)
Share-based compensation (0.9) (0.9)
Total administrative expenses (13.7) (10.5)
Operating loss 5 (6.2) (11.6)
Presented as:
EBITDA
(1)
5.2 (3.4)
Non-recurring acquisition costs (2.5) —
Amortisation (6.9) (6.3)
Depreciation of assets (1.1) (1.0)
Share-based compensation (0.9) (0.9)
Operating loss (6.2) (11.6)
Investment income 4 1.6 0.5
Finance (costs)/gains 4 (0.2) 0.7
Loss before taxation (4.8) (10.4)
Taxation 7 2.5 4.5
Loss after taxation attributable to equity holders of the Company (2.3) (5.9)
Loss per share: basic and diluted 8 (0.7p) (1.8p)
(1) Earnings before investment income, finance (costs)/gains, tax, depreciation, amortisation, share-based compensation, adjusted for non-recurring items.
All results are derived from continuing activities.
Consolidated income statement
for the year ended 31 March 2014 81
Financial statements Governance Strategic report Overview
Note
2014
£m
2013
£m
Loss after taxation attributable to equity holders of the Company (2.3) (5.9)
Other comprehensive loss:
Items that may be subsequently reclassified through the income statement
Foreign currency translation differences for foreign operations 28 (1.6) —
Other comprehensive expense (1.6) —
Total comprehensive loss attributable to equity holders of the Company (3.9) (5.9)
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
for the year ended 31 March 2014 Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14
82
Note
Group Company
2014
£m
2013
£m
2014
£m
2013
£m
Assets
Goodwill 9 57.3 49.6 2.0 2.0
Intangible assets 10 138.9 17.1 — —
Property, plant and equipment 11 11.6 9.0 — —
Investments in subsidiary undertakings 12 — — 233.8 125.6
Investments in joint venture 13 3.4 — — —
Other receivables 14 0.4 0.4 — —
Non-current assets 211.6 76.1 235.8 127.6
Inventories 15 1.0 0.8 — —
Trade and other receivables 16 13.7 9.2 — —
Amounts due from subsidiary undertakings 17 — — 86.7 72.9
Cash and cash equivalents 20 81.7 70.1 — —
Current assets 96.4 80.1 86.7 72.9
Total assets 308.0 156.2 322.5 200.5
Liabilities
Trade and other payables 18 (16.9) (19.7) — —
Deferred income 19 (0.1) (0.1) — —
Current liabilities (17.0) (19.8) — —
Deferred income 19 (1.7) (1.3) — —
Deferred consideration 28 (28.7) — (28.7) —
Deferred tax liabilities 7 (33.9) — — —
Non-current liabilities (64.3) (1.3) (28.7) —
Total liabilities (81.3) (21.1) (28.7) —
Net assets 226.7 135.1 293.8 200.5
Equity
Share capital 21a 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1
Share premium 21b 97.4 2.8 97.4 2.8
Special reserve 21c 8.2 8.2 8.2 8.2
Other reserve 21d 124.9 124.9 123.7 123.7
Share-based compensation reserve 21e 13.8 12.9 13.8 12.9
Translation reserve 21f (1.6) — — —
Retained (loss)/profit 21g (16.1) (13.8) 50.6 52.8
Total equity 226.7 135.1 293.8 200.5
The financial statements of Vectura Group plc, registered number 03418970, were approved and authorised for issue by the Board of Directors 
on 20 May 2014 and were signed on its behalf by:
Dr C P Blackwell P S Oliver
Director  Director
Balance sheet
at 31 March 2014 83
Financial statements Governance Strategic report Overview
 
Group Company
2014
£m
2013
£m
2014
£m
2013
£m
Operating loss (6.2) (11.6) (2.6) —
Depreciation and amortisation 8.0 7.3 — —
Share-based compensation 0.9 0.9 — —
Decrease/(increase) in inventories 0.2 (0.1) — —
Increase in trade and other receivables (3.9) — — —
Increase in inter-company receivables — — (9.6) —
Decrease in payables (4.6) (1.0) — —
Increase/(decrease) in deferred income 0.4 (3.4) — —
Exchange movements (0.2) 0.7 — —
Net cash outflow from operations (5.4) (7.2) (12.2) —
Research and development tax credits received 4.7 4.4 — —
Net cash outflow from operating activities (0.7) (2.8) (12.2) —
Cash flows from investing activities
Interest received 0.4 0.6 — —
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (2.3) (4.0) — —
Receipts from sale of property, plant and equipment — 0.2 — —
Disposal of investments 1.2 — — —
Acquisition of Activaero GmbH (37.8) — (37.8) —
Non-recurring acquisition costs (2.5) — — —
Net cash outflow from investing activities (41.0) (3.2) (37.8) —
Net cash outflow before financing activities (41.7) (6.0) (50.0) —
Cash flows from financing activities
Proceeds from issue of ordinary shares 55.3 0.6 52.0 —
Costs of raising equity (2.0) — (2.0) —
Net cash inflow from financing activities 53.3 0.6 50.0 —
Increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 11.6 (5.4) — —
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period 70.1 75.5 — —
Cash and cash equivalents at end of period 81.7 70.1 — —
Cash flow statement
for the year ended 31 March 2014 Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14
84
Group
Share 
capital 
£m
Share 
premium 
£m
Special 
reserve 
£m
Other 
reserve 
£m
Share-based
compensation
£m
Translation
reserve
£m
Retained
loss
£m
Total
equity
£m
At 1 April 2012 0.1 2.2 8.2 124.9 12.0 — (7.9) 139.5
Loss for the year — — — — — — (5.9) (5.9)
Share-based compensation — — — — 0.9 — — 0.9
Exercise of share options — 0.6 — — — — — 0.6
At 31 March 2013 0.1 2.8 8.2 124.9 12.9 — (13.8) 135.1
Loss for the year — — — — — — (2.3) (2.3)
Other comprehensive loss — — — — — (1.6) — (1.6)
Total comprehensive loss — — — — — (1.6) (2.3) (3.9)
Share-based compensation — — — — 0.9 — — 0.9
Shares issued on acquisition — 41.3 — — — — — 41.3
On placement of new shares — 52.0 — — — — — 52.0
Cost of raising equity — (2.0) — — — — — (2.0)
Exercise of share options — 3.3 — — — — — 3.3
At 31 March 2014 0.1 97.4 8.2 124.9 13.8 (1.6) (16.1) 226.7
Company
Share 
capital 
£m
Share 
premium 
£m
Special 
reserve 
£m
Other 
reserve 
£m
Share-based
compensation 
£m
Translation 
reserve
£m
Retained 
profit
£m
Total 
equity 
£m
At 1 April 2012 0.1 2.2 8.2 123.7 12.0 — 52.7 198.9
Profit for the year — — — — — — 0.1 0.1
Share-based compensation — — — — 0.9 — — 0.9
Exercise of share options — 0.6 — — — — — 0.6
At 31 March 2013 0.1 2.8 8.2 123.7 12.9 — 52.8 200.5
Loss for the year — — — — — — (2.2) (2.2)
Share-based compensation — — — — 0.9 — — 0.9
Shares issued on acquisition — 41.3 — — — — — 41.3
On placement of new shares — 52.0 — — — — — 52.0
Cost of raising equity — (2.0) — — — — — (2.0)
Exercise of share options — 3.3 — — — — — 3.3
At 31 March 2014 0.1 97.4 8.2 123.7 13.8 — 50.6 293.8
Statement of changes in equity
for the year ended 31 March 2014 85
Financial statements Governance Strategic report Overview
1. Significant accounting policies 
General information
Vectura Group plc is a public limited company incorporated in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act 2006. The address of the registered 
office and principal place of business is given on the final page of the report. The nature of the Group’s operations and its principal activities are 
set out in Strategic report on pages 7 to 38.
The Company’s ordinary shares are traded on the London Stock Exchange (LSE) under the ticker VEC.
Basis of preparation
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and IFRSs and related interpretations as adopted by the 
European Union and, therefore, the Group financial statements comply with Article 4 of the EU International Accounting Standard (IAS) Regulation. 
The Group and Company financial statements are also consistent with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as issued by the 
International Accounting Standards Board (IASB).
The separate financial statements of the Company are presented as required by the Companies Act 2006 and have been prepared in accordance 
with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union. The Company is taking advantage of the exemption in section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 
not to present its individual statement of comprehensive income and the related notes that form a part of these approved financial statements. 
The parent company loss for the year ended 31 March 2014 is £2.2m (2012/13: £0.1m profit). 
The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis, revised for use of fair values where required by applicable IFRS. 
Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants 
at the measurement date, regardless of whether that price is directly observable or estimated using another valuation technique. In estimating 
the fair value of an asset or a liability, the Group takes into account the characteristics of the asset or liability if a market participant would take 
those characteristics into account when pricing the asset or liability at the measurement date. Fair value measurements and/or disclosures purposes 
in these consolidated financial statements is determined on such basis, except for share-based payment transactions that are within the scope 
of IFRS 2, leasing transactions that are within the scope of IAS 17, and measurements that have some similarities to fair value but are not fair value, 
such as net realisable value in IAS 2 or value in use in IAS 36.
The presentational and functional currency of Vectura Group plc is sterling since that is the currency of the primary economic environment 
in which the Group operates. Foreign operations are included in accordance with the policies set out in this note to the financial statements. 
The consolidated financial statements are presented in sterling and all values are rounded to the nearest one hundred thousand (£0.1m), 
except where otherwise indicated. The principal accounting policies adopted are set out below.
Going concern
The accounts have been prepared on the going concern basis. Although the current economic conditions may place pressures on customers 
and suppliers which may face liquidity issues, the Group’s product diversity and customer and supplier base substantially mitigate these risks. 
In addition, the Group operates in the relatively defensive pharmaceutical industry which we expect to be less affected compared to other industries.
The Group made a loss of £2.3m for the financial year ended 31 March 2014 (2012/13: £5.9m) but had £81.7m of cash and cash equivalents 
as at 31 March 2014 (2013: £70.1m). The Board operates an investment policy under which the primary objective is to invest in low-risk cash 
or cash equivalent investments to safeguard the principal. The Group’s forecasts, taking into account likely revenue streams, show that the 
Group has sufficient funds to operate for the foreseeable future. 
After reviewing the Group’s forecasts and assessing the uncertain nature of some of the Group’s forecast revenues, the Directors believe 
that the Group is adequately placed to manage its business and financing risks successfully despite the current uncertain economic outlook. 
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Annual Report and Accounts. 
Basis of consolidation
The consolidated annual financial statements comprise the financial statements of Vectura Group plc and entities controlled by the Company 
(its subsidiaries) as at 31 March each year. Control is achieved when the Company:
• has power over the investee;
• is exposed to, or has rights, to variable return from its involvement with the investee; and
• has the ability to use its power to affect its returns.
The Company reassesses whether or not it controls an investee if facts and circumstances indicate that there are changes to one or more of the 
three elements of control listed above.
Notes to the financial statements
for the year ended 31 March 2014 Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14
86
Notes to the financial statements continued
for the year ended 31 March 2014
1. Significant accounting policies continued
Basis of consolidation continued
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group and cease to be consolidated from the date on which 
control is transferred out of the Group. Where there is a loss of control of a subsidiary, the consolidated financial statements include the results 
for the part of the reporting year during which the Group had control.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are prepared for the same reporting year as the parent Company, using consistent accounting policies. 
Adjustments are made to bring into line any dissimilar accounting policies that may exist.
All inter-company balances and transactions, including unrealised profits arising from intra-group transactions, have been eliminated in full.
Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty
In preparing the financial statements, management is required to make estimates and assumptions, in accordance with IFRS, that affect 
the amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses reported in the financial statements. The estimates and associated assumptions 
are based on historical experience and other factors that are considered to be relevant. Actual amounts and results could differ from those 
estimates. The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised 
in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period or in the period of the revision and future periods if the 
revision affects both current and future periods.
The critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty that have a significant risk of causing material adjustment to 
the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are the determination of the fair value of acquired intangible assets, 
the measurement and review for impairment of definite and indefinite-life intangible assets (goodwill), revenue recognition and the treatment 
of research and development expenditure in line with the relevant accounting policy. 
Estimation uncertainty – Intangible assets
The measurement of intangible assets other than goodwill on a business combination involves estimation of future cash flows and the selection 
of a suitable discount rate. In determining the fair value of acquired intangibles, the Group uses market-observable data to the extent that is available. 
To the extent that such inputs are not available, the Group works closely with external valuation experts to establish the appropriate valuation 
techniques and inputs to the model. Information about the valuation techniques and inputs used to determine the fair value of acquired intangible 
assets are disclosed in notes 28.
Estimation uncertainty – Impairment of goodwill
The Group determines on an annual basis whether goodwill is impaired and this requires the estimation of the value in use of the cash-generating 
units to which goodwill is allocated. The value in use calculation requires the entity to estimate the future cash flows expected to arise from the 
cash-generating unit and a suitable discount rate in order to calculate the present value. Details of goodwill are set out in note 9. 
Critical accounting judgements – Revenue recognition
The recognition of milestone revenue income requires an assessment of the Group’s future obligations under a given contract, which determines 
the period over which the revenue is recognised.
Estimation uncertainty – Share-based payments
The estimation of share-based payment costs requires the selection of an appropriate valuation model, consideration as to the inputs necessary 
for the valuation model chosen and the estimation of the number of awards that will ultimately vest, inputs for which arise from judgements relating 
to the probability of meeting non-market conditions and the continuing participation of employees.
Critical accounting judgements – Research and development costs.
The treatment of research and development expenditure requires an assessment of the expenditure in order to determine whether or not 
it is appropriate to capitalise onto the balance sheet in accordance with IAS 38.
Revenue recognition
Revenue represents the amount receivable for goods and services provided and royalties earned, net of trade discounts, VAT and other 
sales-related taxes. Revenue is recognised as follows:
Technology and product licensing 
Technology and product licensing income represents amounts earned for licences provided under licensing agreements, including up front 
payments, milestone payments and technology access fees. Revenues are recognised where they are non-refundable; the Group’s obligations 
related to the revenues have been discharged and their collection is reasonably assured. Refundable licensing revenue is treated as deferred 
until such time that the above criteria have been met. In general, up front payments are deferred and amortised on a systematic basis in line 
with the period of development. Milestone payments relating to scientific or technical achievements are recognised as income when the milestone 
is accomplished. 87
Financial statements Governance Strategic report Overview
1. Significant accounting policies continued
Revenue recognition continued
Royalty income
Royalty income is recognised on an accruals basis and represents income earned as a percentage of product sales in accordance with the 
substance of the relevant agreement net of amounts payable to other licensees.
Pharmaceutical Development Services
Pharmaceutical Development Services revenues principally comprise contract product development and contract clinical trial manufacturing 
fees invoiced to third parties. Revenues are recognised upon the completion of agreed tasks or numbers of person days and in the period to 
which they relate.
Device sales
Device sales are recognised when goods are delivered to customers.
Interest income 
Interest income is recognised on a time-proportion basis using the effective interest method.
Business combinations
The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for using the acquisition method. The cost of the acquisition is measured at the aggregate of the fair 
values, at the date of exchange, of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity instruments issued by the Group in exchange for control 
of the acquiree. Acquisition-related costs are recognised in the statement of comprehensive income as they are incurred. In accordance with 
IFRS 3 – Business Combinations, the Group has a twelve-month period in which to finalise the fair values allocated to assets and liabilities 
determined provisionally on acquisition.
Goodwill
Goodwill recognised under UK Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) prior to 1 April 2004 is stated at net book value at that date. 
Goodwill arising on the acquisition of subsidiary or associate undertakings and businesses subsequent to 1 April 2004, representing any excess 
of the fair value of the consideration given over the fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired, is capitalised. 
After initial recognition, goodwill is stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses, with the carrying value being reviewed for impairment 
at least annually and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may be impaired. For the purpose of impairment 
testing, goodwill is allocated to the related cash-generating units monitored by management. Where the recoverable amount of the cash-generating 
unit is less than its carrying amount, including goodwill, an impairment loss is recognised in the statement of comprehensive income. An impairment 
loss recognised for goodwill is not reversed in a subsequent period.
On disposal of a subsidiary, associate or jointly controlled entity, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the 
profit or loss on disposal.
Intangible assets
Intangible assets acquired separately from a business combination are carried initially at fair value. An intangible asset acquired as part of a 
business combination is recognised outside goodwill if the asset is separable or arises from contractual or other legal rights and its fair value 
can be measured reliably.
Development expenditure on internally developed intangible assets is taken to the statement of comprehensive income in the year in which it is 
incurred, except where expenditure relating to clearly defined and identifiable development projects meets the following criteria, in which case 
development expenditure will be recognised as an intangible asset:
• the project’s technical feasibility and commercial viability can be demonstrated;
• the availability of adequate technical and financial resources and an intention to complete the project have been confirmed; 
• the correlation between development costs and future revenues has been established; and
• the economic benefit is expected to flow to the entity.
Following initial recognition, the historic cost model is applied, with intangible assets being carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and 
accumulated impairment losses. Intangible assets with a finite life have no residual value and are amortised on a straight-line basis over their 
expected useful lives with charges included in administrative expenses as follows:
Patents, trademarks and licence agreements – between three and ten years.
The carrying value of intangible assets is reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value 
may not be recoverable.  Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14
88
Notes to the financial statements continued
for the year ended 31 March 2014
1. Significant accounting policies continued
Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost, net of depreciation and provision for impairment. Depreciation is provided on all property, plant 
and equipment at rates calculated to write off the cost of each asset, less its estimated residual value, on a straight-line basis over its expected 
useful life, as follows:
Buildings – 20 years
Laboratory equipment – three to seven years
Office and IT equipment – three years
Freehold land is not depreciated.
The carrying values of property, plant and equipment are reviewed for impairment when events or circumstances indicate the carrying values 
may not be recoverable. Useful life and residual value are reviewed annually.
Impairment of assets
The Group assesses at each reporting date whether there is an indication that an asset may be impaired. If any such indication exists, or when 
annual impairment testing for an asset is required, the Group makes an estimate of the asset’s recoverable amount. An asset’s recoverable 
amount is the higher of an asset’s or cash-generating unit’s fair value less costs to sell and its value in use and is determined for an individual 
asset, unless the asset does not generate cash inflows that are largely independent of those from other assets or groups of assets. Where the 
carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset is considered impaired and is written down to its recoverable amount. 
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current 
market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset. Impairment losses on continuing operations are recognised 
in the statement of comprehensive income in those categories consistent with the function of the impaired asset.
An assessment is made at each reporting date as to whether there is any indication that previously recognised impairment losses may no longer 
exist or may have decreased. If such indication exists, the recoverable amount is estimated. A previously recognised impairment loss is reversed 
only if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the asset’s recoverable amount since the last impairment loss was recognised. 
If that is the case, the carrying amount of the asset is increased to its recoverable amount. That increased amount cannot exceed the carrying 
amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation, had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset in prior years. Such reversal 
is recognised in profit or loss unless the asset is carried at the re-valued amount, in which case the reversal is treated as a revaluation increase. 
After such a reversal the depreciation charge is adjusted in future periods to allocate the asset’s revised carrying amount, less any residual 
value, on a systematic basis over its remaining useful life.
Investments in subsidiaries
Investments in subsidiaries are eliminated upon consolidation. In the Company accounts investments are carried at historic cost, less provision 
for impairment.
Investments in associates and joint ventures
The Group’s interests in its associates, being those entities over which it has significant influence and which are neither subsidiaries nor joint 
ventures, are accounted for using the equity method of accounting. The Group’s interests in its joint ventures are also accounted for using the 
equity method of accounting. Under the equity method, the investment is carried in the balance sheet at cost plus post-acquisition changes in 
the Group’s share of net assets of the entity, less distributions received and less any impairment in value of individual investments. The Group’s 
statement of comprehensive income reflects the Group’s share of any income and expense recognised by the associate or joint venture outside 
profit and loss. The Group does not recognise losses in excess of the value of its investments.
Financial assets 
Financial assets are recognised when the Group becomes party to the contracts that give rise to them and are classified as financial assets at fair 
value through profit or loss, loans and receivables, held-to-maturity investments, or as available-for-sale financial assets, as appropriate. The Group 
determines the classification of its financial assets at initial recognition and re-evaluates this designation at each financial year end. When financial 
assets are recognised, initially they are measured at fair value, being the transaction price plus, in the case of financial assets not at fair value 
through profit or loss, directly attributable transaction costs.
Inventories
Inventories comprise goods held for resale and are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Costs include the direct costs and, where 
applicable, an attributable proportion of distribution overheads incurred in bringing inventories to their current location and condition. Cost is 
determined on a first-in, first-out basis. Net realisable value is based on estimated selling price, less any further costs expected to be incurred 
to completion and disposal. 89
Financial statements Governance Strategic report Overview
1. Significant accounting policies continued
Trade and other receivables
Trade receivables are recognised and carried at the lower of their original invoiced value and recoverable amount. Provision is made when there 
is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to recover balances in full. Balances are written off when the probability of recovery is assessed 
as being remote.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and short-term deposits in the balance sheet comprise cash at bank and in hand and short-term deposits with an original maturity of 
three months or less. For the purposes of the cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and cash equivalents as defined 
above, net of outstanding bank overdrafts.
Leasing
Operating leases and the annual rentals are charged to the statement of comprehensive income on a straight-line basis over the period of the 
lease in accordance with the terms of the lease agreements.
Foreign currencies
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate of exchange at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated 
in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are reported at the rates of exchange prevailing at that date. Any gain or loss arising from a change in 
exchange rate subsequent to the date of the transaction is included as an exchange gain or loss in the statement of comprehensive income. 
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate as at the dates of 
the initial transactions. Non-monetary items measured at fair value in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rates at the date when 
the fair value was determined.
For the purposes of presenting consolidated financial statements, the assets and liabilities of the Group’s foreign operations are translated at 
the exchange rate prevailing on the balance sheet date. Income and expense items are translated at the average exchange rates for the period. 
Exchange differences arising, if any, are recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated in equity.
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings
All loans and borrowings are initially recognised at fair value, less directly attributable transaction costs. After initial recognition, interest-bearing 
loans and borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. Gains and losses arising on the repurchase, 
settlement or cancellation of liabilities are recognised respectively as finance income or finance costs. The effective interest rate is the rate that 
exactly discounts estimated future cash payments (including all fees on points paid or received that form an integral part of the effective interest rate, 
transaction costs and other premiums or discounts) through the expected life of the financial liability or, where appropriate, a shorter period.
Financial liabilities
Financial liabilities are initially measured at fair value and, if material, are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest 
method. The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortised cost of a financial liability and of allocating interest expense over 
the relevant period. The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash payments throughout the expected life 
of the financial liability.
Provisions
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation (legal or constructive) as a result of a past event, it is probable that the 
Group will be required to settle that obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
The amount recognised as a provision is the best estimate of the consideration required to settle the present obligation at the balance sheet date, 
taking into account the risks and uncertainties surrounding the obligation. Where a provision is measured using cash flows estimated to settle 
the present obligation, its carrying amount is the value of those cash flows.
When some or all of the economic benefits required to settle a provision are expected to be recovered from a third party, a receivable is recognised 
as an asset if it is virtually certain that reimbursement will be received and the amount of the receivable can be measured reliably.
Restructuring
A restructuring provision is recognised when the Group has developed a detailed formal plan for the restructuring and has raised a valid expectation 
in those affected that it will carry out the restructuring by starting to implement the plan or announcing its main features to those affected by it. 
The measurement of a restructuring provision includes only the direct expenditures arising from the restructuring, which are those amounts that 
are both necessarily entailed by the restructuring and not associated with the ongoing activities of the entity. Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14
90
Notes to the financial statements continued
for the year ended 31 March 2014
1. Significant accounting policies continued
Taxation
Current tax assets and liabilities are measured as the amounts expected to be recovered from or paid to the taxation authorities, based on tax 
rates and laws that are enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is recognised on all temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the 
financial statements, with the following exceptions:
•  where the temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of goodwill, or from an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business 
combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss;
•  in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, where the timing 
of the reversal of the temporary differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the 
foreseeable future; and
•  deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the deductible 
temporary differences, carried forward tax credits or tax losses can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured on an undiscounted basis at the tax rates that are expected to apply when the related asset 
is realised or liability is settled, based on tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is charged or credited directly to equity if it relates to items that are credited or charged to equity. Otherwise, deferred tax 
is recognised in the statement of comprehensive income.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current liabilities 
and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities 
on a net basis.
Research and development tax credits are recognised on an accruals basis.
Post-retirement benefits
The Group contributes a set proportion of employees’ gross salary to defined contribution personal pension plans. The amount charged to the 
statement of comprehensive income in respect of pension costs is the contribution payable in the year. Differences between contributions payable 
in the year and contributions actually paid are shown either as prepayments or as payables in the balance sheet.
Borrowing costs
Borrowing costs directly attributed to the acquisition, construction or production of qualifying assets, which are assets that necessarily take 
a substantial period of time to prepare for their intended use or sale, are added to the cost of those assets, until such time as the assets are 
substantially ready for their intended use or sale. 
Investment income earned on the temporary investment of specific borrowings pending their expenditure on qualifying assets is deducted from 
the borrowing costs eligible for capitalisation.
All other borrowing costs are recognised in profit or loss in the period in which they are incurred.
Share-based payments
The Group operates a number of executive and employee share option schemes, including a Long-Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) and a 
Value Realisation Plan (VRP), under which shares may be granted to staff members. The level of grant to members of staff under the LTIP is 
dependent upon the total shareholder return of Vectura (a market condition) compared to a peer group of UK pharmaceutical and biotechnology 
companies. In accordance with IFRS 2, for all grants of share options and awards, the cost of equity-settled transactions is measured by reference 
to their fair value at the date at which they are granted. The Black-Scholes model is used to determine fair value for options and the Monte Carlo 
binomial model for LTIP and VRP awards.
The cost of equity-settled share transactions is recognised, together with a corresponding increase in equity, over the period until the award vests. 
No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, except for awards where vesting is conditional upon a market condition, which 
are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the market condition is satisfied, provided that all other performance conditions are satisfied. 
At each reporting date, the cumulative expense recognised for equity-based transactions reflects the extent to which the vesting period has expired 
and the number of awards that, in the opinion of the Directors at that date, will ultimately vest. The Group has taken advantage of the exemptions 
afforded by IFRS 1 in respect of equity-settled awards and has applied IFRS 2 only to equity-settled awards granted after 7 November 2002 
and not vested at 1 January 2005. 91
Financial statements Governance Strategic report Overview
1. Significant accounting policies continued
New accounting standards and interpretations
The following new and revised standards and interpretations have been adopted in the current year. Their adoption has not had any significant 
impact on the amounts reported in these financial statements, but, with the exception of the amendment to IFRS 1, may impact the accounting 
for future transactions and arrangements.
• Amendments to IAS 1 – Presentation of Items of Other Comprehensive Income
  The amendment requires separate presentation of items that may be reclassified to profit or loss in the future from those that would never 
be reclassified. 
• Amendments to IFRS 1 – Government Loans
  The amendment adds an exception to the retrospective application of IFRSs to require that first time adopters apply the requirements 
of IFRS 9 – Financial Instruments and IFRS 20 – Accounting for Government Grants and disclosure of Government Assistance prospectively 
to government loans existing at the date of transition to IFRS.
• Amendments to IFRS 7 – Financial Instruments: Disclosure on Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities
 The amendment enhances current disclosures on offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities.
• IFRS 10 – Consolidated Financial Statements
  This standard replaces all of the guidance on control and consolidation in IAS 27 and SIC 12. IFRS 10 changes the definition of control so that 
the same criteria are applied to all entities to determine control. The core principle that a consolidated entity presents a parent and its subsidiaries 
as if they are a single entity remains unchanged, as do the mechanics of consolidation.
• IFRS 11 – Joint Arrangements and IAS 28 (revised 2011) – Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures
  The amendments eliminate the existing accounting policy choice of proportionate consolidation for jointly controlled entities and makes equity 
accounting mandatory for participants in joint ventures. Changes in definitions also mean that types of joint arrangements have been reduced 
from three to two, joint operations and joint ventures. IFRS 11 also made a number of consequential amendments to IAS 28 – Investments 
in Associates and Joint Ventures.
• IFRS 12 – Disclosure of Interest in Other Entities
  This standard sets out the required disclosures for entities reporting under IFRS 10 and IFRS 11. IFRS 12 requires entities to disclose information 
about the nature, risks and financial effects associated with the entities interest in subsidiaries, associates and joint arrangements and 
unconsolidated structured entities.
• IFRS 13 – Fair Value Measurement
  This standard explains how to measure fair value and enhances fair value disclosures. IFRS 13 established a single source of guidance for fair 
value measurements and disclosures about fair value measurements. The scope of IFRS 13 is broad; the fair value measurement requirements 
of IFRS 13 apply to both financial instruments and non-financial instrument items for which other IFRSs require or permit fair value measurements 
and disclosures about fair value measurements, except for share-based payment transactions that are within the scope of IFRS 2 – Share-based 
payment, leasing transactions that are within the scope of IAS 17 – Leases, and measurements that have some similarities to fair value but are 
not fair value (e.g. net realisable value for the purposes of measuring inventories or value in use for impairment assessment purposes).
  IFRS 13 defines fair value as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction in the 
principal (or most advantageous) market at the measurement date under the current market conditions. Fair value under IFRS 13 is an exit 
price, regardless of whether that price is directly observable or estimated using another valuation technique. IFRS 13 also includes extensive 
disclosure requirements.
• IAS 19 – Employee Benefits
  This standard makes significant changes to the recognition and measurement of defined benefit pension expense and termination benefits 
and significantly increases the volume of disclosures. The Group does not operate any defined benefit pension schemes.
• IAS 27 (revised 2011) – Separate Financial Statements
 This standard deals solely with separate financial statements.
• IAS 28 – Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures
  This standard outlines how to apply, with certain limited exceptions, the equity method to investments in associates and joint ventures. 
The standard also defines an associate by reference to the concept of “significant influence”, which requires power to participate in financial 
and operating policy decisions of an investee (but not joint control or control of those polices).  Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14
92
Notes to the financial statements continued
for the year ended 31 March 2014
1. Significant accounting policies continued
New accounting standards and interpretations continued
• Amendments to IAS 36 – Recoverable amount disclosures for non-financial assets
  The amendment reduces the circumstances in which the recoverable amount of assets or cash-generating units is required to be disclosed, 
clarifies the disclosures required and introduces an explicit requirement to disclose the discount rate used in determining impairment where 
recoverable amount is determined using a present value technique.
  The Group has early adopted the amendments of IAS 36 (effective from 1 January 2014) and therefore the recoverable amounts of the 
Group’s CGUs have not been disclosed. 
At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following standards and interpretations which have not been applied in these 
financial statements were in issue but not yet effective (and in some cases had not yet been adopted by the EU):
FRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 27 (amended) Investment Entities
IAS 32 (amended)   Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities
IAS 39 (amended)   Novation of Derivatives and Continuation of Hedge Accounting
IFRIC 21     Levies
The Directors do not expect that the adoption of the standards listed above will have a material impact on the financial statements of the Group 
in future periods.
2. Revenue
Revenue represents amounts invoiced to third parties, derived from the provision of licences and services that fall within the Group’s sole 
principal activity, the development of pharmaceutical products. 
Revenue by category
2014
£m
2013
£m
Royalties 16.3 13.0
Product licensing 13.3 12.8
Technology licensing 4.3 3.7
Development services 1.7 0.6
Device sales 0.9 0.4
36.5 30.5
Investment income:
Total investment income (note 4) 1.6 0.5
Total revenue per IAS 18 38.1 31.0
Revenue by customer location
2014
£m
2013
£m
United Kingdom 2.8 3.9
Rest of Europe 17.4 11.4
United States of America 16.2 15.2
Rest of world 0.1 —
36.5 30.5
Information about major customers
Revenue earned from the Group’s major customers was as follows: Customer A – £14.9m (2012/13: £12.7m), Customer B – £12.9m (2012/13: £12.7m), 
and Customer C – £2.5m (2012/13: £3.5m). 93
Financial statements Governance Strategic report Overview
3. Segmental information
The Group is engaged in a single business activity of pharmaceuticals and the Group does not have multiple operating segments. The Group’s 
pharmaceutical business consists of the research, development and commercialisation of pharmaceutical products. The Executive Management 
Team is the Group’s chief operating decision-making body, as defined by IFRS 8, and all significant operating decisions are taken by the 
Executive Management Team. In assessing performance, the Executive Management Team reviews financial information on an integrated basis 
for the Group as a whole, substantially in the form of, and on the same basis as, the Group’s IFRS financial statements. Resources are allocated 
between activities and products on a Group-wide basis on merit.
All revenue and losses before taxation originate in the United Kingdom and Germany. Revenues from external customers in the United Kingdom 
were £36.2m and non-current assets originating in the United Kingdom were £179.3m.
4. Investment income and finance gains
2014
£m
2013
£m
Investment income:
Income from sale of investments 1.2 —
Interest receivable on bank deposits and similar income 0.4 0.5
Total investment income 1.6 0.5
Finance (costs)/gains:
Foreign exchange (losses)/gains (0.2) 0.7
5. Operating loss
Operating loss is the result for the Group before investment income, finance (costs)/gains and taxation, and is stated after charging/(crediting):
2014
£m
2013
£m
Amortisation of intangible assets 6.9 6.3
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 1.1 1.0
Share-based compensation 0.9 0.9
Cost of inventories recognised as expense 0.3 0.2
Staff costs (note 6) 13.4 12.2
Non-recurring acquisition costs 2.5 —
Operating lease rentals:
– land and buildings 0.5 0.5
The analysis of auditor’s remuneration is as follows:
2014
£000
2013
£000
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor for the audit of the Company’s annual accounts 20 20
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor and its associates for other services to the Group:
– the audit of the Company’s subsidiaries 63 63
Total audit fees 83 83
Audit-related assurance services 15 15
Taxation compliance services 4 4
Other taxation advisory services 20 2
Other services 315 23
Total non-audit fees 354 44
Total fees 437 127 Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14
94
Notes to the financial statements continued
for the year ended 31 March 2014
5. Operating loss continued
Details of the Group’s policy on the use of the auditor for non-audit services, the reasons why the auditor was used rather than another supplier 
and how the auditor’s independence and objectivity was safeguarded are set out in the Audit Committee report on page 50. No services were 
provided pursuant to contingent fee arrangements.
Other services fees this year relate to tax advisory services and financial due diligence work to support the acquisition of Activaero GmbH.
6. Employees
The average monthly number of employees (including Executive Directors) employed by the Group during the year was as follows:
2014
Number
2013
Number
Research and development 199 201
Business development and administration 16 15
215 216
The aggregate remuneration comprised:
2014
£m
2013
£m
Wages and salaries 11.5 10.4
Social security costs 1.3 1.2
Other pension costs 0.6 0.6
13.4 12.2
In addition to the wages and salaries analysis above are the effects of the charge for share-based compensation under IFRS 2 during the year 
of £0.9m (2012/13: £0.9m).
The Company had no employees during the years ended 31 March 2014 and 31 March 2013.
7. Taxation
The major components of the income tax credit for the years ended 31 March 2014 and 31 March 2013 were as follows:
2014
£m
2013
£m
Research and development tax credits:
– current year 3.3 3.8
– receipt in respect of prior year 0.9 0.4
Net (increase)/decrease in deferred tax liability (1.7) 0.3
Total 2.5 4.5
Research and development tax credits are accrued based on the estimated receipt from Her Majesty’s Revenue and Customs (HMRC).  95
Financial statements Governance Strategic report Overview
7. Taxation continued
The credit for the year can be reconciled to the loss per the statement of comprehensive income as follows:
2014
£m
2013
£m
Loss on ordinary activities before tax (4.8) (10.4)
Loss on ordinary activities multiplied by standard rate of UK corporation tax of 23% (2012/13: 24%) (1.1) (2.5)
Effects of:
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 0.2 0.2
Unrecognised tax losses carried forward 0.9 2.3
Net increase/(decrease) in deferred tax liability 1.7 (0.3)
Research and development tax credits
– current year (3.3) (3.8)
– receipt in respect of prior year (0.9) (0.4)
Total tax credit for the year (2.5) (4.5)
In March 2013 the UK government announced the main rate of UK corporation tax would reduce to 21% with effect from 1 April 2014 and reduce 
to 20% with effect from 1 April 2015. These changes have been substantively enacted.
The effect of these tax rate reductions on the deferred tax balance will be accounted for in the period in which the tax rate reductions are 
substantively enacted.
Factors that may affect future tax charges are shown below.
Deferred tax asset
Cumulative tax losses of approximately £66.9m (2013: £79.7m), subject to agreement by HMRC, are available within the Group to carry 
forward against future taxable profits. Following the acquisition of Activaero GmbH, the Group acquired corporation tax losses brought forward 
of approximately €11.6m and trade tax losses of approximately €11.4m. 
The Group has a total deferred tax asset of £16.7m. There is a deferred tax asset of £13.2m (2013: £19.6m) in relation to the UK tax losses, 
calculated at the standard tax rate of 20% (2013: 23%), of which £1.1m has been recognised. A further deferred tax asset of €3.1m (£2.6m) 
has been recognised in relation to the tax losses acquired from Activaero GmbH (see note 28). 
2014
£m
2013
£m
On UK cumulative tax losses – unrecognised 12.1 14.4
On UK cumulative tax losses – recognised 1.1 4.4
On German cumulative tax losses – recognised 2.6 —
On unclaimed capital allowances – unrecognised 0.3 —
On unexercised share options – unrecognised 0.6 0.8
16.7 19.6 Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14
96
Notes to the financial statements continued
for the year ended 31 March 2014
7. Taxation continued
Deferred tax liability
A total deferred tax liability of £37.6m exists at 31 March 2014. This balance is broken down as follows:
2014
£m
2013
£m
Arising on Innovata intangible assets 1.8 3.4
Excess of capital allowances over depreciation 1.2 1.0
Arising on acquisition of Activaero GmbH (see note 28) 34.6 —
37.6 4.4
The deferred tax liability arising upon the acquisition of Activaero GmbH of £35.3m (€42m) is equal to 27% of the acquired intangible assets acquired.
A net deferred tax liability of £33.9m has been recognised on the balance sheet. 
2014
£m
2013
£m
Asset
On UK cumulative tax losses – recognised 1.1 4.4
On German cumulative tax losses – recognised 2.6 —
3.7 4.4
Liability
Arising on Innovata intangible assets (1.8) (3.4)
Excess of capital allowances over depreciation (1.2) (1.0)
Arising on acquisition of Activaero GmbH (see note 28) (34.6) —
(37.6) (4.4)
(33.9) —
8. Loss per ordinary share
The calculation of loss per share is based on the following losses and number of shares:
2014 2013
Loss for the year (£m) (2.3) (5.9)
Weighted average number of ordinary shares (number m) 337.8 332.9
Loss per ordinary share (0.7p) (1.8p)
The loss per share is based on the weighted average number of shares in issue during the period. IAS 33 – Earnings per Share requires presentation 
of diluted earnings per share when a company could be called upon to issue shares that would decrease net profit or increase net loss per share. 
No adjustment has been made to the basic loss per share, as the exercise of share options would have the effect of reducing the loss per ordinary 
share, and is therefore not dilutive. 97
Financial statements Governance Strategic report Overview
9. Goodwill
Group
2014
£m
2013
£m
Cost:
At 1 April 49.6 49.6
Recognised on acquisition of a subsidiary (note 28) 7.8 —
Effect of movement in foreign exchange (0.1) —
At 31 March 57.3 49.6
Net book value:
At 1 April 49.6 49.6
At 31 March 57.3 49.6
The carrying value of goodwill is made up of balances arising on acquisition of the following companies:
Group
2014
£m
2013
£m
Co-ordinated Drug Development Limited (since renamed Vectura Limited) 1.5 1.5
Vectura Delivery Devices Limited 0.5 0.5
Innovata Limited 47.6 47.6
Activaero GmbH 7.7 —
57.3 49.6
Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units (CGUs), which are tested for impairment on an annual basis, or more frequently if there are indications 
that goodwill might be impaired. The recoverable amounts of the cash-generating units are assessed using a value-in-use model. An impairment 
provision is recognised only if the goodwill carrying value exceeds this value in use. 
The key assumptions for the value-in-use calculations are those regarding the discount rates, growth rates and expected changes to contribution 
during the period. The model has been based on the most recent pre-tax cash flow forecasts prepared by management, which consist of detailed 
probability weighted product-by-product analyses. These forecasts are based on development timings and specific projections for sales volumes 
over the likely period in which cash flows could be expected. No terminal values have been included in the cash flow forecasts. No general growth 
rates are assumed. The discount rates used in the forecasts range from 8% to 13.5%. 
Following the acquisition of Activaero GmbH in March 2014, and for the purpose of impairment testing of goodwill, the Group is split into two 
cash-generating units (CGUs), being the Vectura CGU and the Activaero CGU. 
In previous periods the Group was split into two cash-generating units, being the Vectura CGU, which includes Vectura Limited and Vectura Delivery 
Devices Limited, and the Innovata CGU, being the group of companies acquired in January 2007. These two CGUs have been combined into the 
Vectura CGU in the current period. This change was considered necessary as the Company no longer has separate Vectura and Innovata projects, 
the projects use a combination of technology and expertise from both businesses and are monitored as such internally. No impairment loss was 
recognised as a result of this reallocation. Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14
98
Notes to the financial statements continued
for the year ended 31 March 2014
9. Goodwill continued
Goodwill has been allocated to the following cash-generating units:
2014
£m
2013
£m
Vectura CGU 49.6 49.6
Activaero CGU 7.7 —
57.3 49.6
The Group has conducted a sensitivity analysis on the impairment test of each CGU’s carrying value. In each case the valuations indicate 
sufficient headroom such that a reasonably possible change in a key assumption is unlikely to result in an impairment of the related goodwill.
Company £m
Carrying amount:
At 31 March 2013 and 31 March 2014 2.0
The goodwill in the Company arose on the acquisition of the Centre for Drug Formulation Studies, an unincorporated entity, in 1999. 
Amortisation of £0.7m was applied prior to 1 April 2004. Goodwill in the Company is tested for impairment using the same discount rates 
and on the same basis as for the Group.
10. Intangible assets
Group
Patents and
trademarks
£m
Licences 
£m
Total
£m
Cost:
At 1 April 2012 and 31 March 2013 3.5 74.6 78.1
Acquired on acquisition of subsidiary (note 28) 104.5 26.2 130.7
Effects of movements in foreign exchange (1.6) (0.4) (2.0)
At 31 March 2014 106.4 100.4 206.8
Amortisation:
At 1 April 2012 (3.5) (51.2) (54.7)
Charge for the year — (6.3) (6.3)
At 31 March 2013 (3.5) (57.5) (61.0)
Charge for the year (0.4) (6.5) (6.9)
At 31 March 2014 (3.9) (64.0) (67.9)
Net book value:
At 31 March 2013 — 17.1 17.1
At 31 March 2014 102.5 36.4 138.9
Intangible assets are being amortised on a straight-line basis over a period of ten years. The Company had no intangible assets at 31 March 2014 
and 31 March 2013. 99
Financial statements Governance Strategic report Overview
11. Property, plant and equipment
Group
Assets in
the course of
construction
£m
Freehold land
and buildings
£m
Laboratory
equipment
£m
Office and IT
equipment 
£m
Total
£m
Cost:
At 1 April 2012 2.5 0.8 11.5 0.5 15.3
Additions 2.3 0.1 1.6 — 4.0
Disposals — — (0.1) — (0.1)
At 31 March 2013 4.8 0.9 13.0 0.5 19.2
Additions 1.6 — 0.9 — 2.5
Acquired on acquisition of Activaero GmbH (note 28) — 0.3 0.9 — 1.2
At 31 March 2014 6.4 1.2 14.8 0.5 22.9
Depreciation:
At 1 April 2012 — — (8.9) (0.4) (9.3)
Charge for the year — — (1.0) — (1.0)
Disposals — — 0.1 — 0.1
At 31 March 2013 — — (9.8) (0.4) (10.2)
Charge for the year — — (1.1) — (1.1)
At 31 March 2014 — — (10.9) (0.4) (11.3)
Net book value:
At 31 March 2013 4.8 0.9 3.2 0.1 9.0
At 31 March 2014 6.4 1.2 3.9 0.1 11.6
The Company had no property, plant and equipment at 31 March 2014 and 31 March 2013.
12. Investments in subsidiary undertakings
Company
Shares in
subsidiary
undertakings
£m
Cost:
At 1 April 2012 and 31 March 2013 125.7
Additions (note 28) 108.2
At 31 March 2014 233.9
Amounts written off:
At 1 April 2012, 31 March 2013 and 31 March 2014 (0.1)
Net book value:
At 31 March 2013 125.6
At 31 March 2014 233.8 Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14
100
Notes to the financial statements continued
for the year ended 31 March 2014
12. Investments in subsidiary undertakings continued
Details of the Company’s significant subsidiary undertakings are as follows:
Name of undertaking
Country of 
incorporation Holding
Proportion
held
Nature of 
business
Vectura Group Investments Limited England Ordinary 100% Pharmaceuticals
Vectura Limited
(1)
England Ordinary 100% Pharmaceuticals
Vectura Delivery Devices Limited
(1)
England Ordinary 100% Pharmaceuticals
Vectura Inc. USA Ordinary 100% Pharmaceuticals
Innovata Limited
(1)
England Ordinary 100% Pharmaceuticals
Innovata Biomed Limited
(2)
Scotland Ordinary 100% Pharmaceuticals
Vectura GmbH (formerly Activaero GmbH) Germany Ordinary 100% Pharmaceuticals
(1) A subsidiary of Vectura Group Investments Limited.
(2) A subsidiary of Innovata Limited.
In addition, the Group has a number of subsidiaries that are dormant or whose residual activities are not material to the Group.
13. Investments in joint ventures
The investment balance shown below relates to the Group’s investment in Ventaleon GmbH, whose principal activity is the research and 
development of pharmaceuticals. Ventaleon is incorporated in Germany and its principal place of business is also Germany. The Group holds 
a 48% share in the Company. 
Group £m
Cost:
At 1 April 2012 and 31 March 2013 —
Additions (note 28) 3.5
Effects of movements in foreign exchange (0.1)
At 31 March 2014 3.4
Net book value:
At 31 March 2013 —
At 31 March 2014 3.4
14. Other receivables
Group
Other receivables represent an investment bond of £0.4m (2013: £0.4m) in respect of a rental deposit paid under the terms of a lease agreement 
for the Company’s premises at Chippenham. The deposit is for a fixed period of one year and is renewed annually. Under the terms of the lease 
agreement the deposit must be maintained until the Group has made three years of consecutive profits. The interest rate is 1% below the Royal 
Bank of Scotland base rate and was 0% for the year ended 31 March 2014. Interest is recognised using the effective interest method. 101
Financial statements Governance Strategic report Overview
15. Inventories
Group Company
2014
£m
2013
£m
2014
£m
2013
£m
Finished goods 1.0 0.8 — —
16. Trade and other receivables
Group Company
2014
£m
2013
£m
2014
£m
2013
£m
Trade receivables 4.4 0.1 — —
Other receivables
(1)
3.4 4.0 — —
Prepayments and accrued income 5.0 4.2 — —
VAT recoverable 0.9 0.9 — —
13.7 9.2 — —
(1) Includes research and development tax credits of £3.3m (2013: £3.8m).
The average credit period taken by customers is 30 days (2013: 30 days). The Directors consider that the carrying value of trade and other 
receivables approximates to their fair value.
17. Amounts due from and owed to subsidiary undertakings
Group Company
2014
£m
2013
£m
2014
£m
2013
£m
Amounts falling due within one year:
Due from subsidiary undertakings — — 86.7 72.9
— — 86.7 72.9
18. Trade and other payables
Group Company
2014
£m
2013
£m
2014
£m
2013
£m
Amounts falling due within one year:
Trade payables 2.3 3.8 — —
Other payables 0.5 0.3 — —
Accruals 14.1 15.6 — —
16.9 19.7 — —
Trade payables principally comprise amounts outstanding for trade purchases and ongoing costs. The average credit period taken by the Group 
for trade purchases is 31 days (2013: 31 days). Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14
102
Notes to the financial statements continued
for the year ended 31 March 2014
19. Deferred income
Deferred income relates to amounts received under product licensing agreements. Vectura continues to provide services to these licensing 
partners over a period of time. Milestone payments under these licensing agreements are therefore spread over future periods, and income 
is deferred as follows: 
Group Company
2014
£m
2013
£m
2014
£m
2013
£m
Amounts due within one year 0.1 0.1 — —
Amounts due in more than one year 1.7 1.3 — —
1.8 1.4 — —
20. Financial instruments
Categories of financial instruments
Unless stated otherwise, all disclosures relate to the Group.
Under IFRS 7, and for the purposes of risk management, the following classes of financial assets and their carrying values have been identified:
2014
£m
2013
£m
Cash and cash equivalents 81.7 70.1
Loans and receivables 13.7 8.8
95.4 78.9
All financial assets fall due within the first quarter of the year, with the exception of the investment bond which is included within loans 
and receivables in the table above, the repayment of which is determined by the Group’s results (see note 14).
There were no provisions against impaired assets at 31 March 2014 (31 March 2013: £nil). There are no amounts past due but not 
impaired (2013: £nil).
Cash and cash equivalents comprise current accounts held by the Group with immediate access and short-term bank deposits with a maturity 
value of three months or less.
Under IFRS 7, and for the purposes of risk management, the following classes of financial liabilities and their carrying values (at amortised cost) 
have been identified:
2014
£m
2013
£m
Other (16.9) (19.7)
All financial liabilities fall due within one year.
Fair value of financial assets and liabilities
The Directors consider there to be no material difference between the book value and the fair value of the Group’s financial assets and liabilities 
at the balance sheet date. 
Capital risk management
The Group manages its capital to ensure that entities in the Group will be able to continue as going concerns while maximising the return to stakeholders. 
The capital structure of the Group consists of cash and cash equivalents and equity attributable to equity holders of Vectura Group plc, comprising 
issued share capital (note 21a), reserves and retained earnings as disclosed in the statement of changes in equity. 
Externally imposed capital requirement
The Group is not subject to externally imposed capital requirements. 103
Financial statements Governance Strategic report Overview
20. Financial instruments continued
Significant accounting policies
Details of the significant accounting policies and methods adopted, including the criteria for recognition, the basis of measurement and the basis 
on which income and expenses are recognised, in respect of each class of financial asset, financial liability and equity instrument are disclosed 
in note 1 to the financial statements.
Financial risk management
The Group’s objective in using financial instruments is to maximise the returns on funds held on deposit, to minimise exchange rate risk where 
appropriate, and to generate additional cash resources through the issue of shares when appropriate. Balance sheets at 31 March 2014 and 
31 March 2013 are not necessarily representative of the positions throughout the year, as cash and short-term investments fluctuate considerably 
depending on when share issues have occurred. 
It is, and has been throughout the year, the Group’s policy that no speculative trading in financial instruments is undertaken.
The Group is funded principally with equity and invests its funds in short-term bank deposits. The Group has access to the majority of these 
deposits at a maximum of 24 hours’ notice. The Group’s policy throughout the period has been to minimise the risk by placing funds in low-risk 
cash deposits, but also to maximise the return on funds placed on deposit.
Interest on overnight cash deposits is calculated on the basis of a floating rate set at between 5 and 10 basis points below seven-day sterling 
London Inter-Bank Offer Rate (LIBOR).
Foreign currency risk management
The Group’s principal functional currency is sterling. However, the Group undertakes certain transactions denominated in foreign currencies. 
The Group’s policy is to offset its currency exposure by matching foreign currency revenues with expenditure in the same foreign currency. 
Where there are no imminent foreign exchange transactions, the balances are exchanged for sterling at spot rate. 
All assets and liabilities are denominated in sterling other than those shown below:
Group Company
2014
£m
2013
£m
2014
£m
2013
£m
Cash and cash equivalents:
Euro 5.7 2.6 — —
US dollar 2.5 8.2 — —
8.2 10.8 — —
Foreign currency sensitivity analysis
The following table details the Group’s sensitivity to a 10% increase and decrease in sterling against the euro and US dollar; 10% represents 
management’s assessment of a reasonably possible change in foreign exchange rates. The sensitivity analysis includes only outstanding foreign 
currency denominated items and adjusts their translation at the period end for a 10% change in foreign currency rates. A positive number below 
indicates an increase in profit and other equity where sterling weakens against the relevant currency. For a 10% strengthening of sterling against 
the euro and the US dollar there would be an equal and opposite impact on the loss and other equity and the balances below would be negative 
(2012/13: negative).
2014
£m
2013
£m
Euro currency impact – gain 0.5 0.3
US dollar currency impact – gain 0.2 0.8
The Company did not hold any balances denominated in foreign currencies at year end and therefore is not exposed to any risk from 
fluctuations in foreign currencies.
The Group and Company have a legal right of offset between all foreign currency bank accounts and all sterling bank accounts. Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14
104
Notes to the financial statements continued
for the year ended 31 March 2014
20. Financial instruments continued
Interest rate risk management
The Group has no external borrowings and is not exposed to interest rate risk through borrowings. Cash and cash equivalents earned £0.4m 
of finance income during the year (2012/13: £0.5m). If interest rates had been 0.5% higher/lower and all other variables were constant, the 
Group’s loss for the year ended 31 March 2014 would decrease/increase by £0.3m (2012/13: £0.4m). 
All the Group’s monetary assets and liabilities are held at floating rates.
Liquidity risk management
The Group manages liquidity risk by maintaining adequate reserves and by continually monitoring forecast and actual cash flows and matching 
the maturity profiles of financial assets and liabilities. 
Credit risk management
The Group’s credit risk is primarily attributed to its cash and cash equivalents. The Board operates an investment policy, under which the 
primary objective is to invest in a diverse portfolio of low-risk cash or cash equivalent investments to safeguard the principal.
The Group’s credit risk on trade and other receivables is low as the amounts are owed by large, multinational, pharmaceutical companies. 
For the same reason, the Directors assess the quality of these assets as high.
Market risk management
The Group’s exposure to market risk primarily comprises interest rate exposure. Group funds are invested in cash deposits with the objective 
of maintaining a balance between accessibility of funds and competitive rates of return. 
21. Equity
(a) Share capital
2014
£m No. ’000
2013
£m No. ’000
Authorised:
Ordinary shares of 0.025p each 0.1 441,200 0.1 441,200
Redeemable preference shares of £1 each — 34 — 34
Allotted, called up and fully paid:
Ordinary shares of 0.025p each:
At 1 April 0.1 334,456 0.1 331,686
Issued to Share Investment Plan — — — 1,000
Issued on exercise of share options — 5,174 — 1,062
Issued on exercise of Sharesave options — 172 — 226
Issued on exercise of LTIP options — 646 — 482
Issued on placement of shares — 33,565 — —
Issued on acquisition of subsidiary (note 28) — 25,641 — —
At 31 March 0.1 399,654 0.1 334,456
Redeemable preference shares of £1 each:
At 1 April and 31 March — 34 — 34 105
Financial statements Governance Strategic report Overview
21. Equity continued
(a) Share capital continued
The rights attaching to the redeemable preference shares are summarised as follows: (a) the shares do not confer any right to dividend or other 
distributions; (b) on a return of capital on liquidation or otherwise, the assets of the Company available for distribution among the members are 
to be applied first in repaying to the holders of the redeemable preference shares the amounts paid up or credited as paid up in respect of such 
shares; (c) holders of redeemable preference shares have the right to receive notice of and attend general meetings, but have no right to vote 
there at; (d) the price per share at which redeemable preference shares are transferred may not exceed the amount paid or credited as being 
paid up; and (e) the Company may specify by notice in writing the date upon which it intends to redeem all (but not some only) of the shares. 
The price per share payable by the Company to the holders of the redeemable preference shares on their redemption shall be the amount paid 
up or credited as paid up on each such share.
Between 1 April 2013 and 31 March 2014 the Company did not issue any ordinary shares to the Vectura Group plc Employee Benefit Trust 
(2012/13: 1,000,000).
Between 1 April 2013 and 31 March 2014 the Company issued 5,173,784 (2012/13: 1,061,980) ordinary shares of 0.025p each on the exercise 
of employee share options at a weighted average exercise price of 61.19p per share (2012/13: 48.52p). 
Between 1 April 2013 and 31 March 2014 the Company issued 171,736 (2012/13: 225,634) ordinary shares of 0.025p each on the exercise 
of Sharesave options at a weighted average exercise price of 55.5p (2012/13: 48.18p) per share. 
Between 1 April 2013 and 31 March 2014 the Company issued 646,484 (2012/13: 482,121) ordinary shares of 0.025p each on the exercise 
of LTIP nil-cost options. 
On 18 March 2014 the Company placed 33,565,280 new shares at a price of £1.55 per share.
On 18 March 2014 the Company issued 25,641,398 to the shareholders of Activaero GmbH as part of the purchase consideration for 100% of its 
ordinary share capital. The ordinary shares issued have the same rights as the other shares in issue. The fair value of the shares issued amounted 
to £41m (£1.609 per share).
(b) Share premium 
The share premium account consists of the proceeds from the issue of shares in excess of their par value (which is included in the share capital 
account) less amounts transferred to distributable reserves through capital conversion. Certain costs relating to share issues have also been charged 
to the share premium account.
(c) Special reserve
The special reserve was created on 19 May 2004 as part of the process prior to the Company’s Initial Public Offering on 2 July 2004, to enable 
re-registration as a public company. It is a non-distributable reserve.
(d) Other reserve
The other reserve was created on the acquisition by the Company of Co-ordinated Drug Development Limited (since renamed Vectura Limited) 
in August 1999, of Vectura Delivery Devices Limited in February 2002 and of Innovata plc in January 2007. It is a non-distributable reserve.
(e) Share-based compensation reserve
The share-based compensation reserve represents the credit arising on the charge for share options, also matching and free shares awarded 
under the Vectura Group plc Share Incentive Plan, calculated in accordance with IFRS 2.
(f) Translation reserve
Exchange differences relating to the translation of the net assets of the Group’s foreign operations, which relate to subsidiaries only, from their 
functional currency into the parent’s functional currency, being sterling, are recognised directly in the translation reserve
(g) Retained (loss)/profit
A shareholder resolution was approved at the Company’s AGM, held on 22 July 2011, to reduce the Company’s share premium account by £78.6m, 
being the value of the share premium account as at 14 June 2011. A subsequent application to reduce the Company’s share premium account 
was approved by the High Court of Justice on 25 January 2012. As part of this share premium reduction, the retained loss value of £25.9m in the 
Company balance sheet as at 14 June 2011 was cancelled and this created a retained profit in the Company balance sheet. Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14
106
Notes to the financial statements continued
for the year ended 31 March 2014
22. Equity-settled share option schemes and Long-Term Incentive Plan
The Company’s Directors, officers and employees hold options under the Vectura Unapproved Share Option Plan (“Unapproved Plan”), under 
Enterprise Management Incentive arrangements (“EMI Plan”) and under the Vectura Approved Share Option Plan (“Approved Plan”). Options are 
granted to acquire shares at the opening market price ruling on the date of grant. In general, options vest after three years and are exercisable 
during a period ending ten years after the date of grant.
On 18 January 2007, upon the acquisition of Innovata plc and in accordance with a scheme of arrangement, options over Innovata shares issued 
and outstanding at that date under the ML Laboratories plc 1989 Executive Option Scheme and the ML Laboratories plc 1999 Executive Option 
Scheme were exchanged for options over Vectura shares in accordance with the rules of the relevant Innovata Option Scheme. The exchange 
was on the basis that the option holders received new options representing 0.2858 Vectura shares for every one Innovata share.
The Company operates a Sharesave Scheme. All employees and Executive Directors are invited to subscribe for options to acquire shares in the 
Company, which may be granted at a discount of up to 20% of the market value on the offer date. The options granted vest after three years 
and are exercisable during a period of six months following the vesting date.
The Company also operates a Long-Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) under which Executive Directors and certain senior managers are granted conditional 
rights in the form of nil-cost options to receive a maximum number of shares at the beginning of a three-year period, a proportion of which 
they will be entitled to receive at the end of that period, depending on the extent to which the challenging performance conditions set by the 
Remuneration Committee at the time the allocation was made are satisfied. The nil-cost option entitlement is exercisable from the beginning of 
the fourth year to the end of the tenth year following the date of grant. Further information on the performance conditions of the LTIP is detailed 
in the Remuneration report. At 31 March 2014, Executive Directors and eligible senior managers hold rights to ordinary shares awarded under 
the LTIP, as follows:
Date of vesting
Ordinary
shares vesting
12 September 2008 482,035
22 November 2009 409,864
2 March 2010 104,758
25 May 2010 446,636
23 May 2011 1,348,100
7 June 2014
(1)
1,982,311
18 September 2015
(1)
1,564,438
7 June 2016
(1)
2,004,878
(1) Maximum number of shares, subject to performance conditions.
On 31 October 2008, the shareholders approved a Value Realisation Plan (VRP). The VRP runs in parallel to the LTIP and provides participants with 
a share of a predetermined percentage of the total consideration paid for the Company in the event of a change in control within five years of 
the date of approval of the Plan. In this event, under the VRP members of the Executive Committee of the Company will be granted a one-off 
entitlement in the form of units, which convert into ordinary shares in the Company, the actual number of shares that convert being linked to 
the offer price per share achieved. The VRP is triggered upon achievement of a minimum bid price of £1.27 per share, with a maximum number 
of shares available to participants if the bid price reaches £1.77 per share or greater. This scheme expired in October 2013.  107
Financial statements Governance Strategic report Overview
22. Equity-settled share option schemes and Long-Term Incentive Plan continued
Fair value calculations
The Group has taken advantage of the exemption in IFRS 1 and has applied IFRS 2 only to options granted after 7 November 2002 and not 
vested at 1 January 2005. At 31 March 2014 there were no options outstanding that were granted before this date (2012/13: 318,324).
With the exception of the LTIP awards and the potential awards under the VRP, the fair value of the options was determined using the Black-Scholes 
pricing model. The fair value of the L TIP and VRP awards have been estimated using the Monte Carlo model, using the same basis for the assumptions 
for volatility, option life, expected dividend yield and risk-free rate of return as used for the Black-Scholes model. For the purposes of calculating 
the fair value of the LTIP, it was considered equally probable that the Company’s performance would be such that it would perform in each of the 
quartiles established under the LTIP scheme, as described in the Remuneration report. 
Year of grant 2014 2013
The assumptions input into the Black-Scholes model were as follows:
Weighted average share price of grants during the year 163.0p 72.03p
Weighted average exercise price of grants during the year 130.4p 80.41p
Expected volatility
(1)
41%–45% 45%–49%
Expected life
(2)
3–5 years 3–5 years
Expected dividends Nil Nil
Risk-free interest rate
(3)
0.3%–1.2% 0.3%–0.5%
The assumptions input into the Monte Carlo model were as follows: 
Weighted average share price of grants during the year 81.0p 81.5p
Weighted average exercise price of grants during the year 0.025p 0.025p
Expected volatility
(1)
43% 49%
Expected life
(2)
3 years 3 years
Expected dividends Nil Nil
Risk-free interest rate
(3)
0.6% 0.4%
(1)  Expected volatility has been calculated by reference to the Company’s historic share price since the IPO in July 2004, considered alongside the volatility of similar companies. 
The expectation of the cancellation of options has been considered in determining the fair value expense charged in the statement of comprehensive income.
(2) The expected life used in the models is based on management’s best estimate of behavioural consideration based on historic exercise patterns.
(3) The risk-free interest rate is the UK Gilt rate at the date of grant, commensurate with the expected term.
The charge is spread over the expected vesting period, utilising the fair value calculated by using the two models described above, and after 
adjusting for the likelihood of cancellation of options when employees leave.
The share-based compensation charge for the year ended 31 March 2014, including the LTIP, was £890,000 (2012/13: £918,000).
The aggregate of the estimated fair value of options granted under share option schemes and Share Incentive Plan during the year ended 
31 March 2014 was £493,000 (2012/13: £336,000) and under the SAYE Scheme £59,000 (2012/13: £53,000). The estimated fair value of LTIP 
awards during the year ended 31 March 2014 was £780,000 (2012/13: £790,000). Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14
108
22. Equity-settled share option schemes and Long-Term Incentive Plan continued
Fair value calculations continued
Options outstanding
Share option schemes SAYE Scheme LTIP
Number of
options WAEP*
Number of
options WAEP*
Number of
options WAEP*
At 1 April 2012 13,735,473 79.91 1,656,518 50.43 10,905,510 0.025
Options granted 153,833 66.75 170,367 76.80 1,710,423 0.025
Options exercised (1,061,980) 48.52 (225,634) 51.32 (482,121) 0.025 
Options cancelled (137,887) 80.81 (41,583) 58.32 (2,134,079) 0.025 
At 31 March 2013 12,689,439 60.64 1,559,668 53.50 9,999,733 0.025
Options granted — — 115,930 130.40 2,004,878 0.025
Options exercised (5,167,784) 61.19 (171,736) 55.50 (646,484) 0.025
Options cancelled — — (37,539) 47.95 (3,015,107) 0.025
At 31 March 2014 7,521,655 61.67 1,466,323 59.41 8,343,020 0.025
Range of exercise prices 0.025p–104p 47.4p–130.4p 0.025p
Weighted average remaining
contractual life (years) 2.19 (2013: 2.43) 1.67 (2013: 2.30) 6.05 (2013: 6.37)
Options vested 
At 31 March 2013 11,915,629 60.64 — — 3,266,926 0.025
At 31 March 2014 6,986,739 59.75 — — 2,791,393 0.025
Weighted average remaining 
contractual life (years) 1.80 (2013: 2.08) — — 2.82 (2013: 3.81)
* = Weighted average exercise price (p).
23. Analysis of net funds
Group
1 April
2013
£m
Cash flow
£m
31 March
2014
£m
Cash and cash equivalents 70.1 11.6 81.7
The Company had no net funds at 31 March 2014 and 31 March 2013.
24. Retirement benefits plans
The Group operates a number of defined contribution personal pension plans for all qualifying employees. The assets of the schemes are held 
separately from those of the Group and are independently administered. The total cost charged in the statement of comprehensive income is 
detailed in note 6.
Notes to the financial statements continued
for the year ended 31 March 2014 109
Financial statements Governance Strategic report Overview
25. Operating lease arrangements
At the balance sheet date, the Group has aggregate outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable 
operating leases, which fall due as follows:
Group
Land and buildings Other
2014
£m
2013
£m
2014
£m
2013
£m
Expiry date:
Within one year 0.5 0.5 — —
In the second to fifth years inclusive 0.8 1.1 0.1 —
1.3 1.6 0.1 —
On 26 July 2002, the Group entered into a 25-year lease agreement in respect of the lease of premises at One Prospect West, Chippenham, 
Wiltshire. The Group has the right to break the lease in July 2017. 
On 29 September 2011, the Group entered into an agreement in respect of the lease of premises at Five Prospect West, Chippenham, Wiltshire. 
The Group has the right to break the lease in September 2015. 
On 13 June 2005, the Group entered into an agreement in respect of premises at Cambridge Science Park, Milton Road, Cambridge, and on 
27 October 2006, the Group entered into a lease agreement on an adjacent property at Cambridge Science Park; both these leases expire 
on 24 December 2014.
On 18 March 2014, the Group acquired, as part of the Activaero GmbH acquisition, an agreement in respect of premises at Gauting, Germany. 
The Group has the right to break the lease with a maximum of nine months’ notice.
The Company had no other operating lease arrangements at 31 March 2014 and 31 March 2013.
26. Capital and other commitments
At 31 March 2014 the Group had capital commitments contracted, but not provided for, of £0.3m (2013: £1.7m). The Company had no capital 
and other commitments at 31 March 2014 and 31 March 2013.
27. Related party transactions
Group
Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation. Except as disclosed below, 
no Group company entered into a transaction with a related party that is not a member of the Group.
Remuneration of key management personnel
The remuneration of the Directors, who are the key management personnel of the Group, is set out below.
2014
£m
2013
£m
Short-term employee benefits 2.3 1.5
Post-employment benefits 0.2 0.1
Share-based payments 0.3 0.3
2.8 1.9
Please refer to page 62 of the Remuneration report for the single figure of remuneration for each Director. Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14
110
Notes to the financial statements continued
for the year ended 31 March 2014
27. Related party transactions continued
Company
Details of the Company-related party transactions with parties outside of the Group are noted above. In addition, the following details of trading 
within the Group are disclosed in accordance with IAS 24.
Related party
Recharge
from
related
parties
£m
Recharge
to
related
parties
£m
Amounts
owed by 
related
parties
£m
Amounts
owed to 
related
parties
£m
Subsidiaries:
2013 — 0.9 72.9 —
2014 — 0.9 86.7 —
Amounts outstanding are unsecured. No provisions have been made for doubtful debts owed by related parties.
28. Business combinations
On 18 March 2014, the Group acquired 100% of the issued share capital and obtained control of Activaero GmbH (Activaero), a company 
focused on the development of products for the treatment of respiratory diseases. The acquisition of Activaero fulfils a number of strategic 
priorities in a single transaction, creating a therapeutic area specialist for airways diseases. The combined entity will benefit from:
• diversified income streams with long-term value-creation for Vectura’s shareholders;
• a balanced pipeline of late-stage and early-stage assets across a spectrum of indications;
•  access to revenue generating, proprietary, smart nebuliser-based technology that enables targeting of inhaled drugs into pre-selected areas 
of the lung;
• the opportunity to develop a wide range of molecular entities, ranging from small molecules to biologics; and
• a broader partnership base.
The following table summarises the provisional amounts recognised in respect of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed on the 
acquisition of Activaero.
£m
Identifiable intangible assets (note 10) 130.7
Property, plant and equipment (note 11) 1.2
Investment in joint venture (note 13) 3.5
Inventories 0.4
Trade and other payables (2.7)
Deferred tax liability (32.7)
Total identifiable assets 100.4
Goodwill 7.8
Total consideration 108.2 111
Financial statements Governance Strategic report Overview
28. Business combinations continued
Satisfied by:
£m
Cash 37.8
Equity instruments (25,641,398 ordinary shares) 41.3
Deferred cash consideration payable in August 2015 29.1
Total consideration 108.2
Net cash outflow arising on acquisition
Cash consideration 37.8
37.8
The above transaction contains certain translations of euros into amounts in pounds sterling based on the exchange rate of £1.00 = €1.1913, 
being the published exchange rate by the Financial Times at the close of business on 18 March 2014, being the date of acquisition.
The fair value of the 25,641,398 ordinary shares issued as part of the consideration paid for Activaero was calculated using a two-week VWAP 
(volume weighted average price) share price calculated on 10 March 2014 as 160.9p per share.
The goodwill of £7.8m arising from the acquisition is attributable to the future development opportunities arising from the acquisition 
of proprietary, smart nebuliser-based technology and certain cost synergies. 
In the period since 18 March 2014, Vectura GmbH (formerly Activaero GmbH) contributed £0.3m revenue to the Group and this is recognised 
in the consolidated statement of income. Over the same period, the subsidiary incurred underlying costs of £0.3m.
Had Activaero been consolidated from 1 April 2013, Group revenues would have been £39.9m and the Group loss after tax would have 
been £2.1m.
The deferred cash consideration is non-contingent. The undiscounted amount that Vectura Group plc is due to pay is €35m. The deferred cash 
consideration of €35m has been discounted to a present value of €34.7m by applying a discount rate of 0.5%.
Acquisition-related costs of £2.5m have been included in other administrative expenses. 
Further costs of £2.0m were incurred following the placing of new shares, and these costs have been recognised in share premium. 
Due to the proximity of the acquisition to Vectura’s year end, in accordance with IFRS 3, the initial accounting outlined above is deemed to be 
provisional pending finalisation of the fair value exercise. On that basis the assets, liabilities or items of consideration may be restated at any 
time up to the anniversary of the acquisition date in March 2015.  Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14
112
Five-year summary
year ended 31 March
Unaudited
Year ended 31 March
2010
£m
2011
£m
2012
£m
2013
£m
2014
£m
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
Revenue 40.1 42.9 33.0 30.5 36.5
Gross profit 36.6 40.2 30.8 29.8 35.5
Gross profit margin 91% 94% 93% 98% 97%
Research and development expenses (34.8) (36.4) (31.7) (29.9) (26.9)
Other administrative expenses (3.4) (3.3) (3.3) (3.3) (3.4)
EBITDA (1.6) 0.5 (4.2) (3.4) 5.2
Depreciation (1.6) (1.3) (1.1) (1.0) (1.1)
Amortisation (10.6) (10.7) (7.5) (6.3) (6.9)
Non-recurring acquisition costs — — — — (2.5)
Share-based compensation (1.5) (1.8) (1.1) (0.9) (0.9)
Operating loss (15.3) (13.3) (13.9) (11.6) (6.2)
Investment income 0.6 0.8 0.7 0.5 1.6
Finance gains/(costs) 0.9 (0.8) — 0.7 (0.2)
Loss before taxation (13.8) (13.3) (13.2) (10.4) (4.8)
Taxation 3.6 4.5 8.8 4.5 2.5
Loss after taxation (10.2) (8.8) (4.4) (5.9) (2.3)
Loss per ordinary share (3.2p) (2.7p) (1.3p) (1.8p) (0.7p)
Cash flow statement
Operating loss (15.3) (13.3) (13.9) (11.6) (6.2)
Depreciation and amortisation 12.2 12.0 8.6 7.3 8.0
Share-based compensation 1.5 1.8 1.1 0.9 0.9
Decrease/(increase) in working capital 4.1 0.2 2.4 (1.1) (8.3)
(Decrease)/increase in deferred income (7.7) 2.8 (0.7) (3.4) 0.4
Exchange movements 0.9 (0.8) — 0.7 (0.2)
Taxation paid (0.2) (0.1) — — —
Research and development tax credits received 0.7 8.2 4.6 4.4 4.7
Net cash (outflow)/inflow from operations (3.8) 10.8 2.1 (2.8) (0.7)
Net capital expenditure (1.0) (1.4) (4.2) (3.8) (2.3)
Free cash flow (outflow)/inflow (4.8) 9.4 (2.1) (6.6) (3.0)
Balance sheet
Cash and cash equivalents 64.1 74.4 75.5 70.1 81.7
Shareholders’ equity 147.1 140.3 139.5 135.1 226.7
Net current assets 56.2 59.6 61.7 60.3 79.4 Shareholder information
Directors
Bruno F J Angelici
(Non-Executive Chairman)
Dr Christopher P Blackwell 
(Chief Executive)
Paul S Oliver
(Chief Financial Officer)
Dr Trevor M Phillips
(Chief Operations Officer and President 
of US Operations)
Dr John R Brown 
(Non-Executive and Senior Independent 
Director)
Dr Susan E Foden 
(Non-Executive)
Neil W Warner
(Non-Executive)
Company Secretary
Paul S Oliver
Corporate broker
Peel Hunt LLP
Moor House 
120 London Wall 
London 
EC2Y 5ET, UK
Corporate broker
J.P. Morgan Cazenove
25 Bank Street 
Canary Wharf 
London 
E14 5JP, UK
Registrars
Computershare Investor Services plc
PO Box 82 
The Pavilions 
Bridgwater Road 
Bristol 
BS99 7NH, UK
Public relations
FTI Consulting
200 Aldersgate, Aldersgate Street 
London 
EC1A 4HD, UK
Auditor
Deloitte LLP
3 Rivergate 
Temple Quay 
Bristol 
BS1 6GD, UK
Bankers
Barclays Bank plc
28 Chesterton Road 
Cambridge 
CB4 3AZ, UK
Legal advisors
Olswang
90 High Holborn 
London 
WC1V 6XX, UK
Legal advisors
Covington & Burling LLP
265 Strand 
London 
WC2R 1BH, UK
Vectura Group plc
One Prospect West 
Chippenham 
Wiltshire 
SN14 6FH, UK
Vectura trademarks
Adept
®
 is a registered trademark of Innovata Limited
AKITA
®
 and FAVOLIR
®
 are registered trademarks of Activaero GmbH
Clickhaler
®
 and Duohaler
®
 are registered trademarks of Innovata Biomed Limited. 
These trademarks are in the process of being transferred to Tianjin Kinnovata 
Pharmaceutical Company Limited, in certain territories
GyroHaler
®
 is a registered trademark of Vectura Delivery Devices Limited
PowderHale
®
 and Vectura
®
 are registered trademarks of Vectura Limited
Omnihaler
®
 is a registered trademark of Vectura Delivery Devices Limited
Third-party trademarks
ADVATE
®
 and Extraneal
®
 are registered trademarks of Baxter International Inc.
Asmasal
®
 and Asmabec
®
 are registered trademarks of Celltech Pharma Europe Limited
Breezhaler
®
, Onbrez
®
, Seebri
®
, Ultibro
®
 AirFluSal
®
 and Forspiro
®
 are registered trademarks 
of Novartis AG
Bluetooth
®
 is a trademark of Bluetooth SIG  Vectura Group plc
One Prospect West 
Chippenham 
Wiltshire SN14 6FH 
United Kingdom
T +44 (0)1249 667700 
F +44 (0)1249 667701 
E investorqueries@vectura.com 
www.vectura.com
Registered in England and Wales 
Number: 03418970
Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14
The Group’s commitment to environmental issues is reflected in this Annual Report  
which has been printed on Heaven 42 and UPM fine which are both FSC
®
 certified.
Printed in the UK by using environmental Waterless printing technology, and vegetable  
inks were used throughout.
Both manufacturing mills and the printer are registered to the Environmental Management  
System ISO14001 and are Forest Stewardship Council
®
 (FSC) chain-of-custody certified.
The unavoidable carbon emissions generated during the manufacture and delivery of this 
document, have been reduced to net zero through a verified carbon offsetting project.
