 The Specialist Professional  
Services Company
VEGA Group p LC 
Annu Al Repo Rt & Accounts 2007
VEGA Group p LC Annu Al Repo Rt & Accounts 2007
VEGA Group PLC
2 Falcon Way, Shire Park
Welwyn Garden City
Hertfordshire AL7 1TW
United Kingdom
Tel: +44 (0)1707 391999
Fax: +44 (0)1707 393909
360 Bristol Business Park 
Coldharbour Lane 
Bristol BS16 1EJ
United Kingdom
Tel: +44 (0)117 9880033
Fax: +44 (0)117 9880034
VEGA IT GmbH
Europlatz 5
D-64293 Darmstadt
Germany 
Tel: +49 (0)6151 8257100
Fax: +49 (0)6151 8257799
VEGA Technologies SAS
West Park, 4 rue Paul Mesplé 
31100 Toulouse 
France
Tel: +33 (0)567 771999
Fax: +33 (0)567 771998
www.vega-group.com VEGA is a specialist professional services 
company. It provides independent consulting, 
technology and managed solutions, based  
on 30 years’ experience of specialist market 
and technological domains.
This enables VEGA to offer independent expert advice and 
practical support services in the effective implementation  
of business strategy. 
In so doing, VEGA helps its clients to identify business value, 
manage risk and realise higher levels of success from their 
programmes and initiatives.
Contents 01 Highlights
02 Company Overview
04 Chairman’s Statement
06 Chief Executive’s Review
08 Our Business Streams: Consulting
10 Our Business Streams: Technology 
12 Our Business Streams: Managed Solutions
14 Business Review
20 Financial Review
22 Board of Directors
24  Shareholder Information  
and Financial Calendar
25 Directors’ Report
27 Report on Corporate Governance
31 Directors’ Remuneration Report
35  Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities
36 Independent Auditor’s Report
38  Consolidated Income Statement
39 Consolidated and Company Balance Sheets
40  Consolidated and Company Cash Flow 
Statements
41  Consolidated and Company Statements  
of Recognised Income and Expense
42 Notes
64 Notice of Annual General Meeting
Page 3 image of Royal Navy Admiral seated with  
heads of other nations’ navies.
Photograph by: Byline; © Crown Copyright/MOD,  
image from www.photos.mod.uk
Reproduced with the permission of the Controller  
of Her Majesty’s Stationery Office. VEGA Group p LC  Annu Al  Repo Rt  & A ccounts  2007 01
rEVENuE 
£64.1M (2006: £62.1M)
ADJuSTED opErATING proFIT*  
£5.1M (2006: £4.8M)
proFIT bEForE TAx*  
£4.8M (2006: £4.5M)
Underlying r esUlts
Revenue  up  3%  to  £64.1m  (2006:  £62.1m)
Adjusted  operating  profit*  up  7%  to  £5.1m  (2006:  £4.8m)  Adjusted  operating  margin*  improved  to  8.0%  from  7.7%  Adjusted  pre-tax  profit*  up  9%  to  £4.8m  (2006:  £4.5m)
Adjusted  diluted eps *  up  7%  to  17.8p  (2006:  16.7p)
  p roposed  final  dividend  of  2.25p,  giving  a  total  for  the  year    of  3.0p  (2006:  2.5p),  up  20%
net  debt  reduced  to  £0.3m  (2006:  £1.6m)
* before amortisation of acquired intangibles and exceptional items.
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
stat Utory r esUlts
operating  profit  £4.1m  (2006:  £4.2m)
pre-tax  profit  £3.8m  (2006:  £3.9m)
Diluted eps  14.5p  (2006:  14.8p)
exceptional  items  of  £0.8m  relating  to  reorganisation  costs
•
•
•
•
operational H igHlig Hts
  s trong  revenue  growth  achieved  in  both  the  Aerospace  market  (up  7%)    and  Government  market  (up  22%)
  s trong  own  staff  growth  in  the u K  Defence  market,  as  low  margin  sub-contractor    revenues  were  reduced  in  line  with  Group  strategy. o verall  Defence  revenues  down  4%
 £19m  contract  signed  with t hales u K  to  provide  the  total  training  solution  for  the  MoD’s    £800m  Watchkeeper u nmanned  Air  Vehicle  system  over  five  years
  s ignificant  contracts  signed  introducing  new  services,  such  as  architectural  modelling,    and  opening  up  potential  new  markets,  such  as  commercial  space
 Reorganisation  of  the  Group  into  separate  business  streams  for c onsulting, t echnology    and  Managed s olutions  now  complete
new  business  development  teams  established
continuing  investment  in  new  business  processes  to  meet  business  growth  needs
Acquisition  of  Anite  Deutschland,  as  announced  on  9  July  2007  •
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
£64.1M
2007
£62.1M
2006 VEGA Group p LC  Annu Al  Repo Rt  & A ccounts  2007 02
as a specialist professional services company,  
Vega’s business model is based on a balance  
of services, markets and geographies.
CoNS u LTING
Advising clients on the practical 
implementation of business  
strategy from the earliest stages  
of programme lifecycles. 
oUr ser ViCes
VEGA’s specialist capabilities  
are grouped under Consulting, 
Technology and Managed 
Solutions business streams. This 
enables VEGA to manage their 
different operating characteristics 
and to focus investment on 
research and development  
of intellectual property and  
the professional development  
of staff. 
oUr geograp HiC r eaCH
VEGA has offices and operations 
throughout Europe, with clients 
worldwide. Our principal locations 
are the UK, Germany, France, 
Holland and Spain, with many staff 
embedded in programmes  
at client sites.
GEoGrAphIC rEVENuE ANALy SIS 2006/07
rEST oF EuropE £6.3M
uNITED kINGDoM £42.0M
Co Mp ANy o VEr VIEw GErMANy £15.8M
Business Consulting
 Enterprise and Systems Architecture
 Programme and Project Management
 Procurement and Capability Acquisition
Information Security
•
•
•
•
•
TECh NoL o Gy Developing innovative bespoke 
systems and tools to support the 
successful execution 
of client programmes.
Secure Systems
Simulation Systems
Training Systems
 Payload Data Systems
Control Systems
•
•
•
•
•
MANAGED SoL u TIoNS
Providing teams of experienced, 
specialist practitioners to 
manage and implement  
client programmes. 
Managed Services
 Programme and Project Support
 Science and Technology Support
 Operations Engineering
 Systems Engineering
•
•
•
•
• VEGA Group p LC  Annu Al  Repo Rt  & A ccounts  2007 03
oUr Mar Kets
VEGA’s principal markets  
are Aerospace, Defence and 
Government. These are 
technologically and operationally 
complex environments, where  
the pressure to modernise, 
enhance value and secure 
operations is growing. We also 
have an expanding client base  
in the wider commercial market. 
AEro Sp ACE
VEGA works with aerospace manufacturers 
and satellite and aircraft operators worldwide 
to ensure that the research, development 
and operation of aerospace technology 
delivers against its business goals. 
DEFENCE 
VEGA works with defence agencies  
and armed forces to ensure that the 
acquisition, integration and deployment  
of network enabled capability delivers the 
through-life effects-based benefits for 
which it was intended.
Go VEr NMENT 
VEGA works with government departments, 
agencies and public bodies to ensure  
that strategic initiatives are conceived, 
developed and implemented effectively; 
with the necessary levels of access 
and security. 
oUr Clients
armasuisse
BAE Systems 
Communities and Local Government
Defence Equipment and Support
EADS Astrium
EUMETSAT
Foreign & Commonwealth Office
Home Office
Inmarsat
QinetiQ
SES Astra
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
Thales
Cabinet Office
European Space Agency
 French and German 
National Space Agencies 
UK Emergency Services 
NHS
 UK Ministry of Defence 
 UK, German, Dutch and  
Norwegian Armed Forces
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
CoNSuLTING £4.5M
TEChNoLoGy £19.3M
MANAGED SoLuTIoNS £40.3M
DEFENCE £25.8M
AEroSp ACE £33.6M
GoVErNMENT £4.7M
SErVICES rEVENuE ANALy SIS 2006/07 MArkET rEVENuE ANALy SIS 2006/07 VEGA Group p LC  Annu Al  Repo Rt  & A ccounts  2007 04
our strategy is to grow the group significantly by 
exploiting its position as a specialist professional 
services provider with a strong reputation for 
delivering independent advice and pragmatic 
solutions to its clients.
INTro Du CTIoN AND h IGh LIGh TS
This year marks a year of major change for VEGA with the Group 
now well established as a specialist professional services provider 
with a strong management team and a clear service offering. 
Whilst the business has been transformed over the last 12 months, 
the strong trading performance has continued with increases 
again in both revenues and adjusted operating profit*. Group 
revenues for the year ended 30 April 2007 increased by 3% to 
£64.1m. Adjusted operating profit* increased by 7% to £5.1m. 
Adjusted diluted earnings per share* also increased by 7% to 
17.8p. Reported operating profit was £4.1m (2006: £4.2m). 
Reported diluted earnings per share were 14.5p (2006: 14.8p).
During the year we completed the reorganisation of the Group  
into three separate business streams for Consulting, Technology 
and Managed Solutions. It is the Board’s view that this will  
position the Group better for future growth by making clear to  
all our stakeholders the full scope of the Group’s service offerings, 
ensuring focused leadership and development of the businesses 
and giving more visibility of the underlying performance of 
the Group.
Significant effort has also been spent in continuing the transition 
of the Group into a sales focused organisation and this was borne 
out in both the strength and quality of new business in the Group’s 
pipeline as we entered the new financial year.
pE op LE
VEGA depends on the commitment of its people and I would 
again like to thank all our staff for their part in delivering another 
good set of results. 
We now have a very strong management team supporting the 
executive directors and this should enable the business to flourish 
whilst at the same time allow the executive directors to channel 
more of their efforts into the continuing development of the Group.
DIVIDENDS
The Board is recommending a final dividend of 2.25p per share 
which, together with the interim dividend of 0.75p per share, will 
bring the total dividends for the year to 3.0p per share, a 20% 
increase on the previous year. This increase reflects the Board’s 
confidence in the Group’s future prospects and the high level  
of its dividend cover.
STr ATEGy Our strategy is to grow the Group significantly by exploiting its 
position as a specialist professional services provider with a 
strong reputation for delivering independent advice and pragmatic 
solutions to its clients. The markets in which we operate are 
currently undergoing significant change and this will open up 
further opportunities for us to deliver high value services, 
supporting our clients in the successful delivery of their 
programmes and systems. The Board will continue to consider 
acquisition opportunities to broaden the Group’s service offerings, 
extend its geographic reach and take the Group into new markets 
where there is proven demand for its services.
Ch AIr MAN’S STATEMENT VEGA Group p LC  Annu Al  Repo Rt  & A ccounts  2007 05
ACquISITI oN
We were pleased to announce on 9 July 2007 that we had 
acquired Anite Deutschland Management GmbH and its 
subsidiaries (together ‘Anite Deutschland’) for a total consideration 
of £8.0m in cash from Anite Group plc. Anite Deutschland is  
a key part of our strategy for international growth and will add 
significantly to our existing presence in Germany. The company 
will give us a major German defence client which is vital in helping 
our penetration into that market and will also open a new market 
sector for us in Financial Services which we believe will provide  
us with opportunities to cross-sell other VEGA services. Anite 
Deutschland has a strong and dynamic senior management  
team who are committed to further build the business under  
the VEGA banner. 
o u TLook We are already seeing the benefits of the new management team 
and structure that has been put in place and are confident that the 
prospects for the Group remain very encouraging.
ANDy r ob ErTS
CHair Man
* before amortisation of acquired intangibles and exceptional items. VEGA Group p LC  Annu Al  Repo Rt  & A ccounts  2007 06
pEr For MANCE
I am pleased to report on another year of good performance and 
real progress against the new strategy. We have continued to 
deliver year-on-year growth in both Group revenue and adjusted 
operating profit*, whilst making significant changes to the Group 
organisation and its management structure in order to improve 
future Group performance.
STr ATEGy During the year, we have continued to deliver against and build 
upon our stated strategy, namely to achieve a balanced business 
model with greater parity between services, geographies and 
markets. I am pleased to report that the changes made during the 
year under review to implement this strategy have produced 
encouraging results. 
ser ViCes
Last year we set out to make a stronger distinction between  
the Consulting and the Technology elements of our businesses,  
in order to capitalise on their different operating characteristics 
and channel investment towards staff development and 
competitive differentiation of our service offerings. This year we 
have progressed this further, by separating out the Managed 
Solutions element of our business. 
We now go forward with what I believe is a much simpler and 
more compelling set of propositions for how VEGA can help our 
clients as businesses. These can be summarised as:
A Consulting business that advises  
clients on the practical implementation  
of their business strategies.
 A Technology business that  
develops innovative systems  
and tools to support the  
successful execution of client  
programmes and projects.
 A Managed Solutions business  
that provides teams of experienced  
specialist practitioners to manage and  
implement client programmes and projects.
Each of these three business streams now has its own P&L, 
management team and business plan. As a result, we have 
already seen Technology and Managed Solutions capabilities, 
originally developed around Aerospace clients, transfer 
successfully into the UK Government and Defence markets, with 
further opportunities in the pipeline. 
geograp Hies
We have continued in our efforts to organise more cohesively 
within our key geographies of the UK, Germany and France. 
Individual managers have been appointed for each country and 
they have been tasked with building the VEGA presence and 
future growth prospects in their respective territories. 
This has yielded continued growth in the UK and a widening of our 
customer base in both Germany and France. We have also set up 
a Spanish subsidiary, primarily as a contracting vehicle for existing 
framework agreements.
Going forward I intend for the geographies to receive increasing 
emphasis, as we move to a more devolved business model. This 
will result in a smaller corporate team, providing strategy and 
direction from the centre, with larger geographic teams executing 
and delivering locally. 
Mar Kets
The senior business development appointments that we  
made last year, coupled with ongoing investment in account 
management, sales process, back office customer relationship 
management and better use of strategic advisers, has continued 
to enhance our client engagement and sales prospects in our 
core markets of Aerospace, Defence and Government. 
Our Business Development Directors are now engaged at the 
highest levels of their respective industries, participating in both 
networking and lobbying activities and delivering more insight and 
influence at the development stage of programmes. These include 
meetings at the levels of UK Government ministers, Defence Chiefs 
of Staff, CEOs of Aerospace primes and EU Vice Presidents.
Investment in market research and analysis continues as we 
pursue our journey from capability led, through sales led, 
ultimately towards a market led business strategy.
VEGA has always excelled in technologically and operationally 
complex environments, which has made Aerospace, Defence  
and Government natural and fertile markets for the Group. As the 
pressure in these markets to modernise, enhance value and 
secure their operations has grown, they have increasingly come  
to recognise the value of specialist expertise and independent 
advice such as VEGA’s, in parallel with generic methodologies 
and off-the-shelf solutions offered by others.
Ch IEF Ex ECu TIVE’S r EVIEw 
t his has been a year of great achievement and 
change for Vega , both internally and externally. 
We have continued to deliver year-on-year  
growth and profit, and have undergone major 
reorganisation towards a more balanced  
business model. VEGA Group p LC  Annu Al  Repo Rt  & A ccounts  2007 07
This encourages me to believe that there is significant room for 
growth in each of our traditional markets, and also in the relevance 
of VEGA’s capabilities to other markets, where the need for 
transformation, value for money and security is driving investment.
positioning
Last year I introduced my intention to evolve VEGA’s positioning 
towards that of a specialist professional services company; 
namely a company that, by virtue of its 30 years’ experience of 
specialist market and technological domains, is able to offer 
independent expert advice and support services to help 
businesses with the practical implementation of their strategies. 
This builds on our current positioning as a provider of independent 
programme and system assurance – helping clients to ensure 
their programmes and systems deliver the value for which they 
were intended – but also recognises the important contribution 
VEGA is making to client business transformation, beyond the 
purely technological.
By putting the emphasis on how VEGA helps its clients as 
businesses, we will extend the scope of our client engagements 
and increase the applicability of what we do to a wider range of 
clients and markets.
In doing so, we intend to exploit what I see as an expanding 
market opportunity between the high-end strategic consultancies, 
the major integrator-manufacturer companies and the niche 
software and equipment vendors. 
In the course of the year I have seen increasing evidence of the 
attractiveness of this position, and we will therefore accelerate 
moves in this direction through our branding and positioning.
staff
VEGA currently employs 630 staff, with a comparatively lean 
overhead and high proportion of professional fee-earning  
staff. We have continued to build teams around the high level 
appointments of previous years, through leadership development 
from within, strategic external recruitment and careful use of 
associates and advisers. 
Our business development success in winning new clients and 
projects from some of the major competitors in our markets is  
now being mirrored in recruitment, where we are receiving an 
increasing number of unsolicited employment enquiries from 
leading individuals. We believe that clients and employees  
remain attracted to VEGA’s core cultural attributes of technical 
excellence, pragmatism, dedication and delivery.
I recognise the outstanding contribution made by VEGA staff, who 
have continued to deliver the excellent services for which we are 
renowned. We have also created the structural and cultural freedom 
for VEGA, as an invigorated team, to exploit our 30 year heritage 
and to embrace the exciting new opportunities ahead of us.
inno Vation
One of VEGA’s strengths has always been in creative problem 
solving for its clients. This has continued to underpin our business 
growth and in recent years has led to landmark contracts such  
as CSIS and Watchkeeper. More recently we have started to 
increase our investment in intellectual property and research  
and development. 
In the course of the year, we have supported some innovative  
new developments where we now enjoy a position of thought 
leadership and market shaping. These include: the application of 
gaming technology to infection control and medical emergencies; 
the application of advanced architectural framework modelling to 
assist strategic decision making and the application of mobile 
technology to support rapid reaction teams in the field. 
Corporate deVelop Ment
Corporate development activity around potential mergers and 
acquisitions continues to be, and will remain, an important part  
of our growth strategy. We will look to make in-fill acquisitions  
to enhance our existing business and will also consider 
transformational opportunities.
Su MMAry This has been a year of great achievement and change for VEGA, 
both internally and externally. We have continued to deliver  
year-on-year growth and profit and have undergone major 
reorganisation towards a more balanced business model.
The significant effort made in transforming the Group over the past 
12 months, turning VEGA into a sales focused professional services 
organisation, has been reflected in the strength and quality of  
new business in the pipeline. I believe that we are now very well 
positioned to embark upon our next stage of organic growth and 
also to move forward with our strategy for acquisitions.
p h IL CArTMELL
CHief exeCUti Ve
* before amortisation of acquired intangibles and exceptional items. VEGA Group p LC  Annu Al  Repo Rt  & A ccounts  2007 08
advising clients on the practical implementation  
of business strategy from the earliest stages of 
programme lifecycles. 
our bu SINESS STr EAMS: consultin G
The Central Sponsor for Information Assurance (CSIA) is a unit of the Cabinet Office 
responsible for leading information assurance activity across government and 
throughout the UK. It promotes the appropriate management of information risk, 
through the development of reliable, secure and resilient information systems.  
To achieve this, the CSIA works closely with specialist services organisations, such 
as VEGA, to enhance its understanding and insight into the domain. VEGA provides 
independent expert advice on the operational, technological and human aspects of 
information security, enabling the CSIA to develop appropriate strategy, policy and 
guidelines for meeting the information assurance challenges.
One such challenge relates to future and emergent technologies. As new 
government transformation programmes rely on increasingly technology-rich 
initiatives, the potential opportunities and vulnerabilities associated with future and 
emergent technologies need to be considered; particularly against a background  
of increased convergence and sharing of information and systems, and ever more 
sophisticated threats.
One of VEGA’s Consulting practices specialises in information security. They have 
been commissioned to appraise the impact that future and emergent technologies 
may have on information assurance issues for the UK Government. To do this,  
VEGA has partnered with public sector research specialist Kable. Together, they  
are engaging with government, industry and the public, to gather and assess data, 
providing an independent view of potential impacts. The partnership will produce 
regular reports and updates, for wide distribution within government, the first of 
which was delivered in spring 2007. The findings will ultimately be used to support 
government research programmes, inform policy and raise awareness of 
information assurance issues.
Outside of the CSIA, VEGA’s consultants are supporting UK Government, defence 
and aerospace organisations; providing independent expert advice on a wide range 
of transformation and modernisation issues including business change, enterprise 
architecture, programme management, procurement and information security.
CASE STu Dy :  ADVisin G  GoVeRnMent on t He 
iMpAct o F  Futu Re tecH nolo Gies VEGA Group p LC  Annu Al  Repo Rt  & A ccounts  2007 09 VEGA Group p LC  Annu Al  Repo Rt  & A ccounts  2007 10
our bu SINESS STr EAMS: tecH nolo Gy
developing innovative bespoke systems and 
tools to support the successful execution of 
client programmes.
The Ministry of Defence’s Integration Authority (IA) is responsible for ensuring that 
future military equipment, systems and practices are able to integrate seamlessly 
with existing capabilities. This activity is essential to the delivery of cost effective 
procurement, interoperability in use, and the military advantage sought through 
increased investment in network enabled and information based capabilities.
To achieve this, against a background of thousands of existing capabilities and 
hundreds of development programmes stretching years into the future, the IA  
has drawn on specialist service providers, such as VEGA, to develop innovative  
software tools and approaches. VEGA provides bespoke system development  
and architectural framework modelling expertise to enable the IA to capture, 
visualise and thereby manage the complexity of the task before them.
One such bespoke development is the Integration Services Support Environment 
(ISSE). This is an MoD Architecture Framework (MoDAF) compatible enterprise 
architecture modelling tool, which is used to capture complex, heterogeneous 
capabilities in a precise and consistent way. These ‘models’ are stored in a 
repository of enterprise information, from which views of the different components 
and their interrelationships over time can be generated. The unambiguous 
understanding supported by ISSE enables the IA to evaluate current and future 
procurement options, and the integration issues they present.
In addition to developing and maintaining the ISSE tool, VEGA also provides 
specialist architectural framework modellers who are using the tool to populate  
the repository with existing and future military capability, and to analyse and  
exploit this asset in support of key decision making.  
Outside of ISSE, VEGA’s bespoke technology solutions are being used by 
governments, intelligence services, armed forces and aerospace companies, in 
order to secure communications, process data flows, simulate high value assets 
and train specialist personnel.
CASE STu Dy : en HAncin G t He  Minist Ry o F  DeFence ’s  Decision  MAKinG p Rocesses VEGA Group p LC  Annu Al  Repo Rt  & A ccounts  2007 11 VEGA Group p LC  Annu Al  Repo Rt  & A ccounts  2007 12
our bu SINESS STr EAMS: MAnAGeD  solutions
providing teams of experienced, specialist 
practitioners to manage and implement 
client programmes.
The European Space Agency (ESA) is at the forefront of space exploration, 
undertaking scientific missions to help mankind understand the Earth, the  
Solar System and the Universe beyond. 
With an annual budget approaching €3bn and a core staff of only 1900, ESA  
has come to rely heavily on specialist services organisations, such as VEGA,  
in order to develop, launch and operate spacecraft over their planned mission 
lifecycles. VEGA provides teams of highly experienced practitioners, who work  
in close partnership with ESA staff, to execute space missions practically, 
economically and with the greatest chance of success.
One such mission is ‘Rosetta’, a pioneering 23 year programme to study the nucleus 
of the comet and its environment, by placing a satellite in orbit around comet 67P/
Churyumov-Gerasimenko, and attempting to make the first ever controlled landing 
on a comet’s surface. Approved in 1993 and launched in 2004, the Rosetta 
spacecraft is currently on route to rendezvous with the comet in 2014.
One of VEGA’s Managed Solutions teams has been working with ESA since the 
early planning stages of this mission. They have helped to develop, test and operate 
the ground systems that support the spacecraft and the 21 scientific instruments  
on board. Now that Rosetta is engaged in its complex 10 year trajectory, which 
includes two asteroid fly-bys, three Earth gravity assists and a Mars gravity assist, 
the VEGA team is supporting ongoing flight and scientific operations. This has 
included developing innovative procedures to help protect the spacecraft and 
lander during an unavoidable 20 minute eclipse behind Mars; a critical event for  
any spacecraft that requires constant solar illumination to power instrumentation 
and controls. These procedures were carried out successfully in February 2007  
and the mission remains on track to catch its comet in 2014. 
Beyond Rosetta, VEGA provides Managed Solutions support to space agencies 
and satellite operators around the globe and helps the UK Government, Ministry  
of Defence and German Armed Forces in the execution of their business 
transformation programmes. 
CASE STu Dy : cHA sin G  A co Met  Fo R t He eu Rope An 
spAce  AGency VEGA Group p LC  Annu Al  Repo Rt  & A ccounts  2007 13 VEGA Group p LC  Annu Al  Repo Rt  & A ccounts  2007 14 VEGA Group p LC  Annu Al  Repo Rt  & A ccounts  2007 14
AEro Sp ACE
We define the Aerospace market for VEGA as including: the 
scientific, commercial and military exploitation of space; working 
with primary manufacturers such as Thales, EADS and BAE 
Systems, in support of major equipment platforms, and re-
emerging aspects of the civil aviation sector. As such, the space 
programmes we are targeting are typically pan-European and  
are supported by VEGA in the UK, our subsidiaries in Germany, 
France and Spain and client embedded operations in Italy, 
Holland and California. Primary manufacturer programmes are 
typically identified more with individual countries, although  
their products are being deployed in the UK, Germany, Norway 
and Holland. 
Group revenues in the Aerospace market grew by 7% in the year, 
with particularly strong growth in the UK and Holland. In Germany, 
Aerospace revenues declined by 3% due to low order intake for 
technology projects last year.
Mar Ket dyna MiCs
The space market is comparatively stable, with consistent 
institutional (government) funding, and a growing global 
commercial market, driven primarily by an increase in 
telecommunications and navigation opportunities. 
New institutional opportunities are emerging in Space Exploration 
(with a global initiative to return to the Moon and then on to Mars) 
and in the Global Monitoring for Environment and Security (GMES)  
programme. With its long track record in these domains, VEGA 
is well positioned to take advantage of both these major 
programmes. 
b u SINESS rEVIE w 
Despite the political issues associated with the European 
Navigation programme ‘Galileo’, the work to create the underlying 
infrastructure is continuing. VEGA is well positioned to expand  
its footprint here, as well as into the associated applications-
development market, through the existing navigation frame 
contract with the European Space Operations Centre and our 
involvement as a shareholder of Centrum für Satellitennavigation 
Hessen (CESAH). We are pursuing exciting prospects in both 
these areas. 
There is clear growth in the military, telecommunications and 
remote sensing markets. Here we have established a reputation 
with the primary manufacturers for professional services 
associated with ground segment development and with end-user 
organisations for operations management, training and system 
procurement support. Besides our ongoing support to the military 
environment, for Skynet 5, VEGA sees additional opportunities to 
build on its excellent reputation, by augmenting the capabilities of 
commercial satellite organisations such as Inmarsat and EADS 
Astrium, within traditional geographies and beyond Europe.
Consolidation of the primary manufacturers continues, as does 
their clients’ pressure to deliver through-life value for money, in  
an increasingly networked and integrated system of systems 
environment. This shift in the nature of many aerospace 
manufacturing programmes, from delivering equipment to 
delivering through life capability, is generating increased 
complexity and reliance on specialist expertise, such as VEGA’s, 
to both win and deliver major investment programmes.
oVEr VIEw The following review includes discussion of the principal market sectors in which we compete, namely Aerospace, Defence and Government.
Analysis of performance by geographic segment is given in the Financial Review. The new business segments on which we will report  
in the future are Consulting, Technology and Managed Solutions, and these are introduced in the Chief Executive’s Review.
      Year ended Year ended 
      30 April 30 April 
      2007 2006 
Revenue by market      £’m £’m Growth Share
Aerospace      33.6 31.5 7% 53%
Defence      25.8 26.7 (4)% 40%
Government      4.7 3.9 22% 7%
Total      64.1 62.1 3% 100%
Vega is one of the largest independent specialist 
professional services providers in our markets. 
t his gives us an international resource pool that 
can support a wider range and greater depth of 
programmes than many of our competitors.  VEGA Group p LC  Annu Al  Repo Rt  & A ccounts  2007 15
A general upturn in investment and the need for modernisation in 
response to economic and environmental issues are presenting 
some interesting opportunities for VEGA in the civil aviation sector. 
We are well placed to explore these opportunities, based on our 
track record in the rest of Aerospace and Defence.
perfor Man Ce
Our Managed Solutions business in support of all aspects of 
satellite operations has expanded in Holland and Spain and we 
have widened our client base in Germany. The Technology activity 
around space data management has continued to develop in 
France and in the UK. We have continued to win and deliver  
work on training system implementation projects for the primary 
manufacturers. Prospects in all areas are improving as we 
increase investment in our intellectual property based market 
offerings. By developing solutions based on significant technology 
reuse, we are maintaining our competitive position whilst using 
customer-funded and collaborative R&D to drive innovation and 
refresh our technology base. It is still early days for our Consulting 
business in Aerospace, however, we are now participating in the 
national and international debates and, as a result, we are seeing 
increasing opportunities to inform national delegations as to the 
art of the possible and to advise agencies on execution. Highlights 
of last year include:
 The signing of a £19m contract with Thales UK to provide the 
training solution for the MoD’s £800m Watchkeeper Unmanned 
Air Vehicle programme.
 Wide-ranging technology based learning solution support to 
several air platforms; F-16, Eurofighter Typhoon, Nimrod MRA4 
and Medium Support and Apache Attack Helicopters.
 VEGA’s selection as one of only five companies chosen as 
prime contractors for CNES (the French National Space 
Agency), who will tender contracts worth around €150m 
over the five year frame contract. 
 A contract worth €7m to support the European Space 
Agency’s Space Science Department in Holland and Spain.
 A frame contract for operations services with SES Astra, 
one of the world’s largest commercial satellite operators,  
based in Luxembourg.
 VEGA’s selection by the German Space Operations 
Centre to provide a Satellite Control Centre for a German 
military satellite.
 The successful delivery of bespoke software systems to EADS 
Astrium for the UK Skynet 5 military satellite system.
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
positioning
A key element of our strategy has been to grow our commercial 
space activities through a combination of enhanced market 
offerings and stronger partnerships with key prime contractors 
targeting the global market. We have made good progress in 
building our relationships with the key European primes: EADS 
Astrium and ThalesAleniaSpace (TAS). The latter is significantly 
enhanced by our appointment of Michel Austruy as Managing 
Director of our French subsidiary. Michel has a strong track 
record, including working for the French Space Agency and 
senior positions in what is now TAS. 
The UK space market is now reaching a critical and exciting time 
in its evolution. The UK continues to provide investment into the 
European Space Agency as the primary means of realising its 
space ambitions. The high level of reliance on Germany, Italy and 
France for spacecraft manufacturing results in geographic return 
issues for space companies operating in these countries, whilst 
the UK remains under returned. This places VEGA in an extremely 
good position to capitalise on our track record of expertise and 
delivery, to make the most of this situation over the coming year, 
whilst also benefiting from the UK investment in the ESA Aurora 
space exploration programme. Our Aerospace Business 
Development Director, John Auburn, has taken over as Chairman 
of UKspace (trade association for industrial space companies) 
which is providing VEGA with significant benefits through 
increased profile and high level contacts. 
We will continue to develop our relationships with the primary 
manufacturers, through dedicated account management and high 
level contacts. We will continue to position for the major platform 
training opportunities, whilst seeking to introduce a wider range 
of services, across the geographies. 
We are also exploring re-emerging interest from the civil aviation 
sector in the UK, building on existing work for Airbus and strong 
links to the major prime contractors through our Defence business. 
In Germany we are building on opportunities arising from work for 
the Deutsche Flugsicherung (DFS) and our membership of the 
German Aerospace Industry Association (BDLI). 
oU tloo K
Overall VEGA has good prospects for organic growth in the 
Aerospace market through building on a proven business model, 
exceptional track record and loyal customer base. Our specialist 
domain knowledge and insight will serve us well in the future. VEGA Group p LC  Annu Al  Repo Rt  & A ccounts  2007 16 VEGA Group p LC  Annu Al  Repo Rt  & A ccounts  2007 VEGA Group p LC  Annu Al  Repo Rt  & A ccounts  2007 16 17
DEFENCE
We define the Defence market for VEGA as including: national 
ministries of defence (or equivalents); their agencies; the armed 
forces and international bodies concerned with defence such as 
the EU and NATO. This is focused largely in the UK at present, 
with increasing interest in NATO, the Nordic countries and the 
German domestic defence sector. 
Group revenues in the Defence market declined by 4% in the  
year, reflecting strong growth in own staff revenue in the UK  
whilst low-margin sub-contractor revenues were reduced in  
line with Group strategy. 
Mar Ket dyna MiCs
UK armed forces are being tightly stretched by their current 
operational roles and longstanding peacekeeping commitments 
worldwide. This is requiring the ability to maintain presence, whilst 
deploying others rapidly, anywhere in the world, often as part  
of an international force. The significant increase in Urgent 
Operational Requirements has raised the question of just how 
effectively current capability is defined, acquired and delivered, 
and the defence community is now undertaking major reviews  
of the way that this is managed. With our long track record of 
supporting defence agencies to understand, plan for and implement 
complex capability, VEGA is well placed to advise on and support 
the implementation of these acquisition programmes.
With fewer new equipment platforms being procured in the UK, 
funds are shifting towards maintenance of existing platforms and 
investment in information superiority through network enabled 
capability. This plays to several of VEGA’s specialisms in terms of 
procuring network enabled capability, modelling interoperability  
of different networked systems, and developing bespoke training 
solutions for both individual and team training.
Outside of threats to national and international security, the 
increasing importance of energy supply and transportation is 
driving additional investment towards secure communications, 
intelligence activities and protection of business continuity; areas 
in which VEGA has a growing presence.
In Germany, defence budget issues are still restricting investment. 
However, the government has set out to transform its armed 
forces to have a more active role outside defence of its own 
borders. It is also investing in a new information architecture 
(Hercules) and the applications to go on it. As such, the German 
defence sector is generating similar issues and environments to 
those we have experienced in the UK and NATO, and therefore 
presents an interesting opportunity for VEGA.
perfor Man Ce
UK defence was dominated by the ongoing campaigns in 
Afghanistan and Iraq. These engagements continue to shape 
budget expenditure and the short term spending plans. This tight 
budget environment demands significant agility to ensure that 
revenues can be maintained. In this light, the year’s performance 
in the UK is strong. In Germany, reliance upon large but binary 
defence technology projects enjoyed less success.
b u SINESS rEVIE w continue D
With a 30 year track record of working in 
our specialist domains, our staff include 
some of the most technologically advanced, 
operationally experienced and dedicated 
professionals in the industry. VEGA Group p LC  Annu Al  Repo Rt  & A ccounts  2007 VEGA Group p LC  Annu Al  Repo Rt  & A ccounts  2007 16 17
VEGA’s UK Defence activities embrace a number of territories; 
Command and Battlespace Management, Special Forces, 
Platforms, Secure Systems and MoD Central Departments. This 
broad landscape demands an equally broad portfolio of services. 
VEGA has enjoyed continued success right across this landscape, 
bolstered this year with early success in deploying technology 
based Managed Solutions, the first win being in the Defence 
Communications environment. Highlights include:
 Framework renewal for procurement support to the Defence 
Intelligence Infrastructure programme (DII).
 Continued procurement support to Defence Equipment and 
Support organisation in CSIS.
 Three year contract to provide architectural framework 
modelling support to the Defence Integration Authority – 
populating MoD architecture repository in Malvern.
 Technology demonstrator and pilots for decision support in the 
new Through Life Capability Management framework recently 
established within the UK acquisition community.
 Programme and technology support to several platform 
programmes, including Future Rapid Effects System and 
Future Integrated Soldier Technology in the land domain.
positioning 
In UK Defence, we will continue to support the Through Life 
Capability Management challenge in the acquisition support role we 
have established. In addition, we will look to develop opportunities for 
powerful end-to-end learning solutions that incorporate architectural 
framework modelling, collective learning needs analysis, scaleable 
•
•
•
•
•
technology architectures and long-term delivery of managed learning 
services. Providing value for money analysis and benefit realisation 
services will continue to be important components of the 
procurement support services we offer.
We see a significant growth opportunity in the penetration of the 
research environment. The Defence Industrial and Technology 
strategies have given UK industry clear guidance on future  
trends and requirements, and over £430m is invested annually  
in Defence research. VEGA can engage on a very broad basis  
in this environment, reflecting our wide spectrum of service  
and technology offerings. We also see opportunities for our 
deployment of Enterprise Architecture Services, which have 
continued to grow and, importantly, are now providing significant 
procurement decision support on a broader basis. Secure 
Systems will be an important part of our future growth prospects.
Internationally, this year will see VEGA giving a greater emphasis 
to the German, Swiss and NATO markets. We will also consolidate 
and expand our existing penetration of the Nordic markets.  
Our defence technology learning solutions and procurement 
support offerings are all relevant in these national markets while 
our strong secure technology and communications capability and 
interoperability modelling are directly relevant to NATO initiatives.
oU tloo K
VEGA’s Defence business is robust and well-regarded and 
this year will see consolidation of our position in the UK 
market and increased focus on the broader Continental 
European marketplace. VEGA Group p LC  Annu Al  Repo Rt  & A ccounts  2007 18 VEGA Group p LC  Annu Al  Repo Rt  & A ccounts  2007 VEGA Group p LC  Annu Al  Repo Rt  & A ccounts  2007 18 19
Go VEr NMENT
We define the Government market for VEGA as including: central 
government, its ministries, departments and agencies; the 
emergency services; non-departmental public bodies and  
the non-uniformed intelligence services. This is predominantly 
focused on the UK at present and does not include the Ministry  
of Defence.
Group revenues in the Government market grew by 22% in  
the year.
Mar Ket dyna MiCs
The market opportunity in UK Government remains strong, driven 
by its ongoing commitment to its Transformational Government 
Strategy. This set out to achieve a number of key modernisations 
including: the shared service agenda; delivery of citizen-centric 
services and increased professionalism within government staff. 
Whilst the pace of change is never as fast as government might 
have hoped, and there is resistance to change in many quarters, 
there is no doubt that the strategy is driving investment and 
creating demand for companies such as VEGA to provide 
programme related services such as: information assurance; 
project management; business continuity planning and 
organisational development.
In the UK, value-for-money will become more and more central  
to the government decision making process, increasing the 
emphasis on efficiency, accountability and auditability. This is 
creating a good environment for the independent specialists like 
VEGA that can act as client-friend or trusted advisor, in parallel to 
the major system procurements. This transformational agenda is 
taking place under the requirement to embed ever greater levels 
of security into government programmes; an area in which VEGA 
also excels, making the prospects for VEGA in UK Government 
very good.
perfor Man Ce
On the back of on-going technology and programme support 
contracts, we have seen some successful new developments 
including work in the Foreign and Commonwealth Office 
supporting the UK visas programme and in Communities and 
Local Government.
We also saw early success in winning technology based managed 
solutions work in the emergency services sector. This is a 
programme to collect and manage Fire Service statistics over 
several years. The solution was based upon similar e-statistical 
collection solutions in the Aerospace market.
A core building block for growth was the successful competition 
to become an approved supplier on the Office of Government 
Commerce framework, CATALIST. This provides a straightforward 
contracting vehicle for our government clients, as well as 
bolstering VEGA’s credibility in the market. VEGA was successful 
in being selected for all nine categories for which we applied. 
positioning
The year to come will see a continued focus upon UK 
Government, concentrating on the emergency services, central 
government departments, their associated agencies and strategic 
non-departmental public bodies. This sector has shown solid 
growth over a number of years and we expect this to continue. 
We will continue to grow specialist professional services offerings.  
Our growth will be achieved through the underlying Consulting 
business, whilst pursuing and developing a Technology and 
Managed Solutions portfolio in government. The Consulting 
business will focus upon developing team based assignments 
within existing and new accounts, delivering the full value of VEGA 
capabilities to our clients. 
oU tloo K
The pipeline is strong and deal size is growing, so the Government 
business is well-placed for the year to come.
b u SINESS rEVIE w continue D
our proven track record in helping clients to 
implement strategy and to increase the success 
of their programmes, has resulted in Vega 
qualifying, in open competition, for major 
contracting vehicles and framework contracts  
in all our markets.  VEGA Group p LC  Annu Al  Repo Rt  & A ccounts  2007 VEGA Group p LC  Annu Al  Repo Rt  & A ccounts  2007 18 19
DIFFEr ENTIATIoN
VEGA is one of the largest independent specialist professional 
services providers in our markets. This gives us an international 
resource pool that can support a wider range and greater depth  
of programmes than many of our competitors. 
With a 30 year track record of working in our specialist domains, 
our staff include some of the most technologically advanced, 
operationally experienced, and dedicated professionals in the 
industry. These are extremely competent individuals, who are 
often asked for by name, and are trusted to provide the highest 
levels of impartial advice and practical support.
Our proven track record in helping clients to implement strategy 
and to increase the success of their programmes, has resulted  
in VEGA qualifying, in open competition, for major contracting 
vehicles and framework contracts in all our markets. 
rIS k FACTor S
The Board continually identifies, reviews and, where possible, 
mitigates the risks that may impact VEGA’s business, financial 
condition, prospects and share price. The key high level risks  
to our business are as follows:
pUbli C se Ctor spending
The majority of the Group’s revenues derive from the public 
sector, including the UK Ministry of Defence, the Intelligence 
Agencies, Central Government Departments and the European 
Space Agency. If there was a significant reduction in public sector 
spending in the UK and the rest of Europe this could have a 
significant impact on the Group’s results. However, by extending 
our geographic reach across Europe and by focusing on areas 
where Government spending is less likely to be reduced, such  
as national security, intelligence, defence communications and 
emergency services, we aim to mitigate this risk.
delays on Major Contra Cts
A significant part of the Group’s revenue is derived from large fixed 
price contracts which can be subject to delays both before and 
after they have been awarded. A significant delay on a contract 
could impact the Group’s results and lead to resources being 
under-utilised. The Group has tried to manage this risk by 
reducing the revenues from fixed price contracts to less than 
30% of the Group’s total revenue and by ensuring that resources 
are managed across the whole breadth of the Group.
bUoyant re Cr Uit Ment Mar Ket
In order to meet the demands of its markets and compete 
effectively with other professional services companies, the Group 
has to be able to recruit high quality individuals in the market,  
with appropriate skills and experience. The Group aims to create  
a rewarding working environment that will attract staff by offering 
competitive salaries and benefits, structured career paths,  
tailored training programmes and by encouraging free thinking 
and innovation.
aCqUisitions
Acquisitions play a key role in VEGA’s strategy and the successful 
integration and operation of acquired businesses represents a 
commercial risk to the Group. This risk is mitigated by a very 
structured approach to the integration process using joint 
teams, careful monitoring of performance post acquisition and 
appropriate incentivisation of the acquired management team. VEGA Group p LC  Annu Al  Repo Rt  & A ccounts  2007 20 VEGA Group p LC  Annu Al  Repo Rt  & A ccounts  2007 20
FINANCIAL r EVIEw oVEr VIEw VEGA has delivered growth in revenues and adjusted operating 
profits* this year whilst making significant changes to the business 
to better position it for the future. These changes included 
reducing the level of low margin sub-contractor revenues in the 
UK defence market to improve the UK operating margins. In total, 
Group revenue for the year was up 3% to £64.1m (2006: £62.1m) 
and adjusted operating profit* was up 7% to £5.1m (2006: £4.8m). 
Group adjusted operating margins* improved from 7.7% to 8.0%. 
Adjusted profit before tax* was up 9% to £4.8m (2006: £4.5m). 
Reported operating profit was £4.1m (2006: £4.2m). Reported 
profit before tax was £3.8m (2006: £3.9m).
During the period the Group has established three distinct 
business streams for Consulting, Technology and Managed 
Solutions and appointed senior executives to lead them. The 
business is now being run on this basis and for the year ending 
30 April 2008 these will comprise the Group’s primary reporting 
segments. An analysis of the results for the year ended 30 April 
2007 by business stream has been included in this announcement 
for illustrative purposes, however, the commentaries below are 
provided on a geographical basis as this is how the business was 
managed during the period under review.
Significant changes were made during the year ended 30 April 
2007 to the senior management team and also to consolidate the 
Group’s offices in Germany and the UK and this is reflected in 
exceptional items totalling £0.8m relating to both staff termination 
costs and final payments in respect of property leases.
Cash generated from operations increased compared with the 
previous year but there was some absorption into working capital 
owing to the timing of milestone payments on a number of 
contracts and some short term delays, because of the timing of 
the Easter holidays, in customers authorising payments to us 
before the year end.
UK 
At £42.0m (2006: £40.0m), total revenue in the UK was up 5% 
compared with last year. 
There was strong growth in Aerospace and Government where 
UK revenues increased by 15% and 22% respectively. In 
Aerospace this growth reflected, inter alia, work on a verification 
and validation toolset for the European GPS programme, Galileo, 
and support provided to EADS Astrium on the UK military  
Skynet 5 programme. Work also commenced on the £19m 
contract announced in July 2006 with Thales UK which is to 
provide the total training solution for the MoD’s £800m 
Watchkeeper Unmanned Air Vehicle system. In the Government 
market the growth came predominantly in the areas of central 
government and emergency services notably GCHQ, the Foreign 
& Commonwealth Office, the Department for Communities and 
Local Governments and the London Ambulance Service. 
In the UK Defence market revenues declined by 1% compared 
with last year, as the Company worked to reduce low margin  
sub-contractor revenues to improve the overall operating profit 
margin. Own staff revenues, however, increased, particularly 
around the provision of architectural modelling support to the  
UK MoD and building a secure information gateway for the UK 
intelligence community. 
Adjusted operating margins* in the UK increased to 9.6%
(2006: 7.5%). 
ger Many
Revenues in Germany fell by 7% in the period to £15.8m, from 
£17.0m in the corresponding period last year but order intake for 
the year was ahead and there were some important wins with  
new clients such as the German National Space Agency, DLR, 
and the commercial satellite operator, SES Astra in Luxembourg. 
As a result of the reduced revenues, the adjusted operating 
margin* in Germany reduced to 7.9% (2006: 10.1%). 
r est of eUrope 
Rest of Europe comprises the Group’s operations in France, 
Holland and Spain. In total, these operations increased their 
revenues in the period by 22% to £6.3m, from £5.1m last year.  
The total adjusted operating margin* declined from 12.8% to  
7.0%, largely reflecting investment in France where the business 
We have delivered growth in revenues and 
adjusted operating profits*, whilst making 
significant changes to the business to better 
position it for the future. VEGA Group p LC  Annu Al  Repo Rt  & A ccounts  2007 21
continues to shift from a predominantly sales based operation 
to a full trading entity. This included the recruitment of a French 
managing director during the year to help exploit VEGA’s position 
in the heart of the French aerospace industry in Toulouse. The 
work in Holland and Spain is primarily with the European Space 
Research and Technology Centre, and the European Space 
Astronomy Centre, where revenues have grown again, despite 
some pressure on margins.
Ex CEp TIoNAL ITEMS
During the year exceptional costs totalling £0.8m (2006: £0.3m) 
were incurred, of which £0.6m were staff termination costs which 
related to restructuring the senior management team, closing an 
office and withdrawing from a specific business sector and £0.2m 
related to exiting from property leases. 
TAx ATIoN
The adjusted Group tax charge* of £1.1m (2006: £1.0m) resulted 
in an effective tax rate for the year of 22.5% (2006: 21.4%) and 
benefited from claims for research and development tax credits 
which reduced the tax charge by £0.6m (2006: £0.6m).
EAr NINGS pEr Sh Ar E
Adjusted diluted earnings per share* increased 7% to 17.8p per 
share (2006: 16.7p). Reported diluted earnings per share were 
14.5p (2006: 14.8p).
CASh FLow AND DEb T
Cash generated from operations in the year was £3.5m (2006: 
£3.4m), representing 86% of operating profit (2006: 80%). The 
absorption of cash into working capital this year reflects the timing 
of certain milestone payments on fixed price contracts and the 
impact of Easter holidays on the authorisation of payments to us 
by customers close to the year end. Net debt at 30 April 2007 
was £0.3m (2006: £1.6m).
DIVIDENDS
The Board is recommending a final dividend of 2.25p per share, 
making a total dividend for the year of 3.0p per share, an increase 
of 20% over the previous year. The dividend is covered six times by 
adjusted earnings*. The final dividend, if approved at the Annual 
General Meeting, will be paid on 14 September 2007 to 
shareholders on the register on 17 August 2007.
Su E b y Gr AVE
gro Up f inan Ce dire Ctor
* before amortisation of acquired intangibles and exceptional items.
rEVIE w oF op Er ATIoNS
      Year ended Year ended 
      30 April 30 April 
      2007 2006   
Revenue by geography      £’m £’m Growth Share
UK      42.0 40.0 5% 65%
Germany      15.8 17.0 (7)% 25%
Rest of Europe      6.3 5.1 22% 10%
Total      64.1 62.1 3% 100% VEGA Group p LC  Annu Al  Repo Rt  & A ccounts  2007 22
1. 4.
2. 5.
3. 
bo Ar D o F DIr ECTor S
a strong management team has been established 
to support the executive directors, enabling the 
business to flourish and allowing the executive  
directors to channel more of their efforts  
into the continuing development of the group. VEGA Group p LC  Annu Al  Repo Rt  & A ccounts  2007 23
1. ANDy r ob ErTS
non- exeCUti Ve CHair Man
Andy Roberts (55) became Chairman of VEGA in November 1997. 
He is also Chairman of Kewill Systems plc. Andy was formerly 
Chief Executive of Data Sciences Ltd and has previously held 
various senior management positions within ICL.
2. b r IAN bI rk ENh EAD
non- exeCUti Ve dire Ctor
Brian Birkenhead (65) was appointed as a Non-Executive Director 
in June 2006. Brian is a Non-Executive Director of API Group plc, 
Caffyns plc and Eurotrust plc. He is also Chairman of a Serco 
Pension Scheme and a consultant to a number of companies. 
3. IAN wILLIAMS
non- exeCUti Ve dire Ctor
Ian Williams (61) was appointed as a Non-Executive Director in 
July 2002. A former adviser to HM Government, Ian was Chairman 
of the European eCommerce Association. He was formerly Non-
Executive Deputy Chairman of the Docklands Light Railway and 
an associate partner at Andersen Consulting.
4. p h IL CArTMELL
CHief exeCUti Ve o ffi Cer
Phil Cartmell (56) was appointed Chief Executive in May 2001, 
having joined the Group in July 2000 as Divisional Director, 
Consulting. Prior to joining VEGA, he was Vice President 
Consulting EMEA at Baan Company and has held other  
senior positions with KPMG and Origin (UK).
5. Su E b y Gr AVE
gro Up f inan Ce dire Ctor
Sue Bygrave (41) was appointed Group Finance Director in 
November 2004. Prior to joining VEGA, Sue was Group Finance 
Director of Mettoni Group plc and was previously Group Financial 
Controller and Company Secretary of DCS Group plc. Sue 
qualified as a chartered accountant with KPMG. Sh Ar E r EGISTEr Capita Registrars maintain the register of members of the 
Company. If you have any questions about your personal holding 
of the Company’s shares, please contact:
Capita Registrars
Northern House
Woodsome Park
Fenay Bridge
Huddersfield
West Yorkshire HD8 0LA
Tel: 0870 162 3100 (for calls within the UK)
 +44 (0)20 8639 2157 (for calls from overseas)
If you change your name or address or if details on the envelope 
enclosing this Report, including your post code, are incorrect or 
incomplete, please notify the Registrar in writing.
DAILy Sh Ar E pr ICE LISTINGS
Financial Times – Software & Computer Services
Daily Telegraph – Information Technology
FINANCIAL CALENDAr Annual General Meeting – 6 September 2007
Final Dividend Payable – 14 September 2007 
Expected announcement of results for the year ending  
30 April 2008:
Half year announcement – December 2007
Full year preliminary announcement – July 2008
Sh Ar EhoLDEr S’ ENquI r IES
If you have an enquiry about the Company’s business, or about 
something affecting you as a shareholder (other than queries 
which are dealt with by the Registrar), you should contact the 
Company Secretary by letter or by telephone at the Company’s 
registered office.
Co Mp ANy r EGISTEr ED Nu Mb Er 1393778
rEGISTEr ED oFFICE
2 Falcon Way
Shire Park
Welwyn Garden City
Herts AL7 1TW
United Kingdom
Tel: +44 (0)1707 391999
Fax: +44 (0)1707 393909
Co Mp ANy S ECr ETAry Ken Blyth
wEb SITE
www.vega-group.com
Co Mp ANy ADVISEr S
Auditor Ernst & Young LLP
Bankers Bank of Scotland
Solicitors Nabarro
Stockbrokers Investec
VEGA Group p LC  Annu Al  Repo Rt  & A ccounts  2007 24
Sh Ar Eho LDEr INFor MATIo N AND 
FINANCIAL CALENDAr VEGA Group p LC Annu Al Repo Rt & Accounts 2007 25
The directors present their Annual Report and the audited financial statements for the year ended 30 April 2007. 
Principal activity 
The principal activity of the Group during the year was that of programme and systems assurance.
Business review 
A review of the Group’s business and an indication of likely future development is contained within the Chairman’s Statement and Chief 
Executive’s Review on pages 4 to 7. Further details can be found in the Business Review on pages 14 to 19 and in the Financial Review  
on pages 20 to 21. All the information detailed in those sections which is required for the business review or otherwise for this report is 
incorporated by reference in (and shall be deemed to form part of) this report.
Results and dividends 
The financial results of the Group are set out in the Consolidated Income Statement on page 38. 
The directors are recommending payment of a final dividend of 2.25p per ordinary share for the year ended 30 April 2007 (2006: 1.875p) 
to be paid on 14 September 2007 to shareholders on the register on 17 August 2007. An interim dividend of 0.75p (2006: 0.625p) per 
ordinary share was paid on 8 March 2007 , which makes a total of 3.0p per ordinary share for the year (2006: 2.5p). Interim and final 
proposed dividends for the year will amount to £610,000 (2006: £509,000).
Changes in share capital
There have been no changes in the issued share capital of the Group during the year.
Going concern 
On the basis of current financial projections and facilities available, the directors consider that the Group has adequate resources to 
continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing 
the financial statements. 
Directors and directors’ interests 
The current members of the Board together with their biographical details are shown on pages 22 to 23. Brian Birkenhead was appointed 
to the Board on 28 June 2006, Alan Gaby resigned from the Board on 14 August 2006. Andy Roberts was appointed in November 1997 
and having served nine years as Chairman and in accordance with the requirement of the Combined Code provision A.7.2 he will retire at 
the forthcoming AGM and, being eligible, offers himself for re-appointment. Phil Cartmell retires by rotation and, being eligible, offers 
himself for re-election.
Details of directors’ interests in the ordinary shares of the Company and their remuneration, service contracts or letters of appointment are 
set out in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 31 to 34. Except as disclosed in that report, there were no other transactions 
between directors and the Company or its subsidiaries. 
 
Directors’ liabilities
The Group has granted an indemnity to each of its directors against liability in respect of proceedings brought by third parties, subject to 
the conditions set out in the Companies Act 1985. Such qualifying third party indemnity provisions remain in force as at the date of the 
Directors’ Report.
Substantial interests 
The following share interests (of 3% or more) in the Company’s ordinary share capital have been notified to the Company as at  
6 July 2007:
        Number  Percentage 
        of ordinary  of issued 
        shares of  share 
        5p each capital 
Prudential plc        3,255,000 15.99%
Standard Life Investment Management        2,774,782 13.63%
Hermes Investment Management        2,580,602 12.68%
Schroder Investment Management       1,546,970 7.60%
Gartmore Investment Management       1,340,855 6.59%
AXA Investment Management       1,104,857 5.43%
BlackRock Inc        860,496 4.22%
Canada Life Group        821,667 4.04%
Dir ECtors’ rE port VEGA Group p LC Annu Al Repo Rt & Accounts 2007 26
Payment of suppliers 
The Company agrees the terms and conditions under which business with suppliers is conducted. It abides by these payment terms, 
provided that it is satisfied that the supplier has provided the goods and services in accordance with the agreed terms and conditions. 
The number of days purchases outstanding at the year end, for the Company, was 73 days (2006: 49 days). 
Financial instruments
The Group’s financial risk management objectives and policies are discussed in note 24 to the accounts.
Employee involvement 
The Group organises staff communications both centrally and locally. The media used for centrally organised communications include the 
Group intranet, in-house magazines, staff bulletins, presentations and copies of press releases. At a local level, regular staff meetings are 
held and notices are published containing information about matters of interest within the Group. 
Discrimination
The policy of the Group is to offer the same opportunity to all suitably qualified people in respect of recruitment and career advancement, 
provided they are able to carry out their required duties. Employees who become disabled will, wherever possible, be retained, 
rehabilitated and where necessary retrained. 
Environment 
The Group has an Environmental Policy which is designed to foster a positive attitude towards the environment and to raise the awareness 
of staff to good environmental practices. Whilst recognising that VEGA’s operations themselves have limited environmental impact, the 
Group has implemented an Environmental Management System. A number of initiatives including recycling schemes and light efficiency 
schemes have been introduced and we continue to closely monitor consumption and waste, reducing these where practicable. We aim to 
be within the benchmark figures issued by DEFRA. A fuller explanation of the policy and management system, plus detailed results for the 
reporting period and objectives for next year, are available on request.
Charitable and political donations
During the year the Group made various donations, to charities supported by its staff, totalling £300 (2006: £760). 
It is the Group’s policy not to make donations to political parties and accordingly no political payments were made. However, we have a 
tradition of supporting our staff in the service of the community and have supported staff in a number of ways for civic duties, which we 
shall continue to do. 
Disclosure to auditors
Having made enquiries of fellow directors and of the Company’s auditors, each of the directors confirms that:
to the best of each director’s knowledge and belief, there is no information relevant to the preparation of their report of which the 
Company’s auditors are unaware; and
each director has taken all the steps a director might reasonably be expected to have taken to be aware of relevant audit information 
and to establish that the Company’s auditors are aware of that information.
Auditors
Ernst & Young LLP, the Group’s auditors, are willing to continue in office and a resolution for re-appointment will be proposed at the 
forthcoming AGM. 
Annual General Meeting
The notice of the Annual General Meeting to be held on 6 September 2007, together with explanatory notes, is on pages 64 to 68  
of this report.
By order of the Board
Ken Blyth
Company Secretary
9 July 2007
Registered Office
2 Falcon Way
Shire Park
Welwyn Garden City
Herts AL7 1TW
United Kingdom
•
•
Dir ECtors’ rE port continued VEGA Group p LC Annu Al Repo Rt & Accounts 2007 27
The Board is committed to high standards of corporate governance and supports the Combined Code on Corporate Governance (the 
‘Code’). The Board considers that, throughout the period under review (and subsequently up to the date of this report) it has complied 
with the provisions of the Code except for a temporary non-compliance against Code provisions A.3.2 and C.3.1, related to the balance of 
the Board and membership of Board committees, as set out in detail below, caused by the period between the resignation of Ken Lever 
as Non-Executive Director in September 2005 and the appointment of Brian Birkenhead in June 2006. 
The following report describes how the Company has applied the principles set out in the Code. It is also intended to explain  
the Company’s governance policies and to provide insight into how the Board and management run the business for the benefit  
of shareholders. 
The Board 
Since September 2006, the Board comprises a chairman, two non-executive directors and two executive directors. For the early part of 
the year, following the resignation of Ken Lever in 2005 there was only one non-executive director and in this respect the Company did not 
comply with Code provision A.3.2. 
All directors are subject to election by shareholders at the first AGM after their appointment, thereafter at intervals of no more than three 
years. Biographies of the directors are set out on pages 22 and 23. Their individual Committee responsibilities are: 
 
       Audit Remuneration Nominations 
      Board Committee Committee Committee
Andy Roberts      Chairman Member Member Chairman
Brian Birkenhead
1
      Member Chairman Member Member
Ian Williams      Member Member
2
 Chairman Member
Phil Cartmell      Member – – Member
Sue Bygrave      Member – – –
Alan Gaby
3
      Member – – –
1 Brian Birkenhead was appointed on 28 June 2006.
2 Ian Williams chaired the Audit Committee until the appointment of Brian Birkenhead.
3 Alan Gaby resigned on 14 August 2006.
Following his appointment on 28 June 2006 Brian Birkenhead became Chairman of the Audit Committee and also joined the 
Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
 
The Board meets formally on a monthly basis in the normal course of business and additionally as required. Meetings of the Audit 
Committee are held at least twice a year, the Nominations Committee and the Remuneration Committee meet as required. Details of the 
meetings held in the year and the attendance of individual directors are set out below: 
      Board Audit Remuneration Nominations
Andy Roberts      12/12 3/3 7/7 2/2
Brian Birkenhead      9/9 3/3 4/4 1/1
Ian Williams      11/12 3/3 7/7 2/2
Phil Cartmell      12/12 – – 2/2
Sue Bygrave      12/12 – – –
Alan Gaby      4/4 – – –
In addition to the scheduled meetings above there were a number of ad-hoc meetings of the Board and Board Committees.
The Chairman and non-executive directors provide a wide range of skills and experience to the Group. They bring an independent 
judgement on issues of strategy, performance, risk and people, through their contribution at Board and committee meetings. After  
careful consideration the Board has again concluded that Andy Roberts (notwithstanding his role as Chairman), Ian Williams and  
Brian Birkenhead were independent throughout the year. In arriving at this conclusion the Board has applied the criteria set out in 
provision A.3.1 of the Code. 
Andy Roberts was appointed to the Board in September 1997 and has served more than nine years. In accordance with Code provision 
A.7.2 he will retire at the forthcoming AGM and, being eligible, offers himself for re-election.
rE port on Corpor At E Go VErn An CE VEGA Group p LC Annu Al Repo Rt & Accounts 2007 28
Brian Birkenhead is the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director and his responsibilities include providing a communication channel 
between the Chairman and the non-executive directors and to ensure that the views of each non-executive director are given due 
consideration. He is an additional contact point for shareholders if they have reason for concern which contact through the normal 
channels of Chairman, Chief Executive or Group Finance Director has failed to resolve or for which contact is inappropriate. 
The Board has a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for its approval, including, amongst other things, the Group’s budget  
and strategy, review of the performance of the Group, acquisitions and the financial statements. The Board receives timely advice on all 
material information about the Group. 
When, in the furtherance of their duties, occasions arise where the directors need to seek legal or professional advice, they are able to 
consult the Group’s advisers or, if appropriate, take independent legal advice at the Group’s expense. The Board has approved deeds of 
indemnity with each of the directors and the Secretary allowing them to take advantage of the protection offered them in the Company’s 
Articles of Association in relation to defending proceedings brought against them. 
 
Board committees
The Board has delegated specific authority to a number of committees detailed below. Each committee has written terms of reference 
approved by the Board, copies of which are published on our website. The Company Secretary acts as secretary to each of the Board 
committees.
The Audit Committee
Membership of the Audit Committee changed during the year following the appointment of Brian Birkenhead. The Board recognises that 
for part of the year (until 28 June 2006) the members of the Committee did not have the specific experience required by Code provision 
C.3.1. During this period the Committee was chaired by Ian Williams and also included Andy Roberts, both remain members of the 
Committee following the appointment of Brian Birkenhead as Committee Chairman in June 2006. The Board considers that Brian 
Birkenhead does have recent and relevant financial experience. 
The Audit Committee reviews the annual and interim financial statements prior to their submission for approval to the Board. It also 
reviews accounting policies and provides a forum through which the Group’s external auditor reports to the Board of Directors. The 
Committee meets with the auditors at least twice a year. The Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director are also normally invited  
to attend its meetings. At least annually the Committee allocates time to meet with the auditors without management being present. 
The Committee monitors the relationship with the external auditors, agrees their scope of work and fees and reviews the results of the  
full year audit and the interim results review each year. It also assesses annually the cost effectiveness, objectivity and independence of 
the external auditors. The Group uses the external auditors for non-audit services such as taxation advice and planning, and corporate 
activity. When appointing advisors for non-audit work the Group considers the value for money, experience and objectivity required and in 
this respect it has used other accounting firms for non-audit work from time to time. The Company has a policy of controlling the provision 
of non-audit services by the external auditors in order to maintain their independence and ensure that their objectivity and independence 
are safeguarded. This control is exercised by ensuring non-audit projects, where fees are expected to exceed £15,000, are subject to  
the prior approval of the Chairman of the Audit Committee and the Group Finance Director. The Committee is satisfied that where the 
external auditors are used for non-audit services their objectivity and independence is not compromised. In reaching this conclusion the 
Committee considered a report prepared by Ernst & Young LLP prior to the year end, reviewing the potential threats to their objectivity  
and independence in the light of the ethical standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board. 
The Committee is responsible for the Group’s internal confidential disclosure policy, published on the Group intranet, which allows staff  
to raise concerns about possible improprieties. 
The Nominations Committee
The Nominations Committee is chaired by Andy Roberts and also includes Brian Birkenhead, Ian Williams and Phil Cartmell.  
Its membership has not changed during the year except for the appointment of Brian Birkenhead. The responsibilities of the  
Committee include considering, at the request of the Board, the making of any appointment to the Board and to provide advice and 
recommendations to the Board on any such appointment. The Committee met twice during the year to consider and recommend to the 
Board the appointment of Brian Birkenhead as Non-Executive Director and the re-election of Andy Roberts and Phil Cartmell. For the 
recruitment of the non-executive director the Committee followed a formal and transparent process. It prepared a job description and 
candidate specification against which to evaluate candidates. The Committee employed an external recruitment consultancy to provide  
a shortlist of candidates for interview by the Chairman and other directors. After full consideration Brian Birkenhead was appointed to the 
position of Non-Executive Director in June 2006. The Committee also reviews and recommends to the Board the continued appointment 
of directors standing for election or re-election at the AGM; directors standing for election or re-election do not take part in this process. 
The Committee keeps under review any significant external appointments of the executive directors. During the year and as at the date  
of this report, none of the executive directors held any significant external appointments.
 
rE port on Corpor At E Go VErn An CE continued VEGA Group p LC Annu Al Repo Rt & Accounts 2007 29
The Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Ian Williams and also includes Andy Roberts and Brian Birkenhead. It is responsible for 
agreeing contract terms, remuneration and benefits, including bonuses, for executive directors and senior managers. It is also responsible 
for the granting of LTIP awards and share options. The Committee met seven times during the period to review pay and the performance 
of directors in conjunction with bonuses and consider the granting of share based incentives. All Committee members attended all 
meetings. Further details of the Remuneration Committee are set out in its Report on pages 31 to 34.
Board performance and training
The Board is subject to an annual assessment process led by the Chairman which includes the completion of a comprehensive 
questionnaire which seeks to identify the effectiveness of the Board and its major committees. Review of the Chairman was conducted  
by the non-executives led by the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director. The Chief Executive holds a formal performance review  
with the Group Finance Director. The Chief Executive’s performance is evaluated by the Chairman. The non-executive directors meet 
annually without the executive directors present. All directors have undertaken a series of training programmes in relation to their roles, 
responsibilities and duties. Following his appointment Brian Birkenhead undertook a tailored induction plan involving site visits and 
meetings with senior managers in order to develop his understanding of the Group. 
Communications
We are committed to ongoing communication with all shareholders and have a well established cycle of communication. Our Chief 
Executive and Group Finance Director are the focal points for contact with institutional investors and maintain regular dialogue throughout 
the year. They ensure that the Board is regularly updated on institutional shareholder views following meetings with them. Additionally the 
Company engaged an independent research company to gather the views of shareholders and report their findings to the Board. 
The main source of information for shareholders is the Annual Report in which the Board seeks to present, in a balanced and 
understandable way, an assessment of the Group’s performance, position and prospects. All Company announcements and 
presentations are made available on our website, which also contains corporate and customer information updated on a regular basis. 
The Chairman and the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director offer to meet with the Company’s major shareholders to discuss 
governance and strategy and develop an understanding of shareholder views. All shareholders also have access to the Senior 
Independent Non-Executive Director if they have specific corporate governance issues which cannot be resolved through the usual 
channels of communication.
All shareholders have the opportunity to attend the AGM where relevant aspects of the Group’s operations can be questioned and 
discussed with the directors. We also give shareholders the opportunity to vote on substantial issues at the AGM by proposing separate 
resolutions for each issue. Proxy votes are counted before each AGM and the results made available after shareholders have voted at  
the meeting. In accordance with Code provision D.2.3. the Chairman and chairs of Board committees are available to answer questions  
at the AGM.
Internal control
The Board is responsible for the Group’s system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness. The Group has an established 
system of internal control designed to manage the risks to achieving the business objectives rather than eliminating the risk of failure to 
achieve those objectives. Such a system can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss. 
All the elements of the internal control system have been reviewed during the year.
Throughout the year, the Board has complied with the Code by operating an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the 
significant risks faced by the Group and, through the Audit Committee, the Board has regularly reviewed the process for its effectiveness. 
The system of internal control and the review process have been in operation throughout the year and continue to the date of approval of 
this report, in accordance with the Turnbull Committee guidance.
 
The primary internal management controls are targeted on achieving the business unit, departmental and Group objectives and are 
applied through a monthly cycle of monitoring, forecasting, reporting and corrective action. The business objectives for this financial year 
were formulated during the period set aside for defining business unit and Group budgets. All the objectives were reviewed for their 
continued applicability throughout the accounting period, as part of the monthly control cycle and in the light of any major events. The 
control process is supported by a full range of detailed authority levels, processes and procedures which are documented in the Group 
Quality System. Notably, the Quality System includes: 
an Organisation Plan defining the Group, business unit and senior management organisation structures, senior management terms  
of reference and the Group Authority Levels; 
a defined process for the sign-off of bids, and subsequent acceptance of contracts, targeted on ensuring that the risks associated  
with entering into contracts to supply products and services are identified, understood and accepted at appropriate levels within the 
Company (in accordance with the Group Authority Levels); and 
a Risk Management System (RMS) applicable to all levels of Group, business unit, departmental and project activities. 
In addition there are specific matters which are reserved for the Board and these are formally recorded and dealt with by the Board. 
•
•
• VEGA Group p LC Annu Al Repo Rt & Accounts 2007 30
The internal control system was reviewed for its effectiveness during the year. It included reviews of Board, business unit and departmental 
reports, meeting minutes and interviews with the executive directors. It covered financial, operational and compliance controls and risk 
management. The internal control system provided the executive directors with a complete view of the whole of the organisation at Group, 
business unit (including major projects and bids) and departmental level. The Board were, therefore, well placed to monitor the business, 
institute corrective action in relation to the significant risks to the Group and initiate improvements to the internal control system. The 
effectiveness review was performed in stages, during the third quarter and at the end of the financial year. In addition, the RMS and other 
elements of the internal control system were reviewed for necessary changes required as a result of revisions to the management and 
Company structure implemented during the year. It was noted that during the year there had been a number of changes and initiatives 
which had improved the control system.
The review concluded that the control system had enabled the business to identify and manage the risks in the business, and that the 
business was actively seeking to improve the system in order to gain further benefits. The overall results of this review were captured in  
a report which was submitted to the Audit Committee for their assessment and acceptance. 
The Board has considered the need for an internal audit function. It concluded, on the basis of the size of the Group, the level of internal 
review of fixed price projects and other financial processes already undertaken by its Program Management Office, the nature of its 
activities and the maturity of its internal control and quality systems, that such a function is not required at this time. 
rE port on Corpor At E Go VErn An CE continued VEGA Group p LC Annu Al Repo Rt & Accounts 2007 31
Part 1: Unaudited Information
Remuneration Committee 
The principal function of the Committee is to determine, on behalf of the Board, the specific remuneration of all executive directors and 
members of the Group Executive Team (‘GET members’) including service contracts, bonus payments, pension contributions, long term 
incentive plans (‘LTIP’) and share options. It makes recommendations to the Board on the framework of executive remuneration.
The Committee is chaired by Ian Williams and during the year its other members were Andy Roberts and Brian Birkenhead who was 
appointed in June 2006. Other than the appointment of Brian Birkenhead, there have been no changes to the composition of the 
Committee during the year. All members of the Committee are independent directors. Determining fees for non-executive directors is  
not within the Committee’s remit – these are set by the executive Board members annually within the limits set in the Company’s Articles 
of Association. 
The Committee has no formally appointed advisers on remuneration policy. Advice was sought from the Chief Executive, Phil Cartmell,  
on individual executive directors’ and GET members’ remuneration (other than in relation to his own remuneration).
Overall remuneration policy 
The policy of the Committee is to offer executives total packages that are competitive within the IT services sector, providing remuneration 
that reflects the average levels for similar roles at comparable companies of the same size. At the same time the Committee needs to 
retain flexibility to reward exceptional performance with above average levels of remuneration and to secure the services of talented 
individuals who are capable of leading the Company in a period of rapid growth. The packages combine fixed basic salary, benefits and 
pension contributions together with performance related annual bonus, share options and LTIP awards. In accordance with the provisions 
in B.1.1 of the Combined Code, the Committee believes that the overall package offered to executive directors provides the right balance 
of fixed and performance related pay that is appropriate to the size and scale of the organisation and is competitive relative to other 
companies within its sector. 
The individual components of the remuneration packages offered are as follows:
Basic salary 
Basic salary is determined taking account of the individual’s performance and responsibilities and comparable market rates. Basic salary 
is reviewed annually or on promotion and is the only element of remuneration that is pensionable. Non-executive directors receive a fee 
determined annually by the executive directors.
Benefits 
Benefits comprise the provision of a company car or car allowance, fuel and health insurance. Non-executive directors do not receive  
any benefits. 
Annual bonus 
An annual bonus is payable subject to the attainment of specific and challenging targets set for each individual. For executive directors, 
targets are based on Group performance. For GET members targets are based predominantly on business and functional areas where 
they have direct control, with a smaller element dependent on Group performance. Non-executive directors are not entitled to a bonus. 
Bonuses do not form part of the individual’s statutory employment rights. The Committee reserves the right to amend the targets during 
the year if it feels that changes, in such factors as the marketplace or the Group’s strategy, have resulted in the existing targets no longer 
providing the appropriate incentive to the individual. The targets are based on order intake, turnover, operating profit and operating cash 
flow. For the year ended 30 April 2007 , potential bonuses (of up to 120% of basic salary for the Chief Executive and 100% of basic salary 
for the Group Finance Director) were payable to executive directors for performance in line with or exceeding target. 50% of the potential 
bonus is earned for meeting targets rising to the maximum for achievement of 130% of targets.
Pension contributions
The Company operates defined contribution, Inland Revenue approved pension schemes. Phil Cartmell and Sue Bygrave participate  
in these schemes. The Company makes contributions of 6% of basic salary to the relevant pension scheme and directors, in common 
with other employees, are entitled to enhance this through salary sacrifice arrangements and additional voluntary contributions subject  
to Inland Revenue limits. Non-executive directors’ fees are non-pensionable. 
Share incentives 
The Group’s policy is to align the interests of executive directors and GET members with those of shareholders. To achieve this the 
Company operates two share incentive schemes. Non-executive directors do not participate in any share incentive schemes.
Dir ECtors’ rE mun Er Ation rE port VEGA Group p LC Annu Al Repo Rt & Accounts 2007 32
Long term incentive plan 
The Company has provisionally awarded shares worth 100% of basic salary to the executive directors under the terms of its LTIP in  
each of the past three years. Similar awards, in the range of 10% to 50%, were made to GET members. These awards vest on the third 
anniversary of the date of award to the extent that the performance targets have been met and subject to the Committee being satisfied 
that the Company’s Total Shareholder Return (TSR) is a fair reflection of the underlying performance of the Company over the period. For 
awards made to date the targets relate to the Company’s TSR relative to the TSR of a peer group of companies. The Committee believes 
that TSR is a measure that closely aligns the interests of executives with those of shareholders. 30% of the award will vest for median 
performance and an award will only vest in full if the Company’s TSR performance would place it in the top quartile compared to the  
peer group. 
Share options
In December 2006, the Committee decided that the package offered to the Chief Executive and Group Finance Director were not 
sufficient either to guarantee to the Company their long term retention or to offer them sufficient reward for the great improvement in 
financial performance that the Group has experienced in recent years. Accordingly during the year the Committee awarded both the Chief 
Executive and Group Finance Director share options with a value equal to their annual salary (of £247,570 and £140,000 respectively) in 
addition to the grant of potential shares under the LTIP scheme described above. The performance condition for these awards relates to 
growth in adjusted EPS (before amortisation of acquired intangibles and exceptional items) which must be RPI plus 3% measured over 
three years. The Committee may wish to use this scheme again in the future to reward exceptional performance or as recruitment or 
retention incentives.
Service contracts
It is the policy of the Committee to offer executive directors service agreements with notice periods not exceeding 12 months. Current 
appointments are subject to rolling service agreements that can be terminated by 12 months’ notice as detailed below. GET members are 
typically employed with a notice period of six months. Termination payments are limited to contractual notice periods. The non-executive 
directors do not have service contracts but have letters of appointment with the Group. Each appointment is terminable on three months’ 
notice. A summary of the directors’ service contracts and letters of appointment is listed below: 
        Contract date Notice period
Andy Roberts       1 November 1997 3 months
Ian Williams       2 July 2002 3 months
Brian Birkenhead       28 June 2006 3 Months
Phil Cartmell       2 May 2001 12 months
Sue Bygrave       1 November 2004 12 months
Directors’ interests
The beneficial interests of the directors in the ordinary share capital of the Company as at 30 April 2007 and the date of this report are set 
out in the table below:
        Interest at 
        beginning Interest at 
        of year end of year 
        (number of (number of 
        shares) shares)
Andy Roberts        47,000 47,000
Ian Williams        3,000 3,000
Brian Birkenhead        – 3,000
Phil Cartmell        16,300 16,300
Sue Bygrave        – –
 
Dir ECtors’ rE mun Er Ation rE port continued VEGA Group p LC Annu Al Repo Rt & Accounts 2007 33
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
350
400
30 April 2006 30 April 2007 30 April 2005 30 April 2004 30 April 2003 30 April 2002
VEGA Group PLC FTSE All Share Software and Computer Services Index
Total Shareholder Return
VEGA Group PLC’s Total Shareholder Return Index compared to FTSE Software and Computer Services Index
The following graph shows the value at 30 April 2007 of £100 invested in the Company on 30 April 2002 compared with £100 invested  
in the FTSE Software and Computer Services Sector Index. This index has been chosen for comparative purposes as, in the view of the 
Committee, it is a recognised index of companies in VEGA’s business sector. To produce a fair value, each point is a 30-day average of  
the relevant index.
Part 2: Audited information
In the following tables, references to GET members mean the individuals who are members of the Group Executive Team (our senior 
management) but who are not executive directors. Two GET members left the Group in 2007 and three new members were appointed.  
In 2007, there were a maximum of 11 individuals at any one time who were members of the GET but who were not executive directors. 
Directors’ and senior managers’ remuneration
The remuneration of directors and of GET members who served during the year was as follows:
    
 2007  Pension contributions (c)
  Base   Compensation  2007 2006   
  salary/fees Bonuses Benefits (b) for loss of office Total Total 2007 2006 
  £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £
Andy Roberts  69,000 – – – 69,000 70,800 – –
Ian Williams  29,000 – – – 29,000 27,000 – –
Brian Birkenhead (a)  25,341 – – – 25,341 – – –
Phil Cartmell  242,570 – 45,442 – 288,012 258,933 40,891 30,525
Sue Bygrave  133,750 – 12,442 – 146,192 162,829 26,094 15,000
Ken Lever (a)  – – – – – 10,507 – –
Alan Gaby (a)  41,653 – 3,538 170,910 216,101 157,433 6,912 20,060
Sub total  541,314 – 61,422 170,910 773,646 687,502 73,897 65,585
GET members  925,680 88,618 83,047 130,001 1,227,346 890,330 152,718 26,646
Total  1,466,994 88,618 144,469 300,911 2,000,992 1,577,832 226,615 92,231
      
The Committee has implemented the following changes in annual salary with effect from 1 May 2007: Phil Cartmell £275,000; Sue 
Bygrave £177,000. Annual fees for the non-executive directors have been set by the remainder of the Board to the following with effect 
from 1 May 2007: Andy Roberts £72,000; Ian Williams £30,000; Brian Birkenhead £33,000. 
      
Note a Brian Birkenhead was appointed on 28 June 2006. Alan Gaby resigned on 14 August 2006. Ken Lever resigned on 8 September 2005.
Note b Benefits comprise relocation assistance, car or car allowance and private medical insurance. 
Note c Pension contributions include salary sacrifice by Phil Cartmell of £26,337 (2006: £16,237); Sue Bygrave £18,069 (2006: £6,117); Alan Gaby £3,000 (2006: £11,400).
       VEGA Group p LC Annu Al Repo Rt & Accounts 2007 34
Directors’ share options
Set out below are the directors’ interests in share options as at 30 April 2007 and the date of this report:
Performance conditions applicable to each grant are as follows:
2004 Long term incentive plan
For awards to date, targets relate to the Company’s Total Shareholder Return (TSR) relative to the FTSE Software and Computer Services 
Index. 30% of an award will vest for median performance rising pro rata to 100% for upper quartile performance. For awards granted 
between September 2004 and January 2005 the performance conditions were met to the extent that 90% of the awards will vest.
2004 Share option scheme
Target relates to growth in adjusted EPS (before amortisation of acquired intangibles and exceptional items) which must be at least RPI 
plus 3% measured over three years.
     Number held   
Name    Market price at beginning Number granted Number held  
and date of grant    at grant of year during the year at end of year    Vesting date
2004 Long term incentive plan
Phil Cartmell
September 2004    1.585 105,994 – 105,994 September 2007
August 2005    2.150 105,376 – 105,376 August 2008
August 2006    2.325 – 102,258 102,258 August 2009
     211,370 102,258 313,628
Sue Bygrave
November 2004    1.535 37,459 – 37,459 November 2007
January 2005    1.535 37,459 – 37,459  January 2008
August 2005    2.150 58,140 – 58,140 August 2008
August 2006    2.325 – 54,839 54,839 August 2009
     133,058 54,839 187,897 
 
     Number held    
Name     at beginning Number granted Number held   
and date of grant    Exercise price of year during the year at end of year Exercisable from/to
2004 Share option scheme
Phil Cartmell
August 2005    2.150 94,651 – 94,651 August 2008/July 2015
December 2006    2.125 – 116,503 116,503 Dec. 2009/Dec. 2016
     94,651 116,503 211,154
Sue Bygrave   
December 2006    2.125 – 65,882 65,882 Dec. 2009/Dec. 2016
     – 65,882 65,882
The market price of the shares at 30 April 2007 was 273p and the trading range during the year was 196p to 278p.
Approval
This report was approved by the Board of Directors on 9 July 2007 and signed on its behalf by:
Ian Williams
Chairman of Remuneration Committee
Dir ECtors’ rE mun Er Ation rE port continued VEGA Group p LC Annu Al Repo Rt & Accounts 2007 35
s t At Em Ent of Dir ECtors’ rE sponsibi Liti Es in  
rELA tion to th E f in An Ci AL s t At Em Ents The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom 
law and those International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union.
The directors are required to prepare financial statements for each financial year which present fairly the financial position of the Company 
and of the Group and the financial performance and cash flows of the Company and of the Group for that period. In preparing those 
financial statements, the directors are required to:
select suitable accounting policies in accordance with IAS 8: Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors 
and then apply them consistently;
present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable 
information; 
provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRSs is insufficient to enable users to understand 
the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the Company and Group financial position and financial 
performance; and
state that the Company and Group have complied with IFRSs, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the 
financial statements.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial 
position of the Company and of the Group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985 
and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and Group and hence for taking 
reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
•
•
•
• VEGA Group p LC Annu Al Repo Rt & Accounts 2007 36
We have audited the Group and parent Company financial statements (the ‘financial statements’) of VEGA Group PLC for the year ended 
30 April 2007 which comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated and Company Balance Sheets, the Consolidated 
and Company Cash Flow Statements, the Consolidated and Company Statement of Recognised Income and Expenses and the related 
notes 1 to 26. These financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein. We have also audited the 
information in the Directors’ Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985. Our audit 
work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company’s members those matters we are required to state to them in an 
auditors’ report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone 
other than the Company and the Company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors
The directors’ responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the Directors’ Remuneration Report and the financial statements in 
accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European 
Union are set out in the Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance with 
relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland).
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the 
part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and, 
as regards the Group financial information, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. We also report to you whether in our opinion the information 
given in the Directors’ Report is consistent with the financial statements. The information given in the Directors’ Report includes that 
specific information presented in the Chairman’s Statement, Chief Executive’s Review, Business Review and the Financial Review that  
is cross referred from the Business Review section of the Directors’ Report. 
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the 
information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors’ remuneration and other 
transactions are not disclosed.
We review whether the Report on Corporate Governance reflects the Company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 
Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not. We are  
not required to consider whether the Board’s statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the 
effectiveness of the Group’s corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.  
The other information comprises only the Directors’ Report, the unaudited part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report, the Chairman’s 
Statement, the Chief Executive’s Review, the Business Review, the Financial Review and the Corporate Governance Statement. We 
consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial 
statements. Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Basis of audit opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) issued by the Auditing Practices Board. 
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the 
part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited. It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made 
by the directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s and 
Company’s circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to 
provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration 
Report to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error. In forming our opinion  
we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements and the part of the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report to be audited.
in DEp En DEnt Au Ditor ’s r Eport to th E m Emb Ers  
of VEGA Group p LC VEGA Group p LC Annu Al Repo Rt & Accounts 2007 37
Opinion
In our opinion:
the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of the state of 
the Group’s affairs as at 30 April 2007 and of its profit for the year then ended;
the parent Company financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union as 
applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 1985, of the state of the parent Company’s affairs as at 30 April 2007;
the financial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance 
with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation; and
the information given in the Directors’ Report is consistent with the financial statements.
Ernst & Young LLP
Registered auditor          
Cambridge
9 July 2007
•
•
•
• VEGA Group p LC Annu Al Repo Rt & Accounts 2007 38
	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Year ended	 Year 	 ended	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 30 April	 30 	 April	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 2007	 2006	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Notes	 £’000	 £’000
Revenue	 	 	 	 	 	 	 3	 64,120	 62,126
Net operating costs	 	 	 	 	 	 	 4	 (60,018)	 (57,921)
Operating profit 
Before	 amortisation	 of	 acquired	 intangibles	 and	 exceptional	 items 	 	 	 	 5,133	 4,803
Amortisation	 of	 acquired	 intangibles	 	 	 	 	 	 11	 (183)	 (328)
Exceptional	 items	 	 	 	 	 	 	 5	 (848)	 (270)
Operating profit	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 4,102	 4,205
Finance costs	 	 	 	 	 	 	 6	 (354)	 (376)
Finance revenue	 	 	 	 	 	 	 6	 61	 25
Profit before tax	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 3,809	 3,854
Income tax expense	 	 	 	 	 	 	 7	 (745)	 (745)
Profit for the year	 	 	 	 	 	 	 22	 3,064	 3,109
Earnings per share	 	 	 	 	 	 	 8
Basic	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 15.05p	 15.27p
Diluted	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 14.50p	 14.80p
Adjusted earnings per share 	 	 	 	 	 8
Basic	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 18.42p	 17.18p
Diluted	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 17.75p	 16.65p
Dividends per share paid and proposed in respect of the period	 	 	 9
Interim	 paid	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 0.750p	 0.625p
Final	 proposed	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 2.250p	 1.875p
All	 profit	 for	 the	 year	 and	 earnings	 per	 share	 are	 attributable	 to	 equity	 holders	 of	 the	 parent	 and	 derived	 from	 continuing	 operations.
Conso Lid At Ed i n Com E s t At Em Ent VEGA Group p LC Annu Al Repo Rt & Accounts 2007 39
	 	 	 	 	 Group  Company
	 	 	 	 	 	 As at	 As	 at	 As at	 As	 at	 	 	 	 	 	 	 30 April 	 30 	 April	 30 April	 30 	 April	 	 	 	 	 	 	 2007 	 2006	 2007 	 2006	 	 	 	 	 	 Notes	 £’000	 £’000	 £’000	 £’000
Non-current assets
Property,	 plant	 and	 equipment	 	 	 	 10	 1,041	 1,053	 834	 847
Intangible	 assets	 –	 goodwill	 	 	 	 	 11	 14,906	 14,874	 8,075	 8,075
Intangible	 assets	 –	 other	 	 	 	 	 11	 457	 460	 405	 219
Investments	 in	 subsidiaries	 	 	 	 	 12	 –	 –	 8,070	 8,187
Trade	 and	 other	 receivables	 	 	 	 	 14	 1,366	 1,496	 1,366	 1,496
Deferred	 tax	 assets	 	 	 	 	 15 316	 177	 316	 177
	 	 	 	 	 	 18,086	 18,060	 19,066	 19,001
Current assets
Trade	 and	 other	 receivables	 	 	 	 	 14	 20,028	 16,250 16,414	 13,123
Income	 tax	 receivable	 	 	 	 	 	 180	 42	 78	 42
Financial	 assets	 (interest	 rate	 swap)	 	 	 	 	 10	 –	 10	 –
Cash	 	 	 	 	 	 2,978	 2,873	 2,687	 2,501
	 	 	 	 	 	 23,196	 19,165	 19,189	 15,666
Total assets	 	 	 	 	 	 41,282	 37,225	 38,255	 34,667
Current liabilities
Trade	 and	 other	 payables	 	 	 	 	 16 (15,917)	 (13,812)	 (14,401)	 (13,119)
Financial	 liabilities	 	 	 	 	 17	 (1,291)	 (1,337)	 (1,290)	 (1,335)
Income	 tax	 payable	 	 	 	 	 	 (1,904)	 (1,608)	 (1,870)	 (1,676)
Provisions	 	 	 	 	 18	 (191)	 –	 (191)	 –
	 	 	 	 	 	 (19,303)	 (16,757)	 (17,752)	 (16,130)
Non-current liabilities
Financial	 liabilities	 	 	 	 	 17	 (1,960)	 (3,143)	 (1,960)	 (3,143)
Provisions	 	 	 	 	 18	 (200)	 (288)	 (200)	 (200)
Deferred	 tax	 liabilities	 	 	 	 	 15	 (62)	 (135)	 –	 –
	 	 	 	 	 	 (2,222)	 (3,566)	 (2,160)	 (3,343)
Total liabilities	 	 	 	 	 	 (21,525)	 (20,323)	 (19,912)	 (19,473)
Net assets	 	 	 	 	 	 19,757	 16,902	 18,343	 15,194
Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent
Equity	 share	 capital	 	 	 	 	 19	 1,018	 1,018	 1,018	 1,018
Share	 premium	 	 	 	 	 	 6,226	 6,226	 6,226	 6,226
Retained	 earnings	 	 	 	 	 	 10,232	 7,377	 8,818	 5,669
Merger	 reserve	 	 	 	 	 	 2,281	 2,281	 2,281	 2,281
Total equity	 	 	 	 	 22	 19,757	 16,902	 18,343	 15,194
Phil Cartmell   Sue Bygrave
Chief	 Executive	 	 	 Group 	 Finance	 Director
9	 July	 2007	 	 	 9 	 July	 2007
Conso Lid At Ed And Comp Any B ALAn CE s h EEts VEGA Group p LC Annu Al Repo Rt & Accounts 2007 40
	 	 	 	 	 Group  Company
	 	 	 	 	 	 Year ended	 Year 	 ended	 Year ended	 Year 	 ended	 	 	 	 	 	 	 30 April 	 30 	 April	 30 April	 30 	 April	 	 	 	 	 	 	 2007 	 2006	 2007 	 2006	 	 	 	 	 	 Notes	 £’000	 £’000	 £’000	 £’000
Operating activities
Profit	 after	 tax	 	 	 	 	 	 3,064	 3,109	 3,464	 3,070
Taxation	 	 	 	 	 	 745	 745	 467	 517
Net	 finance	 expense	 	 	 	 	 	 293	 351	 352	 420
Operating profit	 	 	 	 	 	 4,102	 4,205	 4,283	 4,007
Increase	 in	 trade	 and	 other	 receivables	 	 	 	 	 (3,673)	 (4,404)	 (3,161)	 (4,355)
Increase	 in	 trade	 and	 other	 payables	 	 	 	 	 2,095	 2,593	 1,257	 3,139
Increase/(decrease)	 in	 provisions	 	 	 	 	 103	 (34)	 191	 –
Depreciation	 and	 amortisation	 	 	 	 	 721	 852	 430	 413
Loss	 on	 disposal	 of	 property,	 plant	 and	 equipment	 	 	 	 7	 8	 2	 2
Write	 down	 of	 investments	 	 	 	 	 	 –	 –	 117	 –
Share	 based	 payments	 	 	 	 	 20	 161	 144	 161	 144
Cash generated from operations	 	 	 	 	 3,516	 3,364	 3,280	 3,350
Tax	 paid	 	 	 	 	 	 (759)	 (984)	 (408)	 (278)
Net cash flow from operating activities	 	 	 	 2,757	 2,380	 2,872	 3,072
Investing activities
Capital	 expenditure	 –	 plant	 and	 equipment		 	 	 	 (417)	 (459)	 (313)	 (387)
Capital	 expenditure	 –	 intangible	 assets	 	 	 	 	 (301)	 (200)	 (293)	 (194)
Sale	 of	 plant	 and	 equipment	 	 	 	 	 	 4	 7	 1	 –
Interest	 received	 	 	 	 	 	 61	 25	 97	 –
Net cash flow from investing activities	 	 	 	 	 (653)	 (627)	 (508)	 (581)
Financing activities
Debt	 repayments	 	 	 	 	 	 (1,203)	 (1,544)	 (1,203)	 (1,544)
Interest	 paid	 	 	 	 	 	 (310)	 (367)	 (405)	 (411)
Dividends	 paid	 to	 equity	 shareholders	 	 	 	 9	 (534)	 (432)	 (534)	 (432)
Net cash flow from financing activities	 	 	 	 (2,047)	 (2,343)	 (2,142)	 (2,387)
Increase in cash and cash equivalents	 	 	 	 57	 (590)	 222	 104
Effect	 of	 exchange	 rates	 on	 cash	 and	 cash	 equivalents	 	 	 	 86	 (56)	 1	 20
Cash	 and	 cash	 equivalents	 at	 beginning	 of	 year	 	 	 26	 2,794	 3,440	 2,424	 2,300
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 	 	 26	 2,937	 2,794	 2,647	 2,424
Conso Lid At Ed And Comp Any C Ash F Low s t At Em Ents VEGA Group p LC Annu Al Repo Rt & Accounts 2007 41
	 	 	 	 	 Group  Company
	 	 	 	 	 	 Year ended	 Year 	 ended	 Year ended	 Year 	 ended	 	 	 	 	 	 	 30 April 	 30 	 April	 30 April	 30 	 April	 	 	 	 	 	 	 2007 	 2006	 2007 	 2006	 	 	 	 	 	 	 £’000	 £’000	 £’000	 £’000
Exchange	 difference	 on	 retranslation	 of	 foreign	 operations	 	 	 21	 54	 –	 –
Gain/(loss)	 on	 hedge	 of	 net	 overseas	 investment	 	 	 	 85	 (93)	 –	 –
Gain	 on	 interest	 rate	 hedge	 	 	 	 	 	 18	 49	 18	 49
Tax	 on	 items	 taken	 directly	 to	 or	 transferred	 from	 equity	 	 	 	 40	 –	 40	 –
Net income recognised directly in equity 	 	 	 164	 10	 58	 49
Profit for the year	 	 	 	 	 	 3,064	 3,109	 3,464	 3,070
Total recognised income and expense for the year	 	 	 	 3,228	 3,119	 3,522	 3,119
	 Conso Lid At Ed And Comp Any s t At Em Ents o F  
rEC o Gnis Ed i n Com E And Exp Ens E VEGA Group p LC Annu Al Repo Rt & Accounts 2007 42
1. Authorisation of financial statements and statement of compliance with IFRSs
VEGA	 Group	 PLC	 (‘the	 Company’)	 is	 a	 limited	 company	 incorporated	 and	 domiciled	 in	 England	 and	 Wales	 whose	 shares	 are	 publicly	 traded	 on	 the	 London	 Stock	 Exchange.	 The	 consolidated	 financial	 statements	 of	 the	 Company	 for	 the	 year	 ended	 30	 April	 2007	 comprise	 the	 Company	 and	 its	 subsidiaries	 (together	 referred	 to	 as	 the	 ‘Group’).
The	 financial	 statements	 were	 authorised	 for	 issue	 by	 the	 Board	 of	 Directors	 on	 9	 July	 2007	 and	 the	 balance	 sheets	 were	 signed	 on	 behalf	 of	 the	 Board	 by	 Phil	 Cartmell	 and	 Sue	 Bygrave.
The	 Group’s	 financial	 statements	 have	 been	 prepared	 in	 accordance	 with	 International	 Financial	 Reporting	 Standards	 as	 adopted	 by	 the	 EU	 as	 they	 apply	 to	 the	 financial	 statements	 of	 the	 Group	 for	 the	 year	 ended	 30	 April	 2007	 applied	 in	 accordance	 with	 the	 provisions	 of	 	 the	 Companies	 Act	 1985.	 The	 principal	 accounting	 policies	 adopted	 by	 the	 Group	 and	 by	 the	 Company	 are	 set	 out	 in	 note	 2.
The	 Company	 has	 taken	 advantage	 of	 the	 exemption	 provided	 under	 section	 230	 of	 the	 Companies	 Act	 1985	 not	 to	 publish	 its	 individual	 income	 statement	 and	 related	 notes.
2. Accounting policies
Basis of preparation
The	 accounting	 policies	 which	 follow	 set	 out	 those	 policies	 which	 apply	 in	 preparing	 the	 financial	 statements	 for	 the	 year	 ended	 	 30	 April	 2007.	 The	 Group	 and	 Company	 financial	 statements	 are	 presented	 in	 sterling	 and	 all	 values	 are	 rounded	 to	 the	 nearest	 thousand	 pounds	 (£’000)	 except	 when	 indicated	 otherwise.
Basis of consolidation
The	 Group	 financial	 statements	 comprise	 the	 financial	 statements	 of	 the	 Company	 and	 its	 subsidiaries	 as	 at	 30	 April	 each	 year.	 The	 financial	 statements	 of	 subsidiaries	 are	 prepared	 for	 the	 same	 reporting	 period	 as	 the	 parent	 company	 and	 adjustments	 are	 made	 where	 necessary	 to	 align	 accounting	 policies.
All	 intercompany	 balances	 and	 transactions,	 including	 unrealised	 profits	 arising	 from	 them,	 have	 been	 eliminated	 in	 full.	 Subsidiaries	 are	 consolidated	 from	 the	 date	 of	 their	 acquisition,	 being	 the	 date	 on	 which	 the	 Group	 obtains	 control,	 and	 continue	 to	 be	 consolidated	 until	 the	 date	 that	 such	 control	 ceases.	 Control	 comprises	 the	 power	 to	 govern	 the	 financial	 and	 operating	 policies	 of	 the	 investee	 so	 as	 to	 obtain	 benefit	 from	 its	 activities	 and	 is	 achieved	 through	 direct	 or	 indirect	 ownership	 of	 voting	 rights;	 currently	 exercisable	 or	 convertible	 voting	 rights;	 or	 by	 way	 of	 contractual	 agreement.
Foreign currency translation
Transactions	 in	 foreign	 currencies	 are	 initially	 recorded	 in	 the	 books	 of	 the	 Company	 in	 the	 functional	 currency	 by	 applying	 the	 spot	 exchange	 rate	 ruling	 at	 the	 date	 of	 the	 transaction.	 Monetary	 assets	 and	 liabilities	 denominated	 in	 foreign	 currencies	 are	 retranslated	 at	 	 the	 functional	 currency	 rate	 of	 exchange	 ruling	 at	 the	 balance	 sheet	 date.	 All	 differences	 are	 taken	 to	 the	 Consolidated	 Income	 Statement,	 except	 when	 hedge	 accounting	 is	 applied	 and	 for	 differences	 on	 monetary	 assets	 and	 liabilities	 that	 form	 part	 of	 the	 Group’s	 net	 investment	 in	 a	 foreign	 operation.	 These	 are	 taken	 directly	 to	 equity	 until	 the	 disposal	 of	 the	 net	 investment,	 at	 which	 time	 they	 are	 recognised	 in	 the	 Consolidated	 Income	 Statement.	 The	 Group’s	 assets	 and	 liabilities	 of	 foreign	 operations	 are	 translated	 into	 sterling	 at	 the	 rate	 of	 exchange	 ruling	 at	 the	 balance	 sheet	 date.	 Income	 and	 expenses	 are	 translated	 at	 the	 weighted	 average	 exchange	 rates	 for	 the	 year.	 The	 resulting	 exchange	 differences	 are	 taken	 directly	 to	 retained	 earnings.	 On	 disposal	 of	 a	 foreign	 entity,	 the	 deferred	 cumulative	 amount	 recognised	 in	 equity	 relating	 to	 that	 particular	 foreign	 operation	 shall	 be	 recognised	 in	 the	 Income	 Statement.	 Non-monetary	 items	 that	 are	 measured	 in	 terms	 of	 historical	 cost	 in	 a	 foreign	 currency	 are	 translated	 using	 the	 exchange	 rate	 as	 at	 the	 date	 of	 the	 initial	 transaction.	 Non-monetary	 items	 measured	 at	 fair	 value	 in	 a	 foreign	 currency	 shall	 be	 translated	 using	 the	 exchange	 rates	 at	 the	 date	 when	 the	 fair	 value	 was	 determined.
Property, plant and equipment
Property,	 plant	 and	 equipment	 is	 stated	 at	 cost	 less	 accumulated	 depreciation	 and	 accumulated	 impairment	 losses.	 Depreciation	 is	 provided	 on	 all	 property,	 plant	 and	 equipment	 at	 rates	 calculated	 to	 write	 off	 the	 cost,	 less	 estimated	 residual	 value	 based	 on	 price	 prevailing	 at	 the	 balance	 sheet	 date,	 of	 each	 asset	 evenly	 over	 its	 expected	 useful	 life	 as	 follows:
Office	 equipment	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 3–10 	 years	 Cars	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 4 	 years	 n ot Es VEGA Group p LC Annu Al Repo Rt & Accounts 2007 43
2. Accounting policies continued
The	 carrying	 values	 of	 property,	 plant	 and	 equipment	 are	 reviewed	 for	 impairment	 when	 events	 or	 changes	 in	 circumstances	 indicate	 the	 carrying	 value	 may	 not	 be	 recoverable.	 Borrowing costs
Interest	 costs	 are	 recognised	 as	 an	 expense	 when	 incurred.	 Goodwill
Business	 combinations	 on	 or	 after	 1	 May	 2004	 are	 accounted	 for	 under	 IFRS	 3	 using	 the	 purchase	 method.	 Any	 excess	 of	 the	 cost	 of	 	 the	 business	 combination	 over	 the	 Group’s	 interest	 in	 the	 net	 fair	 value	 of	 the	 identifiable	 assets,	 liabilities	 and	 contingent	 liabilities	 is	 recognised	 in	 the	 balance	 sheet	 as	 goodwill	 and	 is	 not	 amortised.	 Goodwill	 already	 carried	 in	 the	 balance	 sheet	 at	 the	 date	 of	 transition	 	 to	 IFRS,	 1	 May	 2004,	 has	 not	 been	 amortised	 after	 this	 transitional	 date.
Following	 initial	 recognition,	 goodwill	 is	 stated	 at	 cost	 less	 any	 accumulated	 impairment	 losses.	 Goodwill	 is	 reviewed	 for	 impairment	 at	 least	 annually	 and	 whenever	 events	 or	 changes	 in	 circumstances	 indicate	 that	 the	 carrying	 value	 may	 be	 impaired.	 For	 the	 purpose	 of	 impairment	 testing,	 goodwill	 is	 allocated	 to	 the	 related	 cash-generating	 units	 monitored	 by	 management.	 Impairment	 	 is	 determined	 by	 assessing	 the	 recoverable	 amount	 of	 the	 cash-generating	 unit,	 to	 which	 the	 goodwill	 relates.	 Where	 the	 recoverable	 amount	 of	 the	 cash-generating	 unit	 is	 less	 than	 the	 carrying	 amount,	 including	 goodwill,	 an	 impairment	 loss	 is	 recognised	 in	 the	 	 income	 statement.
On	 subsequent	 disposal	 or	 termination	 of	 a	 business,	 the	 profit	 or	 loss	 on	 disposal	 or	 termination	 is	 calculated	 after	 charging	 the	 unimpaired	 amount	 of	 any	 related	 goodwill.
Intangible assets and investments in subsidiaries
Intangible	 assets	 and	 investments	 in	 subsidiaries	 are	 carried	 at	 cost	 less	 accumulated	 amortisation	 and	 accumulated	 impairment	 losses.	 Intangible	 assets	 acquired	 separately	 from	 a	 business	 are	 carried	 initially	 at	 cost.
An	 intangible	 asset	 acquired	 as	 part	 of	 a	 business	 combination	 is	 recognised	 outside	 goodwill	 if	 the	 asset	 is	 separable	 or	 arises	 from	 contractual	 or	 other	 legal	 rights	 and	 its	 fair	 value	 can	 be	 measured	 reliably.	 Research	 costs	 are	 expensed	 as	 incurred.	 Development	 expenditure	 incurred	 on	 an	 individual	 project	 is	 carried	 forward	 when	 its	 future	 recoverability	 can	 reasonably	 be	 regarded	 as	 assured	 which	 is	 considered	 to	 be	 only	 after	 its	 technical	 feasibility	 and	 commercial	 viability	 can	 be	 demonstrated.	 No	 development	 expenditure	 has	 been	 capitalised	 to	 date.
Intangible	 assets	 with	 a	 finite	 life	 are	 amortised	 on	 a	 straight-line	 basis	 over	 their	 expected	 useful	 lives	 as	 follows:	 Computer	 software	 2–5	 years
Other	 intangibles	 The	 period	 over	 which	 economic	 benefit	 is	 derived	 from	 the	 related	 assets
The	 carrying	 value	 of	 intangible	 assets	 and	 investments	 in	 subsidiaries	 is	 reviewed	 for	 impairment	 whenever	 events	 or	 changes	 in	 circumstances	 indicate	 the	 carrying	 value	 may	 not	 be	 recoverable.	 Impairment of assets
At	 each	 reporting	 date,	 the	 Group	 assesses	 whether	 there	 is	 any	 indication	 that	 an	 asset	 may	 be	 impaired.	 Where	 an	 indicator	 of	 impairment	 exists,	 the	 Group	 makes	 a	 formal	 estimate	 of	 the	 asset’s	 recoverable	 amount.	 An	 asset’s	 recoverable	 amount	 is	 the	 higher	 of	 an	 asset’s	 or	 cash-generating	 unit’s	 fair	 value	 less	 costs	 to	 sell	 and	 its	 value	 in	 use	 and	 is	 determined	 for	 an	 individual	 asset,	 unless	 the	 asset	 does	 not	 generate	 cash	 inflows	 that	 are	 largely	 independent	 of	 those	 from	 other	 assets	 or	 groups	 of	 assets.	 Where	 the	 carrying	 amount	 of	 an	 asset	 exceeds	 its	 recoverable	 amount	 the	 asset	 is	 considered	 impaired	 and	 is	 written	 down	 to	 its	 recoverable	 amount.	 In	 assessing	 value	 in	 use,	 the	 estimated	 future	 cash	 flows	 are	 discounted	 to	 their	 present	 value	 using	 a	 pre-tax	 discount	 rate	 that	 reflects	 current	 market	 assessments	 of	 the	 time	 value	 of	 money	 and	 the	 risks	 specific	 to	 the	 asset.	 Impairment	 losses	 of	 continuing	 operations	 	 are	 recognised	 in	 the	 income	 statement	 in	 those	 expense	 categories	 consistent	 with	 the	 function	 of	 the	 impaired	 asset.
Trade and other receivables
Trade	 receivables,	 which	 generally	 have	 30–90	 day	 terms,	 are	 recognised	 and	 carried	 at	 the	 lower	 of	 their	 original	 invoiced	 value	 and	 recoverable	 amount.	 A	 provision	 for	 doubtful	 debts	 is	 made	 when	 there	 is	 objective	 evidence	 that	 the	 Group	 will	 not	 be	 able	 to	 recover	 	 the	 amounts	 in	 full.	 Balances	 are	 written	 off	 when	 the	 probability	 of	 recovery	 is	 assessed	 as	 being	 remote. VEGA Group p LC Annu Al Repo Rt & Accounts 2007 44
2. Accounting policies continued
Cash 
Cash	 in	 the	 balance	 sheet	 comprises	 cash	 at	 bank	 and	 in	 hand	 and	 short-term	 deposits	 with	 an	 original	 maturity	 of	 three	 months	 or	 less.
For	 the	 purpose	 of	 the	 consolidated	 cash	 flow	 statement,	 cash	 and	 cash	 equivalents	 consist	 of	 cash	 and	 cash	 equivalents	 as	 defined	 above,	 net	 of	 outstanding	 bank	 overdrafts.
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 
All	 loans	 and	 borrowings	 are	 initially	 recognised	 at	 the	 fair	 value	 of	 consideration	 received	 less	 directly	 attributable	 issue	 costs.
After	 initial	 recognition,	 interest-bearing	 loans	 and	 borrowings	 are	 subsequently	 measured	 at	 amortised	 cost	 using	 the	 effective	 interest	 method.	 Amortised	 cost	 is	 calculated	 by	 taking	 into	 account	 any	 issue	 costs	 and	 any	 discount	 or	 premium	 on	 settlement.	 The	 effective	 interest	 rate	 is	 the	 rate	 that	 exactly	 discounts	 estimated	 future	 cash	 payments	 and	 receipts	 through	 the	 expected	 life	 of	 the	 financial	 instrument,	 or	 when	 appropriate	 a	 shorter	 period	 to	 the	 net	 carrying	 amount	 of	 the	 financial	 instrument.	 This	 calculation	 includes	 transaction	 costs	 and	 any	 premiums	 or	 discounts.
Gains	 and	 losses	 arising	 on	 the	 repurchase,	 settlement	 or	 otherwise	 cancellation	 of	 liabilities	 are	 recognised	 respectively	 in	 finance	 revenue	 and	 finance	 costs.	 	 Provisions
Provisions	 are	 recognised	 when	 the	 Group	 has	 a	 legal	 or	 constructive	 obligation	 as	 a	 result	 of	 a	 past	 event	 and	 it	 is	 probable	 that	 an	 outflow	 of	 economic	 benefits	 will	 be	 required	 to	 settle	 the	 obligation.	 If	 the	 effect	 of	 the	 time	 value	 of	 money	 is	 material,	 expected	 future	 cash	 flows	 are	 discounted	 using	 a	 current	 pre-tax	 rate	 that	 reflects,	 where	 appropriate,	 the	 risks	 specific	 to	 the	 liability.	 Where	 discounting	 is	 used,	 the	 increase	 in	 the	 provision	 due	 to	 unwinding	 of	 the	 discount	 is	 recognised	 as	 a	 finance	 cost.
Pensions and other post-employment benefits
The	 Group	 operates	 defined	 contribution	 pension	 schemes.	 Contributions	 are	 recognised	 as	 an	 expense	 in	 the	 income	 statement	 in	 the	 period	 in	 which	 they	 become	 payable	 in	 accordance	 with	 the	 rules	 of	 the	 schemes.	 Employee benefits
In	 accordance	 with	 IAS	 19,	 the	 Group	 provides	 for	 accumulating	 absences	 (such	 as	 paid	 holiday).	 The	 cost	 is	 measured	 as	 the	 additional	 amount	 the	 Group	 expects	 to	 pay	 as	 a	 result	 of	 the	 unused	 entitlement	 that	 has	 accumulated	 at	 the	 balance	 sheet	 date.
Share-based payment transactions 
Employees	 (including	 executive	 directors)	 of	 the	 Group	 receive	 remuneration	 in	 the	 form	 of	 share-based	 payment	 transactions,	 whereby	 employees	 render	 services	 in	 exchange	 for	 shares	 or	 rights	 over	 shares.
The	 cost	 of	 these	 equity-settled	 transactions	 with	 employees	 is	 measured	 by	 reference	 to	 the	 fair	 value	 at	 the	 date	 at	 which	 they	 are	 granted.	 In	 valuing	 equity-settled	 transactions,	 no	 account	 is	 taken	 of	 any	 performance	 conditions,	 other	 than	 conditions	 linked	 to	 the	 price	 of	 the	 Company’s	 shares	 (‘market	 conditions’).
The	 cost	 of	 equity-settled	 transactions	 is	 recognised,	 together	 with	 a	 corresponding	 increase	 in	 equity,	 over	 the	 period	 in	 which	 the	 performance	 conditions	 are	 fulfilled,	 ending	 on	 the	 date	 on	 which	 the	 relevant	 employees	 become	 fully	 entitled	 to	 the	 award	 (‘vesting	 date’).	 The	 cumulative	 expense	 recognised	 for	 equity-settled	 transactions	 at	 each	 reporting	 date	 until	 the	 vesting	 date	 reflects	 the	 extent	 	 to	 which	 the	 vesting	 period	 has	 expired	 and	 the	 number	 of	 awards	 that,	 in	 the	 opinion	 of	 the	 directors	 of	 the	 Group	 at	 that	 date,	 will	 ultimately	 vest.	 No	 expense	 is	 recognised	 for	 awards	 that	 do	 not	 ultimately	 vest,	 except	 for	 awards	 where	 vesting	 is	 conditional	 upon	 a	 market	 condition,	 which	 are	 treated	 as	 vesting	 irrespective	 of	 whether	 or	 not	 the	 market	 condition	 is	 satisfied,	 provided	 that	 all	 other	 performance	 conditions	 are	 satisfied.
Where	 the	 terms	 of	 an	 equity-settled	 award	 are	 modified,	 the	 cost	 based	 on	 the	 original	 award	 terms	 continues	 to	 be	 recognised	 over	 	 the	 original	 vesting	 period.	 In	 addition,	 an	 expense	 is	 recognised	 over	 the	 remainder	 of	 the	 new	 vesting	 period	 for	 the	 increase	 in	 the	 fair	 value	 of	 the	 award,	 based	 on	 the	 difference	 between	 the	 fair	 value	 of	 the	 original	 award	 and	 the	 fair	 value	 of	 the	 modified	 award,	 both	 as	 measured	 at	 the	 date	 of	 modification.	 No	 reduction	 is	 recognised	 if	 the	 fair	 value	 of	 the	 award	 decreases	 as	 a	 result	 of	 the	 modification.
Where	 an	 equity-settled	 award	 is	 cancelled,	 it	 is	 treated	 as	 if	 it	 had	 vested	 on	 the	 date	 of	 cancellation,	 and	 any	 expense	 not	 yet	 recognised	 for	 the	 award	 is	 recognised	 immediately.	 However,	 if	 a	 new	 award	 is	 substituted	 for	 the	 cancelled	 award,	 and	 designated	 as	 a	 replacement	 award	 on	 the	 date	 that	 it	 is	 granted,	 the	 cancelled	 and	 new	 awards	 are	 treated	 as	 if	 they	 were	 a	 modification	 of	 the	 original	 award,	 as	 described	 in	 the	 previous	 paragraph.
The	 dilutive	 effect	 of	 outstanding	 options	 is	 reflected	 as	 additional	 share	 dilution	 in	 the	 computation	 of	 earnings	 per	 share.
n ot Es continued VEGA Group p LC Annu Al Repo Rt & Accounts 2007 45
2. Accounting policies continued
Leases
Leases	 where	 the	 lessor	 retains	 substantially	 all	 the	 risks	 and	 benefits	 of	 ownership	 of	 the	 asset	 are	 classified	 as	 operating	 leases	 and	 rentals	 payable	 are	 charged	 in	 the	 income	 statement	 on	 a	 straight-line	 basis	 over	 the	 lease	 term.	 Revenue recognition and long term contracts
Revenue	 is	 recognised	 to	 the	 extent	 that	 it	 is	 probable	 that	 the	 economic	 benefits	 will	 flow	 to	 the	 Group	 and	 the	 revenue	 can	 be	 reliably	 measured.	 Revenue	 is	 stated	 net	 of	 VAT.
Revenue	 from	 services	 rendered	 is	 recognised	 to	 the	 stage	 of	 completion	 of	 the	 contract	 at	 the	 balance	 sheet	 date.	 Stage	 of	 completion	 	 is	 measured	 by	 reference	 to	 own	 labour	 hours	 incurred	 to	 date	 as	 a	 percentage	 of	 total	 estimate	 own	 labour	 hours	 for	 each	 contract.	 	 An	 expected	 loss	 on	 a	 contract	 is	 recognised	 immediately	 in	 the	 income	 statement.	 Where	 the	 contract	 outcome	 cannot	 be	 measured	 reliably,	 revenue	 is	 recognised	 only	 to	 the	 extent	 of	 the	 expenses	 recognised	 that	 are	 recoverable.
Amounts	 recoverable	 on	 contracts	 are	 included	 in	 debtors	 and	 represent	 income	 recognised	 in	 excess	 of	 amounts	 invoiced.	 Where	 amounts	 recoverable	 on	 contracts	 are	 individually	 significant	 and	 recoverable	 over	 a	 period	 greater	 than	 one	 year,	 the	 debtor	 recognised	 is	 discounted	 at	 an	 appropriate	 rate	 reflecting	 the	 period	 over	 which	 the	 balance	 will	 be	 received.	 Where	 amounts	 invoiced	 are	 in	 excess	 of	 turnover	 recognised,	 a	 payment	 received	 on	 account	 arises	 (which	 is	 included	 within	 creditors).
Income tax 
Current	 tax	 assets	 and	 liabilities	 are	 measured	 at	 the	 amount	 expected	 to	 be	 recovered	 from	 or	 paid	 to	 the	 taxation	 authorities,	 based	 on	 tax	 rates	 and	 laws	 that	 are	 enacted	 or	 substantively	 enacted	 by	 the	 balance	 sheet	 date.
Deferred	 income	 tax	 is	 provided,	 using	 the	 liability	 method,	 on	 all	 temporary	 differences	 at	 the	 balance	 sheet	 date	 between	 the	 tax	 bases	 of	 assets	 and	 liabilities	 and	 their	 carrying	 amounts	 for	 financial	 reporting	 purposes.	 Deferred	 income	 tax	 liabilities	 are	 recognised	 for	 all	 taxable	 temporary	 differences,	 except:
where	 the	 temporary	 difference	 arises	 from	 the	 initial	 recognition	 of	 goodwill	 or	 of	 an	 asset	 or	 liability	 in	 a	 transaction	 that	 is	 not	 a	 business	 combination	 and,	 at	 the	 time	 of	 the	 transaction,	 affects	 neither	 the	 accounting	 profit	 nor	 taxable	 profit	 or	 loss;	 and
in	 respect	 of	 taxable	 temporary	 differences	 associated	 with	 investments	 in	 subsidiaries,	 associates	 and	 interests	 in	 joint	 ventures,	 where	 the	 timing	 of	 the	 reversal	 of	 the	 temporary	 differences	 can	 be	 controlled	 and	 it	 is	 probable	 that	 the	 temporary	 differences	 will	 	 not	 reverse	 in	 the	 foreseeable	 future.
Deferred	 income	 tax	 assets	 are	 recognised	 for	 all	 deductible	 temporary	 differences,	 carry-forward	 of	 unused	 tax	 assets	 and	 unused	 tax	 losses,	 to	 the	 extent	 that	 it	 is	 probable	 that	 taxable	 profit	 will	 be	 available	 against	 which	 the	 deductible	 temporary	 differences,	 and	 the	 carry-forward	 of	 unused	 tax	 assets	 and	 unused	 tax	 losses	 can	 be	 utilised	 except:
where	 the	 deferred	 income	 tax	 asset	 relating	 to	 the	 deductible	 temporary	 difference	 arises	 from	 the	 initial	 recognition	 of	 an	 asset	 or	 liability	 in	 a	 transaction	 that	 is	 not	 a	 business	 combination	 and,	 at	 the	 time	 of	 the	 transaction,	 affects	 neither	 the	 accounting	 profit	 nor	 taxable	 profit	 or	 loss;	 and
in	 respect	 of	 deductible	 temporary	 differences	 associated	 with	 investments	 in	 subsidiaries,	 associates	 and	 interests	 in	 joint	 ventures,	 deferred	 tax	 assets	 are	 recognised	 to	 the	 extent	 that	 it	 is	 probable	 that	 the	 temporary	 differences	 will	 reverse	 in	 the	 foreseeable	 future	 and	 taxable	 profit	 will	 be	 available	 against	 which	 the	 temporary	 differences	 can	 be	 utilised.
The	 carrying	 amount	 of	 deferred	 income	 tax	 assets	 is	 reviewed	 at	 each	 balance	 sheet	 date	 and	 reduced	 to	 the	 extent	 that	 it	 is	 no	 longer	 probable	 that	 sufficient	 taxable	 profit	 will	 be	 available	 to	 allow	 all	 or	 part	 of	 the	 deferred	 income	 tax	 asset	 to	 be	 utilised.
Deferred	 income	 tax	 assets	 and	 liabilities	 are	 measured	 at	 the	 tax	 rates	 that	 are	 expected	 to	 apply	 to	 the	 year	 when	 the	 asset	 is	 realised	 	 or	 the	 liability	 is	 settled,	 based	 on	 tax	 rates	 (and	 tax	 laws)	 that	 have	 been	 enacted	 or	 substantively	 enacted	 at	 the	 balance	 sheet	 date.
Income	 tax	 relating	 to	 items	 recognised	 directly	 in	 equity	 is	 recognised	 in	 equity	 and	 not	 in	 the	 income	 statement.
Derivative financial instruments and hedging
The	 Group	 uses	 derivative	 financial	 instruments	 such	 as	 foreign	 currency	 contracts	 and	 interest	 rate	 swaps	 to	 hedge	 its	 risks	 associated	 with	 interest	 rate	 and	 foreign	 currency	 fluctuations.	 Such	 derivative	 financial	 instruments	 are	 initially	 recognised	 at	 fair	 value	 on	 the	 date	 on	 which	 the	 derivative	 contracts	 are	 entered	 into	 and	 are	 subsequently	 re-measured	 at	 fair	 value.	 Derivatives	 are	 carried	 as	 assets	 when	 the	 fair	 value	 is	 positive	 and	 liabilities	 when	 the	 fair	 value	 is	 negative.
The	 fair	 value	 of	 forward	 exchange	 contracts	 is	 calculated	 by	 reference	 to	 current	 forward	 exchange	 rates	 for	 contracts	 with	 similar	 maturity	 profiles.	 The	 fair	 value	 of	 interest	 rate	 swap	 contracts	 is	 determined	 by	 reference	 to	 market	 values	 for	 similar	 instruments.
For	 those	 derivatives	 designated	 as	 hedges	 and	 for	 which	 hedge	 accounting	 is	 desired,	 the	 hedging	 relationship	 is	 documented	 at	 its	 inception.	 This	 documentation	 identifies	 the	 hedging	 instrument,	 the	 hedged	 item	 or	 transaction,	 the	 nature	 of	 the	 risk	 being	 hedged	 	 and	 how	 effectiveness	 will	 be	 measured	 throughout	 its	 duration.	 Such	 hedges	 are	 expected	 at	 inception	 to	 be	 highly	 effective.
•
•
•
• VEGA Group p LC Annu Al Repo Rt & Accounts 2007 46
2. Accounting policies continued
For	 the	 purpose	 of	 hedge	 accounting,	 hedges	 are	 classified	 as	 either	 fair	 value	 hedges	 when	 they	 hedge	 the	 exposure	 to	 changes	 in	 	 the	 fair	 value	 of	 a	 recognised	 asset	 or	 liability;	 or	 cash	 flow	 hedges	 where	 they	 hedge	 exposure	 to	 variability	 in	 cash	 flows	 that	 is	 either	 attributable	 to	 a	 particular	 risk	 associated	 with	 a	 recognised	 asset	 or	 liability	 or	 a	 forecasted	 transaction.
Fair value hedges
In	 relation	 to	 fair	 value	 hedges	 which	 meet	 the	 conditions	 for	 hedge	 accounting,	 any	 gain	 or	 loss	 from	 re-measuring	 the	 hedging	 instrument	 at	 fair	 value	 is	 recognised	 immediately	 in	 the	 income	 statement.	 Any	 gain	 or	 loss	 on	 the	 hedged	 item	 attributable	 to	 the	 hedged	 risk	 is	 adjusted	 against	 the	 carrying	 amount	 of	 the	 hedged	 item	 and	 recognised	 in	 the	 income	 statement.	 Where	 the	 adjustment	 is	 to	 the	 carrying	 amount	 of	 a	 hedged	 interest-bearing	 financial	 instrument,	 the	 adjustment	 is	 amortised	 through	 the	 income	 statement	 such	 that	 it	 is	 fully	 amortised	 by	 maturity.
The	 Group	 discontinues	 fair	 value	 hedge	 accounting	 if	 the	 hedging	 instrument	 expires	 or	 is	 sold,	 terminated	 or	 exercised,	 the	 hedge	 no	 longer	 meets	 the	 criteria	 for	 hedge	 accounting	 or	 the	 Group	 revokes	 the	 designation.
Cash flow hedges
For	 cash	 flow	 hedges	 to	 hedge	 firm	 commitments	 which	 meet	 the	 conditions	 for	 hedge	 accounting,	 the	 portion	 of	 the	 gain	 or	 loss	 on	 the	 hedging	 instrument	 that	 is	 determined	 to	 be	 an	 effective	 hedge	 is	 recognised	 directly	 in	 equity	 and	 the	 ineffective	 portion	 is	 recognised	 in	 net	 profit	 or	 loss.	 Amounts	 taken	 to	 equity	 are	 transferred	 to	 the	 income	 statement	 when	 the	 hedged	 transaction	 affects	 profit	 or	 loss	 such	 as	 when	 a	 forecast	 sale	 or	 purchase	 occurs.	 If	 a	 forecast	 transaction	 is	 no	 longer	 expected	 to	 occur,	 amounts	 previously	 recognised	 in	 equity	 are	 transferred	 to	 profit	 or	 loss.	 If	 the	 hedging	 instrument	 expires	 or	 is	 sold,	 terminated	 or	 exercised	 without	 replacement	 or	 rollover,	 or	 if	 its	 designation	 as	 a	 hedge	 is	 revoked,	 amounts	 previously	 recognised	 in	 equity	 remain	 in	 equity	 until	 the	 forecast	 transaction	 occurs	 and	 are	 transferred	 to	 the	 income	 statement.	 If	 the	 related	 transaction	 is	 not	 expected	 to	 occur,	 the	 amount	 is	 taken	 to	 profit	 or	 loss.
For	 derivatives	 that	 do	 not	 qualify	 for	 hedge	 accounting,	 any	 gains	 or	 losses	 arising	 from	 changes	 in	 fair	 value	 are	 taken	 directly	 to	 the	 income	 statement	 for	 the	 year.
Exceptional items
The	 Group	 presents	 as	 exceptional	 items	 on	 the	 face	 of	 the	 income	 statement,	 those	 material	 items	 of	 income	 and	 expense	 which,	 because	 of	 the	 nature	 and	 expected	 infrequency	 of	 the	 events	 giving	 rise	 to	 them,	 merit	 separate	 presentation	 to	 allow	 shareholders	 to	 understand	 better	 the	 elements	 of	 financial	 performance	 in	 the	 year,	 so	 as	 to	 facilitate	 comparison	 with	 prior	 periods	 and	 to	 assess	 better	 trends	 in	 financial	 performance.	 New standards and interpretations not applied
The	 IASB	 and	 IFRIC	 have	 issued	 the	 following	 standards	 and	 interpretations	 with	 an	 effective	 date	 after	 the	 date	 of	 these	 	 financial	 statements:
International Accounting Standards (IAS/IFRSs)
	 	 Effective	 date
IFRS	 7	 Financial	 Instruments:	 Disclosures	 1	 January	 2007
IFRS	 8	 Operating	 Segments	 1	 January	 2009
IAS	 1	 Amendment	 –	 Presentation	 of	 Financial	 Statement;	 Capital	 Disclosures	 1	 January	 2007
International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee (IFRIC)
	 	 	 Effective	 date
IFRIC	 9	 Reassessment	 of	 Embedded	 Derivatives	 1	 June	 2006
IFRIC	 10	 Interim	 Financial	 Reporting	 and	 Impairment	 1	 November	 2006	 IFRIC	 11	 IFRS	 2	 –	 Group	 and	 Treasury	 Share	 Transactions	 1	 March	 2007
IFRIC	 12	 Service	 Concession	 Arrangements	 1	 January	 2008
The	 directors	 do	 no	 anticipate	 that	 the	 adoption	 of	 these	 standards	 and	 interpretations	 will	 have	 a	 material	 impact	 on	 the	 Group’s	 financial	 statements	 in	 the	 period	 of	 initial	 application.
Upon	 adoption	 of	 IFRS	 7,	 the	 Group	 will	 have	 to	 disclose	 additional	 information	 about	 its	 financial	 instruments,	 their	 significance	 and	 the	 nature	 and	 extent	 of	 risks	 that	 they	 give	 rise	 to.	 More	 specifically	 the	 Group	 will	 need	 to	 disclose	 the	 fair	 value	 of	 its	 financial	 instruments	 and	 its	 risk	 exposure	 in	 greater	 detail.	 There	 will	 be	 no	 effect	 on	 reported	 income	 or	 net	 assets.
n ot Es continued VEGA Group p LC Annu Al Repo Rt & Accounts 2007 47
2. Accounting policies continued
Key areas of estimation and uncertainty
In	 preparing	 the	 consolidated	 financial	 statements	 management	 makes	 estimates	 and	 assumptions	 that	 affect	 the	 application	 of	 policies	 and	 reported	 amounts.	 Estimates	 and	 judgements	 are	 continually	 evaluated	 and	 are	 based	 on	 historical	 experience	 and	 other	 factors	 including	 expectations	 of	 future	 events	 that	 are	 believed	 to	 be	 reasonable	 under	 the	 circumstances.	 Actual	 results	 may	 differ	 from	 these	 estimates.	 The	 estimates	 and	 assumptions	 that	 are	 considered	 to	 be	 significant	 are:
Revenue recognition –	 The	 revenue	 and	 profit	 of	 fixed	 price	 contracts	 is	 recognised	 on	 a	 percentage	 of	 completion	 basis	 when	 the	 outcome	 of	 a	 contract	 can	 be	 estimated	 reliably.	 Management	 exercises	 judgement	 in	 determining	 whether	 a	 contract’s	 outcome	 can	 be	 estimated	 reliably.	 Management	 also	 makes	 estimates	 of	 the	 total	 cost	 of	 professional	 services,	 or	 in	 some	 instances	 total	 contract	 costs,	 which	 are	 used	 in	 determining	 the	 value	 of	 amounts	 recoverable	 on	 contracts.	 Estimates	 are	 continually	 revised	 based	 on	 changes	 in	 the	 facts	 relating	 to	 each	 contract.	 The	 carrying	 amount	 of	 amounts	 recoverable	 on	 contracts	 is	 disclosed	 in	 note	 14.
Impairment of goodwill – Goodwill	 is	 tested	 for	 impairment	 on	 an	 annual	 basis.	 The	 recoverable	 amounts	 of	 the	 goodwill	 allocated	 to	 the	 Group’s	 primary	 segments	 are	 calculated	 by	 estimating	 long-term	 growth	 rates	 and	 discount	 rates,	 based	 on	 historic	 trends	 adjusted	 for	 management’s	 estimates	 of	 future	 prospects.	 Full	 details	 of	 these	 estimates	 are	 provided	 in	 note	 11.
Income tax – In	 recognising	 income	 tax	 assets	 and	 liabilities,	 management	 makes	 estimates	 of	 the	 likely	 outcome	 of	 decisions	 by	 tax	 authorities	 on	 transactions	 and	 events	 whose	 treatment	 for	 tax	 purposes	 is	 uncertain.	 Where	 the	 final	 outcome	 of	 such	 matters	 is	 different,	 or	 expected	 to	 be	 different,	 from	 previous	 assessments	 made	 by	 management,	 a	 change	 to	 the	 carrying	 value	 of	 income	 	 tax	 assets	 and	 liabilities	 will	 be	 recorded	 in	 the	 period	 in	 which	 such	 a	 determination	 is	 made.	 The	 carrying	 values	 of	 income	 tax	 	 assets	 and	 liabilities	 are	 disclosed	 separately	 in	 the	 Consolidated	 Balance	 Sheet.
3. Segmental analysis – Group
Up	 until	 30	 April	 2007	 the	 Group	 was	 organised	 and	 reported	 in	 only	 Programme	 and	 System	 Assurance.	 Segment	 information	 is	 reported	 geographically.	 The	 Group’s	 geographical	 segments	 are	 based	 on	 the	 location	 of	 the	 Group’s	 assets.	 Sales	 to	 customers	 disclosed	 in	 geographical	 segments	 are	 based	 on	 the	 geographical	 location	 of	 its	 customers.	 The	 following	 table	 presents	 revenue,	 expenditure	 and	 certain	 asset	 information	 regarding	 the	 Group’s	 geographical	 segments	 for	 the	 years	 ended	 30	 April	 2007	 and	 	 30	 April	 2006.
	 Year ended 30 April 2007
	 	 	 	 	 	 United  Rest of 
      Kingdom Germany Europe Total 
      £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Revenue
Segment	 revenue	 	 	 	 	 	 43,367	 16,469	 6,332	 66,168
Inter-segment	 sales	 	 	 	 	 	 (1,389)	 (626)	 (33)	 (2,048)
Sales to external customers     41,978 15,843 6,299 64,120
Adjusted operating profit*
Before	 central	 costs	 	 	 	 	 	 4,026	 1,249	 444	 5,719
Central	 costs	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 (586)
Adjusted operating profit*	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 5,133
Operating profit
Before	 central	 costs	 	 	 	 	 	 3,397	 847	 444	 4,688
Central	 costs	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 (586)
Operating profit         4,102
Capital expenditure	 	 	 	 	 	 606	 112	 –	 718
Depreciation and amortisation	 	 	 	 	 612	 109	 –	 721
Segment assets and liabilities
Segment	 assets	 	 	 	 	 	 24,067	 11,952	 1,843	 37,862
Unallocated	 assets	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 3,420
Total assets	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 41,282
	 Segment	 liabilities	 	 	 	 	 	 (12,400)	 (2,689)	 (1,234)	 (16,323)
Unallocated	 liabilities	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 (5,202)
Total liabilities	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 (21,525)
*	 before	 amortisation	 of	 acquired	 intangibles	 and	 exceptional	 items. VEGA Group p LC Annu Al Repo Rt & Accounts 2007 48
3. Segmental analysis – Group	 continued
	 Year	 ended	 30	 April	 2006
	 	 	 	 	 	 United	 	 Rest 	 of	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Kingdom	 Germany	 Europe	 Total	 	 	 	 	 	 	 £’000	 £’000	 £’000	 £’000
Revenue
Segment	 revenue	 	 	 	 	 	 41,563	 17,393	 5,193	 64,149
Inter-segment	 sales	 	 	 	 	 	 (1,576)	 (399)	 (48)	 (2,023)
Sales	 to	 external	 customers	 	 	 	 	 	 39,987	 16,994	 5,145	 62,126
Adjusted operating profit*
Before	 central	 costs	 	 	 	 	 	 3,005	 1,708	 657	 5,370
Central	 costs	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 (567)
Adjusted	 operating	 profit*	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 4,803
Operating profit
Before	 central	 costs	 	 	 	 	 	 2,735	 1,380	 657	 4,772
Central	 costs	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 (567)
Operating	 profit	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 4,205
Capital expenditure	 	 	 	 	 	 581	 78	 –	 659
Depreciation and amortisation	 	 	 	 	 413	 439	 –	 852
Segment assets and liabilities
Segment	 assets	 	 	 	 	 	 17,436	 12,472	 566	 30,474
Unallocated	 assets	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 6,751
Total	 assets	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 37,225
Segment	 liabilities	 	 	 	 	 	 (9,343)	 (3,859)	 (843)	 (14,045)
Unallocated	 liabilities	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 (6,278)
Total	 liabilities	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 (20,323)
*	 before	 amortisation	 of	 acquired	 intangibles	 and	 exceptional	 items.
Transfer	 prices	 between	 segments	 are	 set	 on	 an	 arm’s	 length	 basis	 and	 are	 eliminated	 on	 consolidation.
	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Year ended	 Year 	 ended	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 30 April	 30 	 April	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 2007	 2006	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 £’000	 £’000
Revenue by market sector
Aerospace	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 33,644	 31,511
Defence	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 25,770	 26,750
Government	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 4,706	 3,865
Total revenue	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 64,120	 62,126
It	 is	 not	 possible	 to	 split	 out	 assets,	 liabilities	 and	 capital	 expenditure	 by	 market	 sector.
From	 1	 May	 2007	 the	 Group	 has	 changed	 its	 organisation,	 focusing	 on	 three	 business	 streams	 (Consulting,	 Technology	 and	 Managed	 Solutions)	 that	 operate	 across	 geographies.	 For	 the	 year	 ending	 30	 April	 2008	 these	 business	 streams	 will	 comprise	 the	 Group’s	 primary	 reporting	 segments.	 A	 description	 of	 the	 new	 sectors	 and	 the	 reasons	 for	 their	 adoption	 is	 set	 out	 in	 the	 Chief	 Executive’s	 Review	 on	 pages	 6	 to	 7.	 The	 following	 additional	 information	 for	 the	 year	 ending	 30	 April	 2007	 is	 provided	 to	 allow	 shareholders	 to	 gain	 a	 clearer	 understanding	 of	 the	 trading	 performance	 of	 the	 Group	 during	 the	 transition	 to	 the	 new	 reporting	 structure.	 Comparative	 information	 	 for	 the	 previous	 financial	 year	 is	 not	 available.
n ot Es continued VEGA Group p LC Annu Al Repo Rt & Accounts 2007 49
3. Segmental analysis – Group	 continued
	 Year ended 30 April 2007
	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Managed  
      Consulting Technology Solutions Total 
      £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Revenue
Segment	 revenue	 	 	 	 	 	 4,568	 20,393	 40,506	 65,467
Inter-segment	 sales	 	 	 	 	 	 (71)	 (1,061)	 (215)	 (1,347)
Sales to external customers     4,497 19,332 40,291 64,120
Adjusted operating profit*	 	 	 	 Before	 central	 costs	 	 	 	 	 	 483	 1,049	 4,187	 5,719
Central	 costs	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 (586)
Adjusted operating profit*         5,133
Operating profit
Before	 central	 costs	 	 	 	 	 	 425	 469	 3,794	 4,688
Central	 costs	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 (586)
Operating profit         4,102
*	 before	 amortisation	 of	 acquired	 intangibles	 and	 exceptional	 items.
4. Net operating costs – Group
	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Year ended	 Year 	 ended	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 30 April	 30 	 April	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 2007	 2006	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 £’000	 £’000
a. Operating expenses comprise:
Cost	 of	 sales	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 45,176	 44,683
Administrative	 costs	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 14,842	 13,238
	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 60,018	 57,921
Included	 in	 administrative	 costs:	 Depreciation	 of	 property,	 plant	 and	 equipment	 	 	 	 	 	 418	 437
Amortisation	 of	 intangible	 assets	 	 	 	 	 	 	 303	 415
Operating	 lease	 expenses	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 1,073	 931
Net	 foreign	 exchange	 differences	 	 	 	 	 	 	 (19)	 (120)
b. Fees paid to the Group’s auditors, Ernst & Young LLP
UK	 Group	 audit	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 65	 60
Local	 statutory	 audits	 for	 subsidiaries	 	 	 	 	 	 	 40	 39
Taxation	 services	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 23	 23
IFRS	 conversion	 services	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 –	 25
Other	 services	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 1	 1
	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 129	 148
c. Staff costs
Wages	 and	 salaries	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 30,111	 27,613
Social	 security	 costs	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 3,774	 3,589
Pension	 costs	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 1,328	 1,130
Cash	 settled	 employee	 costs		 	 	 	 	 	 	 35,213	 32,332
Share	 based	 payments	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 161	 144
	 	 	 	 	 	 	 35,374	 32,476
d. Weighted average staff numbers during the year
Professional	 staff	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 557	 535
Administrative	 staff	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 59	 56
	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 616	 591 VEGA Group p LC Annu Al Repo Rt & Accounts 2007 50
4. Net operating costs – Group continued
e. Directors’ Remuneration
The	 information	 required	 by	 the	 Companies	 Act	 1985	 and	 the	 Listing	 Rules	 of	 the	 Financial	 Services	 Authority	 is	 contained	 on	 pages	 31	 to	 34	 in	 the	 Directors’	 Remuneration	 Report
5. Exceptional items – Group
	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Year ended	 Year 	 ended	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 30 April	 30 	 April	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 2007	 2006	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 £’000	 £’000
Property	 costs	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 195	 –
Staff	 termination	 costs	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 653	 270
Total non-recurring items 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 848	 270
Property	 costs	 comprise	 final	 lease	 payments	 and	 dilapidations	 arising	 on	 rationalisation	 of	 the	 Group’s	 office	 portfolio.	 Staff	 termination	 costs	 comprise	 payments	 arising	 on	 the	 reorganisation	 of	 Group	 management,	 closure	 of	 an	 office	 and	 withdrawal	 from	 a	 specific	 business	 sector.	 Exceptional	 items	 are	 stated	 before	 UK	 corporation	 tax	 credits	 of	 £189,000	 (2006:	 £81,000)	 and	 foreign	 tax	 credit	 of	 £85,000	 (2006:	 £nil).
6. Finance costs and revenue – Group
	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Year ended	 Year 	 ended	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 30 April	 30 	 April	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 2007	 2006	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 £’000	 £’000
a. Finance costs
Bank	 loans	 and	 overdrafts	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 354	 376
b. Finance revenue
Short	 term	 cash	 deposits	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 (61)	 (25)
Net finance costs	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 293	 351
7. Income tax – Group
a. Tax on profit on ordinary activities 
	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Year ended	 Year 	 ended	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 30 April	 30 	 April	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 2007	 2006	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 £’000	 £’000
Current	 income	 tax:
Current	 income	 tax	 charge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 1,428	 1,334
Adjustments	 in	 respect	 of	 current	 income	 tax	 of	 previous	 years	 	 	 	 	 (511)	 (571)
Total current income tax	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 917	 763
Deferred	 income	 tax:
Origination	 and	 reversal	 of	 temporary	 differences	 	 	 	 	 	 (172)	 (18)
Total tax charge in the income statement	 	 	 	 	 	 745	 745
UK	 corporation	 tax	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 567	 401
Foreign	 corporation	 tax	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 350	 363
Current tax charge	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 917	 764
UK	 deferred	 tax	 credit	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 (100)	 (13)
Foreign	 deferred	 tax	 credit	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 (72)	 (6)
Total tax charge in the income statement	 	 	 	 	 	 745	 745
n ot Es continued VEGA Group p LC Annu Al Repo Rt & Accounts 2007 51
7. Income tax – Group continued
a. Tax on profit on ordinary activities continued
A	 reconciliation	 of	 income	 tax	 expense	 applicable	 to	 accounting	 profit	 before	 income	 tax	 at	 the	 statutory	 income	 tax	 rate	 to	 income	 tax	 expense	 at	 the	 Group’s	 effective	 income	 tax	 rates	 is	 as	 follows:	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Year ended	 Year 	 ended	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 30 April	 30 	 April	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 2007	 2006	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 £’000	 £’000
Accounting	 profit	 before	 income	 tax	 	 	 	 	 	 	 3,809	 3,854
At	 UK	 statutory	 income	 tax	 rate	 of	 30%	 (2006:	 30%)	 	 	 	 	 	 1,143	 1,156
Adjustments	 in	 respect	 of	 current	 income	 tax	 of	 previous	 years	 	 	 	 	 (511)	 (571)
Adjustments	 in	 respect	 of	 deferred	 income	 tax	 of	 previous	 years	 	 	 	 	 (131)	 (55)
Expenditure	 not	 allowable	 for	 income	 tax	 purposes	 	 	 	 	 	 70	 14
Excess	 foreign	 tax	 on	 overseas	 income	 	 	 	 	 	 	 61	 73
Other	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 113	 128
At effective income tax rate of 19.6% (2006: 19.3%)	 	 	 	 	 745	 745
b. Deferred tax in the income statement
	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Year ended	 Year 	 ended	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 30 April	 30 	 April	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 2007	 2006	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 £’000	 £’000
Decelerated	 capital	 allowances	 	 	 	 	 	 	 56	 68
Share	 based	 payments	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 (39)	 (67)
Other	 temporary	 differences	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 –	 118
Acquired	 intangibles	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 (72)	 (128)
Restrictive	 covenant	 payments	 	 	 	 	 	 	 (117)	 (9)
Deferred income tax credit	 	 	 	 	 	 	 (172)	 (18)
	 8. Earnings per share
The	 calculation	 of	 earnings	 per	 share	 is	 based	 on	 profits	 attributable	 to	 shareholders	 and	 weighted	 average	 numbers	 of	 shares	 as	 set	 out	 below.	 An	 adjusted	 earnings	 per	 share	 figure	 has	 been	 calculated	 in	 addition	 to	 the	 earnings	 per	 share	 required	 by	 IAS	 33	 and	 is	 based	 on	 earnings	 before	 amortisation	 of	 acquired	 intangibles	 and	 exceptional	 items.	 It	 has	 been	 calculated	 to	 allow	 shareholders	 to	 gain	 a	 clearer	 understanding	 of	 the	 trading	 performance	 of	 the	 Group.
	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Year ended	 Year 	 ended	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 30 April	 30 	 April	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 2007	 2006	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 £’000	 £’000
Earnings attributable to shareholders 	 	 	 	 	 	 3,064	 3,109
Adjusted for:
Amortisation	 of	 acquired	 intangibles	 (net	 of	 taxation)	 	 	 	 	 	 112	 200
Exceptional	 items	 (net	 of	 taxation)	 	 	 	 	 	 	 574	 189
Adjusted earnings	 	 	 	 	 	 	 3,750	 3,498
	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Year ended	 Year 	 ended	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 30 April	 30 	 April	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 2007	 2006	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Ordinary	 Ordinary	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 shares	 shares
Basic	 weighted	 average	 number	 of	 shares		 	 	 	 	 	 20,356,821	 20,356,821
Dilutive	 potential	 ordinary	 shares	 (employee	 share	 options)	 	 	 	 	 770,532	 648,055	 Diluted weighted average number of shares	 	 	 	 	 	 21,127,353	 21,004,876	 There	 have	 been	 no	 other	 transactions	 involving	 ordinary	 shares	 or	 potential	 ordinary	 shares	 between	 the	 reporting	 date	 and	 the	 date	 	 of	 completion	 of	 these	 financial	 statements.
	 	 VEGA Group p LC Annu Al Repo Rt & Accounts 2007 52
9. Dividends
	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Year ended	 Year 	 ended	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 30 April	 30 	 April	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 2007	 2006	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 £’000	 £’000
Declared and paid during the year 
Final	 dividend	 for	 2006:	 1.875p	 per	 5p	 ordinary	 share	 (2005:	 1.5p)	 	 	 	 	 382	 305
Interim	 dividend	 for	 2007:	 0.75p	 per	 5p	 ordinary	 share	 (2006:	 0.625p)	 	 	 	 	 152	 127
Total dividend paid	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 534	 432
Proposed for approval at AGM
Final	 dividend	 for	 2007:	 2.25p	 per	 ordinary	 share	 (2006:	 1.875p)	 	 	 	 	 458	 382
	 10. Property, plant and equipment
	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Office	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 equipment	 Cars	 Total	 Group	 	 	 	 	 	 	 £’000	 £’000	 £’000	 At 1 May 2005, net of accumulated depreciation	 	 	 	 	 1,019	 25	 1,044
Additions	 	 	 	 	 	 	 459	 –	 459
Depreciation	 	 	 	 	 	 	 (434)	 (3)	 (437)
Disposals	 	 	 	 	 	 	 –	 (15)	 (15)
Currency	 translation	 differences	 	 	 	 	 	 2	 –	 2
At 30 April and 1 May 2006, net of accumulated depreciation    1,046 7 1,053
Additions	 	 	 	 	 	 	 417	 –	 417
Depreciation	 	 	 	 	 	 	 (415)	 (3)	 (418)
Disposals	 	 	 	 	 	 	 (11)	 –	 (11)
Currency	 translation	 differences	 	 	 	 	 	 –	 –	 –
At 30 April 2007, net of accumulated depreciation     1,037 4 1,041
At 30 April 2006
Cost	 	 	 	 	 	 	 3,984	 22	 4,006
Accumulated	 depreciation	 	 	 	 	 	 	 (2,938)	 (15)	 (2,953)
Net carrying amount       1,046 7 1,053
At 30 April 2007
Cost	 	 	 	 	 	 	 4,141	 13	 4,154
Accumulated	 depreciation	 	 	 	 	 	 	 (3,104)	 (9)	 (3,113)
Net carrying amount       1,037 4 1,041
n ot Es continued VEGA Group p LC Annu Al Repo Rt & Accounts 2007 53
10. Property, plant and equipment continued
	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Office	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 equipment	 Cars	 Total	 Company	 	 	 	 	 	 	 £’000	 £’000	 £’000	 At 1 May 2005 net, of accumulated depreciation	 	 	 	 	 798	 12	 810
Additions	 	 	 	 	 	 	 387	 –	 387
Depreciation	 	 	 	 	 	 	 (344)	 (4)	 (348)
Disposals	 	 	 	 	 	 	 (1)	 (1)	 (2)
At 30 April and 1 May 2006, net of accumulated depreciation    840 7 847
Additions	 	 	 	 	 	 	 313	 –	 313
Depreciation	 	 	 	 	 	 	 (320)	 (3)	 (323)
Disposals	 	 	 	 	 	 	 (3)	 –	 (3)
At 30 April 2007, net of accumulated depreciation     830 4 834
At 30 April 2006
Cost	 	 	 	 	 	 	 3,213	 22	 3,235
Accumulated	 depreciation	 	 	 	 	 	 	 (2,373)	 (15)	 (2,388)
Net carrying amount       840 7 847
At 30 April 2007
Cost	 	 	 	 	 	 	 3,409	 13	 3,422
Accumulated	 depreciation	 	 	 	 	 	 	 (2,579)	 (9)	 (2,588)
Net carrying amount       830 4 834
	 11. Intangible assets
	 Other	 intangible	 assets
	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Computer 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Goodwill	 software	 Other	 Total	 Group	 	 	 	 	 	 £’000	 £’000	 £’000	 £’000
At 1 May 2005, net of accumulated amortisation	 	 	 	 14,874	 135	 540	 675
Additions	 	 	 	 	 	 –	 200	 –	 200
Amortisation	 	 	 	 	 	 –	 (87)	 (328)	 (415)
At 30 April and 1 May 2006, net of accumulated amortisation    14,874 248 212 460
Additions	 	 	 	 	 	 –	 301	 –	 301
Amortisation	 	 	 	 	 	 –	 (120)	 (183)	 (303)
Currency	 translation	 differences	 	 	 	 	 32	 (1)	 –	 (1)
At 30 April 2007, net of accumulated amortisation     14,906 428 29 457
At 30 April 2006
Cost	 	 	 	 	 	 14,874	 876	 1,000	 1,876
Accumulated	 amortisation	 	 	 	 	 	 –	 (628)	 (788)	 (1,416)
Net carrying amount      14,874 248 212 460
At 30 April 2007
Cost	 	 	 	 	 	 14,906	 1,086	 1,000	 2,086
Accumulated	 amortisation	 	 	 	 	 	 –	 (658)	 (971)	 (1,629)
Net carrying amount      14,906 428 29 457
Other	 intangible	 assets	 relate	 to	 the	 acquisition	 of	 Anite	 Systems	 GmbH	 and	 represent	 the	 fair	 value	 of	 the	 order	 book	 at	 the	 date	 of	 acquisition	 and	 customer	 relationships.	 These,	 and	 the	 associated	 deferred	 tax	 liability,	 are	 being	 amortised	 over	 their	 useful	 life	 and	 it	 is	 expected	 that	 they	 will	 be	 fully	 amortised	 by	 the	 end	 of	 2007/08.
	 VEGA Group p LC Annu Al Repo Rt & Accounts 2007 54
11. Intangible assets continued
	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Computer 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Goodwill	 software 	 Company	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 £’000	 £’000
At 1 May 2005, net of accumulated amortisation	 	 	 	 	 	 8,075	 90
Additions	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 –	 194
Amortisation	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 –	 (65)
At 30 April and 1 May 2006, net of accumulated amortisation      8,075 219
Additions	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 –	 293
Amortisation	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 –	 (107)
At 30 April 2007, net of accumulated amortisation      8,075 405
At 30 April 2006
Cost	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 8,075	 681
Accumulated	 amortisation	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 –	 (462)
Net carrying amount        8,075 219
At 30 April 2007
Cost	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 8,075	 974
Accumulated	 amortisation	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 –	 (569)
Net carrying amount        8,075 405
Goodwill	 acquired	 through	 business	 combinations	 has	 been	 allocated	 to	 two	 cash-generating	 units	 for	 impairment	 testing	 purposes	 	 as	 follows:
UK	 Consulting	 (carrying	 value	 of	 goodwill	 £8,121,000	 (2006:	 £8,121,000))	 of	 which	 £8,075,000	 (2006:	 £8,075,000)	 arises	 in	 the	 Company;	 and
Germany	 (carrying	 value	 of	 goodwill	 £6,785,000	 (2006:	 £6,753,000)).
These	 represent	 the	 lowest	 level	 within	 the	 Group	 at	 which	 goodwill	 is	 monitored	 for	 internal	 management	 purposes.
In	 both	 cases	 the	 recoverable	 amounts	 have	 been	 determined	 based	 on	 a	 value	 in	 use	 calculation.	 To	 calculate	 this,	 cash	 flow	 projections	 are	 based	 on	 financial	 budgets	 approved	 by	 senior	 management	 covering	 the	 following	 year.	 The	 discount	 rate	 applied	 to	 cash	 flow	 projections	 is	 11%	 (2006:	 11%).	 Cash	 flows	 are	 extrapolated	 using	 a	 4%	 (2006:	 4%)	 growth	 rate,	 which	 represents	 the	 directors’	 estimate	 	 of	 the	 minimum	 long	 term	 growth	 rate.	 Cash	 flows	 are	 calculated	 over	 a	 20	 year	 period	 which	 reflects	 the	 long	 term	 nature	 of	 the	 benefit	 	 to	 the	 Group	 of	 these	 investments.	 The	 calculation	 of	 value	 in	 use	 for	 both	 units	 is	 most	 sensitive	 to	 the	 following	 assumptions:	 Budgeted gross margins	 –	 the	 basis	 used	 to	 determine	 the	 value	 assigned	 to	 the	 budgeted	 gross	 margins	 is	 the	 average	 gross	 margins	 achieved	 in	 the	 year	 immediately	 before	 the	 budgeted	 year,	 adjusted	 for	 expected	 changes	 in	 efficiency.
Discount rates	 –	 these	 represent	 the	 Group’s	 risk	 adjusted	 weighted	 average	 cost	 of	 capital.
Management	 believes	 that	 no	 reasonably	 possible	 change	 in	 either	 of	 the	 above	 key	 assumptions	 would	 cause	 the	 carrying	 value	 of	 the	 unit	 to	 exceed	 its	 recoverable	 amount.
12. Investments in subsidiaries
 
Company	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 £’000
At 30 April and 1 May 2006  	 	 	 	 	 	 	 8,187
Additions	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 –
Dissolutions	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 (117)
At 30 April 2007         8,070
During	 the	 year	 Vega	 Consulting	 and	 Technology	 Ltd,	 a	 dormant	 subsidiary,	 was	 dissolved	 and	 consequently	 the	 cost	 of	 investment	 was	 written	 off.	 A	 list	 of	 principal	 subsidiaries	 is	 given	 in	 note	 21.
	 •
•
n ot Es continued VEGA Group p LC Annu Al Repo Rt & Accounts 2007 55
13. Post balance sheet event
On	 9	 July	 2007	 the	 Company	 acquired	 the	 entire	 share	 capital	 of	 Anite	 Deutschland	 Management	 GmbH	 and	 its	 subsidiaries,	 from	 Anite	 Group	 PLC,	 for	 a	 consideration	 of	 £8,000,000.	 The	 acquisition	 was	 funded	 by	 a	 new	 five	 year	 term	 loan	 from	 Bank	 of	 Scotland.
14. Trade and other receivables
     Group   Company
	 	 	 	 	 	 As at	 As	 at	 As at	 As	 at	 	 	 	 	 	 	 30 April	 30 	 April	 30 April	 30 	 April	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 2007	 2006	 2007	 2006	 	 	 	 	 	 	 £’000	 £’000 £’000	 £’000
Due within one year:	 	 	 	 	 Amounts	 recoverable	 on	 contracts	 	 	 	 	 	 10,592	 7,367	 8,378	 5,601
Trade	 receivables	 	 	 	 	 	 8,899	 8,346	 6,898	 6,482
Amounts	 owed	 by	 Group	 undertakings	 	 	 	 	 –	 –	 693	 557
Prepayments	 	 	 	 	 	 367	 455	 367	 401
Other	 debtors	 	 	 	 	 	 170	 82	 78	 82
	 	 	 	 	 	 20,028	 16,250	 16,414	 13,123
	 	 	 	 Due after more than one year:	 	 	 	 Amounts	 recoverable	 on	 contracts	 	 	 	 	 1,366	 1,496	 1,366	 1,496
Total      21,394 17,746 17,780 14,619
15. Deferred tax
	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Group and Company
	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 As at	 As	 at	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 30 April	 30 	 April	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 2007	 2006	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 £’000	 £’000
Assets
Decelerated	 capital	 allowances	 	 	 	 	 	 	 171	 227
Temporary	 differences		 –	 potential	 gains	 on	 share	 options	 	 	 	 	 145	 67
Restrictive	 covenant	 payments	 	 	 	 	 	 	 –	 (117)
Deferred income tax asset 	 	 	 	 	 	 316	 177
	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Group
	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 As at	 As	 at	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 30 April	 30 	 April	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 2007	 2006	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 £’000	 £’000
Liabilities
Temporary	 differences	 –	 Germany	 	 	 	 	 	 	 (51)	 (52)
	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 		 –	 acquired	 intangibles	 	 	 	 	 	 (11)	 (83)
Deferred tax liability	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 (62)	 (135)
a. Deferred tax recognised in equity
Of	 the	 movement	 in	 the	 deferred	 tax	 asset	 relating	 to	 potential	 gains	 on	 share	 options,	 £40,000	 (2006:	 £nil)	 has	 been	 taken	 directly	 to	 equity	 as	 it	 is	 in	 excess	 of	 the	 underlying	 share-based	 payment	 charge	 recognised	 in	 the	 income	 statement.
b. Unrecognised tax losses
The	 Group	 has	 unprovided	 deferred	 taxation	 losses	 of	 £1,427,000	 (2006:	 £1,120,000)	 which	 relates	 mainly	 to	 capital	 and	 trading	 losses	 arising	 in	 subsidiaries.	 These	 have	 not	 been	 recognised	 as	 there	 is	 insufficient	 evidence,	 as	 at	 the	 balance	 sheet	 date,	 to	 believe	 that	 these	 assets	 will	 be	 recoverable.
c. Temporary differences associated with Group investments
At	 30	 April	 2007,	 there	 was	 no	 recognised	 deferred	 tax	 liability	 (2006:	 £nil)	 for	 taxes	 that	 would	 be	 payable	 on	 the	 unremitted	 earnings.	 There	 is	 no	 current	 intention	 to	 remit	 such	 earnings.
d. Impact of future changes in tax rates
In	 the	 UK	 the	 Government	 has	 announced	 a	 reduction	 in	 the	 future	 rate	 of	 corporation	 tax	 from	 30%	 to	 28%.	 The	 effect	 of	 this	 will	 be	 to	 reduce	 the	 deferred	 income	 tax	 net	 asset	 by	 £21,000. VEGA Group p LC Annu Al Repo Rt & Accounts 2007 56
16. Trade and other payables
	 	 	 	 	 Group  Company
	 	 	 	 	 	 As at	 As	 at	 As at	 As	 at	 	 	 	 	 	 	 30 April 	 30 	 April	 30 April	 30 	 April	 	 	 	 	 	 	 2007 	 2006	 2007 	 2006	 	 	 	 	 	 	 £’000	 £’000	 £’000	 £’000
Due within one year:
Payments	 received	 on	 account	 	 	 	 	 5,444	 4,720	 4,099	 2,941
Trade	 creditors	 	 	 	 	 4,722	 3,248	 4,367	 3,049
Amounts	 owed	 to	 Group	 undertakings	 	 	 	 	 –	 –	 1,370	 2,584
Other	 creditors	 	 	 	 	 	 1,586	 1,380	 1,488	 1,041
Accruals	 	 	 	 	 	 4,165	 4,464	 3,077	 3,504
Total	 	 	 	 	 	 15,917	 13,812	 14,401	 13,119
17. Financial liabilities
	 	 	 	 	 Group  Company
	 	 	 	 	 	 As at	 As	 at	 As at	 As	 at	 	 	 	 	 	 	 30 April 	 30 	 April	 30 April	 30 	 April	 	 	 	 	 	 	 2007 	 2006	 2007 	 2006	 	 	 	 	 	 	 £’000	 £’000	 £’000	 £’000
Due within one year:
Bank	 overdraft	 	 	 	 	 	 41	 79	 40	 77
Bank	 loans	 	 	 	 	 	 1,250	 1,250	 1,250	 1,250
Interest	 rate	 swap	 	 	 	 	 	 –	 8	 –	 8
	 	 	 	 	 	 1,291	 1,337	 1,290	 1,335
Due after more than one year:
Bank	 loans	 	 	 	 	 	 1,960	 3,143	 1,960	 3,143
Total	 	 	 	 	 	 3,251	 4,480	 3,250	 4,478
Bank overdraft 
The	 overdraft	 facility	 of	 the	 Company	 is	 secured	 by	 a	 charge	 over	 the	 Company’s	 assets.	 The	 limit	 is	 £5,000,000	 and	 the	 outstanding	 balance	 is	 repayable	 on	 demand.	 Interest	 is	 payable	 at	 1.5%	 above	 Bank	 of	 Scotland	 base	 rate.	 The	 facility,	 which	 is	 renewable	 annually,	 is	 multi-currency,	 denominated	 in	 sterling,	 euro	 and	 US	 dollars.	 Subsidiary	 undertakings	 have	 euro	 denominated	 overdraft	 facilities	 provided	 by	 local	 banks	 of	 €1,250,000.	 Cash	 and	 cash	 deposits	 (all	 on	 call)	 earn	 interest	 at	 floating	 rates.	 Bank loans and interest rate swap
The	 Company	 has	 a	 five	 year	 euro	 denominated	 term	 loan	 which	 relates	 to	 funding	 of	 its	 acquisitions	 and	 is	 secured	 by	 a	 charge	 over	 the	 Company’s	 assets.	 Interest	 is	 floating	 and	 accrues	 at	 EURIBOR	 plus	 a	 margin	 of	 1.5%.	 The	 Group	 has	 entered	 into	 an	 interest	 rate	 swap	 with	 the	 Bank	 of	 Scotland	 which	 fixes	 the	 interest	 rate	 payable	 on	 its	 term	 loan	 at	 3.05%	 (excluding	 margin)	 until	 September	 2007	 after	 which	 interest	 is	 floating	 at	 EURIBOR	 plus	 a	 margin	 of	 1.5%	 subject	 to	 an	 overall	 cap	 of	 6.00%.	 Repayment	 is	 by	 equal	 instalments	 at	 six	 monthly	 intervals	 until	 the	 loan	 is	 fully	 repaid	 in	 August	 2009.
n ot Es continued VEGA Group p LC Annu Al Repo Rt & Accounts 2007 57
18. Provisions
	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Property	 Staff	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 provisions	 termination	 Total	 Group	 	 	 	 	 	 	 £’000	 £’000	 £’000	 Current
At	 1	 May	 2006	 	 	 	 	 	 	 –	 –	 –
Additions	 	 	 	 	 	 	 28	 163	 191
At 30 April 2007       28 163 191
Non current
At	 1	 May	 2006	 	 	 	 	 	 	 288	 –	 288
Utilised	 	 	 	 	 	 	 (88)	 –	 (88)
At 30 April 2007       200 – 200
	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Property	 Staff	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 provisions	 termination	 Total	 Company	 	 	 	 	 	 	 £’000	 £’000	 £’000	 Current
At	 1	 May	 2006	 	 	 	 	 	 	 –	 –	 –
Additions	 	 	 	 	 	 	 28	 163	 191
At 30 April 2007       28 163 191
Non current
At	 1	 May	 2006	 	 	 	 	 	 	 200	 –	 200
Additions	 	 	 	 	 	 	 –	 –	 –
At 30 April 2007       200 – 200
Property	 provisions	 comprise	 amounts	 provided	 for	 obligations	 to	 undertake	 remedial	 work	 on	 properties	 and	 final	 lease	 provision	 on	 rationalisation	 of	 the	 Group’s	 office	 portfolio.	 The	 provisions	 will	 be	 utilised	 over	 the	 remaining	 lease	 periods	 of	 up	 to	 seven	 years.	 Staff	 termination	 costs	 comprise	 amounts	 arising	 upon	 reorganisation	 of	 the	 Group’s	 management	 and	 closure	 of	 an	 office	 and	 will	 be	 utilised	 within	 one	 year.
	 19. Issued share capital
	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Group and Company
	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 As at	 As	 at	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 30 April  30	 April 
        2007 	 	 2006	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 £’000	 £’000
Authorised
Equity:	 54,000,000	 (2006:	 54,000,000)	 ordinary	 shares	 of	 5p	 each	 	 	 	 	 2,700	 2,700
	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Nominal 	 value	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Number	 £’000
Allotted, called up and fully paid
At	 1	 May	 2006	 and	 30	 April	 2007	 	 	 	 	 	 20,356,821	 1,018
	 VEGA Group p LC Annu Al Repo Rt & Accounts 2007 58
20. Share based payments
a. Summary
	 	 	 1996	 ESOP	 	 2004 	 LTIP	 	 2004 	 ESOP
	 	 	 	 	 Weighted 	 	 	 Weighted	 	 Weighted 	 	 	 	 	 	 average 	 	 	 average 	 	 	 average	 	 	 	 	 	 	 exercise 	 	 	 exercise	 	 exercise 	 	 	 	 	 	 price	 	 price	 	 price	 	 	 	 	 Number	 £	 Number	 £	 Number	 £
Outstanding	 as	 at	 1	 May	 2005	 	 	 47,195	 2.90	 367,425	 0.05	 –	 –
Granted	 during	 the	 year	 	 	 	 –	 –	 341,860	 0.05	 94,651	 2.15
Forfeited	 during	 the	 year	 	 	 	 –	 –	 (29,756)	 0.05	 –	 –
Exercised	 	 	 	 –	 –	 –	 –	 –	 –
Expired	 during	 the	 year	 	 	 	 (16,000)	 2.85	 –	 –	 –	 –
Outstanding at 30 April and 1 May 2006 	 31,195	 2.92	 679,529	 0.05	 94,651	 2.15
Granted	 during	 the	 year	 	 	 	 –	 –	 304,431	 0.05	 182,385	 2.13
Forfeited	 during	 the	 year	 	 	 	 (8,695)	 3.45	 (180,090)	 0.05	 –	 –
Exercised	 	 	 	 –	 –	 –	 –	 –	 –
Expired	 during	 the	 year	 	 	 	 (22,500)	 2.76	 –	 –	 –	 –
Outstanding at 30 April 2007   – – 803,870 0.05 277,036 2.13
Exercisable	 at	 30	 April	 2006	 	 	 	 31,195	 2.90	 –	 –	 –	 –
Exercisable at 30 April 2007	 	 	 –	 –	 –	 –	 –	 –
b. The VEGA Group 1996 employee share option scheme
	 	 	 	 	 	 Options	 	 	 Options	 	 	 	 	 	 Exercise	 outstanding	 Lapsed	 Granted	 outstanding	 	 	 	 	 	 price	 at 	 30	 April	 during	 during	 at 30 April	 Date of grant	 	 	 	 	 £	 2006	 the 	 year	 the 	 year	 2007
August	 1996	 	 	 	 	 2.90	 10,000	 (10,000)	 –	 –
April	 1997	 	 	 	 	 2.60	 12,500	 (12,500)	 –	 –
May	 1998	 	 	 	 	 3.45	 8,695	 (8,695)	 –	 –
Total      31,195	 (31,195)	 – –
All	 of	 the	 above	 options	 were	 granted	 prior	 to	 November	 2002.	 Under	 the	 transitional	 rules	 allowed	 for	 the	 adoption	 of	 IFRS	 2	 none	 of	 these	 options	 have	 been	 recognised	 in	 the	 financial	 statements	 of	 the	 Group	 or	 Company.
	 c. The VEGA Group 2004 long term incentive plan
	 	 	 	 	 Market	 Options	 	 	 Options	 	 	 	 	 	 price 	 at	 outstanding	 Granted 	 	 Lapsed	 outstanding	 	 	 	 	 	 grant	 at 	 30	 April	 during	 during	 at 30 April	 Date of grant	 	 	 	 	 £	 2006	 the 	 year	 the 	 year	 2007
September	 2004	 	 	 	 	 1.59	 270,625	 –	 (85,149)	 185,476
November	 2004	 	 	 	 	 1.54	 37,459	 –	 –	 37,459
January	 2005	 	 	 	 	 1.54	 37,459	 –	 –	 37,459
February	 2005	 	 	 	 	 1.98	 3,578	 –	 –	 3,578
August	 2005	 	 	 	 	 2.15	 325,863	 –	 (68,512)	 257,351
December	 2005	 	 	 	 	 1.98	 4,545	 –	 –	 4,545
August	 2006	 	 	 	 	 2.33	 –	 304,431	 (26,429)	 278,002
Total     	 679,529	 304,431	 (180,090) 803,870
Each	 of	 the	 above	 awards	 vests,	 subject	 to	 performance	 conditions,	 on	 the	 third	 anniversary	 of	 the	 grant	 date.	 The	 weighted	 average	 remaining	 contractual	 term	 of	 outstanding	 options	 is	 1.4	 years	 (2006:	 1.8	 years).	 The	 weighted	 average	 fair	 value	 of	 the	 options	 outstanding	 at	 30	 April	 2007	 is	 £1.92	 per	 share	 (2006:	 £1.76	 per	 share).
For	 awards	 to	 date	 targets	 relate	 to	 the	 Company’s	 Total	 Shareholder	 Return	 (TSR)	 relative	 to	 the	 FTSE	 Software	 and	 Computer	 Services	 Index.	 30%	 of	 an	 award	 will	 vest	 for	 median	 performance	 rising	 pro	 rata	 to	 100%	 for	 upper	 quartile	 performance.
n ot Es continued VEGA Group p LC Annu Al Repo Rt & Accounts 2007 59
20. Share based payments	 continued
d. The VEGA Group 2004 employee share option scheme
	 	 	 	 	 	 Options	 	 	 Options	 	 	 	 	 	 Exercise	 outstanding	 Lapsed	 Granted	 outstanding	 	 	 	 	 	 price	 at 	 30	 April	 during	 during	 at 30 April 
Date of grant	 	 	 	 	 £	 2006	 the 	 year	 the 	 year	 2007
August	 2005	 	 	 	 	 2.15	 94,651	 –	 –	 94,651
December	 2006	 	 	 	 	 2.13	 –	 –	 182,385	 182,385
Total     	 94,651	 –	 182,385 277,036
The	 above	 options,	 all	 of	 which	 are	 equity	 settled,	 are	 exercisable,	 subject	 to	 performance	 conditions,	 between	 the	 third	 and	 tenth	 anniversary	 of	 the	 grant	 date.	 The	 remaining	 contractual	 term	 of	 outstanding	 options	 is	 9.2	 years	 (2006:	 9.3	 years).	 The	 weighted	 average	 fair	 value	 of	 the	 options	 outstanding	 at	 30	 April	 2007	 is	 £0.95	 per	 share	 (2006:	 £1.13	 per	 share).	 For	 awards	 to	 date	 targets	 relate	 to	 	 growth	 in	 adjusted	 EPS	 (before	 amortisation	 of	 acquired	 intangibles	 and	 exceptional	 items)	 which	 must	 be	 RPI	 plus	 3%	 measured	 over	 three	 years.
The	 fair	 value	 of	 equity	 settled	 share	 options	 granted	 is	 estimated	 as	 at	 the	 date	 of	 grant	 using	 the	 Black	 Scholes	 Merton	 model	 with	 the	 following	 assumptions:	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 As at	 As	 at	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 30 April	 30 	 April	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 2007	 	 2006
Dividend	 yield	 (%)	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 1	 1
Expected	 volatility	 (%)	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 80	 80
Historic	 volatility	 (%)	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 50-80	 80
Risk-free	 interest	 rate	 (%)	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 5	 5
Life	 of	 options	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 3 years	 3 	 years
The	 expected	 life	 of	 the	 options	 is	 based	 on	 historical	 data	 and	 is	 not	 necessarily	 indicative	 of	 exercise	 patterns	 that	 may	 occur.	 The	 expected	 volatility	 reflects	 the	 assumption	 that	 the	 historical	 volatility	 is	 indicative	 of	 future	 trends,	 which	 may	 also	 not	 necessarily	 be	 	 the	 actual	 outcome.	 No	 other	 features	 of	 options	 grant	 were	 incorporated	 into	 the	 measurement	 of	 fair	 value	 except	 for	 an	 assessment	 	 of	 the	 market	 performance	 conditions.	 The	 total	 expense	 recognised	 in	 respect	 of	 share	 based	 payments	 is	 £161,000	 (2006:	 £144,000).
21. Related parties
These	 consolidated	 accounts	 include	 the	 financial	 statements	 of	 VEGA	 Group	 PLC	 and	 the	 following	 wholly	 owned	 subsidiaries:	 	 	 Country	 of	 	 	 	 incorporation	 	 Class	 and	 	 	 and	 principal	 	 percentage	 of	 	 Principal subsidiaries	 operation	 Principal 	 activity	 shares	 held
VEGA	 IT	 GmbH	 Germany	 Programme 	 and	 system	 assurance	 Ordinary 	 100%
Crew	 Group	 Ltd	 UK	 Holding 	 company	 Ordinary	 100%
VEGA	 Technologies	 SAS*	 France	 Programme 	 and	 system	 assurance	 Ordinary 	 100%
	 *	 Indirect 	 subsidiary	 undertaking	 held	 by	 Crew	 Group	 Ltd.	 	 A	 full	 list	 of	 subsidiaries,	 including	 dormant	 companies,	 is	 available	 from	 the	 registered	 office.	 Transactions	 between	 the	 Company	 and	 its	 subsidiaries,	 which	 are	 related	 parties,	 have	 been	 eliminated	 on	 consolidation	 and	 are	 not	 disclosed	 in	 this	 note.	 Key	 management	 of	 the	 Group	 are	 the	 Executive	 Directors	 and	 the	 Group	 Executive	 Team	 (see	 page	 33	 for	 details).	 Short-term	 employee	 benefits	 expense	 relating	 to	 these	 individuals	 was	 £2,001,000	 (2006:	 £1,578,000),	 pension	 contributions	 were	 £227,000	 (2006:	 £92,000)	 and	 share-based	 payments	 expense	 was	 £161,000	 (2006:	 £144,000).
There	 have	 been	 no	 other	 related	 party	 transactions	 in	 the	 year.	 VEGA Group p LC Annu Al Repo Rt & Accounts 2007 60
22. Reconciliation of movements in equity
	 	 	 	 	 Equity 	 	 	 	 	 	 share	 Share	 Retained	 Merger	 Total	 	 	 	 	 	 	 capital	 premium	 earnings	 reserve	 equity 	 Group     £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
At 1 May 2005	 	 	 	 	 1,018	 6,226	 4,546	 2,281	 14,071
Profit	 for	 the	 year	 	 	 	 	 –	 –	 3,109	 –	 3,109
Share	 based	 payments	 	 	 	 	 –	 –	 144	 –	 144
Equity	 dividends	 paid	 	 	 	 	 –	 –	 (432)	 –	 (432)
Exchange	 movements	 	 	 	 	 –	 –	 54	 –	 54
Loss	 on	 hedge	 of	 net	 overseas	 investments	 	 	 –	 –	 (93)	 –	 (93)
Gain	 on	 interest	 rate	 hedge	 	 	 	 	 –	 –	 49	 –	 49
At 30 April 2006 and 1 May 2006    1,018 6,226 7,377 2,281 16,902
Profit	 for	 the	 year	 	 	 	 	 –	 –	 3,064	 –	 3,064
Share	 based	 payments	 	 	 	 	 –	 –	 161	 –	 161
Deferred	 tax	 credit	 on	 share	 based	 payments	 	 	 –	 –	 40	 –	 40
Equity	 dividends	 paid	 	 	 	 	 –	 –	 (534)	 –	 (534)
Exchange	 movements	 	 	 	 	 –	 –	 21	 –	 21
Gain	 on	 hedge	 of	 net	 overseas	 investments	 	 	 –	 –	 85	 –	 85
Gain	 on	 interest	 rate	 hedge	 	 	 	 	 –	 –	 18	 –	 18
At 30 April 2007     1,018 6,226 10,232 2,281 19,757
	 	 	 	 	 Equity 	 	 	 	 	 	 share	 Share	 Retained	 Merger	 Total	 	 	 	 	 	 	 capital	 premium	 earnings	 reserve	 equity 	 Company     £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
At 1 May 2005	 	 	 	 	 1,018	 6,226	 2,838	 2,281	 12,363
Profit	 for	 the	 year	 	 	 	 	 –	 –	 3,070	 –	 3,070
Share	 based	 payments	 	 	 	 	 –	 –	 144	 –	 144
Equity	 dividends	 paid	 	 	 	 	 –	 –	 (432)	 –	 (432)
Gain	 on	 interest	 rate	 hedge	 	 	 	 	 –	 –	 49	 –	 49
At 30 April 2006 and 1 May 2006    1,018 6,226 5,669 2,281 15,194
Profit	 for	 the	 year	 	 	 	 	 –	 –	 3,464	 –	 3,464
Share	 based	 payments	 	 	 	 	 –	 –	 161	 –	 161
Deferred	 tax	 credit	 on	 share	 based	 payments	 	 	 –	 –	 40	 –	 40
Equity	 dividends	 paid	 	 	 	 	 –	 –	 (534)	 –	 (534)
Gain	 on	 interest	 rate	 hedge	 	 	 	 	 –	 –	 18	 –	 18
At 30 April 2007     1,018 6,226 8,818 2,281 18,343
Merger	 reserve	 arises	 on	 the	 acquisition	 of	 Anite	 Systems	 GmbH.
	 n ot Es continued VEGA Group p LC Annu Al Repo Rt & Accounts 2007 61
23. Operating Lease Commitments
     Group  Company
	 	 	 	 	 	 As at As	 at	 As at As	 at	 	 	 	 	 	 	 30 April 30	 April	 30 April 30	 April 
	 	 	 	 	 	 2007 	 2006	 2007 	 2006	 	 	 	 	 	 	 £’000	 £’000	 £’000	 £’000
Future minimum payments due:
Less	 than	 one	 year	 	 	 	 	 	 899	 816	 599	 606
Two	 to	 five	 years	 	 	 	 	 	 2,005	 2,130	 979	 1,275
Over	 five	 years	 	 	 	 	 	 556	 288	 288	 491
Total      3,460 3,234 1,866 2,372
The	 Group	 leases	 its	 office	 premises	 on	 short	 term	 leases	 typically	 of	 three	 to	 five	 years	 duration	 with	 options	 to	 renew	 under	 generally	 	 similar	 terms.	 Leases	 on	 office	 premises	 are	 subject	 to	 periodic	 resetting	 of	 rentals	 to	 prevailing	 market	 rates.	 Cars	 are	 leased	 on	 	 three	 year	 contracts.	 	 24. Financial risk management objectives and policies 
The	 Group’s	 principal	 financial	 instruments,	 other	 than	 derivatives,	 comprise	 bank	 loans,	 cash	 and	 short-term	 deposits.	 The	 main	 purpose	 of	 these	 financial	 instruments	 is	 to	 raise	 finance	 for	 the	 Group’s	 operations.	 The	 Group	 has	 various	 other	 financial	 instruments	 such	 as	 trade	 debtors	 and	 trade	 creditors,	 which	 arise	 directly	 from	 its	 operations.	 The	 Group	 also	 enters	 into	 derivative	 transactions,	 principally	 interest	 rate	 swaps.	 The	 purpose	 is	 to	 manage	 the	 interest	 rate	 and	 currency	 risks	 arising	 from	 the	 Group’s	 operations	 and	 its	 sources	 	 of	 finance.	 It	 is,	 and	 has	 been	 throughout	 the	 year	 under	 review,	 the	 Group’s	 policy	 that	 no	 trading	 in	 financial	 instruments	 shall	 be	 undertaken.	 The	 main	 risks	 arising	 from	 the	 Group’s	 financial	 instruments	 are	 interest	 rate	 risk,	 liquidity	 risk,	 foreign	 currency	 risk	 and	 credit	 risk.	 The	 Board	 reviews	 and	 agrees	 policies	 for	 managing	 each	 of	 these	 risks	 and	 they	 are	 summarised	 below.	 The	 Group’s	 accounting	 policies	 in	 relation	 to	 derivatives	 are	 set	 out	 in	 note	 2.	 Foreign currency risk
As	 a	 result	 of	 significant	 investments	 in	 operations	 in	 Germany,	 the	 Group’s	 consolidated	 balance	 sheet	 can	 be	 affected	 significantly	 by	 movements	 in	 the	 GBP/euro	 exchange	 rates.	 The	 Group	 seeks	 to	 mitigate	 the	 effect	 of	 its	 structural	 currency	 exposure	 by	 borrowing	 in	 euro,	 £3.2m	 of	 the	 Group’s	 £9.2m	 investment	 in	 euro	 operations	 is	 hedged	 in	 this	 way.	 The	 following	 risks,	 their	 management	 objectives	 and	 policies,	 apply	 equally	 to	 the	 Group	 and	 Company.
Interest rate risk 
The	 Group’s	 exposure	 to	 market	 risk	 for	 changes	 in	 interest	 rates	 relates	 primarily	 to	 the	 Group’s	 long-term	 debt	 obligations.	 The	 Group’s	 policy	 is	 to	 manage	 its	 interest	 cost	 using	 a	 mix	 of	 fixed	 and	 variable	 rate	 debt.	 The	 Group’s	 policy	 is	 to	 keep	 its	 borrowings	 denominated	 in	 foreign	 currencies	 at	 fixed	 or	 capped	 rates	 of	 interest.	 To	 manage	 this	 mix	 in	 a	 cost-efficient	 manner,	 the	 Group	 enters	 into	 interest	 rate	 swaps,	 in	 which	 the	 Group	 agrees	 to	 exchange,	 at	 specified	 intervals,	 the	 difference	 between	 fixed	 and	 variable	 interest	 amounts	 calculated	 by	 reference	 to	 an	 agreed-upon	 notional	 principal	 amount.	 These	 swaps	 are	 designated	 to	 hedge	 underlying	 debt	 obligations.
Foreign currency risk
The	 Group	 also	 has	 transactional	 currency	 exposures.	 Such	 exposure	 arises	 from	 sales	 or	 purchases	 by	 an	 operating	 unit	 in	 currencies	 other	 than	 the	 unit’s	 functional	 currency,	 principally	 the	 euro.	 Credit risk 
The	 Group	 trades	 only	 with	 recognised,	 creditworthy	 third	 parties.	 Receivable	 balances	 are	 monitored	 on	 an	 ongoing	 basis	 with	 the	 result	 that	 the	 Group’s	 exposure	 to	 bad	 debts	 is	 not	 significant.	 With	 respect	 to	 credit	 risk	 arising	 from	 the	 other	 financial	 assets	 of	 the	 Group,	 which	 comprise	 cash	 and	 cash	 equivalents,	 and	 certain	 derivative	 instruments,	 the	 Group’s	 exposure	 to	 credit	 risk	 arises	 from	 default	 of	 the	 counter	 party,	 with	 a	 maximum	 exposure	 equal	 to	 the	 carrying	 amount	 of	 these	 instruments.	 There	 are	 no	 significant	 concentrations	 	 of	 credit	 risk	 within	 the	 Group.
Liquidity risk
The	 Group’s	 objective	 is	 to	 maintain	 adequate	 cash	 and	 overdraft	 facilities	 to	 fund	 its	 activities.	 Overdraft	 facilities	 are	 negotiated	 annually	 to	 give	 a	 minimum	 of	 £1m	 headroom	 above	 anticipated	 requirements. VEGA Group p LC Annu Al Repo Rt & Accounts 2007 62
25. Financial instruments
Fair values 
All	 financial	 instruments	 are	 held	 at	 fair	 value	 other	 than	 bank	 loans	 which	 are	 held	 at	 amortised	 cost.	 The	 fair	 values	 of	 short	 term	 assets	 and	 liabilities	 (including	 trade	 receivables,	 trade	 payables	 and	 borrowings),	 are	 not	 materially	 different	 to	 their	 book	 values	 due	 to	 their	 short	 maturity	 and	 floating	 rates.	 The	 book	 value	 of	 the	 long	 term	 debtor	 is	 also	 equivalent	 to	 its	 fair	 value	 as	 this	 debtor	 is	 recognised	 after	 discounting	 the	 future	 cash	 flows,	 over	 the	 period	 during	 which	 the	 balance	 will	 be	 received,	 at	 an	 appropriate	 rate.	 Interest rate risk 
The	 following	 table	 sets	 out	 the	 carrying	 amount,	 by	 maturity,	 of	 the	 Group’s	 financial	 instruments	 that	 are	 exposed	 to	 interest	 rate	 risk:
	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Bank	 Interest 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Cash	 overdrafts	 rate 	 swap	 Bank 	 loans	 Group	 	 	 	 	 	 £’000	 £’000	 £’000	 £’000
As at 30 April 2006
Within	 one	 year	 	 	 	 	 	 2,873	 (79)	 (8)	 (1,250)
1–2	 years	 	 	 	 	 	 –	 –	 –	 (1,250)
2–3	 years	 	 	 	 	 	 –	 –	 –	 (1,250)
3–4	 years	 	 	 	 	 	 –	 –	 –	 (643)
Total	 	 	 	 	 	 2,873	 (79)	 (8)	 (4,393)
	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Bank	 Interest 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Cash	 overdrafts	 rate 	 swap	 Bank 	 loans	 	 	 	 	 	 	 £’000	 £’000	 £’000	 £’000
As at 30 April 2007
Within	 one	 year	 	 	 	 	 	 2,978	 (41)	 10	 (1,250)
1–2	 years	 	 	 	 	 	 –	 –	 –	 (1,250)
2–3	 years	 	 	 	 	 	 –	 –	 –	 (710)
Total      2,978 (41) 10 (3,210)
	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Bank	 Interest 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Cash	 overdrafts	 rate 	 swap	 Bank 	 loans	 Company	 	 	 	 	 	 £’000	 £’000	 £’000	 £’000
As at 30 April 2006
Within	 one	 year	 	 	 	 	 	 2,501	 (77)	 (8)	 (1,250)
1–2	 years	 	 	 	 	 	 –	 –	 –	 (1,250)
2–3	 years	 	 	 	 	 	 –	 –	 –	 (1,250)
3–4	 years	 	 	 	 	 	 –	 –	 –	 (643)
Total	 	 	 	 	 	 2,501	 (77)	 (8)	 (4,393)
	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Bank	 Interest 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Cash	 overdrafts	 rate 	 swap	 Bank 	 loans	 	 	 	 	 	 	 £’000	 £’000	 £’000	 £’000
As at 30 April 2007
Within	 one	 year	 	 	 	 	 	 2,687	 (40)	 10	 (1,250)
1–2	 years	 	 	 	 	 	 –	 –	 –	 (1,250)
2–3	 years	 	 	 	 	 	 –	 –	 –	 (710)
Total      2,687 (40) 10 (3,210)
All	 bank	 loans	 are	 held	 at	 fixed	 or	 capped	 rates,	 cash	 and	 overdrafts	 attract	 interest	 at	 floating	 rates.
n ot Es continued VEGA Group p LC Annu Al Repo Rt & Accounts 2007 63
25. Financial instruments continued
Hedging activities
Cash flow hedges – Group and Company
The	 Group	 has	 an	 interest	 rate	 swap	 agreement	 in	 place	 with	 Bank	 of	 Scotland	 against	 its	 euro	 denominated	 loan	 whereby	 it	 receives	 a	 variable	 rate	 equal	 to	 EURIBOR	 and	 pays	 a	 fixed	 rate	 of	 interest	 of	 3.05%	 on	 the	 notional	 amount.	 The	 swap	 is	 being	 used	 to	 hedge	 the	 exposure	 to	 changes	 in	 interest	 rates.	 Hedge of net investments in foreign entities – Group
Included	 in	 bank	 loans	 at	 30	 April	 2007	 is	 a	 euro	 denominated	 borrowing	 of	 £3,210,000	 (2006:	 £4,393,000)	 which	 has	 been	 designated	 	 as	 a	 hedge	 of	 the	 net	 investments	 in	 the	 Group’s	 German	 subsidiary	 and	 is	 being	 used	 to	 reduce	 the	 exposure	 to	 foreign	 exchange	 risk.	 Gains	 or	 losses	 on	 the	 retranslation	 of	 this	 borrowing	 are	 transferred	 to	 equity	 to	 offset	 any	 gains	 or	 losses	 on	 translation	 of	 the	 net	 investments	 in	 the	 subsidiaries.
26. Movement in net debt
	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Year ended	 Year 	 ended	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 30 April	 30 	 April	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 2007	 2006	 Group	 	 	 	 	 	 	 £’000	 £’000
Opening net debt	 	 	 	 	 	 	 (1,607)	 (2,449)
Repayment	 of	 bank	 loans	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 1,203	 1,544
Exchange	 and	 other	 movements	 	 	 	 	 	 	 84	 (112)
Net	 cash	 flow	 from	 activities	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 57	 (590)
Movement in the year	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 1,344	 842
Closing net debt	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 (263)	 (1,607)
	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Year ended	 Year 	 ended	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 30 April	 30 	 April	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 2007	 2006	 Company	 	 	 	 	 	 	 £’000	 £’000
Opening net debt	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 (1,977) (3,589)
Repayment	 of	 bank	 loans	 	 	 	 	 	 	 1,203 1,544
Exchange	 and	 other	 movements	 	 	 	 	 	 	 (1) (36)
Net	 cash	 flow	 from	 activities	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 222 104
Movement in the year 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 1,424 1,612
Closing net debt	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 (553) (1,977) VEGA Group p LC Annu Al Repo Rt & Accounts 2007 64
noti CE o F Annu AL GEn Er AL m EEtin G
VeGA Group plc – Registered in england – no. 1393778
Notice	 is	 hereby	 given	 that	 the	 2007	 Annual	 General	 Meeting	 of	 VEGA	 Group	 PLC	 will	 be	 held	 at	 Lacon	 House,	 84	 Theobald’s	 Road,	 London	 WC1X	 8RW	 on	 Thursday	 6	 September	 2007	 at	 12	 noon	 to	 transact	 the	 following	 business:
Ordinary business
To	 consider	 and,	 if	 thought	 fit,	 to	 pass	 the	 following	 Resolutions	 which	 will	 be	 proposed	 as	 Ordinary	 Resolutions:
1.	 To	 receive	 and	 adopt	 the	 Directors’	 Report	 and	 audited	 Financial	 Statements	 for	 the	 year	 ended	 30	 April	 2007.
2.	 To	 declare	 a	 final	 dividend	 of	 2.25p	 per	 ordinary	 share.
3.		 To	 approve	 the	 Directors’	 Remuneration	 Report	 as	 set	 out	 on	 pages	 31	 to	 34	 of	 the	 Report	 and	 Accounts	 for	 the	 year	 ended	 30	 April	 2007.
4.	 To	 re-elect	 Andy	 Roberts	 as	 a	 director	 of	 the	 Company.
5.	 To	 re-elect	 Phil	 Cartmell	 as	 a	 director	 of	 the	 Company.
6.	 To	 re-appoint	 Ernst	 &	 Young	 LLP	 as	 auditors	 and	 to	 authorise	 the	 directors	 to	 determine	 their	 remuneration.
Special business
To	 consider	 and,	 if	 thought	 fit,	 to	 pass	 Resolution	 7	 as	 an	 Ordinary	 Resolution:
7.	 That:
 a)		 in	 accordance	 with	 Article	 6	 of	 the	 Company’s	 Articles	 of	 Association,	 the	 directors	 be	 and	 are	 hereby	 generally	 and	 unconditionally	 authorised	 to	 exercise	 all	 powers	 of	 the	 Company	 to	 allot	 relevant	 securities	 (within	 the	 meaning	 of	 section	 80	 of	 the	 Companies	 Act	 1985)	 up	 to	 an	 aggregate	 nominal	 amount	 of	 £339,275	 (representing	 6,785,500	 ordinary	 shares	 of	 5p	 each)	 during	 the	 period	 from	 the	 date	 of	 passing	 this	 resolution	 until	 the	 conclusion	 of	 the	 next	 Annual	 General	 Meeting	 of	 the	 Company	 after	 the	 passing	 of	 this	 resolution,	 save	 that	 the	 Company	 may	 before	 such	 expiry	 make	 an	 offer	 or	 agreement	 which	 would	 or	 might	 require	 relevant	 securities	 to	 be	 allotted	 after	 such	 expiry	 and	 the	 directors	 may	 allot	 relevant	 securities	 in	 pursuance	 of	 such	 offer	 or	 agreement	 as	 if	 the	 authority	 hereby	 conferred	 had	 not	 expired;	 and	 	 b) 		 all	 previous	 authorities	 to	 allot	 relevant	 securities	 under	 section	 80	 of	 the	 Companies	 Act	 1985	 shall	 cease	 to	 have	 effect,	 without	 prejudice	 however	 to	 the	 validity	 of	 any	 allotments	 already	 made	 pursuant	 to	 such	 authorities.
To	 consider	 and,	 if	 thought	 fit,	 to	 pass	 the	 following	 resolutions	 as	 Special	 Resolutions;
8.  That, 	 in	 accordance	 with	 Article	 7	 of	 the	 Company’s	 Articles	 of	 Association,	 the	 directors	 be	 and	 are	 hereby	 empowered	 to	 allot	 equity	 securities	 (within	 the	 meaning	 of	 section	 94	 of	 the	 Companies	 Act	 1985)	 for	 cash,	 pursuant	 to	 the	 authority	 granted	 by	 Resolution	 7	 above,	 as	 if	 section	 89(1)	 of	 the	 Companies	 Act	 1985	 did	 not	 apply	 to	 any	 such	 allotment,	 provided	 that	 this	 power	 shall	 be	 limited	 to:
 a)  the 	 allotment	 of	 equity	 securities	 in	 connection	 with	 a	 rights	 issue	 or	 other	 pro-rata	 offer	 in	 favour	 of	 ordinary	 shareholders,	 on	 	 the	 register	 on	 a	 date	 fixed	 by	 the	 directors,	 where	 the	 equity	 securities	 respectively	 attributable	 to	 the	 interests	 of	 all	 ordinary	 shareholders	 are	 proportionate	 (or	 as	 nearly	 as	 may	 be)	 to	 the	 respective	 numbers	 of	 ordinary	 shares	 held	 by	 them	 (subject	 to	 such	 exclusions	 as	 the	 directors	 may	 deem	 fit	 to	 deal	 with	 fractional	 entitlements,	 any	 legal	 or	 practical	 problems	 arising	 under	 the	 laws	 of	 any	 territory	 or	 the	 requirements	 of	 any	 relevant	 regulatory	 body	 or	 stock	 exchange);	 and
 b)		 the	 allotment	 (otherwise	 than	 pursuant	 to	 paragraph	 (a)	 above)	 of	 equity	 securities	 up	 to	 an	 aggregate	 maximum	 nominal	 amount	 of	 £50,875	 (representing	 1,017 ,500	 ordinary	 shares	 of	 5p	 each);	 and	 shall	 expire	 on	 the	 date	 of	 the	 next	 Annual	 General	 Meeting	 of	 the	 Company	 after	 the	 passing	 of	 this	 resolution	 save	 that	 the	 Company	 may	 before	 such	 expiry	 make	 an	 offer	 or	 agreement	 which	 would	 or	 might	 require	 equity	 securities	 to	 be	 allotted	 after	 such	 expiry	 and	 the	 directors	 may	 allot	 equity	 securities	 in	 pursuance	 of	 such	 offer	 or	 agreement	 as	 if	 the	 power	 hereby	 conferred	 had	 not	 expired.
	 9.		 That	 the	 Company	 be	 and	 is	 hereby	 generally	 and	 unconditionally	 authorised	 pursuant	 to	 section	 166	 of	 the	 Companies	 Act	 1985	 	 to	 make	 market	 purchases	 (as	 defined	 in	 section	 163(3)	 of	 that	 Act)	 of	 ordinary	 shares	 of	 5p	 each	 in	 the	 capital	 of	 the	 Company,	 provided	 that:
	 a) 		 the	 maximum	 aggregate	 number	 of	 ordinary	 shares	 which	 may	 be	 so	 purchased	 shall	 be	 2,035,600	 ordinary	 shares	 (representing	 a	 nominal	 amount	 of	 £101,780);
	 b) 		 the	 maximum	 price	 which	 may	 be	 paid	 for	 an	 ordinary	 share	 shall	 be	 an	 amount	 equal	 to	 105%	 of	 the	 average	 middle	 market	 quotations	 taken	 from	 the	 London	 Stock	 Exchange	 Daily	 Official	 List	 for	 the	 five	 business	 days	 immediately	 preceding	 the	 day	 on	 which	 the	 shares	 in	 question	 are	 to	 be	 purchased	 (excluding	 expenses);
	 c) 	 the	 minimum	 price	 which	 may	 be	 paid	 for	 an	 ordinary	 share	 shall	 be	 5p	 (exclusive	 of	 expenses);	 and
	 d) 		 this	 authority	 shall	 expire,	 unless	 previously	 revoked	 or	 varied,	 at	 the	 conclusion	 of	 the	 next	 Annual	 General	 Meeting	 of	 the	 Company	 after	 the	 passing	 of	 this	 resolution	 save	 that	 the	 Company	 may,	 before	 this	 authority	 expires,	 make	 contracts	 for	 purchases	 of	 ordinary	 shares	 under	 this	 authority	 which	 would	 or	 might	 be	 executed	 wholly	 or	 partly	 after	 this	 authority	 expires	 and	 may	 make	 a	 purchase	 of	 ordinary	 shares	 pursuant	 to	 any	 such	 contract.
	 10.		 That	 the	 Company	 may	 send	 or	 supply	 any	 document	 or	 information	 that	 is	 required	 or	 authorised	 to	 be	 sent	 or	 supplied	 to	 a	 member	 or	 any	 other	 person	 by	 the	 Company	 by	 any	 provision	 of	 the	 Companies	 Acts	 (as	 defined	 in	 section	 2	 of	 the	 Companies	 Act	 2006	 (the	 ‘2006	 Act’)),	 or	 pursuant	 to	 the	 Company’s	 articles	 of	 association	 or	 to	 any	 other	 rule	 or	 regulation	 to	 which	 the	 Company	 may	 be	 subject,	 in	 electronic	 form	 or	 by	 making	 it	 available	 on	 a	 website,	 and	 the	 provisions	 of	 Schedule	 5	 to	 the	 2006	 Act	 shall	 apply	 whether	 or	 not	 any	 such	 document	 or	 information	 is	 required	 or	 authorised	 by	 the	 2006	 Act	 to	 be	 sent	 or	 supplied,	 and	 this	 resolution	 shall	 supersede	 any	 provision	 in	 the	 Company’s	 articles	 of	 association	 to	 the	 extent	 that	 it	 is	 inconsistent	 with	 this	 resolution. VEGA Group p LC Annu Al Repo Rt & Accounts 2007 65
11.		 	 	 That	 the	 articles	 of	 association	 of	 the	 Company	 be	 and	 are	 hereby	 altered	 as	 follows:	 The	 following	 definitions	 be	 inserted	 in	 Article	 2(1)(a):
“	 	 		2006	 Act	 –	 means	 the	 Companies	 Act	 2006	 as	 amended	 or	 re-enacted	 from	 time	 to	 time;	 	electronic	 address	 –	 means	 any	 number	 or	 address	 used	 for	 the	 purposes	 of	 electronic	 communications;	 electronic	 communication	 –	 has	 the	 same	 meaning	 as	 in	 the	 Electronic	 Communications	 Act	 2000;”
	 	 Articles 	 119	 to	 125	 be	 deleted	 and	 replaced	 with	 the	 following	 articles:
  “119 FORM OF NOTICES
	 	 	A	 notice	 or	 other	 document	 or	 information	 to	 be	 sent	 to	 or	 by	 any	 person	 under	 the	 articles	 (other	 than	 a	 notice	 calling	 a	 meeting	 of	 the	 board	 or	 of	 a	 committee	 of	 the	 board)	 shall	 be	 in	 writing	 or	 shall	 be	 sent	 using	 electronic	 communication	 to	 an	 electronic	 address	 for	 the	 time	 being	 notified	 for	 that	 purpose	 to	 the	 person	 sending	 the	 notice	 or	 other	 document	 or	 information.
  120 SENDING NOTICES OR OTHER DOCUMENTS OR INFORMATION TO MEMBERS AND OTHERS
	 (1) 	 	A 	 notice	 or	 other	 document	 or	 information	 may	 be	 sent	 to	 a	 member	 or	 another	 person	 by	 the	 Company	 personally	 or	 by	 letter.	 Any	 letter	 shall	 be	 sent	 by	 post	 in	 a	 prepaid	 envelope	 first	 class	 or	 second	 class	 and	 addressed	 to	 such	 member	 or	 other	 person	 at	 the	 postal	 address	 in	 the	 register	 (or	 at	 another	 address	 within	 the	 United	 Kingdom	 notified	 for	 the	 purpose)	 or	 shall	 be	 left	 at	 that	 address	 in	 an	 envelope	 addressed	 to	 that	 member	 or	 other	 person.	 Electronic	 communication	 may	 be	 used	 (if	 appropriate)	 for	 sending	 a	 notice	 or	 other	 document	 or	 information	 to	 a	 member	 or	 other	 person	 where	 that	 member	 or	 other	 person	 has	 agreed	 to	 the	 use	 of	 electronic	 communication	 and	 has	 specified	 an	 electronic	 address	 for	 this	 purpose.	 A	 notice	 or	 other	 document	 or	 information	 may	 be	 sent	 to	 a	 member	 or	 other	 person	 by	 the	 Company	 by	 placing	 it	 on	 a	 website	 and	 sending	 the	 member	 or	 other	 person	 concerned	 notification	 of	 the	 availability	 of	 the	 notice,	 document	 or	 information	 on	 the	 website,	 where	 the	 member	 or	 other	 person	 has	 agreed,	 or	 is	 taken	 to	 have	 agreed,	 to	 having	 such	 notices,	 documents	 or	 information	 sent	 to	 him	 in	 such	 manner.
	 (2) 	 Without	 limiting	 the	 generality	 of	 the	 foregoing,	 the	 Company	 may	 send	 or	 supply	 a	 notice	 or	 any	 other	 document	 or	 information	 that	 is	 required	 or	 authorised	 to	 be	 sent	 or	 supplied	 to	 a	 member	 or	 any	 other	 person	 by	 the	 Company	 by	 any	 provision	 of	 the	 Companies	 Acts	 (as	 defined	 in	 the	 2006	 Act),	 or	 pursuant	 to	 the	 articles	 or	 to	 any	 other	 rule	 or	 regulation	 to	 which	 the	 Company	 may	 be	 subject,	 in	 electronic	 form	 or	 by	 making	 it	 available	 on	 a	 website,	 and	 the	 provisions	 of	 Schedule	 5	 to	 the	 2006	 Act	 shall	 apply	 whether	 or	 not	 any	 such	 notice,	 document	 or	 information	 is	 required	 or	 authorised	 by	 the	 Companies	 Acts	 (as	 so	 defined)	 to	 be	 sent	 or	 supplied.
	 (3)	 Any 	 notice	 or	 other	 document	 or	 information	 to	 be	 sent	 to	 a	 member	 may	 be	 sent	 by	 reference	 to	 the	 register	 or	 the	 Company’s	 other	 records	 as	 they	 stand	 at	 any	 time	 within	 the	 period	 of	 15	 days	 before	 the	 notice	 or	 other	 document	 or	 information	 is	 sent	 and	 no	 change	 in	 the	 register	 or	 the	 Company’s	 other	 records	 after	 that	 time	 shall	 invalidate	 the	 sending	 of	 the	 notice	 or	 other	 document	 or	 information.
	 (4)	In 	 the	 case	 of	 joint	 holders	 of	 a	 share,	 a	 notice	 or	 other	 document	 or	 information	 shall	 be	 sent	 to	 whichever	 of	 them	 is	 named	 first	 in	 the	 register	 and	 a	 notice	 or	 other	 document	 or	 information	 sent	 in	 this	 way	 is	 sufficiently	 sent	 to	 all	 the	 joint	 holders.
	 (5)	 If	 any	 member	 or	 other	 person	 (or,	 in	 the	 case	 of	 joint	 holders,	 the	 person	 first	 named	 in	 the	 Register)	 has	 a	 registered	 address	 not	 within	 the	 United	 Kingdom	 but	 (at	 least	 14	 days	 before	 the	 notice	 or	 other	 document	 or	 information	 is	 sent)	 has	 given	 to	 	 the	 Company	 an	 address	 within	 the	 United	 Kingdom	 at	 which	 notices	 or	 other	 documents	 or	 information	 may	 be	 sent	 to	 him	 	 or	 an	 electronic	 address	 to	 which	 notices	 or	 other	 documents	 or	 information	 may	 (if	 appropriate)	 be	 sent	 using	 electronic	 communications,	 he	 is	 entitled	 to	 have	 notices	 or	 other	 such	 documents	 or	 information	 sent	 to	 him	 at	 that	 address	 or	 electronic	 address,	 but	 otherwise	 no	 such	 member	 or	 other	 person	 is	 entitled	 to	 receive	 any	 notice	 or	 other	 document	 or	 information	 from	 the	 Company.
   121 NOTICE BY ADVERTISEMENT
	 	 	If	 by	 reason	 of	 the	 suspension	 or	 curtailment	 of	 postal	 or	 electronic	 communication	 services	 in	 the	 United	 Kingdom,	 the	 Company	 is	 unable	 effectively	 to	 convene	 a	 general	 meeting	 by	 notice	 or	 other	 document	 or	 information	 sent	 through	 the	 post	 or	 by	 electronic	 communication,	 or	 to	 send	 any	 other	 document	 or	 information	 by	 post	 or	 by	 electronic	 communication,	 the	 board	 may,	 if	 it	 thinks	 fit	 and	 as	 an	 alternative	 to	 any	 other	 method	 of	 service	 permitted	 by	 the	 articles,	 send	 notice	 of	 the	 meeting	 to	 members	 affected	 by	 the	 suspension	 or	 curtailment	 by	 a	 notice	 advertised	 in	 at	 least	 two	 leading	 United	 Kingdom	 national	 daily	 newspapers	 and	 such	 notice	 or	 other	 document	 or	 information	 shall	 be	 deemed	 to	 have	 been	 duly	 received	 by	 affected	 members	 who	 are	 entitled	 to	 receive	 it	 at	 noon	 on	 the	 day	 when	 the	 advertisement	 appears,	 or	 at	 noon	 on	 the	 last	 of	 the	 days	 when	 they	 appear.	 In	 any	 such	 case	 the	 Company	 shall	 send	 confirmatory	 copies	 of	 the	 notice	 or	 other	 document	 or	 information	 by	 post	 or	 by	 electronic	 communication,	 as	 appropriate,	 to	 such	 affected	 members	 if	 at	 least	 five	 days	 prior	 to	 the	 meeting,	 or	 any	 other	 appropriate	 date	 in	 connection	 with	 the	 document	 or	 information,	 the	 posting	 of	 notices	 or	 other	 documents	 or	 information	 or	 the	 sending	 of	 them	 by	 electronic	 communications	 again	 becomes	 practicable. VEGA Group p LC Annu Al Repo Rt & Accounts 2007 66
  122 WHEN NOTICE DEEMED RECEIVED
	 (1)	Any 	 notice	 or	 other	 document	 or	 information	 sent	 addressed	 to	 a	 member	 or	 another	 person	 at	 his	 registered	 address	 (or	 another	 address	 within	 the	 United	 Kingdom	 or	 an	 electronic	 address	 notified	 for	 the	 purpose)	 is	 deemed	 to	 be	 received,	 if	 personally	 delivered,	 at	 the	 time	 of	 delivery	 or,	 if	 sent	 by	 first	 class	 post,	 on	 the	 next	 day	 after	 the	 letter	 is	 posted	 or,	 if	 sent	 by	 second	 class	 post,	 on	 the	 second	 day	 after	 the	 letter	 is	 posted	 or,	 in	 the	 case	 of	 a	 notice	 or	 other	 document	 or	 information	 contained	 in	 an	 electronic	 communication,	 on	 the	 same	 day	 it	 is	 sent.	 A	 notice	 or	 other	 document	 or	 information	 left	 at	 such	 an	 address	 within	 the	 United	 Kingdom	 is	 deemed	 to	 be	 received	 on	 the	 day	 it	 is	 left.	 In	 proving	 service	 it	 is	 sufficient	 to	 prove	 that	 the	 letter	 was	 properly	 addressed	 and,	 if	 sent	 by	 post,	 prepaid	 or	 stamped	 and	 posted.	 Proof	 that	 a	 notice	 or	 other	 document	 or	 information	 contained	 	 in	 an	 electronic	 communication	 was	 sent	 in	 accordance	 with	 guidance	 issued	 by	 the	 Institute	 of	 Chartered	 Secretaries	 and	 Administrators	 shall	 be	 conclusive	 evidence	 that	 the	 notice	 or	 other	 document	 or	 information	 was	 received.
	 (2)	Any 	 member	 present,	 either	 personally	 or	 by	 proxy,	 at	 any	 general	 meeting	 of	 the	 Company	 or	 of	 the	 holders	 of	 any	 class	 of	 	 shares	 in	 the	 Company	 shall	 for	 all	 purposes	 be	 deemed	 to	 have	 received	 due	 notice	 of	 such	 meeting	 and,	 where	 requisite,	 	 of	 the	 purposes	 for	 which	 such	 meeting	 was	 called.
  123 NOTICE BINDING ON TRANSFEREES ETC.
	 	 	A	 person	 who	 becomes	 entitled	 by	 transmission,	 transfer	 or	 otherwise	 to	 a	 share	 is	 bound	 by	 a	 notice	 in	 respect	 of	 that	 share	 (other	 than	 a	 notice	 served	 by	 the	 Company	 under	 section	 793	 of	 the	 2006	 Act)	 which,	 before	 his	 name	 is	 entered	 in	 the	 register,	 has	 been	 properly	 sent	 to	 a	 person	 from	 whom	 he	 derives	 his	 title.
	  124 NOTICE IN CASE OF ENTITLEMENT BY TRANSMISSION
	 		 	Where	 a	 person	 is	 entitled	 by	 transmission	 to	 a	 share,	 the	 Company	 may	 send	 a	 notice	 or	 other	 document	 or	 information	 to	 that	 person	 as	 if	 he	 were	 the	 holder	 of	 a	 share	 by	 addressing	 it	 to	 him	 by	 name	 or	 by	 the	 title	 of	 representative	 of	 the	 deceased	 or	 trustee	 of	 the	 bankrupt	 member	 (or	 by	 similar	 designation)	 at	 an	 address	 in	 the	 United	 Kingdom	 or	 electronic	 address	 supplied	 for	 that	 purpose	 by	 the	 person	 claiming	 to	 be	 entitled	 by	 transmission.	 Until	 an	 address	 has	 been	 supplied,	 a	 notice	 or	 other	 document	 or	 information	 may	 be	 sent	 in	 any	 manner	 in	 which	 it	 might	 have	 been	 sent	 if	 the	 death	 or	 bankruptcy	 or	 other	 event	 had	 not	 occurred.	 The	 giving	 of	 notice	 in	 accordance	 with	 this	 Article	 is	 sufficient	 notice	 to	 all	 other	 persons	 interested	 in	 the	 share.
  125 UNDELIVERED NOTICES OR DOCUMENTS
	 	 	If,	 on	 two	 consecutive	 occasions,	 a	 notice	 or	 other	 document	 or	 information	 sent	 to	 a	 member	 or	 other	 person	 has	 been	 returned	 undelivered,	 such	 member	 or	 other	 person	 shall	 not	 thereafter	 be	 entitled	 to	 receive	 notices	 or	 other	 documents	 or	 information	 from	 the	 Company	 until	 he	 shall	 have	 communicated	 with	 the	 Company	 and	 supplied	 in	 writing	 to	 the	 office	 a	 new	 postal	 address	 within	 the	 United	 Kingdom	 for	 the	 service	 of	 notices	 or	 other	 documents	 or	 information	 or	 shall	 have	 informed	 the	 Company,	 in	 such	 manner	 as	 may	 be	 specified	 by	 the	 Company,	 of	 an	 electronic	 address	 for	 the	 service	 of	 notices	 or	 other	 documents	 or	 information	 by	 electronic	 communication.	 For	 these	 purposes,	 a	 notice	 or	 other	 documents	 or	 information	 sent	 by	 post	 shall	 be	 treated	 as	 returned	 undelivered	 if	 the	 notice	 or	 other	 documents	 or	 information	 is	 sent	 back	 to	 the	 Company	 (or	 its	 agents)	 and	 a	 notice	 or	 other	 documents	 or	 information	 sent	 by	 electronic	 communication	 shall	 be	 treated	 as	 returned	 undelivered	 if	 the	 Company	 (or	 its	 agents)	 receive(s)	 notification	 that	 the	 notice	 or	 other	 documents	 or	 information	 was	 not	 delivered	 to	 the	 address	 to	 which	 it	 was	 sent.”
By order of the Board
Ken Blyth
Company	 Secretary
9	 July	 2007
Registered	 Office
2	 Falcon	 Way
Shire	 Park
Welwyn	 Garden	 City
Herts	 AL7	 1TW
United	 Kingdom
	 noti CE o F Annu AL GEn Er AL m EEtin G continued VEGA Group p LC Annu Al Repo Rt & Accounts 2007 67
Notes
1 Proxies
A	 member	 entitled	 to	 attend	 and	 vote	 at	 the	 Annual	 General	 Meeting	 may	 appoint	 one	 or	 more	 proxies	 to	 attend	 and,	 on	 a	 poll,	 to	 vote	 	 in	 his	 place.	 A	 proxy	 need	 not	 be	 a	 member	 of	 the	 Company.
To	 be	 valid,	 an	 instrument	 of	 proxy	 and	 any	 letter	 or	 power	 of	 attorney	 (or	 a	 duly	 certified	 copy	 thereof)	 must	 (failing	 previous	 registration	 with	 the	 Company)	 be	 lodged	 with	 the	 Company’s	 registrars,	 Capita	 Registrars,	 Proxy	 Department,	 PO	 Box	 25,	 Beckenham,	 Kent	 	 BR3	 4BR,	 no	 later	 than	 12	 noon	 on	 Tuesday	 4	 September	 2007.
Completion	 and	 return	 of	 a	 form	 of	 proxy	 does	 not	 preclude	 a	 member	 from	 subsequently	 attending	 and	 voting	 at	 the	 AGM.
2 Attendance and voting 
In	 accordance	 with	 Regulation	 41	 of	 the	 Uncertificated	 Securities	 Regulations	 2001,	 only	 those	 shareholders	 entered	 on	 the	 register	 	 of	 members	 as	 at	 the	 close	 of	 business	 on	 4	 September	 2007	 shall	 be	 entitled	 to	 attend	 or	 vote	 at	 the	 AGM	 in	 respect	 of	 the	 number	 	 of	 shares	 registered	 in	 their	 name	 at	 that	 time.	 Changes	 to	 entries	 on	 the	 relevant	 register	 of	 members	 after	 the	 close	 of	 business	 on	 	 4	 September	 2007	 shall	 be	 disregarded	 in	 determining	 the	 rights	 of	 any	 person	 to	 attend	 or	 vote	 at	 the	 AGM.
3 Final dividend
The	 directors	 are	 recommending	 that	 members	 declare	 a	 final	 dividend	 of	 2.25p	 per	 ordinary	 share	 in	 respect	 of	 the	 year	 ended	 30	 April	 2007.	 A	 final	 dividend	 must	 be	 approved	 by	 members	 and	 the	 amount	 to	 be	 declared	 may	 not	 exceed	 the	 amount	 recommended	 by	 the	 directors.	 If	 approved,	 the	 final	 dividend	 will	 be	 paid	 on	 14	 September	 2007	 to	 shareholders	 on	 the	 register	 of	 members	 at	 the	 close	 of	 business	 on	 17	 August	 2007.
4 Directors retiring 
Biographical	 details	 of	 the	 directors	 seeking	 re-appointment	 are	 given	 on	 pages	 22	 and	 23.	 The	 Combined	 Code	 on	 Corporate	 Governance	 (‘the	 Code’)	 requires	 that	 directors	 serving	 longer	 than	 nine	 years	 submit	 themselves	 to	 annual	 re-election.	 Andy	 Roberts	 was	 appointed	 to	 the	 Board	 in	 November	 1997	 and	 has	 served	 in	 excess	 of	 nine	 years.	 Accordingly	 he	 will	 retire	 at	 the	 AGM	 and,	 being	 eligible,	 offers	 himself	 for	 re-election.
The	 Board	 believes	 that	 Andy	 brings	 experience	 of	 a	 wide	 range	 of	 business	 issues	 including	 those	 from	 IT	 and	 consultancy	 businesses	 and	 that	 he	 makes	 a	 valuable	 contribution	 to	 the	 Board.	 Following	 formal	 performance	 evaluation	 carried	 out	 during	 2007,	 the	 Board	 concluded	 that	 he	 continues	 to	 perform	 effectively	 and	 demonstrate	 commitment	 to	 his	 role	 as	 Chairman.	 The	 Board	 has	 also	 carefully	 considered	 the	 matter	 of	 his	 independence,	 and	 in	 particular,	 the	 matters	 referred	 to	 in	 Code	 provision	 A.3.1.	 The	 Board	 concluded	 that,	 notwithstanding	 his	 length	 of	 service,	 throughout	 his	 term	 of	 office	 he	 has	 been,	 and	 remains,	 independent.
The	 Company’s	 articles	 of	 association	 (Article	 58)	 require	 each	 director	 to	 retire	 and	 seek	 re-appointment	 at	 least	 once	 every	 three	 years.	 Phil	 Cartmell	 accordingly	 retires	 and	 seeks	 re-election.
The	 Board	 believes	 that	 Phil	 Cartmell	 brings	 a	 wide	 range	 of	 business	 skills	 and	 experience	 and	 that	 he	 makes	 a	 valuable	 contribution	 to	 the	 Board.	 Following	 formal	 performance	 evaluation	 carried	 out	 during	 2007,	 the	 Board	 concluded	 that	 he	 continues	 to	 perform	 effectively	 and	 demonstrate	 commitment	 to	 his	 role	 as	 Chief	 Executive.
Special business
Resolution 7 (Ordinary) – renewal of authority to allot shares
Article	 6	 of	 the	 Company’s	 Articles	 of	 Association	 permits	 the	 directors	 to	 allot	 any	 authorised	 but	 unissued	 shares	 in	 the	 Company	 up	 to	 a	 limit	 approved	 each	 year	 by	 shareholders	 in	 general	 meeting.	 The	 directors	 now	 seek	 to	 renew	 the	 authority	 granted	 at	 last	 year’s	 AGM	 and	 this	 resolution	 authorises	 the	 directors	 to	 allot	 such	 shares	 up	 to	 a	 nominal	 value	 of	 £339,275	 (6,785,500	 ordinary	 shares	 of	 5p	 each	 which	 represents	 approximately	 one-third	 of	 the	 Company’s	 ordinary	 share	 capital	 as	 at	 9	 July	 2007).	 There	 are	 no	 current	 plans	 to	 exercise	 this	 authority	 other	 than	 in	 connection	 with	 employee	 and	 executive	 share	 and	 share	 option	 schemes.	 The	 authority	 given	 by	 	 this	 resolution	 will	 expire	 at	 the	 conclusion	 of	 the	 AGM	 to	 be	 held	 in	 2008.	 There	 are	 no	 shares	 held	 in	 treasury.
	 Resolution 8 (Special) – allotment of shares for cash
In	 addition	 to	 the	 general	 authority	 to	 allot	 shares,	 a	 further	 authority	 is	 required	 if	 any	 shares	 are	 to	 be	 allotted	 for	 cash	 without	 first	 being	 offered	 pro-rata	 to	 existing	 shareholders.	 Article	 7	 gives	 directors	 authority	 to	 allot	 shares	 in	 this	 way	 up	 to	 a	 limit	 approved	 each	 year	 by	 shareholders	 in	 general	 meeting.	 The	 directors	 now	 seek	 to	 renew	 the	 authority	 granted	 at	 last	 year’s	 AGM;	 this	 resolution	 authorises	 the	 directors	 to	 allot	 shares	 for	 cash	 up	 to	 a	 nominal	 value	 of	 £50,875	 (1,017,500	 ordinary	 shares	 of	 5p	 each	 representing	 approximately	 5%	 of	 the	 Company’s	 issued	 share	 capital	 as	 at	 9	 July	 2007).	 The	 directors	 do	 not	 have	 any	 present	 intention	 of	 exercising	 this	 authority	 other	 than	 in	 connection	 with	 employee	 and	 executive	 share	 and	 share	 option	 schemes.	 The	 authority	 given	 by	 this	 resolution	 will	 expire	 at	 the	 conclusion	 of	 the	 AGM	 to	 be	 held	 in	 2008. VEGA Group p LC Annu Al Repo Rt & Accounts 2007 68
noti CE o F Annu AL GEn Er AL m EEtin G continued
Resolution 9 (Special) – market purchases of own shares
The	 directors	 believe	 that	 it	 is	 advantageous	 for	 the	 Company	 to	 continue	 to	 have	 the	 flexibility	 to	 purchase	 its	 own	 shares,	 in	 order	 to	 subsequently	 cancel	 them	 or	 hold	 them	 in	 treasury,	 and	 by	 this	 resolution	 the	 directors	 seek	 to	 renew	 shareholders’	 authority	 to	 do	 so.	 The	 directors	 would	 only	 exercise	 this	 authority	 after	 considering	 the	 impact	 on	 the	 gearing	 level	 of	 the	 Company	 and	 its	 general	 financial	 position,	 the	 effects	 on	 earnings	 per	 share	 and	 the	 benefits	 for	 shareholders	 generally.	 This	 resolution	 would	 renew	 the	 authority	 given	 	 to	 the	 directors	 at	 last	 year’s	 AGM	 and	 would	 be	 limited	 to	 a	 maximum	 2,035,600	 ordinary	 shares	 representing	 approximately	 10%	 of	 the	 issued	 share	 capital	 as	 at	 9	 July	 2007.	 The	 minimum	 and	 maximum	 prices	 to	 be	 paid	 for	 the	 shares	 are	 stated	 in	 the	 resolution.	 The	 purchase	 of	 shares	 by	 the	 Company	 under	 this	 authority	 would	 be	 undertaken	 by	 a	 purchase	 in	 the	 market.	 The	 authority	 given	 by	 this	 resolution	 will	 expire	 at	 the	 conclusion	 of	 the	 AGM	 to	 be	 held	 in	 2008.	 The	 directors	 do	 not	 have	 any	 present	 intention	 of	 exercising	 this	 authority.	 The	 total	 number	 of	 options	 and	 rights	 to	 subscribe	 for	 ordinary	 shares	 as	 at	 9	 July	 2007	 was	 1,080,906.	 These	 rights	 represent	 5.3%	 of	 the	 issued	 share	 capital	 of	 the	 Company,	 and	 would	 represent	 5.9%	 if	 the	 full	 authority	 to	 purchase	 its	 own	 shares	 in	 accordance	 with	 Resolution	 9	 were	 to	 be	 exercised	 by	 the	 Company.
Resolution 10 (Special) – electronic communications with shareholders
The	 purpose	 of	 resolution	 10	 is	 to	 allow	 the	 Company	 to	 take	 advantage	 of	 the	 new	 Companies	 Act	 2006	 rules	 for	 communications	 between	 companies,	 shareholders	 and	 others	 that	 came	 into	 force	 on	 20	 January	 2007.
The	 key	 change	 made	 by	 the	 new	 Act	 is	 that	 a	 shareholder	 is	 assumed	 to	 have	 agreed	 to	 the	 Company	 publishing	 documents	 and	 information	 on	 its	 website	 if	 certain	 conditions	 are	 met	 and	 procedures	 followed.	 Shareholders	 can,	 however,	 ask	 for	 a	 hard	 copy	 of	 any	 document	 at	 any	 time.
One	 of	 the	 conditions	 is	 that	 the	 Company’s	 shareholders	 have	 resolved	 that	 the	 Company	 may	 send	 or	 supply	 documents	 or	 information	 to	 shareholders	 by	 making	 them	 available	 on	 a	 website.	 The	 resolution	 covers	 all	 documents	 or	 information	 that	 the	 Company	 may	 send	 to	 shareholders.	 This	 includes,	 but	 is	 not	 limited	 to,	 annual	 accounts	 and	 reports,	 summary	 financial	 statements,	 notices	 of	 general	 meetings	 and	 any	 documents	 which	 the	 Company	 is	 required	 to	 send	 to	 shareholders	 under	 the	 FSA’s	 Listing	 Rules	 or	 any	 other	 rules	 the	 Company	 is	 subject	 to.	 The	 resolution	 extends	 to	 communications	 in	 electronic	 form	 in	 addition	 to	 website	 communication	 as	 this	 is	 a	 requirement	 of	 the	 FSA’s	 Disclosure	 Rules	 and	 Transparency	 Rules.	 The	 resolution	 supersedes	 any	 inconsistent	 provision	 in	 the	 Company’s	 articles	 of	 association.
If	 the	 resolution	 is	 passed,	 the	 Company	 will	 ask	 each	 shareholder	 individually	 to	 agree	 that	 the	 Company	 may	 send	 or	 supply	 documents	 or	 information	 by	 means	 of	 a	 website.	 The	 request	 will	 explain	 that,	 if	 the	 Company	 has	 not	 received	 a	 reply	 within	 28	 days	 of	 the	 request,	 the	 shareholder	 will	 be	 taken	 to	 have	 agreed.	 The	 request	 will	 be	 sent	 to	 all	 shareholders,	 including	 those	 who	 have	 already	 agreed	 to	 website	 publication,	 so	 that	 in	 future	 the	 Company	 has	 a	 single	 regime	 applicable	 to	 all	 shareholders.
Even	 if	 a	 shareholder	 fails	 to	 respond,	 and	 is	 taken	 to	 agree	 to	 website	 communication,	 he	 or	 she	 can	 ask	 for	 a	 hard	 copy	 of	 any	 document	 from	 the	 Company	 at	 any	 time.	 The	 Company	 will	 send	 the	 copy	 free	 of	 charge	 within	 21	 days	 of	 receiving	 the	 request.
The	 Company	 will	 notify	 shareholders	 when	 a	 document	 or	 information	 is	 made	 available	 on	 the	 website.	 Shareholders	 will	 receive	 this	 notification	 in	 hard	 copy	 form,	 unless	 they	 have	 separately	 agreed	 to	 receive	 such	 notifications	 by	 email,	 or	 in	 other	 electronic	 form.	 This	 separate	 agreement	 will	 also	 be	 addressed	 in	 the	 request	 letter	 to	 shareholders.
The	 new	 arrangements	 are	 expected	 to	 save	 considerable	 administrative,	 printing	 and	 postage	 costs,	 while	 preserving	 shareholders’	 rights	 to	 receive	 hard	 copy	 documents	 if	 they	 wish.
Resolution 11 (Special) – amendment to articles of association
The	 purpose	 of	 resolution	 11	 is	 to	 amend	 the	 Company’s	 articles	 of	 association	 so	 that	 the	 notice	 provisions	 in	 articles	 119	 to	 225	 are	 updated	 in	 light	 of	 the	 new	 Companies	 Act	 2006.	 The	 amended	 notice	 provisions	 include	 references	 where	 necessary	 to	 the	 use	 of	 electronic	 communications	 between	 the	 Company	 and	 its	 shareholders	 and	 otherwise	 broadly	 reflect	 the	 previous	 notice	 provisions,	 subject	 to	 some	 minor	 amendments.   VEGA is a specialist professional services 
company. It provides independent consulting, 
technology and managed solutions, based  
on 30 years’ experience of specialist market 
and technological domains.
This enables VEGA to offer independent expert advice and 
practical support services in the effective implementation  
of business strategy. 
In so doing, VEGA helps its clients to identify business value, 
manage risk and realise higher levels of success from their 
programmes and initiatives.
Contents 01 Highlights
02 Company Overview
04 Chairman’s Statement
06 Chief Executive’s Review
08 Our Business Streams: Consulting
10 Our Business Streams: Technology 
12 Our Business Streams: Managed Solutions
14 Business Review
20 Financial Review
22 Board of Directors
24  Shareholder Information  
and Financial Calendar
25 Directors’ Report
27 Report on Corporate Governance
31 Directors’ Remuneration Report
35  Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities
36 Independent Auditor’s Report
38  Consolidated Income Statement
39 Consolidated and Company Balance Sheets
40  Consolidated and Company Cash Flow 
Statements
41  Consolidated and Company Statements  
of Recognised Income and Expense
42 Notes
64 Notice of Annual General Meeting
Page 3 image of Royal Navy Admiral seated with  
heads of other nations’ navies.
Photograph by: Byline; © Crown Copyright/MOD,  
image from www.photos.mod.uk
Reproduced with the permission of the Controller  
of Her Majesty’s Stationery Office. The Specialist Professional  
Services Company
VEGA Group p LC 
Annu Al Repo Rt & Accounts 2007
VEGA Group p LC Annu Al Repo Rt & Accounts 2007
VEGA Group PLC
2 Falcon Way, Shire Park
Welwyn Garden City
Hertfordshire AL7 1TW
United Kingdom
Tel: +44 (0)1707 391999
Fax: +44 (0)1707 393909
360 Bristol Business Park 
Coldharbour Lane 
Bristol BS16 1EJ
United Kingdom
Tel: +44 (0)117 9880033
Fax: +44 (0)117 9880034
VEGA IT GmbH
Europlatz 5
D-64293 Darmstadt
Germany 
Tel: +49 (0)6151 8257100
Fax: +49 (0)6151 8257799
VEGA Technologies SAS
West Park, 4 rue Paul Mesplé 
31100 Toulouse 
France
Tel: +33 (0)567 771999
Fax: +33 (0)567 771998
www.vega-group.com
