 Annual Report and Accounts 2006
Strategy in action… Avis Europe plc
A leading car rental company in Europe,
Africa, the Middle East and Asia, operating
via the globally recognised Avis and
Budget brands
Our Vision 
Loyal customers choosing Avis everywhere
1 Operating and Financial Highlights
2 At a Glance
4 Chairman’s Statement
5 Chief Executive’s Statement
6 Focusing on the Customer
8 Optimising Operational Efﬁciency
10 Business Review
21 Corporate and Social Responsibility Report
25 Board of Directors
26 Corporate Governance
31 Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities
32 Remuneration Report
40 Directors’ Report
41 Independent Auditors’ Report to the
Shareholders of Avis Europe plc on 
the Consolidated Financial Statements
42 Consolidated Financial Statements
46 Signiﬁcant Accounting Policies to the
Consolidated Financial Statements
52 Notes to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements
85 Independent Auditors’ Report to the
Shareholders of Avis Europe plc on 
the Parent Company Financial Statements
86 Parent Company Balance Sheet
87 Signiﬁcant Accounting Policies to the 
Parent Company Financial Statements
88 Notes to the Parent Company 
Financial Statements
91 Five Year Summary
92 Shareholder Information Operating Highlights
• Good volume growth; continuing 
competitive pricing; higher ﬂeet costs 
• Restructuring programme beneﬁts ahead 
of expectations; exceptional costs lower
• Revenue management investment assisted
further utilisation improvement 
• Customer service initiatives to improve 
speed, transparency and choice
• New website launched; internet reservations
at 28.7%, up 4.4%
• Further strong Avis licensee results
• Budget turnaround continues
1 Avis Europe plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
€1 ,337m
Revenue up 4.8%
2005: €1,276m
0.5 euro cents
Total earnings per share 
2005
2
: 1.5 euro cents
€10.7m
Total proﬁt before tax
2005
2
: €20.1m
3.0 euro cents
Underlying
1
earnings per share
2005: 3.4 euro cents
1 Underlying excludes exceptional items, certain re-measurement items and economic hedges.
Underlying is not a deﬁned term under IFRS, and is not intended to be a substitute for, or superior to,
IFRS measures of proﬁt.
2 2005 restated following application of the amendment to IAS 21
Financial Highlights
€38.9m
Underlying
1
proﬁt before tax
2005: €37.8m At a Glance
Avis Europe plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
2
• Avis and Budget locations
Avis and Budget are recognised all over the world and are
strong and truly global brands. The quality and service behind
them are delivered through a network of wholly-owned
subsidiaries and licensee partners. Avis Europe plc operates 
the Avis and Budget brands and systems throughout Europe,
Africa, the Middle East and through Avis only, in Asia. The Group
enjoys close commercial ties with Avis Budget Group, Inc,
which owns the global rights to the two brands and operates
them in the Rest of the World. The two companies work in
partnership to provide a truly global and seamless service. 
They are independently owned.
Avis Europe plc operates the Avis and Budget brands
in more than 3,600 locations around the world 3 Avis Europe plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
Group segmentation
Revenue by business
Group segmentation
Avis revenue by geographic market
Budget 
3%
Avis 
97%
France
21%
Spain 
17%
Germany
14%
Italy
15%
Other
19%
UK
14%
Budget
15.5%
Avis
84.5%
Gross revenues of both corporate 
and licensee businesses
Revenue by business Avis Europe plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
4
Chairman’s Statement
Results overview 
I am pleased to report another year of progress in implementing
our strategy. The early beneﬁts of the strategy, together with
good volume growth, delivered results ahead of expectations
for the year, despite the continued difﬁcult trading conditions. 
Total revenue was up 4.8% at €1,337 million. Underlying proﬁt
before tax was €38.9 million (2005: €37.8 million), with good
volume growth and improved utilisation performance materially
offset by the impact of weaker pricing and inﬂationary cost
pressures, particularly ﬂeet-related. Underlying earnings per
share were 3.0 euro cents (2005: 3.4 euro cents). 
The net exceptional charge before tax of €28.9 million was largely
due to overhead restructuring costs incurred in connection with
the project that commenced in late 2005. Total proﬁt before 
tax, after also allowing for certain re-measurement items and
economic hedges, was therefore €10.7 million (2005: proﬁt
before tax €20.1 million) and total earnings per share were
0.5 euro cents (2005: 1.5 euro cents).
Dividends
In line with previous statements, the Board has not recommended
payment of a dividend for the year ended 31 December 2006 in
view of the continued difﬁcult market conditions. The Board’s
current intention remains to recommence the payment of dividends
when the ﬁnancial and trading position of the Group allows.
Outlook
Overall expectations for 2007 remain unchanged. Volume
growth trends are expected to continue at similar levels to 
those achieved in 2006. The current planning assumption 
is that rate will be broadly ﬂat, although at this time, there 
is the usual limited visibility on pricing over the full year.
Fleet costs have risen above general inﬂation, reﬂecting
continuing difﬁcult market conditions. The Group intends 
to mitigate this margin pressure by a further improvement 
in utilisation, driven by the revenue management initiatives,
together with the beneﬁts from the overhead restructuring
programme and the focus on cost reduction initiatives. 
Strategic development
We are making good progress in implementing our strategy, which
comprises: reducing cost; implementing revenue management to
improve price, yield and utilisation; targeting our most proﬁtable
customer groups; and tight control of ﬂeet. A comprehensive
review of the strategic initiatives undertaken during the year 
is set out on pages 10 to 12 of the Business Review. 
However, looking further ahead, the external environment has
been, and is expected to continue to be, more difﬁcult than we
assumed two years ago and no longer supports the guidance
we gave in 2005 regarding margin improvement.
Employees and Directors
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank the Group’s
employees for their ongoing commitment, enthusiasm and
professionalism. The quality of our customer service and
strength of our customer relationships will continue to be key 
to our success and are a direct consequence of the quality 
of our people. Once again our employees’ commitment to 
our customers has been reﬂected in the number of industry
awards the Group won in 2006 for outstanding service.
I would also like to welcome Pierre Alain De Smedt to 
the Board as non-executive Director, with effect from 
1 February 2007. His international career in vehicle
manufacturing and related business will be particularly 
valuable and his appointment strengthens the overall 
mix of skills and experience on the Board.
Alun Cathcart
Chairman
The early beneﬁts of the strategy,
together with good volume growth,
delivered results ahead of expectations
for the year, despite the continued
difﬁcult trading conditions.  5 Avis Europe plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
Chief Executive’s
Statement 
2006 was a challenging, but encouraging year for the Group.
We continued to experience difﬁcult trading conditions in our
markets, however underlying proﬁt before tax increased to
€38.9 million (2005: €37.8 million). Proﬁt before tax was
€10.7 million (2005: €20.1 million).
In 2005, we announced our plans to improve the Group’s
margins. The strategy is focused on four areas: reducing cost;
implementing revenue management to improve price, yield and
utilisation; targeting our most proﬁtable customer groups; and
tight control of ﬂeet. In last year’s Annual Report I referred to the
strategy in terms of Phase 1 and Phase 2, but I will no longer
make that distinction as we continue implementation, with the
phases essentially merging. 
In 2006 we have made another year of progress in implementing
our strategy. In terms of reducing cost, our organisational and
overhead restructuring programme is largely complete and will
ultimately generate some €25 million of annual savings in 2007.
Importantly, through the restructuring, we have introduced new
ways of working to improve our effectiveness as an organisation.
We will continue to strongly focus on costs going forward. 
Other areas, where there is scope to identify further savings
include: further channel shift, beneﬁting from the investment in
websites and other direct marketing initiatives; and insurance
and damage costs.
We have a completely new approach to revenue management,
which is already delivering beneﬁts. A new demand forecasting
system has been developed and implemented throughout the
Group’s major markets. We are now investing in data tools to
assist with the fast implementation of tactical price changes 
and the optimisation of ﬂeet levels. It represents a signiﬁcant
step change in the way the business is managed on a day-to-
day basis.
We continued to target our growth to focus on our more
proﬁtable customer segments and have channelled our 
sales and marketing efforts towards these groups. We have
introduced substantial change to our customer proposition,
implementing customer service initiatives across the network,
all designed to improve speed, transparency and choice. We
have invested in the Avis Preferred speed of service programme
and in a refresh of key rental stations. In November, the Group
launched a signiﬁcantly enhanced website in the UK, which
improves ease of use and is designed to increase the number of
customers that book directly. We will progressively translate and
roll out the new website across the rest of the Group in 2007. 
Finally, the initiatives on yield, utilisation and targeted growth,
outlined above, all support our focus on tight control of ﬂeet. 
In addition, we continue to review the balance between the
corporately owned, agency and licensee elements of the network.
In summary, our strategy is beginning to deliver results, and the
early signs in a number of our businesses are positive. Whilst
we expect the market environment to remain difﬁcult in 2007
and beyond, speciﬁcally with continued pressure on pricing, we
look forward to another year of progress in 2007 as we continue
to focus on implementing the key elements of our strategy.
Murray Hennessy
Chief Executive
Whilst we expect the market
environment to remain difﬁcult 
in 2007 and beyond, speciﬁcally 
with continued pressure on pricing,
we look forward to another year of
progress in 2007 as we continue 
to focus on implementing the 
key elements of our strategy. Focusing on the Customer
Targeting the most proﬁtable customer segments
We continued to target our growth to focus on our most proﬁtable customer segments
and have channelled our sales and marketing efforts towards these groups. We have
also delivered substantial customer service improvements to improve loyalty during 
the year. These improvements, all aimed at making the car rental process faster, simpler
and clearer, originated from employees’ own ideas, together with customer research
and formed the basis of our pan-European “Inspired Change” advertising campaign.
Rapid Return
Inspired by Giovanna, Catania Airport 
We continue to receive very positive feedback from
customers, following the roll-out of Avis’ car-side
return service “Rapid Return”. The hand-held device
gives the customer the ability to return their car
quickly and efﬁciently, while receiving their ﬁnal 
bill in a choice of eight languages. It is currently
available in over 110 locations across Europe,
including all main airport and railway rental stations.
New Rental Agreement
Inspired by Heinz, Stuttgart Airport 
The new rental agreement, now rolled out to over
1,000 rental stations across Europe, continues 
to provide industry-leading transparency and 
clarity on key rental terms and charges. It is 
available in a choice of eight languages using 
simple customer-friendly terminology and clearly
showing all charges associated with the rental. Help us to keep improving. If you have an idea
then please visit www.avisinspired.com right now
Fuel Up Front
Inspired by Nick, Manchester Airport
Customers can now choose to pre-pay for a full tank
of fuel at pump prices when they collect their car 
and then return it empty. This option is particularly
valuable for those in a hurry, eliminating the need 
to ﬁnd a service station and refuel their car on 
the way back to the rental station.
New Vehicle Category
Descriptions
Inspired by Ricardo, Madrid
Car groups are now explained in a simple and clear
way. At a glance, customers can choose a small,
medium or large vehicle, petrol or diesel, automatic 
or manual, and see how many people and how 
much luggage the car can accommodate. Car 
group descriptions have been harmonised across 
all European countries to ensure the customer 
sees the same information, wherever they are.
Avis Preferred
Inspired by Karine, Marseille Airport
During 2006 the Avis Preferred service was relaunched 
to enhance customer loyalty. Key beneﬁts include: short
queuing times; pre-prepared paperwork; priority Avis
Preferred counters; and a dedicated reservation line.
Members of Avis Preferred simply need to present 
their driving licence, collect the keys and go. Optimising Operational Efﬁciency
Rigorous cost reduction
During 2006, the Group largely completed a signiﬁcant organisational and
overhead restructuring programme, which will generate some €25 million
of annual savings during 2007.
Shared Service Centre
We continued to transfer back-ofﬁce activities into
our shared service centre in Budapest with a
further 100 roles moving during 2006, taking the
total number of employees to over 280. We have
now migrated work from all our operations across
Europe, particularly from the UK and Germany.
Increasing Internet
Reservations
We continue to focus on increasing the number of
customers booking with us directly and our new
industry-leading website is a key element in our
strategy to differentiate the customer experience.
Launched in November 2006 in the UK, it brings
traditional online retailing principles to the car 
rental reservation process: improved navigation 
and user-friendly language reduce the time needed
to make a reservation; additional functionality, 
such as the introduction of customer accounts,
allows customers to securely store all personal 
and payment details and review past rentals, 
thus saving time when completing a booking.  Overhead Restructuring 
A pan-European overhead restructuring 
programme was completed during the year,
generating annualised cost savings of €11 million 
in 2006 and introducing new ways of working to
make the business both more effective and efﬁcient.
Call Centre Consolidation
The Manchester call centre was successfully
integrated into our Barcelona site in October 2006,
whilst still achieving good service levels over 
the key summer period. Barcelona is now 
handling all calls for Avis and Budget.
Revenue Management
A new revenue management function has been
formed with the goal of improving price, yield 
and vehicle utilisation. The initiative assisted in 
the achievement of a 0.8% point improvement 
in utilisation during the year. We are continuing 
to invest in developing and rolling out further
revenue management capabilities in 2007. Business Review
Business description
The Group is an international vehicle rental services company
and a market leader in Europe. Under the Avis and Budget brands,
the Group operates more than 3,600 locations throughout
Europe, Africa, the Middle East and Asia. In 2006, the Group
employed 6,276 persons (based on average full-time equivalent
headcount), had an average ﬂeet of 126,000 vehicles, and
completed over ﬁve million transactions.
The Group enjoys close commercial ties with Avis Budget Group,
Inc, which owns the global rights to the two brands, as well as
the Wizard rental and reservation system. Long-term agreements
with Avis Budget Group, Inc, give Avis Europe the rights to use
the Avis and Budget names, brands and operating methods
through master licensing agreements until 2036, whilst cross-
marketing and joint promotional agreements are designed to
provide customers with access to a global network.
Group Avis Budget Group, Inc.
Avis Budget Avis Budget 
Europe
Africa Europe Americas
Middle East Africa Americas Australasia
Territories Asia Middle East Australasia Asia
Corporate Countries 14 4 8 5
Corporate Locations 1,768 188 1,180 680
Licensee Countries 94 63 48 52
Licensee Locations 1,142 583 850 1,120
The Avis network includes a combination of corporate, agency
and licensee operations in the corporate countries, and national
and regional licensee operations in the rest of the world.
In 2006, Avis represented 97% of the Group’s overall revenue,
and within that, Avis corporate countries accounted for
approximately 94% of the Group’s overall revenue.
The Budget operation in EAME serves customers through 
over 771 rental locations in 67 countries. There are corporate
rental operations in Switzerland, Austria, France and the United
Kingdom. In 2006, the Budget business represented 15.5% of
gross network revenue.
A description of the performance of the Group for the year ended
31 December 2006, and signiﬁcant developments which occurred
during the year, is set out in the Chief Executive’s Statement on
page 5 and on pages 15 to 20 of this Business Review. 
Strategy
The Group continues to progress a four-part strategy to 
improve its margin and return on capital in the medium term,
whilst further strengthening its position as a market leader. 
The four main elements of the strategy are as follows:
• rigorous cost reduction;
• implementing revenue management to improve price, yield
and utilisation;
• target most proﬁtable customer groups; and 
• tight control of ﬂeet. 
An update in respect of each of these elements is set out below. 
Avis Europe plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
10
Revenue
Avis Corporate
€1,263m
2005: €1,209m
Avis Licensees
€29m
2005: €25m
Avis total
€1,292m
2005: €1,234m
Budget total
€45m
2005: €42m Rigorous cost reduction
The Group has largely completed a signiﬁcant organisational
restructuring and redesign of key processes to address ﬁxed
costs. This comprised: a reduction in staff and running costs 
at the European headquarters; an acceleration of the transfer 
of back-ofﬁce activities into the shared service centre in
Budapest; consolidation of all call centre activities into the
existing Barcelona facility; and a number of staff and overhead
cost reductions in country head ofﬁces. These changes have
created a more effective and efﬁcient business. Savings in 2006
were ahead of expectations at €11 million and are expected to
increase to €25 million in 2007. Exceptional restructuring costs
of €26 million in 2006 were lower than anticipated. Final costs
of the programme in 2007 are expected at some €10 million.
The restructuring of the UK and German pension schemes has
been completed. In the UK, the Final Salary section of the plan
will close to future service accruals from 1 April 2007 and future
service beneﬁts will accrue under the Retirement Capital (cash
balance) section of the Plan. In Germany, future service beneﬁts
for existing members will be based on career average salaries,
rather than total earnings, and the scheme is now closed to 
new entrants.
There are signiﬁcant cost pressures facing the industry,
speciﬁcally from ﬂeet suppliers and more generally from
inﬂationary increases in areas such as staff costs. Therefore,
cost reduction will remain a core focus of management, even
after the restructuring programme. Other areas where there is
scope to identify further savings include: further channel shift,
beneﬁting from the investment in websites and other direct
marketing initiatives; and insurance and damage costs.
11 Avis Europe plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
Revenue by customer type
Individual
+5%
Insurance/
Leasing
(2)%
Corporate
+6%
Satellite Navigation is now available to rent 
in over 40 major European locations on all
vehicles – making it quicker and easier for
renters to get to their destination.
Implementing revenue management to improve price, 
yield and utilisation 
A revenue management function has been established to
improve price, yield and utilisation, and has already assisted 
in the achievement of the improvement in utilisation in the year.
New processes have been designed and applied at European,
country and station level. A new demand forecasting system
has been developed and implemented through the network.
Further investment is now being made in data tools to assist
with the fast implementation of tactical price changes and 
the optimisation of ﬂeet levels. This represents a signiﬁcant 
step change in the way the business is managed on a 
day-to-day basis.
Target most proﬁtable customer groups 
Actions are underway to migrate business towards more
proﬁtable customer groups, whilst seeking to improve returns 
on the remaining business. Customer service initiatives to
improve speed, transparency and choice were implemented 
at major locations and are now being progressively rolled out
across the network. These include: a “meet and greet” vehicle
return service using hand-held technology; a new clearer 
multi-lingual rental agreement; and a simpliﬁed car choice. 
To enhance customer loyalty, investment was made in the 
Avis Preferred speed of service programme and in a refresh 
of key rental stations. In November, the Group launched a
signiﬁcantly enhanced website in the UK, which improves ease
of use and is designed to increase the number of customers
that book directly. The new website will progressively be
translated and rolled out across the rest of the Group in 2007,
supported by direct marketing. Internet reservations continue 
to increase, ending the year at 28.7% (December 2005: 24.3%).  Tight control of ﬂeet
Initiatives on yield, utilisation and targeted growth support the
Group’s focus on ﬂeet management. The balance between
corporately owned, agency and licensee elements of the network
continues to be reviewed from a ﬂeet returns perspective. 
The above four elements of the strategy all build on the Group’s
core strengths: strong global brands; leading market position;
diversiﬁed customer base and sales channels; worldwide
network; and leading partnership programmes.
Operating environment
Market size and growth
The latest independent market share data (Euromonitor IMIS
Travel Database 2005) estimated the total car rental revenue
generated in the 11 key corporate countries that the Group
operated in during 2005 to be €8.8 billion. The largest of 
these countries by revenue were Germany (22.1%), the 
United Kingdom (19.6%), France (16.1%), Spain (15.2%) 
and Italy (9.9%). During this period, Euromonitor estimated 
that 40 million rentals were made and that a combined ﬂeet 
of approximately 1.2 million vehicles was used. 
Historically, the growth of the car rental market has been 
closely tied to general economic activity levels and, in the 
case of airport rentals, to airline passenger volume growth.
Economic growth prospects for the Group’s key markets are
favourable, with the Economist Intelligence Unit forecasting
Euro-area GDP to grow at an annual rate of between 2.1% 
and 2.2% from 2007 to 2010, and between 2.0% and 2.5% 
in the United Kingdom over the same period. The airline sector
is particularly buoyant, driven in part by the rapid growth of 
low cost airlines. The International Air Transport Association
forecasted growth in passenger arrivals for ﬂights within 
Europe of just over 5% per annum from 2005 to 2009. 
Euromonitor estimated that the total industry revenue in the 
key corporate countries grew at a compound rate of 1.4% 
per annum from 1999 to 2005 and forecasted growth of 3.0% 
per annum from 2005 to 2010.
Market composition
The car rental market is generally categorised either by the type
of customer (individual, corporate, leisure, replacement) or by
the location of rental (airport, non-airport). In 2005, Euromonitor
estimated just over 50% of the market to be leisure, with
approximately 44% being corporate and 6% being replacement
business. During 2005, 35% of the industry’s revenue came from
airport rentals, with 65% attributable to non-airport locations. 
Customer groups
During 2006, the Group conducted a reclassiﬁcation of its
customers to help ensure it meets their needs and to facilitate
marketing activity. Customers are now classiﬁed as: individuals;
corporate and insurance/leasing.
Individuals
These customers are individual travellers booking directly or
through travel companies, tour operators, partnership
arrangements and brokers.
To support business from individual customers Avis has an
extensive portfolio of over 70 international partnerships with the
world’s airlines, railway networks and leading travel companies. 
The individual customer category is more seasonal than the
corporate customer category, with demand peaking over 
the key holiday periods. Individual customers are principally
attracted to Avis by its widespread network, quality of service,
reliability, brand, website and competitive prices.
Corporate
Corporate customers book via negotiated arrangements with
their employers and through vehicle replacement companies.
The corporate customer category displays a relatively even
pattern of demand throughout the year. The key requirements 
of corporate customers are competitive prices, speed and
quality of service, reliability, availability of management
information and geographical coverage.
Insurance/Leasing 
These customers come through insurance and leasing
companies, dealerships and repair shops with which Avis 
has a direct contractual relationship.
This category also displays a relatively even pattern of 
demand throughout the year and customers’ requirements 
are similar to those in the corporate segment.
Stations/locations
Rental locations throughout the network are selected for their
convenience to customers, with particular importance attached
to representation at airports, rail locations and other major travel
points. Whilst Euromonitor estimates that across the market as a
whole, 35% of revenue comes from airport rentals, Avis beneﬁts
from a broadly even distribution of revenue from airport and
non-airport locations, due to its signiﬁcant international network.
Competition
Euromonitor research shows that the Group had the highest
aggregate market revenue share in its 11 largest corporate
countries in 2005 at 16.8%, followed by Hertz and Europcar
with 16.2% each (please see the table on page 13). The 
recent merger between Europcar and Vanguard has given
Europcar a leading position in this European market place.
In speciﬁc markets, the Group faces competition from Sixt 
in Germany and Enterprise in the United Kingdom, together 
with a large number of smaller-scale operators, with strength 
in particular markets (frequently the Mediterranean), examples
being Maggiore in Italy and ADA in France.
On a global scale, the Group operates two of the three truly
global brands, Avis, Budget and Hertz. The merger between
Europcar and Vanguard referred to above creates a fourth
global brand.
Avis Europe plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
12
Business Review
continued Risk factors 
The Group may be affected by a number of risks, not all of which
are within its control. Outlined below are some of the risk factors
that may affect the Group’s business. Other factors besides those
listed below may also adversely affect the Group. The process
the Group has in place for managing these risks is described 
in the Corporate Governance report on pages 29 and 30.
There are inherent risks and uncertainties behind all the
forward-looking statements contained in this section which
could have a material impact on the future results.
International
With operations worldwide, the Group’s business is subject to
various risks inherent in international operations. These risks
include, among others, regulatory requirements, differing legal
practice and interpretation, difﬁculties in managing foreign
operations, different local accounting practices, political
instability and potentially differing tax law and practice.
Demand
The Group faces various risks associated with the demand 
for its services. Disruption could occur during peak season at
the time when the Group increases staff levels and purchases
more ﬂeet to accommodate the anticipated usual increase in
demand. There may be disruptions in air travel patterns or a
general decrease in air travel as a result of a signiﬁcant event
such as a terrorist action or as a consequence of increased
security measures being taken by the authorities in anticipation
of such a threat.
Pricing and competitive pressures
The Group and its licensees are subject to competition from 
a wide range of other operators, together with intermediaries
and brokers. Large European competitors compete with the
Group in most customer categories. Local operators may 
have lower operating costs, enabling them to charge relatively
low prices. In addition, the car rental industry faces pressure
from increased pricing transparency as a result of the growth 
of internet travel portals, other forms of e-commerce and the
rental brokers. This transparency has increased the prevalence
and intensity of price competition. 
Fleet
Loss or material change in the terms on which the Group
obtains its ﬂeet vehicles from major vehicle suppliers could
harm the performance of the business. In the event that the
Group could not procure all its required vehicles from current
sources, vehicles could be obtained from other sources such 
as dealers, however, there could be risks to business volumes
and to ﬁnancial and operating results as the Group sought
alternative supplier arrangements. 
Vehicles not covered by repurchase programmes are sold on the
open market. Residual values of these vehicles are exposed to
an adverse movement in second-hand vehicle prices, which can
be a result of a number of factors, including general economic
conditions, model changes and legislation. Any such movement
in used vehicle prices or poor demand in the used vehicle
market may hinder the Group’s ability to sell these vehicles 
and could adversely affect the Group’s results. 
The effective cost of vehicles is dependent on the new purchase
price, the level of discount, the amount of any marketing
contributions, and the residual value of the vehicles either on
the open market for non-repurchase vehicles or the pre-agreed
price for repurchase vehicles. There is a risk that the effective
cost of vehicles increases, and that because of competitive
pressures the Group will be unable to pass on the increased
cost of vehicles to its rental customers.
A severe or persistent decline in the results of operations or
ﬁnancial condition of one of the major manufacturers supplying
vehicles for the Group’s ﬂeet could impact residual values.
13 Avis Europe plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
European car rental market by country and brand, 2005 (%)
Germany
UK
France
Spain
Italy
Zone 2*
€1,949m
€1,729m
€1,424m
€1,338m
€877m
€1,504m
Avis Hertz Europcar Sixt National/Alamo
Enterprise ADA Other
Source: Euromonitor IMIS Travel Database, 2005
12.9
8.8
19.8 23.9 17.8
17.9 17.0 17.5
23.0 23.9 22.0 4.7 14.2
23.4 17.2 13.9
1.8
5.6
9.9 9.4 44.0 6.9 16.1 4.9
11.5 21.5 24.6 29.5
26.3
12.2
38.1
47.6
4.8 7 .4
*
 Zone 2 comprises Austria, Belgium, Greece, Netherlands, Portugal and Switzerland.
Total: €8,821m
Total market share
Others: 38.1%
National: 4.9%
Sixt: 7.8%
Europcar: 16.2%
Hertz: 16.2%
Avis: 16.8% If a decline in the results of operations or ﬁnancial condition 
of a vehicle manufacturer (or other repurchase programme
counterparty, such as a dealer) were so severe as to cause 
it to default on an obligation to repurchase vehicles covered 
by repurchase guarantees, the Group would have to ﬁnd an
alternative method for disposal of those vehicles, which could
increase the Group’s expenses and decrease the proceeds from
such disposals. Any such default might also leave the Group
with an unpaid claim against the manufacturer or dealer with
respect to repurchase vehicles that have been sold and
returned but not yet paid for.
Relationship with Avis Budget Group
Avis Budget Group, Inc. (ABG) licenses the Avis and Budget
brands to the Group for operation in speciﬁed territories 
through master licensing agreements, which expire in 2036. 
The Group does not have any cross shareholdings with ABG,
yet through the close contractual and business relationship the
two companies work together to provide a seamless service to
customers of both the Avis and Budget networks. The Group
relies on ABG to operate its own business in a manner that 
both upholds the value of the global brands and allows the
Group to provide a similar service in the locations in which it
operates. The Group has joint marketing initiatives with ABG
and shares market and customer information. It also provides
joint services and cross-refers customers through a formalised
agreement. Although management believes that the relationship
with ABG is good, there can be no assurance that it will remain
so. Any adverse changes to the terms of the agreements or any
deterioration in ABG or its business or in the Group’s relationship
with ABG is likely to have an adverse effect on the Group’s
ﬁnancial condition and results of its operations.
The Group uses the Wizard rental and reservation system under
a long-term computer services agreement with ABG, which is
subject to a ﬁve-year notice period. Wizard has been operational
since 1972, and has been continuously enhanced and expanded
since that time. It is a fully integrated reservation, rental and
management information system that is also used by ABG. 
The Group is obliged to contribute to the cost of upgrading 
and enhancing Wizard, therefore unanticipated costs could
adversely affect the Group’s results. In addition, should Wizard
need to be replaced, process and execution issues could
present a substantial risk to the Group’s operations. 
Insurance
The Group is legally obliged to provide third party motor liability
insurance as a basic minimum to all customers. This insurance
provides ﬁnancial protection against claims from third parties
where the Group’s customers are at fault. In addition, sales of
damage waiver insurance and personal accident insurance are
important sources of revenue. The Group also covers various
risks arising in the normal course of its business, including
damage to its property and general liability. All insurance
policies are arranged with insurance companies of strong credit
quality. The Group also reinsures a limited amount of the risks
through its own captive insurance companies, which in turn 
also buy reinsurance to limit their own exposure to acceptable
levels. Signiﬁcant risks would exist to the stability of the Group’s
business if access to primary insurance and/or reinsurance was
constrained, denied or available only at increased costs that
could not be passed on in increased prices.
Funding
The Group funds a substantial proportion of its ﬂeet assets 
with borrowings, and, as such, depends on access to the debt
markets and other forms of debt ﬁnancing to fund the Group’s
ﬂeet. If the Group is unable to access such debt facilities on
commercially acceptable terms, or has difﬁculty meeting the
terms of any ﬁnancial covenants, its current business, future
prospects, ﬁnancial condition and results of operations may 
be adversely affected.
Interest and exchange rate
The Group has an exposure to movements in interest rates 
on that element of its debt ﬁnanced on a ﬂoating rate basis,
principally in euro and sterling. 
The majority of the Group’s business is transacted in euro,
sterling and US dollars, with the principal commercial currency
of the Group being the euro. 
Terms of credit between the Group and its principal suppliers 
of ﬂeet vary widely, depending both on the market in which 
the vehicles are to be used and on the supplier. Any material
worsening credit terms would result in an increased debt
funding requirement.
Pensions
The Group has two principal deﬁned beneﬁt pension schemes, a
UK scheme on which there is a deﬁcit, and an unfunded deﬁned
beneﬁt scheme in Germany. The Group’s balance sheet liability
against these schemes is subject to the uncertainty concerning
the risks and returns around the respective assets and liabilities
of the schemes. In particular, volatility in interest rates will have
an impact on the amount by which future pension liabilities are
discounted and will affect the returns forecast to be earned. 
Avis Europe plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
14
Business Review
continued Key performance indicators
The Group’s Board monitors a range of ﬁnancial and non-ﬁnancial
performance indicators, reported on a periodic basis, to measure
the Group’s performance. Of these, the key measures are set
out in the table below.
Performance indicators (unaudited) 2006 2005
Number of billed days
1
* (% change) 5.9 2.8
Revenue per billed day
2
* (% change) (1.4) (1.5)
Average ﬂeet utilisation
3
* (pts. change) 0.8 1.0
Group operating margin (pts. change) 0.1 (1.3)
Return on capital employed (pts. change) (0.2) (1.5)
* All ﬁnancial and operating data refer to Avis corporate data, which excludes
Avis licensees, Budget and Centrus.
1 Includes any day or period less than a day for which a vehicle rental is invoiced
to a customer.
2 Total revenues divided by total billed days.
3 The average period of time during which vehicles are on rent as a percentage
of their holding period.
Financial review
Results overview
Total revenue was up 4.8% at €1,337 million. Underlying proﬁt
before tax was €38.9 million (2005: €37.8 million), with good
volume growth and improved utilisation performance materially
offset by the impact of weaker pricing and inﬂationary cost
pressures, particularly ﬂeet-related. Underlying earnings per
share were 3.0 euro cents (2005: 3.4 euro cents). 
The net exceptional charge before tax of €28.9 million was
largely due to overhead restructuring costs incurred in connection
with the project that commenced in late 2005. Total proﬁt before
tax, after also allowing for certain re-measurement items and
economic hedges, was therefore €10.7 million (2005: proﬁt
before tax €20.1 million) and total earnings per share were
0.5 euro cents (2005: 1.5 euro cents).
Revenue overview
€ million 2006 2005 % change
Corporate 1,263 1,209 4.5
Licensees 29 25 16.0
Avis 1,292 1,234 4.7
Corporate 36 34 5.9
Licensees 9 8 12.5
Budget 45 42 7.1
Revenue 1,337 1,276 4.8
15 Avis Europe plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
Avis corporate revenue
Revenue from the Avis corporately-owned business segment was
4.5% ahead of prior year at €1,263 million. The number of rentals
increased, with growth in both individual and corporate customer
groups, but a small reduction in insurance/leasing. Average rental
length increased across all customer groups. As a consequence,
overall volume, in terms of billed days, was up 5.9%. 
However, revenue per billed day was 1.4% lower. This was
driven by the impact of the longer average rental length,
together with generally lower underlying pricing, partly 
mitigated by favourable customer mix as the proportion 
of insurance/leasing business diminished.
The analysis of customers by type has been reclassiﬁed to more
closely align the groupings with the Group’s business strategy.
The new classiﬁcation analyses our business into the following
customer types: individuals, corporate and insurance/leasing. 
Individual
Full year revenue grew compared to prior year, beneﬁting from
promotions around the World Cup and Winter Olympics, but
affected by travel disruption at London Heathrow due to the
tighter security arrangements.
Corporate
Corporate revenue grew, particularly with strong growth in
France and Italy; billed days were up on strong demand, but
overall pricing was lower, partly reﬂecting an increase in average
rental length.
Insurance/Leasing
Revenue for the year was down, but whilst it was lower in the
ﬁrst half, reﬂecting the withdrawal from some lower margin
accounts, it was positive in the second half, beneﬁting from
certain new key contracts, particularly in the UK. 
Avis licensee revenue
Overall revenue from licensee countries grew by 16.0% with
double-digit growth across all regions and above average
growth from the Middle East and Asia. 
Budget corporate revenue
Budget corporate revenue of €36 million was 5.9% ahead of
prior year through continued good growth in the UK and France.
Budget licensee revenue
Budget licensee revenue of €9 million was 12.5% ahead of prior
year. There was continued growth in network revenues across
the EMEA region, especially in the Middle East and Africa. Proﬁt overview
€ million 2006 2005 % change
Corporate 131.9 130.8 0.8
Licensee 26.3 23.1 13.9
Avis 158.2 153.9 2.8
Corporate (6.9) (8.4) 17.9
Licensee 2.1 1.5 40.0
Budget (4.8) (6.9) 30.4
Unallocated (47.8) (47.1) (1.5)
Group underlying operating proﬁt 105.6 99.9 5.7
Amounts excluded from underlying (27.7) (18.5) (49.7)
Group total operating proﬁt 77.9 81.4 (4.3)
Underlying operating proﬁt was €105.6 million (2005:
€99.9 million), including a €4.8 million loss from Budget
(2005: loss €6.9 million). After adjusting for €28.9 million 
of net exceptional charges and a €1.2 million gain on foreign
exchange derivatives, total operating proﬁt was €77.9 million
(2005: €81.4 million). 
Avis operating result
Underlying Avis operating proﬁt of €158.2 million compared to
€153.9 million in the prior year. This, when combined with an
increase in unallocated costs of €0.7 million, to €47.8 million,
resulted in an underlying operating proﬁt of €110.4 million,
compared to €106.8 million in the prior year. 
Underlying operating margin, after deducting unallocated costs,
was 0.1% lower at 8.5%. Good volume growth and the initial
beneﬁts from the restructuring programme were offset by lower
pricing and cost increases ahead of inﬂation. 
Operating costs increased by €53.1 million or 4.7% to
€1,179.0 million.
Fleet costs were up €35.5 million (or 8.7%). Running costs,
adjusted for the increase in volume, improved primarily through
lower insurance expense. However, vehicle holding costs
increased ahead of volume growth, reﬂecting an increase 
in operating lease vehicles (the interest element of which
effectively switches to ﬂeet cost from net ﬁnance cost) and
more difﬁcult ﬂeet market conditions. This effect was partially
mitigated by an improvement in utilisation of 0.8 percentage
points, beneﬁting from both the revenue management initiative
and an increase in rental length.
Selling costs were €6.6 million lower (or (8.1)%), due to the
signiﬁcant recovery strategy initiative expenditure in the prior
year and the full year effect of lower travel agent fees on 
pre-contracted corporate rentals.
Revenue related costs increased by €4.0 million (or 4.2%),
mainly due to the increase in rental volumes and a rise in 
certain airport commission rates.
Avis Europe plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
16
Business Review
continued
Top: Budget reinforces its commitment to
service quality with the introduction of SMS
text-based customer feedback options at 
key UK locations. The initiative has already
been recognised through an innovation 
award from the BAA.
Bottom: Milan Linate Airport – Budget
continued its expansion of the Italian 
network with the opening of 42 locations
during the year, including Milan Linate Airport. Rental related costs increased by €6.6 million (or 6.9%), 
largely as a consequence of higher fuel costs impacting 
both transportation and the provision of fuel to customers,
together with the increase in rental volumes.
Staff costs increased by €11.8 million (or 4.3%), mainly driven
by inﬂationary increases and higher incentive payments. Average
staff employed rose slightly, as improvements from productivity
and the overhead restructuring programme were more than
offset by development of the Group’s revenue management 
and website capabilities.
Overheads were up €1.9 million (or 1.1%), with the prior year
beneﬁting from a €3.8 million gain on disposal of properties. The
savings from the overhead restructuring programme were largely
offset by higher property costs and largely volume-related
increases in IT costs. 
Avis licensee operating proﬁt of €26.3 million was 13.9% ahead
of the prior year, with drivers of the performance being in line
with revenue.
Budget operating result
The underlying operating loss of €4.8 million was as
anticipated, being €2.1 million lower than the prior year. 
Corporate growth has improved, driven by the continued
improving performance of the UK and France, combined 
with overhead cost reduction. Licensee operating proﬁt 
has improved with the increase in network revenues.
Net ﬁnance costs
€ million 2006 2005
Underlying net ﬁnance costs* 67.2 62.1
Average net debt 1,054 1,096
Effective ﬁnance rate 6.3% 5.5%
* Excludes certain re-measurement items and economic hedges, in total a loss
of €0.5 million (2005: €0.8 million).
Underlying net ﬁnance costs increased year-on-year to
€67.2 million. Average net debt was lower in 2006 beneﬁting
from the full year effect of the rights issue proceeds received 
in July 2005.
The average ﬁnance rate increased year-on-year primarily due
to the impact of the new €250 million Senior Floating Rate
Notes due 2013, that were issued in July 2006. The interest
margin applicable to these loan notes is greater than that of 
the US$57.5 million and €25.0 million loan notes, which were
repaid in 2005 and 2006 respectively. Furthermore, additional
loss of margin arose on seasonal cash balances towards the
end of 2006 as the proceeds of the €250 million Senior Floating
Rate Notes are held in advance of repayment obligations under
the Group’s €120.0 million, €25.0 million and US$102 million
loan notes due in 2007.
Net exceptional charges
Net exceptional charges before taxation of €28.9 million were
incurred in the year, summarised as follows:
€ million 2006 2005
Restructuring costs 25.3 8.4
Project termination costs 7.4 3.6
Centrus receivables (0.6) (3.2)
Capital restructuring and rights issue – 4.4
Pension scheme amendment (3.2) –
Total 28.9 13.2
Lower than expected restructuring costs of €25.3 million were
incurred in the year in connection with the restructuring project
the Group commenced in late 2005, covering the roles of its
European headquarters, corporate operations, shared service
centre and call centres. These restructuring costs are net of a
pension curtailment credit of €1.2 million.
Following the Group’s decision in 2004 to terminate the
agreement with the principal contractor on an IT back-ofﬁce
project, additional costs of €7.4 million have been incurred in
2006 in respect of mitigating action being taken against the
contractor, which may lead to a net exceptional credit in future
accounting years.
During the year the collection of credit hire receivables in 
the closed Centrus business was again more successful than
anticipated, resulting in an exceptional credit of €0.6 million. 
Additionally, in June 2006, signiﬁcant changes to the unfunded
pension scheme in Germany were made which resulted in a
credit of €3.2 million (see below).
Certain re-measurement items and economic hedges
The following items have been recognised in the year and are
excluded from underlying proﬁt before tax:
Operating Finance Proﬁt
proﬁt items before tax
€ million € million € million
Re-measurement gains/(losses) 
on ﬁnancial instruments 1.6 (3.1) (1.5)
Economic hedge adjustments (0.4) 1.7 1.3
Foreign exchange gain 
on borrowings – 0.9 0.9
Total 1.2 (0.5) 0.7
17 Avis Europe plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Business Review
continued
Net re-measurement gains/(losses) on ﬁnancial instruments arise
from the recognition in the income statement of movements in
the fair value of certain derivatives under IAS 39, Financial
Instruments: Recognition and Measurement. The Group uses
these derivatives to hedge its underlying economic positions,
but only applies hedge accounting to those relationships where
it is permissible and practicable to do so. Where re-measurement
gains and losses on ﬁnancial instruments are excluded from
underlying proﬁt, movements in any economically hedged
underlying items are also excluded. 
Accounting standards as applied also restrict the recognition 
of borrowings as part of a net investment in foreign operations.
Foreign exchange on certain short-term borrowings is therefore
recognised in the income statement, but is excluded from
underlying proﬁt. 
Taxation
€ million 2006 2005
Underlying taxation 11.2 10.2
Taxation credit on exceptional items (5.7) (1.3)
Taxation charge on re-measurement 
items and economic hedges 0.2 (0.9)
Total taxation charge 5.7 8.0
The effective rate of taxation on underlying proﬁt was 29%
compared to 27% in 2005. The increase in the effective rate 
is primarily a consequence of the mix of proﬁts and losses in
different jurisdictions and restrictions on the ability to recognise
deferred tax assets in loss making subsidiaries.
The tax credit on exceptional, certain re-measurement items
and economic hedges in 2006 was €5.5 million compared 
to a €2.2 million credit in 2005. The change reﬂects the
difference in the size and nature of the respective proﬁt and 
loss account entries.
Shareholders’ funds and returns
At the end of the year, shareholders’ equity was €88.9 million
(2005: €85.8 million). The principal movement in the year was
the recognised proﬁt of €2.5 million. This was made up of the
proﬁt attributable to equity holders recognised in the income
and expenditure statement of €5.0 million partly offset by the
net expense of €2.5 million recognised directly in reserves. 
The principal components of the latter are the adverse
movement in the cash ﬂow hedge reserve partially offset 
by an actuarial gain in respect of the Group’s pension 
schemes recognised in the year. 
Underlying earnings per share were 3.0 euro cents (2005:
3.4 euro cents). This change is primarily attributable to the 
full year impact of the increase in the number of shares as 
a consequence of the July 2005 rights issue. Total earnings 
per share were 0.5 euro cents (2005: 1.5 euro cents).
Return on capital employed
The Group’s deﬁnition of return on capital employed (ROCE) may
not be comparable to other similarly titled measures used by
other companies. The Group’s ROCE is based on the underlying
operating proﬁt of the business plus the operating result of joint
ventures and associates. Underlying operating proﬁt is adjusted
to reverse: non-exceptional goodwill impairments; the interest
cost of pension liabilities; and the expected return on pension
assets. Capital employed is based on net assets with adjustment
for: all debt and related interest balances; all derivative ﬁnancial
instruments; tax balances; pension deﬁcits; and goodwill. An
average capital employed ﬁgure is used in the ROCE calculation
based on the reported balance sheet positions as at previous
31 December, 30 June and 31 December.
ROCE fell slightly in the year from 8.8% to 8.6% largely due to
an increase in the level of capital employed, following changes
in vehicle manufacturer credit terms.
Cash ﬂow/net debt movement
€ million 2006 2005
Net cash generated from operating 
activities before taxation 271.6 177.8
Manufacturer repurchase contracts:
Payments 1,252.4 1,469.5
Receipts (1,130.6) (1,190.6)
Other ﬂeet related working capital 
movements 5.8 4.0
Adjusted cash ﬂow from operating 
activities before taxation 399.2 460.7
Net ﬂeet expenditure* (343.7) (504.0)
Cash ﬂow after ﬂeet 55.5 (43.3)
Net non-ﬂeet capital expenditure (28.0) (17.6)
Interest and dividends (65.0) (60.0)
Taxation (9.8) (3.1)
Acquisitions and other (8.1) 159.0
(Increase)/reduction in net debt (55.4) 35.0
Net ﬂeet expenditure is analysed as follows:
Net charge to the income statement (309.2) (319.4)
Change in closing ﬂeet (63.4) (55.0)
Movement in ﬂeet working capital 28.9 (132.3)
Exchange and other acquisitions – 2.7
(343.7) (504.0)
* Net ﬂeet expenditure includes cash ﬂows relating to both vehicles subject to
repurchase agreements and risk vehicles and includes new ﬁnance leases of
€103.2 million (2005: €95.4 million).
Net debt has increased at the year-end by €55.4 million.
Adjusted cash ﬂow from operating activities has decreased by
€61.5 million compared to 2005, which is primarily due to prior
period improvements in non-ﬂeet working capital. These arose
principally from reductions in prepayments and trade and other
receivables, which have not recurred in the current year. 
Avis Europe plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
18 Total net ﬂeet cash expenditure in 2006 was €343.7 million, 
a reduction of €160.3 million versus 2005 expenditure. This
reduction is largely a consequence of the reversal in the prior
year of the ﬂeet working capital position at the end of 2004.
Higher non-ﬂeet capital expenditure in 2006 was driven by
investment in the Group’s revenue management and website
development initiatives, plus the refurbishment of a number 
of the Group’s primary rental stations.
Interest payments have increased in line with the Group’s
underlying income statement net charge. Taxation cash ﬂows
have risen as the 2005 payments were reduced by offset or
recovery of overpayments made pre 2005.
Acquisitions and others include the beneﬁt of the rights issue
proceeds of €166.2 million in the comparative period.
Net debt
31 December 1 January 
€ million 2006 2006
Interest bearing assets 139.2 113.8
Debt due within one year (231.7) (114.1)
Debt due after one year (559.2) (611.6)
Finance leases (285.2) (278.1)
Derivative debt instruments (64.1) (55.6)
Total net debt (1,001.0) (945.6)
Group net debt of €1,001.0 million was €55.4 million higher
than the prior year, primarily due to the expansion in the 
non-repurchase ﬂeet of €41.7 million and manufacturers
repurchase ﬂeet of €24.5 million.
During the year the Group successfully completed the
reﬁnancing of a signiﬁcant portion of its debt. In February 2006
the Company entered into a new ﬁve-year multicurrency Senior
Revolving Credit Facility, and in July 2006 the Group issued
€250 million Senior Floating Rate Notes due 2013. The Group
has used the net proceeds of the notes to repay outstanding
indebtedness under the Senior Revolving Credit Facility, the
commercial paper programme, and the €25 million loan notes
that were due in November 2006. The balance of the proceeds
were held as interest bearing assets at the year end, and in due
course the proceeds will be used to reﬁnance note obligations of
principal €170 million and US$102 million which are due in 2007.
Interest bearing assets on 31 December 2006 were higher than
the previous year due to higher levels of collateral in respect of
the increased ﬁnance lease obligations in France, and short-term
cash balances arising from the proceeds of the €250 million
Senior Floating Rate Notes as described above. 
In addition to net debt, the Group’s level of vehicle operating
leases also increased in the year. The minimum lease 
payments for vehicles held under such agreements increased 
to €23.1 million as compared to €15.3 million in the prior year.
Fleet
The majority of vehicles continue to be subject to manufacturer
repurchase arrangements, which guarantee a disposal value at
the end of the holding period, thereby reducing the Group’s
residual value risk exposure. The split between non-repurchase
and repurchase vehicles is set out below:
€ million (net book amount) 2006 2005
Non-repurchase vehicles on ﬂeet 505.7 464.0
Non-repurchase vehicles held for resale 8.4 11.1
Total non-repurchase risk vehicles 514.1 475.1
Manufacturer repurchase vehicles 907.3 882.8
Total ﬂeet 1,421.4 1,357.9
In addition to the above, there were 17,110 vehicles held at the
year end under non-repurchase operating leases (2005: 9,832).
These leased-in vehicles represent 14.5% of the total ﬂeet
(2005: 8.9%).
The average number of ﬂeet units operated during the year
increased by 5% to 126,000 units. This increase is a
consequence of the increase in rental volumes (number of billed
days increasing by 5.9%) partly offset by the improvement in
average ﬂeet utilisation (an increase of 0.8 percentage points).
Pensions
The Group operates both funded and unfunded deﬁned beneﬁt
pension and statutory termination schemes, as well as deﬁned
contribution schemes.
Funded deﬁned beneﬁt schemes
The principal funded scheme is that operated in the United
Kingdom. The difference between the market value of all funded
scheme assets and the actuarial value of the funded scheme
liabilities at 31 December 2006 was a deﬁcit of €80.1 million
(2005: €82.1 million).
The fair value of funded scheme assets has increased
€16.3 million (2005: €21.7 million) in the year. This reﬂects the
increased funding contributions from the Group, whereas the
prior year increase was primarily the result of an actuarial gain
on the scheme assets. The present value of funded scheme
obligations has increased €14.3 million (2005: €53.2 million)
largely in line with expectations, with an actuarial loss of
€1.5 million (2005: €43.1 million). The ﬁnal salary section 
of the UK Plan will close to future service accruals from 
1 April 2007 and future service beneﬁts will accrue under 
the Retirement Capital (cash balance) section of the Plan.
19 Avis Europe plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Avis Europe plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
20
Business Review
continued
Unfunded deﬁned beneﬁt schemes
The principal unfunded scheme is held in Germany. The actuarial
value of all unfunded scheme liabilities was €41.9 million 
(2005: €47.2 million). The reduction in the deﬁcit is primarily 
due to an exceptional past service gain of €3.2 million (2005:
€nil), arising from amendments to the scheme in Germany,
where future service beneﬁts from 1 July 2006 will be based 
on career average base salaries only, rather than total earnings
in the best three out of the last ten years. The deﬁcit was further
reduced by actuarial gains of €5.0 million (2005: €8.4 million).
The underlying charge in the income statement for deﬁned
beneﬁt schemes was €13.8 million (2005: €13.2 million).
Treasury
Financial risk management objectives and policies
The Group has a centralised treasury function that is
responsible for the management of the Group's ﬁnancial 
risks together with its liquidity and ﬁnancing requirements. 
The treasury function is not a proﬁt centre and the objective 
is to manage risk at optimum cost. Treasury operations are
conducted within a framework of policies and guidelines
approved and monitored by a sub-committee of the Board. 
This framework provides ﬂexibility for the best execution 
of Board-approved strategies. A discussion of the Group’s
ﬁnancial risk management objectives and policies, and
exposure of the Group to various ﬁnancial risks, is included 
in Note 26 of the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Current liquidity
The Group funds its operations through a combination of retained
earnings, working capital and borrowing facilities. In order to
ensure maximum ﬂexibility to changing requirements, the Group
seeks to maintain access to a wide range of funding sources.
Financing facilities therefore include bank borrowings, loan notes,
ﬁnance leases and a Belgian commercial paper programme.
As at 31 December 2006 the Group had undrawn committed
borrowing facilities of €808.7 million (2005: €544.6 million) 
and additional uncommitted borrowing facilities available of
€496.9 million (2005: €686.0 million). The Group also held cash
and cash equivalents of €113.3 million (2005: €86.4 million). 
The Group’s committed bank facilities are unsecured and contain
a number of normal ﬁnancial covenants including a maximum
limit to the ratio of total net ﬁnancial debt to underlying EBITDA
and the ratio of underlying EBITDA to net interest expense, both
measured at 30 June and 31 December each year and on a
rolling 12-month basis. For the year ended 31 December 2006
the ratio of total net ﬁnancial debt to adjusted EBITDA was 2.3:1
(2005: 2.2:1) and the ratio of adjusted EBITDA to net interest
expense was 6.8:1 (2005: 7.3:1).
The Group monitors compliance against all its ﬁnancial obligations
and manages its consolidated balance sheet and debt
requirements so as to operate within covenanted restrictions
throughout the year. The majority of the Group’s borrowings are
raised through Avis Finance Company plc, an indirect wholly-
owned subsidiary of the Company, and proceeds are used to
ﬁnance the Group’s subsidiaries on an arm’s length basis.
Other funding arrangements
Where commercially beneﬁcial, the Group seeks to optimise
ﬁnancing costs by entering into operating lease transactions
where substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership
remain with the lessor. At 31 December 2006, the total
commitment to pay operating lease rentals in future periods 
for both land, buildings and vehicles was €159.1 million 
(2005: €142.5 million).
Insurance
The Group is legally obliged to provide all customers with
insurance against accidents caused to third parties, and cover
is also offered against theft and personal accident. In addition,
the Group covers various risks arising from the normal course 
of business, including damage to property and general liability.
Cover is arranged with a number of major insurance companies
of strong credit quality to help spread the risk cost effectively.
The Group also reinsures a limited amount of the risks through
its own captive insurance company, which in turn also buys
reinsurance to limit its own exposure to acceptable levels.
Accounting standards and policies
From 1 January 2005, the Group was required to prepare
Consolidated Financial Statements in accordance with
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) adopted 
by the European Union. The only change in accounting policies
impacting the Group in the current year is the adoption of the
amendment to IAS 21.
Martyn Smith
Group Finance Director Corporate and Social
Responsibility Report
Managing corporate and social responsibility
Board level responsibility for Corporate Social Responsibility
(CSR) rests with the Group Personnel and Corporate Affairs
Director. CSR management and monitoring is assigned to 
local management and in certain cases to country Risk
Management Committees. Each of these countries has
appointed environmental and community champions to drive
activity in these areas and improve the environmental data
collection process in terms of our environmental impacts. For
licensee countries, Regional Licensee Directors are responsible
for promoting adherence to Group CSR principles and policies.
CSR strategy
Our CSR strategy is an integral part of our ‘We try harder.’
philosophy. Company values are set out in our statement 
of business principles (see www.avis-europe.com).
We have sought to adopt best practice in stakeholder
relationships for many years. In 2006, we implemented 
formal policies to bring greater rigour and transparency 
to these relationships. Regarding the environment, we issued
guidelines to operating countries on reducing energy use in
head ofﬁces and rental stations. We put in place a centralised
data collection process under which utility bills are submitted 
to our Budapest shared service centre for consolidation and
reporting. We face a challenge in that for a signiﬁcant number 
of rental stations, particularly at airports, it is difﬁcult to obtain 
a breakdown of energy use. In such locations we also have 
a very limited ability directly to affect our energy use, because
we are sharing a building with many other users. Therefore
future targets for reducing CO
2
emissions will be focused on
head-ofﬁce/down-town locations where we have a direct
inﬂuence over energy use.
On community matters, we have for the ﬁrst time developed
community investment guidelines for all our countries of
operation. These propose that we focus our efforts on the use
of vehicles for community purposes and local environmental
improvements in mitigation of our environmental impacts. We will
continue with this framework during the course of 2007, whilst
allowing local management discretion to encourage and support
local staff volunteering and fundraising for causes of their choice.
We are a member of the FTSE4Good Index and the Kempen/SNS
Smallcap SRI Europe Index. We again participated in the
Business in the Community Environment Index.
21 Avis Europe plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
Offsetting emissions
94,500 (CO
2
tonnes)
Offset since 2000
Carbon neutral journeys
+23%
In 2006, we encouraged 1,850 of our 
customers, booking online, to make 
their journey carbon neutral Corporate and Social
Responsibility Report
continued
Environmental impacts 
We have a long-standing commitment to environmental
responsibility and remain committed to reducing, wherever
possible, our negative impacts on the environment. Since 
2002 we have offset greenhouse gas emissions and our
European corporate operations and some of our licensees 
are carbon neutral.
Our track record in this area was acknowledged in the report
published by Sir Nicholas Stern for the UK Government on 
the Economics of Climate Change in autumn 2006. The 
report cited Avis as being a private sector leader in climate
change programmes. 
Our largest environmental impact is from greenhouse 
gas emissions, both from our rental ﬂeet and our ofﬁces. 
Secondary impacts come from the waste which we send 
to landﬁll and incinerate. 
We measure these impacts internally and the data is reviewed
and analysed by the independent Edinburgh Centre for Carbon
Management working with The CarbonNeutral Company. The
analysis covers emissions from electricity, gas, oil, propane,
landﬁll and incinerated waste by Group headquarters and 
rental locations along with business travel by staff. 
In 2006 total greenhouse gas emissions amounted to 18,421
tonnes of CO
2
. This ﬁgure includes emissions from our call centre
in Barcelona and our shared service centre in Budapest for the
ﬁrst time. Excluding these, the underlying level of emissions 
is 17,933 tonnes of CO
2
, representing a decrease of 0.7%
compared to 2005 emissions.
Year 2003 2004 2005 2006
CO
2
emissions 19,38921,13318,054 18,421*
(tonnes)
Incineration waste 598 604 74 278
(tonnes)
Landﬁll waste 804 855 735 1,091
(tonnes)
*Includes emissions from our call centre in Barcelona and our shared service
centre in Budapest.
Corporate operations
In 2006, we brought our shared service centre in Budapest 
and our Barcelona call centre within the scope of our carbon
neutral operations.
We achieved carbon neutral status for our corporate 
operations by:
• reducing CO
2
emissions by the more efﬁcient use of ofﬁce
space and of energy; and
• offsetting remaining emissions. 70% of the offset in 2006 
was through innovative renewable energy and technology
projects which reduce greenhouse gas emissions. The
remaining offset was via tree planting. In 2006, we have 
offset just over 18,400 tonnes of CO
2
and since 2000, 
we have offset some 94,500 tonnes. 
In 2007 the Group will focus on a number of initiatives to further
reduce energy usage: installing video-conferencing facilities in
the Group’s ﬁve major markets, the UK Headquarters in Bracknell
and the shared service centre in Budapest to reduce the number
of business trips and domestic and overseas ﬂights; trialling
solar energy in our Italian headquarters and the inclusion of
environmental awareness as an integral element of Avis
leadership behaviours.
Fleet operations
We seek to minimise emissions from our ﬂeet by:
• changing vehicles very regularly – over 90% changed every six
months – and checking them carefully between each rental;
and
• introducing more environmentally friendly vehicles in more
locations. We continue to buy ethanol-powered and ﬂexi-fuel
cars in Sweden and hybrid vehicles in Portugal. In 2006, we
also purchased 400 Focus C-MAX ﬂexi-fuel vehicles in 
France and introduced ﬂexi-fuel vehicles in Greece.
We encourage our customers to support our carbon offset
programme by enabling those who book online to make their
journey carbon neutral. In 2006, 1,850 chose to do so, an
increase of 23% over 2005. 
Our external environmental accreditation again includes an 
A rating from the Safety and Environmental Risk Management
Rating Agency, which is well above the industry average. 
Avis Sweden maintains its eco ISO 14001 standard.
Community
We aim to make a positive contribution to the quality of life in
the communities where we operate.
Our community investment guidelines provide that we focus on
local environmental improvement and provision of free transport
for community activities. We also support staff to volunteer and
raise funds for charities which are particularly important to them
as individuals.
Case study
Agricultural methane capture in Sandbeiendorf, Germany
Animal waste is normally stored in open lagoons, allowing
methane – which has 21 times the global warming potential
of CO
2
– to be released into the atmosphere.
Avis has funded a project on three farms in which combined
heat and power plants have been installed to capture this
methane. The process takes place in an oxygen-free
environment and generates electricity, which is sold to 
the national grid and heat which is used on the farms. 
The processed waste is of a much higher quality than 
that produced from open lagoons and can all be recycled. 
In 2005 and 2006 the project reduced emissions by 20,000
tonnes CO
2
.
Avis Europe plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
22 In 2006, our environmental activities have included:
• Peninha, Sintra-Cascais Natural Park, Portugal. We 
sponsored environmental NGO Quercus to help protect 
and preserve rare specimens of plants and trees in this 
unique upland micro-reserve;
• Seville, Spain. We have planted an orchard of orange 
trees at our rental station; and
• Forest of Marston Vale, UK. Our support for the forest
continued with the planting of over 2,000 native trees.
We have provided free transport – amongst others – to the following:
• “Les Restaurants du Coeur”, France. We continue to provide
vans to distribute food and hot meals to the needy. In 2006 
we also provided transport for equipment and artists for 
a series of fundraising concerts in Lyon;
• Banco Alimentar Contra a Fome, Portugal. We provide vans 
to help distribute food from supermarkets to charities working
with children and other people in need; and
• Stichting de NEES, Holland. We provide cars to transport
disabled or chronically ill children.
Supporting staff volunteering and fundraising has continued 
in many countries including:
• community volunteering, Spain. Any member of staff who
invests at least 12 hours of their own time on community
volunteering every three months receives €150 for their charity;
• payroll giving, UK. We began this programme in June 2005,
and by the end of 2006 some 25% of our UK staff were
participating in the scheme, with over £20,000 raised to date;
• charity budgets, UK. At the local level, each rental station or
head ofﬁce department is given a charity budget or ﬁve free
“three day” car rentals to give to local charities. At the national
level Avis UK supported Macmillian Cancer Support, raising
over £1,000 via the “World’s largest coffee morning”; and
• incentivising improved performance, Italy. We make donations
to Medicins sans Frontieres based on improved quality
performance by staff at each of the rental stations.
Workplace
We rely on our staff to deliver the ‘We try harder.’ promise. 
We can only achieve this if they are highly motivated and 
enjoy working for Avis.
We operate in many countries with diverse employment practices.
Whilst respecting local circumstances, wherever we operate 
we follow the principles of non-discrimination in recruitment,
development, remuneration and advancement. All our employees
must follow the highest standards of honesty, integrity and
fairness, wherever they work. It is Group policy to give full and
fair consideration to applications made by disabled people, 
to continue wherever possible the employment of staff who
become disabled and to provide opportunities for the training,
career development and promotion of disabled employees.
23 Avis Europe plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
Top: In 2006, Avis Italy supported “The Food 
is a right” project for children living in Brazil,
raising more than €6,000.
Bottom: Forest of Marston Vale, UK – our
support for the forest continued with the
planting of over 2,000 native trees in 2006. Corporate and Social
Responsibility Report
continued
Communication and recognition of achievement form the
cornerstones of our employment policy. Each year we survey
our staff and in 2006 the survey covered 13 business units
representing 90% of employees. 2006 was a year of signiﬁcant
structural and management change for the Group and this is
reﬂected in slightly lower scores for both key measures of
employee satisfaction. Overall employee satisfaction declined
from 69% to 66.6% and the average rating for the whole survey
was marginally lower at 63% (2005: 64.4%).
At a time of change and restructuring, it is particularly important
to explain to staff what we are seeking to achieve as a company.
In 2006, we have strengthened internal communications by
undertaking a series of initiatives including leadership
conferences, bi-annual staff days, regular updates on strategy and
results for all staff and informal meetings with the Chief Executive.
We continue our ‘We try harder.’ recognition awards, in which
staff nominate their colleagues. In 2006, the number of such
awards rose from 800 to over 850. 
We believe that our effectiveness is enhanced by having staff
who have worked for us over a number of years. We work 
hard to retain staff, particularly by supporting their personal
development. As a result, we continue to have approximately
half our staff with more than ﬁve years’ service with the Group.
Marketplace
We aim to make Avis the ﬁrst choice for our customers. We seek
to do so by continually improving our service and so ensuring
customer satisfaction and loyalty.
We monitor customer satisfaction principally through customer
surveys and the level of complaints.
Each month we distribute over 20,000 customer opinion surveys
of which around 80% are distributed electronically and we
receive over 5,000 replies. We increasingly use electronic
surveys and encourage customers to give us open-ended
comments. Some 80% of responses to electronic surveys 
are returned in less than three days, enabling us to pass
comments on to the relevant business area for appropriate
action more quickly than paper-based information.
Our three key measures of customer satisfaction are:
• overall satisfaction;
• willingness of customers to recommend Avis 
(net promoter score); and
• refunds made.
In 2006, overall satisfaction levels rose by over 2%, continuing
the steady improvement which we have seen over the past six
years. Willingness to recommend Avis – measured by the net
promoter score – improved by some 24%, reﬂecting the
introduction of a number of initiatives to improve customer
service in 2006. The ratio of refunds to rentals fell by a further
2.9% in the year. 
These improvements have been achieved in part by a series of
customer service initiatives, aimed at making the rental process,
faster, simpler and clearer for customers. These have included:
improved facilities at car pick-up and return, for example a
shorter, clearer rental agreement in the customer’s language 
of choice and a car-side check-in service giving customers 
the ability to return their rental car quickly and efﬁciently;
improved car communications and car-choice options giving
customers the opportunity to choose the brand as well as 
the category they prefer and in-vehicle navigations systems.
They have also been achieved by our continuous improvement
programmes in customer service techniques, including the 
use of multimedia programmes for meet and greet and staff
training in understanding international cultural differences.
We remain the only car rental company to have achieved the
ISO 10002 – CMSAS 86:2000 standard for complaint management
and were re-accredited in January 2007. The standard covers
all our European ofﬁces and demonstrates that we follow best
practice in all aspects of complaint management.
Awards provide a strong indication of how we are seen by our
customers. In 2006, we won two prestigious Travel Weekly
Globe Awards for the third year running, including World’s
Leading Business Car Rental Company. We won a further 
14 awards internationally and were a ﬁnalist in the 2006
European Business Awards for Customer Service. 
Avis Europe plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
24 Board of Directors
Executive Directors
Jean-Pierre Bizet
Appointed to the Board 29 October 2002 
Executive Deputy Chairman (since May 2004)
He was appointed a non-executive Director of the Board in 
October 2002. In May 2005 he was appointed Chief Executive
Ofﬁcer of s.a. D’Ieteren n.v., and he is also a Director of Belron s.a.
and Belron International s.a. Aged 58.
Lesley Colyer
Appointed to the Board 18 April 2002
Group Personnel and Corporate Affairs Director (since April 2002)
She joined Avis Europe in April 1977 and held a variety of positions
before being appointed Director of Personnel in 1990. She assumed
her current responsibilities at ﬂotation in 1997. Prior to joining Avis,
she worked for the Jaeger Group and Harrods. Aged 54.
Murray Hennessy
Appointed to the Board 15 March 2004
Chief Executive (since March 2004)
He joined Avis Europe from the John Lewis Partnership where he
was Commercial Director, John Lewis Department Stores. His
previous appointments include Chief Executive Ofﬁcer of buy.com,
Chief Financial Ofﬁcer, Europe and then VP and General Manager
for Europe with Tricon Global Restaurants, and VP Supply Chain for
PepsiCo Restaurants. He began his career in 1984 with management
consulting ﬁrm, Bain & Co. Aged 45.
Simon Palethorpe
Appointed to the Board 6 December 2004
Group Commercial Director (since December 2004)
He joined Avis Europe from the John Lewis Partnership where he
was Finance Director for John Lewis Department Stores. He was
previously Managing Director of John Lewis Direct. His earlier
career includes appointments with Levis Strauss Europe and
PepsiCo (latterly called Tricon Global Restaurants). Aged 38.
Martyn Smith
Appointed to the Board 11 September 2002
Group Finance Director (since September 2002)
He joined Avis Europe from John Menzies plc where he had held 
the position of Group Finance Director from 1999. Prior to joining
Menzies, he was Group Financial Controller for Inchcape plc, and
previously held a number of ﬁnancial roles with Inchcape plc and
Rothmans International. He is also a non-executive Director and
Chairman of the Audit Committee of SMG plc. Aged 51.
Non-executive Directors
Alun Cathcart ■ 
Appointed to the Board 3 February 1997 
Chairman (since May 2004)
Chairman of the Nominations Committee
Until 1 January 1999 he was Chairman and Chief Executive of Avis
Europe plc and served as Interim Chief Executive from November
2003 until March 2004. He spent 14 years in executive positions in
the transportation industry before joining Avis Europe in 1980, and
became Chief Executive in 1983. He is non-executive Chairman of
EMAP plc and Chairman of Palletways Group Limited. He will be
retiring from his position as non-executive Chairman of The Rank
Group plc at the end of February 2007. Aged 63.
Les Cullen ● ■ ▲
Appointed to the Board 25 May 2004
Chairman of the Audit Committee
He has held successive appointments as Group Finance Director 
of STC plc, De La Rue plc, Goodman Fielder Ltd, Inchcape plc 
and Prudential plc, having previously held senior ﬁnancial roles 
with Black & Decker and GrandMet. During the last few years, 
he has also been Chairman of a number of private equity-backed
companies. He is a non-executive Director and Chairman of the
Audit Committee of DTZ Holdings plc, a non-executive Director of
Interserve plc, F&C Global Smaller Companies plc and Sustrans Ltd
and a Trustee of the British Telecom Pension Scheme. Aged 55.
Roland D’Ieteren ● ■ 
Appointed to the Board 3 February 1997
Since May 2005 he has been Chairman of s.a. D’Ieteren n.v., having
previously been President and Chief Executive Ofﬁcer since 1975.
He joined s.a. D’Ieteren n.v. in 1971. He is a non-executive Director
of Belron s.a. Aged 65.
Benoit Ghiot
Appointed to the Board 15 December 2004
He is Chief Financial Ofﬁcer of s.a. D’Ieteren n.v., having joined the
Company in 2002, and is also a member of the Board of Directors 
of Belron s.a. Prior to joining the D’Ieteren group, he was Group
Controller and Strategic Planning Director with the Belgian retail
group GIB. Aged 37.
Gilbert van Marcke de Lummen
Appointed to the Board 3 February 1997
From November 1987 until the sale of the Group’s leasing business
he was Group Leasing Director. He has been employed by
s.a. D’Ieteren n.v. since 1962, retired in 2002 and is a member of the
Board of s.a. D’Ieteren n.v.. He is a non-executive Director of Belron
s.a. and of s.a. Coﬁnimmo n.v. Aged 69.
Malcolm Miller ● ■ ▲
Appointed to the Board 21 February 2001
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
He is Chief Executive of Raymarine plc. He was Chief Executive of
Pace Micro Technology plc from 1997 to 2002, and was formerly
Chief Executive, Europe for Sega. His earlier career was with Amstrad
PLC, culminating in appointment as Managing Director. Aged 51.
Axel von Ruedorffer ● ■ ▲
Appointed to the Board 27 June 2001
From 1984 to 2002 he was a member of the Board of Managing
Directors of Commerzbank AG, having joined the bank in 1967 and
was responsible for Accounting and Taxes, Compliance, Financial
Control and Internal Auditing. He is a non-executive Director of a
number of companies, including Audi AG, Stiebel Eltron Group and
a number of ﬁnancial institutions. Aged 65.
Pierre Alain De Smedt ■ ▲
Appointed to the Board 1 February 2007
He is Chairman of Febiac npa (Belgian Automobile Association). 
He was with Volkswagen for 25 years, managing operations in
Belgium and South America and was appointed Chairman of
Volkswagen’s Spanish SEAT business in 1997. He moved to 
Renault for ﬁve years, becoming Deputy Director General for
Renault Groupe SA. He currently holds a number of directorships
with Belgacom, CNP , Deceuninck, Valeo and Alcopa. Aged 62.
25
Avis Europe plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
● Member of Remuneration Committee
■ Member of Nominations Committee
▲ Member of Audit Committee Corporate Governance
Code principles
Introduction
This report describes how the corporate governance principles set
out in the Combined Code are applied by the Company. The role 
of the Board is collectively to provide clear and effective leadership 
of the Company by setting strategic objectives and providing the
highest values and standards for the conduct of the Company’s
business. The Board is also responsible for ensuring that sufﬁcient
resources are available to achieve the Company’s objectives, for
ongoing review of management performance and for ensuring that 
a framework of prudent and effective controls is in place to enable
risks to be properly assessed and managed.
Board of Directors
The Directors of the Company during the period 1 January 2006 
to 26 February 2007 are listed below:
Jean-Pierre Bizet
Alun Cathcart (Chairman)
Lesley Colyer
Les Cullen
Roland D’Ieteren
Benoit Ghiot
Murray Hennessy
Gilbert van Marcke de Lummen
Malcolm Miller
Simon Palethorpe
Dr Axel von Ruedorffer
Pierre Alain De Smedt (appointed 1 February 2007)
Martyn Smith
Pierre Alain De Smedt was appointed as a non-executive Director
with effect from 1 February 2007. In accordance with the Articles 
of Association he will retire at the forthcoming Annual General
Meeting and being eligible will stand for election. Alun Cathcart,
Murray Hennessy and Gilbert van Marcke de Lummen retire by
rotation at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and, being
eligible, will stand for re-election.
As at 26 February 2007, the Board of Directors comprises the
Chairman, ﬁve executive Directors and a further seven non-executive
Directors. The non-executive Directors include four Directors who
have no other association with Avis Europe plc and are therefore
regarded as independent, being Les Cullen, Malcolm Miller, Axel
von Ruedorffer and Pierre Alain De Smedt. Malcolm Miller was
reappointed for a third successive term of three years with effect
from 21 February 2007, the Board having given due consideration 
to this reappointment in light of the current circumstances of the
Company in accordance with the provisions of the Combined Code.
A further two of the non-executive Directors, Roland D’Ieteren and
Benoit Ghiot, in addition to one executive Director, Jean-Pierre Bizet,
are appointed by s.a. D’Ieteren n.v. which has a shareholding of
59.6% in the Company. The obligations of the Directors appointed
by s.a. D’Ieteren n.v., and of s.a. D’Ieteren n.v. as a shareholder, are
set out in a Relationship Agreement entered into at ﬂotation in 1997.
These include an obligation for the D’Ieteren-appointed Directors 
to exercise their voting rights so as to maintain the independence 
of the Board as required by the Listing Rules, thus ensuring that all
Directors take decisions objectively in the interests of the Company.
The other non-executive Director, Gilbert van Marcke de Lummen, 
is a former executive Director of the Company. Since 1998 the Board
has adopted a policy that, notwithstanding the provisions of the
Articles of Association, all Directors should stand for election at 
the ﬁrst Annual General Meeting following their appointment and 
re-election at least every three years thereafter.
The Company considers that the non-executive component of the
Board helps to provide an effective Board with a strong mix of
industry-speciﬁc knowledge and general commercial experience.
This balance enables the Board to bring informed and independent
judgement to all aspects of the Company’s strategic development
and performance. The role of the non-executive Directors is viewed
as especially important in reviewing business strategy and assisting
the Board in the development of strategy. The non-executive Directors
also review and monitor the Company’s ﬁnancial controls and risk
management systems. The non-executive Directors have a key 
role in scrutinising management performance and the Company’s
system for monitoring and reporting performance. They also have
responsibility for determining appropriate remuneration levels and
succession planning for the executive Directors. The Chairman
meets with the non-executive Directors at least annually in order 
to facilitate the non-executive Directors’ contribution to the Board.
The Company did not have a nominated Senior Independent
Director during the period to 26 February 2007 but continues 
to keep this requirement under review.
The Board meets a minimum of six times each year and more
frequently when business needs require. All Directors attended all
Board meetings, except that Lesley Colyer and Axel von Ruedorffer
each missed one meeting. The Chairman of each of the Nominations
Committee, Remuneration Committee and Audit Committee
attended the 2006 Annual General Meeting and were available to
answer shareholders’ questions during and after the meeting.
The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are separate and 
their respective responsibilities are deﬁned in writing and 
approved by the Board. The Chairman’s key areas of activity 
are the leadership of the Board, including setting its agenda,
ensuring that it receives clear, accurate and timely information 
and facilitating the contribution of the non-executive Directors. 
The Chairman is responsible for strategy, in particular for ensuring
that effective plans are developed for the short-term and long-term
development of the Group. In co-ordination with the Chief Executive,
the Chairman is responsible for encouraging close and effective
working relationships between all levels of operating country,
licensee and Group level management. The Chairman is also
responsible for corporate governance and for ensuring that the
Company maintains effective communication with its shareholders
and other stakeholders. The Chairman also chairs the Nominations
Committee and has responsibility for ensuring that the Board
evaluation processes are carried out and their results acted upon.
To enable the Board to function effectively, full and timely access 
is given to all relevant information. The Board retains powers of
decision on all matters of strategy, together with all signiﬁcant
commercial issues, including acquisitions and investments and
capital expenditure in excess of a speciﬁed level. The Company
Secretary is responsible for ensuring that Board procedures are
followed and for advising the Board, through the Chairman, on all
matters of governance. All Directors have access to the Company
Secretary whenever they require. In the event that any Director
wishes to take independent professional advice on any point arising
in connection with the exercise of their duties, in accordance with
written procedure the Company Secretary will arrange this at the
Company’s expense. The Company Secretary may only be removed
by a resolution of the Board of Directors.
Details of all Directors’ remuneration and service contracts are set
out in the Remuneration Report on pages 32 to 39.
Board Committees
The Board Committees in place during 2006 were the Nominations
Committee, the Remuneration Committee and the Audit Committee.
Each Committee reviews its terms of reference and its effectiveness
annually and recommends to the Board any changes required as a
result of such review. The terms of reference of each Committee are
available on the Company’s website at www.avis-europe.com.
Avis Europe plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
26 The Nominations Committee ensures that the Company has a
formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment of
new Directors. The Committee regularly reviews the structure and
composition of the Board to ensure the required blend of skills and
experience appropriate to the Company’s needs. It sets objective
criteria in recommending appointees to the Board, including being
satisﬁed that appointees have sufﬁcient time available to devote 
to the role, especially for chairmanships. The Committee is also
responsible for ensuring that induction and training requirements are
met both for new Directors and for the Board as a whole to ensure
that Directors regularly update their skills and knowledge, including
their knowledge of developments in the Company’s business. The
Committee carries out an annual review of the succession plans for
the Board and for senior executives across the Group to ensure 
that continuing management capability is available to match the
development needs of the business.
During 2006, the Nominations Committee reviewed key succession
priorities and approved a number of appointments and changes to
the central team and in different business units. The review also
looked at the overall structure and development needs of the Board
and identiﬁed the skills, knowledge and experience required from an
additional independent non-executive Director to complement and
enhance those already existing on the Board. The non-executive
Directors were able to recommend a suitable candidate without the
Nominations Committee appointing external recruitment consultants.
The candidate then met with the Chairman of the Nominations
Committee, two non-executive Directors and the Chief Executive. 
A formal recommendation was then made to the Board, which
culminated in the appointment of Pierre Alain De Smedt. The members
of the Nominations Committee as at 1 January 2006 were Alun
Cathcart (Chairman), Les Cullen, Roland D’Ieteren, Malcolm Miller and
Axel von Ruedorffer. As recommended by the Combined Code, the
membership of the Committee comprised a majority of independent
non-executive Directors. Pierre Alain De Smedt became a member
of the Nominations Committee with effect from 1 February 2007.
There were no other changes to the composition of the Nominations
Committee between 1 January 2006 and 26 February 2007.
The Nominations Committee met four times during 2006 and all
members attended the meetings except that Axel von Ruedorffer
was unable to attend one meeting.
The Remuneration Committee determines broad policy on senior
executive remuneration and terms of service and approves speciﬁc
terms of appointment for the Chairman, executive Directors and
senior management. The Committee is also responsible for the
structuring and allocation of the Group’s share incentive schemes,
including the setting of appropriate performance targets. Details 
of the advisers used by the Committee during 2006 are set out 
on page 32 of the Remuneration Report.
In setting policy, the Committee ensures that appropriate incentives
are provided to attract, retain and motivate executives of the
appropriate calibre, to encourage performance and, in a fair and
responsible manner, to reward individual contributions to the Group.
The Committee takes account of market practice, the Group’s
position relative to other companies and the pay and employment
conditions of other Group employees. The Committee consults 
with the Chairman and/or Chief Executive, as appropriate, when
determining the individual remuneration package of each executive
Director. However, no Director is involved in deciding his/her own
remuneration. The Committee reviews the terms of the executive
Directors’ service contracts, particularly with regard to notice periods,
termination payments and compensation commitments in the event
of early termination. The activities of the Committee during the year
are described in the Remuneration Report on page 32.
The members of the Remuneration Committee as at 1 January 2006
were Malcolm Miller (Chairman), Les Cullen, Roland D’Ieteren and
Axel von Ruedorffer. The Committee comprises three independent
non-executive Directors together with Roland D’Ieteren. The
Company recognises that Roland D’Ieteren is not regarded as an
independent non-executive Director but considers it essential that
s.a. D’Ieteren n.v., as the majority shareholder of the Company, 
is represented on the Committee. As Chairman of s.a. D’Ieteren 
n.v., Roland D’Ieteren abstains from discussion and voting on the
remuneration of any Directors appointed by s.a. D’Ieteren n.v.
pursuant to the Relationship Agreement referred to above. 
There were no changes to the composition of the Remuneration
Committee between 1 January 2006 and 26 February 2007.
The Remuneration Committee met seven times during 2006 and all
members attended all meetings except that Axel von Ruedorffer
was unable to attend one meeting.
The Remuneration Report to shareholders appears on pages 32 to 39.
The Audit Committee assists the Board by ensuring that the
Company presents a balanced and understandable assessment 
of its position with regard to ﬁnancial reporting, including interim,
preliminary and other formal announcements relating to the Group’s
ﬁnancial performance.
Under its terms of reference, the Audit Committee monitors the
integrity of the Group’s ﬁnancial statements and the effectiveness
and independence of the external audit process. It is responsible for
ensuring that an appropriate relationship between the Group and
the external auditors is maintained, including reviewing non-audit
services and fees. It also reviews annually the Group’s system of
internal control and the processes for monitoring and evaluating risks
facing the Group. The Committee reviews the effectiveness of the
internal audit and risk management function and is responsible for
approving, upon the recommendation of the Group Finance Director,
the appointment and termination of the Director of that function.
In 2006 the Audit Committee discharged its responsibilities by:
• reviewing and approving, prior to Board approval, the interim
results statement, the Group’s draft annual Financial Statements,
the internal control report and the external auditor’s report;
• considering, prior to release, all trading updates;
• reviewing regularly the appropriateness of the Group’s 
accounting policies and their compliance with appropriate
International Financial Reporting Standards;
• receiving and considering a report on the Group’s systems of
internal control and their effectiveness, reporting to the Board 
on the results of the review and receiving regular updates on 
key risk areas of ﬁnancial control;
• examining reports on Group-wide risk matters and assessing 
the effectiveness of the Group’s risk management system;
• reviewing the internal audit and risk management function’s 
terms of reference and its proposed annual audit programme, 
and receiving regular progress reports on its work;
• assessing the effectiveness of the internal audit and risk
management function together with their resources 
and standing in the Group;
• conducting the annual review of the Audit Committee’s 
terms of reference and effectiveness;
• reviewing the effectiveness of whistleblowing arrangements;
• considering and approving the audit fee and reviewing non-audit
fees payable to the Group’s external auditors during the year;
27
Avis Europe plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Corporate Governance continued
• appraising the external auditor’s plan for the audit of the Group’s
Financial Statements, including key areas of scope and key areas
of risk; and
• assessing external auditors’ effectiveness and independence, and
making recommendations to the Board regarding their reappointment.
The members of the Audit Committee as at 1 January 2006 were
Les Cullen (Chairman), Malcolm Miller and Axel von Ruedorffer. 
As recommended by the Combined Code, all the members of the
Committee are independent non-executive Directors. Pierre Alain
De Smedt became a member of the Audit Committee with effect
from 1 February 2007. There were no other changes to the
composition of the Committee between 1 January 2006 and
26 February 2007.
The Audit Committee met ﬁve times in 2006 and all members
attended all meetings except that Malcolm Miller was unable to
attend one meeting. The Committee meets with executive Directors
and senior management, as well as privately with both the external
and internal auditors.
Board evaluation
During 2006 the Board carried out a formal evaluation process
which is designed to provide a rigorous annual evaluation of 
the Board’s own performance and that of its Committees. 
The evaluation process assesses the effectiveness of Board 
and Committee processes to provide a basis for feedback and
development where required. As noted above, the Chairman 
has responsibility for the evaluation process and for taking any
appropriate action based on the results of the evaluation.
The evaluation processes for Board performance are conducted via
a set of structured questionnaires prepared by Towers Perrin, an
external consultancy. The questionnaires ask each Board/Committee
member to comment on a range of factors which contribute to the
effectiveness of the Board or the relevant Committee. The results
are reviewed by the Chairman and relevant feedback is provided 
to the Board and each Committee.
The Chairman has benchmarked individual Directors’ performance
against the results of the individual evaluations conducted in 2005
and carried out follow-up where appropriate with individual Directors.
The Chairman of the Remuneration Committee also conducted an
evaluation of the performance of the Chairman.
Directors’ interests
Details of Directors’ interests in the share capital of the Company
are set out below and in the Remuneration Report.
Jean-Pierre Bizet is Chief Executive of s.a. D’Ieteren n.v., Roland
D’Ieteren is Chairman of s.a. D’Ieteren n.v. and Gilbert van Marcke de
Lummen is a non-executive Director of s.a. D’Ieteren n.v., which held
63,609,360 ordinary shares of 1p each in the capital of the Company
as at 31 December 2006. Jean-Pierre Bizet, Roland D’Ieteren and
Benoit Ghiot are Directors of D’Ieteren Invest s.a., a wholly-owned
subsidiary of s.a. D’Ieteren n.v., which was the beneﬁcial owner of
484,976,895 ordinary shares of 1p each in the capital of the Company
as at 31 December 2006. Details of signiﬁcant contracts entered
into with s.a. D’Ieteren n.v. are disclosed below. There have been 
no changes in the above Directors’ interests between 31 December
2006 and 26 February 2007.
Except as noted above, none of the Directors had any interests in the
shares of the Company or in any material contract or arrangement
with the Company or any of its subsidiary undertakings.
Share capital
The last Annual General Meeting authorised the Company to purchase
up to 92,052,404 of its own ordinary shares. This authority will expire,
and is due to be renewed, at the next Annual General Meeting. The
Company has made no purchase of its own shares during 2006
pursuant to this authority. Details of the share capital of the Company
are set out in Note 29 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Substantial shareholdings
At 26 February 2007, the Company had been advised of the
following notiﬁable interests in its issued ordinary share capital:
% of issued share capital
D’Ieteren Invest s.a. 52.68 
s.a. D’Ieteren n.v. 6.91
Fidelity International Limited 9.20
Prudential plc 7.33
Franklin Resources, Inc 3.37
As noted above, an agreement governing the relationship between
s.a. D’Ieteren n.v. and the Company was entered into in connection
with the Company’s ﬂotation in 1997. It includes restrictions on s.a.
D’Ieteren n.v.’s power to appoint Directors and obligations on those
Directors to ensure that the majority of the Board is independent 
of s.a. D’Ieteren n.v. It also provides that all transactions between
the Company and s.a. D’Ieteren n.v. will be on an arm’s length
basis. The agreement also contains certain anti-dilution rights for
s.a. D’Ieteren n.v. provided that the D’Ieteren Group owns more 
than 30% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company.
During the year, the Group has entered into transactions with 
the D’Ieteren Group on an arm’s length basis with respect to 
the purchase and sale of vehicles and the provision of ﬁnance. 
Further details of these transactions are set out in Note 41 to 
the Consolidated Financial Statements.
As recommended by the Combined Code the Company carries
directors’ and ofﬁcers’ liability insurance which is arranged under 
an umbrella policy effected by s.a. D’Ieteren n.v. The Company has
entered into indemnities to the extent permitted by English law,
indemnifying the Directors against claims brought against them.
Shareholder relations
The Board as a whole is responsible for maintaining regular dialogue
with shareholders. The Chief Executive and Finance Director make
presentations to institutional shareholders following the announcement
of the interim and preliminary results each year, and are actively
involved in an investor relations programme during the rest of the year.
The Chairman is also responsible for maintaining a channel through
which shareholders can express their views, and for communicating
any shareholder issues or concerns to the Board as a whole.
The Chief Executive makes a presentation at the Annual General
Meeting highlighting key business developments during the year. 
All shareholders have the opportunity to put questions at the
meeting or leave written questions, which will be answered in
writing as soon as possible afterwards. A copy of the Chief
Executive’s presentation may be requested at the Annual General
Meeting or from the Investor Relations Department. The Company’s
website at www.avis-europe.com provides current and historical
information about the Group.
Health and safety at work
In 2005 the Board approved a new Group-wide policy on health and
safety at work. Each operating country has a nominated Director on
the local Board who has overall responsibility for setting goals and
performance targets. Consistent measures of performance have
been agreed and will be reported on a quarterly basis.
Avis Europe plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
28 Charitable and political donations
During the year, the Group made charitable donations totalling
€54,000; £37,000 (2005: €54,000; £37,000). The Group made 
no political donations during the year (2005: nil).
Payments to creditors
Given the number of countries in which the Group operates it is
practice to agree the terms of payment at the start of business 
with each supplier and to pay in accordance with contractual and
other legal obligations. The Company had no trade creditors at
31 December 2006 (2005: nil). At 31 December 2006 the number 
of creditor days outstanding for the Company was nil (2005: nil).
Auditors
The Audit Committee regularly monitors the non-audit services being
provided to the Group by its external auditors, and has developed 
a formal independence policy to help ensure that there is no
impairment to their independence or objectivity. The principles 
that underpin the provision of non-audit services by the external
auditors are that the auditor should not: enter into arrangements with
the Group which could compromise their independence as auditors;
audit its own ﬁrm’s work; make management decisions for the Group;
have a mutuality of ﬁnancial interest with the Group (eg success
fees) or provide legal and expert services to the Group in judicial 
or regulatory proceedings. Some types of service are proscribed
while others that might be perceived to be in conﬂict with the role 
of the external auditor must be submitted to the Audit Committee
for approval prior to engagement, regardless of the fees involved.
The Audit Committee reviews all services being provided by the
external auditors quarterly in order to consider the independence
and objectivity of the external auditors, taking into account relevant
professional and regulatory requirements, so that these are not
impaired by the provision of permissible non-audit services.
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP were engaged by the Group for certain
non-audit activities, the fees for which are set out in Note 3 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements. The nature and materiality of
this work has been reviewed by the Audit Committee which is
satisﬁed that there has been no conﬂict with the need for audit
independence and objectivity.
A resolution to reappoint PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as auditors
to the Company will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
Internal control and risk management
The Directors have continued to review the effectiveness of the
Group’s system of controls, including operational and compliance
controls, risk management and the Group’s internal control
arrangements. These reviews have included an assessment of both
ﬁnancial and operational internal controls by the Group’s internal
audit and risk management function, management assurance of 
the maintenance of control, and reports from the external auditor 
on matters identiﬁed in the course of its statutory audit work. 
A key part of the Group’s own internal control review is a quarterly
declaration and annual certiﬁcation process by which the managers
responsible conﬁrm the adequacy of their systems of internal
ﬁnancial control, their compliance with Group policies, local laws
and regulations and are also required to report any breakdown in
control or occurrence of fraud that has come to light. In addition, in
2006 the internal audit and risk management function co-ordinated
a control self-assessment programme through which compliance
with best practice for both ﬁnancial and non-ﬁnancial controls was
assessed by local management and was then selectively validated.
Internal control environment
The Directors are responsible for the system of internal control and
for regularly reviewing its effectiveness.
The system of internal controls includes but is not limited to:
• clear deﬁnition of the organisation structure and the appropriate
delegation of authorities to management;
• maintenance of appropriate segregation of duties together 
with other procedural controls;
• strategic planning and the related annual budgeting and 
regular review process;
• monthly reporting and review of ﬁnancial results and 
key performance statistics;
• adoption of accounting policies to help ensure the consistency,
integrity and accuracy of the Group’s ﬁnancial records;
• speciﬁc treasury policies and the regular reporting and review of
all signiﬁcant treasury transactions and ﬁnancing activities; and
• procedures for the authorisation of capital expenditure.
The Audit Committee has reviewed the effectiveness of the system
of internal control through the following processes:
• review of internal and external audit plans;
• review of the results of the control self-assessment programme;
• review of any signiﬁcant reported unsatisfactory control matters;
• consideration of individual internal audit reports by the Chairman
of the Committee;
• collective review of any control issues that arise from internal 
and external audits together with any additional matters brought
to its attention;
• review of any signiﬁcant risks identiﬁed by the Group’s risk
management process; and
• discussions with management on any signiﬁcant new risk 
areas identiﬁed by management and the internal and external
audit processes.
During 2006 the Audit Committee completed a more formal
assessment of the effectiveness of the system of internal control
assisted through the introduction of an Internal Controls Systems
document. The document includes comprehensive descriptions 
of the risk management processes and controls environment, and
enabled the Audit Committee to apply a more structured approach to
their review. Going forward this document will be updated regularly.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee provides a report to the
Board after every Audit Committee meeting. In satisfying itself that
sufﬁcient and appropriate work has been performed, the Board as 
a whole considers the adequacy and scope of the reports it has
received from the Audit Committee along with corroborative
evidence where necessary.
The Board, with advice from the Audit Committee, has completed
its annual review of the effectiveness of the embedded system of
internal control in accordance with the guidance of the Turnbull
Report for the period since 1 January 2006 and is satisﬁed that 
this review is in accordance with that guidance.
Assessment of business risk
The Group views the active management of risk as a key
management process and recognises that managing business risk
to deliver opportunities is critical to the strategic development of the
business. It is ensured that such business risks, which are classiﬁed
as strategic, operational, reputational, ﬁnancial and environmental,
are both understood and visible as far as practicable. The Group’s
policy is to ensure that risk is taken on an informed rather than
unintentional basis.
29
Avis Europe plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Corporate Governance continued
The Group’s work in the area of risk management in 2006 was
overseen by the Avis Executive Board, membership of which
comprises heads of key business functions and of main corporate
country operations and is chaired by the Chief Executive. In addition,
the Group has instructed the formation of individual country risk
management committees in a number of its operating companies,
the activities of which are co-ordinated by the internal audit and 
risk management function.
The Group’s integrated risk management framework aims to ensure
that the business understands the key risks it faces and has an
embedded risk management approach to its activities, links risk
management to business performance reporting and seeks regular
improvement in the management of risk by sharing best practice
throughout the organisation. The Group conducts an annual risk
review across all operating units and updates its centrally held risk
register with each risk’s impact, probability and mitigation actions.
As part of the annual risk review, individual business units are
required to submit their major risks together with their associated
mitigation actions. This system forms the cornerstone of the risk
management activities of the Group, the aim of which is to provide
the Board with the assurance that the major risks facing the Group
have been identiﬁed and assessed, and that there are controls
either in place or planned to manage these risks.
A summary of the principal risks facing the Group has been reviewed
and approved by the Audit Committee and is provided in the Risk
Factors section of the Business Review on pages 13 to 14.
Internal audit
Avis Europe has an internal audit and risk management function,
which is independent of the Group’s external auditors and which
works in partnership with an outsourced provider, KPMG, where
specialist skills are required. The Audit Committee ensures that 
this function is appropriately staffed and that its scope of work 
is adequate in the light of the key identiﬁed risks facing the Group
and the other monitoring functions in place. It also reviews and
approves an annual internal audit plan and considers responses 
to an effectiveness questionnaire distributed after each internal
audit has been completed.
The Audit Committee also ratiﬁes the appointment and dismissal of
the Director of Risk Management and Internal Audit and assesses
his independence and objectivity. The Director of Risk Management
and Internal Audit has unfettered access to management and the
Audit Committee.
The role of internal audit is to:
• assess the design and operating effectiveness of controls
governing key operational processes and business risks;
• provide the Board with an assessment, independent of
management, as to the adequacy of the Group’s internal 
operating and ﬁnancial controls, systems and practices;
• assist the Board in meeting its corporate governance and
regulatory responsibilities; and
• provide advisory services to management in order to enhance 
the control environment and improve business performance.
Whistleblowing arrangements
During the year, a Group-wide framework was in place enabling
employees to raise any concerns. The arrangements are regularly
reviewed by the Audit Committee and recommunicated annually by
management to ensure their continuing effectiveness. The process
has been communicated to all employees across the Group and
policy and procedures issued to management of all operating units
providing guidance on how they are expected to respond. Matters
can be raised anonymously, and employees are assured that they
will have protection under the policy.
Corporate governance statement
The Board of Directors conﬁrm that the Company has complied
throughout the ﬁnancial year with the majority of the provisions set
out in Section 1 of the Combined Code, except that the Company did
not comply throughout the ﬁnancial year with the following provisions:
(1) the requirement that independent non-executive Directors
(excluding the Chairman) should comprise not less than 50% of the
Board; (2) the requirement that all members of the Remuneration
Committee are independent non-executive Directors; and (3) the
requirement that a Senior Independent Director be nominated.
The reasons for non-compliance in each of the relevant areas are
explained within the review of the Company’s application of the
principles of the Combined Code set out above. In the areas of 
non-compliance the Directors believe that current policy is in the
best interests of the Company.
Going concern
Under company law the Company’s Directors are required to consider
whether it is appropriate to prepare Financial Statements on the
basis that the Company and the Group are going concerns. As part
of its normal business practice the Group prepares annual and
longer-term plans and in reviewing this information the Company’s
Directors see no reason why the Company and the Group should
not remain going concerns for the foreseeable future. Therefore the
Company and the Group continue to adopt the going concern basis
in preparing the Financial Statements.
Avis Europe plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
30 The Directors are responsible for preparing the Consolidated and
the Parent Company Financial Statements in accordance with
applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare ﬁnancial statements
for each ﬁnancial year. Under that law the Directors have prepared
the Consolidated Financial Statements in accordance with
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted 
by the European Union, and the Parent Company Financial
Statements in accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom
Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally Accepted
Accounting Practice). The Consolidated and Parent Company
Financial Statements are required by law to give a true and fair 
view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group and 
of the proﬁt or loss of the Group for that year.
In preparing those ﬁnancial statements, the Directors are required to:
• select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
• make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
• state that the Consolidated Financial Statements comply with IFRSs
as adopted by the European Union, and with regard to the Parent
Company Financial Statements that applicable UK Accounting
Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures
disclosed and explained in the ﬁnancial statements; and
• prepare the Consolidated and Parent Company Financial Statements
on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume
that the Group will continue in business, in which case there 
should be supporting assumptions or qualiﬁcations as necessary.
The Directors conﬁrm that they have complied with the above
requirements in preparing the Financial Statements.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting
records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the
ﬁnancial position of the Company and the Group and to enable
them to ensure that the Consolidated Financial Statements comply
with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation
and the Parent Company Financial Statements comply with the
Companies Act 1985. They are also responsible for safeguarding
the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking
reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and
other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity 
of the website. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the
preparation and dissemination of ﬁnancial statements may differ
from legislation in other jurisdictions.
So far as the Directors are aware, there is no relevant audit
information of which the Company’s auditors are unaware and the
Directors have taken all the steps that ought to have been taken 
as Directors in order to make themselves aware of any relevant
audit information and to establish that the Company’s auditors are
aware of that information.
31
Avis Europe plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities Remuneration Report
This report has been prepared in accordance with the Directors’
Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 and the relevant requirements
of the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority. The Board has given
full consideration to the best practice provisions on Directors’
remuneration as set out in the Combined Code. As required by 
the Directors’ Remuneration Report Regulations, a resolution 
to approve the Remuneration Report will be proposed at the
forthcoming Annual General Meeting of the Company at which 
the Financial Statements will be approved.
Part 1 of this report sets out the Group’s policy on executive
remuneration and explains the various elements of the Directors’
remuneration packages. Part 2 of this report, which contains the
information on which auditors are required to report to the Company’s
shareholders, sets out details of Directors’ earnings and pension
entitlements and fees paid to non-executive Directors in 2006.
Directors’ interests in shares, share incentive awards and share
options, all of which are beneﬁcial except as noted, are set out 
on pages 38 and 39.
Part 1
Remuneration Committee
Scope
The Remuneration Committee determines broad policy on senior
executive remuneration and terms of service and approves speciﬁc
terms of appointment for the Chairman, executive Directors and
senior management.
The full terms of reference are available on www.avis-europe.com.
During 2006, the Remuneration Committee’s activities included:
• review and revision of Director and senior management incentive
arrangements for 2007 and onwards;
• remuneration for new appointments to the Avis Executive Board (AEB);
• review of Company Pension plans; and
• review of Remuneration Committee effectiveness.
Membership
The Remuneration Committee is comprised of non-executive
Directors. Members as at 26 February 2007 are:
• Malcolm Miller (Chairman);
• Les Cullen;
• Roland D’Ieteren; and
• Dr Axel von Ruedorffer.
The Remuneration Committee is comprised of independent 
non-executive Directors, with the exception of Roland D’Ieteren, 
as explained on page 27 of the Corporate Governance report. 
The Committee met seven times during the year and each
member’s attendance at these meetings is shown in the 
Corporate Governance report on page 27. There were no 
changes to the composition of the Remuneration Committee
between 1 January 2006 and 26 February 2007.
Advisers
External advice was received from Kepler Associates (executive
remuneration), Freshﬁelds Bruckhaus Deringer (share scheme rules)
and Watson Wyatt (retirement beneﬁts). Watson Wyatt acts as
actuary and advisor to the trustee of the Avis UK Pension Plan. 
All advisors were appointed by the Company. Remuneration
decisions were made on the recommendation and advice of 
the Chairman, the Chief Executive and the Group Personnel &
Corporate Affairs Director (save in respect of their own remuneration).
Other than described above, no additional services were provided
by the external advisers during the year.
Remuneration policy
Introduction
The Group’s policy relating to the remuneration and beneﬁts of
executive and non-executive Directors is reviewed periodically. 
The executive remuneration policy for 2007 is designed to secure
the skills and experience the Group needs to meet its objectives
and satisfy shareholder expectations. In general, in determining 
its policy, the Remuneration Committee takes account of market
practice, the Group’s position relative to other companies and 
the pay and employment conditions of other Group employees.
In 2005, we announced our plans to improve the Group’s margins.
This strategy is focused on four areas: reducing cost (including 
a signiﬁcant restructuring programme); implementing revenue
management to improve price, yield and utilisation; targeting 
our most proﬁtable customer groups; and tight control of ﬂeet.
Against this background, the Remuneration Committee carried out 
a full review of executive remuneration in late 2005 for the newly
formed AEB which comprises senior managers from across the
Group, including four of the executive Directors. The Remuneration
Committee decided to freeze salaries for three years and increase
incentive opportunities for delivery of results.
2006 was a critical turnaround year for the Group and to maintain
momentum on delivering challenging short-term targets (particularly
the cost and effectiveness savings associated with the restructuring
programme), the Remuneration Committee decided to enhance the
annual bonus opportunities for 2006 and make no long-term
incentive awards during that year.
However, the Remuneration Committee now plans to introduce a
new long-term incentive plan in 2007 that is aligned to shareholders’
interests and the Company’s current circumstances. In view of 
this proposal, annual bonus opportunities will be reduced as
outlined below.
The Remuneration Committee tries to ensure that a signiﬁcant
proportion of total executive remuneration is performance related.
For 2007 the relationship between ﬁxed and variable at maximum
performance is: CEO 29% ﬁxed, 71% variable; other executive
Directors 33% ﬁxed, 67% variable.
The Remuneration Committee believes the three-year salary 
freeze along with the proposed incentive remuneration
arrangements ensures a strong alignment with shareholders’
interests, enhances the overall balance of remuneration and 
helps sharpen the relationship between pay and performance.
Avis Europe plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
32 Salary
The policy on base salary up to and including 2005 was to
benchmark using general market external surveys against the
median of similar sized companies relevant to the appropriate
marketplace. In considering whether to make any increase to 
base salaries, the Remuneration Committee takes into account 
the performance of individual executives and the general 
increases for employees across the Group.
From 2006 to 2009 executive and senior management salaries are
frozen. It is anticipated that from 2009 onwards base salaries will then
be below the market median, with short and long-term incentives
providing competitive total remuneration aligned to delivery of results.
Annual incentive bonus
Annual incentive bonus plans for executive Directors and key 
senior management are based on achievement of targets approved
by the Remuneration Committee and related directly to the annual
proﬁt plan approved by the Board. Targets and performance
measures are quantitative and there is a threshold below which 
no bonus payment is made.
In 2006 the Remuneration Committee increased maximum bonus
opportunities to 200% of salary for the AEB, with 100% of salary
payable for on-target performance. Although these levels are above
typical market levels, the Remuneration Committee considered
them appropriate as no long-term incentives were awarded and
salaries were frozen. 50% of the incentive was based on stretching
ﬁnancial targets aligned to the recovery road map and 50% was
based on speciﬁc recovery plan objectives, notably restructuring
savings and proﬁtable growth in the chosen customer segments.
50% of bonus earned in 2006 will be paid in cash and 50% will be
deferred into Avis Europe shares and released, subject to continued
employment, after a further year in accordance with the rules of the
2006 Deferred Share Bonus Plan as described below. The deferral 
is intended to align the interests of executives with shareholders,
encourage share ownership and aid retention.
In 2007, the Remuneration Committee intends to reduce the annual
bonus opportunity to 100% of salary, with 50% of salary payable for
on-target performance. 50% of the bonus will be based on stretching
ﬁnancial targets aligned to the recovery plan, and the balance based
on speciﬁc quantitative and strategic milestones. As the Committee
intends to introduce a long-term incentive plan, with share-based
awards, it is no longer considered necessary to defer any of the
annual bonus awards into shares. Therefore any bonus earned in
2007 will be payable in full after the end of the year.
The base salary, bonus payments and value of beneﬁts in kind for
each Director are set out in table (a) on page 37. Bonus payments,
beneﬁts in kind and cash allowances do not form part of pensionable
earnings for Directors.
Share incentive policy
The Remuneration Committee undertook a review of the Company’s
share schemes during 2005. No long-term incentive awards were
made in 2005 or 2006. The Remuneration Committee plans to
introduce a new long-term incentive for 2007 and onwards that is
aligned with the Group’s recovery targets and shareholders’ interests.
The Remuneration Committee introduced shareholding guidelines 
in 2005 that require the executive Directors to build up their
personal holdings of shares in the Company. This will further 
align their interests with those of shareholders. The guidelines 
are 150% of salary for the Chief Executive and 100% of salary 
for other executive Directors. The Remuneration Committee 
requires executives to retain 50% of any vested shares (net of 
tax and exercise costs) arising from any share or option plan 
until the shareholding requirement is achieved.
Proposed Long Term Incentive Plan
For 2007 and onwards, the Remuneration Committee plans to
introduce a long-term incentive under which there will be annual
grants of awards which will vest three years after grant, providing
certain performance conditions are met. These conditional awards
will take the form of nil cost options to acquire ordinary shares in
the Company.
The performance conditions required for vesting purposes will be
based 50% on the Company’s three-year growth in earnings per
share (EPS) and 50% on return on capital employed (ROCE), based
on the Group’s results under the International Financial Reporting
Standards. These targets will be set such that shares will vest only 
if performance is between threshold (median), where 20% of an
award will vest, and maximum (upper quartile), where 100% of an
award will vest. EPS will be calculated on an underlying basis ie
excluding exceptional items, certain re-measurement items and
economic hedge items. However, the Remuneration Committee 
will have discretion to adjust for exceptional items it deems to be
within management control, if appropriate, to ensure the outcome 
is fair to both shareholders and executives. ROCE will be calculated
on a three-point annual average, to reﬂect the seasonality of the
business, based upon the return for the particular year divided by
the average capital employed of the previous closing, interim and
prevailing closing positions. The return (operating proﬁt) will be
adjusted on the same underlying basis as EPS. ROCE and EPS are
considered by the Remuneration Committee to be the most relevant
all-encompassing long-term performance measures for Avis Europe.
The business of the Group is fundamentally about achieving a good
economic return on renting our ﬂeet of vehicles. The ﬂeet represents
the substantial majority of capital employed, and the Remuneration
Committee wishes management to be focused on improving the
return the Company achieves on this capital. Management will focus
on the key drivers of ROCE – asset turn and operating margin. EPS
in turn represents a complete measure of bottom-line performance,
capturing both interest and tax, and is closely tracked by many of
the Company’s investors. The calculation of EPS and ROCE
performance will be taken from the audited accounts.
Participation will be at the Remuneration Committee’s discretion, but
for 2007 is expected to include members of the AEB, which includes
four of the executive Directors. Maximum awards will be capped at
100% of salary (150% for the Chief Executive). Dividends, as and
when reinstated, would accrue and be paid only on shares that vest.
Full details of the proposed Long Term Incentive Plan can be found
in the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
33
Avis Europe plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Remuneration Report continued
Outstanding share plans
Outstanding share plans are as follows: 2006 Deferred Bonus 
Share Plan (to be awarded in 2007); Share Retention Plan (last
award December 2004); Performance Share Plan (last award 
April 2004) and Share Option Scheme (last award April 2004). 
A description of each of these plans is set out below. The
assessment of whether performance conditions have been met 
is veriﬁed by the Remuneration Committee at the time of vesting.
Individual Directors’ share incentive awards are set out on pages 
38 and 39.
2006 Deferred Bonus Share Plan
During 2006, the Avis Europe plc Deferred Bonus Share Plan was
established as part of the Remuneration Committee’s decision to
enhance bonus opportunities for 2006 in order to maintain
momentum on delivering short-term targets and make no long-term
awards during that year. 50% of the bonus earned in respect of 
the year to 31 December 2006 is payable in cash after publication 
of the 2006 results and 50% will be deferred into an award over 
Avis Europe shares which will be released, subject to continued
employment, after a further year. The share award is in the form 
of a nil cost option to acquire ordinary shares in the Company,
which will be purchased on the market and held in the Avis Europe
Employee Share Trust. The participants are key senior managers,
including four of the executive Directors.
Share Retention Plan
On 21 December 2004, a Share Retention Plan was established 
as a one-off discretionary beneﬁt for the sole purpose of retaining
the services of the Chief Executive. Therefore there are no
performance conditions, other than continued service to January
2008. The Remuneration Committee views the contribution of the
Chief Executive to the development and implementation of the
Group’s recovery strategy as essential and therefore determined
that it was appropriate to implement this plan to facilitate his
retention over the medium-term.
The principal terms of the Plan are as follows. The sole participant 
is the Chief Executive and the conditional award is in the form 
of a nil cost option to acquire ordinary shares in the Company. 
The Plan was implemented in accordance with section 13.13A (b) 
of the Listing Rules, now rule 9.4.2 (2). In normal circumstances 
the option vests in three equal tranches. The ﬁrst two tranches
vested on 1 January 2006 and 1 January 2007, and the ﬁnal 
tranche will vest on 1 January 2008, provided that the Chief
Executive is still employed by the Group and is not subject 
to notice of termination of his employment (whether given or 
received). The option is exercisable within three months of vesting
(12 months in the case of death and one month in the case of
takeover). Beneﬁts provided under the Plan are not pensionable.
The outstanding part of the award will normally lapse on cessation
of employment (save on death when the award will vest in full). 
If employment ceases by reason of injury or disability or for any
other reason if the Remuneration Committee so decides, the
Remuneration Committee has the discretion to decide whether or
not the outstanding part of the award will vest and, if so, the extent
to which it will vest. In the event of a takeover, the Remuneration
Committee will decide the extent to which any outstanding part of
the award will vest. In the event of a corporate reorganisation, the
Remuneration Committee may decide that the award continues
over the shares of any new holding company.
If there is a demerger or other corporate event, which in the opinion
of the Remuneration Committee will materially affect the share price,
then the Remuneration Committee may decide that the outstanding
award vests early. In the event of any increase or variation in the
share capital of the Company, the payment of a capital dividend 
or any other event similarly affecting the award the number of
shares subject to the outstanding award may be adjusted. The
Remuneration Committee may alter the Plan at any time.
Performance Share Plan
No awards under this Plan were made in 2006 and it is anticipated
that no further awards will be made in the future. The Performance
Share Plan is a seven-year plan, and was designed to encourage
executives to focus on longer-term performance and growth in
shareholder value. A combination of performance targets was
chosen for the measurement of the Company’s performance, being
total shareholder return (TSR) and earnings per share (EPS) in order
to align the interests of executives with those of shareholders. This
is explained in detail on page 39. EPS performance is calculated
from the audited accounts and TSR is calculated by external
remuneration consultants.
Awards are determined by the Remuneration Committee and may
not be greater than 100% of the qualifying participant’s total annual
remuneration measured at the date of the award. No award granted
to date has exceeded one times annual salary. Awards vest over a
period of seven years from the date of the award. If the performance
conditions are met at the third and ﬁfth anniversary of the date of
award, vesting accelerates to the extent of 25% of the award on
each of these occasions. The extent to which an award vests is
determined by the Group’s medium and long-term performance
measured in terms of TSR. TSR was measured against a broad
comparator group from the Transport and Support Services sectors.
In 2004, the comparator group was changed to a more speciﬁc
comparable peer group taking into account the circumstances 
of the Company at the time.
On change of control the Remuneration Committee would take 
into account the performance conditions when determining 
the vesting of awards.
Share option schemes
No options were granted under these schemes in 2006 and it 
is anticipated that no further awards will be made in the future.
Further details of share options are set out in Note 31 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements.
The Group operates Inland Revenue approved and unapproved
share option schemes which have an EPS based performance
condition. An EPS condition is considered appropriate, as it 
requires improvement in the underlying ﬁnancial performance 
before options can be exercised. Employees may not normally
exercise options earlier than three years nor more than 10 years
after the grant (seven years for grants made before April 2000 
for the unapproved scheme). Options lapse upon cessation of
employment. However, special conditions apply if employment
ceases because of death, injury, disability, redundancy, retirement 
or because the employing business or company is transferred outside
the Group, or for any other reason at the discretion of the Board.
Avis Europe plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
34 From 2004, the performance conditions were revised having regard
to the views and best interests of the Company’s shareholders so
that options will be fully exercisable only if the real growth in EPS
during the three-year period 2004 to 2006 exceeds 10% per annum
compound. For 30% of the options to be exercisable there must be
real minimum growth of 5% per annum compound. Vesting is on a
straight-line basis for EPS growth between these targets. There is
no opportunity to retest the performance condition if it is not met
over the speciﬁed three-year performance period. On change of
control, the Remuneration Committee would take into account
performance when determining the vesting of awards. EPS
performance is calculated from the audited accounts.
Options granted prior to 2004 become exercisable when real 
growth in EPS exceeds 3% per annum during any period of 
three consecutive years following the date of grant.
The rules of the share option schemes limit the number of options
that can be granted over new issue shares in a rolling 10-year period
to 5% of issued share capital under discretionary share schemes,
and 10% of issued share capital under all share schemes. The total
number of share options granted at 31 December 2006 is well
within these dilution limits.
Avis Europe Employee Share Trust
The Avis Europe Employee Share Trust was established in March
2000 to facilitate provision of shares for the Company’s share
incentive schemes. The Trust may hold up to 5% of the issued
share capital of the Company at any one time.
At 31 December 2006, the Trust held 425,449 shares. It is intended
that the shares in the Trust will be used to satisfy conditional share
awards made under the Company’s various share incentive schemes
as and when these awards vest. The awards outstanding under
each of the relevant Plans at 31 December 2005 and 31 December
2006 are set out below.
Conditional share Conditional share 
awards outstanding at awards outstanding at
Share Incentive Scheme 31 December 2005 31 December 2006
Performance Share Plan 1,366,105 shares 1,366,105 shares
Equity Partnership Plan
– Loyalty shares 47,720 shares 0 shares
Share Retention Plan 715,800 shares 477,200 shares
Total 2,129,625 shares 1,843,305 shares
The Company periodically reviews the number of shares held by 
the Trust in light of the anticipated vesting dates and performance
conditions under the various plans. The Company also regularly
reviews its hedging policy but does not currently hedge any of 
these awards against potential Social Security costs that may 
be incurred across the Group as and when the awards vest.
Total shareholder return (TSR)
The graph below illustrates the performance of Avis Europe plc 
and a “broad equity market index” over the past ﬁve years. 
As Avis Europe plc has been a constituent of the FTSE 350 
index throughout this ﬁve-year period, that index is considered 
the most appropriate form of “broad equity market index” against
which the Group’s performance should be graphed. As required 
by legislation, performance is measured by total shareholder return
(share price plus dividends paid).
Non-executive Directors
Non-executive Directors’ fees are positioned to attract non-executives
with broad business and commercial experience and to be
competitive in the marketplace. The Chairman’s fee is determined
by the Remuneration Committee. The Chairman and the Chief
Executive set the remuneration of non-executive Directors based 
on periodic review of current survey data. Policy is to pay an 
annual fee of £32,500 with a further payment for chairmanship 
of a Committee. Non-executive Directors do not receive awards
under the Company’s share incentive schemes.
Engagement policy
Executive Directors
The Company’s policy is to employ each executive Director under 
a service contract which is subject to 12 months’ notice on either
side and runs until terminated. The contract provides for salary to
be paid for any unexpired period of notice in the event of termination
by the Company. Compensation for contractual beneﬁts and 
bonus for the unexpired period of notice is at the discretion 
of the Remuneration Committee. There is no compensation 
for loss of rights under the share and pension schemes. Any 
such payment would be discounted in line with the mitigation
obligations of the departing Director. There are no special
contractual payments associated with change of control.
01 02 03 04 05 06 0
20
40
60
80
120
100
160
140
Source: Bloomberg
All dates at 31 December
This graph shows the value, by the end of 2006, of £100 invested in Avis Europe on 
31 December 2001 compared with the value of £100 invested in the FTSE 350 Index. 
The other points plotted are the values at intervening financial year-ends.
Avis Europe
FTSE 350 Index
35
Avis Europe plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Remuneration Report continued
All current executive Directors have service contracts in line with
policy as shown:
Date of service contract Notice period
Jean-Pierre Bizet* 25 May 2004 12 months
Lesley Colyer 18 April 2002 12 months
Murray Hennessy 17 May 2004 12 months
Simon Palethorpe 5 October 2004 12 months
Martyn Smith 11 September 2002 12 months
*Subject to the terms of the Relationship Agreement in respect of Directors
appointed by s.a. D’Ieteren n.v.
The Board believes that it can be of beneﬁt to Avis if its executive
Directors serve as non-executive Directors of other companies, and,
subject to individual review, the general policy is that an executive
Director may hold one non-executive directorship with another
company and may retain the fees. Murray Hennessy holds a non-
executive directorship and has waived his fee. Martyn Smith is a
non-executive director of SMG plc. For the year ended 31 December
2006 he received a fee of £29,100 plus a share purchase of £5,850.
Simon Palethorpe held a directorship until 31 December 2006 with 
a government body. For the year ended 31 December 2006 he
received a fee of £13,000.
Non-executive Directors
The Company’s policy is to engage non-executive Directors on
renewable three-year terms, which can be terminated by either party
at any time without penalty (subject to the terms of the Relationship
Agreement in respect of Directors appointed by s.a. D’Ieteren n.v.).
Non-executive Directors are required to offer themselves for election
at the next Annual General Meeting following their appointment and
thereafter for re-election every three years.
Date of appointment as a non-executive Director
Alun Cathcart* 25 May 2004
Les Cullen 25 May 2004
Roland D’Ieteren 3 February 1997
Benoit Ghiot 15 December 2004
Gilbert van Marcke de Lummen* 1 May 2002
Malcolm Miller 21 February 2001
Dr Axel von Ruedorffer 27 June 2001
Pierre Alain De Smedt 1 February 2007
*Both Alun Cathcart and Gilbert van Marcke de Lummen have previously
served as executive Directors. Alun Cathcart served as an executive Director
for the periods 3 February 1997 to 31 March 1999 and 1 May 2002 to 24 May
2004, having served as a non-executive Director for the period 1 April 1999 to
30 April 2002. Gilbert van Marcke de Lummen served as an executive Director
from 3 February 1997 to 30 April 2002.
All non-executive Directors, including the Chairman, have letters 
of appointment in accordance with policy.
Retirement beneﬁts
The executive Directors are, like other employees, eligible for
membership of the Avis UK Pension Plan. This Plan is a deﬁned
beneﬁt Plan and comprises two sections: the Final Salary section
(deﬁned beneﬁt) and the Retirement Capital section (cash balance).
The non-contributory Final Salary section was closed to new
entrants from 1 July 2003, and will close to future service accruals
for active members from 1 April 2007. New members to the Plan
since 1 July 2003 have joined the contributory Retirement Capital
section and, from 1 April 2007, active members of the Final Salary
section will accrue their future service beneﬁts under the Retirement
Capital section.
Under the Retirement Capital section an allocation of 25% of 
the executive Directors’ pensionable salary is made to a notional
account. Each year the account balance is revalued by inﬂation 
up to 10%, although the Company may at its absolute discretion
and subject to actuarial advice apply a greater rate of revaluation. 
At retirement the balance in the account will be used to purchase 
an annuity. Pensionable salary for all executive Directors excludes
bonus payments, taxable beneﬁts and cash allowances.
From 6 April 2006, the HM Revenue & Customs legislation relating to
tax-favoured retirement provisions took effect. From that date Avis
introduced a scheme speciﬁc earnings cap for all members who
joined the Plan on or after 1 June 1989. For the 2006-07 tax year,
the cap is £108,500. Those executive Directors whose pensionable
salary is subject to the cap, receive a taxable cash allowance of
20% of base salary above the cap.
The retirement beneﬁts for each of the executive Directors are 
as follows.
Murray Hennessy and Simon Palethorpe are members of the
Retirement Capital section in respect of all their pensionable 
service and as their pensionable salary is subject to the scheme
speciﬁc earnings cap they each receive a taxable cash allowance 
as described above.
Lesley Colyer accrues beneﬁts under the Final Salary section for
pensionable service until 1 April 2007, and her pensionable service
to that date will continue to be linked to her pensionable salary in
the future. From 1 April 2007 she will accrue future service beneﬁts
in the Retirement Capital section. Her pensionable salary is not
subject to the scheme speciﬁc earnings cap.
Martyn Smith withdrew from the Pension Plan effective 5 April 2006
and has a preserved pension entitlement under the Final Salary
section. From that date he receives a taxable cash allowance of
20% of base salary in lieu of Pension Plan membership.
Avis Europe plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
36 Part 2 (Audited)
Directors’ remuneration
a) The remuneration of Directors, comprising salary or fees, taxable beneﬁts and bonus payments for the year ended 31 December 2006
are set out in the table below.
Deferred
Salary Salary Total year to Total year to bonus from 
Taxable supplement supplement 31 December 31 December 31 December
Salary/fees Bonus
2
beneﬁts
3
Pension Car/fuel 2006 2005 2005
4
££££££££
Executive
J-P Bizet 80,000 – – – – 80,000 80,000 –
L Colyer 237,000 177,750 15,058 – – 429,808 351,836
M Hennessy
1
440,000 153,101 3,653 66,026 20,000 682,780 872,019 342,100
S Palethorpe 300,000 225,000 715 39,903 14,976 580,594 462,296 148,560
M Smith 330,000 247,500 13,462 60,506 – 651,468 577,708 190,475
Total 1,387,000 803,351 32,888 166,435 34,976 2,424,650 2,343,859 681,135
Non-executive
W A Cathcart 190,000 – 5,832 – 20,000 215,832 272,501 –
L Cullen 40,000 – – – – 40,000 40,000 –
R D’Ieteren 32,500 – – – – 32,500 32,500 –
B Ghiot 32,500 – – – – 32,500 32,500 –
G van Marcke de Lummen 32,500 – – – – 32,500 32,500 –
M Miller 37,500 – – – – 37,500 37,500 –
Dr A von Ruedorffer 32,500 – – – – 32,500 32,500 –
Total 397,500 – 5,832 – 20,000 423,332 480,001 –
Total 1,784,500 803,351 38,720 166,435 54,976 2,847,982 2,823,860 681,135
Avis Executive Board 
(excluding executive 
Directors): Aggregate 1,337,372 1,304,275 49,473 20,943 17,334 2,729,397 – –
1 Murray Hennessy has waived £176,899 of his gross 2006 cash bonus in lieu of a contribution to his personal pension. In the table above, Murray Hennessy’s
bonus ﬁgure is shown net of the waiver and the Company has contributed £188,221 to his personal pension.
2 Subject to continued employment members of the AEB, including four executive Directors, will be eligible to receive an equivalent bonus deferred into an award
of Avis Europe shares which will be released in March 2008.
3 Taxable beneﬁts include principally car, fuel and medical insurance.
4 Murray Hennessy, Simon Palethorpe and Martyn Smith will receive a deferred bonus in March 2007, being the ﬁrst anniversary of payment of the 2005 bonus
which they were entitled to receive given continued employment.
Base salaries for the executive Directors at 1 January 2007 are: Murray Hennessy £440,000, Martyn Smith £330,000, Simon Palethorpe
£300,000 and Lesley Colyer £237,000. 
b) Details of Directors’ pension entitlements under the Avis UK Pension Plan (a deﬁned beneﬁt scheme) at 31 December 2006:
Amount of Transfer value Transfer value Transfer value Increase/
Amount of remaining Accrued of increase in of accrued of accrued (decrease) in 
change in change in pension to accrued pension pension at pension at value less
accrued beneﬁt accrued beneﬁt 31 December excluding 31 December 31 December Director’s own
due to inﬂation during the year 2006 inﬂation 2005 2006 contributions
Director £ pa £ pa £ pa £ £ £ £
L Colyer 3,867 8,793 120,079 82,515 903,362 1,125,792 222,430
M Smith
1
102 (5,382) 6,160 (48,761) 96,045 56,226 (39,819)
A Cathcart
2
– – – – 5,203,491 4,237,750 (965,741)
G van Marcke de Lummen
3
– – – – 1,757,814 1,743,572 (14,242)
M Hennessy
4
– – – – 25,703 43,149 13,135
S Palethorpe
4
– – – – 9,961 21,241 6,969
1 Martyn Smith left the Pension Plan on 5 April 2006 and will receive a deferred pension of £6,160 per annum payable from age 62.
2 Alun Cathcart is no longer accruing a beneﬁt in the Pension Plan and has been in receipt of a pension from 12 September 2005. In the year to 31 December 2006
he received a pension of £295,643 (2005: £97,823 for the period from 12 September 2005 plus a lump sum of £896,503).
3 Gilbert van Marcke de Lummen is no longer accruing beneﬁt in the Pension Plan and has been in receipt of a pension from 1 May 2002. In the year to
31 December 2006 he received a pension of £138,343 (2005: £135,604).
4 Murray Hennessy and Simon Palethorpe are members of the Retirement Capital section of the Avis UK Pension Plan. This is a deﬁned beneﬁt “cash balance”
arrangement to which the Directors and the Company contribute. Each year an amount equal to 25% of salary up to the Inland Revenue earnings cap is
credited to a notional account. At 1 April each year after the ﬁrst year, the account balance is revalued by the rate of inﬂation over the preceding calendar
year, subject to a maximum of 10%. The Company may at its absolute discretion and subject to actuarial advice apply a greater rate of revaluation. At
retirement the account will have been built up from each year’s annual credit plus the annual revaluation amount, and the balance in the account will be used
to purchase an annuity on behalf of the Director. In the year to 31 December 2006 the value of the Company’s contributions for Murray Hennessy was
£10,576 (2005: £9,141) and for Simon Palethorpe £6,014 (2005: £5,025). The ﬁgures in the table above represent the transfer values of their accrued beneﬁts.
37
Avis Europe plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Avis Europe plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
38
Remuneration Report continued
c) Directors’ interests in shares and share options granted under the Avis Europe plc share option schemes, all of which are beneﬁcial
except as noted, are shown below. No options were exercised during the period under review or the previous year. All options were
granted for nil consideration. There have been no changes between 31 December 2006 and 26 February 2007.
Shares Options
1
31 December 1 January 31 December Lapsed Granted 1 January Exercise price
2006
2
2006 2006 during period during period 2006 (pence) Exercisable date Expiry date
Executive
J-P Bizet – – –
L Colyer
2
164,506 164,506 28,858 – – 28,858 103.9 March 2000 March 2007
22,667 – – 22,667 136.4 May 2004 May 2011
159,862 – – 159,862 83.6 September 2005 September 2012
211,387 – – 211,387
M Hennessy 317,171 78,571 511,742 – – 511,742 78.2 April 2007 April 2014
S Palethorpe 15,000 15,000 –
M Smith 30,462 30,462 238,599 – – 238,599 83.6 September 2005 September 2012
Non-executive
W A Cathcart
3
443,373 443,373 357,899 – – 357,899 174.2 March 2005 March 2012
71,580 – – 71,580 83.6 September 2005 September 2012
429,479 – – 429,479
L Cullen 7,857 7,857 –
R D’Ieteren – – –
B Ghiot – – –
G van Marcke 
de Lummen
4
47,634 47,634 28,858 – – 28,858 103.9 March 2000 March 2007
28,858 – – 28,858
M Miller 7,857 7,857 –
Dr A von Ruedorffer 20,000 – –
1 Only options shown as having an exercisable date of March 2000 have satisﬁed the relevant performance condition; the remaining options are subject to the
performance conditions set out below.
2 Included within Lesley Colyer’s holding of 164,506 shares are 1,620 shares in which she has a non-beneﬁcial interest as trustee for the beneﬁcial owners.
3 Included within Alun Cathcart’s holding of 443,373 shares are 12,673 shares in which he has a non-beneﬁcial interest as trustee for the beneﬁcial owner.
Alun Cathcart’s share options were granted when he was an executive Director of the Company.
4 Gilbert van Marcke de Lummen’s share options were granted when he was an executive Director of the Company.
Performance conditions
The performance conditions applying to the share option schemes have been based on real growth in earnings per share (EPS).
Options with exercisable dates prior to 2007 become exercisable when real growth in EPS exceeds 3% per annum during any period 
of three consecutive years following the date of grant.
Options with exercisable dates from 2007 become exercisable when real growth in EPS during the three-year period 2004 to 2006 exceeds
10% per annum compound. For 30% of the options to be exercisable there must be real minimum growth of 5% per annum compound.
Vesting is on a straight-line basis for EPS growth between these targets.
d) Details of awards outstanding at 31 December 2006 under any of the Group’s share schemes:
Share Option Schemes
At 31 December 2006, 249 qualifying employees held options over 5,249,679 shares. No options were granted in 2006. The market price of
the Company’s shares at 31 December 2006 was 81.75 pence. During the year, the market price ranged between 87 pence and 55 pence. 39
Avis Europe plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
Share Retention Plan
No awards were made under this Plan in 2006. As at 31 December 2006, one-third of the award (238,600 shares) under this Plan had
vested on 1 January 2006 and was released on 21 March 2006. The market price of each of the shares on the date the award was made
was 51 pence and the market price of each of the shares when the award vested was 72.25 pence. A further tranche of 238,600 shares
vested on 1 January 2007 and will be released in March 2007.
Vesting date of
Award in year to Released in year to outstanding equal
At 31 December 2005 31 December 2006 31 December 2006 At 31 December 2006 parts of awards
M Hennessy 715,800 – 238,600 477,200
1 January 2007
1 January 2008
Performance Share Plan
No awards were made under this Plan in 2006. As at 31 December 2006, no awards under this Plan had vested.
Award in year to Vesting date of
At 31 December 2005 31 December 2006 Date of 2006 award At 31 December 2006 outstanding awards
W A Cathcart 244,409 – – 244,409 17 March 2010
L Colyer 187,852 – – 187,852 17 March 2010
M Hennessy 584,887 – – 584,887 2 April 2011
G van Marcke de Lummen 78,491 – – 78,491 9 June 2007
M Smith 270,466 – – 270,466 17 March 2010
Performance conditions
The performance conditions applying to the Performance Share Plan have been based on the performance of the Company in relation to the
total shareholder return (TSR) of a peer group, together with an earnings per share (EPS) underpin.
For the awards to vest, TSR at the end of each performance period must be at least at the median in relation to the comparator group and
there has to be a minimum real increase in EPS of 3% per annum over the relevant period.
For awards made prior to 2004, if both these conditions are met, 50% of the award may vest. For full vesting, the EPS target must be met
and the Group’s TSR must be in the top quartile of the comparator group over the seven-year period. TSR achievement between the
median and 75th percentile results in vesting between 50% and 100% of the award on a pro rata basis.
The comparator group for TSR for awards made prior to 2003 comprises the companies listed below:
Airtours plc, Arena Leisure plc, Arriva plc, Associated British Ports Holdings plc, Eurotunnel plc/Eurotunnel SA, First Choice Holidays plc,
First Group plc, Go-Ahead Group plc, Lex Service plc, Minorplanet Systems plc, Mitie Group plc, National Express Group plc, NFC plc,
Ocean Group plc, Powell Duffryn plc, Christian Salvesen plc, Stagecoach Holdings plc, TBI plc, Thomson Travel Group plc, Tibbett &
Britten Group plc.
The comparator group for TSR for awards made in 2003 comprises the companies listed below:
Arena Leisure plc, Arriva plc, Associated British Ports Holdings plc, Eurotunnel plc/Eurotunnel SA, First Choice Holidays plc, First Group
plc, Go-Ahead Group plc, RAC plc, Minorplanet Systems plc, Mitie Group plc, MyTravel Group plc, National Express Group plc, 
Christian Salvesen plc, Stagecoach Holdings plc, TBI plc, Tibbett & Britten Group plc.
The performance conditions for the award to the Chief Executive in April 2004 are different from the conditions previously applied to awards
in the following respects:
• only 30% of the award will vest for median performance; and
• the comparator group comprises the following companies: Accor, Air France, Alpha Airports Group plc, BAA plc, British Airways plc,
Carnival plc, EasyJet plc, Eurotunnel plc, First Choice Holidays plc, First Group plc, Hilton Group plc, Holidaybreak plc, Intercontinental
Hotels Group plc, Kuoni Reisen Holding AG, Deutsche Lufthansa AG, Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc, NH Hoteles SA, P&O Steam
Navigation Company, Ryanair Holdings plc, Sixt AG, TBI plc, TUI AG.
The other terms of the award are the same as for other awards made under the Performance Share Plan.
Equity Partnership Plan – Partnership
At 31 December 2006, there were no Partnership awards outstanding.
Equity Partnership Plan – Loyalty
During the year to 31 December 2006, the outstanding conditional awards over a total of 47,720 shares awarded in 2000, to three senior
managers lapsed. At 31 December 2006, there were no Loyalty awards outstanding.
Signed on behalf of the Board
Judith Nicholson
Company Secretary
26 February 2007 The Directors present their report and the audited ﬁnancial
statements for the year ended 31 December 2006.
Principal activities and business review
The principal activity of the Group is the supply of rental vehicle
services. A full review of the Group’s activities and a report on its
business, strategy and likely future developments are included 
in the Chairman’s Statement, the Chief Executive’s Statement 
and the Business Review on pages 10 to 20, incorporated in 
this report by reference.
Share capital
Details of the share capital of the Company and changes during 
the year covered by this Report are set out in Note 29 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements.
Results and dividends
The results for the year are set out in the Consolidated Financial
Statements on pages 42 to 84. The Directors do not recommend
the payment of an interim or ﬁnal dividend for the year (2005: nil).
Directors and their interests
The names of the Directors of the Company as at 31 December
2006 and those subsequently appointed appear in the Corporate
Governance report on page 26. The Directors’ interests in shares
and options to purchase shares, are detailed in the Remuneration
Report on pages 38 and 39.
Employee involvement
Details of employee involvement are included in the Corporate and
Social Responsibility Report on page 23.
Donations
Charitable donations are detailed in the Corporate Governance report
on page 29.
Land and buildings
The Directors of the Group consider that the book value of land and
buildings approximate to their fair value.
Post balance sheet events
There are no signiﬁcant events affecting the Group since year end.
Payments to creditors
The Group’s policy with regard to payment of suppliers is set out 
in the Corporate Governance report on page 29.
Financial instruments
The Group’s ﬁnancial risk management objective is set out in 
Note 26 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Purchase of own shares 
The details of own shares held are included in Note 30 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements.
Substantial shareholdings
The details of substantial shareholdings are included in the
Corporate Governance report on page 28.
Disclosure of information to auditors
So far as each Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information
of which the Group’s auditors, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP are
unaware and each Director has taken all the steps that he ought 
to have taken as a Director in order to make himself aware of any
relevant audit information and to establish that the Group’s auditors
are aware of this information. 
Auditors
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP have expressed their willingness 
to continue in ofﬁce and a resolution to reappoint them as the
Group’s auditors will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
By order of the Board
Judith Nicholson
Company Secretary
26 February 2007
Avis Europe plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
40
Avis Europe plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
40
Directors’ Report
for the year ended 31 December 41
Avis Europe plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
Independent Auditors’ Report 
to the Shareholders of Avis Europe plc on the Consolidated Financial Statements
We have audited the Group Financial Statements of Avis Europe plc
for the year ended 31 December 2006 which comprise the
Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement 
of Recognised Income and Expense, the Consolidated Balance
Sheet, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, the Signiﬁcant
Accounting Policies and the related notes. These Consolidated
Financial Statements have been prepared under the accounting
policies set out therein.
We have reported separately on the parent company Financial
Statements of Avis Europe plc for the year ended 31 December 2006
and on the information in the Directors’ Remuneration Report that is
described as having been audited.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors
The Directors’ responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and the
Consolidated Financial Statements in accordance with applicable
law and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as
adopted by the European Union are set out in the Statement of
Directors’ Responsibilities. The Directors are also responsible for
preparing the Remuneration Report.
Our responsibility is to audit the Consolidated Financial Statements
in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and
International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). This report,
including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the
Company’s shareholders as a body in accordance with Section 
235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose. We do
not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any
other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown
or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by
our prior consent in writing.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the Group Financial
Statements give a true and fair view and whether the Group
Financial Statements have been properly prepared in accordance
with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors’ Report is not
consistent with the Consolidated Financial Statements.
In addition we report to you, if, in our opinion, we have not received
all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if
information speciﬁed by law regarding Director’s remuneration and
other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reﬂects
the Company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the
Combined Code 2003 speciﬁed for our review by the Listing Rules
of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not. 
We are not required to consider whether the Board’s statements 
on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion 
on the effectiveness of the Group’s corporate governance
procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and
consider whether it is consistent with the audited Consolidated
Financial Statements. The other information comprises only the
Chairman’s Statement, the Chief Executive’s Review, the Financial
Review, the Corporate and Social Responsibility Report, the Directors
Listing, the Corporate Governance Statement, the Statement of
Directors’ Responsibilities, the unaudited part of the Remuneration
Report and the Five Year Summary. We consider the implications for
our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or
material inconsistencies with the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Basis of audit opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards
on Auditing (UK and Ireland) issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant
to the amounts and disclosures in the Group Financial Statements.
It also includes an assessment of the signiﬁcant estimates and
judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of the Group
Financial Statements, and of whether the accounting policies are
appropriate to the Group’s circumstances, consistently applied and
adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the
information and explanations which we considered necessary 
in order to provide us with sufﬁcient evidence to give reasonable
assurance that the Group Financial Statements are free from material
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of
the presentation of information in the Group Financial Statements.
Opinion
In our opinion:
• the Consolidated Financial Statements give a true and fair view, 
in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, 
of the state of the Group’s affairs as at 31 December 2006 
and of its proﬁt and cash ﬂows for the year then ended;
• the Consolidated Financial Statements have been properly
prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 
and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation; and
• the information given in the Directors’ Report is consistent 
with the Group Financial Statements.
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors
London
26 February 2007 Consolidated Income Statement
for the year ended 31 December
2006 2005
Amounts
Amounts excluded from
excluded from underlying Total
Underlying
1
underlying Total Underlying
1
as restated
2
as restated
2
Notes €m €m €m €m €m €m
Revenue 1, 2 1,337.1 – 1,337.1 1,276.5 – 1,276.5 
Cost of sales (748.3) – (748.3) (709.3) – (709.3)
Gross proﬁt 588.8 – 588.8 567.2 – 567.2 
Administrative expenses (483.2) (27.7) (510.9) (467.3) (18.5) (485.8)
Operating proﬁt 2, 3 105.6 (27.7) 77.9 99.9 (18.5) 81.4 
Finance revenue 6 4.3 1.8 6.1 1.9 – 1.9 
Finance costs 6 (71.5) (3.2) (74.7) (64.0) 0.9 (63.1)
Foreign exchange on net debt 6 – 0.9 0.9 – (0.1) (0.1)
Share of proﬁt of joint venture and associate 14 0.5 – 0.5 –––
Proﬁt before taxation 38.9 (28.2) 10.7 37.8 (17.7) 20.1 
Taxation 7 (11.2) 5.5 (5.7) (10.2) 2.2 (8.0)
Proﬁt for the year 27.7 (22.7) 5.0 27.6 (15.5) 12.1 
Attributable to:
– equity holders of the Company 32 27.7 (22.7) 5.0 27.3 (15.5) 11.8 
– minority interest 35 ––– 0.3 – 0.3 
Proﬁt for the year 27.7 (22.7) 5.0 27.6 (15.5) 12.1 
Earnings per share (euro cents)
Basic and diluted 9 0.5 1.5 
1 Underlying excludes exceptional items, certain re-measurement items and economic hedges – see Basis of Preparation.
2 Restated following the change to IAS 21 – see Basis of Preparation.
The accompanying Notes form an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements.
Avis Europe plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
42 Consolidated Statement of Recognised Income and Expense
for the year ended 31 December
2006 2005
Amounts
Amounts excluded from
excluded from underlying Total
Underlying
1
underlying Total Underlying
1
as restated
2
as restated
2
Notes €m €m €m €m €m €m
Actuarial gains/(losses) on retirement 
beneﬁt obligations 23, 32 – 2.9 2.9 – (38.1) (38.1)
Cash ﬂow hedges:
– net fair value (losses)/gains 33 – (11.1) (11.1) – 6.1 6.1 
– transferred to income statement 33 – 5.4 5.4 – 4.9 4.9 
Exchange differences on translation 
of foreign operations 33 – (1.2) (1.2) – 0.4 0.4 
Tax on net items taken to equity 7 – 1.5 1.5 – 2.9 2.9 
Net expense recognised directly in equity 34 – (2.5) (2.5) – (23.8) (23.8)
Proﬁt for the year 27.7 (22.7) 5.0 27.6 (15.5) 12.1 
Total recognised income and expense for the year 27.7 (25.2) 2.5 27.6 (39.3) (11.7)
Impact of adoption of IAS 32 and IAS 39 34 ––– – (11.3) (11.3)
Changes in equity – other than those arising 
from transactions with equity holders in their 
capacity as equity holders 27.7 (25.2) 2.5 27.6 (50.6) (23.0)
Total recognised income and expense for the 
year is attributable to:
– equity holders of the Company 27.7 (25.2) 2.5 27.3 (39.3) (12.0)
– minority interest ––– 0.3 – 0.3
Total recognised income and expense for the year 27.7 (25.2) 2.5 27.6 (39.3) (11.7)
1 Underlying excludes exceptional items, certain re-measurement items and economic hedges – see Basis of Preparation.
2 Restated following the change to IAS 21 – see Basis of Preparation.
The accompanying Notes form an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements.
43
Avis Europe plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Consolidated Balance Sheet
at 31 December
2006 2005
as restated
1
Notes €m €m
Goodwill 10 7.9 7.8 
Other intangible assets 11 7.9 5.0 
Property, plant and equipment:
– vehicles 12 505.7 464.0 
– other property, plant and equipment 13 85.3 85.4 
Investments accounted for using the equity method 14 10.2 10.6 
Other ﬁnancial assets:
– available for sale investments 15 0.7 0.6 
– derivative ﬁnancial instruments 26 6.8 –
Deferred tax assets 16 70.5 60.7 
Non-current assets 695.0 634.1 
Non-current assets held for sale 17 8.4 11.1 
Inventories 18 7.4 7.0 
Trade and other receivables 19 1,358.6 1,331.6 
Current tax assets 6.0 3.8 
Other ﬁnancial assets:
– held for trading 15 22.6 15.0 
– derivative ﬁnancial instruments 26 4.5 3.1 
Cash and short-term deposits 20 116.6 98.8 
Current assets 1,515.7 1,459.3 
Total assets 2,219.1 2,104.5 
Trade and other payables 21 671.2 657.4 
Current tax liabilities 29.3 30.3 
Obligations under ﬁnance leases 24 283.2 276.2 
Other ﬁnancial liabilities:
– borrowings 25 231.7 114.1 
– deferred consideration 25 0.3 0.3 
– derivative ﬁnancial instruments 26 31.3 6.6 
Current liabilities 1,247.0 1,084.9 
Deferred tax liabilities 16 59.5 52.4 
Provisions 22 64.6 52.3 
Retirement beneﬁt obligations 23 122.0 129.3 
Obligations under ﬁnance leases 24 2.0 1.9 
Other ﬁnancial liabilities:
– borrowings 25 559.2 611.6 
– deferred consideration 25 32.7 32.7 
– derivative ﬁnancial instruments 26 42.3 52.8 
Non-current liabilities 882.3 933.0 
Total liabilities 2,129.3 2,017.9 
Net assets 89.8 86.6 
Equity
Called-up share capital 29 13.1 13.1 
Share premium 30 381.5 381.5 
Own shares held 30 (0.7) (1.1)
Retained earnings 32 (290.5) (299.0)
Other reserves 33 (14.5) (8.7)
Shareholders’ equity 34 88.9 85.8 
Minority interest 35 0.9 0.8 
Total equity 89.8 86.6 
1 Restated following the change to IAS 21 – see Basis of Preparation.
The accompanying Notes form an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements.
The Consolidated Financial Statements including accompanying Notes, were approved by the Board on 26 February 2007 and were signed
on its behalf by:
M E Hennessy M R Smith
Chief Executive Finance Director
Avis Europe plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
44 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
for the year ended 31 December
2006 2005
Notes €m €m
Operating proﬁt 77.9 81.4 
Reverse depreciation on property, plant and equipment 3 180.5 152.3 
Reverse amortisation of other intangible assets 3 5.2 1.3 
Reverse adjustments arising on differences between sales proceeds and depreciated amounts (23.6) (10.7)
Reverse operating goodwill impairment 3 0.3 0.5 
Reverse non-cash operating lease charge on manufacturer repurchase contracts 3 171.4 190.4 
Payments with respect to manufacturer repurchase contracts (1,252.4) (1,469.5)
Receipts with respect to manufacturer repurchase contracts 1,130.6 1,190.6 
Reverse share-based payment charges 4 0.2 0.4 
Increase in inventories (0.4) (0.8)
(Increase)/decrease in receivables (20.3) 45.2 
Decrease in payables (3.8) (14.2)
Increase in provisions 12.0 8.2 
(Decrease)/increase in retirement beneﬁt obligations (4.8) 3.2 
Reverse net re-measurement (gains)/losses on non debt-related derivative ﬁnancial instruments 3 (1.6) 4.1 
Cash ﬂow on derivative ﬁnancial instruments – non-debt 0.4 (2.9)
Cash ﬂow on termination of operation – (1.7)
Net cash generated from operating activities before taxation 271.6 177.8 
Tax paid (9.8) (3.1)
Net cash generated from operating activities 261.8 174.7 
Investing activities
Purchase of other intangible assets (8.1) (3.6)
Purchase of vehicles (492.6) (495.6)
Proceeds on disposal of vehicles 294.3 282.5 
Purchase of other property, plant and equipment (21.7) (19.1)
Proceeds on disposal of other property, plant and equipment 2.1 5.1 
Proceeds on disposal of non-current assets held for sale 85.4 87.3 
(Purchase)/disposal of ﬁnancial assets held for trading 37a, b (8.2) 58.4 
Acquisitions 36 (0.3) (1.3)
Net cash used in from investing activities (149.1) (86.3)
Financing activities
Net proceeds from the issue of share capital 29 – 166.2 
Finance revenue received 4.3 1.9 
Finance costs paid (57.6) (51.4)
Finance cost element of ﬁnance lease payments (11.7) (10.5)
Net capital element of ﬁnance lease payments 37a, b (97.3) (92.7)
Cash ﬂow on derivative ﬁnancial instruments – debt 37a, b (4.8) (8.0)
Increase/(decrease) in bank and other loans 37a, b 80.7 (34.8)
Net cash used in ﬁnancing activities (86.4) (29.3)
Increase in cash and cash equivalents (excluding exchange rate changes) 26.3 59.1 
Effects of exchange rate changes 37a, b 0.6 1.8 
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 26.9 60.9 
Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January 37a 86.4 25.5 
Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 113.3 86.4 
The accompanying Notes form an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements.
45
Avis Europe plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Avis Europe plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
46
Signiﬁcant Accounting Policies
Applicable to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2006
Basis of preparation
Since 1 January 2005, the Group has prepared Consolidated
Financial Statements in accordance with EU endorsed International
Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRSs”), International Financial
Reporting Interpretations Committee interpretations and the
Companies Act 1985 applicable to companies reporting under 
IFRS. Until 31 December 2004, the Group prepared Consolidated
Financial Statements in accordance with UK GAAP .
IFRS is in the early years of being applied in the United Kingdom 
and in a large number of countries. The basis of accounting and
format of presentation remains subject to change following any
further interpretative guidance that may be issued by the International
Accounting Standards Board (“IASB”) and the International Financial
Reporting Interpretations Committee (“IFRIC”) from time to time.
The European Commission has not yet endorsed all of the recent
amendments to the Standards or recent Interpretations. 
Furthermore, due to a number of new and revised standards
included within the body of standards that comprise IFRS, 
there is not yet a signiﬁcant body of established practice on 
which to draw upon in forming options regarding interpretation 
and application. Accordingly, practice is continuing to evolve.
The Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared 
on the historical cost basis and are prepared in accordance 
with the accounting policies set out below, which are consistent
with those followed in the preparation of the Consolidated 
Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2005 
except for the adoption of the following:
IAS 21 (Amendment), The Effects of Changes in Foreign
Exchange Rates (effective from 1 January 2006)
In December 2005, the International Accounting Standards Board
issued additional clariﬁcation and revisions to IAS 21, The Effects 
of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates. The clariﬁcation states 
that the net investment deﬁnition includes loans between “sister”
companies, and the revision also permits certain inter-company
items denominated in any currency to be included within a net
investment in a foreign operation. The revision to IAS 21 was
endorsed by the European Commission in May 2006. Following 
this endorsement the Group has concluded it is able to apply 
a net investment hedge to certain inter-company loans.
Comparative amounts have been restated accordingly.
The comparative amounts in respect of foreign exchange on 
debt recognised in the income statement have been reduced 
with a corresponding increase in the amount recorded in the
statement of recognised income and expense. In the year ended
31 December 2005, the restatement reduced the foreign exchange
amount recognised in the income statement from a gain of
€9.6 million to a loss of €0.1 million with a corresponding 
reduction in the tax charge from €10.9 million to €8.0 million. 
These restatements, in conjunction with an opening reserves
reclassiﬁcation at 1 January 2005 of €0.1 million, reduce 
opening retained earnings as at 1 January 2006 by €6.9 million 
with a corresponding increase in other reserves of €6.9 million.
If the clariﬁcation had not been applied in the current year, the
amount in respect of foreign exchange on debt recognised in the
income statement would have increased from a gain of €0.9 million
to a gain of €7.1 million with a corresponding increase in the taxation
charge from €5.7 million to €7.6 million. These adjustments would
be offset by corresponding adjustments in the statement of
recognised income and expense whereby there would have been 
an increase in the loss in respect of foreign exchange differences 
on translation of foreign operations, and a decrease in the tax 
credit on net items taken to equity. There would be no impact on 
the Group’s underlying result for the year and shareholder’s equity.
IAS 39 (Amendment), Cash Flow Hedge Accounting of
Forecast Intra-group Transactions (effective from
1 January 2006)
The amendment allows the foreign currency risk of a highly probable
forecast intra-group transaction to qualify as a hedged item in the
Consolidated Financial Statements, provided that: (a) the transaction
is denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of
the entity entering into that transaction; and (b) the foreign currency
risk will affect consolidated proﬁt or loss. This amendment is not
relevant to the Group’s operations, as the Group does not have 
any intra-group transactions that would qualify as a hedged item.
IAS 39 (Amendment), The Fair Value Option (effective from
1 January 2006)
This amendment changes the deﬁnition of ﬁnancial instruments
classiﬁed at fair value through proﬁt or loss and restricts the ability
to designate ﬁnancial instruments as part of this category. This
amendment has had no impact on the classiﬁcation of the Group’s
ﬁnancial instruments.
IAS 39 and IFRS 4 (Amendment), Financial Guarantee
Contracts (effective from 1 January 2006)
This amendment requires issued ﬁnancial guarantees, other than
those previously asserted by the entity to be insurance contracts, to
be initially recognised at their fair value and subsequently measured
at the higher of: (a) the unamortised balance of the related fees
received and deferred; and (b) the expenditure required to settle the
commitment at the balance sheet date. This amendment to IAS 39
did not affect the Group’s results of operations or ﬁnancial position.
The following other standards and interpretations to published
standards that are mandatory for accounting periods beginning on or
after 1 January 2006 have been adopted but have no impact on the
Consolidated Financial Statements: IFRS 6, Exploration For and
Evaluation of Mineral Resources; IFRIC 4, Determining Whether an
Arrangement Contains a Lease; IFRIC 5, Rights to Interests arising
from Decommissioning, Restoration and Environmental Rehabilitation
Funds; IFRIC 6, Liabilities arising from Participating in a Speciﬁc
Market – Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment; and IFRIC 7,
Applying the Restatement Approach under IAS 29 Financial
Reporting in Hyperinﬂationary Economies.
Standards, interpretations and amendments to
published standards that are not yet effective
Certain new standards, amendments and interpretations to existing
standards have been published that are mandatory for the Group’s
accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2007 or later
periods but which the Group has not early adopted, as follows:
IFRS 7, Financial Instruments: Disclosures, and a
complementary amendment to IAS 1, Presentation 
of Financial Statements – Capital Disclosures 
(effective from 1 January 2007)
IFRS 7 introduces new disclosures to improve the information 
about ﬁnancial instruments. It requires the disclosure of qualitative
and quantitative information about exposure to risks arising from
ﬁnancial instruments, including speciﬁed minimum disclosures about
credit risk, liquidity risk and market risk, including sensitivity analysis
to market risk. It replaces IAS 30, Disclosures in the Financial
Statements of Banks and Similar Financial Institutions, and disclosure
requirements in IAS 32, Financial Instruments: Disclosure and
Presentation. It is applicable to all entities that report under IFRS.
The amendment to IAS 1 introduces disclosures about the level of
an entity’s capital and how it manages capital. The Group assessed
the impact of IFRS 7 and the amendment to IAS 1 and concluded
that the main additional disclosures will be the sensitivity analysis 
to market risk and the capital disclosures required by the amendment
of IAS 1. The Group will apply IFRS 7 and the amendment to IAS 1
from annual periods beginning 1 January 2007.
Avis Europe plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
46 47
Avis Europe plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
IFRIC 9, Reassessment of Embedded Derivatives
(effective from 1 January 2007)
IFRIC 9 concludes that an entity must assess whether an embedded
derivative is required to be separated from the host contract and
accounted for as a derivative when the entity ﬁrst becomes party 
to the contract. Subsequent reassessment is prohibited unless 
there is a change in the terms of the contract that signiﬁcantly
modiﬁes the cash ﬂows which would be required under the
contract, in which case reassessment is required. Management
have concluded that this interpretation has no impact on how
embedded derivatives have been identiﬁed and recognised to date.
IFRIC 10, Interim Financial Reporting and Impairment
(effective from 1 January 2007)
IFRIC 10 states that an entity shall not reverse an impairment loss
recognised in a previous interim period in respect of goodwill or 
an investment in either an equity instrument or a ﬁnancial asset
carried at cost. As the Group has not (to date) reversed any
impairments recognised in previous periods, management have
concluded that this amendment has no immediate impact on the
Group’s Financial Statements.
IFRIC 11, IFRS 2, Group and Treasury Share Transactions
(effective from 1 January 2008)
IFRIC 11 provides guidance on applying IFRS 2. Where share-based
payments involving an entity’s own equity instruments in which the
entity chooses or is required to buy its own equity instruments
(treasury shares) to settle the share-based payment obligation 
these should be accounted for as an equity-settled share-based
transaction under IFRS 2. The Group believes that this amendment
should not have a signiﬁcant impact on the treatment of the Group’s
share-based payments.
IFRIC 12, Service Concession Arrangements 
(effective from 1 January 2008)
IFRIC 12 provides guidance on the treatment of government 
service concession arrangements and is deemed not relevant 
to the Group’s operations.
IFRS 8, Operating Segments (effective from 1 January 2009)
IFRS 8 requires an entity to adopt a “management approach” to
segment reporting such that segment information is the information
which management uses internally for calculating segment
performance and deciding how to allocate resources to operating
segments. This information may be different from that used to
prepare the income statement and balance sheet. Management
does not anticipate that the introduction of IFRS 8 will have a
signiﬁcant impact on the Group’s segmental disclosures. The Group
will apply IFRS 8 from annual periods beginning 1 January 2009.
Underlying measures
In addition to total performance measures, the Group discloses
underlying performance measures, including underlying proﬁt 
and underlying earnings per share. The Group believes that 
these underlying performance measures provide additional 
useful information on underlying trends to shareholders. The 
term “underlying” is not deﬁned under IFRS, and may therefore 
not be comparable with similarly titled proﬁt measurements
reported by other companies. It is not intended to be a 
substitute for, or superior to, IFRS measures of proﬁt.
Underlying measures are calculated based on reported proﬁt 
before exceptional items, certain re-measurement items and
adjustments to reﬂect the realised gains and losses on foreign
exchange forward contracts and accrued interest cash ﬂows 
on any ﬁnancial instruments (economic hedge adjustments).
Exceptional items
Exceptional items are material non-recurring items that derive from
events or transactions that fall within the ordinary activities of the
Group, and which individually or, if of a similar type, in aggregate,
are separately disclosed by virtue of their size or incidence.
Certain re-measurement items
Items that represent the certain re-measurement of underlying
assets or liabilities (for example due to interest rate or exchange
rate changes) are presented as certain re-measurement items.
Events which may give rise to the classiﬁcation of gains and losses
as certain re-measurement items include the following:
a) recognised fair value gains and losses on derivatives in accordance
with the ﬁnancial instruments and hedge accounting policy below;
b) exchange gains and losses arising upon the translation of foreign
currency borrowings at the closing rate; and
c) actuarial gains and losses arising on deﬁned beneﬁt retirement
beneﬁt schemes.
Economic hedge adjustments
Under IAS 39, the Group applies hedge accounting to hedge
relationships (primarily forward exchange contracts, cross currency
interest rate swaps and interest rate swaps) where it is permissible
and practicable to do so. Due to the nature of its economic hedging
relationships, in a number of circumstances the Group is unable to
apply hedge accounting to these derivatives. The Group continues,
however, to enter into these arrangements as they provide certainty
of the exchange rates applying to the foreign currency transactions
entered into by the Group and the interest rate on the Group’s debt.
These arrangements result in ﬁxed and determined cash ﬂows. 
The Group believes that these arrangements remain effective as
economic hedges, and therefore adjustment is made to reported
proﬁt measures such that underlying proﬁt reﬂects full application 
of hedge accounting.
Functional currency
The Company’s functional currency is sterling. However, as a
signiﬁcant proportion of the Group’s revenues, costs, assets and
funding arise in euro, the Consolidated Financial Statements of the
Group are presented in euro. 
Basis of consolidation
The Consolidated Financial Statements comprise a consolidation 
of the accounts of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings. 
The accounting reference dates of certain of the Group’s subsidiary
undertakings and its associated undertaking are governed by 
local requirements and are not coterminous with the Group’s
31 December year end. For those companies with non-coterminous
year ends, management accounts for the relevant period to
31 December have been consolidated. The main subsidiary
undertakings with such non-coterminous year ends are Avis
Location de Voitures sas (28 February) and Avis Autonoleggio SpA
(30 June). In the opinion of the Directors, the expense of providing
additional coterminous statutory accounts, together with potential
consequential delay in producing the Group’s Consolidated Financial
Statements, would outweigh any beneﬁt to the shareholders.
Subsidiary undertakings
Subsidiary undertakings are those entities in which the Group has,
directly or indirectly, an interest of more than half of the voting rights
or otherwise has the power to exercise control over the operations.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date that control is transferred
to the Group and are no longer consolidated from the date that
control ceases. All inter-company transactions, balances and
unrealised gains on transactions between Group companies are
eliminated upon consolidation.  Signiﬁcant Accounting Policies continued
Applicable to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2006
Avis Europe plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
48
Joint ventures
A joint venture is a contractual arrangement whereby the Group 
and one or more parties undertake an economic activity that is
subject to joint control. Joint control is when the strategic, ﬁnancial
and operating policy decisions relating to the activity require the
unanimous consent of the parties sharing control.
Interests in joint ventures are recognised using the equity method.
Unrealised gains and losses on transactions between the Group
and its joint ventures are eliminated to the extent of the Group’s
interest in the joint ventures. The Group’s investment in joint
ventures includes goodwill on acquisition. The Group’s share of
proﬁt from joint ventures represents the Group’s share of the joint
venture’s proﬁt after tax. If the Group’s share of losses in a joint
venture equals or exceeds its investment in the joint venture, the
Group does not recognise further losses unless it has incurred
obligations or made payments on behalf of the joint venture.
Associate undertakings
Investments in the associate undertaking are accounted for using
the equity method. This is an undertaking over which the Group has
signiﬁcant inﬂuence but not control, generally accompanied by a
share of between 20% and 50% of the voting rights. The Group’s
share of proﬁt from the associate represents the Group’s share of
the associate’s proﬁt after tax. 
Segment reporting
The Group’s primary reporting format is business segments and 
its secondary format is geographical segments. A business segment
is a component of the Group that is engaged in providing a group 
of related products and services, and is subject to risks and 
returns that are different from those other business segments. 
A geographical segment is a component of the Group that 
operates within a particular economic environment and this 
is subject to risks and returns that are different from those 
of components operating in other economic environments.
Revenue
Revenue includes vehicle rental income, fees from the provision 
of services incidental to vehicle rental, and fees receivable from
licensees, net of discounts and excluding inter-company sales,
value added and sales taxes. 
When the outcome of a transaction involving the rendering of services
(including the provision of licence rights) can be estimated reliably,
revenue associated with the transaction is recognised by reference
to the stage of completion of the transaction at the balance sheet
date. The outcome of a transaction can be estimated reliably when
all the following conditions are satisﬁed:
a) the amount of revenue can be measured reliably;
b) it is probable that the economic beneﬁts associated with the
transaction will ﬂow to the Group;
c) the stage of completion of the transaction at the balance sheet
date can be measured reliably; and
d) the cost incurred for the transaction and the costs to complete
the transaction can be measured reliably.
Cost of sales
Cost of sales includes selling, revenue and rental related costs (eg
commissions and credit card fees), and vehicle costs. Contributions
to vehicle costs from suppliers are credited over the holding period
of the related vehicles. Any such contributions dependent on
performance criteria are recognised in the income statement only to
the extent that it is considered probable that the criteria will be met.
Finance costs
Finance costs are recognised as an expense in the period in which
they are incurred.
Share-based payments
Share-based payments are exclusively made in connection with
employee stock option plans (“ESOPs”). 
IFRS 2, Share-Based Payment, is not applied to shares, share
options or other equity instruments that were granted before or on
7 November 2002 nor for options issued after that date which had
vested at or before 1 January 2005. Equity-settled ESOPs granted
after that date are accounted for in accordance with IFRS 2, such
that the fair value of the employee service received in exchange for
the grant of the option is recognised in the income statement over
the related performance period. The total amount to be expensed
over the vesting period is determined by reference to the fair value of
the options granted, excluding the impact of any non-market vesting
conditions (for example proﬁtability growth targets). Non-market
vesting conditions are included in assumptions about the number 
of options that are expected to become exercisable. At each balance
sheet date, the Group revises its estimates of the number of options
that are expected to become exercisable. It recognises the impact
of the revision of original estimates in the income statement, with 
a corresponding adjustment to equity.
The proceeds received net of any directly attributable transaction
costs are credited to share capital and share premium when the
options are exercised.
Goodwill
Business combinations are accounted for by applying the 
purchase method. The excess of the cost of the business
combination over the acquirer’s interest in the net fair value 
of the identiﬁable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities,
recognised in accordance with IFRS 3, Business Combinations,
constitutes goodwill, and is recognised as an asset. Where this
excess is negative, it is recognised immediately in the income
statement. Goodwill on acquisition of subsidiaries is included in
“Goodwill”. Goodwill on acquisition of associates and joint ventures
is included in “Investments accounted for using equity method”.
After initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any
accumulated impairment losses, until disposal or termination 
of the previously acquired business. The proﬁt or loss on disposal 
or termination will be calculated after charging the book amount, 
at current exchange rates, of any such goodwill through the income
statement. Goodwill is tested for impairment at least annually, and
whenever there are indications that goodwill may have become
impaired (including planned disposal or termination where there 
are indications that the value of the goodwill has been permanently
impaired). Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units for the
purpose of impairment testing. The allocation is made to those cash-
generating units or group of cash-generating units that are expected
to beneﬁt from the business combination in which the goodwill arose.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before 1 January 2004, the date of
transition to International Financial Reporting Standards, has been
retained at the previous UK GAAP amounts, subject to being tested
for impairment at that date. The Group’s policy up to and including
28 February 1998 was to eliminate goodwill arising upon acquisitions
to reserves. Under IFRS 1 and IFRS 3, such goodwill will remain
eliminated against reserves and is not included in determining any
subsequent proﬁt or loss on disposal.
Other intangible assets
Other intangible assets are valued at cost less any accumulated
amortisation and any accumulated impairment losses. Costs that are
directly associated with identiﬁable and unique software products
controlled by the Group and which have probable economic
beneﬁts exceeding the cost beyond one year, are recognised as
intangible assets. Computer software programmes are amortised on
a straight-line basis over periods varying between two and ﬁve years. 49
Avis Europe plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
Vehicles
Vehicles are initially measured at cost. This cost comprises the
purchase price (including any import duties and non-refundable
purchase taxes, after deducting trade discounts and rebates), plus
any costs directly attributable to bringing the vehicle to the location
and condition necessary for it to be capable of operating. After initial
recognition, the vehicle is carried at its cost less any accumulated
depreciation and any accumulated impairment losses. Straight-line
depreciation is based on initial cost, after consideration of expected
holding periods and estimates of residual values. Where the carrying
amount of a vehicle is greater than its estimated recoverable amount,
it is written down immediately to its recoverable amount. Recoverable
amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use. 
Other property, plant and equipment
Other property, plant and equipment is initially measured at cost. This
cost comprises the purchase price (including any import duties and
non-refundable purchase taxes, after deducting trade discounts and
rebates), plus any costs directly attributable to bringing the asset to
the location and condition necessary for it to be capable of operating.
If applicable, initial estimates of the cost of dismantling and removing
the item and restoring the site are also included in the cost of the item. 
After initial recognition, the ﬁxed assets are carried at cost less any
accumulated depreciation and any accumulated impairment losses.
The depreciable amount of the item is allocated according to the
straight-line method over its useful economic life. The main useful
lives are as follows:
a) Buildings: 40 to 50 years;
b) Plant and equipment: 3 to 15 years;
c) IT equipment: 2 to 7 years;
d) Leased assets: depending on the length of the lease.
Where the carrying amount of a ﬁxed asset is greater than its
estimated recoverable amount, it is written down immediately to 
its recoverable amount. Recoverable amount is the higher of fair
value less costs to sell and value in use and is determined for an
individual asset. 
Leases
Leases in which a signiﬁcant portion of the risks and rewards of
ownership are retained by the lessor are classiﬁed as operating leases.
Operating leases for which the Group is the lessor
Rental income is recognised on a straight-line basis over the lease
term. Unless the vehicles themselves are held under operating leases
for which the Group is the lessee, vehicles leased out under
operating leases are included in vehicles in the balance sheet. 
They are depreciated over their expected useful lives. 
Operating leases for which the Group is the lessee
Lease payments under operating leases are recognised as expenses
in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Vehicles subject to manufacturer repurchase agreements
Vehicles subject to manufacturer repurchase agreements are not
recognised as non-current assets since these arrangements are
accounted for as operating leases (lessee accounting). The difference
between the initial payment and the ﬁnal repurchase price (the
obligation of the manufacturer) is considered as a deferred charge
and is classiﬁed as prepaid vehicle operating lease charges within
trade and other receivables. At inception of the arrangement, a
separate repurchase agreement receivable is also recognised 
within trade and other receivables for the ﬁnal repurchase price. 
Finance leases for which the Group is the lessee
Leases of vehicles (including vehicles subject to manufacturer 
repurchase arrangements), and other property, plant and equipment,
where the Group has substantially all the risks and rewards of
ownership, are classiﬁed as ﬁnance leases. Finance leases are
capitalised at the inception of the lease at the lower of the fair value
of the leased property or the present value of the minimum lease
payments. Each lease payment is allocated between the liability 
and the ﬁnance charge so as to achieve a constant rate of return 
on the ﬁnance balance outstanding. The corresponding rental
obligations, net of ﬁnance charges, are included in interest bearing
liabilities. The interest element of the ﬁnance cost is charged to the
income statement over the lease period. The leased assets are
depreciated over their expected useful lives on a basis consistent
with similar owned vehicles or other property, plant and equipment.
If there is no reasonable certainty that ownership will be acquired 
by the end of the lease term, the asset is depreciated over the
shorter of the lease term and its useful life. 
Non-current assets held for sale
Non-current assets are classiﬁed as held for sale if their carrying
amount will be recovered through a sale transaction rather than
through continuing use. This condition is met when the sale is 
highly probable, the asset is available for immediate sale in its
present condition, management are committed to the asset
disposal, and disposal is expected to be completed within 12
months. Non-current assets classiﬁed as held for sale cease 
to be depreciated and are measured at the lower of carrying 
amount and fair value less selling costs. 
Inventories
Inventories are measured at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
The cost of inventories comprises all costs of purchase, costs of
conversion and other costs incurred in bringing the inventories to
their location and condition at the balance sheet date. Items are
valued using the ﬁrst in, ﬁrst out method. When inventories are 
used, the carrying amount of those inventories are recognised 
as an expense in the period in which the related revenue is
recognised. Provision for write-downs to net realisable value 
and losses of inventories are recognised as an expense in the
period in which the write-down or loss occurs. Reversals are
recognised as a reduction in the amount of inventories recognised
as an expense in the period in which the reversal occurs.
Trade and other receivables
Trade and other receivables are measured at amortised cost using
the effective interest method as reduced by appropriate allowances
for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash comprises cash in hand, demand deposits and bank overdrafts.
Cash equivalents include short-term, highly liquid investments that
are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and which are
subject to an insigniﬁcant risk of changes in value. Bank overdrafts
are shown within borrowings in current liabilities on the balance sheet.
Trade and other payables
Trade and other payables are measured at amortised cost using the
effective interest method.
Provisions
A provision is recognised when there is a present obligation (legal 
or constructive) as a result of a past event, it is probable that an
outﬂow of resources embodying economic beneﬁts will be required
to settle the obligation, and a reliable estimate can be made of 
the amount of the obligation. If these conditions are not met, 
no provision is recognised.  Signiﬁcant Accounting Policies continued
Applicable to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2006
Avis Europe plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
50
Uninsured losses are recognised when the underlying event occurs.
Accruals are made for uninsured losses notiﬁed and provisions 
are made for claims incurred but not reported at each year end.
Recoveries of amounts claimed from insurers to settle expenses
incurred are recognised when it is virtually certain that reimbursement
will be received. 
Provisions are measured at the value of the expenditures expected
to be required to settle the obligation.
Retirement beneﬁt obligations
The Group operates various deﬁned beneﬁt and deﬁned contribution
retirement beneﬁt plans. Most of these plans are funded schemes,
that is they are ﬁnanced through a pension fund or an external
insurance policy. The minimum funding level of these schemes 
is deﬁned by national rules. 
Payments to deﬁned contribution retirement beneﬁt plans are
charged as an expense as they fall due. 
The Group’s commitments under deﬁned beneﬁt retirement beneﬁt
plans, and the related costs, are valued using the “projected unit
credit method”, with actuarial valuations being carried out at each
balance sheet date. Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in 
full in the period in which they occur. They are recognised in the
statement of recognised income and expense. Past service cost is
recognised immediately to the extent that the beneﬁts have already
vested, and otherwise is amortised on a straight-line basis over the
average period until the beneﬁts become vested.
The retirement beneﬁt obligation recognised in the balance sheet
represents the present value of the deﬁned beneﬁt obligation 
as reduced by the fair value of scheme assets. Any asset 
resulting from this calculation is limited to past service cost, 
plus the present value of any refunds and reductions in future
contributions to the plan. The current service costs and gains 
and losses on settlements and curtailments are included in
operating expenses in the income statement.
Taxation
The current tax payable is based on taxable proﬁt for the year.
Taxable proﬁt differs from net proﬁt as reported in the income
statement because it excludes items of income or expense that 
are taxable or deductible in other years, and it further excludes
items that are never taxable or deductible. The Group’s liability 
for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted
or substantially enacted at the balance sheet date. 
Current tax for current and prior periods, to the extent unpaid, 
are recognised as a liability. If the amount already paid in respect 
of current and prior periods exceeds the amount due for those
periods, the excess is recognised as a current asset. The beneﬁt
relating to a tax loss that can be carried back to recover current tax
of a previous period is recognised as an asset.
Deferred tax is provided in full using the balance sheet liability
method, on temporary differences between the carrying amount 
of assets and liabilities for ﬁnancial reporting purposes and the
corresponding tax bases for taxation purposes. Deferred taxes are
not calculated on the following temporary differences: (i) the initial
recognition of goodwill and (ii) the initial recognition of assets and
liabilities that affect neither accounting nor taxable proﬁt. The amount
of deferred tax provided is based on the expected basis of realisation
or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using
tax rates enacted or substantially enacted at the balance sheet
date. A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that 
it is probable that future taxable proﬁts will be available against
which the unused tax losses and credits can be utilised. Deferred
tax assets previously recognised are reduced to the extent that it 
is no longer probable that the related tax beneﬁt will be realised.
Deferred tax is not recognised in relation to temporary differences
associated with unremitted earnings of the Group’s overseas
subsidiaries where the Group is in a position to control the timing 
of the reversal of the temporary differences and it is probable that
such differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Current and deferred tax are charged or credited to the income
statement except when they relate to items charged or credited
directly to equity, in which case the tax is also dealt with in equity.
Foreign currency translation
The Group consolidation is prepared in sterling. Income statements of
foreign operations are translated into sterling at the weighted average
exchange rates for the period and balance sheets are translated 
into sterling at the exchange rate ruling on the balance sheet date.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a
foreign entity are treated as local currency assets and liabilities of
the foreign entity and are translated at the closing rate. 
Foreign currency transactions are accounted for at the exchange
rate prevailing at the date of the transactions. Gains and losses
resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the
translation of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in 
foreign currencies are recognised in the income statement.
Exchange movements arising from the retranslation at closing 
rates of the Group’s net investment in subsidiaries, joint ventures
and associates are taken to the translation reserve. The Group’s net
investment includes the Group’s share of net assets of subsidiaries,
joint ventures and associates, and certain inter-company loans. The
net investment deﬁnition includes loans between “sister” companies
and certain inter-company items denominated in any currency.
Other exchange movements are taken to the income statement.
Where the Group hedges net investments in foreign operations, 
the gains and losses relating to the effective portion of the hedging
instrument is recognised in the translation reserve in equity. The gain
or loss relating to any ineffective portion is recognised in the income
statement. Gains and losses accumulated in equity are included in
the income statement when the foreign operation is disposed of.
The Group’s Financial Statements are presented in euro. The
consolidated sterling assets and liabilities at each balance sheet
date are recalculated into euro at the closing rate at that balance
sheet date. The consolidated sterling income and expenses are
recalculated into euro at the average monthly exchange rates. 
All resulting exchange differences arising after 1 January 2004 
are taken to the translation reserve. 
Equity
Where the Company (or its subsidiaries) reacquires its own equity
instruments, those instruments are deducted from equity as treasury
shares. Where such equity instruments are subsequently sold, 
any consideration received is recognised in equity. 
Dividend distribution
Final dividends to the Company’s shareholders are recognised as 
a liability in the Consolidated Financial Statements in the period in
which the dividends are approved by the Company’s shareholders.
Interim dividends are recognised when paid.
Financial instruments and hedge accounting
In accordance with IAS 39, ﬁnancial instruments are recorded
initially at fair value. Subsequent measurement depends upon 
the designation of the instrument, as follows:
a) non-current investments (other than interests in joint ventures,
associates and ﬁxed deposits) and short-term investments 
(other than ﬁxed deposits) are normally designated as available
for sale and are held at fair value;  51
Avis Europe plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
b) ﬁxed deposits, comprising principally funds held with banks 
and other ﬁnancial institutions, and short-term borrowings and
overdrafts are classiﬁed as loans and receivables and are held 
at amortised cost;
c) derivatives, comprising interest rate swaps, foreign exchange
contracts, cross currency interest rate swaps, options and
embedded derivatives, are classiﬁed as derivative ﬁnancial
instruments and are held at fair value; and
d) long-term loans are generally held at amortised cost. 
The fair values of derivative ﬁnancial instruments are determined
using a number of methods and assumptions based on prevailing
conditions at the balance sheet date including market forward interest
rates and exchange rates at the balance sheet date. Changes in fair
value of derivative ﬁnancial instruments that do not qualify for hedge
accounting are recognised in the income statement as they arise.
The Group documents at the inception of the transaction the
relationship between the hedging instruments and hedged item, 
as well as its risk management objectives and strategy for
undertaking various hedging transactions. The Group also
documents its assessment, both at hedge inception and on 
an ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives that are used in
hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes 
in fair values or cash ﬂows of hedged items.
The full fair value of a hedging derivative is classiﬁed as a non-current
asset or liability if the remaining maturity of the hedged item is more
than 12 months, and as a current asset or liability if the remaining
maturity of the hedged item is less than 12 months. Trading
derivatives are classiﬁed as a current asset or liability.
Cash ﬂow hedges
Changes in the fair value of derivative ﬁnancial instruments that 
are designated and effective as hedges of future cash ﬂows are
recognised directly in equity and any ineffective portion is recognised
immediately in the income statement. If the cash ﬂow hedge is a ﬁrm
commitment or the forecast transaction results in the recognition 
of an asset or a liability, then, at the time the asset or liability is
recognised, the associated gains or losses on the derivative that 
had previously been recognised in equity are included in the initial
measurement of the asset or liability. For hedges that do not result 
in the recognition of an asset or a liability, amounts deferred in
equity are recognised in the income statement in the same period 
in which the hedged item affects net proﬁt or loss.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge 
no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative
gain or loss existing in equity at that time remains in equity and is
recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised 
in the income statement. When a forecast transaction is no longer
expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported 
in equity is immediately transferred to the income statement.
Fair value hedges
For an effective hedge of an exposure to changes in the fair value of
a hedged item, the hedged item is adjusted for changes in fair value
attributable to the risk being hedged with a corresponding entry in
the income statement. Gains or losses from re-measuring the
derivative, or for non-derivatives, the foreign currency component 
of its carrying amount, are also recognised in the income statement.
If the hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, 
the adjustment to the carrying amount of a hedged item for which 
the effective interest method is used is amortised to the income
statement over the period to maturity.
Embedded derivatives
Derivatives embedded in other ﬁnancial instruments or other host
contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risks and
characteristics are not closely related to those of the host contracts
and the host contracts are not carried at fair value. Embedded
derivatives are held at fair value, with unrealised gains and losses
recognised in the income statement as they arise.
Critical accounting policies and judgements
The preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements requires
management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the
reported amounts of revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities, and
disclosure of contingencies at the date of the Consolidated Financial
Statements. If in the future such estimates and assumptions, which
are based on management’s best judgement at the date of the
Consolidated Financial Statements, deviate from the actual
circumstances, the original estimates and assumptions will be
modiﬁed as appropriate in the period in which the circumstances
change. The following policies are considered to be of greater
complexity and/or particularly subject to the exercise of judgement.
Goodwill
As required by IAS 36, Impairment of Assets, the Group regularly
monitors the carrying value of its assets, including goodwill.
Impairment reviews compare the carrying values to the higher 
of fair value less costs to sell or the present value of future cash
ﬂows that are derived from the relevant asset or cash-generating
unit. These reviews therefore depend on management estimates
and judgements, in particular in relation to the forecasting of future
cash ﬂows and the discount rate applied to the cash ﬂows.
Exceptional items
Exceptional items are those that, by virtue of their size or 
incidence, should be separately disclosed in the income statement.
The determination of which items should be separately disclosed 
as operating exceptional items requires judgement.
Fleet
Given the nature of the Group’s business, the main asset in the
balance sheet is the vehicle ﬂeet. The majority of ﬂeet is held under
manufacturer repurchase arrangements, which guarantee a disposal
value at the end of the holding period. However, a proportion of ﬂeet
has no such contractual protection and therefore the value at the end
of the rental life will depend on the market for those vehicles at the
time of disposal. Judgement is therefore required in the estimation
of disposal value. 
Post-employment beneﬁts
Application of IAS 19, Employee Beneﬁts, requires the exercise 
of judgement in relation to setting the assumptions used by the
actuaries in assessing the ﬁnancial position of each scheme. The
Group determines the assumptions to be adopted in discussion
with its actuaries, and believes these assumptions to be in line 
with UK generally accepted practice, but the application of different
assumptions could have a signiﬁcant effect on the amounts reﬂected
in the income statement and balance sheet in respect of post-
employment beneﬁts. The sensitivity of principal scheme liabilities to
changes in the assumptions used by actuaries is set out in Note 23.
Provisions
The Group continues to carry balance sheet provisions in a number
of areas against exposures that arise in the normal course of trading.
These provisions cover areas such as uninsured losses, termination
and reorganisation activities and property dilapidation reserves.
Judgement is involved in assessing the exposures in these areas
and hence in setting the level of the required provision. Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 December 
1 Revenue
The activity of the Group is the supply of vehicle rental services and revenue is derived entirely from continuing activities. The Group
experiences a natural increase in demand from leisure customers over the European summer holiday months. This seasonality generally
results in lower revenue earned in the ﬁrst half as compared to the second half of each year, together with an increase in the number of
vehicles acquired in the period leading up to the summer months.
2 Business and geographical segments
The dominant source and nature of the Group’s risks and returns govern whether its primary segment reporting is by business segment 
or geographical segment. The Group is subject to signiﬁcant variations in risks and rewards between undertaking its operations through
corporately owned businesses, as compared with the licensing of such operations to third parties. Given the nature of the separate brands,
the Group is also subject to signiﬁcant variations in risks and rewards between its Avis branded businesses and its Budget branded
businesses. These variations contrast with more limited differentials between the risk and reward proﬁle of operations in different geographical
locations. The Group’s primary reporting format is therefore by business segment, and the secondary reporting format is geographical.
Segment assets include software, vehicles, other property, plant and equipment, inventories, receivables and operating cash, goodwill,
corporation tax, deferred tax and investments. Segment liabilities include operating liabilities, taxation and certain corporate borrowings.
Capital expenditure comprises additions to software, vehicles (excluding vehicles under manufacturer repurchase arrangements), other
property, plant and equipment, including additions arising from business combinations, excluding goodwill arising on these acquisitions. 
a) Business segments
2006 2005
Revenue €m €m
Avis Corporate 1,262.7 1,209.6 
Avis Licensees 29.0 25.1 
Avis 1,291.7 1,234.7 
Budget Corporate 36.6 33.6 
Budget Licensees 8.8 8.2 
Budget 45.4 41.8 
Total Group 1,337.1 1,276.5 
There are immaterial sales between the business segments. 
2006 2005
Amounts Amounts
excluded from excluded from
Underlying
1
underlying Total Underlying
1
underlying Total
Operating proﬁt €m €m €m €m €m €m
Avis Corporate 131.9 (8.4) 123.5 130.8 (4.1) 126.7 
Avis Licensees 26.3 – 26.3 23.1 – 23.1 
Avis 158.2 (8.4) 149.8 153.9 (4.1) 149.8 
Budget Corporate (6.9) (1.6) (8.5) (8.4) – (8.4)
Budget Licensees 2.1 – 2.1 1.5 – 1.5 
Budget (4.8) (1.6) (6.4) (6.9) – (6.9)
Unallocated (47.8) (17.7) (65.5) (47.1) (14.4) (61.5)
Operating proﬁt 105.6 (27.7) 77.9 99.9 (18.5) 81.4 
1 See Basis of Preparation.
Unallocated operating proﬁt primarily comprises head ofﬁce expenses. 
No adjustment is made between segments to recharge the value of the overall Avis/Budget goodwill, brand or licence rights. Avis goodwill
of €1,080.4 million arising before 1 March 1998 was fully written off to reserves, and Budget goodwill of €33.9 million arising on 12 March
2003 has been fully impaired and charged to the income statement in previous periods. Had the value of goodwill, brand or licence rights
been charged to the segments, the individual segment results would be materially affected. No adjustment is made between segments to
allocate the value of goodwill written off to reserves in previous periods.
Avis Europe plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
52 2 Business and geographical segments continued
Assets Liabilities Net assets
2006 2005 2006 2005 2006 2005
Balance sheet €m €m €m €m €m €m
Avis Corporate 2,012.2 1,988.8 (1,701.2) (1,708.4) 311.0 280.4 
Avis Licensees 5.2 6.9 – – 5.2 6.9 
Avis 2,017.4 1,995.7 (1,701.2) (1,708.4) 316.2 287.3 
Budget Corporate 44.8 38.6 (78.3) (65.2) (33.5) (26.6)
Budget Licensees 2.5 3.4 (0.7) (0.6) 1.8 2.8 
Budget 47.3 42.0 (79.0) (65.8) (31.7) (23.8)
Share of joint venture and associate (see Note 14) 10.2 10.6 – – 10.2 10.6 
Unallocated 144.2 56.2 (349.1) (243.7) (204.9) (187.5)
Total Group 2,219.1 2,104.5 (2,129.3) (2,017.9) 89.8 86.6 
Unallocated primarily represents head ofﬁce assets and liabilities.
Capital expenditure Depreciation and amortisation Impairment losses
2006 2005 2006 2005 2006 2005
Other information €m €m €m €m €m €m
Avis Corporate 782.0 669.0 175.1 145.2 0.3 0.1 
Avis Licensees – – – – – –
Avis 782.0 669.0 175.1 145.2 0.3 0.1 
Budget Corporate 1.5 2.1 1.0 1.3 – 0.4 
Budget Licensees – – – – – –
Budget 1.5 2.1 1.0 1.3 – 0.4 
Unallocated 10.8 3.3 9.6 7.1 – –
Total Group 794.3 674.4 185.7 153.6 0.3 0.5 
Unallocated primarily represents capital expenditure and depreciation/amortisation of head ofﬁce software projects and property, plant and
equipment. Impairment losses comprise goodwill impairments (see Note 10) and impairment losses on other intangible assets (see Note 11).
b) Geographical segments
Revenue Assets Capital expenditure
2006 2005 2006 2005 2006 2005
€m €m €m €m €m €m
France 275.1 261.2 430.9 456.6 282.5 215.5 
Germany 181.6 182.9 295.6 305.2 53.2 57.2 
Italy 190.1 175.5 225.8 230.0 154.7 155.4 
Spain 210.5 207.1 322.9 343.7 175.8 138.6 
United Kingdom 226.0 213.8 285.8 240.6 27.9 24.0 
Other Europe 250.8 233.4 496.9 454.8 86.7 78.9 
Rest of the world 3.0 2.6 6.8 6.8 2.7 1.5 
1,337.1 1,276.5 2,064.7 2,037.7 783.5 671.1 
Share of joint venture and associate – 
Rest of the world (see Note 14) – – 10.2 10.6 – –
Unallocated – – 144.2 56.2 10.8 3.3 
Total Group 1,337.1 1,276.5 2,219.1 2,104.5 794.3 674.4 
53
Avis Europe plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 
3 Operating proﬁt
2006 2005
€m €m
Operating proﬁt is stated after charging/(crediting):
Net amounts excluded from underlying
1
:
Re-measurement gains on non debt-related derivative ﬁnancial instruments
2
(2.2) (3.1)
Re-measurement losses on non debt-related derivative ﬁnancial instruments
2
0.6 7.2 
(1.6) 4.1 
Economic hedging adjustment on foreign exchange 0.4 1.2 
Total net exceptional items (see Note 5) 28.9 13.2 
Total net exceptional items, certain re-measurement items and economic hedge adjustments 27.7 18.5 
Underlying proﬁt:
Hire of vehicles under repurchase contracts 199.1 217.8 
Unwinding of discount on vehicle repurchase contracts (27.7) (27.4)
Net operating lease charge on manufacturer repurchase contracts 171.4 190.4 
Hire of plant and equipment 1.1 0.8 
Hire of motor vehicles 67.6 43.7 
Net charge on hire of plant, equipment and motor vehicles 240.1 234.9 
Depreciation on vehicles – owned (see Note 12) 115.6 104.0 
Depreciation on vehicles – under ﬁnance lease (see Note 12) 45.1 29.2 
Depreciation on other property, plant and equipment (see Note 13) 19.8 19.1 
Depreciation on property, plant and equipment 180.5 152.3 
Adjustments arising on differences between sales proceeds and depreciated amounts – ﬂeet (22.9) (6.2)
Adjustments arising on differences between sales proceeds and depreciated amounts – non-ﬂeet (0.7) (4.5)
Adjustments arising on differences between sales proceeds and depreciated amounts (23.6) (10.7)
Amortisation of other intangible assets (see Note 11) 5.2 1.3 
Non-exceptional goodwill impairment charge (see Note 10) 0.3 0.5 
Contingent operating lease rentals
3
51.8 49.0 
Other operating lease rentals 51.5 50.5 
1 See Basis of Preparation.
2 Net re-measurement gains on non debt-related derivative ﬁnancial instruments of €1.6 million (2005: losses of €4.1 million), comprises realised gains 
of €1.0 million (2005: losses of €3.7 million) and unrealised gains of €0.6 million (2005: losses of €0.4 million).
3 Contingent rentals primarily arise with respect to airport rental desk concessions, and are ordinarily based on the level of revenue generated by the 
individual concession.
2006 2005
€m €m
Auditors’ remuneration is analysed as follows:
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor for the audit of the Company’s annual accounts 0.6 0.6 
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor and its associates for other services:
– the audit of the Company’s subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 1.0 0.8 
– other services pursuant to legislation 0.1 –
– taxation services 0.5 1.1 
– valuation and actuarial services – 0.1 
– litigation 0.1 0.1 
– recruitment and remuneration – 0.1
– corporate ﬁnance transactions 0.5 0.3 
– other 0.1 0.2 
2.3 2.7 
Total auditors’ remuneration 2.9 3.3 
Avis Europe plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
54 4 Directors and employees
2006 2005
€m €m
Staff costs
Retirement beneﬁt charges under deﬁned contribution schemes 4.4 3.9 
Underlying retirement beneﬁt charges under deﬁned beneﬁt schemes (see Note 23) 13.8 13.2 
Total retirement beneﬁt charges 18.2 17.1 
Wages and salaries 236.6 225.2 
Social security costs 41.8 41.0 
Share-based payments (see Note 31) 0.2 0.4 
Total underlying Directors and employee costs 296.8 283.7 
Exceptional staff costs (see Note 5)
Retirement beneﬁt charges (see Note 5): 
– exceptional past service costs (see Note 23) (3.2) – 
– exceptional curtailments (see Note 23) (1.2) – 
Severance and other 16.5 6.0
12.1 6.0
Total Directors and employee costs 308.9 289.7
Further details of Directors’ remuneration for the year are provided in Note 41 and the audited part of the Remuneration Report on pages 
37 to 39.
2006 2005
Number Number
Staff numbers (average full time equivalent)
United Kingdom 1,139 1,295 
France 1,477 1,469 
Germany 669 720 
Italy 520 514 
Spain 1,200 1,055 
Others 1,271 1,200 
6,276 6,253 
55
Avis Europe plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 
5 Net exceptional items
2006 2005
€m €m
Exceptional administrative expenses:
a) Restructuring costs 25.3 8.4 
b) Project termination costs 7.4 3.6 
c) Pension scheme amendment (3.2) –
d) Centrus receivables (0.6) (3.2)
e) Capital restructuring and rights issue – 4.4 
28.9 13.2 
Net exceptional items before tax 28.9 13.2 
Current tax credit on net exceptional items (see Note 7) (6.0) (1.3)
Deferred tax charge on net exceptional items (see Note 7) 0.3 –
Net exceptional items after tax 23.2 11.9 
a) Restructuring costs of €25.3 million (2005: €6.4 million) were incurred in the year in connection with the restructuring project the Group
commenced in late 2005 covering the roles of its European headquarters, corporate operations, shared service centre and call centres.
These restructuring costs include redundancy costs and onerous lease provisions and are net of exceptional pension curtailments of
€1.2 million (2005: nil). Restructuring costs of €2.0 million in 2005 were also incurred in connection with the transfer of back-ofﬁce
functions to the Group’s shared service centre in Budapest.
b) Following the Group’s decision in 2004 to terminate the agreement with the principal contractor on the IT back-ofﬁce project, additional
termination costs of €7.4 million (2005: €3.6 million) have been recognised in 2006, primarily arising from the mitigating action being
taken against the termination costs, which may lead to a net credit in future accounting periods.
c) In June 2006, signiﬁcant changes were made to the unfunded pension scheme in Germany resulting in an exceptional credit to past
service costs of €3.2 million (2005: nil).
d) During the current and prior year, the collection of credit hire receivable balances in the closed Centrus business was more successful
than previously anticipated and resulted in an exceptional credit of €0.6 million (2005: €3.2 million), reﬂecting a partial reversal of the
receivable write-offs and adjustment of reorganisation provisions made in previous years.
e) In 2005, various professional, legal and consultancy costs were incurred in conjunction with the Company’s capital restructuring and 
the rights issue. Where such costs were not directly attributable to the issue of new shares, or the drawing down of new debt facilities,
they were recognised in the income statement as exceptional items.
6 Finance revenue, ﬁnance costs and foreign exchange on net debt
2006 2005
Amounts
Amounts excluded from
excluded from underlying Total
Underlying
1
underlying Total Underlying
1
as restated
2
as restated
2
€m €m €m €m €m €m
Finance revenue
Interest receivable 4.3 – 4.3 1.9 – 1.9 
Re-measurement gains on debt-related 
derivative ﬁnancial instruments
3
– 1.8 1.8 –––
4.3 1.8 6.1 1.9 – 1.9 
Finance costs
Interest payable under ﬁnance lease obligations (11.7) – (11.7) (10.5) – (10.5)
Interest payable on bank loans and overdrafts
4
(56.2) – (56.2) (48.8) – (48.8)
Interest payable on deferred consideration (2.6) – (2.6) (2.6) – (2.6)
Re-measurement losses on debt-related 
derivative ﬁnancial instruments
3
– (4.2) (4.2) – (1.2) (1.2)
Economic hedge adjustment on interest payable
4
(1.0) 1.0 – (2.1) 2.1 –
(71.5) (3.2) (74.7) (64.0) 0.9 (63.1)
Foreign exchange gain/(loss) on net debt
2
– 0.9 0.9 – (0.1) (0.1)
Net ﬁnance costs (67.2) (0.5) (67.7) (62.1) 0.8 (61.3)
1 See Basis of Preparation.
2 Restated following the change to IAS 21 – see Basis of Preparation.
3 Net re-measurement losses on debt-related ﬁnancial instruments of €2.4 million (2005: losses of €1.2 million) comprise realised gains of €1.5 million
(2005: gains of €1.6 million) and unrealised losses of €3.9 million (2005: losses of €2.8 million).
4 The Group has entered into economic hedging arrangements for which the Group is unable to apply hedge accounting under IAS 39. Interest payable on
bank loans and overdrafts, to the extent that IAS 39 does not permit hedge accounting, reﬂects actual interest rates applicable to debt, regardless of any
accrued cash ﬂow paid at contracted rates within hedging derivatives.
Avis Europe plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
56 7 Taxation
a) Analysis of tax charge/(credit)
2006 2005
Amounts
Amounts excluded from
excluded from underlying Total
Underlying
1
underlying Total Underlying
1
as restated
2
as restated
2
€m €m €m €m €m €m
Current UK tax
UK corporation tax on proﬁts for the year 
before exceptional items 5.6 0.1 5.7 1.0 (0.7) 0.3 
Tax on exceptional items – (3.9) (3.9) – (0.7) (0.7)
Adjustments in respect of prior years 0.3 – 0.3 4.0 – 4.0 
Current UK tax 5.9 (3.8) 2.1 5.0 (1.4) 3.6 
Current foreign tax
Foreign corporation tax on proﬁts for the year 
before exceptional items 6.9 – 6.9 8.1 – 8.1 
Current tax on exceptional items – (2.1) (2.1) – (0.6) (0.6)
Adjustments in respect of prior years (1.1) – (1.1) (3.6) – (3.6)
Current foreign tax 5.8 (2.1) 3.7 4.5 (0.6) 3.9 
Total current tax 11.7 (5.9) 5.8 9.5 (2.0) 7.5 
Analysed as:
Corporation tax on proﬁts for the year 
before exceptional items 12.5 0.1 12.6 9.1 (0.7) 8.4 
Tax on exceptional items – (6.0) (6.0) – (1.3) (1.3)
Adjustments in respect of prior years (0.8) – (0.8) 0.4 – 0.4 
Total current tax 11.7 (5.9) 5.8 9.5 (2.0) 7.5 
Deferred tax
Origination and reversal of temporary differences 6.8 0.1 6.9 (3.5) (0.2) (3.7)
Deferred tax on exceptional items – 0.3 0.3 –––
Adjustments in respect of prior years (7.3) – (7.3) 4.2 – 4.2 
Total deferred tax (0.5) 0.4 (0.1) 0.7 (0.2) 0.5 
Total taxation 11.2 (5.5) 5.7 10.2 (2.2) 8.0 
b) Tax charge/(credit) taken directly to the statement of recognised income and expense
2006 2005
Amounts
Amounts excluded from
excluded from underlying Total
Underlying
1
underlying Total Underlying
1
as restated
2
as restated
2
€m €m €m €m €m €m
Deferred tax (credit)/charge on cash ﬂow hedges – (1.7) (1.7) – 3.3 3.3 
Current tax charge on exchange movements 
offset in reserves – 0.6 0.6 – 3.0 3.0 
Deferred tax credit on actuarial gains/(losses) – (0.4) (0.4) – (9.2) (9.2)
– (1.5) (1.5) – (2.9) (2.9)
57
Avis Europe plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 
7 Taxation continued
c) Reconciliation of tax charge
2006 2005
Amounts
Amounts excluded from
excluded from underlying Total
Underlying
1
underlying Total Underlying
1
as restated
2
as restated
2
€m €m €m €m €m €m
Proﬁt before taxation 38.9 (28.2) 10.7 37.8 (17.7) 20.1 
Tax at the UK corporation tax rate of 30% 11.7 (8.5) 3.2 11.3 (5.3) 6.0 
Differing rates applied to overseas proﬁts (3.9) – (3.9) (5.0) (0.1) (5.1)
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 2.9 3.3 6.2 2.3 2.6 4.9 
Utilisation of tax losses ––– (13.2) – (13.2)
Adjustments in respect of prior years (8.1) – (8.1) 4.6 – 4.6 
Deferred assets not recognised 7.5 (0.3) 7.2 10.0 0.6 10.6 
Other 1.1 – 1.1 0.2 – 0.2 
Total taxation 11.2 (5.5) 5.7 10.2 (2.2) 8.0 
1 See Basis of Preparation.
2 Restated following the change to IAS 21 – see Basis of Preparation.
8 Dividends
The Directors do not propose the payment of an interim or ﬁnal dividend for the year ended 31 December 2006 (2005: nil). 
9 Earnings per share
a) Basic and diluted
Basic and diluted earnings per share are based on the proﬁt for the year attributable to equity holders of the Company, and the weighted
average number of shares in issue for the year attributable to equity holders of the Company. 
2006 2005 2006 2005
Earnings €m €m £m £m
Earnings for the year attributable to equity holders of the Company 5.0 11.8 3.4 8.1 
2006 2005 2006 2005
Euro Euro Sterling Sterling
Earnings per share cents cents pence pence
Basic and diluted earnings per share 0.5 1.5 0.4 1.0 
The weighted average number of shares in issue for the year was 920,041,073 (2005: 808,293,280).
Options have been granted to certain Directors and employees over ordinary shares of the Company. These options constitute the only
category of potentially dilutive ordinary shares and these did not increase the weighted average number of shares in either 2005 or 2006.
These options were not dilutive as either the option exercise prices were in excess of the prevailing market share price, or the exercise of
the options is subject to performance conditions which had not been fully satisﬁed by the year end.
b) Underlying
Underlying earnings per share is based on the underlying proﬁt for the year attributable to equity holders of the Company, and the weighted
average number of shares in issue for the year attributable to equity holders of the Company. 
2006 2005 2006 2005
Earnings €m €m £m £m
Underlying earnings for the year attributable to equity holders of the Company 27.7 27.3 19.1 18.6 
2006 2005 2006 2005
Euro Euro Sterling Sterling
Earnings per share cents cents pence pence
Basic and diluted underlying earnings per share 3.0 3.4 2.1 2.3 
Avis Europe plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
58 10 Goodwill
2006 2005
€m €m
Cost
At 1 January 47.6 46.4 
Additions (see Note 36) 0.3 0.5 
Exchange movements – 0.7 
At 31 December 47.9 47.6 
Accumulated impairment provisions
At 1 January 39.8 38.6 
Impairment losses for the year 0.3 0.5 
Exchange movements (0.1) 0.7 
At 31 December 40.0 39.8 
Net book amount
At 31 December 7.9 7.8 
Goodwill of €1,080.4 million arising before 1 March 1998 is fully written off to reserves (see Note 32).
In accordance with the requirements of IAS 36, Impairment of Assets, the Group completed a review of the carrying value of goodwill at 
31 December 2005 and 31 December 2006. Goodwill was allocated to cash-generating units for the purpose of impairment testing, each 
of these representing the Group’s investment in each country where the goodwill originally arose. The impairment review was to ensure 
that the carrying values of the assets within cash-generating units for which goodwill has been allocated are stated at no more than 
their recoverable amount, being the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
Accumulated impairment provisions represent amounts provided in respect of Budget licensee locations in France, and certain Avis licensee
locations in France, Germany and Holland. Of these provisions, €0.3 million was recognised in the year ended 31 December 2006 following
the acquisition during the year of several Avis licensee locations in Germany (see Note 36) which have been integrated into existing operations.
Given that goodwill arising in the overall German cash-generating unit had been fully provided against in previous accounting periods, an
impairment provision has been recognised against the goodwill arising in 2006. All impairment provisions write down the carrying value of
their associated goodwill to nil.
The Directors also reviewed at each year end the carrying values of the remaining capitalised goodwill relating to the business in Greece
and the joint venture in China. These reviews (undertaken by calculating value in use) did not result in the need for any impairment provision
to be recognised as at 31 December 2005 or 31 December 2006.
In determining the value in use, the Directors calculated the present value of the estimated future cash ﬂows expected to arise from the
continuing use of the assets using pre-tax discount rates based upon the Group’s weighted average cost of capital with appropriate
adjustment for the relevant risks associated with the businesses. Estimated future cash ﬂows are based on management’s ﬁve-year plans
for each cash-generating unit, with extrapolation thereafter based on long-term average nominal growth rates of 4.0%. Sensitivities have
been applied to the calculations by using pre-tax discount rates in the range from 7% to 10%.
59
Avis Europe plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 
11 Other intangible assets
Other intangible assets comprise internally generated software development costs and externally acquired software.
Amortisation charged in the year is included in the income statement within administrative expenses.
Software Software
Internally Externally Internally Externally
generated acquired Total generated acquired Total
2006 2006 2006 2005 2005 2005
€m €m €m €m €m €m
Cost
At 1 January 4.4 7.9 12.3 2.6 6.2 8.8 
Additions 5.9 2.2 8.1 1.7 1.9 3.6 
Disposals (4.0) – (4.0) – (0.3) (0.3)
Exchange movements – 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.2 
At 31 December 6.3 10.2 16.5 4.4 7.9 12.3 
Amortisation
At 1 January 2.8 4.5 7.3 2.3 3.9 6.2 
Charges for the year (see Note 3) 3.4 1.8 5.2 0.5 0.8 1.3 
Disposals (4.0) – (4.0) – (0.3) (0.3)
Exchange movements – 0.1 0.1 – 0.1 0.1 
At 31 December 2.2 6.4 8.6 2.8 4.5 7.3 
Net book amount
At 31 December 4.1 3.8 7.9 1.6 3.4 5.0 
12 Vehicles
2006 2005
€m €m
Cost
At 1 January 567.6 511.0 
Additions 764.5 651.2 
Acquisitions (see Note 36) – 0.5 
Disposals (632.9) (535.4)
Transfers to non-current assets held for resale (see Note 17) (98.0) (102.1)
Transfers from current assets 18.2 41.5 
Exchange movements (0.4) 0.9 
At 31 December 619.0 567.6 
Depreciation and impairment
At 1 January 103.6 87.4 
Charges for the year 160.7 133.2 
Disposals (134.6) (107.7)
Transfers to non-current assets held for resale (see Note 17) (16.4) (10.3)
Exchange movements – 1.0 
At 31 December 113.3 103.6 
Net book amount
At 31 December 505.7 464.0 
Vehicles held under ﬁnance leases are included in the above at 31 December at the following amounts:
2006 2005
€m €m
Cost 149.7 128.8 
Depreciation and impairment (30.8) (15.7)
Net book amount 118.9 113.1 
At 31 December 2006, the Group had capital commitments for vehicles contracted, but not provided for, amounting to €45.3 million
(2005: €160.1 million).
Avis Europe plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
60 13 Other property, plant and equipment
Short Assets in
Freehold land leasehold Plant and the course of
and buildings property equipment construction Total
€m €m €m €m €m
Cost
At 1 January 2005 38.6 45.4 74.3 0.2 158.5 
Additions 1.3 4.3 10.9 2.6 19.1 
Disposals (1.3) (4.0) (14.7) (0.3) (20.3)
Transfers – (5.9) – – (5.9)
Exchange movements – 0.1 0.8 – 0.9
At 31 December 2005 38.6 39.9 71.3 2.5 152.3 
At 1 January 2006 38.6 39.9 71.3 2.5 152.3 
Additions 1.1 4.6 13.8 2.2 21.7 
Disposals (1.2) (1.0) (25.9) – (28.1)
Transfers 0.4 3.5 0.3 (4.2) –
At 31 December 2006 38.9 47.0 59.5 0.5 145.9 
Depreciation and impairment
At 1 January 2005 3.9 16.9 48.5 – 69.3 
Charges for the year 2.3 5.0 11.8 – 19.1 
Disposals (1.2) (3.9) (14.6) – (19.7)
Transfers – (2.6) – – (2.6)
Exchange movements – (0.1) 0.9 – 0.8 
At 31 December 2005 5.0 15.3 46.6 – 66.9 
At 1 January 2006 5.0 15.3 46.6 – 66.9 
Charges for the year 1.1 6.0 12.7 – 19.8 
Disposals (1.1) (0.5) (24.3) – (25.9)
Exchange movements – (0.1) (0.1) – (0.2)
At 31 December 2006 5.0 20.7 34.9 – 60.6 
Net book amount
At 31 December 2006 33.9 26.3 24.6 0.5 85.3 
At 31 December 2005 33.6 24.6 24.7 2.5 85.4 
Other property, plant and equipment held under ﬁnance leases are included in the above at 31 December at the following amounts:
2006 2005
€m €m
Cost 4.4 4.4 
Depreciation and impairment (1.0) (0.7)
Net book amount 3.4 3.7 
At 31 December 2006, the Group had capital commitments for other property, plant and equipment contracted, but not provided for,
amounting to €3.1 million (2005: €4.7 million).
61
Avis Europe plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 
14 Investments accounted for using the equity method
Joint
venture Associate Total
€m €m €m
At 1 January 2005 8.7 0.3 9.0 
Share of loss –––
Exchange movements 1.7 (0.1) 1.6 
At 31 December 2005 10.4 0.2 10.6 
At 1 January 2006 10.4 0.2 10.6 
Share of proﬁt 0.4 0.1 0.5 
Exchange movements (0.9) – (0.9)
At 31 December 2006 9.9 0.3 10.2 
The Group has a 50% share in its sole joint venture Anji Car Rental and Leasing Company, and a 33% share in its associate, Mercury Car
Rentals Limited. The Group’s share of results for the year were as follows:
Joint venture Associate Total
2006 2005 2006 2005 2006 2005
Share of: €m €m €m €m €m €m
Revenue 12.0 9.1 3.1 2.6 15.1 11.7 
Expenses (11.2) (8.6) (3.0) (2.5) (14.2) (11.1)
Operating proﬁt 0.8 0.5 0.1 0.1 0.9 0.6 
Net ﬁnance costs (0.4) (0.3) – (0.1) (0.4) (0.4)
Proﬁt before tax 0.4 0.2 0.1 – 0.5 0.2 
Taxation – (0.2) – – – (0.2)
Net proﬁt for the year 0.4 – 0.1 – 0.5 –
At the year end, the Group’s interest in Anji Car Rental and Leasing Company Limited, and Mercury Car Rentals Limited, comprised:
Joint venture Associate Total
2006 2005 2006 2005 2006 2005
Share of: €m €m €m €m €m €m
Non-current assets 16.3 16.6 1.6 1.3 17.9 17.9 
Current assets 2.4 2.4 0.9 0.8 3.3 3.2 
Current liabilities (9.7) (9.5) (0.4) (0.4) (10.1) (9.9)
Non-current liabilities – – (1.8) (1.5) (1.8) (1.5)
9.0 9.5 0.3 0.2 9.3 9.7 
Net book amount of goodwill arising upon 
acquisition (see Note 10) 0.9 0.9 – – 0.9 0.9 
9.9 10.4 0.3 0.2 10.2 10.6 
At each year end, the joint venture and associate had no contingent liabilities, no capital commitments, and no operating lease
commitments of greater than €0.1 million per annum.
As both the joint venture and associate have accumulated losses, transfer of funds from both the joint venture and associate is restricted.
15 Other ﬁnancial assets
2006 2005
€m €m
Non-current assets – available for sale investments 0.7 0.6 
Current assets – held for trading 22.6 15.0 
Non-current ﬁnancial assets of €0.7 million (2005: €0.6 million) primarily comprises an equity minority interest in an overseas company. 
The current ﬁnancial assets comprise ﬁnance lease collateral of €13.8 million (2005: €15.0 million) which attracted interest at 3.5%, 
and liquidity funds of €8.8 million (2005: nil) which attract a variable return dependent upon fund performance.
Avis Europe plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
62 16 Deferred tax
Temporary differences
Accelerated Losses
tax Employee available
depreciation Fair value beneﬁts Other for offset Total
Deferred tax provided €m €m €m €m €m €m
At 1 January 2005 (21.5) – 13.8 (3.5) 8.2 (3.0)
Impact of IAS 32 and IAS 39 – 4.9 – – – 4.9 
At 1 January 2005 (restated) (21.5) 4.9 13.8 (3.5) 8.2 1.9 
Recognised in income statement (see Note 7) (0.9) – 0.6 (4.8) 4.6 (0.5)
Recognised in statement of recognised 
income and expense (see Note 7) – (3.3) 9.2 – – 5.9 
Exchange movements – 0.3 0.5 0.2 – 1.0 
At 31 December 2005 (22.4) 1.9 24.1 (8.1) 12.8 8.3 
At 1 January 2006 (22.4) 1.9 24.1 (8.1) 12.8 8.3 
Recognised in income statement (see Note 7) 4.8 – (2.0) (1.1) (1.6) 0.1 
Recognised in statement of recognised 
income and expense (see Note 7) – 1.7 0.4 – – 2.1
Exchange movements 0.1 0.1 0.3 – – 0.5 
At 31 December 2006 (17.5) 3.7 22.8 (9.2) 11.2 11.0 
Analysed as:
At 31 December 2006
Deferred tax assets 25.4 3.7 22.8 9.2 9.4 70.5 
Deferred tax liabilities (42.9) – – (18.4) 1.8 (59.5)
Net (17.5) 3.7 22.8 (9.2) 11.2 11.0 
At 31 December 2005
Deferred tax assets 14.9 1.9 23.3 14.7 5.9 60.7 
Deferred tax liabilities (37.3) – 0.8 (22.8) 6.9 (52.4)
Net (22.4) 1.9 24.1 (8.1) 12.8 8.3 
Deferred tax assets have been recognised in respect of tax losses and other temporary differences giving rise to deferred tax assets where
it is probable that these assets will be recovered. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are only offset where there is a legally enforceable right
of offset and there is an intention to settle the balances net.
At the year end, the Group had unused tax losses of €144.7 million (2005: €123.4 million) available for offset against future proﬁts. A deferred
tax asset has been recognised in respect of €36.9 million (2005: €43.8 million) of such losses. No deferred tax asset has been recognised
in respect of the remaining unused tax losses of €107.8 million (2005: €79.6 million) due to the unpredictability of future proﬁt streams, 
but these losses may be carried forward indeﬁnitely.
Deferred tax has not been recognised in respect of other temporary differences which would give rise to deferred tax assets of €8.2 million
(2005: €6.5 million), due to the unpredictability of future proﬁt streams. Deferred tax liabilities of €0.3 million (2005: €0.1 million) have
similarly not been recognised.
At the year end, the aggregate amount of other temporary differences associated with unremitted earnings of the Group’s overseas
subsidiaries for which deferred tax liabilities have not been recognised was €264.9 million (2005: €212.9 million). No liability has been
recognised in respect of these differences because the Group is in a position to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary
differences and it is probable that such differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future. Temporary differences arising in connection
with interests in the joint venture and associate are insigniﬁcant.
63
Avis Europe plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 
17 Non-current assets held for sale
2006 2005
€m €m
Cost
At 1 January 12.4 5.4 
Transfers from vehicles (see Note 12) 98.0 102.1 
Disposals (100.6) (95.2)
Exchange movements (0.1) 0.1 
At 31 December 9.7 12.4 
Depreciation and impairment
At 1 January 1.3 0.4 
Transfers from vehicles (see Note 12) 16.4 10.3 
Disposals (16.4) (9.4)
At 31 December 1.3 1.3 
Net book amount
At 31 December 8.4 11.1 
Non-current assets held for sale comprise ex-rental vehicles formerly used in the Avis Corporate segment, where management are
committed to the disposal of the vehicle. Disposals are ordinarily completed within one month of transfer of the vehicle from the rental ﬂeet.
Gains recognised on the disposal of non-current assets held for resale in the year totalled €1.2 million (2005: €1.5 million). 
18 Inventories
2006 2005
€m €m
Fuel 6.0 5.7 
Vehicle parts 1.4 1.3 
7.4 7.0 
The cost of inventories recognised as an expense in the income statement in the period totalled €66.9 million (2005: €61.0 million).
19 Trade and other receivables
2006 2005
€m €m
Repurchase agreement receivables (during vehicle holding period) 836.1 811.2 
Prepaid vehicle operating lease charges (during vehicle holding period) 71.2 71.6 
Other vehicle receivables (at end of vehicle holding period) 134.9 153.9 
Amounts due from leasing companies 40.2 42.0 
Vehicle related receivables 1,082.4 1,078.7 
Other trade debtors 154.0 132.2
Finance revenue debtors 0.1 – 
Other debtors 70.5 73.2 
Other prepayments 51.6 47.5 
1,358.6 1,331.6 
Other vehicle receivables include amounts due on exercising of manufacturer repurchase agreements.
Vehicle related receivables include €167.9 million (2005: €163.3 million) held under ﬁnance lease arrangements in respect of repurchase agreements.
The Group’s principal ﬁnancial assets comprise available for sale and held for trading investments; derivative ﬁnancial instrument assets;
trade and other receivables; and cash and short-term deposits, which in aggregate represent the Group’s maximum exposure to credit risk
at each year end.
The credit risk on cash and short-term deposits and derivative ﬁnancial instruments is limited because the counterparties are banks with
high credit ratings assigned by international credit rating agencies.
With respect to vehicle related receivables, credit risk is concentrated with the main European vehicle manufacturers. Concentrations of
credit risk with respect to non-vehicle related receivables are limited due to the diversity of the Group’s customers. Balance sheet amounts
are stated net of provisions for doubtful debts, and accordingly, the maximum credit risk exposure is the carrying amount of the receivables
in the balance sheet. An allowance of €26.0 million (2005: €25.1 million) has been made for estimated irrecoverable amounts of trade and
other receivables. This allowance has been determined by reference to past experience. Irrecoverable trade and other receivable expense
of €5.4 million (2005: €4.6 million) has been recognised in the income statement in the year.
Avis Europe plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
64 20 Cash and short-term deposits
2006 2005
€m €m
Cash at bank and in hand 52.0 79.0 
Short-term deposits 64.6 19.8 
116.6 98.8 
Cash and short-term deposit balances are ﬂoating rate assets which earn interest at various rates set with reference to the prevailing EURIBID,
LIBID or equivalent.
Short-term deposits include €3.7 million (2005: €3.3 million) of deposits required by insurers to be held by Aegis Motor Insurance Limited
(a subsidiary of the Group) to settle claims. 
21 Trade and other payables
2006 2005
€m €m
Vehicle payables 251.9 236.5 
Amounts due to leasing companies 36.3 44.0 
Vehicle related payables 288.2 280.5 
Other trade payables 74.5 71.9 
Finance cost creditors 16.8 14.3 
Other creditors 27.8 33.5 
Accruals and deferred income 233.3 235.2 
Other taxes and social security 30.6 22.0 
671.2 657.4 
22 Provisions
2006 2005
Uninsured Other Uninsured Other
losses trading Total losses trading Total
€m €m €m €m €m €m
At 1 January 37.1 15.2 52.3 26.3 17.5 43.8 
Charged in the year 19.5 10.1 29.6 18.2 5.2 23.4 
Transfer from/(to) trade and other payables – 0.1 0.1 – (1.0) (1.0)
Utilised in the year (11.5) (6.0) (17.5) (7.7) (6.6) (14.3)
Exchange movements 0.1 – 0.1 0.3 0.1 0.4 
At 31 December (included in non-current liabilities) 45.2 19.4 64.6 37.1 15.2 52.3 
Uninsured losses represent provisions for losses under third party liabilities or claims. Due to the timescales and uncertainties involved in such
claims, provision is made based upon the proﬁle of claims experience, allowing for potential claims for a number of years after policy inception.
Other trading provisions have been discounted where applicable at the rate commensurate with the underlying risk, and comprise:
a) reorganisation and employee termination provisions of €2.8 million (2005: €3.1 million) that are expected to crystallise within the next
few years. The decrease in the provision in the year is primarily due to the partial utilisation of the restructuring provision established 
in previous periods (see Note 5);
b) dilapidation and environmental provisions of €8.9 million (2005: €6.6 million) to cover the costs of the remediation of certain properties
held under operating leases. The fair value of these provisions, which are primarily euro denominated and non-interest bearing, are not
materially different to the book values, and the ultimate expenditure is expected to be coterminous with the underlying remaining lease
periods (see Note 39). Where applicable, the provisions have been discounted at rates between 5.2% and 10.0%; and
c) other short-term provisions of €7.7 million (2005: €5.5 million), which primarily comprise provision against the future redemption of
beneﬁts under customer loyalty programmes and provision against legal claims that arise in the normal course of business, that are
expected to crystallise in the next couple of years. In the Directors’ opinion, after taking appropriate legal advice, the outcome of these
legal claims will not give rise to any signiﬁcant loss beyond amounts provided at 31 December 2006.
65
Avis Europe plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 
23 Retirement beneﬁt obligations
a) Retirement beneﬁt schemes operated
Where applicable, subsidiaries contribute to the relevant state pension scheme. Certain subsidiaries operate schemes which provide
retirement beneﬁts, including those of the deﬁned beneﬁt type, which are in most cases funded by investments held outside the Group. 
b) Deﬁned beneﬁt schemes
The Group operates funded deﬁned beneﬁt pension schemes for qualifying employees in the United Kingdom, France, Spain and Austria. 
In addition, the Group operates unfunded deﬁned beneﬁt pension schemes for employees in Germany and Greece, and an unfunded
deﬁned beneﬁt statutory termination scheme for employees in Italy. The principal schemes are in the United Kingdom and Germany.
The valuations used have been based on the most recent actuarial valuations available, updated by the scheme actuaries to assess the
liabilities of the scheme and the market value of the scheme assets at each of the balance sheet dates.
Funded schemes Unfunded schemes
Main assumptions (weighted average) 2006 2005 2006 2005
Discount rate 5.2% 4.7% 4.4% 4.0%
Inﬂation rate 3.0% 2.8% 1.6% 1.6%
Expected rate of salary increases 4.5% 4.3% 3.0% 2.9%
Rate of pension increases in payment 2.5% 2.8% 1.7% 1.6%
Rate of pension increases in deferment 3.1% 2.8% 1.6% 1.6%
Expected return on plan assets:
– equities 7.4% 7.4% n/a n/a
– bonds 4.5% 4.5% n/a n/a
– other 6.1% 4.2% n/a n/a
– weighted average 6.3% 6.5% n/a n/a
The expected rates of return on plan assets are based on market expectations at the beginning of each year, for returns over the entire life
of the related obligation. The expected return on bonds is based on long-term bond yields. The expected return on equities is based on a
wide range of qualitative and quantitative market analysis including consideration of market equity risk premiums. 
Mortality assumptions vary by scheme. Assumptions regarding future mortality experience are set based on advice from published statistics
and experience in each territory. The longevity assumption in the principal funded scheme applied a post-retirement life expectancy for a
member aged 65 in 2006 of 21 years (2005: 18 years) for males, and 23 years (2005: 21 years) for females. In the prior year, mortality tables
issued in 1998 (the “1992” series) were used with adjustment to take account of projected improvements in longevity. In 2006, the “2000”
series tables were applied along with certain improvements which make allowance for increases in longevity projections through 2020. The
post-retirement longevity assumption in the principal unfunded scheme applied a life expectancy for a member aged 65 in 2006 of 18 years
(2005: 18 years) for males, and 22 years (2005: 22 years) for females. 
The amounts recognised in the balance sheet are summarised as follows:
2006 2005
Funded Unfunded Funded Unfunded
schemes schemes Total schemes schemes Total
€m €m €m €m €m €m
Present value of deﬁned beneﬁt obligations (220.5) (41.9) (262.4) (206.2) (47.2) (253.4)
Fair value of scheme assets 140.4 – 140.4 124.1 – 124.1 
Retirement beneﬁt obligation (80.1) (41.9) (122.0) (82.1) (47.2) (129.3)
Avis Europe plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
66 23 Retirement beneﬁt obligations continued
2006 2005
Funded Unfunded Funded Unfunded
Analysis of movements in the present value
schemes schemes Total schemes schemes Total
of deﬁned beneﬁt scheme obligations €m €m €m €m €m €m
At 1 January (206.2) (47.2) (253.4) (153.0) (36.0) (189.0)
Current service charge (8.4) (2.2) (10.6) (8.0) (2.4) (10.4)
Exceptional past service costs – 3.2 3.2 –––
Exceptional curtailments 1.2 – 1.2 –––
Interest on scheme liabilities (9.4) (1.8) (11.2) (8.0) (1.7) (9.7)
Actuarial gain/(loss):
– experience gain/(loss) on liabilities (2.0) 1.5 (0.5) (5.6) 0.2 (5.4)
– gain/(loss) on change of assumptions 0.5 3.5 4.0 (37.5) (8.6) (46.1)
Contributions by employees (0.6) – (0.6) (0.4) – (0.4) 
Beneﬁts paid 6.0 1.0 7.0 5.3 1.3 6.6 
Settlements paid 0.3 – 0.3 4.3 – 4.3 
Exchange (loss)/gain (1.9) 0.1 (1.8) (3.3) – (3.3)
At 31 December (220.5) (41.9) (262.4) (206.2) (47.2) (253.4)
2006 2005
Funded Unfunded Funded Unfunded
schemes schemes Total schemes schemes Total
Analysis of movements in the scheme assets €m €m €m €m €m €m
At 1 January 124.1 – 124.1 102.4 – 102.4 
Expected return on plan assets 8.0 – 8.0 6.9 – 6.9 
Actuarial (loss)/gain:
– experience (loss)/gain on assets (0.6) – (0.6) 13.4 – 13.4 
Contributions by the Group 13.5 1.0 14.5 7.9 1.3 9.2 
Contributions by employees 0.6 – 0.6 0.4 – 0.4 
Beneﬁts paid (6.0) (1.0) (7.0) (5.3) (1.3) (6.6)
Settlements paid (0.3) – (0.3) (4.3) – (4.3)
Exchange gain 1.1 – 1.1 2.7 – 2.7 
At 31 December 140.4 – 140.4 124.1 – 124.1 
Funded Schemes
2006 2005
Deﬁned beneﬁt scheme assets €m% €m%
Equities 80.9 58% 79.0 64%
Bonds 46.3 33% 32.6 26%
Other 13.2 9% 12.5 10%
Fair value of scheme assets 140.4 100% 124.1 100%
The fair value of scheme assets did not comprise any property or other assets used by the Group, nor any ﬁnancial instruments of the Group. 
2006 2005
Analysis of return on scheme assets €m €m
Expected return on scheme assets 8.0 6.9 
Actual return less expected return on pension scheme assets (0.6) 13.4 
Actual return on scheme assets 7.4 20.3 
67
Avis Europe plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 
23 Retirement beneﬁt obligations continued
The amounts recognised in the income statement are as follows:
2006 2005
Funded Unfunded Funded Unfunded
schemes schemes Total schemes schemes Total
€m €m €m €m €m €m
Current service cost 8.4 2.2 10.6 8.0 2.4 10.4 
Interest on scheme liabilities 9.4 1.8 11.2 8.0 1.7 9.7 
Expected return on scheme assets (8.0) – (8.0) (6.9) – (6.9)
Underlying charge before tax to income statement (see Note 4) 9.8 4.0 13.8 9.1 4.1 13.2 
Exceptional past service costs – (3.2) (3.2) –––
Exceptional curtailments (1.2) – (1.2) –––
Exceptional credit before tax to income statement (1.2) (3.2) (4.4) –––
Net charge before tax to income statement 8.6 0.8 9.4 9.1 4.1 13.2 
The scheme settlements in the year had no impact on the amounts recognised in the income statement. The charge before tax is included
in administrative expenses in the income statement.
Amounts recognised through the statement of recognised income and expense are as follows:
2006 2005
Funded Unfunded Funded Unfunded
schemes schemes Total schemes schemes Total
€m €m €m €m €m €m
Actual return less expected return on pension 
scheme assets (0.6) – (0.6) 13.4 – 13.4 
Experience (loss)/gain on liabilities (2.0) 1.5 (0.5) (5.6) 0.2 (5.4)
Gain/(loss) on change of assumptions (ﬁnancial and 
demographic) 0.5 3.5 4.0 (37.5) (8.6) (46.1)
(2.1) 5.0 2.9 (29.7) (8.4) (38.1)
Cumulative actuarial losses recognised in the statement of recognised income and expense since 1 January 2004 (the date of adoption 
of IAS 19) are €42.0 million (at 31 December 2005: €44.9 million).
The contributions paid by the Group into funded schemes during 2006 were €13.5 million (2005: €7.9 million), which includes payments 
to fund the net actuarial obligations over time. The best estimate of the contributions expected to be made by the Group into funded
schemes during the 2007 annual period is €11.5 million, which includes payments to fund the net actuarial obligations over time.
The indicative sensitivity of principal scheme liabilities as at 31 December 2006 to changes in the above assumptions is as follows:
Change in Indicative increase in
assumption scheme liabilities (€m)
Assumption UK Germany
Discount rate -0.1% 4.2 0.6
Inﬂation rate +0.1% 4.2 0.3
Real rate of salary increases +0.5% 2.4 0.2
Longevity +1 year 5.3 0.8
The sensitivity of non-principal scheme liabilities to the changes in the assumptions shown above is not material to the Group.
Funded schemes Unfunded schemes
2006 2005 2004 2006 2005 2004
Retirement beneﬁt obligation history €m €m €m €m €m €m
Fair value of scheme assets 140.4 124.1 102.4 n/a n/a n/a
Present value of deﬁned beneﬁt obligation (220.5) (206.2) (153.0) (41.9) (47.2) (36.0)
Retirement beneﬁt obligation (80.1) (82.1) (50.6) (41.9) (47.2) (36.0)
(Gain)/loss on scheme assets amount 0.6 (13.4) (2.6) n/a n/a n/a
% of scheme assets carried forward 0.4% (10.8)% (2.5)% n/a n/a n/a
Experience (gain)/loss on scheme liabilities amount (2.0) 1.5 3.3 (5.6) 0.2 (0.4)
% of scheme liabilities carried forward 0.9% (0.7)% (2.2)% 13.4% (0.4)% 1.1%
Avis Europe plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
68 24 Obligations under ﬁnance leases
Present value of 
Minimum lease payments minimum lease payments
2006 2005 2006 2005
€m €m €m €m
Amounts payable under ﬁnance leases
Within one year 288.9 279.4 283.2 276.2 
Between two and ﬁve years 2.1 2.0 2.0 1.9 
291.0 281.4 
Less: future ﬁnance charges (5.8) (3.3)
Present value of ﬁnance lease obligations 285.2 278.1 285.2 278.1 
Analysed as:
Current liabilities (due for settlement within one year) 283.2 276.2 
Non-current liabilities (due for settlement after more than one year) 2.0 1.9 
Total 285.2 278.1 
It is the Group’s policy to fund certain of its vehicles (including some vehicles held under repurchase arrangements) and some plant and
equipment under ﬁnance leases. The average lease term is less than one year. For the year ended 31 December 2006 the average effective
interest rate was 3.2% (2005: 3.0%) and interest rates are ﬁxed at the contract date. All ﬁnance leases are on a ﬁxed repayment basis and
no arrangements have been entered into for contingent rental payments. 
The fair value of the Group’s obligations under ﬁnance leases approximates to their carrying amount, and is secured by the lessors either
having legal title or charges over the leased assets. In addition, collateral is held against certain of the leases (see Note 15).
25 Other ﬁnancial liabilities
a) Borrowings
2006 2005
€m €m
Bank overdrafts 3.3 12.4 
Bank loans and other loans 7.1 81.5 
Commercial paper – 66.0 
Loan notes 780.5 565.8 
790.9 725.7 
Analysed as:
Current liabilities (due for settlement within one year) 231.7 114.1 
Non-current liabilities (due for settlement after more than one year) 559.2 611.6 
790.9 725.7 
All borrowings were unsecured as at both 31 December 2006 and 31 December 2005. There are covenants attached to certain of the borrowings. 
Bank overdrafts
Bank overdrafts are primarily denominated in euro and sterling and attract ﬂoating rate interest by reference to EURIBOR and LIBOR plus
margins ranging from 2% to 6%.
Bank loans and other loans
Bank loans and other loans are primarily ﬂoating rate, with a weighted average cost at 31 December 2006 of 4.4% (2005: 5.0%).
On 20 February 2006, the Group entered into a new ﬁve-year multicurrency Senior Revolving Credit Facility which terminates on
20 February 2011. This facility was provided by a syndicate of 14 banks. The facility provides for loan advances denominated in euro,
sterling, or other such currencies as may be agreed upon with the lenders, for a total aggregate principal amount of €580 million
outstanding at any one time. The facility is guaranteed by the Company. The interest rates applicable to advances under the facility 
are based on EURIBOR (or LIBOR for drawings in currencies other than euro), plus a margin.
Commercial paper
Avis Finance Company plc, an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, runs a commercial paper programme in Belgium,
guaranteed by the Company, which can provide the Group with borrowings of up to €200.0 million (2005: €200.0 million). Amounts 
drawn under the facility attract interest at ﬂoating rates by reference to EURIBOR plus a margin which will vary depending upon market
conditions at the time of issue. The average rate applicable to the drawn facility at 31 December 2005 was 2.6%. No amounts were 
drawn under the facility at 31 December 2006.
69
Avis Europe plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 
25 Other ﬁnancial liabilities continued
Loan notes
At 31 December, Avis Finance Company plc has outstanding the following loan notes:
2006 2005
Issued Principal m Maturing Principal m Maturing
August 2000 $150.0 2007 and 2010 $150.0 2007 and 2010
November 2001 – 2006 €25.0 2006
March 2002 €25.0 2007 €25.0 2007
June 2002 €26.8 2012 €26.8 2012
July 2002 €120.0 2007 €120.0 2007
June 2004 $240.0 2011, 2012 and 2014 $240.0 2011, 2012 and 2014
June 2004 €65.0 2012 €65.0 2012
July 2006 €250.0 2013––
The US$ loan notes bear interest at an average ﬁxed rate of 6.8% (2005: 6.8%). The euro denominated loan notes issued prior to July 2006
bear interest at an average ﬁxed rate of 6.0% (2005: 6.1%).
These loan notes are ﬁxed rate such that their contractual repricing proﬁle is coterminous with their maturity proﬁle.
In July 2006, the Group issued €250.0 million Senior Floating Rate Notes due 2013 which bear interest at EURIBOR plus 2.625%. 
These notes reprice quarterly and include a two-year call option, permitting the Group to repay the notes with effect from 31 July 2008. 
This option is separately recognised as an embedded derivative at fair value (see Note 26).
US$150.0 million (2005: US$150.0 million) of proceeds from the loan notes issued in August 2000 are swapped to a ﬁxed rate euro liability.
US$240.0 million (2005: US$240.0 million) of the proceeds from the loan notes issued in June 2004 were swapped to a euro liability at a
ﬂoating rate of interest until June 2005 and a ﬁxed rate thereafter. €60.0 million (2005: €60.0 million) of the proceeds from the loan notes
issued in July 2002 are swapped to a ﬂoating rate euro liability. €200.0 million of the proceeds of the Senior Floating Rate Notes issued 
in July 2006 are swapped into a ﬁxed rate euro liability.
Further details are provided in Note 26.
b) Undrawn borrowings
The committed borrowing facilities of the Group, drawn and undrawn, are as follows:
2006 2005
Drawn Undrawn Total Drawn Undrawn Total
€m €m €m €m €m €m
Revolving syndicated credit facility 37.1 542.9 580.0 117.3 267.7 385.0 
Bilateral facilities and ﬁnance leases 281.9 265.8 547.7 270.7 276.9 547.6 
319.0 808.7 1,127.7 388.0 544.6 932.6 
The drawn amount of the revolving syndicated credit facility includes €37.1 million in respect of letters of credit (2005: €46.6 million). 
The maturity proﬁle of the Group’s undrawn committed borrowing facilities at 31 December is as follows:
2006 2005
€m €m
Expiring within one year 226.4 276.9 
Expiring within one and two years 39.4 267.7 
Expiring within two and ﬁve years 542.9 –
808.7 544.6 
At 31 December 2006, there were additional uncommitted facilities available to the Group of €496.9 million (2005: €686.0 million).
c) Deferred consideration
2006 2005
€m €m
Current liabilities (due for settlement within one year) 0.3 0.3 
Non-current liabilities (due for settlement after more than one year) 32.7 32.7 
33.0 33.0 
Deferred consideration comprises:
i) €33.0 million (2005: €32.9 million) arising on the acquisition of shares in Avis Europe Investment Holdings Limited from Avis Inc in 1997.
The balance is denominated in sterling and attracts an interest rate of 8.0% (2005: 8.0%) ﬁxed for 31 years (2005: 32 years). The balance
is repayable in annual instalments (including interest) of £1.9 million.
ii) €nil (2005: €0.1 million) arising on the acquisition of Avis licensee locations in the Netherlands in 2005. The balance was denominated 
in euro and did not attract interest.
Avis Europe plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
70 26 Derivative ﬁnancial instruments
Financial risk management objectives and policies
The Group’s ﬁnancial risk management objective is to reduce the ﬁnancial risks and exposures facing the business with respect to changes
in interest and foreign exchange rates, and to ensure constant access to sufﬁcient liquidity. To achieve this the Group undertakes an active
hedging policy, including the use of derivatives (interest rate and foreign exchange swaps, options, forward rate agreements and caps and
collars), which are entered into under policies approved and monitored by a sub-committee of the Board, chaired by the Group Finance
Director. These transactions are only undertaken to reduce exposures arising from underlying commercial transactions and at no time are
transactions undertaken for speculative reasons.
Foreign currency risk
The majority of the Group’s business is transacted in euros, sterling and US dollars. The principal commercial currency of the Group is the
euro. The Group seeks to manage currency exposure wherever possible.
In each country where the Group has a corporate operation, revenue generated and costs incurred are primarily denominated in the
relevant local currency, so providing a natural currency hedge. In addition, intra-group trading transactions are netted and settled centrally.
Any remaining material foreign currency transaction exposures are hedged as appropriate into either euro or sterling. Revenue recognised
from licensees is primarily earned and received in sterling.
With regard to translation exposures, the policy is to match the average assets of the Group to the equivalent average liabilities in each
major currency and thus minimise any impact to the Group. To the extent that this does not occur, both foreign currency borrowings and
forward exchange contracts are used. Long-term US dollar borrowings undertaken to beneﬁt from the liquidity of the US dollar
denominated capital markets are swapped into euros.
Interest rate risk
The Group’s interest rate risk arises from the Group’s borrowings, which, after foreign currency risk hedging, principally arises in euro and
sterling. Borrowings issued at variable rates expose the Group to cash ﬂow interest rate risk whereas borrowings issued at ﬁxed rates
expose the Group to fair value interest rate risk.
To manage these risks, the Group is both ﬁnanced through a combination of ﬁxed and ﬂoating rate facilities and enters into various derivatives.
The Group previously had a policy to ensure that the proportion of ﬁxed rate debt to the year end net debt (deﬁned for this purpose to
include the net book value of ﬂeet under operating leases) for the next three year ends will be maintained in the range of 45% to 65%, 
35% to 60% and 25% to 55% respectively.
Given the seasonality of the Group’s debt, the Group amended this policy during the year, such that the proportions are now based upon
average net debt rather than year end net debt.
Liquidity risk
The seasonal nature of the business necessitates higher ﬂeet levels in the summer months and hence proportionately higher debt requirements.
Consequently the Group ensures that it has a core level of long-term funding in place, with maturities spread over a wide range of dates,
supplemented by shorter-term facilities to cover requirements through the year.
Credit risk
The Group is exposed to a credit risk from its operating activities and certain ﬁnancing activities. The Group controls this risk from a
treasury perspective by only entering into transactions involving ﬁnancial instruments with authorised counterparties of strong credit quality,
and such positions are monitored regularly. Outstanding debts are continuously monitored at an operational level. Provisions are made
against known credit risks.
The solvency of key suppliers, principally international car manufacturers, is monitored separately. The Group ordinarily has a natural hedge to its
exposure to manufacturer credit risk throughout most of the year as vehicle receivables are ordinarily less than vehicle payables (see Note 19).
The maximum exposure to credit risk is represented by the balance sheet values of the original loans and receivables that are carried in the
balance sheet, including derivatives with positive market values. At the reporting date there were no signiﬁcant global offsetting agreements
that reduce this risk, nor were there any signiﬁcant ﬁnancial guarantees for third-party obligations that increase this risk.
71
Avis Europe plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 
26 Derivative ﬁnancial instruments continued
Recognised fair values of derivative ﬁnancial instruments
2006 2005
Assets Liabilities Net Assets Liabilities Net
€m €m €m €m €m €m
Hedging instruments:
– forward foreign exchange contracts 1.0 (0.1) 0.9 – (0.4) (0.4)
Non-hedging instruments:
– forward foreign exchange contracts 0.5 – 0.5 0.2 (0.6) (0.4)
– forward foreign exchange options 0.4 – 0.4 0.1 – 0.1
Non-debt derivatives 1.9 (0.1) 1.8 0.3 (1.0) (0.7)
Hedging instruments:
– interest rate swaps – (0.6) (0.6) –––
– cross currency interest rate swaps – (71.8) (71.8) – (52.8) (52.8)
Non-hedging instruments:
– interest rate swaps 1.4 (1.1) 0.3 2.8 (5.6) (2.8)
– interest rate caps and collars 1.2 – 1.2 –––
– embedded derivatives 6.8 – 6.8 –––
Debt derivatives 9.4 (73.5) (64.1) 2.8 (58.4) (55.6)
Total 11.3 (73.6) (62.3) 3.1 (59.4) (56.3)
Non-current portion:
Hedging instruments:
– interest rate swaps – (0.6) (0.6) –––
– cross currency interest rate swaps – (41.7) (41.7) – (52.8) (52.8)
Non-hedging instruments:
– embedded derivatives 6.8 – 6.8 –––
Debt derivatives 6.8 (42.3) (35.5) – (52.8) (52.8)
Analysed as:
Current assets/(liabilities) (due for settlement within one year) 4.5 (31.3) (26.8) 3.1 (6.6) (3.5)
Non-current assets/(liabilities) (due for settlement after more 
than one year) 6.8 (42.3) (35.5) – (52.8) (52.8)
11.3 (73.6) (62.3) 3.1 (59.4) (56.3)
Non-hedging derivatives (excluding the embedded derivative) are classiﬁed as a current asset or liability. The full fair value of a hedging
derivative is classiﬁed as a non-current asset or liability if the remaining maturity of the hedged item is more than 12 months, and as a current
asset or liability if the remaining maturity of the hedged item is less than 12 months. Trading derivatives are classiﬁed as a current asset or
liability. The embedded derivative is classiﬁed as a non-current asset consistent with the maturity of the borrowing in which it is embedded.
As none of the derivative ﬁnancial instruments are traded in an active market their fair values are determined using a number of methods
and assumptions that are based on conditions at the balance sheet date. The fair value of interest rate swaps and cross currency interest
rate swaps is calculated as the present value of future estimated cash ﬂows. The fair value of interest rate caps and collars are valued using
option valuation techniques. The fair value of forward exchange contracts is determined using forward exchange market rates at the
balance sheet date.
The fair value of the embedded derivative is calculated based on the difference in the fair value of the underlying loan notes with the call
option as compared to the fair value of the equivalent loan notes without a call option. 
Hedging instruments
The effectiveness of hedging relationships is tested by means of statistical methods using regression analysis. This involves deﬁning 
the performance of the hedged item as the independent variable and the performance of the hedging item as the dependent variable. 
A hedging relationship is classiﬁed as effective when the value of the hedging item moves between 0.8% and 1.25% for each 1.0%
movement in the hedged item. All hedging relationships having been tested using statistical methods were effective at the reporting date.
Forward foreign exchange contracts
Forward foreign exchange contracts as at 31 December 2006 with notional values of US$3.5 million (2005: US$2.2 million) and 
South African Rand 23.6 million (2005: South African Rand 2.5 million) were used to hedge expected foreign currency income of 
US$3.5 million (2005: US$2.2million) and South African Rand 23.6 million (2005: South African Rand 2.5 million) into sterling of 
£3.6 million (2005: £1.4 million). Forward foreign exchange contracts as at 31 December 2006 with notional values of US$16.1 million 
(2005: US$9.4 million) and Hungarian Forint 1,042.0 million (2005: nil) were used to hedge expected foreign currency income of 
US$16.1 million (2005: US$9.4 million) and expected foreign currency payments of Hungarian Forint 1,042.0 million (2005: nil) 
into euro of €12.7 million (2005: €7.5 million) and €3.8 million (2005: nil) respectively. 
Avis Europe plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
72 26 Derivative ﬁnancial instruments continued
These forward exchange contracts and corresponding foreign currency receipts will mature within 12 months of each year end. Movements 
in the fair value of these forward foreign exchange contracts are recognised as cash ﬂow hedges in the hedging reserve within equity. 
These amounts are then transferred to the income statement when the forecast amounts are received at various dates between one 
and 12 months after the year end. There was no material ineffectiveness of these hedges recorded as of the balance sheet date.
Interest rate swaps
Interest rate swaps of aggregate notional principal amounts of €200.0 million (2005: nil) with average ﬁxed interest payable of 4.03% 
were used to hedge variable quarterly interest payments arising under the Senior Floating Rate Notes due 2013. The aim of the hedge
relationship is to transform the variable interest borrowing into a ﬁxed interest borrowing. Credit risks do not form part of the hedge. 
There was no material ineffectiveness of these hedges recorded as at the balance sheet date.
Cross currency interest rate swaps
Cross currency interest rate swaps of aggregate notional principal amounts of US$390.0 million (2005: US$390.0 million) were used 
to hedge the Group’s US$ denominated loan notes (see Note 25).
Fair value hedge adjustments of €0.7 million (2005: €22.3 million) arise from the hedging of the principal value of the exposures to euro
denominated liabilities. Of this adjustment, €0.7 million (2005: nil) relates to hedged items due for settlement within one year and €nil
(2005: €22.3 million) relates to hedged items due for settlement after one year. Cash ﬂow hedges of €7.5 million (2005: €0.9 million) arise
from the conversion of the regular semi-annual US$ denominated interest payments to euro denominated interest payments. Amounts
recognised within equity will be released to the income statement when the underlying ﬁxed interest payments occur at various dates
between the year end and 2014. There was no ineffectiveness of these hedges recorded as at the balance sheet date.
Non-hedging instruments
Transactions are only undertaken to reduce economic exposures and at no time are transactions undertaken for speculative reasons.
However, in certain circumstances these instruments do not qualify for hedge accounting.
Forward foreign exchange contracts
Forward foreign exchange contracts as at 31 December 2006 were held to convert the following foreign currency notional amounts into
sterling balances totalling £28.0 million (2005: £65.2 million); Swiss Francs 51.1 million (2005: Swiss Francs 57.7 million); Singapore dollar
1.6 million (2005: Singapore dollar 2.3 million); US$5.0 million (2005: US$3.2 million); South African Rand nil (2005: South African Rand
6.0 million); and €71.1 million (2005: nil). 
Forward foreign exchange options
Forward foreign exchange option contracts as at 31 December 2006 were held to convert expected foreign currency income of: US$0.2 million
(2005: US$1.3 million) into sterling of £0.1 million (2005: £0.7 million); and US$9.4 million (2005: US$5.7 million) into €7.4 million (2005:
€4.5 million). These option contracts and corresponding foreign currency receipts will mature within 12 months of each year end. 
Interest rate swaps
The notional principal amount of outstanding non-hedging interest rate swap contracts as at the year end was €50.0 million (2005: €105.0 million)
and £40.0 million (2005: £40.0 million) with ﬁxed interest rates payable between 4.4% and 5.9%, and €60.0 million (2005: €60.0 million)
with interest payable at EURIBOR + 1.7%. The notional principal amounts of outstanding interest rate caps and collars as at the year end
was €100.0 million (2005: €70.0 million).
In addition, in 2005 the Group had forward start interest rate swaps with aggregate notional principals of €50.0 million which commenced
in 2006 and will run for four years and convert the prevailing ﬂoating interest rate to an average ﬁxed rate of 5.2%.
Embedded derivatives
The €250.0 million Senior Floating Rate Notes due 2013 include a two-year call option permitting the Group to repay the notes with effect
from 31 July 2008. Under the option, the notes may be redeemed at the following redemption prices (expressed as a percentage of principal
amounts) if repaid during the 12 month period beginning on 31 July 2008: 102%; 31 July 2009: 101%; 31 July 2010 and thereafter: 100%. 
In accordance with IAS 39, this option is separately recognised from underlying Senior Floating Rate Notes as an embedded derivative.
73
Avis Europe plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 
27 Net debt
The maturity proﬁle of the Group’s net debt balances (excluding deferred consideration) is as follows:
Less than One to Two to More than
one year two years ﬁve years ﬁve years Total
At 31 December 2006 €m €m €m €m €m
Derivative ﬁnancial instrument assets (see Note 26) 2.6 – – 6.8 9.4
Derivative ﬁnancial instrument liabilities (see Note 26) (31.2) – (27.5) (14.8) (73.5)
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments (see Note 26) (28.6) – (27.5) (8.0) (64.1)
Bank overdrafts (see Note 25) (3.3) – – – (3.3)
Bank loans and other loans (see Note 25) (7.1) – – – (7.1)
Loan notes (see Note 25) (221.3) – (125.9) (433.3) (780.5)
Obligations under ﬁnance leases (see Note 24) (283.2) (2.0) – – (285.2)
Gross debt (including net derivatives) (543.5) (2.0) (153.4) (441.3) (1,140.2)
Current assets – held for trading (see Note 15) 22.6––– 22.6
Cash and short-term deposits (see Note 20) 116.6 – – – 116.6
Interest bearing assets 139.2 – – – 139.2
Net debt (404.3) (2.0) (153.4) (441.3) (1,001.0)
Less than One to Two to More than
one year two years ﬁve years ﬁve years Total
At 31 December 2005 €m €m €m €m €m
Derivative ﬁnancial instrument assets (see Note 26) 2.8 – – – 2.8 
Derivative ﬁnancial instrument liabilities (see Note 26) (5.6) (23.6) (12.6) (16.6) (58.4)
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments (see Note 26) (2.8) (23.6) (12.6) (16.6) (55.6)
Bank overdrafts (see Note 25) (12.4) – – – (12.4)
Bank loans and other loans (see Note 25) (10.8) (70.7) – – (81.5)
Commercial paper (see Note 25) (66.0) – – – (66.0)
Loan notes (see Note 25) (24.9) (228.8) (39.2) (272.9) (565.8)
Obligations under ﬁnance leases (see Note 24) (276.2) (1.9) – – (278.1)
Gross debt (including net derivatives) (393.1) (325.0) (51.8) (289.5) (1,059.4)
Current assets – held for trading (see Note 15) 15.0––– 15.0 
Cash and short-term deposits (see Note 20) 98.8––– 98.8 
Interest bearing assets 113.8 – – – 113.8 
Net debt (279.3) (325.0) (51.8) (289.5) (945.6)
Avis Europe plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
74 27 Net debt continued
Interest rate and currency proﬁle
The interest rate and currency proﬁle of the Group’s net debt balances is as follows:
2006 2005
Fixed Floating Fixed Floating
rate rate Total rate rate Total
€m €m €m €m €m €m
Gross debt (excluding impact of derivatives)
Euro (236.7) (536.4) (773.1) (201.6) (430.2) (631.8)
Sterling – (11.8) (11.8) – (65.6) (65.6)
US$ (293.5) – (293.5) (328.7) – (328.7)
Other – 1.5 1.5 –––
(530.2) (546.7) (1,076.9) (530.3) (495.8) (1,026.1)
Net impact of derivatives
Euro (550.9) 265.1 (285.8) (465.8) 83.8 (382.0)
Sterling (54.1) 11.8 (42.3) (11.0) 65.6 54.6 
US$ 293.5 3.8 297.3 328.7 – 328.7 
Other – (32.5) (32.5) – (34.6) (34.6)
(311.5) 248.2 (63.3) (148.1) 114.8 (33.3)
Gross debt (net of derivatives)
Euro (787.6) (271.3) (1,058.9) (667.4) (346.4) (1,013.8)
Sterling (54.1) – (54.1) (11.0) – (11.0)
US$ – 3.8 3.8 –––
Other – (31.0) (31.0) – (34.6) (34.6)
(841.7) (298.5) (1,140.2) (678.4) (381.0) (1,059.4)
Interest bearing assets
Euro – 119.1 119.1 – 101.8 101.8 
Sterling – 17.9 17.9 – 10.5 10.5 
Other – 2.2 2.2 – 1.5 1.5 
– 139.2 139.2 – 113.8 113.8 
Net debt
Euro (787.6) (152.2) (939.8) (667.4) (244.6) (912.0)
Sterling (54.1) 17.9 (36.2) (11.0) 10.5 (0.5)
US$ – 3.8 3.8 –––
Other – (28.8) (28.8) – (33.1) (33.1)
(841.7) (159.3) (1,001.0) (678.4) (267.2) (945.6)
The net impact of derivatives in 2006 of €(63.3) million (2005: €(33.3) million, comprises the recognition of the fair value of the debt-related
derivative ﬁnancial instruments of €(64.1) million (2005: €(55.6) million), adjusted for the fair value hedge adjustment of €(0.7) million 
(2005: €(22.3) million) (see Note 26).
The range of interest rates applicable to gross debt (net of derivatives) by principal currency is as follows:
2006 2005
Euro Sterling Euro Sterling
%% %%
Fixed interest rate charge 4.7-6.8 5.9 4.8-6.8 6.7
Floating rate interest charge margin above:
– EURIBOR 0.3-2.6 n/a 0.2-1.7 n/a
– LIBOR n/a (0.1) n/a 0.4-1.0
75
Avis Europe plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 
28 Additional disclosures on ﬁnancial instruments
Summary of fair values of non-derivative ﬁnancial assets and liabilities
2006 2005
Book amount Fair value Book amount Fair value
€m €m €m €m
Fair value of ﬁnancial assets and ﬁnancial liabilities:
Non-current assets – available for sale investments (see Note 15) 0.7 0.7 0.6 0.6 
Trade and other receivables (see Note 19) 1,358.6 1,358.6 1,331.6 1,331.6 
Current assets – held for trading (see Note 15) 22.6 22.6 15.0 15.0 
Cash and cash equivalents (see Note 20) 116.6 116.6 98.8 98.8 
Trade and other payables (see Note 21) (671.2) (671.2) (657.4) (657.4)
Obligations under ﬁnance leases (see Note 24) (285.2) (285.2) (278.1) (278.1)
Financial liabilities – borrowings:
– Current (see Note 25) (231.7) (226.1) (114.1) (101.9)
– Non-current (see Note 25) (559.2) (512.3) (611.6) (639.5)
Financial liabilities – deferred consideration:
– Current (see Note 25) (0.3) (0.3) (0.3) (0.3)
– Non-current (see Note 25) (32.7) (35.5) (32.7) (34.7)
The Directors consider that the book value of non-current assets – available for sale investments; trade and other receivables; current assets
– held for trading; cash and cash equivalents; and trade and other payables, approximate to their fair value. 
The fair value of obligations under ﬁnance leases approximates to their book value as the majority of these obligations are due within one year
(see Note 24).
The fair value of borrowings and deferred consideration for disclosure purposes is estimated by discounting the future contractual cash
ﬂows at the current market interest rate that is available to the Group for similar ﬁnancial instruments.
29 Called-up share capital
2006 2005
Number €m Number €m
Authorised
Ordinary shares of 1p each 940,000,000 940,000,000
Issued and fully paid share capital
At 1 January 920,524,047 13.1 585,788,030 8.1 
Issued during the year –– 334,736,017 5.0 
At 31 December 920,524,047 13.1 920,524,047 13.1 
30 Share premium and own shares held
Share Own
premium shares held
€m €m
At 1 January 2005 876.0 (1.4)
Transfer to retained earnings (487.1) –
Net expenses incurred on rights issue (see Note 29) (7.4) –
Own shares acquired upon rights issue (see Note 29) – (0.2)
Own shares released on vesting of share awards – 0.5 
At 31 December 2005 381.5 (1.1)
At 1 January 2006 381.5 (1.1)
Own shares released on vesting of share awards – 0.4 
At 31 December 2006 381.5 (0.7)
On 22 June 2005, the High Court of Justice conﬁrmed a reduction in the share premium account of the Company of £335.2 million
(€487.1 million) which became effective on 23 June 2005. The deﬁcit on the retained earnings account in the unconsolidated 
balance sheet of the Company, and in the consolidated balance sheet of the Group, have been reduced accordingly.
Own shares are held by the Avis Europe Employee Share Trust, a discretionary trust, to partially satisfy options and awards granted 
under a number of the Group’s share schemes.
At 31 December 2006, the Trust held 425,449 shares (2005: 664,049 shares), with a market value of 81.75 pence per share 
(2005: 71.0 pence per share), which have been recognised as a reduction in shareholders’ funds. None of the shares held 
at the year end are under option to employees, nor have they been conditionally gifted to them. The Avis Europe Employee 
Share Trust has not waived its right to dividends on these shares.
Avis Europe plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
76 31 Share and share option schemes
Details of the nature of all share and share option schemes can be found on pages 38 and 39 of the Remuneration Report.
During the prior year, pursuant to the rights issue (see Note 29), and in accordance with the individual share option scheme rules, adjustments
have been approved to increase the number of shares under option and decrease (where relevant) the exercise price per share of any options.
The purpose of these adjustments was to counter the depreciatory effect which the rights issue would otherwise have on the latent value 
of options. At the year end, options outstanding under all schemes were as follows:
At 31 December 2006 
No of options Exercise price range Exercise period
Date of grant (’000) From To From To
Approved and Unapproved Share Option Schemes
2004 628.7 78.2p 78.2p 2007 2014
2003 540.4 75.7p 86.8p 2006 2013
2002 1,765.0 83.6p 174.2p 2005 2012
2001 1,120.2 121.8p 136.4p 2004 2011
2000 729.5 166.6p 166.8p 2003 2010
1999 65.9 212.3p 234.6p 2002 2009
1998 96.5 208.1p 224.7p 2001 2008
1997 303.5 103.9p 107.1p 2000 2007
5,249.7
Performance Share Plan
2004 584.9 – – 2007 2014
2003 702.7 – – 2006 2013
2000 78.5 – – 2004 2011
1,366.1
Share Retention Plan
2004 477.2 – – 2006 2008
Total 7,093.0
At 31 December 2005 
No of options Exercise price range Exercise period
Date of grant (’000) From To From To
Approved and Unapproved Share Option Schemes
2004 753.9 78.2p 78.2p 2007 2014
2003 730.1 75.7p 86.8p 2006 2013
2002 2,071.0 83.6p 174.2p 2005 2012
2001 1,450.1 121.8p 136.4p 2004 2011
2000 892.9 166.6p 166.8p 2003 2010
1999 718.2 212.3p 234.6p 2002 2009
1998 129.7 208.1p 224.7p 2001 2008
1997 329.8 103.9p 107.1p 2000 2007
7,075.7 
Equity Partnership Plan
Loyalty shares
2000 47.7 – – 2005 2012
47.7 
Performance Share Plan
2004 584.9 – – 2007 2014
2003 702.7 – – 2006 2013
2000 78.5 – – 2004 2011
1,366.1 
Share Retention Plan
2004 715.8 – – 2006 2008
Total 9,205.3 
77
Avis Europe plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 
31 Share and share option schemes continued
Approved and
Unapproved Equity Performance Share
Number (’000) Share Schemes Partnership Plan Share Plan Retention Plan Total
Outstanding options as at 1 January 2005 8,747.1 222.7 1,238.9 600.0 10,808.7 
Granted in the year – rights issue 1,370.9 11.0 221.0 115.8 1,718.7 
Expired in the year – (26.4) – – (26.4)
Forfeited in the year (3,042.3) (1.6) (93.8) – (3,137.7)
Exercised in the year – (158.0) – – (158.0)
Outstanding options as at 31 December 2005 7,075.7 47.7 1,366.1 715.8 9,205.3 
Exercisable options as at 31 December 2005 5,591.7 – – – 5,591.7 
Outstanding options as at 1 January 2006 7,075.7 47.7 1,366.1 715.8 9,205.3 
Forfeited in the year (1,826.0) (47.7) – – (1,873.7)
Exercised in the year – – – (238.6) (238.6)
Outstanding options as at 31 December 2006 5,249.7 – 1,366.1 477.2 7,093.0 
Exercisable options as at 31 December 2006 4,621.0 – – – 4,621.0 
All movements in the number of outstanding options under the Equity Partnership Plan, Performance Share Plan and Share Retention Plan
during both the current and prior year had zero weighted average exercise prices. Exercisable options comprise outstanding options where
the vesting period has completed, irrespective as to whether the option exercise price is above or below the current share price.
Movements in the weighted average exercise prices of the Approved and Unapproved Share Schemes during the year is as follows:
Approved and 
Unapproved
Weighted average exercise price (pence) Share Schemes
Outstanding options as at 1 January 2005 168.0 
Granted in the year – rights issue 139.6 
Forfeited in the year 105.0 
Outstanding options as at 31 December 2005 168.0 
Exercisable options as at 31 December 2005 209.1 
Outstanding options as at 31 December 2005 168.0
Forfeited in the year 153.7
Outstanding options as at 31 December 2006 120.0
Exercisable options as at 31 December 2006 126.8
Approved and
Unapproved Equity Performance Share
Weighted average remaining contract lives (years) Share Schemes Partnership Plan Share Plan Retention Plan
At 31 December 2006 4.1 n/a 3.5 0.3 
At 31 December 2005 5.6 3.7 4.5 1.5 
Avis Europe plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
78 31 Share and share option schemes continued
IFRS 2, Share-Based Payment, requires that the fair value of all share options issued after 7 November 2002 is charged to the income
statement. All of the Equity Partnership Plan options and some of the options from the other schemes were issued before 7 November 2002
and therefore the fair values of these granted options are not recognised. For options issued after 7 November 2002, the fair value of the
option must be assessed on the date of each issue. The Group uses a stochastic valuation model at each issue date reassessing the input
assumptions on each occasion. No options have been issued or expired in 2006 and, accordingly, the only movements in the year to
impact on the weighted average relate to the forfeited options. The weighted average of the assumptions used in each valuation and the
resulting weighted average fair value per option were as follows:
Approved and Unapproved
Share Schemes Performance Share Plan Share Retention Plan
Weighted average 2006 2005 2006 2005 2006 2005
Share price (pence) 80.6 80.6 76.8 76.8 42.7 42.7 
Option exercise price (pence) 80.6 80.6 – – – –
Vesting period (years) 3.0 3.0 5.5 5.5 2.0 2.0 
Option life (years) 10.0 10.0 7.0 7.0 2.0 2.0 
Expected volatility (%) 49% 49% 49% 49% 49% 49%
Risk free rate of return (%) 4.7% 4.7% 4.8% 4.8% 4.8% 4.8%
Probability of ceasing employment before vesting (%) 5% 5% 0% 0% 0% 0%
Expectations of meeting performance criteria (%) 44% 43% 55% 55% 100% 100%
Fair value per option (pence) 29.2 29.1 37.0 37.0 42.7 42.7
Weighted average share price (pence); weighted average option exercise price (pence) and weighted average fair value per option (pence)
have been adjusted for the changes in the number of options and exercise price arising from the rights issue in 2005 (see above).
Expected volatility was determined by reference to the volatility in the share price using rolling one year periods for the ﬁve years immediately
preceding the grant date. The risk free rate of return is based upon UK gilt rates with an equivalent term to the options granted.
For options issued prior to July 2003, an expected dividend yield of 6.4% was applied, based on historic dividend yield performance. 
For options issued after July 2003, future dividend assumptions were aligned to the dividend expectations publicly announced by the Group.
32 Retained earnings
2006 2005
€m €m
At 1 January as initially reported (292.1) (935.4)
Impact of adoption of IAS 32 and IAS 39 – (2.7)
At 1 January as subsequently reported (292.1) (938.1)
Impact of IAS 21 (revised) – see Basis of Preparation (6.9) (0.1)
At 1 January as restated (299.0) (938.2)
Proﬁt for the year 5.0 11.8 
Increase in equity reserve arising from charge to income for share options in the year 0.2 0.4 
Net actuarial gains/(losses) on retirement beneﬁt obligations 2.9 (38.1)
Taxation on actuarial gains/(losses) (see Note 7) 0.4 9.2 
Transfer from share premium reserve (see Note 30) – 487.1 
Transfer from merger reserve (see Note 33) – 168.8 
At 31 December (290.5) (299.0)
Goodwill of €1,080.4 million arising on acquisitions arising before 1 March 1998 has been written off to reserves.
79
Avis Europe plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 
33 Other reserves
Translation Merger Hedging
Reserve Reserve Reserve Total
€m €m €m €m
At 1 January 2005 as initially reported (5.3) – – (5.3)
Impact of adoption of IAS 32 and IAS 39 – – (8.6) (8.6)
At 1 January 2005 as subsequently reported (5.3) – (8.6) (13.9)
Impact of IAS 21 (revised) – see Basis of Preparation 0.1 – – 0.1 
At 1 January 2005 as restated (5.2) – (8.6) (13.8)
Cash ﬂow hedges:
– net fair value gains – – 6.1 6.1 
– transfers to income statement – – 4.9 4.9 
Premium arising on share issue (see Note 29 ) – 168.8 – 168.8 
Transfer to retained earnings (see Note 32 ) – (168.8) – (168.8)
Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 0.4 – – 0.4 
Taxation (see Note 7 ) (3.0) – (3.3) (6.3)
At 31 December 2005 (7.8) – (0.9) (8.7)
At 1 January 2006 as reported (14.7) – (0.9) (15.6)
Impact of IAS 21 (revised) – see Basis of Preparation 6.9 – – 6.9
At 1 January 2006 as restated (7.8) – (0.9) (8.7)
Cash ﬂow hedges:
– net fair value losses – – (11.1) (11.1)
– transfers to income statement – – 5.4 5.4 
Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations (1.2) – – (1.2)
Taxation (see Note 7) (0.6) – 1.7 1.1 
At 31 December 2006 (9.6) – (4.9) (14.5)
The translation reserve reﬂects exchange movements arising from the retranslation at closing rates of the Group’s net investment in subsidiaries,
joint ventures and associates.
The merger reserve was recognised in the prior year as a consequence of the Company taking merger relief under section 131 Companies
Act 1985 on shares issued to acquire, as part of the rights issue process, an investment in the ordinary and redeemable preference shares
in Caelum Limited (a company incorporated in Jersey). Following the subsequent redemption of the preference shares acquired, the related
amount previously standing to the credit of the merger reserve has become realised and has been transferred to retained earnings.
The hedging reserve reﬂects changes in the fair value of derivative ﬁnancial instruments that are designated and effective as hedges of future
cash ﬂows.
34 Reconciliation of movements in shareholders’ equity
2006 2005
€m €m
Proﬁt for the year attributable to the equity holders of the Company 5.0 11.8 
Net expense recognised directly in equity (see statement of recognised income and expense) (2.5) (23.8)
Total recognised income and expense attributable to equity holders of the Company 2.5 (12.0)
Increase in equity reserve arising from charge to income for share options in the year 0.2 0.4 
Net proceeds of share issue (see Note 30) – 166.2 
Own shares released on vesting of share awards (see Note 30) 0.4 0.5 
Net increase in shareholders’ equity 3.1 155.1 
At 1 January (2005 as initially reported) 85.8 (58.0)
Impact of adoption of IAS 32 and IAS 39 – (11.3)
At 1 January (2005 as restated) 85.8 (69.3)
At 31 December 88.9 85.8 
35 Reconciliation of movements in minority interest
2006 2005
€m €m
Proﬁt for the year – 0.3 
Exchange movements (net of taxation) 0.1 (0.1)
Net increase in minority interest 0.1 0.2 
At 1 January 0.8 0.6 
At 31 December 0.9 0.8 
Avis Europe plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
80 36 Acquisitions
Acquisition of Licensee
During the year, the Group acquired a 100% interest in a number of the rental locations of a former Avis licensee in Germany. 
The businesses, which provide vehicle rental services, were acquired with effect from the year end and cash consideration 
for the acquisition was paid during the year.
The results and cash ﬂows arising subsequent to the acquisition (even if it had occurred on the ﬁrst day of 2006) are not considered
material to the Group and, accordingly, are not disclosed separately. The acquisition has been accounted for using the purchase 
method of accounting. The details of the net assets acquired, goodwill and consideration are set out below:
Fair value and
accounting
policy Provisional
Book value adjustments fair value
€m €m €m
Vehicles –––
Net assets acquired –––
Goodwill arising on acquisition 0.3 – 0.3
Consideration 0.3 – 0.3
Consideration satisﬁed by:
Cash for acquisition of business 0.3 
0.3 
37 Notes to the consolidated cash ﬂow statement
a) Analysis of changes in net debt
At At
1 January Other Exchange 31 December
2006 Cash ﬂow non-cash movements 2006
€m €m €m €m €m
Cash and short-term deposits 98.8 17.2 – 0.6 116.6 
Bank overdrafts (12.4) 9.1 – – (3.3)
Cash and cash equivalents 86.4 26.3 – 0.6 113.3 
Current assets – held for trading 15.0 8.2 – (0.6) 22.6 
Obligations under ﬁnance leases (278.1) 97.3 (103.2) (1.2) (285.2)
Borrowings (excluding overdrafts) (see Note 25) (713.3) (80.7) 6.6 (0.2) (787.6)
Derivative debt instruments (see Note 26) (55.6) 4.8 (13.5) 0.2 (64.1)
Net debt (945.6) 55.9 (110.1) (1.2) (1,001.0)
Cash ﬂow on borrowings includes the receipt of €250.0 million Senior Floating Rate Notes due 2013 (see Note 25) and repayment 
of €25.0 million loan notes issued in November 2001.
Other non-cash movements represent the effect of the inception and cessation of certain ﬁnance leases during the year, and recognition 
of changes in the fair value of derivatives and hedged items. 
b) Reconciliation of net increase in cash and cash equivalents to movement in net debt
2006 2005
€m €m
Movement in net debt resulting from cash ﬂows 55.9 136.2 
New ﬁnance leases (103.2) (95.4)
Re-measurement adjustments (6.9) 5.1 
Exchange movements (1.2) (10.9)
Total movement in net debt (55.4) 35.0 
Net debt at 1 January (945.6) (980.6)
Net debt at 31 December (1,001.0) (945.6)
81
Avis Europe plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 
38 Contingent liabilities
The Company and certain subsidiaries have provided unsecured guarantees to certain third parties within the normal course of business,
the majority of which were in favour of certain lenders in respect of some of the Group’s loan notes and borrowing facilities, together with
guarantees provided to vehicle suppliers and property lessors. As at 31 December 2006, these guarantees totalled €1,056.8 million
(2005: €911.4 million). 
Certain Group companies are defendants in a number of claims and legal proceedings incidental to their operations. The Directors 
do not expect that any of these contingencies will have a material negative impact on the results or ﬁnancial position of the Group.
Save as disclosed herein and excluding intra-group indebtedness and guarantees, no member of the Group had at the close of business 
on 31 December 2006 any outstanding loan capital (including loan capital created but unissued), term loans or any other borrowings or
indebtedness in the nature of borrowings, including bank overdrafts, liabilities under acceptances (other than normal trade bills) or acceptance
credits, hire purchase commitments, obligations under ﬁnance leases, guarantees or other contingent liabilities.
39 Financial commitments
At 31 December, the Group had the following minimum lease payment commitments under non-cancellable operating leases:
2006 2005
Land and Land and
buildings Vehicles Other buildings Vehicles Other
€m €m €m €m €m €m
Expiring:
Within one year 39.7 22.4 0.2 43.4 13.5 0.1 
Later than one year and less than ﬁve years 64.1 0.7 0.3 54.8 1.8 0.1 
After ﬁve years 31.7 – – 28.8 – –
Total 135.5 23.1 0.5 127.0 15.3 0.2 
At each year end the Group also had prepaid various other operating lease commitments in relation to manufacturer repurchase agreements,
as detailed in Note 19.
40 Majority shareholder
The Company’s ultimate majority shareholder is s.a. D’Ieteren n.v. which is incorporated in Belgium. The ultimate controlling party of s.a.
D’Ieteren n.v. is the D’Ieteren family. Avis Europe plc is the smallest company that consolidates the results of the Company and its subsidiaries. 
s.a. D’Ieteren n.v. is the largest company that consolidates the results of the Company and its subsidiaries. Copies of s.a. D’Ieteren n.v.’s
ﬁnancial statements are available from: The Investor Relations Department, Avis Europe plc, Avis House, Park Road, Bracknell, Berkshire
RG12 2EW.
Avis Europe plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
82 41 Related party transactions
2006 2005
€m €m
Sales to joint venture 0.5 0.4 
Net current amounts owing from joint venture 0.1 0.2 
Purchases from majority shareholder 41.9 49.8 
Sales to majority shareholder 41.2 48.9 
Purchases from a subsidiary of majority shareholder 2.2 0.2 
Interest payable to a subsidiary of majority shareholder – 0.3 
Current amounts owing to majority shareholder 11.8 13.1 
Current amounts owing from majority shareholder 15.4 17.2 
Current amounts owing to a subsidiary of majority shareholder 0.2 0.1 
The remuneration of the Directors, and other key management personnel of the Group, is set out below in aggregate for each of the categories
speciﬁed in IAS 24, Related Party Disclosures. Salaries and short-term employee beneﬁts include wages, salaries and social security costs.
During the year the Group’s overall leadership team constitution was expanded to include the general managers of the Group’s ﬁve
principal geographic segments. Key management compensation for 2006 therefore includes these general managers. No adjustment 
has been made to the 2005 comparative. Further information about the remuneration of individual Directors is provided in the audited 
part of the Remuneration Report on pages 37 to 39. 
2006 2005
Key Key
Directors management Total Directors management Total
Key management compensation €m €m €m €m €m €m
Salaries and short-term employee beneﬁts 4.2 3.9 8.1 4.0 0.7 4.7
Post-employment beneﬁts 0.3 1.1 1.4 0.7 0.7 1.4
4.5 5.0 9.5 4.7 1.4 6.1
42 Exchange rates
Monthly income statements and other period statements of overseas operations are translated at the relevant rate of exchange for that
month. Except for the balance sheet which is translated at the closing rate, each line item in these Consolidated Financial Statements
represents a weighted average rate. 
Sterling to Euro Euro to Sterling
Year ended 31 December Year ended 31 December
2006 2005 2006 2005
Weighted average reported rate for revenue 1.467 1.461 0.682 0.685
Weighted average reported rate for operating proﬁt 1.463 1.465 0.684 0.683
Year end rate 1.492 1.480 0.670 0.676
83
Avis Europe plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 
43 Principal subsidiaries
A list of the principal subsidiaries including the name, country of incorporation, and proportion of ownership are detailed below:
2006 2005
% of indirect % of indirect
Country of ownership ownership
Name of company incorporation interest interest
Avis Location de Voitures SAS France 100 100
Avis Autovermietung GmbH & Co KG Germany 100 100
Avis Autonoleggio SpA Italy 100 100
Avis Alquile un Coche SA Spain 100 100
Avis Rent A Car Limited UK 100 100
Avis Europe International Reinsurance Limited Isle of Man 100 100
Avis Europe Holdings Limited UK 100 100
Avis Finance Company plc UK 100 100
Avis Management Services Limited UK 100 100
In addition, the assets and liabilities of Europe Leisure Holdings NV and its subsidiary are consolidated in these Consolidated Financial
Statements in accordance with SIC 12, Consolidation – Special Purpose Entities. 
A complete list of all Group subsidiaries is available from: The Investor Relations Department, Avis Europe plc, Avis House, Park Road,
Bracknell, Berkshire RG12 2EW.
Avis Europe plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
84 Independent Auditors’ Report 
to the Shareholders of Avis Europe plc on the Parent Company Financial Statements
We have audited the Parent Company Financial Statements of Avis
Europe plc for the year ended 31 December 2006 which comprise
the Balance Sheet and the related notes. These Parent Company
Financial Statements have been prepared under the accounting
policies set out therein. We have also audited the information in 
the Directors’ Remuneration Report that is described as having
been audited.
We have reported separately on the Consolidated Financial Statements
of Avis Europe plc for the year ended 31 December 2006.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors
The Directors’ responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, 
the Directors’ Remuneration Report and the Parent Company
Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law and 
United Kingdom Accounting Standards (United Kingdom 
Generally Accepted Accounting Practice) are set out in the
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities. The Directors are 
also responsible for preparing the Remuneration Report.
Our responsibility is to audit the Parent Company Financial
Statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report 
to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory
requirements and International Standards on Auditing (UK and
Ireland). This report, including the opinion, has been prepared 
for and only for the Company’s shareholders as a body in
accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and 
for no other purpose. We do not, in giving this opinion, accept 
or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other
person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may
come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the Parent Company
Financial Statements give a true and fair view and whether the
Parent Company Financial Statements and the part of the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited have been 
properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. 
We also report to you whether in our opinion the information 
given in the Director’s Report is consistent with the Parent 
Company Financial Statements. The information given in the
Directors’ Report includes that speciﬁc information presented 
in the Operating and Financial Review that is cross-referred 
from the Business Review section of the Directors’ Report. 
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has 
not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all 
the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if
information speciﬁed by law regarding Directors’ remuneration 
and other transactions is not disclosed.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and
consider whether it is consistent with the audited Parent Company
Financial Statements. The other information comprises only 
the Chairman’s Statement, the Chief Executive’s Review, the
Financial Review, the Corporate and Social Responsibility
Statement, the Directors Listing, the Corporate Governance
Statement, the Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities, the
unaudited part of the Remuneration Report and the Five Year
Summary. We consider the implications for our report if we 
become aware of any apparent misstatements or material
inconsistencies with the Parent Company Financial Statements. 
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Basis of audit opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards
on Auditing (UK and Ireland) issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant
to the amounts and disclosures in the Parent Company Financial
Statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be
audited. It also includes an assessment of the signiﬁcant estimates
and judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of the
Parent Company Financial Statements, and of whether the
accounting policies are appropriate to the Company’s
circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the
information and explanations which we considered necessary 
in order to provide us with sufﬁcient evidence to give reasonable
assurance that the Parent Company Financial Statements and 
the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are
free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other
irregularity or error. In forming our opinion we also evaluated the
overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the Parent
Company Financial Statements and the part of the Directors’
Remuneration Report to be audited.
Opinion
In our opinion:
• the Parent Company Financial Statements give a true and fair
view, in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted
Accounting Practice, of the state of the Company’s affairs as at 
31 December 2006;
• the Parent Company Financial Statements and the part of the
Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly
prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985; and
• the information given in the Director’s Report is consistent with 
the Parent Company Financial Statements.
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors
London
26 February 2007
85
Avis Europe plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Parent Company Balance Sheet
at 31 December
2006 2005
as restated
1
Notes £m £m
Fixed assets
Investments 1 315.0 315.0
Current assets
Debtors 2 109.9 104.3
Creditors amounts falling due within one year
Creditors 3 (5.1) (2.9)
Other ﬁnancial liabilities – ﬁnancial guarantees 4 (0.1) (0.1)
Current liabilities (5.2) (3.0)
Net current assets 104.7 101.3
Total assets less current liabilities 419.7 416.3
Capital and reserves
Called-up share capital 5 9.2 9.2
Share premium 6 294.8 294.8
Reserves 7 115.7 112.3
Total shareholders’ funds – equity 8 419.7 416.3
1 Restated following the application of FRS 26 (amendment) – see Basis of Preparation.
The accompanying Notes form an integral part of these Parent Company Financial Statements.
The Parent Company Financial Statements, including the accompanying Notes, were approved by the Board on 26 February 2007 and were
signed on its behalf by:
M E Hennessy M R Smith
Chief Executive Finance Director
Avis Europe plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
86 Signiﬁcant Accounting Policies 
Applicable to the Parent Company Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2006
Basis of preparation
The Company’s functional currency is sterling, and the balance
sheet and related notes are presented in sterling.
The Parent Company Financial Statements set out on pages 86 to
90 have been prepared under the historical cost convention and 
in accordance with applicable UK accounting standards and the
Companies Act 1985. A summary of the principal accounting
policies are set out below, which are consistent with those followed
in the preparation of the Company’s Financial Statements for the
year ended 31 December 2005, except for the adoption of FRS 26
(amendment) – Financial Guarantee Contracts (effective from 
1 January 2006).
This amendment requires issued ﬁnancial guarantees, other than
those previously asserted by the entity to be insurance contracts, 
to be initially recognised at their fair value and subsequently
measured at the higher of: (a) the unamortised balance of the
related fees received and deferred; and (b) the expenditure required
to settle the commitment at the balance sheet date. The Company
has issued various ﬁnancial guarantees to third parties in relation to
borrowings and transactions undertaken by subsidiary companies
in the normal course of business.
The comparative amounts in respect of ﬁxed asset investments,
other ﬁnancial liabilities, and retained earnings have been restated
accordingly. In the year ended 31 December 2005, these
restatements did not increase or decrease the Company’s retained
proﬁt for the year from £0.1 million as previously reported, but, in
conjunction with an opening reserves adjustment at 1 January 2005
of £0.1 million, opening retained earnings at 1 January 2006 were
reduced by £0.1 million.
Fixed asset investments
Fixed asset investments are shown at cost less provision for 
any impairment where the recoverable amount is less than cost. 
Fixed asset investments are initially stated at cost, being their
purchase cost together with any incidental expenses of acquisitions.
The carrying values of ﬁxed asset investments are reviewed for
impairment in periods if events or changes in circumstances indicate
the carrying value may not be recoverable. Any impairment of ﬁxed
asset investments is charged to the proﬁt and loss account in the
year in which it arises.
Deferred taxation
Deferred tax is provided using the incremental liability approach and
is measured on a non-discounted basis at the average tax rates that
are expected to apply in the periods in which the timing differences
are expected to reverse, based on tax rates and laws substantively
enacted at the balance sheet date. Deferred tax is recognised in
respect of timing differences that have originated but not reversed
by the balance sheet date except that:
a) deferred tax is not recognised on the revaluation of non-monetary
assets such as property unless a binding sale agreement exists
at the balance sheet date. Where rollover relief is available on 
an asset then deferred tax is in any case not recognised;
b) deferred tax is not recognised on unremitted earnings of overseas
subsidiaries, associates or joint ventures unless dividends have
been accrued as receivable or there is a binding agreement to
distribute past earnings at the balance sheet date;
c) deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that they are
regarded as recoverable. Assets are regarded as recoverable
when it is regarded as more likely than not that there will be
suitable taxable proﬁts from which the future reversal of the
underlying timing differences can be deducted; and
d) deferred tax is not recognised on permanent differences.
Foreign currency
Foreign currency assets and liabilities are translated at the rates of
exchange ruling at the year end. Transactions during the year are
recorded at rates of exchange in effect when the transaction occurs. 
Dividend distribution
Final dividends to the Company’s shareholders are recognised 
as a liability in the Financial Statements in the period in which 
the dividends are approved by the Company’s shareholders. 
Interim dividends are recognised when paid.
Share-based payments
Share-based payments are exclusively made in connection with
employee stock option plans (“ESOPs”). 
FRS 20, Share-Based Payments, is not applied to shares, share
options or other equity instruments that were granted before or 
on 7 November 2002, and which had not vested at 1 January 2005.
Equity-settled ESOPs granted after that date are accounted for in
accordance with FRS 20, such that the fair value of the employee
service received in exchange for the grant of the option is recognised
in the income statement over the related performance period. The
total amount to be expensed over the vesting period is determined
by reference to the fair value of the options granted, excluding 
the impact of any non-market vesting conditions (for example
proﬁtability growth targets). Non-market vesting conditions are
included in assumptions about the number of options that are
expected to become exercisable. At each balance sheet date, 
the Group revises its estimates of the number of options that 
are expected to become exercisable. It recognises the impact 
of the revision of original estimates in the income statement, 
with a corresponding adjustment to equity.
The proceeds received net of any directly attributable transaction
costs are credited to share capital and share premium when the
options are exercised.
Financial guarantees
Financial guarantees, other than those previously asserted by the
entity to be insurance contracts, are initially recognised at their 
fair value and subsequently measured at the higher of: 
a) the unamortised balance of the related fees received and deferred;
and 
b) the expenditure required to settle the commitment at the balance
sheet date. 
87
Avis Europe plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 December
1 Fixed asset investments
Investment in subsidiaries
2006 2005
as restated
£m £m
Cost
At 1 January 711.1 711.0 
Additions 0.1 0.1
At 31 December 711.2 711.1 
Provision for impairment
At 1 January 396.1 396.0 
Current year provision 0.1 0.1
At 31 December 396.2 396.1 
Net book amount
At 1 January and 31 December 315.0 315.0
Details of the Company’s principal subsidiaries are provided in Note 43 of the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Additions to ﬁxed asset investments arose in both the current and prior year upon the grant of new guarantees in the year to indirect
subsidiary undertakings. As the Company has no direct holding in these indirect subsidiary undertakings, the resultant balances are
considered to be irrecoverable in the foreseeable future and impairment provisions have therefore been immediately recognised.
2 Debtors
2006 2005
£m £m
Amounts owed by Group subsidiaries 109.6 103.8 
Deferred tax 0.3 0.5 
109.9 104.3 
3 Creditors
2006 2005
£m £m
Amounts falling due within one year
Amounts due to subsidiaries 4.2 2.0 
Other creditors 0.9 0.9 
5.1 2.9 
4 Other ﬁnancial liabilities
2006 2005
as restated
£m £m
Financial guarantee contracts 0.1 0.1
The fair values of ﬁnancial guarantee contracts are calculated by discounted cash ﬂow analysis based upon the probability of default of the
underlying subsidiary undertaking and the expected loss to the Company arising upon default.
Avis Europe plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
88 5 Called-up share capital
2006 2005
Number £m Number £m
Authorised
Ordinary shares of 1p each 940,000,000 940,000,000 
Issued and fully paid share capital
At 1 January 920,524,047 9.2 585,788,030 5.9 
Issued during the year –– 334,736,017 3.3 
At 31 December 920,524,047 9.2 920,524,047 9.2 
Details of the Company’s share option schemes are provided in Note 31 of the Consolidated Financial Statements.
6 Share premium
2006 2005
£m £m
At 1 January 294.8 634.8
Transfer to retained earnings (see Note 7) – (335.2)
Net expenses incurred on rights issue – (4.8)
At 31 December 294.8 294.8
Further details of movements in the year are provided in Note 30 of the Consolidated Financial Statements.
7 Reserves
Own shares Retained Merger
held earnings reserve Total
£m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2005 (as initially reported) (0.9) (335.2) – (336.1) 
Impact of FRS 26 (amendment) – see basis of preparation – (0.1) – (0.1)
At 1 January 2005 (as restated) (0.9) (335.3) – (336.2) 
Retained proﬁt for the year – 0.1 – 0.1 
Increase in equity reserve arising from share options in the year – 0.3 – 0.3
Transfer from share premium reserve (see Note 6) – 335.2 – 335.2
Premium arising on share issue – – 112.7 112.7
Transfer between reserves – 112.7 (112.7) –
Own shares released on vesting of share awards 0.3 – – 0.3
Own shares acquired upon rights issue (0.1) – – (0.1)
At 31 December 2005 (0.7) 113.0 – 112.3
At 1 January 2006 (as initially reported) (0.7) 113.1 – 112.4
Impact of FRS 26 (amendment) – see basis of preparation – (0.1) – (0.1)
At 1 January 2006 (as restated) (0.7) 113.0 – 112.3
Retained proﬁt for the year – 3.2 – 3.2
Own shares released on vesting of share awards 0.2 – – 0.2
At 31 December 2006 (0.5) 116.2 – 115.7
As allowed under section 230 of the Companies Act 1985, no proﬁt and loss account is presented in respect of the Company. The proﬁt 
of the Company for the year was £3.2 million (2005: £0.1 million).
In accordance with FRS 20, for share options that were issued after 7 November 2002, and which had not vested at 1 January 2005, the 
fair value of the employee service received in exchange for the grant of the option is recognised in the proﬁt and loss account over the
related performance period. The Company recharges these expenses to the relevant Group Company in which the individual is employed.
Further details of movements in the merger reserve in the prior year are provided in Note 33 of the Consolidated Financial Statements.
89
Avis Europe plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements continued
for the year ended 31 December
8 Reconciliation of movements in shareholders’ equity
2006 2005
£m £m
Retained proﬁt for the year 3.2 0.1 
Net proceeds of share issue – 111.1 
Increase in equity reserve arising from share options in the year – 0.3 
Own shares released on vesting of share awards 0.2 0.3 
Net increase in shareholders’ equity 3.4 111.8 
At 1 January (2005 as initially reported) 416.4 304.6 
Impact of FRS 26 (amendment) – see basis of preparation (0.1) (0.1)
At 1 January (2005 as restated) 416.3 304.5 
At 31 December 419.7 416.3 
9 Auditor’s remuneration
Auditor’s remuneration is borne by Avis Management Services Limited, an indirect subsidiary undertaking.
10 Directors’ remuneration
Details of Directors’ remuneration for the year are provided in Note 41 of the Consolidated Financial Statements and the audited part of the
Remuneration Report on pages 37 to 39.
11 Majority shareholder
Details of the majority shareholder are provided in Note 40 of the Consolidated Financial Statements.
12 Related party transactions
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption within FRS 8, Related Party Disclosures, for wholly-owned subsidiary undertakings
not to disclose transactions with other entities within the same Group.
13 Contingent liabilities
The Company and certain subsidiaries have provided unsecured guarantees to certain third parties within the normal course of business,
the majority of which were in favour of certain lenders in respect of some of the Group’s loan notes and borrowing facilities, together with
guarantees provided to vehicle suppliers and property lessors. As at 31 December 2006, these guarantees in relation to drawn balances
totalled £708.2 million (2005: £615.8 million).
Certain Group companies are defendants in a number of claims and legal proceedings incidental to their operations. The Directors do not
expect that any of these contingencies will have a material impact on the results or ﬁnancial position of the Company.
Avis Europe plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
90 Five Year Summary
UK GAAP IFRS
Basis of preparation 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006
Revenue €m 1,189 1,169 1,253 1,277 1,337
Proﬁt before taxation, goodwill amortisation 
and exceptional items €m 122 59 n/a n/a n/a
Underlying proﬁt before taxation €m n/a n/a 52 38 39
Net exceptional costs before taxation €m 16 102 74 13 29
Basic earnings per share:
– as reported € cents 13.8 (8.8) (2.4) 1.5 0.5
– adjusted for 2005 rights issue € cents 11.6 (7.4) (2.4) 1.5 0.5
Adjusted/underlying earnings per share:
– as reported € cents 16.4 7.8 5.6 3.4 3.0
– adjusted for 2005 rights issue € cents 13.7 6.5 5.6 3.4 3.0
Net debt €m 1,080 1,046 966 946 1,001 
Shareholders’ funds €m 108 16 (57) 87 90
The amounts disclosed for 2002 and 2003 are stated on the basis of UK GAAP as it is not practicable to restate amounts for periods prior
to the date of transition to IFRS. The principal differences between UK GAAP and IFRS are explained in Notes 45 and 46 to the 2005
Consolidated Financial Statements.
91
Avis Europe plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Shareholder Information
Registered ofﬁce and head ofﬁce
Avis House, Park Road, Bracknell, Berkshire RG12 2EW
Tel: +44 (0) 1344 426644
Fax: +44 (0) 01344 485616
Registered number: 3311438
Registrar
Shareholders with any queries relating to shareholdings, change of
address, lost share certiﬁcates or dividend payments should contact
the Company’s registrar on 0870 600 3970 or write to Lloyds TSB
Registrars, The Causeway, Worthing, West Sussex BN99 6DA. The
registrar provides a wide range of shareholder information on-line.
Shareholders can check their holding and ﬁnd practical help on
transferring shares or updating their details at: www.shareview.co.uk
Website
The Avis Europe website, www.avis-europe.com, includes an
Investor Centre and is continuously updated with announcements
and Avis news.
ShareGift
Shareholders with a small number of shares, the value of which
makes it uneconomic to sell them, may wish to consider donating
them to charity through ShareGift, a registered charity administered
by The Orr Mackintosh Foundation. The share transfer form needed
to make a donation may be obtained from the Avis Europe registrar,
Lloyds TSB Registrars. Further information about ShareGift is
available at www.sharegift.org or by telephone: 020 7337 0501.
Founders Club
Founders Club members and holders of other shareholder privileges
should use the following dedicated phone line for all reservations
and enquiries including queries about discounts – 0870 333 7000.
Avis Europe plc no longer offers discounts for new shareholders
with effect from 1 January 2005.
Avis Europe plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
92 Designed and produced by CGI London +44 (0)20 7566 4600 
www.cgi-london.com. 
This annual report has been printed using Hello Silk. Hello Silk is 
PEFC and the paper is made in a mill that is entirely self-sufﬁcient 
with regard to electricity. Made in Austria. 
Printed by St Ives Westerham Press, a CarbonNeutral company. Avis Europe plc
Avis House
Park Road
Bracknell
Berkshire 
RG12 2EW
Telephone +44 (0)1344 426644
Facsimile +44 (0)1344 485616
www.avis-europe.com
New location 
search
The new location
search enables
customers to find 
the right rental
location quickly 
and easily, either 
by searching via
location name or 
flight number.
Integrated 
marketing 
We are leveraging 
the new site to
accelerate direct
marketing to
consumers to 
attract and retain 
more customers 
in our chosen 
market segments.
Avis Preferred 
sign up
The new website 
also includes a fast
online application 
for Avis Preferred, 
the Group’s frequent
renter scheme.
Customers can
register for the service
in minutes on the site.
Members will benefit
from a variety of
services all aimed at
speeding up the 
rental process. 
Clearer car choice
Within just three clicks,
customers can see
vehicle availability,
clearly presented 
by size (small, 
medium or large) 
and by vehicle type
(automatic, manual,
petrol or diesel),
together with the
number of passengers
and luggage space.
Information is
presented online 
using user-friendly
images, as well 
as text. 
Online account
management
Improved functionality
means that customers
can now register
online and create a
personalised account.
This account allows
them to securely store
all personal and
payment details and
review past rentals,
thus saving time when
completing a booking. 
Our new industry 
leading website
