 Cookson Group plc Annual Report
Cookson Group plc
265 Strand London
WC2R 1DB
Tel +44 (0)20 7061 6500
Tel +44 (0)20 7061 6600
www.cooksongroup.co.uk
The Registered Office and Group Head Office
is due to move to the following address with
effect from 24 April 2006:
165 Fleet Street
London
EC4A 2AE
Tel +44 (0)20 7822 0000
Fax +44 (0)20 7822 0100
Delivering the strategy
2005
Cookson Group plc Annual Report 2005 WE ARE FOCUSED ON DELIVERING OUR STRATEGY
TO IMPROVE THE OPERATIONAL
PERFORMANCE OF OUR CORE
BUSINESSES AND TO REDUCE DEBT
1 Introduction
2 Financial Focus
3 Highlights of 2005
4 Divisional Profile
6 Strategic Focus
8 Chairman’s Statement
10 Chief Executive’s Review
12 Operating Review
22 Financial Review
26 Corporate Responsibility Statement
27 Health, Safety and Environmental Statement
28 Board of Directors
30 Directors’ Report
37 Directors’ Remuneration Report
45 Auditor’s Report
46 Directors’ Responsibility Statement
47 Group Income Statement
48 Group Statement of Cash Flows
49 Group Balance Sheet
50 Group Statement of Recognised Income and Expense
51 Notes to the Financial Statements
109 Five Year Summary – Divisional Results from Continuing Operations
110 Five Year Summary – Group
112 Shareholder Information
Glowing hot ladle
In the steel making process,
vessels are lined with
refractory products which
protect against damage
caused by intense heat,
abrasion, pressure and
chemical attack. Cookson is
a leader in the supply and
installation of monolithic
refractory linings.
Semi-conductor wafer
In microelectronics, a wafer
is a thin slice of semi-
conducting material, such
as a silicon crystal, upon
which microcircuits are
constructed. Cookson
supplies materials for wafer
fabrication.
Silver alloy grain
Cookson manufactures alloy
materials, semi-finished
jewellery components and
finished goods for the
jewellery industry in the
US, UK, France and Spain.
  Cookson Group plc { 1 } Annual Report 2005
WE ARE A LEADING MATERIALS SCIENCE
COMPANY OPERATING ON A WORLDWIDE BASIS
IN CERAMICS, ELECTRONICS AND PRECIOUS
METALS MARKETS.
WE AIM TO ADD VALUE TO OUR CUSTOMERS’
BUSINESSES BY PROVIDING PRODUCTS,
PROCESSES AND SERVICES THAT ALLOW THEM
TO INCREASE THE EFFICIENCY AND QUALITY
OF THEIR OPERATIONS.
THROUGHOUT THE WORLD, COOKSON COMPANIES
SUPPL Y LEADING TECHNOLOGY , SUPPORTED BY
OUTSTANDING TECHNICAL SERVICE.
Cookson employs over 13,500 people 
in more than 35 countries, selling its products 
in over 100 countries.  Cookson Group plc { 2 } Annual Report 2005
REVENUE
†
by operating location
REVENUE
†
by division
FINANCIAL FOCUS
Precious
Metals*
5%
Ceramics
*
56%
Electronics*
39%
Precious
Metals
17%
Ceramics
50%
Electronics
33%
RoW
5%
Asia-Pacific
20%
Europe
38%
NAFTA
37%
TRADING PROFIT
†
by operating location
TRADING PROFIT
†
by division
Highly profitable in high-growth Asian markets
RoW
5%
Asia-Pacific
43%
Europe
33%
NAFTA
19%
End-Markets
Steel, foundry, glass, industrial
Industrial, automotive, electronics
Retail jewellery
* before central corporate costs
† continuing operations
† continuing operations
£1,481 million £123.5 million Cookson Group plc { 3 } Annual Report 2005
HIGHLIGHTS OF 2005
• STRONG IMPROVEMENT IN TRADING PROFIT AND RETURN ON SALES
– TRADING PROFIT FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS UP 14%
– RETURN ON SALES INCREASED OVER ONE PERCENTAGE POINT
• HEADLINE PROFIT BEFORE TAX UP 20%
• HEADLINE EARNINGS PER SHARE UP 24%
• DIVIDENDS RESUMED – 2005 FINAL OF 5p
• DISPOSAL PROCEEDS TARGET OF £100 MILLION REACHED
• ACCELERATED ‘TOP-UP’ PAYMENT SCHEDULE AGREED WITH UK PENSION TRUSTEE
03 04
05
03 04
05
03 04
05
26
85
102
CONTINUED IMPROVEMENT IN
PROFITABILITY AND DEBT REDUCTION
8.2
30.1
37.2
374
322
292
Headline Profit Before Tax
£ million
Headline Earnings Per Share
pence
Net Debt: Year-End
£ million Cookson Group plc { 4 } Annual Report 2005
The Electronics division is a leading supplier of advanced surface
treatment and plating chemicals and assembly materials to the
automotive, construction and electronics markets. 
The division’s global network of research, development, production
and technical support facilities is dedicated to meeting the
demanding requirements of its customers worldwide.
DIVISIONAL PROFILE
Electronics
Precious Metals
Ceramics
Known in its markets as Vesuvius, the Ceramics division is the world
leader in the supply of advanced flow control refractory products
and systems to the global steel industry and a leading supplier of
specialist ceramic products to the glass and foundry industries. It is
also a regional leader in the US, UK and Australia in the supply and
installation of monolithic refractory linings.
Commitment to customer service, driven by technical innovation, is a
key factor to the continued success which Vesuvius achieves as an
international market leader.
The Precious Metals division is a leading supplier of fabricated
precious metals (primarily gold, silver and platinum) to the jewellery
industry in the US, UK, France and Spain. Products include alloy
materials, semi-finished jewellery components and finished jewellery.
  Cookson Group plc { 5 } Annual Report 2005
OUR OPERATIONS ARE FORMED
INTO THREE DIVISIONS 
Glass
9%
Iron and
Steel 
61%
Industrial
Products 
21%
Revenue by Sector Revenue by Geography
Rest of World
8%
Europe
39%
Asia-Pacific
14%
NAFTA
39%
Assembly
Materials
56%
Chemistry
44%
Revenue* by Sector Revenue* by Geography
US Jewellery
54%
European
Jewellery
46%
Revenue by Sector Revenue by Geography
2,900 employees 
20 major manufacturing locations 
58 total locations
33% of Group Revenue
39% of Group Trading Profit
1,800 employees 
4 major manufacturing locations 
25 total locations
17% of Group Revenue
5% of Group Trading Profit
8,800 employees 
34 major manufacturing locations
75 total locations
50% of Group Revenue
56% of Group Trading Profit
Foundry
9%
Rest of World
3%
Europe
32%
Asia-Pacific
37%
NAFTA
28%
Europe
47%
Asia-Pacific
2%
NAFTA
51%
* Continuing operations only
£746.1 million
£488.9 million
£245.8 million Cookson Group plc { 6 } Annual Report 2005
STRATEGIC FOCUS
THERE ARE FOUR MAIN COMPONENTS TO OUR STRATEGY
AND PROGRESS IS BEING MADE IN ALL OF THEM
Cookson’s strategic plan, announced in January 2005, is focused
on improving the operational and financial performance of our
continuing businesses and disposing of some non-core operations
and assets. This is targeted to reduce debt, achieve a sound
gearing level and resume a sustainable dividend payment
programme, funded from free cash flow.
Strategic Plan – Main Objectives
• Profitability improvement by 2007:
– Ceramics: RoS* > 10.5%
– Electronics: RoS* > 10.5%
– Precious Metals: RoNSV** > 15%
• Progressive debt reduction
• Disposal proceeds > £100m by end-2006
• Return to sustained dividend programme
* Return on sales (trading profit to revenue), restated from 10.0% for IFRS
** Return on net sales value (excludes value of precious metals)
Strategic Plan – Main Components
• Focus on higher technology products and exit commodity
activities
• Invest in production capacity in emerging markets and
restructure in maturing markets
• Cost and overhead reduction
• Disposal of non-core activities and assets
Products and Markets
All our main businesses hold strong market share positions.
We continue to increase our focus on higher margin products with
high technology content, such as copper damascene, solar crucibles
and lead-free solder. We are maintaining our investment in R&D and
exiting commodity activities such as laminates and certain types of
ceramic bricks. We also differentiate ourselves from our competitors
by offering customers superior technical support services.
Investment and Restructuring
In almost all our activities we are a ‘just in time’ supplier and need
to be local to our customers. We will therefore continue to match
production capacity to customer markets on a regional basis. This
requires continuing investment in new facilities in emerging
economies while restructuring as necessary in mature markets.
In 2005, 25% of the revenues from our continuing operations
came from emerging markets, most notably in Asia-Pacific and
these revenues contributed 48% of the Group’s trading profit.
In 2005, we invested £42 million in capital expenditure – including
the development of additional facilities in China, Poland, Brazil and
Mexico. We also spent £17 million on restructuring, mainly in Europe
and the US, to reduce costs and improve our competitiveness and
profitability in these markets.
Cost and Overhead Reduction
By simplifying our structure and processes we can eliminate
substantial overhead costs. Progress has been made in many areas,
including the Group and Electronics division headquarters. More
recently a simplified organisation has been implemented in Ceramics.
We have recently completed the steps necessary to de-register
from the US Securities and Exchange Commission which will avoid
over £1 million of annual compliance costs.
Strategic Plan – Progress
2004* 2005*
• Margins % %
Ceramics (RoS) 8.0 9.9
Electronics (RoS) 9.9 10.5
Precious Metals (RoNSV) 9.3 7.4
Group (RoS) 7.2 8.3
* Continuing operations
• Debt reduction
Net debt – 31 December 2004 £322m
– 31 December 2005 £292m
Proceeds
• Disposals £m Date Signed
Fraternity Rings 3 December 2004
Technical Ceramics 5 June 2005
Laminates 51 December 2005
Specialty Coating Systems 32 December 2005
Ceramic Fibres 13 February 2006
Land and Property 10 –
Total 114
• Dividends
Final dividend of 5p proposed for 2005.
The table above highlights some of the progress achieved so far
against our strategic plan objectives. The margin improvements in
our two largest divisions, Ceramics and Electronics, are very
encouraging. It is clear that we have much further to go in our
Precious Metals business, although the return on net sales value
decline for the division as a whole in difficult market conditions masks
a considerably stronger performance in the US than in Europe.
Over the past two years we have delivered sustained free cash flow
and strongly improved profitability. As a result of this and our
improved confidence in the prospects for the Group, we are
recommending a final dividend for 2005 of 5 pence, the first time
a dividend will have been paid since October 2001.
The disposal of the Group’s Laminates business, together with the
2003 sale of Speedline, our electronic equipment business,
substantially reduces our exposure to cyclical end-markets. Now only
about 20% of the revenue from our continuing businesses result
from sales into electronics end-markets. In fact the Electronics
division now has only 60% of its sales in electronics markets with
40% being in other industrial and automotive markets.
In 2006 we aim to turn around the performance of the Precious
Metals division and to achieve further margin improvements in the
two largest divisions, Ceramics and Electronics. In addition, we
plan to complete some smaller business and property disposals.
  Cookson Group plc { 7 } Annual Report 2005
1 2
3 4
1 These fused silica rollers, branded as Zyarock ®, are used in the glass tempering process.
2 ENTEK PLUS HT is Enthone’s organic solderability preservative that enables lead-free assembly of printed circuit boards. The highly solderable process
withstands exposure to multiple, high temperature lead-free heat cycles.
3 Argentium™ Sterling Silver is a revolutionary alloy which is highly tarnish-resistant.
4 Lead-free solder paste. EU legislation prohibits the use of lead in electronic products from July 2006. Cookson’s lead-free solder sales have increased
to represent 30% of its total solder sales from only 4% a year ago.
  Cookson Group plc { 8 } Annual Report 2005
Robert Beeston 
Chairman
14 March 2006
“THE STRATEGY SET OUT AT THE START
OF 2005 IS CLEARLY YIELDING RESULTS.”
“NOTWITHSTANDING 
THE ACHIEVEMENTS OF
2005, THE BOARD IS
CONVINCED THAT THERE
IS CONSIDERABLY MORE
PROGRESS TO BE MADE.”
Chairman’s Statement
2005 was a year during which the new executive
management team achieved very encouraging progress
towards our strategic and operational goals.
In January 2005 we set out a new and challenging
strategic plan, together with a related set of objectives,
running through to 2007. These objectives centre around
profitability improvement and debt reduction, in part
through non-core business disposals.
Throughout the year we remained resolutely focused on
implementing this strategy and I am pleased with the
progress we have achieved.
  Cookson Group plc { 9 } Annual Report 2005
Capital structure and corporate governance
In May 2005, shareholders approved a ten-for-one share
consolidation which  has, as intended, reduced the volatility
in the share price, enabling a more consistent valuation for
the Company.
The process of de-registering from the US Securities and
Exchange Commission (“SEC”), approved by shareholders in
January 2006, has now been effected, such that we are no
longer required to comply with the SEC’s reporting
obligations, thereby avoiding over £1 million in annual
compliance costs. We, of course, remain committed to the
highest standards of corporate governance and transparent
reporting, as required under the UK Listing requirements.
Board changes
In June 2005, Jeff Hewitt joined the Board as non-executive
Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee; and Mike
Butterworth joined the Board as Group Finance Director,
succeeding Dennis Millard who had held the role since 1996.
In October, Francois Wanecq joined the Executive
Committee and assumed the role of Chief Executive of the
Ceramics division, succeeding Gian Carlo Cozzani who has
retired from the Board. I would like to thank both Dennis and
Gian Carlo for their significant contribution to Cookson over
many years.
These appointments conclude a major transformation of
our executive management and Board since I was appointed
as Chairman in 2003. I am confident we have a Board and
executive management team with the experience, skills and
strength of purpose to drive our Company forward.
I would also like to offer my sincere thanks to our 13,500
employees worldwide for their hard work and dedication in
delivering our improving performance.
The strategy set out at the start of 2005 is clearly
yielding results. Notwithstanding the achievements of
2005, the Board is convinced that there is considerably
more progress to be made.
Profitability
Our two largest divisions, Ceramics and Electronics which
together represented 83% of Group revenue, achieved
return on sales from continuing operations of 9.9% and
10.5% respectively, either close to or matching the 10.5%
targets, restated under IFRS, which we set for 2007.
The Precious Metals division continued to experience
weak market conditions during 2005, particularly in Europe.
Our US operations achieved a return on net sales value of
13.2% versus our 2007 target of 15%, having benefited from
the restructuring actions undertaken in the first half of
2005. However, the division’s European operations have
been marginally loss-making and the turnaround of this
situation is a clear priority for 2006.
Charges of £18.5 million incurred for restructuring
across the whole Group are expected to yield rapid payback,
as operational costs reduce. At the same time the
opportunity for future organic growth has been enhanced
by expanding capacity in high-growth emerging markets,
especially in our higher technology products and services.
The benefits of this progress show through in the
Group’s results for 2005. On marginally reduced revenue,
trading profit from continuing operations of £123.5 million
was up 14% over 2004. Headline earnings per share
improved 24% to 37.2p, cash flow was satisfactory and
year-end net debt stood at £292 million, down £30 million
compared to 2004. We expect further improvements in our
continuing operations in 2006 as we continue to implement
our performance enhancement strategy.
Debt reduction
In December 2005 we signed agreements to sell our
Laminates and Speciality Coatings businesses which,
together with earlier transactions, will take the total
proceeds from disposals above the £100 million target
originally set to be achieved before the end of 2006.
Dividend
Given the good progress achieved in implementing the
strategy and the much improved underlying performance
of the Group in terms of earnings and cash flow, the Board
is satisfied that the criteria set out in the strategic plan for
the resumption of dividend payments have been met.
Accordingly the Board is recommending a final dividend in
respect of 2005 of 5p per ordinary share.
Pensions
The total reported deficit in our defined benefit plans
worldwide increased in the year from £190 million to £225
million. This arose mainly as a result of a reduction in global
discount rates and an underlying improvement in
the assumed life expectancy used in the actuarial calculation
of the deficit, which offset the improved performance of
equity investments in the plans. The largest part of the
deficit resides in our UK plan (£117 million). We have a very
constructive relationship with the Trustee and have recently
agreed an accelerated “top-up” payment schedule to bring
forward the elimination of the pension deficit.
  Cookson Group plc { 10 } Annual Report 2005
“WE HAVE MADE
BETTER PROGRESS
IN IMPLEMENTING
THE STRATEGIC
PLAN IN 2005
THAN I EXPECTED
AT THE OUTSET”
Chief Executive’s Review
Nick Salmon 
Chief Executive
14 March 2006
We have made good progress in 2005 in implementing the
Company’s strategic plan (see page 6). This is borne out by
the Group’s improved profitability and reduced debt and
the achievement of our £100 million disposals target ahead
of schedule.
Since I joined the Group in July 2004 we have appointed
new Chief Executives to head our two largest divisions,
Francois Wanecq in Ceramics and Steve Corbett in Electronics
and a new Group Finance Director, Mike Butterworth. 
I believe we now have in place a strong management team to
deliver continued improvements in 2006 and beyond.
2005 Results
End-market growth for our products and services was
positive overall. Global steel production, the most important
end-market for our Ceramics division, increased 6%, with
falls in Europe and NAFTA more than offset by growth in
Asia-Pacific, most notably China. The Electronics division’s
end-markets were relatively flat in 2005 following a year of
strong growth in 2004, but again we experienced strong
growth in Asia-Pacific, offsetting slight declines in Europe
and NAFTA. Retail jewellery, the end-market for the
Precious Metals division, was weak throughout 2005,
particularly in the UK. This reflected several factors,
including the sharp rise in the cost of gold and generally
weaker retail spending trends.
Against this background, revenue from continuing
operations at £1,481 million was marginally down on 2004
but the product mix improved with lower revenue from
commodity-type activities and growth in several of our
newer, higher technology segments. Trading profit from
continuing operations rose by 14% to £123.5 million.
Headline profit before tax increased by 20% to £102 million.
The retained loss for the year improved from £17 .0 million in
2004 to £7 .6 million in 2005. Net debt at 31 December 2005
was £292 million compared to £322 million at 31 December
2004, having been adversely affected by £26 million of
foreign exchange movements in the year, but benefiting
from the disposal proceeds of £29 million for SCS received
at the year-end. Cookson Group plc { 11 } Annual Report 2005
Divisional Highlights
The Ceramics division has achieved outstanding progress in
2005, with trading profit up 24% over 2004, as a result of
a solid performance from the Steel sector and marked
improvements in the Foundry and Glass sectors. The profit
growth came mainly from increased activity in emerging
markets, particularly China, India and Eastern Europe.
In the Electronics division, the Assembly Materials
sector delivered a 24% improvement in trading profit from
continuing operations on the back of stronger sales in lead-
free solder, a trend we expect to continue into 2006 and
2007 driven by EU legislation banning lead-based consumer
electronics products. The Chemistry sector posted a 3%
decline in trading profit, principally due to our sole
distributor over-ordering the highly profitable copper
damascene product in late 2004 which led to a
corresponding decline in early 2005.
Precious Metals, which represented 17% of Group
revenue, reported trading profit down 35% in the difficult
retail environment described above. Our US operations
were profitable but Europe recorded a small loss, due to
the UK operations, where we are now taking steps to
improve the efficiency of our selling and distribution
activities to restore profitability.
Restructuring
Restructuring charges in 2005 totalled £18.5 million, of
which £5.1 million related to the discontinued Laminates
business and £13.4 million to continuing operations. For the
past few years a significant proportion of our restructuring
charges have related to the turnaround of the Laminates
business (£45 million in the last four years), which was
thereby returned to profitability before its sale.
The main restructuring actions completed in 2005
covered:
Ceramics division:
• The relocation of production capacity from the US to
Mexico;
• The merger of two South African factories to a single
site;
• The closure of a linings factory in Italy;
• The downsizing of a linings factory in Germany; and
• Overhead reduction programmes in the US, the UK
and Continental Europe.
Electronics division:
• The closure of the Laminates operation in Germany
and downsizing in Sweden;
• Overhead reduction in Europe;
• The relocation of production capacity from the US to
Mexico; and
• Workforce reduction in Singapore.
Precious Metals division:
• An 8% reduction in the US workforce and
consolidation into one factory; and
• The completion of the 2004 restructuring plan to
cease manufacturing in France.
Strategic Plan
We have made better progress in implementing the
strategic plan in 2005 than I expected at the outset. The
margin improvements in Ceramics and Electronics have
come from a combination of improved profitability in the
revenue mix and internal cost reduction actions.
The disposals proceeds target of £100 million will be
reached when we receive the proceeds from the Laminates
disposal. The Laminates deal, signed on 15 December 2005, is
subject to approval by the European competition authorities,
which we expect to receive in the first half of 2006.
The sale of the Laminates business has a particular
significance for the Group. Over the past four years,
following the severe downturn in the telecommunications
market in 2001 and the transition of the electronics
manufacturing industry to Asia, the Laminates business has
made cumulative operating losses of £46 million and has
also absorbed significant cash in restructuring costs and
capital investment to expand new and existing facilities –
some £73 million in total. This cash drain is now stemmed by
the disposal. Further, the Laminates business was the
Group’s last sector which sold purely into the electronics
market, hence our cyclical market exposure is much
reduced. In fact, electronics end-markets now represent
only about 20% of Group revenue.
There are one or two further, albeit smaller, potential
business disposals in the pipeline and some further land and
property transactions that we expect to complete in 2006.
The strategic plan involves further restructuring actions
in our continuing operations, beyond those actions listed
above, to reduce costs and adjust production capacities in
mature markets. We therefore anticipate two further years
of restructuring charges at levels similar to 2005.
Outlook
As a ‘just in time’ supplier, our businesses do not have an
order book giving a clear long-term market view. However,
we are close to our customers in all our markets and our
view on the Group’s outlook reflects their views:
Ceramics: The talk of ‘de-stocking’ in the global steel
industry has now subsided and we see the positive
momentum at the end of 2005 continuing into 2006. Steel
output in 2006 is expected to be ahead in Asia-Pacific,
growing at the global level and broadly in line with 2005 in
Europe and NAFTA.
Electronics: Market growth in electronics is expected to
be slightly ahead of GDP, but our automotive markets in
Europe and the US may show some softness.
Precious Metals: Some firming of the US market is
apparent, but Europe remains weak.
Our well-established positions in the fastest-growing,
and most profitable Asia-Pacific region represent a
substantial asset and will be an important factor in our
performance in 2006.
Against a background of these market expectations and
with our continued cost reduction and restructuring
programmes in all divisions, together with a particular focus
on the turnaround of the Precious Metals division, we expect
an improvement in the overall performance of our continuing
operations in 2006. The disposal of the Laminates business
should also improve the quality of our earnings.
  Cookson Group plc { 12 } Annual Report 2005
Operating Review
Group performance
Group revenue for 2005 was marginally lower
than in 2004, being 1% lower at reported
exchange rates and 2% lower at constant
exchange rates. Revenue trends were similar
between the first and second half of the year on
a constant currency basis, with a 2% decline for
both periods. From continuing operations, which
exclude the results of the Laminates and
Specialty Coating Systems (“SCS”) businesses,
revenue was also marginally lower, being 1%
lower at reported exchange rates and 3% lower
at constant exchange rates.
The substantial progress made towards
achieving the margin targets, set out in our
strategic plan announced on 18 January 2005,
meant that trading profit increased by 13% at
reported exchange rates and 11% at constant
exchange rates compared to the prior year. From
continuing operations, the growth rates were
14% and 11% respectively. Our two largest
divisions – Ceramics and Electronics – which
together make up 83% of Group revenue from
continuing operations, both reported
significantly higher levels of profitability than in
the prior year. Trading profit from continuing
operations in the Ceramics division increased by
24% to £73.9 million and by 9% to £51.1 million in
the Electronics division. The Precious Metals
division, which constitutes 17% of Group revenue
from continuing operations, reported trading
profit lower by just over one-third at £7.0 million.
Return on sales for the Group of 8.0% has
improved by one percentage point compared to
2004. From continuing operations, the Group’s
return on sales is now 8.3%, 1.1 percentage points
higher than for 2004. Both Ceramics and
Electronics recorded good growth in return on
sales from continuing operations with margins
very close to, or already achieving, double-digit
levels.
The fastest growing and most profitable
region for the Group continued to be Asia-Pacific,
which accounted for 20% of Group revenue from
continuing operations in 2005 and 43% of
trading profit. Whilst NAFTA (which comprises
the US, Canada and Mexico) and Europe remain
the Group’s largest regions in terms of revenue,
higher levels of growth outside these regions has
seen their combined share of Group revenue
from continuing operations fall from 79% in
2004 to 75% in 2005.
Divisional performance
Ceramics division
Known in its markets as Vesuvius, the Ceramics
division is the world leader in the supply of
advanced flow control refractory products and
systems to the global steel industry and a leading
supplier of specialist ceramics products to the
glass and foundry industries. It is also the regional
leader in the US, UK and Australia in the supply
and installation of monolithic refractory linings.
The division had another strong year with
revenue growth in higher margin products and
improved operating efficiencies resulting in a
record level of profitability. The year was also
marked by a change in leadership following the
retirement in October 2005 of the division’s Chief
Executive, Gian Carlo Cozzani. Francois Wanecq,
who has considerable experience of the ceramics
industry, joined Cookson in June and became
Chief Executive of the Ceramics division on the
retirement of Mr Cozzani.
Market overview
The Ceramics division benefited from the good
market conditions experienced in 2004 continuing
throughout 2005.
The division’s largest sector is Iron and Steel,
resulting in around 60% of its revenues and
trading profit being linked to steel production
volumes. In 2005, global steel production rose by
6% to over 1.1 billion tonnes, only the second year
in which steel production has exceeded 1 billion
tonnes. Following the 9% growth in 2004, the rate
of growth slowed during 2005, being 7% in the
first half and 6% in the second half of the year.
China reinforced its position as the world’s leading
steel producer with year-on-year growth of 25%
and accounted for over 30% of the world’s total
production in 2005. Outside of China, global
production was down by 1% with strong growth in
India of 17% – albeit from a small base – being
more than offset by lower production in the
enlarged European Union (down by 4%) and the
US (down by 6%). Whilst steel prices fell by up to
20% during 2005, following the very strong
increase in prices in 2004, the industry’s financial
position remains strong. The consolidation of the
steel industry continued in 2005 and this trend is
expected to continue. This is anticipated to be
particularly marked in China, where the
government has stated its intention to create a
small number of industry “champions” out of the
current very fragmented market place. For
example, Chinese steel producers Anshan and
Benxi have merged during the year to form Anben
Iron & Steel, which now rivals Baosteel as China’s
leading steel producer.
“THE FASTEST
GROWING AND MOST
PROFITABLE REGION
FOR THE GROUP
CONTINUED TO
BE ASIA-PACIFIC,
WHICH ACCOUNTED
FOR 20% OF GROUP
REVENUE FROM
CONTINUING
OPERATIONS IN
2005 AND 43% OF
TRADING PROFIT.”
  Cookson Group plc { 13 } Annual Report 2005
The end-markets of the Foundry, Glass and Industrial Products sectors are generally
linked to GDP growth. Whilst 2005 was a year of overall global economic growth,
the most important markets for these sectors – construction and automotive –
experienced mixed fortunes. Whilst the construction industry performed well, notably
in China, vehicle production in the automotive industry was broadly flat in both the
established markets of the US and Europe. Demand for solar energy – and thus for the
Glass sector’s crucibles used in the manufacture of photovoltaic cells – was strong.
Divisional performance
The Ceramics division experienced a very strong year as a result of growth in global
steel production combined with the beneficial impact of the various restructuring
initiatives carried out during the last two years. Revenue for the year at £746 million
was 1% higher than 2004 at reported exchange rates but 1% lower at constant
exchange rates. In December 2004, two plants based in Belgium and Germany, which
made bricks used in glass-making furnaces, were divested. Excluding the revenues from
these businesses, revenue for the division was up 5% at reported exchange rates and
3% at constant exchange rates. All of the division’s market sectors – Iron and Steel,
Glass, Foundry and Industrial Products – reported underlying revenue growth. Trading
profit grew strongly by 24% at reported exchange rates to £73.9 million – the highest
level ever achieved by the division – and was up 21% at constant exchange rates. All
market sectors reported trading profit growth, with particularly strong performances
from the Foundry and Glass sectors. Return on sales was close to double-digit at 9.9%,
up nearly two percentage points from the 8.0% reported in 2004.
The Iron and Steel sector accounted for 61% of revenue for the year with Glass
and Foundry each making up 9%. Industrial Products, which includes the
Construction and Installation activity, accounted for the remaining 21%.
Europe and NAFTA are the division’s two largest regions with each making up
39% of the total division’s revenue. However, the two fastest growing regions are
Asia-Pacific and the Rest of the World which together made up 22% of the division’s
total revenue, an increase of two percentage points on 2004.
Ceramics 
Glass
9%
Iron and
Steel 
61%
Industrial
Products 
21%
Foundry
9%
Revenue by Sector
03
04
05 746
739
704
Revenue
£ million
03
04
05
73.9
59.4
52.4
Trading Profit
£ million
03
04
05 9.9
8.0
7.4
Return on Sales
%
Flow control refractory products are pre-heated before being used to contain and control the flow of
molten steel. Cookson is the world leader in the supply of advanced flow control refractory products
and systems. Cookson Group plc { 14 } Annual Report 2005
Sector performance
Iron and Steel
The Iron and Steel sector supplies flow control products and
linings to the iron and steel industry. Flow control products
protect and control the stream of molten metal as it passes
through the continuous cast steel-making process. Linings
are bricks or monolithics which are used to line the main
steel-making vessels.
Good industry conditions resulted in a 4% increase in
revenue for 2005 at reported exchange rates and an
increase of 3% at constant exchange rates. With
increased sales of the high technology, higher margin
flow control products, profitability increased on last year
driven by the increased revenue and the impact of the
restructuring initiatives. The sector recorded a double-
digit return on sales.
Regionally, the sector’s performance reflected the
trends seen in its end markets. Steel production in Asia-
Pacific increased by 16% from 2004 to 2005. This was
primarily driven by significant increases of 25% in China
and 17% in India, both markets in which Vesuvius has a
strong market presence. Revenue in Asia-Pacific grew 17%
between 2004 and 2005 reflecting our ability to capture
this strong market growth. Chinese steel production
remained strong despite government attempts to slow
growth and encourage consolidation within the industry. We
believe Vesuvius is well placed to capture future growth in
China and, during the year, capacity was significantly
increased at both our Suzhou VISO factory and at the slide
gate joint venture with Wuhan Iron & Steel. Our
shareholding in this joint venture was increased from 25%
to 50% during the year. Vesuvius is similarly well placed in
the Indian market through its 56% shareholding in Vesuvius
India, a listed public company.
The enlarged 25-member EU reported a 4% reduction
in steel production in 2005 with lower production in the
UK, Germany, Belgium and France. Italy and Spain showed
marginal growth. Despite the reduction in steel production,
revenue was 1% ahead of the prior year, at constant
exchange rates. Steel production was 5% lower in NAFTA
driven by a 6% reduction in the US. This was reflected in
our revenue for this region being 6% lower when
compared to 2004.
2005 saw continued upward pressure on raw material,
energy and transportation costs. However, the majority of
this impact was negated through price increases to
customers or through more efficient purchasing, such that
the sector’s margin over material costs remained broadly
comparable to 2004.
In the Iron and Steel sector , we continued to invest in new
products to ensure that Vesuvius maintains its market-
leading technological position. A new range of stopper noses
was introduced, capable of casting a wide range of steel
grades, along with some new cold-start ladle shrouds. Our
slide-gate product was enhanced by a new range of alumina
carbon plates with improved thermal shock resistance.
During 2005 we continued our programme to balance
production facilities and markets geographically,
progressively investing in emerging economies while
restructuring as necessary in more mature markets. In
NAFTA, the modernisation and rationalisation of plants
continued with the closure of the facility in Hillsboro
(Texas) and upgrades to the VISO facilities at Charleston
(Illinois) and Monterrey (Mexico). Further rationalisation of
facilities is expected in 2006 and 2007. The level of non-
production headcount was also reviewed during the year
resulting in a reduction of 50 personnel in sales and
administration in December 2005. In Europe, the facility in
Oleggio (Italy) was closed whilst capacity was increased in
the flow control facilities in Skawina (Poland) and Ostrava
(Czech Republic) in order to better serve the growing
Central European market. General and administration
personnel were also reduced in Europe by 40 in December
2005. In other regions, the rationalisation of our two South
African plants into one was completed whilst capacity was
increased in our VISO facility in Brazil.
Glass
The Glass sector produces block linings for melting tanks,
rolls for glass tempering as well as crucibles for making
photovoltaic (solar energy) products.
Demand for flat glass is primarily dependent upon
conditions in the construction and automotive industries,
with the former in particular continuing to enjoy good
market conditions in 2005, driven in part by very strong
demand from China. Despite competition from plastics and
other materials, glass remains the material of choice for
glazing and the packaging of many drinks and other liquids,
and the demand for container glass continues to be stable.
Revenue in the Glass sector fell by 24% compared to
2004 at both reported and constant exchange rates but,
excluding the revenue of the European brick-making
businesses sold in December 2004, revenue was 12%
higher than last year. This growth reflected both good
conditions for the glass industry plus strong growth of the
crucibles business, whose products are used in the
manufacture of the material that makes up solar panels.
Profitability increased by 70% on last year with a double-
digit return on sales.
In the hot furnaces area, the sector’s US business
Monofrax, which manufactures fused-cast products used in
glass-making furnaces, performed strongly due to expansion
in Europe and Asia. In the area of glass transforming, sales
of high performance Zyarock® products (notably rollers)
which are used in the glass tempering industry, were ahead
of last year, driven in part by strong demand for plasma
display panels. In June 2005, the sector’s US technical
ceramics business, McDanel, was sold. The business had
revenue of £2.4 million in the year to the date of sale
(£4.9 million for the full year in 2004) and contributed
some £0.4 million of the sector’s trading profit in the year.
Operating Review (continued)
  Cookson Group plc { 15 } Annual Report 2005
The growth in the solar crucibles business, which manufactures products used in the
photovoltaic industry, was driven by significant increases in oil prices and heightened
environmental concerns which, in turn, increased demand for energy from renewable
sources, including solar. Demand for solar crucibles is expected to remain strong
going forward, although limited supplies of the polysilicon material used in the
majority of solar panels may restrict growth in the short-term until additional
capacity comes on stream. New products are being introduced to meet the
increasing demands of our customers in this market, including a range of new jumbo
solar crucibles.
Foundry
The Foundry sector supplies an extensive range of high performance refractory
products to ferrous and non-ferrous foundries.
Revenue increased by 7% at reported exchange rates and 6% at constant rates,
with growth in NAFTA and Continental Europe more than offsetting a small decline
in the UK. Activities in Europe and NAFTA each account for some 45% of the sector
total. Profitability increased strongly on last year with a return on sales close to
double-digit.
Market conditions were generally good, particularly in investment casting and
steel foundries. Investment casting benefited from strong worldwide aerospace and
industrial gas turbine demand.
Industrial Products
The Industrial Products sector provides a wide range of refractory products for a
diversified range of industries which in general follow GDP trends, including
hydrocarbon processing, petrochemical, cement and incineration. This sector also
supplies and installs monolithic refractory linings into a variety of industries. Unlike
most of the Ceramics division’s activities, the activities of the sector are mainly
project-based and therefore linked to overall new investment and renewal projects.
Revenue increased by 4% at reported exchange rates (2% at constant rates)
driven by some limited growth in NAFTA and flat revenue in other regions. 
The sector revenue arises in Europe (29%), NAFTA (54%) and Australia (17%).
Electronics division
The Electronics division is a leading supplier of advanced surface treatment and
plating chemicals and assembly materials to the automotive, construction and
electronics markets.
2005 marked a year of strong progress for the Electronics division following the
changes in focus and leadership implemented in late 2004. In response to changing
customer attitudes, the division abandoned the pursuit of the “one-stop shop”
approach by unbundling its PCB-orientated products and services, particularly in
Laminates and Chemistry. This enabled the Chemistry sector to reposition resources
to its important industrial markets – which account for half of its business – and
allowed Laminates to focus on maintaining its profitability in difficult markets. The
announcement in December 2005 of the disposal of the Laminates business further
strengthened the division by reducing its exposure to this lower margin and more
cyclical part of the electronics market.
Electronics
Chemistry
44%
Assembly
Materials
56%
Revenue by Sector*
03
04
05
489
473
439
Revenue*
£ million
03
04
05 51.1
47.0
33.9
Trading Profit*
£ million
03
04
05
10.5
9.9
7.7
Return on Sales*
%
* continuing operations
  Cookson Group plc { 16 } Annual Report 2005
Market overview
Following the disposals of the Laminates business and of SCS (completed at the end
of 2005), only about two-thirds of the division’s continuing revenue now comes from
electronics markets, with the remainder deriving from automotive and other
industrial markets.
The improved market conditions in the global electronics industry that were
evident in 2004 have continued throughout 2005. In 2005, the semi-conductor
industry grew 6% by value whilst printed circuit board (“PCB”) production grew 2%
by value and 6% by volume. Electronic equipment production grew by 8% by value
in 2005 driven by strong consumer-led demand for PCs, mobile telephones, games
consoles, plasma screen televisions and MP3 players. Consumers continue to drive
the electronics industry to an ever-increasing degree and consumer purchases now
account for 45% of worldwide electronic equipment sales. Global PC sales grew by
15% by volume in 2005, whilst the total annual production of mobile phones reached
810 million units, a 14% increase over 2004.
Regionally, Asia-Pacific experienced the strongest growth as a result of both
production capacity migrating to this region and also strong local end-market
demand. PCB production, for example, whilst growing 2% worldwide saw declines in
both the US and Europe (8% and 10% respectively) being more than offset by growth
of 20% in China.
The transition to lead-free products accelerated strongly in 2005 in anticipation
of new EU regulations coming into force in mid-2006 and similar developments in
other regions. The use of lead-free products is a significant change, not just for the
Assembly Materials sector, whose solder products have traditionally contained lead.
Non-lead solders melt at higher temperatures and so all other PCB components,
including fabrication chemistries, must also be able to withstand these
temperatures. The increasing move to lead-free products is expected to continue
over the next few years.
For the non-electronics markets it was a mixed picture. Whilst 2005 was a year
of overall global economic growth, the most important non-electronics market for
the division, the automotive industry, was subdued with vehicle production broadly
flat in both the established markets of the US and Europe.
Operating Review (continued)
“SALES OF LEAD-FREE
SOLDER IN 2005 WERE
THREE TIMES HIGHER
THAN IN 2004.”
Enthone AlphaSTAR™ silver finish enables lead-free printed wiring board assembly processing.
Introduced in the first quarter of 2005, AlphaSTAR™ has already secured an established and growing
market share, and has gained approval by the world’s leading computer, telecommunications and
automotive OEMs. Cookson Group plc { 17 } Annual Report 2005
Divisional performance
Revenue for the year from continuing and discontinued operations at £643 million
was 3% higher than last year at reported exchange rates (1% at constant exchange
rates). Excluding the impact of lower tin prices in the Assembly Materials sector,
revenue would have been 4% higher at reported exchange rates (2% at constant
exchange rates). Trading profit from both continuing and discontinued operations
increased by 8% to £57.8 million, giving a return on sales for the division of 9.0%
(2004: 8.6%).
From continuing operations (excluding the results of the Laminates sector and
SCS), revenue for the year grew by 3% at reported exchange rates to £489 million,
whilst trading profit grew by 9%. Return on sales increased by 0.6 percentage points
to 10.5%, in line with the target for the end of 2007 set in January 2005 (as adjusted
for IFRS). The achievement of this 2007 target reflects the improvement in
underlying profitability, notably in Assembly Materials, but also the exiting of lower
margin products and businesses such as the Laminates business.
Assembly Materials was the division’s largest sector, accounting for 43% of both
revenue and trading profit. Chemistry, the most profitable sector , accounted for 33%
of revenue but 45% of trading profit. Discontinued operations – the Laminates sector
and SCS – accounted for 24% of revenue but only 12% of trading profit.
Asia-Pacific, the division’s fast-growing region, was responsible for 37% of
revenue from continuing operations, an increase of three percentage points over
2004. Europe accounted for 32%, NAFTA 28%, and the Rest of the World 3%.
Sector performance
Assembly Materials
The electronics industry – PCB assembly and semi-conductor packaging markets –
accounts for approximately 70% of Assembly Materials’ revenue, with the remaining
30% going into a variety of industrial applications.
Revenue from continuing operations for the year at £273 million was 6% higher
than the prior year at reported exchange rates (4% at constant exchange rates).
However in 2005, the average price of tin – the sector’s major raw material – was 9%
lower than for 2004. The lower cost of tin was, in the main, passed on to customers
03
04
05 273
258
222
Revenue*
£ million
03
04
05 24.5
19.7
14.0
Trading Profit*
£ million
03
04
05
9.0
7.6
6.3
Return on Sales*
%
Assembly Materials
Lead-free solder bar – Over the past four years Cookson has led the field in developing lead-free 
solder technologies.
* continuing operations
  Cookson Group plc { 18 } Annual Report 2005
Operating Review (continued)
during the year, such that underlying revenue was 6%
higher than last year (at constant exchange rates). The
revenue growth reflected the good growth in PCB
production noted above but more difficult markets for
solder products used in non-electronics applications.
Trading profit of £24.5 million was 24% higher than last
year at reported exchange rates (20% at constant exchange
rates) reflecting the growth in underlying volumes, the
higher profitability of lead-free products and the impact of
cost saving initiatives. Return on sales increased strongly
from 7.6% to 9.0%.
Asia-Pacific, the sector’s largest region, accounted for
48% of revenue, an increase of 4 percentage points over
2004. This reflected the continued migration of PCB
assembly to this region and the increased size and influence
of Asian contract manufacturers. Europe and NAFTA each
accounted for 24% of revenue and the Rest of the World 4%.
The transition to lead-free solder products continued to
be an important technology driver for the sector in 2005,
with the conversion to these products increasing
significantly across all product lines. Sales of lead-free
solder in 2005 were three times higher than in 2004. In the
fourth quarter of 2005, 32% of solder sales were lead-free
compared with 4% in the corresponding quarter in 2004.
The Semi-conductor Packaging materials business,
which provides epoxy mould compounds, underfills and
solder spheres to the electronics industry, faced continuing
difficult market conditions in 2005 with revenue down
marginally on last year. In response, headcount reductions
were enacted in the first half of the year.
SCS had another good year, with growth in the coating
services and equipment segments of its business. On
31 December 2005, SCS was sold as it was not regarded as
part of our core electronics business. The business had
revenue of £20 million in 2005 and contributed £4.8 million
of the sector’s trading profit for the year. The results of this
business have been included in ‘discontinued operations’ in
the financial statements.
The increasing demands placed on electronic devices, as
they are required to meet more stringent environmental
regulations, combined with the trend towards devices
becoming smaller and more portable has placed greater
emphasis on new product development. During the year a
number of new products were launched including Alpha
SACX™, a proprietary lower cost lead-free solder with a low
silver content.
Continued investment continues to be made in R&D and
new product development. A research centre in Bangalore
(India), opened in October 2004, has been expanded and
now employs 28 research personnel. This facility focuses on
developing leading edge technologies for a wide range of
applications including electronics assembly, nano-
technology and opto-electronics. In addition, in 2005 two
new R&D technology centres, shared with the Chemistry
sector, were opened in Shanghai and Shenzhen to provide
strong technical support and new product capabilities to
our Chinese and other Asia-Pacific customers.
Chemistry
End-markets for the Chemistry sector’s plating chemical
products are split equally between the electronics industry
and, in equal measure, for other industrial and automotive
applications.
Revenue for the year of £216 million was flat at reported
exchange rates and down 2% at constant exchange rates.
This reflected underlying growth in PCB-related products –
driven by the worldwide growth in semi-conductor and PCB
volumes – being negated by an over-stocking issue for semi-
conductor products in the prior year, modest growth in
industrial markets, and the deliberate exit from several low
margin, commoditised industrial products. Within the semi-
conductor market, the sector’s copper damascene and lead-
free immersion silver products reported strong revenue
growth, whilst in industrial markets our range of plating on
plastics and corrosion and wear-resistant coatings products
also grew strongly.
Trading profit declined 3% to £26.6 million at
reported exchange rates and down 4% at constant rates,
largely driven by the impact of the overstocking in 2004
of high-margin semi-conductor copper damascene
products. Return on sales remained strong at 12.3%
(2004: 12.7%).
Europe and NAFTA remain the sector’s largest regions
with 43% and 33% of total sector revenue, respectively.
European revenue was relatively unchanged, despite weak
industrial markets, flat vehicle production volumes and
continued migration of the electronics industry to Asia-
Pacific. Revenue in NAFTA was down 2% on last year
primarily due to weak demand for PCB-related products, flat
vehicle production volumes, and temporary de-stocking in
the first quarter of the year by the sole distributor of high
margin copper damascene products for the high
performance semi-conductor market. This de-stocking
followed a build-up in inventory of this product by the
distributor in the fourth quarter of 2004. The underlying
demand for copper damascene, however, remains healthy
with growth of over 25% per annum. In the Asia-Pacific
region, which accounts for 23% of the sector’s revenue,
revenue increased marginally (1% at reported exchange
rates), mainly due to the growth in products directed at the
PCB market being offset by a decrease in sales of lower-
margin industrial products.
Investment during the course of the year focused on
three main areas. Firstly, new products have been developed
to maintain our leadership position in the high performance
semi-conductor industry. These included new versions of the
copper damascene product able to meet the demands of the
next generation of silicon chip as they migrate from 90nm to
65nm node technology, and products for the wafer bumping
process, which is increasingly being utilised with the growth
in flip chip technologies for high performance silicon chip
applications. Secondly, for industrial markets product
development has been focused on higher-end applications,
including: plating on plastics, a development with particular
use in automotive applications as they seek to reduce the
  Cookson Group plc { 19 } Annual Report 2005
component weight; environmentally friendly products capable of meeting the new
legislation being introduced in Europe and elsewhere in 2006 including hexavalent
chromium-free, lead-free and cadmium-free products; and improved corrosion and
wear-resistant coatings. Thirdly, the sector continued to build its global presence in
line with customer needs and, in particular, to respond to the migration of the
electronics and certain other manufacturing industries from the mature markets of
the West to Asia-Pacific. In Europe and NAFTA, headcount has been reduced and the
facility in Irvine (California) closed. Capacity has been increased in our Mexican facility.
In Asia-Pacific, two new R&D technology centres, shared with the Assembly Materials
sector, were opened in Shanghai and Shenzhen, further developing the sector’s
capabilities and infrastructure in this fast-growing region.
Laminates
On 15 December 2005, the disposal of the Laminates business was announced.
Completion of the disposal is conditional upon clearance from the competition
authorities in Europe which is expected in the first half of 2006. The results of this
sector have been included in ‘discontinued operations’ in the financial statements.
Laminates, the only one of the division’s three sectors whose products are sold
exclusively into the electronics industry, had another difficult year. Trading losses in
the first half of the year were made up in the second half leaving the sector with a
small net trading profit for the year.
General market conditions were unchanged compared to last year with the
market remaining highly competitive and marked by significant over-capacity. The
trend of PCB fabricator customers, such as Viasystems, to migrate their
operations from NAFTA and Europe to Asia-Pacific (and China in particular)
accelerated during the year. Demand for products related to high reliability server
applications and lead-free assembly (which require higher assembly temperatures)
helped drive the higher-end of the market, whilst the market for more standard
product was very weak.
03
04
05
216
216
217
Revenue
£ million
03
04
05 26.6
27.3
19.9
Trading Profit
£ million
03
04
05 12.3
12.7
9.2
Return on Sales
%
Chemistry
Enthone plating on plastics technologies and decorative finishes are widely specified and used by the
world’s leading OEMs. Our PEARLBRITE® satin nickel finishes are the plating industry’s standard for
coating a diversity of automobile parts, as well as interior design finishes.
  Cookson Group plc { 20 } Annual Report 2005
Operating Review (continued)
Revenue for the year at £134 million was 1% higher than the
prior year at reported exchange rates although unchanged at
constant exchange rates. Volumes of higher margin products,
such as GETEK™ and other high temperature/reliability
laminates, were strong. However, this growth was more than
offset by both reduced volumes and prices for lower-end
products and the exit in the US from the rigid laminates
business.
Trading profit was £1.9 million, down from the £2.5 million
result in 2004. Return on sales was 1.4% (2004: 1.9%).
The regional split showed the increasing importance of
Asia-Pacific which accounted for 53% of the sector’s
revenue in 2005, an increase of 7 percentage points over
2004. NAFTA provided 27% of revenue and Europe 20%.
Year-on-year revenue growth illustrated the trend of
customer migration with growth of 16% in Asia-Pacific but
declines of 4% and 23% in NAFTA and Europe respectively.
Despite the almost total migration of mass PCB production
to Asia-Pacific, a presence in the West is required as much
of the specification and qualification process continues to
take place in this region, as does production of high-
performance PCBs.
The sector continues to focus on developing its high
temperature/reliability products, such as Polyclad 370HR
and GETEK™ HR, which are targeted at applications such as
high-end servers, power supplies and network and
telecommunications equipment.
The accelerated migration of its customer base and its
unsatisfactory financial performance resulted in significant
further restructuring during the year. In NAFTA, headcount
was reduced following the exit from the low margin rigid
laminates business. In Europe, following an initial
downsizing in the first half of the year, the German facility
was completely closed in the fourth quarter with all
remaining production transferred to Sweden. Headcount
was also reduced at the Swedish facility.
Raw material costs increased sharply for two of the
sector’s main commodities, copper foil and epoxy resin,
although these increased costs were passed on to
customers. Prices for woven glass cloth, the other principal
commodity, remained stable throughout the year.
Precious Metals division
The Precious Metals division is a leading supplier of
fabricated precious metals (primarily gold, silver and
platinum) to the jewellery industry in the US, UK, France and
Spain. Products include alloy materials, semi-finished
jewellery components and finished jewellery.
Market overview
2005 saw the continuation of difficult market conditions in
both of our key markets, the US and Europe. Demand for
finished jewellery products is influenced to a large extent by
both consumer confidence and consumer preferences.
Consumer confidence was depressed in the US and in
Europe and this trend was exacerbated by the shift in
customers’ discretionary spend away from jewellery
products and more towards consumer electronic products
such as mobile phones and MP3 players.
The preference of buyers and wearers of jewellery for
white metals and gemstones, which was evident in 2004,
continued in 2005. The price of precious metals –
particularly gold – also has an impact on demand. As prices
increase, the weight of gold in the finished product is
typically reduced to meet retailer price points. In addition,
retailers are reluctant to hold inventory when prices are
high. Gold traded at around US$420/ounce in the first half
of the year but then rose steeply throughout the second
half to finish the year at around US$520/ounce.
Divisional performance
The division’s revenue of £246 million was 15% lower than
last year at both reported and constant exchange rates,
reflecting the very difficult market conditions. Net sales
value, which excludes the precious metal content, of £95
million was 18% lower than 2004 both at reported and
constant exchange rates. Trading profit decreased by just
over one-third to £7.0 million, giving a return on net sales
value of 7.4% (2004: 9.3%).
Net sales value for the division’s US operations, which
constitute 57% of the total net sales value for the division,
fell by 20% to £54 million at reported exchange rates,
reflecting both the weak market conditions and Tiffany, one
of the region’s largest customers, increasing its level of in-
house manufacturing. In the second quarter , headcount was
reduced by 8% and most activities in the region were
consolidated onto a single site. As a result of these cost-
saving initiatives, the return on net sales value increased
marginally to 13.2% (2004: 13.0%). Trading profit reduced
by £1.6 million to £7.1 million.
  Cookson Group plc { 21 } Annual Report 2005
In Europe, net sales value fell by 16% to £41 million, reflecting unprecedented falls
in the demand for jewellery products in our three key markets of the UK, France
and Spain. Hallmarking of gold jewellery items in the UK fell by 18% in 2005
compared to 2004. This resulted in a small trading loss of £0.1 million for the year
(2004: £2.1 million profit). The 2004 restructuring plan for the French operations,
which included exiting from manufacturing and the relocation of the sales force,
was completed in the year. Given the unsatisfactory trading performance in the
UK, the UK operations will be refocused starting in 2006. An increased emphasis
on selling via the internet and the existing call-centre will help drive sales whilst,
at the same time, reducing selling costs.
Central corporate costs
The Group’s central corporate costs, being the costs directly related to managing the
Group holding company, were £8.5 million, 4% lower than last year despite the
significant one-off costs associated with the Company’s de-registration from the SEC
and the transition to IFRS. The underlying reduction in ongoing costs reflects the
programme to streamline activities launched in late 2004.
03
04
05 95
116
125
Net Sales Value*
£ million
03
04
05 7.0
10.8
9.7
Trading Profit
£ million
03
04
05
7.4
9.3
7.8
Return on Net Sales Value*
%
Precious Metals
European
Jewellery
43%
US
Jewellery
57%
Net Sales Value by Sector*
* excludes the precious metals content of revenue
Findings produced by Cookson Precious Metals – Findings are components such as beads, pins and balls
used to make jewellery. They are so-called because traditional craftsmen would make such components
from pieces of gold they would “find” on their workbench.
  Cookson Group plc { 22 } Annual Report 2005
Financial Review
As described in detail in the Operating Review, the positive
end-market growth experienced in our major businesses
during 2005, together with the benefit of the cost-reduction
initiatives implemented in the last two years, drove an
improvement in operating margins from our continuing
businesses by more than one percentage point to 8.3%;
delivering trading profit of £123.5 million – an increase of
14% on that reported for 2004.
After an interest charge of £29.7 million, reduced from last
year as a result of lower average borrowings and the improved
terms in the new committed bank facility arranged in March
2005, headline profit before tax was up 20% over last year .
The strong trading performance, evidenced by the 24%
increase in headline earnings per share over 2004,
combined with the Group’s continued strong free cash flow
generation, has contributed to the Board’s decision to
recommend a return to the dividend list with a final dividend
of 5p being recommended to shareholders for 2005.
Finally, the successful progress made with the disposal
programme set out in our strategic plan last year meant that
we closed the year with the Group balance sheet in a healthy
state, with net debt reduced by £30 million from 2004.
Mike Butterworth
Group Finance Director
14 March 2006
“IN THIS, MY FIRST
FINANCIAL REVIEW
SINCE JOINING
COOKSON LAST
YEAR, I AM PLEASED
TO REPORT ON
SUCH A SOUND
SET OF RESULTS.”
• STRONG IMPROVEMENT IN TRADING PROFIT
• HEADLINE PROFIT BEFORE TAX UP 20%
• HEADLINE EARNINGS PER SHARE UP 24%
• STRONG FREE CASH FLOW SUSTAINED
• NET DEBT REDUCED BY £30 MILLION
• DIVIDENDS RESUMED WITH 5p FINAL FOR
2005 PROPOSED Cookson Group plc { 23 } Annual Report 2005
International Financial Reporting Standards
The results for the Group for 2005 and the comparative year
have been stated in accordance with International Financial
Reporting Standards (“IFRS”).
The impact on the Group’s 2004 financial statements of
its transition to IFRS was communicated to shareholders
on 22 July 2005 by way of a press and RNS announcement and is
available on the Company’s website at www.cooksongroup.co.uk.
Group 2005 Results Highlights
2005 2004 Change
£m £m %
Trading profit:
Continuing Operations
– at 2005 exchange rates 123 111 +11
Currency exchange rate impact – (3)
Discontinued Operations
(Laminates and SCS) 7 7
Trading profit – at reported exchange rates 130 115 +13
Net financing charges (interest) (29) (32)
Post-tax income from joint ventures 1 2
Headline Profit Before Tax 102 85 +20
Group Income Statement
Headline profit before tax
Headline profit before tax for total operations was £101.9 million
for 2005, which was £16.9 million higher than 2004. The increase
in headline profit before tax arose as follows:
• £12.5 million increase in trading profit from continuing
operations at constant exchange rates as discussed in the
Operating Review above;
• £0.1 million decrease in trading profit from discontinued
operations at constant exchange rates;
• £2.9 million positive trading profit exchange rate translation
variance;
• £2.5 million lower charge for net interest payable for ongoing
activities due to a decrease of some £27 million in the average
level of borrowings (average rates on gross borrowings were
6.9% for the year, similar to last year); lower margins on the
new bank facility arranged in March 2005 compared to the
previous facility; and interest savings from the repayment of
£80 million of convertible bonds in November 2004;
partially offset by:
• £0.9 million decrease in income from joint ventures (net of tax)
from £2.3 million to £1.4 million, primarily in the Chemistry
sector’s Japanese joint venture; this shortfall was anticipated
following an exceptionally high level of profitability in the first
half of 2004.
Items excluded from headline profit before tax
A net charge of £20.5 million was incurred in the year (2004:
£34.9 million) for items excluded from headline profit before tax
of which £5.0 million was non-cash related. This charge consisted
of the following items:
Rationalisation costs: charges of £18.5 million (2004: £22.7
million) were incurred in the year, of which £5.1 million (2004:
£8.9 million) related to the discontinued Laminates business.
Of the total charge, £3.0 million related to non-cash write-down of
assets and £15.5 million to cash-related costs. The principal items
included in the total charge for 2005 were as follows:
• £8.1 million arose in the Ceramics division for the rationalisation
of facilities in the US, Italy, South Africa and Germany; and for
sales and administrative headcount reductions in both the US
and Europe;
• £2.2 million arose in the Chemistry sector for the
rationalisation of production facilities, primarily in Europe;
• £1.4 million arose in the Precious Metals division for the
completion of the restructuring of operations in France
(including exiting manufacturing and relocating the sales force);
and for the reduction in workforce and consolidation of most
activities onto one main site in the US; and
• £5.1 million arose in the Laminates sector (included in
discontinued operations) for the closure of the facility in
Germany and the streamlining of production in Sweden.
A further rationalisation charge of around £20 million is
expected in each of 2006 and 2007, in respect of both the
completion of the above projects, plus additional cost reduction
projects expected to be initiated in these years.
Amortisation of intangibles: a non-cash charge of £0.8 million
(2004: £0.8 million) was incurred in the year relating to the
amortisation of a product license fee relating to a discontinued
operation.
(Loss)/profit relating to fixed assets: a net charge of £Nil
(2004: £16.8 million) was incurred in the year principally relating
to the disposal of surplus properties and, in 2004, to the write-
down of investments.
Non-recurring finance costs: In 2005 a non-cash charge of
£1.2 million (2004: £Nil) was incurred when the new bank facility
was put in place in March 2005, relating to the write-off of the
un-amortised portion of the fees incurred in respect of the
previous facility. In 2004, a non-cash profit of £5.4 million was
recognised in respect of deferred income relating to interest rate
swaps closed-out in prior years.
Group profit before tax after the items noted above was £81.4 million
for the year compared to £50.1 million in 2004.
Taxation
The tax charge on headline profit before tax (but before the
Group’s share of post-tax profit of joint ventures) was £28.4 million.
The effective tax rate on this headline profit before tax from
continuing operations was 30.3%. The progressive migration of
the Group’s operations away from jurisdictions where it has
accumulated unutilised tax losses is expected to result in an
increase in the Group’s effective tax rate going forward. The
Group tax charge from other activities of £14.4 million resulted
from a £16.6 million non-cash write-off of its US deferred tax asset
in light of a prudent reassessment of expected future
geographical profit contributions, a tax credit of £5.7 million in
respect of rationalisation costs and a £3.5 million tax charge in
respect of the different treatment of goodwill in the US for book
and tax purposes.
  Cookson Group plc { 24 } Annual Report 2005
Net post-tax loss on disposal of operations
A charge of £46.2 million (2004: £34.9 million) was incurred in the
year , consisting of a net post-tax loss before goodwill of £12.1 million
and a write-off of goodwill of £34.1 million, primarily from the
following:
• Sale of the Laminates business (loss of £52.5 million);
• Sale of SCS from the Assembly Materials sector (profit of
£10.8 million);
• Sale of the Technical Ceramics business (McDanel) in the
Ceramics division (loss of £1.6 million);
• Adjustments to the loss on sale in December 2004 of two brick-
making facilities in Europe in the Ceramics division (loss of
£0.8 million); and
• Sale of the Fraternity Rings business in the Precious Metals
division (loss of £0.4 million).
After taking account of all items excluded from headline
profit before tax noted above (net of the related tax impact), the
write-off of the deferred tax asset, and the net post-tax loss on
disposal of operations, the Group recorded a loss of £7.6 million,
£9.4 million lower than the £17.0 million loss incurred in 2004.
Earnings per share (“EPS”)
Headline EPS, based on the headline profit attributable to parent
company equity holders, amounted to 37.2 pence per share in
2005, an increase of 24% on the 30.1 pence reported in 2004. The
Directors believe this basis of calculating EPS is an important
measure of the underlying earnings per share of the Group.
Basic EPS, based on the total net loss attributable to parent
company equity holders, was a loss per share of 5.8 pence (2004:
11.2 pence).
The average number of shares in issue during 2005 was 188.5
million (2004: 188.3 million) taking into account the 1 for 10 share
capital consolidation that was approved by shareholders and
effected in May 2005.
Dividend
Over the last two years the Group has delivered sustained free cash
flow and strongly improved underlying profitability. This, together
with the Board’s improved confidence in the prospects for the Group,
has resulted in the Board recommending a final dividend of 5p per
share in respect of 2005. If approved, the dividend will be paid on
12 June 2006 to shareholders on the register at 26 May 2006. No
dividend was paid or proposed in respect of 2004. The last time a
dividend was paid was in October 2001.
Group cash flows
Net cash from operating activities
In 2005, the Group generated £68.1 million of net cash inflow
from operating activities, £25.2 million lower than 2004. This net
decrease principally arose from:
• A £15.5 million increase in EBITDA (being trading profit before
depreciation) to £177.3 million;
• A cash outflow of £23.7 million for trade working capital, £6.8
million higher than 2004;
• A £2.8 million increase in cash spend for rationalisation costs to
£17.0 million;
• A £3.5 million increase in pension “top-up” payments; and
• A net increase in cash outflow for operating provisions and other
items of £30.1 million, including £8.9 million of additional
incentive payments to employees throughout the Group, with
the remainder arising from movements on other non-trading
debtors and creditors.
The cash outflow in respect of trade working capital results in
the ratio of average working capital to sales for continuing
operations increasing from 21.7% in 2004 to 22.4%. This primarily
reflects the increasing percentage of Group revenue arising in
Asia-Pacific where levels of trade working capital (particularly
trade debtors) are traditionally higher than in the US and Europe.
Cash outflow for rationalisation was £17.0 million of which
£3.6 million related to programmes that were initiated in 2005 in
respect of continuing operations, £5.3 million in respect of the
discontinued Laminates business and the balance from prior year
initiatives (including £3.3 million in respect of the restructuring of
the Precious Metals division’s French operation). Some £10 million
is expected to be outlaid in 2006 for rationalisation programmes
which commenced in 2005.
Net cash from investing activities
Capital expenditure
Payments to acquire property, plant and equipment were £42.5
million in 2005, in line with 2004 and representing 90% of
depreciation (2004: 90%). Proceeds from the sale of surplus
properties in the US, Europe and Asia were £10.3 million (2004:
£1.4 million).
Dividends from joint ventures
Dividends of £4.7 million were received in the year (2004: £2.3
million) from the Chemistry division’s Japanese joint venture.
Acquisitions and disposals
Net cash inflow for disposals in the year, net of acquisition-related
costs, was £13.8 million which included the following:
• Proceeds from the disposal of businesses, net of disposal costs, of
£30.4 million, primarily comprising £4.4 million for the disposal in
June 2005 of the Technical Ceramics business (McDanel) and
£28.7 million for the disposal in December 2005 of SCS;
net of:
• An increase in the Ceramics division’s joint venture interest with
Wuhan Steel Corp in China from 25% to 50% for £1.7 million;
• Deferred consideration for prior year acquisitions of £8.9 million,
comprising £6.1 million for the acquisition in 2000 of Achem and
£1.7 million for the acquisition in 2001 of Advent. The balance
owing for deferred consideration for prior year acquisitions is
£3.2 million, of which £1.1 million falls due in 2006; and
• Trailing costs and purchase price adjustments for prior year
disposals of £6.0 million.
Financial Review (continued)
Headline profit before tax
£ million
03 04
05
102
85
26
Headline earnings
per share
pence
03 04
05
37 .2
30.1
8.2 Cookson Group plc { 25 } Annual Report 2005
Free cash flow
Free cash flow is defined as net cash flow from operating activities
after net outlays for the acquisition and disposal of fixed assets,
dividends from joint ventures and dividends paid to minority
shareholders, but before additional funding contributions to Group
pension plans.
Free cash flow was £48.4 million, £9.7 million lower than 2004
due to the decrease in cash flow from operating activities for the
reasons described above. As in prior years, free cash flow in the
second half increased strongly compared with the first half of the
year due to higher profitability and significantly higher cash
inflows from trade working capital.
Net cash flow before financing
Net cash inflow before financing for the year was £54.4 million,
£20.3 million higher than 2004. After an outflow for financing
activities (before repayment of borrowings) of £0.7 million (2004:
£3.3 million), net cash inflow for the year (before repayment of
borrowings) was £53.7 million, £22.9 million higher than 2004.
The strong cash inflow was partially offset by a negative
translation effect of £26.4 million, mainly due to the decrease in the
value of sterling from US$1.92 to US$1.72 during the year, resulting
in a decrease in net debt of £29.5 million to £292.3 million.
Group borrowings
As at 31 December 2005, the Group had gross borrowings of
£355.8 million which were drawn on available medium to long-
term committed facilities of around £520 million. The Group’s net
debt comprised the following:
31 December 31 December
2005 2004
US Private Placement loan notes 317.5 296.7
Committed bank facilities 23.3 40.0
Lease financing and asset securitisation 3.7 14.9
Other loans, overdrafts, other 11.3 14.2
Gross borrowings 355.8 365.8
Cash and short-term deposits (63.5) (44.0)
Net debt 292.3 321.8
The US Private Placement loan notes, currently US$545 million, are
repayable at various dates between 2007 and 2012. US$25 million
of loan notes were repaid during the year.
A new committed bank facility for £200 million was arranged
in March 2005 on improved pricing and terms. The facility, which
had an original maturity date of March 2008 with options to
extend by two further twelve month periods, was extended in
January 2006 by a further twelve months such that the current
maturity date is now March 2009. It is unsecured, with all security
and guarantees under the previous facility fully released. Only
£23.3 million was drawn on this facility at 31 December 2005.
Currency
The US dollar strengthened against sterling during the course of
the year and the  year-end exchange rate was some 1 1% higher than
for 2004. However, the average US dollar exchange rate for 2005
was in line with the average exchange rate in 2004. Other US dollar
“tracking” currencies, such as the Singapore and Hong Kong dollar
and the Chinese renminbi, also showed a similar trend. The value of
the euro was relatively stable against sterling, both in respect of the
year-end rates and the average for the year compared to last year.
In 2005, the net translation impact of currency changes was to
improve headline profit before tax by £2.9 million, but to increase
net debt by £26.4 million.
Pension fund and other post-retirement obligations
The Group operates defined contribution and defined benefit
pension plans, principally in the UK and US. In addition, the Group
has various other defined benefit post-retirement arrangements,
being principally healthcare plans in the US.
As at 31 December 2005, a liability of £224.8 million was
recognised in respect of employee benefits, an increase of £34.9
million over the £189.9 million as at 31 December 2004. This
increase arises primarily in respect of the UK plan from changes
in the actuarial assumption used to discount the present value of
future liabilities and increased expectations as to the life
expectancy of retirees. Both of these factors have more than
offset the increase in the market value of the assets of the plan
since the end of 2004. Of the total liability, £117.4 million relates
to the deficit on the Group’s defined benefit plan in the UK, £61.1
million to the Group’s defined benefit pension plans in the US,
£14.3 million to defined benefit pension arrangements in the
Rest of the World, and £32.0 million to unfunded post-retirement
benefit arrangements, being mainly healthcare benefit
arrangements in the US.
Following the triennial actuarial valuation of the UK plan
completed in 2004 and after consultation with the trustee of the
Group’s UK plan, normal cash contributions in respect of active
members of the plan were supplemented with an additional “top-
up” payment of £10 million in 2005 (2004: £6.5 million). Further
“top-up” payments of £10.5 million and £12 million were
anticipated to be made in 2006 and 2007 . Following the disposal of
SCS and the announcement of the disposal of the Laminates
business in December 2005 and the Ceramic Fibres business in
February 2006, and in view of the increase in the net pension
deficit for the UK plan during 2005, it was agreed with the trustee
of the Group’s UK plan in February 2006 to make revised “top-up”
payments (in addition to the normal cash contributions) of £25.5
million in 2006 and £26.5 million in 2007. The level of these
additional “top-up” payments will be reviewed in consultation with
the Trustee of the Group’s UK plan when the next triennial
valuation is available in mid-2007.
The US plans undergo actuarial valuations every year and the
net deficit as at 31 December 2005 was £61.1 million (2004: £47.4
million). Funding of the US plans is made in accordance with US
government regulations. The two principal defined benefit pension
plans in the US are closed to new members and ongoing accruals are
in the process of being frozen for the majority of active members.
The charge against trading profit in 2005 for all pension plans
(including defined contribution plans) and other post-retirement
plans was £22.7 million, a reduction of £0.4 million compared to
2004. Total pension cash contributions amounted to £33.8 million in
2005 (2004: £26.4 million).
Net debt: year-end
£ million
03 04
05
292
322
374 Cookson Group plc { 26 } Annual Report 2005
Policy
Cookson recognises that its operations impact
a wide community of stakeholders, including
investors, employees, customers, business
associates and local communities and that
appropriate attention to the fulfilment of its
corporate responsibilities can enhance overall
performance. In structuring its approach to the
various aspects of corporate social responsibility,
the Company takes account of guidelines and
statements issued by stakeholder representatives
and other regulatory bodies from around the world.
Social, environmental and ethical matters are
reviewed by the Board, particularly as regards
the impact such matters may have on the Group’s
management of risk and the internal control
systems in place for addressing any significant
associated risks.
Code of Conduct
The Company has a Code of Conduct (“Cookson
Code”), which has been distributed throughout
the Group in 12 languages and by which all its
businesses are required to operate. The Cookson
Code emphasises the Company’s commitment to
compliance with the highest standards of legal
and ethical behaviour. The Cookson Code is
reproduced in full on the Company’s website.
As stated in the Cookson Code, the primary
goal of Cookson is the protection and
advancement of the interests of investors by
providing attractive returns on a long-term basis.
In striving to achieve this goal, management
must conduct its business in a responsible
manner, while engaging in careful risk-taking as
an essential ingredient of business success. The
Cookson Code requires that particular care be
given to the preservation and protection of Group
assets by making prudent and effective use of
resources. Long-term customer satisfaction is
recognised as being essential to the attainment
of Group goals, which means listening carefully to
customers’ product and service requirements
and maintaining a reputation for integrity in all
business and other dealings.
The Group can only achieve its goals through
the efforts of its employees. Cookson recognises
that job satisfaction requires working environments
that motivate employees to be productive and
Corporate Social Responsibility
innovative, and which provide opportunities for
employee training and development to maximise
personal potential and develop careers within the
Group. Cookson believes that wherever in the
world they work employees have the right
to be treated in good faith and on the basis
of respect for the dignity of the individual. The
Cookson Code requires all Group companies to
ensure that recruitment, training, promotion,
career development, termination and similar
employment-related issues are based on
individual ability, achievement, experience and
conduct without regard to race, colour,
nationality, culture, ethnic origin, religion, sex,
sexual orientation, age, disability or any other
reason not related to job performance or
prohibited by applicable law.
The Cookson Code requires all employees,
officers and Directors to have a duty of loyalty to
the Group. Individuals may not use their positions
to profit themselves or others at the expense of
the Group. Personal interests that do, may or
might appear to conflict with Group interests or
improperly influence the performance of an
individual’s duties must be avoided at all times.
Cookson seeks to be a good corporate citizen
wherever it conducts business. The Cookson Code
requires employees to observe all national and
local laws and never seek to gain any advantage
through the inappropriate use of payments,
business courtesies or other inducements. Bribery
is strictly prohibited. Group businesses must
respect and take into account regional and local
concerns, customs and traditions.
Helpline
Cookson has a 24-hour Employee Business
Concern Helpline and e-mail facility. This is
operated by a professional, external provider of
employee support, counselling and business
concern services, which provides Cookson’s
employees and business associates with an
independent and confidential service through
which to register any concerns about any
incorrect or irregular practices they perceive in
Cookson’s workplace. With the express permission
of the caller or e-mail correspondent, the service
provider reports any matters raised to a designated
team at Cookson’s Head Office for investigation.
“WE FOCUS OUR
WORLDWIDE
OPERATIONS ON:
• FAIR AND EQUITABLE
EMPLOYMENT
PRACTICES
• THE HEALTH AND
SAFETY OF OUR
WORKFORCE
• THE ENVIRONMENTAL
IMPACT OF OUR
OPERATIONS.”
Corporate Responsibility Statement
  Cookson Group plc { 27 } Annual Report 2005
Policy
Cookson has a Health, Safety and Environment (“HS&E”) Policy
based on the principle of operating in a manner that preserves
health, safety and a sound environment. For Cookson companies
worldwide, the minimum acceptable standard is to meet their
legal HS&E obligations, however , the aim is to improve continually.
Cookson believes that good HS&E performance is an integral part
of effective and profitable business management. The Policy,
which is reviewed regularly, is available in full on the Company’s
website, www.cooksongroup.co.uk.
Management Systems
The Board assumes ultimate responsibility for HS&E policy and for
monitoring its implementation, while executives and line managers
are directly responsible for HS&E matters in the operations under
their control. A reporting system is in place to collect, collate and
report on key performance indicators. Advice and support is
available from the corporate HS&E function, led by the Group Head
of HS&E who reports on these matters to the Board.
Performance
In 2004, Cookson began a new programme to reduce energy use,
and the associated emissions of carbon dioxide, the principle
greenhouse gas. The programme includes training employees to
understand energy use and conservation principles and introducing
energy audits to assist high-use sites in identifying and
implementing conservation measures. This programme is already
showing results. For example, at our largest energy consumption
site, initial efforts have reduced lighting costs by 70% and overall
energy costs by 18%. 
The number of Cookson locations certified to ISO 14001, the
international standard for environmental management systems,
continues to increase. By the end of 2005, 42 locations had
achieved certification and 13 additional locations were
implementing the standard. A growing number of Cookson
operations are also achieving certification to the OHSAS 18001
standard for health and safety management. This growth is an
indication of the commitment of Group companies to improved
environmental performance.
A number of Cookson companies in the US have been named as
potentially responsible parties under the Superfund law for wastes
disposed of at sites owned by third parties. Although likely Group
costs depend on many factors, the few cases that remain active are
expected to be settled within the amounts already provided.
Like many manufacturers, some Group companies have potential
environmental liabilities because of past operations at their
current or former sites. Where remediation is required, Cookson
environmental managers and external specialists work with
government authorities to ensure that remediation is conducted
effectively and efficiently.
Compliance
Although a small number of enforcement notices were issued to
Cookson companies in 2005, only one to date has resulted in a
monetary penalty. No court actions were filed against Cookson
companies for HS&E non-compliance in 2005.
Additional information on HS&E matters can be found on the
Company’s website.
Marketplace
Many of Cookson’s businesses are at the forefront of developing
lower environmental impact solutions for their customers and
society in general.
Workplace
Cookson’s success depends very much on retaining the
commitment of the people who work within it. The Group strives to
ensure that employees have a safe environment in which to work
and that employment practices are fair and equitable.
Safety
Cookson’s goal is zero work-related injuries and illnesses. To
achieve this, a worldwide initiative has been implemented to
improve safety performance, with a particular focus on applying
sound risk assessments and ergonomic principles. The programme
includes minimum standards of performance, targeted assistance
to higher risk sites and a variety of training and awareness
activities. From 1999 to 2005, the rate of injuries and illnesses
resulting in absence from work improved by 53%. In 2005, over
half of Cookson’s operations around the world achieved our goal of
zero work-related illnesses and injuries.
One area of particular focus has been the elimination of work-
related injuries through better application of ergonomic principles.
The last three years have seen extensive ergonomic training
throughout the Group and the establishment of ergonomic teams
at a number of facilities, leading to a significant improvement in
performance.
00 01 02 03 04
05
00 01 02 03 04
05
42
36
27
25
24
16
2.0
2.5
2.4
3.4
3.7
3.8
Facilities certified to ISO 14001
Rate of injuries & illnesses that
resulted in absence from work
per 100 employees
01 02 03 04 05
Health, Safety and Environmental Statement
25
20
30
35
40
45
350
330
370
390
410
430
450
Total energy consumption
Gas (Therms, millions)
Electricity (KWH, millions)
Gas Use
Electricity Use Cookson Group plc { 28 } Annual Report 2005
Board of Directors
3) Barry W Perry 59 a, b Non-executive Director
Appointed to the Cookson Board in January 2002.
Barry is Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of
Engelhard Corporation. He previously held senior
executive positions with Rhone-Poulenc and with
General Electric Co in the US. Barry is also a non-
executive director of Arrow Electronics, Inc.
4) Mike Butterworth 44 d, f Group Finance Director
Appointed to the Cookson Board in June 2005 and
assumed the role of Group Finance Director in
August 2005.
Prior to joining Cookson, Mike was Group Finance
Director of Incepta Group plc, from 2001 until May
2005. He previously spent five years as Group
Financial Controller at BBA Group plc.
5) Jeff Hewitt 58 a, b Non-executive Director
Appointed to the Cookson Board in June 2005 and
is Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Jeff was previously Deputy Chairman and Group
Finance Director of Electrocomponents plc. He is
Deputy Chairman and Chairman of the
Remuneration Committee of Dialight plc. He is the
Senior Independent director and Chairman of the
Audit Committee of TDG plc, and he is also a non-
executive member of the Audit Committee of the
John Lewis Partnership. 
1) Robert Beeston 64 c, d Chairman
Joined the Cookson Board in April 2003 and was
appointed Chairman at the Company’s Annual
General Meeting later that month.
Bob was CEO of FKI plc from 1992 to 2002 and prior
to that was Managing Director of BTR Valve Group.
He is the Senior Independent director and Chairman
of the Remuneration Committee of D S Smith plc.
2) Nick Salmon 53 c, d, f Chief Executive
Appointed Chief Executive in July 2004.
Prior to joining Cookson, Nick was Executive Vice
President at Alstom SA. Previously he was CEO at
Babcock International plc and before that he held
positions with GEC and China Light and Power. Nick
is a non-executive director of United Utilities plc.
  Cookson Group plc { 29 } Annual Report 2005
“WE HAVE A BOARD
AND EXECUTIVE
MANAGEMENT 
TEAM WITH THE
EXPERIENCE,
SKILLS AND
STRENGTH OF
PURPOSE TO DRIVE
OUR COMPANY
FORWARD.”
a Member of the Audit Committee
b Member of the Remuneration Committee
c Member of the Nominations Committee; 
the membership also includes any three
non-executive Directors
d Member of the Finance Committee
e Senior Independent Director
f Member of the Executive Committee
g Not a member of the Board
Ages are as at 14 March 2006. 
6) John Sussens 60 a, b, e Non-executive Director
Appointed to the Cookson Board in May 2004, is
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and
Senior Independent Director.
John was previously Managing Director of Misys plc.
He is the Senior non-executive director and
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee of
Admiral Group plc and a non-executive director of
Anglo & Overseas plc and Phoenix IT Group plc.
7) Richard Malthouse 54 f, g Group Secretary
Appointed Group Secretary in 1993.
Richard was previously the Group Secretary of Del
Monte Foods International. He has held the
equivalent or senior company secretarial positions
in pharmaceutical, engineering and automobile
manufacturing companies.
8) Jan Oosterveld 62 a, b Non-executive Director
Appointed to the Cookson Board in June 2004.
Jan spent the majority of his career at Royal Philips
Electronics, latterly serving as a member of the Group
Management Committee. He is a non-executive
director of Continental AG, Crucell N.V., Barco N.V.
and Atos Origin S.A. and Professor at IESE Business
School in Barcelona.
  Cookson Group plc { 30 } Annual Report 2005
The Directors submit their annual report together with the audited
accounts of the Group and of the Company, Cookson Group plc, for
the year ended 31 December 2005.
Principal Activities
Cookson Group plc is a leading materials science company which
provides materials, processes and services to customers
worldwide. The Group’s operations are formed into three divisions
– Ceramics, Electronics and Precious Metals. Known in its markets
as Vesuvius, the Ceramics division is the world leader in the supply
of advanced flow control refractory products and systems to the
global steel industry and a leading supplier of specialist ceramic
products to the glass and foundry industries. It is also a regional
leader in the US, UK and Australia in the supply and installation of
monolithic refractory linings. The Electronics division is a leading
supplier of advanced surface treatment and plating chemicals and
assembly materials to the automotive, construction and electronics
markets. The Precious Metals division is a leading supplier of
fabricated precious metals (primarily gold, silver and platinum) to
the jewellery industry in the US, UK, France and Spain. Products
include alloy materials, semi-finished jewellery components and
finished jewellery.
Review of 2005
A review of Cookson’s results, the major developments occurring
during 2005 within each of its three divisions and of the Group’s
financial position at the end of 2005 is given on pages 8 to 25.
Events affecting the Group since the end of the year and likely
future developments are also referred to on those pages.
Group headline profit before tax for 2005 was £101.9 million
(2004: £85.0 million). The retained loss for the year was £7.6
million (2004: £17.0 million).
During 2005, Cookson paid £10.6 million in respect of
acquisitions of subsidiaries and joint ventures and disposed of
interests in subsidiaries and joint ventures for a net consideration
received of £30.4 million. Further details of the interests sold
during the year are given in note 15 on page 66. Capital
expenditure by Group companies in 2005 amounted to £42.5
million (2004: £42.3 million). Further details of the Group’s
tangible fixed assets are given in note 21 on page 69.
Donations in the UK for charitable purposes totalled £0.1m
(2004: £0.1m); and such donations throughout the Group totalled
£0.1m (2004: £0.2m). In accordance with Company policy, no
political donations were made in either 2005 or 2004.
The financial statements of the Company and the Group,
respectively, have been prepared on a going concern basis as the
Directors consider that the Company and the Group have adequate
resources to continue in operation for the foreseeable future.
Dividends
The Board is recommending a final dividend in respect of 2005 of
5p per ordinary share which, if approved, will be paid on 12 June
2006 to shareholders on the register at 26 May 2006. No
dividends were paid in 2005 or 2004.
Corporate Governance
Details are set out in the narrative below of the Company’s
corporate governance procedures and application of the principles
of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued by the
Financial Reporting Council in July 2003 (“the Code”). The
Company has complied with the provisions of the Code throughout
the year ended 31 December 2005.
The Board
Ultimate responsibility for the management of Cookson rests with
the Board of Directors. The Board focuses primarily upon strategic
and policy issues. It approves the Group’s strategy and oversees
the allocation of resources and monitors the performance of the
Group in pursuit of this.
The Board currently has seven Directors, comprising the non-
executive Chairman, the Chief Executive, the Group Finance
Director and four non-executive Directors. The Board considers
each of the non-executive Directors, namely Messrs J L Hewitt,
J P Oosterveld, B W Perry and J G Sussens, to be independent of
management and free from any business or other relationship
which could affect the exercise of their independent judgement.
The Company has reviewed the availability of the non-executive
Directors and considers that each of them is able to and in practice
does devote the necessary amount of time to the Company’s
business. The Board nominates one of the non-executive Directors
to act as Senior Independent Director and provide an alternative
contact at Board level, other than the Chairman, to whom
shareholder matters can be addressed. Mr M K Atkinson held this
position until he announced that he was stepping down from the
Board, at which time Mr J G Sussens took over the role. The
biographical details of individual Directors are set out on pages 28
and 29.
The Articles of Association of the Company require that
Directors should submit themselves for re-election at least every
three years. Mr R G Beeston will therefore be retiring and offering
himself for re-election at this year’s AGM as set out in the Notice
of AGM and on page 35. Messrs M G Butterworth and J L Hewitt
were appointed as Directors after the last AGM and will therefore
be standing for election at the 2006 meeting.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved to it and
delegates certain matters to committees as outlined below. The
Board met as a full Board on ten scheduled occasions during 2005.
Two of these meetings were held at Cookson facilities when the
Board visited Group operations in the UK and Germany. A Board
Strategic Review Meeting was combined with one of these visits. In
addition, the Chairman and the non-executive Directors meet
routinely on their own without the executive Directors present and
at least once each year the non-executive Directors meet without
the Chairman present to discuss matters such as the Chairman’s
performance.
Specific matters reserved for the Board include: reviewing
Group and divisional performance; approving significant
transactions including acquisitions, divestments and capital
expenditure; setting and approving the Group’s strategy and
annual budget; approving the Group’s financing and treasury
policies; succession planning and approving Board appointments
and the remuneration of the non-executive Directors. In addition
the Board considers health, safety and environmental matters and
reviews the Group’s risk management processes.
Directors’ Report
  Cookson Group plc { 31 } Annual Report 2005
The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the
Chief Executive has been agreed by the Board and is set out in
writing. The Chairman leads the Board and meets routinely with
the Chief Executive and Group Secretary to discuss matters
relating to its efficient functioning.
The Chairman continues to serve as a non-executive director
and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee of D S Smith plc.
He has not acquired any further significant commitments during
the year.
The attendance of Directors at Board and principal Committee
meetings during the year, together with the maximum number of
meetings in the period when the individual was a Board member
(as shown in brackets), was as follows:
Audit Remuneration Nominations
Board Committee Committee Committee
Chairman
R G Beeston 10 (10) n/a n/a 2 (2)
Executive Directors
M G Butterworth
(from 15/06/05) 6 (7) n/a n/a n/a
N R Salmon 10 (10) n/a n/a 2 (2)
Non-executive Directors
J L Hewitt
(from 01/06/05) 6 (7) 2 (2) 3 (3) 1 (1)
J P Oosterveld 7 (10) 4 (4) 5 (5) 2 (2)
B W Perry 9 (10) 4 (4) 5 (5) 2 (2)
J G Sussens 9 (10) 4 (4) 5 (5) 2 (2)
Directors retiring in 2005
M K Atkinson
(to 15/04/05) 0 (2) 0 (1) 0 (1) 0 (0)
G C Cozzani
(to 06/10/05) 6 (7) n/a n/a n/a
D H Millard
(to 31/07 /05) 4 (6) n/a n/a n/a
Papers are provided to the Directors in advance of the relevant
Board or committee meeting to enable them to make further
enquiries about any matters prior to the meeting should they so
wish. The Group Secretary oversees the distribution of these papers
and ensures that there is an appropriate level of communication
between the Board and its committees and between senior
management and non-executive Directors. He also keeps the Board
apprised of relevant developments in corporate governance.
Performance Evaluation
The Board evaluates its own performance and effectiveness and
assesses the performance of its committees and individual members
on an annual basis. In 2005 this process focused on evaluating the
contribution of individual Directors to the functioning of the Board
and its Committees. The review again involved the use of a
questionnaire, designed with the assistance of an independent
external adviser, being completed by each Director and the Group
Secretary. A series of one-to-one meetings between the Chairman
and each Director and the Group Secretary was held. The
performance of the Chairman was in turn reviewed by the Senior
Independent Director following consultation with other members of
the Board. The results of the evaluations were collated by the
independent adviser and then presented to the Board for review. The
Chairman was judged to have performed satisfactorily against all the
measured criteria.
The Chairmen of each of the Audit, Nominations and Remuneration
Committees reviewed the results of the evaluation of each
committee at meetings of their respective committees. Areas for
improvement have been identified with follow-up actions being
agreed. From the results of the 2005 review the Board considered
that overall it was operating effectively and that all Directors
continue to contribute and are committed to their roles at Cookson.
Areas for attention included the identification of additional
measures to be used to assess the Board’s own performance.
Induction and Training
The Group Secretary ensures that a comprehensive induction
programme is provided to all new Directors, including visits to
manufacturing facilities, meetings with key Group executives and
introductions to the Company’s principal external advisers, as
appropriate. New Directors are also advised of their legal and other
duties and obligations as Directors of a listed company. This is
supplemented by reference materials, which are regularly updated,
including information about the Board, the committees, Directors’
duties, procedures for dealing in the Company’s shares and other
regulatory and governance matters. Directors are provided with
details of seminars and training courses relevant to their role. They
are encouraged to attend these as they consider appropriate and are
supported by the Company in so doing. Where a general training need
is identified, in-house training would be provided to the entire Board.
During the year Directors attended external seminars and other
functions relevant to specific areas of their responsibility.
Relations with Shareholders
The Company reports its financial results to shareholders twice a
year, with the publication of its Annual and Interim Reports. In
conjunction with these announcements presentations are made to
institutional investors and analysts, copies of which are posted on
the Company’s website: www.cooksongroup.co.uk. In addition, for
2005 the Company published trading statements after the first
and third quarters giving salient unaudited financial figures. The
Company maintains a regular dialogue with major institutional
investors and regular updates on shareholder issues and
discussions are provided to the Board. In order to gain a better
understanding of perceptions of Cookson’s leading shareholders,
the Company commissioned an Investor Audit during the course of
2005; its findings were discussed by the Board. Board members
also receive copies of significant analysts’ notes issued on the
Company. All Directors normally attend the Company’s AGM,
providing shareholders with the opportunity to question them
about issues relating to the Group, either during the meeting or
informally afterwards.
Board Committees
The principal committees of the Board are the Audit, Remuneration
and Nominations Committees. Each committee has written terms of
reference agreed by the Board. These are available to view on the
Company’s website.
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee members are the non-executive Directors,
namely Mr J L Hewitt, Mr J P Oosterveld, Mr B W Perry and
Mr J G Sussens. During the year the Committee was chaired by
Mr Atkinson and, following his departure from the Company, by
Mr Hewitt. The Board believes both Messrs Atkinson and Hewitt,
for their respective periods of appointment, possessed the
relevant financial experience, as described by the Code.
  Cookson Group plc { 32 } Annual Report 2005
The Group Finance Director, the Group Head of Internal Audit and
the Company’s Auditor, KPMG Audit Plc, are normally invited to
attend meetings and other executives are invited to attend as and
when appropriate. The Committee meets regularly with the
Company’s Auditor without any executives being present.
Audit Committee Report
The principal roles of the Audit Committee are:
• assisting the Board in the discharge of its responsibilities in
respect of statutory and other financial reporting and in
respect of its review of the effectiveness of the Group’s
internal controls and risk management systems;
• monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Company’s
internal audit function;
• making recommendations to the Board on the appointment
and dismissal of the Auditor;
• approving the remuneration and terms of engagement of the
Auditor;
• monitoring and reviewing the Auditor’s independence,
objectivity and effectiveness, taking into account professional
and regulatory requirements; and
• helping to strengthen the independent position of the Auditor
by providing a direct channel of communication between it and
the non-executive Directors.
The Committee has established procedures for the receipt,
retention and treatment of complaints received by the Company
including accounting, internal controls, auditing matters and
confidential communications from employees.
The Group Head of Internal Audit reports directly to the
Committee Chairman and the Committee reviews and approves the
internal audit work programme for each year . During the year under
review, the Committee met four times and reviewed, amongst other
matters, the Company’s published financial results; the Group’s
conversion to International Financial Reporting Standards; internal
audit reports and management control issues; the scope of the
external audit and its cost effectiveness; and the extent to which
the Auditor’s remuneration for non-audit services might affect their
independence and objectivity in carrying out the audit.
More specifically, the responsibilities of the Committee were
discharged as follows:
• at its meetings in July 2005 and March 2006, the Committee
reviewed the Company’s Interim Report and preliminary
announcement/Annual Report and Accounts, respectively. On
both occasions, the Committee received reports from the
Auditor identifying any accounting or judgemental issues
thereon requiring its attention;
• at its meeting in May 2005, the Committee reviewed the
Company’s Annual Report on Form 20-F, which has been filed
each year since 1993 with the US Securities and Exchange
Commission (SEC), together with a report from the Auditor
identifying any accounting or judgemental issues thereon
requiring its attention;
• a quarterly report from the Group Head of Internal Audit was
presented at each of the four meetings. In addition, at the
December 2005 meeting, the Group Head of Internal Audit
submitted the function’s internal audit plan for 2006;
• the Auditor presented its audit plan at the December 2005
meeting;
• reports were presented to the March and July meetings
pertaining to the Group’s conversion to International Financial
Reporting Standards;
• in March and July, the Committee considered the Company’s
preparations to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-
Oxley Act and, following the decision to seek to de-register
from the SEC, the Committee monitored progress on this;
• from time to time, executives were required to make
presentations to the Committee or to the full Board on the
subject of risk, its identification, management and control; and
• as a matter of routine, the Committee was presented with
information on any significant litigation involving the Group.
As noted above, one of the duties of the Committee is to make
recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointment of
the Auditor. A number of factors concerning the Auditor are taken
into account by the Committee in assessing whether to
recommend the Auditor for re-appointment, including:
• the quality both of reports provided to the Committee and the
Board and of advice given;
• the level of understanding demonstrated of the Group’s
businesses; and
• the objectivity of the Auditor’s views on the controls around
the Group and its ability to coordinate a global audit, working
to tight deadlines.
The Committee has put in place safeguards to ensure that the
independence of the external audit is not compromised. Such
safeguards include:
• seeking confirmation that the Auditor is independent of the
Company in its own professional judgement; and
• considering all the relationships between the Auditor and the
Group, including those relating to the provision of non-audit
services and whether this impairs, or appears to impair, the
Auditor’s judgement or independence.
The Company has a policy governing the Group-wide conduct
of non-audit work by the Auditor. Under that policy the Auditor is
prohibited from performing services where it:
• may be required to audit its own work;
• would participate in activities that would normally be
undertaken by management;
• is remunerated through a “success fee” structure; or
• acts in an advocacy role for the Group.
Other than the above, the Company does not impose an
automatic prohibition on the Auditor undertaking non-audit work.
The Auditor is permitted to provide non-audit services that are not,
or are not perceived to be, in conflict with auditor independence,
providing it has the skill, competence and integrity to carry out the
work in the best interests of the Group.
Details of the amounts paid to the Auditor during the year for
audit and other services are set out in note 8 on page 63.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee reports the outcome
of the Audit Committee meetings to the Board and the Board
receives the agenda, papers and minutes of Audit Committee
meetings.
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee members are the non-executive
Directors, namely Mr J L Hewitt, Mr J P Oosterveld, Mr B W Perry
and Mr J G Sussens who chairs the Committee. The Committee’s
principal roles are to recommend and monitor the level and
structure of remuneration for senior management and to set the
appropriate remuneration for the Group Chairman, executive
Directors’ Report (continued)
  Cookson Group plc { 33 } Annual Report 2005
Directors and Group Secretary. Further details of the activities of
the Remuneration Committee are provided in the Directors’
Remuneration Report on pages 37 to 44.
The Chairman of the Remuneration Committee reports the
outcome of the Remuneration Committee meetings to the Board.
Nominations Committee
The Nominations Committee advises the Board on appointments to
and retirements and resignations from the Board. The members of
the Committee are the Group Chairman, the Chief Executive and
any three non-executive Directors. The Committee meets as and
when required and is chaired by the Group Chairman or a non-
executive Director . The Group Chairman would not act as Chairman
of the Committee where it was dealing with the appointment of his
successor. Formal meetings are held to consider standing items of
business; there is also a significant level of ad hoc discussion
between members of the Committee, particularly when a
recruitment exercise is taking place.
During the year under review a new Group Finance Director and
a new non-executive Director were appointed to the Board. When
considering the appointment of new Directors, the Committee draws
up specifications, taking into consideration the existing balance of
skills, knowledge and experience on the Board and the ongoing
requirements of the Group. It utilises the services of an external
recruitment consultancy to identify appropriate candidates,
interviews those short-listed and then makes recommendations for
each appointment to the full Board. Care is taken to ensure that all
proposed appointees have sufficient time available to devote to the
role and do not have any conflicts of interest.
The Nominations Committee reviews the Company’s succession
plans. The Board as a whole also considers this subject.
The Chairman of the Nominations Committee reports on the
outcome of the Nominations Committee meetings to the Board.
Finance and Share Schemes Committees
The Board delegates certain responsibilities on an ad hoc basis to
the Finance and Share Schemes Committees.
The Finance Committee is chaired by the Group Chairman, its
other members being the Chief Executive, Group Finance Director
and Group Treasurer. The Committee meets as and when required
to consider approval for treasury-related matters.
The Share Schemes Committee’s membership consists of any
two Directors. It meets as and when required to undertake
administrative matters in relation to the Company’s share schemes.
Executive Committee and Central Executive
In addition to the Committees of the Board described above, the
Group has an Executive Committee which supports the Chief
Executive in addressing Group-wide issues and initiatives. This
Committee is chaired by the Chief Executive and comprises the
Group Finance Director, the Group Secretary and the Chief
Executives of each of the Group’s three divisions.
Formal authority has been delegated to the Central Executive
comprising the Chief Executive, Group Finance Director and
Group Secretary. The Central Executive is responsible for
reviewing and approving capital expenditure, acquisitions and
disposals at certain levels as determined by the Board.
Responsibility for day-to-day operational management rests with
the divisional Chief Executives.
Accountability and Audit
A responsibility statement of the Directors and a statement by the
Auditor about its reporting responsibilities can be found on pages
46 and 45, respectively. There is no relevant information that has
not been disclosed to the Auditor throughout the year. The
Directors fulfil the responsibilities set out in their statement within
the context of an overall control environment of central strategic
direction and decentralised operating autonomy.
Auditor
Resolutions for the re-appointment of KPMG Audit Plc as Auditor
of the Company and to authorise the Directors to determine its
remuneration are to be proposed at the AGM.
Internal Control
The Directors are responsible for the establishment and
maintenance of the Group’s system of internal control.
The Company has complied with the provisions of the Code on
internal control which require that the Directors review the
effectiveness of the Group’s system of internal controls, including
financial, operational and compliance controls, and risk
management systems. Whilst no system of internal control can
provide absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss,
the Group’s system is designed to provide the Directors with
reasonable assurance that problems are identified on a timely
basis and are dealt with appropriately. Since the date of the review,
there have been no significant changes in internal controls or
other matters which could significantly affect them.
There is a continuous process for identifying, evaluating and
managing the significant risks faced by Cookson. Group
management operates a risk management process designed to
identify the key risks facing each business and reports to the Audit
Committee on how those risks are being managed. As a basis for
this report, each of the Group’s major business units produces a
“risk map” which identifies their key risks and assesses the
likelihood of those risks occurring, their impact if they do occur and
the actions being taken to manage those risks to a desired level.
The internal control system is monitored and supported by the
Group’s Internal Audit function, which operates on a global basis.
This function assists management and the Board in the effective
discharge of their responsibility for internal control by conducting
reviews of Cookson businesses and reporting objectively both on
the adequacy and effectiveness of the system of internal control in
place and as to whether those businesses are in compliance with
applicable Group policies and procedures. The Group Head of
Internal Audit is responsible for developing the function, within the
framework of common Group policies and standards, and for
carrying out assignments in accordance with an annual audit plan
approved by the Audit Committee. The Audit Committee receives
reports from the Group Head of Internal Audit on a regular basis
and reports to the Board on the results of its review.
As part of the Board’s process for reviewing the effectiveness of
the system of internal control, it delegates the following matters to
the Audit Committee to be carried out during the year:
• review of external and internal audit work plans;
• consideration of reports from management and internal audit
on the system of internal control and any material control
weaknesses; and
• discussions with management on the actions taken on problem
areas identified by Board members, in internal audit reports or
in external audit management letters.
  Cookson Group plc { 34 } Annual Report 2005
In addition to the above, the Board considers significant financing
and investment decisions concerning the Group, including the
giving of guarantees and indemnities, and monitors policy and
control mechanisms for managing treasury risk. The Board also
reviews the role of insurance and other measures used in
managing risks across the Group, receives regular reports on any
major issues that have arisen during the year and makes an annual
assessment of how the risks have changed over the period under
review.
At the year end, the Board reviews, through the Audit
Committee, the results of the risk management exercise conducted
by senior management, including a self-certification exercise by
which they certify the effectiveness of the system of internal
controls within the businesses for which they are responsible,
together with their compliance throughout the year with the
Group’s policies and procedures.
Remuneration of the Chairman and non-executive Directors
The Board considers the remuneration policy for the non-
executive Directors. Non-executive Directors’ fees have not been
increased during the year and remain at £30,000 per annum. A
supplementary fee is payable to the Chairman of the Audit
Committee, which remains at £15,000 per annum. The Chairman of
the Remuneration Committee receives a supplementary fee of
£10,000 per annum. A supplementary fee of £5,000 per annum is
payable to the Senior Independent Director.
The Group Chairman’s remuneration, which is subject to
periodic review, is determined by the Remuneration Committee.
His remuneration has not been increased during the year. Neither
the Group Chairman, who is not an executive Director, nor the
other non-executive Directors are members of the Group’s pension
plans, nor do they participate in the Group’s incentive schemes.
Legal Matters
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Group
Secretary. There is also an agreed procedure in place for Directors,
in the furtherance of their duties, to take independent legal advice
if necessary, at the Company’s expense.
Remuneration Matters
The Directors’ Remuneration Report appears on pages 37 to 44.
Corporate Responsibility
A statement on corporate responsibility is shown on page 26,
which includes details of Cookson’s Code of Conduct.
Health, Safety and Environmental Matters
A report on Cookson’s policy and management of health, safety
and environmental matters is shown on page 27.
Treasury Management/Treasury Policy
Cookson’s treasury policy seeks to ensure that adequate financial
resources are available for the development of the Group’s
businesses whilst managing its currency, interest rate and
counterparty risks. Cookson’s policy in respect of the major areas
of treasury activity is set out below.
Currency Translation Exposure
The results of the Group’s foreign subsidiaries are normally
translated into sterling at the average exchange rates for the
period concerned. The balance sheets of foreign subsidiaries are
translated into sterling at the closing exchange rates. Any gains
and losses resulting from translation are recorded in reserves
where they are matched with the gains and losses on borrowings,
foreign exchange contracts or currency swaps taken out in the
same currencies to hedge the net assets of those foreign
subsidiaries. The Group aims to hedge a reasonable proportion of
its non-sterling assets in this way.
The Group does not currently hedge translation exposures
arising on unremitted non-UK earnings.
Currency Transaction Exposure
This arises where actual sales and purchases are made by a
business unit in a currency other than its own functional currency.
It is Cookson policy that material foreign currency transaction
exposures are hedged using appropriate instruments such as
forward foreign exchange contracts.
Interest Rate Risk
Cookson’s policy is to borrow a mix of fixed and floating rate debt.
Where appropriate, the Group will manage its interest rate
exposures using interest rate swap agreements or other
instruments. Significant interest rate and currency hedging
programmes require the approval of the Finance Committee of the
Board.
Credit Risk
Cash deposits and other financial instruments give rise to credit risk,
represented by the loss that would be recognised if a counterparty
failed to perform as contracted. The counterparties to the Group’s
financial instruments are reputable financial institutions and the
credit rating of these counterparties is monitored on a regular basis
in accordance with Board-approved guidelines.
Further information relating to the Group’s financial risk
management can be found in note 4 on pages 58 and 59 and in
note 35 on pages 77 to 79.
Creditor Payment Policy
Each operating company in the Group is responsible for agreeing
the terms and conditions under which business transactions with
their suppliers are conducted. It is Group policy that payments to
suppliers are made in accordance with these terms, provided
that the supplier is also complying with all relevant terms and
conditions. In the accounts of the Company at 31 December
2005, the number of days’ purchases outstanding was 19 (2004:
28 days).
Employment Policies
A fundamental concept embodied in the Company’s Code of
Conduct is that Cookson’s goals can only be met through the
efforts of its employees. Cookson recognises that job satisfaction
requires working environments that motivate employees to be
productive and innovative and provide opportunities for employee
training and development to maximise personal potential and
develop careers within the Group.
Directors’ Report (continued)
  Cookson Group plc { 35 } Annual Report 2005
Cookson is managed on a decentralised basis and within each
division it is the responsibility of the relevant divisional Chief
Executive to adopt employment policies and practices that best suit
the size, style and geographical location of their operations. This
allows the Group’s operations to respond competitively to changes
in the marketplace and to develop and retain a strong sense of
identity whilst benefiting from being a part of a major international
group. Cookson values the involvement of its employees and keeps
them informed on matters affecting them as employees and factors
relevant to the performance of the Group.
It is established policy throughout Cookson that decisions on
recruitment, career development, training, promotion and other
employment related issues are made solely on grounds of
individual ability, achievement, expertise and conduct. These
principles are operated on a non-discriminatory basis. Cookson
gives full and fair consideration to applications for employment
from disabled persons. Should an employee become disabled
during their employment with Cookson, every effort is made to
enable them to continue their service with the Group.
Pensions
In each country in which the Group operates, the pension
arrangements in place are considered to be consistent with good
employment practice in that particular area. Independent advisers
are used to ensure that defined benefit plan assets are invested in
the best interests of the plan members. Group policy prohibits
investment of pension fund assets in its own businesses. Outside
the UK and the US, the majority of pension plans in the Group are
of a defined contribution nature.
In 2004 the Group closed its UK defined benefit plan to new
entrants and, with effect from 1 January 2006, the Group’s main
US defined benefit plan was closed to new entrants. These pension
plans remain open for current and past employees in the UK and
US. Defined contribution plans exist for new employees in the UK
and the US.
For the UK plans a Trustee board is appointed by the Company.
This comprises employees, former employees and an independent
trustee. This structure has been accepted by the members of each
plan under the regulations concerning Member Nominated
Trustees. The administration of each plan is outsourced.
The Company is mindful of its obligations under the Pension Act
2004 and of the need to comply with the guidance issued by The
Pensions Regulator. Regular dialogue is maintained between the
Company and the Trustee board of the UK plans to ensure that both
Company and Trustee are apprised of the same financial and other
information about the Group and the plans which is pertinent to
each being able to contribute to the effective functioning of the
plans. The Company currently has in place a schedule of
contributions, agreed with the Trustee board, which aims to reduce
to zero the deficit existing on the UK defined benefit plan as at 31
December 2005 within five years from that date. The adequacy of
this schedule of contributions will be monitored over time, so as to
assess the need for it to be modified should the deficit position
change compared to current expectations.
All US retirement plan assets are held in trust for the exclusive
benefit of plan participants and their beneficiaries. An
independent financial institution acts as the trustee. The
trust assets are protected by law and by Federal Government
Regulation and are subject to annual audit by an independent
accountant, the Internal Revenue Service and the Department
of Labor.
Further details of pension arrangements are given in note 36
on pages 80 to 83.
Directors
Biographical information for the current Directors of the Company
is given on pages 28 and 29.
Mr M K Atkinson, formerly Senior Independent Director,
stepped down from the Board on 15 April 2005. Mr D H Millard,
formerly Group Finance Director, stepped down from the Board on
31 July 2005 and Mr G C Cozzani, formerly executive Director and
Chief Executive of the Ceramics division, retired from the Board on
6 October 2005.
Mr R G Beeston will retire at the Annual General Meeting on 25
May 2006 and will offer himself for re-election. Mr M G
Butterworth and Mr J L Hewitt will also retire at the AGM, being
the first such meeting since their appointment, and will offer
themselves for election. Further information on the service
agreements of the executive Directors, including Mr Butterworth’s,
is given on page 39. Details of the Chairman’s fixed-term
agreement can be found on page 40. The non-executive Directors,
including Mr Hewitt who is standing for election, do not have
such agreements.
The interests of Directors and their related parties in the
ordinary shares of the Company, all of which are beneficial, as
disclosed in accordance with the Companies Act 1985, are as set
out on page 41 and details of the Directors’ long-term incentive
awards, together with share options and mid-term incentive
awards held by Messrs Cozzani and Millard, who stepped down
from the Board during the year, are set out on pages 42 to 44.
Directors’ Indemnities
The Company’s Directors are indemnified under the Company’s
Articles of Association.
Share Capital
Details of movements in the Company’s issued share capital during
the year are given in note 58 on pages 103 and 104.
In 2002 Cookson’s shares were subdivided and converted from
one existing ordinary share of 50p into one ordinary share of
1p and one deferred share of 49p. On 26 May 2005, a share
consolidation was carried out. Each of the 1,897 million existing
ordinary shares of 1p in issue were consolidated into new ordinary
shares on the basis of ten 1p ordinary shares for 1 new ordinary
share, to create 190 million new ordinary shares of 10p each.
  Cookson Group plc { 36 } Annual Report 2005
As at 31 December 2005, the Company’s issued equity share capital
amounted to £375.5 million and comprised 190.4 million ordinary
shares of 10p with an aggregate nominal value of £19.0 million and
727.6 million deferred shares of 49p with an aggregate nominal
value of £356.5 million.
Each ordinary share of 10p has the same rights (including
voting and dividend rights and rights on a return of capital) as each
ordinary share of 1p had prior to the share consolidation. As the
deferred shares carried no rights to dividends or voting and were
not listed, they were rendered effectively worthless.
On 12 January 2006, the Company held an Extraordinary
General Meeting to seek shareholders’ approval to amend the
Company’s Articles of Association to facilitate termination of its
registration with the SEC and to effect a reduction of its share
capital.
The Company duly gained approval to cancel and extinguish its
727.6 million deferred shares of 49p each and to cancel its share
premium account. In addition, shareholders approved the
cancellation of six ordinary shares of 1p each, which had been
retained in the Company’s authorised but unissued share capital,
following the share consolidation in May 2005.
Following the approval of these resolutions, the Company
applied to the High Court to effect the cancellation of the
Company’s capital. On 15 February 2006, the High Court of Justice
confirmed the reduction of capital of the Company. The Order of
the Court was registered on 15 February 2006 and the reduction of
capital was therefore effective on that date.
Since the year end, 635,369 ordinary shares have been issued
as a result of exercises of options granted under the Company’s
share option schemes. Resolutions giving the Directors the
authority to allot further shares and make allotments of shares to
persons other than existing shareholders in certain circumstances
will again be proposed at the AGM.
SEC De-registration
Following approval of amendments to the Company’s articles to
facilitate termination of its registration with the SEC, the Company
was able to take the necessary steps to comply with the de-
registration requirements. As a result, on 21 February 2006,
Cookson filed a Form 15 with the SEC to terminate the SEC
registration of its ordinary shares. As part of the process of
terminating SEC registration, Cookson had previously caused the
American Depositary Receipt (“ADR”) programme for its shares to
terminate on 19 October 2005. The ADRs ceased being quoted on
the US Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board around the same time as
a result. SEC de-registration will take effect 90 days after the filing
of Form 15 or such shorter period as the SEC may determine.
Cookson is now exempt from SEC reporting requirements and
will no longer file an annual report on Form 20-F or periodic
reports on Form 6-K with the SEC. In addition, Cookson will no
longer publish a reconciliation to US generally accepted
accounting principles of its consolidated financial statements,
which have been prepared in accordance with International
Financial Reporting Standards starting with the financial year
commencing 1 January 2005. From now on, US resident
shareholders will only be able to access reports Cookson prepares
and publicly discloses under English law, such as this annual
report, in order to obtain information on Cookson.
Further information about the potential impact of SEC
de-registration on US resident shareholders, optionholders and
holders of share awards, can be found on Cookson’s website at
www.cooksongroup.co.uk
Authority for Purchase of Own Shares
At the 2005 AGM, shareholders gave the Company renewed
authority to make market purchases of up to a maximum of 10%
at that time of the Company’s issued ordinary share capital. As
at the date of this report, the Company has made no such
purchases under this authority. The Directors believe it advisable
to seek renewal of this authority at each AGM.
Substantial Interests
As at the date of this report, the Company has been notified in
accordance with sections 198-208 of the Companies Act 1985 of
the following interests of 3% or more in its issued ordinary shares.
%
Standard Life Investments 12.95
Aviva plc 4.71
HBOS plc 4.09
Barclays Global Investors 3.08
Legal & General Investment Management Ltd 3.01
By Order of the Board 
Richard M H Malthouse, Group Secretary
14 March 2006
Directors’ Report (continued)
  Cookson Group plc { 37 } Annual Report 2005
The Remuneration Committee (“the Committee”) is responsible for
recommending and monitoring the level and structure of
remuneration for senior management, being the first layer of
management below Board level, and setting the appropriate
remuneration for the Group Chairman, the executive Directors and
the Group Secretary. A copy of the Committee’s Terms of Reference
is available on the Company’s website at: www.cooksongroup.co.uk.
The current members of the Committee are all the non-executive
Directors, namely Mr J L Hewitt, Mr J P Oosterveld, Mr B W Perry and
Mr J G Sussens, who also chairs the Committee. All the members of
the Committee are independent. Mr M K Atkinson also served as a
member of the Committee during the year, resigning from the
Committee when he retired from his office with the Company. The
Chairman, Chief Executive and Group Finance Director are invited to
attend Committee meetings as appropriate.
In formulating its policies and deciding individual remuneration
levels, the Committee was advised during the year by the Chief
Executive, the Group Secretary and by the external advisers New
Bridge Street Consultants LLP (“NBS”), Ernst & Young LLP (“E&Y”)
and the law firms McDermott Will & Emery UK LLP (“MWE”) and
Clifford Chance LLP (“CC”). NBS and MWE were appointed directly
by the Committee and CC and E&Y were appointed by the Company
on its behalf. NBS, MWE, E&Y and CC also provide other limited
advice to the Group, in their specialist areas of remuneration
practice, employment law, general accounting services (including
tax) and share schemes respectively.
Remuneration policy for executive Directors
The Committee has established employment and remuneration
practices for the Company’s executive Directors aimed at fostering
sound ethical behaviour within a culture focused upon high
performance. In formulating remuneration policy, the Committee
has regard to the international scale and nature of the Group’s
operations. The remuneration packages of executive Directors have
been designed to ensure that a substantial proportion of
remuneration is linked to performance. Overall, the objective of the
policy is to align Directors’ interests with those of shareholders
generally in maximising shareholder value. In accordance with this
policy the current remuneration programme was implemented in
2004. The Committee takes into consideration guidelines issued by
its leading shareholders and bodies such as the Institutional
Shareholders’ Committee, the Association of British Insurers and
the National Association of Pension Funds. During the course of the
year the Committee monitored and discussed the operation of the
current share incentive schemes and whether these remained
appropriate to the Company’s current circumstances. The
Committee has decided that it will undertake a full review of
executive Directors’ remuneration during the course of 2006, to
ensure that executives’ interests are appropriately aligned with the
interests of shareholders and that they continue to be remunerated
in accordance with the above policy.
Annual salary and benefits in kind
Base salary is set by reference to market rates in the relevant
country for jobs of similar complexity and responsibility. The salaries
of the Chairman, Chief Executive and Group Finance Director are
benchmarked against the median salaries of a comparator group
which takes into account the Company’s size in terms of revenue, its
business activity and the international nature of the Group. During
the year this comparator group was adjusted to ensure that it
continues to represent an appropriate reference for Cookson. The
new group includes companies more closely aligned to Cookson’s
current levels of market capitalisation and revenue. It currently
includes the following companies: AGA Foodservice Group, Bodycote
International, Cobham, Charter, Enodis, FKI, GKN, Halma, IMI,
Invensys, Laird Group, Meggitt, Morgan Crucible, Spectris, Spirax-
Sarco Engineering, Tomkins, Weir Group and the John Wood Group.
The salaries of individual executive Directors are normally
reviewed on 1 January each year. With effect from 1 January 2006
Messrs Butterworth and Salmon were awarded increases of 3%
following a review of market data and these were in line with
increases given to other senior executives in the Group.
Benefits in kind receivable by the executive Directors
principally comprise company car allowances, life assurance
benefits and medical and disability insurance. These benefits are
similar to those provided to other executives in the UK.
Variable remuneration
The remuneration programme is structured such that variable,
performance-related remuneration potentially represents more
than half of total remuneration.
Annual incentive
In line with the Group’s other senior executives, the executive
Directors are eligible to receive an annual incentive calculated as a
percentage of base salary and based on achievement against
specified financial targets. Each year the Committee establishes
the financial performance criteria for the forthcoming year. These
criteria are set by reference to Group budgets.
The Annual Incentive has a Threshold level of performance
below which no award is paid, a Target level at which executive
Directors are entitled to a payment equal to 50% of their base
salary and a Maximum performance level at which a maximum
award worth 100% of base salary is earned.
For the financial year 2005, the executive Directors’ Annual
Incentive awards were based on Group Headline profit before tax.
Messrs Butterworth, Millard and Salmon were all assessed solely
against this criterion, with Mr Millard’s award pro-rated for the
period up to his ceasing to be a Director and Mr Butterworth’s pro-
rated from his date of joining. Mr Cozzani, Chief Executive of the
Ceramics Division, had half his incentive based upon Group profit
and the remainder based upon the performance of the Ceramics
division. This latter divisional element was based on divisional
operating profit adjusted for performance against key operating
cash flow targets. For 2005, the Group as a whole and the
Ceramics division exceeded the Target level of performance and
this level of achievement of Annual Incentive targets is reflected in
the annual bonuses payable to the executive Directors for 2005,
which are reported in the Directors’ remuneration table on page 41.
The Remuneration Committee has determined that for 2006
the executive Directors’ Annual Incentive will be based on
headline earnings.
Long-term incentive
The Long-Term Incentive Plan (“LTIP”), which was introduced in
2004 and replaced both the existing Mid-Term Incentive Plan
(“MTIP”) and executive share option schemes, rewards executives
for delivering superior Total Shareholder Return (“TSR” – defined
as the increase in the value of a share including reinvested
dividends) and is intended to align executive remuneration with
shareholders’ interests. There is no current intention to make any
future awards or grants of options to Directors under either the
MTIP or the executive share option schemes.
Directors’ Remuneration Report
  Cookson Group plc { 38 } Annual Report 2005
Long-term incentive (continued)
The LTIP has two elements. Firstly, executive Directors are eligible to receive a conditional annual award of shares worth up to 100% of
base salary (“Performance Shares”). Secondly, executive Directors can elect to invest all or part of their Annual Incentive in ordinary
shares of the Company (“Bonus Investment Shares”) in return for which they receive a conditional award of ordinary shares worth up to
2.25 times the pre-tax equivalent of the Annual Incentive so invested (“Matching Shares”).
Performance Shares and Matching Shares vest after three years, with the proportion of shares vesting being based on the Company’s
TSR performance over that three-year period relative to that of the constituent companies of its comparator group. For awards made
during the year, the comparator group used for the Company was the FTSE 250 excluding Investment Trusts. This performance measure
was chosen to enhance the link between the interests of Directors and shareholders. The same comparator group will be used for awards
made in 2006.
Vesting of the Performance Shares and Matching Shares will be as follows:
TSR ranking relative to FTSE 250 Matching Shares Vesting Ratio
excluding Investment Trusts Performance Shares Vesting Percentage (Matching Shares: Bonus Investment Shares)
Below Median 0% 0
Median 25% 0.5:1
Upper Quintile (top 20%) 100% 2.25:1
Between Median and Upper Quintile Pro rata between 25% and 100% Pro rata between 0.5:1 and 2.25:1
Matching Share awards will only vest if the Bonus Investment Shares originally purchased have been retained. No Performance
Shares or Matching Shares will vest for below median performance.
To determine whether the performance conditions have been met, the TSR of each of the comparator companies will be measured.
Measurement will take place over a performance period commencing on the first day of Cookson’s financial year in which the award
is granted. Thus, for grants made in 2005, the performance period commenced on 1 January 2005 and will end three years later,
i.e. 31 December 2007. TSR will be measured as the percentage increase in a return index (net of tax) between the beginning and end of
the performance period. The return index at the beginning of the performance period is the average return index on each weekday in
the three-month period prior to the start of the performance period, and the same three-month averaging method will be used to
ascertain the return index at the end of the performance period. The companies will then be ranked, in descending order, according to
their TSR. If Cookson is ranked at or above median against the comparator group then some proportion of the awards will be eligible to
vest. The Committee will obtain independent external advice to assess whether the Company has met the performance conditions at the
end of the performance period. This consultant will be asked to confirm that the companies which make up the index and the
measurement of the Company’s performance are both in accordance with the rules of the LTIP.
Prior to the vesting of any award, the Committee has also stipulated that, as an additional hurdle, it will need to be satisfied that
vesting has been justified by the underlying financial performance of the Company over the performance period.
Allocations were made under the LTIP to the executive Directors in April 2005, with the exception of Mr Butterworth who received
an award based on his pro-rated 2005 salary upon joining the Company. Mr Salmon purchased Bonus Investment Shares under the
Matching Share element of the LTIP in 2005.
In addition to the Board, senior Divisional and Corporate executives are also awarded Performance Shares under the LTIP and the
more senior of them are given the opportunity to participate in the Matching Shares element.
Performance graph
The graph below compares Cookson’s Total Shareholder Return over the last five years with the return on the FTSE Mid 250 Index
(excluding Investment Trusts). This index has been chosen as the comparator index to reflect the size, international scope and diversity
of the Group’s businesses and is the comparator group against which Cookson’s performance is measured for the LTIP.
Directors’ Remuneration Report (continued)
180
160
140
120
100
80
60
40
20
0
Value (£)
31 Dec 00 31 Dec 01 31 Dec 02 31 Dec 03 31 Dec 04 31 Dec 05
This graph shows the value, by 31 December
2005 of £100 invested in Cookson Group on
31 December 2000 compared with the value
of £100 invested in the FTSE 250 Index
excluding Investment Trusts. The other points
plotted are the values at intervening financial
year-ends.
Cookson Group plc
FTSE 250 Index excluding
Investment Trusts Cookson Group plc { 39 } Annual Report 2005
Dilution limits
The rules of each of Cookson’s share based incentive schemes, including the LTIP, and the pre-existing share option and employee share
savings schemes, contain limitations to the total number of options over new shares that can be awarded in accordance with the ABI
guidelines.
Shareholding guidelines
The Remuneration Committee encourages executive Directors to build and hold a shareholding in the Company equivalent in value to at
least one times salary. To this end, executive Directors will normally only be able to sell a maximum of up to 50% (measured as the value
after tax) of any Performance Shares or Matching Shares vesting under the LTIP, until this criterion has been met.
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS)
Whilst the majority of the performance measures attached to the outstanding awards under Cookson’s incentive schemes were not
affected by the move to IFRS, the earnings per share (“EPS”) performance conditions applicable to the Company’s executive share option
schemes were affected. These conditions have continued to be calculated in accordance with UK GAAP.
Directors’ service contracts
It has been the Company’s general practice for many years to employ executive Directors on local terms while giving due consideration
to global market practices.
The Board has determined that any new executive Director would be appointed with a notice period not exceeding one year , although
in certain circumstances the Board would consider a longer initial term. Both of the current executive Directors have contractual notice
periods from the Company of 12 months. Neither of the executive Directors’ contracts contains any change of control provisions, and
they both contain a duty to mitigate should the Director find an alternative paid occupation in any period during which the Company
must otherwise pay compensation on early termination.
A summary of the main conditions of the contracts of the current executive Directors is as follows:
Executive Directors
Date and 
jurisdiction Unexpired Notice period Basis of compensation on 
of contract term for employer early termination by the Company
M G Butterworth 25/05/05 (UK) 12 months 12 months One times salary, pension allowance 
and benefits payable half in a lump sum and the 
balance in six separate monthly instalments 
commencing six months after leaving, mitigated by 
any salary earned from new paid occupation.
N R Salmon 14/06/04 (UK) 12 months 12 months One times salary, pension allowance 
and benefits payable half in a lump sum and the 
balance in six separate monthly instalments 
commencing six months after leaving, mitigated by 
any salary earned from new paid occupation.
Former executive Directors
Messrs Millard and Cozzani served as Directors during the year ended 31 December 2005.
On 15 March 2005, the Company announced that Mr Millard had informed the Board of his intention to step down from the Board
and leave the Company during the course of 2005. He left the Board and the Company on 31 July 2005. Mr Millard had a UK contract
dated 19 February 2004. It could be terminated by the Company giving 12 months notice. No compensation for loss of office was paid
to or is receivable by Mr Millard and his entitlements under the MTIP, LTIP and executive share option schemes all lapsed when he left
the Company.
On 26 July 2005, the Company announced that Mr Cozzani, executive Director and Chief Executive of the Ceramics Division, would
step down from the Board upon reaching retirement age, on his 65th birthday. Mr Cozzani therefore retired from the Board on 6 October
2005. He had two employment contracts (one Illinois, USA and one Belgian), dated 23 February 2004 and 5 May 1997 respectively, both
of which terminated on 31 December 2005. The Illinois contract contained no notice provision after 6 October 2005 and the Belgian
contract was terminated by due process under Belgian law to terminate it in the year of his 65th birthday. No compensation for loss of
office was paid to or is receivable by Mr Cozzani. As a retiree Mr Cozzani was classed as a “good leaver” under the Company’s executive
incentive arrangements. Further details of Mr Cozzani’s MTIP, LTIP and executive share option entitlements can be found in the “MTIP
allocations”, “LTIP allocations” and “Share options” tables on pages 42 to 44.
  Cookson Group plc { 40 } Annual Report 2005
Non-executive Directors
In accordance with the Code, each non-executive Director is appointed for an initial fixed term of three years subject to their election at
the Company’s first AGM following their appointment. Thereafter, subject to approval of the Board and their re-election at the
appropriate AGM, they are appointed for a further three-year term. Non-executive Directors are not entitled to receive compensation for
loss of office at any time.
Date of Date of Unexpired Notice
appointment retirement term period
Current non-executive Directors
J L Hewitt 01/06/05 – To AGM in 2006 Not required
J P Oosterveld 15/06/04 – To AGM in 2007 Not required
B W Perry 01/01/02 – To AGM in 2008 Not required
J G Sussens 01/05/04 – To AGM in 2007 Not required
Former non-executive Director
M K Atkinson 01/04/03 15/04/05 N/A Not required
The Group Chairman, Mr R G Beeston, was appointed on 1 April 2003 for a fixed period which expires at the conclusion of the AGM in
2008. He is entitled to 12 months’ notice from the Company. Any compensation for loss of office would be based upon his annual fee.
All Directors are subject to retirement, and election or re-election, in accordance with the Company’s Articles of Association.
The Board sets the remuneration of the non-executive Directors after considering the role and responsibilities of each Director and
the practice of other companies. The non-executive Directors do not participate in these Board discussions on their own remuneration.
The Group Chairman’s remuneration is set by the Remuneration Committee.
External appointments
Executive Directors are permitted to hold positions as non-executive directors of other companies provided that these do not lead to
conflicts of interest. The Board sanctions each such request on a case by case basis. Fees received are retained by the executive Director
concerned. Mr Salmon was appointed a non-executive director of United Utilities plc in April 2005. In 2005, he received fees for the role
of £34,500. In 2005, Mr Millard served as a non-executive director and chairman of the Audit Committee on the Board of Exel plc for
which he was entitled to receive fees of £50,000 p.a.
No Directors have any material interest in a contract of significance (other than service agreements) with the Company or any
subsidiary company during the year.
Pension arrangements
The pension arrangements for the executive Directors are as follows:
Current Directors
Messrs Butterworth and Salmon are not entitled to participate in any of the Group’s pension arrangements. In accordance with their
contracts they receive pension allowances of 25% of their respective base salaries to enable them to make their own pension provision.
An amount up to the Inland Revenue limit for contributions is paid into an Inland Revenue approved pension plan nominated by the
Director, with the excess currently being paid as a salary supplement. Mr Butterworth’s pro-rated salary supplement in 2005 amounted
to £33,854, whilst Mr Salmon’s salary supplement in 2005 amounted to £115,875.
Former Directors
Mr Cozzani’s pension was provided for through defined contribution arrangements with external providers. On retirement, he became
entitled to the accumulated value of his defined contribution fund. The Company’s contributions in 2005 were £208,363.
Mr Millard’s defined benefit pension was built up through a combination of the Company’s UK tax-approved pension plan and an
unfunded unapproved pension plan agreed in 1996 when he joined the Company. Between 1 January and 31 July 2005 (the date he left
service), his total accrued contractual pensions entitlement under both these plans increased by £40,564 p.a. net of inflation. This increase
would have had a transfer value of £593,155 (net of member contributions) measured as at 31 December 2005 had Mr Millard elected to
defer all his accrued benefits. Following his retirement as a Director of Cookson on 31 July 2005, however, Mr Millard exercised his
contractual right to take a transfer value in respect of his unapproved pension entitlement of £139,459 p.a. from normal retirement age
of 62, retaining only his deferred pension entitlement in the Company’s tax-approved pension plan. The transfer value was £1,999,400
before tax (£1,199,640 after tax).
Mr Millard’s deferred entitlement in the tax-approved pension plan, payable from normal retirement age of 62, amounted to £33,147
p.a. as at 31 December 2005. The transfer value of this remaining accrued benefit as at 31 December 2005 was £511,362. The transfer
value as at 31 December 2004 of his accrued entitlement at that date was £1,800,193. The reduction in his transfer value over 2005,
allowing for member contributions paid during 2005, was £1,312,135. The majority of the reduction in transfer value was attributable to
the transfer of Mr Millard’s unapproved pension benefits during 2005.
The above information is audited by the Company’s Auditor.
Directors’ Remuneration Report (continued)
  Cookson Group plc { 41 } Annual Report 2005
Directors’ remuneration
The following table details the remuneration payable to each Director in respect of the year ended 31 December 2005, together with
comparative totals in respect of the year ended 31 December 2004.
Base
salary and Annual 2005 2004
non-executive Benefits Incentive Total Total
Directors’ fees in kind
2
bonuses
3
remuneration remuneration
££ ££ £
Chairman (non-executive)
R G Beeston 164,000 – – 164,000 164,000
Executive Directors
M G Butterworth (from 15/06/05) 136,538 10,423 114,594 261,555 –
N R Salmon 463,500 29,034 389,009 881,543 423,454
Non-executive Directors
J L Hewitt (from 01/06/05) 26,250 – – 26,250 –
J P Oosterveld 30,000 – – 30,000 16,385
B W Perry 31,932 – – 31,932 30,000
J G Sussens 43,983 – – 43,983 24,436
Directors retiring in 2005
M K Atkinson (to 15/04/05) 14,154 – – 14,154 49,269
G C Cozzani (to 06/10/05)
4
342,456 163,151 310,579 816,186 737,755
D H Millard (to 31/07 /05) 218,611 17,880 176,495 412,986 730,243
Directors retiring in 2004 – – – – 1,716,145
Total Directors’ remuneration
1
1,471,424 220,488 990,677 2,682,589 3,891,687
Notes
1. Directors’ remuneration which is received in non-sterling denominations is converted to sterling in the above table using the average
exchange rates for the year.
2. Benefits in kind comprise mainly the assessed benefits arising from the contractual payments of medical insurance, life assurance,
non-business-related subscriptions and the provision of a company car. For Mr Cozzani, this also includes ‘departure vacation pay’
payable under Belgian law in connection with his retirement from the Group.
3. The Annual Incentive bonuses awarded to Messrs Butterworth, Millard and Salmon for 2005 were based on the achievement of Group
profit targets. Mr Cozzani’s Annual Incentive bonus was based on the achievement of Group profit targets and profit targets for the
Ceramics division adjusted for cash flow performance and includes the ‘vacation pay’ required to be paid on such remuneration under
Belgian law. Mr Butterworth’s Annual Incentive bonus award was pro-rated from his date of appointment to the Board and Mr Millard’s
Annual Incentive bonus award was pro-rated to his date of retirement.
4. Mr Cozzani retired as a Director on 6 October 2005 but remained as an employee of the Group until 31 December 2005. Accordingly
the above table includes his remuneration for the full year in 2005.
5. Details of the annual fees payable to non-executive Directors can be found on page 34.
6. In addition to the above, ex gratia pensions of £10,252 (2004: £9,917) were paid to former Directors in 2005.
7. The information in the above table is audited by the Company’s Auditor.
Directors’ interests
The beneficial interests of the Directors and their families in the ordinary shares of the Company as at 31 December 2005 were as
shown below:
Ordinary Ordinary
10p shares 10p shares
at 31 Dec at 31 Dec
2005
2
2004
3
No. No.
R G Beeston 50,000 50,000
M G Butterworth 6,000 –
J L Hewitt 2,500 –
J P Oosterveld 4,000 2,500
B W Perry 2,600 2,600
N R Salmon 15,278 –
J G Sussens 2,500 2,500 Cookson Group plc { 42 } Annual Report 2005
Directors’ interests (continued)
Notes
1. In addition to the above interests, those Directors who are employees of the Company are each considered to have an interest as
potential beneficiaries in ordinary shares of the Company held by Cookson Investments (Jersey) Limited as Trustee of the Cookson
Group Employee Share Ownership Plan (“ESOP”). The balance of ordinary shares held by the ESOP at 31 December 2005 was
1,151,445 (2004: 1,161,770 as adjusted following the share consolidation on 26 May 2005). The balance at 14 March 2006 was 980,894.
2. The interests of Messrs Butterworth and Hewitt are shown from their dates of appointment, 15 June and 1 June 2005 respectively.
3. The interests shown have been adjusted for the consolidation of the Company’s ordinary shares which took effect on 26 May 2005,
when every 10 ordinary 1p shares held by shareholders were exchanged for 1 new 10p ordinary share.
4. There were no changes to the Directors’ interests in the ordinary shares of the Company in the period from 1 January 2006 to
14 March 2006.
5. Full details of Directors’ shareholdings and share allocations are given in the Company’s Register of Directors’ Interests, which is open
to inspection at the Company’s registered office during business hours.
6. The information in the above table is audited by the Company’s Auditor.
None of the Directors, nor their spouses nor minor children, held non-beneficial interests in the ordinary shares of the Company
during the year.
LTIP allocations
Details of the executive Directors’ allocations of shares under the LTIP are shown in the table below:
Number of
Number of Number of Performance
Performance Matching and Matching Total
Shares Shares Shares allocations
Allocations allocated allocated lapsed outstandingMarket price
as at 31 during during during as at of shares on
Dec 2004 the year the year the year 31 Dec 2005 date before Performance Vesting
Director and grant date No. No. No. No. No.
2
award (p)
3
period date
Current executive Directors
M G Butterworth 
02/08/05 – 40,636 – – 40,636 336.0 01/01/05-31/12/07 02/08/08
N R Salmon
29/07 /04 40,102 – – – 40,102 357.5 01/01/04-31/12/06 29/07/07
04/04/05 – 116,603 57,964 – 174,567 397.5 01/01/05-31/12/07 04/04/08
Former executive Directors
G C Cozzani
6
24/06/04 55,914 – – – 55,914 422.5 01/01/04-31/12/06 24/06/07
04/04/05 – 85,172 – – 85,172 397.5 01/01/05-31/12/07 04/04/08
D H Millard
7
24/06/04 57,988 – – (57,988) – 422.5 01/01/04-31/12/06 24/06/07
04/04/05 – 90,691 – (90,691) – 397.5 01/01/05-31/12/07 04/04/08
Notes
1. Interests shown in the above table have been adjusted for the consolidation of the Company’s ordinary shares which took effect on
26 May 2005, when every 10 ordinary 1p shares held by shareholders were exchanged for 1 new 10p ordinary share.
2. Allocations outstanding for Messrs Cozzani and Millard are shown as at the dates they retired from the Board, 6 October 2005 and
31 July 2005 respectively.
3. The 2004 market prices shown for shares on the date before the awards have been multiplied by 10 to reflect the impact of the share
consolidation on the Company’s share price.
4. The allocations were calculated based upon the closing mid-market price of Cookson shares on the day before the awards were made.
2005 allocations were made to Messrs Cozzani, Millard and Salmon on 4 April 2005 and to Mr Butterworth on 2 August 2005.
Cookson’s mid-market closing price on these dates was 392.5p (as adjusted for the share consolidation) and 341.75p respectively.
5. The performance criteria which apply to the vesting of these share allocations are summarised on page 38.
6. Following his retirement, Mr Cozzani retains the allocations of Performance Shares made to him in 2004 and 2005 under the LTIP.
7. The allocations held by Mr Millard lapsed on the date he left the Company, 31 July 2005.
8. The information in the above table is audited by the Company’s Auditor.
Directors’ Remuneration Report (continued)
  Cookson Group plc { 43 } Annual Report 2005
MTIP allocations
Under the MTIP, executives were eligible to receive a bonus paid partly in cash and partly in  ordinary shares (the beneficial receipt of
which is deferred for two years from the date of the award (“restricted shares”)) based upon the achievement of target financial
performance, measured over a three-year period. The MTIP operated on a rolling three-year basis and the final remaining cycle
culminated on 31 December 2005.
Details of the status of the outstanding restricted share allocations made to executive Directors’ under the 2001-2003 MTIP cycle,
together with details of their participation in the continuing 2003-2005 MTIP cycle are shown in the following table:
2001-2003 MTIP Cycle 2003-2005 MTIP Cycle
Details of
Restricted Restricted Restricted entitlements
shares shares shares which vested Details of
held at lapsing vesting during entitlements
1 January during 31 December the year which lapsed
2005
1
2005
2
2005
3
(Value of cash during Details of the basis of
No No. No. payment)
4
the year
5
incentive under each cycle
Former executive Directors
G C Cozzani 15,133 – 15,133 £237,614 n/a Achievement of levels of
performance over a set
threshold results in the delivery
D H Millard 14,932 (14,932) – – Entitlement of incentives, as a percentage
lapsed of average annual base salary
31 July over the 3 year period, ranging
2005 from 40% to 100%.
Notes
1. The MTIP award for 2001-2003 was based on the achievement of Group cash flow targets. No bonus entitlement arose relating to
Group profit targets. Payment was made one-third in cash and two-thirds in restricted shares.
2. Mr Millard’s restricted share allocation lapsed following his departure from the Company on 31 July 2005.
3. The restricted shares allocated to Mr Cozzani were released to him at the end of the restricted period on 31 December 2005. The closing
mid-market price of Cookson’s shares was 425p on this date; the value of shares transferred to Mr Cozzani was therefore £64,315.
4. The MTIP award for 2003-2005 was based on the achievement of Group profit targets. The Group exceeded its target level of profit,
so payments were made accordingly. Under the rules of the Plan, as Mr Cozzani has retired from the Company, the payment will
be made to him wholly in cash (rather than one-third in cash and two-thirds in restricted shares), inclusive of the ‘vacation pay’
required to be paid on such remuneration under Belgian law.
5. Mr Millard’s restricted share allocation lapsed following his departure from the Company on 31 July 2005.
6. All the interests shown in the above table and detailed in these notes have been adjusted for the consolidation of the Company’s
ordinary shares which took effect from the close of business on 26 May 2005, when every 10 ordinary 1p shares held by shareholders
were exchanged for 1 new 10p ordinary share.
7. Messrs Butterworth and Salmon have no entitlement to any awards under the MTIP as they joined the Company following the
discontinuance of any new MTIP cycles.
8. The information in the above table is audited by the Company’s Auditor.
Share options
Share options in respect of the ordinary shares of the Company remain outstanding under the Company’s executive share option
schemes. The last executive share option grant was made in 2003. Under these schemes, share options were granted at the market price
prevailing at the time of grant. Options normally only become exercisable if the growth in Headline earnings per share has been at least
equal to the increase in the UK Retail Price Index plus 3% per annum (2% per annum for options granted in 1995 and 1996) for a
consecutive three year period. When options were granted in November 2002 and September 2003 the performance criteria were made
more demanding for executive Directors and, in order for options to vest, two additional criteria were added. These were subsequently
adjusted for the share consolidation which took place on 26 May 2005. The amended criteria were as follows:
(i) the average mid-market closing price for a period of 30 consecutive dealing days (effectively six weeks) must exceed 500p during
the three-year period commencing from the date of the grant; and
(ii) for the 2002 grant, the Group’s cumulative earnings per share before amortisation of intangibles and exceptional items for the
financial years 2003-2005 must exceed 96p; or
for the 2003 grant, the Group’s cumulative earnings per share before amortisation of intangibles and exceptional items for the
financial years 2004-2006 must exceed 100p. Cookson Group plc { 44 } Annual Report 2005
Share options (continued)
Share options granted to Directors are shown below. All grants made prior to November 2002, the exercise price for which exceeds the
market price at 30 December 2005 of 425p (31 December 2004: 355p), are shown in aggregate. The mid-market closing price of the
Company’s shares ranged between 287 .5p and 426.5p during 2005 (as adjusted for the Company’s share consolidation on 26 May 2005).
At date of Weighted 
Exercised/ retirement average
At lapsed during from the option Earliest year Latest year 
1 Jan 2005 the year Board exercise in which in which 
Year of grant No. No. No.
2
price
1
(p) exercisable options expire
Former executive Directors
G C Cozzani
3
1995-2002 187,150 (16,227) 170,923 1662 2006 2006
2002 115,695 – 115,695 250 2006 2006
2003 22,890 – 22,890 360 2006 2007
325,735 (16,227) 309,508
D H Millard
4
1996-2002 213,403 (213,403) – 1740 n/a n/a
2002 126,000 (126,000) – 250 n/a n/a
2003 22,749 (22,749) – 360 n/a n/a
362,152 (362,152) –
Total, all Directors 687,887 (378,379) 309,508
Notes
1. The option price of executive options was normally set on the trading day prior to grant at the then market price. Performance
criteria related to the exercise of executive options are summarised above.
2. The interests of Messrs Cozzani and Millard are shown on the dates of their retirement from the Board, 6 October 2005 and 31 July
2005 respectively.
3. In accordance with the rules of Cookson’s Executive Share Option Schemes, Mr Cozzani’s share options vested and all performance
conditions applicable to them were waived on the date of his retirement from the Company.
4. All of Mr Millard’s outstanding options lapsed on 31 July 2005, the date he left the Company.
5. All outstanding options were adjusted for the impact of the consolidation of the Company’s ordinary shares which took effect from
on 26 May 2005, when every 10 ordinary 1p shares held by shareholders were exchanged for 1 new 10p ordinary share. Each
individual’s option interests were divided by 10, and each option exercise price was multiplied by 10 to ensure all option interests
remained the same. The interests detailed in the above table reflect these changes.
6. Messrs Butterworth and Salmon do not hold any share options.
7. The information in the above table is audited by the Company’s Auditor.
On behalf of the Board
John G Sussens Chairman, Remuneration Committee
14 March 2006
Directors’ Remuneration Report (continued) Cookson Group plc { 45 } Annual Report 2005
We have audited the Group and Company financial statements (the
‘‘financial statements’’) of Cookson Group plc for the year ended
31 December 2005 which comprise the Group Income Statement,
the Group and Company Balance Sheets, the Group Cash Flow
Statement, the Group statement of recognised income and
expenses and the related notes. These financial statements have
been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein. We
have also audited the information in the Directors’ Remuneration
Report that is described as having been audited.
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a
body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the
Company’s members those matters we are required to state to
them in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest
extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility
to anyone other than the Company and the Company’s members
as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we
have formed. 
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors 
The Directors’ responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and
the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law
and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as
adopted by the EU, and for preparing the Company financial
statements and the Directors’ Remuneration Report in accordance
with applicable law and UK Accounting Standards (UK Generally
Accepted Accounting Practice) are set out in the Directors’
Responsibility Statement on page 46.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the
part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited in
accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and
International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). 
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial
statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial
statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to
be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the
Companies Act 1985 and whether, in addition, the Group financial
statements have been properly prepared in accordance with
Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. We also report to you if, in our
opinion, the Directors’ Report is not consistent with the financial
statements, if the Company has not kept proper accounting
records, if we have not received all the information and
explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by
law regarding Directors’ remuneration and other transactions is
not disclosed. 
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement
reflects the Company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the
2003 FRC Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing
Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does
not. We are not required to consider whether the Board’s
statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form
an opinion on the effectiveness of the Group’s corporate
governance procedures or its risk and control procedures. 
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and
consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial
statements. We consider the implications for our report if we
become aware of any apparent misstatements or material
inconsistencies with the financial statements. Our responsibilities
do not extend to any other information.
Basis of audit opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with International
Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) issued by the Auditing
Practices Board. An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of
evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial
statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to
be audited. It also includes an assessment of the significant
estimates and judgments made by the Directors in the preparation
of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies
are appropriate to the Group’s and Company’s circumstances,
consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the
information and explanations which we considered necessary in
order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable
assurance that the financial statements and the part of the
Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are free from
material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other
irregularity or error. In forming our opinion we also evaluated the
overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial
statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to
be audited. 
Opinion
In our opinion:
• the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in
accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, of the state of the
Group’s affairs as at 31 December 2005 and of its loss for the
year then ended;
• the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in
accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the
IAS Regulation;
• the Company financial statements give a true and fair view, in
accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice,
of the state of the Company’s affairs as at 31 December 2005;
and 
• the Company financial statements and the part of the
Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited have been
properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. 
KPMG Audit Plc
Chartered Accountants
Registered Auditor 
London
14 March 2006
Independent Auditor’s Report to the Members
of Cookson Group plc
  Cookson Group plc { 46 } Annual Report 2005
To the shareholders of Cookson Group plc
The Directors of Cookson Group plc are responsible for preparing the
Annual Report and the financial statements of the parent company
only (“the Company”) and of the Company and its subsidiaries
(“the Group”), in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and
Company financial statements for each financial year. Under that
law the Directors are required to prepare the Group financial
statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting
Standards (“IFRS”) as adopted by the EU and have elected to
prepare the Company financial statements in accordance with UK
Accounting Standards.
The Group financial statements are required by law and IFRSs
as adopted by the EU to present fairly the financial position and
performance of the Group; the Companies Act 1985 provides in
relation to such financial statements that references in the
relevant part of that Act to financial statements giving a true and
fair view are references to their achieving a fair presentation.
The Company financial statements are required by law to give
a true and fair view if the state of affairs of the Company.
In preparing each of the Group and Company financial
statements, the Directors are required to:
• select suitable accounting policies and then apply them
consistently;
• make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and
prudent;
• for the Group financial statements, state whether they have
been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU;
• for the Company financial statements, state whether
applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed,
subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in
the Company financial statements; and
• prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the
Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting
records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the
financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that
its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985. They
have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably
open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent
and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also
responsible for preparing a Directors’ Report, Directors’
Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement that
comply with that law and those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and
integrity of the corporate and financial information included on
the Company’s website. Legislation in the UK governing the
preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ
from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Risks associated with forward looking statements 
This Annual Report contains certain forward looking statements
about Cookson. Although the Company believes its expectations
are based on reasonable assumptions, any such statements may be
influenced by factors that could cause actual outcomes and results
to be materially different from those predicted. These forward
looking statements are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties
that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in
such statements, certain of which are beyond the control of
Cookson, including, among other things: changes in general
economic conditions; exchange rate fluctuations; the impact of
trading conditions in those markets in which Cookson’s businesses
operate, including those related to competition, price controls and
price reductions; exposure to environmental liability; and the risks
related to the integration of large business acquisitions.
On behalf of the Board
Mike Butterworth, Group Finance Director
14 March 2006
Directors’ Responsibility Statement
  Cookson Group plc { 47 } Annual Report 2005
Continuing Discontinued 2005 Continuing Discontinued 2004
operations operations Total operations operations Total
Notes £m £m £m £m £m £m
Revenue 6 1,480.8 153.8 1,634.6 1,500.5 152.0 1,652.5
Manufacturing costs – raw materials 7 (667.7) (75.1) (742.8) (682.6) (73.2) (755.8)
– other 7 (390.1) (48.5) (438.6) (395.7) (51.4) (447.1)
Administration, selling and distribution costs (299.5) (23.5) (323.0) (313.9) (20.8) (334.7)
Trading profit 6, 7 123.5 6.7 130.2 108.3 6.6 114.9
Rationalisation of operating activities 6, 9 (13.4) (5.1) (18.5) (13.8) (8.9) (22.7)
Amortisation and impairment of intangibles 6, 10 – (0.8) (0.8) – (0.8) (0.8)
(Loss)/profit relating to fixed assets 6, 11 (1.9) 1.9 – (16.8) – (16.8)
Profit/(loss) from operations 6 108.2 2.7 110.9 77.7 (3.1) 74.6
Net finance costs – ongoing activities 13 (29.7) – (29.7) (32.2) – (32.2)
– other activities 13 (1.2) – (1.2) 5.4 – 5.4
Share of post-tax profit of joint ventures 23 1.4 – 1.4 2.3 – 2.3
Profit/(loss) before tax 78.7 2.7 81.4 53.2 (3.1) 50.1
Income tax costs – ongoing activities 14 (28.4) – (28.4) (22.9) (1.4) (24.3)
– other activities 14 (14.2) (0.2) (14.4) (7.7) (0.2) (7.9)
Net post-tax loss on disposal of operations 15 (4.5) (41.7) (46.2) (34.9) – (34.9)
Profit/(loss) for the year 31.6 (39.2) (7.6) (12.3) (4.7) (17.0)
Profit/(loss) for the year attributable to:
Equity holders of the parent company 28.2 (39.2) (11.0) (16.4) (4.7) (21.1)
Minority interests 3.4 – 3.4 4.1 – 4.1
Profit/(loss) for the year 31.6 (39.2) (7.6) (12.3) (4.7) (17.0)
Earnings per share (pence):
Basic 17 15.0 (20.8) (5.8) (8.7) (2.5) (11.2)
Diluted 17 14.9 (20.7) (5.8) (8.7) (2.5) (11.2)
Group Income Statement
For the year ended 31 December 2005
  Cookson Group plc { 48 } Annual Report 2005
2005 2004
Notes £m £m
Cash flows from operating activities
Cash generated from operations 18 117.8 145.5
Interest paid (31.3) (35.9)
Interest received 1.8 4.4
Income taxes paid (20.2) (20.7)
Net cash inflow from operating activities 68.1 93.3
Cash flows from investing activities
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (42.5) (42.3)
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 10.3 1.4
Acquisition of subsidiaries, net of cash acquired (10.6) (12.0)
Disposal of subsidiaries, net of cash disposed of 30.4 1.4
Dividends received from joint ventures 4.7 2.3
Other, including additional costs for prior years’ disposals (6.0) (10.0)
Net cash outflow from investing activities (13.7) (59.2)
Net cash inflow before financing activities 54.4 34.1
Cash flows from financing activities
Repayment of borrowings 20 (45.2) (39.7)
Proceeds from the issue of share capital 2.1 0.9
Payment of transaction costs (0.6) (1.1)
Dividends paid to minority shareholders (2.2) (3.1)
Net cash outflow from financing activities (45.9) (43.0)
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 20 8.5 (8.9)
Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January 44.0 52.8
Effect of exchange rate fluctuations on cash and cash equivalents 1 1.0 0.1
Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 19 63.5 44.0
Free cash flow:
Net cash inflow from operating activities 68.1 93.3
Additional funding contributions to Group pension plans 10.0 6.5
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (42.5) (42.3)
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 10.3 1.4
Dividends received from joint ventures 4.7 2.3
Dividends paid to minority shareholders (2.2) (3.1)
Free cash flow 3 48.4 58.1
Group Statement of Cash Flows
For the year ended 31 December 2005 Cookson Group plc { 49 } Annual Report 2005
2005 2004
Notes £m £m
Assets
Property, plant and equipment 21 264.9 322.9
Intangible assets 22 481.6 485.2
Investments in joint ventures 23 13.1 14.7
Other investments 24 11.2 16.7
Income tax recoverable 2.3 2.2
Deferred tax assets 25 15.0 31.2
Other receivables 26 8.7 10.6
Total non-current assets 796.8 883.5
Cash and cash equivalents 19 63.5 44.0
Inventories 27 179.6 174.1
Trade and other receivables 26 294.0 303.4
Income tax recoverable – 0.9
Other financial assets 28 12.2 –
549.3 522.4
Assets classified as held for sale 29 87.2 –
Total current assets 636.5 522.4
Total assets 1,433.3 1,405.9
Equity
Issued share capital 30 375.5 375.5
Share premium account 31 645.5 643.4
Other reserves 32 37.8 (10.9)
Retained earnings 33 (609.8) (576.6)
Total parent company shareholders’ equity 449.0 431.4
Minority interests 12.7 11.7
Total equity 461.7 443.1
Liabilities
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 34 341.9 326.1
Employee benefits 36 224.8 189.9
Other payables 38 35.5 58.3
Provisions 39 11.1 10.3
Deferred tax liabilities 25 21.6 8.6
Total non-current liabilities 634.9 593.2
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 34 13.9 39.7
Trade and other payables 38 249.2 303.2
Income tax payable 16.4 11.6
Provisions 39 20.6 15.1
300.1 369.6
Liabilities directly associated with assets classified as held for sale 29 36.6 –
Total current liabilities 336.7 369.6
Total liabilities 971.6 962.8
Total equity and liabilities 1,433.3 1,405.9
The financial statements were authorised for issue by the Directors on 14 March 2006 and signed on their behalf by:
Robert Beeston Chairman Mike Butterworth Group Finance Director
Group Balance Sheet
As at 31 December 2005 Cookson Group plc { 50 } Annual Report 2005
2005 2004
Notes £m £m
Opening Group reserves adjustment 45 19.2 –
Exchange differences on translation of the net assets of foreign operations 32 73.7 (35.8)
Net investment hedges 32 (29.9) 23.8
Actuarial losses on employee defined benefit schemes 36 (41.1) (26.8)
Changes in fair value of equity securities available-for-sale 32 2.2 –
Net income/(expense) recognised directly in equity 24.1 (38.8)
Loss for the year (7.6) (17.0)
Total recognised income and expense for the year 16.5 (55.8)
Attributable to:
Equity holders of the parent company 13.2 (58.8)
Minority interests in – loss for the year 3.4 4.1
– foreign exchange translation differences 32 (0.1) (1.1)
Total recognised income and expense for the year 16.5 (55.8)
Group Statement of Recognised Income and Expense
For the year ended 31 December 2005
  Cookson Group plc { 51 } Annual Report 2005
1. GENERAL INFORMATION
Cookson Group plc is a public limited company registered in England and Wales and listed on the London Stock Exchange. Its
registered address is shown on page 112. The nature of the Group’s operations and its principal activities are set out in the
Operating Review on pages 12 to 21.
The financial statements, which were authorised by the Directors for issue on 14 March 2006, are presented in millions of
pounds sterling, which is the functional currency of the Company. Foreign operations are included in accordance with the policies
set out in note 3.5.
2. ADOPTION OF NEW AND REVISED INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL REPORTING STANDARDS
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”)
as adopted by the EU. The financial statements of the parent company-only have been prepared in accordance with United
Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice (“UK GAAP”), as disclosed in note 47.
The Company has taken advantage of exemptions available in IFRS 1, First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting
Standards, in relation to actuarial gains and losses, business combinations, financial instruments and cumulative translation
differences, details of which can be found in note 45.
The Company has adopted IAS 32, Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation, and IAS 39, Financial Instruments:
Recognition and Measurement, with effect from 1 January 2005. The adjustments required as at 1 January 2005 to the
31 December 2004 consolidated balance sheet on the introduction of IAS 32 and IAS 39 have been dealt with as a change in
accounting policy and are detailed in note 45. The other disclosures required by IFRS 1, explaining how the transition to IFRS has
affected the reported financial performance, cash flows and financial position of the Group, are also dealt with in note 45.
The Company has adopted early the amendment to IAS 19, Employee Benefits, allowing actuarial gains or losses to be
recognised directly in the Group statement of income and expense in the period in which they arise.
IFRS 7, Financial Instruments: Disclosures, was issued in August 2005 and is effective for annual periods beginning on or after
1 January 2007 . It revises and enhances previous disclosures required by IAS 32 and IAS 30, Disclosures in the Financial Statements
of Banks and Similar Financial Institutions. The adoption of IFRS 7 will have no impact upon the results or net assets of the Group.
3. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
3.1 BASIS OF ACCOUNTING
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and IFRS. With the
exception of certain items noted below, which are carried at fair value, the financial statements have been prepared under the
historical cost convention.
3.2 BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION
The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and entities controlled by the
Company (its subsidiaries). Control exists when the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an
entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities. The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included
in the consolidated income statement from the effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring their accounting policies into line
with those detailed herein to ensure that the Group financial statements are prepared on a consistent basis. All intra-Group
transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
Minority interests in the net assets of consolidated subsidiaries are identified separately from the Group’s equity therein.
Minority interests consist of the amount of those interests at the date of the original business combination and the minority’s share
of changes in equity since the date of the combination. Losses applicable to the minority in excess of the minority’s interest in the
subsidiary’s equity are allocated against the interests of the Group except to the extent that the minority has a binding obligation
and is able to make an additional investment to cover the losses.
Notes to the Financial Statements
  Cookson Group plc { 52 } Annual Report 2005
Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
3. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued)
3.3 BUSINESS COMBINATIONS
The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for using the purchase method. The cost of the acquisition is measured at the
aggregate of the fair values, at the date of acquisition, of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed and equity instruments
issued by the Group in exchange for control of the acquiree, plus any costs directly attributable to the business combination. The
acquiree’s identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that meet the conditions for recognition under IFRS 3, Business
Combinations, are recognised at their fair values at the acquisition date, except for non-current assets (or disposal groups) that
are classified as held for sale in accordance with IFRS 5, Non-Current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations, which are
recognised and measured at fair value less costs to sell.
Goodwill arising on acquisition is recognised as an asset and initially measured at cost, being the excess of the cost of the
business combination over the Group’s interest in the net fair value of the recognised identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent
liabilities. If the Group’s interest in the net fair value of the acquiree’s identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities exceeds
the cost of the business combination, the excess is recognised immediately in the income statement.
The interest of minority shareholders in the acquiree is initially measured at the minority’s proportion of the net fair value of
the recognised assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities.
3.4 TAXATION
The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax.
The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year . Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the income
statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes
items that are never taxable or deductible. The Group’s liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted
or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is recognised on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and
the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability
method. Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are
recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences
can be utilised. Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from goodwill or from the initial
recognition (other than in a business combination) of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the tax profit
nor the accounting profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and interests in
joint ventures, except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the
temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no
longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is
realised. Deferred tax is charged or credited to the income statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly
to equity, in which case the associated deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against
current tax liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle
its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
3.5 FOREIGN CURRENCIES
The individual financial statements of each Group entity are prepared in their functional currency, which is the currency of the
primary economic environment in which that entity operates. For the purpose of the consolidated financial statements, the results
and financial position of each entity are translated into pounds sterling, which is the presentational currency of the Group.
(a) Reporting foreign currency transactions in functional currency
Transactions in currencies other than the entity’s functional currency (foreign currencies) are initially recorded at the rates of
exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions. At each subsequent balance sheet date:
(i) Foreign currency monetary items are retranslated at the rates prevailing at the balance sheet date. Exchange differences
arising on the settlement or retranslation of monetary items are recognised in the income statement;
(ii) Non-monetary items measured at historical cost in a foreign currency are not retranslated; and
(iii) Non-monetary items measured at fair value in a foreign currency are retranslated using the exchange rates at the date the fair
value was determined. Where a gain or loss on a non-monetary item is recognised directly in equity, any exchange component
of that gain or loss is also recognised directly in equity and conversely, where a gain or loss on a non-monetary item is
recognised in the income statement, any exchange component of that gain or loss is also recognised in the income statement.
  Cookson Group plc { 53 } Annual Report 2005
3. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued)
3.5 FOREIGN CURRENCIES (continued)
(b) Translation from functional currency to presentation currency
When the functional currency of a Group entity is different from the Group’s presentational currency (pounds sterling), its
results and financial position are translated into the presentational currency as follows:
(i) Assets and liabilities are translated using exchange rates prevailing at the balance sheet date;
(ii) Income and expense items are translated at average exchange rates for the year, except where the use of such an average
rate does not approximate the exchange rate at the date of the transaction, in which case the transaction rate is used; and
(iii)All resulting exchange differences are recognised in translation reserves as a separate component of equity and are
recognised in the income statement in the period in which the foreign operation is disposed of.
(c) Net investment in foreign operations
Exchange differences arising on a monetary item that forms part of a reporting entity’s net investment in a foreign operation
are recognised in the income statement in the separate financial statements of the reporting entity or the foreign operation
as appropriate. In the consolidated Group accounts such exchange differences are initially recognised in translation reserves
as a separate component of equity and subsequently recognised in the income statement on disposal of the net investment.
3.6 REVENUE RECOGNITION
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable for goods supplied and services rendered to
customers, after deducting sales allowances and value-added taxes. Revenue is recognised when the risk of loss transfers to the
customer, depending on individual customer terms at the time of despatch, delivery or upon formal customer acceptance.
Provision is made for returns where appropriate.
3.7 EMPLOYEE BENEFITS
The Group operates a number of pension plans, both of the defined contribution and defined benefit type.
(a) Defined contribution pension plans
Contributions to the Group’s defined contribution schemes are recognised as employee benefit expense when they fall due.
Prepaid contributions are recognised as an asset to the extent that they result in either a cash refund or reduction in future
payments. Outstanding contributions are recognised as a liability within accruals.
(b) Defined benefit pension plans
The liability recognised in the balance sheet for the Group’s defined benefit pension plans is the present value of the defined
benefit obligation at the balance sheet date as adjusted for any unrecognised past service cost, less the fair value of the
scheme assets. The defined benefit obligation is calculated by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method
and by discounting the estimated future cash flows using interest rates on high quality corporate bonds that have terms to
maturity approximating the terms of the related pension liability. Any asset resulting from this calculation is limited to any
unrecognised past service costs plus the present value of available refunds and reductions in future contributions to the plan.
Pension expense for the Group’s defined benefit plans is recognised as follows:
(i) Within trading profit:
• Current service cost – representing the increase in the present value of the defined benefit obligation resulting from
employee service in the current year;
• Past service cost – representing the increase in the present value of the defined benefit obligation resulting from
employee service in prior periods, which arise from changes made to the benefits under the plans in the current year.
To the extent that the changes to benefits vest immediately, past service costs are recognised immediately, otherwise
they are recognised on a straight line basis over the vesting period;
• Gains and losses arising on settlements and curtailments – where the item that gave rise to the settlement or
curtailment is recognised within trading profit;
• Interest cost on the liabilities of the plans – calculated by reference to the plan liabilities and discount rate at the
beginning of the year and allowing for changes during the year; and
• Expected return on the assets of the plans – calculated by reference to the plan assets and long-term expected rate of
return at the beginning of the year and allowing for changes during the year.
(ii) Within the statement of recognised income and expense:
• Actuarial gains and losses arising on the assets and liabilities of the plans.
  Cookson Group plc { 54 } Annual Report 2005
Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
3. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued)
3.7 EMPLOYEE BENEFITS (continued)
(c) Share-based payments
The Group operates a number of different share-based payment arrangements for its employees of both the equity-settled and
cash-settled type.
Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair value at the date of grant. The fair value determined at the grant
date takes account of the effect of market-based conditions, such as the Total Shareholder Return (“TSR”) targets upon which
vesting is conditioned, and is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period with a corresponding increase in equity.
The cumulative expense recognised is adjusted for the Directors’ estimate of the shares that will eventually vest and for the
effect of non market-based vesting conditions. For grants with market-based conditions attaching to them, fair value is
measured using a form of stochastic option pricing model. For consistency, this method has also been used to value Executive
Share Options and Stock Appreciation Rights granted to executives whose options are not subject to the additional market-
based performance conditions. For all other grants, fair value is measured using the Black-Scholes model.
For cash-settled share-based payments, the fair value of the amount payable to the employee is recognised as an expense
with a corresponding increase in liabilities. The fair value of the amount payable is initially measured at grant date using a form
of stochastic option pricing model and spread over the period during which the employees become unconditionally entitled to
payment. The liability is remeasured at each balance sheet date and at settlement date. Any changes in the fair value of the
liability are recognised in the income statement.
3.8 RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT COSTS
Expenditure on research activities is recognised in the income statement as an expense in the year in which it is incurred.
Expenditure on development activities is capitalised if the product or process is technically and commercially feasible and the
Group has sufficient resources to complete development. All other development expenditure is recognised in the income statement
as an expense in the year in which it is incurred. Capitalised development expenditure is stated at cost less accumulated
amortisation and impairment losses. Capitalised development expenditure in 2005 was nil.
3.9 BORROWING COSTS
Borrowing costs, comprising interest on bank loans, overdrafts and finance lease obligations and the costs incurred in connection
with the arrangement of borrowings, are recognised as an expense in the income statement in the year in which they are incurred.
3.10 PROPERTY , PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
Freehold land is carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses. Other items of property, plant and equipment are carried at
cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses. Subsequent costs are capitalised only when it is probable
that they will result in future economic benefits flowing to the Group and when they can be measured reliably. All other repairs
and maintenance expenditure is charged to the income statement in the period in which it is incurred.
Freehold land is not depreciated as it has an infinite life. Depreciation on other items of property, plant and equipment begins
when the asset is available for use and is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis so as to write off the cost less
residual value of the asset over its estimated useful life as follows:
Freehold property between 10 and 50 years
Leasehold property the term of the lease
Plant and machinery – motor vehicles between 1 and 5 years
– information technology equipment between 1 and 5 years
– other between 5 and 15 years
The depreciation method used, residual values and estimated useful lives are reviewed and changed, if appropriate, at least at each
financial year-end. Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over their expected useful lives on the same basis as owned
assets or, where shorter, over the term of the relevant lease. An asset’s carrying amount is written down immediately to its
recoverable amount if the asset’s carrying amount is greater than its estimated recoverable amount. Gains and losses arising on
disposals are determined by comparing sales proceeds with carrying amount and are recognised in the income statement.
3.11 GOODWILL
Goodwill arising on the acquisition of a subsidiary or jointly controlled entity represents the excess of the cost of acquisition over
the Group’s interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the subsidiary or jointly
controlled entity recognised at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill is initially recognised as an asset at cost and is subsequently measured at cost less any accumulated impairment
losses. Impairment testing is carried out annually, as described in note 3.13. On disposal of a subsidiary or a jointly controlled entity,
the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss on disposal.
  Cookson Group plc { 55 } Annual Report 2005
3. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued)
3.12 INTANGIBLE ASSETS OTHER THAN GOODWILL
Other intangible assets are recognised on business combinations if they are separable and their fair value can be measured
reliably. They are amortised over their estimated useful lives.
3.13 IMPAIRMENT OF TANGIBLE AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS
An impairment loss is recognised to the extent that the carrying amount of an asset or cash-generating unit exceeds its
recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount of an asset or cash-generating unit is the higher of (i) its fair value less costs to sell and (ii) its value
in use, which is the present value of the future cash flows expected to be derived from the asset or cash-generating unit,
discounted using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific
to the asset or cash-generating unit.
Impairment losses are recognised immediately in the income statement.
(a) Goodwill
Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated to each of the Group’s cash-generating units expected to benefit from
the synergies of the combination. Cash-generating units for this purpose are the business segments disclosed in the segmental
information note 6, which represent the lowest level within the Group at which the goodwill is monitored. Cash-generating units
to which goodwill has been allocated are tested for impairment annually, or more frequently when there is an indication that
the unit may be impaired.
If the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is less than the carrying amount of the unit, the impairment loss is
allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the other assets of the unit pro-
rata on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the unit.
An impairment loss recognised for goodwill is not reversed in a subsequent period.
(b) Other tangible and intangible assets
At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying amount of its tangible and intangible assets to determine whether
there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss. If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount
of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent, if any, of the impairment loss. Where it is not possible to estimate
the recoverable amount of an individual asset, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to
which the asset belongs.
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset or cash-generating unit is increased
to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying
amount that would have been determined had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset or cash-generating unit in
prior years. A reversal of an impairment loss for tangible and intangible assets other than goodwill is recognised immediately
in the income statement.
3.14 INTERESTS IN JOINT VENTURES
A joint venture is a contractual arrangement whereby the Group and one or more other parties undertake an economic activity
that is subject to joint control. Joint control exists when the strategic financial and operating policy decisions relating to the
activity require the unanimous consent of the parties sharing control.
The Group conducts its joint venture arrangements through jointly controlled entities and accounts for them using the equity
method of accounting, except when the investment is classified as held for sale, in which case it is accounted for under IFRS 5. Any
goodwill arising on the acquisition of the Group’s interest in a jointly controlled entity is accounted for in accordance with the
Group’s accounting policy for goodwill arising on the acquisition of a subsidiary as described in note 3.11. Where the Group
transacts with its jointly controlled entities, unrealised profits and losses are eliminated to the extent of the Group’s interest in the
joint venture.
3.15 INVENTORIES
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost (using the first-in, first-out method) and net realisable value.
Cost comprises expenditure incurred in purchasing or manufacturing inventories together with all other costs directly incurred
in bringing the inventory to its present location and condition and, where appropriate, attributable production overheads based on
normal activity levels. Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price less all estimated costs of completion and costs
to be incurred in marketing, selling and distribution. The amount of any write-down of inventories to net realisable value is
recognised as an expense in the year in which the write-down occurs.
In addition to the inventory recorded in the balance sheet, the Group holds precious metals under consignment arrangements,
further details of which are given in note 27.
  Cookson Group plc { 56 } Annual Report 2005
Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
3. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued)
3.16 NON-CURRENT ASSETS HELD FOR SALE AND DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS
Immediately prior to being classified as held for sale the measurement of the assets (and all assets and liabilities in a disposal
group) is brought up to date in accordance with applicable IFRS. Then, on initial classification as held for sale, non-current assets
and disposal groups are recognised at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
Impairment losses on initial classification as held for sale are included in profit or loss, as are gains and losses on subsequent
remeasurement.
3.17 LEASES
Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership
to the lessee. All other leases are classified as operating leases.
(a) Finance leases
Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets of the Group at their fair value at the inception of the lease or,
if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments. The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in the
balance sheet as a finance lease obligation. Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges and reduction of the
lease obligation so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability. Finance charges are
charged to the income statement.
(b) Operating leases
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the
relevant lease. Benefits received and receivable as an incentive to enter into an operating lease are also spread on a straight-
line basis over the lease term.
3.18 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
Financial assets and liabilities are recognised on the Group balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual
provisions of the instrument.
(a) Trade receivables
Trade receivables are initially measured at fair value, do not carry any interest and are reduced by appropriate provisions for
estimated irrecoverable amounts. Such provisions are recognised in the income statement.
(b) Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand, demand deposits, bank overdrafts and short-term highly liquid investments
with original maturities of three months or less that are readily convertible to a known amount of cash and are subject to an
insignificant risk of changes in value. Bank overdrafts form an integral part of the Group’s cash management system.
(c) Trade payables
Trade payables are not interest-bearing and are initially measured at their fair value.
(d) Interest-bearing borrowings
Interest-bearing borrowings comprise secured and unsecured loans and asset securitisation proceeds, which are initially recorded
at fair value less attributable transaction costs and subsequently at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method, and
obligations under finance leases that are dealt with in accordance with the Company’s policy on leases (note 3.17).
(e) Equity instruments
Equity instruments issued by the Company are initially recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
(f) Derivative financial instruments
The Group uses derivative financial instruments in the form of forward foreign exchange contracts and interest rate swaps to
manage the effects of its exposure to fluctuations in foreign exchange and interest rates on its borrowings. In accordance with
its treasury policy, the Group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes.
Derivative financial instruments are measured at fair value. The method of recognising the gain or loss on remeasurement
to fair value depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument and, if so, the nature of the item being
hedged (note 4.2).
The fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts is their quoted market price at the balance sheet date. The fair value
of interest rate swaps is the estimated amount that the Group would receive or pay to terminate the swap at the balance sheet
date, taking into account current interest rates and the creditworthiness of the swap counterparties.
  Cookson Group plc { 57 } Annual Report 2005
3. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued)
3.18 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (continued)
(g) Comparative financial instrument policy
As disclosed in note 45, the Group has taken advantage of the exemption available in IFRS 1 from the requirement to restate
comparative information in respect of IAS 32 and IAS 39. The comparative information and accounting policy in respect of
these items is the same as presented in the Cookson Group plc Annual Report for 2004, which was prepared under UK GAAP.
The comparative accounting policy stated that the Group primarily uses forward foreign exchange contracts and interest
rate swaps to manage the exposure to fluctuations in foreign exchange and interest rates in its borrowings. These instruments
were accounted for as hedges when designated as such at the inception of contracts and, as a result, gains and losses on these
foreign exchange contracts were offset against the foreign exchange gains and losses on the related financial assets and
liabilities. Interest rate swaps were not revalued to fair value or shown in the Group balance sheet at the year-end, but the fair
value was disclosed in the notes to the financial statements. Interest differentials under the contracts were recognised by
accruing the net interest payable as it became due. Gains or losses arising on hedging instruments which were cancelled due
to the termination of the underlying exposure were immediately taken to the profit and loss account or balance sheet as
appropriate. Translational hedges of foreign currency investments were taken to reserves. Finance costs associated with debt
issuances were charged to the profit and loss account over the life of those instruments.
3.19 PROVISIONS
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation as a result of a past event and it is probable that the Group
will be required to settle that obligation. Provisions are measured at the Directors’ best estimate of the expenditure required to
settle the obligation at the balance sheet date.
3.20 USE OF NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES
The Company uses a number of non-Generally Accepted Accounting Practice (“non-GAAP”) financial measures in addition to those
reported in accordance with IFRS. Because IFRS measures reflect all items which affect reported performance, the Directors
believe that certain non-GAAP measures, which reflect what they view as the underlying performance of the Group, are important
and should be considered alongside the IFRS measures. The following non-GAAP measures are referred to in this report.
(a) Trading profit
On the face of the Group income statement, “trading profit” is separately disclosed, being defined as profit from operations
before the costs of rationalisation of operations, the profit or loss relating to fixed assets and the amortisation and
impairment of intangibles. The Directors believe that trading profit is an important measure of the underlying trading
performance of the Group.
(b) Headline earnings per share
Headline earnings per share is calculated as the total of trading profit, plus share of post-tax profit of joint-ventures, less
net finance costs and income tax costs associated with ongoing activities, less profit attributable to minority interests,
divided by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year. The Directors believe that headline
earnings per share provides an important measure of the underlying earning capacity of the Group.
(c) Free cash flow
On the face of the Group statement of cash flows, “free cash flow” is reported, being defined as net cash flow from operating
activities after net outlays for the acquisition and disposal of fixed assets, dividends from joint ventures and dividends paid to
minority shareholders, but before additional funding contributions to Group pension plans. The Directors believe that free cash
flow gives an important measure of the underlying cash-generation capacity of the Group.
(d) Net debt
Net debt comprises the total of cash and cash equivalents and current and non-current interest-bearing loans and borrowings.
The Directors believe that net debt is an important measure as it shows the Group’s aggregate net indebtedness to banks and
other external financial institutions.
  Cookson Group plc { 58 } Annual Report 2005
Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
4. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT
4.1 FINANCIAL RISK FACTORS
(a) Foreign exchange risk
The Group operates internationally and is exposed to foreign exchange risk arising from transactions and borrowings that are
denominated in currencies other than pounds sterling. It uses various financial instruments to manage these exposures, as
explained below.
(i) Forecast transactions
Forward foreign exchange contracts are used to hedge against the Group’s exposure to variability in cash flows that might
arise from the fluctuation of exchange rates in relation to highly probable forecast transactions that are denominated in
currencies other than its own functional currencies and which might affect profit or loss. Such forward exchange contracts
are accounted for as cash flow hedges in accordance with the policy in note 4.2 (b).
(ii) Recognised assets and liabilities
Forward foreign exchange contracts are used to hedge against the Group’s exposure to changes in fair value of a recognised
asset or liability that are attributable to a particular risk and which could affect profit or loss. Such forward exchange
contracts are accounted for as fair value hedges in accordance with the policy in note 4.2 (a).
(iii) Net investment hedges
Forward foreign exchange contracts and debt denominated in currencies other than pounds sterling are both used to hedge
against the Group’s exposure to changes in the value of its investment in the net assets of its foreign operations that arise
from fluctuations in exchange rates. Such financial instruments are accounted for as net investment hedges in accordance
with the policy in note 4.2 (c).
(b) Credit risk
At the balance sheet date the Group had no significant concentrations of credit risk.
(c) Liquidity risk
The Group Treasury function ensures that there are sufficient levels of committed facilities, cash and cash equivalents to
ensure that the Group is at all times able to meet its financial commitments.
(d) Cash flow and fair value interest rate risk
The Group has no significant interest-bearing assets and consequently its income and cash flows are largely independent of
changes in market interest rates. The Group’s interest rate risk arises primarily from its borrowings. An analysis of the currency
and interest rate profiles of the Group’s borrowings is shown in note 35.
Borrowings at floating rates expose the Group to cash flow interest rate risk and borrowings at fixed rates expose the Group
to fair value interest rate risk. The Group’s policy is to borrow a mix of fixed and floating rate debt. Where appropriate, the
Group manages its interest rate exposures using interest rate swap agreements or other financial instruments.
The Group manages its cash flow interest rate risk by using interest rate swaps, which have the economic effect of changing
the interest rate profile of the borrowings. Under its interest rate swaps the Company agrees with the counterparty to exchange
at specified intervals the difference between the fixed and floating rate interest amounts calculated by reference to the agreed
notional principal amounts. Cookson Group plc { 59 } Annual Report 2005
4. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (continued)
4.2 HEDGING ACTIVITIES
The Group designates certain financial instruments as either: (i) hedges of the exposure to changes in the fair value of recognised
assets or liabilities that are attributable to a particular risk and could affect profit or loss (fair value hedges); (ii) hedges of the
exposure to variability in cash flows that are attributable to a particular risk associated with a highly probable forecast transaction
and could affect profit or loss (cash flow hedges); or (iii) hedges of net investments in foreign operations.
At the inception of the transaction the Group documents the relationship between the hedging instrument and the hedged item.
The Group also documents its assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the financial instruments
that are used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of hedged items.
(a) Fair value hedges
Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges are recognised within trading profit
in the income statement, together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged assets or liabilities that are subject to the
hedged risk.
(b) Cash flow hedges
Where a derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge of the variability in cash flows of a highly probable forecast
transaction, the effective part of any gain or loss on the derivative financial instrument is recognised directly in equity within
hedging reserves. The ineffective part of any gain or loss is recognised immediately within trading profit in the income
statement. When the forecast transaction that was being hedged is realised and affects profit or loss, the cumulative gain or
loss on the derivative financial instrument is removed from equity and recognised in the income statement in the same period.
When the forecast transaction subsequently results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or non-financial liability, the
associated cumulative gain or loss is removed from equity and included in the initial cost or other carrying amount of the non-
financial asset or non-financial liability.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or the entity revokes designation of the hedge
relationship but the hedged forecast transaction is still expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss at that point remains in
equity and is recognised in accordance with the above policy when the transaction takes place. If the hedged transaction is no
longer expected to take place, the cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity is recognised immediately within trading profit
in the income statement.
(c) Net investment hedges
The portion of the gain or loss on an instrument used to hedge a net investment in a foreign operation that is determined to
be an effective hedge, is recognised directly in equity within translation reserves and subsequently recognised in the income
statement as part of the profit or loss on disposal of the net investment. The ineffective portion of the gain or loss is recognised
immediately within trading profit in the income statement.
  Cookson Group plc { 60 } Annual Report 2005
Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
5. CRITICAL JUDGEMENTS IN APPLYING ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND KEY SOURCES OF ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTY
5.1 GOODWILL
The Directors use their judgement to determine the extent to which goodwill has a value that will benefit the performance of the
Group over future periods. To assist in making this judgement, the Directors undertake an assessment, at least annually, of the
carrying value of the Group’s capitalised goodwill, using discounted cash flow forecasts to derive the “value in use” to the Group
of the capitalised goodwill. In the assessment undertaken in 2005, value in use was derived from discounted 5-year cash flow
projections, using a growth rate of 3% in the years beyond the projection period, and pre-tax discount rates ranging from 11-13%.
The projection period is, in the opinion of the Directors, an appropriate period over which to view the future results of the Group’s
businesses for this purpose. Changes to the assumptions and discount rates used in making these forecasts could significantly alter
the Directors’ assessment of the carrying value of goodwill.
5.2 PROPERTY , PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
It is Group policy to depreciate its property, plant and equipment assets, except freehold land, on a straight-line basis over their
estimated useful lives. This applies an appropriate matching of the revenue earned with the capital costs of production and
delivery of goods and services. A key element of this policy is the estimate of the useful life applied to each category of property,
plant and equipment which, in turn, determines the annual depreciation charge. Variations in asset lives could impact significantly
Group profit through an increase or decrease in the depreciation charge.
5.3 CURRENT ASSET PROVISIONS
In the course of normal trading activities, judgement is used to establish the net realisable value of various elements of working
capital, principally inventory and trade receivables. Provisions are established for obsolete or slow-moving inventories, bad or
doubtful debts and product warranties.
Provision requirements are based on the facts available at the time and are also determined by using profiles, based on past
practice, applied to certain aged inventory and receivables categories. In estimating the collectability of trade receivables,
judgement is required in assessing their likely realisation, including the current creditworthiness of each customer and related
ageing of the past due balances. Specific accounts are assessed in situations where a customer may not be able to meet its
financial obligations due to a deterioration of its financial condition, credit ratings or bankruptcy.
5.4 ENVIRONMENTAL PROVISIONS
In certain parts of the business, mainly in the US, the Group has obligations to carry out environmental clean-ups at former and
current production sites. Many of these obligations will not arise for a number of years and the costs are difficult to predict
accurately. The Directors use their judgement and experience to make provision in the accounts for an appropriate amount for the
likely cost of such clean-ups.
5.5 DEFERRED TAXATION
The Group has recognised deferred tax assets in respect of unutilised losses and other timing differences arising in certain of the
Group’s businesses, primarily in Europe and Asia. Account has been taken of future forecasts of taxable profit in arriving at the
values at which these assets are recognised. If these forecast profits do not materialise or change, or there are changes in tax rates
or to the period over which the losses or timing difference might be recognised, then the value of the deferred tax asset will need
to be revised in a future period.
The Group has losses and other timing differences for which no value has been recognised for deferred tax purposes in these
financial statements. These can arise in loss-making subsidiaries where the future economic benefit of these timing differences is
not probable. It can also arise where the timing differences are of such a nature that their value is dependent only on certain types
of profit being earned, such as capital profits. If trading or other appropriate profits are earned in future in these companies, the
timing differences may yield benefit to the Group in the form of a reduced tax charge.
5.6 EMPLOYEE BENEFITS
The Group’s financial statements include the costs and obligations associated with the provision of pension and other post-
retirement benefits to current and former employees. It is the Directors’ responsibility to set the assumptions used in determining
the key elements of the costs of meeting such future obligations. These assumptions are set after consultation with the Group’s
actuaries and include those used to determine regular service costs and the financing elements related to the plans’ assets and
liabilities. Whilst the Directors believe that the assumptions used are appropriate, a change in the assumptions used would affect
Group profit and financial position.
  Cookson Group plc { 61 } Annual Report 2005
6. SEGMENT INFORMATION
6.1 PRIMARY REPORTING FORMAT – BUSINESS SEGMENTS
For management reporting purposes the Group is organised into three main business segments, Ceramics, Electronics and
Precious Metals. These segments form the basis of the primary reporting format disclosures below. The principal activities of each
of these segments is described in the Operating Review on pages 12 to 21. Segment revenue represents revenue to external
customers and is stated after the elimination of inter-segment revenue, which is immaterial. Segment results, assets and liabilities
include items directly attributable to a segment as well as those that can be allocated on a reasonable basis.
Segment assets exclude cash and cash equivalents, deferred tax assets, income tax recoverable, investments in joint ventures and
corporate assets that cannot be allocated on a reasonable basis to a business segment. These items are shown collectively in the
following tables as “unallocated assets”. Segment liabilities exclude interest-bearing loans and borrowings, employee benefit
obligations, deferred tax liabilities, income tax payable and corporate liabilities that cannot be allocated on a reasonable basis to
a business segment. These items are shown collectively in the following tables as “unallocated liabilities”.
Assembly Electronics Precious Discontinued 2005
Materials Chemistry Total Ceramics Metals operations Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Segment revenue 273.4 215.5 488.9 746.1 245.8 153.8 1,634.6
Segment result 24.5 26.6 51.1 73.9 7.0 6.7 138.7
Rationalisation of operating activities (0.8) (2.2) (3.0) (8.1) (1.4) (5.1) (17.6)
Amortisation and impairment of intangibles – – – – – (0.8) (0.8)
Profit/(loss) relating to fixed assets 0.3 (1.5) (1.2) (0.1) – 1.9 0.6
Profit from operations before corporate costs 24.0 22.9 46.9 65.7 5.6 2.7 120.9
Corporate costs (8.5)
Corporate rationalisation costs (0.9)
Corporate loss relating to fixed assets (0.6)
Group profit from operations 110.9
Segment assets 173.7 277.2 450.9 637.6 134.6 92.9 1,316.0
Unallocated assets 117.3
Total Group assets 1,433.3
Segment liabilities 49.0 58.4 107.4 171.0 22.2 52.4 353.0
Unallocated liabilities 618.6
Total Group liabilities 971.6
Other segment information:
Capital expenditure – property, plant and equipment 2.8 3.5 6.3 30.4 2.4 3.9 43.0
Depreciation 6.8 4.4 11.2 24.6 3.6 7.7 47.1
Share of post-tax profit of joint ventures – 1.0 1.0 0.4 – – 1.4
Investments in joint ventures – 8.4 8.4 4.7 – – 13.1 Cookson Group plc { 62 } Annual Report 2005
Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
6. SEGMENT INFORMATION (continued)
6.1 PRIMARY REPORTING FORMAT – BUSINESS SEGMENTS (continued)
Assembly Electronics Precious Discontinued 2004
Materials Chemistry Total Ceramics Metals operations Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Segment revenue 257.7 215.8 473.5 739.3 287.7 152.0 1,652.5
Segment result 19.7 27.3 47.0 59.4 10.8 6.6 123.8
Rationalisation of operating activities (0.2) (0.8) (1.0) (2.9) (9.9) (8.9) (22.7)
Amortisation and impairment of intangibles – – – – – (0.8) (0.8)
Profit/(loss) relating to fixed assets – 1.1 1.1 – – – 1.1
Profit from operations before corporate costs 19.5 27.6 47.1 56.5 0.9 (3.1) 101.4
Corporate costs (8.9)
Corporate loss relating to fixed assets (17.9)
Group profit from operations 74.6
Segment assets 169.2 269.2 438.4 588.0 132.0 137.8 1,296.2
Unallocated assets 109.7
Total Group assets 1,405.9
Segment liabilities 47.4 68.6 116.0 186.4 24.9 59.6 386.9
Unallocated liabilities 575.9
Total Group liabilities 962.8
Other segment information:
Capital expenditure – property, plant and equipment 4.2 2.9 7.1 25.1 2.5 7.6 42.3
Depreciation 7.6 4.2 11.8 23.7 4.1 7.3 46.9
Share of post-tax profit of joint ventures – 2.2 2.2 0.1 – – 2.3
Investments in joint ventures – 12.8 12.8 1.9 – – 14.7
6.2 SECONDARY REPORTING FORMAT – GEOGRAPHICAL SEGMENTS
Segment revenue Segment assets Capital expenditure
2005 2004 2005 2004 2005 2004
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Europe 512.3 558.8 391.0 409.4 14.6 12.9
NAFTA 528.7 547.2 536.3 494.6 11.5 10.5
Asia-Pacific 331.8 303.5 237.9 200.7 10.0 9.1
Rest of the World 108.0 91.0 57.9 53.7 3.0 2.2
Discontinued operations 153.8 152.0 92.9 137.8 3.9 7.6
Unallocated – – 117.3 109.7 – –
Total Group 1,634.6 1,652.5 1,433.3 1,405.9 43.0 42.3
Segment revenue by geographical segment represents revenue from external customers based upon the geographical location of
the customer. The analyses of segment assets and capital expenditure are based upon the location of the assets. Cookson Group plc { 63 } Annual Report 2005
7. EXPENSES BY NATURE
The following items have been charged/(credited) in arriving at trading profit:
2005 2004
£m £m
Cost of sales 1,181.4 1,202.9
Depreciation (note 21) 47.1 46.9
Minimum lease payments under leases and sub-leases 16.5 21.2
Employee benefit expense (note 12) 430.1 445.8
Auditor’s remuneration (note 8) 3.0 3.0
Foreign exchange differences (2.0) 1.2
Research and development expenditure 22.3 24.3
8. AMOUNTS PAYABLE TO KPMG AUDIT PLC AND ITS ASSOCIATES
2005 2004
£m £m
Audit fees – statutory audit 2.1 2.0
Further assurance services 0.4 0.4
Tax services – compliance services 0.1 0.2
– advisory services 0.4 0.4
Total auditor’s remuneration 3.0 3.0
Statutory audit fees are those charged in connection with the Group audit and local statutory requirements. The fee for the audit
of the Company is £0.4m (2004: £0.3m). Further assurance services principally include advisory-related work, notably in
connection with the Company’s transition to IFRS. Of the total fees for further assurance and tax services £0.5m (2004: £0.5m)
were charged in the UK.
9. RATIONALISATION OF OPERATING ACTIVITIES
The charge of £18.5m (2004: £22.7m) was the result of the implementation of a number of initiatives aimed at reducing the
Group’s cost base and realigning its manufacturing capacity with its customer markets. The initiatives implemented included
redundancy programmes, the consolidation of facilities, plant closures, the streamlining of manufacturing processes and the
rationalisation of product lines. Of these rationalisation charges, £3.0m (2004: £6.3m) represented asset write-downs, the majority
of which were in Europe and Asia-Pacific. Total cash spend in respect of these rationalisation charges was £17.0m (2004: £14.2m),
leaving aggregate provisions made but unspent of £12.7m as at 31 December 2005 (2004: £15.1m). The net taxation credit
attributable to these rationalisation costs was £5.7m (2004: £1.0m).
10. AMORTISATION AND IMPAIRMENT OF INTANGIBLES
The £0.8m expense (2004: £0.8m) relates to the amortisation of a licence agreement in the Laminates business, which was being
amortised over its 10-year useful life. As from 31 December 2005 the licence has been reclassified to “held for sale” on the balance
sheet, is carried at fair value less costs to sell and will no longer be amortised. The tax charge associated with the amortisation
expense in the year was £nil (2004: £nil).
Goodwill arising on consolidation is not amortised under IFRS, but is subject to annual impairment reviews. Amortisation of
this goodwill is, however, tax deductible in certain jurisdictions, which has the effect of generating a deferred tax liability that will
continue to grow in future periods, until such time as the tax deductions cease or the goodwill asset is written-off on disposal of
the underlying business or as a result of impairment charges. The tax charge arising on this item in 2005 was £3.5m (2004: £4.1m).
1 1. (LOSS)/PROFIT RELATING TO FIXED ASSETS
There was no net (loss)/profit for the Group during 2005 in relation to the sale of fixed assets, as the net loss of £1.9m in the
Group’s continuing operations was matched by a profit of £1.9m in the discontinued Laminates business.
The net loss on fixed assets of £16.8m in 2004 included an impairment charge of £17.9m relating to the Group’s investment in
a 20-year revenue-sharing arrangement with Electric Lightwave, Inc. During 2004, it became clear that the minimum guaranteed
revenues accruing to the Group under the terms of the revenue-sharing agreement were not likely to be fully recoverable in the
future. As a result, the Group’s investment was reassessed using a discounted cash flow model with a pre-tax discount rate of 12%
and an impairment charge of £17.9m was recognised. Other sales of fixed assets during 2004 resulted in a profit of £1.1m.
The net taxation charge attributable to the sale of fixed assets was £nil (2004: £nil). Cookson Group plc { 64 } Annual Report 2005
Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
12. EMPLOYEES
Employee benefit expense
2005 2004
£m £m
Wages and salaries 364.7 376.8
Social security costs 39.5 43.7
Share-based payments (note 37) 3.2 2.2
Pension costs – defined contribution plans (note 36) 7.9 7.5
– defined benefit plans (note 36) 12.1 11.8
Other post-retirement benefits (note 36) 1.8 1.9
Total employee benefit expense 429.2 443.9
Of the total employee benefit expense of £429.2m (2004: £443.9m), £430.1m (2004: £455.8m) was charged in arriving at trading
profit and £0.9m (2004: £1.9m) was credited in arriving at net post-tax loss on disposal of operations.
Average number of employees
2005 2004
No. No.
Ceramics 9,138 9,356
Assembly Materials 1,673 1,752
Chemistry 1,286 1,320
Electronics 2,959 3,072
Precious Metals 1,848 2,098
Discontinued operations 1,829 1,796
Total Group 15,774 16,322
Remuneration of key management personnel
The remuneration of the executive Directors, who are the key management personnel of the Group, is set out below in aggregate
for each of the categories specified in IAS 24, Related Party Disclosures. Further information about the remuneration of individual
Directors is provided in the audited part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 37 to 44.
2005 2004
£m £m
Short-term employee benefits 2.6 3.8
Post-employment benefits 0.4 0.6
Share-based payments 0.5 0.3
Total remuneration of key management personnel 3.5 4.7
13. NET FINANCE COSTS
2005 2004
£m £m
Interest receivable (2.1) (3.4)
Interest payable
– Bank loans and overdrafts 31.0 29.6
– Convertible bonds – 4.7
– Obligations under finance leases 0.3 0.3
– Amortisation of capitalised borrowing costs 0.5 1.0
31.8 35.6
Net finance costs from ongoing activities 29.7 32.2
Income from swap close-out – (5.4)
Write-off of capitalised borrowing costs 1.2 –
Net finance costs/(income) from other activities 1.2 (5.4)
Total net finance costs 30.9 26.8 Cookson Group plc { 65 } Annual Report 2005
14. INCOME TAX COSTS
2005 2004
£m £m
Current tax:
– UK corporation tax 8.8 16.3
– Double tax relief (8.6) (16.1)
– Overseas taxation 21.8 20.6
– Adjustments in respect of prior years 4.1 (6.3)
Total current tax 26.1 14.5
Deferred tax:
– Origination and reversal of temporary taxable differences (includes £0.2m credit (2004: £0.3m charge)
relating to prior year) 0.1 12.9
– Arising from the write-down of deferred tax assets and release of fair value tax provisions 16.6 4.8
Total deferred tax 16.7 17.7
Total income tax costs 42.8 32.2
The Group’s income tax expense of £42.8m (2004: £32.2m) includes £14.4m (2004: £7.9m) of expense on “other activities”,
comprising a write-down of deferred tax assets of £16.6m (2004: £10.0m) following a reassessment of expected future
geographical profit contributions, a £5.7m credit (2004: credit £1.0m) in relation to rationalisation costs (note 9) and a charge of
£3.5m (2004: £4.1m) in relation to the different treatment of goodwill amortisation for tax and reporting purposes (note 10). The
comparative figure for 2004 also includes a credit of £5.2m arising on the release of fair value tax provisions in respect of a prior
year acquisition.
The Group operates in a number of countries that have differing tax rates, laws and practices. Changes in any of these areas
could, adversely or positively, impact the Group’s tax charge in the future. Continuing losses, or insufficiency of taxable profit to
absorb all expenses, in any subsidiary, could have the effect of increasing tax charges in the future, relative to 2005, as effective
tax relief may not be available for those losses or expenses. Other significant factors affecting the tax charge are described in
note 3.4.
The aggregate amount of temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries and interests in joint ventures for
which deferred tax liabilities have not been recognised is £61.7m. The tax charge relating to items charged or credited directly to
equity was £nil (2004: £nil).
The charge for the year can be reconciled to the profit per the income statement as follows:
2005 2004
£m £m
Profit before tax 81.4 50.1
Tax at the UK corporation tax rate of 30% (2004: 30%) 24.4 15.0
Overseas tax rate differences (9.6) (11.8)
Amortisation of intangibles 3.5 4.1
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 3.4 13.4
Deferred tax written-off 16.6 10.0
Deferred tax assets not recognised 0.3 7.0
Adjustments in respect of prior years 3.9 (6.0)
Joint venture tax 0.3 0.5
Total income tax costs 42.8 32.2 Cookson Group plc { 66 } Annual Report 2005
Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
15. NET POST-TAX LOSS ON DISPOSAL OF OPERATIONS
2005 2004
£m £m
Loss on transfer of Laminates to held for sale (52.5) –
Profit on disposal of SCS 10.8 –
Net post-tax loss on disposal of discontinued operations (41.7) –
On 15 December 2005 the Group announced that it had entered into an agreement to sell its Laminates business to ISOLA Group
S.A.R.L. Completion of the transaction, which is conditional upon satisfactory clearance from the European competition
authorities, is expected in the first half of 2006. Accordingly, with effect from 31 December 2005, the assets and liabilities of the
Laminates business have been reclassified in the Group balance sheet to “held for sale” and measured at fair value less costs to
sell, resulting in a loss of £52.5m, including a related tax credit of £0.6m.
On 31 December 2005, the Group sold its Specialty Coating Systems (SCS) business, which previously formed part of the
Assembly Materials sector of the Electronics division, to Bunker Hill Capital for £30.2m, resulting in a profit on disposal of £10.8m,
after a related tax charge of £5.7m. £0.8m of the proceeds are deferred until the completion of the sale of the SCS China business
in 2006.
Net cash flows attributable to discontinued operations:
2005 2004
£m £m
Operating activities 6.0 5.4
Investing activities (6.7) (13.2)
Financing activities (0.9) (0.5)
Net cash flows (1.6) (8.3)
Disposal from continuing operations:
The £4.5m net loss from continuing operations includes the disposal of the Group’s Technical Ceramics business, formerly a part
of the Ceramics division, plus a number of additional trailing costs related to previous years’ disposals. The net loss for 2004 of
£34.9m included the sale of the Ceramics division’s loss-making European silica-zinc brick business at a loss of £30.6m and £5.1m
related to the winding-up of the Laminates sector’s joint venture with Fukuda. The tax charge associated with these disposals was
£1.6m (2004: £2.6m credit).
16. DIVIDENDS
The proposed final dividend for the year of 5.0p per ordinary share (2004: nil) is subject to approval by shareholders at the
Company’s Annual General Meeting and has not been included as a liability in these financial statements. If approved by
shareholders, the dividend will be paid on 12 June 2006 to ordinary shareholders on the register at 26 May 2006. Based upon the
number of ordinary shares in issue as at 31 December 2005, the total cost of the dividend would be £9.5m (2004: nil). Cookson Group plc { 67 } Annual Report 2005
17. EARNINGS PER SHARE (“EPS”)
Continuing Discontinued 2005 Continuing Discontinued 2004
operations operations Total operations operations Total
pence pence pence pence pence pence
Basic EPS 15.0 (20.8) (5.8) (8.7) (2.5) (11.2)
Diluted EPS 14.9 (20.7) (5.8) (8.7) (2.5) (11.2)
Headline EPS 33.6 3.6 37.2 27.3 2.8 30.1
Diluted headline EPS 33.4 3.6 37.0 27.3 2.8 30.1
Continuing Discontinued 2005 Continuing Discontinued 2004
operations operations Total operations operations Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Earnings
Earnings for the purpose of calculating basic and
diluted EPS (being net profit attributable to
parent company equity holders) 28.2 (39.2) (11.0) (16.4) (4.7) (21.1)
Adjustments:
Rationalisation of operating activities 13.4 5.1 18.5 13.8 8.9 22.7
Amortisation and impairment charges – 0.8 0.8 – 0.8 0.8
(Loss)/profit relating to fixed assets 1.9 (1.9) – 16.8 – 16.8
Income from swap close-out –– – (5.4) – (5.4)
Write-off of prepaid debt-raising fees 1.2 – 1.2 –– –
Net post-tax loss on disposal of operations 4.5 41.7 46.2 34.9 – 34.9
Net write-off of tax assets and provisions 16.6 – 16.6 4.8 – 4.8
Tax relating to the above adjustments (2.4) 0.2 (2.2) 2.9 0.2 3.1
Earnings for the purpose of headline EPS 63.4 6.7 70.1 51.4 5.2 56.6
2004
2005 restated
m m
Number of shares
Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purpose of basic EPS 188.5 188.3
Adjustments for diluted weighted average number of shares relating to the Company’s share option schemes 1.1 –
Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purpose of diluted EPS 189.6 188.3
For the purpose of calculating diluted EPS, the weighted average number of ordinary shares is adjusted to include the weighted
average number of ordinary shares that would be issued on the conversion of all dilutive potential ordinary shares. Potential
ordinary shares are only treated as dilutive when their conversion to ordinary shares would decrease earnings per share, or
increase loss per share, from continuing operations.
In addition to the 1.1m (2004 as restated: nil) shares shown in the table above as being dilutive, the Company had an additional
6.0m of potential ordinary shares outstanding as at 31 December 2005 (2004: 10.0m) that could potentially dilute EPS in the
future, but were not included in the calculation of diluted EPS above because they were antidilutive in the years presented.
The weighted average number of ordinary shares used in the calculation of EPS figures for 2004 has been restated to take
account of a share consolidation that was approved at, and took effect following, the Company’s Annual General Meeting held on
26 May 2005. Under the terms of the consolidation, shareholders received one new ordinary share of 10p each for every 10 existing
ordinary shares of 1p each held at the close of business on 26 May 2005. Cookson Group plc { 68 } Annual Report 2005
Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
18. CASH GENERATED FROM OPERATIONS
2005 2004
£m £m
Profit from operations 110.9 74.6
Adjustments for:
Rationalisation of operating activities 18.5 22.7
Loss relating to fixed assets – 16.8
Amortisation of intangibles 0.8 0.8
Depreciation 47.1 46.9
– Increase in inventories (9.1) (16.8)
– Increase in trade receivables (10.7) (6.3)
– (Decrease)/increase in trade payables (3.9) 6.2
Net increase in trade working capital (23.7) (16.9)
Outflows relating to rationalisation of operating activities (17.0) (14.2)
Additional funding contributions to Group pension plans (10.0) (6.5)
Other items (8.8) 21.3
Cash generated from operations 117.8 145.5
19. CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
2005 2004
£m £m
Short-term deposits – 4.3
Cash at bank and in hand 65.9 43.1
Bank overdrafts (2.4) (3.4)
Total cash and cash equivalents 63.5 44.0
20. RECONCILIATION OF MOVEMENT IN NET DEBT
Balance Foreign Refin- Balance
as at 1 Opening exchange Transferred ancing as at 31
January debt adjust- to held and issue Cash December
2005 adjustment ments for sale costs flow 2005
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Cash and cash equivalents:
Short-term deposits 4.3 – 0.2 – – (4.5) –
Cash at bank and in hand 43.1 – 10.9 – – 11.9 65.9
Bank overdrafts (3.4) – (0.1) – – 1.1 (2.4)
8.5
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings:
Current (39.7) – (2.9) 0.9 – 27.8 (13.9)
Non-current (328.2) 1.1 (34.5) 1.2 – 17.4 (343.0)
Refinancing and issue costs 2.1 – – – (1.0) – 1.1
45.2
Net debt (321.8) 1.1 (26.4) 2.1 (1.0) 53.7 (292.3)
Net debt is a measure that shows the Group’s net indebtedness to banks and other third party financial institutions and comprises
the total of cash and cash equivalents and current and non-current interest-bearing loans and borrowings.
The opening debt adjustment in the table above arises on the adoption of IAS 32 and IAS 39 as at 1 January 2005 and relates
to the fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts. Previously the fair value of these forward foreign exchange contracts was
netted against the value of the debt whose currency exposure they were hedging. As from 1 January 2005 they are now shown
separately on the face of the balance sheet as derivative financial instruments within assets or liabilities as appropriate. Cookson Group plc { 69 } Annual Report 2005
21. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
Freehold Leasehold Plant and Construction
property property machinery in progress Total
£m £m £m £m £m
Cost
As at 1 January 2004 161.1 29.3 549.6 17.6 757.6
Exchange adjustments (6.2) (0.4) (14.6) (0.8) (22.0)
Additions – capital expenditure 4.2 1.1 26.0 11.0 42.3
Disposals – sales and scrappings (4.8) (0.1) (30.1) – (35.0)
Disposals – businesses (2.6) – (11.8) – (14.4)
Reclassifications 6.5 (0.1) 3.4 (9.8) –
As at 1 January 2005 158.2 29.8 522.5 18.0 728.5
Exchange adjustments 11.3 2.5 33.3 1.8 48.9
Additions – capital expenditure 0.7 0.8 27.2 14.3 43.0
Disposals – sales and scrappings (19.9) (0.5) (34.4) – (54.8)
Disposals – businesses (1.9) (0.5) (10.3) (0.3) (13.0)
Transferred to assets classified as held for sale (22.8) (9.3) (84.2) (2.9) (119.2)
Reclassifications 2.0 – 18.7 (20.7) –
As at 31 December 2005 127.6 22.8 472.8 10.2 633.4
Accumulated depreciation and impairment losses
As at 1 January 2004 61.0 8.7 333.2 – 402.9
Exchange adjustments (2.3) (0.4) (10.3) – (13.0)
Depreciation charge 5.6 1.3 40.0 – 46.9
Disposals – sales and scrappings (1.1) (0.1) (24.0) – (25.2)
Disposals – businesses (0.3) – (5.7) – (6.0)
Reclassifications 1.6 (1.5) (0.1) – –
As at 1 January 2005 64.5 8.0 333.1 – 405.6
Exchange adjustments 4.9 0.8 22.9 – 28.6
Depreciation charge 4.6 1.5 41.0 – 47.1
Disposals – sales and scrappings (10.2) (0.4) (30.7) – (41.3)
Disposals – businesses (1.6) (0.2) (7.6) – (9.4)
Transferred to assets classified as held for sale (9.8) (1.3) (51.0) – (62.1)
As at 31 December 2005 52.4 8.4 307.7 – 368.5
Net book value as at 31 December 2005 75.2 14.4 165.1 10.2 264.9
Net book value as at 31 December 2004 93.7 21.8 189.4 18.0 322.9
Net book value as at 1 January 2004 100.1 20.6 216.4 17.6 354.7
The net book value of assets held under finance leases as at 31 December 2005 and 31 December 2004 was not material.
  Cookson Group plc { 70 } Annual Report 2005
Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
22. INTANGIBLE ASSETS
Other
intangible
Goodwill assets Total
£m £m £m
Cost
As at 1 January 2004 505.6 8.4 514.0
Exchange adjustments (18.8) (0.7) (19.5)
Additions 1.4 – 1.4
Derecognised on disposal of subsidiaries (9.9) – (9.9)
As at 1 January 2005 478.3 7.7 486.0
Exchange adjustments 37.4 0.8 38.2
Derecognised on disposal of subsidiaries (7.5) – (7.5)
Transferred to assets classified as held for sale (26.6) (8.5) (35.1)
As at 31 December 2005 481.6 – 481.6
Accumulated amortisation and impairment losses
As at 1 January 2004 –– –
Amortisation charge – 0.8 0.8
As at 1 January 2005 – 0.8 0.8
Amortisation charge – 0.8 0.8
Transferred to assets classified as held for sale – (1.6) (1.6)
As at 31 December 2005 – ––
Net book value as at 31 December 2005 481.6 – 481.6
Net book value as at 31 December 2004 478.3 6.9 485.2
Net book value as at 1 January 2004 505.6 8.4 514.0
The other intangible asset balance related to a perpetual licensing agreement of the Laminates business in the US, which was
being amortised over its estimated 10-year useful life.
For the cash-generating units shown below, the carrying amount of goodwill is significant in relation to the Group’s total carrying
amount of goodwill:
2005 2004
£m £m
Ceramics 214.3 197.1
Electronics – Chemistry 187.6 176.9
Other cash-generating units 79.7 104.3
Total goodwill 481.6 478.3
Impairment testing
For the purpose of impairment testing, the recoverable amount of cash-generating units is based on value in use calculations. In
the assessment undertaken in 2005, value in use was derived from discounted 5-year cash flow projections, using a growth rate
of 3% in the years beyond the projection period. The pre-tax discount rates used were 12.4% for Ceramics (2004: 10.4%), 12.0%
for Assembly Materials (2004: 13.1%), 12.9% for Chemistry (2004: 12.0%) and 11.7% for Precious Metals (2004: 10.4%).
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before the date of transition to IFRS was tested for impairment at the transition date and has
been retained at its previous UK GAAP value. Goodwill arising on acquisitions prior to 1998 that was written-off against reserves
under UK GAAP has not been reinstated and is not included in determining any subsequent profit or loss on disposal. Cookson Group plc { 71 } Annual Report 2005
23. INVESTMENTS IN JOINT VENTURES
The principal joint venture of the Group, in which it has a 50% interest, is Electroplating Engineers of Japan Ltd. The Group’s interests
in its joint ventures are recognised using the equity method. The aggregate amounts relating to these interests were as follows:
2005 2004
£m £m
Share of current assets 18.9 21.8
Share of non-current assets 0.4 0.3
Share of current liabilities (5.6) (6.9)
Share of non-current liabilities (0.6) (0.5)
As at 31 December 13.1 14.7
Share of revenue 46.9 45.2
Share of post-tax profit 1.4 2.3
24. OTHER INVESTMENTS
2005 2004
£m £m
Available-for-sale – equity securities 6.2 –
– other investments 2.0 –
Revenue-sharing arrangement 3.0 3.1
Assets held in Rabbi Trusts – 6.4
Other investments – 7.2
As at 31 December 11.2 16.7
With effect from 1 January 2005, when the Group adopted IAS 39, the Group’s Rabbi Trust assets are classified as available-for-
sale investments, carried at fair value and included within other financial assets (note 28).
In 2004 an impairment loss of £17.9m was recognised against the Group’s investment in a 20-year revenue-sharing
arrangement with Electric Lightwave, Inc. related to a fibre optic cable network between Portland and Los Angeles in the US. Other
investments carried at cost of £7.2m in 2004 have, with effect from 1 January 2005, been classified as available-for-sale and
carried at fair value.
25. DEFERRED TAX
Accelerated Other
capital Tax Unrelieved Pension timing
allowances losses interest costs Goodwill differences Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m
As at 1 January 2004 (7.7) 33.1 24.0 5.4 (33.0) 19.6 41.4
Exchange adjustments 0.3 (1.4) (1.5) (0.2) 2.8 (1.1) (1.1)
(Charge)/credit to income statement (1.7) 2.1 (1.2) (1.2) (7.2) (8.5) (17.7)
As at 1 January 2005 (9.1) 33.8 21.3 4.0 (37.4) 10.0 22.6
Opening adjustment (note 45) – – – – – (6.7) (6.7)
As at 1 January 2005, as restated (9.1) 33.8 21.3 4.0 (37.4) 3.3 15.9
Exchange adjustments (0.3) 4.8 1.1 0.1 (5.8) 1.0 0.9
(Charge)/credit to income statement 3.6 (26.0) (22.4) (4.0) 31.5 (6.1) (23.4)
As at 31 December 2005 (5.8) 12.6 – 0.1 (11.7) (1.8) (6.6)
2005 2004
£m £m
Deferred tax assets 15.0 31.2
Deferred tax liabilities (21.6) (8.6)
Total deferred tax (liabilities)/assets (6.6) 22.6 Cookson Group plc { 72 } Annual Report 2005
Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
25. DEFERRED TAX (continued)
Of the £23.4m (2004: £17.7m) charge to the income statement, £16.7m (2004: £17.7m) has been charged within income tax costs
(note 14) and £6.7m (2004: £nil) has been charged in arriving at the net post-tax loss on disposal of operations (note 15).
The total deferred tax asset not recognised as at 31 December 2005 was £360.8m (2004: £320.4m). This consisted of £64.3m
(2004: £70.5m) relating to capital losses, £143.0m (2004: £102.6m) relating to operating losses, £67.8m (2004: £40.9m) relating
to unrelieved interest, £72.6m (2004: £99.2m) relating to other categories and UK ACT tax credits, which may be carried forward
indefinitely, with a tax value of £13.1m (2004: £7 .2m). In accordance with the accounting policy note 3.4, these items have not been
recognised in the above analysis on the basis that their future economic benefit is not probable. In total, there was an increase of
£40.4m (2004: £22.6m) in net unrecognised deferred tax assets during the year.
As at 31 December 2005 the Group had total operating losses carried forward with a tax value of £155.6m. This total includes
approximately £72.0m for losses which are available to offset future taxable US income, of which approximately £6.9m will expire
in 2020 and the remainder will expire between 2022 and 2025. A further £53.9m of losses are available to offset future UK taxable
income and may be carried forward without time limit. The remaining losses with a value of £29.7m include £26.1m which may be
carried forward indefinitely and £3.6m which has a maximum life of between 7 and 15 years. The amounts arise in a number of
countries and are not individually significant, reflecting the spread of the Group's operations.
As at 31 December 2005 the Group had total capital losses carried forward with a tax value of £64.3m. This total includes
£6.0m which are available to offset future capital gains in the US and will expire at the end of 2006. The balance of the capital
losses with a value of £58.3m are available to offset future UK capital gains and may be carried forward without time limit.
As at 31 December 2005 the Group had total US tax credits carried forward with a tax value of £5.3m. This includes £2.0m of
research and experimentation credits which expire between 2018 and 2024; £2.9m of foreign tax credits expiring between 2009
and 2014 and £0.4m other credits which expire between 2005 and 2009.
As at 31 December 2005 the Group had UK ACT tax credits carried forward with a tax value of £13.1m. These may be carried
forward indefinitely.
26. TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES
2005 2004
£m £m
Non-current:
Other receivables 8.7 10.6
Current:
Trade receivables 267.2 274.3
Amounts owed by joint ventures – 0.1
Other receivables 13.2 16.0
Prepayments and accrued income 13.6 13.0
Total current receivables 294.0 303.4
The fair values of trade and other receivables are the same as the carrying values shown above.
There is no concentration of credit risk with respect to trade receivables, as the Group has a large number of customers, none of
whom represents a significant proportion of the outstanding receivables balance. The amounts presented in the balance sheet for
trade receivables are net of allowances for uncollectible receivables, in respect of which in 2005 £4.0m (2004: £2.1m) has been
charged to the income statement. Cookson Group plc { 73 } Annual Report 2005
27. INVENTORIES
2005 2004
£m £m
Raw materials 71.5 73.5
Work-in-progress 28.9 29.9
Finished goods 79.2 70.7
Total inventories 179.6 174.1
The cost of inventories recognised as an expense and included in cost of goods sold in the income statement during the year was
£742.9m (2004: £755.8m).
In addition to the inventory recorded in the balance sheet, the Group held precious metals on consignment terms with a total
value as at 31 December 2005 of £228.5m (2004: £185.6m). As at 31 December 2005 metal held under consignment comprised
599,001 ounces of gold (2004: 648,586 ounces), 6,714,921 ounces of silver (2004: 7,554,244 ounces), 22,118 ounces of platinum
(2004: 20,549 ounces) and 17,370 ounces of palladium (2004: 18,427 ounces).
The Group also held precious metals on behalf of customers for processing, the value of which as at 31 December 2005 was
£66.8m (2004: £39.3m).
The Group’s precious metal fabrication operations utilise significant amounts of precious metals, being primarily gold by value.
These metals are predominantly held on consignment under arrangements the terms of which provide, inter alia, that the
consignor retains title to the metal and has a right of return over the metal without penalty. Consignors are party to either
committed or uncommitted arrangements. Under uncommitted arrangements, the consignor is under no obligation to supply the
precious metal to the Group’s fabrication operations and has the right, with limited or in some cases no notice, to demand physical
return of the consigned metal.
The metal which the Group fabricates for its customers may be purchased by the Group from the consignor and sold
concurrently to the customer, thereby eliminating the Group’s exposure to the risk of market fluctuations in metal prices.
Alternatively, the metal may be consigned or sold directly from the consignor to the Group’s customers, the Group charging
customers only for the fabrication process, which also eliminates the Group’s exposure to the risk of market fluctuations in metal
prices. As the consignors retain title and associated risks and benefits of ownership under these arrangements, the physical metal
so held is not recorded in the Group balance sheet. Consignment fees are charged by the consignor and totalled £5.7m in 2005
(2004: £5.7m).
28. OTHER FINANCIAL ASSETS
2005 2004
£m £m
Derivative financial assets 3.7 –
Assets held in Rabbi Trusts 8.5 –
Total other financial assets 12.2 –
Derivative financial assets comprise forward foreign exchange contracts that are accounted for in accordance with the policies in
note 4.2. Prior to 1 January 2005, when the Group adopted IAS 39, net investment hedges were netted against the interest-bearing
borrowings to which they related.
The Group has designated a number of forward foreign exchange contracts as net investment hedges, to provide a hedge
against the Group’s exposure to changes in the value of its investment in the net assets of its foreign operations that arise from
fluctuations in exchange rates. As at 31 December 2005, the Group had Japanese yen forward foreign exchange contracts totalling
JPY4,500m with a favourable fair value of £0.7m and euro forward foreign exchange contracts totalling ¤117m with a favourable
fair value of £2.9m. Net investment hedges and cash flow hedges are short-dated and expected to mature within a year of the
balance sheet date. The fair value of cash flow hedges as at 31 December 2005 amounted to £0.1m.
Assets held in Rabbi Trusts are held to fund certain non-qualified US pension plan obligations but are not included within
pension plan assets as they are available to satisfy creditors in the event of the winding-up of the Group company in which they
are held. Prior to the adoption of IAS 39 on 1 January 2005, these assets were carried at cost and classified as other investments
(note 24). Cookson Group plc { 74 } Annual Report 2005
Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
29. ASSETS AND LIABILITIES CLASSIFIED AS HELD FOR SALE
The Group has entered into an agreement to sell its Laminates business to ISOLA Group S.A.R.L. and the transaction is expected
to be completed in the first half of 2006. Accordingly, the related assets and liabilities of the Laminates business were classified
as held for sale at 31 December 2005 and remeasured at fair value less costs to sell. The loss on remeasurement to fair value less
costs to sell is shown in note 15.
Disclosed as other non-current assets in the table below are two manufacturing facilities in the Electronics division that were
closed during the year and which are expected to be sold within 12 months of the balance sheet date. Accordingly, they have been
classified as held for sale in the balance sheet and recognised at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
Other non-
Laminates current 
business assets Total
£m £m £m
Assets held for sale:
Property, plant and equipment 36.2 2.2 38.4
Intangible assets 4.5 – 4.5
Inventories 10.7 – 10.7
Trade and other receivables 33.6 – 33.6
Total assets held for sale 85.0 2.2 87.2
Liabilities directly associated with assets held for sale:
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 2.1 – 2.1
Employee benefits 0.1 – 0.1
Trade and other payables 33.6 – 33.6
Deferred tax liabilities 0.4 – 0.4
Income tax payable 0.4 – 0.4
Total liabilities directly associated with assets held for sale 36.6 – 36.6
30. SHARE CAPITAL
Authorised
2005 2004
restated
£m £m
1,935.0m ordinary shares of 10p each 193.5 193.5
727.6m deferred shares of 49p each 356.5 356.5
As at 31 December 550.0 550.0
Issued and fully paid – number of shares
Ordinary shares Deferred shares
2005 2004 2005 2004
m m m m
As at 1 January 189.6 189.2 727.6 727.6
Issued on exercise of share options 0.8 0.4 – –
As at 31 December 190.4 189.6 727.6 727.6
Issued and fully paid – cost of shares
Ordinary shares Deferred shares Total
2005 2004 2005 2004 2005 2004
£m £m £m £m £m £m
As at 1 January 19.0 18.9 356.5 356.5 375.5 375.4
Issued on exercise of share options – 0.1 – – – 0.1
As at 31 December 19.0 19.0 356.5 356.5 375.5 375.5
The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends as declared from time to time, are entitled to one vote per share
at meetings of the Company and rank equally with regard to entitlement to the Company’s residual assets. The deferred shares
carried no right to dividends or voting, are not listed and are, therefore, rendered effectively worthless. Other disclosures relating
to the Company’s share capital can be found in note 58. Cookson Group plc { 75 } Annual Report 2005
31. SHARE PREMIUM ACCOUNT
£m
As at 1 January 2004 642.6
On exercise of share options 0.8
As at 1 January 2005 643.4
On exercise of share options 2.1
As at 31 December 2005 645.5
The share premium account of the Company was cancelled on 15 February 2006. Details of the cancellation can be found in 
note 59.
32. OTHER RESERVES
Investment
revaluation Translation
reserve reserve Total
£m £m £m
As at 1 January 2004 –– –
Exchange differences on translation of the net assets of foreign operations – (34.7) (34.7)
Net investment hedges – 23.8 23.8
As at 1 January 2005 – (10.9) (10.9)
Opening reserves adjustment (note 45) 2.6 – 2.6
As at 1 January 2005, as restated 2.6 (10.9) (8.3)
Exchange differences on translation of the net assets of foreign operations – 73.8 73.8
Net investment hedges – (29.9) (29.9)
Changes in fair value of equity securities available-for-sale 2.2 – 2.2
As at 31 December 2005 4.8 33.0 37.8
Investment revaluation reserve
Available-for-sale investments are carried in the Group balance sheet at fair value and remeasured at each balance sheet date.
Changes in fair value from one balance sheet date to the next are recorded in the investment revaluation reserve, together with
any related tax. When the investment is derecognised the cumulative amount relating to it in the investment revaluation reserve,
together with any related tax, is recognised in the income statement.
Translation reserve
The translation reserve comprises all foreign exchange differences attributable to the equity holders of the parent company that
arise from the translation of the financial statements of foreign operations and from the translation of liabilities that hedge the
Group’s net investment in foreign operations. Foreign exchange differences reported in the Group statement of recognised income
and expense also include foreign exchange differences attributable to minority interests.
  Cookson Group plc { 76 } Annual Report 2005
Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
33. RETAINED EARNINGS
Share Other Total
Treasury option retained retained
shares reserve earnings earnings
£m £m £m £m
As at 1 January 2004 (12.4) 1.0 (519.5) (530.9)
Loss for the year – – (21.1) (21.1)
Actuarial loss on employee benefit plans – – (26.8) (26.8)
Recognition of share-based payments – 2.2 – 2.2
As at 1 January 2005 (12.4) 3.2 (567.4) (576.6)
Opening reserves adjustment (note 45) – – 16.6 16.6
As at 1 January 2005, as restated (12.4) 3.2 (550.8) (560.0)
Loss for the year – – (11.0) (11.0)
Actuarial loss on employee benefit plans – – (41.1) (41.1)
Recognition of share-based payments – 2.3 – 2.3
As at 31 December 2005 (12.4) 5.5 (602.9) (609.8)
The Treasury shares shown in the table above are ordinary shares of 10p each of the Company and are held by Cookson Investments
(Jersey) Limited as Trustee of the Cookson Group ESOP (note 60).
34. INTEREST-BEARING LOANS AND BORROWINGS
The information in this note for 2005 is prepared under and meets the disclosure requirements of IFRS. As permitted by IFRS 1,
the Company has taken advantage of the exemption allowing it to report comparative information under its previous GAAP that
does not comply with IAS 32 and IAS 39. Accordingly, the information presented for 2004 is prepared under and meets the
disclosure requirements of UK GAAP.
In order to comply with IAS 32 and IAS 39, the comparative information below would present forward foreign exchange
contracts separately on the face of the balance sheet as derivative financial instruments within other financial assets or liabilities
as appropriate.
Non-current Current Total
2005 2004 2005 2004 2005 2004
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Loans 341.5 328.2 11.7 24.8 353.2 353.0
Asset securitisation proceeds – – – 10.7 – 10.7
Obligations under finance leases 1.5 – 2.2 4.2 3.7 4.2
Capitalised borrowing costs (1.1) (2.1) – – (1.1) (2.1)
Total interest-bearing loans and borrowings 341.9 326.1 13.9 39.7 355.8 365.8 Cookson Group plc { 77 } Annual Report 2005
34. INTEREST-BEARING LOANS AND BORROWINGS (continued)
Fixed Floating 2005 Fixed Floating 2004
rate rate Total rate rate Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
The borrowings are repayable as follows:
On demand or within one year – 13.9 13.9 13.0 26.7 39.7
In the second year 104.8 1.5 106.3 – 40.9 40.9
In the third year – 0.6 0.6 93.7 2.2 95.9
In the fourth year 23.3 23.4 46.7 – ––
In the fifth year 78.6 – 78.6 20.8 – 20.8
After five years 110.8 – 110.8 169.2 1.4 170.6
Capitalised borrowing costs (0.7) (0.4) (1.1) (0.8) (1.3) (2.1)
316.8 39.0 355.8 295.9 69.9 365.8
Less: amount repayable within one year – (13.9) (13.9) (13.0) (26.7) (39.7)
Amount repayable in more than one year 316.8 25.1 341.9 282.9 43.2 326.1
Total capitalised borrowing costs, including those in respect of the syndicated bank facility and the senior loan notes, which have
been treated as a reduction in borrowings in the accounts amounted to £1.1m as at 31 December 2005 (2004: £2.1m). Of the £1.1m
of capitalised borrowing costs, £0.7m related to the senior loan notes and £0.4m related to the syndicated bank facility.
2005 2004
Present value of minimum finance lease obligations £m £m
Due within one year 2.2 4.2
Due between one and five years 1.5 –
Total present value of minimum finance lease obligations 3.7 4.2
35. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT
(a) Fair values of financial instruments
Fair value is defined as the amount at which a financial instrument could be exchanged in an arm’s length transaction between
informed and willing parties and is calculated by reference to market rates discounted to current value. Where market values are
not available, fair values have been calculated by discounting cash flows at prevailing rates translated at year end exchange rates.
2005 2004
Book Fair Book Fair
value value value value
£m £m £m £m
Short-term borrowings and current portion of long-term borrowings 11.7 11.7 23.7 24.0
Long-term portion of long-term borrowings 341.5 378.1 328.2 375.4
Asset securitisation proceeds – – 10.7 10.7
Obligations under finance leases 3.7 3.7 4.2 4.2
Capitalised costs (1.1) – (2.1) –
Gross borrowings excluding forward foreign exchange contracts 355.8 393.5 364.7 414.3
Forward foreign exchange contracts (3.6) (3.6) 1.1 1.1
Gross borrowings including forward foreign exchange contracts 352.2 389.9 365.8 415.4
Cash and cash equivalents (note 19) (63.5) (63.5) (44.0) (44.0)
Net debt including forward foreign exchange contracts 288.7 326.4 321.8 371.4
As described in note 34, following the adoption of IAS 32 and IAS 39 on 1 January 2005, for financial reporting purposes the
fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts is shown on the face of the balance sheet as derivative financial instruments
within other financial assets or liabilities as appropriate. Cookson Group plc { 78 } Annual Report 2005
Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
35. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (continued)
(b) Interest rate exposure of financial assets and liabilities
The interest rate and currency profiles of the Group’s borrowings are set out below. The figures are shown after taking into
account the effect of forward foreign exchange contracts, which are used to manage the currency profile of the Group’s net
debt and which are shown separately from borrowings in the Group balance sheet.
2005
Financial Net
Financial liabilities (gross borrowings)
assets financial
Fixed Floating (cash and (assets)/
rate rate Total equivalents) liabilities
£m £m £m £m £m
Sterling – (0.5) (0.5) (3.7) (4.2)
United States Dollar 317.5 (82.4) 235.1 (30.1) 205.0
Euro – 92.3 92.3 (3.2) 89.1
Singapore Dollar – – – (0.7) (0.7)
Japanese Yen – 22.2 22.2 (1.0) 21.2
Chinese Renminbi – – – (7.7) (7.7)
Other – 3.1 3.1 (17.1) (14.0)
As at 31 December 2005 317.5 34.7 352.2 (63.5) 288.7
2004
Financial Net
Financial liabilities (gross borrowings)
assets financial
Fixed Floating (cash and (assets)/
rate rate Total equivalents) liabilities
£m £m £m £m £m
Sterling – 31.0 31.0 (6.5) 24.5
United States Dollar 283.7 (41.2) 242.5 (22.7) 219.8
Euro – 56.3 56.3 (1.3) 55.0
Japanese Yen – 22.7 22.7 (1.7) 21.0
Chinese Renminbi – 0.7 0.7 (4.4) (3.7)
Other – 12.6 12.6 (7.4) 5.2
As at 31 December 2004 283.7 82.1 365.8 (44.0) 321.8
The financial assets shown in the tables above attract floating rate interest at the interbank offered rate of the appropriate
currency, less a margin. The floating rate financial liabilities bear interest at the interbank offered rate of the appropriate
currency, plus a margin. The interest rate profile of fixed rate financial liabilities is shown below.
2005 2004
Weighted Weighted Weighted Weighted
average average average average
Total interest period for Total interest period for
fixed rate rate of which fixed rate rate of which
financial fixed rate rate financial fixed rate rate
liabilities liabilities is fixed liabilities liabilities is fixed
£m % years £m % years
United States Dollar 317.5 7.6 4.1 283.7 7.6 5.1 Cookson Group plc { 79 } Annual Report 2005
35. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (continued)
(c) Currency exposure of financial assets and liabilities
The table below shows the net unhedged monetary assets and liabilities of Group companies that are not denominated in their
functional currency and which therefore give rise to exchange gains and losses in the income statement.
Net unhedged monetary assets/(liabilities)
Sterling US Dollar Euro Other Total
£m £m £m £m £m
Functional currency:
Sterling – (0.4) 0.8 – 0.4
United States Dollar 0.1 – (0.6) 0.5 –
Euro (0.4) 2.7 – 0.2 2.5
Other (0.7) 8.0 5.7 (1.9) 11.1
As at 31 December 2005 (1.0) 10.3 5.9 (1.2) 14.0
Net unhedged monetary assets/(liabilities)
Sterling US Dollar Euro Other Total
£m £m £m £m £m
Functional currency:
Sterling – (0.1) (0.5) (0.8) (1.4)
United States Dollar (0.1) – 8.1 – 8.0
Euro (1.8) 1.6 – 0.3 0.1
Other (0.5) 5.9 4.2 (6.0) 3.6
As at 31 December 2004 (2.4) 7.4 11.8 (6.5) 10.3
(d) Borrowing facilities
Of the total borrowing facilities available to the Group, the undrawn committed facilities available were as follows:
2005 2004
£m £m
Expiring in more than one year but not more than two years – 108.0
Expiring in more than two years but not more than five years 176.7 –
As at 31 December 176.7 108.0
The Group had committed facilities of £517.5m as at 31 December 2005 (2004: £444.7m). The Group’s near-term borrowing
requirements have been met by a committed syndicated bank facility of £200m (2004: £148m). The facility is for a term of
three years, with options to extend for a further two years. In the period since 31 December 2005, the Group has exercised the
first of these options to extend the facility’s maturity to 1 March 2009 on the same pricing and terms. The facility is unsecured,
with all security and guarantees under the previous facility being fully released. Borrowings under the facility are for general
corporate purposes. Cookson Group plc { 80 } Annual Report 2005
Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
36. EMPLOYEE BENEFITS
The Group operates a number of pension plans around the world, both of the defined contribution and defined benefit type, and
accounts for them in accordance with IAS 19 (as amended).
Defined contribution plans
The Group’s principal defined contribution plans are in the UK and the US and the assets of the plans are held separately from the
Group in trustee-administered funds. The total expense for these plans in the income statement amounted to £7 .9m (2004: £7 .5m)
and represents the contributions payable for the year by the Group to the plans.
Defined benefit pension plans
The Group’s principal defined benefit pension plans are in the UK and the US. The assets of these plans are held separately from
the Group in trustee-administered funds. The Group also has defined benefit pension plans in other territories but these are not
material in relation to the Group as a whole.
The Group has one main defined benefit pension plan in the UK (“the UK Plan”). A full actuarial valuation of the UK Plan is
carried out every three years and the last full valuation was carried out as at 31 December 2003. At that date, the market value of
plan assets was £179.6m and this represented 81% of accrued plan benefits at the time (using the projected unit method of
valuation). The UK Plan was closed to new entrants in October 2004.
The US has a number of defined benefit plans, providing retirement benefits based on final salary or a fixed benefit. In addition,
one of the plans has characteristics similar to defined contribution plans but with a minimum performance level guaranteed by the
Group on the members’ accounts. The “cash balance rate” assumption in the table below refers to the assumed minimum
guaranteed return on members’ accounts. Actuarial valuations of the US defined benefit pension plans are carried out every year
and the last full valuation was carried out as at 31 December 2004. At that date the market value of the plan assets was £56.9m,
representing 67% of accrued plan benefits at that date (using the projected unit method of valuation). Funding levels for the
Group’s US defined benefit pension plans are normally based upon annual valuations carried out by independent qualified
actuaries and in accordance with US government regulations.
Assumptions
The assumptions used in calculating the costs and obligations of the Group’s defined benefit pension and other post-retirement benefit
plans, as shown in the table below, are set by the Directors after consultation with independent professionally qualified actuaries.
31 December 2005 31 December 2004
UK US UK US
Principal assumptions % p.a. % p.a. % p.a. % p.a.
Discount rate 4.75 5.50 5.25 5.75
Price inflation 2.80 2.60 2.50 2.50
Rate of increase in pensionable salaries 3.80 3.60 4.00 4.00
Rate of increase to pensions in payment 2.70 n/a 2.50 n/a
Cash balance rate n/a 5.25 n/a 5.25
Long-term rate of return – equities 7.60 8.00 8.00 8.50
– bonds 4.10 5.00 4.50 5.50
Healthcare cost trend rate – long-term 3.80 5.00 4.00 5.00
– next year 8.00 10.50 8.00 9.50
The overall expected rate of return on plan assets reflects market expectations at the valuation date of long-term asset returns
and the mix of assets in the plans.
A one percent increase in the healthcare cost trend rate assumptions shown above would increase post-employment medical
costs by £0.1m and a one percent decrease in the healthcare cost trend rate assumptions would decrease the costs by £0.1m. Cookson Group plc { 81 } Annual Report 2005
36. EMPLOYEE BENEFITS (continued)
Assumptions (continued)
The mortality assumptions used in the Group’s actuarial valuations since transition to IFRS have been amended to assume that
pensioners have a longer life expectancy. The mortality assumptions used in the valuation of the defined benefit pension liabilities
of the Group’s UK and US plans are summarised in the table below and have been selected to reflect the characteristics and
experience of the membership of those plans. This has been done by adjusting standard mortality tables which reflect recent
research into mortality experience in the UK (PA 92 tables combined with the 2002 short cohort improvement factors) and the US
(UP-94 tables using projection scale AA). In addition, the UK assumptions have been further adjusted to reflect the latest available
trend information, which indicates that mortality relating, in particular, to blue collar workers may not be improving as quickly as
indicated by the standard tables. Accordingly, based on an analysis of the mix of blue and white collar workers in the Group’s plan,
the UK assumptions have been adjusted (using a scaling factor of 118.75%) to reflect a lower level of longevity amongst the blue
collar membership.
UK US
2005 2004 2005 2004
years years years years
Longevity at age 65 for current pensioners – Men 19.7 18.4 17.7 17.7
– Women 22.4 21.3 20.6 20.6
Longevity at age 65 for future pensioners – Men 20.4 19.3 18.5 17.7
– Women 23.1 22.3 21.0 20.6
If assumed life expectancies had been one year greater in each of the UK and US pension plans, the liabilities would have increased
by approximately £13m for the UK plan and £4m for the US plan.
Income statement recognition
The expense recognised in the income statement in respect of the Group’s defined benefit retirement plans and other post-
retirement benefits is as follows:
2005 2004
Other Other
Defined post- Defined post-
benefit retirement benefit retirement
pension benefit pension benefit
plans plans Total plans plans Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Current service cost 8.8 0.6 9.4 9.9 0.2 10.1
Past service cost 0.1 – 0.1 0.1 – 0.1
Interest on obligation 23.0 1.2 24.2 22.0 1.7 23.7
Expected return on plan assets (18.9) – (18.9) (18.0) – (18.0)
Curtailment gains (0.9) – (0.9) (2.2) – (2.2)
Total expense 12.1 1.8 13.9 11.8 1.9 13.7
The actual return on plan assets was £42.3m (2004: £28.6m).
The expense recognised in the income statement in respect of the Group’s defined benefit retirement plans and other post-
retirement benefits is recognised in the following lines:
2005 2004
£m £m
Other manufacturing costs 6.3 7.3
Administration, selling and distribution costs 8.5 8.3
Loss on disposal of operations (0.9) (1.9)
Total expense 13.9 13.7 Cookson Group plc { 82 } Annual Report 2005
Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
36. EMPLOYEE BENEFITS (continued)
Balance sheet recognition
The amount recognised in the balance sheet in respect of the Group’s defined benefit retirement plans and other post-retirement
benefits is as follows:
Other post-
retirement
Defined benefit pension plans
benefit 2005
UK US ROW Total plans Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Equities 147.1 43.2 – 190.3 – 190.3
Bonds 93.8 22.3 7.7 123.8 – 123.8
Other 4.6 0.2 6.1 10.9 – 10.9
Fair value of plan assets 245.5 65.7 13.8 325.0 – 325.0
Present value of funded defined benefit obligations (361.5) (103.9) (20.8) (486.2) – (486.2)
(116.0) (38.2) (7.0) (161.2) – (161.2)
Present value of unfunded post-retirement benefit plans (1.4) (22.9) (7.3) (31.6) (32.0) (63.6)
Net liability recognised in the balance sheet (117.4) (61.1) (14.3) (192.8) (32.0) (224.8)
Other post-
retirement
Defined benefit pension plans
benefit 2004
UK US ROW Total plans Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Equities 129.9 37.6 – 167.5 – 167.5
Bonds 71.6 18.1 – 89.7 – 89.7
Other 3.3 1.2 12.8 17.3 – 17.3
Fair value of plan assets 204.8 56.9 12.8 274.5 – 274.5
Present value of funded defined benefit obligations (301.1) (84.8) (16.9) (402.8) – (402.8)
(96.3) (27.9) (4.1) (128.3) – (128.3)
Present value of unfunded post-retirement benefit plans (2.5) (19.5) (8.4) (30.4) (31.2) (61.6)
Net liability recognised in the balance sheet (98.8) (47.4) (12.5) (158.7) (31.2) (189.9)
Defined benefit obligation
Other post-
retirement
Defined benefit pension plans
benefit 2005
UK US ROW Total plans Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Present value as at 1 January 2005 303.6 104.3 25.3 433.2 31.2 464.4
Exchange differences – 13.0 (1.6) 11.4 1.2 12.6
Current service cost 3.4 3.6 1.8 8.8 0.6 9.4
Past service cost – – 0.1 0.1 – 0.1
Interest cost 15.6 6.3 1.1 23.0 1.2 24.2
Curtailment gains (0.1) (0.8) – (0.9) – (0.9)
Actuarial losses 54.0 6.5 3.3 63.8 0.7 64.5
Contributions from members 1.6 – 0.1 1.7 – 1.7
Benefits paid (15.2) (6.1) (2.0) (23.3) (2.9) (26.2)
Present value as at 31 December 2005 362.9 126.8 28.1 517.8 32.0 549.8 Cookson Group plc { 83 } Annual Report 2005
36. EMPLOYEE BENEFITS (continued)
Defined benefit obligation (continued)
Other post-
retirement
Defined benefit pension plans
benefit 2004
UK US ROW Total plans Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Present value as at 1 January 2004 268.8 101.1 19.6 389.5 30.9 420.4
Exchange differences – (7.5) 0.4 (7.1) (1.6) (8.7)
Current service cost 5.0 3.2 1.7 9.9 0.2 10.1
Past service cost – – 0.1 0.1 – 0.1
Interest cost 14.9 5.8 1.3 22.0 1.7 23.7
Curtailment gains (0.3) – (1.9) (2.2) – (2.2)
Actuarial losses 24.9 5.9 4.7 35.5 1.9 37.4
Contributions from members 1.4 – 0.1 1.5 – 1.5
Benefits paid (11.1) (4.2) (0.7) (16.0) (1.9) (17.9)
Present value as at 31 December 2004 303.6 104.3 25.3 433.2 31.2 464.4
Plan assets
2005 2004
UK US ROW Total UK US ROW Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Fair value as at 1 January 204.8 56.9 12.8 274.5 185.2 55.8 6.2 247.2
Exchange differences – 6.9 (0.1) 6.8 – (4.0) 0.2 (3.8)
Expected return on assets 13.9 4.5 0.5 18.9 13.2 4.2 0.6 18.0
Actuarial gains 25.3 (1.7) (0.2) 23.4 6.0 0.1 4.5 10.6
Contributions from employer 15.1 5.2 2.7 23.0 10.1 5.0 1.9 17.0
Contributions from members 1.6 – 0.1 1.7 1.4 – 0.1 1.5
Benefits paid (15.2) (6.1) (2.0) (23.3) (11.1) (4.2) (0.7) (16.0)
Fair value as at 31 December 245.5 65.7 13.8 325.0 204.8 56.9 12.8 274.5
The Group is expected to make aggregate contributions into its defined benefit pension plans of £43m in 2006. This includes a
special funding contribution of £25.5m into the main UK pension plan. The Group is also expected to make aggregate contributions
in respect of its other post-retirement plans of £2.0m in 2006.
History
The history of the fair value of the plan assets, the defined benefit obligation, the deficit in the plans and the experience
adjustments on plan assets and liabilities are shown below:
Defined benefit Other post-retirement
pension plans benefit plans
2005 2004 2005 2004
£m £m £m £m
Fair value of plan assets 325.0 274.5 – –
Present value of defined benefit obligations (517.8) (433.2) (32.0) (31.2)
Deficit (192.8) (158.7) (32.0) (31.2)
Experience losses on plan liabilities (6.4) (10.7) (0.7) (1.8)
Experience gains on plan assets 23.4 11.4 – –
The cumulative amount of actuarial losses recognised in the statement of recognised income and expense in 2005 is £67.9m
(2004: £26.8m). Cookson Group plc { 84 } Annual Report 2005
Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
37. SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS
The Group operates a number of different share-based payment schemes; the main features of each scheme are outlined below.
(a) Long-Term Incentive Plan (“LTIP”)
At the 2004 AGM of the Company shareholders approved a new LTIP to replace the Mid-Term Incentive Plan (“MTIP”) and the
executive share option schemes, both of which are being phased out.
The LTIP has two elements. Firstly, executives who are eligible receive a conditional annual award of shares worth up to a
prescribed percentage of their base salary (“Performance Shares”). Secondly, executives can elect to invest all or part of their
annual incentive in ordinary shares of the Company (“Bonus Investment Shares”) in return for which they receive a conditional
award of ordinary shares equal in value to the pre-tax equivalent of the annual incentive so invested (“Matching Shares”).
Performance Shares and Matching Shares vest after three years, with the proportion of shares vesting being based on the
Company’s TSR performance over that three-year period relative to that of the constituent companies of its comparator group.
For awards made during the year, the comparator group used for the Company was the FTSE 250 excluding Investment Trusts.
This performance measure was chosen to enhance the link between the interests of the Group’s senior executives, including
the executive Directors, and shareholders. Vesting of the Performance Shares and Matching Shares will be as follows:
TSR ranking relative to FTSE Mid 250 Matching Shares Vesting Ratio
excluding Investment Trusts Performance Shares Vesting Percentage (Matching Shares: Bonus Investment Shares)
Below median 0% 0
Median 25% 0.5:1
Upper quintile (top 20%) 100% 2.25:1
Between median and upper quintile Pro rata between 25% and 100% Pro rata between 0.5:1 and 2.25:1
An executive’s Matching Shares award will only vest if the Bonus Investment Shares originally purchased have been retained.
No Performance Shares or Matching Shares vest for below median performance.
The fair value of awards granted under the LTIP is measured using a stochastic pricing model.
(b) Mid-Term Incentive Plan (“MTIP”)
Under the MTIP, executives were eligible to receive a bonus, paid partly in cash and partly in ordinary shares of the Company,
the beneficial receipt of which is deferred for two years from the date of the award (“restricted shares”) based upon the
achievement of target financial performance, measured over a three-year period. For existing cycles, performance targets
based on either the Group’s cumulative profit or cumulative profit and cash flow performance were set by the Remuneration
Committee for each three-year MTIP period. The MTIP operated on a rolling three-year basis and the final remaining cycle
culminated at the end of 2005.
The fair value of awards granted under the MTIP is measured using a Black-Scholes pricing model.
(c) Executive Option Schemes (“ESOS”)
The last executive share option grant was made in 2003. Under these schemes, share options were granted at the market price
prevailing at the time of grant. Options normally only became exercisable if the growth in headline earnings per share was at
least equal to the increase in the UK Retail Price Index plus 3% per annum (2% per annum for options granted in 1995 and
1996) for a consecutive three-year period. When options were granted in November 2002 and September 2003 the
performance criteria were made more demanding for executive Directors. Details of the additional performance conditions
applicable can be found in the Directors’ Remuneration Report.
The fair value of awards granted under the ESOS is measured using a stochastic pricing model.
(d) UK and International Sharesave Schemes (“SAYE” schemes)
The last grant under the SAYE schemes was made in 2004. Under the SAYE schemes, employees have the opportunity to
purchase ordinary shares in the Group at a discounted price of up to 20% by using their savings together with an additional
tax free bonus at the end of their saving period. The schemes operate in conjunction with a three or five-year savings contract
and options are granted at a discount of up to 20% of the market value of the shares at the date of grant. Employees who have
entered into this contract must make monthly savings of between £5 and £250.
The fair value of awards granted under the SAYE schemes is measured using a Black-Scholes pricing model.
  Cookson Group plc { 85 } Annual Report 2005
37. SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS (continued)
(e) US Stock Purchase Plan (“USSPP”)
The last grant under the USSPP was made in 2004. An eligible employee who applied for an option under the USSPP agreed
to savings being deducted from their net pay. Regular deductions were made over a one-year period (not more than US$5,000
in any year). Shares were only acquired under the USSPP on exercise of the option using the savings together with interest on
such savings. The price payable for each ordinary share was the price in sterling determined by the Directors, provided that it
was not less than 85% of the middle market quotation of the ordinary shares on the date of grant. An option granted under
the USSPP was exercisable not later than 18 months after the date of grant provided the option holder was still employed by
the Group.
The fair value of awards granted under the USSPP is measured using a Black-Scholes pricing model.
(f) Stock Appreciation Rights (“SAR”)
Due to the disadvantageous tax regime in Belgium, Belgian participants in the ESOS and SAYE schemes received SAR instead
of share options. These SAR were awarded under exactly the same rights and conditions as the share options, except that
individuals received in cash the difference between the subscription price and market price of Cookson Group plc shares on
the date of exercise, rather than having the right to purchase shares.
(g) IFRS 2 disclosures
The Company has followed the transitional provisions of IFRS 2 and applied it only to those options that were granted after
7 November 2002 and which had not vested by 1 January 2005. The following disclosures are only in respect of those options
that fall within the scope of IFRS 2. The exercise prices shown in the following tables are the weighted average exercise prices.
Options
Outstanding options
exercisable Latest
As at 1 As at 31 as at 31 Earliest year in Range of
January Forfeited/ December December year in which exercise
2005 Granted Exercised lapsed 2005 2005 which options prices
No. No. No. No. No. No. exercisable expire pence
LTIP 407,227 1,081,099 – (158,493) 1,329,833 – 2007 2008
Exercise price nil nil – nil nil – n/a
MTIP 155,127 81,218 (1,096) (14,932) 220,317 15,133 2006 2007
Exercise price nil nil nil nil nil nil n/a
ESOS 2,744,268 – – (523,701) 2,220,567 140,856 2006 2013
Exercise price 276p – – 268p 278p 278p 250-360p
SAYE 630,719 – (111) (91,031) 539,577 3,483 2006 2010
Exercise price 295p – 270p 308p 293p 282p 270-350p
USSPP 546,349 – (4,070) (273,292) 268,987 263,331 2006 2006
Exercise price 310p – 261p 358p 261p 261p 261p
SAR 558,982 – – – 558,982 150,491 2006 2013
Exercise price 284p – – – 284p 269p 250-360p
  Cookson Group plc { 86 } Annual Report 2005
Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
37. SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS (continued)
(g) IFRS 2 disclosures (continued)
Outstanding options
Options
exercisable Latest
As at 1 As at 31 as at 31 Earliest year in Range of
January Forfeited/ December December year in which exercise
2004 Granted Exercised lapsed 2004 2004 which options prices
No. No. No. No. No. No. exercisable expire pence
LTIP – 407,227 – – 407,227 – 2007 2007
Exercise price nil nil nil
MTIP – 155,127 – – 155,127 – 2006 2006
Exercise price nil nil nil
ESOS 2,744,268 – – – 2,744,268 – 2006 2013
Exercise price 276p 276p 250-360p
SAYE 200,801 429,918 – – 630,719 – 2006 2010
Exercise price 350p 270p 295p 270-350p
USSPP 231,734 314,615 – – 546,349 – 2005 2006
Exercise price 375p 261p 310p 261-375p
SAR 558,982 – – – 558,982 – 2006 2013
Exercise price 284p – – 284p – 250-360p
The fair values of options granted in the year, together with the other inputs into the option pricing models, are shown below.
LTIP MTIP
Options granted during 2005:
Fair value of options granted (per share) 227p 395p
Share price on date of grant (per share) 329p 395p
Expected volatility 70.8% n/a
Risk-free interest rate 4.4% n/a
Exercise price (per share) nil nil
Expected term (years) 3.00 1.75
Expected dividend yield nil nil
LTIP MTIP ESOS SAYE USSPP
Options granted/modified during 2004:
Fair value of options granted (per share) 297p 426p 24p 162p 118p
Share price on date of grant (per share) 419p 426p 345p 300p 308p
Expected volatility 66.3% n/a 69.8% 64.7% 70.2%
Risk-free interest rate 5.0% n/a 4.4% 4.7% 4.4%
Exercise price (per share) nil nil 266p 270p 261p
Expected term (years) 3.00 1.75 1.17 3.77 1.25
Expected dividend yield nil nil nil nil nil
Share price volatility is based upon weekly movements in the Company’s share price over a period prior to the grant date that
is equal in length to the expected term of the award and for an additional rolling five-year period prior to that.
  Cookson Group plc { 87 } Annual Report 2005
37. SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS (continued)
(g) IFRS 2 disclosures (continued)
The terms and conditions of certain ESOS options granted to Mr S L Howard, a former Group Chief Executive of the Company,
were modified in 2004 following Mr Howard’s departure in November 2004. The majority of Mr Howard’s options lapsed on the
date of his departure, but it was agreed that he should retain the right to exercise options granted to him in November 2002
and September 2003, subject to the average mid-market closing price of Cookson’s shares exceeding 500p for a period of 30
consecutive dealing days prior to the option lapse date of 31 December 2005. This price hurdle was not met and the options
subsequently lapsed. The incremental fair value granted as a result of these modifications was £74,000. Fair value was
calculated using a stochastic option-pricing model.
The total expense recognised in the income statement for each of the share-based payment schemes, all of which was
charged within administration, distribution and selling costs, was as follows:
2005 2004
£m £m
LTIP 0.9 0.2
MTIP 0.4 0.3
ESOS 0.9 0.9
SAYE 0.3 0.1
USSPP 0.3 0.3
SAR 0.4 0.4
Total expense 3.2 2.2
The total intrinsic value at the end of the year for cash-settled share-based payments that had vested was £0.7m (2004: £0.3m).
38. TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES
2005 2004
£m £m
Non-current:
Deferred purchase consideration 2.1 2.9
Accruals and other creditors 33.4 55.4
Total non-current payables 35.5 58.3
Current:
Trade payables 132.2 152.7
Other taxes and social security 24.0 22.2
Accruals and other creditors 91.9 117.5
Deferred purchase consideration 1.1 10.8
Total current payables 249.2 303.2
Included within accruals and other creditors are liabilities in respect of cash-settled share-based payments of £0.7m (2004: £0.3m). Cookson Group plc { 88 } Annual Report 2005
Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
39. PROVISIONS
Disposal Rationali-
and sation and
closure integration
costs costs Other Total
£m £m £m £m
As at 1 January 2004 16.4 13.4 4.3 34.1
Exchange adjustments (0.7) (0.1) 0.3 (0.5)
Charged to income statement – 22.7 – 22.7
Cash spend (6.0) (14.2) (0.7) (20.9)
Asset write-offs (1.0) (6.3) (0.6) (7.9)
Disposals 2.6 – – 2.6
Reclassifications/transfers (3.7) (0.4) (0.6) (4.7)
As at 31 December 2004 7.6 15.1 2.7 25.4
Exchange adjustments 0.3 0.3 0.2 0.8
Charged to income statement 1.9 18.5 (0.2) 20.2
Cash spend (5.3) (17.0) (0.1) (22.4)
Asset write-offs – (3.0) – (3.0)
Disposals 5.9 – – 5.9
Reclassifications/transfers 7.5 (1.2) (1.5) 4.8
As at 31 December 2005 17.9 12.7 1.1 31.7
2005 2004
£m £m
Analysed as:
Non-current 11.1 10.3
Current 20.6 15.1
Total provisions 31.7 25.4
The provision for disposal and closure costs includes the Directors’ current best estimates of the costs to be incurred both in the
fulfilment of obligations undertaken in connection with business disposals and those involved in the demolition and clean-up of closed
sites. The majority of the amounts provided for such projects is expected to be utilised over the next two years and the underlying
estimates of costs are regularly updated to reflect changed circumstances with regard to individual transactions or projects.
The provisions for rationalisation and integration costs are used to manage the costs of all of the Group’s initiatives to
rationalise its operating activities. The balance of £12.7m as at 31 December 2005 related mainly to future cash expenditure on
rationalisation initiatives commenced in 2004 and 2005 and is expected to be spent over the course of the next two years.
The amount shown in respect of “Other” provisions comprises a number of items none of which are individually material in a
Group context. Cookson Group plc { 89 } Annual Report 2005
40. COMMITMENTS
2005 2004
£m £m
Capital commitments:
Contractual commitments for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment 0.9 5.0
Operating lease commitments:
The future aggregate minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows:
Not later than one year 12.8 18.5
Later than one year and not later than five years 30.7 41.7
Later than five years 81.8 95.1
Total operating lease commitments 125.3 155.3
41. CONTINGENT LIABILITIES
Guarantees of borrowings for the Group as at 31 December 2005 amounted to £0.4m (2004: £1.4m) and guarantees under
property leases of discontinued operations amounted to £4.5m (2004: £nil). Details of guarantees given by the Company, on behalf
of the Group, are given in note 63.
The Group has extensive international operations and several companies within the Group are parties to legal proceedings,
certain of which are insured claims arising in the ordinary course of the operations of the Group company involved. While the
outcome of litigation can never be predicted with certainty, having regard to legal advice received and the Group’s insurance
arrangements, the Directors believe that none of these matters will, either individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse
effect on the Group’s financial condition or results of operations.
Legal claims have been brought against Group companies by third parties alleging that persons have been harmed by exposure
to hazardous materials. Two of the Group’s subsidiaries are subject to suits in the US relating to a small number of products
containing asbestos manufactured prior to the acquisition of those subsidiaries by the Group. To date, there have been no liability
verdicts against any of these subsidiaries. A number of suits have been withdrawn, dismissed or settled, and the amount paid,
including costs, in relation to this litigation has not been material to the Group’s financial position or results of operations.
42. EVENTS AFTER THE BALANCE SHEET DATE
Except as disclosed in notes 58 and 59, there were no disclosable post balance sheet events.
43. SUBSIDIARIES
Details of the principal subsidiaries and joint ventures of Cookson Group plc and the countries in which they are incorporated are
given in note 52.
44. RELATED PARTIES
Transactions between Group subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed
in this note. During the year, Group subsidiaries made sales of products and services to Group joint venture companies of £1.3m
(2004: £1.5m) and made purchases of goods and services from Group joint venture companies of £3.7m (2004: £1.9m). As at 31
December 2005 amounts owed by the Group’s joint ventures to Group subsidiaries was £nil (2004: £0.1m) and amounts owed to
Group joint ventures by Group subsidiaries was £nil (2004: £nil). Any amounts outstanding are unsecured and will be settled in
cash. No provisions have been made for doubtful debts in respect of amounts owed by related parties. Details of related party
information in relation to key management personnel are given in note 12. Cookson Group plc { 90 } Annual Report 2005
Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
45. EXPLANATION OF TRANSITION TO IFRS
As stated in note 2, these are the Group’s first financial statements prepared in accordance with IFRS. The accounting policies set
out in note 3 have been consistently applied in preparing the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2005, the
comparative information for the year ended 31 December 2004 and the Group’s opening IFRS balance sheet as at 1 January 2004.
The transition of the Group’s financial statements from UK GAAP to IFRS involved a two-stage process. The first stage was to
make presentational and format changes to the financial statements as disclosed under UK GAAP to make them consistent with
the presentation adopted by IFRS. The second stage was to identify the areas of difference in recognition and measurement
criteria between UK GAAP and IFRS and to restate the previously disclosed UK GAAP amounts accordingly.
45.1 PRESENTATIONAL AND FORMAT CHANGES
The principal presentational and format changes are described below.
(a) Income statement
(i) Various changes in terminology have been made, the most significant of which are shown as below:
UK GAAP IFRS
Profit and loss account Income statement
Turnover Revenue
Interest Finance costs
(ii) Under UK GAAP the income statement showed revenue for the Group both gross and net of its share of revenue from
joint ventures, whereas under IFRS revenue excludes the revenue from joint ventures.
(iii) Under UK GAAP the Group’s share of trading profit from joint ventures was shown separately in the income statement
and the Group’s finance costs and taxation included its share of the finance costs and taxation of its joint ventures. Under
IFRS, the Group’s share of profit after tax from its joint ventures is presented as a single item before profit before tax.
(iv) Under UK GAAP the profit or loss on disposal of discontinued operations was disclosed before tax, whereas under IFRS it
is shown after tax.
(b) Balance sheet
(i) Long-term debtors previously included within current assets amounting to £10.6m as at 31 December 2004 (1 January
2004: £8.2m) have been reclassified as other non-current assets.
(ii) Deferred tax assets and liabilities are shown separately on the balance sheet as non-current items. This has resulted in a
reclassification as at 31 December 2004 of deferred tax assets previously included within debtors of £35.3m (1 January
2004: £53.5m) to non-current deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities previously included within provisions of
£8.6m as at 31 December 2004 (1 January 2004: £11.5m) to non-current deferred tax liabilities.
(iii) Income taxes recoverable and payable are shown as separate line items on the balance sheet and as current or non-current
as appropriate. This has resulted in a reclassification as at 31 December 2004 of amounts previously included within debtors
of £2.2m (1 January 2004: £nil) to non-current income tax recoverable and £0.9m (1 January 2004: £3.0m) to current income
tax recoverable and of amounts previously included within creditors of £11.6m (2004: £15.5m) to current income tax payable.
(iv) Amounts received under debtor securitisation arrangements are shown as liabilities and not as a deduction from the
associated debtor balances. This has resulted in a reclassification of these receipts as at 31 December 2004 of £10.7m
(1 January 2004: £11.2m) from debtors to interest-bearing loans and borrowings within current liabilities.
(v) Provisions expected to be settled within one year of the balance sheet date are shown as current liabilities. This has
resulted in a reclassification as at 31 December 2004 of £15.1m (1 January 2004: £13.4m) from non-current liabilities to
current liabilities.
(vi) Certain US assets that are held in Rabbi Trusts to meet pension obligations are not classified by IAS 19 as pension assets.
This has resulted in a reclassification of these assets as at 31 December 2004 of £6.4m (1 January 2004: £6.9m) from
current asset prepayments to non-current other investments.
(vii) Overdrafts, previously shown as a component of borrowings within current liabilities, are now included within cash and
cash equivalents. This has resulted in a reclassification as at 31 December 2004 of £3.4m (1 January 2004: £4.0m) from
current liabilities to current assets.
(viii) Pension balances as at 31 December 2004 that were previously reported within trade and other receivables of £26.7m 
(1 January 2004: £19.9m), trade and other payables of £39.6m (1 January 2004: £41.3m) and provisions for liabilities and
charges of £23.3m (1 January 2004: £25.7m) are shown as a single line item for employee benefits within non-current
liabilities amounting to £36.2m (1 January 2004: £47.1m).
(c) Statement of cash flows
(i) In addition to the change in presentation brought about by item (vii) above, the Group statement of cash flows under IFRS
must comply with the format and headings prescribed by IAS 7, Cash Flow Statements. With the exception of the
reclassification described in (vii) above, no other IFRS transitional adjustments impacted on the restated net cash flow
from operating, investing or financing activities.
  Cookson Group plc { 91 } Annual Report 2005
45. EXPLANATION OF TRANSITION TO IFRS (continued)
45.2 CHANGES TO AMOUNTS PREVIOUSLY DISCLOSED UNDER UK GAAP
In the tables shown below, amounts appearing in the columns headed “As reported under UK GAAP” have been subject to the
presentational and format adjustments described in 45.1 above.
(a) Reconciliation of the Group’s income statement for the year ended 31 December 2004
As reported
under Effect of As reported
UK GAAP transition under IFRS
Notes £m £m £m
Revenue i 1,653.0 (0.5) 1,652.5
Manufacturing costs – raw materials ii (756.2) 0.4 (755.8)
– other (447.1) – (447.1)
Administration, selling and distribution costs iii (334.1) (0.6) (334.7)
Trading profit 115.6 (0.7) 114.9
Rationalisation of operating activities (22.7) – (22.7)
Amortisation and impairment of intangibles iv (32.5) 31.7 (0.8)
Loss relating to fixed assets (16.8) – (16.8)
Profit from operations 43.6 31.0 74.6
Net finance costs – ongoing activities v (31.9) (0.3) (32.2)
– other activities 5.4 – 5.4
Share of post-tax profit of joint ventures 2.3 – 2.3
Profit before tax 19.4 30.7 50.1
Income tax costs – ongoing activities vi (24.5) 0.2 (24.3)
– other activities vi (3.8) (4.1) (7.9)
(Loss)/profit on disposal of operations vii (37.2) 2.3 (34.9)
(Loss)/profit for the year (46.1) 29.1 (17.0)
(Loss)/profit for the year attributable to:
Equity holders of the parent company (50.2) 29.1 (21.1)
Minority interests 4.1 – 4.1
(Loss)/profit for the year (46.1) 29.1 (17.0)
  Cookson Group plc { 92 } Annual Report 2005
Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
45. EXPLANATION OF TRANSITION TO IFRS (continued)
45.2 CHANGES TO AMOUNTS PREVIOUSLY DISCLOSED UNDER UK GAAP (continued)
(a) Reconciliation of the Group’s income statement for the year ended 31 December 2004 (continued)
Effect of
transition
£m
i Revenue
Adjustment of sales to prior period (0.5)
ii Manufacturing costs – raw materials
Adjustment of sales to prior period 0.4
iii Administration, selling and distribution costs
Long-term employee benefits (note (c) i ) 1.6
Holiday pay accruals (note (c) ii ) (0.1)
Share-based payments (note (c) iii ) (2.2)
Operating leases reclassified as finance leases (note (c) v ) 0.3
Depreciation charge on mothballed assets (0.2)
Total administration, selling and distribution costs (0.6)
iv Amortisation and impairment of intangibles
Reversal of goodwill amortisation charged under UK GAAP (note (c) iv ) 31.7
v Net finance costs – ongoing activities
Operating leases reclassified as finance leases (note (c) v ) (0.3)
vi Income tax
Deferred tax on IFRS adjustments for:
Long-term employee benefits, holiday pay accruals and share-based payments 0.2
Goodwill (note (c) vi ) (4.1)
Total income tax (3.9)
vii (Loss)/profit on disposal of operations
Reversal of goodwill amortisation charged under UK GAAP (note (c) iv ) 2.3 Cookson Group plc { 93 } Annual Report 2005
45. EXPLANATION OF TRANSITION TO IFRS (continued)
45.2 CHANGES TO AMOUNTS PREVIOUSLY DISCLOSED UNDER UK GAAP (continued)
(b) Reconciliation of the Group’s equity
As at 1 January 2004 As at 31 December 2004
As 
As reported reported
under UK Effect of As reported under UK Effect of As reported
GAAP transition under IFRS GAAP transition under IFRS
Notes £m £m £m £m £m £m
Assets
Property, plant and equipment i 350.7 4.1 354.8 319.6 3.3 322.9
Intangible assets ii 514.0 – 514.0 453.5 31.7 485.2
Investments in joint ventures 18.8 – 18.8 14.7 – 14.7
Other investments 37.2 – 37.2 16.7 – 16.7
Income tax recoverable – – – 2.2 – 2.2
Deferred tax assets iii 53.5 (0.6) 52.9 35.3 (4.1) 31.2
Trade and other receivables 8.2 – 8.2 10.6 – 10.6
Total non-current assets 982.4 3.5 985.9 852.6 30.9 883.5
Cash and cash equivalents 52.8 – 52.8 44.0 – 44.0
Inventories iv 172.9 (0.3) 172.6 174.0 0.1 174.1
Trade and other receivables v 316.9 0.4 317.3 303.5 (0.1) 303.4
Income tax recoverable 3.0 – 3.0 0.9 – 0.9
Other financial assets –– ––– –
Total current assets 545.6 0.1 545.7 522.4 – 522.4
Total assets 1,528.0 3.6 1,531.6 1,375.0 30.9 1,405.9
Equity
Issued share capital 375.4 – 375.4 375.5 – 375.5
Share premium account 642.6 – 642.6 643.4 – 643.4
Other reserves – – – (10.9) – (10.9)
Retained earnings vi (402.9) (128.0) (530.9) (448.6) (128.0) (576.6)
Total parent company shareholders’ equity 615.1 (128.0) 487.1 559.4 (128.0) 431.4
Minority interests 11.8 – 11.8 11.7 – 11.7
Total equity 626.9 (128.0) 498.9 571.1 (128.0) 443.1
Liabilities
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 320.3 – 320.3 326.1 – 326.1
Employee benefits vii 47.1 126.1 173.2 36.2 153.7 189.9
Trade and other payables 69.3 – 69.3 58.3 – 58.3
Provisions 20.7 – 20.7 10.3 – 10.3
Deferred tax liabilities 11.5 – 11.5 8.6 – 8.6
Total non-current liabilities 468.9 126.1 595.0 439.5 153.7 593.2
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings viii 102.2 4.8 107.0 35.5 4.2 39.7
Trade and other payables ix 301.1 0.8 301.9 302.2 1.0 303.2
Income tax payable x 15.5 (0.1) 15.4 11.6 – 11.6
Provisions 13.4 – 13.4 15.1 – 15.1
Other financial liabilities –– ––– –
Total current liabilities 432.2 5.5 437.7 364.4 5.2 369.6
Total liabilities 901.1 131.6 1,032.7 803.9 158.9 962.8
Total equity and liabilities 1,528.0 3.6 1,531.6 1,375.0 30.9 1,405.9 Cookson Group plc { 94 } Annual Report 2005
Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
45. EXPLANATION OF TRANSITION TO IFRS (continued)
45.2 CHANGES TO AMOUNTS PREVIOUSLY DISCLOSED UNDER UK GAAP (continued)
(b) Reconciliation of the Group’s equity (continued)
Effect of Effect of
transition transition
1 January 31 December
2004 2004
£m £m
i Property, plant and equipment
Operating leases reclassified as finance leases (note (c) v ) 4.5 3.9
Accumulated depreciation charge on mothballed assets (0.4) (0.6)
Total property, plant and equipment 4.1 3.3
ii Intangible assets
Reversal of goodwill amortisation charged under UK GAAP (note (c) iv ) – 31.7
iii Deferred tax assets
Deferred tax on IFRS adjustments for:
Long-term employee benefits, holiday pay accruals and share-based payments 1.6 1.9
Goodwill (note (c) vi ) (2.2) (6.0)
Total deferred tax assets (0.6) (4.1)
iv Inventories
Adjustment of sales to prior period (0.3) 0.1
v Current trade and other receivables
Adjustment of sales to prior period 0.4 (0.1)
vi Retained earnings
Holiday pay accruals (note (c) ii ) (0.8) (1.0)
Operating leases reclassified as finance leases (note (c) v ) (0.3) (0.3)
Recognition of actuarial gains and losses on defined benefit pension and other post-retirement
obligations (note (c) i ) (126.1) (153.7)
Adjustment of sales to prior period 0.1 –
Reversal of goodwill amortisation charged under UK GAAP (note (c) iv ) – 31.7
Accumulated depreciation charge on mothballed assets (0.4) (0.6)
(127.5) (123.9)
Tax effect of all IFRS adjustments (0.5) (4.1)
Total retained earnings (128.0) (128.0)
vii Employee benefits
Recognition of actuarial gains and losses on defined benefit pension and other post-retirement
obligations (note (c) i ) 126.1 153.7
viii Current interest-bearing loans and borrowings
Operating leases reclassified as finance leases (note (c) v ) 4.8 4.2
ix Current trade and other payables
Holiday pay accruals (note (c) ii ) 0.8 1.0
x Income tax payable
Income taxes on long-term employee benefit deficit (0.1) – Cookson Group plc { 95 } Annual Report 2005
45. EXPLANATION OF TRANSITION TO IFRS (continued)
45.2 CHANGES TO AMOUNTS PREVIOUSLY DISCLOSED UNDER UK GAAP (continued)
(c) Explanation of the significant changes to amounts previously reported under UK GAAP
i Long-term employee benefits
Under UK GAAP, the Group accounted for pension and other post-retirement benefit obligations in accordance with SSAP
24, Accounting for Pension Costs. Additional disclosures were also given in compliance with FRS 17, Retirement Benefits.
Under IFRS, the Group accounts for pension and other post-retirement benefit obligations in accordance with IAS 19,
Employee Benefits (as amended), which is similar to FRS 17 in many respects, particularly in that it requires the net deficit
of the Group’s defined benefit pension and other post-retirement benefit arrangements to be brought onto the Group
balance sheet. As permitted by IFRS 1, all cumulative actuarial gains and losses relating to the Group’s pension and other
post-retirement benefit obligations have been recognised in equity at the transition date.
Under IAS 19, the fair value of pension scheme assets is determined using the bid price, as opposed to the mid-market
price used under UK GAAP. With regard to other post-retirement obligations, adoption of IAS 19 leads to the recognition of
certain long-term benefit obligations, including leaving and termination obligations, which were not previously recognised
under UK GAAP.
Under UK GAAP , the Group recognised net accruals for pension and other post-retirement obligations as at 31 December
2004 of £29.8m (1 January 2004: £40.2m). Under IFRS, these balances are reversed to reserves and replaced in total with
an actuarially-determined value of the net deficit arising on the Group’s defined benefit pension schemes and other post-
retirement benefit arrangements. The actuarial valuation of the Group’s combined defined benefit pension schemes and
other post-retirement benefit arrangements as at 31 December 2004 produced a net deficit of £189.9m (1 January 2004:
£173.2m), which is recognised in the Group balance sheet as “Employee benefits”. The comparative combined net deficit
valuation of the Group’s employee benefit obligations under FRS 17 as at 31 December 2004 was £175.3m.
Under UK GAAP, the regular charge to the profit and loss account in respect of defined benefit pension and other post-
retirement obligations was £17 .1m in 2004. The equivalent charge to the income statement under IAS 19 for 2004 was £13.7m.
As a result of the transition from UK GAAP to IFRS, the net impact on Group reserves in respect of the Group’s employee
benefit arrangements was a reduction of £153.7m as at 31 December 2004 (1 January 2004: £126.1m).
ii Short-term employee benefits (holiday pay accruals)
Under IAS 19, Cookson accrues for the cost of all short-term accumulating compensated absences, such as holiday
entitlement earned but not taken at the balance sheet date. Under UK GAAP , Group companies accrued for holiday pay only
where this was required under local accounting requirements.
The impact of IAS 19 on the Group’s transition to IFRS is to increase the holiday pay accrual by £1.0m as at 31 December
2004 (1 January 2004: £0.8m). The incremental charge to the income statement for 2004 was £0.1m.
iii Share-based payments
The Group has a number of share-based incentive option arrangements. Under IFRS 2, Share-based Payment, the Group
has to fair value the cost of share options at the date the options are granted and recognise that cost over the relevant
vesting period.
Historically, the Company shares used to satisfy the exercise of those options granted under the Group’s share-based
incentive arrangements that are equity-settled have been newly-issued shares, or shares held through the Group’s Employee
Share Ownership Plan. Accordingly, no profit and loss account charge was recognised under UK GAAP.
The Company has followed the transitional provisions of IFRS 2 and applied it only to those awards made after 
7 November 2002 that had not vested by 1 January 2005. As a result of the adoption of IFRS 2, an income statement charge
of £2.2m was made for 2004.
  Cookson Group plc { 96 } Annual Report 2005
Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
45. EXPLANATION OF TRANSITION TO IFRS (continued)
45.2 CHANGES TO AMOUNTS PREVIOUSLY DISCLOSED UNDER UK GAAP (continued)
(c) Explanation of the significant changes to amounts previously reported under UK GAAP (continued)
iv Business combinations and Goodwill
Under IFRS 3, Business combinations, the purchase cost of all business acquisitions is required to be applied against the
fair value of all identified tangible, separable intangible assets and liabilities of the acquired business in the determination
of any goodwill arising on acquisition. IFRS 3 further requires that any such separable intangible fixed assets are amortised
over their useful lives and that goodwill must then be carried at cost with annual impairment reviews. The Group has taken
advantage of the exemption under IFRS 1 not to restate all business combinations prior to 1 January 2004 in line with the
requirements of IFRS 3.
As a result of the adoption of IFRS 3, goodwill amounting to £317 .8m as at 1 January 2004 that had arisen on acquisitions
made before 1998 and that had previously been written-off to Group reserves remains so written-off and will no longer be
recycled through the income statement on any subsequent disposal of the businesses to which it originally related. In
addition, goodwill of £505.6m recognised on the Group balance sheet under UK GAAP as at 1 January 2004, is now carried
unamortised and is subject to an annual impairment review.
The goodwill amortisation charge for 2004 of £31.7m under UK GAAP has been reversed and the loss arising on business
disposals has been restated to take account of the impact of IFRS 3 on the goodwill previously associated with these disposals.
vLeases
Under IAS 17, Leases, the distinction between finance leases and operating leases is similar to, but not exactly the same as,
that under UK GAAP and following a review of the operating lease arrangements throughout the Group, certain of these
leases have been determined to qualify as finance leases under IFRS.
Accordingly, as at 31 December 2004 £3.9m (1 January 2004: £4.5m) in relation to these leases has been capitalised
within property, plant and equipment and the corresponding obligation under the leases of £4.2m (1 January 2004: £4.8m)
has been recognised within interest-bearing loans and borrowings.
The impact on the income statement is to replace the operating lease rentals charged under UK GAAP with a
depreciation charge under IFRS, the net effect of which is to increase trading profit by £0.3m. In addition, the finance
element of the lease payments is recognised within net finance costs, which are increased by £0.3m.
vi Deferred tax
With certain exceptions, deferred tax under IFRS is recognised on all temporary differences that have originated but not
reversed at the balance sheet date. The principal exceptions relate to temporary differences arising from Group
investments where the Group is able to control the reversal of those temporary differences and those differences are not
expected to reverse in the foreseeable future. In addition, deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is
more likely than not that they will be realised within the foreseeable future.
On transition to IFRS, the main areas in which changes to deferred tax assets and liabilities have been identified are in respect
of rolled-over taxable gains, pensions, holiday pay accruals, share-based payments and on tax deductible goodwill. In the case of
the latter , since goodwill arising on consolidation is now frozen in value under IFRS, subject to any impairment charges required,
but goodwill amortisation is still allowed as a deduction for tax purposes in certain jurisdictions, this has the effect of generating
a deferred tax liability which will continue to grow in future periods until such time as the goodwill amortisation tax deductions
cease or the goodwill asset is written-off on disposal of the underlying businesses or as a result of impairment charges.
The net tax impact of the adjustments made on adoption of IFRS by the Group resulted in a reduction of deferred tax
assets of £4.1m as at 31 December 2004 (1 January 2004: £0.6m), including a liability of £6.0m as at 31 December 2004 
(1 January 2004: £2.2m) associated with the Group’s goodwill balance.
  Cookson Group plc { 97 } Annual Report 2005
45. EXPLANATION OF TRANSITION TO IFRS (continued)
45.2 CHANGES TO AMOUNTS PREVIOUSLY DISCLOSED UNDER UK GAAP (continued)
(d) Other transitional adjustments
i Financial instruments
A net adjustment to opening Group reserves of £19.2m has been made in the period, the major components of which are
explained below.
As part of its transition to IFRS, the Company has adopted for the purpose of its consolidated Group accounts, with effect from
1 January 2005, IAS 32, Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation; and IAS 39, Financial Instruments: Recognition and
Measurement. Comparative figures have not been amended in connection with these changes of accounting policy, as permitted
by IFRS 1. As a consequence of the adoption of IAS 32 and IAS 39, the Group accounts must recognise certain financial instruments
used in its operations at fair value. The use of financial instruments to any significant extent is restricted mainly to the Group’s
central treasury operations, which uses forward foreign exchange contracts to convert the currency denomination of debt
instruments and interest rate swaps to switch debt instruments between fixed and floating rates of interest. In addition, certain of
the Group’s manufacturing operations use commodity forward purchase and sale contracts and forward foreign exchange
contracts to hedge the impact on their trading results of underlying movements in commodity prices and foreign exchange rates.
In accordance with the requirements of IAS 39, the fair value of certain financial investments at the end of the reporting
period is reflected on the Group balance sheet as either a “financial asset” or “financial liability”, with the corresponding
charge or credit being recognised either in the income statement or through reserves. As the adoption of these standards
represents a change in accounting policy, the impact of the adoption of IAS 39 as at 1 January 2005 has been accounted for
as an adjustment to the opening Group balance sheet. There was no impact to opening Group reserves as a result of the
adoption of these standards, with interest-bearing loans and borrowings being decreased by £1.1m, inventory reduced by
£1.2m and trade and other receivables reduced by £0.2m.
As a further consequence resulting from the adoption of IAS 32 and IAS 39, deferred income of £22.3m as at 1 January
2005, which was being carried on the Group balance sheet in respect of the close-out of interest rate swaps in prior periods,
has been credited to opening Group reserves, net of an associated tax charge. Under UK GAAP this deferred income was
being credited to the income statement over the term of the underlying loan arrangements to which the swaps had related.
As a consequence of adopting IAS 39, the Group has included within “other investments” as at 1 January 2005 two equity
trade investments at market value and, accordingly, an opening credit to Group reserves was recognised as at 1 January
2005 of £2.6m to reflect this change.
ii Cumulative currency translation differences
Under UK GAAP, translation differences arising on the consolidation of the results of and investment in foreign operations
do not have to be separately identified and accounted for in subsequent disposals of those foreign operations. Under IAS 21,
The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates, such translation differences must be separately reported in equity, net
of the result on any related hedging instruments; and on disposal of a foreign operation, any associated cumulative
translation differences are transferred to the income statement as part of the gain or loss on disposal.
The Company has adopted the exemption allowed under IFRS 1 not to separately recognise cumulative translation
differences arising prior to the transition date. As a result, all cumulative translation differences as at 1 January 2004 are
deemed to be zero and all subsequent disposals will exclude any translation differences arising prior to the date of transition.
  Cookson Group plc { 98 } Annual Report 2005
Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
46. COMPANY-ONLY BALANCE SHEET AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2005
Notes 46 to 64 relate to the Company-only financial statements of Cookson Group plc, from which the following balance sheet is
extracted and which were authorised for issue by the Directors on 14 March 2006 and signed on its behalf by Robert Beeston,
Chairman and Michael Butterworth, Group Finance Director.
2005 2004
As restated
(note 47)
Notes £m £m
Fixed assets
Tangible assets 51 0.2 0.7
Investment in subsidiaries 52 1,891.9 1,888.1
Total fixed assets 1,892.1 1,888.8
Current assets
Debtors – amounts falling due within one year 53 5.5 10.4
Cash and short-term deposits – 7.2
Derivative financial instruments 54 3.6 –
Total current assets 9.1 17.6
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 55 (56.7) (81.6)
Other creditors 56 (207.5) (183.9)
Total current liabilities (264.2) (265.5)
Net current liabilities (255.1) (247.9)
Total assets less current liabilities 1,637.0 1,640.9
Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 55 (339.7) (321.6)
Other creditors 56 – (18.2)
Total non-current creditors (339.7) (339.8)
Provisions for liabilities and charges 57 (6.7) –
Post-retirement benefit liability (6.3) (6.7)
Net assets 1,284.3 1,294.4
Equity capital and reserves
Called up share capital 58 375.5 375.5
Share premium account 59 645.5 643.4
Retained earnings 60 126.4 69.6
Other reserves 60 136.9 205.9
Total equity shareholders’ funds 1,284.3 1,294.4 Cookson Group plc { 99 } Annual Report 2005
47. BASIS OF PREPARATION
The accounts at note 46 are prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and under the historical cost convention and
have been prepared in accordance with UK GAAP.
The Company’s results are included in the consolidated financial statements of Cookson Group plc, a company registered in the
United Kingdom. Consequently, the Company has taken advantage of the exemption from preparing a cash flow statement under
the terms of FRS 1 (revised 1996). The Company is also exempt under the terms of FRS 8 from disclosing related party transactions
with entities that are part of the Cookson Group plc group.
A separate profit and loss account dealing with the results of the Company has not been presented, as permitted by Section
230(4) of the Companies Act 1985.
48. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
The following principal accounting policies have been applied consistently when dealing with all items which are material in
relation to the Company-only accounts.
48.1 CHANGE IN ACCOUNTING POLICY
During the year the Company adopted the following new Financial Reporting Standards (“FRS”) issued by the Accounting
Standards Board:
FRS 20 Share-based payment
FRS 21 Events after the balance sheet date
FRS 22 Earnings per share
FRS 23 The effects of changes in foreign exchange rates
FRS 24 Financial reporting in hyperinflationary economies
FRS 25 Financial instruments: disclosure and presentation
FRS 26 Financial instruments: measurement
FRS 27 Life Assurance
FRS 28 Corresponding amounts
In addition, in compliance with the transitional arrangements of FRS 17, the Company has also recognised the actuarial deficit in
relation to its post-retirement obligations other than pensions and its unapproved unfunded pension benefit obligations. Where
required, comparative figures for 2004 have been restated, details of which are given in note 60.
48.2 CURRENT AND DEFERRED TAXATION
Tax currently payable is based on the taxable result for the year. Deferred taxation is recognised, without discounting, in respect
of all timing differences that have originated, but not reversed, at the balance sheet date, with the exception that deferred taxation
assets are only recognised if it is considered more likely than not that there will be suitable future profits from which the reversal
of the underlying timing differences can be deducted. Provision is made for the tax that would arise on remittance of the retained
earnings of overseas subsidiaries only to the extent that, at the balance sheet date, dividends have been accrued as receivable.
48.3 SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS
The Company operates equity-settled share-based payment arrangements for employees. Equity-settled share-based payments
are measured at fair value at the date of grant. The fair value determined at the grant date takes account of the effect of market-
based conditions, such as the Total Shareholder Return targets upon which vesting is conditioned, and is expensed on a straight-
line basis over the vesting period with a corresponding increase in equity. The cumulative expense recognised is adjusted for the
Directors’ estimate of the shares that will eventually vest and for the effect of non market-based vesting conditions. For grants
with market-based conditions attaching to them, fair value is measured using a form of stochastic option pricing model. For all
other grants, fair value is measured using the Black-Scholes model.
48.4 PENSION COSTS
The Company participates in a UK-wide Group pension plan providing benefits based on final pensionable salary. The assets of the
plan are held separately from those of the Company. The Company is unable to identify its share of the underlying assets and
liabilities of the plan on a consistent and reasonable basis and therefore, as required by FRS 17, Retirement Benefits, accounts for
the plan as if it were a defined contribution scheme. As a result, the amount charged to the profit and loss account represents the
contributions payable to the plan in respect of the accounting period.
The Company also participates in a UK-wide Group defined contribution pension plan. The assets of the plan are held separately
from those of the Company in an independently administered fund. The amount charged to the profit and loss account represents
the contributions payable to the plan in respect of the accounting period. Differences between contributions payable in the year
and contributions actually paid are shown as either accruals or prepayments in the balance sheet.
  Cookson Group plc { 100 } Annual Report 2005
Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
48. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued)
48.5 FOREIGN CURRENCIES
Assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at rates prevailing at the balance sheet date.
Differences arising from the translation, at closing rates, of loans to overseas subsidiaries and joint ventures, foreign currency
borrowings, trading and other items are taken to profit or loss.
48.6 INVESTMENT IN SUBSIDIARIES
Shares in subsidiaries are stated at cost, together with long-term loans that are stated at amortised cost, less any impairment
in value.
48.7 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
The Company uses derivative financial instruments in the form of forward foreign exchange contracts to manage the Company’s
exposure to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates on retranslation of the Company’s subsidiaries’ net assets on consolidation. In
accordance with its treasury policy, the Company does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes.
Forward foreign exchange contracts are initially recognised at fair value, which is their quoted market price at the balance sheet
date. At each subsequent balance sheet date, forward foreign exchange contracts are measured at their quoted market price at
the balance sheet date with any change in fair value being recognised in profit or loss.
48.8 PROVISIONS
Provisions are recognised when the Company has a present obligation as a result of a past event and it is probable that the Company
will be required to settle that obligation. Provisions are measured at the Directors’ best estimate of the expenditure required to
settle the obligation at the balance sheet date.
49. EMPLOYEE BENEFIT EXPENSE
The total employee benefit expense for the year comprises:
2005 2004
£m £m
Wages and salaries 5.9 7.5
Social security costs 0.6 0.8
Share-based payments (note 62) 0.9 0.4
Pension costs 7.4 10.6
Other post-retirement benefits (note 61) 0.2 0.2
Total employee benefit expense 15.0 19.5
The average number of employees during the year was 40 (2004: 44). For Directors’ remuneration, refer to the Directors’
Remuneration Report on pages 37 to 44.
50. DIVIDENDS
The proposed final dividend for the year of 5.0p per ordinary share (2004: nil) is subject to approval by shareholders at the
Company’s Annual General Meeting and has not been included as a liability in these financial statements. If approved by
shareholders, the dividend will be paid on 12 June 2006 to ordinary shareholders on the register at 26 May 2006. Based upon the
number of ordinary shares in issue as at 31 December 2005, the total cost of the dividend would be £9.5m (2004: nil).
51. TANGIBLE ASSETS
The net book value of the Company’s tangible fixed assets as at 31 December 2005 amounted to £0.2m in respect of leasehold
improvements, for which depreciation charged to profit or loss during the year amounted to £0.5m. Cookson Group plc { 101 } Annual Report 2005
52. INVESTMENT IN SUBSIDIARIES
Net book
Cost Loans Provisions value
£m £m £m £m
As at 1 January 2005 446.8 1,518.8 (77.5) 1,888.1
Exchange adjustments – 37.0 – 37.0
Additions 52.6 63.5 – 116.1
Disposals, repayments and other movements (31.6) (123.9) 6.2 (149.3)
As at 31 December 2005 467.8 1,495.4 (71.3) 1,891.9
The principal subsidiaries and joint ventures of Cookson Group plc and the countries in which they are incorporated are as follows:
*Cookson America, Inc., USA *Electroplating Engineers of Japan Ltd, Japan (50%)
Cookson Australia Pty Ltd, Australia *Fry’s Metals Inc., USA
*Cookson Ceramics Ltd, England and Wales *Polyclad Laminates, Inc., USA
Cookson (Europe) SA, Switzerland *Stern/Leach Company, USA
*Cookson Investments, Inc. USA *Stern Metals, Inc., USA
*Cookson Investments Ltd, England and Wales *Vesuvius Crucible Company, USA
*Cookson Singapore Pte Ltd, Singapore *Vesuvius United States Corporation, USA
Cookson Overseas Ltd, England and Wales *Wilkes-Lucas Ltd, England and Wales
Cookson Precious Metals Ltd, England and Wales
Where marked with an asterisk (*), the ordinary capital of the above companies was owned by a Cookson Group plc subsidiary as
at 31 December 2005. All of the above are wholly-owned, unless otherwise stated. A full list of Group companies will be included
in the Company’s Annual Return to the Registrar of Companies.
All of the above companies have the same year-end as Cookson Group plc with exception of Electroplating Engineers of Japan
Ltd which has a year-end of 31 March.
As detailed in note 15, on 15 December 2005 the Company announced that it had entered into an agreement to sell its
Laminates business to ISOLA Group S.A.R.L.
53. DEBTORS
2005 2004
£m £m
Amounts falling due within one year:
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings 1.3 4.8
Prepayments 0.1 0.1
Corporate taxes recoverable 2.9 2.9
Other debtors 1.2 2.4
5.5 10.2
Amounts falling due after more than one year:
Other debtors – 0.2
Total debtors 5.5 10.4
54. DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
Derivative financial instruments comprise forward foreign exchange contracts that are measured at fair value, with changes in
fair value recognised in the profit and loss account. Prior to the Company adopting FRS 26 on 1 January 2005, these forward
foreign exchange contracts were offset against borrowings. The fair value of these forward foreign exchange contracts as at 
31 December 2005 was £3.6m. Cookson Group plc { 102 } Annual Report 2005
Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
55. INTEREST-BEARING LOANS AND BORROWINGS
2005 2004
£m £m
Amounts falling due within one year:
Loans – 14.1
Bank overdrafts 56.7 67.5
Total amounts falling due within one year 56.7 81.6
Amounts falling due after more than one year:
Loans 340.8 323.7
Capitalised borrowing costs (1.1) (2.1)
Total amounts falling due after more than one year 339.7 321.6
Total interest-bearing loans and borrowings 396.4 403.2
Analysis of loans and bank overdrafts:
2005 2004
£m £m
Loans and bank overdrafts repayable within five years:
Secured – 40.0
Unsecured – senior loan notes 206.7 127.5
Unsecured – other 80.0 68.6
Loans repayable after five years:
Unsecured – senior loan notes 110.8 169.2
Capitalised borrowing costs (1.1) (2.1)
Total loans and bank overdrafts 396.4 403.2
The loans and bank overdrafts are repayable as follows:
2005 2004
£m £m
On demand or within one year 56.7 81.6
In the second year 104.7 40.0
In the third year – 93.7
In the fourth year 46.7 –
In the fifth year 78.6 20.8
After five years 110.8 169.2
Capitalised borrowing costs (1.1) (2.1)
Total loans and bank overdrafts 396.4 403.2
Less: amount repayable within one year (56.7) (81.6)
Amount repayable in more than one year 339.7 321.6 Cookson Group plc { 103 } Annual Report 2005
56. OTHER CREDITORS
2005 2004
£m £m
Amounts falling due within one year:
Amounts owed to subsidiaries 195.9 167.2
Other taxes and social security 0.4 0.6
Accruals and other creditors 11.2 16.1
Total amounts falling due within one year 207.5 183.9
Amounts falling due after more than one year:
Other creditors – 18.2
57. PROVISIONS FOR LIABILITIES AND CHARGES
The balance of £6.7m as at 31 December 2005 (2004: £nil) represents a deferred tax liability (note 60) in respect of £22.3m of
deferred income relating to interest rate swaps closed-out in prior years, which the Company recognised on 1 January 2005 on
adoption of FRS 26.
58. SHARE CAPITAL
2004
2005 restated
£m £m
Authorised
1,935.0m ordinary shares of 10p each 193.5 193.5
727.6m deferred shares of 49p each 356.5 356.5
As at 31 December 550.0 550.0
Issued and fully paid
190.4m ordinary shares of 10p each 19.0 19.0
727.6m deferred shares of 49p each 356.5 356.5
As at 31 December 375.5 375.5
At the Company’s Annual General Meeting held on 26 May 2005, shareholders approved a share consolidation. The share
consolidation took effect following the close of business on 26 May 2005, with shareholders receiving one new ordinary share of
10p each for every 10 existing ordinary shares of 1p each held at the close of business on 26 May 2005. Trading in the new ordinary
shares of 10p commenced on 27 May 2005.
On 15 February 2006, the High Court of Justice confirmed a reduction of capital of the Company from £550 million (divided
into 1,934,963,124 ordinary shares of 10 pence each and 727,558,546 deferred shares of 49 pence each) to £193.5m (divided into
1,934,963,124 ordinary shares of 10 pence each). The Order of the Court was registered on 15 February 2006 and the reduction of
capital was therefore effective on that date. Cookson Group plc { 104 } Annual Report 2005
Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
58. SHARE CAPITAL (continued)
Movements in the issued share capital of the Company during the year were as follows:
Ordinary shares Deferred shares
m£m m£m
In issue as at 1 January 2005, as restated 189.6 19.0 727.6 356.5
Issued on exercise of share options 0.8 – – –
As at 31 December 2005 190.4 19.0 727.6 356.5
The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends as declared from time to time, are entitled to one vote per share
at meetings of the Company and rank equally with regard to entitlement to the Company’s residual assets. The deferred shares
carried no right to dividends or voting, are not listed and are, therefore, rendered effectively worthless.
At an Extraordinary General Meeting of the Company held on 12 January 2006, shareholders approved special resolutions to
reduce the issued share capital of the Company by cancelling and extinguishing the deferred shares of 49p each. The cancellation
of the deferred shares became effective on 15 February 2006 upon registration of the order of the High Court with the Registrar
of Companies, at which date the balance of £356.5m on the account became a non-distributable reserve of the Company. This
reserve becomes distributable only at such time when all external creditors of the Company as at 15 February 2006 have either
been fully settled, or have agreed that this reserve may be deemed distributable.
Also at the Extraordinary General Meeting of the Company held on 12 January 2006, shareholders approved a special
resolution to amend the Company’s Articles of Association to facilitate termination of the Company’s registration with the
Securities Exchange Commission (“SEC”) of the US. The amendment included a provision conferring upon the Board the power to
require ordinary shares which are held directly or indirectly by US resident shareholders to be sold in order to reduce the number
of such shareholders below 300, as presently required by the SEC for termination of registration. In order to avoid the costs of
complying with SEC registration requirements in respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2005, the Board commenced
exercising these compulsory transfer provisions soon after the amendment was approved by shareholders and, having reduced the
number of US resident shareholders below 300, the Company announced on 21 February 2006 that it had filed a Form 15 with the
SEC to terminate the SEC registration of its ordinary shares. SEC de-registration will occur 90 days after 21 February 2006 or such
shorter period as the SEC may determine. On filing of the Form, the Company’s obligations to file certain forms and reports with
the SEC, including Forms 20-F and 6-K, were suspended.
Under currently applicable SEC regulations, after the de-registration takes effect, the number of the Company’s US resident
shareholders must remain below 300 at each financial year-end to avoid re-commencement of SEC reporting and other applicable
US obligations. The Company’s Articles of Association give the Company’s Directors the ability to limit the number of US resident
shareholders for this purpose.
59. SHARE PREMIUM ACCOUNT
As at 31 December 2005 the share premium account amounted to £645.5m (2004: £643.4m). The share option exercises during
2005, shown in note 58, increased the balance on the account by £2.1m.
At an Extraordinary General Meeting of the Company held on 12 January 2006, shareholders approved a special resolution to
cancel the share premium account of the Company. The cancellation became effective on 15 February 2006 upon registration of
the order of the High Court with the Registrar of Companies, at which date the balance of £646.9m on the account became a non-
distributable reserve of the Company. This reserve becomes distributable only at such time when all external creditors of the
Company as at 15 February 2006 have either been fully settled, or have agreed that this reserve may be deemed distributable. Cookson Group plc { 105 } Annual Report 2005
60. RESERVES
Share Other Total
Treasury option retained retained Other Total
shares reserve earnings earnings reserves reserves
£m £m £m £m £m £m
As at 1 January 2005, as previously reported (12.4) – 109.5 97.1 205.9 303.0
Prior year adjustments (see below) – 0.5 (28.0) (27.5) – (27.5)
As at 1 January 2005, as restated (12.4) 0.5 81.5 69.6 205.9 275.5
Opening reserves adjustment – – 15.6 15.6 – 15.6
Net loss transferred from the profit and loss account – – (27.3) (27.3) – (27.3)
Acturial loss on employee benefit plans – – (1.3) (1.3) – (1.3)
Recognition of share-based payments – 0.8 – 0.8 – 0.8
Transfers – – 69.0 69.0 (69.0) –
As at 31 December 2005 (12.4) 1.3 137.5 126.4 136.9 263.3
The net loss for the year is after charging dividends of £nil (2004: £nil).
During the year, and after receiving independent professional legal advice, cumulative interest income received from a
subsidiary company, previously held to be unrealised, was deemed to have been realised and resulted in a transfer of £69.0m from
other reserves to retained earnings.
Prior year adjustments
Share-based payments
The Company has made a prior period adjustment during 2005 following the adoption of FRS 20, Share-based payment. Under
FRS 20, the Company is required to fair value the cost of equity-settled share-based payments at the date of the options being
granted, which cost has to be recognised over the relevant vesting periods. The Company has adopted the exemption given by FRS
20 to only apply the standard to awards made after 7 November 2002.
The adoption of FRS 20 has given rise to a cumulative prior period adjustment to opening retained earnings of £0.5m debit as
at 31 December 2004. A separate share option reserve has been created and a cumulative opening adjustment of £0.5m credit as
at 31 December 2004 has been made to this reserve to recognise the equity-settled share based payments.
Post-employment benefits
The Company has made a prior period adjustment during 2005 following the full implementation of FRS 17, Retirement benefits.
Under FRS 17, the Company is required to bring onto the Company balance sheet the originally-valued net deficit of the Company’s
unfunded post-employment benefit arrangements, which relate to legacy healthcare benefits and certain unapproved unfunded
retirement benefit obligations. A cumulative prior period adjustment of £0.7m debit as at 31 December 2004 has been made to
the opening profit and loss account.
In addition, the Company participates in a UK-wide Cookson defined benefit pension scheme, (note 61). As the Company is
unable to identify its share of the underlying assets and liabilities of the scheme, it therefore accounts for its membership of the
scheme as it would for a defined contributions scheme. Under FRS 17, the Company is required to derecognise its SSAP 24 pension
prepayment and has accordingly recognised a cumulative prior year adjustment of £26.8m debit as at 31 December 2004 to the
opening balance of retained earnings.
Opening reserves adjustment
Derivative financial instruments
The balance sheet as at 1 January 2005 included £22.3m in respect of deferred income relating to interest rate swaps closed-out
in prior years. The total profit arising on the close-out of these swaps was previously being brought into income over the term of
the underlying loan arrangements to which the swaps had related. On adoption of FRS 26 with effect from 1 January 2005, such
credit balance was taken directly to reserves, net of a related tax charge of £6.7m.
Treasury shares
As at 1 January 2005 and 31 December 2005 1.2m ordinary shares of 10p each of the Company were held by Cookson Investments
(Jersey) Limited as Trustee of the Cookson Group Employee Share Ownership Plan (“ESOP”), with a nominal value of £0.1m, which
were purchased at a gross cost of £12.4m. The purchase of these shares was financed by the Company out of borrowings included
in the Company balance sheet as at 31 December 2005. The market value of these shares as at 31 December 2005 was £4.9m
(2004: £4.1m). The Trustee of the ESOP has waived its rights to receive dividends on the shares held. The shares are held, as
Treasury Shares, to meet share option obligations as and when they arise at the discretion of the Company. Cookson Group plc { 106 } Annual Report 2005
Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
60. RESERVES (continued)
Treasury shares (continued)
Options exercisable over ordinary shares and capable of being satisfied through new allotments of shares or through shares
held by the Company's ESOP as at 31 December 2005 were as follows:
Number of
Option/ Latest years options/
Years of allocation of exercise/ allocations
award/grant prices (£) vesting outstanding
Long-Term Incentive Plan 2004-2005 2.93-4.23 2007-2008 1,329,833
Mid-Term Incentive Plan 2004-2005 4.00-4.40 2006 268,549
Executive Option Schemes 1996-2003 2.50-29.79 2006-2013 5,734,699
UK and International share savings schemes 2000-2004 2.50-18.36 2006-2010 965,147
US Stock Purchase Plan 2004 2.61 2006 268,987
61. EMPLOYEE BENEFITS
Pension plans
The Company participates in a UK-wide Group defined benefit pension scheme. As the Company is unable to identify its share of
the underlying assets and liabilities of the scheme on a consistent and reasonable basis, it therefore accounts for its membership
of the scheme as it would for a defined contribution scheme. Costs charged in the year in respect of its contributions to the scheme
were £7.3m (2004: £10.6m). The pension scheme is a closed scheme and therefore under the projected unit method the current
service cost would be expected to increase as the members of the scheme reach retirement.
The last full actuarial valuation of the UK defined benefit scheme, which was performed by an independent qualified actuary,
was carried out as at 31 December 2003. At that date, the market value of the plan assets was £185.9m, representing 69% of
accrued plan benefits at the time (using the projected unit method of valuation). The 2003 full valuation has been updated, as
appropriate, in order to estimate the liabilities of the scheme as at 31 December 2005, at which date the market value of the plan
assets was £245.9m (2004: £204.1m), representing 68% (2004: 67%) of estimated accrued plan benefits, including the Company’s
obligation with respect to its unapproved unfunded retirement benefit plan.
The Company also participates in a UK-wide Group defined contribution pension scheme. The pension cost charge for 2005
represents contributions payable by the Company to the scheme and amounted to £0.1m (2004: £nil). There were no outstanding
contributions payable to the scheme as at 31 December 2005 (2004: £nil).
Post-employment plans other than pension plans
The Company operates a post-employment healthcare benefits plan. The costs of providing these benefits are not funded. The level
of the accrued plan benefits provision is based on independent actuarial valuations, using the projected unit method. The last full
actuarial valuation of the plan, which was performed by an independent qualified actuary, was carried out at 31 December 2003,
which has been updated, as appropriate, in order to estimate the liabilities of the plan as at 31 December 2005. As at 31 December
2005, the accrued plan benefits was £4.9m (2004: £4.2m; 2003: £4.5m; 2002: £2.9m).
Principal assumptions used to calculate post-employment plan obligations:
2005 2004
% %
Discount rate 4.75 5.25
Healthcare cost trend – long-term 3.80 4.00
– next year 8.00 8.00
The movement on the present value of post-employment benefit plan liabilities is as follows:
2005 2004
£m £m
Liabilities as at 1 January 4.2 4.5
Interest cost 0.2 0.2
Net benefits paid out (0.2) (0.2)
Actuarial loss/(gain) recognised in equity 0.7 (0.3)
Liabilities as at 31 December 4.9 4.2 Cookson Group plc { 107 } Annual Report 2005
61. EMPLOYEE BENEFITS (continued)
The history of experience adjustments is as follows:
2005 2004 2003 2002
Experience gains/(losses) arising on the plan liabilities – £m – 0.3 (0.1) –
– as % of present value
of plan liabilities – 7% (2%) –
Actuarial (loss)/gain recognised in equity – £m (0.7) 0.3 (1.6) –
– as % of present value
of plan liabilities (13%) 7% (36%) –
62. SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS
The Company operates a number of different share-based payment schemes, the main features of each scheme are detailed in
note 37. The exercise prices shown in the following tables are the weighted average exercise prices.
Options
Outstanding options
exercisable Latest
As at 1 As at 31 as at 31 Earliest year in Range of
January Forfeited/ December December year in which exercise
2005 Granted Exercised lapsed 2005 2005 which options prices
No. No. No. No. No. No. exercisable expire pence
LTIP 288,834 502,679 – (156,034) 635,479 – 2007 2008
Exercise price nil nil – nil nil – n/a
MTIP 28,738 – – (14,932) 13,806 – 2006 2006
Exercise price nil – – nil nil – n/a
ESOS 705,535 – – (480,311) 225,224 1,903 2006 2013
Exercise price 271p – – 267p 280p 320p 250-360p
SAYE 11,052 – – (6,049) 5,003 – 2006 2008
Exercise price 312p – – 308p 316p – 270-350p
Options
Outstanding options
exercisable Latest
As at 1 As at 31 as at 31 Earliest year in Range of
January Forfeited/ December December year in which exercise
2004 Granted Exercised lapsed 2004 2004 which options prices
No. No. No. No. No. No. exercisable expire pence
LTIP – 288,834 – – 288,834 – 2007 2007
Exercise price – nil – – nil – n/a
MTIP – 28,738 – – 28,738 – 2006 2006
Exercise price – nil – – nil – n/a
ESOS 705,535 – – – 705,535 – 2006 2013
Exercise price 271p – – – 271p – 250-360p
SAYE 5,763 5,289 – – 11,052 – 2006 2010
Exercise price 350p 270p – – 312p – 270-350p 62. SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS (continued)
Details of modifications are provided in note 37. The fair values of options granted in the year, together with the other inputs into
the option pricing models, are shown below.
LTIP
Options granted during 2005:
Fair value of options granted (per share) 247p
Share price on date of grant (per share) 349p
Expected volatility 70.7%
Risk-free interest rate 4.5%
Exercise price (per share) nil
Expected term (years) 3.00
Expected dividend yield nil
LTIP MTIP ESOS SAYE
Options granted/modified during 2004:
Fair value of options granted (per share) 294p 427p 24p 166p
Share price on date of grant (per share) 416p 427p 345p 300p
Expected volatility 66.3% n/a 69.8% 63.0%
Risk-free interest rate 5.0% n/a 4.4% 4.7%
Exercise price (per share) nil nil 266p 270p
Expected term (years) 3.00 1.75 1.17 4.18
Expected dividend yield nil nil nil nil
2005 2004
The total expense recognised in respect of share-based payments was as follows: £m £m
Long-Term Incentive Plan 0.6 0.1
Mid-Term Incentive Plan 0.1 0.1
Executive Option Scheme 0.2 0.2
Total expense recognised in respect of share-based payments 0.9 0.4
63. CONTINGENT LIABILITIES
Guarantees of borrowings for the Company as at 31 December 2005 amounted to £73.8m (2004: £61.6m) and guarantees under
property leases of discontinued operations amounted to £4.5m (2004: £nil). The Company has also provided guarantees to its
subsidiary companies where appropriate.
In addition the Company has, on behalf of its subsidiaries, given guarantees to precious metals consignors amounting to
£228.5m (2004: £185.6m), representing all of the value of precious metals held by its subsidiaries on consignment terms as at 31
December 2005. Further details of these consignment arrangements are given in note 27.
Cookson has extensive international operations and several of its subsidiaries are parties to legal proceedings, certain of which
are insured claims arising in the ordinary course of the operations of the company involved. While the outcome of litigation can
never be predicted with certainty, having regard to legal advice received and the insurance arrangements of the Company and its
subsidiaries, the Directors believe that none of these matters will, either individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse
effect on the Company’s financial condition or results of operations.
64. EVENTS AFTER THE BALANCE SHEET DATE
Except as disclosed in notes 58 and 59, there were no disclosable post balance sheet events.
Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
Cookson Group plc { 108 } Annual Report 2005
  Cookson Group plc { 109 } Annual Report 2005
IFRS IFRS UK GAAP UK GAAP UK GAAP
2005 2004 2003 2002 2001
Ceramics division
Revenue £m 746.1 739.3 704.4 692.9 712.0
Trading profit £m 73.9 59.4 52.4 49.0 46.8
Return on sales % 9.9 8.0 7.4 7.1 6.6
Employees: year-end No. 8,890 8,931 8,629 8,457 7,826
Electronics division
Revenue £m 488.9 473.5 438.7 436.4 487.5
– Assembly Materials 273.4 257.7 221.6 224.2 261.1
– Chemistry 215.5 215.8 217.1 212.2 226.4
Trading profit £m 51.1 47.0 33.9 35.8 32.7
– Assembly Materials 24.5 19.7 14.0 20.4 20.1
– Chemistry 26.6 27.3 19.9 15.4 12.6
Return on sales % 10.5 9.9 7.7 8.2 6.7
– Assembly Materials 9.0 7.6 6.3 9.1 7.7
– Chemistry 12.3 12.7 9.2 7.2 5.6
Employees: year-end No. 2,912 3,050 3,111 3,210 3,390
– Assembly Materials 1,645 1,717 1,790 1,875 2,005
– Chemistry 1,267 1,333 1,321 1,335 1,385
Precious Metals division
Net Sales Value (“NSV”) £m 95.0 116.3 125.0 136.5 154.2
Trading profit £m 7.0 10.8 9.7 18.0 22.3
Return on NSV % 7.4 9.3 7.8 13.2 14.5
Employees: year-end No. 1,781 1,980 2,194 2,363 2,430
Five Year Summary
– Divisional Results From Continuing Operations Cookson Group plc { 110 } Annual Report 2005
2005 2004 2003 2002 2001
Income statement £m £m £m £m £m
Revenue:
Continuing operations 1,480.8 1,500.5 1,450.8 1,451.6 1,546.0
Discontinued operations 153.8 152.0 189.7 277.4 470.4
Total revenue 1,634.6 1,652.5 1,640.5 1,729.0 2,016.4
Trading profit:
Continuing operations 123.5 108.3 89.0 96.0 95.2
Discontinued operations 6.7 6.6 (26.8) (41.0) (39.5)
Total trading profit 130.2 114.9 62.2 55.0 55.7
Rationalisation of operating activities (18.5) (22.7) (22.2) (31.4) (31.2)
Amortisation and impairment of intangibles (0.8) (0.8) – – –
(Loss)/profit relating to fixed assets – (16.8) 5.1 (10.9) 13.3
Profit from operations 110.9 74.6 45.1 12.7 37.8
Net finance costs (30.9) (26.8) (34.0) (52.6) (51.9)
Share of post-tax profit of joint ventures 1.4 2.3 0.8 1.0 0.9
Profit/(loss) before tax 81.4 50.1 11.9 (38.9) (13.2)
Income tax costs (42.8) (32.2) (6.0) 1.3 48.9
Net post-tax (loss)/profit on disposal of operations (46.2) (34.9) (60.5) (17.8) (9.8)
(Loss)/profit for the year (7.6) (17.0) (54.6) (55.4) 25.9
The information in the table above for 2005 and 2004 has been prepared under IFRS. The information for 2003, 2002 and 2001 has
been prepared under UK GAAP, as adjusted for the following principal IFRS adjustments: goodwill amortisation charges amounting to
£34.7m in 2003 (2002: £37.9m; 2001: £38.6m) have been added back to profit and loss; and goodwill arising prior to 1998, which was
previously recycled from equity and included when calculating the net profit or loss on disposal of operations has been added back to
profit or loss amounting to £112.8m in 2003 (2002: £3.0m; 2001: £47.8m).
IFRS IFRS IFRS UK GAAP UK GAAP
2005 2004 2003 2002 2001
Balance sheet £m £m £m £m £m
Property plant and equipment 264.9 322.9 354.8 407.7 487.2
Goodwill and other intangible assets 481.6 485.2 514.0 598.3 664.9
Other non-current assets 50.3 75.4 117.1 133.4 183.1
Total non-current assets 796.8 883.5 985.9 1,139.4 1,335.2
Inventories 179.6 174.1 172.6 190.1 230.7
Trade receivables 267.2 274.3 276.0 306.6 331.2
Trade payables (132.2) (152.7) (150.0) (152.5) (156.6)
Trade working capital 314.6 295.7 298.6 344.2 405.3
Other net liabilities (132.6) (224.4) (237.9) (271.0) (341.2)
Total capital employed 978.8 954.8 1,046.6 1,212.6 1,399.3
Total parent company shareholders’ equity 449.0 431.4 487.1 717.3 587.1
Minority interests 12.7 11.7 11.8 10.8 10.0
Net debt 292.3 321.8 374.5 438.5 765.4
Employee benefits 224.8 189.9 173.2 46.0 36.8
Total funding 978.8 954.8 1,046.6 1,212.6 1,399.3
The information in the balance sheet table above for 2005, 2004 and 2003 has been prepared under IFRS. The information for 2002
and 2001 has been prepared under UK GAAP, as adjusted for the IFRS presentational and format changes outlined in note 45.1.
Total capital employed in the table above is represented by total funding, comprising the sum of total equity, net debt and
employee benefits.
Five Year Summary – Group IFRS IFRS UK GAAP UK GAAP UK GAAP
2005 2004 2003 2002 2001
Statement of cash flows £m £m £m £m £m
Profit from operations 110.9 74.6 45.1 12.7 37.8
Add:
Rationalisation of operating activities 18.5 22.7 22.2 31.4 31.2
Loss/(profit) relating to fixed assets – 16.8 (5.1) 10.9 (13.3)
Amortisation of intangibles 0.8 0.8 – – –
Depreciation 47.1 46.9 52.6 59.8 62.7
EBITDA 177.3 161.8 114.8 114.8 118.4
Net (increase)/decrease in trade working capital (23.7) (16.9) 10.3 42.3 138.4
Outflows relating to rationalisation of operating activities (17.0) (14.2) (14.0) (20.2) (32.2)
Additional funding contributions to Group pension plan (10.0) (6.5) – – –
Other items (8.8) 21.3 (3.6) (4.1) (69.7)
Cash generated from operations 117.8 145.5 107.5 132.8 154.9
Interest paid, net (29.5) (31.5) (29.1) (45.8) (31.3)
Income taxes (paid)/refunded (20.2) (20.7) (20.7) 10.8 (21.6)
Net cash inflow from operating activities 68.1 93.3 57.7 97.8 102.0
Additional funding contributions to Group pension plan 10.0 6.5 – – –
Acquisition of property, plant and equipment (42.5) (42.3) (48.5) (43.2) (68.4)
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 10.3 1.4 5.8 8.0 34.0
Dividends received from joint ventures 4.7 2.3 2.2 2.4 6.2
Dividends paid to minority shareholders (2.2) (3.1) (1.5) (1.2) (0.5)
Free cash flow 48.4 58.1 15.7 63.8 73.3
The information in the table above for 2005 and 2004 has been prepared under IFRS. The information for 2003, 2002 and 2001 has
been prepared under UK GAAP, as adjusted for the IFRS presentational and format changes outlined in note 45.1.
Shareholder return statistics 2005 2004 2003 2002 2001
Earnings per share*: – headline 37.2p 30.1p 8.2p 12.1p 24.5p
– basic and diluted (5.8)p (11.2)p (34.4)p (50.9)p (69.2)p
Dividends per share: 5.0p nil nil nil 44.0p
Share price: – year end 425p 355p 400p 203p 938p
– high 427p 495p 400p 995p 1,879p
– low 288p 300p 163p 158p 356p
Shares in issue: – weighted average 188.5m 188.3m 188.0m 112.9m 74.0m
– year end 190.4m 189.6m 189.2m 189.2m 74.5m
* Earnings per share are presented on the same basis as the income statement on page 110.
The information in the table above has been restated to take account of a share consolidation that was approved at, and took effect
following, the Company’s AGM held on 26 May 2005.
Cookson Group plc { 111 } Annual Report 2005
  Cookson Group plc { 112 } Annual Report 2005
Enquiries
Lloyds TSB Registrars
The Causeway
Worthing
West Sussex BN99 6DA 
Tel (UK only) 0870 600 3984
Tel (non-UK) +44 121 415 7047
Fax (UK only) 0870 600 3980
Fax (non-UK) +44 1903 702 424
For the hard of hearing, Lloyds TSB offers a special Textel service
which can be accessed by dialling 0870 600 3950. 
All other shareholder enquiries not related to the share register
should be addressed to the Group Secretary at the Registered
Office or e-mailed to: shareholder.information@cookson.co.uk
Registered Office and Group Head Office
Cookson Group plc
265 Strand
London WC2R 1DB
Tel +44 (0)20 7061 6500
Fax +44 (0)20 7061 6600 
(Registered in England & Wales No. 251977)
The Registered Office and Group Head Office is due to move to the
following address with effect from 24 April 2006:
165 Fleet Street
London
EC4A 2AE
Tel +44 (0)20 7822 0000
Fax +44 (0)20 7822 0100
Corporate website
Shareholder and additional corporate information about the
Company can be accessed on the Company’s website:
www.cooksongroup.co.uk
On the website you can:
• view Cookson’s share price (updated every 15 minutes during
market hours);
• access published Annual and Interim Reports;
• find out other information on Cookson;
• view Cookson press announcements; and
• access links to other Cookson sites and industry-related sites.
Shareview
A website, www.shareview.co.uk, has been developed by Lloyds
TSB Registrars, the Company’s Registrar, enabling shareholders to
access details of shareholdings online. The website provides
information useful to the management of investments together
with an extensive schedule of frequently asked questions. In order
to gain access to shareholdings the shareholder reference number
is required, which can be found at the top of the Company’s share
certificates.
Shareholders can register to receive shareholder
communications, including the Company’s Report and Accounts
and Notices of Meetings, electronically, rather than in paper form,
using Shareview. The registration process requires input of the
shareholder reference number. To ensure that shareholder
communications are received in electronic form, “email” should be
selected as the mailing preference. Once registered, shareholders
will be sent an e-mail notifying them each time that a shareholder
communication has been published on the Company’s website.
Dealing Services
UK resident shareholders can now sell shares on the internet or by
phone using Lloyds TSB Registrar’s Shareview Dealing facility by
either logging on to www.shareview.co.uk/dealing or by calling
0870 850 0852 between 8.30am and 4.30pm on any business day
(excluding Bank Holidays). In order to gain access to this service
the shareholder reference number is required, which can be found
at the top of the Company’s share certificate.
In addition to the Shareview Dealing facility offered for UK
shareholders, the Company has arranged a postal share dealing
service for shares in Cookson Group plc with JPMorgan Cazenove
Ltd., which provides shareholders with a simple, low-cost method
of buying and selling Cookson shares. For further information
please contact JPMorgan Cazenove Ltd. on:
Tel +44 (0)20 7155 5155.
Shareholder Information
Financial calendar
2006 Annual General Meeting 25 May 2006
Announcement of 2006 half year results August 2006
Announcement of 2006 full year results March 2007
Analysis of ordinary shareholders (as at 31 December 2005)
Investor type Shareholdings
Institutional 50,001-
Private and other Total 1-1,000 1,001-50,000 500,000 500,001+
Number of holders 5,692 1,343 7,035 5,547 1,206 201 81
Percentage of holders 80.91% 19.09% 100% 78.85% 17.14% 2.86% 1.15%
Percentage of shares held 1.56% 98.44% 100% 0.74% 4.08% 18.84% 76.34% Designed and produced by MAGEE
Printed by BOSS
  Cookson Group plc Annual Report
Cookson Group plc
265 Strand London
WC2R 1DB
Tel +44 (0)20 7061 6500
Tel +44 (0)20 7061 6600
www.cooksongroup.co.uk
The Registered Office and Group Head Office
is due to move to the following address with
effect from 24 April 2006:
165 Fleet Street
London
EC4A 2AE
Tel +44 (0)20 7822 0000
Fax +44 (0)20 7822 0100
Delivering the strategy
2005
Cookson Group plc Annual Report 2005
